Produced by Suzanne Shell and PG Distributed Proofreaders


IOLA LEROY,

OR

SHADOWS UPLIFTED.

BY

FRANCES E.W. HARPER.


1893, Philadelphia

TO MY DAUGHTER

MARY E. HARPER,

THIS BOOK IS LOVINGLY DEDICATED.


INTRODUCTION.


I confess when I first learned that Mrs. Harper was about to write "a
story" on some features of the Anglo-African race, growing out of what
was once popularly known as the "peculiar institution," I had my doubts
about the matter. Indeed it was far from being easy for me to think that
she was as fortunate as she might have been in selecting a subject which
would afford her the best opportunity for bringing out a work of merit
and lasting worth to the race--such a work as some of her personal
friends have long desired to see from her graphic pen. However, after
hearing a good portion of the manuscript read, and a general statement
with regard to the object in view, I admit frankly that my partial
indifference was soon swept away; at least I was willing to wait for
further developments.

Being very desirous that one of the race, so long distinguished in the
cause of freedom for her intellectual worth as Mrs. Harper has had the
honor of being, should not at this late date in life make a blunder
which might detract from her own good name, I naturally proposed to
await developments before deciding too quickly in favor of giving
encouragement to her contemplated effort.

However, I was perfectly aware of the fact that she had much material in
her possession for a most interesting book on the subject of the
condition of the colored people in the South. I know of no other woman,
white or colored, anywhere, who has come so intimately in contact with
the colored people in the South as Mrs. Harper. Since emancipation she
has labored in every Southern State in the Union, save two, Arkansas and
Texas; in the colleges, schools, churches, and the cabins not excepted,
she has found a vast field and open doors to teach and speak on the
themes of education, temperance, and good home building, industry,
morality, and the like, and never lacked for evidences of hearty
appreciation and gratitude.

Everywhere help was needed, and her heart being deeply absorbed in the
cause she willingly allowed her sympathies to impel her to perform most
heroic services.

With her it was no uncommon occurrence, in visiting cities or towns, to
speak at two, three, and four meetings a day; sometimes to promiscuous
audiences composed of everybody who would care to come.

But the kind of meetings she took greatest interest in were meetings
called exclusively for women. In this attitude she could pour out her
sympathies to them as she could not do before a mixed audience; and
indeed she felt their needs were far more pressing than any other class.

And now I am prepared to most fully indorse her story. I doubt whether
she could, if she had tried ever so much, have hit upon a subject so
well adapted to reach a large number of her friends and the public with
both entertaining and instructive matter as successfully as she has done
in this volume.

The grand and ennobling sentiments which have characterized all her
utterances in laboring for the elevation of the oppressed will not be
found missing in this book.

The previous books from her pen, which have been so very widely
circulated and admired, North and South--"Forest Leaves," "Miscellaneous
Poems," "Moses, a Story of the Nile," "Poems," and "Sketches of Southern
Life" (five in number)--these, I predict, will be by far eclipsed by
this last effort, which will, in all probability, be the crowning effort
of her long and valuable services in the cause of humanity.

While, as indicated, Mrs. Harper has done a large amount of work in the
South, she has at the same time done much active service in the
temperance cause in the North, as thousands of this class can testify.

Before the war she was engaged as a speaker by anti-slavery
associations; since then, by appointment of the Women's Christian
Temperance Union, she has held the office of "Superintendent of Colored
Work" for years. She has also held the office of one of the Directors of
the Women's Congress of the United States.

Under the auspices of these influential, earnest, and intelligent
associations, she has been seen often on their platforms with the
leading lady orators of the nation.

Hence, being widely known not only amongst her own race but likewise by
the reformers, laboring for the salvation of the intemperate and others
equally unfortunate, there is little room to doubt that the book will be
in great demand and will meet with warm congratulations from a goodly
number outside of the author's social connections.

Doubtless the thousands of colored Sunday-schools in the South, in
casting about for an interesting, moral story-book, full of practical
lessons, will not be content to be without "IOLA LEROY, OR SHADOWS
UPLIFTED."

WILLIAM STILL.


CONTENTS.


Chapter

I. The Mystery of Market Speech and Prayer Meetings

II. Contraband of War

III. Uncle Daniel's Story

IV. Arrival of the Union Army

V. Release of Iola Leroy

VI. Robert Johnson's Promotion and Religion

VII. Tom Anderson's Death

VIII. The Mystified Doctor

IX. Eugene Leroy and Alfred Lorraine

X. Shadows in the Home

XI. The Plague and the Law

XII. School-girl Notions

XIII. A Rejected Suitor

XIV. Harry Leroy

XV. Robert and his Company

XVI. After the Battle

XVII. Flames in the School-Room

XVIII. Searching for Lost Ones

XIX. Striking Contrasts

XX. A Revelation

XXI. A Home for Mother

XXII. Further Lifting of the Veil

XXIII. Delightful Reunions

XXIV. Northern Experience

XXV. An Old Friend

XXVI. Open Questions

XXVII. Diverging Paths

XXVIII. Dr. Latrobe's Mistake

XXIX. Visitors from the South

XXX. Friends in Council

XXXI. Dawning Affections

XXXII. Wooing and Wedding

XXXIII. Conclusion

Note


CHAPTER I.


MYSTERY OF MARKET SPEECH AND PRAYER-MEETING.

"Good mornin', Bob; how's butter dis mornin'?"

"Fresh; just as fresh, as fresh can be."

"Oh, glory!" said the questioner, whom we shall call Thomas Anderson,
although he was known among his acquaintances as Marster Anderson's Tom.

His informant regarding the condition of the market was Robert Johnson,
who had been separated from his mother in his childhood and reared by
his mistress as a favorite slave. She had fondled him as a pet animal,
and even taught him to read. Notwithstanding their relation as mistress
and slave, they had strong personal likings for each other.

Tom Anderson was the servant of a wealthy planter, who lived in the city
of C----, North Carolina. This planter was quite advanced in life, but
in his earlier days he had spent much of his time in talking politics in
his State and National capitals in winter, and in visiting pleasure
resorts and watering places in summer. His plantations were left to the
care of overseers who, in their turn, employed negro drivers to aid them
in the work of cultivation and discipline. But as the infirmities of age
were pressing upon him he had withdrawn from active life, and given the
management of his affairs into the hands of his sons. As Robert Johnson
and Thomas Anderson passed homeward from the market, having bought
provisions for their respective homes, they seemed to be very
light-hearted and careless, chatting and joking with each other; but
every now and then, after looking furtively around, one would drop into
the ears of the other some news of the battle then raging between the
North and South which, like two great millstones, were grinding slavery
to powder.

As they passed along, they were met by another servant, who said in
hurried tones, but with a glad accent in his voice:--

"Did you see de fish in de market dis mornin'? Oh, but dey war splendid,
jis' as fresh, as fresh kin be."

"That's the ticket," said Robert, as a broad smile overspread his face.
"I'll see you later."

"Good mornin', boys," said another servant on his way to market. "How's
eggs dis mornin'?"

"Fust rate, fust rate," said Tom Anderson. "Bob's got it down fine."

"I thought so; mighty long faces at de pos'-office dis mornin'; but I'd
better move 'long," and with a bright smile lighting up his face he
passed on with a quickened tread.

There seemed to be an unusual interest manifested by these men in the
state of the produce market, and a unanimous report of its good
condition. Surely there was nothing in the primeness of the butter or
the freshness of the eggs to change careless looking faces into such
expressions of gratification, or to light dull eyes with such gladness.
What did it mean?

During the dark days of the Rebellion, when the bondman was turning his
eyes to the American flag, and learning to hail it as an ensign of
deliverance, some of the shrewder slaves, coming in contact with their
masters and overhearing their conversations, invented a phraseology to
convey in the most unsuspected manner news to each other from the
battle-field. Fragile women and helpless children were left on the
plantations while their natural protectors were at the front, and yet
these bondmen refrained from violence. Freedom was coming in the wake of
the Union army, and while numbers deserted to join their forces, others
remained at home, slept in their cabins by night and attended to their
work by day; but under this apparently careless exterior there was an
undercurrent of thought which escaped the cognizance of their masters.
In conveying tidings of the war, if they wished to announce a victory of
the Union army, they said the butter was fresh, or that the fish and
eggs were in good condition. If defeat befell them, then the butter and
other produce were rancid or stale.

Entering his home, Robert set his basket down. In one arm he held a
bundle of papers which he had obtained from the train to sell to the
boarders, who were all anxious to hear from the seat of battle. He
slipped one copy out and, looking cautiously around, said to Linda, the
cook, in a low voice:--

"Splendid news in the papers. Secesh routed. Yankees whipped 'em out of
their boots. Papers full of it. I tell you the eggs and the butter's
mighty fresh this morning."

"Oh, sho, chile," said Linda, "I can't read de newspapers, but ole
Missus' face is newspaper nuff for me. I looks at her ebery mornin' wen
she comes inter dis kitchen. Ef her face is long an' she walks kine o'
droopy den I thinks things is gwine wrong for dem. But ef she comes out
yere looking mighty pleased, an' larffin all ober her face, an' steppin'
so frisky, den I knows de Secesh is gittin' de bes' ob de Yankees.
Robby, honey, does you really b'lieve for good and righty dat dem
Yankees is got horns?"

"Of course not."

"Well, I yered so."

"Well, you heard a mighty big whopper."

"Anyhow, Bobby, things goes mighty contrary in dis house. Ole Miss is in
de parlor prayin' for de Secesh to gain de day, and we's prayin' in de
cabins and kitchens for de Yankees to get de bes' ob it. But wasn't Miss
Nancy glad wen dem Yankees run'd away at Bull's Run. It was nuffin but
Bull's Run an' run away Yankees. How she did larff and skip 'bout de
house. An' den me thinks to myself you'd better not holler till you gits
out ob de woods. I specs 'fore dem Yankees gits froo you'll be larffin
tother side ob your mouf. While you was gone to market ole Miss com'd
out yere, her face looking as long as my arm, tellin' us all 'bout de
war and saying dem Yankees whipped our folks all to pieces. And she was
'fraid dey'd all be down yere soon. I thought they couldn't come too
soon for we. But I didn't tell her so."

"No, I don't expect you did."

"No, I didn't; ef you buys me for a fool you loses your money shore. She
said when dey com'd down yere she wanted all de men to hide, for dey'd
kill all de men, but dey wouldn't tech de women."

"It's no such thing. She's put it all wrong. Why them Yankees are our
best friends."

"Dat's jis' what I thinks. Ole Miss was jis' tryin to skeer a body. An'
when she war done she jis' set down and sniffled an' cried, an' I war so
glad I didn't know what to do. But I had to hole in. An' I made out I
war orful sorry. An' Jinny said, 'O Miss Nancy, I hope dey won't come
yere.' An' she said, 'I'se jis' 'fraid dey will come down yere and
gobble up eberything dey can lay dere hands on.' An' she jis' looked as
ef her heart war mos' broke, an' den she went inter de house. An' when
she war gone, we jis' broke loose. Jake turned somersets, and said he
warnt 'fraid ob dem Yankees; he know'd which side his brad was buttered
on. Dat Jake is a cuter. When he goes down ter git de letters he cuts up
all kines ob shines and capers. An' to look at him skylarking dere while
de folks is waitin' for dere letters, an' talkin' bout de war, yer
wouldn't think dat boy had a thimbleful of sense. But Jake's listenin'
all de time wid his eyes and his mouf wide open, an' ketchin' eberything
he kin, an' a heap ob news he gits dat way. As to Jinny, she jis'
capered and danced all ober de flore. An' I jis' had to put my han' ober
her mouf to keep ole Miss from yereing her. Oh, but we did hab a good
time. Boy, yer oughter been yere."

"And, Aunt Linda, what did you do?"

"Oh, honey, I war jis' ready to crack my sides larffin, jis' to see what
a long face Jinny puts on wen ole Miss is talkin', an' den to see dat
face wen missus' back is turned, why it's good as a circus. It's nuff to
make a horse larff."

"Why, Aunt Linda, you never saw a circus?"

"No, but I'se hearn tell ob dem, and I thinks dey mus' be mighty funny.
An' I know it's orful funny to see how straight Jinny's face looks wen
she's almos' ready to bust, while ole Miss is frettin' and fumin' 'bout
dem Yankees an' de war. But, somehow, Robby, I ralely b'lieves dat we
cullud folks is mixed up in dis fight. I seed it all in a vision. An'
soon as dey fired on dat fort, Uncle Dan'el says to me: 'Linda, we's
gwine to git our freedom.' An' I says: 'Wat makes you think so?" An' he
says: 'Dey've fired on Fort Sumter, an' de Norf is boun' to whip.'"

"I hope so," said Robert. "I think that we have a heap of friends up
there."

"Well, I'm jis' gwine to keep on prayin' an' b'lievin'."

Just then the bell rang, and Robert, answering, found Mrs. Johnson
suffering from a severe headache, which he thought was occasioned by her
worrying over the late defeat of the Confederates. She sent him on an
errand, which he executed with his usual dispatch, and returned to some
work which he had to do in the kitchen. Robert was quite a favorite with
Aunt Linda, and they often had confidential chats together.

"Bobby," she said, when he returned, "I thinks we ort ter hab a
prayer-meetin' putty soon."

"I am in for that. Where will you have it?"

"Lem me see. Las' Sunday we had it in Gibson's woods; Sunday 'fore las',
in de old cypress swamp; an' nex' Sunday we'el hab one in McCullough's
woods. Las' Sunday we had a good time. I war jis' chock full an' runnin'
ober. Aunt Milly's daughter's bin monin all summer, an' she's jis' come
throo. We had a powerful time. Eberythin' on dat groun' was jis' alive.
I tell yer, dere was a shout in de camp."

"Well, you had better look out, and not shout too much, and pray and
sing too loud, because, 'fore you know, the patrollers will be on your
track and break up your meetin' in a mighty big hurry, before you can
say 'Jack Robinson.'"

"Oh, we looks out for dat. We's got a nice big pot, dat got cracked las'
winter, but it will hole a lot o' water, an' we puts it whar we can tell
it eberything. We has our own good times. An' I want you to come Sunday
night an' tell all 'bout the good eggs, fish, and butter. Mark my words,
Bobby, we's all gwine to git free. I seed it all in a vision, as plain
as de nose on yer face."

"Well, I hope your vision will come out all right, and that the eggs
will keep and the butter be fresh till we have our next meetin'."

"Now, Bob, you sen' word to Uncle Dan'el, Tom Anderson, an' de rest ob
dem, to come to McCullough's woods nex' Sunday night. I want to hab a
sin-killin' an' debil-dribin' time. But, boy, you'd better git out er
yere. Ole Miss'll be down on yer like a scratch cat."

Although the slaves were denied unrestricted travel, and the holding of
meetings without the surveillance of a white man, yet they contrived to
meet by stealth and hold gatherings where they could mingle their
prayers and tears, and lay plans for escaping to the Union army.
Outwitting the vigilance of the patrollers and home guards, they
established these meetings miles apart, extending into several States.

Sometimes their hope of deliverance was cruelly blighted by hearing of
some adventurous soul who, having escaped to the Union army, had been
pursued and returned again to bondage. Yet hope survived all these
disasters which gathered around the fate of their unfortunate brethren,
who were remanded to slavery through the undiscerning folly of those who
were strengthening the hands which were dealing their deadliest blows at
the heart of the Nation. But slavery had cast such a glamour over the
Nation, and so warped the consciences of men, that they failed to read
aright the legible transcript of Divine retribution which was written
upon the shuddering earth, where the blood of God's poor children had
been as water freely spilled.


CHAPTER II.


CONTRABAND OF WAR.

The reader fits perfectly to the viewed, and how this earlier in the
absence of me not addressed, so it was now even with the present. It
was while the young man a respect not fail to participate for me
because even at such a whimsical way led, because a serious want
of language, a noble purpose, but although the gentlest feelings
of the speech was remained the talk without grace, and a very special
limited Selbstigkeit tat is strongly indicated.

So when he had ended, he asked with Do what I say about this? And
whether such a letter does not deserve a reply, so would have
required?

However I was bedauernswürdige the status of this young man has
become increasingly clear: he had from the outside world never noted
on the other hand, by reading various trained all his power and
inclination but turned inwards and in this way, since he in the
depths of his life was not a productive talent, as well as underlying
addressed; even like him as entertainment and comfort, like us from
the preoccupation with ancient languages so magnificently to win
is open to seemed to go completely.

Since I myself and others have happily had tried that in such case a
swift turn against the religious nature and its infinite variety
is the best cure, so dare I alsobald attempt, also in this case and
Therefore, it follows after some doubts about the answer: "I think
to understand why the young man that you so much confidence that
against you remained silent, because his current thinking deviates
too much from yours in that it is likely that he hoped to work with
you to understand them.

I had some conversations even in that circle beigewohnt listen and say:
you will be a painful, selbstquälerischen, gloomy state of mind
only through Naturbeschauung warm and participate in the outside
world save and liberate.

Even the most general acquaintance with nature, regardless of which side
of an active intervention, whether as a gardener or rural dwellers,
as hunters or miners, drag us from ourselves, from the direction
of spiritual forces on a real, true appearances there after the
greatest ease, clarity and information, how the artist, which is
true to nature feel, while its interior train search, most certainly
will continue.

"The young friend seemed to be very restless and impatient, how
about a foreign or obscure language, whose sense we do not hear,
begins to become annoying.

I pointed, without bizarre hope of a happy success, but to actually not
be silent, went to talk continued. "I, as a landscape painter," I said,
"had to first be obvious, because my art directly to the nature
is shown, but I have since that time as busy and eager not just
excellent and striking images and natural phenomena considered but
to me everything and everyone affectionately hingewendet. " This I
now do not lose the General, told me how they even forced me
Winterreise rather cumbersome to be granted permanent benefit, and
I described him, with picturesque poetry, and yet so directly and
naturally as I could, the Vorschritt my journey, those early morning
sky over the snow mountains, the varied appearances days, then
offered me his whimsical imagination of the tower and wall
fortifications of Nordhausen, befall seen at dusk, and the roaring
night of the Lantern messengers between mountain gorges fleeting
lights flashing waters and reached Baumann then to the cave.

But here he interrupted me buoyant and assured, the short way, he
turned out, gereue him actually, they have no way be equated with
the image, which he designed in his imagination.

After the preceding me had such a morbid symptoms are not angry, because
how often have I had learned that man is the value of a clear
reality against a cloudy gloomy phantom of its own imagination
refuses.

Nor was I surprised when he was to my question: as he is because the
cave was presented?

A description was how little of the boldest painters Theater
forecourt of Pluto American empire would have dared to depict. I
tried this a few more twists propaedeutic as an experimental means to
be cure, but I was with the insurance, it could and should pay him
nothing in this world meet so decided to reject that my insides are
zuschloss and my conscience through the arduous path, in the minds
of the best will, and freed me completely against him from any
further obligation felt relieved.

It was already late when he was my second, still violent, I was also not
unknown letters would adopt this, but my apologies but due to too much
fatigue are made by both an invitation to dinner tomorrow on behalf
of His urgently added ; while I get the statement until tomorrow very
early in the morning reserved. And so we left the peaceful and decorous.
His personality was a very personal impression.

He was of medium size, his face had no attraction, but nothing
really kick return, his gloomy nature did not seem rude, he was
much more for a well-bred young man are, in the silence at schools
and academies to pulpit and the chair had prepared .

I was kicking out the totally lighter sky of blinking stars, streets and
squares covered with snow, was on a narrow bridge and quietly covered
me winternächtliche world. At the same time over 'the adventure and I
felt determined to make the young man not to see: a result of its
ordered' my horse at dawn, handed over an anonymous, excuse pencil leaves
the waiter, whom I also so much good and truth from the young man,
he made known to me to say knew, because of what boy handily owner
satisfaction with most certainly have used mag.

Well, I rode to the north-east slopes of the Harz mountains, in the
grim, me to the side bestürmenden Stöber weather, when I predict
the Rammelsberg, Brass huts and other institutions of the kind
covered by their own way and I had stamped after Goslar, what I am
telling this not because I am now with my readers more cumbersome
to maintain hope.

I do not know how much time passed without me slightly further from
the young man had heard that as in a morning unexpectedly sent me
a ticket to the garden house in Weimar zukam, which he is registered,
I wrote him a few words on the other hand, he would welcome me.

I expected to detect a strange appearance, but he remained inside
kicking, very calmly and said: "I am not surprised here to find
the manuscript of your ticket cried to me so clearly those trains
back into memory, you cantly from Wernigerode , I left that I have
not a moment doubted, those mysterious traveler again here.

"That entrance was gratifying, and it opened a confidential conversation,
which he described to me his situation to develop and I sought him on the
other hand, my opinion does not vorenthielt. The extent to which its
internal states had really improved, knew I no longer indicated, but
that it had not even look bad, because we left peacefully after several
conversations and friendly, only that I be vigorous passionate
desire for friendship and deep connection not reciprocate could.

Another time, we have a letter giving money, I came into the case,
given a real service to which he is because even at current meeting
gratefully remembered, and because even looking back at that earlier
date as two parts of a few pleasant hours granted .

He, still only with herself, had much to tell and tell. He was a success,
over the years at the rank of a respected writer to buy, by giving the
history of philosophy seriously treated elderly, especially those who
tends to the mystery, which he and the beginnings of human Urzustände
deduce sought.

His books, which he sent me, as they came out, send, I had not read,
those efforts were too far from that, what interested me. His present
condition I also found no comfortable: he had the language and
historical knowledge, he so long neglected and rejected, with a
furious effort finally stormed through this mental and his physical
Unmaß shattered.

Moreover, its economic circumstances seemed not the best, at least
allowed him to moderate income not to much to maintain and protect,
but also had the grim goings adolescent may not fully compensate:
he still seemed unattainable nachzustreben, and as the memories of
past situation was finally exhausted, it was not really happy
communication takes place.

    My current way of his, was almost more of
      his more distant than ever be.

We left but I gather the best, but I left him in fear and anxiety
because of the full time came.

Den deserved Merr I visited likewise, its beautiful natural history
knowledge will quickly arrive at an joyful entertainment granted.

He showed me some things before Major, gave me his work on the snakes,
and so I was careful about his life course, giving me some benefit arose
because this is the most gratifying benefit of travel, that once
recognized personalities and venues share our life not let go. Muenster,
November 1792. The Princess logged in, hoping I like the comfortable
condition, but I should still predict a contemporary examination
endure, because, on the trip from various obstacles delayed, until
I reached deep into the night on the town.

I do not heal for decorous, by such an attack right at the entrance into
the hospitality to consider this degree, I therefore went to an
inn, where my room and bed, but certainly fails: the emigrated in
mass had also thrown here and every angle filled.

Under these circumstances I have not thought long and brought
the hours on a chair in a restaurant that is still more convenient
than recently, as the densest of rain, umbrella and specialist
nothing was to be found.

In this small privation I learned the next morning the all the
best. The princess was me, I found in her house to my recording everything.
The relationship between my side was pure, I knew the members of the
circle early enough, I knew that I am a pious moral circle came
here, and I was afterwards.

From that page you behaved sociable, clever and not restrictive. The
princess had a few years ago we visited in Weimar, with von
Fürstenberg and Hemsterhuis, even their children were from the
Company.

At the time, compared to itself on certain points and resigned, some
admit duldend otherwise in the best rumor. She was one of the individuals
from whom you have no concept can do if they have not seen that you
have not properly assessed if not precisely this individuality in
conjunction and in conflict with their time environment.

From Fürstenberg and Hemsterhuis, two excellent men, accompanied
them faithfully, and in such a society was the Good and the Beautiful
continually effective and entertaining.

The latter was, however, died, who is now a lot more years older,
always the same experts, noble, quiet man, and what strange position in
the Mitwelt! Clergyman, statesman, so close to the prince to ascend the
throne. The first conversations after the personal mementos earlier
times are had, turned to Hamann, whose grave in the corner of the
garden entlaubten me soon in the eyes shone.

His large, unique properties gave rise to magnificent views, his
recent days, however, remain ungesprochen: the man who finally chose
this circle is so important and gratifying been promised in the death
of his friends somewhat uncomfortable, it made about his funeral to decide
how you wanted, it was other than the rule.

The condition of the princess, near view, one could not but be lovely
view: she came early to the feeling that the world does not give us
that, in itself lead to that one in an inner, circle limited to time
and eternity must be worried. Both had recorded the highest time she found
in the natural, and here we remember Rousseauscher maxims about civic
life and children's farm. For the simple truth in all, we wanted
to return, and sales Schnürbrust disappeared, scattered the powder, the
hair fell in natural curls. Their children learned to swim and run, maybe
bellows and wrestle. This would have the daughter I hardly knew
again.

She was born grown and become, I found it sensible, amiable, economical,
the semi-monastic life and devoting joining. So it was with the present
time, the eternal future, they had found in a religion that, what
other teaching hope let holy beteuernd interesting and promising.

But as the best intermediary between two worlds entsprosste Charity, the
disruptive effect of a serious Aszetik: Life is filled with religious
exercise and probably do, temperance and frugality were in from throughout
the home environment, each daily need was abundant and easily satisfied,
but the apartment itself, furniture and everything else which one is
needed, seemed neither elegant nor precious, it was just, as if we live
decently for rent. That was von Fürstenberg domestic surroundings: a
palace he inhabited, but a stranger to his children should not leave.
And so it proved itself in all, very simple, modest, frugal, based on
inner dignity, everything Äußere disdain as the Princess too. Within
this element, the moving geistreichste, warm entertainment seriously,
taught by philosophy, by Art Fair, and if one of those rare out of
the same principles, so pleased we are with this line tend to be
found. Hemsterhuis, Dutch, finely-minded to the elderly of educated
youth, his life was devoted to the princess, and his writings, which
may be of mutual trust and equal education, the indestructible witness.
With its own sharp-witted tenderness guess this was the man with
mental-moral and the aesthetic-Sensual unermüdet nachzustreben headed.
Do I have to pass through from that, so are we to think of this increasingly
surrounded and it is for a private man who has not taken in large spaces
and even on rice usual enjoyment of art can not do, a collection of
cut stones is highly desirable: accompanied him everywhere The most
rewarding, an instructive Precious without harassment, and he
enjoyed uninterrupted possession of the noblest.

However, in order to obtain the like, is not enough that they want, for
demonstrating heard, except for the property, above all, opportunity.

Our friend lacked this is not: on the vagina of Holland and England
living, the continuing trade movement, which is also back and forth
waving observing art treasures, he came gradually through purchase
and exchange experiments on a beautiful collection of pieces about
seventy, with his Council and the excellent teaching stone cutter
Natter for the first aid was applied.

This collection was the princess for the most part, are seen,
insight, taste and love won out and she now had a secluded estate
of a friend who is always in such treasures as currently published.

Hemsterhuis' philosophy, the foundations that his idea could corridor 'I
do not otherwise share ownership, as if I have it in my language
translated. The beauty and at the same Pleasing, says he spoke off
when we build the largest quantity of ideas in a moment and summarize
easily seen, but I had to say: beauty is, if we lawfully living in its
largest business and perfection look, so we appealed to the
reproduction, we also alive and feel enables the highest activity.

That view is just one and the same words, just by different people, and
I contained myself, more to say, because the beauty is not only
leistend as promising, but the ugly, from an interruption, even
halted, and makes no hope , covet, and can be expected.

I thought me and the "Letter on the sculpture," hereafter referred to in
my mind to interpret and also seemed to me the book "The Desire" on
the way clear for when the hotly demanded beauty comes into our possession,
so it is not always in detail, what it promised in the whole, and it is
obvious that the one, which annoyed us as a whole, the individual
will not be satisfied. These considerations were more important than the
princess after her boyfriend violently artworks demand, but in the
possession of cool seen what he is so shrewd and amiable in obgemeldetem
book had. It was admittedly the difference is to consider whether
the subject matter of his perceived enthusiasm worthy: it is, it must
delight and admiration always grow, always renewed, it is not quite so
goes the thermometer a few degrees back, and it is gaining insight
into what is lost to prejudice.

Therefore, it is probably quite true that one should buy art in order
to learn, so that the request be repealed and the true value will
be found.

However, also here yearning and satisfaction in a busy life turns to
take and let go of each other, so that does not stop once cheated to
covet. How receptive the firm in which I found for such talks to be
liked, the one on best judge of Hemsterhuis' works has noted that, in
this circle arisen, he also owe life and food.

Among the cut stones but come back, was repeatedly highly gratifying,
and we certainly had this as one of the strangest cases of View that
it is the flowering of paganism in a Christian home stores and should
be highly appreciated.

I missed not the motives allerliebsten noted from these decent, small
structures of the eye opposite jumped.

Again, we could not deny that imitation of large, decent, older works,
which for us would be lost forever, in these confined spaces juwel term
has been revoked, and it lacked almost none Art The efficiency of
Hercules, crowned with ivy, its colossal origin could not be denied;
a serious Medusenhaupt a Bacchus, the former Cabinet keeps Medice
been allerliebst Bacchanalien and victims and to all the schätzbarsten
these portraits of known and unknown persons had to repeated viewing
be admired.

From such discussions, regardless of their height and depth are not in
danger of going into abstruse to lose. Seemed to indicate an association
by a devotion to any object more worthy of a religious feeling is
accompanied. But one could not hide the fact that the pure Christian
religion with the true art is always ambivalent find, because those from
the sensuality strives to remove this now but the sensual element as
its main scope is to recognize and must persevere. In this spirit, I wrote
the following poem immediately established: Amor, not the child, the
young man who seduced psyches, Sah in Olympus around, cheeky and
the usual victory; A goddess sees' it, especially the fantastic
beauty, Venus Urania's , and he erupted for them.

Oh!

The Saints themselves, they resisted not Advertise, And the daring held
them in arms bestrickt. As they emerged from a new sweet Cupid, the father
of the meaning, usage of the parent owes.

Always you can find it in holder Muses Company, And its irritant
Arrow donates the love of art.

The allegorical Creed seemed not entirely satisfied, however, it was
left to itself is based, and both parts are made for duty's, from
their feelings and beliefs of only one hervorzukehren, which would
be shared and mutual instruction and delight, without conflict,
could disadvantage.

Always, however, the cut stones as a wonderful means inserted
element, if the entertainment of some sketchy to be threatened.

By my side I could certainly appreciate the poetic only the motif
itself, composition, presentation and assessment of all praise, but
the friends are still other considerations to be made were used to.

Because it is for the lover of such gems purchase, possession of a
decent collection of wishes, not enough for the safety of his
acquisition that he had spirit and a sense of exquisite art work
einsehe and delight in it, but he must also external indicator to
help call, for that is not even a technical artist in the same
compartment is extremely difficult to like.

Hemsterhuis had jabbering with his friends for many years to correspond,
which is still significant letters witnessed. There was now only the
stone itself to the language, in what has been worked by the one in
early, the other serves in the following days, then was above all a
greater depth to keep an eye on where you could include significant Zieten
, just as soon work on volatile spirit, partly due to incompetence,
partly due to recklessness indication of previous or subsequent
periods to recognize there. Especially you put great emphasis on the depth
and polish it as a thought unverwerfliches testimony of the best
times to see.

Whether it is a cut stone antique or newly decided that no one dared
to fixed criteria; friend Hemsterhuis myself with excellent artist
Beistimmung that on this point to reassure known. I could not hide that
I am here in an entirely fresh field advised where I feel very
much addressed, and only the shortness of time regret allowing me
the opportunity to see me off, my eyes as well as the inner meaning
of these conditions are also meaningful to judge.

In such an occasion expressed the Fair Princess and simple: it is tilted,
the collection mitzugeben me so that I such at home with friends
and experts to study and me in this important branch of fine art,
with a draw of sulfur and glass pastes, scout and would like to
confirm.

This offer of which I think is no empty compliment, and was allowed
to keep for me was very irritating, rejects' However, I appreciate
from, and I confess that I am inside The way this treasure was kept,
actually the biggest concerns were.

"But couldn't you take her with you," said Robert, "the soldiers said we
could bring our women."

"It isn't that. The Union army is several miles from here, an' my poor
mammy is so skeery that, if I were trying to get her away and any of
them Secesh would overtake us, an' begin to question us, she would get
skeered almost to death, an' break down an' begin to cry, an' then the
fat would be in the fire. So, while I love freedom more than a child
loves its mother's milk, I've made up my mind to stay on the plantation.
I wish, from the bottom of my heart, I could go. But I can't take her
along with me, an' I don't want to be free and leave her behind in
slavery. I was only five years old when my master and, as I believe,
father, sold us both here to this lower country, an' we've been here
ever since. It's no use talking, I won't leave her to be run over by
everybody."

A few evenings after this interview, the Union soldiers entered the town
of C----, and established their headquarters near the home of Thomas
Anderson.

Out of the little company, almost every one deserted to the Union army,
leaving Uncle Daniel faithful to his trust, and Ben Tunnel hushing his
heart's deep aspirations for freedom in a passionate devotion to his
timid and affectionate mother.


CHAPTER IV.


ARRIVAL OF THE UNION ARMY.

A few evenings before the stampede of Robert and his friends to the
army, and as he sat alone in his room reading the latest news from the
paper he had secreted, he heard a cautious tread and a low tap at his
window. He opened the door quietly and whispered:--

"Anything new, Tom?"

"Yes."

"What is it? Come in."

"Well, I'se done bin seen dem Yankees, an' dere ain't a bit of troof in
dem stories I'se bin yerin 'bout 'em."

"Where did you see 'em?"

"Down in de woods whar Marster tole us to hide. Yesterday ole Marse sent
for me to come in de settin'-room. An' what do you think? Instead ob
makin' me stan' wid my hat in my han' while he went froo a whole
rigamarole, he axed me to sit down, an' he tole me he 'spected de
Yankees would want us to go inter de army, an' dey would put us in front
whar we'd all git killed; an' I tole him I didn't want to go, I didn't
want to git all momached up. An' den he said we'd better go down in de
woods an' hide. Massa Tom and Frank said we'd better go as quick as eber
we could. Dey said dem Yankees would put us in dere wagons and make us
haul like we war mules. Marse Tom ain't libin' at de great house jis'
now. He's keepin' bachellar's hall."

"Didn't he go to the battle?"

"No; he foun' a pore white man who war hard up for money, an' he got him
to go."

"But, Tom, you didn't believe these stories about the Yankees. Tom and
Frank can lie as fast as horses can trot. They wanted to scare you, and
keep you from going to the Union army."

"I knows dat now, but I didn't 'spect so den."

"Well, when did you see the soldiers? Where are they? And what did they
say to you?"

"Dey's right down in Gundover's woods. An' de Gineral's got his
headquarters almos' next door to our house."

"That near? Oh, you don't say so!"

"Yes, I do. An', oh, golly, ain't I so glad! I jis' stole yere to told
you all 'bout it. Yesterday mornin' I war splittin' some wood to git my
breakfas', an' I met one ob dem Yankee sogers. Well, I war so skeered,
my heart flew right up in my mouf, but I made my manners to him and
said, 'Good mornin', Massa.' He said, 'Good mornin'; but don't call me
"massa."' Dat war de fust white man I eber seed dat didn't want ter be
called 'massa,' eben ef he war as pore as Job's turkey. Den I begin to
feel right sheepish, an' he axed me ef my marster war at home, an' ef he
war a Reb. I tole him he hadn't gone to de war, but he war Secesh all
froo, inside and outside. He war too ole to go to de war, but dat he war
all de time gruntin' an' groanin', an' I 'spected he'd grunt hisself to
death."

"What did he say?"

"He said he specs he'll grunt worser dan dat fore dey get froo wid him.
Den he axed me ef I would hab some breakfas,' an' I said, 'No, t'ank
you, sir.' 'An' I war jis' as hungry as a dorg, but I war 'feared to
eat. I war 'feared he war gwine to pizen me."

"Poison you! don't you know the Yankees are our best friends?"

"Well, ef dat's so, I'se mighty glad, cause de woods is full ob dem."

"Now, Tom, I thought you had cut your eye-teeth long enough not to let
them Anderson boys fool you. Tom, you must not think because a white man
says a thing, it must be so, and that a colored man's word is no account
'longside of his. Tom, if ever we get our freedom, we've got to learn to
trust each other and stick together if we would be a people. Somebody
else can read the papers as well as Marse Tom and Frank. My ole Miss
knows I can read the papers, an' she never tries to scare me with big
whoppers 'bout the Yankees. She knows she can't catch ole birds with
chaff, so she is just as sweet as a peach to her Bobby. But as soon as I
get a chance I will play her a trick the devil never did."

"What's that?"

"I'll leave her. I ain't forgot how she sold my mother from me. Many a
night I have cried myself to sleep, thinking about her, and when I get
free I mean to hunt her up."

"Well, I ain't tole you all. De gemman said he war 'cruiting for de
army; dat Massa Linkum hab set us all free, an' dat he wanted some more
sogers to put down dem Secesh; dat we should all hab our freedom, our
wages, an' some kind ob money. I couldn't call it like he did."

"Bounty money," said Robert.

"Yes, dat's jis' what he called it, bounty money. An' I said dat I war
in for dat, teeth and toe-nails."

Robert Johnson's heart gave a great bound. Was that so? Had that army,
with freedom emblazoned on its banners, come at last to offer them
deliverance if they would accept it? Was it a bright, beautiful dream,
or a blessed reality soon to be grasped by his willing hands? His heart
grew buoyant with hope; the lightness of his heart gave elasticity to
his step and sent the blood rejoicingly through his veins. Freedom was
almost in his grasp, and the future was growing rose-tinted and
rainbow-hued. All the ties which bound him to his home were as ropes of
sand, now that freedom had come so near.

When the army was afar off, he had appeared to be light-hearted and
content with his lot. If asked if he desired his freedom, he would have
answered, very naively, that he was eating his white bread and believed
in letting well enough alone; he had no intention of jumping from the
frying-pan into the fire. But in the depths of his soul the love of
freedom was an all-absorbing passion; only danger had taught him
caution. He had heard of terrible vengeance being heaped upon the heads
of some who had sought their freedom and failed in the attempt. Robert
knew that he might abandon hope if he incurred the wrath of men whose
overthrow was only a question of time. It would have been madness and
folly for him to have attempted an insurrection against slavery, with
the words of McClellan ringing in his ears: "If you rise I shall put you
down with an iron hand," and with the home guards ready to quench his
aspirations for freedom with bayonets and blood. What could a set of
unarmed and undisciplined men do against the fearful odds which beset
their path?

Robert waited eagerly and hopefully his chance to join the Union army;
and was ready and willing to do anything required of him by which he
could earn his freedom and prove his manhood. He conducted his plans
with the greatest secrecy. A few faithful and trusted friends stood
ready to desert with him when the Union army came within hailing
distance. When it came, there was a stampede to its ranks of men ready
to serve in any capacity, to labor in the tents, fight on the fields, or
act as scouts. It was a strange sight to see these black men rallying
around the Stars and Stripes, when white men were trampling them under
foot and riddling them with bullets.


CHAPTER V.


THE RELEASE OF IOLA LEROY.

"Well, boys," said Robert to his trusted friends, as they gathered
together at a meeting in Gundover's woods, almost under the shadow of
the Union army, "how many of you are ready to join the army and fight
for your freedom."

"All ob us."

"The soldiers," continued Robert, "are camped right at the edge of the
town. The General has his headquarters in the heart of the town, and one
of the officers told me yesterday that the President had set us all
free, and that as many as wanted to join the army could come along to
the camp. So I thought, boys, that I would come and tell you. Now, you
can take your bag and baggage, and get out of here as soon as you
choose."

"We'll be ready by daylight," said Tom. "It won't take me long to pack
up," looking down at his seedy clothes, with a laugh. "I specs ole
Marse'll be real lonesome when I'm gone. An' won't he be hoppin' mad
when he finds I'm a goner? I specs he'll hate it like pizen."

"O, well," said Robert, "the best of friends must part. Don't let it
grieve you."

"I'se gwine to take my wife an' chillen," said one of the company.

"I'se got nobody but myself," said Tom; "but dere's a mighty putty
young gal dere at Marse Tom's. I wish I could git her away. Dey tells me
dey's been sellin' her all ober de kentry; but dat she's a reg'lar
spitfire; dey can't lead nor dribe her."

"Do you think she would go with us?" said Robert.

"I think she's jis' dying to go. Dey say dey can't do nuffin wid her.
Marse Tom's got his match dis time, and I'se glad ob it. I jis' glories
in her spunk."

"How did she come there?"

"Oh, Marse bought her ob de trader to keep house for him. But ef you
seed dem putty white han's ob hern you'd never tink she kept her own
house, let 'lone anybody else's."

"Do you think you can get her away?"

"I don't know; 'cause Marse Tom keeps her mighty close. My! but she's
putty. Beautiful long hair comes way down her back; putty blue eyes, an'
jis' ez white ez anybody's in dis place. I'd jis' wish you could see her
yoresef. I heerd Marse Tom talkin' 'bout her las' night to his brudder;
tellin' him she war mighty airish, but he meant to break her in."

An angry curse rose to the lips of Robert, but he repressed it and
muttered to himself, "Graceless scamp, he ought to have his neck
stretched." Then turning to Tom, said:--

"Get her, if you possibly can, but you must be mighty mum about it."

"Trus' me for dat," said Tom.

Tom was very anxious to get word to the beautiful but intractable girl
who was held in durance vile by her reckless and selfish master, who had
tried in vain to drag her down to his own low level of sin and shame.
But all Tom's efforts were in vain. Finally he applied to the Commander
of the post, who immediately gave orders for her release. The next day
Tom had the satisfaction of knowing that Iola Leroy had been taken as a
trembling dove from the gory vulture's nest and given a place of
security. She was taken immediately to the General's headquarters. The
General was much impressed by her modest demeanor, and surprised to see
the refinement and beauty she possessed. Could it be possible that this
young and beautiful girl had been a chattel, with no power to protect
herself from the highest insults that lawless brutality could inflict
upon innocent and defenseless womanhood? Could he ever again glory in
his American citizenship, when any white man, no matter how coarse,
cruel, or brutal, could buy or sell her for the basest purposes? Was it
not true that the cause of a hapless people had become entangled with
the lightnings of heaven, and dragged down retribution upon the land?

The field hospital was needing gentle, womanly ministrations, and Iola
Leroy, released from the hands of her tormentors, was given a place as
nurse; a position to which she adapted herself with a deep sense of
relief. They act unjustly with him, unfair to me. Me and my misfortune
is to be your responsibility. _Isabelle._ I know that language,
but I know what I sense from your promise to have. About Insert only
one self, how sensitive are you and me would Seyn when in all
societies to flee before us, if you look any accusations and show
me a contempt, if your whole family and you hate me, if anybody
would suspicion - _Valer._ torturing me at least not if you do not
want to make happy.

I did everything, and a more considered, I have all these truths so
clearly presented that I believe could unparteyisch to urtheilen;
and yet, beautiful Isabelle, was the final then, that the fortune of
our association all the infinitely would prevail. _Isabelle._ you
know, Mr. Graf, that I am against this happiness'm not insensitive.

You know that my pride through this connection would be satisfied.
Forgive me but that I hold you to a kind of tender love and stay true
to my intent. _Valer._ You encounter an otherwise Ieden so kind, you -
_Isabelle._ no allegations that Mr. Graf As I enter the stage, so it
is my duty, then all the come, courtesy and to show gratitude. I
would otherwise harm our society, and an indecency offense, which in
the circumstances where I am, for one, or others could Seyn offensive.
Believe deswillen but do not, my dear Count, that we with our Validity
verschwendrischer than others. Ieder state requires an own behavior,
and if you know so you do not make false conclusions. _Valer._ I do
not think you like me to blame. My sincere love is the best refutation,
and the first rehearsal that I never Validity Their suspicions have.
Ninth appearance. The _Vorigen_. _Harlekin_ And _Peter_. _Harl._ Ha!
ha! ha! Play a Comödie? _Isabelle._ Well, what you like is a harlequin?
The series has not even to Dir _Harl._ The number Seyn to me like it
or not, I must tell you that Mr. Barthold know it, and that did not
play today, but in all earnest to Heirath work. _Valer._ But what
is that? _Harl._ What that means, if you heirathet? _Peter._ Do you
not? _Valer._ Mr. Barthold Seyde and your all crazy. Another is it
me zweymal say, before I come here and play my role.

(Geht ab.) Will I _Isabelle._ because Seyn probably so happy to know what
it is for a Heirath sey, which is used today?

_Harl._ you should be between a bridegroom who Scrupel makes one side,
and between a bride that does not otherwise Seits closed and not closed.
_Isabelle._ For this chatter, I räthselhaften, Harlekin that you are
, which makes Scrupel. _Harl._ The executioner trust the girls! I
think she read one from the eyes of what you think. But, what did
you differently because in the eyes when you first ways; the point to
Reason, as the desire to heirathen? See me not to? _Isabelle._ O! I'm
going to have the long views, and also Kolombinen.

_Harl._ Hey, look just how cunning the secrets to attract! _Isabelle._
This was because although the Heirath between you and Kolombinen the
secrets? Well, so I wish you good luck so it is a girl braves. _Harl._
Probably unterthänigst Could I ask you what a girl braves understand?

I mean otherwise, the horses would be called brave. _Isabelle._ So I will
only say that Kolombine plays her role well, that they are very clever,
very beautiful, very funny, very kind - _Harl._ But not very well virtuous
sey? _Isabelle._ O! that goes without saying, and I can tell you the good
news saying that they recently did a few brilliant ausgeschlagen has
earrings. _Harl._ But Freyer, which it offered, should not have had some
hypothesis that they Such would probably accept? _Isabelle._ I thought
Harlekin, you better dächtest our review stage. If all those of us
verurtheilen wanted, what about a friendly glance retaliate, or to consult
a temptation, it would be very unfair to us Seyn. _Peter._ No, the
thread must cancel at least, and the cord from falling Rade, otherwise
his sample is not sure Seyn.

_Isabelle._ It seems me, Peter, and where I am right you know, so
would you like to take my Cathrinchen without Scrupel, and Du,
Harlekin, Thäter also well aware of the sample after the wedding
to talk.

That is cursed _Harl._ dangerous, and his time is not comforting.
_Isabelle._ I wish you each a pair of women, the way you put the heads,
and if Mr.

Barthold blessed his wife still had, he would not be me hieher have
sent in April. That says it only when you see him.

(Geht ab.) Tenth appearance. _Harlekin_ And _Peter_. _Harl._ Well, Peter,
where have you left my Company? _Peter._ Here it is (by providing it with
the dress and holet übergiebt).

_Harl._ (If the dress on his, and makes dabey a theater game).

Eleventh appearance. The _Vorigen_ and _Scapin_.

_Scapin._ Ha! Welcome, my worthy captain Mr Hester! _Harl._ How, Scapin,
because you know me no more? _Scapin._ In That, when you voice your
verrathen would not, I would hardly have recognized you. _Peter._ But
the Pants ? _Scapin._ O! the Bey can wear any dress, and a widower like
they do so in the mourning attraction. _Peter._ Bey said to us, it's
not so great Lord, or the fool looks out somewhere. _Harl._ I ask
you, Peter , but do such stupid comparison.

I have these pants with diligence to keep, because the sample should be
unhappy expire, so I hang the dress immediately to the nail, and I
am again I was. But what do you think, Scapin, you should probably me out
of respect for the uniform unbeaten return? _Scapin._ Do you just not
such qualms.

If Kolombine an honest girl, and you are quite Bey their start,
so you need to get your shots, or I lose five guilders.

_Harl._ Good! it is a word.

_Peter._ Truly, I would wager, Mr Harlekin. Kolombine honest is a girl.
You get the beats reliable, and I win my money, or you have not quite
started afterwards. _Harl._ Peter, it is valid for five lumps, and with
joy I will pay you beyden. One for me but itzt Bey: I have no money
in his pocket. I would surely, if I want to try, so any bags of
ducats have. _Scapin._ Do not you think that I know what you like in such
cases is Nöthiger?

Feel only once in the pockets.

In one of my Lord's with an empty wallet pfennigs number, and the other
in the sheath of his shoe buckles. Kolombine will Ducats and Iuwelen
is hypothesis, and if you offer it, you certainly Beydes to raise
his head, without watching what is in it.

_Harl._ Do you doubt it? _Scapin._ So certainly as you get the faith to
get Puckel wilt. _Peter._ Much happiness to do so.

_Harl._ (too Scapin) did you want me well Bey Kolombinen Report?
_Scapin._ Hey, why not?

I serve my Lord uniform, and am not ashamed, such Bey Kolombinen log.
_Harl._ To go quickly. Twelfth appearance.

_Harlekin_ And _Peter_. _Harl._ The Scapin is a durchtriebner head, and
knows all about Rath. _Peter._ After my stupid Reason not heard much about
this joke, you become a good costume shots as possible. I wanted to
also probably thun. _Harl._ O my good Peter, this is far beyond your
horizon. You know it is not pleasant to me like these are blows Seyn.
_Peter._ Well, meinethalben. Everything as you want. If I only win my
five lumps. Nunmehro but I begin to fear that you will, if the
bet is lost in the bag with pfennigs access number. _Harl._ Thou shalt
surely your five lumps, or my name is not captain of Astaroth. _Peter._
Oh, you Meyn not that people will recognize you? Your voice verräth
you the same. _Harl._ The white I have to adjust. I want the proper
role of a captain to play, as I have learned. Dreyzehnter The
appearance _Vorigen_ and _Scapin_. _Scapin._ The Mademoiselle Kolombine
Barthold is captain of the Lord Astaroth back nicely even recommend, and
because they did not believe that the Mr. Captain Heimliches something
you would have to say, so she wanted to have the honor of the same
here on the stage to receive. _Harl._ Was she alone? _Scapin._ and
you sat on a sub nähete Rocke, what they with you, as I hope getrauet
will be one of allerliebsten Röckchen feuerfarbenem Atlas bordered with
lace, not precious, but cute. _Peter._ you coming! She comes! _Scapin._
Come on Peter, we want to go the next inn, and our future bet vertrinken.
(Go from the latter.) Fourteenth _Harlekin_ appearance. _Kolombine_.
_Harl._ Assah! Pudding abuse, as is always? If the liver is still
fresh, and your Seyde bequartirt well this winter? _Kolombine._ May I
ask: what about the Lord's command captain sey? _Harl._ To my command?
Three kisses on a job, my darling, three kisses - _Kolombine._ I do not
know if I have understood correctly, the Lord Captain of Astaroth Bey
have been reported to me. _Harl._ That's me in the original, my little
Zuckermündchen . May I also probably ask if you do not have the
Mademoiselle Kolombine Bartholdinn are? _Kolombine._ You aufzuwarten,
Mr. Captain. _Harl._ Now, we are so well-known people and neighbor
children.

Come then, my darling, and kiss me.

_Kolombine._ I still believe I am mistaken. They told me that you have
some orders from a very good girlfriend that I had in the countryside,
I had to. _Harl._ Ia, right, my dear Sauernüßchen. Here I have a pair
of oriental, Peruvian earrings, and a bag of one thousand ducats knurled
species. What seems dabey you, my Rosenknöspchen? _Kolombine._ I
still do not understand what it all? _Harl._ Why, girl?

* Primo * You shalt me for nine and ninety times kissing. _Kolombine._
Ah, who knows what girls Bey these earrings well captured, and if
you do not dabey torn ears!

_Harl._ I conquered it in the barrel pit before Schweidnitz and The thousand
ducats, I have a French Marshals Rase campagne en * * removed. _Kolombine._
I see well, Mr. Governor, you have nothing in me to appoint me and I
will obey you only recommend again. _Harl._ O Prinzessinn! so it
will not go. Flight here! (Bey He accepts them by hand, and Stellet
them so that they can not miss him.) And earrings, these ducats, these
kisses adopted. (He wants to kiss and nip it.) _Kolombine._ I please
you are right, Mr Governor, moderate yourself. _Harl._ What moderate?
Drey IAHR siege I damned your review stage, as if I have a fortress
siege, and I constantly have my gun on you addressed. That I once storm
run, you have me not verdenken. Immediately these earrings plugged in!
(He calls her on this, but they fall to earth.)

And here The thousand ducats, or (as before).

And now on the breach gehts los. (He hugs it to his art) _Kolombine . _
Oh my God! Violence, violence, violence! Funfzehnter The appearance
_Vorigen_, _Barthold_, _Scapin_ and _Peter_ come from all sides. _Barth._
What ists what ists what ists? _Kolombine._ Do you not see, the Lord
Captain wants to kiss me with violence, and force me to one thousand
ducats, and a pair of earrings to be brilliant.

_Barth._ schreyer And that's why you so, girls?

I bet if I am the Lord Captain of violence to throw out home, he does
not make such a Lermer. (Kolombine highlights on the box now and it looks
cheeky.) _Harl._ I ask that you speak with more respect from me,
otherwise I will show you what else.

_Barth._ to speed with what you wanted to show me otherwise?

_Harl._ I did not not Bey me, but if you want to allow, I will go and
fetch it. _Barth. _ You're very fine, as I remember, now, if you want
to allow, I will set you before the first wohlmeynend a costume mitgeben
strokes. You like it maybe they forgot to fetch. (He flogged it to the
theater down. Scapin and Peter keep him where he is running out, her
hands in order to receive their money. Harlekin finally flees.) Where
is the bag with the thousand ducats and where are the Demant earrings?
This I declare herewith revoked. I have only this Urtheil quickly even
speak, so the judge, the corpus delicti * * not to take itself.

_Kolombine._ Oh, that God have mercy! Let but the sports immerweg the
judge, he will be the Parteyen faithfully deliver again, and happy
with the fee to satisfy.

See here. (He takes the bag and the box.) _Scapin._ Permit, Mr. Barthold
that we give you an idea thun. It was our good Harlekin that here, in
the Lord's captain clothing, refreshments to be made. _Barth._
How? Harlekin? _Peter._ IA, Bey of my loyalty, he blows only on account
of the Lord made captain, and I'm glad that he has received. I have worked
with him for five lumps bet, and already half of them vertrunken.
_Kolombine._ O, the poor Harlekin! if I had known, I certainly would
give him his more calm have another thing to remove. _Scapin._Ich can
assure you that he is so pleased by his shock that he likes to take
again when he can have the honor and Where you want to take the
trouble.

_Kolombine._Kömmt time, Rath ways; the point. _Barth. _Aber It annoys me
that the thousand ducats - Almost I would like him to make the
process for you. Wrong Mint! Nothzucht - indeed, one of Beyden has some
honest man brought to the gallows. But still, listens, goes your way,
and drink your mine. I want to do everything well. Tell him but nothing
like this that I have some news of his disguise did.

_Scapin._ You are an honest man, Mr. Barthold. No word from my mouth!
(He keeps his finger on the mouth, and goes anyway.)

_Peter._ On Mamsell Kolombinens and your health!

(He keeps the whole hand on the mouth, and goes anyway.) Tenth
Six appearance. _Barthold_ and _Kolombine_. _Barth._ I do not doubt it,
or harlequin itzt will come after he made his foolish sample, and to
stop you. Yours are many, my dear Kolombine, and if Harlekin sometimes
a bit simplistic, so you have to think that this stage of our his
simplicity brings many advantages, and that without him we probably
are not ready can be. Meyns What You So by him? Should I Ia, or say no,
if he continues to yourself? _Kolombine._ No, Papa! _Barth._ No, Papa!
and why, No, Dad? _Kolombine._ But a man who told me such a bad faith
beweißt? The only shock to reason must be brought?

- The - _Barth._ O! Love makes fools of wise people, you have this
Thorheit something good to hold and knocks on the stage of bashing Harlekin
not. That is his daily role. He will be all beaten, and even Hahnrey.
And you can send me as your father probably believe _die_ people what
a certain well-known kind of wisdom or folly, are the best to govern.
The mehrsten people heirathen as fools, and are only as wise men, if
they are in marital learn nothing more than to mention the art. To a
good marriage is one peaceful Iugend, health and money. The rest of it
is unfounded, in particular in mind when his bread with the stupidity
must earn. _Kolombine._ It sey about how it wants; Comödie since we do
not play, so he should use more common sense. He is not so stupid, Meyn
as you and I have by nature a desperate drive to the cunning trick.

_Barth._ You can not better him than listen, as if you take him for a
husband. _Kolombine._ First, it at least to me here before all the people
in public apology thun and then I will see what I Thue.

_Barth._ Why should he do but for the captain of Astaroth apology thun,
my child? We need it not to know that so bad Harlekin listed. Seven
Tenth appearance. The _Vorigen_ and _Harlekin_. _Harl._ Well, my dear
Kolombinchen, we want to itzt bride and groom play? _Ich_ Will probably,
if _Sie_ wants. _Kolombine._ But I will not. _Harl._ How? You do not?
_Kolombine._ Did you answer me this does not even gelehret? _Harl._ Ia,
I have done, but that was only a role in the Comödie. _Kolombine._ Well,
I play itzt mine. I will not. _Barth._ Children what you want tuna
that does soon, and it is my time to drink, and I do not like to
miss.

_Harl._ Still a moment, Mr.

Barthold, I must tell you only one crafty string tell .

Do you know the Lord Captain of Astaroth? _Barth._ Oh, yes, very good.
I have just had the honor of him from my house to beat.

_Kolombine._ It is a very bad person. _Harl._ O if you knew it! (He
goes on stage around and freuet itself.)

_Barth._ I think not, that he received the honor will boast? _Harl._
O, my good Mr.

Barthold, if you knew it! apply?

They believe the Lord Captain of Astaroth to have beaten?

Ha! ha! ha! _Barth._ Ia that I Meyn. _Harl._ look right to me once! and
feel here on my back! Hey! he! he! _Barth._ Bey my honor, I should almost
believe that I would have beaten hieher. I know about my train.

But, how does it all over the world?

_Kolombine._ O, my dear Harlekin, thun me the favor and tell me if not
a little to undermine Hexerey? _Harl._ Well, what do I have if I'm going
discover the secret? _Kolombine._ We also often the bride and groom
with each other to play.

_Harl._ Incomparable! but, my dear Kolombinchen, you have confidence
in me to say why you are so fond of the bride play? _Kolombine._ I can
not tell you, but I'm so blithely, so easily, so tidy, so she dances.
_Harl. _ Do you have probably already quite seriously danced?
_Kolombine._ Now, since you ask it again, I want the secret no longer
know. To do so, and it opened my Cathrinchen. Thou shalt _Harl._ but
now know it. _Kolombine._ Nothing! Itzt not, and if you give me thousands
knurled Ducats wanted to give. _Harl._ I have noticed - _Barth._ trust
it to me alone, Harlekin; Bey girls are the secrets anyway something
loose custody.

They fall easily from the pods. _Harl._ Listen, Mr. Barthold, and St!
St! Kolombine - _ich_ was the captain of Astaroth. I had only his coat
here on the mine pulled. Ha! ha! ha! _Barth._ never. _Harl._ In
That. But you know I'm not here to my colored trousers? Ha! ha! ha!
_Kolombine._ Ietzt I reflect, I sahe something shimmer. _Harl._ gelt!
my good Mr.

Barthold, I did it once righteous above? Ha! ha! ha! _Barth._ In this
way the most honest man should be cheated.

But, I ask you for forgiveness a thousand times that I am so strongly
against you have left out. _Harl._ O! You do not have cause. I'm much
more glad that it came, because now I am assured that Kolombinchen
the crown of all is Iungfrauen.

My Scrupel are now all gone. _Kolombine._ The mine but now only go to.
_Harl._ Oh, my allerliebsten Lockvögelchen, you can not play me a quarter
to take the test, I am happy happy. If _Sie_ will probably want _ich_.
_Kolombine._ The sample like bad, I know how to do it. _Harl._ How?

You know how it goes? _Barth._ Got Scrupel? _Harl._ Oh no! but you know
how to do it.

_Kolombine._ Ia, I know how to do it. An honest girl, a man takes to the
test, you must always keep him afterward, and I will not. _Harl._ Listen,
my darling, if you want, I will give it to you in writing that the
sample should not be longer than one months is forever. _Kolombine._ Try
not. You know what you told me earlier: If the Comödie is made, the
Freyerey an end. I commend myself to you totally obedient. (She wants
abgehn.) _Harl._ Barthold O Lord! Mr. Barthold! that would be too much,
first shots, and now even a basket! This is a Comödie nor Comödie.
_Barth._ Here Kolombine! The Comödie is not too late. You know, they
must at all times with a Heirath close. _Kolombine._ No, Papa! This is
not Nöthiger, we have many items on our stage, which is merely to
shock termination: and if it would be legally received, it would
Harlekin, or the Lord Captain of Astaroth, even so must go home.

Slowly his hand released its pressure, a peaceful calm overspread his
countenance, and without a sigh or murmur Thomas Anderson, Iola's
faithful and devoted friend, passed away, leaving the world so much
poorer for her than it was before. Just then Dr. Gresham, the hospital
physician, came to the bedside, felt for the pulse which would never
throb again, and sat down in silence by the cot.

"What do you think, Doctor," said Iola, "has he fainted?"

"No," said the doctor, "poor fellow! he is dead."

Iola bowed her head in silent sorrow, and then relieved the anguish of
her heart by a flood of tears. Robert rose, and sorrowfully left the
room.

Iola, with tearful eyes and aching heart, clasped the cold hands over
the still breast, closed the waxen lid over the eye which had once
beamed with kindness or flashed with courage, and then went back, after
the burial, to her daily round of duties, feeling the sad missing of
something from her life.


CHAPTER VIII.


THE MYSTIFIED DOCTOR.

"Colonel," said Dr. Gresham to Col. Robinson, the commander of the post,
"I am perfectly mystified by Miss Leroy."

"What is the matter with her?" asked Col. Robinson. "Is she not faithful
to her duties and obedient to your directions?"

"Faithful is not the word to express her tireless energy and devotion to
her work," responded Dr. Gresham. "She must have been a born nurse to
put such enthusiasm into her work."

"Why, Doctor, what is the matter with you? You talk like a lover."

A faint flush rose to the cheek of Dr. Gresham as he smiled, and said,
"Oh! come now, Colonel, can't a man praise a woman without being in love
with her?"

"Of course he can," said Col. Robinson; "but I know where such
admiration is apt to lead. I've been there myself. But, Doctor, had you
not better defer your love-making till you're out of the woods?"

"I assure you, Colonel, I am not thinking of love or courtship. That is
the business of the drawing-room, and not of the camp. But she did
mystify me last night."

"How so?" asked Col. Robinson.

"When Tom was dying," responded the doctor, "I saw that beautiful and
refined young lady bend over and kiss him. When she found that he was
dead, she just cried as if her heart was breaking. Well, that was a new
thing to me. I can eat with colored people, walk, talk, and fight with
them, but kissing them is something I don't hanker after."

"And yet you saw Miss Leroy do it?"

"Yes; and that puzzles me. She is one of the most refined and lady-like
women I ever saw. I hear she is a refugee, but she does not look like
the other refugees who have come to our camp. Her accent is slightly
Southern, but her manner is Northern. She is self-respecting without
being supercilious; quiet, without being dull. Her voice is low and
sweet, yet at times there are tones of such passionate tenderness in it
that you would think some great sorrow has darkened and overshadowed her
life. Without being the least gloomy, her face at times is pervaded by
an air of inexpressible sadness. I sometimes watch her when she is not
aware that I am looking at her, and it seems as if a whole volume was
depicted on her countenance. When she smiles, there is a longing in her
eyes which is never satisfied. I cannot understand how a Southern lady,
whose education and manners stamp her as a woman of fine culture and
good breeding, could consent to occupy the position she so faithfully
holds. It is a mystery I cannot solve. Can you?"

"I think I can," answered Col. Robinson.

"Will you tell me?" queried the doctor.

"Yes, on one condition."

"What is it?"

"Everlasting silence."

"I promise," said the doctor. "The secret between us shall be as deep as
the sea."

"She has not requested secrecy, but at present, for her sake, I do not
wish the secret revealed. Miss Leroy was a slave."

"Oh, no," said Dr. Gresham, starting to his feet, "it can't be so! A
woman as white as she a slave?"

"Yes, it is so," continued the Colonel. "In these States the child
follows the condition of its mother. This beautiful and accomplished
girl was held by one of the worst Rebels in town. Tom told me of it and
I issued orders for her release."

"Well, well! Is that so?" said Dr. Gresham, thoughtfully stroking his
beard. "Wonders will never cease. Why, I was just beginning to think
seriously of her."

"What's to hinder your continuing to think?" asked Col. Robinson.

"What you tell me changes the whole complexion of affairs," replied the
doctor.

"If that be so I am glad I told you before you got head over heels in
love."

"Yes," said Dr. Gresham, absently.

Dr. Gresham was a member of a wealthy and aristocratic family, proud of
its lineage, which it could trace through generations of good blood to
its ancestral isle. He had become deeply interested in Iola before he
had heard her story, but after it had been revealed to him he tried to
banish her from his mind; but his constant observation of her only
increased his interest and admiration. The deep pathos of her story, the
tenderness of her ministrations, bestowed alike on black and white, and
the sad loneliness of her condition, awakened within him a desire to
defend and protect her all through her future life. The fierce clashing
of war had not taken all the romance out of his nature. In Iola he saw
realized his ideal of the woman whom he was willing to marry. A woman,
tender, strong, and courageous, and rescued only by the strong arm of
his Government from a fate worse than death. She was young in years, but
old in sorrow; one whom a sad destiny had changed from a light-hearted
girl to a heroic woman. As he observed her, he detected an undertone of
sorrow in her most cheerful words, and observed a quick flushing and
sudden paling of her cheek, as if she were living over scenes that were
thrilling her soul with indignation or chilling her heart with horror.
As nurse and physician, Iola and Dr. Gresham were constantly thrown
together. His friends sent him magazines and books, which he gladly
shared with her. The hospital was a sad place. Mangled forms, stricken
down in the flush of their prime and energy; pale young corpses,
sacrificed on the altar of slavery, constantly drained on her
sympathies. Dr. Gresham was glad to have some reading matter which might
divert her mind from the memories of her mournful past, and also furnish
them both with interesting themes of conversation in their moments of
relaxation from the harrowing scenes through which they were constantly
passing. Without any effort or consciousness on her part, his friendship
ripened into love. To him her presence was a pleasure, her absence a
privation; and her loneliness drew deeply upon his sympathy. He would
have merited his own self-contempt if, by word or deed, he had done
anything to take advantage of her situation. All the manhood and
chivalry of his nature rose in her behalf, and, after carefully
revolving the matter, he resolved to win her for his bride, bury her
secret in his Northern home, and hide from his aristocratic relations
all knowledge of her mournful past. One day he said to Iola:--

"This hospital life is telling on you. Your strength is failing, and
although you possess a wonderful amount of physical endurance, you must
not forget that saints have bodies and dwell in tabernacles of clay,
just the same as we common mortals."

"Compliments aside," she said, smiling; "what are you driving at,
Doctor?"

"I mean," he replied, "that you are running down, and if you do not quit
and take some rest you will be our patient instead of our nurse. You'd
better take a furlough, go North, and return after the first frost."

"Doctor, if that is your only remedy," replied Iola, "I am afraid that I
am destined to die at my post. I have no special friends in the North,
and no home but this in the South. I am homeless and alone."

There was something so sad, almost despairing in her tones, in the
drooping of her head, and the quivering of her lip, that they stirred
Dr. Gresham's heart with sudden pity, and, drawing nearer to her, he
said, "Miss Leroy, you need not be all alone. Let me claim the privilege
of making your life bright and happy. Iola, I have loved you ever since
I have seen your devotion to our poor, sick boys. How faithfully you, a
young and gracious girl, have stood at your post and performed your
duties. And now I ask, will you not permit me to clasp hands with you
for life? I do not ask for a hasty reply. Give yourself time to think
over what I have proposed."


CHAPTER IX.


EUGENE LEROY AND ALFRED LORRAINE.

Nearly twenty years before the war, two young men, of French and Spanish
descent, sat conversing on a large verandah which surrounded an ancient
home on the Mississippi River. It was French in its style of
architecture, large and rambling, with no hint of modern improvements.

The owner of the house was the only heir of a Creole planter. He had
come into possession of an inheritance consisting of vast baronial
estates, bank stock, and a large number of slaves. Eugene Leroy, being
deprived of his parents, was left, at an early age, to the care of a
distant relative, who had sent him to school and college, and who
occasionally invited him to spend his vacations at his home. But Eugene
generally declined his invitations, as he preferred spending his
vacations at the watering places in the North, with their fashionable
and not always innocent gayeties. Young, vivacious, impulsive, and
undisciplined, without the restraining influence of a mother's love or
the guidance of a father's hand, Leroy found himself, when his college
days were over, in the dangerous position of a young man with vast
possessions, abundant leisure, unsettled principles, and uncontrolled
desires. He had no other object than to extract from life its most
seductive draughts of ease and pleasure. His companion, who sat opposite
him on the verandah, quietly smoking a cigar, was a remote cousin, a
few years older than himself, the warmth of whose Southern temperament
had been modified by an infusion of Northern blood.

Eugene was careless, liberal, and impatient of details, while his
companion and cousin, Alfred Lorraine, was selfish, eager, keen, and
alert; also hard, cold, methodical, and ever ready to grasp the main
chance. Yet, notwithstanding the difference between them, they had
formed a warm friendship for each other.

"Alfred," said Eugene, "I am going to be married."

Lorraine opened his eyes with sudden wonder, and exclaimed: "Well,
that's the latest thing out! Who is the fortunate lady who has bound you
with her silken fetters? Is it one of those beautiful Creole girls who
were visiting Augustine's plantation last winter? I watched you during
our visit there and thought that you could not be proof against their
attractions. Which is your choice? It would puzzle me to judge between
the two. They had splendid eyes, dark, luminous, and languishing; lovely
complexions and magnificent hair. Both were delightful in their manners,
refined and cultured, with an air of vivacity mingled with their repose
of manner which was perfectly charming. As the law only allows us one,
which is your choice? Miss Annette has more force than her sister, and
if I could afford the luxury of a wife she would be my choice."

"Ah, Alf," said Eugene, "I see that you are a practical business man. In
marrying you want a wife to assist you as an efficient plantation
mistress. One who would tolerate no waste in the kitchen and no disorder
in the parlor."

"Exactly so," responded Lorraine; "I am too poor to marry a mere parlor
ornament. You can afford to do it; I cannot."

"Nonsense, if I were as poor as a church mouse I would marry the woman I
love."

"Very fine sentiments," said Lorraine, "and were I as rich as you I
would indulge in them also. You know, when my father died I had great
expectations. We had always lived in good style, and I never thought for
a moment he was not a rich man, but when his estate was settled I found
it was greatly involved, and I was forced to face an uncertain future,
with scarcely a dollar to call my own. Land, negroes, cattle, and horses
all went under the hammer. The only thing I retained was the education I
received at the North; that was my father's best investment, and all my
stock in trade. With that only as an outfit, it would be madness for me
to think of marrying one of those lovely girls. They remind me of
beautiful canary birds, charming and pretty, but not fitted for the wear
and tear of plantation life. Well, which is your choice?"

"Neither," replied Eugene.

"Then, is it that magnificent looking widow from New Orleans, whom we
met before you had that terrible spell of sickness and to whom you
appeared so devoted?"

"Not at all. I have not heard from her since that summer. She was
fascinating and handsome, but fearfully high strung."

"Were you afraid of her?"

"No; but I valued my happiness too much to trust it in her hands."

"Sour grapes!" said Lorraine.

"No! but I think that slavery and the lack of outside interests are
beginning to tell on the lives of our women. They lean too much on their
slaves, have too much irresponsible power in their hands, are narrowed
and compressed by the routine of plantation life and the lack of
intellectual stimulus."

"Yes, Eugene, when I see what other women are doing in the fields of
literature and art, I cannot help thinking an amount of brain power has
been held in check among us. Yet I cannot abide those Northern women,
with their suffrage views and abolition cant. They just shock me."

"But your mother was a Northern woman," said Eugene.

"Yes; but she got bravely over her Northern ideas. As I remember her,
she was just as much a Southerner as if she had been to the manor born.
She came here as a school-teacher, but soon after she came she married
my father. He was easy and indulgent with his servants, and held them
with a very loose rein. But my mother was firm and energetic. She made
the niggers move around. No shirking nor dawdling with her. When my
father died, she took matters in hand, but she only outlived him a few
months. If she had lived I believe that she would have retrieved our
fortune. I know that she had more executive ability than my father. He
was very squeamish about selling his servants, but she would have put
every one of them in her pocket before permitting them to eat her out of
house and home. But whom _are_ you going to marry?"

"A young lady who graduates from a Northern seminary next week,"
responded Eugene.

"I think you are very selfish," said Lorraine. "You might have invited
a fellow to go with you to be your best man."

"The wedding is to be strictly private. The lady whom I am to marry has
negro blood in her veins."

"The devil she has!" exclaimed Lorraine, starting to his feet, and
looking incredulously on the face of Leroy. "Are you in earnest? Surely
you must be jesting."

"I am certainly in earnest," answered Eugene Leroy. "I mean every word I
say."

"Oh, it can't be possible! Are you mad?" exclaimed Lorraine.

"Never was saner in my life."

"What under heaven could have possessed you to do such a foolish thing?
Where did she come from."

"Right here, on this plantation. But I have educated and manumitted her,
and I intend marrying her."

"Why, Eugene, it is impossible that you can have an idea of marrying one
of your slaves. Why, man, she is your property, to have and to hold to
all intents and purposes. Are you not satisfied with the power and
possession the law gives you?"

"No. Although the law makes her helpless in my hands, to me her
defenselessness is her best defense."

"Eugene, we have known each other all of our lives, and, although I have
always regarded you as eccentric, I never saw you so completely off your
balance before. The idea of you, with your proud family name, your vast
wealth in land and negroes, intending to marry one of them, is a mystery
I cannot solve. Do explain to me why you are going to take this
extremely strange and foolish step."

"You never saw Marie?"

"No; and I don't want to."

"She is very beautiful. In the North no one would suspect that she has
one drop of negro blood in her veins, but here, where I am known, to
marry her is to lose caste. I could live with her, and not incur much if
any social opprobrium. Society would wink at the transgression, even if
after she had become the mother of my children I should cast her off and
send her and them to the auction block."

"Men," replied Lorraine, "would merely shrug their shoulders; women
would say you had been sowing your wild oats. Your money, like charity,
would cover a multitude of faults."

"But if I make her my lawful wife and recognize her children as my
legitimate heirs, I subject myself to social ostracism and a senseless
persecution. We Americans boast of freedom, and yet here is a woman whom
I love as I never loved any other human being, but both law and public
opinion debar me from following the inclination of my heart. She is
beautiful, faithful, and pure, and yet all that society will tolerate is
what I would scorn to do."

"But has not society the right to guard the purity of its blood by the
rigid exclusion of an alien race?"

"Excluding it! How?" asked Eugene.

"By debarring it from social intercourse."

"Perhaps it has," continued Eugene, "but should not society have a
greater ban for those who, by consorting with an alien race, rob their
offspring of a right to their names and to an inheritance in their
property, and who fix their social status among an enslaved and outcast
race? Don't eye me so curiously; I am not losing my senses."

"I think you have done that already," said Lorraine. "Don't you know
that if she is as fair as a lily, beautiful as a houri, and chaste as
ice, that still she is a negro?"

"Oh, come now; she isn't much of a negro."

"It doesn't matter, however. One drop of negro blood in her veins curses
all the rest."

"I know it," said Eugene, sadly, "but I have weighed the consequences,
and am prepared to take them."

"Well, Eugene, your course is _so_ singular! I do wish that you would
tell me why you take this unprecedented step?"

Eugene laid aside his cigar, looked thoughtfully at Lorraine, and said,
"Well, Alfred, as we are kinsmen and life-long friends, I will not
resent your asking my reason for doing that which seems to you the
climax of absurdity, and if you will have the patience to listen I will
tell you."

"Proceed, I am all attention."

"My father died," said Eugene, "as you know, when I was too young to
know his loss or feel his care and, being an only child, I was petted
and spoiled. I grew up to be wayward, self-indulgent, proud, and
imperious. I went from home and made many friends both at college and in
foreign lands. I was well supplied with money and, never having been
forced to earn it, was ignorant of its value and careless of its use. My
lavish expenditures and liberal benefactions attracted to me a number
of parasites, and men older than myself led me into the paths of vice,
and taught me how to gather the flowers of sin which blossom around the
borders of hell. In a word, I left my home unwarned and unarmed against
the seductions of vice. I returned an initiated devotee to debasing
pleasures. Years of my life were passed in foreign lands; years in which
my soul slumbered and seemed pervaded with a moral paralysis; years, the
memory of which fills my soul with sorrow and shame. Again the
experiments were initially performed on a tethered leash without
Manning started, and only when the stability of new machinery undoubtedly
established, the brothers began with Gleitversuohen. Both soon gained
an extraordinary great exercise and learned, above all, the influence
of varying strength and direction of wind blowing to know. Of
course the two were also not spared injuries, and occasionally even their
machine suffered some breakdowns. But in general, these incidents only
slightly to mention the large number of flights. In particular, it
is noteworthy that the landings usually very gently went ahead. The
flying machine has just accused you know that most places with very heavy
impacts ought to take, because the help of the Gasauftriebes lacking.
The comparison that you are with the landing of a free balloon has
withdrawn, has proven to be just as inaccurate proved as for the landing
balloons with severe motor, whose low walking on the earth is without
severe shock never could imagine. Excellent good just at the height of
the front landing tax, which, at the last moment something is lifted,
the landing very softly arranged. [Illustration: * * Wilbur Wright
in wager real situation in his parasails seen from below (1902)] The
Gleitversuche finally arrive in this year even with wind speeds up to
16.7 meters per second. The flight duration was generally up to 15
seconds, but she finally was already up to 26 seconds increased.
On the whole in 1902 were about 1000 flights undertaken, whose longest
flight for a period of 26 seconds a distance of 622.5 meters,
respectively. [Illustration: * The machine with the boot device, seen
from above * right of the tower on the Earth case weight of the tower
from the line leading to the launch rail] Now the brothers took the
plan, an engine installed in your machine, so they took first
detailed measurements of the lifting power of their apparatus and found
the motor power for the lifting of their machines in the various wind
speeds was required. The weight of the machine of 1902 was 53.0
kilograms, came to the weights of the two pilots: Wilbur Wright 61.4
kilograms and Orville Wright 65.2 kilos, so this is either in whole
or 114.4 kilograms to 118.2 kilograms lift were.

It turned out that at 25 km wind speed the lifting force was
approximately 1-1/2 hp, at 40 km speed 2 hp.

The landing was usually at an angle in front of between 6 degrees 10
minutes and 7 degrees 20 minutes fluctuated. Through this low angle,
the landing was also very relieved. At the beginning of the year 1903,
these attempts still continued, and, occasionally, with strong
winds could Wilbur Wright 72 seconds in the air to stay, but he by
the wind at times on the same spot on the ground in the air kept
or was driven back.

The distance was at this record flight no more than 30 meters. The proposed
engine was flying for a weight of 300 kg and should have 8 hp.

The screws were very simply constructed and applied in the shipping imitated.
When the engine modified samples but the shape of screws and came to the
form, which still owns your machine. The value was originally 66 percent,
therefore, a third more than the screws, the flight engineer Maxim and
Langley had applied, and now he is over 70 percent. End of 1903 then
began flight tests of the engine pilots. [Illustration: * Preparations
for the Start * Several people pull ropes to the case in the amount
of weight. The iron rings from existing weight is in the tower
height, especially in man.

Significantly, the connection of the rope, the weight of the soil along
the flying leads to see] The motor of the Wright flyer. When working
flying machine, the various changes. The engine was 16 hp and weighed,
carburetor and flywheel included 62.7 kilograms. There were two propellers
directly behind the main wearing surfaces, which are directed in
different senses with 1200 tours minute shot.

The engine, four-stroke petrol engine with 4 cylinders, was in the factory
of the Wrights built. In an hour were 4.5 kg grams of gasoline consumed.
The wearing surface had a width of 12.25 meters, a depth of 6.12 meters
and a surface of 48 square meters. On 17 December 1903 were on a cold
and windy day at Kill Devil Kitty Hawk in the presence of only 5
people the first flight tests with the engine flying undertaken.

_Dieser Day is regarded as the birthday of the first free-flying power
forward with their own flying machine anzusehen_ driven.

However, already in 1898, the above mentioned flight technicians
Herring Michigan on a 9-second flight with an Air Force executed, but
the repetition was not, it was just a stepping been under favorable
conditions.

[Illustration: * The Air Force at the start at the end its expiration
rail * From a military balloon in Rome.

In the middle of the image is an officer, some soldiers sitting right]
The approach was made from a 60 meter high hill, the wind speed with
an anemometer was measured, was 9.72 meters per second at the same
time as the wind meter meteorological station at Kitty Hawk, about
12 meters per second registered.

The approach was precisely directed against the wind. The sled runners
mounted on apparatus just glided through a 20 cm high gear on a
wooden rail around initially 10.25 m forward and stood up, with the
rudder in oblique direction to a height of about 3 meters, where
it in a straight line weiterflog.

The first flight lasted 12 seconds.

While this is a modest achievement, but was of the utmost
importance, because now the designers were sure that their pilots
with motor just as stable in the air, as her earlier parasails.

A second and third attempt lasted a bit longer, and finally at the
fourth attempt, a distance of 260 meters in 59 seconds back.

The last landing was the only reason to go so early because of the fiscal
officer a little too much had shot.

The press immediately followed by this faint pressure and came down
to the ground before the pilot could switch back taxes. The speed on
the ground amounted to 14.47 meters per second, in the air up to 15.65
meters. [Illustration: * The Kite 6 m above the field * Viewed from the
front side. Recording from a military balloon near Rome. In the
background you can see from a bird's eye pedestrians, horse riders and
vehicles on the road to hell uplifting] But after the landing Wrights
with their guests the results of this important day, discussed,
observed in excitation is not understood enough of their machine.
A sudden shock wind lifted the device up, and although one of the
spectators, a man of Herculean figure, and it still hinzusprang the
wearing surfaces to keep trying, he was umgerissen the fliers from the
winds and emporgehoben with such violence on the earth thrown that
He suffered severe damage. [Footnote: The Wright brothers's Airplane
of Wilbur and Orville Wright - The Century Magazine, September 1908.]
[Illustration: * The first flying school in the world * Wilbur Wright
explains his pupils Tissandier, captain Lucas Gerardville and Count Lambert
flight machine. Orville Wright stands by his brother. Law is
clearly crossed the chain, which the movement from the motor to bolt
over the left.] This learned the tests a break and at the same time
as the winter was too far advanced, the brothers went out with the
remains of their machine in their home . Here they set off immediately
to the restoration or to the construction of their aircraft.

A significant change is the installation of an engine of 25 horsepower
to be noted.

Now, the experiments on the prairie-Huffmann at Simms Station, 17 kilometers
east of Dayton in Ohio, continued.

Huffmann bank manager, the owner of this country, the brothers presented
a suitable terrain is available.

The trials began in August 1904.

Progress was initially low because the bad weather and heavy downpours
the experiments very disturbed.

In addition, they made the preservation of the balance still many
difficulties, they saw a person that will resolve this important
question were still far away.

We see them continue to practice so diligently to the end of the year.
Only in July the flights will be temporarily suspended.

On 15 September, they were 800 meters with a bend back, and on 26
September is a perfect circle flight has developed in which the
measurements according to Richard Chen anemometer 1630 meters in
the air and 1,400 meters above the ground have been completed.

The details of the wind meter was always in calm air with the
measured distance agreed.

The longest flights were held on 9 November and on 1 December. To this day
were 4-1/2 kilometers with a speed of 51 kilometers an hour back. On 9
November was with a passenger still flying manned with fifty pounds,
1 December even with 70 pounds of iron rods were debited. The speed
was 60 kilometers in the air and 75 kilometers above the ground.

On 9 November reached the flight time is 5 minutes 4 seconds, 1 Dec 4
minutes 52 seconds.

Throughout the year were 1904 105 landings executed. In spring 1905, at
the start of the season better, the experiments continued, but
only on 6 September succeeded by periods of 4.5 kilometers of the
previous year's record to beat.

On 26 September, a distance of 17,961 kilometers - 10 English miles - in
18 minutes 9 seconds. The fuel reservoir was passed for 20 minutes, but
were always a few minutes at the start of the engine lost.

On 29 September, even 19.57 kilometers in 19 minutes and 55 seconds
traversed.

[Illustration: * Wilbur Wright makes a trip with Ms Hart * O'Berg their
clothes down by a cord held together.] [Illustration: * Wooden rail
start in the background * the tower with the case weight] In all
these experiments, the Wrights have made applications for which
they are often on the minds of the audience repeatedly flew back
and forth and almost always landing on their return.

Quick increased the flight time is now, after the inventor a larger
gasoline reservoir were inserted. On 3 October was already the
distance 24.5 kilometers, in 25 minutes and 5 seconds durchflogen
were on 4 Oct 33.45 kilometers in 33 minutes and 17 seconds, and 5
October pilots covered a distance of 38,956 kilometers in 38 minutes
and 3 seconds.

This was the record that they near Dayton reached. A natural
they also suffered several breakdowns.

Occasionally, a heated warehouse or the engine was warm, the oil
went out prematurely, and what the children are even more diseases.

As a result, many residents lived Dayton for their flights, but you
said in the newspapers very much appreciative about. It was on the
short duration of flights gespottet what is his reason was that
one of the long flights of European Lenkballons read and had a
difference between the flight of a aerostatic and aerodynamic airship
could not make.

The people were both the same and therefore paid tribute to the
outstanding achievements of their fellow countrymen is not absolute.

In the news deny newspaper is also the reason that in Europe the
information provided by the Wrights gave no faith.

It is stiff to, when really the two brothers running such long flights
could, would the Americans have much higher mass advertising for they
have made. It would give them enough money instantly for the practical
exploitation of their machine has been given. The struggle for recognition
of the Wrights.

As soon as the news of the successes of 1905, to Europe first, took
the most glorious flight engineer known French artillery captain Ferber
of the article and wrote initially known to him personally Chanute in
Chicago, taught him the details of the Wrights confirmed.

In October 1905 then set two Wrights sent a letter to Ferber, the following
had Dayton, 9 October 1905. Dear Lord, when we received your last letter,
we have just summarized the results of our experiments together and
thought to your question about the practical value of our aircraft to
be able to respond soon. We have the answer with longer wait than we
thought . We wanted only flights longer than the wait for last season,
which only lasted five minutes, and today we can boldly say that
our pilots for future practical use is appropriate.

Our attempts in the last month have shown us that we now build
machines can that really for various purposes, military, etc., are usable.
On 3 October, we a flight of 24,535 kilometers in 25 minutes 5 seconds
done. This flight has been completed, that a camp for lack of oil
heisslief. On 4 October, we a distance of 33,456 kilometers in 33
minutes 17 seconds achieved.

Re-ran the transmission warm but we were able to return to the place of
departure without landing it. On 5 October our flight lasted 38 minutes
3 seconds and covered a distance of 39 kilometers. The landing was
forced by a petrol shortage. A Oeler had rectified the cause, which
the former had reduced flights. The viewers of these flights are so
enthusiastic that her tongue could no longer care. Since our attempts
began to be known, we decided to set up a lonely place we had found.
We have the last few years completely spent our pilots to complete, and
we have not thought about what we do with it would if he would be
ready. But our current intention is to him the first governments to
war purposes, and if you believe that your government might
be interested, so therefore we would like with her in touch.

We are ready to machines after the contract to supply, removable only
after a trial over 40 kilometers, while the machine is equipped with a
handlebar and one gasoline stocks for more than 100 kilometers will bear.
We could also make a contract in which the route of the flight experiment
is greater than 40 kilometers, but then would be the cost of the machine
later. We could these machines for more than one person loads build.
Devoted (Signed) W. and O . Wright. To ensure the accuracy of this
information to convince Captain Ferber was directed at him personally
known engineer Chanute received a letter in which he asked him about
the benefits of the Wrights to give information. He received the following
notice: Chicago, 9 November 1905. Dear Captain Ferber! Recently, I have
your letter of 26 Received in October.
Do you think these things
will last forever?"

"I suppose not. There are some prophets of evil who tell us that the
Union is going to dissolve. But I know it would puzzle their brains to
tell where the crack will begin. I reckon we'll continue to jog along as
usual. 'Cotton fights, and cotton conquers for American slavery.'"

Even while Leroy dreamed of safety the earthquake was cradling its fire;
the ground was growing hollow beneath his tread; but his ear was too
dull to catch the sound; his vision too blurred to read the signs of the
times.

"Marie," said Leroy, taking up the thread of the discourse, "slavery is
a sword that cuts both ways. If it wrongs the negro, it also curses the
white man. But we are in it, and what can we do?"

"Get out of it as quickly as possible."

"That is easier said than done. I would willingly free every slave on my
plantation if I could do so without expatriating them. Some of them have
wives and children on other plantations, and to free them is to separate
them from their kith and kin. To let them remain here as a free people
is out of the question. My hands are tied by law and custom."

"Who tied them?" asked Marie.

"A public opinion, whose meshes I cannot break. If the negro is the
thrall of his master, we are just as much the thralls of public
opinion."

"Why do you not battle against public opinion, if you think it is
wrong?"

"Because I have neither the courage of a martyr, nor the faith of a
saint; and so I drift along, trying to make the condition of our slaves
as comfortable as I possibly can. I believe there are slaves on this
plantation whom the most flattering offers of freedom would not entice
away."

"I do not think," said Marie, "that some of you planters understand your
own slaves. Lying is said to be the vice of slaves. The more intelligent
of them have so learned to veil their feelings that you do not see the
undercurrent of discontent beneath their apparent good humor and
jollity. The more discontented they are, the more I respect them. To me
a contented slave is an abject creature. I hope that I shall see the
day when there will not be a slave in the land. I hate the whole thing
from the bottom of my heart."

"Marie, your Northern education has unfitted you for Southern life. You
are free, yourself, and so are our children. Why not let well enough
alone?"

"Because I love liberty, not only for myself but for every human being.
Think how dear these children are to me; and then for the thought to be
forever haunting me, that if you were dead they could be turned out of
doors and divided among your relatives. I sometimes lie awake at night
thinking of how there might be a screw loose somewhere, and, after all,
the children and I might be reduced to slavery."

"Marie, what in the world is the matter with you? Have you had a
presentiment of my death, or, as Uncle Jack says, 'hab you seed it in a
vision?'"

"No, but I have had such sad forebodings that they almost set me wild.
One night I dreamt that you were dead; that the lawyers entered the
house, seized our property, and remanded us to slavery. I never can be
satisfied in the South with such a possibility hanging over my head."

"Marie, dear, you are growing nervous. Your imagination is too active.
You are left too much alone on this plantation. I hope that for your own
and the children's sake I will be enabled to arrange our affairs so as
to find a home for you where you will not be doomed to the social
isolation and ostracism that surround you here."

"I don't mind the isolation for myself, but the children. You have
enjoined silence on me with respect to their connection with the negro
race, but I do not think we can conceal it from them very long. It will
not be long before Iola will notice the offishness of girls of her own
age, and the scornful glances which, even now, I think, are leveled at
her. Yesterday Harry came crying to me, and told me that one of the
neighbor's boys had called him 'nigger.'"

A shadow flitted over Leroy's face, as he answered, somewhat soberly,
"Oh, Marie, do not meet trouble half way. I have manumitted you, and the
children will follow your condition. I have made you all legatees of my
will. Except my cousin, Alfred Lorraine, I have only distant relatives,
whom I scarcely know and who hardly know me."

"Your cousin Lorraine? Are you sure our interests would be safe in his
hands?"

"I think so; I don't think Alfred would do anything dishonorable."

"He might not with his equals. But how many men would be bound by a
sense of honor where the rights of a colored woman are in question? Your
cousin was bitterly opposed to our marriage, and I would not trust any
important interests in his hands. I do hope that in providing for our
future you will make assurance doubly sure."

"I certainly will, and all that human foresight can do shall be done for
you and our children."

"Oh," said Marie, pressing to her heart a beautiful child of six
summers, "I think it would almost make me turn over in my grave to know
that every grace and charm which this child possesses would only be so
much added to her value as an article of merchandise."

As Marie released the child from her arms she looked wonderingly into
her mother's face and clung closely to her, as if to find refuge from
some unseen evil. Leroy noticed this, and sighed unconsciously, as an
expression of pain flitted over his face.

"Now, Marie," he continued, "stop tormenting yourself with useless
fears. Although, with all her faults, I still love the South, I will
make arrangements either to live North or go to France. There life will
be brighter for us all. Now, Marie, seat yourself at the piano and
sing:--

    'Sing me the songs that to me were so dear,
            Long, long ago.
     Sing me the songs I delighted to hear,
            Long, long ago."

As Marie sang the anxiety faded from her face, a sense of security stole
over her, and she sat among her loved ones a happy wife and mother. What
if no one recognized her on that lonely plantation! Her world was,
nevertheless, there. The love and devotion of her husband brightened
every avenue of her life, while her children filled her home with music,
mirth, and sunshine.

Marie had undertaken their education, but she could not give them the
culture which comes from the attrition of thought, and from contact with
the ideas of others. Since her school-days she had read extensively and
thought much, and in solitude her thoughts had ripened. But for her
children there were no companions except the young slaves of the
plantation, and she dreaded the effect of such intercourse upon their
lives and characters.

Leroy had always been especially careful to conceal from his children
the knowledge of their connection with the negro race. To Marie this
silence was oppressive.

One day she said to him, "I see no other way of finishing the education
of these children than by sending them to some Northern school."

"I have come," said Leroy, "to the same conclusion. We had better take
Iola and Harry North and make arrangements for them to spend several
years in being educated. Riches take wings to themselves and fly away,
but a good education is an investment on which the law can place no
attachment. As there is a possibility of their origin being discovered,
I will find a teacher to whom I can confide our story, and upon whom I
can enjoin secrecy. I want them well fitted for any emergency in life.
When I discover for what they have the most aptitude I will give them
especial training in that direction."

A troubled look passed over the face of Marie, as she hesitatingly said:
"I am so afraid that you will regret our marriage when you fully realize
the complications it brings."

"No, no," said Leroy, tenderly, "it is not that I regret our marriage,
or feel the least disdain for our children on account of the blood in
their veins; but I do not wish them to grow up under the contracting
influence of this race prejudice. I do not wish them to feel that they
have been born under a proscription from which no valor can redeem them,
nor that any social advancement or individual development can wipe off
the ban which clings to them. No, Marie, let them go North, learn all
they can, aspire all they may. The painful knowledge will come all too
soon. Do not forestall it. I want them simply to grow up as other
children; not being patronized by friends nor disdained by foes."

"My dear husband, you may be perfectly right, but are you not preparing
our children for a fearful awakening? Are you not acting on the plan,
'After me the deluge?'"

"Not at all, Marie. I want our children to grow up without having their
self-respect crushed in the bud. You know that the North is not free
from racial prejudice."

"I know it," said Marie, sadly, "and I think one of the great mistakes
of our civilization is that which makes color, and not character, a
social test."

"I think so, too," said Leroy. "The strongest men and women of a
down-trodden race may bare their bosoms to an adverse fate and develop
courage in the midst of opposition, but we have no right to subject our
children to such crucial tests before their characters are formed. For
years, when I lived abroad, I had an opportunity to see and hear of men
of African descent who had distinguished themselves and obtained a
recognition in European circles, which they never could have gained in
this country. I now recall the name of Ira Aldridge, a colored man from
New York City, who was covered with princely honors as a successful
tragedian. Alexander Dumas was not forced to conceal his origin to
succeed as a novelist. When I was in St. Petersburg I was shown the
works of Alexander Sergevitch, a Russian poet, who was spoken of as the
Byron of Russian literature, and reckoned one of the finest poets that
Russia has produced in this century. He was also a prominent figure in
fashionable society, and yet he was of African lineage. One of his
paternal ancestors was a negro who had been ennobled by Peter the
Great. I can't help contrasting the recognition which these men had
received with the treatment which has been given to Frederick Douglass
and other intelligent colored men in this country. With me the wonder is
not that they have achieved so little, but that they have accomplished
so much. No, Marie, we will have our children educated without being
subjected to the depressing influences of caste feeling. Perhaps by the
time their education is finished I will be ready to wind up my affairs
and take them abroad, where merit and ability will give them entrance
into the best circles of art, literature, and science."

After this conversation Leroy and his wife went North, and succeeded in
finding a good school for their children. In a private interview he
confided to the principal the story of the cross in their blood, and,
finding him apparently free from racial prejudice, he gladly left the
children in his care. Gracie, the youngest child, remained at home, and
her mother spared no pains to fit her for the seminary against the time
her sister should have finished her education.


CHAPTER XI.


THE PLAGUE AND THE LAW.

Years passed, bringing no special change to the life of Leroy and his
wife. Shut out from the busy world, its social cares and anxieties,
Marie's life flowed peacefully on. Although removed by the protecting
care of Leroy from the condition of servitude, she still retained a deep
sympathy for the enslaved, and was ever ready to devise plans to
ameliorate their condition.

Leroy, although in the midst of slavery, did not believe in the
rightfulness of the institution. He was in favor of gradual
emancipation, which would prepare both master and slave for a moral
adaptation to the new conditions of freedom. While he was willing to
have the old rivets taken out of slavery, politicians and planters were
devising plans to put in new screws. He was desirous of having it ended
in the States; they were clamorous to have it established in the
Territories.

But so strong was the force of habit, combined with the feebleness of
his moral resistance and the nature of his environment, that instead of
being an athlete, armed for a glorious strife, he had learned to drift
where he should have steered, to float with the current instead of nobly
breasting the tide. He conducted his plantation with as much lenity as
it was possible to infuse into a system darkened with the shadow of a
million crimes.

Leroy had always been especially careful not to allow his children to
spend their vacations at home. He and Marie generally spent that time
with them at some summer resort.

"I would like," said Marie, one day, "to have our children spend their
vacations at home. Those summer resorts are pleasant, yet, after all,
there is no place like home. But," and her voice became tremulous, "our
children would now notice their social isolation and inquire the cause."
A faint sigh arose to the lips of Leroy, as she added: "Man is a social
being; I've known it to my sorrow."

There was a tone of sadness in Leroy's voice, as he replied: "Yes,
Marie, let them stay North. We seem to be entering on a period fraught
with great danger. I cannot help thinking and fearing that we are on the
eve of a civil war."

"A civil war!" exclaimed Marie, with an air of astonishment. "A civil
war about what?"

"Why, Marie, the thing looks to me so wild and foolish I hardly know how
to explain. But some of our leading men have come to the conclusion that
North and South had better separate, and instead of having one to have
two independent governments. The spirit of secession is rampant in the
land. I do not know what the result will be, and I fear it will bode no
good to the country. Between the fire-eating Southerners and the
meddling Abolitionists we are about to be plunged into a great deal of
trouble. I fear there are breakers ahead. Often, he fell in with those
sailing from any height into the air and always reached back to the
ground. In order to transport the apparatus to facilitate and
it may occur before a storm to ensure the machine was set
up so that in half a minute could be folded up. The discussion also
took Specify only two minutes.

Among the outstretched wings could even protect against the rain
find 20 people were under the protective shell space.

Initiated by the Abschweben flies against the wind from an elevated
position. For the first few jumps, the height of the jump board one, then
two meters. Six to seven meters wide jumps of five meters in height were
achieved initial. The landing took place already extremely easy. The
sliding and gliding, even in recent times in the members of the Silesian
flight again avid sports followers found, according to the Lilienthal's
data, as follows, be executed: "It runs with reduced wings, the winds
downhill contrary, is directed at the appropriate moment the wearing
surface by little, so that they lie almost horizontally, and looking
now in the air then float through the gravity of the apparatus of
such a position to give, that he then quickly shoots and minimize
costs. Beginners are well done , a mountain back to vote, about what
they contain a small amount then glide. The first rule is, the legs
stretched forward to hold and to the lands with the upper body backward
to throw over so that the apparatus is erected and the movement slowed
down. The Auffliegen and the low-rise must always against the
wind due course. The vertical fixed tax already provides that in
the rest of the apparatus is precisely set against the wind.

The control panel is prevented, how this is all set to crow can see
that the apparatus itself to the front-over curved surfaces which otherwise
like to do. The lands, however, the tax is the rapid erection of the
apparatus does not stop, it must be through the air coming from
below to its front edge may be revving up and may therefore have
only one stroke have down.

"Particular caution is the following error: the practitioner is suspended
in the air and feel the wind suddenly increased, as is usually uneven,
for example, the left wing more than the right. The inclined position
pushes him right over. Involuntarily stretches the newcomer to the
right and his legs, because it is the impact on Earth looks ahead to the
right. The consequence is that the already low-lying right wing is even
more charged, and the air quickly reduces itself to the right until the
right wing tip in the ground and sit zerknicken. For life and limb is
less danger there, because the machine is on all sides a powerful
bounce plant, which is the brunt of the shot packets.

"Deviations from the straight direction by laying the emphasis to one or
other side by the outstretched legs causes making the flight direction
is deflected. Lilienthal multiple succeeded even in this way, a
perfect turn out, so he returned to his departure point zuflog. The
influence of the wind was in the fly experiments striking. After a
somewhat intense wind came, he floated high over the heads of an
astonished crowd continued, possibly even at the moment in the air on a
floating body to change. Lilienthal felt very uncomfortable with his
more flights, sudden Windstösse because they are a danger existed,
that they - even if only for a moment - the device could take from
the top, making it infallible in depth and having bursts would have
been.

In the biggest land - 14 square meters - Lilienthal lost the stability.
At the same time he was also the landing in stronger winds and very
large areas concern. As he himself says, he has often in the air, a
formal dance in order, from the winds thrown back and forth, the
balance to maintain, but he was always happy to land.

However, he was forced to experiments, which tractability and ease
of use to improve.

Initially, he had the steering by a simple change of gravity with his
body that are so effective manner, the smaller the wing area would
be.

Because now with winds greater use of smaller areas do not require special
benefits granted, but the need was discovered, a larger surface
area for the lifting to win, so he tried two parallel surfaces on
each other to be.

It did so surprisingly well. The dual system had only 5-1/2 meters span
with two wearing surfaces of each 9 square meters of which slightly
over the top was the bottom. The height reached was very much greater,
often Abfliegepunkt was a significant piece over when the winds up on 10
meters per second were strong. When landing at low winds had the
apparatus by traversing the front of the body and then immediately
lifted off the ground when the legs as jumps, quickly accused,
otherwise the body is a very unpleasant shock would have received.

At slightly stronger winds on the other hand, the apparatus is lowered
very gently to earth. The listed exercises Lilienthal always has the
lifting power of the wind clearly felt, and he says explicitly that the
wind is also a movement similar to the circles of the birds would
have to initiate and apparatus left or right to rotate, but due to
the proximity of the mountain, from which he departed that he would
not be allowed in..

The drill Lilienthal 1891 had a favorable place between Werder and large
cross-chosen, where at large exposed Bounce height 5-6 meters left
to achieve.

Here he made his experiments jointly with a technician's machine, Hugo
Eulitz.

The current professor at the Meteorological Institute of Berlin,
Dr.

Kassner has had numerous excellent recordings Lilienthal's and his
assistants prepared the air at the Frankfurt Schiffahrts exhibition
are on display.

The flight distance grew up here on 20-25 meters. 1892, he went to the
then 10 meters high and slopes at the south end of Steglitz. In the
beginning of the following year, he built on the Steglitz Maihöhe in a
shed, so that it is a jump height of 10 meters achieved. End of that
year he moved to continue after the Rhinow Rathenow between mountains
and the Dosses where hills up to 60 meters height. On the Stöller mountains,
he found even a jump height of 80 meters. The lowering of the mound was
about 10 to 20 degrees.

Lilienthal As first practiced here, he was very frightened.

He said himself: "When I was in that year for the first time at this slope
my plane unfolded, admittedly over me feeling a bit anxious, as I said:
Here shalt thou from now into the deep down there is far more
extensive land sailing!

The first tentative leaps soon gave me the sense of security, because
the glider was here less unequal place than my fly tower. bäumte
The wind is not so on as before the latter, where I always jump
when passing the edge of an irregular wind shock received from
below, which I often threatened to be disastrous.

"Here, the single, but happily run accident, when the numerous flights
occurred, and the subsequent death fall.

The first accident took place on the mountains Stöllen-1895 instead.

The apparatus was used in an accurate, with the circle line almost together
falling parabolic profile, in which the pilot with the body behind the
rear significantly superior in order to initiate in the air with
the apparatus, not to shoot forward.

Lilienthal describes his accident in the "journal of air navigation" from
the year 1895, as follows: "With a large amount of exports were soaring
this - Think about the background of the body - the reason that I am
in poor shape in a physical situation, in which the focus is too
far to the rear, whereas I already occurred in the fatigue was not
possible, the preferable upper back.

When I as 20 meters in height with about 15 meters, velocity dahinsegelte,
directed back to the very polluted apparatus increasingly and finally
shot through his living force perpendicular to the heights.

I felt myself desperately determined, saw nothing but the blue sky with
white clouds above me, and awaited the moment when the apparatus would
bend over backwards to sail my attempts, perhaps for ever to quit.
Suddenly However, the apparatus was rising, and he fell backwards from a
height down again, drew in a short arc through the upward-sloping
horizontal tail with the hind part up again, put this on its
head and whistled now with me from about 20 meters vertically down to
earth. With a clear awareness of the arms and head forward, the apparatus
is still in the handling holding, I fell to the green grass .-- A
shock, a crash, and I was with the apparatus on earth.

A laceration on the left side of the head, with me on the apparatus
frame was beaten, and the sprained left wrist were the only
consequences of this terrible accident.

The apparatus was so wonderful it sounds, quite intact. I myself and
stuff like my sails were saved by the elastic bounce ironing, which
I like a more just dispensation for the first time on the front of the
apparatus was attached. The wood produced from willow bounce ironing
itself was completely fragmented, with its various parts had
foot-deep into the earth eingebohrt so that they can only with
effort could be pulled out.

"This accident led to some changes in the initiative: The point of the
hands was more to the rear moved, and it was ensured that the trunk is
no longer quite the rear was attacked. Lilienthal concluded from his
earlier and later trials, that the profile surface, despite its excellent
effect in carrying sail free flights are not up to one-twelfth of the
wing width should expand, but only up to a five-tenths or eight-tenths.
To no longer dependent on the wind to be, he finally built in 1894 in
Gross-Lichterfelde up a conical hill of 15 meters height and 70 meters
baseline at the top to begin expanded flight apparatus was. The height
of this hill was later enlarged to 30 meters. Here he managed all
directions abzufliegen. Many hundreds of flights, Lilienthal has
executed with great certainty, so that he finally his attempts on the
glider was regarded as completed.

He wanted to now a big step further and to build a flying machine engine
is progressing, with a weight of 40 kilograms received at a power
of 2 1 / 2 horsepower.

Stöllenberge On the Rhinow when he had on August 9, again a glider, and
the control of a horizontal tail, which operated by head movements was
attempted. For a second flight, initially up to half length in a
straight forward direction was tilted according to the specifications
of an eyewitness of the apparatus suddenly forward arrow and shot
quickly from a height of 15 meters to Earth, is about hitting. With a
broken neck was Lilienthal most preferred from the rubble, and on August
10, succumbed to his severe injuries. [Illustration: Schematic drawing
of the Lilienthal's departure hill * The departure takes place
from the top to keep the machines in the hills built shed.

The top line shows a glider, which has been found by rising air currents
of the air occasionally lifted again.] This tragic accident startled
in Germany for the next time, further attempts to take flight. Lilienthal's
brother also addressed by other work utilized, no more issue with
the flight.

Only now, he resumed the study and is in the flight apparatus to be built.
You forgot about the death completely overthrow the enthusiastic
description which Lilienthal himself from his 1894 flight tests
gave: "You need for this sailing performance and no power, only by
gravity to control the apparatus.

Incidentally, it is a great pleasure, from the mountains and hills far
in the country hinauszuschweben so that the laity as for the professionals
such as fly sport entertaining as instructive as it turns invigorating.
It is not only possible outdoor amusement, what with so much
exercise in the dexterity of the body, with so much sharpening of
the senses and encourage the mind would be swinging this soaring
gliding through the air.

We are minutes in the air, staying on the lines of several hundred
meters with Kurierzuggeschwindigkeit through the air, yet gently
and safely come back down to earth.

"Lilienthal's successor in England and America. In England and America
had become busy with the Lilienthal's pursuit of the ideas employed.

In England, it was especially the naval engineer Percy Sinclair
Pilcher, who already in 1894 by Lilienthal, bought a flight
apparatus, with which he made numerous attempts in place.

According to Nature, he came here also to self-development ideas,
and he designed to, after several attempts with the American box
kite Hargrave of employed had several separate devices, including
through the reward should be greater stability than its German model.

The experiments with kites Pilcher led to his equipment on a string
out.

He had a 300 meter long leash to attach to the kite flying and galloping
horses, using a pulley-transfer against the wind pick up. As soon as
the kite flying under the effect of high in the air, put the
aeronaut his body slowly, cut the rope by holding, order immediately,
in descending train gliding gently back to earth niederzukommen.

Even with a 4 hp. Petroleum motor sent flying machine he had built.

On 30 September 1899 were Stanfordpark in Market Harborough various
members of the German Aero Club, whose members in 1907 he had
become well known to the flight engineer Major Baden-Powell, invited
to try.

In the way he described his flight apparatus by the horses in motion,
the line was cut, and the aeronaut glided like a large bird in a
gentle glide back to Earth. After the quick start method again was put
in order, began the second attempt.

The pilots came through rain complains that slowly into the required
speed and then climbed up to a height of 10 meters.

Suddenly, the tail rudder together with a loud crash, the tilt
apparatus, similar to Lilienthal, forward and fell over, hitting
on, to the earth.

Among the wreckage lay unconscious and Pilcher wimmernd. With difficulty
could he accidentally present Aerzte rubble from the pull out and go home
transport. Two days later he died, but without the awareness to have
recovered. It is believed that through the rain shortened the cords and
the structure of the rear rudder by simultaneous heavy burst.

In England it has largely Baden-Powell further attempts in flight
technique employed, which notably led to the war that he uses dragon
built with the help of their people into the air to be able to lift.

[Illustration: * * Octave Chanute, the first American flight engineer ,
the famous engineer and former president of the Association of American
engineers, February 18, 1838 was born in Paris] In America, the
Lilienthal's experiments especially in the engineer Octave Chanute
awakened understanding. On 18 February 1832 was born in Paris, he
came as a child after 6jähriges America. Chanute, in its new home a
significant name as an engineer on the railways made, where he
trains in the construction of a very fruitful activity has developed,
and some good invention owes its existence to him.

With the confidence of his fellow countrymen, he was elected President
of the Association of American engineers chosen. His interest for air
shipping is limited to the year 1876 and 1878 attributed.

At that time he collected all the projects on air shipping, which
he could be habhaft.

Because he does his job extraordinarily claim was made, he put the new
study, one day again, all documents tied to a bundle and laid it
aside.

[Illustration: * Chanute-head-dragon 1895 * This first construction
is from several box kites together] was only 11 years later, he won
time again with his old favorite idea to employ.

He made a study trip to Europe, the result after his return in various
speeches and articles laid down. At the time, wrote in the Chanute Air
Schifferstadt circles world-famous book: "Progress in Flying
Machines" - Progress in the field of flying machines - in which he
is a critical overview of all the experiments hitherto made there.

He came to the view that in particular the lack of balance is a major
obstacle of all was progress.

His quest was therefore be to remedy the deficiency.

He made numerous attempts with various forms of land and came to
the result that its dragon-head, where the cells carrying a diagonal
framework to any angle to the airflow could be adjusted, showed the
best results.

The stepladder a very similarly sighted, three Hargrave box-kite-fliers
compound proved to be extremely stable. Chanute issues a parasails built
in such a size that a man by the area could be worn.

[Illustration: * Multiple-Decker parasails of Chanute * (sixth construction)
* 1896 *] In his publications he had expressed the view that it was
needed for the experiments very careful to go to work, which led to one
with a slight Hohne accused him, this advice was probably easy to enter,
but hard to follow. Now he wanted his advice into practice and built
a large wing on the principle of his dragon-head, on the middle rack of
several pair of their axis rotating wings had, by the spring force in
tension have been kept. This is a substantial difference to its
construction of Lilienthal's.

While this balance through the movement of his legs had to keep was
apparatus Chanuteschen in which the balance is automatically held by
the wind, the wing itself, depending on its strength in a smaller or
bigger slope materialize. The new machine proved to be very stable, as
they are free after soaring Lilienthalscher kind in sand dunes on Michigan,
about 50 kilometers distance from Chicago, has been tried. However, the
inclination angle is too steep. As Uebel state showed that the front
wing after the air downwards, thereby leading to reduced carrying capacity
of the other. Chanute brought successively up to five pairs of faces
at the front part, and the inclination was reduced until he was about
the same slope as in the case of Lilienthal's gliding. [Illustration:
* Chanute biplane in flight-to Dune Park * 1896] In the December
1895 in Chanute won the help of engineer Herring who is already
several years with aviation experiments and employed one of his
Lilienthal Chen fliers, which he has tested in New York had, for
further testing rebuilt.

The further expansion of its equipment provided to reduce the Chanute
air resistance, a three-area pilots since the end of the biplane
that has developed, which is now at large through a shelf of
meaningful bridges diagonal construction Tragband only a minimum
of material required.

On these devices was a very practical self-regulating mechanism
appropriate to the Herring had invented.

The practical tests were soaring in the Dune Park in 1896 executed.
Throughout the represented himself Chanute and his assistants,
Herring, Avery and Butusoff, glides around 2000 without the slightest
accident, even if the flying machine in some cases was slightly damaged.
[Illustration: * Chanute biplane-to Dune Park * 1896] In the
year 1902 Chanute built a third type, in which the balance back and
forth oscillation of the wings around its axis has been kept.

This Three Decker had excellent results and was the Wright brothers
trying to pass. 1904 presented Chanute St.

Louis to an apparatus for pulling a forward from parasails he
had before the experiments Pilcher eyes, which, as already mentioned, his
flying machine by horses into the air Fourth. Chanute Hochfieren used his
equipment to one on a car's dynamo. As a result, he, however, when the
Wright brothers ever more hervortraten his experiments. One led him to
this his great age - he is currently 77 years old - and on the other hand,
he was with the Wrights in closer relations and had taken them
into people appreciate that with great energy and expertise is
devoted to the flight problem.

Their mechanical knowledge, a great practice in the small mechanics and
their physical agility enabled both in his view, the work to a tremendous
success.

He has given them so after his attempts to help as much as he is with
them the wealth of his experience and have jumped to assist in
their calculations become.

Later, when the messages on the successes Wrights never wanted to be
believed, he has written and spoken by striving to give them the deserved
recognition of other sources.

When in the history of air navigation, the effect of the Wrights would
be appreciated, so we can not if the name is forgotten Chanute, in the
selfless manner in the interest of flight technique has knitted.
[Illustration: * Chanute-parasails * at the start of the launch from the
front view. 1904] * * * * * The gliding experiments of the Wright
brothers.

Wilbur Wright describes his and his brother's aeronautical career in detail
in the journal of the Association of the Western American engineers from
December 1901 under the title: Some aeronautical experiments (Some
Aeronautical Experiments). The youth already bezeigte interest in
flight tests at Wilbur Wright first again in 1896 re-awakened when
the telegraph the message to America was that the German flight engineer
Lilienthal in his sensational experiments crashed and was killed. He
started thinking about it, so probably the fall of this man had been
caused, which is already a large number of flights had happy.

Initially he studied the art books, which are named with the Vogelflug
employed, particularly the work of Professor Marey. As soon after his
brother Orville in flight for the problem began to be interested,
decided both practical to attempt to translate.
From this dream of bliss she was awakened by a
burning kiss pressed on her lips, and a strong arm encircling her.
Gazing around and taking in the whole situation, she sprang from her
seat, her eyes flashing with rage and scorn, her face flushed to the
roots of her hair, her voice shaken with excitement, and every nerve
trembling with angry emotion.

"How dare you do such a thing! Don't you know if my father were here he
would crush you to the earth?"

"Not so fast, my lovely tigress," said Bastine, "your father knew what
he was doing when he placed you in my charge."

"My father made a great mistake, if he thought he had put me in charge
of a gentleman."

"I am your guardian for the present," replied Bastine. "I am to see you
safe home, and then my commission ends."

"I wish it were ended now," she exclaimed, trembling with anger and
mortification. Her voice was choked by emotion, and broken by smothered
sobs. Louis Bastine thought to himself, "she is a real spitfire, but
beautiful even in her wrath."

During the rest of her journey Iola preserved a most freezing reserve
towards Bastine. At length the journey was ended. Pale and anxious she
rode up the avenue which led to her home.

A strange silence pervaded the place. The servants moved sadly from
place to place, and spoke in subdued tones. The windows were heavily
draped with crape, and a funeral air pervaded the house.

Mammy Liza met her at the door, and, with streaming eyes and convulsive
sobs, folded her to her heart, as Iola exclaimed, in tones of hopeless
anguish:--

"Oh, papa's dead!"

"Oh, my pore baby!" said mammy, "ain't you hearn tell 'bout it? Yore
par's dead, an' your mar's bin drefful sick. She's better now."

Mam Liza stepped lightly into Mrs. Leroy's room, and gently apprised her
of Iola's arrival. In a darkened room lay the stricken mother, almost
distracted by her late bereavement.

"Oh, Iola," she exclaimed, as her daughter entered, "is this you? I am
so sorry you came."

Then, burying her head in Iola's bosom, she wept convulsively. "Much as
I love you," she continued, between her sobs, "and much as I longed to
see you, I am sorry you came."

"Why, mother," replied Iola, astonished, "I received your telegram last
Wednesday, and I took the earliest train I could get."

"My dear child, I never sent you a telegram. It was a trick to bring you
down South and reduce you to slavery."

Iola eyed her mother curiously. What did she mean? Had grief dethroned
her reason? Yet her eye was clear, her manner perfectly rational.

Marie saw the astounded look on Iola's face, and nerving herself to the
task, said: "Iola, I must tell you what your father always enjoined me
to be silent about. I did not think it was the wisest thing, but I
yielded to his desires. I have negro blood in my veins. I was your
father's slave before I married him. His relatives have set aside his
will. The courts have declared our marriage null and void and my
manumission illegal, and we are all to be remanded to slavery."

An expression of horror and anguish swept over Iola's face, and, turning
deathly pale, she exclaimed, "Oh, mother, it can't be so! you must be
dreaming!"

"No, my child; it is a terrible reality."

Almost wild with agony, Iola paced the floor, as the fearful truth broke
in crushing anguish upon her mind. Then bursting into a paroxysm of
tears succeeded by peals of hysterical laughter, said:--

"I used to say that slavery is right. I didn't know what I was talking
about." Then growing calmer, she said, "Mother, who is at the bottom of
this downright robbery?"

"Alfred Lorraine; I have always dreaded that man, and what I feared has
come to pass. Your father had faith in him; I never had."

"But, mother, could we not contest his claim. You have your marriage
certificate and papa's will."

"Yes, my dear child, but Judge Starkins has decided that we have no
standing in the court, and no testimony according to law."

"Oh, mother, what can I do?"

"Nothing, my child, unless you can escape to the North."

"And leave you?"

"Yes."

"Mother, I will never desert you in your hour of trial. But can nothing
be done? Had father no friends who would assist us?"

"None that I know of. I do not think he had an acquaintance who approved
of our marriage. The neighboring planters have stood so aloof from me
that I do not know where to turn for either help or sympathy. I believe
it was Lorraine who sent the telegram. I wrote to you as soon as I could
after your father's death, but fainted just as I finished directing the
letter. I do not think he knows where your brother is, and, if possible,
he must not know. If you can by any means, _do_ send a letter to Harry
and warn him not to attempt to come home. I don't know how you will
succeed, for Lorraine has us all under surveillance. But it is according
to law."

"What law, mother?"

"The law of the strong against the weak."

"Oh, mother, it seems like a dreadful dream, a fearful nightmare! But I
cannot shake it off. Where is Gracie?"

"The dear child has been running down ever since her papa's death. She
clung to me night and day while I had the brain fever, and could not be
persuaded to leave me. She hardly ate anything for more than a week. She
has been dangerously ill for several days, and the doctor says she
cannot live. The fever has exhausted all her rallying power, and yet,
dear as she is to me, I would rather consign her to the deepest grave
than see her forced to be a slave."

"So would I. I wish I could die myself."

"Oh, Iola, do not talk so. Strive to be a Christian, to have faith in
the darkest hour. Were it not for my hope of heaven I couldn't stand all
this trouble."

"Mother, are these people Christians who made these laws which are
robbing us of our inheritance and reducing us to slavery? If this is
Christianity I hate and despise it. Would the most cruel heathen do
worse?"

"My dear child, I have not learned my Christianity from them. I have
learned it at the foot of the cross, and from this book," she said,
placing a New Testament in Iola's hands. "Some of the most beautiful
lessons of faith and trust I have ever learned were from among our lowly
people in their humble cabins."

"Mamma!" called a faint voice from the adjoining room. Marie
immediately arose and went to the bedside of her sick child, where Mammy
Liza was holding her faithful vigils. The child had just awakened from a
fitful sleep.

"I thought," she said, "that I heard Iola's voice. Has she come?"

"Yes, darling; do you want to see her?"

"Oh, yes," she said, as a bright smile broke over her dying features.

Iola passed quickly into the room. Gracie reached out her thin,
bloodless hand, clasped Iola's palm in hers, and said: "I am so glad you
have come. Dear Iola, stand by mother. You and Harry are all she has. It
is not hard to die. You and mother and Harry must meet me in heaven."

Swiftly the tidings went through the house that Gracie was dying. The
servants gathered around her with tearful eyes, as she bade them all
good-bye. When she had finished, and Mammy had lowered the pillow, an
unwonted radiance lit up her eye, and an expression of ineffable
gladness overspread her face, as she murmured: "It is beautiful, so
beautiful!" Fainter and fainter grew her voice, until, without a
struggle or sigh, she passed away beyond the power of oppression and
prejudice.


CHAPTER XIII.


A REJECTED SUITOR.

Very unexpected was Dr. Gresham's proposal to Iola. She had heartily
enjoyed his society and highly valued his friendship, but he had never
been associated in her mind with either love or marriage. As he held her
hand in his a tell-tale flush rose to her cheek, a look of grateful
surprise beamed from her eye, but it was almost immediately succeeded by
an air of inexpressible sadness, a drooping of her eyelids, and an
increasing pallor of her cheek. She withdrew her hand from his, shook
her head sadly, and said:--

"No, Doctor; that can never be. I am very grateful to you for your
kindness. I value your friendship, but neither gratitude nor friendship
is love, and I have nothing more than those to give."

"Not at present," said Dr. Gresham; "but may I not hope your friendship
will ripen into love?"

"Doctor, I could not promise. I do not think that I should. There are
barriers between us that I cannot pass. Were you to know them I think
you would say the same."

Just then the ambulance brought in a wounded scout, and Iola found
relief from the wounds of her own heart in attending to his.

Dr. Gresham knew the barrier that lay between them. It was one which his
love had surmounted. But he was too noble and generous to take advantage
of her loneliness to press his suit. He had lived in a part of the
country where he had scarcely ever seen a colored person, and around the
race their misfortunes had thrown a halo of romance. To him the negro
was a picturesque being, over whose woes he had wept when a child, and
whose wrongs he was ready to redress when a man. But when he saw the
lovely girl who had been rescued by the commander of the post from the
clutches of slavery, all the manhood and chivalry in his nature arose in
her behalf, and he was ready to lay on the altar of her heart his first
grand and overmastering love. Not discouraged by her refusal, but
determined to overcome her objections, Dr. Congratulations. You have
entered the path that you run your decisions on a new life, yes,
as I hope secures!

Therefore Bravo! Keep your Axel von Teut-Eder. "Even the family Teut Ink
sent his congratulations, but he made a visit not. * * * * * The summer
of 1870 came the war between France and Germany stood in front of
Thür. A tremendous excitement had taken all minds, and also in C. spoke
of nothing else than from this threat, in all circumstances intervening
event. eager men read the newspapers, brought a message from the
other, and in military circles was febrile tension on the likely
Marschordres.

"Is it true, is it possible?" cried Ange Teut and hurried forward, who
immediately went to his friends. "Have you ever received Outdent command?
When? Where are you? O, come! Carlos is in great impatience to see you
and talk. "And she drew him with it in her husband's chamber. Claire
Fort was hardly recognizable. The three years since he moved after C.
was, it had completely changed. His gaze was incredibly stiff, black
beard framed his face, and skinny fingers twitched in nervous
excitement. He moved uncertain, stayed mostly in the furniture and then
progressively with those free-willed movements accompanied involving the
spinal cord suffering recognizes. By excessive use of narcotic
means his condition had not improved, and often it was like when he
woke the sleeping man, a sick mind. Today, he was clear, he stood out
in his recently completed his invalid chair up and set up a questioning
look at the occurring. "Just something new, Teut? When it's
continued?

Ah, and I lie here, a powerless patient, and must watch. "Ange comforted
compassionate, pointing to improvement, admittedly without believing it
himself. Teut nodded and gave serious answers to these and subsequent
issues." I think we are on tomorrow C. leave, "he said." The Colonel
is only told that we are ready to march up to that will hold. A certain
Ordre has not yet arrived. "" Even the day after tomorrow, "said Ange
frightened, let the arms fall, just yet on the high back of the patient
chair had rested, and laid a hand on your heart.

Even Claire Fort repeated the same words, but as an absent, with his
mind is far away. "Please, Ange," he finally overcome with visible, it "
leave us now. I have something to discuss with Teut. "Ange saw the serious
face of the two men and turned to walk obediently. Teuts faces remained
immobile: they vainly sought his views. After they had left the
chamber, Claire Fort fell back and covered the face with their hands.
"They're moving! What is you, Claire Fort? "Began Teut, a chair and
herbeirückend touching shoulder of a friend." You want me to say
something? I hear Claire continued. "He stopped and expected that that
will take the floor. When Claire Fort remained silent, he continued:"
Talk! What it may be, it falls into the deepest wells! Please join the
friends who understand everything, and everything - "" Excuse it?
"Said the sick, was suddenly and looked up with a Teut beseechingly
attention.
Gresham's whole
heart went out in sympathy for her, and he resolved to break the silence
he had imposed upon himself.

"Iola," he said, and there was a depth of passionate tenderness in his
voice, a volume of unexpressed affection in his face, "you are wronging
yourself. You are sinking beneath burdens too heavy for you to bear. It
seems to me that besides the constant drain upon your sympathies there
is some great sorrow preying upon your life; some burden that ought to
be shared." He gazed upon her so ardently that each cord of her heart
seemed to vibrate, and unbidden tears sprang to her lustrous eyes, as
she said, sadly:--

"Doctor, you are right."

"Iola, my heart is longing to lift those burdens from your life. Love,
like faith, laughs at impossibilities. I can conceive of no barrier too
high for my love to surmount. Consent to be mine, as nothing else on
earth is mine."

"Doctor, you know not what you ask," replied Iola. "Instead of coming
into this hospital a self-sacrificing woman, laying her every gift and
advantage upon the altar of her country, I came as a rescued slave, glad
to find a refuge from a fate more cruel than death; a fate from which I
was rescued by the intervention of my dear dead friend, Thomas Anderson.
I was born on a lonely plantation on the Mississippi River, where the
white population was very sparse. We had no neighbors who ever visited
us; no young white girls with whom I ever played in my childhood; but,
never having enjoyed such companionship, I was unconscious of any sense
of privation. Our parents spared no pains to make the lives of their
children (we were three) as bright and pleasant as they could. Our home
was so happy. We had a large number of servants, who were devoted to us.
I never had the faintest suspicion that there was any wrongfulness in
slavery, and I never dreamed of the dreadful fate which broke in a storm
of fearful anguish over our devoted heads. Papa used to take us to New
Orleans to see the Mardi Gras, and while there we visited the theatres
and other places of amusement and interest. At home we had books,
papers, and magazines to beguile our time. Perfectly ignorant of my
racial connection, I was sent to a Northern academy, and soon made many
friends among my fellow-students. Companionship with girls of my own age
was a new experience, which I thoroughly enjoyed. I spent several years
in New England, and was busily preparing for my commencement exercises
when my father was snatched away--died of yellow fever on his way North
to witness my graduation. - That is true - said Lorenzo, - more than
once I've found. - I've found many times I have seen gathered half
a dozen gentlemen and ladies. - I will not say much, but it is often ..
. - It is fatal! in meetings today tonteras play or talk, I have not found
in any meeting that is not one of these two imbecility. - You exaggerate
too much, Melchor: There is no doubt in our social environment is much
superficiality, but There are many studies and there is no shortage of
truly intellectual centers. - I have not seen! ... I usually go to our
relationship - and you know, Lorenzo - without ever found, like this:
Never! anything but an "armed poker or a heated discussion among
ladies and gentlemen, on the cost of the hat fulanito, but, man!I
am constantly rousing myself up to suffer and be strong. I intend, when
this conflict is over, to cast my lot with the freed people as a helper,
teacher, and friend. I have passed through a fiery ordeal, but this
ministry of suffering will not be in vain. I feel that my mind has
matured beyond my years. I am a wonder to myself. It seems as if years
had been compressed into a few short months. In telling you this, do you
not, can you not, see that there is an insurmountable barrier between
us?"

"No, I do not," replied Dr. Gresham. "I love you for your own sake. And
with this the disadvantages of birth have nothing to do."

"You say so now, and I believe that you are perfectly sincere. Today
your friendship springs from compassion, but, when that subsides, might
you not look on me as an inferior?"

"Iola, you do not understand me. You think too meanly of me. You must
not judge me by the worst of my race. Surely our country has produced a
higher type of manhood than the men by whom you were tried and tempted."

"Tried, but not tempted," said Iola, as a deep flush overspread her
face; "I was never tempted. I was sold from State to State as an article
of merchandise. I had outrages heaped on me which might well crimson the
cheek of honest womanhood with shame, but I never fell into the clutches
of an owner for whom I did not feel the utmost loathing and intensest
horror. I have heard men talk glibly of the degradation of the negro,
but there is a vast difference between abasement of condition and
degradation of character. I was abased, but the men who trampled on me
were the degraded ones."

"But, Iola, you must not blame all for what a few have done."

"A few have done? Did not the whole nation consent to our abasement?"
asked Iola, bitterly.

"No, Miss Iola, we did not all consent to it. Slavery drew a line of
cleavage in this country. Although we were under one government we were
farther apart in our sentiments than if we had been divided by lofty
mountains and separated by wide seas. And had not Northern sentiment
been brought to bear against the institution, slavery would have been
intact until to-day."

"But, Doctor, the negro is under a social ban both North and South. Our
enemies have the ear of the world, and they can depict us just as they
please."

"That is true; but the negro has no other alternative than to make
friends of his calamities. Other men have plead his cause, but out of
the race must come its own defenders. With them the pen must be
mightier than the sword. It is the weapon of civilization, and they must
use it in their own defense. We cannot tell what is in them until they
express themselves."

"Yes, and I think there is a large amount of latent and undeveloped
ability in the race, which they will learn to use for their own benefit.
This my hospital experience has taught me."

"But," said Dr. Gresham, "they must learn to struggle, labor, and
achieve. By facts, not theories, they will be judged in the future. The
Anglo-Saxon race is proud, domineering, aggressive, and impatient of a
rival, and, as I think, has more capacity for dragging down a weaker
race than uplifting it. They have been a conquering and achieving
people, marvelous in their triumphs of mind over matter. They have
manifested the traits of character which are developed by success and
victory."

"And yet," said Iola, earnestly, "I believe the time will come when the
civilization of the negro will assume a better phase than you
Anglo-Saxons possess. You will prove unworthy of your high vantage
ground if you only use your superior ability to victimize feebler races
and minister to a selfish greed of gold and a love of domination."

"But, Iola," said Dr. Gresham, a little impatiently, "what has all this
to do with our marriage? Your complexion is as fair as mine. What is to
hinder you from sharing my Northern home, from having my mother to be
your mother?" The tones of his voice grew tender, as he raised his eyes
to Iola's face and anxiously awaited her reply.

"Dr. Gresham," said Iola, sadly, "should the story of my life be
revealed to your family, would they be willing to ignore all the
traditions of my blood, forget all the terrible humiliations through
which I have passed? I have too much self-respect to enter your home
under a veil of concealment. I have lived in New England. I love the
sunshine of her homes and the freedom of her institutions. But New
England is not free from racial prejudice, and I would never enter a
family where I would be an unwelcome member."

"Iola, dear, you have nothing to fear in that direction."

"Doctor," she said, and a faint flush rose to her cheek, "suppose we
should marry, and little children in after years should nestle in our
arms, and one of them show unmistakable signs of color, would you be
satisfied?"

She looked steadfastly into his eyes, which fell beneath her
truth-seeking gaze. His face flushed as if the question had suddenly
perplexed him. Iola saw the irresolution on his face, and framed her
answer accordingly.

"Ah, I see," she said, "that you are puzzled. You had not taken into
account what might result from such a marriage. I will relieve you from
all embarrassment by simply saying I cannot be your wife. When the war
is over I intend to search the country for my mother. Doctor, were you
to give me a palace-like home, with velvet carpets to hush my tread, and
magnificence to surround my way, I should miss her voice amid all other
tones, her presence amid every scene. Oh, you do not know how hungry my
heart is for my mother! Were I to marry you I would carry an aching
heart into your home and dim its brightness. I have resolved never to
marry until I have found my mother. The hope of finding her has colored
all my life since I regained my freedom. It has helped sustain me in the
hour of fearful trial. When I see her I want to have the proud
consciousness that I bring her back a heart just as loving, faithful,
and devoted as the last hour we parted."

"And is this your final answer?"

"It is. I have pledged my life to that resolve, and I believe time and
patience will reward me."

There was a deep shadow of sorrow and disappointment on the face of Dr.
Gresham as he rose to leave. For a moment he held her hand as it lay
limp in his own. If she wavered in her determination it was only for a
moment. No quivering of her lip or paling of her cheek betrayed any
struggle of her heart. Her resolve was made, and his words were
powerless to swerve her from the purpose of her soul.

After Dr. Gresham had gone Iola went to her room and sat buried in
thought. It seemed as if the fate of Tantalus was hers, without his
crimes. Here she was lonely and heart-stricken, and unto her was
presented the offer of love, home, happiness, and social position; the
heart and hand of a man too noble and generous to refuse her
companionship for life on account of the blood in her veins. Why should
she refuse these desirable boons? But, mingling with these beautiful
visions of manly love and protecting care she saw the anguish of her
heart-stricken mother and the pale, sweet face of her dying sister, as
with her latest breath she had said, "Iola, stand by mamma!"

"No, no," she said to herself; "I was right to refuse Dr. Gresham. How
dare I dream of happiness when my poor mamma's heart may be slowly
breaking? I should be ashamed to live and ashamed to die were I to
choose a happy lot for myself and leave poor mamma to struggle alone. I
will never be satisfied till I get tidings of her. And when I have found
her I will do all I can to cheer and brighten the remnant of her life."


CHAPTER XIV.


HARRY LEROY.

It was several weeks after Iola had written to her brother that her
letter reached him. The trusty servant to whom she delivered it watched
his opportunity to mail it. At last he succeeded in slipping it into
Lorraine's mail and dropping them all into the post office together.
Harry was studying at a boys' academy in Maine. His father had given
that State the preference because, while on a visit there, he had been
favorably impressed with the kindness and hospitality of the people. He
had sent his son a large sum of money, and given him permission to spend
awhile with some school-chums till he was ready to bring the family
North, where they could all spend the summer together. Harry had
returned from his visit, and was looking for letters and remittances
from home, when a letter, all crumpled, was handed him by the principal
of the academy. He recognized his sister's handwriting and eagerly
opened the letter. As he read, he turned very pale; then a deep flush
overspread his face and an angry light flashed from his eyes. As he read
on, his face became still paler; he gasped for breath and fell into a
swoon. Appalled at the sudden change which had swept over him like a
deadly sirocco, the principal rushed to the fallen boy, picked up the
missive that lay beside him, and immediately rang for help and
dispatched for the doctor. The doctor came at once and was greatly
puzzled. Less than an hour before, he had seen him with a crowd of
merry, laughter-loving boys, apparently as light-hearted and joyous as
any of them; now he lay with features drawn and pinched, his face deadly
pale, as if some terrible suffering had sent all the blood in his veins
to stagnate around his heart. Harry opened his eyes, shuddered, and
relapsed into silence. The doctor, all at sea in regard to the cause of
the sudden attack, did all that he could to restore him to consciousness
and quiet the perturbation of his spirit. He succeeded, but found he was
strangely silent. A terrible shock had sent a tremor through every
nerve, and the doctor watched with painful apprehension its effect upon
his reason. Giving him an opiate and enjoining that he should be kept
perfectly quiet, the doctor left the room, sought the principal, and
said:--

"Mr. The virtue TO REVIEW THE STAGE or: Harlequin Heirath After a game
in an elevator by J. MOES Berlin and Stettin, Bey Friedrich Nicolai 1798
people after the game: _Herr Barthold_, Principal of the stage.
_Kolombine_, His daughter. _Harlekin_, Actor.

_Scapin_, Actor.

_Isabelle_, Actress. _Valer_, Actor. _Peter_, Cleaner light. The scene
is on the scene. The virtue of the show on stage, or: HARLEKIN'S
A HEIRATH After playing in an elevator *.

[Footnote: You can see on this jocular piece the message, which I _Möser
life's p. 81 f._ them whatsoever. Since it's kind of odd, I also can
print special. R.] First appearance. _Barthold_ Lord, _Harlekin_.
_Harlekin._ (Makes three deep bow). _Barthold._ What he wants, my good
friend? _Harl._ (Makes some bow).

_Barth._ Bridge He is so long until he gets tired and then he can say
what he has to say. The young people used the itzt so that any of the
time with a thousand compliments spoil. If you are in my Iugend to a
man in the office was: so he made a single kipper, and then came to the
point. That was a good fashion; dabey you should leave it. _Harl._ (In
foreign sound) Hochedelgeborner and strict - _Barth._ This is again
one minutes out.

    _Harl._ They allow large reductions - _Barth._ re-one minutes .
    _Harl._ That, I suppose the Freyheit - _Barth._ yet _ein_ word of
    such concepts, and I prügle things out for yourself. _Harl._ (in
    normal tone) I come, Mr. Barthold, because your youngest
    daughter Kolombine; I like it - _Barth._ obedience servant, obedient
    servant, my good Mr. Hester Harlekin! Excuse me, you immediately
    that I had not known. My eyes pass me slowly, and you talked
    to me in such a Candidatenstil, to you I am not accustomed. _Harl._
    I _kann_ heirathen, I _muß_ heirathen, and I _will_ heirathen.
    _Barth._ Well, it is short. These are three main causes, not
    all people really understood and felt to be. What do you but your
    future as a widow to suspend Leibgedinge? _Harl._ Erstlich, I do
    not intend to die before her. _Barth._ That's a good intent; alone
    version comes sometimes even much on the woman: this has vielerley
    funds , an honest man in the pit to bring, without poison and
knives.

    The mine, I have to thank God sey, dismounted.

    It was a bright host, but she was so intractable that they were
from the seven and twentieth Bette child could never recover.

You see, I was probably on hold. _Harl._ That I notice. Zweytens, she
has as long as I live, an ample livelihood. My art as harlequin has
a golden ground, and has certainly Kolombinchen also an art which they
can rely on.

_Barth._ Alas, the arts leave one with the time and when one grows old,
it is nothing more convenient than by its pensions live. There's a bunch
of trouble and worry spared. _Harl._ Freylich, and I think that very
reason a capital return to determine what Thaler zweytausend on the
chair should come widow, Nota Bene: if he has no hair is crazy broad.
_Barth._ That is something hard, a widow is to be deplored.

I feel, my dear Harlekin how sour it to me in my seven and siebenzigsten
IAHR is not me, sometimes on a nice soft chair to widow. _Harl._ I
want it now, and therefore I give my widow, a chair with four legs, so
he is quite solid. Zweytausend Thaler, when I do, are the heck, money.
Kolombine What saves, it will be money to keep their needles, and if
she dies before me, will I set them in their best shirts buried.
_Barth._ But you forget the Morgengabe. _Harl._ That I myself am:
Morning and Abendgabe.

Bring me but Kolombine a son, too, if it looks similar to me, because I
call explicitly: let him also Barthold Harlekin hot. _Barth._ I thought
of That, She wanted to dress then a new bed set up child .

Listen, Mr. harlequin, I have a lot of girls, and I like to create it
from the neck, because they pointed to their paragraphs slightly
careless manner once the case may be.

I will not last long so act. Kolombine is yours, and while this evening,
if you want. That I ask myself but for that you do not secretly abduct,
otherwise I would be on your wedding can not drink. _Harl._ So far
we are still a long way. I just want to ask only temporarily, if you
give me your daughter probably wanted to give, if I * * matter in
forma stopped.

Itzt is still a small or large point left. You know, my good Mr. Hester
Barthold, that one of the Comödiantinnen mancherley says. Kolombinchen
has a pair of doves as allerliebst-Aeugelchen, she has something, something
- oh, Mr. Barthold, I can not say, but what she has to say so much - so
much - _Barth._ Well, how much then? _Harl._ If a nut easily falls out
of the sleeve, is also probably because they already stung by the worms?
_Barth._ Is this a question for a wise man? The worm all sit firmly in
the sleeve. _Harl._ Oh, Mr. Barthold, should it not have been well
versuchet?

_Barth._ You may have tried what she wants, she always just their
role gespielet.

A girl on stage often needs love tuna, often kiss, laugh often, and what
is more like. That brings the Comödie it with you. If Kolombine the
mischievous Buhlerinn imagine, so it would not send mine that
they would retain a matron. How often she has not even cried!

Meyn, however, that they deswillen for them to come home, always been
saddened? _Harl._ I've always heard that innocence is something sweet,
something Körnichtes, so some of the brown crust Seyn that I do not like
a woman take like what these tidbits have already verschenket. _Barth._
Harlekin O my dear, are you burned: Rathe so I have no wife -
unlike my Kolombine to take.

_Harl._ But once you see yourself, Barthold, all these beautiful Lord,
what here before our stage sit. Her eyes seem to love my Kolombinchen the
Mark from the bones to move, and when she dances, oh, when she dances:
so - so - all hearts dance with her . _Barth._ Should they probably
thun? _Harl._ If they do _not_ Thäter, so I like Kolombinchen not, and
now, it _da_ thun, so I dare not Kolombinchen right. For those
girls who jump so high when they dance, you can easily Blümchen omitted,
and if that was not would be so proud of everyone but perhaps seldom
rightly that it is one to have.

Mr. Barthold, Mr. Barthold! a pretty Comödiantinn is probably rare,
rare, rarely a cherry which has not already been bitten a bird has.

_Barth._ antics! it is _kein hübsches_ girls in the world, what you do not
have this same hypothesis. Not because they quickly catch fire than
another, but because they pursued day and night and so easily once a
snooze is overwhelmed.

Who but it encounters the likes of his punishment to an ugly, and
assured that they Seyn before the first hole will be trapped. It
is the honor, happiness and pleasure in their mortal lives
_auch_ once adored to be so in love acknowledge it is so concerned
Seyn the bird not to scare away, they will be anxious Seyn the only
opportunity to lose, they will Seyn done so, their ephemeral Waar
to bring the man that I am not one of them, but probably one hundred
at a pretty girl verwetten wanted the choice among thousands buyers.

And then, my dear Harlekin, it is a bestial thing , a nasty witch,
and no brown crust _doch_ to get.

Kolombinen For all I want if Seyn guarantor. _Harl._ The guarantee is
in That something serious. I would not for my mother's obligations may
be. _Barth._ I like the grilling is no longer listen. In short, you take
them, or they do not take some risk, you will always run. - But, wait,
we want today Freyer even imagine. They should be the bridegroom,
and my daughter Kolombine Your Seyn bride. You can dabey put to the test,
and if you do not like it, then you are back at the end frey, and
you only have a role gespielet fell. _Harl._ The idea is really good.
Everyone Freyer but only plays a role, and if at the end of the play the
Heirath is completed, the role just did an end too soon. _Barth._
Holla! Kolombine! Zweyter appearance _The Vorigen_ and _Kolombine_.
_Barth._ Kolombine, Thou shalt today once the bride Seyn. _Kolombine._
Oh, Papa, I am happy. I play nothing better than the bride and
groom.

_Harl._ (Before that) O Du - but you know, my beautiful Kolombine that
Freyerey with Comödie an end.

_Kolombine._ Well, yes we can the same piece play again. I wanted that
we did not otherwise have been on our stage, and almost like I Heirathen
verreden order bride ever to stay. Alas, it is so allerliebst bride
to Seyn. _Barth._ You can heirathen, and yet still play the bride. A
good Partey you can always take to advance, and the young girls
thun amiss if it's hand of an honest man refuse to ever flattirt,
adorirt, courtisirt, carressirt, and finally meprisirt them.

Are you, my daughter, otherwise never the bride than the Schaubühne been?
_Kolombine._ No, Dad. _Barth._ Listen well, Mr Harlekin? _Harl._ I
hear and see Mr. Barthold. _Barth._ Where is Scapin and Peter? They
should also come and play Freyer. Isabelle, who has often presented the
bride, and experienced than you, Kolombine, you should show the
right way. _Kolombine._ Oh, Dad, I want to be ready, I understand it.
_Barth._ Well, it makes your Beyde the beginning.

I want to go around, and the other to announce their roles. _Harlekin_
Third appearance and _Kolombine_.

_Kolombine._ Well, you begin.

_Harl._ No, do you start. _Kolombine._ Oh, no! I have not learned it.
The groom starts first, and says: Oh, my beautiful theuerste how
long I have been fortunate not wanted to give you my heart to open.
_Harl._ And what says the bride? _Kolombine . _ They replied: O! You
flatter me too much, I know it is only your polite joke. _Harl._ And
what He replied again? _Kolombine._ He then takes her hand and kissed
those, and says: Oh, like you see in the heart; as you would read
that my sincere desire never been any other than the good fortune
to please you, and these beautiful hand to kiss.

_Harl._ And so they can be done? _Kolombine._ Oh, yes, she lets his
hand, and he kissed it a hundred times more, and then seufzet until
finally the bride is no longer such a retreat, and with their whole
person follow.

_Harl._ The role I do not like to play. _Kolombine._ How do you then?
_Harl. _ I say Kolombine, my English stomach drops when _Sie_
wants, I will probably.

_Kolombine._ And what should they say? _Harl._ She: Well, I want - I want
_Kolombine._ Now - _Harl. _ traps me but not in the speech. You must
say: Well, I will not.

_Kolombine._ The role I do not like to play. _Vorigen_ The Fourth appearance,
and _Barthold_. _Barth._ Well, my children, have you started?
_Kolombine._ No, Papa! On the merits, we are one, we can only have the
role does not compare. Mr. Harlekin wants to know better than me, and
me seems, in this piece, I could be champion long Seyn. I'm from Iugend
to the Bey plays educated; am so mannichmal bridal been, and probably
should know better than him. _Barth._ Well, Harlekin, then you should
also leave out. Kolombine führet you certainly not unknown path.
_Kolombine._ Oh no! I thought it just so as to make the Blessed
Mother. _Barth._ How I blessed Mrs. heirathete, I followed her blindly,
and our marriage would not have been so blessed Seyn if I would have been
less obedient.

She was always ready to instruct me, and her example that sometimes the
best services. Often I was teaching her very inconvenient, but it was,
heaven knows, not their fault. _Harl._ The worst are my Scrupel, and I
still do not understand, Mr. Barthold, such as through our Comödie will
be lifted.

If the bride Kolombine well, so I will think: she understands her
role and makes it not such a good front, I think she understands
_noch_ a role.

And heaven knows if they are not yet a third understands.

It is bad that the thing not to Goldwage can bring. _Barth._ The best
Goldwage is a good confidence, but if you do not, which is really cheated,
and who it was who eats his salad, a swallow with screw down, and
finds him still tasty.

_Harl._ I like that your guest is not Seyn. Who wants to marry, must not
blind cow game, but probably watch what he picks. _Kolombine._ Oho!

Mr. Harlequin!

itzt I understand the thing with the Goldwage.

On a couple Aeßchen you can certainly expect that I've already lost.
Because the tailor gave me no iron in my new Schnürbrust made. However,
since the Comödie from, I am honored to recommend your Scrupeln.

_Barth._ I Meyn is also so. Beschlafen the thing! A good dream is Heirathen
often the best decision. (Beyde you go from.) Fifth appearance.
_Harlekin_. _Scapin_ And _Peter_. _Harl._ (Front) Alas! the first
attempt is not the best expired. Itzt like '_ich_ well, now wants _sie_
not. _Scapin._ Because today is not played? Mr. Barthold has me herbestellt
to the present with Freyer. But I see no signs. _Peter._ I should also
imagine - _Harl._ Ha, my good Peter, like it because you like tuna?
_Peter._ Oh, yes. I have usually only clean the lights, but if the
gespielet Freyer, so - so kiss me, like I say, Cathrinchen. And you
_Harl._, Scapin?

_Scapin._ My role in this piece is only one fully Puckel blows,
and I could not say that I had such Nöthiger now. _Harl._ Listening
'again, my dear Scapin! I know you're smarter than some thief, who
is hung, I have one in the confidence you say.

_Peter._ I hope none of Cathrinchen? _Harl._ I would have minded,
the Lord's youngest daughter Barthold Kolombinchen in all honor to heirathen
- _Peter._ Giebt it also Heirathen in dishonor? _Harl._ Alone, I'll
get, they already enjoy - like _Peter._ What You Know? _Scapin._ Hush,
Peter, I understand what Harlekin meynt.

He worried that they already like einnal in dishonor geheirathet have.
_Peter._ Now I understand it - you Meyns _Harl._ What now? How can I do
to the truth behind to come?

_Scapin._ You have previously probiren. _Peter._ Bey my faith, that's
reasonable. _Harl._ Alone, how do I do this? _Peter._ O, which will I
probably thun, if you do not understand. _Scapin._ I know what to
thun is. You probably wanted to, Harlequin, it like a costume beats take
preference? _Harl._ The beatings well, but do not swear. _Scapin._ Now
that Rush is on. Listen, I want you like the dress of my Lord give.
You know, he is captain and has a uniform tonight to light many
Freyheiten, so shalt you this evening to go. Can you now they also beat
the house, so you can believe that the crown of all honest girl.
But it takes you to, and kissed and hugged you, so you take on the
marches preferences, and know how much the bell beaten.

_Harl._ O my dear Scapin, this is incomparable. I thank you a thousand
times for your good Rath. Take me quickly to the rank of captain. I burn
before the request, those fortunate to receive blows costume. _Peter._
I really do not. In my Heimath probirt the girls quite differently.
_Scapin._ In my too.

But you bekömmt sometimes something even more unpleasant, as a costume
blows. Not true, Harlekin? _Harl._ O Scapin, you're the smartest rogue,
I knew in my life had. Make just quickly, the dress that I have of
getting your Lord. I hope not but that he will take it amiss if the
epithets hiernächst to sit still? _Scapin._ O is not in the
slightest.

Eben, the dress, what I'm going to give them has been repeatedly
excuse them. I want to go to get it going. You need me but once again
fell Seyn if you now have a husband Seyn wilt. (Scapin goes
down) _Harlekin_ sixth appearance and _Peter_. _Harl._ Until you said
yes, Peter, you have in your Heimath another sample to to know whether
the bride nor outlaw sey.

_Peter._ Oh, yes, we have. _Harl._ How do you that? _Peter._ Because
we come from and look us that we like.

_Harl._ I can probably think. _Peter._ Then I take my spinning wheel,
and go in the evening to her home, put me next to her and we all crazy
because Beyde. _Harl._ Now, because your always spins continue?
_Peter._ From then approximately once the lamp.

_Harl._ The ways; the point of getting closer - _Peter._ spins the
bride is now in darkness, without losing the thread, it is a good
sign. _Harl._ This is really so not stupid - but that _Peter._ Is silent
wheel, cut the thread and the cord is probably even from so hollow it
is the executioner! _Harl._ Truly, the people are wise, and who gave
you the so gelehret? _Peter. _ I think it must be from father to
son came Seyn. Because, as our pastor once wanted to abolish interaction
spiders, it said the oldest in the village: their fathers have
done it, their grandfathers would have done it, and their children
should also thun.

_Harl._ In the village I live like! Seventh appearance. _Scapin_ with
a dress underneath the arms and the _Vorigen_. _Scapin._ silence! stille!
we want to have a right lift. Isabelle Valer and therefore to their role.
It is they like me. You Meyn, which will gespielet Freyer, and because
of them the number is there, if I go off to other times: I will itzt
very seriously herausgehn.

But you go to the page for so long. Here is the dress, harlequin, which
you can attract immittelst. _Harl._ Splendidly! _Peter._ That is
the executioner Comödie. (Gehn ab.) Eighth appearance. _Isabelle_ And
_Valer_. _Isabelle._ No, my worth Hester Graf, so flattering
is it me you loved, and I so much of your honest intentions überzeuget
am so little I find myself wealthy you my hands.

My fate has me once on the scene led the world I'm nothing more than a
Comödiantinn, and I would have you, my worthy Hester Graf, less
and less highly appreciate love when I connect with your consent
and we Beyde should insult you that you are so far and lowering
myself that I made a man of so much emotion and so little tenderness
to his own honor had.

_Valer._ Großmüthige Isabelle, je noble show yourself, the less it is
possible for me your commands obey. I can not live without you. All my
happiness beruhet on our connection. The law is on the side of virtue,
beauty and love. Prejudice may make us not mistaken. _Isabelle._ O! it
giebt venerable, holy prejudice, and the truth must often only
in our own Meynung to transform our prejudice before they can
assert their rights. _Valer._ But your birth is not equal to mine.
They are of good family, and the fate that you brought to the stage
- of which _Isabelle._ Nothing more.

You know how the world thinks. You know what evils hypothesis they
pursued those who devote the stage, and it should be me forever sorry
Seyn than Comödiantinn a man to insult, I Prinzessinn than happy to make
wish. _Valer._ Divine Isabelle! (He wants their hands.) _Isabelle._
Again, this hand is not my worth Hester Graf I am proud, proud of
you, proud of me, and because I had enough courage, I love your
honor aufzuopfern, you must also be cheap Seyn, and the mine unharmed.

Wen ole Jack
com'd down yere, dis place war all growed up in woods. He go ter work,
clared up de groun' an' plowed, an' planted, an' riz a crap, an' den wen
it war all done, he hadn't a dollar to buy his ole woman a gown; an' he
jis' took a bag ob wheat.'"

"What did Mr. Parker say?" asked Sybil.

"I don't know, though I reckon he didn't think it was a bad steal after
all, but I don't suppose he told Jack so. When he came to the next
point, about Jack's lying, I suppose he thought he had a clear case; but
Jack was equal to the occasion."

"How did he clear up that charge?" interrogated Captain Sybil.

"Finely. I think if he had been educated he would have made a first-rate
lawyer. He said, 'Marse Parker, dere's old Joe. His wife don't lib on
dis plantation. Old Joe go ober ter see her, but he stayed too long, an'
didn't git back in time fer his work. Massa's oberseer kotched him an'
cut him all up. When de oberseer went inter de house, pore old Joe war
all tired an' beat up, an' so he lay down by de fence corner and go ter
sleep. Bimeby Massa oberseer com'd an' axed, "all bin a workin' libely?"
I say "Yes, Massa."' Then said Mr. Parker, 'You were lying, Joe had been
sleeping, not working.' 'I know's dat, but ef I tole on Joe, Massa
oberseer cut him all up again, and Massa Jesus says, "Blessed am de
Peacemaker."' I heard, continued Robert, that Mr. Parker said to
Gundover, 'You seem to me like a man standing in a stream where the
blood of Jesus can reach you, but you are standing between it and your
slaves. How will you answer that in the Day of Judgment?'"

"What did Gundover say?" asked Captain Sybil.

"He turned pale, and said, 'For God's sake don't speak of the Day of
Judgment in connection with slavery.'"

Just then a messenger brought a communication to Captain Sybil. He read
it attentively, and, turning to Robert, said, "Here are orders for an
engagement at Five Forks to-morrow. Oh, this wasting of life and
scattering of treasure might have been saved had we only been wiser. But
the time is passing. Look after your company, and see that everything is
in readiness as soon as possible."

Carefully Robert superintended the arrangements for the coming battle of
a strife which for years had thrown its crimson shadows over the land.
The Rebels fought with a valor worthy of a better cause. The disaster of
Bull Run had been retrieved. Sherman had made his famous march to the
sea. Fighting Joe Hooker had scaled the stronghold of the storm king and
won a victory in the palace chamber of the clouds; the Union soldiers
had captured Columbia, replanted the Stars and Stripes in Charleston,
and changed that old sepulchre of slavery into the cradle of a new-born
freedom. Farragut had been as triumphant on water as the other generals
had been victorious on land, and New Orleans had been wrenched from the
hands of the Confederacy. The Rebel leaders were obstinate. Misguided
hordes had followed them to defeat and death. Grant was firm and
determined to fight it out if it took all summer. The closing battles
were fought with desperate courage and firm resistance, but at last the
South was forced to succumb. On the ninth day of April, 1865, General
Lee surrendered to General Grant. The lost cause went down in blood and
tears, and on the brows of a ransomed people God poured the chrism of a
new era, and they stood a race newly anointed with freedom.


CHAPTER XVI.


AFTER THE BATTLE.

Very sad and heart-rending were the scenes with which Iola came in
constant contact. Well may Christian men and women labor and pray for
the time when nations shall learn war no more; when, instead of bloody
conflicts, there shall be peaceful arbitration. The battle in which
Robert fought, after his last conversation with Captain Sybil, was one
of the decisive struggles of the closing conflict. The mills of doom and
fate had ground out a fearful grist of agony and death,

    "And lives of men and souls of States
       Were thrown like chaff beyond the gates."

Numbers were taken prisoners. Pale, young corpses strewed the earth;
manhood was stricken down in the flush of its energy and prime. The
ambulances brought in the wounded and dying. Captain Sybil laid down his
life on the altar of freedom. His prediction was fulfilled. Robert was
brought into the hospital, wounded, but not dangerously. Iola remembered
him as being the friend of Tom Anderson, and her heart was drawn
instinctively towards him. For awhile he was delirious, but her presence
had a soothing effect upon him. He sometimes imagined that she was his
mother, and he would tell her how he had missed her; and then at times
he would call her sister. Iola, tender and compassionate, humored his
fancies, and would sing to him in low, sweet tones some of the hymns
she had learned in her old home in Mississippi. One day she sang a few
verses of the hymn beginning with the words--

    "Drooping souls no longer grieve,
           Heaven is propitious;
     If on Christ you do believe,
          You will find Him precious."

"That," said he, looking earnestly into Iola's face, "was my mother's
hymn. I have not heard it for years. Where did you learn it?"

Iola gazed inquiringly upon the face of her patient, and saw, by his
clear gaze and the expression of his face, that his reason had returned.

"In my home, in Mississippi, from my own dear mother," was Iola's reply.

"Do you know where she learned it?" asked Robert.

"When she was a little girl she heard her mother sing it. Years after, a
Methodist preacher came to our house, sang this hymn, and left the book
behind him. My father was a Catholic, but my mother never went to any
church. I did not understand it then, but I do now. We used to sing
together, and read the Bible when we were alone."

"Do you remember where she came from, and who was her mother?" asked
Robert, anxiously.

"My dear friend, you must be quiet. The fever has left you, but I will
not answer for the consequences if you get excited."

Robert lay quiet and thoughtful for awhile and, seeing he was wakeful,
Iola said, "Have you any friends to whom you would like to send a
letter?"

A pathetic expression flitted over his face, as he sadly replied, "I
haven't, to my knowledge, a single relation in the world. When I was
about ten years old my mother and sister were sold from me. It is more
than twenty years since I have heard from them. But that hymn which you
were singing reminded me so much of my mother! She used to sing it when
I was a child. Please sing it again."

Iola's voice rose soft and clear by his bedside, till he fell into a
quiet slumber. She remembered that her mother had spoken of her brother
before they had parted, and her interest and curiosity were awakened by
Robert's story. While he slept, she closely scrutinized Robert's
features, and detected a striking resemblance between him and her
mother.

"Oh, I _do_ wonder if he can be my mother's brother, from whom she has
been separated so many years!"

Anxious as she was to ascertain if there was any relationship between
Robert and her mother, she forebore to question him on the subject which
lay so near her heart. But one day, when he was so far recovered as to
be able to walk around, he met Iola on the hospital grounds, and said to
her:--

"Miss Iola, you remind me so much of my mother and sister that I cannot
help wondering if you are the daughter of my long-lost sister."

"Do you think," asked Iola, "if you saw the likeness of your sister you
would recognize her?"

"I am afraid not. But there is one thing I can remember about her: she
used to have a mole on her cheek, which mother used to tell her was her
beauty spot."

"Look at this," said Iola, handing him a locket which contained her
mother's picture.

Robert grasped the locket eagerly, scanned the features attentively,
then, handing it back, said: "I have only a faint remembrance of my
sister's features; but I never could recognize in that beautiful woman
the dear little sister with whom I used to play. Oh, the cruelty of
slavery! How it wrenched and tore us apart! Where is _your_ mother now?"

"Oh, I cannot tell," answered Iola. "I left her in Mississippi. My
father was a wealthy Creole planter, who fell in love with my mother.
She was his slave, but he educated her in the North, freed, and married
her. My father was very careful to have the fact of our negro blood
concealed from us. I had not the slightest suspicion of it. When he was
dead the secret was revealed. His white relations set aside my father's
will, had his marriage declared invalid, and my mother and her children
were remanded to slavery." Iola shuddered as she pronounced the horrid
word, and grew deadly pale; but, regaining her self-possession,
continued: "Now, that freedom has come, I intend to search for my mother
until I find her."

"I do not wonder," said Robert, "that we had this war. The nation had
sinned enough to suffer."

"Yes," said Iola, "if national sins bring down national judgments, then
the nation is only reaping what it sowed."

"What are your plans for the future, or have you any?" asked Robert.

"I intend offering myself as a teacher in one of the schools which are
being opened in different parts of the country," replied Iola. "As soon
as I am able I will begin my search for my dear mother. I will advertise
for her in the papers, hunt for her in the churches, and use all the
means in my power to get some tidings of her and my brother Harry. What
a cruel thing it was to separate us!"


CHAPTER XVII.


FLAMES IN THE SCHOOL-ROOM.

"Good morning," said Dr. Gresham, approaching Robert and Iola. "How are
you both? You have mended rapidly," turning to Robert, "but then it was
only a flesh wound. Your general health being good, and your blood in
excellent condition, it was not hard for you to rally."

"Where have you been, Doctor? I have a faint recollection of having seen
you on the morning I was brought in from the field, but not since."

"I have been on a furlough. I was running down through exhaustion and
overwork, and I was compelled to go home for a few weeks' rest. But now,
as they are about to close the hospital, I shall be permanently
relieved. I am glad that this cruel strife is over. It seemed as if I
had lived through ages during these last few years. In the early part of
the war I lost my arm by a stray shot, and my armless sleeve is one of
the mementos of battle I shall carry with me through life. Miss Leroy,"
he continued, turning respectfully to Iola, "would you permit me to ask
you, as I would have someone ask my sister under the same circumstances,
if you have matured any plans for the future, or if I can be of the
least service to you? If so, I would be pleased to render you any
service in my power."

"My purpose," replied Iola, "is to hunt for my mother, and to find her
if she is alive. I am willing to go anywhere and do anything to find
her. But I will need a standpoint from whence I can send out lines of
inquiry. It must take time, in the disordered state of affairs, even to
get a clue by which I may discover her whereabouts."

"How would you like to teach?" asked the Doctor. "Schools are being
opened all around us. Numbers of excellent and superior women are coming
from the North to engage as teachers of the freed people. Would you be
willing to take a school among these people? I think it will be uphill
work. I believe it will take generations to get over the duncery of
slavery. Some of these poor fellows who came into our camp did not know
their right hands from their left, nor their ages, nor even the days of
the month. It took me some time, in a number of cases, to understand
their language. It saddened my heart to see such ignorance. One day I
asked one a question, and he answered, "I no shum'."

"What did he mean?" asked Iola.

"That he did not see it," replied the doctor. "Of course, this does not
apply to all of them. Some of them are wide-awake and sharp as steel
traps. I think some of that class may be used in helping others."

"I should be very glad to have an opportunity to teach," said Iola. "I
used to be a great favorite among the colored children on my father's
plantation."

In a few days after this conversation the hospital was closed. The sick
and convalescent were removed, and Iola obtained a position as a
teacher. Very soon Iola realized that while she was heartily appreciated
by the freedmen, she was an object of suspicion and dislike to their
former owners. The North had conquered by the supremacy of the sword,
and the South had bowed to the inevitable. But here was a new army that
had come with an invasion of ideas, that had come to supplant ignorance
with knowledge, and it was natural that its members should be unwelcome
to those who had made it a crime to teach their slaves to read the name
of the ever blessed Christ. But Iola had found her work, and the freed
men their friend.

When Iola opened her school she took pains to get acquainted with the
parents of the children, and she gained their confidence and
co-operation. Her face was a passport to their hearts. Ignorant of
books, human faces were the scrolls from which they had been reading for
ages. They had been the sunshine and shadow of their lives.

Iola had found a school-room in the basement of a colored church, where
the doors were willingly opened to her. Her pupils came from miles
around, ready and anxious to get some "book larnin'." Some of the old
folks were eager to learn, and it was touching to see the eyes which had
grown dim under the shadows of slavery, donning spectacles and trying to
make out the words. As Iola had nearly all of her life been accustomed
to colored children she had no physical repulsions to overcome, no
prejudices to conquer in dealing with parents and children. In their
simple childish fashion they would bring her fruits and flowers, and
gladden her lonely heart with little tokens of affection.

One day a gentleman came to the school and wished to address the
children. Iola suspended the regular order of the school, and the
gentleman essayed to talk to them on the achievements of the white race,
such as building steamboats and carrying on business. Finally, he asked
how they did it?

"They've got money," chorused the children.

"But how did they get it?"

"They took it from us," chimed the youngsters. Iola smiled, and the
gentleman was nonplussed; but he could not deny that one of the powers
of knowledge is the power of the strong to oppress the weak.

The school was soon overcrowded with applicants, and Iola was forced to
refuse numbers, because their quarters were too cramped. The school was
beginning to lift up the home, for Iola was not satisfied to teach her
children only the rudiments of knowledge. She had tried to lay the
foundation of good character. But the elements of evil burst upon her
loved and cherished work. One night the heavens were lighted with lurid
flames, and Iola beheld the school, the pride and joy of her pupils and
their parents, a smouldering ruin. Iola gazed with sorrowful dismay on
what seemed the cruel work of an incendiary's torch. While she sat,
mournfully contemplating the work of destruction, her children formed a
procession, and, passing by the wreck of their school, sang:--

    "Oh, do not be discouraged,
       For Jesus is your friend."

As they sang, the tears sprang to Iola's eyes, and she said to herself,
"I am not despondent of the future of my people; there is too much
elasticity in their spirits, too much hope in their hearts, to be
crushed out by unreasoning malice."


CHAPTER XVIII.


SEARCHING FOR LOST ONES.

To bind anew the ties which slavery had broken and gather together the
remnants of his scattered family became the earnest purpose of Robert's
life. Iola, hopeful that in Robert she had found her mother's brother,
was glad to know she was not alone in _her_ search. Having sent out
lines of inquiry in different directions, she was led to hope, from some
of the replies she had received, that her mother was living somewhere in
Georgia.

Hearing that a Methodist conference was to convene in that State, and
being acquainted with the bishop of that district, she made arrangements
to accompany him thither. She hoped to gather some tidings of her mother
through the ministers gathered from different parts of that State.

From her brother she had heard nothing since her father's death. On his
way to the conference, the bishop had an engagement to dedicate a
church, near the city of C----, in North Carolina. Iola was quite
willing to stop there a few days, hoping to hear something of Robert
Johnson's mother. Soon after she had seated herself in the cars she was
approached by a gentleman, who reached out his hand to her, and greeted
her with great cordiality. Iola looked up, and recognized him
immediately as one of her last patients at the hospital. It was none
other than Robert Johnson.

"I am so glad to meet you," he said. "I am on my way to C---- in search
of my mother. I want to see the person who sold her last, and, if
possible, get some clew to the direction in which she went."

"And I," said Iola, "am in search of _my_ mother. I am convinced that
when we find those for whom we are searching they will prove to be very
nearly related. Mamma said, before we were parted, that her brother had
a red spot on his temple. If I could see that spot I should rest assured
that my mother is your sister."

"Then," said Robert, "I can give you that assurance," and smilingly he
lifted his hair from his temple, on which was a large, red spot.

"I am satisfied," exclaimed Iola, fixing her eyes, beaming with hope and
confidence, on Robert. "Oh, I am so glad that I can, without the least
hesitation, accept your services to join with me in the further search.
What are your plans?"

"To stop for awhile in C----," said Robert, "and gather all the
information possible from those who sold and bought my mother. I intend
to leave no stone un-turned in searching for her."

"Oh, I _do_ hope that you will succeed. I expect to stop over there a
few days, and I shall be so glad if, before I leave, I hear your search
has been crowned with success, or, a least, that you have been put on
the right track. Although I was born and raised in the midst of
slavery, I had not the least idea of its barbarous selfishness till I
was forced to pass through it. But we lived so much alone I had no
opportunity to study it, except on our own plantation. My father and
mother were very kind to their slaves. But it was slavery, all the same,
and I hate it, root and branch."

Just then the conductor called out the station.

"We stop here," said Robert. "I am going to see Mrs. Johnson, and hunt
up some of my old acquaintances. Where do you stop?"

"I don't know," replied Iola. "I expect that friends will be here to
meet us. Bishop B----, permit me to introduce you to Mr. Robert Johnson,
whom I have every reason to believe is my mother's brother. Like myself,
he is engaged in hunting up his lost relatives."

"And I," said Robert, "am very much pleased to know that we are not
without favorable clues."

"Bishop," said Iola, "Mr. Johnson wishes to know where I am to stop. He
is going on an exploring expedition, and wishes to let me know the
result."

"We stop at Mrs. Allston's, 313 New Street," said the bishop. "If I can
be of any use to you, I am at your service."

"Thank you," said Robert, lifting his hat, as he left them to pursue his
inquiries about his long-lost mother.

Quickly he trod the old familiar streets which led to his former home.
He found Mrs. Johnson, but she had aged very fast since the war. She was
no longer the lithe, active woman, with her proud manner and resolute
bearing. Her eye had lost its brightness, her step its elasticity, and
her whole appearance indicated that she was slowly sinking beneath a
weight of sorrow which was heavier far than her weight of years. The
machine was for two people. His first attempts, he alone, so he had to
return to the controller used alone. As the track was too small, he
moved soon after the shooting ranges Auvours, where he was a small shed
built, in which he brought under Aeroplan and quartered himself. On
the racecourse was the longest flight on August 13 with 8 minutes 13
seconds was. The tests were on 21 August at the shooting place Auvours
continued. The duration record with a passenger, he on 3 October with
a flight of 55 minutes 37.2 seconds with Franz Reichel from "Figaro" on.
On November 18 he created with 110 meters world record his height, and
on September 21, then beat Wilbur Wright and his brother's record by 1
hours 31 minutes and 25 seconds remained in the air and 66.6 kilometers
presented. On 16 September had he for the first time a passenger, the
French aeronaut Ernest Zens, taken away.

On 7 October ascended as the first lady to the driver's seat Mrs. Hart
O'Berg. As a result, then a large number of flights with a variety of
passengers on board have been carried out, and on 31 December, Wilbur
Wright with a flight of 2 hours 20 minutes and 23 seconds the world
record time. 124.7 kilometers, the distance here. He thus won the big
prize, which was sponsored by Michelin and 20000 francs respectively.
[Illustration: * Orville, Katherine, Wilbur Wright *] The French patents
were now handled by Weiller Society under the condition over that three
students Wilbur Wright, to him by the company would be called, in
driving his train Airplane. He moved his testing on 3 January after Pau
in southern France, where he Pontlong in the city a big aerodrome was
built.

His first students were Paul Tissandier, Count Lambert and the
captain of the French troops genius Lucas Gerardville.

Already on 6 Here in January, he made his first flight and won on 8 by
a flight of 112 kilometers, the price of Triaca. On 15 February drove
Wilbur sister Katherine for the first time in Aeroplan with his
brother. On 17 February, King Edward in Pau apparatus perform an
ascent and lived in that half an hour.

Five days later visited King Alfonso of Spain, specifically in San Sebastian
had come, the flying machine.

On 6 March were the brothers of the title of "doctor-engineer" them
to the Technical University in Munich, excellent.

On 8 April Wright did with his disciples the last climb in Pau, said
her training finished and went to Rome to meet its Aeroplan then
be submitted to the Italian government and a student training.

Immediately after his departure from Pau was used there, pretty
much taken apparatus on behalf of the French Government in Paris
managed to run in the conservatory of the arts and crafts up to find.

Also in Rome succeeded Wilbur, throughout Italy due to its excellent
performances from his great ability to convince.

On 24 April he led his apparatus to the kings of Italy, and on 28 April,
his disciple, the genius Lieutenant Calderara, despite heavy rain self a
flight of 35 minutes duration perform. By subjecting the engine of the
apparatus then crashed from a height of three meters down to earth,
the driver remained unhurt, while the control and broke the screws
was bent axle.

In a short time, the damage to the machine but eliminated, and 6 May we
see a renewed flight Calderara company, but due to a bout of impotence
Aviatik a tragic end should take. At an altitude of 40 meters, tipped to
the Aeroplan, the machine crashed to the ground and the handlebars
buried under their ruins. The two taxes were broken, the wings and the
tension wires are bent and torn. Calderara had multiple fractures and
a concussion suffered in Rome and was brought to the hospital.
Already a month after he was healed. Also, the machine had been
restored, so that the officer on 19 July again took a short flight.

Later, his treating physician stated that he is inclined to fainting fits,
which is why he is driving by Airplane finally had to give up.

[Illustration: * Katherine * and Orville Wright make in Pau under the
leadership of Frenchman Ernest Zens (left in the basket) their first
Clear Ballonfahrt] The description of the Wright's flying machine.
Wrightsche The flyer is a biplane, which has its origins in the designs
of Chanute has. Two parallel, on 1 / 20 of their depth curved, 12.5
meters klafternde land, 1.8 meters apart. The depth of the wearing
surface is 2 meters. The existing wooden skeleton of the surfaces is
covered with cotton fabric and its surface is 50 square meters. The
concave side is directed downwards.

The curvature takes forward towards where the front edges of a
few centimeters thick. The tension in lattice design with wood and strings
of piano wire. The material is American pine wood, that both in the
air shipbuilding, as well as earlier in the boat due to high strength and
low weight, has proved its worth. Three meters from the main land is the
tax amount, which consists of two spindle-shaped area consists of
5.25 centimeters wide and 0.80 meters deep.

Between the amount taxes are still two crescent-shaped vertical surfaces.
The tax on the Horizontal is located 2.7 meters away behind the
wearing surfaces.

It consists of two long vertical surfaces, the 1 / 2 meters apart. The
tax can also be used in a vertical direction, in order to damage
caused by regurgitation in the landing to avoid.

The seat for the driver and a crew is on the front bottom wearing
surface, where the engine behind him and to his right is the radiator.

The engine is a four-stroke engine with 4 cylinders, it develops 25 hp
and weighs in working order 90 kilos, so this is 3.6 kilograms on
a horse's strength.

He is the best ideas of the Wrights built and makes about 1400 trips.

The engine drives two from manufactured wood, with bolts of cloth-over
2.80 meters in diameter. The drive takes place by chains, which
run in protected tube.

The screws rotate with 450 tours.

[Illustration: * Flight to the Michelin price * at sunset on 31 December
1908 on the shooting ranges Auvours at Le Mans.] [Illustration: View
from the wings with its wooden struts. Wilbur on the driver's seat,
the left is the King of Spain.]

The tour of the engine can neither Gasdrosselung, or by adjusting the
ignition changed will. The reduction of flight speed is only by raising
the height of the aircraft using rudder effect.

The machine is mounted on sled runners. The control is done by pressing
the two right and left of the driver's seat located lever, the forward
or backward movement of the left arm has traps or climbing the aircraft
to follow. With the right lever is the horizontal control and also
the twisting of the wings causes. Especially the last one is a main
feature of the Wright's aircraft. [Illustration: * Hard * O'Berg the
agent of Wilbur and Orville Wright in his office] The distortion is the
stability of the aviator in erratic air currents kept. For example, if
a wind push the apparatus from left to right will tilt, so increasingly
seen on the right side of the air resistance by increasing the camber,
ie by twisting of the plane down. Simultaneously, the air resistance
left, where the sudden lateral airflow auftrifft reduced by reduction
of the bulge, ie by twisting of the posterior surface upward. In the
same way as just outlined, it must proceed, if the apparatus of a turn
to the right should go. Then describes the right edge of the aircraft,
which is on the inner side of the curve, a smaller way, when the left
edge, which is on the outer side of the curve. Thus defines the right
edge of a smaller way, when the left, and you have the speed limit
something right.

By twisting the right to the bottom surface increases, the air
resistance, so the speed is reduced, by twisting the left hand
palm-up to reduce air resistance and therefore increases the speed.

According to Wright's messages, it is important to start with a
twist in the tax for the relevant direction, but equally as soon as
possible, to avoid tipping. Hold On balance, it is necessary to precisely
the opposite of doing what a cyclist is doing. This sets inwards in the
curve and bring the focus inward. The flying machine must be the focus
to the outside, because otherwise the device comes into the dumps. The
execution of these applications and to maintain the lateral stability
required twisting is done in such a way that, for example, the right
lever is pulled forward, allowing the Tax rotation is done right.
Simultaneously press the lever but also to the left, making the distortion
occurs in the manner that the right edges of the wearing surface to the
bottom and the top of the left parties. Recently, the Wrights filed a
new patent, in which they are two small vertical surfaces describe
yet a third additional lever-operated. These are small vertical surfaces
to the Gauchissement how the distortion is called in French, and
lower the counterweight to hold the balance.

The start of the Wright's flying machine made by a special device,
called Pylon.

As already mentioned, the machine rests in the middle with the inside
cross on a wooden rail.

At the two sites by one with a small wheel to send the balance
platform.

The track is mostly just directed against the wind. A few meters behind
the top rail, just in the middle behind the flight apparatus, an
8 meter high pyramidal tower positioned in the middle of a 700-kilogram
heavy weight is placed by a rope, as the figure on page 62 [Note:
See below] shows the Aeroplan linked.

Before the start of approach is the weight in the tower and then pulled
up the flight apparatus by a pawl mounted on the rail.

As soon as the screws are angeworfen and the motor's full speed has
developed, the leader solves the ratchet and immediately pulls the
falling weight with the Aeroplan allwachsender speed forward. The
amount in this fiscal has a tendency to bottom, so that by the
wind pressure of the apparatus firmly against the rail is pressed.

Toward the end of the rail is the end of the rope by itself from the hooks
of the Airman from the guide provides a little altitude, the tax
and the flying machine will begin to float.

It is important that the air in the balance by continuing operation of
the control lever to the left, with the movements, however, must be
extremely low because of the fliers on the positioning of the quietest
areas responded.

[Illustration: Schematic drawing of the actuation of the
Verwindungsvorrichtung * If sideways push of the lever A, the strings
in the direction of the arrow from B to A, C and D to B.

This will be the wooden struts CE and DP in the direction of the
arrow down key and make the edges of the upper and lower surfaces
also wear down moves .

The wooden struts now take the position of HG and KI A. The distortion
of the right surface is achieved. From E and F lead cord after L.

This will follow as well in the direction of the arrow moves down
and the transfer motion on L and M to N and O.

The wooden struts NP and OQ be drawn upward and take the position
of RS and TU A. Thus, the twisting of the leaders of the left wearing
surfaces causes.]

[Illustration: * Start pylon for the flying machine G * The weight hangs
from a rope that is on the role of the A to nearly the end of the
wooden rail attached role B is running.

From here, the dew on the machine where it is at C on a hook attached.
Between B and C, there is a pulley, which is of better clarity in the
drawing has been omitted.] Return of Wright's visit to America and
Berlin.

On 5. May, to Wilbur and Orville Wright with her sister Catherine initially
go to England, where the local air club skipper a gold medal in solemn
session over and the two brothers to honor members of the society
appointed.

Then she traveled with a ship of the North German Lloyds to New York
and have been here with all the honor of the members of the American
air Schifferstadt clubs and a numerous crowd received with great
jubilation.

They went from there to their home town. When the lunch hour in Dayton
arrived, they received under bell and cannon thunder more than a
thousand people. It brought the two brothers in a car home, the four mold
has been in this car has also had her father with two favorite grandchildren
taken place. A whole train of cars then escorted them in a solemn
course home. On the evening moved into the small street where the house
of the old bishop is more than 10000 people, old friends, neighbors and
fellow citizens of the city to make them welcome. The city administration
had all the public buildings decorated and beflaggt, and the three major
places of Dayton wonderfully illuminated. Also, the inhabitants
were in dressing and Illumination not been frugal, so that Dayton was
a magnificent picture, as it never before had seen. [Illustration: Schematic
view of the wearing surfaces of the connection *] On 17 and 18 June,
the city held a big ceremony, where three gold medals over the
brothers were one of the nation, one of the state of Ohio and one of
the city of Dayton. But the mission of the two brothers had not yet
met, they immediately went to Washington, where Orville Wright, the
decrease in travel for the U.S. government began. After initially small
accidents, in the new cameras are almost always occur, but in two or
three trips soon shattered, the Air Force again showed what he could
afford, and already on 20 July Wright 80 minutes remained in the air
and put it in an hour 45 miles back.

Therefore, the conditions which the American government had now met
and Orville was able to go to Europe to Berlin, his ability to show
and train pilots for the German company "Wright flying machine,
which consist of the motor Luftschifftechnik Study Society and the
Aircraft society has emerged, to the plane to the design of the
Wright brothers and other inventors built.

"Well, Bobby, I beliebs we might be a people ef it warn't for dat
mizzable drink. An' Robby, I jis' tells yer what I wants; I wants some
libe man to come down yere an' splain things ter dese people. I don't
mean a politic man, but a man who'll larn dese people how to bring up
dere chillen, to keep our gals straight, an' our boys from runnin' in de
saloons an' gamblin' dens."

"Don't your preachers do that?" asked Robert.

"Well, some ob dem does, an' some ob dem doesn't. An' wen dey preaches,
I want dem to practice wat dey preach. Some ob dem says dey's called,
but I jis' thinks laziness called some ob dem. An' I thinks since
freedom come deres some mighty pore sticks set up for preachers. Now
dere's John Anderson, Tom's brudder; you 'member Tom."

"Yes; as brave a fellow and as honest as ever stepped in shoe leather."

"Well, his brudder war mighty diffrent. He war down in de lower kentry
wen de war war ober. He war mighty smart, an' had a good head-piece, an'
a orful glib tongue. He set up store an' sole whisky, an' made a lot ob
money. Den he wanted ter go to de legislatur. Now what should he do but
make out he'd got 'ligion, an' war called to preach. He had no more
'ligion dan my ole dorg. But he had money an' built a meetin' house,
whar he could hole meeting, an' hab funerals; an' you know cullud folks
is mighty great on funerals. Well dat jis' tuck wid de people, an' he
got 'lected to de legislatur. Den he got a fine house, an' his ole wife
warn't good 'nuff for him. Den dere war a young school-teacher, an' he
begun cuttin' his eyes at her. But she war as deep in de mud as he war
in de mire, an' he jis' gib up his ole wife and married her, a fusty
thing. He war a mean ole hypocrit, an' I wouldn't sen' fer him to bury
my cat. Robby, I'se down on dese kine ob preachers like a thousand
bricks."

"Well, Aunt Linda, all the preachers are not like him."

"No; I knows dat; not by a jug full. We's got some mighty good men down
yere, an' we's glad when dey comes, an' orful sorry when dey goes 'way.
De las preacher we had war a mighty good man. He didn't like too much
hollerin'."

"Perhaps," said Robert, "he thought it were best for only one to speak
at a time."

"I specs so. His wife war de nicest and sweetest lady dat eber I did
see. None ob yer airish, stuck up folks, like a tarrapin carryin'
eberything on its back. She used ter hab meetins fer de mudders, an'
larn us how to raise our chillen, an' talk so putty to de chillen. I
sartinly did lub dat woman."

"Where is she now?" asked Robert.

"De Conference moved dem 'bout thirty miles from yere. Deys gwine to hab
a big meetin' ober dere next Sunday. Don't you 'member dem meetins we
used to hab in de woods? We don't hab to hide like we did den. But it
don't seem as ef de people had de same good 'ligion we had den. 'Pears
like folks is took up wid makin' money an' politics."

"Well, Aunt Linda, don't you wish those good old days would come back?"

"No, chile; neber! neber! Wat fer you take me? I'd ruther lib in a
corn-crib. Freedom needn't keep me outer heben; an' ef I'se sich a fool
as ter lose my 'ligion cause I'se free, I oughtn' ter git dere."

"But, Aunt Linda, if old Miss were able to take care of you, wouldn't
you just as leave be back again?"

There was a faint quiver of indignation in Aunt Linda's voice, as she
replied:--

"Don't yer want yer freedom? Well I wants ter pat my free foot.
Halleluyah! But, Robby, I wants yer ter go ter dat big meetin' de wuss
kine."

"How will I get there?" asked Robert.

"Oh, dat's all right. My ole man's got two ob de nicest mules you eber
set yer eyes on. It'll jis' do yer good ter look at dem. I 'spect you'll
see some ob yer ole frens dere. Dere's a nice settlemen' of cullud folks
ober dere, an' I wants yer to come an' bring dat young lady. I wants dem
folks to see wat nice folks I kin bring to de meetin'. I hope's yer
didn't lose all your 'ligion in de army."

"Oh, I hope not," replied Robert.

"Oh, chile, yer mus' be shore 'bout dat. I don't want yer to ride hope's
hoss down to torment. Now be shore an' come to-morrer an' bring dat
young lady, an' take supper wid me. I'se all on nettles to see dat
chile."


CHAPTER XIX.


STRIKING CONTRASTS.

The next day, Robert, accompanied by Iola, went to the settlement to
take supper with Aunt Linda, and a very luscious affair it was. Her
fingers had not lost their skill since she had tasted the sweets of
freedom. Her biscuits were just as light and flaky as ever. Her jelly
was as bright as amber, and her preserves were perfectly delicious.
After she had set the table she stood looking in silent admiration,
chuckling to herself: "Ole Mistus can't set sich a table as dat. She
ought'er be yere to see it. Specs 'twould make her mouf water. Well, I
mus' let by-gones be by-gones. But dis yere freedom's mighty good."

Aunt Linda had invited Uncle Daniel, and, wishing to give him a pleasant
surprise, she had refrained from telling him that Robert Johnson was the
one she wished him to meet.

"Do you know dis gemmen?" said Aunt Linda to Uncle Daniel, when the
latter arrived.

"Well, I can't say's I do. My eyes is gittin dim, an I disremembers
him."

"Now jis' you look right good at him. Don't yer 'member him?"

Uncle Daniel looked puzzled and, slowly scanning Robert's features,
said: "He do look like somebody I used ter know, but I can't make him
out ter save my life. I don't know whar to place him. Who is de gemmen,
ennyhow?"

"Why, Uncle Dan'el," replied Aunt Linda, "dis is Robby; Miss Nancy's
bad, mischeebous Robby, dat war allers playin' tricks on me."

"Well, shore's I'se born, ef dis ain't our ole Bobby!" exclaimed Uncle
Daniel, delightedly. "Why, chile, whar did yer come from? Thought you
war dead an' buried long 'go."

"Why, Uncle Daniel, did you send anybody to kill me?" asked Robert,
laughingly.

"Oh, no'n 'deed, chile! but I yeard dat you war killed in de battle, an'
I never 'spected ter see you agin."

"Well, here I am," replied Robert, "large as life, and just as natural.
And this young lady, Uncle Daniel, I believe is my niece." As he spoke
he turned to Iola. "Do you remember my mother?"

"Oh, yes," said Uncle Daniel, looking intently at Iola as she stepped
forward and cordially gave him her hand.

"Well, I firmly believe," continued Robert, "that this is the daughter
of the little girl whom Miss Nancy sold away with my mother."

"Well, I'se rale glad ter see her. She puts me mighty much in mine ob
dem days wen we war all young togedder; wen Miss Nancy sed, 'Harriet war
too high fer her.' It jis' seems like yisterday wen I yeard Miss Nancy
say, 'No house could flourish whar dere war two mistresses.' Well, Mr.
Robert--"

"Oh, no, no, Uncle Daniel," interrupted Robert, "don't say that! Call me
Robby or Bob, just as you used to."

"Well, Bobby, I'se glad klar from de bottom of my heart ter see yer."

"Even if you wouldn't go with us when we left?"

"Oh, Bobby, dem war mighty tryin' times. You boys didn't know it, but
Marster Robert hab giben me a bag ob money ter take keer ob, an' I
promised him I'd do it an' I had ter be ez good ez my word."

"Oh, Uncle Daniel, why didn't you tell us boys all about it? We could
have helped you take care of it."

"Now, wouldn't dat hab bin smart ter let on ter you chaps, an' hab you
huntin' fer it from Dan ter Barsheba? I specs some ob you would bin a
rootin' fer it yit!"

"Well, Uncle Daniel, we were young then; I can't tell what we would have
done if we had found it. But we are older now."

"Yes, yer older, but I wouldn't put it pas' yer eben now, ef yer foun'
out whar it war."

"Yes," said Iola, laughing, "they say 'caution is the parent of
safety.'"

"Money's a mighty tempting thing," said Robert, smiling.

"But, Robby, dere's nothin' like a klar conscience; a klar conscience,
Robby!"

Just then Aunt Linda, who had been completing the preparations for her
supper, entered the room with her husband, and said, "Salters, let me
interdoos you ter my fren', Mr. Robert Johnson, an' his niece, Miss
Leroy."

"Why, is it possible," exclaimed Robert, rising, and shaking hands,
"that you are Aunt Linda's husband?"

"Dat's what de parson sed," replied Salters.

"I thought," pursued Robert, "that your name was John Andrews. It was
such when you were in my company."

"All de use I'se got fer dat name is ter git my money wid it; an' wen
dat's done, all's done. Got 'nuff ob my ole Marster in slave times,
widout wearin' his name in freedom. Wen I got done wid him, I got done
wid his name. Wen I 'listed, I war John Andrews; and wen I gits my
pension, I'se John Andrews; but now Salters is my name, an' I likes it
better."

"But how came you to be Aunt Linda's husband? Did you get married since
the war?"

"Lindy an' me war married long 'fore de war. But my ole Marster sole me
away from her an' our little gal, an' den sole her chile ter somebody
else. Arter freedom, I hunted up our little gal, an' foun' her. She war
a big woman den. Den I com'd right back ter dis place an' foun' Lindy.
She hedn't married agin, nuther hed I; so we jis' let de parson marry us
out er de book; an' we war mighty glad ter git togedder agin, an' feel
hitched togedder fer life."

"Well, Uncle Daniel," said Robert, turning the conversation toward him,
"you and Uncle Ben wouldn't go with us, but you came out all right at
last."

"Yes, indeed," said Aunt Linda, "Ben got inter a stream of luck. Arter
freedom com'd, de people had a heap of fath in Ben; an' wen dey wanted
some one to go ter Congress dey jist voted for Ben ter go. An' he went,
too. An' wen Salters went to Washin'ton to git his pension, who should
he see dere wid dem big men but our Ben, lookin' jist as big as any ob
dem."

"An' it did my ole eyes good jist ter see it," broke in Salters; "if I
couldn't go dere myself, I war mighty glad to see some one ob my people
dat could. I felt like de boy who, wen somebody said he war gwine to
slap off his face, said, 'Yer kin slap off my face, but I'se got a big
brudder, an' you can't slap off his face.' I went to see him 'fore I lef,
and he war jist de same as he war wen we war boys togedder. He hadn't
got de big head a bit."

"I reckon Mirandy war mighty sorry she didn't stay wid him. I know I
should be," said Aunt Linda.

"Uncle Daniel," asked Robert, "are you still preaching?"

"Yes, chile, I'se still firing off de Gospel gun."

"I hear some of the Northern folks are down here teaching theology, that
is, teaching young men how to preach. Why don't you study theology?"

"Look a yere, boy, I'se been a preachin' dese thirty years, an' you come
yere a tellin' me 'bout studying yore ologies. I larn'd my 'ology at de
foot ob de cross. You bin dar?"

"Dear Uncle Daniel," said Iola, "the moral aspect of the nation would be
changed if it would learn at the same cross to subordinate the spirit of
caste to the spirit of Christ."

"Does yer 'member Miss Nancy's Harriet," asked Aunt Linda, "dat she sole
away kase she wouldn't let her whip her? Well, we think dis is Harriet's
gran'chile. She war sole away from her mar, an' now she's a lookin' fer
her."

"Well, I hopes she may fine her," replied Salters. "I war sole 'way from
my mammy wen I war eighteen mont's ole, an' I wouldn't know her now from
a bunch ob turnips."

"I," said Iola, "am on my way South seeking for my mother, and I shall
not give up until I find her."

"Come," said Aunt Linda, "we mustn't stan' yer talkin', or de grub'll
git cole. Come, frens, sit down, an' eat some ob my pore supper."

Aunt Linda sat at the table in such a flutter of excitement that she
could hardly eat, but she gazed with intense satisfaction on her guests.
Robert sat on her right hand, contrasting Aunt Linda's pleasant
situation with the old days in Mrs. Johnson's kitchen, where he had
played his pranks upon her, and told her the news of the war.

Over Iola there stole a spirit of restfulness. There was something so
motherly in Aunt Linda's manner that it seemed to recall the bright,
sunshiny days when she used to nestle in Mam Liza's arms, in her own
happy home. The conversation was full of army reminiscences and
recollections of the days of slavery. Uncle Daniel was much interested,
and, as they rose from the table, exclaimed:--

"Robby, seein' yer an' hearin' yer talk, almos' puts new springs inter
me. I feel 'mos' like I war gittin' younger."

After the supper, Salters and his guests returned to the front room,
which Aunt Linda regarded with so much pride, and on which she bestowed
so much care.

"Well, Captin," said Salters, "I neber 'spected ter see you agin. Do you
know de las' time I seed yer? Well, you war on a stretcher, an' four ob
us war carryin' you ter de hospital. War you much hurt?

"No," replied Robert, "it was only a flesh wound; and this young lady
nursed me so carefully that I soon got over it."

"Is dat de way you foun' her?"

"Yes, Andrews,"--

"Salters, ef you please," interrupted Salters. I'se only Andrews wen I
gits my money."

"Well, Salters," continued Robert, "our freedom was a costly thing. Did
you know that Captain Sybil was killed in one of the last battles of the
war? These young chaps, who are taking it so easy, don't know the
hardships through which we older ones passed. But all the battles are
not fought, nor all the victories won. The colored man has escaped from
one slavery, and I don't want him to fall into another. I want the young
folks to keep their brains clear, and their right arms strong, to fight
the battles of life manfully, and take their places alongside of every
other people in this country. And I cannot see what is to hinder them if
they get a chance."

"I don't nuther," said Salters. "I don't see dat dey drinks any more dan
anybody else, nor dat dere is any meanness or debilment dat a black man
kin do dat a white man can't keep step wid him."

"Yes," assented Robert, "but while a white man is stealing a thousand
dollars, a black man is getting into trouble taking a few chickens."

"All that may be true," said Iola, "but there are some things a white
man can do that we cannot afford to do."

"I beliebs eberybody, Norf and Souf, is lookin' at us; an' some ob dem
ain't got no good blood fer us, nohow you fix it," said Salters.

"I specs cullud folks mus' hab done somethin'," interposed Aunt Linda.

"O, nonsense," said Robert. "I don't think they are any worse than the
white people. I don't believe, if we had the power, we would do any
more lynching, burning, and murdering than they do."

"Dat's so," said Aunt Linda, "it's ralely orful how our folks hab been
murdered sence de war. But I don't think dese young folks is goin' ter
take things as we's allers done."

"We war cowed down from the beginnin'," said Uncle Daniel, "but dese
young folks ain't comin' up dat way."

21 September were the mutual greetings of awakeners no cheerful and
happy, because it was in a shameful, hopeless situation aware. On the
edge of a huge amphitheater, we found ourselves up, where to heights
beyond their foot from rivers, ponds, streams, moraines was secured,
the enemy is a barely overseeable Halbzirkel formed. And now we stood
completely as yesterday, at ten thousand cannonballs easier, but
situated just on the attack, we looked at in a far extended down
arena, where between village huts and bones of the mutual herumtrieben
Hussars battle with mirror, and soon, soon reverse a hour after
another, the attention of the audience to captivate knew.

But from all the outward and Hersprengen, the outward and Widerpuffen
was not a last result, as that one of ours, which is to boldly between
the hedges had dared, and surrounded as he is in no way wanted to
show, was shot.

This was the only victim of the weapons on that day, but the disease made
the indented uncomfortable, oppressive, sad and helpless state of
fear. So beating funny and well done it was yesterday, but confessed to
you that an armistice was desirable, since even the most courageous,
passion less consideration had to say: an attack would verwegenste
companies in the world. Still, opinions have fluctuated throughout
the day, where you ehrenthalben claimed the same position as the
moment of the cannonade, towards evening, but they changed somewhat,
as was the headquarters for Hans, and the luggage herbeigekommen.

Well, we had to hear the fear, the fear of the near demise of our
servants and belongings.

Waldgebirg The 'Argonne Sainte Menehould up Grandpré was occupied by France,
then led her from the wildest hussars, wanton, small war. We had
heard yesterday that a secretary of the Duke of Brunswick, and
some other people of the princely surroundings between the army and
the wagons had been captured.

These earned but not the name of a castle, because she was poorly
positioned, not closed, not enough escorts. Now they beängstete a blind
noise after another while the cannonade far away.

Later it was dealing with the truth or fable, the French troops were
already down the mountain forest on the way was, of all Equipage
to conquer, since there is because of them caught and released by
the General runner Kalckreuth a great reputation by He assured that
he was happy through lies of heavy cover, horseback from batteries
and the like an enemy attack averted.

Well possible! Who has not seen in such important moments to be done or
done? Now there were tents, wagons and horses, but no food for
Living. Amidst the rain, we even lacked water, and some ponds have been
polluted by eingesunkene horses: everything together was the most
terrible condition.

I did not know what it should mean, that al my loyal pupil, servant
and companion of Paul Götze the leather of the journey the car rainwater
flowed together very busy scoop saw it known that it was destined
for Chocolate, which fortunately he had brought a supply indeed
what is more, I have made the footsteps of the horses draw to see
how an unbearable thirst to breastfeed.

We bought the bread from old soldiers who, accustomed to privation,
somewhat along lines to the spirits to rest, if the same would
have to again.

On 22 September we heard, the generals and Manstein Heymann after
Dampier was in the headquarters of Kellermann, where there is also
Dumouriez einfinden should.

It was changing the prisoners, the care of sick and sham Blessierten the
speech, as a whole was hoped in the accident but a reversal of
things to bring.

Since 10 August was the King of France caught, unbridled killings were
done in September.

We knew that Dumouriez for the king and the constitution of mind
was he had to his own salvation, his safety's sake, the current
combat conditions, and a great story it would become when he is
allied with the Allies at Paris, and so would have started .

Since the arrival of the Equipage was the surroundings of the Duke of
Weimar, much improved, because we had the Kämmerier, the cooking
and other house officers give the testimony that they have never
been without a stock, and even in the largest ever lack for something
hot dish ensured.

This refreshed, I rode around with me some of the area only to make
known, without any fear: this low hill had no personality, no
subject distinguished himself from others before. Me-oriented research
', I after a long and highly Pappelallee grew up, which yesterday
had been so striking, and since I could not discover it believes'
I am far astray, but on closer attention, I found that they
niedergehauen, weggeschleppt and probably had already burned.

At the point where the cannonade made, we saw great pity: people unbegraben
beaten and severely injured animals could not inherit. I saw a horse
that is in his own wounded body from the intestines had fallen out
with the front feet and had caught so unfortunate dahinhinkte. With Riding
home, I met the Prince Louis Ferdinand in the free field on a wooden
chair, the man from a lower heraufgeschafft village, while some of his
men dragged a heavy, locked cupboard herbei it insured, there is chatter,
they hoped, a good catch to have done. One vomited him eagerly, but found
only a very corpulent cookbook, and now, however, the split in the
fire cabinet aufloderte read the tastiest cuisine recipes, and was
once so hungry and craving an excited imagination to despair
increased. 24 September.

Somewhat exhilarated was the worst weather of the world by the news that
an arrest has been concluded and that we therefore have at least
the prospect, with some suffering and serenity darbe to them, but
this grew to only half a consolation, because you soon heard it was
really only an agreement that the outposts should be peace, not
remain unaffected, except for the war operations after touching
this discretion to continue.

This was to change their position and we could include more, but we in
the middle and had to keep quiet in our faltering state linger. The outpost
is taken but this permission with pleasure. First, they agreed that
which of the two parts of wind and rain beat into his face, which should
have the right to reverse and, wrapped in his cloak, by the opposite
fear nothing.

It came next: the Frenchman still had a bit less on food, however,
the Germans all abging, who shared so much with, and it was always
mates.

Finally, even with the friendliness of the French side pressure leaves
out, making the good Germans of the salvation of freedom and equality in
two languages was announced, the French fact annoyed the manifesto
of the Duke of Brunswick in the opposite sense, entboten goodwill
and hospitality, and whether even more popular with them as they
come from above could govern on its feet had made this call so
happened, at least at this moment, more to the contrary, to weaken
as to strengthen itself. at 24 September.

As fellow sufferers, I also expressed regret at this time two nice
boys from fourteen to fifteen years.

They had, as requisitioned, with four horses my weak light Chaise
up here hardly durchgeschleppt silent and suffered more for their
animals than for themselves, but they had so little as to all of
us to help.

Since they all evil for my sake outstanding, I felt at any piety
pushed and wanted those negotiated for Kommissbrot honest with them,
but they refused it and insured, so they could not eat, and when I
asked, "what they usually enjoy ?

offset them: "Du bon pain, de la bonne soupe, de la bonne viande, de
la bonne bière." Now they all is well with us and everything was bad,
I forgave them happy that they are consistent with abandonment of
their horses to make them soon.

They had some misfortune ausgestanden incidentally, but I think that
actually the Samaritans Kommissbrot to the last crucial step, as
an awful specter, have moved.

White and black bread is actually the Schibboleth, the field yelling
between Germans and French.

One remark I must not prejudice: we were indeed on the worst year
in a nature not blessed country, but because it's a few, industrious,
orderly loving , where all residents Undemanding feeds.

Richer and elegant areas like such a treat indeed contemptuous, but I have
no vermin and begging Hostels encountered there. From masonry
built with bricks covered the houses, and everywhere sufficient activity.
Nor is the country really bad stretch no more than four to six
hours and has broad, both in the Argonne Forest Mountains against
her than to Reims and Chalons, again more favorable opportunity.
Children who are in the first best the village had taken up, spoke with
satisfaction of their food, and I allowed myself only to the cellar and
the Somme Tourbe white bread that is fresh from Chalons in her hands had
fallen, remember, so but it seemed as if in times of peace are not
just hungry and vermin at home should be. 25 September. The fact that
during the shutdown, the French from their side would be active, one could
suspect and learn.

You searched the verlorne communication with Chalons restore and emigrated
in our backs to oust or rather to us heranzudrängen, but instantly
became the most harmful to us that they are both from the Argonne
Forest Mountains as Sedan and MONTMEDY forth to us the source
difficult, which could not be completely destroyed. 26 September.

Since I am aware than many knew, so they brought everything seem like
some weird, guilt, among others appealed to me a cannonball before,
about vierpfündig to make sure it was a miracle because it is over
their entire surface in crystallized termination pyramids to see.

Balls that day were enough verschossen been demonstrated that even
a well-informed could have lost. I imagined all sorts of hypotheses
to me, as the metal in the casting or after on this figure would have
been determined, by a coincidence, I was enlightened on this. After a
short absence, returned to my tent returns, I asked for the ball, they
wanted to not find it.

When I insisted, confessed man: she was, after all of her tried to burst
into pieces.

I asked the pieces and found to my great astonishment, a crystallization,
which, starting from the center to the surface against radial Advanced.
It was pyrite, which is in a free position had to have around.

This discovery led to, like Schwefelkiese were more, albeit smaller, in
ball-and kidney shape, also in other less regular shapes, but is quite
equal, that they had nowhere angesessen and that their crystallization
is always based on a certain mid-related, even they were not rounded,
but perfectly fresh and clear crystalline completed.

If they are probably in the soil itself, and the like can be found on
arable fields? But I was not alone on the minerals of the area aware
of the beautiful chalk, the throng that interrupts seemed quite matter
of some value. It is true that the soldier was just a cook aufhauen hole,
so he met the clearest white chalk, with his bare and smooth plaster had
otherwise needed. They were really an army command, the soldier
should deal with this here in vain to haves necessary goods as much as
possible to provide. This was now clearly an opportunity to ridicule a
few: in the midst of the terrible Kot sunk, one should deal with
cleanliness and cleaning agents loaded, where you sighed for bread,
dust with satisfaction.

Stutzten Even the officers not less than they resent the headquarters
tempered because they were not so clean, so fine as on the Parade
in Berlin or Potsdam appeared.

The superiors could not help, they should be, said one, not even scold.
27 September. A somewhat mysterious precaution, the urgency to deal with
hunger, was also published in the army: you should present the
barley sheaves so well beaten as possible, the obtained grains in
hot water for as long simmer until they burst, and this dish by the
try to satisfy the hunger.

Our neighborhood was a better aid allocated. You saw in the distance, two
cars stuck, which, because they eat and other needs were loaded,
was happy to help. equerry of Seebach sent horses there at once,
you brought it off, but also led them immediately to the duke's
regiment, they protested against it, as the Austrian army, while
their passports really were.

Solo was once one of their adopted in order to prevent the Zudrang
and they also noted they were guards, and since they also were
paid by us, which they demanded, so they also had with us find their
proper destination.

Hurried crowded first of all, the majordomo, cooks and their assistants
came, took the butter in kegs, from ham and other good things owned.

The inlet is increased, the greater quantity yelled after tobacco, also
because of the expensive price is often spent. The cars were so
surrounded, however, that as no one was approaching, so our people
and I called riders on the most urgent and asked them for that all
essential needs as possible.

I made my place by soldiers and erstieg immediately to me not to
confuse the crowd, the next car, where I packed for good money in
tobacco, which only wanted to summarize my bags, and promised, when
I come down and giving into the open was for the greatest benefactor
the praises of the ever suffering humanity had mercy.

Brandy was also arrived and we versah and thus paid for the bottle like
a Laubtaler. 27 September. Both the headquarters itself, where one
sometimes gelanget than for all those who came from there, we inquired
after the state of affairs: they could not be safer.

From the mischief, which proceeded in Paris, was reported more and
more, and what you initially held for fables, appeared most recently
as exuberant awful truth.

King and family were captured, the removal of already raised, and
the hatred of the kingdom ever won more and more latitude, one could
already expect that the unfortunate monarch a process would be
initiated.

Our immediate war opponents had a communication with Chalons reopened,
there was Luckner, the inflow of Paris volunteers to war should be
heaps, but this, in the horrible first days of September, by the rapidly
flowing blood flows, emigrated from the capital, brought lust for
murder and robbery more than pure legal wars with.

Following the example of the Paris Gräuelvolks ersahen they are
victims of arbitrary battle to them, how's would, authority,
possession, or probably even life to rob.

You could just let go undisciplined, so they made us the Garaus. The
emigrated were herangedrückt to us, and we even told by some evil
even in the back and the side threatened. In the area of Reims should
twenty thousand peasants zusammengerottet, with a field device and
wild nature taken weapons which the concern was gorß, even those we
want to gonna break loose. Of such things was in the evening in the
Duke tent, in the presence of significant war Obrist, spoken and each
brought his message, his presumption, his concern as a contribution
in these helpless rat, because it seemed to be only a miracle can
save us.

But I thought at that moment that we are usually in bad conditions we
like to compare individuals with high, especially with those where
it went even worse, because feeling 'I am driven, where the amusement
but not to derive from the history of St.

Louis drangvollsten the events to tell. The king, on his crusade, first
to the Sultan of Egypt humble, because this depends on being the
promised land.
Well, I'se got one chile, an' I means to keep on
prayin' tell I fine my daughter. I'm _so_ happy! I feel's like a new
woman!"

"My dear mother," said Robert, "now that I have found you, I mean to
hold you fast just as long as you live. Ever since the war I have been
trying to find out if you were living, but all efforts failed. At last,
I thought I would come and hunt you myself and, now that I have found
you, I am going to take you home to live with me, and to be as happy as
the days are long. I am living in the North, and doing a good business
there. I want you to see joy according to all the days wherein you have
seen sorrow. I do hope this young lady will find _her_ ma and that, when
found, she will prove to be your daughter!"

"Yes, pore, dear chile! - Now we have our attention on the Irish unrest
directed, we have these raw seeds zottelköpfichten * unterdrüken,
eh anstekende the outrage continued to eat, and because these
transactions a pretty big effort, so we conquer hiemit to support
our baar all money, gold and silver dishes, all income, and all
movable and immovable assets of the old Gaunt left. ed. -* (name a
type of light infantry Irish.)

York. How long will I have to keep patience ? Oh, how long is another,
perhaps too timid feeling my duty to myself any injustice patiently
suffer it?

Gloster Not death, nor Hereford exile, Gaunt erlidtne not insults, nor
England's native wounds, nor my own contempt, I have my ever patient
forehead against my king hulls made. I am the last of the great Edwards
sons, of which the Prince of Wales, your father was the first. The war
was not a lion bold, not a lamb in peace sanftmüthiger than this noble
young prince.

You have his face education, so he saw, but when it wrinkles the forehead,
so it was against the French, not against his friends: his noble hand
has won only what they spend, and verthat not what his victorious
father had won.

His hand was often with the blood of the enemies of his house, never
with the blood of His Tainted. O Richard! York still has more to say,
or he has already said too much. King Richard. Like, my uncle, what will
you say then? York. O my Gracious Lord, forgiving me, if you like it,
if not, let me also liked that you do not forgive me. You're looking
out the Ländereyen, goods and rights of banished Hereford to conquer?
If Gaunt is Todt, Hereford not alive?

Gaunt was not fair, and Henry is not true? Earned that does not have
an heir?

Is not his heritage is a meritorious son?

Hereford Kanst you rights, you kanst his title deeds and wohlhergebrachte
Gerechtsame cancel, and certainly Seyn whether you'll Seyn tomorrow
what you are?

Because where you're a king, than by the law of succession? If you
gewaltthätiger way the Hereford inheritance to you fails, the power
of his Procurator-General, in his name which Besiz to destroy him
and the angebotne homage want to fail, thus accumulates thousands
dangers on your head, verliehrt one thousand sympathetic hearts,
reizet and even my thoughts on patience sanftmüthige what duty and
honor can not think.

King Richard. Think what you want, and we take all his goods, movable,
Baarschaften and Ländereyen on our hands. York.

At least I will not witness them Seyn ; lives well, my area of
Lord, what will emerge from this, nobody can say. But evil acts can easily
prophesy that their effects can not be good Seyn.

(He goes anyway.) King Richard. Go, Buschy, to ungesäumt the Count of
Wiltschire and ask him to us to Ely House, and the execution of this
transaction vorzustehen.

Tomorrow we want to Ireland, it is time. However, we appoint, during
our absence, our uncle York, Lord-Lieutenant of England, because he
is righteous, and was always zugethan.

Come, my queen; tomorrow, we must distinguish, calm down, we will not
be long absent Seyn.

(Richard King, Queen and entourage pass.) Fourth Scene.

(Northumberland, Willoughby and Ross remain.) Northumberland. Well, Milord,
The Duke of Lancaster is Todt.

Ross. And live again in his son, now Duke of Lancaster is. Willoughby.

The names, not according to income. Northumberland. Beyden later, if
justice is their right. Ross.

My heart is full , but there must be silence, eh freymüthige him a
tongue easier kan. Northumberland.

Refers to what you want to talk to the Duke of Hereford, says
kühnlich it out, man, my ears listening pleasure with everything
good opposite what he said.

Ross.

All the best, what I can for him thun is pity with him to have his
heritage that he has been so deprived.

Northumberland. Well, Beyme sky, shame it is that such insults such
injustices against him, a royal prince, and some others of noble
blood, in that approaching the landing roll will endure vile!

The king is not himself, he unköniglich can be guided by flatterers, and
what they prey from addiction or hatred against any of us want to
displaced, which is the king after the sharpness against us, our
lives, our children and heirs to execute.

Ross. The municipalities, he runs through excessive ausgesogen, and
thereby lost their hearts, the Edeln because he abgestorbner Handel
fined and lost their hearts.
Strange as it may appear to you, her son returned, bringing
with him money enough to purchase her freedom, and she was redeemed from
bondage. Had she persisted in running away she might have been lost in
the woods and have died, exhausted by starvation. But she believed, she
trusted, and was delivered. Her son took her North, where she could find
a resting place for the soles of her feet."

That night Iola and the bishop left for the South.


CHAPTER XXI.


A HOME FOR MOTHER.

After Iola had left the settlement, accompanied by Robert as far as the
town, it was a pleasant satisfaction for the two old friends to settle
themselves down, and talk of times past, departed friends, and
long-forgotten scenes.

"What," said Mrs. Johnson, as we shall call Robert's mother, "hab become
ob Miss Nancy's husband? Is he still a libin'?"

"Oh, he drunk hisself to death," responded Aunt Linda.

"He used ter be mighty handsome."

"Yes, but drink war his ruination."

"An' how's Miss Nancy?"

"Oh, she's com'd down migh'ly. She's pore as a church mouse. I thought
'twould com'd home ter her wen she sole yer 'way from yore chillen.
Dere's nuffin goes ober de debil's back dat don't come under his belly.
Do yo 'member Miss Nancy's fardder?"

"Ob course I does!"

"Well," said Aunt Linda, "he war a nice ole gemmen. Wen he died, I said
de las' gemmen's dead, an' dere's noboddy ter step in his shoes."

"Pore Miss Nancy!" exclaimed Robert's mother. "I ain't nothin' agin her.
But I wouldn't swap places wid her, 'cause I'se got my son; an' I
beliebs he'll do a good part by me."

"Mother," said Robert, as he entered the room, "I've brought an old
friend to see you. Do you remember Uncle Daniel?"

Uncle Daniel threw back his head, reached out his hand, and manifested
his joy with "Well, Har'yet! is dis you? I neber 'spected to see you in
dese lower grouns! How does yer do? an' whar hab you bin all dis time?"

"O, I'se been tossin' roun' 'bout; but it's all com'd right at las'.
I'se lib'd to see my boy 'fore I died."

"My wife an' boys is in glory," said Uncle Daniel. "But I 'spects to see
'em 'fore long. 'Cause I'se tryin' to dig deep, build sure, an' make my
way from earth ter glory."

"Dat's de right kine ob talk, Dan'el. We ole folks ain't got long ter
stay yere."

They chatted together until Job and Salters came home for supper. After
they had eaten, Uncle Daniel said:--

"We'll hab a word ob prayer."

There, in that peaceful habitation, they knelt down, and mingled their
prayers together, as they had done in by-gone days, when they had met by
stealth in lonely swamps or silent forests.

The next morning Robert and his mother started northward. They were well
supplied with a bountiful luncheon by Aunt Linda, who had so thoroughly
enjoyed their sojourn with her. On the next day he arrived in the city
of P----, and took his mother to his boarding-house, until he could find
a suitable home into which to install her. He soon came across one which
just suited his taste, but when the agent discovered that Robert's
mother was colored, he told him that the house had been previously
engaged. In company with his mother he looked at several other houses in
desirable neighborhoods, but they were constantly met with the answer,
"The house is engaged," or, "We do not rent to colored people."

At length Robert went alone, and, finding a desirable house, engaged it,
and moved into it. In a short time it was discovered that he was
colored, and, at the behest of the local sentiment of the place, the
landlord used his utmost endeavors to oust him, simply because he
belonged to an unfashionable and unpopular race. At last he came across
a landlord who was broad enough to rent him a good house, and he found a
quiet resting place among a set of well-to-do and well-disposed people.


CHAPTER XXII.


FURTHER LIFTING OF THE VEIL.

In one of those fearful conflicts by which the Mississippi was freed
from Rebel intrusion and opened to commerce Harry was severely wounded,
and forced to leave his place in the ranks for a bed in the hospital.

One day, as he lay in his bed, thinking of his former home in
Mississippi and wondering if the chances of war would ever restore him
to his loved ones, he fell into a quiet slumber. When he awoke he found
a lady bending over him, holding in her hands some fruit and flowers. As
she tenderly bent over Harry's bed their eyes met, and with a thrill of
gladness they recognized each other.

"Oh, my son, my son!" cried Marie, trying to repress her emotion, as she
took his wasted hand in hers, and kissed the pale cheeks that sickness
and suffering had blanched. Harry was very weak, but her presence was a
call to life. He returned the pressure of her hand, kissed it, and his
eyes grew full of sudden light, as he murmured faintly, but joyfully:--

"Mamma; oh, mamma! have I found you at last?"

The effort was too much, and he immediately became unconscious.

Anxious, yet hopeful, Marie sat by the bedside of her son till
consciousness was restored. Caressingly she bent over his couch,
murmuring in her happiness the tenderest, sweetest words of motherly
love. In Harry's veins flowed new life and vigor, calming the
restlessness of his nerves.

As soon as possible Harry was carried to his mother's home; a home
brought into the light of freedom by the victories of General Grant.
Nursed by his mother's tender, loving care, he rapidly recovered, but,
being too disabled to re-enter the army, he was honorably discharged.

Lorraine had taken Marie to Vicksburg, and there allowed her to engage
in confectionery and preserving for the wealthy ladies of the city. He
had at first attempted to refugee with her in Texas, but, being foiled
in the attempt, he was compelled to enlist in the Confederate Army, and
met his fate by being killed just before the surrender of Vicksburg.

"My dear son," Marie would say, as she bent fondly over him, "I am
deeply sorry that you are wounded, but I am glad that the fortunes of
war have brought us together. Poor Iola! I _do_ wonder what has become
of her? Just as soon as this war is over I want you to search the
country all over. Poor child! How my heart has ached for her!"

Time passed on. Harry and his mother searched and inquired for Iola, but
no tidings of her reached them.

Having fully recovered his health, and seeing the great need of
education for the colored people, Harry turned his attention toward
them, and joined the new army of Northern teachers.

He still continued his inquiries for his sister, not knowing whether or
not she had succumbed to the cruel change in her life. He thought she
might have passed into the white basis for the sake of bettering her
fortunes. Hope deferred, which had sickened his mother's heart, had
only roused him to renewed diligence.

A school was offered him in Georgia, and thither he repaired, taking his
mother with him. They were soon established in the city of A----. In
hope of finding Iola he visited all the conferences of the Methodist
Church, but for a long time his search was in vain.

"Mamma," said Harry, one day during his vacation, "there is to be a
Methodist Conference in this State in the city of S----, about one
hundred and fifty miles from here. I intend to go and renew my search
for Iola."

"Poor child!" burst out Marie, as the tears gathered in her eyes, "I
wonder if she is living."

"I think so," said Harry, kissing the pale cheek of his mother; "I don't
feel that Iola is dead. I believe we will find her before long."

"It seems to me my heart would burst with joy to see my dear child just
once more. I am glad that you are going. When will you leave?"

"To-morrow morning."

"Well, my son, go, and my prayers will go with you," was Marie's tender
parting wish.

Early next morning Harry started for the conference, and reached the
church before the morning session was over. Near him sat two ladies, one
fair, the other considerably darker. There was something in the fairer
one that reminded him forcibly of his sister, but she was much older and
graver than he imagined his sister to be. Instantly he dismissed the
thought that had forced itself into his mind, and began to listen
attentively to the proceedings of the conference.

When the regular business of the morning session was over the bishop
arose and said:--

"I have an interesting duty to perform. I wish to introduce a young lady
to the conference, who was the daughter of a Mississippi planter. She is
now in search of her mother and brother, from whom she was sold a few
months before the war. Her father married her mother in Ohio, where he
had taken her to be educated. After his death they were robbed of their
inheritance and enslaved by a distant relative named Lorraine. Miss Iola
Leroy is the young lady's name. If any one can give the least
information respecting the objects of her search it will be thankfully
received."

"I can," exclaimed a young man, rising in the midst of the audience, and
pressing eagerly, almost impetuously, forward. "I am her brother, and I
came here to look for her."

Iola raised her eyes to his face, so flushed and bright with the glow of
recognition, rushed to him, threw her arms around his neck, kissed him
again and again, crying: "O, Harry!" Then she fainted from excitement.
The women gathered around her with expressions of tender sympathy, and
gave her all the care she needed. They called her the "dear child," for
without any effort on her part she had slidden into their hearts and
found a ready welcome in each sympathizing bosom.

Harry at once telegraphed the glad tidings to his mother, who waited
their coming with joyful anticipation. Long before the cars reached the
city, Mrs. Leroy was at the depot, restlessly walking the platform or
eagerly peering into the darkness to catch the first glimpse of the
train which was bearing her treasures.

At length the cars arrived, and, as Harry and Iola alighted, Marie
rushed forward, clasped Iola in her arms and sobbed out her joy in
broken words.

Very happy was the little family that sat together around the
supper-table for the first time for years. They partook of that supper
with thankful hearts and with eyes overflowing with tears of joy. Very
touching were the prayers the mother uttered, when she knelt with her
children that night to return thanks for their happy reunion, and to
seek protection through the slumbers of the night.

The next morning, as they sat at the breakfast-table, Marie said:

"My dear child, you are so changed I do not think I would have known you
if I had met you in the street!"

"And I," said Harry, "can hardly realize that you are our own Iola, whom
I recognized as sister a half dozen years ago."

"Am I so changed?" asked Iola, as a faint sigh escaped her lips.

"Why, Iola," said Harry, "you used to be the most harum-scarum girl I
ever knew, laughing, dancing, and singing from morning until night."

"Yes, I remember," said Iola. "It all comes back to me like a dream. Oh,
mamma! I have passed through a fiery ordeal of suffering since then. But
it is useless," and as she continued her face assumed a brighter look,
"to brood over the past. Let us be happy in the present. Let me tell you
something which will please you. Do you remember telling me about your
mother and brother?"

"Yes," said Marie, in a questioning tone."

"Well," continued Iola, with eyes full of gladness, "I think I have
found them."

"Can it be possible!" exclaimed Marie, in astonishment. "It is more than
thirty years since we parted. I fear you are mistaken."

"No, mamma; I have drawn my conclusions from good circumstantial
evidence. After I was taken from you, I passed through a fearful siege
of suffering, which would only harrow up your soul to hear. I often
shudder at the remembrance. The last man in whose clutches I found
myself was mean, brutal, and cruel. I was in his power when the Union
army came into C----, where I was living. A number of colored men
stampeded to the Union ranks, with a gentleman as a leader, whom I think
is your brother. A friend of his reported my case to the commander of
the post, who instantly gave orders for my release. A place was given me
as nurse in the hospital. I attended that friend in his last illness.
Poor fellow! he was the best friend I had in all the time I have been
tossing about. The gentleman whom I think is your brother appeared to be
very anxious about his friend's recovery, and was deeply affected by his
death. In one of the last terrible battles of the war, that of Five
Forks, he was wounded and put into the hospital ward where I was an
attendant. For awhile he was delirious, and in his delirium he would
sometimes think that I was his mother and at other times his sister. I
humored his fancies, would often sing to him when he was restless, and
my voice almost invariably soothed him to sleep. One day I sang to him
that old hymn we used to sing on the plantation:--

    "Drooping souls no longer grieve,
          Heaven is propitious;
     If on Christ you do believe,
          You will find Him precious."

"I remember," said Marie, with a sigh, as memories of the past swept
over her.

"After I had finished the hymn," continued Iola, "he looked earnestly
and inquiringly into my face, and asked, 'Where did you learn that hymn?
I have heard my mother sing it when I was a boy, but I have never heard
it since.' I think, mamma, the words, 'I was lost but now I'm found;
glory! glory! glory!' had imprinted themselves on his memory, and that
his mind was assuming a higher state of intellectuality. He asked me to
sing it again, which I did, until he fell asleep. Then I noticed a
marked resemblance between him and Harry, and I thought, 'Suppose he
should prove to be your long-lost brother?' During his convalescence we
found that we had a common ground of sympathy. We were anxious to be
reunited to our severed relations. We had both been separated from our
mothers. He told me of his little sister, with whom he used to play. She
had a mole on her cheek which he called her beauty spot. He had the red
spot on his forehead which you told me of."


CHAPTER XXIII.


DELIGHTFUL REUNIONS.

Very bright and happy was the home where Marie and her children were
gathered under one roof. Mrs. Leroy's neighbors said she looked ten
years younger. Into that peaceful home came no fearful forebodings of
cruel separations. Harry and Iola were passionately devoted to their
mother, and did all they could to flood her life with sunshine.

"Iola, dear," said Harry, one morning at the breakfast-table, "I have a
new pleasure in store for you."

"What is it, brother mine?" asked Iola, assuming an air of interest.

"There is a young lady living in this city to whom I wish to introduce
you. She is one of the most remarkable women I have ever met."

"Do tell me all about her," said Iola. "Is she young and handsome,
brilliant and witty?

"She," replied Harry, "is more than handsome, she is lovely; more than
witty, she is wise; more than brilliant, she is excellent."

"Well, Harry," said Mrs. Leroy, smiling, "if you keep on that way I
shall begin to fear that I shall soon be supplanted by a new daughter."

"Oh, no, mamma," replied Harry, looking slightly confused, "I did not
mean that."

"Well, Harry," said Iola, amused, "go on with your description; I am
becoming interested. Tax your powers of description to give me her
likeness."

"Well, in the first place," continued Harry, "I suppose she is about
twenty-five years old."

"Oh, the idea," interrupted Iola, "of a gentleman talking of a lady's
age. That is a tabooed subject."

"Why, Iola, that adds to the interest of my picture. It is her
combination of earnestness and youthfulness which enhances her in my
estimation."

"Pardon the interruption," said Iola; "I am anxious to hear more about
her."

"Well, she is of medium height, somewhat slender, and well formed, with
dark, expressive eyes, full of thought and feeling. Neither hair nor
complexion show the least hint of blood admixture."

"I am glad of it," said Iola. "Every person of unmixed blood who
succeeds in any department of literature, art, or science is a living
argument for the capability which is in the race."

"Yes," responded Harry, "for it is not the white blood which is on trial
before the world. Well, I will bring her around this evening."

In the evening Harry brought Miss Delany to call on his sister and
mother. They were much pleased with their visitor. Her manner was a
combination of suavity and dignity. During the course of the evening
they learned that she was a graduate of the University of A----. One day
she saw in the newspapers that colored women were becoming unfit to be
servants for white people. She then thought that if they are not fit to
be servants for white people, they are unfit to be mothers to their own
children, and she conceived the idea of opening a school to train future
wives and mothers. She began on a small scale, in a humble building,
and her work was soon crowned with gratifying success. She had enlarged
her quarters, increased her teaching force, and had erected a large and
commodious school-house through her own exertions and the help of
others.

Marie cordially invited her to call again, saying, as she rose to go: "I
am very glad to have met you. Young women like you always fill my heart
with hope for the future of our race. In you I see reflected some of the
blessed possibilities which lie within us."

"Thank you," said Miss Delany, "I want to be classed among those of whom
it is said, 'She has done what she could.'"

Very pleasant was the acquaintance which sprang up between Miss Delany
and Iola. Although she was older than Iola, their tastes were so
congenial, their views of life and duty in such unison, that their
acquaintance soon ripened into strong and lasting friendship. There were
no foolish rivalries and jealousies between them. Their lives were too
full of zeal and earnestness for them to waste in selfishness their
power to be moral and spiritual forces among a people who so much needed
their helping hands. Miss Delany gave Iola a situation in her school;
but before the term was quite over she was force to resign, her health
having been so undermined by the fearful strain through which she had
passed, that she was quite unequal to the task. She remained at home,
and did what her strength would allow in assisting her mother in the
work of canning and preserving fruits.

In the meantime, Iola had been corresponding with Robert. She had told
him of her success in finding her mother and brother, and had received
an answer congratulating her on the glad fruition of her hopes. He also
said that his business was flourishing, that his mother was keeping
house for him, and, to use her own expression, was as happy as the days
are long. She was firmly persuaded that Marie was her daughter, and she
wanted to see her before she died.

"There is one thing," continued the letter, "that your mother may
remember her by. It was a little handkerchief on which were a number of
cats' heads. She gave one to each of us."

"I remember it well," said Marie, "she must, indeed, be my mother. Now,
all that is needed to complete my happiness is her presence, and my
brother's. And I intend, if I live long enough, to see them both."

Iola wrote Robert that her mother remembered the incident of the
handkerchief, and was anxious to see them.

In the early fall Robert started for the South in order to clear up all
doubts with respect to their relationship. He found Iola, Harry, and
their mother living cosily together. Harry was teaching and was a leader
among the rising young men of the State. His Northern education and
later experience had done much toward adapting him to the work of the
new era which had dawned upon the South.

Marie was very glad to welcome Robert to her home, but it was almost
impossible to recognize her brother in that tall, handsome man, with
dark-brown eyes and wealth of chestnut-colored hair, which he readily
lifted to show the crimson spot which lay beneath it.

But as they sat together, and recalled the long-forgotten scenes of
their childhood, they concluded that they were brother and sister.

"Marie," said Robert, "how would you like to leave the South?"

"I should like to go North, but I hate to leave Harry. He's a splendid
young fellow, although I say it myself. He is so fearless and outspoken
that I am constantly anxious about him, especially at election time."

Harry then entered the room, and, being introduced to Robert, gave him a
cordial welcome. He had just returned from school.

"We were talking of you, my son," said Marie.

"What were you saying? Nothing of the absent but good?" asked Harry.

"I was telling your uncle, who wants me to come North, that I would go,
but I am afraid that you will get into trouble and be murdered, as many
others have been."

"Oh, well, mother, I shall not die till my time comes. And if I die
helping the poor and needy, I shall die at my post. Could a man choose a
better place to die?"

"Were you aware of the virulence of caste prejudice and the disabilities
which surround the colored people when you cast your lot with them?"
asked Robert.

"Not fully," replied Harry; "but after I found out that I was colored, I
consulted the principal of the school, where I was studying, in
reference to the future. He said that if I stayed in the North, he had
friends whom he believed would give me any situation I could fill, and I
could simply take my place in the rank of workers, the same as any other
man. . * * * * * In the early morning of the 18th August was there. A
poor woman, I had visited, which I at one of our paths had found. She
was dying sick, - oh, and how happy she wanted to die, if only the
children would have been stronger than they Arzeneien all the world
to life chained. The transparent fingers are not allowed to sleep
peacefully folded together, they were desperately the white canvas, in
order dainty name trains, proud and free Mr. Graf hineinzusticken crowns.
A little bit of hope I had brought her, - hope that they will soon die
quietly allowed. Well, I went home, his head lowered and the sun did
hurt me.

At King Street, I ended in a swarm of people who woke me with: geputzt
women with that out of curiosity, excitement and nervous tension
mixed expression in the trains, the ordinary people at all major
events - be it fire or wedding celebrations, - characterized , men
in their Sunday best, some sort of medal or a cross on the chest,
which in these days of carte blanche for everything was drunkenness
- they called her enthusiasm - brutality against Nichtdekorierte,
- one called it patriotism.

I saw around me: Flags fluttered from buildings, street vendors offered
krähender voice with medals from the Emperor, distant sound
of drum roll, Pferdegetrappel.

Correct: the cornerstone of the national monument was today.

With affectionate nostalgia, as the Greisin yellowed love letters, the
father had yesterday the General Uniform tissue paper out of their
shells removed, the embroidery, buttons and many even with a orders
Lederläppchen dusted and was certainly this morning full excitation,
drove to the castle. Now we were even up close behind the constable
vorgedrungen chains. A forward's no longer there, a return even less.
It was bearable.

The Gala of the German princes car rolled over in her old-fashioned
heavy splendor, step, bellowing the Guard moved to the Castle Square,
waving behind her with flags Ulan, Dragoner and flashing Küraß the
Gardedukorps.

From behind me breathed a hot breath into the neck, after sticky smell
of beer, from the neck of the thick, young woman beside me rose a mild
smell of sweat. I am disgusted in front of the quantity of excitation;
eindruckslos swept me even the otherwise electrifying music to my
Ohre passed, like a bad piece of equipment I felt the colorful
spectacle before me.

Involuntarily fell to me the model of the national monument: How well did
it here with his troubled animal and human figures, its flags, guns,
rifles and Säbeln and the theatrical daherschreitenden Engel, the square
of the old emperor Schlachtroß leads.

From its future location, the angle in front of the castle, which
is still about the water had abringen have sounded hammer blows,
cannon thunder was a shocking air of deep bell sounds untermischt.

Bells and cannon - the leading instruments in the orchestra of the
bourgeois Society, with which it tears and complaints of the millions
believed to drown!

But I heard it, and I knew: the day will come when the bell before him
silent and the guns will fall silent before him. * * * * * Before the
mirror, I stood in my bedroom. How long ago was it that I am
nothing more than fleeting glances hineingeworfen had focused
solely on the order of my hair, my clothes were.

Today I saw myself again, my moves were sharper and narrower become
my face, my figure, but was still a young girl.

I smiled: 'wife' of Glyzcinski - and a girl, even an old girl of thirty
years! But I did not want to be old, - not today. I felt
again, as I was red.

The fact that the woman in me did not kill! Where so much has died,
it rang.

Short and sharp.

The Aufwärterin early on I had sent home, she was so old and so ugly.

The visit, which I expected, I wanted to open itself. "Madam?" - A
surprise, questioning voice. I differed in the twilight of the staircase
and the corridor, the silhouette of a man with a wide mantle over
the shoulders, the wide Schlapphut on the head.

I myself in my black dress had him just like a shadow to appear. I walked
him forward into the room, the sunlight flooding by durchstrahlte
how once, when I first stepped over the threshold.

I turned to me, - my hand was forgotten in the Heinrich Brandt.

"We are - no stranger -" I stuttered embarrassed. "No - no -," he replied
and looked at me still.

The clock on the desktop brought to hitting from. I jerked together, sat
me hastily, and stiff and I formally invited him to the seats. "No," he
repeated, his eyes and left me still does not go, while his face seemed
to be brighter, "- you are no stranger to me. Do you know that?
"He moved the gray issue of the Viennese" Time "from his skirt pocket.
"Basically, a very stupid, small item that you have written, and
yet so wonderful! A whole human being behind it, "I was warm ums Herz.
His words to me stroked his cheeks, his voice filled the air around me
with a single well-sound. "And your plan interested me very much.

I did not even wait until you finally had the grace, herzubefehlen me
"- he smiled a little malitiös," You have, as I hear the friend Reinhard
precedence left - I have, however, without asking the step of its
success depends on your whole thing. "I was almost scared to. "Or should
you really have not thought of that money, including a lot of money?"
I nodded, smiling.

"I wrote to one of our most serious social reformer and richest and sent
him your program. I have no doubt that he had the matter in an
appropriate manner will finance. "I tried to thank him and it was
particularly deep inner emotion and clumsy wooden out." Let but
these formalities, "he said. "If anyone deserves thanks, you are
there, the idea had.

I am at best nothing more than his subordinate tool. "We talked
for a long time together. I told everything to me since the past few
weeks, moving the heart and passion and hatred and love broke
through the dams, the loneliness and reluctance to aufgeschichtet
they had.

"They are like a flame, which aspires to heaven blazing," whispered as
he himself when he was gone, I remained motionless, her hands
firmly ineinandergekrampft in the middle of the rooms are available.

Was that a dream was, or had he really stood here before me? In this
same room, where I was George, my only friend, found and lost!

The next day, towards evening he came back. "I'm intrusive, does not
it?" He laughed me.

"But you come to me before, like a dissipated birds that is relevant
to the windows and walls of the head and triggers a hand is needed,
it begins and outside it."

"You might be right. Bilde me I probably only one that I am at liberty
flöge, and the other people have been shortsighted enough to me
to work, probably even to admire - "It dawned.

"Excuse me a moment," I said and went out to fetch the lamp. When I returned,
I found him on the manuscript of an article flexed, which I had
just completed.

Angry, I wanted him away from my desk to pull me.

"Excuse me -" he pressed firmly to the hand, - "that belongs to my
Vogelfang.

How to do this, like to write?

"I was frightened before dark face, he suddenly zuwandte me. » 'London
complacency'!

Have you nothing better to do?

"His gaze remained on the bulb-like, shaking, I put on the table. His
forehead is smoothed, researching saw the big gray eyes my face. "You
have to operate? - You always open my own? - "I lowered a moment his
head." As you can see: yes, "my voice that first sounded a bit veiled,
was clear and firm. »I can not keep a maid, and I have to write such
articles because of my pension, I can not live without." "Excuse me,
- but how could I guess -" He looked me deep in the eyes.

We were from then on every day together, either, to me that he picked
up a walk, be it that we met in the city.

With great happy I felt the tender care with which he surrounded
me. When I came to the parents and the father in the heat of the moment
on the Social Democrats railed - »High louder traitor who should
hang it," - so I heard only half Ohre out it does not hurt me, to
me it was like a warm, solid flak jacket, the friendship slung
around me had.

The friendship!

- I believed in them - I wanted to believe in them, even if the hot waves
of my heart to me, threatened to flood. "They must soon come out with
me to my wife and my boys.

It is unlike you, - very different, but smart and good - you will
understand each other, "he once said to me.

There was, however, still not, and I urged not afterwards. One
afternoon we sat together on the narrow balcony of coffee Klose. In soft,
silvery sunlight flooded among us on the Leipziger Strasse people
up and down.

An early autumn mist, delicate and fragrant like Feenschleier,
played by the endless rows of houses, and it seemed as he dampened
the rattling of the wagons.

"See just what I got today," so I gave him a letter opposite. "The Vienna
Fabien call me a lecture on" - he nodded glad I saw it from the page.
"I have no relations in Vienna," I went thoughtfully away, "- here you
should also have been my providence?" "And if that were the case?" I
still gave him a hand. Very gently, as if they would be very
fragile, he took it into his, - a delicate hand with thick veins
and nervous fingers.

"Believe," he asked slowly, after a silence that the closeness of two
people to each other reveals "They believe that one day might come
where our friendship compels us, are 'you' to say?" A tremor passed
through my body. I did not reply. Silent we stood on, we went silently
to my home. Inside the room we were in, the heart beat to break me, my
fingers frozen to ice. "Alix -" like a breath came my name on his lips.
"Thou -" I could not be more to say .

It darkened my eyes before. A long heartbeat, I felt his mouth on mine,
- and then closed the door, - I was alone. And the walls around me seemed
to revolve, and the splendor of the setting sun was glowing flames. What
song was it in the air from loud harps, - my heart was cheering
them to the blades market.

In all the ways of the world, sound sweeter lullabies and proud victory
and sang hymns jauchzte that I love. * * * * * We used to each other
as wrong.

Only the eyes dared here and there, to speak another language than the
mouth. I was in the middle of the pack; already stared the rooms I
love strange and barren, when his wife came to visit me. Flabbergasted,
I saw them as they stood before me: she was highly pregnant.

Quickly I threw the clothes from the sofa and coerced them into their
care the pillow in the back radically. His wife! His child!

- The idea is drilled into my brain that my head threatened to explode.
Never - never had he spoken to me of love, I thought, while I remain
friendly with her phrases changed, only more of friendship. And this
woman in front of me with big, broad hands and the piercing dark eyes,
I had taken nothing - nothing I could not take.

After that I loved him, which harmed her? And was not my own,
great, wonderful feeling of friendship and its happiness enough
for me that I had learned, to renounce all happiness? "We are moving
in the winter in the city," she said quietly, "otherwise I get my husband
no longer be seen --. "Was that an allusion? Her face remained unmoved.
"Incidentally, I saw just in the house where you rent an apartment,
which is good for us would fit.

That would be for all the best parts - and I would have but also
something from you.

Could also learn from you, which I unfortunately have to understand
the interests of my husband is missing. "I understood it not; was
really what they said, or malice lurked behind and mistrust?

Clammy lay her hand in farewell at the mine. The train of her silk dress
rustled behind her forth like a snake. I had my little window in the
sun, to be warm again after they had left me. * * * * * "I bring
good news!"

In the early morning, I sat still at breakfast, Heinrich Brandt
came in my room , joyfully.

"The matter is decided." I grabbed hastily after the letter, which he
brought and read. "After careful consideration, I decided then
that I proposed project of a Central Committee for Women's work
so far to support when I initially a sum of eight thousand marks
annually for suspension, if the volume of work necessary to make
it later, can be increased accordingly .

I hope you, dear Doctor, you specifically stated that only the role of
outsiders to play mediator, not too close to kick, if I please, woman
Glyzcinski know that the condition of my support that I Under no
circumstances differed, which is that the leadership of the matter
is not in the hands of socialists rests.

This stems from my claim no personal animosity, but just recognizing the
currently closed, hardly anyone can prove that the social democracy
to a quiet work is incapable of reform and the relevant parties of
its outgoing movement with law would be opposed.

"I had first loud and sociable, always read slower and quieter. "The
call you have a good message?

"I asked kopfschüttelnd." Just today I saw in the press as everything
from the right and left to a new edition of the roll template
screams.

And my father told yesterday that the casino has the measures discussed
by the Social Democrats are to be silenced - "Brandt broke me:"
Well - what?

If your job is about superfluous? "" Certainly not. But my conscience
can be a major task give me at the moment of persecution on the
side of those, which are being pursued.

The conviction in his own pocket to the jacket, can be excused only so
long as it is not cowardice. "" You are right - as always, if your first
sensation is talking, "he squeezed my hand, and companionable,"
and yet I would ask you: think about quietly, before you answer.

The exemption laws are so far nothing but wishes and threats, and
the dismal end of the roll template is unlikely to irritate a
repetition. "- -" ...

Depends on the Day of St. Sedan mourning flags that collects
solemn protest against the mass murder and honors those who rush to
war, as they deserve: it is a criminal to prison. "My father had me a
newspaper clipping which in this sentence from Socialist Breslauer
'National Guard' quoted. Raw and ugly, unworthy, he was above all. The
spiritual weapons that we carry, should be bare, and thus be
sharper, I thought.

A few days later the bourgeois newspapers published in giant letters on
the toast, which the Emperor had yielded on Sedantag: "... In the
great joy high feasts proposes a sound into it, the truth does not
belong, and a brood of people, not worth the name of Germans to
take it dares, the German people to revile; dare to us sacred person
of the emperor allverehrten immortalized in the dust to be drawn.

Let the whole nation in the force find these outrageous attacks rejected.
Is it not now, then I urge you to hochverräterischen the crowd to fight
for a fight to keep us free from such elements. "Wordless Brandt
handed me the paper when he came. "What have you decided?" "The
retting of people are my brothers and sisters. - I Decline. "The
third chapter, I was in Vienna at the rostrum of the Ronachersaals and
I bowed again before the applauding audience. I knew I had not spoken
as early as usual as the chairman at me over the crowded ranks led
to the elegant, graceful women, its not like the toilets of Berlin
there seemed to be the bearer of the burden of brilliance forget
to make, but stressed their individuality, their stimuli stressed
to the young and old gentlemen in tuxedo tails and with the sleek
design and the smugly smile of the world's, I was the contrast
between the cool and seriousness of my presentation this environment
came to consciousness.

Then a wave of colorful hats, a crackle of silk dresses, a sparkle of
diamonds at me. Opera glasses made of silver and pearl were to me, and
around the rococo ornament mattschimmernde to the ceilings and walls of
the charming concert hall had a fine, gentle mist geschwebt, woven
from cigarette smoke and perfume. I climbed down the stairs. We still
clapped. I had probably something like a new sensation have been, as
in the form of singers, players and pocket Diseusen on this gallery
are usually used to appear.

"I congratulate you -," said a dark voice beside me. Only one man
in the world had such a voice!

It was Brandt. And when my hand in his was, it was me, as if I alone
with him high on a rocky island in the distance and only Brandet the
sea in the world. "In Vienna, - my beloved Vienna, and I'm not beside
you, - it was absurd to me before, "I heard him say quietly.

But already, I saw the circle, which had formed around us: people who waited
to welcome me, I presented to the Board of Fabi, me to eat was loaded. I
won my text again, and during high aufschlug my heart with joy, I had
the urge, against all who approached me, double and triple kind.

In a semi-smoky coffee late in the evening we met again. Brandt expected
me to Dr. Geier, his brother, the leader of the Austrian social democracy,
and a circle of party members, in the middle of a debate suddenly fell
silent when I arrived. They had apparently gezankt what I do with the
sensitivity of the whole Frohgelaunten immediately felt. You stood
up, you welcomed me, but my presence seemed visibly disturbing. A small
brunette woman with bright brown eyes felt the embarrassing situation
and pulled me onto a chair beside it. "I'm Adelheid Popp," she said simply,
"I have been so pleased with your presentation, and wished only that our
workers would have him can hear. "" That I would also like - he would
have been better, "I replied. Her eyes laughed at me. "You know what?"
She called lively. "Repeat it in a People's Assembly," With joy, I consent
to the Samaritans small, warm hand. "But I can not guarantee that it
is the same speech," We ourselves deeper into a conversation, and
I learned that this petite woman a poor laborer had been from the
moment when, however, where they had won socialism to a enthusiastic
champion of the labor movement had evolved.

Quite differently, she was like our German women: cheerful and good-natured,
without a trace of that rigid restraint, the home of all my kindness
seemed to scoff. "They should look what is happening in Vienna is called
People's Assembly," The conversation of the other had, however,
because adequate follow again, where I had torn up the thread.

I listened to.

"Is not it outrageous for a practical politician, on the page to
the Wroclaw Hundertachtundfünfzig and Kautsky blutleeren theorists
like to defend?"

Brandt said, while the dark brows zusammenzogen closely to him and
the eyes of the opponents angry entgegenblitzten. "Are you perhaps
in your opposite position on the agricultural question is less
theoretical than he?"

spöttelte vulture. "The goods on which you look at the spores of the
Praktikus've earned, but subject to the moons!" With an apologetic
gesture, he turned to me.

"Excuse me, if we are still in your presence with such uninteresting
things -" "You do not before me to apologize," I replied, "I have the
negotiations of the party Breslauer lively interest, and since I
do to still does not know which side I stand, so I'm listening to
the debates like your very happy to.

"And now the dispute undulates back and forth. Brandt defended the
majority of the party rejected proposals Breslauer agricultural
Commission, as "essential demands of contemporary politics," to be
an encouraging sign of the growing realization that a party of the
size of the German Social Democracy, the people of other parties'
interests must be represented, as only the of industrial workers.

"Incidentally, what we quarrel, my dear Victor?"

he said finally, and threw a haughty gesture with his head back.

"You're the First, the proposals are not only acceptable, but make
themselves and against all the world to defend, or - as Schönlank aptly
said - a revision of the idea of bringing in the party when you
come into a position would, Country agitation to drive.

    "vulture angry manner on the table that
      the cups klirrten and the waiter who overslept on a pillar leaned,
frightened eyes and breakdown service finished the napkin swings.

"That is precisely the crux of the matter: I'm just not in your situation
and, despite a half million of your votes will not! Focus your
advertising strength but on the millions of wage workers who are still
missing you, and let your grandchildren about the higher Bauernfängerei
heads the break!

"Doctor," said Iola, decidedly, "he has greater advantages as a colored
man."

"I do not understand you," said Dr. Gresham, looking somewhat puzzled.

"Doctor," continued Iola, "I do not think life's highest advantages are
those that we can see with our eyes or grasp with our hands. To whom
to-day is the world most indebted--to its millionaires or to its
martyrs?"

"Taking it from the ideal standpoint," replied the doctor, "I should say
its martyrs."

"To be," continued Iola, "the leader of a race to higher planes of
thought and action, to teach men clearer views of life and duty, and to
inspire their souls with loftier aims, is a far greater privilege than
it is to open the gates of material prosperity and fill every home with
sensuous enjoyment."

"And I," said Mrs. Leroy, her face aglow with fervid feeling, "would
rather--ten thousand times rather--see Harry the friend and helper of
the poor and ignorant than the companion of men who, under the cover of
night, mask their faces and ride the country on lawless raids."

"Dr. Gresham," said Robert, "we ought to be the leading nation of the
earth, whose influence and example should give light to the world."

"Not simply," said Iola, "a nation building up a great material
prosperity, founding magnificent cities, grasping the commerce of the
world, or excelling in literature, art, and science, but a nation
wearing sobriety as a crown and righteousness as the girdle of her
loins."

Dr. Gresham gazed admiringly upon Iola. A glow of enthusiasm overspread
her beautiful, expressive face. There was a rapt and far-off look in her
eye, as if she were looking beyond the present pain to a brighter
future for the race with which she was identified, and felt the
grandeur of a divine commission to labor for its uplifting.

As Dr. Gresham was parting with Robert, he said: "This meeting has been
a very unexpected pleasure. I have spent a delightful evening. I only
regret that I had not others to share it with me. A doctor from the
South, a regular Bourbon, is stopping at the hotel. I wish he could have
been here to-night. Come down to the Concordia, Mr. Johnson, to-morrow
night. If you know any colored man who is a strong champion of equal
rights, bring him along. Good-night. I shall look for you," said the
doctor, as he left the door.

When Robert returned to the parlor he said to Iola: "Dr. Gresham has
invited me to come to his hotel to-morrow night, and to bring some
wide-awake colored man with me. There is a Southerner whom he wishes me
to meet. I suppose he wants to discuss the negro problem, as they call
it. He wants some one who can do justice to the subject. I wonder whom I
can take with me?"

"I will tell you who, I think, will be a capital one to take with you,
and I believe he would go," said Iola.

"Who?" asked Robert.

"Rev. Carmicle, your pastor."

"He is just the one," said Robert, "courteous in his manner and very
scholarly in his attainments. He is a man whom if everybody hated him no
one could despise him."


CHAPTER XXVI.


OPEN QUESTIONS.

In the evening Robert and Rev. Carmicle called on Dr. Gresham, and found
Dr. Latrobe, the Southerner, and a young doctor by the name of Latimer,
already there. Dr. Gresham introduced Dr. Latrobe, but it was a new
experience to receive colored men socially. His wits, however, did not
forsake him, and he received the introduction and survived it.

"Permit me, now," said Dr. In the circumstances of the whole and some of
them are the two sides this autonomy, however, so that each of the
other in her appear, and only when this is also the identity of both.
Because now the only major proportions until the first direct, it
is the negative unity and independence through positive also
connected, both sides are as moments, but as much as exist independence
.-- The fact that both moments are set , Diessen is therefore
vertheilt so that firstly the whole, the reflektirte autonomy, as
exist, and in her other than the immediate moment - here the whole
thing makes the unity of both sides, the foundation, and the immediate
existence is as Gesetztseyn .-- Conversely, on the other side,
namely the side of the Theile, the immediate, self-existence of
diverse, independent basis, the unit reflektirte other hand, the
whole thing is just external relationships. 2 Diess relationship
thus the autonomy of the sides, and their Aufgehobenseyn very well,
and both par in a relationship.

The whole thing is the self-employed, some of them are just the
moments of this unit, but equally they are also the self-employed,
and their reflektirte unit just a moment, and each is in its
independence, the ultimate relative of another.

Diess ratio is therefore a direct contradiction to his own, and
highlights on.

Dießen closer, so it is all the reflektirte unit which independent
existence for itself, but Diess their existence is as much repelled by
it, the whole is as the negative unity, negative relationship to
itself, so she is entäußert it has its existence to its opposite,
the manifold immediacy to Theilen.

It consists of the Theilen, so that there is not anything without them.
So the whole situation and the totality of self, but just the same reason,
it is only a relative, because the totality of what it does is much
more different, the Theile, and it has not to himself but to his changing
his existence. Theile So are the same if the whole situation.

They are the direct reflektirte against the independence and do not exist
as a whole, but for themselves.

They have also Diess Integer as its moment to them, it makes their
relationship without a whole giebt is no Theile. But because they are
self-employed, so this relationship is only an external torque,
against which they in themselves are indifferent. At the same time,
however, the yield as varied existence in itself, because this is
the reflexionslose Seyn they have their independence only in the
reflektirten unit, which included both the unit as well as the
multiplicity is exist, which means that they have autonomy only in
the whole , but also the other self is Theilen.

The whole Theile and therefore mutually interdependent, but the ratio
considered here, is also higher than the relationship of the
conditional and the condition on each other, how they had determined
above.

This relationship is realisirt, namely it is set so that the essential
condition of conditional independence is that by this they will
be provided.

The condition as such is only the immediate, and only to be provided. The
whole, however, is the condition, although some of them, but it
contains both directly themselves that it is only insofar as the
condition has to Theile.

By then both sides of the relationship are set as mutually interdependent,
each is an immediate independence of its own, but their independence
is as much mediated or set by others.

The whole relationship is through this reciprocity the return of
the condition in itself, not relative, the Unconditional.

By now the sides of each relationship in itself is not their own
but in its other, it is only an identity of both exist, in which
both are only moments, but by any of its own self, so are two
separate existences, which are indifferent to each other.

Rüksicht After the first, the essential identity of these sites, it is
all the Theile Theilen and the whole same.

There is nothing on the whole, what is not in the Theilen, and nothing
in the Theilen, which is not in whole. The whole thing is not an abstract
entity, but the unit as a different variety, but this unit than what the
Various relate to each other, the same determination, thus it is
Theil.

The ratio is thus an inseparable identity, and to me a self-sufficiency.
But also it is all the same Theilen; alone is not the same as
Theilen, the whole is the reflektirte unit, but some of them make
certain moment or Andersseyn the unit, and are a different manifold.

The whole thing is not the same as this self-differences, but as them.
Diess, but their interaction is nothing else than their unity, the whole
thing as such.

The whole thing is in itself Theilen just the same, and the same equality
and the yield is expressed only from the tautology that the whole
thing as a whole is not the Theilen, but the whole is equal. Conversely,
the yield equal to the whole, but because the moment of Andersseyns
to themselves, so they are not the same as the unit, but so that
one of its varied provisions on Theil, or that they are equally as
varied, which means that they are speaking to him as getheiltem
Theilen di as the same.

It is hereby same tautology exists that as Theile Theile, not the
whole as such, but he himself, the Theilen, are equal. The whole thing,
and some of them are indifferent in this way from each other, each of
these pages refers only upon himself.

But so do they destroy each other held himself the whole, the matter is
against the Theile, the abstract, not in distinct identity, which is
only as a whole in itself a distinction, and so are distinguished in
that they varied provisions in the reflektirt and have immediate
independence.

And the reflection identity, through their movement demonstrated this in
her reflection on her otherwise have truth .-- Likewise, some of
them as indifferent to the unity of the whole, only the Various
unbezogene, which is in Others, such as what the other itself and
only canceled .-- This relation-to each of the two sides, is their
independence, but their own, each for himself, is rather the negation
of their own Each has its own not to herself, but on the other hand,
these others, the existence of mind is their immediate condition
set, the first and beginning Seyn should, but this first one everyone
is only one such course that is not first, but on the other his
beginning.

The truth of the relationship is therefore in the mediation, its
essence is the negative unity, which also probably the reflektirte than
the immediacy seyende abolished.

The ratio is the contradiction in his reason goes back into the unit,
which is retroactive kehrend the reflektirte unit, but by this as
much as has been repealed, it relates negatively on itself, stands
out, and makes to seyenden immediacy.

But this negative relationship, to the extent that they are a first and
immediate, is only mediated by its other, and just as much a law. Diess
Others, who seyende immediacy, is just as much as repealed, and their
independence is a first, but just to disappear, and has an existence,
which is set and communicated.

This provision is no longer the ratio of the whole and the Theile, the
immediacy, which had its pages, is in mediation and Gesetztseyn
transferred there is any set, provided it is directly than cancel, and
in the other large, and so far it is even negative relationship, while
by the other as through their positive due to Seyn, like its immediate
jump as much a Brokered, a fact picked up, by the other set .--
It is the ratio of the whole and some of them in the ratio of the force
and its over expression.

Note. It is the top (1ster Th 1ste Abth. p. 216), the antinomies of
the infinite Theilbarkeit of matter, in terms of quantity have been
considered. The quantity is the unity of continuity and discretion, it
contains separate Zusammengeflossenseyn be one with another, and
this is continuing without interruption with the same identity, the
negation of it.

By the direct relationship between these moments of the quantity, as
the essential conditions of the whole and some of them, the one in
the quantity Theil, the same continuity as a whole which is composed
of Theilen, is expressed, there is the antinomies in the contradictions,
on the conditions of the whole and the Theile, occurred and has
been dissolved and a whole .-- Theile are also significantly related
to each other and make an identity only when they are indifferent
to each other and have an independent existence.

The ratio is, therefore, these antinomies that a moment is that it
is exempt from the others, just the other workers. The so exist
as a whole, it Theile, Theile and make its existence from the unity of
the whole is only a composite relationship, a physical composition, which
is itself constantly exist are nothing.

To that extent this is now Theil, it is not whole, not assembled, so
simple.

But by putting the relationship on a whole is visually, it will not
alter the same, the self is thus not in itself Theil, Theil because
it is only from that relationship.

But by now it is not Theil, it is a whole, because it is only Diess
ratios of whole and Theilen exists, and the self-employed is one
of the two.

As a whole, however, it is put together, there is again Theilen and so
on ad infinitum infinity .-- This consists in nothing other than the
perennirenden alternation of two provisions of the relationship,
in which all the others immediately arises so that each Gesetztseyn
their disappearance itself.

The matter as a whole, as it consists Theilen and this is insignificant
to the whole relationship and disappears.

The Theil but as for himself, he is also not Theilmann, but the whole
thing .-- The antinomies of this conclusion is very close together,
is this: Because the whole thing is not the self-employed, the
Theil, the self-employed, but because he only without the whole
self, he is self-employed, not as Theil, but rather as a whole. The
immensity of the Progresses of emerges is the inability of the two ideas
together to make this mediation which contains, namely that each
of the two provisions by their independence and separation from the
others, which you and the other goes on.

B. The relationships of power and their opinions. The force is the
negative unity, in which the opposition of the whole and some of them
dissolved, the truth that first relationship. The whole thing, and the
yield ratio is the thoughtless, to which the idea first forfeit,
or objectively, it is the Todt, mechanical aggregate, although the
form of provisions, making the diversity of its separate matter
in a unit is, but what is the same externally. - The ratio of the
force but is the higher return in itself, reflecting the unity of
the whole, what the relationship of the self-Andersseyns respectively,
stops, this diversity an external and indifferent to Seyn.

As is the essential ratio has been determined, the direct and independent
reflektirte repealed in the same as or as moments of the previous
conditions for existing pages, or were extremes. It is included,
firstly, that the reflektirte unit and its immediate existence, inasmuch
as both first and most immediate, are to lift themselves and their
other go, those who force goes into what she says about the superficial
and is A very involved in the force, as their fundamentals are declining,
and only, as from the same set and worn. Secondly Diess Skip not only a
becoming and disappearance, but there is a negative relationship
to itself, its destination or the Amending is at once engaged in
are reflektirt and gets to the movement of the force is not so much
about going, as they themselves translated, and in that they
self-imposed change remains what it is .-- Thirdly, this reflektirte,
referring to the unit itself also repealed and now it is mediated
by its other, and has the same condition, their negative relationship
to itself, the First and the movement of her walking over from the
beginning, has as much a condition of which they sollicitirt, and
another from which it begins. a.

The Bedingtseyn the force. In its detail view, first, the force has a
moment of immediacy to her seyenden; themselves, however, is determined
as the negative unity. But in determining the immediate Seyne is a little
exist. Diess Something appears, because it is the negative unity is as
immediate as the first, the force on the other hand, because it's the
reflektirte, than Gesetztseyn, and inasmuch as members of the things
exist or matter. Not that it takes the form of these things and the thing
they certainly would, but the thing is as Immediate indifferent towards
them. - It is in him under this provision is no reason to have
a force, the force, however, as the site of the Gesetztseyns has much
the thing on his condition. Therefore, when asked how the thing or the
matter will come to have a force, so it appears as externally related
things, and the violence by a stranger intruded. Diess as immediate
existence is the force of a quiet determination, but ever, not An
expressing, but directly to external.

So the force is also described as matter, and instead of magnetic,
electric power USF, a magnetic, electrical USF this matter, or instead
of the famous attraction of a subtle ether, everything cohesion
.-- There are matters in which the unthätige, weakly negative, but
the unit dissolves, and the above were considered.

But the force includes the immediate existence, as a moment when such a
condition although it is, but goes over and lifts, so do not exist
as a thing.

It is also not the negation as a certainty, but negative, in that
reflektirende unit.

The thing on which the force Seyn should, therefore, has no meaning
here more, she herself is much more set of exteriority, which appears
as a livelihood.

It is thus not merely a particular matter, such independence has long
been the Gesetztseyn and transferred into the phenomenon. Secondly, the
strength is the unity of the reflektirten and immediate existence, or the
form of outward unity and independence. It is both in one, it is the touch
of which the One is, to the extent that the other is not, identical
with the positive and the negirte reflection.

The force is so different from the self-repelling opposition, it is
thätig; or she is referring to is negative unity, in which the reflektirte
immediacy or the essential Insichseyn is set, only a moment to
repeal or Seyn, thus far they from the immediate existence of a
distinction, in this transition.

The force so as to determine the reflektirten of the whole unit is set to
exist as an external diversity of himself to be.

But, thirdly, the force only until ansichseyende and immediate Thätigkeit
it is the reflektirte unit, and also the negation of much the same;
by removing from it differently, but only when the identity of its
own and its negation, so it is on this, as a topical immediacy of
their terms and has substantially the same condition and condition.

This condition now is not an opposite thing is to be and this
independence is indifferent force in the repeal, as their condition
is otherwise it is a self-employed.

Because there is not thing, but the immediacy of self here at the same
time as referring to itself has a negative unit, it is self-force
. - The Thätigkeit of force by themselves than by others, caused
by a force.

The power is in this way, ratios in which each side is the same as the
others.

There are forces in the situation, and although much relate to each other
.-- They are also different at first only on the unity of their relationship
is only the first innre itself seyende unit. The Bedingtseyn by another
force is at the tuna of the force itself, or it is only required
setting, is only negatively related to tuna and this other force
is still beyond their setting Thätigkeit, namely in their immediate
self-determination returning reflection. b.

The Sollicitation the force. The force is caused because the unmittdbaren
moment of existence, it contains only a law, - but also because
it is immediate, a pre-set, in which the force itself negirt. The
existing force exteriority is therefore its own requirements
Thätigkeit itself, which, initially as a different character set.

This pre-setting is also mutually reinforcing. Each of the two forces
which contains in itself reflektirte unit lifted, and therefore
require putting it to set itself as externally; moment of Diess
exteriority is her own, but because they are as much in reflektirte
unit, she also their exteriority not in itself but as a force andre.

I fear that one of the last strongholds of this racial
prejudice will be found beneath the shadow of some of our churches. I
think, on account of this social question, that large bodies of
Christian temperance women and other reformers, in trying to reach the
colored people even for their own good, will be quicker to form
separate associations than our National Grand Army, whose ranks are open
to black and white, liberals and conservatives, saints and agnostics.
But, Iola, we have drifted far away from the question. No one has a
right to interfere with our marriage if we do not infringe on the rights
of others."

"Doctor," she replied, gently, "I feel that our paths must diverge. My
life-work is planned. I intend spending my future among the colored
people of the South."

"My dear friend," he replied, anxiously, "I am afraid that you are
destined to sad disappointment. When the novelty wears off you will be
disillusioned, and, I fear, when the time comes that you can no longer
serve them they will forget your services and remember only your
failings."

"But, Doctor, they need me; and I am sure when I taught among them they
were very grateful for my services."

"I think," he replied, "these people are more thankful than grateful."

"I do not think so; and if I did it would not hinder me from doing all
in my power to help them. I do not expect all the finest traits of
character to spring from the hot-beds of slavery and caste. What matters
it if they do forget the singer, so they don't forget the song? No,
Doctor, I don't think that I could best serve my race by forsaking them
and marrying you."

"Iola," he exclaimed, passionately, "if you love your race, as you call
it, work for it, live for it, suffer for it, and, if need be, die for
it; but don't marry for it. Your education has unfitted you for social
life among them."

"It was," replied Iola, "through their unrequited toil that I was
educated, while they were compelled to live in ignorance. I am indebted
to them for the power I have to serve them. I wish other Southern women
felt as I do. I think they could do so much to help the colored people
at their doors if they would look at their opportunities in the light of
the face of Jesus Christ. Nor am I wholly unselfish in allying myself
with the colored people. All the rest of my family have done so. My dear
grandmother is one of the excellent of the earth, and we all love her
too much to ignore our relationship with her. I did not choose my lot in
life, and the simplest thing I can do is to accept the situation and do
the best I can."

"And is this your settled purpose?" he asked, sadly.

"It is, Doctor," she replied, tenderly but firmly. "I see no other. I
must serve the race which needs me most."

"Perhaps you are right," he replied; "but I cannot help feeling sad that
our paths, which met so pleasantly, should diverge so painfully. And
yet, not only the freedmen, but the whole country, need such helpful,
self-sacrificing teachers as you will prove; and if earnest prayers and
holy wishes can brighten your path, your lines will fall in the
pleasantest places."

As he rose to go, sympathy, love, and admiration were blended in the
parting look he gave her; but he felt it was useless to attempt to
divert her from her purpose. He knew that for the true reconstruction of
the country something more was needed than bayonets and bullets, or the
schemes of selfish politicians or plotting demagogues. He knew that the
South needed the surrender of the best brain and heart of the country to
build, above the wastes of war, more stately temples of thought and
action.


CHAPTER XXVIII.


DR. LATROBE'S MISTAKE.

On the morning previous to their departure for their respective homes,
Dr. Gresham met Dr. Latrobe in the parlor of the Concordia.

"How," asked Dr. Gresham, "did you like Dr. Latimer's paper?"

"Very much, indeed. It was excellent. He is a very talented young man.
He sits next to me at lunch and I have conversed with him several times.
He is very genial and attractive, only he seems to be rather cranky on
the negro question. I hope if he comes South that he will not make the
mistake of mixing up with the negroes. It would be throwing away his
influence and ruining his prospects. He seems to be well versed in
science and literature and would make a very delightful accession to our
social life."

"I think," replied Dr. Gresham, "that he is an honor to our profession.
He is one of the finest specimens of our young manhood."

Just then Dr. Latimer entered the room. Dr. Latrobe arose and, greeting
him cordially, said: "I was delighted with your paper; it was full of
thought and suggestion."

"Thank you," answered Dr. Latimer, "it was my aim to make it so."

"And you succeeded admirably," replied Dr. Latrobe. "I could not help
thinking how much we owe to heredity and environment."

"Yes," said Dr. Gresham. "Continental Europe yearly sends to our shores
subjects to be developed into citizens. Emancipation has given us
millions of new citizens, and to them our influence and example should
be a blessing and not a curse."

"Well," said Dr. Latimer, "I intend to go South, and help those who so
much need helpers from their own ranks."

"I hope," answered Dr. Latrobe, "that if you go South you will only
sustain business relations with the negroes, and not commit the folly of
equalizing yourself with them."

"Why not?" asked Dr. Latimer, steadily looking him in the eye.

"Because in equalizing yourself with them you drag us down; and our
social customs must be kept intact."

"You have been associating with me at the convention for several days; I
do not see that the contact has dragged you down, has it?"

"You! What has that got to do with associating with niggers?" asked Dr.
Latrobe, curtly.

"The blood of that race is coursing through my veins. I am one of them,"
replied Dr. Latimer, proudly raising his head.

"You!" exclaimed Dr. Latrobe, with an air of profound astonishment and
crimsoning face.

"Yes;" interposed Dr. Gresham, laughing heartily at Dr. Latrobe's
discomfiture. "He belongs to that negro race both by blood and choice.
His father's mother made overtures to receive him as her grandson and
heir, but he has nobly refused to forsake his mother's people and has
cast his lot with them."

"And I," said Dr. Latimer, "would have despised myself if I had done
otherwise."

"Well, well," said Dr. Latrobe, rising, "I was never so deceived before.
Good morning!"

Dr. Latrobe had thought he was clear-sighted enough to detect the
presence of negro blood when all physical traces had disappeared. But he
had associated with Dr. Latimer for several days, and admired his
talent, without suspecting for one moment his racial connection. He
could not help feeling a sense of vexation at the signal mistake he had
made.

Dr. Frank Latimer was the natural grandson of a Southern lady, in whose
family his mother had been a slave. The blood of a proud aristocratic
ancestry was flowing through his veins, and generations of blood
admixture had effaced all trace of his negro lineage. His complexion was
blonde, his eye bright and piercing, his lips firm and well moulded; his
manner very affable; his intellect active and well stored with
information. He was a man capable of winning in life through his rich
gifts of inheritance and acquirements. When freedom came, his mother,
like Hagar of old, went out into the wide world to seek a living for
herself and child. Through years of poverty she labored to educate her
child, and saw the glad fruition of her hopes when her son graduated as
an M.D. from the University of P----.

After his graduation he met his father's mother, who recognized him by
his resemblance to her dear, departed son. All the mother love in her
lonely heart awoke, and she was willing to overlook "the missing link of
matrimony," and adopt him as her heir, if he would ignore his identity
with the colored race.

Before him loomed all the possibilities which only birth and blood can
give a white man in our Democratic country. But he was a man of too much
sterling worth of character to be willing to forsake his mother's race
for the richest advantages his grandmother could bestow.

Dr. Gresham had met Dr. Latimer at the beginning of the convention, and
had been attracted to him by his frank and genial manner. One morning,
when conversing with him, Dr. Gresham had learned some of the salient
points of his history, which, instead of repelling him, had only
deepened his admiration for the young doctor. He was much amused when he
saw the pleasant acquaintanceship between him and Dr. Latrobe, but they
agreed to be silent about his racial connection until the time came when
they were ready to divulge it; and they were hugely delighted at his
signal blunder.


CHAPTER XXIX.


VISITORS FROM THE SOUTH.

"Mamma is not well," said Iola to Robert. "I spoke to her about sending
for a doctor, but she objected and I did not insist."

"I will ask Dr. Latimer, whom I met at the Concordia, to step in. He is
a splendid young fellow. I wish we had thousands like him."

In the evening the doctor called. Without appearing to make a
professional visit he engaged Marie in conversation, watched her
carefully, and came to the conclusion that her failing health proceeded
more from mental than physical causes.

"I am so uneasy about Harry," said Mrs. Leroy. "He is so fearless and
outspoken. I do wish the attention of the whole nation could be turned
to the cruel barbarisms which are a national disgrace. I think the term
'bloody shirt' is one of the most heartless phrases ever invented to
divert attention from cruel wrongs and dreadful outrages."

Just then Iola came in and was introduced by her uncle to Dr. Latimer,
to whom the introduction was a sudden and unexpected pleasure.

After an interchange of courtesies, Marie resumed the conversation,
saying: "Harry wrote me only last week that a young friend of his had
lost his situation because he refused to have his pupils strew flowers
on the streets through which Jefferson Davis was to pass."

"I think," said Dr. Latimer, indignantly, "that the Israelites had just
as much right to scatter flowers over the bodies of the Egyptians, when
the waves threw back their corpses on the shores of the Red Sea, as
these children had to strew the path of Jefferson Davis with flowers. We
want our boys to grow up manly citizens, and not cringing sycophants.
When do you expect your son, Mrs. Leroy?"

"Some time next week," answered Marie.

"And his presence will do you more good than all the medicine in my
chest."

"I hope, Doctor," said Mrs. Leroy, "that we will not lose sight of you,
now that your professional visit is ended; for I believe your visit was
the result of a conspiracy between Iola and her uncle."

Dr. Latimer laughed, as he answered, "Ah, Mrs. Leroy, I see you have
found us all out."

"Oh, Doctor," exclaimed Iola, with pleasing excitement, "there is a
young lady coming here to visit me next week. Her name is Miss Lucille
Delany, and she is my ideal woman. She is grand, brave, intellectual,
and religious."

"Is that so? She would make some man an excellent wife," replied Dr.
Latimer.

"Now isn't that perfectly manlike," answered Iola, smiling. "Mamma, what
do you think of that? Did any of you gentlemen ever see a young woman of
much ability that you did not look upon as a flotsam all adrift until
some man had appropriated her?"

"I think, Miss Leroy, that the world's work, if shared, is better done
than when it is performed alone. Don't you think your life-work will be
better done if some one shares it with you?" asked Dr. Latimer, slowly,
and with a smile in his eyes.

"That would depend on the person who shared it," said Iola, faintly
blushing.

"Here," said Robert, a few evenings after this conversation, as he
handed Iola a couple of letters, "is something which will please you."

Iola took the letters, and, after reading one of them, said: "Miss
Delany and Harry will be here on Wednesday; and this one is an
invitation which also adds to my enjoyment."

"What is it?" asked Marie; "an invitation to a hop or a german?"

"No; but something which I value far more. We are all invited to Mr.
Stillman's to a _conversazione_."

"What is the object?"

"His object is to gather some of the thinkers and leaders of the race to
consult on subjects of vital interest to our welfare. He has invited Dr.
Latimer, Professor Gradnor, of North Carolina, Mr. Forest, of New York,
Hon. Dugdale, Revs. Carmicle, Cantnor, Tunster, Professor Langhorne, of
Georgia, and a few ladies, Mrs. Watson, Miss Brown, and others."

"I am glad that it is neither a hop nor a german," said Iola, "but
something for which I have been longing."

"Why, Iola," asked Robert, "don't you believe in young people having a
good time?"

"Oh, yes," answered Iola, seriously, "I believe in young people having
amusements and recreations; but the times are too serious for us to
attempt to make our lives a long holiday."

"Well, Iola," answered Robert, "this is the first holiday we have had
in two hundred and fifty years, and you shouldn't be too exacting."

"Yes," replied Marie, "human beings naturally crave enjoyment, and if
not furnished with good amusements they are apt to gravitate to low
pleasures."

"Some one," said Robert, "has said that the Indian belongs to an old
race and looks gloomily back to the past, and that the negro belongs to
a young race and looks hopefully towards the future."

"If that be so," replied Marie, "our race-life corresponds more to the
follies of youth than the faults of maturer years."

On Dr. Latimer's next visit he was much pleased to see a great change in
Marie's appearance. Her eye had grown brighter, her step more elastic,
and the anxiety had faded from her face. Harry had arrived, and with him
came Miss Delany.

"Good evening, Dr. Latimer," said Iola, cheerily, as she entered the
room with Miss Lucille Delany. "This is my friend, Miss Delany, from
Georgia. Were she not present I would say she is one of the grandest
women in America."

"I am very much pleased to meet you," said Dr. Latimer, cordially; "I
have heard Miss Leroy speak of you. We were expecting you," he added,
with a smile.

Just then Harry entered the room, and Iola presented him to Dr. Latimer,
saying, "This is my brother, about whom mamma was so anxious."

"Had you a pleasant journey?" asked Dr. Latimer, after the first
greetings were over.

"Not especially," answered Miss Delany. "Southern roads are not always
very pleasant to travel. When Mr. Leroy entered the cars at A----, where
he was known, had he taken his seat among the white people he would have
been remanded to the colored."

"But after awhile," said Harry, "as Miss Delany and myself were sitting
together, laughing and chatting, a colored man entered the car, and,
mistaking me for a white man, asked the conductor to have me removed,
and I had to insist that I was colored in order to be permitted to
remain. It would be ludicrous, if it were not vexatious, to be too white
to be black, and too black to be white."

"Caste plays such fantastic tricks in this country," said Dr. Latimer.

"I tell Mr. Leroy," said Miss Delany, "that when he returns he must put
a label on himself, saying, 'I am a colored man,' to prevent annoyance."


CHAPTER XXX.


FRIENDS IN COUNCIL.

On the following Friday evening, Mr. Stillman's pleasant, spacious
parlors were filled to overflowing with a select company of earnest men
and women deeply interested in the welfare of the race.

Bishop Tunster had prepared a paper on "Negro Emigration." Dr. Latimer
opened the discussion by speaking favorably of some of the salient
points, but said:--

"I do not believe self-exilement is the true remedy for the wrongs of
the negro. Where should he go if he left this country?"

"Go to Africa," replied Bishop Tunster, in his bluff, hearty tones. "I
believe that Africa is to be redeemed to civilization, and that the
negro is to be gathered into the family of nations and recognized as a
man and a brother."

"Go to Africa?" repeated Professor Langhorne, of Georgia. "Does the
United States own one foot of African soil? And have we not been
investing our blood in the country for ages?"

"I am in favor of missionary efforts," said Professor Gradnor, of North
Carolina, "for the redemption of Africa, but I see no reason for
expatriating ourselves because some persons do not admire the color of
our skins."

"I do not believe," said Mr. Stillman, "in emptying on the shores of
Africa a horde of ignorant, poverty-stricken people, as missionaries of
civilization or Christianity. And while I am in favor of missionary
efforts, there is need here for the best heart and brain to work in
unison for justice and righteousness."

"America," said Miss Delany, "is the best field for human development.
God has not heaped up our mountains with such grandeur, flooded our
rivers with such majesty, crowned our valleys with such fertility,
enriched our mines with such wealth, that they should only minister to
grasping greed and sensuous enjoyment."

"Climate, soil, and physical environments," said Professor Gradnor,
"have much to do with shaping national characteristics. If in Africa,
under a tropical sun, the negro has lagged behind other races in the
march of civilization, at least for once in his history he has, in this
country, the privilege of using climatic advantages and developing under
new conditions."

"Yes," replied Dr. Latimer, "and I do not wish our people to become
restless and unsettled before they have tried one generation of
freedom."

"I am always glad," said Mr. Forest, a tall, distinguished-looking
gentleman from New York, "when I hear of people who are ill treated in
one section of the country emigrating to another. Men who are deaf to
the claims of mercy, and oblivious to the demands of justice, can feel
when money is slipping from their pockets."

"The negro," said Hon. Dugdale, "does not present to my mind the picture
of an effete and exhausted people, destined to die out before a stronger
race. Gilbert Haven once saw a statue which suggested this thought, 'I
am black, but comely; the sun has looked down upon me, but I will teach
you who despise me to feel that I am your superior.' The men who are
acquiring property and building up homes in the South show us what
energy and determination may do even in that part of the country. I
believe such men can do more to conquer prejudice than if they spent all
their lives in shouting for their rights and ignoring their duties. No!
as there are millions of us in this country, I think it best to settle
down and work out our own salvation here."

"How many of us to-day," asked Professor Langhorne, "would be teaching
in the South, if every field of labor in the North was as accessible to
us as to the whites? It has been estimated that a million young white
men have left the South since the war, and, had our chances been equal
to theirs, would we have been any more willing to stay in the South with
those who need us than they? But this prejudice, by impacting us
together, gives us a common cause and brings our intellect in contact
with the less favored of our race."

"I do not believe," said Miss Delany, "that the Southern white people
themselves desire any wholesale exodus of the colored from their labor
fields. It would be suicidal to attempt their expatriation."

"History," said Professor Langhorne, "tells that Spain was once the
place where barbarian Europe came to light her lamp. Seven hundred years
before there was a public lamp in London you might have gone through the
streets of Cordova amid ten miles of lighted lamps, and stood there on
solidly paved land, when hundreds of years afterwards, in Paris, on a
rainy day you would have sunk to your ankles in the mud. But she who
bore the name of the 'Terror of Nations,' and the 'Queen of the Ocean,'
was not strong enough to dash herself against God's law of retribution
and escape unscathed. She inaugurated a crusade of horror against a
million of her best laborers and artisans. Vainly she expected the
blessing of God to crown her work of violence. Instead of seeing the
fruition of her hopes in the increased prosperity of her land,
depression and paralysis settled on her trade and business. A fearful
blow was struck at her agriculture; decay settled on her manufactories;
money became too scarce to pay the necessary expenses of the king's
exchequer; and that once mighty empire became a fallen kingdom, pierced
by her crimes and dragged down by her transgressions."

"We did not," said Iola, "place the bounds of our habitation. And I
believe we are to be fixtures in this country. But beyond the shadows I
see the coruscation of a brighter day; and we can help usher it in, not
by answering hate with hate, or giving scorn for scorn, but by striving
to be more generous, noble, and just. It seems as if all creation
travels to respond to the song of the Herald angels, 'Peace on earth,
good-will toward men.'"

The next paper was on "Patriotism," by Rev. Cantnor. It was a paper in
which the white man was extolled as the master race, and spoke as if it
were a privilege for the colored man to be linked to his destiny and to
live beneath the shadow of his power. He asserted that the white race of
this country is the broadest, most Christian, and humane of that branch
of the human family.

Dr. Latimer took exception to his position. "Law," he said, "is the
pivot on which the whole universe turns; and obedience to law is the
gauge by which a nation's strength or weakness is tried. We have had two
evils by which our obedience to law has been tested--slavery and the
liquor traffic. How have we dealt with them both? We have been weighed
in the balance and found wanting. Millions of slaves and serfs have been
liberated during this century, but not even in semi-barbaric Russia,
heathen Japan, or Catholic Spain has slavery been abolished through such
a fearful conflict as it was in the United States. The liquor traffic
still sends its floods of ruin and shame to the habitations of men, and
no political party has been found with enough moral power and numerical
strength to stay the tide of death."

"I think," said Professor Gradnor, "that what our country needs is truth
more than flattery. I do not think that our moral life keeps pace with
our mental development and material progress. I know of no civilized
country on the globe, Catholic, Protestant, or Mohammedan, where life is
less secure than it is in the South. Nearly eighteen hundred years ago
the life of a Roman citizen in Palestine was in danger from mob
violence. That pagan government threw around him a wall of living clay,
consisting of four hundred and seventy men, when more than forty Jews
had bound themselves with an oath that they would neither eat nor drink
until they had taken the life of the Apostle Paul. Does not true
patriotism demand that citizenship should be as much protected in
Christian America as it was in heathen Rome?"

"I would have our people," said Miss Delany, "more interested in
politics. Instead of forgetting the past, I would have them hold in
everlasting remembrance our great deliverance. Hitherto we have never
had a country with tender, precious memories to fill our eyes with
tears, or glad reminiscences to thrill our hearts with pride and joy. We
have been aliens and outcasts in the land of our birth. But I want my
pupils to do all in their power to make this country worthy of their
deepest devotion and loftiest patriotism. I want them to feel that its
glory is their glory, its dishonor their shame."

"Our esteemed friend, Mrs. Watson," said Iola, "sends regrets that she
cannot come, but has kindly favored us with a poem, called the "Rallying
Cry." Sunday 9, Olivares became the captain, the father Quiroga and others,
to register the southern coast, sailing west to south-west, and also the
north, to see if they could find water. Found at ten of the day, on the
southern coast, a stream that a sufficiently low flow rates, which is
high in the valley of a hill five miles away and far from the port. Is
freshwater, but something heavy, like well water.

Is in place to get off any boat to charge the same plea at sea going
down stream from the source.

_The Name Púsole Source Ramirez_, having leapt ashore to recognize the
second pilot, D.

Basilio Ramirez. The whole earth is barren, and full of peñasqueria or
trees are reached in the hearing. 10 Monday, continued sailing
through the canal to the west south-west to a whole island full of
rocks, which drew _Isla of Roldan_ and positions with the north-south
island, began to find bit-depth of four fathoms, three, two and one
had to until they saw the carcass in a quagmire of high lama.

              At the same time turned the ship to address the five p.m.: Father
Cardiel and walked the earth well all day 8 and found the land not
be so harsh as the other, but without charcoal or pasture, or samples
of substance.

    A distance of two miles were
           a source of drinking
    water, though slightly
           brackish: runs where there was some green hay, and not far from
there were eleven guanacos.

    Also collected on board the
           ship who saw the dog on the
    beach, full of wounds
           and teeth spent eating seafood.

    What can we say about this
           is that Puerto Deseado,
    as a port, can be counted among
           the best in the world .

    Hopefully, appropriate land, but
           it is barren, and lack of
    everything needed for population.
           No trees suitable for wood is only found in some broken twigs and
oven for cooking food.

    It is not good for the soil sown,
           because besides being
    SALITROSO everything, almost
           everything is live rock, and no more fresh water sources said.

    Barrilla Hall If abundance,
           to make glass and soap:
    abundance of red marble, with
           lists white, black marble, and some green: a lot of limestone, and
some large rocks Flint shotgun, white and red, with some glasses
like diamonds inside: a lot of grinding stones, and yellow that
seems vitriol.

    Terrestrial animals only saw guanacos,
           rabbits and skunks. Some birds,
    but almost all marine species such
           as ducks, plovers, gulls, & c.

    There are sea lions, many
           islets in the harbor, and
    saw flocks of them over one
           hundred.

    His figure is the same as that
           of sea lions, and only
    called _leones_, being much
           larger than the wolves of the Rio de la Plata.

    Of them are red, black and
           white, and put so much
    noise with his bellows, which at
           a distance of one quarter of a league deceive anyone, cows are
judged on rodeo.

    They killed many sailors
           for its leather, the meat is
    Hedionda, almost all fat and
           no fat.

Father Cardiel had some measure of curiosity, and cows were the
largest of three years as the figure is from the other sea lions,
head and neck and calves, hows hands and two feet and mitts, with
five feos fingers, with three nails.

Some foreigners have called calves, and also sea lions, and the paint on
their maps with his long mane of lion. Not so.

Have some more hair on the neck than in the rest of the body, that even
when the neck is not the length of a finger. The tail is like fish, and
she and the hows of the hands are used to walking on land: either
they can not run much, but faced with anyone who undertakes them,
and reach large forces, and were thrown away each others highlighted
the size to be expressed.

A multitude of those lions or sea lions blamed the shortage of fish
in this port because although the network several times tended
sailors, only to catch a rooster fish, and squid and some anchovas.

The entry of this Puerto Deseado is very close, and easy to fortify
low-coast: puédese closed chain, and in the mouth as in the rest of the
canal, which runs east-west to the eastern tip of the island of Roldan.
The best place to anchor the ships, which were to anchor here, is
west of the island of penguins, the shelter of the island of Olivares,
and if one or two ships can be put between the Isle of Dogs and land.

Although there are some in this harbor strong gusts of wind that
gets through the hills, not incomoda ships or swell rose.

The tides run with great momentum to five or six miles per hour, the
slide action. They noted that the full moon, the tide began to grow
in the quarter past seven.

Between growing and shrinking, it seems is 12 and 3 quarters of an hour.
Ships that have entered, be sheltered from the Kings Island
favorable wind, and enter when the tide is weak, leading in some of the
top pilots to notify the government of the rudder that this fate now
entered this happy ship San Antonio. The Isle of the Kings, who have
a league in length, is sou'wester-east of the mouth of the port,
and this like all other islands, reefs, & c. is in this port, the
time Father Quiroga scored on a map that has been very accurate.

    The latitude of Puerto Deseado is 47
       degrees and 44 minutes.

Length of Tenerife and 313 degrees 16 minutes 12 degrees 44 minutes
west of the island of Lobos, which took from the Father Quiroga,
and the other pilots, account for his government.

On Tuesday, January 11, is levaron with the north-west, and left
with ratcheting and velacho. At twelve and a half of the day led and
put aboard the boat, and from here we were paying for the Isle of
the Kings until six in the evening, which was east-west with her,
and taking the wind and the south - east, they sailed south to
south-east.

Wednesday and Thursday next, sailed in search of the famous port of San
Julian, and saw that the 48 minutes and 48 degrees latitude to 48 degrees
and 52 minutes, makes a sea inlet and there is a small island with
another escollito west, which is far from the land two leagues and
a half.

The coastline in this parag runs south-west, south and south-west quarter.
The land is high, although the coast Playazo ago.

Not all of it is found in trees, or any amenity, only records the light
escampados ridges and hills, and everything is dry unsuccessful. At
half past seven p.m. warned the pilots that had risen to record the coast
from the Gavia couple, who had to bow low signal, and the breaking
point probe, were found fifteen fathoms depth of gravel and calming
the wind, gave background in twenty fathoms, and spent the night
on an anchor.

Friday 14, levaron At five o'clock, and sailed out of the sou'wester
low, and were found alone in six fathoms of water, a pleasure to do the
long low to the north-east: descúbrense a bit more than a mile away,
far from land as two and a half miles, and pleasure out as a league,
are at 48 degrees and 56 minutes latitude, and the coast there is
the southwest quarter to the south and south-southwest.

At three o'clock in the afternoon, I entered a squalls for the
south-west, which had to grasp the candles, looking at the same time
in a sleeve of a black cloud water, which rises as high as a mountain.
Run the coast to 49 degrees and 15 minutes, could not find the
entrance to the port of San Julian, so they believe that would lower
the height of the letters that mark and the wind to sail off into
the Straits Magallanes, determined to run the rest of the coast and
turn left for the entry in San Julian.

The compass varied 19 degrees. 15 Saturday, ran south-west by
north-east, and from 49 degrees 18 minutes and runs to the south-west
coast, which is clean and followed, and the lowland and rasa, and in the
coast makes a high barrier, which looks like a wall, all of it
without being in a tree.

At three p.m., took the hill southwest of the Santa Cruz River, which is
a point of high ground, all dry, with a high Mogote to the tip. At
five were east-west by the hill, in fourteen fathoms depth of
gravel, a bit more than two miles from the earth. Having seen
several letters in a marked bay south of the Morro de Santa Inés,
in its application were to fund this evening, and record the earth:
but found that there is no bay, but it followed the coast, and runs
south-west quarter and south.

At nine o'clock in the evening, the wind lifted the big southwest
swell: run as the ratchet and the south-east, shortly after they
were alone with the ratchet and stopping time, is back capella the
north-east, having Scuttle closed and secured with several keys and
lashing the ship, running all night and it was very laborious. 16
Sunday, is capella until two o'clock.

Throughout the previous night, and part of that day were so rices blows
from the sea, entering by one and another of the ship banda, all
filled with water. Bags, boxes and chests of rolled part to part, and
some fell on the people, without anyone standing or sitting or quiet,
or even thrown out. Especially resented the stomach distress and anguish
of heart and stroke with both anxiety and the second pilot, Basilio D.
Ramirez, while attending the maneuver was a coup that gave him his
face was badly injured.

Our Jesuit, taking a lot to offer to God in these hauls, less
familiar, found solace in remembering the dangers and disasters that
St. Paul and St. Francis Xavier, patron of the trip, suffered the same
demand for the conversion of the infidels, and I tried to console
the same to all people.

Calming the wind at two in the afternoon led to more long and
ratchet, and were found in 50 degrees 11 minutes latitude, and the
esteem in 311 degrees and 3 minutes in length. 17 Monday, with day
had the serene mountains of Santa Cruz River to the west, six miles
away, and sailed in the afternoon along the coast of a large bay,
in the form of crescent stretching from the Santa Cruz River to
near the bay of San Pedro: it is all high and dry land without trees.

Tuesday January 18, ended up running the creek, and at six o'clock found
an entry, which they believed was the mouth of a river: going there,
warned that the entry was filled with low waves that break, and found
only five fathoms of water, gave a background to anchor and went out
the first pilot D. Diego Varela to probe into the boat, to get the ships
to the verge: and made signs were levaron, following the coast of Rio
Gallegos demand they expected to find further south. Halláronse at
noon in 51 degrees and 10 minutes and 308 degrees and 40 minutes in
length. Wednesday 19, levaron At half past five, and sailed along the
coast to place a high barrier, whose tip goes to sea restinga makes a
low, and this was found in 6 fathoms. A little further south of that
point they discovered a large mouth, and giving substance, Varela came
to record the pilot if he was the Santa Cruz River, or Rio de Gallegos,
or some other port which returned at nightfall, without having found
Entry to the party they were ancora; that the entry was discovered by the
coast in the south, and it was necessary to mount an end of a long low,
which burst into the sea. On the beach, found a dead whale, and saw
many animal tracks and found the recently burned area, where
conceived hopes of finding a port the next day and ranches Indians.

Thursday, 20, levaron at five to Zoom the river mouth, which gave depth
in six fathoms of water, at half past ten. He came out to probe the
pilot boat Varela, in the middle and the south coast, and again at five
in the afternoon, with news that there was no entry for the ship,
and was 52 degrees and 23 minutes of latitude.

The tide there grows a lot, and having given six fathoms in depth, as
I said, found themselves in shortly after three. Began to grow in the
three p.m..

Having acknowledged that the whole coast, toward the end of the Virgin,
is lowland that runs south-southwest, and judging by the other
party, which was not under the orders of His Majesty real navigate
those fourteen leagues as missing the Strait of Magellan, because
the paths of ancient and modern do not specify port or river within
that space, and because at the mouth of the Strait had not, but
many dangers, to be levaron five p.m. on demand Santa Cruz River,
which runs would be the lowest height that you get letters marear
and expected to find the right port.

At noon Friday, 21, were found at 51 degrees and 25 minutes. Saturday at
seven in 22 afternoon, there was thunder and squalls of water, and
sailed north. 23 Sunday at dawn, were found on the coast that runs
south from the port of Santa Cruz, and at half past ten anchored
east of the port, a half mile away, in 9 fathoms of water at 50
degrees and 20 minutes of latitude.

He was the boat pilot to recognize an entry Varela, which recognizes the
banda of the north, would believe the mouth of the river of Santa
Cruz; registered as having all the land that the land between the
Rio Gallegos and rasa, not was found.

Within half an hour and returned to the ship, because they can not break
the flow of the tide coming down.

At three o'clock in the afternoon, finding that the water had dropped six
fathoms, and were exposed to stay dry because the tide at its
strongest, and his hand was discovered iban sandbanks and reefs by
both the point levaron to be put on the verge, but just had a long
ratchet and velacho when they found a bank that shut down the output.

Gave six fathoms in depth, and something still under the tide, so that
this all came down six fathoms and a half. At midnight wanted filled
out with the tide, but could not be achieved by decreasing the anchor
before suspending and be dangerous out in the dark of night. The tide
began to decline in the half past eleven the day.

Monday, 24, led the tide not to leave the danger they were, until all
eleven of the day, with full marks and wind levaron land and gradually
came to the verge of demand in the Port of San Julian, giving
repeatedly thanked God for having spared the low found in the Santa
Cruz River, leaving with the tide over the rocks, that were surrounded
on all sides.

The Santa Cruz River at one time was able to craft thick : it refers
to Gonzalo Fernandez de Oviedo in his _Historia of Indias_ to anchor
him in the naos of the leader D.

Fray Garei Jofré of Loaysa, the year of 1526. And the same says the
chronicler Antonio de Herrera in _Historia de Indias, dec. 3. lib. 9.
chap. 4._, who said that in the Santa Cruz River hull gave his
captain. And in the _decada 2. lib. 9.

Chap. 14_. makes writing, that Ferdinand Magellan was detained in the
Santa Cruz River during September and October of the year of 1520,
doing lots of fishing.

And more is still nearly one hundred years later, the brothers nodes,
the year of 1618, on your trip to the registration of the Strait of San
Vicente, or Lemaire, were also, albeit in passing, in the same river or
bay, which appeared successful, as writing them in their relationship,
and she refers Fray Marcos de Guadalajara in the fourth _parte the
Pontifical History, lib. 14 Ch. 1_. However, today the river is prevented
from Santa Cruz with a large sand banks, which piled up runs in
his mouth tidal flow is rapid, so that the claw anchor, and the low tide
are Banks discovered that close the entrance. Here are some more tidal
flow of six hours, and many others from reflux, and this day January 24
began to decline in the twelve and half of the day. 25 Tuesday, blew
the southwest and south-southwest very Recio, and raised a lot of
swell, as always happens in these costs. Wednesday, 26, died a
Guarani Indian, who wanted to accompany this expedition to the
Father Strobl.

They could not advance far the journey, because the wind and the North
Sea the ship hit a lot.

This day, with longer be here by the rigor of the summer was very cold,
and all the other experienced as much as in Castile experienced in winter.
Thursday 27, was found at noon in 49 degrees 17 minutes latitude,
and at night the wind west-southwest to north-east has changed,
and caused much sea. Since the height of the river of Santa Cruz is
all flat and bare ground, such as the pampas of Buenos Aires without
being there hills, or any tree, and from 49 degrees 26 minutes north, are
some high ridges and hills past Cape Blanco, which, as DIGE, is at 47
degrees. On Saturday 29 were passed giving all edges to the east and west,
unable to reach the river of St. Julian the headwind. With this cool
northeast were further north, to be in positura able to recognize the
river next day. Sunday 30 Nor did something, and the eight p.m. too
refreshed by the wind north-east, raising big swell, which was increased
by moments surrounding the west to stop at a furious south-west, which
put them in great danger, and forced to ride with just the mizzen, harness
and antenna ratchet higher. Monday, 31, ran with the same time was
more terrible than the last, until the ten day the wind calmed down
and at noon were in 48 degrees and 47 minutes of latitude. In the
afternoon, when he allowed the wind, which was little and vario, sailed
west to take over the coast, the storm that had caused it to lose
sight of.

By this time his ninth to second Patron Saint Francis Xavier, and the end
of it, and yesterday and the day of purification, there were many
confessions and communions.

The day February 1, sailed west, but the current from the north made them
many miles downwind to the south: it recognized the land, at 9 am there
were 5 minutes at 49 degrees latitude, and spent the day giving board,
unable to take even recognize the Rio de San Julian. That evening at
anchor three miles off the coast. 2 Wednesday, sailed south with the
wind a short distance from the coast, from 48 to 49 degrees has some
pitfalls, two and three leagues on the continent, some of them seem
islets without it education, which fund can be sheltered from
any storm.

Thursday 3, also failed to discover the river, and at noon 48 degrees
were found in full in view of the coast.

The same happened on Friday 4 and Saturday 5, were found at 48 degrees
24 minutes latitude, six leagues of land. At 3 pm east-west were the
stumbling blocks placed by the P. La-Feuillée in 17 minutes and 48
degrees latitude. The obstacle that comes over the sea, looks like the
hull of a ship, far from land, and five leagues in the same latitude,
more league and half of the land, are another four or five emerging
as a stumbling stone restinga and ensure all the water.

       The entire coast is at this altitude dry land and low: only left
to see some stretches mogotes not rise much. 6 Sunday, there were
too much away from the earth at 48 degrees 34 minutes, and the
coast, from this height 49 degrees 17 minutes ago figure of two
large bays, and are at the ends to the south-west quarter to the
south.

The land, which mediates between these heights is generally high,
although in some parts Playazo ago.

When the sun felt very warm atmosphere, something extraordinary on
these shores: Anclote gave a background to the southwest, the
southern quarter of a hill, the highest of the coast, distant six
leagues.

Monday 7, at noon was 48 degrees 48 minutes east-north-east of
the highest hill, which is one of the last of the high ground.
At 6 pm the cast anchor in a bay, two leagues, which from the outside
appears a short bight, which is east of the high hill in 15 fathoms, and
the bottom mud was very sticky and strong. Tuesday, 8 to 5 am, left
Varela D. Diego boating to acknowledge the bay, believing there to
find the entrance to the river of San Julian, but at the mouth of
the bay, the tide began to fall with great force , while Arreciado
too much wind from the west, so up against could not be grounded,
and came very close to capsizing of the boat, which came once a
thing of water pipe: thus became the ship at three in the afternoon.

A mouth or entrance of this bay, on the northern banda, found fourteen
fathoms deep, black mud and something good for anchoring: banda
and the south, at the entrance there are five, six and seven fathoms
of the quality in the background.

Every entry is clean, only the southern tip of the two looking at
Farellones mediated tide in tide seems to be covering, and this is
low end pleasure. 9 Wednesday, the day of the Purification of Our
Lady, whose sponsorship implored wanted the Mother of mercy, which
calmed the strong west at 9 am, shortly after a slow north entering
the first inlet of the bay, then they met in San Julian, and favored
by the wind, came up within a league.

At two o'clock, with great force the flow of the tide coming down,
I said to fund a Anclote.

In the meantime to stop the flow of the tide, some leaped ashore, and
having observed D. Diego Varela and Father Joseph de Quiroga, and low
returns to the river, were re-board at 4 in the afternoon. Found in
some scrub land burned earlier. At 6 in the afternoon but came in,
stood up to put the ship of all winds, and tied with two anchors.

Having given depth at high tide in nine fathoms, then left alone in three
fathoms, although the substance is good for white clay. 10 Thursday,
left the Father Matias Strobl and D.

Alferez Salvador Martinez, with some soldiers to see if found in Indian
land and the Fathers and Cardiel Quiroga Varela couple and the pilot
came on the boat prevented food to probe the bay to the river of
Campana, who make some maps, or if you entered another river, not in
a spirit of enterprise to abandon the whole look.

Iola stepped gracefully in and sat quietly by his side to enjoy the
loveliness of the scenery and the gorgeous grandeur of the setting sun.

"I expect to go South," said Dr. Latimer, as he drove slowly along.

"Ah, indeed," said Iola, assuming an air of interest, while a shadow
flitted over her face. "Where do you expect to pitch your tent?"

"In the city of C----, North Carolina," he answered.

"Oh, I wish," she exclaimed, "that you were going to Georgia, where you
could take care of that high-spirited brother of mine."

"I suppose if he were to hear you he would laugh, and say that he could
take care of himself. But I know a better plan than that."

"What is it?" asked Iola, innocently.

"That you will commit yourself, instead of your brother, to my care."

"Oh, dear," replied Iola, drawing a long breath. "What would mamma say?"

"That she would willingly resign you, I hope."

"And what would grandma and Uncle Robert say?" again asked Iola.

"That they would cheerfully acquiesce. Now, what would I say if they all
consent?"

"I don't know," modestly responded Iola.

"Well," replied Dr. Latimer, "I would say:--

    "Could deeds my love discover,
          Could valor gain thy charms,
     To prove myself thy lover
          I'd face a world in arms."

"And prove a good soldier," added Iola, smiling, "when there is no
battle to fight."

"Iola, I am in earnest," said Dr. Latimer, passionately. "In the work to
which I am devoted every burden will be lighter, every path smoother, if
brightened and blessed with your companionship."

A sober expression swept over Iola's face, and, dropping her eyes, she
said: "I must have time to think."

Quietly they rode along the river bank until Dr. Latimer broke the
silence by saying:--

"Miss Iola, I think that you brood too much over the condition of our
people."

"Perhaps I do," she replied, "but they never burn a man in the South
that they do not kindle a fire around my soul."

"I am afraid," replied Dr. Latimer, "that you will grow morbid and
nervous. Most of our people take life easily--why shouldn't you?"

"Because," she answered, "I can see breakers ahead which they do not."

"Oh, give yourself no uneasiness. They will catch the fret and fever of
the nineteenth century soon enough. I have heard several of our
ministers say that it is chiefly men of disreputable characters who are
made the subjects of violence and lynch-law."

"Suppose it is so," responded Iola, feelingly. "If these men believe in
eternal punishment they ought to feel a greater concern for the wretched
sinner who is hurried out of time with all his sins upon his head, than
for the godly man who passes through violence to endless rest."

"That is true; and I am not counseling you to be selfish; but, Miss
Iola, had you not better look out for yourself?"

"Thank you, Doctor, I am feeling quite well."

"I know it, but your devotion to study and work is too intense," he
replied.

"I am preparing to teach, and must spend my leisure time in study. Mr.
Cloten is an excellent employer, and treats his employés as if they had
hearts as well as hands. But to be an expert accountant is not the best
use to which I can put my life."

"As a teacher you will need strong health and calm nerves. You had
better let me prescribe for you. You need," he added, with a merry
twinkle in his eyes, "change of air, change of scene, and change of
name."

"Well, Doctor," said Iola, laughing, "that is the newest nostrum out.
Had you not better apply for a patent?"

"Oh," replied Dr. Latimer, with affected gravity, "you know you must
have unlimited faith in your physician."

"So you wish me to try the faith cure?" asked Iola, laughing.

"Yes, faith in me," responded Dr. Latimer, seriously.

"Oh, here we are at home!" exclaimed Iola. "This has been a glorious
evening, Doctor. I am indebted to you for a great pleasure. I am
extremely grateful."

"You are perfectly welcome," replied Dr. Latimer. "The pleasure has been
mutual, I assure you."

"Will you not come in?" asked Iola.

Tying his horse, he accompanied Iola into the parlor. Seating himself
near her, he poured into her ears words eloquent with love and
tenderness.

"Iola," he said, "I am not an adept in courtly phrases. I am a plain
man, who believes in love and truth. In asking you to share my lot, I am
not inviting you to a life of ease and luxury, for year after year I may
have to struggle to keep the wolf from the door, but your presence would
make my home one of the brightest spots on earth, and one of the fairest
types of heaven. Am I presumptuous in hoping that your love will become
the crowning joy of my life?"

His words were more than a tender strain wooing her to love and
happiness, they were a clarion call to a life of high and holy worth, a
call which found a response in her heart. Her hand lay limp in his. She
did not withdraw it, but, raising her lustrous eyes to his, she softly
answered: "Frank, I love you."

After he had gone, Iola sat by the window, gazing at the splendid stars,
her heart quietly throbbing with a delicious sense of joy and love. She
had admired Dr. Gresham and, had there been no barrier in her way, she
might have learned to love him; but Dr. Latimer had grown irresistibly
upon her heart. There were depths in her nature that Dr. Gresham had
never fathomed; aspirations in her soul with which he had never mingled.
But as the waves leap up to the strand, so her soul went out to Dr.
Latimer. Between their lives were no impeding barriers, no inclination
impelling one way and duty compelling another. Kindred hopes and tastes
had knit their hearts; grand and noble purposes were lighting up their
lives; and they esteemed it a blessed privilege to stand on the
threshold of a new era and labor for those who had passed from the old
oligarchy of slavery into the new commonwealth of freedom.

On the next evening, Dr. Latimer rang the bell and was answered by
Harry, who ushered him into the parlor, and then came back to the
sitting-room, saying, "Iola, Dr. Latimer has called to see you."

"Has he?" answered Iola, a glad light coming into her eyes. "Come,
Lucille, let us go into the parlor."

"Oh, no," interposed Harry, shrugging his shoulders and catching
Lucille's hand. "He didn't ask for you. When we went to the concert we
were told three's a crowd. And I say one good turn deserves another."

"Oh, Harry, you are so full of nonsense. Let Lucille go!" said Iola.

"Indeed I will not. I want to have a good time as well as you," said
Harry.

"Oh, you're the most nonsensical man I know," interposed Miss Delany.
Yet she stayed with Harry.

"You're looking very bright and happy," said Dr. Latimer to Iola, as she
entered.

"My ride in the park was so refreshing! I enjoyed it so much! The day
was so lovely, the air delicious, the birds sang so sweetly, and the
sunset was so magnificent."

"I am glad of it. Why, Iola, your home is so happy your heart should be
as light as a school-girl's."

"Doctor," she replied, "I must be prematurely old. I have scarcely known
what it is to be light-hearted since my father's death."

"I know it, darling," he answered, seating himself beside her, and
drawing her to him. "You have been tried in the fire, but are you not
better for the crucial test?"

"Doctor," she replied, "as we rode along yesterday, mingling with the
sunshine of the present came the shadows of the past. I was thinking of
the bright, joyous days of my girlhood, when I defended slavery, and of
how the cup that I would have pressed to the lips of others was forced
to my own. Yet, in looking over the mournful past, I would not change
the Iola of then for the Iola of now."

"Yes," responded Dr. Latimer, musingly,

    "'Darkness shows us worlds of light
        We never saw by day.'"

"Oh, Doctor, you cannot conceive what it must have been to be hurled
from a home of love and light into the dark abyss of slavery; to be
compelled to take your place among a people you have learned to look
upon as inferiors and social outcasts; to be in the power of men whose
presence would fill you with horror and loathing, and to know that there
is no earthly power to protect you from the highest insults which brutal
cowardice could shower upon you. I am so glad that no other woman of my
race will suffer as I have done."

The flush deepened on her face, a mournful splendor beamed from her
beautiful eyes, into which the tears had slowly gathered.

"Darling," he said, his voice vibrating with mingled feelings of
tenderness and resentment, "you must forget the sad past. You are like a
tender lamb snatched from the jaws of a hungry wolf, but who still needs
protecting, loving care. But it must have been terrible," he added, in a
painful tone.

"It was indeed! For awhile I was like one dazed. I tried to pray, but
the heavens seemed brass over my head. I was wild with agony, and had I
not been placed under conditions which roused all the resistance of my
soul, I would have lost my reason."

"Was it not a mistake to have kept you ignorant of your colored blood?"

"It was the great mistake of my father's life, but dear papa knew
something of the cruel, crushing power of caste; and he tried to shield
us from it."

"Yes, yes," replied Dr. Latimer, thoughtfully, "in trying to shield you
from pain he plunged you into deeper suffering."

"I never blame him, because I know he did it for the best. Had he lived
he would have taken us to France, where I should have had a life of
careless ease and pleasure. But now my life has a much grander
significance than it would have had under such conditions. Fearful as
the awakening was, it was better than to have slept through life."

"Best for you and best for me," said Dr. Latimer. "There are souls that
never awaken; but if they miss the deepest pain they also lose the
highest joy."

Dr. Latimer went South, after his engagement, and through his medical
skill and agreeable manners became very successful in his practice. In
the following summer, he built a cosy home for the reception of his
bride, and came North, where, with Harry and Miss Delany as attendants,
he was married to Iola, amid a pleasant gathering of friends, by Rev.
Carmicle.


CHAPTER XXXIII.


CONCLUSION.

It was late in the summer when Dr. Latimer and his bride reached their
home in North Carolina. Over the cottage porch were morning-glories to
greet the first flushes of the rising day, and roses and jasmines to
distill their fragrance on the evening air. Aunt Linda, who had been
apprised of their coming, was patiently awaiting their arrival, and
Uncle Daniel was pleased to know that "dat sweet young lady who had sich
putty manners war comin' to lib wid dem."

What has become of them? Ange, I have been deprived of her! It has the
little creature with a ruler beaten! O, I strangle this person soon! ""
Ange, Ange, calm down! Much can happen to your liking! Carlos will
certainly approve of what you verständigerweise order. "" He? The? Is
he not in his room and ponders the whole day?

Do we see him differently than with meals?

Is he still my best, heißgeliebter man?

- A sullen hypochondriac, a rugged, defense of man sits there, the
joy has nothing - not even "- now was sobbing bitterly Teuts ear
-" to his family, to his children!

Oh, how unhappy I am unlimited! Where is the good old time left! Our
house is a tomb became dead! "Under intense motion heard the Teut
everything. Did he blame? Had he conjured up everything? - Maybe! He
recognized that usually only the plight of the teacher himself to people.
He had intervened in the plans of destiny.

Instead of the rain the sunshine of a new gush to leave, he had to be
built early on a roof and a roof, which is the golden light away.
* * * * * Teut sat in his room and worked.

For hours was not diminished by the desk, and several times he leaned back
and looked sinnend and lost the brushstrokes of the painting counting
volatile, rising to the ceiling. The recent events had made a deep
impression made on him.

He suffered with his beloved Ange and understood everything, and thought
how it would help. But was it the carefree gaiety to give back? Could
he make it young again, what they suffered internally, transferred to
their appearance. already started some of the magic to solve Holden
of years before they had done so irresistible.

And then he said, but that does not change the way of life could be
to blame, but all other things would have to employ Ange. Yes, that
was it! She was not happy in their marriage, and the replacement, which
they used in their children felt they lacked twice now, because
they had taken her half.

But the latter was yet again brought into the right track. A change
in personality, which gave the lesson was easy to accomplish . It did
not take everything as usual at the tip to be driven: there were
also friendly admonitions rather ruthless rigor, and it was not
about learning and knowledge alone.

The good middle ground was also the right, and by this action, would
return that Ange demanded.

One thing was clear in Teut: even now he had to intervene because no
Claire Fort initiative was to move.

How many employees had sued, that they are not ends meet by means of how
much they need to restrict.

Claire Fort remained in all deaf. For he was now an anxious savers,
have become a miser.

"Can I speak calmly even today? Are you up to hear, dear Ange?
"Asked Teut on one of the next few days.

She nodded and put their hands in their lap.

Strange! Teut said that they were neglected, no special value on their
appearance presented: on flowers and Jewelry as before. Even today, she
saw from unfavorable. The gray house dress was not just good, and the
wonderful hair was hidden under a hood, to which they made many years
older. "I wanted to you after our last interview Please submit "Teut
went on." I have a lot to think about what you have said to me. "They
bowed the head, without expression in her quiet face."

I hear that Carlos wants to take his farewell, that he must take it --
"" How? "broke him Ange fearful." Yes! His condition - his stubborn
nerves suffering makes him perform his military duties impossible.

Better than in the strenuous times Thätigkeit set.

But - it will - your income even more diminished Ange - "" Yes,
certainly!

"She said soundless."

Because I wanted to because - "- he hesitated, pulled at his
mustache and a strange redness occurs his strong cheekbones - "You ask,
Ange.

I like that you see a brother like you - I do not know if you understand
me, Ange - that if you are about once have a desire - for example for
the children a desire to have - if - if - you do not listen, Ange?

"" Oh, oh!

"breathed the young woman." Do not continue! "Her voice failed before
emotion they could not speak, and they dried the Thränen with the
Tüchelchen that she was most preferred.

"Yes," said Teut softly and took her hand, her small hands, so thin and
looked sick today. But he dared not continue to speak, there was
a longer pause .

The round things appeared more serious, silent as usual It blew a
whiff of a desolate wasteland by the house where the laughter was
erstorben.

She was
welcomed by the young pastor, who found in her a strong and faithful
ally. Together they planned meetings for the especial benefit of mothers
and children. When the dens of vice are spreading their snares for the
feet of the tempted and inexperienced her doors are freely opened for
the instruction of the children before their feet have wandered and gone
far astray. She has no carpets too fine for the tread of their little
feet. She thinks it is better to have stains on her carpet than stains
on their souls through any neglect of hers. In lowly homes and
windowless cabins her visits are always welcome. Little children love
her. Old age turns to her for comfort, young girls for guidance, and
mothers for counsel. Her life is full of blessedness.

Doctor Latimer by his kindness and skill has won the name of the "Good
Doctor." But he is more than a successful doctor; he is a true patriot
and a good citizen. Honest, just, and discriminating, he endeavors by
precept and example to instill into the minds of others sentiments of
good citizenship. He is a leader in every reform movement for the
benefit of the community; but his patriotism is not confined to race
lines. "The world is his country, and mankind his countrymen." While he
abhors their deeds of violence, he pities the short-sighted and besotted
men who seem madly intent upon laying magazines of powder under the
cradles of unborn generations. He has great faith in the possibilities
of the negro, and believes that, enlightened and Christianized, he will
sink the old animosities of slavery into the new community of interests
arising from freedom; and that his influence upon the South will be as
the influence of the sun upon the earth. As when the sun passes from
Capricorn to Cancer, beauty, greenness, and harmony spring up in his
path, so he hopes that the future career of the negro will be a greater
influence for freedom and social advancement than it was in the days of
yore for slavery and its inferior civilization.

Harry and Lucille are at the head of a large and flourishing school.
Too deeply entrenched is the class for centuries nourished egotism, to
sting in the life and thinking just of the dependent woman, the interests
of their class, as they so easily could tear away.Some have pitied, others blamed, Harry for
casting his lot with the colored people, but he knows that life's
highest and best advantages do not depend on the color of the skin or
texture of the hair. He has his reward in the improved condition of his
pupils and the superb manhood and noble life which he has developed in
his much needed work.

- I suggest, because certainly not because I do not think that amount,
since it is true. - It bothers when no more be believed! - You're
equivocadísimo! That bothers you do not believe it is usually the lying.
He bought a large plantation near
C----, which he divided into small homesteads, and sold to poor but
thrifty laborers, and his heart has been gladdened by their increased
prosperity and progress. Will you with us, Bagot? Bagot. No, I want
to Sr. Majesty to Ireland. Lebet well, if my heart tells the truth, we
will drey never again come together. Buschy. That depends on whether
the York Bolingbroke is zurükschlagen. Green.

The poor York! The business, which he took over, is not easier than the
sand when it counted and wanted to drink up the sea. If any disputes
at his side, as thousands flee. Buschy. Lebet well for one and all.
Grandmother Johnson was glad to return South and spend the remnant of
her days with the remaining friends of her early life. Although feeble,
she is in full sympathy with her children for the uplifting of the race.
Marie and her mother are enjoying their aftermath of life, one by
rendering to others all the service in her power, while the other, with
her face turned toward the celestial city, is

    "Only waiting till the angels
      Open wide the mystic gate."

Or was it just the increased irritability of the nerves, so they
felt? Any discharge had come. By nature every speaker seemed to need
the opposites into the absurd increase, the opponents to reduce
the need to ridicule.

The audience was restless.

It was from time to time, we talked. Sûre Since entering the grandstand.
The quiet sarcasm of superiority to the lips, he looked out over the
crowd. Then came the settlement. Involuntarily lowered all heads against
this massive outbreak of a fiery crater of the mountain. A public
prosecution, it was, and all stood in the pillory, the strike of
the liberating ideas into a crippling bickering turns people had.
There are scattered among us materials
for mournful tragedies and mirth-provoking comedies, which some hand may
yet bring into the literature of the country, glowing with the fervor of
the tropics and enriched by the luxuriance of the Orient, and thus add
to the solution of our unsolved American problem.

The race has not had very long to straighten its hands from the hoe, to
grasp the pen and wield it as a power for good, and to erect above the
ruined auction-block and slave-pen institutions of learning, but

    There is light beyond the darkness,
          Joy beyond the present pain;
    There is hope in God's great justice
          And the negro's rising brain.
    Anything remaining on the coast is
          dry and barren, which is not
    a tree, nor is there where you
          can thick wood: some bushes can be a little bit in the bay of San
Julian, where they also found a lot of fishing and abundance of salt.