Distributed Proofreading Team


SHANDYGAFF

by

CHRISTOPHER MORLEY

1918


A number of most agreeable Inquirendoes upon Life & Letters,
interspersed with Short Stories & Skits, the whole most Diverting to
the Reader


[Illustration: Photo by Charles H. Davis

CHRISTOPHER MORLEY, AUTHOR OF SHANDYGAFF, WHERE THE BLUE BEGINS, THUNDER
ON THE LEFT, ETC.]


TITLES AND DEDICATIONS

I wanted to call these exercises "Casual Ablutions," in memory of the
immortal sign in the washroom of the British Museum, but my arbiter of
elegance forbade it. You remember that George Gissing, homeless and
penniless on London streets, used to enjoy the lavatory of the Museum
Reading Room as a fountain and a shrine. But the flinty hearted
trustees, finding him using the wash-stand for bath-tub and laundry,
were exceeding wroth, and set up the notice

  +----------------------------+
  |                            |
  |    THESE BASINS ARE FOR    |
  |   CASUAL ABLUTIONS ONLY    |
  |                            |
  +----------------------------+

I would like to issue the same warning to the implacable reader: these
fugitive pieces, very casual rinsings in the great basin of letters,
must not be too bitterly resented, even by their publishers. To borrow
O. Henry's joke, they are more demitasso than Tasso.

The real purpose in writing books is to have the pleasure of dedicating
them to someone, and here I am in a quandary. So many dedications have
occurred to me, it seems only fair to give them all a chance.

    I thought of dedicating the book to
        CLAYTON SEDGWICK COOPER
          The Laird of Westcolang

    I thought of dedicating to the
        TWO BEST BOOK SHOPS IN THE WORLD
          Blackwell's in Oxford and
          Leary's in Philadelphia

    I thought of dedicating to
        THE 8:13 TRAIN

    I thought of dedicating to
        EDWARD PAGE ALLINSON
      The Squire of Town's End Farm
        Better known as Mifflin McGill
          In affectionate memory of
            Many unseasonable jests

    I thought of dedicating to
        PROFESSOR FRANCIS B. GUMMERE
          From an erring pupil

    I thought of dedicating to
        FRANCIS R. BELLAMY
      Author of "The Balance"
        Whose Talent I Revere,
      But Whose Syntax I Deplore

    I thought of dedicating to
        JOHN N. BEFFEL
        My First Editor
      Who insisted on taking me seriously

    I thought of dedicating to
        GUY S.K. WHEELER
          The Lion Cub

    I thought of dedicating to
        ROBERT CORTES HOLLIDAY
          The Urbanolater

    I thought of dedicating to
        SILAS ORRIN HOWES
          Faithful Servant of Letters

    But my final and irrevocable decision is to dedicate this book to
        THE MIEHLE PRINTING PRESS
      More Sinned Against Than Sinning

       *       *       *       *       *

For permission to reprint, I denounce The New York _Evening Post_, The
Boston _Transcript_, The _Bellman_, The _Smart Set_, The New York _Sun_,
The New York _Evening Sun_, The _American Oxonian_, _Collier's_, and The
_Ladies' Home Journal_.

Wyncote, Pa.

November. 1917.


SHANDYGAFF: a very refreshing drink, being a mixture of bitter ale or
beer and ginger-beer, commonly drunk by the lower classes in England,
and by strolling tinkers, low church parsons, newspaper men,
journalists, and prizefighters. Said to have been invented by Henry VIII
as a solace for his matrimonial difficulties. It is believed that a
continual bibbing of shandygaff saps the will, the nerves, the
resolution, and the finer faculties, but there are those who will abide
no other tipple.

John Mistletoe: _Dictionary of Deplorable Facts_.


CONTENTS

The Song of Shandygaff
Titles and Dedications
A Question of Plumage
Don Marquis
The Art of Walking
Rupert Brooke
The Man
The Head of the Firm
17 Heriot Row
Frank Confessions of a Publisher's Reader
William McFee
Rhubarb
The Haunting Beauty of Strychnine
Ingo
Housebroken
The Hilarity of Hilaire
A Casual of the Sea
The Last Pipe
Time to Light the Furnace
My Friend
A Poet of Sad Vigils
Trivia
Prefaces
The Skipper
A Friend of FitzGerald
A Venture in Mysticism
An Oxford Landlady
"Peacock Pie"
The Literary Pawnshop
A Morning in Marathon
The American House of Lords
Cotswold Winds
Clouds
Unhealthy
Confessions of a Smoker
Hay Febrifuge
Appendix: Suggestions for Teachers.


A QUESTION OF PLUMAGE

Kenneth Stockton was a man of letters, and correspondingly poor. He was
the literary editor of a leading metropolitan daily; but this job only
netted him fifty dollars a week, and he was lucky to get that much. The
owner of the paper was powerfully in favour of having the reviews done
by the sporting editor, and confining them to the books of those
publishers who bought advertising space. This simple and statesmanlike
view the owner had frequently expressed in Mr. Stockton's hearing, so
the latter was never very sure how long his job would continue.

But Mr. Stockton had a house, a wife, and four children in New Utrecht,
that very ingenious suburb of Brooklyn. He had worked the problem out to
a nicety long ago. If he did not bring home, on the average, eighty
dollars a week, his household would cease to revolve. It simply had to
be done. The house was still being paid for on the installment plan.
There were plumbers' bills, servant's wages, clothes and schooling for
the children, clothes for the wife, two suits a year for himself, and
the dues of the Sheepshead Golf Club--his only extravagance. A simple
middle-class routine, but one that, once embarked upon, turns into a
treadmill. As I say, eighty dollars a week would just cover expenses. To
accumulate any savings, pay for life insurance, and entertain friends,
Stockton had to rise above that minimum. If in any week he fell below
that figure he could not lie abed at night and "snort his fill," as the
Elizabethan song naïvely puts it.

There you have the groundwork of many a domestic drama.

Mr. Stockton worked pretty hard at the newspaper office to earn his
fifty dollars. He skimmed faithfully all the books that came in, wrote
painstaking reviews, and took care to run cuts on his literary page on
Saturdays "to give the stuff kick," as the proprietor ordered. Though he
did so with reluctance, he was forced now and then to approach the book
publishers on the subject of advertising. He gave earnest and honest
thought to his literary department, and was once praised by Mr. Howells
in _Harper's Magazine_ for the honourable quality of his criticisms.

But Mr. Stockton, like most men, had only a certain fund of energy and
enthusiasm at his disposal. His work on the paper used up the first
fruits of his zeal and strength. After that came his article on current
poetry, written (unsigned) for a leading imitation literary weekly. The
preparation of this involved a careful perusal of at least fifty
journals, both American and foreign, and I blush to say it brought him
only fifteen dollars a week. He wrote a weekly "New York Letter" for a
Chicago paper of bookish tendencies, in which he told with a flavour of
intimacy the goings on of literary men in Manhattan whom he never had
time or opportunity to meet. This article was paid for at space rates,
which are less in Chicago than in New York. On this count he averaged
about six dollars a week.

That brings us up to seventy-one dollars, and also pretty close to the
limit of our friend's endurance. The additional ten dollars or so needed
for the stability of the Stockton exchequer he earned in various ways.
Neighbours in New Utrecht would hear his weary typewriter clacking far
into the night. He wrote short stories, of only fair merit; and he wrote
"Sunday stories," which is the lowest depth to which a self-respecting
lover of literature can fall. Once in a while he gave a lecture on
poetry, but he was a shy man, and he never was asked to lecture twice in
the same place. By almost incredible exertions of courage and obstinacy
he wrote a novel, which was published, and sold 2,580 copies the first
year. His royalties on this amounted to $348.30--not one-third as much,
he reflected sadly, as Irvin Cobb would receive for a single short
story. He even did a little private tutoring at his home, giving the
sons of some of his friends lessons in English literature.

It is to be seen that Mr. Stockton's relatives, back in Indiana, were
wrong when they wrote to him admiringly--as they did twice a
year--asking for loans, and praising the bold and debonair life of a man
of letters in the great city. They did not know that for ten years Mr.
Stockton had refused the offers of his friends to put him up for
membership at the literary club to which his fancy turned so fondly and
so often. He could not afford it. When friends from out of town called
on him, he took them to Peck's for a French table d'hôte, with an
apologetic murmur.

But it is not to be thought that Mr. Stockton was unhappy or
discontented. Those who have experienced the excitements of the
existence where one lives from hand to mouth and back to hand again,
with rarely more than fifty cents of loose change in pocket, know that
there is even a kind of pleasurable exhilaration in it. The characters
in George Gissing's Grub Street stories would have thought Stockton
rich indeed with his fifty-dollar salary. But he was one of those
estimable men who have sense enough to give all their money to their
wives and keep none in their trousers. And though his life was arduous
and perhaps dull to outward view, he was a passionate lover of books,
and in his little box at the back of the newspaper office, smoking a
corncob and thumping out his reviews, he was one of the happiest men in
New York. His thirst for books was a positive bulimia; how joyful he was
when he found time to do a little work on his growing sheaf of literary
essays, which he intended to call "Casual Ablutions," after the famous
sign in the British Museum washroom.

It was Mr. Stockton's custom to take a trolley as far as the Brooklyn
bridge, and thence it was a pleasant walk to the office on Park Row.
Generally he left home about ten o'clock, thus avoiding the rush of
traffic in the earlier hours; and loitering a little along the way, as
becomes a man of ideas, his article on poetry would jell in his mind,
and he would be at his desk a little after eleven. There he would work
until one o'clock with the happy concentration of those who enjoy their
tasks. At that time he would go out for a bite of lunch, and would then
be at his desk steadily from two until six. Dinner at home was at seven,
and after that he worked persistently in his little den under the roof
until past midnight.

One morning in spring he left New Utrecht in a mood of perplexity, for
to-day his even routine was in danger of interruption. Halfway across
the bridge Stockton paused in some confusion of spirit to look down on
the shining river and consider his course.

A year or so before this time, in gathering copy for his poetry
articles, he had first come across the name of Finsbury Verne in an
English journal at the head of some exquisite verses. From time to time
he found more of this writer's lyrics in the English magazines, and at
length he had ventured a graceful article of appreciation. It happened
that he was the first in this country to recognize Verne's talent, and
to his great delight he had one day received a very charming letter from
the poet himself, thanking him for his understanding criticism.

Stockton, though a shy and reticent man, had the friendliest nature in
the world, and some underlying spirit of kinship in Verne's letter
prompted him to warm response. . * * * * * The Society for hochansehnlichen
beautiful foreign literature, to Berlin. * * * * * As at the end of
last year I received the pleasant news that a well-known to me
friendly society, which until now their attention was devoted to domestic
literature, now the same on the foreign intend to turn, I could in my
former situation is not detailed and thorough enough to demonstrate how
much I appreciate a company that Bey is also what I inclined to
the thought, to appreciate.

Even with current public expression of my gratitude Antheil happens only
fragmentarily in improving what I connected to transmit would have
wished. I will also like it to me this does not reject, by my main
purpose is to achieve hope, namely that I have my friends with a man
brings into contact, whom I count among those who in later years come to
me thätig connected me by a mitschreitende Theilnahme to act and work
to prove, and by a noble, pure desire wohlgerichtetes again rejuvenated
me, which I heranzog, with it have withdrawn. It is the author of the
work here translated, Mr. _Thomas Carlyle_, a Scot, whose Thätigkeit
and advantages, as its closer states following a several sheets are opened.
Same as I and my friends to know Berliner think it is between them
him a happy and effective connection to both initiate and Theile, as
I may hope, in a number of years, this legacy of his fertile and
enjoy success together, so that I have a continuing memory to which
I would like to ask here, finally, as already gegönnt permanently,
with advance anmuthigen sensations can be enjoyed. faithful in
devotion and Theilnahme.

Weimar, April 1830. _J. W. v. Goethe._ * * * It is some time of a general
world literature, speech, and not with injustice: since the whole
of Nations, in the most terrible wars confused shaken, then back to
itself individually attributed, had noted that they are aware some
residents have been recorded in the previously unknown spiritual needs
felt here and there. The result was a feeling neighborly relations, and
instead of that one previously had been closed, came after the Spirit
and according to the request, also in the more or less intellectual Freyer
trade in to be included. This movement is only lasts a short while, but
always long enough to have some considerations about the matter, and
from it as soon as possible, as it is in Waarenhandel thun also be
advantages and pleasure of winning. * * * Current, for souvenirs
_Schillers_ written work can be translated for We hardly get anything
new, the author took his knowledge of scriptures, which we have
long known, as well as on the matters negotiated Bey here we often
have been through and durchgesprochen.

But what the admirers _Schillers_, and therefore every one German, as
kühnlich you may say, must be highly gratifying Seyn is: just
to know how a delicate, ambitious, sensible man on the oceans, in its
best years, by _Schillers_ Productions touched, moved, excited,
and now to the further study of German literature driven been. I at least,
it was touching to see how this pure and calm-minded strangers, even in
those first, often harsh, almost crude Productions immortalized our
friend, always the noble, wohldenkenden, benevolent man, and became
aware of an ideal of noble mortals at him Auferbauer could. I
think therefore that this work, as written by a young man, the German
youth would like to recommend Seyn: because if a lively age must
have a desire and will, so it is: in all, paid the praiseworthy,
good, Bildsame, high-end face, the Conceptional enough, and even
in the non-adherence patterns, the general pattern image of humanity
to be seen. * * * Moreover, this work can give us important Seyn
if we seriously consider how a strange man _Schillerischen_ works
to which we owe so diverse culture, even as the source of his
estimates, this revered and without any intention, pure and quiet
to recognize giebt.

One would like to remark here then most places Seyn: one that even what
we beynahe has had, well, just in the moments away from what German
literature is favorable, yet its powerful effect and thus begin showing
as it is on a certain level The literature is always useful and
effective Seyn will.

For example, _Herders_ ideas Bey us so in the knowledge of the entire
mass transfer, that few who read, therefore only be taught, because
they, with hundreds of times the discharges from that what was of great
significance was that in another context has been fully informed.
This work was recently translated into French, probably in no other
conviction than that thousand people in France are still in these ideas
have to be built. * * * In regard to the current gang superior picture
sey reported the following: Our friend, when we were with him in ratio
occurred, was then residing in Edinburgh, where he was living in
silence, in the best sense of looking to train, and we must say it
without vainglory, in German literature hiezu most Förderniss found.
Later, in order himself and his bona fide literary studies to live
independently, he went, some toes German miles south, an own Besitzthum
to inhabit and use, in the county of Dumfries. Here, in a mountainous
area where the river Nithe the nearby seas zuströmt, ohnfern the city of
Dumfries, at a place which Craigenputtock called, he suggested
with a beautiful and highly educated wife his simple rural home to
what is actually faithful reproductions Forewords current initiative
to have. * * * Educated Ghosts, delicately Gemüther what is good
for distant endeavor, in the distance to good effect are tilted,
barely escape the desire of dear, beloved, weitabgesonderten persons
portrait, then the Figure her apartment, as the next state, is
brought before the eyes to see.

How many times you have repeated today tags mapping Petrarch's residence
in Vaucluse, Tasso's apartment in Sorent! And is not always the
Bieler Island, the Schutzort Rousseau's, one his admirers never displayed
enough Local? Accordingly hab 'I look at the environments of my distant
friends in the picture wanted to give, and I was even more so at the
apartment Mr. _Thomas Carlyle_ eager as his residence in a rugged
mountainous area almost the 55ten degrees had chosen. I think with
such a faithful replica of the original drawings recently submitted
to the current book and decorate the present sentimental reader, perhaps
even more to the future, a friendly Gefallen to prove and thus,
as activated by extracts from the letters of Werthmann, the interest
in general a fine country and the world closer to proliferate. * *
* _Thomas Carlyle Goethe._ Craigenputtock at the 25th Septbr.

The 1828th "They conduct research with such a warm slope for our current
residence and employment, a few words that I say this, because this area
still remains. Dumfries is a town-like, with about 15000 inhabitants
and as Mittelpunct trade and jurisdiction to a significant Districkts
in the Scottish business circle. Our home is not it, but 15 miles (two
hours to ride) away from the northwest, between the granite
mountains and the black Moorgefilde, which is west of Gallovay mostly
to attract the Irish Sea.

In this desert heather and rocks, our Besitzthum a green oasis, a space
of geackertem, partial umzäumten and decorated floor where the
grain ripens and trees provide shade, although the surrounding of
Seemöven and sheep surrounded hartwolligen.

Here, with no small effort, we have For us, a pure, permanent housing was
built and furnished, we live here in the absence of any teaching
or other public body to look at the literature befleissigen, according
to its own forces us to employ. We hope that our garden roses and shrubs
grow up happy, hope health and a peaceful Gemüthsstimmung to us to
ask. The roses are the Theil freylich still to plant, but they are already
in bloom hope. Two light horses, hintragen us everywhere, and the
mountain air are the best physicians for delicate nerves.

This daily exercise, which I'm very result, my only distraction, because
this angle is isolated in Britain, six miles from each person will
remove myself if all want to attend.

Rousseau here would just as well have fallen, than on his island St. Pierre.
Verily my urban friends to write my Hierhergehen a similar attitude
to, and I prophesy no good, but I moved here alone for the purpose
of my life way to simplify and to acquire independence, so that I
could stay true to themselves.

This is our Erdraum here can we live, write and think like we däucht best,
and if Zoilus himself king of the literature should be.

Nor is the loneliness is not so important, a wage coach brings us
easily to Edinburgh, as we see our British Weimar.

Have I not also currently a whole load of French, German, American,
English journals and magazines from which she also Werth Seyn like,
on the tables of my small library aufgehäuft!

Even alterthümlichen studies do not suffer. From some of our highs
discover 'I ohngefähr a day's journey westward, the hills, where his
Roman Agrikola and behind a warehouse, at the foot of that I was born,
where father and mother still live around me to love. And you have the
time to act. But where I Gerath out! Let me also confess that I am uncertain
about my future literary Thätigkeit what I like to hear your wishes
Urtheil; certainly write to me again and soon, so I am always with
you should feel united. "* * * We are, after all sides sympathetic
to, after education aspiring Germans, we know for many years the
merits of Scottish decent men to appreciate.

We were not unaware of what they previously paid in the sciences, which
after the French because such a large weight gained overnight. In the
newer misspent time we do not recognize the laudable influence that their
philosophy on the meaning of the French amendment exercised to
distinguish them from the rigid Sensualism to a smoother way of thinking
in the way of common sense guide added.

We do owe them some detailed insight into the major states of British
subjects and efforts.

On the other hand, we had not long before our time ethico-aesthetic
considerations in their journals on a way to see where it remained
doubtful whether lack of insight or ill will dabey obwaltete;
whether a superficial, not penetrating enough view, or a grudging
prejudice in games sey.

This event, however, we have patiently waited, because we are so similar
in the Fatherland to endure long enough to have been imposed. In recent
years, however, we enjoy from those areas of the lovingly gaze, to
which we are committed erwiedern feel and what we present in leaves
wohldenkenden our fellow countrymen, to the extent that it Nöthiger
Seyn should draw attention to it. * * * Mr. _Thomas Carlyle_ had
the _Wilhelm Meister_ were translated and then present life
_Schillers_ published in 1825.

In 1827 appeared _German Romances_ in 4 volumes, where he was, from the
stories and Mährchen German writers as: _Musäus_, _La Motte Fouqué_,
_Tieck_, _Hoffmann_, _Jean Paul_ and _Goethe_,, preferably what his
nation at the most according to Seyn believed. The Abtheilung ahead of
any news of life, the scriptures, the direction of that poet and writer
give a certificate of simply benevolent way, as the friend,
as far as possible from the personality and the conditions of each
wanted to teach, and how he is on the right path that, his knowledge is
always more to complete. In Edinburgh magazines, vorzüglich in which
what actually devoted to foreign literature is available now, except
the already mentioned German authors, including _Ernst Schulz_,
_Klingemann_, _Franz Horn_, _Zacharias Werner_, Graf _Platen_ and
some other by several speakers, but most of our friends, and
introduced beurtheilt.

Maximum important Bey this opportunity to note that they are actually
each one works only for text and take the opportunity to reflect
on the actual field and discipline, then as above the particular
individual, to open their minds and their opinions masterfully insurance.
_Edinburgh This Reviews_, they seyen the Interior and general, or the
foreign literatures especially devoted friends of the sciences have to
be considered carefully, because it is very strange, as the most
thorough Ernst with the freysten overview, a strict patriotism with a
simple pure Frey sense, these lectures will be combined. * * * Enjoy,
we have been there, in that what we are so close is concerned, a pure
simple Theilnahme to our ethical and aesthetic considerations, which for
a particular trait of the Germans may apply, so we also around after
what they there's this kind of heart.

We mention here the name of equal _Burns_ from which a letter of Mr.
_Carlyle's_ following office. "The only somewhat important,
since what I wrote my Hierseyn, is an attempt on _Burns_. Perhaps
you've never heard of this man, and but he was one of the most determined
geniuses, but in the deepest Classe people born in the country and
through the strange twists and equipment to last jammervoll basically
addressed, so that what he has seemed relatively minor, he died in
the middle of the year's (1796). "" We Englishmen, especially Schott
country we love _Burns_ more than any poet since centuries.

Often, I was affected by the remark, he sey few months before _Schiller_
where born in 1759 and none of these have ever heard of the other
names. They shone as stars in opposite hemispheres, or, if you
want a cloudy atmosphere began their mutual light on. "However,
more than our friend liked hypothesis was us _Robert Burns_ known,
the poem allerliebst _John Barley-Corn_ was anonymous to us came and
deservedly estimated prompted some such attempts to adapt our language
it. _Hans Gerstenkorn_, a brave man who has many enemies who pursued
him tirelessly and damage, so as to destroy even threatening. For
all of these inconveniences, he goes but at the end triumphirend apparent,
especially for healing and joy of passionate beer drinkers.
Especially in this ingenious Fair anthropomorphism is _Burns_ as
a true poet.

On further inquiry we found this poem in the edition of his poetical
works of 1822, which is a sketch of his life is progressing, at least
to us by the statements of its states to a degree taught .

What we of his poems were zueignen us, convinced us of his extraordinary
talent, and we regretted that we have the Scottish language as a
hindrance was just where he most natural expression of the purest
certainly usurps had. On the whole, however, we have our studies so
far led to the following notable representation as our conviction as
to write. The extent to which incidentally our _Burns_ well known in
Germany sey, more than the Conversations-Lexicon of him, I knew,
when the new literary movement in Germany ignorant, not to say, in
all cases, however, I remember the friends of foreign literature
on the shortest paths to show: _The Life of Robert Burns.

By JG Lockhart. Edinburgh 1828._ rezensirt from our friends in
_Edinburgh Review_, December 1828th Subsequent posts to be translated,
are the desire, the whole thing and the man referred to in any way to
know, hopefully excite lively. * * * "_Burns_ Was in a most prosaic era,
just like Britain had ever seen, was born in the most unfavorable
conditions, where his mind aspiring after high education under pressure
from their daily hard physical work had to wrestle, even in shortage and
dismal prospects for the future; without Förderniss as the terms as
set out in a poor man's hut to live, and if all the rhymes by
Ferguson and Ramsay, as the model of beauty aufgesteckt. But under these
loads is sinking it is not, by fog and darkness of a region so
bleak discovered his eagle eye on the right conditions of the world
and of human life that it grows in mental power and imposes itself
by force expert experience.

Driven by the irresistible lively spirit of his inner strauchelt forward
and general views, and with proud humility extends to us the fruit of
his efforts, a gift which have by now the time has been recognized as
an immortal. "" A true poet, a man in whose heart the plant the seeds
of a pure knowledge, which sounds heavenly melodies vorklingen, is
the most delicious gift that one time may be awarded. We see in him
a Freyer, cleaner development in all of what we Edelste to mention, his
life is teaching us a richer and we entrust his death as one Wohlthäters
who loved us just as taught. "" Such a gift of nature has in their kindness
to us _Robert Burns_ gegönnt, but with indifference allzuvornehmer
she threw him out of hand as a being of no significance.

It was disfigured and destroyed it before we recognized a star was
unfavorable to the youth violence to the human existence venerable to
do, but it was a wisely leadership does not become his own. The
skill - because we have to talk about our limitations - his mistakes,
the mistakes of the changing power flows too heavy upon him, and
this spirit, which were raised, he would have had only to walk a
success, fell into the dust, his wonderful ability of the flowers
were trampled.

He died that we may say, without ever having lived.

And such a friendly warm soul, so full of onlyborn Reichthümern,
such love for all living and inanimate things!

The late Tausendschön Chen does not go unnoticed among his plowshare,
as little as the nest of the terrible wohlversorgte common field mouse,
which he hervorwühlt. The sight of the wild winter enjoy him, with a
murky, often recurrent tenderness, he dwells in these grave Scenes of
devastation, but the voice of the wind, a psalm in his ear, as he might
like in the woods sausenden then walk, because he feels his ideas
raised at the rate on the wings of the wind einherschreitet.

A true poet soul! they may only be touched and her sound is music. ""
What a warm feeling all-encompassing equality! the trusting, gränzenlose
love! About edelmüthiges what treasures of the beloved object!

The farmer, his friend, his nussbraunes girls are no longer low and
village, and much more hero queen, he praises it as a worthy equal of
the Almighty on earth. The Scottish Scenes rough life he does not see
the light in the Arcadian, but in the fumes, in the uneven ground floor
of such a raw Wirthlichkeit finds he still amiable enough.

Armuth indeed is his companion, but also love and courage at the
same time, the simple feelings that Werth, the nobility, under the
straw roof, are dear and venerable his heart.

And so on the lowest regions of the human existence he pours the
glory of his own Gemüths and they rise, by shadows and sunshine
gesänftigt and glorified, a beauty, what little else the people in
the Supreme behold. "" Did he also Selbstbewusstseyn, which often
degenerates into pride, it is a noble pride, to ward off, not to
attack, no misslaunisches cold feeling, a Frey and sociable.

This man is a poetic country itself, we would like to say,
like a king in exile, he is among the lowest pressure and feels like
the Most High, it requires no rank, so that he can not dispute.

The benign and intrusive it can be repugnant, the demüthigen arrogant,
to prejudice or Reichthum Bey Altgeschlecht have it no Werth. In this
dark eye is a fire, what a condescension abwürdigende must not
dare, in his humiliation, in the extreme North forgets he is not for
a moment, the majesty of Poetry and Mannheit.

And yet, so high he feels about ordinary people, it isolates itself from
them, with the heat he participates in their interest Theil, so he
throws himself into her arms and, as they also seyen, he asks for their
love. It is touching to see how in the darkest conditions proud of
this nature in friendship Hülfe examined, and often the scourge of his
bosom aufschliesst; often Thränen to his glowing heart a heart andrückt
that friendship knows only as a name. But he was sharply and schnellsichtig,
a man of piercing gaze, before which common adjustment could not
salvage.

His mind saw through the depths of the most perfect fraudster, and
also was a grossmüthige gullibility in his heart. To show that this country
man among us: A soul like Aeolsharfe whose strings from the common
winds touched him turned statutory melody.

And such a man was there for the world is not becoming to find business
knew, when dealing with smugglers and Gifts herumzuzanken, ACCIS on
tallow be calculated and beer barrels to Visir. In such a struggle with
this mighty spirit was sorrowful wasted, and over one hundred years
may go, eh us is an equal to him again perhaps to waste. "* * * And
as we Germans _Schiller_ on her luck, so we want to precisely this
sense, the countries Schott bless.

Are these our friends, but so much attention and proved Theilnahme so
wär 'it proper that we in the same way their _Burns_ Bey introduced
us.

A young member of the hochachtbaren society, we present the whole
recommended have time and effort is rewarded höchlich to see if
it this kind of a service counter so venerable nation to decide,
and faithfully carry out the business wants.

We also expect to be praised _Robert Burns_ the first poet spirits,
which the past century has produced.

In 1829 came a very clean and obvious Octavbändchen printed on hand:
_Catalogue of German Publications, selected and arranged systematically
for WH Koller and Jul. Cahlmann . London._ This booklet, with
particular knowledge of German literature, in an overview facilitate
the writing method, makes it one of the developed and the book dealers
honor seriously what the significant business take over a foreign literature
in their country to introduce, so that man in all subjects could see
through what has been done there, so as to scholars the most
thoughtful readers as well as the sentient and entertainment seeking to
attract and satisfy.

They wanted me to examine the aphorisms
and orisonswettmardenisms they had been printing on their weekly
envelopes, for the inspiration and peptonizing of their employees. They
had been using quotations from Emerson, McAdoo, and other panhellenists,
and had run out of "sentiments." They wanted suggestions as to where
they could find more.

I advised them to get in touch with Don Marquis. I don't know whether
they did so or not; but Don's epigrams and bon mots would adorn any
pay-envelope anthology. Some of his casual comments on whiskey would do
more to discourage the decanterbury pilgrims than a bushel of tracts.

    By the time a bartender knows what drink a man will have before he
    orders, there is little else about him worth knowing.

    If you go to sleep while you are loafing, how are you going to know
    you are loafing?

    Because majorities are often wrong it does not follow that
    minorities are always right.

    Young man, if she asks you if you like her hair that way, beware.
    The woman has already committed matrimony in her own heart.

    I am tired of being a promising young man. I've been a promising
    young man for twenty years.

In most of Don Marquis's japes, a still small voice speaks in the
mirthquake:

    If you try too hard to get a thing, you don't get it.

    If you sweat and strain and worry the other ace will not come--the
    little ball will not settle upon the right number or the proper
    colour--the girl will marry the other man--the public will cry,
    Bedamned to him! he can't write anyhow!--the cosmos will refuse its
    revelations of divinity--the Welsh rabbit will be stringy--you will
    find there are not enough rhymes in the language to finish your
    ballade--the primrose by the river's brim will be only a hayfever
    carrier--and your fountain pen will dribble ink upon your best
    trousers.

But Don Marquis's mind has two yolks (to use one of his favourite
denunciations). In addition to these comic or satiric shadows, the
gnomon of his Sun Dial may be relied on every now and then to register a
clear-cut notation of the national mind and heart. For instance this,
just after the United States severed diplomatic relations with Germany:

    This Beast we know, whom time brings to his last rebirth
    Bull-thewed, iron-boned, cold-eyed and strong as Earth ...
    As Earth, who spawned and lessoned him,
    Yielded her earthy secrets, gave him girth,
    Armoured the skull and braced the heavy limb--
    Who frowned above him, proud and grim,
    While he sucked from her salty dugs the lore
    Of fire and steel and stone and war:
    She taught brute facts, brute might, but not the worth

    Of spirit, honour and clean mirth ...
    His shape is Man, his mood is Dinosaur.

    Tip from the wild red Welter of the past
    Foaming he comes: let this rush, be his last.

    Too patient we have been, thou knowest, God, thou knowest.
    We have been slow as doom. Our dead
    Of yesteryear lie on the ocean's bed--
    We have denied each pleading ghost--
    We have been slow: God, make us sure.
    We have been slow. Grant we endure
    Unto the uttermost, the uttermost.

    Did our slow mood, O God, with thine accord?
    Then weld our diverse millions, Lord,
    Into one single swinging sword.

I have been combing over the files of the Sun Dial, and it is
disheartening to see these deposits of pearl and pie-crust, this
sediment of fine mind, buried full fathom five in the yellowing archives
of a newspaper. I thought of De Quincey's famous utterance about the
press:

    Worlds of fine thinking lie buried in that vast abyss, never to be
    disentombed or restored to human admiration. Like the sea, it has
    swallowed treasures without end, that no diving-bell will bring up
    again.

Greatly as we cherish the Sun Dial, we are jealous of it for sapping all
its author's time and calories. No writer in America has greater of
more meaty, stalwart gifts. Don, we cry, spend less time stoking that
furnace out in Port Washington, and more on your novels!

There is no more convincing proof of the success of the Sun Dial than
the roster of its contributors. Some of the most beautiful lyrics of the
past few years have been printed there (I think particularly of two or
three by Padraic Colum). In this ephemeral column of a daily newspaper
some of the rarest singers and keenest wits of the time have been glad
to exhibit their wares, without pay of course. It would be impossible to
give a complete list, but among them are William Rose Benét, Clinton
Scollard, Edith M. Thomas, Benjamin De Casseres, Gelett Burgess, Georgia
Pangborn, Charles Hanson Towne, Clement Wood.

But the tragedy of the colyumist's task is that the better he does it
the harder it becomes. People simply will not leave him alone. All day
long they drop into his office, or call him up on the phone in the hope
of getting into the column. Poor Don! he has become an institution down
on Nassau Street: whatever hour of the day you call, you will find his
queue there chivvying him. He is too gracious to throw them out: his
only expedient is to take them over to the gin cathedral across the
street and buy them a drink. Lately the poor wretch has had to write
his Dial out in the pampas of Long Island, bringing it in with him in
the afternoon, in order to get it done undisturbed. How many times I
have sworn never to bother him again! And yet, when one is passing in
that neighbourhood, the temptation is irresistible.... I dare say Ben
Jonson had the same trouble. Of course someone ought to endow Don and
set him permanently at the head of a chophouse table, presiding over a
kind of Mermaid coterie of robust wits. He is a master of the
tavernacular.

He is a versatile cove. Philosopher, satirist, burlesquer, poet, critic,
and novelist. Perhaps the three critics in this country whose praise is
best worth having, and least easy to win, would be Marquis, Strunsky,
and O.W. Firkins. And I think that the three leading poets male in this
country to-day are Marquis, William Rose Benét, and (perhaps) Vachel
Lindsay. Of course Don Marquis has an immense advantage over Will Benét
in his stoutness. Will had to feed up on honey and candied apricocks and
mares' milk for months before they would admit him to the army.

Hermione and her little group of "Serious Thinkers" have attained the
dignity of book publication, and now stand on the shelf beside "Danny's
Own Story" and "The Cruise of the Jasper B." This satire on the
azure-pedalled coteries of Washington Square has perhaps received more
publicity than any other of Marquis's writings, but of all Don's
drolleries I reserve my chief affection for Archy. The cockroach,
endowed by some freak of transmigration with the shining soul of a vers
libre poet, is a thoroughly Marquisian whimsy. I make no apology for
quoting this prince of blattidae at some length. Many a commuter,
opening his evening paper on the train, looks first of all to see if
Archy is in the Dial. I love Archy because there seems to me something
thoroughly racial and native and American about him. Can you imagine
him, for instance, in _Punch_? His author has never told us which one of
the vers libre poets it is whose soul has emigrated into Archy, but I
feel sure it is not Ezra Pound or any of the expatriated eccentrics who
lisp in odd numbers in the King's Road, Chelsea. Could it be Amy Lowell?
Perhaps it should be explained that Archy's carelessness as to
punctuation and capitals is not mere ostentation, but arises from the
fact that he is not strong enough to work the shift key of his
typewriter. Ingenious readers of the Sun Dial have suggested many
devices to make this possible, but none that seem feasible to the roach
himself.

The Argument: Archy, the vers libre cockroach, overhears a person with
whiskers and dressed in the uniform of a butler in the British Navy, ask
a German waiter if the pork pie is built. Ja, Ja, replies the waiter.
Archy's suspicions are awakened, and he climbs into the pork pie through
an air hole, and prepares his soul for parlous times. The naval butler
takes the pie on board a launch, and Archy, watching through one of the
portholes of the pastry, sees that they are picked up by a British
cruiser "an inch or two outside the three-mile line." (This was in
neutral days, remember.) Archy continues the narrative in lower case
agate:

    it is cuthbert with the pork pie the captain has been longing for
    said a voice and on every side rang shouts of the pie the pie the
    captains pie has come at last and a salute of nineteen guns was
    fired the pie was carried at once to the captains mess room where
    the captain a grizzled veteran sat with knife and fork in hand and
    serviette tucked under his chin i knew cried the captain that if
    there was a pork pie in america my faithful cuthbert find it for me
    the butler bowed and all the ships officers pulled up their chairs
    to the table with a rasping sound you may serve it honest cuthbert
    said the captain impatiently and the butler broke a hole in the top
    crust he touched a hidden mechanism for immediately something right
    under me began to go tick tock tick tock tick tock what is that
    noise captain said the larboard mate only the patent log clicking
    off the knots said the butler it needs oiling again but cuthbert
    said the captain why are you so nervous and what means that flush
    upon your face that flush your honor is chicken pox said cuthbert i
    am subject to sudden attacks of it unhand that pie cried the ships
    surgeon leaping to his feet arrest that butler he is a teuton spy
    that is not chicken pox at all it is german measles ha ha cried the
    false butler the ship is doomed there is a clock work bomb in this
    pie my name is not cuthbert it is friedrich and he leaped through a
    port into the sea his blonde side whiskers which were false falling
    off as he did so ha ha rang his mocking laughter from the ocean as
    he pulled shoreward with long strokes your ship is doomed my god
    said the senior boatswain what shall we do stop the clock ordered
    the captain but i had already done so i braced my head against the
    hour hand and my feet against the minute hand and stopped the
    mechanism the captain drew his sword and pried off all the top crust
    gentlemen he said yonder cockroach has saved the ship let us throw
    the pie overboard and steam rapidly away from it advised the
    starboard ensign not so not so cried the captain yon gallant
    cockroach must not perish so gratitude is a tradition of the british
    navy i would sooner perish with him than desert him all the time the
    strain was getting worse on me if my feet slipped the clock would
    start again and all would be lost beads of sweat rolled down my
    forehead and almost blinded me something must be done quick said the
    first assistant captain the insect is losing his rigidity wait said
    the surgeon and gave me a hypodermic of some powerful east indian
    drug which stiffened me like a cataleptic but i could still see and
    hear for days and days a council of war was held about me every
    afternoon and wireless reports sent to london save the cockroach
    even if you lose the ship wirelessed the admiralty england must
    stand by the smaller nations and every hour the surgeon gave me
    another hypodermic at the end of four weeks the cabin boy who had
    been thinking deeply all the time suggested that a plug of wood be
    inserted in my place which was done and i fell to the deck well nigh
    exhausted the next day i was set on shore in the captains gig and
    here i am.

    archy

So far as I know, America has made just two entirely original
contributions to the world's types of literary and dramatic art. These
are the humorous colyum and the burlesque show. The saline and robust
repartee of the burlicue is ancient enough in essence, but it is
compounded into a new and uniquely American mode, joyously flavoured
with Broadway garlic. The newspaper colyum, too, is a native product.
Whether Ben Franklin or Eugene Field invented it, it bears the image and
superscription of America.

And using the word ephemeral in its strict sense, Don Marquis is
unquestionably the cleverest of our ephemeral philosophers. This nation
suffers a good deal from lack of humour in high places: our Great
Pachyderms have all Won their Way to the Top by a Resolute Struggle. But
Don has just chuckled and gone on refusing to answer letters or fill out
Mr. Purinton's blasphemous efficiency charts or join the Poetry Society
or attend community masques. And somehow all these things seem to melt
away, and you look round the map and see Don Marquis taking up all the
scenery.... He has such an oecumenical kind of humour. It's just as true
in Brooklyn as it is in the Bronx.

He is at his best when he takes up some philosophic dilemma, or some
quaint abstraction (viz., Certainty, Predestination, Idleness,
Uxoricide, Prohibition, Compromise, or Cornutation) and sets the idea
spinning. Beginning slowly, carelessly, in a deceptive, offhand manner,
he lets the toy revolve as it will. Gradually the rotation accelerates;
faster and faster he twirls the thought (sometimes losing a few
spectators whose centripetal powers are not starch enough) until,
chuckling, he holds up the flashing, shimmering conceit, whirling at top
speed and ejaculating sparks. What is so beautiful as a rapidly
revolving idea? Marquis's mind is like a gyroscope: the faster it spins,
the steadier it is. There are laws of dynamics in colyums just as
anywhere else.

What is there in the nipping air of Galesburg, Illinois, that turns the
young sciolists of Knox College toward the rarefied ethers of
literature? S.S. McClure, John Phillips, Ralph Waldo Trine, Don
Marquis--are there other Knox men in the game, too? Marquis was studying
at Galesburg about the time of the Spanish War. He has worked on half a
dozen newspapers, and assisted Joel Chandler Harris in editing "Uncle
Remus's Magazine." But let him tell his biography in his own words:

    Born July 29, 1878, at Walnut, Bureau Co., Ill., a member of the
    Republican party.

    My father was a physician, and I had all the diseases of the time
    and place free of charge.

    Nothing further happened to me until, in the summer of 1896, I left
    the Republican party to follow the Peerless Leader to defeat.

    In 1900 I returned to the Republican party to accept a position in
    the Census Bureau, at Washington, D.C. This position I filled for
    some months in a way highly satisfactory to the Government in power.
    It is particularly gratifying to me to remember that one evening,
    after I had worked unusually hard at the Census Office, the late
    President McKinley himself nodded and smiled to me as I passed
    through the White House grounds on my way home from toil. He had
    heard of my work that day, I had no doubt, and this was his way of
    showing me how greatly he appreciated it.

    Nevertheless, shortly after President McKinley paid this public
    tribute to the honesty, efficiency and importance of my work in the
    Census Office, I left the Republican party again, and accepted a
    position as reporter on a Washington paper.

    Upon entering the newspaper business all the troubles of my earlier
    years disappeared as if by magic, and I have lived the contented,
    peaceful, unworried life of the average newspaper man ever since.

    There is little more to tell. In 1916 I again returned to the
    Republican party. This time it was for the express purpose of voting
    against Mr. Wilson. Then Mr. Hughes was nominated, and I left the
    Republican party again.

    This is the outline of my life in its relation to the times in which
    I live. For the benefit of those whose curiosity extends to more
    particular details, I add a careful pen-picture of myself.

    "We have to delay his unerring line, but the bitter feelings of the
rebels, following their pernicious policies stand in the command,
steamroll this province, and pregnancy entirely transit it: but no
doubt made the serious charge VS why you need to stay in this
province, until further order of Exmo.

    Virey Lord, stop the resolution of its motion, or at least, if
    verified, leave a detachment of troops to guard the veteran jurisdiction,
    whose support is not it will be difficult to gefes of this province,
    to keep the militia in the best walking, obedience and service to
    the Sovereign. But if our representation and ignoring the strong
    reasons that we present to leave, we will not be responsible
    at any time to the King God or the loss of this province and the
    abandonment of religion, were left with a move to do this, if necessary,
    and the Sovereign Lord Virey that we have fulfilled our
    part of what we are obliged and responsible protest make VS of
    all damage that SM is still on leave, teniéndola in the day
    under their protection. "Our Lord keeps VS many years. Tupiza,
    1781 and March 17. _Antolin Of Manuel de Montellano Chabarri .--
    .-- .-- Santander José Pedro Pizarro Leon de los Rios .-- .--
    Dávalos José Pedro Julian Calvete. - Ramon Ignacio Davalos.
    - José Alberto de Burgos Puch .-- .-- .-- Jose Felipe Martinez
    Aranibar._ Mr Major General Joseph D. Reseguin. Contestóles Reseguin
    verbally in the most benign and effective for consolation, and
    despite their small number of troops, determined to leave to
    D. Joaquin de Soria, a lieutenant of infantry regiment of Savoy,
    official accredited spirit and conduct, with 25 veterans and
    salteños: detachment that he thought sufficient, and to reassure
    them, to sustain the expedition, which those willing to enter there
    own militias in the province of Lipes, with a view of prisoners to
    the head of one major uprising of the late freedom muger corregidor,
    which still maintained a prisoner, dressed to their use, and in service
    of one of the Indian major, and also to break the stillness of
    securing those natural anxieties which were the hands of the
    province of Porco, raised in Yora, drank and other towns, some
    restless spirits: those who gave no care and little disclose to the
    imperial city of Potosi, which was often threatened with being
    overrun by those insurgents, whose fears were taking larger
    increase, by the inability and natural in a military governor Master,
    which precavia and shock over what needed to daily threats addressed
    the rebels in order to maintain continuous subsidy to the successful
    operations that were calm Reseguin all suspicion, as it expressly
    Governor Jorge Escobedo, in a letter dated April 9 1781 in
    which one minister said: "I hope the calm is restored in these
    places because it seems to express the fear that the first steps
you have given them, because there was a letter yesterday, which
is asking them to intercede for the forgiveness, and drank at this
time may be the most prisoners.

"These and other events, which became the commander, assured him the
good that they were immediate and provinces, and already free of the
contagion that had made them proceedings of the rioters, led the way to
day 11 of April, without leaving the espedicion of Lipes, for
the care they later get their attention. But it took a long time to learn
it had success more happy, fulfilled exactly as it had warned in the
instructions left by Antolin D. Chabarri, and whom she appointed commander
of the militia and Santiago de Cotagaita, who led this operation
successfully, performing all assignments on time is him.

    Reseguin marches continued, forcing soon allowed his weakness, and
    the many patients who had, struggled to overcome the difficulties
that sobrevenian on this occasion, they were repeated in all instances
to him sometimes D.

Ignacio Flores, to be closer to the silver. The people of the transit
took pains to give the greatest proof of loyalty to the most receiving
demonstrations that expressly allowed the wretched constitution that
had been earlier. Had arranged accommodation, food and backgrounds ready
requirements exceeded the care of the sick, went out to meet long-distance
Indian governors, with their second and curaca, with dances and music
to use to demonstrate the ease and complacency with which he received:
so it seemed the country had not had any alteration. These circumstances
provided him with the satisfaction of reaching the silver on the
19th of the month, which came through the cheers of a large town,
with one commander, and all the militia officers and many people
in the first distinction who had gone to get that handful of men,
covered with laurels, and glory of an immortal who could not clear
the course of time, black or dark shades of envy.

    The continuing received repeated
    warnings in the path D . Cristóval
    Lopez, the body rapidly taking
    up sedition in the provinces of
    the Sierra, it did hasten the march
    soon could: and being in the
    vicinity of Salta to the troops
    of his command, took command of
    Colonel D. Andres Mestre,
    governor of Tucuman, so that all the
    possible acceleration approaches, given
    that 300 men of the militia of
    that government, to serve in Peru,
    they had lost the allegiance
    to their commander and officers,
    that the Maneater looking
    back towards the gift of their
    houses.

And he knew that the Indians Tobas, affiliated with those in the vicinity
of the city of Jujuy, tried to invade and plunder.

    Earlier this single commander with the company of grenadiers,
    with the extraordinary diligence in two days of walking 50 miles and
    although he arrived in time for daring to contain militia arrested
    some prudent orders, and those ferocious men, leaving the weapons,
    returned to his idolatrous scattered homes.

However the project was to dispel the rioters, and to escarmentar
Tobas, that followed the delivery of the heads of the major riot,
which suffered the latest ordeal in the public square of that city,
whose result was obtained some quiet and partly calmed fears that
the righteous cause an event of this nature, rightly fearing that
if they took the body and lift significance to the entire province
would have been very difficult and risky the sugetarla, which passed
its extension 300 leagues, without which most populations Córdoba,
Santiago del Estero, San Miguel de Tucuman, Salta and Jujuy: Although
the rest is very populous, are small villages and ranches, inhabited
by men so much like the giant beasts and such, which can considered
as the true Centauros we pretend poets.

    Its hilly terrain and thick forests full of immense, they provide some
    advantages, if they have the knowledge, can be presumed to have
been arrested recently in admitting the party of sedition that
flattered their hearts in the hope of an absolute freedom, they are
extremely loving.

    Whose circumstances reflect in the Virey of Buenos Aires, was forced
to send an infantry company of the regiment of Savoy, to occupy the
city of Jujuy; important, since the precision of his travel to the
provinces internal vireinato.

Faded in any way suspicious, and precautions taken by some orders
of the Governor, official conduct extensive experience and proven,
Lopez continued to destination, being in the precision of leaving
the city and by the way, the third of its detachment, which was
also undertaken by the accident at the tertian, and moved the
remaining provinces pacified by Reseguin not happen novelty, and
the day April 20 arrived on time to the Silver City.

While these events occurred in vireinato limits of Buenos Aires, Lima
occurred in no less regard for others, and was to contain the enemy
causing havoc and devastation that the main rebel José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru,
the head of his supporters who formed a formidable army, not like those
found Pizarro, Cortez and other conquistadors first, but many armed with
guns, spears and some small-caliber guns, who had commanded the tyrant
melt, assisted with the accuracy of all required and paid punctuality.
The provisions of this usurper, but consistent with humanity, made
it less abhorrent than to their masters, which filled with
ferocity, not another providencia knew that the line or the knife.
Tupac-Amaru, although their edicts outlawed throughout Europe, he
forgave those who had, if he knew he could get some of your skill
or trade, and particularly achieved through a safe-except those who
had some knowledge of management of arms and military profession. The
studies have followed one of the schools of Lima, she had not
depose that barbarism characteristic of their nation, and put him
in a deal with some success as a terrible transformation: agents
but failed to put into practice the well premeditated measures had
been taken to it.

One of his generals, named Cicenaro step-knife in the village of Ayabirí
anyone found living in all castes, less than yours, against the
express orders of his gefe. Reprendióle bitterly for his excessive
cruelty, and that it was not extinct if all that were not purely
Indian, was consistent would be dominated by any party that
encouraged Spanish blood.

    "It's not time yet, said Joseph Gabriel; think for now only in
    possession over these vast regions, and dilated, then look for way
    to get rid of all pregnancies and obstacles we face." More than the
    truth, as if it had been followed by his subordinates, he could
    rightly feared, according to arrangement, and they were the spirits
of those people would have to through with the few relics of fidelity
were: being able to ensure without suspicion of exceeding the limits
of a prudent congetura because, although in the capital cities and
in some places a few provinces, it seemed much affection to the
King, were very few hearts on the part of the Sovereign, and if the
tyrant has had eight or ten sugetos able to conform and egecutar
its deliberations, would have surely represent Peru in the second
part of the disaster which occurred in Anglo-American colonies, and
the name of Tupac Amaru, and their subordinates in centuries to
come would be so admired and respected as Washington and others of
that general republic.

It is undeniable that the general uprising just esperimentar, was long
premeditated. Infinitos credited the same documents, taken to the Indian
masters, by which it appears, she was 10 years prior to the day of fatal
verify and even had delayed some time, if Catari Tomas had been able
to deal with more caution and circumspection. I had tried this with
the main rebel Indians and other ways to shake off the Spanish
domination in various journeys made by all the provinces, which
provides him the mule which professed.

Tungasuca news was, it had advanced to his view movements Chayanta,
suspicious and discovered that she had fabricated the plot, he went
immediately to the egecucion project, believing that although it had
anticipated the time, could be appropriate to the occasion, attended
the general dissatisfaction expressed by the regulations espedidos of the
Court for the establishment of some new classes of real wealth, which
in no way detrimental to the Indians, because the sovereign exception
of deliberations, always attentive to their benefit and comfort.
Nonetheless, it has maliciously sought after attribute for this
reason the sole source of many evils, without examining it, whether
contributed in part, was arising from the lack of conformity and
ill admit that debian and obey those rules due to the resignation
the good and loyal vassals.

This case, what reason can dispute the primary cause of the uprising,
when a review is to be destroyed so easily, which is sufficient
to know that anything the Indians included those orders, and they have
tried and sedition before thinking ministry? Peruvians say all you want
about this, the truth is that inside all of them applauded the general
commotion: if you felt was an Indian author, because they are very
hard to bend the knee to a man of this caste , look at those
countries with less consideration than the slaves: and yet this
disgust were undecided until they saw they were not fulfilled, as
they were promised freedom in their lives and farms.

Not because it aims to reduce the constant loyalty of many who are bound
by the obligations of their birth, they had sacrificed everything
for the King: I only want to give a positive idea of the state in
which generally were those provinces. Ya ready for Jose Gabriel
Tupac Amaru-most-considered necessary to undertake its misuse, but not
stopped in thinking. Took over that our Court was engaged in a sustained
war against the British, who occupied all their attention: that excessive
cries of merchants and traders against the new taxes repeated many times
to buyers, from their stores and storefronts, without another reason
to see that diminished their excessive profits, had penetrated the
hearts of not only Indians but the spirits of everyone who lent fond ear
to the voices of freedom and independence, and that his own corregidor,
D. Antonio de Arriaga, was excommunicated by the Bishop of Cuzco, which
espedida providencia recklessly by that prelate, sometimes so dangerous,
he had attracted the spirits of their provinces, could not believe
more favorable circumstances presented to establish his domain
and persuaded by acknowledged that all accidents, found general support
for its reckless attempt, put it in egecucion. Not far from the truth,
and surely would have seen their designs if verified, as it began,
had followed the method of admitting anyone under their flags were
presented, effective providencia but render useless the ferocious
conditions of their commanders, and barbarism of some troops who
failed to obey repeated orders and the many who had given so that
egecutase in this way, and not to offend or harm the Spanish creoles,
mestizos, cholos and Zambos in their persons or property. well
penetrated by the Visitor-General, D.

José Antonio de Arecha, and Field Marshal, D. José del Valle, the dire
dire consequences that could result from the critical situation in the
kingdom, no lost time, and by choosing the headquarters city of Cuzco,
devoted all his attention to seek ways to contain early progress and
authority of the rebel, which is dramatically increasing every day.
Royal coffers were opened for the collection of food, ammunition and
artillery, were offered prizes; allocated salaries and bonuses, and
laid the economic ideas that had been adopted and pursued until
then, not knowing it was the occasion to think about them, and destroy
itself in the projects of the tyrant, who gave more care to those
who were at the beginning of conjuration: and fanned the provisions,
with activity for the risk, we found very quickly gathered a
considerable army able to compete and surpass that of the insurgents.

_Fuerza army to act against Jose Gabriel Tupac-Amaru._ _Gefe principal._
The Field Marshal, D. José del Valle.

    _Mayor General._ Captain D. Francisco Cuellar. _Ayudantes Of Campo._
    cavalry lieutenants: D. Antonio Donoso. D. Isidro Rodriguez. Alferez
    of The idem, D. Francisco Lopez. _Primera Columna_. Commander,
    Sergeant Major of cavalry, D.

Joaquin Balcarcel. Second, the colonel of militia, Marques de Rocafuerte.
_Fuerza Of ella_. Regiment. MEN. Cotabambas Dragons of Calca 60 Ibid
100 Ibid 100 Ibid Urumbamba of Abambay 25 of 25 Idem Andaguaillas of
followers of Indian Creek and Tambo TOTAL Calca 2000. 2310 _Segunda
columna_. Commander, Lieutenant Colonel, D. Manuel Campero. Second,
the Lieutenant of Infantry, D. Jose Varela. _Su Fuerza_ Caballeria
lijera 200 Cusco 150 Idem Idem Idem of Quispicanchi 200 of 200 infantry
Andaguaillas Lima 900 Indians faithful Maras, and Gayabamba Chincheros
2000 TOTAL 2950 _Tercera columna_. Commander, Lieutenant Colonel, D.
Manuel Villalta. Second, the colonel of militia, D. Matias Baules.
_Su Fuerza_. Infantry Andaguaillas of Lima 100 Ibid 300 Ibid 200 Abancay
Company's chief Rozas Lebu 100 of 200 Idem faithful Indian Ink,
Guarocordo, 2000 and Senior Suritti TOTAL. 2900 _Cuarta columna_.

Commander, Paruro of Corregidor, D. Manuel Castilla Urruz. Second,
the colonel of militia, D. Isidro Guizasola. _Su Fuerza_. Infantry Cuzco
100 Spaniards and 2900 Indians faithful TOTAL. 3.000 _Quinta columna_.
Commander, Colonel of Infantry, D. Marna Sunday. Second, the Cotabambas
of Corregidor, D. José Acuña. Third, the Chumbivileas of Corregidor,
D. Laisequilla Francisco. _Su Fuerza_. Infantry veteran Spaniards and 100
Indians faithful TOTAL 2900. 3.000 _Sexta columna_. Commander, Colonel
D. José Cabero.

In the teeming ooze and ocean bottoms of our atlantic humanity he
finds rich corals and rainbow shells, hospitality, reverence, love, and
beauty.

This is the sentiment that makes a merry pedestrian, and Vachel has
scrutineered and scuffled through a dozen states, lightening larders and
puzzling the worldly. Afoot and penniless is his technique--"stopping
when he had a mind to, singing when he felt inclined to"--and begging
his meals and bed. I suppose he has had as many free meals as any
American citizen; and, this is how he does it, copied from his little
pamphlet used on many a road:


RHYMES TO BE TRADED FOR BREAD

Being new verses by Nicholas Vachel Lindsay, Springfield, Illinois,
June, 1912, printed expressly as a substitute for money.

This book is to be used in exchange for the necessities of life on a
tramp-journey from the author's home town, through the West and back,
during which he will observe the following rules:

    (1) Keep away from the cities.

    (2) Keep away from the railroads.

    (3) Have nothing to do with money. Carry no baggage.

    (4) Ask for dinner about quarter after eleven.

    (5) Ask for supper, lodging, and breakfast about quarter of five.

    (6) Travel alone.

    (7) Be neat, truthful, civil, and on the square.

    (8) Preach the Gospel of Beauty.

    In order to carry out the last rule there will be three exceptions
    to the rule against baggage. (1) The author will carry a brief
    printed statement, called "The Gospel of Beauty." (2) He will carry
    this book of rhymes for distribution. (3) Also he will carry a small
    portfolio with pictures, etc., chosen to give an outline of his view
    of the history of art, especially as it applies to America.

Perhaps I have tarried too long over Vachel; but I have set down his
theories of vagabonding because many walkers will find them interesting.
"The Handy Guide for Beggars" will leave you footsore but better for the
exercise. And when the fascinating story of American literature in this
decade (1910-20) is finally written, there will be a happy and
well-merited corner in it for a dusty but "neat, truthful, and civil"
figure from Springfield, Illinois.

A good pipeful of prose to solace yourself withal, about sunset on a
lonely road, is that passage on "Lying Awake at Night" to be found in
"The Forest," by Stewart Edward White. Major White is one of the best
friends the open-air walker has, and don't forget it!

The motors have done this for us at least, that as they have made the
highways their own beyond dispute, walking will remain the mystic and
private pleasure of the secret and humble few. For us the byways, the
footpaths, and the pastures will be sanctified and sweet. Thank heaven
there are still gentle souls uncorrupted by the victrola and the
limousine. In our old trousers and our easy shoes, with pipe and stick,
we can do our fifteen miles between lunch and dinner, and glorify the
ways of God to man.

And sometimes, about two o'clock of an afternoon (these spells come most
often about half an hour after lunch), the old angel of peregrination
lifts himself up in me, and I yearn and wamble for a season afoot. When
a blue air is moving keenly through bare boughs this angel is most
vociferous. I gape wanly round the lofty citadel where I am pretending
to earn the Monday afternoon envelope. The filing case, thermostat, card
index, typewriter, automatic telephone: these ingenious anodynes avail
me not. Even the visits of golden nymphs, sweet ambassadors of commerce,
who rustle in and out of my room with memoranda, mail, manuscripts, aye,
even these lightfoot figures fail to charm. And the mind goes out to the
endless vistas of streets, roads, fields, and rivers that summon the
wanderer with laughing voice. Somewhere a great wind is scouring the
hillsides; and once upon a time a man set out along the Great North Road
to walk to Royston in the rain....

Grant us, O Zeus! the tingling tremour of thigh and shank that comes of
a dozen sturdy miles laid underheel. Grant us "fine walking on the hills
in the direction of the sea"; or a winding road that tumbles down to
some Cotswold village. Let an inn parlour lie behind red curtains, and a
table be drawn toward the fire. Let there be a loin of cold beef, an
elbow of yellow cheese, a tankard of dog's nose. Then may we prop our
Bacon's Essays against the pewter and study those mellow words:
"Certainly it is heaven upon earth to have a man's mind move in charity,
rest in providence, and turn upon the poles of truth." _Haec studio,
pernoctant nobiscum, peregrinantur, rusticantur_.


RUPERT BROOKE


Rupert Brooke had the oldest pith of England in his fibre. He was born
of East Anglia, the original vein of English blood. Ruddy skin,
golden-brown hair, blue eyes, are the stamp of the Angles. Walsingham,
in Norfolk, was the home of the family. His father was a master at
Rugby; his grandfather a canon in the church.

In 1913 Heffer, the well-known bookseller and publisher of Cambridge,
England, issued a little anthology called _Cambridge Poems 1900-1913_.
This volume was my first introduction to Brooke. As an undergraduate at
Oxford during the years 1910-13 I had heard of his work from time to
time; but I think we youngsters at Oxford were too absorbed in our own
small versemakings to watch very carefully what the "Tabs" were doing.
His poem _The Old Vicarage, Grantchester_, reprinted in Heffer's
_Cambridge Poems_, first fell under my eye during the winter of 1913-14.

Grantchester is a tiny hamlet just outside Cambridge; set in the meadows
along the Cam or Granta (the earlier name), and next door to the
Trumpington of Chaucer's "The Reeve's Tale." All that Cambridge country
is flat and comparatively uninteresting; patchworked with chalky fields
bright with poppies; slow, shallow streams drifting between pollard
willows; it is the beginning of the fen district, and from the brow of
the Royston downs (thirteen miles away) it lies as level as a table-top
with the great chapel of King's clear against the sky. It is the
favourite lament of Cambridge men that their "_Umgebung_" is so dull and
monotonous compared with the rolling witchery of Oxfordshire.

But to the young Cantab sitting over his beer at the Café des Westens in
Berlin, the Cambridge villages seemed precious and fair indeed.
Balancing between genuine homesickness for the green pools of the Cam,
and a humorous whim in his rhymed comment on the outlying villages,
Brooke wrote the Grantchester poem; and probably when the fleeting pang
of nostalgia was over enjoyed the evening in Berlin hugely. But the
verses are more than of merely passing interest. To one who knows that
neighbourhood the picture is cannily vivid. To me it brings back with
painful intensity the white winding road from Cambridge to Royston which
I have bicycled hundreds of tunes. One sees the little inns along the
way--the _Waggon and Horses_, the _Plough_, the _King's Arms_--and the
recurring blue signboard _Fine Royston Ales_ (the Royston brewery being
famous in those parts). Behind the fun there shines Brooke's passionate
devotion to the soil and soul of England which was to reach its final
expression so tragically soon. And even behind this the immortal
questions of youth which have no country and no clime--

    Say, is there Beauty yet to find?
    And Certainty? and Quiet kind?

No lover of England, certainly no lover of Cambridge, is likely to
forget the Grantchester poem. But knowing Brooke only by that, one may
perhaps be excused for having merely ticketed him as one of the score of
young varsity poets whom Oxford and Cambridge had graduated in the past
decade and who are all doing fine and promising work. Even though he
tarried here in the United States ("El Cuspidorado," as he wittily
observed) and many hold precious the memory of his vivid mind and
flashing face, to most of us he was totally unknown. Then came the War;
he took part in the unsuccessful Antwerp Expedition; and while in
training for the Ægean campaign he wrote the five sonnets entitled
"1914". I do not know exactly when they were written or where first
published. Their great popularity began when the Dean of St. Paul's
quoted from them in a sermon on Easter Day, 1915, alluding to them as
the finest expression of the English spirit that the War had called
forth. They came to New York in the shape of clippings from the London
_Times_. No one could read the matchless sonnet:

    "If I should die, think only this of me:
      That there's some corner of a foreign field
    That is for ever England."

and not be thrilled to the quick. A country doctor in Ohio to whom I
sent a copy of the sonnet wrote "I cannot read it without tears." This
was poetry indeed; like the Scotchman and his house, we kent it by the
biggin o't. I suppose many another stranger must have done as I did:
wrote to Brooke to express gratitude for the perfect words. But he had
sailed for the Mediterranean long before. Presently came a letter from
London saying that he had died on the very day of my letter--April 23,
1915. He died on board the French hospital ship _Duguay-Trouin_, on
Shakespeare's birthday, in his 28th year. One gathers from the log of
the hospital-ship that the cause of his death was a malignant ulcer, due
to the sting of some venomous fly. He had been weakened by a previous
touch of sunstroke.

A description of the burial is given in "Memorials of Old Rugbeians Who
Fell in the Great War." It vividly recalls Stevenson's last journey to
the Samoan mountain top which Brooke himself had so recently visited.
The account was written by one of Brooke's comrades, who has since been
killed in action:

    We found a most lovely place for his grave, about a mile up the
    valley from the sea, an olive grove above a watercourse, dry now,
    but torrential in winter. Two mountains flank it on either side, and
    Mount Khokilas is at its head. We chose a place in the most lovely
    grove I have ever seen, or imagined, a little glade of about a dozen
    trees, carpeted with mauve-flowering sage. Over its head droops an
    olive tree, and round it is a little space clear of all undergrowth.

    About a quarter past nine the funeral party arrived and made their
    way up the steep, narrow, and rocky path that leads to the grave.
    The way was so rough and uncertain that we had to have men with
    lamps every twenty yards to guide the bearers. He was borne by petty
    officers of his own company, and so slowly did they go that it was
    not till nearly eleven that they reached the grave.

    We buried him by cloudy moonlight. He wore his uniform, and on the
    coffin were his helmet, belt, and pistol (he had no sword). We lined
    the grave with flowers and olive, and Colonel Quilter laid an olive
    wreath on the coffin. The chaplain who saw him in the afternoon read
    the service very simply. The firing party fired three volleys and
    the bugles sounded the "Last Post."

    And so we laid him to rest in that lovely valley, his head towards
    those mountains that he would have loved to know, and his feet
    towards the sea. He once said in chance talk that he would like to
    be buried in a Greek island. He could have no lovelier one than
    Skyros, and no quieter resting place.

    On his grave we heaped great blocks of white marble; the men of his
    company made a great wooden cross for his head, with his name upon
    it, and his platoon put a smaller one at his feet. On the back of
    the large cross our interpreter wrote in Greek.... "Here lies the
    servant of God, sub-lieutenant in the English navy, who died for the
    deliverance of Constantinople from the Turks."

    The next morning we sailed, and had no chance of revisiting his
    grave.

It is no mere flippancy to say that the War did much for Rupert Brooke.
The boy who had written many hot, morbid, immature verses and a handful
of perfect poetry, stands now by one swift translation in the golden
cloudland of English letters. There will never, can never, be any
laggard note in the praise of his work. And of a young poet dead one may
say things that would be too fulsome for life. Professor Gilbert Murray
is quoted:

"Among all who have been poets and died young, it is hard to think of
one who, both in life and death, has so typified the ideal radiance of
youth and poetry."

In the grave among the olive trees on the island of Skyros, Brooke found
at least one Certainty--that of being "among the English poets." He
would probably be the last to ask a more high-sounding epitaph.

His "Collected Poems" as published consist of eighty-two pieces, fifty
of which were published in his first book, issued (in England only) in
1911. That is to say fifty of the poems were written before the age of
24, and seventeen of the fifty before 21. These last are thoroughly
youthful in formula. We all go through the old familiar cycle, and
Brooke did not take his youth at second hand. Socialism, vegetarianism,
bathing by moonlight in the Cam, sleeping out of doors, walking barefoot
on the crisp English turf, channel crossings and what not--it is all a
part of the grand game. We can only ask that the man really see what he
says he sees, and report it with what grace he can muster.

And so of the seventeen earliest poems there need not be fulsome praise.
Few of us are immortal poets by twenty-one. But even Brooke's
undergraduate verses refused to fall entirely into the usual grooves of
sophomore song. So unerring a critic as Professor Woodberry (his
introduction to the "Collected Poems" is so good that lesser hands may
well pause) finds in them "more of the intoxication of the god" than in
the later rounder work. They include the dreaming tenderness of _Day
That I Have Loved_; they include such neat little pictures of the gross
and sordid as the two poems _Wagner_ and _Dawn_, written on a trip in
Germany. (It is curious that the only note of exasperation in Brooke's
poems occurs when he writes from Germany. One finds it again, wittily
put, in _Grantchester_.)

This vein of brutality and resolute ugliness that one finds here and
there in Brooke's work is not wholly amiss nor unintelligible. Like all
young men of quick blood he seized gaily upon the earthy basis of our
humanity and found in it food for purging laughter. There was never a
young poet worth bread and salt who did not scrawl ribald verses in his
day; we may surmise that Brooke's peers at King's would recall many
vigorous stanzas that are not included in the volume at hand. The few
touches that we have in this vein show a masculine fear on Brooke's part
of being merely pretty in his verse. In his young thirst for reality he
did not boggle at coarse figures or loathsome metaphors. Just as his
poems of 1905-08 are of the cliché period where all lips are "scarlet,"
and lamps are "relumed," so the section dated 1908-11 shows Brooke in
the _Shropshire Lad_ stage, at the mercy of extravagant sex images, and
yet developing into the dramatic felicity of his sonnet _The Hill_:

    Breathless, we flung us on the windy hill,
      Laughed in the sun, and kissed the lovely grass,
      You said, "Through glory and ecstasy we pass;
    Wind, sun, and earth remain, the birds sing still,
    When we are old, are old...." "And when we die
      All's over that is ours; and life burns on
    Through other lovers, other lips," said I,
    --"Heart of my heart, our heaven is now, is won!"

    "We are Earth's best, that learnt her lesson here.
      Life is our cry. We have kept the faith!" we said:
      "We shall go down with unreluctant tread
    Rose-crowned into the darkness!" ... Proud we were
    And laughed, that had such brave true things to say.
    --And then you suddenly cried, and turned away.

The true lover of poetry, it seems to me, cannot but wish that the
"1914" sonnets and the most perfect of the later poems had been
separately issued. The best of Brooke forms a thin sheaf of consummate
beauty, and I imagine that the little edition of "1914 and Other Poems,"
containing the thirty-two later poems, which was published in England
and issued in Garden City by Doubleday, Page & Company in July, 1915, to
save the American copy right, will always be more precious than the
complete edition. As there were only twenty-five copies of this first
American edition, it is extremely rare and will undoubtedly be sought
after by collectors. But for one who is interested to trace the growth
of Brooke's power, the steadying of his poetic orbit and the mounting
flame of his joy in life, the poems of 1908-11 are an instructive study.
From the perfected brutality of _Jealousy_ or _Menelaus and Helen_ or
_A Channel Passage_ (these bite like Meredith) we see him passing to
sonnets that taste of Shakespeare and foretell his utter mastery of the
form. What could better the wit and beauty of this song:

    "Oh! Love," they said, "is King of Kings,
      And Triumph is his crown.
    Earth fades in flame before his wings,
      And Sun and Moon bow down."
    But that, I knew, would never do;
      And Heaven is all too high.
    So whenever I meet a Queen, I said,
      I will not catch her eye.

    "Oh! Love," they said, and "Love," they said,
      "The Gift of Love is this;
    A crown of thorns about thy head,
      And vinegar to thy kiss!"* *
    * _Thomas Carlyle to Goethe._
      22 December 1829th "I had
    no less satisfying for the second
      time to read and send _Briefwechsel_ today to set up essay about
_Schiller_ from the _Foreign Review_.

    There will be pleasantly Seyn
      to hear that the knowledge
    and estimation of foreign,
      especially German
    literature , with growing quickly
      spread as far as the
    English tongue prevails, so that
      the antipodes Bey, even in Neuholland, the wise men of your country
to preach their wisdom.

I recently heard that even at Oxford and Cambridge, our two English
universities, which until now than Haltpuncte peculiar tenacity of
the island are been considered, it is in such things begin to rain.
_Niebuhr_ your in Cambridge has a clever translator found in Oxford
and have two-three Germans have sufficient employment as teachers
of their language. The new light mag for certain eye Seyn too, but
nobody can be on the good consequences of doubt at the end it will
show. Let nations like individuals are only aware of one another and
the mutual hatred will in turn present Hülfleistung, and instead of
natural enemies, such as neighboring countries sometimes called, are we
all friends Seyn natural. "* * * If after all this we now hope
flatters a line of nations, a more general benevolence is by further
knowledge of different languages and ways of thinking, after producing
so I venture by a major influence of German literature to speak,
which is in a particular case would like to prove most effective.

    It is well known enough that the inhabitants of the
      three British kingdoms, not just in agreement with
    the best live, but rather that of a neighbor the other
      enough to find blame, to a secret aversion Bey to justify it.

But now, I am convinced that as the German-aesthetic ethics literature
through three disseminated in Britain, also a quiet community of
_Philogermanen_ form will be used in the propensity for a fourth, then
shank nahverwandten peoples, even among themselves, as a united and
merged to be felt. * * * * * _Schillers Leben._ _Erster Abschnitt._
_Seine Jugend_ (1759-1784). Of all the writers is at the end of the
last century, probably not worthy of attention than _Friedrich Schiller_.
Awarded by brilliant mind, noble and sublime sense of taste, he
reprints the best of these rare qualities united in his works back.

The extended fame, which he thereby become .......... .... there
are new forms of truths, new principles of Wisdom, new images and
Scenes of beauty, which he assigns to the empty formless infinite
space decreased to ktêma eis aei + + or the eternal property of all
genders this earth.

    [s. 301] .......... our literature, they
      are so rich in itself, nor would enrich more
      unequal. [_Anhang_, S. 54] * * * * * _Nähere
    description of the depicted Lokalitäten._ Title
    copper, Thomas Carlyle apartment in the shank
      Graffenstaden Dumfries, on the southern
      shore of Scotland. Vignette title, the same in the
    distance.

    Front of the envelope, in Schiller's apartment Weimar.
      back of the envelope, in Schiller's lonely
    cottage garden, on the Jenaischen Leutra,
      built by himself, where he was in perfect
    solitude sometimes, especially Mary
      Stuart wrote.

After its successful removal and sheaths, it was from, because of
variability, and here you thought the same to get souvenirs.
Of his humour only those who knew him personally have a right to speak;
but where does one find a more perfect bit of gentle satire than
_Heaven_ where he gives us a Tennysonian fish pondering the problem of a
future life.

    This life cannot be All, they swear,
    For how unpleasant, if it were!
    One may not doubt that, somehow, Good
    Shall come of Water and of Mud;
    And, sure, the reverent eye must see
    A Purpose in Liquidity.
    We darkly know, by Faith we cry
    The future is not Wholly Dry....
    But somewhere, beyond Space and Time,
    Is wetter water, slimier slime!

No future anthology of English wit can be complete without that
exquisite bit of fooling.

Of such a sort, to use Mr. Mosher's phrase, was Rupert Chawner Brooke,
"the latest and greatest of young Englishmen."


THE MAN


The big room was very still. Outside, beneath a thin, cold drizzle, the
first tinge of green showed on the broad lawn. The crocuses were
beginning to thrust their spears through the sodden mold. One of the
long French windows stood ajar, and in the air that slipped through was
a clean, moist whiff of coming spring. It was the end of March.

In the leather armchair by the wide, flat desk sat a man. His chin was
on his chest; the lowered head and the droop of the broad, spare
shoulders showed the impact of some heavy burden. His clothes were
gray--a trim, neatly cut business suit; his hair was gray; his gray-blue
eyes were sombre. In the gathering dusk he seemed only a darker shadow
in the padded chair. His right hand--the long, firm, nervous hand of a
scholar--rested on the blotting pad. A silver pen had slipped from his
fingers as he sat in thought. On the desk lay some typed sheets which he
was revising.

Sitting there, his mind had been traversing the memories of the past two
and a half years. Every line of his lean, strong figure showed some
trace of the responsibilities he had borne. In the greatest crisis of
modern times he had steadfastly pursued an ideal, regardless of the
bitterness of criticism and the sting of ridicule. The difficulties had
been tremendous. Every kind of influence had been brought upon him to do
certain things, none of which he had done. A scholar, a dreamer, a
lifelong student of history, he had surprised his associates by the
clearness of his vision, the tenacity of his will. Never, perhaps, in
the history of the nation had a man been more brutally reviled than
he--save one! And his eyes turned to the wall where, over the chimney
piece, hung the portrait of one of his predecessors who had stood for
his ideals in a time of fiery trial. It was too dark now to see the
picture but he knew well the rugged, homely face, the tender,
pain-wrenched mouth.

This man had dreamed a dream. Climbing from the humble youth of a poor
student, nourished in classroom and library with the burning visions of
great teachers, he had hoped in this highest of positions to guide his
country in the difficult path of a higher patriotism. Philosopher,
idealist, keen student of men, he had been able to keep his eyes
steadfast on his goal despite the intolerable cloud of unjust criticism
that had rolled round him. Venomous and shameful attacks had hurt him,
but had never abated his purpose. In a world reeling and smoking with
the insane fury of war, one nation should stand unshaken for the message
of the spirit, for the glory of humanity; for the settlement of disputes
by other means than gunpowder and women's tears. That was his dream. To
that he had clung.

He shifted grimly in his chair, and took up the pen.

What a long, heart-rending strain it had been! His mind went back to the
golden August day when the telegram was laid on his desk announcing that
the old civilization of Europe had fallen into fragments. He remembered
the first meeting thereafter, when his associates, with grave, anxious
faces, debated the proper stand for them to take. He remembered how, in
the swinging relaxation of an afternoon of golf, he had thoughtfully
planned the wording of his first neutrality proclamation.

In those dim, far-off days, who had dreamed what would come? Who could
have believed that great nations would discard without compunction all
the carefully built-up conventions of international law? That murder in
the air, on land, on the sea, under the sea, would be rewarded by the
highest military honours? That a supposedly friendly nation would fill
another land with spies--even among the accredited envoys of diplomacy?

Sadly this man thought of the long painful fight he had made to keep one
nation at least out of the tragic, barbaric struggle. Giving due honour
to convinced militarist and sincere pacifist, his own course was still
different. That his country, disregarding the old fetishes of honour and
insult, should stand solidly for humanity; should endure all things,
suffer all things, for humanity's sake; should seek to bind up the
wounds and fill the starving mouths. That one nation--not because she
was weak, but because she was strong--should, with God's help, make a
firm stand for peace and show to all mankind that force can never
conquer force.

"A nation can be so right that it should be too proud to fight."
Magnificent words, true words, which one day would re-echo in history as
the utterance of a man years in advance of his time--but what rolling
thunders of vituperation they had cost him! _Too proud to fight_!... If
only it had been possible to carry through to the end this message from
Judea!

But, little by little, and with growing anguish, he had seen that the
nation must take another step. Little by little, as the inhuman frenzies
of warfare had grown in savagery, inflicting unspeakable horror on
non-combatants, women and children, he had realized that his cherished
dream must be laid aside. For the first time in human history a great
nation had dared to waive pride, honour, and--with bleeding heart--even
the lives of its own for the hope of humanity and civilization. With
face buried in his hands he reviewed the long catalogue of atrocities on
the seas. He could feel his cheeks grow hot against his palms. _Arabic_,
_Lusitania_, _Persia_, _Laconia_, _Falaba_, _Gulflight_, _Sussex_,
_California_--the names were etched in his brain in letters of grief.
And now, since the "barred-zone" decree ...

He straightened in his chair. Like a garment the mood of anguish slipped
from him. He snapped on the green desk light and turned to his personal
typewriter. As he did so, from some old student day a phrase flashed
into his mind--the words of Martin Luther, the Thuringian peasant and
university professor, who four hundred years before had nailed his
theses on the church door at Wittenberg:

"_Gott helfe mir, ich kann nicht anders_."

They chimed a solemn refrain in his heart as he inserted a fresh sheet
of paper behind the roller and resumed his writing....

"_With a profound sense of the solemn and even tragical character of the
step I am taking and of the grave responsibilities which it
involves_.... _I advise that the Congress declare the recent course of
the Imperial German Government to be in fact nothing less than war
against the Government and people of the United States_...."

The typewriter clicked industriously. The face bent intently over the
keys was grave and quiet, but as the paper unrolled before him some of
his sadness seemed to pass away. A vision of his country, no longer
divided in petty schisms, engrossed in material pursuits, but massed in
one by the force and fury of a valiant ideal, came into his mind.

"It is for humanity," he whispered to himself. "_Ich kann nicht
anders_...."

"_We have no quarrel with the German people. We have no feeling toward
them but one of sympathy and friendship. It was not upon their impulse
that their government acted in entering this war. It was not with their
previous knowledge or approval_.... _Self-governed nations do not fill
their neighbour states with spies, or set the course of intrigue to
bring about some critical posture of affairs which will give them an
opportunity to strike and make conquest.... A steadfast concert for
peace can never be maintained except by a partnership of democratic
nations_....

    "_Only free peoples can hold their purpose and their honour steady to
    a common end and prefer the interests of mankind to any narrow
    interest of their own_."

With the gathering of the dusk the rain had stopped. He rose from his
chair and walked to the window. The sky had cleared; in the west shone a
faint band of clear apple green in which burned one lucent star.
Distantly he could hear the murmur of the city like the pulsing
heartbeat of the nation. As often, in moments of tension, he seemed to
feel the whole vast stretch of the continent throbbing; the yearning
breast of the land trembling with energy; the great arch of sky,
spanning from coast to coast, quiver with power unused. The murmur of
little children in their cradles, the tender words of mothers, the
footbeat of men on the pavements of ten thousand cities, the flags
leaping in air from high buildings, ships putting out to sea with
gunners at their sterns--in one aching synthesis the vastness and
dearness and might of his land came to him. A mingled nation, indeed, of
various and clashing breeds; but oh, with what a tradition to uphold!

Words were forming in his mind as he watched the fading sky, and he
returned quietly to the typewriter:

"_We are glad to fight thus for the ultimate peace of the world and for
the liberation of its peoples, the German peoples included.... The world
must be made safe for democracy_."

_The world must be made safe for democracy_! As the wires leaped and the
little typewriter spoke under the pressure of his strong fingers, scenes
passed in his mind of the happy, happy Europe he had known in old wander
days, years before.

He could see the sun setting down dark aisles of the Black Forest; the
German peasants at work in the fields; the simple, cordial friendliness
of that lovely land. He remembered French villages beside slow-moving
rivers; white roads in a hot shimmer of sun; apple orchards of the
Moselle. And England--dear green England, fairest of all--the rich blue
line of the Chiltern Hills, and Buckinghamshire beech woods bronze and
yellow in the autumn. He remembered thatched cottages where he had
bicycled for tea, and the naïve rustic folk who had made him welcome.

What deviltry had taken all these peaceful people, gripped them and
maddened them, set them at one another's throats? Millions of children,
millions of mothers, millions of humble workers, happy in the richness
of life--where were they now? Life, innocent human life--the most
precious thing we know or dream of, freedom to work for a living and
win our own joys of home and love and food--what Black Death had
maddened the world with its damnable seeds of hate? Would life ever be
free and sweet again?

The detestable sultry horror of it all broke upon him anew in a tide of
anguish. No, the world could never be the same again in the lives of men
now living. But for the sake of the generations to come--he thought of
his own tiny grandchildren--for the love of God and the mercy of
mankind, let this madness be crushed. If his country must enter the war
let it be only for the love and service of humanity. "It is a fearful
thing," he thought, "but the right is more precious than peace."

Sad at heart he turned again to the typewriter, and the keys clicked off
the closing words:

"_To such a task we can dedicate our lives and our fortunes, everything
that we are and everything that we have, with the pride of those who
know that the day has come when America is privileged to spend her blood
and her might for the principles that gave her birth and happiness and
the peace which she has treasured_."

He leaned back in his chair, stiff and weary. His head ached hotly. With
elbows on the desk he covered his forehead and eyes with his hands. All
the agony, the bitterness, the burden of preceding days swept over him,
but behind it was a cool and cleansing current of peace. "_Ich kann
nicht anders_," he whispered.

Then, turning swiftly to the machine, he typed rapidly:

"_God helping her, she can do no other_."


THE HEAD OF THE FIRM


He always lost his temper when the foreign mail came in. Sitting in his
private room, which overlooked a space of gardens where bright red and
yellow flowers were planted in rhomboids, triangles, parallelograms, and
other stiff and ugly figures, he would glance hastily through the papers
and magazines. He was familiar with several foreign languages, and would
skim through the text. Then he would pound the table with his fist, walk
angrily about the floor, and tear the offensive journals into strips.
For very often he found in these papers from abroad articles or cartoons
that were most annoying to him, and very detrimental to the business of
his firm.

His assistants tried to keep foreign publications away from him, but he
was plucky in his own harsh way. He insisted on seeing them. Always the
same thing happened. His face would grow grim, the seam-worn forehead
would corrugate, the muscles of his jaw throb nervously. His gray eyes
would flash--and the fist come down heavily on the mahogany desk.

When a man is nearly sixty and of a full-blooded physique, it is not
well for him to have these frequent pulsations of rage. But he had
always found it hard to control his temper. He sometimes remembered what
a schoolmaster had said to him at Cassel, forty-five years before: "He
who loses his temper will lose everything."

But he must be granted great provocation. He had always had difficulties
to contend with. His father was an invalid, and he himself was puny in
childhood; infantile paralysis withered his left arm when he was an
infant; but in spite of these handicaps he had made himself a vigorous
swimmer, rider, and yachtsman; he could shoot better with one arm than
most sportsmen with two. After leaving the university he served in the
army, but at his father's death the management of the vast family
business came into his hands. He was then twenty-eight.

No one can question the energy with which he set himself to carry on the
affairs of the firm. Generous, impetuous, indiscreet, stubborn,
pugnacious, his blend of qualities held many of the elements of a
successful man of business. His first act was to dismiss the
confidential and honoured assistant who had guided both his father and
grandfather in the difficult years of the firm's growth. But the new
executive was determined to run the business his own way. Disregarding
criticism, ridicule, or flattery, he declared it his mission to spread
the influence of the business to the ends of the earth. "We must have
our place in the sun," he said; and announced himself as the divine
instrument through whom this would be accomplished. He made it perfectly
plain that no man's opposition would balk him in the management of the
firm's affairs. One of his most famous remarks was: "Considering myself
as the instrument of the Lord, without heeding the views and opinions of
the day, I go my way." The board of directors censured him for this, but
he paid little heed.

The growth of the business was enormous; nothing like it had been seen
in the world's history. Third, the colonel of militia, D. Gabriel de
Ugarte. _Su Fuerza_. Infantry veteran of Lima 300 Idem Guañanga 200 TOTAL.
______ TOTAL 500. More than 15,210 ====== expressly force, went two
detachments, consisting of 1846 men to take positions Urubamba, Calca and
Lares, in order to cut the rebel withdrawal by that party: and then
having provided the appropriate and necessary for the subsistence of the
army was put in motion on 9 March 1781, with 6 guns, ammunition and
accoutrements, and according to what had ESPONSE the patricians
of the country, was given the Order to the commanders of columns,
to head his way, this way. 1. Paucartambo by th, Quispicanche and Ink.
2. ª Quispicanche the Gorge. 3. Rd by the Altos de Orocoroco,
Quispicanche until Tungasuca and Ink. 4.

Paruro á ª by Livitaca, Chumbivilcas, Yauri and Coporaque Ink. 5.
Cotabambas by th, Chumbivilcas Livitaca up. 6. Paucartambo by th,
Ocongari Highlands Azorayaste and posts, and the reserve corps of the
Highlands of Orocoroco. Starting up all the columns and the body of
the routes indicated by reservation, then started from the major
inconvenience esperimentar and by excessive rains, hail and snow, which
are very common in those high and rugged mountains, a lack of food,
fuel and other aid, which caused the rebels have closed communication
with the faithful people and where they could should lead: whose
steps were so vigilance, that troops of the King came to esperimentar
the greatest needs, and were sometimes ESPONSES to be victims of
cold and hunger.

But then suffered a record with all these laudable work, encouraged
by the example of Major General and other officials who revealed
vigilant in order to repel the insurgents, who often tried to surprise
the camp, taking advantage of the hours of sunrise in whose glorious
occasions always got advantages, and rejected the attacks with a
warning of known opponents, leaving all the fields covered with
corpses immediately. These repeated victories any better the needs and
situation of the army: growing barriers and increased escaseses; so that
we consider and D. José del Valle in a critical and delicate,
determined vary from route to route ink, which was the rebel
headquarters and parts of war, and this achievement down to a ravine
between high mountains, found a mild temperament, and so abundance
of food, that his troops managed to recover in a few days of their
past losses, and continue the march comfortably: either with many
difficulties to overcome, and through the narrow steps, and by a
large and deep cuts that the enemies were unable to defend or less
take advantage of these and other advantages it provided endless
those rough terrain, which in many places, nature has made inaccessible.

However resistance was stubborn Apostadero in some places and less severe,
chasing a daily basis, right and left of the road, the march of
our army, particularly in the gorges, without neglecting to take
advantage of the darkness of the night to surround the camps and fatigued
, forcing the troops to be continually on weapons, the fire of his
suffering and fusileria cannon, which easily transported and betting
on all sides, being of low weight and small size. always tolerate
the insults of the rebels, and repeated threats to surprise the
army reached the outskirts of the village of Quiquijana, after
having suffered all the way some of their artillery fire and
fusileria.

Those neighbors were the most tenacious in the promotion and support of
sedition, no doubt relying on the advantageous position they occupied,
so that, as recognized by the Commandant General, D. José del Valle,
felt that it was necessary to reduce employ many days, and will not
get but at the expense of much blood, despite the inability of the
seditious; espugnacion the grading of that post, can stop an army two
months large and fierce, if you have occupied and defended other
enemies. But taken over all, determined to camp in the vicinity, and
of course was greeted with the fire of artillery and fusileria, which
did not cause any effect, being too distant bet. At dawn the next day,
the priest of the people gave notice that the rebels had abandoned
the plan to meet with the army from its main Gefe Jose Gabriel
Tupac-Amaru, who was in ink, having cut off before the bridge, to delay
the continuation of all terms of the progress our troops and too
many people and prevent them picase the rear. With this announcement
came the army of King Quiquijana, where only the left and mugeres men,
who by their old age or infirmities were unable to follow the
others.

All benefited from the asylum of the temple, where many signs of
repentance and tears, imploring the forgiveness of their lives and the
pardon of their homes and farms, that were not delivered to the flames,
as deserved. All were granted and only saw the severity of punishment,
Luis Poma, Inca, cousin of the usurper Joseph Gabriel, and Bernardo
Zegarra, his confidant, who paid with his life hanging in a heinous
crime.

Because the most accurate in the Quiquijana people according to their
safety and continued our army marches on days without intermission, and
when you reach the first camp were the enemies to occupy the next
mountain, in whose absence had placed a gun, and prevented many peaks
in the large stones and weighed, to which the name of _galgas_ in order
to shed despeñarlas and to offend our inevitable in a narrow gorge,
adjacent to a river flow, which was just wading.

To avoid the danger was named 100 Rifles troops with light all Indians
assistant Chincheros and Anta, who were given the order to evict the
rebels in three very advantageous that occupied the crest of the mountain
where they were housed, whose attack courageously undertaken, and they
were fortunate not only to achieve the task, but also defeat them
entirely, in full view of the rest of the troops that they expected the
success of the event. The next day was reported by a deserter from the
enemy, who had a battery located at the foot of another mountain, the
immediate way ahead for our army, and defended the 10,000 combatants. It
was immediately appointed a column greatly enhanced, so that, taking
another direction, rodease the mountain and subiese to dominate in the
back to the rebels, and the commanding general with the rest of
the army was launched by the plain: but the average league had to
turn to avoid another mountain, and down to a very broad and spacious
valley, where more could rid maneuver their troops.

After a few spotted the rebels loads of Indians Ink Chincheros and
that progress had been made without a warrant, attacked with the
greatest intrepidity and boldness. Some adventurous knights and dragons
and Caravaillo of Lima, who were the vanguard of the army, came to the
defense, and this in turn was pushing the other troops with the bulk
of the rioters, and locks the action, they were completely defeated
, leaving the battlefield in a growing number of corpses, not
infinite wounded prisoners were removed or, if not the same Jose
Gabriel Tupac-Amaru would have been not to have been freed by the
lijereza of one of his horses, undertaken in a hasty escape, and
so stunning, that forget ford the river which was to go through in
ink, was thrown by swimming deep, where he was very close to being
submerged in water, and end up in them their lives.

This accident and more dismayed over the mind of the tyrant,
and found Huirse bypass Ink, and prior to implementing this resolution,
he wrote to his muger in terms most pathetic and melancholy, diciéndules:
_vienen against us and very many brave soldiers , we have no choice but
to morir_.

Was ignored in the army these particularities, without know them
began moving again, to keep up with the resolution to stay that
night in ink: but could not be verified, because the river immediately
stopped the way to troops, for being so grown that, notwithstanding
the precautions he took orders and active Major General D.

José del Valle, he could not avoid two drowning men. In this maneuver,
always slow and dangerous in the military, used the remainder of the
day, and it was necessary to close the camp at night near the village
of Cambapata, which is a league of Ink, our troops and stick to
the first stakes of the shops, broke the enemy fire with three guns,
a battery that had in place, but always with the absence of regular
place too far, making this the most useless times its effect, because the
bullets did not reach our shop , or other objects that were proposed
to offend.

At 2 am the next day were ordered to leave 150 Rifles troops lijeras with
Indian assistants and Anta Chincheros, to occupy a hill overlooking
the plain, where the army had to spend just to go to Cambapata whose
people recognized it was noted he had been surrounded by insurgents,
with an adobe wall, crowned and covered with thorns for pregnancy progress,
and will soon be possible to delay the arrival of troops in ink. A 4
in the morning, he sent the same General placed a battery of five guns
in a dominating position of the enemy fire which perfectly directed,
produced the advantage, LEFT it within an hour, and shortly after
submission Ink 30 neighbors, who said that people have left the family
of Jose Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, taking silver stamped, carved, jewelry
and other effects of value, that had taken since the beginning of the
uprising.

                                                   With This novelty sent immediately beat General Store, for all the
army carried with the people of ink, which found the portrait of
the main rebel awaiting the gallows, without finding out the author
of that action.

It had certainly felt appropriate terms, to hold serious act, to
         enforce the August name of our legitimate sovereign, and
         then dispatched detachments by many different directions,
         with orders more effective, to seek by all terms capturing
         fugitives: the prevention of the first care was to go
         to close the way to the Andes in the province of Carabaya,
                                                 so that the rebel
                                                     and his family had no insurance that are presumed to seek asylum
in those impenetrable rough or confused among Indians barbarians.

There followed the attempt by the rebels, but rather took the path
         of Langui and as was made public their latest defeat,
         he dared to pursue D. Lardo Ventura, along with other
         residents of those jurisdictions that were able to
           arrest Jose Gabriel, his muger Micaela Bastidas,
           and two sons, Hipolito and Fernando, who delivered for
         safe custody and driving some of the detachments
           that had ido according to its scope, and were taken
         to the Spanish countryside, where that same day had
         already suffered the penalty of hanging 67 rebels who
         were arrested on those nearby, whose heads were hung in
         public places, to lesson the other rioters, who they
         took eight guns of various calibers, as the eldest of
         the four, 20 rifles and shotguns, two pairs of pistols,
         four bushels of cannonballs and rifle, as many of
                                                 gunpowder, 30
                                                     spears, and many of the theft and looting that had been done.
prisoners were also a result of these positive and successful event,
Antonio Bastidas, brother of Joseph Gabriel, whom he had appointed
Captain General; Cecilia Tupac-Amaru, his half sister, his cousin,
Patrick Noguera; Colonel Jose Mamani, the commanders, the artillery,
Ronce Ramon, Diego Ponce, Diego Verdejo, a relative of the tyrant;
Castelo Andres Felipe Mendizabal, Isidro Puma Mariano Castaño,
Sergeant Major; Diego Ortigosa, Advisor; Manuel Gallegos, feather;
Melchor Arteaga butler cattle; Blas Quiñones, butler higher; Tomasa
Tito Cacica Harassment Jose Venel, confidant; Estevan Vaca, founder
artillery; Francisco Torres commissioner main Colque Lucas,
Commissioner and Mayor, four captains, two lieutenants, some Blacks
and soldiers who escaped from individuals, including Antonio Oblitas,
slave D.

Antonio Arriaga, and that it was his executioner in ink. After the
         main rebel arrested, his muger, their children and most
         of its major gefes seems should expect a favorable crisis,
         to restore its ancient stillness disturbed minds those
           natural but far from that, you can ensure began again
         with more light and rebellion, made the flight because
         there Cristóval Diego Tupac-Amaru, José Gabriel half-brother,
         Mariano Tupac-Amaru, his son, Andres Noguera Bastidas
           Miguel and his nephews, having followed a different
         path than the other, freedom and managed to happily take
         up residence in the province of Azangaro, which continued
         its blind devotion to the surrounding of Peace, and the
                                                 Collao, considerably party to support their ideas.

                 In this attempt arranged with the most active and
                                                     effective measures, to gather all their wicked partial, and many
collect weapons and ammunition, to seize the prisoners, while being
taken to the city of Cuzco, where he had given refer Commander
General, D.

José del Valle, to suffer the punishment they deserve for their serious
crimes. Gefe penetrated by the intentions of the rebels, but could be
considered remotely check your project, not left to take all such
measures as he dictated his military experience and practice, to
frustrate their efforts, and not spontaneous to some unexpected
accident or by chance, Some prisoners regained their freedom of
that nature and are persuaded that your security is required the
presence of his person, found escorting a column greatly enhanced,
leaving the rest of the army camps Quiquijana, Ink and Langui, to
occur to what might happen in the short time that could be used in
calculated the trip and provided expressly in the form, custody of
offenders, to bridge Urcos, which handed them all to José Cabero,
Colonel of the regiment Dragons provincial arm, which guarnecia
that important post, to continue with them until the city of Cuzco,
and make formal surrender of their persons to the Visitor, D.

José Antonio de Arecha would be kept there, hoping the success of
military operations, and also necessary for providenciar terms of
their resistance. Until this time the troops had not esperimentado Lima
but happiness, and always victorious, and glorious times in all, could
not get his general, print them on the generous resolution to end
the work started.

Too much love for their families and homes, and the ambitious desire to
harvest their crops, prompted a significant drop-out, which they
had planned faded since their decline could not be verified from Urcos
bridge as soon as he had proposed, because was unexpectedly lost all
Indians and Chincheros Anta, and most of the militia troops, which
consisted of military force, with respect to the small number of
veterans who had at the event was to receive notices of gefes the other
columns, she reported the same incidents, the troops of their
respective commands, and also that he had been attacked by the rebels
Langui, commanded and directed by Diego and Cristóval Tupac-Amaru,
the nights of April 20 and 18 in two actions that were very bloody,
which was considerable loss of the enemy, and many wounded on our
side, being covered in this issue Commandant, D.

Manuel Castilla, and some principal officers. Address these critical
circumstances, was needed with active orders, the early replacement
of deserters, which were used in 11 days, and verify this procedure,
was again in motion, with the body of troops of his command, forcing
terms could their marches to go to the people of Sichuan province
Her Ink, with the intent of bringing his entire army in the Collao,
to pacify and to due obedience sugetarlas of the Sovereign.

For this purpose ordered by the column of D . Manuel de Castilla,
corregidor of Paruro, following the path of the people of Macari,
which was to make high, wait for subsequent orders. That of Cotabambas,
headed by its corregidor, D. Maria Jose Acuña is on track to Czech Quequi,
Yauri and Coporaque, in order to reduce these people to the obedience
of His Majesty, and your success will be better incorporated the mestizos
and Indians of the villages in the province of Quispicanche that The
zeal of the priest D. Felipe de Loaira, a resident of the village
of Oropesa, recruit your own will, the yearning evident really,
that was interested in the positive events of the King's Arms,
Governors and served in front of them.

Another column of 1000 men, the office of Colonel of the army of Dragons,
D. Gabriel de Aviles, moved to the vicinity of the village of Muñoz,
to acquire news from that country, and punish those rebels: General
and Commander, with the rest of the army, passed the line that divides
the vireinato with Lima of Buenos Aires, where he found the rebellion
with great fury and cruelty, because Diego Cristóval Tupac-Amaru, his
brash new leader, mistrust of whites and mestizos in those provinces
as arrestesen traicion in force of the prizes offered by its catch
egecucion elected and put in the barbaric murder of flooding party
to all that were not of their caste, regardless of age or sex, too
punishing and persecuting the priests and priests of those territories,
that his Brother Joseph-Gabriel had dealt with much consideration and
with due respect for their sacred character. Uníanse addition to these
misfortunes greater, which was to have formed by time, or shortly before,
in the village of Ayoayo province Basic Another monstrous rebel
leader, more cruel and bloodthirsty that all of their class.

This was Julian Apasa, Indus poor and unknown, which Sacristan was
a pawn of ingenuity, and then take advantage of knowing the anxieties
raised by the Tupac-Amaru, helped another, Marcelo Calle called,
acquired authority as a giant, which brought his devotion in a few days
Carangas provinces, Basic, Pacajes, Yungas, Omasoyos, Larecaja,
Chucuito and others: and to them that the Indians had more respect
and veneration of his person, and give rise to his persuasions
but was Tupac-Catari surname, the gathering of Jose Gabriel Tupac, and
the name of Catari, typical of the three promoted Hermon that first moves
in the province of Chayanta.

This horrible warlord repeatedly have to remember when it's time
to address the events that led to these pitiful kingdoms.

    Turning now to the troops vireinato of Lima, and to continue the
series of operations.

    Continued Major General D.

    José del Valle, the marches, as they thought, to enter the jurisdiction
of the Buenos Aires vireinato: While approaching the Quesque of
Pampa, where he spent the night, was spotted about 100 rebels, who
had the audacity to fire the vanguard of the army, with only three
rifles, accompanied by repeated and this hostility down shouting,
they said to us that were not so cowardly as the province of ink,
which had just overcome, then it was very esperimentarian the
different balance and consistency of the Indians of the Collao.

    When you have just discovered our army, climbed to the top of a
mountain too high, snowy, where iban ritirando all their livestock.

    Commandant General appointed Mr
    The last particular
    may still be recognized. About four years ago I saw my lame lad, and
    knew him again at once. He was then a man of great strength, rolling
    along, with an inch of cutty in his mouth and a butcher's basket on
    his arm. Our meeting had been nothing to him, but it was a great
    affair to me.

We strolled up the esplanade below the Castle, pausing in Ramsay's
Gardens to admire the lighted city from above. In the valley between the
Castle and Princes Street the pale blue mist rises at night like an
exhalation from the old gray stones. The lamps shining through it blend
in a delicate opalescent sheen, shot here and there with brighter
flares. As the sky darkens the castle looms in silhouette, with one
yellow square below the Half Moon Battery. "There are no stars like the
Edinburgh street lamps," says R.L.S. Aye, and the brightest of them all
shines on Heriot Row.

The vision of that child face still comes to me, peering down from the
dining-room window. R.L.S. may never have gratified his boyish wish to
go round with Leerie and light the lamps, but he lit many and more
enduring flames even in the hearts of those who never saw him.


FRANK CONFESSIONS OF A PUBLISHER'S READER

[_Denis Dulcet, brother of the well-known poet Dunraven Dulcet and the
extremely well-known literary agent Dove Dulcet, was for many years the
head reader for a large publishing house. It was my good fortune to know
him intimately, and when he could be severed from his innumerable
manuscripts, which accompanied him everywhere, even in bed, he was very
good company. His premature death from reader's cramp and mental hernia
was a sad loss to the world of polite letters. Thousands of mediocre
books would have been loaded upon the public but for his incisive and
unerring judgment. When he lay on his deathbed, surrounded by half-read
MSS., he sent for me, and with an air of extreme solemnity laid a packet
in my hand. It contained the following confession, and it was his last
wish that it should be published without alteration. I include it here
in memory of my very dear friend_.]


In my youth I was wont to forecast various occupations for myself.
Engine driver, tugboat captain, actor, statesman, and wild animal
trainer--such were the visions with which I put myself to sleep. Never
did the merry life of a manuscript reader swim into my ken. But here I
am, buried elbow deep in the literary output of a commercial democracy.
My only excuse for setting down these paragraphs is the hope that other
more worthy members of the ancient and honorable craft may be induced to
speak out in meeting. In these days when every type of man is
interviewed, his modes of thinking conned and commented upon, why not a
symposium of manuscript readers? Also I realized the other day, while
reading a manuscript by Harold Bell Wright, that my powers are failing.
My old trouble is gaining on me, and I may not be long for this world.
Before I go to face the greatest of all Rejection Slips, I want to utter
my message without fear or favour.

As a class, publishers' readers are not vocal. They spend their days and
nights assiduously (in the literal sense) bent over mediocre stuff,
poking and poring in the unending hope of finding something rich and
strange. A gradual _stultitia_ seizes them. They take to drink; they
beat their wives; they despair of literature. Worst, and most
preposterous, they one and all nourish secret hopes of successful
authorship. You might think that the interminable flow of turgid
blockish fiction that passes beneath their weary eyes would justly
sicken them of the abominable gymnastic of writing. But no: the venom is
in the blood.

Great men have graced the job--and got out of it as soon as possible.
George Meredith was a reader once; so was Frank Norris; also E.V. Lucas
and Gilbert Chesterton. One of the latter's comments on a manuscript is
still preserved. Writing of a novel by a lady who was the author of many
unpublished stories, all marked by perseverance rather than talent, he
said, "Age cannot wither nor custom stale her infinite lack of variety."
But alas, we hear too little of these gentlemen in their capacity as
publishers' pursuivants. Patrolling the porches of literature, why did
they not bequeath us some pandect of their experience, some rich
garniture of commentary on the adventures that befell? But they, and
younger men such as Coningsby Dawson and Sinclair Lewis, have gone on
into the sunny hayfields of popular authorship and said nothing.

But these brilliant swallow-tailed migrants are not typical. Your true
specimen of manuscript reader is the faithful old percheron who is
content to go on, year after year, sorting over the literary pemmican
that comes before him, inexhaustible in his love for the delicacies of
good writing, happy if once or twice a twelve-month he chance upon some
winged thing. He is not the pettifogging pilgarlic of popular
conception: he is a devoted servant of letters, willing to take his
thirty or forty dollars a week, willing to suffer the _peine forte et
dure_ of his profession in the knowledge of honest duty done, writing
terse and marrowy little essays on manuscripts, which are buried in the
publishers' files. This man is an honour to the profession, and I
believe there are many such. Certainly there are many who sigh wistfully
when they must lay aside some cherished writing of their own to devote
an evening to illiterate twaddle. Five book manuscripts a day, thirty a
week, close to fifteen hundred a year--that is a fair showing for the
head reader of a large publishing house.

One can hardly blame him if he sometimes grow skeptic or acid about the
profession of letters. Of each hundred manuscripts turned in there will
rarely be more than three or four that merit any serious consideration;
only about one in a hundred will be acceptable for publication. And the
others--alas that human beings should have invented ink to steal away
their brains! "Only a Lady Barber" is the title of a novel in manuscript
which I read the other day. Written in the most atrocious dialect, it
betrayed an ignorance of composition that would have been discreditable
to a polyp. It described the experiences of a female tonsor somewhere
in Idaho, and closed with her Machiavellian manoeuvres to entice into
her shaving chair a man who had bilked her, so that she might slice his
ear. No need to harrow you with more of the same kind. I read almost a
score every week. Often I think of a poem which was submitted to me
once, containing this immortal couplet:

    She damped a pen in the ooze of her brain and wrote a verse
        on the air,
    A verse that had shone on the disc of the sun, had she chosen
        to set it there.

Let me beg you, my dears, leave the pen undamped unless your cerebral
ooze really has something to impart. And then, once a year or so, when
one is thinking that the hooves of Pegasus have turned into pigs'
trotters, comes some Joseph Conrad, some Walter de la Mare, some Rupert
Brooke or Pearsall Smith, to restore one's sanity.

Or else--what is indeed more frequent--the reader's fainting spirits are
repaired not by the excellence of the manuscript before him, but by its
absolute literary nonentity, a kind of intellectual Absolute Zero. Lack
of merit may be so complete, so grotesque, that the composition affords
to the sophistic eye a high order of comedy. A lady submits a poem in
many cantos, beginning

    Our heart is but a bundle of muscle
    In which our passions tumble and tussle.

Another lady begins her novel with the following psychanalysis:

    "Thus doth the ever-changing course of things run a perpetual
    circle." ... She read the phrase and then reflected, the cause being
    a continued prognostication, beginning and ending as it had done the
    day before, to-morrow and forever, maybe, of her own ailment, a
    paradoxical malady, being nothing more nor less than a pronounced
    case of malnutrition of the soul, a broken heart-cord, aggravated by
    a total collapse of that portion of the mentalities which had been
    bolstered up by undue pride, fallacious arguments, modern foibles
    and follies peculiar to the human species, both male and female,
    under favorable social conditions, found in provincial towns as well
    as in large cities and fashionable watering places.

But as a fitting anodyne to this regrettable case of soul malnutrition,
let me append a description of a robuster female, taken verbatim from a
manuscript (penned by masculine hand) which became a by-word in one
publisher's office.

    She was a beautiful young lady. She was a medium, sized, elegant
    figure, wearing a neatly-fitted travelling dress of black alpaca.
    Her raven-black hair, copious both in length and volume and figured
    like a deep river, rippled by the wind, was parted in the centre and
    combed smoothly down, ornamenting her pink temples with a flowing
    tracery that passed round to its modillion windings on a graceful
    crown. Her mouth was set with pearls adorned with elastic rubies and
    tuned with minstrel lays, while her nose gracefully concealed its
    own umbrage, and her eyes imparted a radiant glow to the azure of
    the sky. Jewels of plain gold were about her ears and her tapering
    strawberry hands, and a golden chain, attached to a time-keeper of
    the same material, sparkled on an elegantly-rounded bosom that was
    destined to be pushed forward by sighs.

Let it not be thought that only the gracious sex can inspire such
plenitude of meticulous portraiture! Here is a description of the hero
in a novel by a man which appeared on my desk recently:

    For some time past there had been appearing at the home of Sarah
    Ellenton, a man not over fifty years of age, well groomed and of the
    appearances of being on good terms with prosperity in many phases.
    His complexion was reddish. His hazel eyes deepset and close
    together were small and shifting. His nose ran down to a point in
    many lines, and from the point back to where it joined above his
    lip, the course was seen to swerve slightly to one side. His upper
    lip assumed almost any form and at all times. His mouth ran across
    his face in a thin line, curved by waves according to the smiles and
    expressions he employed. Below those features was a chin of fine
    proportions, showing nothing to require study, but in his jaw hinges
    there was a device that worked splendidly, when he wished to show
    unction and charity, by sending out his chin on such occasions in
    the kindest advances one would wish to see.

    It was not long before Sarah became Mrs. John R. Quinley.

I hear that the authors are going to unionize themselves and join the
A.F. of L. The word "author" carries no sanctity with me: I have read
too many of them. If their forming a trade union will better the output
of American literature I am keen for it. I know that the professional
reader has a jaundiced eye; insensibly he acquires a parallax which
distorts his vision. Reading incessantly, now fiction, now history,
poetry, essays, philosophy, science, exegetics, and what not, he becomes
a kind of pantechnicon of slovenly knowledge; a knower of thousands of
things that aren't so. Every crank's whim, every cretin's philosophy, is
fired at him first of all. Every six months comes in the inevitable
treatise on the fourth dimension or on making gold from sea-water, or on
using moonlight to run dynamos, or on Pope Joan or Prester John. And
with it all he must retain his simple-hearted faith in the great art of
writing and in the beneficence of Gutenberg.

Manuscript readers need a trade union far worse than authors. There is
all too little clannishness among us. We who are the helpless target for
the slings and arrows of every writer who chooses to put pen on
foolscap--might we not meet now and then for the humour of exchanging
anecdotes? No class of beings is more in need of the consolations of
intercourse. Perpend, brothers! Let us order a tierce of malmsey and
talk it over! Perchance, too, a trade union among readers might be of
substantial advantage. Is it not sad that a man should read manuscripts
all the sweet years of his maturity, and be paid forty dollars a week?
Let us make sixty the minimum--or let there be a pogrom among the
authors!


WILLIAM McFEE

    M'Phee is the most tidy of chief engineers. If the leg of a
    cockroach gets into one of his slide-valves the whole ship knows it,
    and half the ship has to clean up the mess.

    --RUDYARD KIPLING.


The next time the Cunard Company commissions a new liner I wish they
would sign on Joseph Conrad as captain, Rudyard Kipling as purser, and
William McFee as chief engineer. They might add Don Marquis as deck
steward and Hall Caine as chief-stewardess. Then I would like to be at
Raymond and Whitcomb's and watch the clerks booking passages!

William McFee does not spell his name quite as does the Scotch engineer
in Mr. Kipling's _Brugglesmith_, but I feel sure that his attitude
toward cockroaches in the slide-valve is the same. Unhappily I do not
know Mr. McFee in his capacity as engineer; but I know and respect his
feelings as a writer, his love of honourable and honest work, his
disdain for blurb and blat. And by an author's attitude toward the
purveyors of publicity, you may know him.

One evening about the beginning of December, 1915, I was sitting by the
open fire in Hempstead, Long Island, a comparatively inoffensive young
man, reading the new edition of Flecker's "The Golden Journey to
Samarkand" issued that October by Martin Secker in London. Mr. Secker,
like many other wise publishers, inserts in the back of his books the
titles of other volumes issued by him. Little did I think, as I turned
to look over Mr. Secker's announcements, that a train of events was
about to begin which would render me, during the succeeding twelve
months, a monomaniac in the eyes of my associates; so much so that when
I was blessed with a son and heir just a year later I received a
telegram signed by a dozen of them: "_Congratulations. Name him
Casuals_!"

It was in that list of Mr. Secker's titles for the winter of 1915-16
that my eyes first rested, with a premonitory lust, upon the
not-to-be-forgotten words.

MCFEE, WILLIAM: CASUALS OF THE SEA.

Who could fail to be stirred by so brave a title? At once I wrote for a
copy.

My pocket memorandum book for Sunday, January 9, 1916, contains this
note:

"Finished reading _Casuals of the Sea_, a good book. H---- still laid up
with bad ankle. In the P.M. we sat and read Bible aloud to Celia before
the open fire."

My first impressions of "_Casuals of the Sea_, a good book" are
interwoven with memories of Celia, a pious Polish serving maid from Pike
County, Pennsylvania, who could only be kept in the house by nightly
readings of another Good Book. She was horribly homesick (that was her
first voyage away from home) and in spite of persistent Bible readings
she fled after two weeks, back to her home in Parker's Glen, Pa. She was
our first servant, and we had prepared a beautiful room in the attic for
her. However, that has nothing to do with Mr. McFee.

_Casuals of the Sea_ is a novel whose sale of ten thousand copies in
America is more important as a forecast of literary weather than many a
popular distribution of a quarter million. Be it known by these presents
that there are at least ten thousand librivora in this country who
regard literature not merely as an emulsion. This remarkable novel, the
seven years' study of a busy engineer occupied with boiler inspections,
indicator cards and other responsibilities of the Lord of Below, was the
first really public appearance of a pen that will henceforth be listened
to with respect.

Mr. McFee had written two books before "Casuals" was published, but at
that time it was not easy to find any one who had read them. They were
_Letters from an Ocean Tramp_ (1908) and _Aliens_ (1914); the latter has
been rewritten since then and issued in a revised edition. It is a very
singular experiment in the art of narrative, and a rich commentary on
human folly by a man who has made it his hobby to think things out for
himself. And the new version is headlighted by a preface which may well
take its place among the most interesting literary confessions of this
generation, where Mr. McFee shows himself as that happiest of men, the
artist who also has other and more urgent concerns than the whittling of
a paragraph:--

    Of art I never grow weary, but she calls me over the world. I
    suspect the sedentary art worker. Most of all I suspect the
    sedentary writer. I divide authors into two classes--genuine
    artists, and educated men who wish to earn enough to let them live
    like country gentlemen. With the latter I have no concern. But the
    artist knows when his time has come. In the same way I turned with
    irresistible longing to the sea, whereon I had been wont to earn my
    living. It is a good life and I love it. I love the men and their
    ships. I find in them a never-ending panorama which illustrates my
    theme, the problem of human folly.

Mr. McFee, you see, has some excuse for being a good writer because he
has never had to write for a living. He has been writing for the fun of
it ever since he was an apprentice in a big engineering shop in London
twenty years ago. His profession deals with exacting and beautiful
machinery, and he could no more do hack writing than hack engineering.
And unlike the other English realists of his generation who have
cultivated a cheap flippancy, McFee finds no exhilaration in easy sneers
at middle-class morality. He has a dirk up his sleeve for Gentility (how
delightfully he flays it in _Aliens_) but he loves the middle classes
for just what they are: the great fly-wheel of the world. His attitude
toward his creations is that of a "benevolent marbleheart" (his own
phrase). He has seen some of the seams of life, and like McAndrew he has
hammered his own philosophy. It is a manly, just, and gentle creed, but
not a soft one. Since the war began he has been on sea service, first on
a beef-ship and transport in the Mediterranean, now as sub-lieutenant in
the British Navy. When the war is over, and if he feels the call of the
desk, Mr. McFee's brawny shoulder will sit in at the literary feast and
a big handful of scribblers will have to drop down the dumb-waiter shaft
to make room for him. It is a disconcerting figure in Grub Street, the
man who really has something to say.

Publishers are always busy casting horoscopes for their new finds. How
the benign planets must have twirled in happy curves when Harold Bell
Wright was born, if one may credit his familiar mage, Elsbury W.
Reynolds! But the fame that is built merely on publishers' press sheets
does not dig very deep in the iron soil of time. We are all only
raft-builders, as Lord Dunsany tells us in his little parable; even the
raft that Homer made for Helen must break up some day. Who in these
States knows the works of Nat Gould? Twelve million of his dashing
paddock novels have been sold in England, but he is as unknown here as
is Preacher Wright in England. What is so dead as a dead best seller?
Sometimes it is the worst sellers that come to life, roll away the
stone, and an angel is found sitting laughing in the sepulchre. Let me
quote Mr. McFee once more: "I have no taste for blurb, but I cannot
refuse facts."

William M.P. McFee was born at sea in 1881. His father, an English
skipper, was bringing his vessel toward the English coast after a long
voyage. His mother was a native of Nova Scotia. They settled in New
Southgate, a northern middle-class suburb of London, and here McFee was
educated in the city schools of which the first pages of _Casuals of the
Sea_ give a pleasant description. Then he went to a well-known grammar
school at Bury St. Edmunds in Suffolk--what we would call over here a
high school. He was a quiet, sturdy boy, and a first-rate cricketer.

At sixteen he was apprenticed to a big engineering firm in Aldersgate.
This is one of the oldest streets in London, near the Charterhouse,
Smithfield Market, and the famous "Bart's" Hospital. In fact, the office
of the firm was built over one of the old plague pits of 1665. His
father had died several years before; and for the boy to become an
apprentice in this well-known firm Mrs. McFee had to pay three hundred
pounds sterling. McFee has often wondered just what he got for the
money. However, the privilege of paying to be better than someone else
is an established way of working out one's destiny in England, and at
the time the mother and son knew no better than to conform. You will
find this problem, and the whole matter of gentility, cuttingly set out
in _Aliens_.

After three years as an apprentice, McFee was sent out by the firm on
various important engineering jobs, notably a pumping installation at
Tring, which he celebrated in a pamphlet of very creditable juvenile
verses, for which he borrowed Mr. Kipling's mantle. This was at the time
of the Boer War, when everybody in trousers who wrote verses was either
imitating Kipling or reacting from him.

His engineering work gave young McFee a powerful interest in the lives
and thoughts of the working classes. He was strongly influenced by
socialism, and all his spare moments were spent with books. He came to
live in Chelsea with an artist friend, but he had already tasted life at
first hand, and the rather hazy atmosphere of that literary and artistic
Utopia made him uneasy. His afternoons were spent at the British Museum
reading room, his evenings at the Northampton Institute, where he
attended classes, and even did a little lecturing of his own. Competent
engineer as he was, that was never sufficient to occupy his mind. As
early as 1902 he was writing short stories and trying to sell them.

In 1905 his uncle, a shipmaster, offered him a berth in the engine room
of one of his steamers, bound for Trieste. He jumped at the chance.
Since then he has been at sea almost continuously, save for one year
(1912-13) when he settled down in Nutley, New Jersey, to write. The
reader of _Aliens_ will be pretty familiar with Nutley by the time he
reaches page 416. "Netley" is but a thin disguise. I suspect a certain
liveliness in the ozone of Nutley. Did not Frank Stockton write some of
his best tales there? Some day some literary meteorologist will explain
how these intellectual anticyclones originate in such places as Nutley
(N.J.), Galesburg (Ill.), Port Washington (N.Y.), and Bryn Mawr (Pa.)

The life of a merchantman engineer would not seem, to open a fair
prospect into literature. The work is gruelling and at the same time
monotonous. Constant change of scene and absence of home ties are (I
speak subject to correction) demoralizing; after the coveted chief's
certificate is won, ambition has little further to look forward to. A
small and stuffy cabin in the belly of the ship is not an inviting
study. The works of Miss Corelli and Messrs. Haig and Haig are the only
diversions of most of the profession. Art, literature, and politics do
not interest them. Picture postcards, waterside saloons, and the ladies
of the port are the glamour of his that they delight to honour.

I imagine that Mr. Carville's remarkable account (in _Aliens_) of his
induction into the profession of marine engineering has no faint colour
of reminiscence in Mr. McFee's mind. The filth, the intolerable
weariness, the instant necessity of the tasks, stagger the easygoing
suburban reader. And only the other day, speaking of his work on a
seaplane ship in the British Navy, Mr. McFee said some illuminating
things about the life of an engineer:

    It is Sunday, and I have been working. Oh, yes, there is plenty of
    work to do in the world, I find, wherever I go. But I cannot help
    wondering why Fate so often offers me the dirty end of the stick.
    Here I am, awaiting my commission as an engineer-officer of the
    R.N.R., and I am in the thick of it day after day. I don't mean,
    when I say "work," what you mean by work. I don't mean work such as
    my friend the Censor does, or my friend the N.E.O. does, nor my
    friends and shipmates, the navigating officer, the flying men, or
    the officers of the watch. I mean _work_, hard, sweating, nasty
    toil, coupled with responsibility. I am not alone. Most ships of the
    naval auxiliary are the same.

    I am anxious for you, a landsman, to grasp this particular fragment
    of the sorry scheme of things entire, that in no other profession
    have the officers responsible for the carrying out of the work to
    toil as do the engineers in merchantmen, in transports, in fleet
    auxiliaries. You do not expect the major to clear the waste-pipe of
    his regimental latrines. You do not expect the surgeon to
    superintend the purging of his bandages. You do not expect the
    navigators of a ship to paint her hull. You do not expect an
    architect to make bricks (sometimes without straw). You do not
    expect the barrister to go and repair the lock on the law courts
    door, or oil the fans that ventilate the halls of justice. Yet you
    do, collectively, tolerate a tradition by which the marine engineer
    has to assist, overlook, and very often perform work corresponding
    precisely to the irrelevant chores mentioned above, which are in
    other professions relegated to the humblest and roughest of mankind.
    I blame no one. It is tradition, a most terrible windmill at which
    to tilt; but I conceive it my duty to set down once at least the
    peculiar nature of an engineer's destiny. I have had some years of
    it, and I know what I am talking about.

    _The_ point to distinguish is that the engineer not only has the
    responsibility, but he has, in nine cases out of ten, to do it. He,
    the officer, must befoul his person and derange his hours of rest
    and recreation, that others may enjoy. He must be available
    twenty-four hours a day, seven days a week, at sea or in port.
    Whether chief or the lowest junior, he must be ready to plunge
    instantly to the succour of the vilest piece of mechanism on board.
    When coaling, his lot is easier imagined than described.

The remarkable thing to note is that Mr. McFee imposed upon these
laborious years of physical toil a strenuous discipline of intellect as
well. He is a born worker: patient, dogged, purposeful. His years at sea
have been to him a more fruitful curriculum than that of any university.
The patient sarcasm with which he speaks of certain Oxford youths of his
acquaintance does not escape me. His sarcasm is just and on the target.
He has stood as Senior Wrangler in a far more exacting _viva voce_--the
University of the Seven Seas.

If I were a college president, out hunting for a faculty, I would deem
that no salary would be too big to pay for the privilege of getting a
man like McFee on my staff. He would not come, of course! But how he has
worked for his mastery of the art of life and the theory thereof! When
his colleagues at sea were dozing in their deck chairs or rattling the
bones along the mahogany, he was sweating in his bunk, writing or
reading. He has always been deeply interested in painting, and no
gallery in any port he visited ever escaped him. These extracts from
some of his letters will show whether his avocations were those of most
engineers:

    As I crossed the swing-bridge of the docks at Garston (Liverpool)
    the other day, and saw the tapering spars silhouetted against the
    pale sky, and the zinc-coloured river with its vague Cheshire shores
    dissolving in mist, it occurred to me that if an indulgent genie
    were to appear and make me an offer I would cheerfully give up
    writing for painting. As it is, I see things in pictures and I spend
    more time in the Walker Gallery than in the library next door.

    I've got about all I _can_ get out of books, and now I don't relish
    them save as memories. The reason for my wish, I suppose, is that
    character, not incident, is my _metier_. And you can _draw_
    character, _paint_ character, but you can't very well blat about it,
    can you?

    I am afraid Balzac's job is too big for anybody nowadays. The worst
    of writing men nowadays is their horrible ignorance of how people
    live, of ordinary human possibilities.

    A----. is always pitching into me for my insane ideas about "cheap
    stuff." He says I'm on the wrong tack and I'll be a failure if I
    don't do what the public wants. I said I didn't care a blue curse
    what the public wanted, nor did I worry much if I never made a big
    name. All I want is to do some fine and honourable work, to do it as
    well as I possibly could, and there my responsibility ended.... To
    hell with writing, I want _to feel_ and _see_!

    I am laying in a gallon of ink and a couple of cwt. of paper, to the
    amusement of the others, who imagine I am a merchant of some sort
    who has to transact business at sea because Scotland yard are alter
    him!

His kit for every voyage, besides the gallon of ink and the
hundredweight of foolscap, always included a score of books, ranging
from Livy or Chaucer to Gorky and histories of Italian art. Happening to
be in New York at the time of the first exhibition in this country of
"futurist" pictures, he entered eagerly into the current discussion in
the newspaper correspondence columns. He wrote for a leading London
journal an article on "The Conditions of Labour at Sea." He finds time
to contribute to the _Atlantic Monthly_ pieces of styptic prose that
make zigzags on the sphygmograph of the editor. His letters written
weekly to the artist friend he once lived with in Chelsea show a
humorous and ironical mind ranging over all topics that concern
cultivated men. I fancy he could out-argue many a university professor
on Russian fiction, or Michelangelo, or steam turbines.

When one says that McFee found little intellectually in common with his
engineering colleagues, that is not to say that he was a prig. He was
interested in everything that they were, but in a great deal more, too.
And after obtaining his extra chief's certificate from the London Board
of Trade, with a grade of ninety-eight per cent., he was not inclined to
rest on his gauges.

In 1912 he took a walking trip from Glasgow to London, to gather local
colour for a book he had long meditated; then he took ship for the
United States, where he lived for over a year writing hard. Using the
employee against arbitrio Sorata, the besiegers made dams in the
river passing through the city, and form a flood that breaks its
bridges, and caused the greatest havoc. Perhaps it would have had to
relinquish his fearless defender Segurola, but there appeared Reseguin,
who came to help me with 5000 men, full of enthusiasm for a victory
that had just reported in Yaco.

Tantos work had desserts tireless official, for the first time since his
departure from Montevideo, was forced to interrupt their work. Although
there was convalescing from a serious illness that he had been assaulted,
to achieve peace when the news of a force-Tupac Catari organized
sentences. Weak and exhausted by his sufferings, his soul is in Reseguin
force enough to revive its forces shot down. His sword wielder, reaching
the rebels, the defeat, and another which Marshal Saxony at the
battle of Fontenoi, enters the village of Peñas, loaded on the
shoulders of its soldiers.

As fair as brave, respected individuals from those had covered the
forgiveness offered by the Virey Lima. But one of Chile hearers,
who accompanied him as _consultor_, complicating the pardon process that
continued motion against Tupac-Catari, ordered all garments, and made
alive in the wreck peace to this leader.

Of all the heads No part of this revolution was more than Diego Cristóval
Tupac-Amaru, who perfidy of these traits to be wary of the promises
of the Spaniards. But, dragged from their destination, it was persuaded
to surrender voluntarily to the General Valley in Sicuani camp and soon
regret this trust. Vivia withdrawn and quiet in his family when he
was seized and wiles to undergo a trial, where for imaginary crimes,
sentenced to die on a scaffold barbarically.

Arecha, and Mata-Medina Linares, authors many atrocities, received
honors and applause: but the appearance of the victims, their last
cries, beating their members, their bodies shattered by the force
of the torments, memories are not so easily erased from the memory
of men, [5 ] and to perpetuate the story to give these names to the
execracion the centuries.

[Note 5: Arecha, looking egecucion of the Tupac Amaru, from a window
of the College of ex-Jesuits in Cuzco, where he saw that the horses did
not could tear the body of this unfortunate, that he cut his head:
and the muger of Tupac Amaru, had just killed the "giving kicked
in the stomach." _ Horrcaco in relating!

_] Annals offer few examples of nations such appalling carnage.

Not only is tormented and sacrificed Tupac-Amaru, his muger, his son,
his brothers, uncles, brothers, and informants, but was outlawed
in all its mass to kin, for they were more remote degrees of consanguinity
that joined.

Only spare the life of a child eleven years old, son of Tupac-Amaru,
who after witnessing the torture of their parents and relatives, was
sent to Spain, where he died shortly after. So it should be borne by
the title of apocryphal _Quinto grandson of the last Emperor of Peru, who
took _Juan _ Baptist Tupamaru_, to the Government of Buenos Aires a pension
for life. [6] [Note 6: The title of this booklet impostor published
in Buenos Aires, is: _The long captivity under the Spanish government
of Juan Bautista Tupamaru fifth grandson of the last Emperor of Perú._
_Buenos-Aires, 2 September 1837 de_. PEDRO DE ANGELIS] The only
useful result of this great sway The new organization was that the Court
of Spain gave to the administration of their provinces overseas, and
the abolition of the division. Thus was entitled to invoke the principle
Tupac-Amaru to improve the lot of Indians, after they found in their
delegations, managers more accountable, more integrated and therefore
the Corregidores.

RELATIONSHIP HISTORY & * * * * * Although cruel and bloody disruptions,
which have stimulated and encouraged the Indians in the provinces of
South America have been the cause of many misfortunes
unfortunate, as its inhabitants have continued, however, is
necessary to confess that the true origin of formal and it is none other
than the general corruption of customs, and the total confidence or
carelessness with which so far has lived on this continent.

This appears to be inferred from the facts themselves, and persuaded
all circumstances. In some years this was recognized in America many of
those same vices and disorders that can cause the biggest revolution to
a state, as it no longer was among the rooms other than the union side
and parties. The public good was sacrificed to the interests: virtue
and respect for laws, it was nothing more than a name: the oppression
and inhumanity and horror do not inspire the more than men accustomed
to seeing the crime succeed. The hatred, the perfidies, usury and
incontinence in their respective theaters represented the most dramatic
scene, and lost the decency laws are transgressed sacred and civil
scandal reprehensible.

Such was the unhappy condition of those provinces in terms of discipline,
and not better which was manifested in order to the security and defense
of them, because they were not weapons, ammunition and other materiel
for the war, no officers and soldiers to understand the military art,
because, although the capital of this vast realm, such as Buenos
Aires and Lima, are good and intelligent as the fire of rebellion is
ignited in the center of the provinces and at the same time almost
everywhere, and the distance from one capital to another is a
thousand miles at least, did not lead to anything but to make the
inevitable havoc, but it had appointed militia regiments, whose
strength was growing in the statements sent to the court, after it
was learned that only existed in the imagination of the formed,
perhaps with somewhat decent view of their high character, produced
by the utility patent rights and other salt. corregidores, possessed
of an insatiable ambition to substantial and unnecessary divisions,
whose recovery required by the most Tirana egecuciones with prejudice
to the laws and justice, they were seen sharing some provinces do
eyeglasses, powder blue, cards, instruction booklets for the egercicio
infantry, and other genres that far to serve utility, were heavy
and prejudicial.

Moreover he saw also harassed by the priests, no less cruel than corregidores
for collecting their obvenciones which increased to infinity,
inventing new and expensive feasts of saints with which scripts to
grow earnings over time: as if the Indus did not meet the owed rights,
he turned when he attended the doctrine and to the explanation
of the gospel, reaching both the inequity that was seized
their own children, are held until verified the satisfaction
of the debt which regularly contracted by the force had done the
same priest.

At times the Indians had stated earlier this righteous resentment,
resulting in the alteration of several provinces, and to resist killing
their corregidores, as in the Yungas of Chulumani, ruling the Marques
de Villa-hermosa, which was required, after having killed his Solascasas
dependent, to contain the weapons, which led him act. Also in the Pacajes
and Chumbilvicas, where their lives took the corregidores Castillo and
Sugastegui, committing other excesses, indicating the huge project,
with a lot of time meditating and precautions iban to shake off the
yoke. It was tired and oppressed of extortion and violence, tolerated,
or insulted and shocked with a spirit of sedition that sowed the defendant
Tomas Catari with specious pretest from being cut taxes, there was
so furious with momentum, which in the short space of time fire
burned all the provinces.

In the village of Pocoata province Chayanta, was sedition, and giving the
Indians killed many Spaniards, his garments corregidor, D. Joaquin Alós
of which was held at the village of Macha, as hostages, to request the
freedom of his insolent Catari leader and as the need arises throughout
the armed forces of power, is irreparable damage to the resistance,
was forced to to save one life, freedom from punishment the offender
Catari, achieving ease of prison early on that it was: either because
the danger in time to climb, not to induce caution in stopping formalities
nor public quietude venture by scruples of authority, or longer because
unaccustomed to the hearers of Charcas had perdimiento respect to his
people, wary bold move forward, and were not diminished SUBMISSION too
tedious and they have always sought. Moreover, since the principles year
1780 were in all cities, towns and places of Peru, seditious
pamphlets against the ministers, officers, and dependent on income,
with the pretest of the office and of moderate snuff.

So the common people, who attributed this insolence was in despite some
parts which made the victim of his anger some innocent in Arequipa,
where they lost respect for justice, looted the house of D. corregidor
Baltazar Semanat you needed to hide to save his life, hit the houses for
the collection of these rights, engaged managers and was founder of the
city lost: transcending the boys to the seditious spirit, with games
as similar to see, having appointed including one with the title of
Customs, after both were enraged against him, throwing stones over their
lives, costing at least pretended employment with the price they had
decorated. As often diseases nature, arising from small beginning, get
to the end, so in the affections policies often happens, which causes
mild-born, rising to as high an extent that their choice is costly. Macha
Esperimentóse truth in this, because in making that misled people,
Tomas Catari, all returns that are Gages of authority, and not
forgotten the expected benefit of their liberty, he rapidly returned
to their ideas, baffled by the fancy of the Indians , grading the
degree of their leader as a result of the fear he had instilled in
their insolence, and persuaded by the new method that is still with
them, it was not piety that worked to bring gently to their duties,
are authorized to believe egecutar the most bloody cruelties is as
a result, these injustices are not known or where it dominates the
right.

The Real Audiencia of Charcas, while the shock felt by many people,
wanted to cure anxiety, but failed to timely because its members,
unaccustomed to this kind of events, remained unresolved is timid, not
daring to make an Order which the Court in its early dangerous cancer
that threatened the kingdom, making any punishment for seditious
escarmentase and boot into birth the root of rebellion, which began
to spread: only remedy, when no longer serving the people of their
luchazon, that slavish adherence to then had been revered.

And disappointments that were useless in these cases the formulas right
and prerogatives of the robe fell so excess to compromise with the rebels,
clearing the forgiveness of their excesses and thanks, that was not
difficult to know the amount of condescension Some ministers, who in the
joy of absolute government had been so cocky, born of terror and
confusion they were. We are convinced the Indians of this truth, they
hardly had populations that were not burned in the tragic fire of turmoil
because alborotóse shortly after the province of Paria, in giving the
people of Challapata cruel death at corregidor D. Manuel Winery, egecutándose
the same in the Chichas, Lipes Carangas and, following the bad example
of the Basic Part of Cochabamba and Pilaya Porco, being all the same
excesses, and the insults of similar deaths, robberies, ruins Finance
sacrilegious desecration of the temples. And as was the beginning of an
unease, regulated by the movement of the theater Chayanta where, after
many torments and insults, killed D. Florencio Lupa, chieftain of
the people of Moscani died victim of allegiance at the hands of a
plebeian anger, which is not met together with the death of shame,
they cut off his head, and had the courage to fix it in the vicinity
of the silver in a cross, which is named Quispichaca, tremolo with
this bold flag of sedition.

This event covered the silver of horror and fright, fearing rightly that
these principles were very sad. This day was on 10 September 1780, and
spread in the city, which was outside their flood a multitude of Indians
to invade it and loot it, it was notable that the confusion arose.
Presentáronse square in the Ministers of the Royal Court, with his
regent, to certain provisions, which at the appropriate graduate could
need to reject the invasion of the enemy, and from that moment began
to regulate companies, Alistair the people without exception class: but
with such disorder and confusion, as if it had been some news, the
city inevitably perish at the hands of the rebels: the embarrassment of
those coming togados to these terms, which trumpeted one person in
the ridiculous camp of death penalty, and 10 years in prison that
do not come to the defense, not being the town crier to make the
same diligence with another decision, the Regent offered á egecutarlo,
adding the fact that I had a good voice.

Or fear of death, how low can the souls! since some men, who before
were considered little less than gods, forcing them to egercer the
most vile of the republic, with the same irrisibles that was
sacred. Catari Although the rebel, from the village of Macha, appeared
Submissions and respect the authority of the Royal Court, are not unaware
that secretly wrote letters calling for a provincial general uprising,
affiliated with the main rebel José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, chieftain of
the people of Indus Tongasuca Ink in the province of vireynato
Lima, who claimed to be the legitimate descendant of the Incas of Peru.
This, then, gave start to its barbaric egecuciones the November 4
1780, corregidor their garments, D.

Antonio de Arriaga, a banquet that he gave, under the pretext that I wanted
to celebrate the day of our August Sovereign. Assured the tyrant of his
own judge, who unexpectedly surprised when he was eating, was issued
with a Royal Charter approved to proceed in that way, the cause and
substance in a few days, the 10 months he took his own life on a
gallows, in the public square of its people, and seizing all their
property, had done the same with that of egecucion province Quispicanchi,
which had no effect on having fled to the city of Cuzco, where he
took the news of the incident Ink.

To contain this uproar, the city left 600 men riotously ready, the more
of the country, including some European leagues and a few that
did, spotted the rebel in a place called Sangaré, with a considerable
lump of Indians and mestizos of that region: at the same time and
as a cruel esperimentasen snow, took refuge in the church, and more
possessed of fear, which are determined to tackle the enemy, he
dispatched an emissary to ask which was his attempt, and the reason
that I had to lifting people and disturb the earth: and the answer
was that all Americans then switch to his camp, where they would
be treated as patriots, because only wanted to punish the Europeans
or chapetones, Corregidora and customs.

That order, he sent notice José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru to which he had the
message with apercebimiento not to book any of the contradigesen,
excited among them a kind of tumult, and dealing with what is there
to solve, some of which apparently rammed the enemy, and others
not, so divided in opinion, feeling good presto effects of discord,
which stopped at hurting each other.

A day on the other fatality, which were loaded if any enemy, have glued
the fire they had gunpowder, and a canvas caídoles the building which
housed: and some dead, others burned, and many involved in the ruin of
the wall, were all consumed and dissipated, and took advantage of
the rebel guns and knives, strengthened by the spoils of their
enemies themselves.

Both regard this unfortunate event could offer embarrassment to the
city of Cuzco, and was happy to advantageous for Tupac-Amaru, in which
the owner of the campaign, ran and pillaged by the destruction of
villages, farms and obrages of the Spaniards, and advance to the province
Lampa, Ayabirí entered without opposition, because although this
village had been joined by some neighbors that Spaniards and other
provinces comarcanas led their corregidores when approaching the
enemy took flight: thus, spreading the confusion, the fright and
fear, and the priests and fugitives corregidores were abandoned,
and at the discretion of the Indian villages and provinces, except
the Pancarcolla in your corregidor, D.

Joaquin Antonio de Orellana, full of heroic sentiments, formed shortly
after the draft to keep the cost of his life, and seeking asylum in the
town of Puno, it is fortified with a few of their own. The unbridled
greed of the barbaric usurpers determined to get everything, without
respecting the temples, they poured human blood regardless of
gender or age.

Rarely have seen such terrible devastation, but that no fire was quickly
communicated to such distances is noteworthy that in 300 miles that are
long, from Cuzco to the borders of Tucuman, which contain 24 provinces,
in almost all stuck at the same time the fire of rebellion, or that any
difference in excess of cruelty. Followed José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru
fingerprints of all tyrants, and knowing how easily the populace
is left to drag appearances courtship with it, because it does not
penetrate the mysteries of the usurper, he began publishing edicts
of extortion suffered the insufferable nation The hefty pension
wrongly tolerated, the wrongs that were repeated in customs, and
tobacconists established: that the Indians were victims of the greed
of corregidores seekers to enrich all means, regardless of the
injustices and abuses that led whose modest complaints, which are
often represented their excesses, not serve as anything other than
to incite anger and vengeance, and everything was in order that
injustice, tyranny and ambition that his only intent was to find
good low of the Fatherland, with esterminio of thieves and the
wicked.

This esplicaba this rebel, to entice people joining his party, and going
armed to the edge of his anger anyone who opposed him, invaded the
provinces of Azangaro, Carabaya, Ink, Calca and Quispicanchi, which
inevitably or degree of his supporters expressed, which followed
the example of the same course Chucuito, Pacajes, Omasuyos, Larecaja,
and part of the Yungas of Misque, Cochabamba and Atacama.

Already the general uprising, or experienced unprecedented tragic events,
whose description was necessary for blood sudase the pen, and the
characters were our tears.

With the many Indians who had gathered á-Tupac Amaru, and weapons
that are already had taken, resolved to go to Cuzco, to possession
of this city, and made his attempt, crowned it, as the ancient
capital of the Peruvian empire, with all the solemnities that imitate
the custom of his former powers.

Had taken advantage of the population many fugitives from the
provinces immediate fear that the damage caused by the tyrant, but
did not think to save their lives for this medium: they were
pretending to leave the city and was trying in vain to resist
rebelde, prevented D.

Manuel Villalta corregidor Abancay, who had served in the royal
army with the rank of lieutenant colonel. This spirited officer,
ignoring the fears, and the experience of their profession, those
spirits lifted despondent and threw hand of the militias, and ordered
things so that hamper rebel project: to contribute a lot of ink and
chieftains Chicheros , and Pumacagua Rozas, whose loyalty and dedication
of Chuquiguancas, shone like a bright star amid the darkness of black
rebellion, offering the gift of your faithfulness worthy sacrifice
some lives for their families and all the haciendas possessed. Known
by the tyrant how difficult it was to Cuzco, he abandoned the effort
after some attacks, which was rejected by its neighbors gloriously,
directed and governed by Villalta, who was removed from the hands
with a dam that counted, and lost that hope, was contracted to
continue the raids and robberies against the Spaniards.

And declared war on all sides, and the people and campaign
without resistance, they could escape from the initial insult,
fled to the cities and villages that were more immediate. In
Cochabamba alone, parts of Yungas (those confined to the valleys of
Ayopaya), entered more than 5000 people of both sexes and all ages,
who led his corregidor, José Albisuri. Not because the Spanish
people missing and altering the suspicion that he gave numerous
vulgar, but because the risk seemed less egecutivo, although daily and
pamphlets setting songs heard in favor of Tupac-Amaru, the Europeans
and against the government. Care of agitated vireyes of Lima and Buenos
Aires, the Exmos. Gentlemen, D. Agustin de Jauregui and D. Juan
Jose de Vertiz, serious thought to cure many ills. The first ordered
the move to Cuzco Visitor General, D. José Antonio Arecha, with the
absolute command of finance and war, also appointed Field Marshal,
D.

José del Valle, inspector of the troops that vireinato, Colonel of
Dragoons, D. Gabriel de Aviles, and other officers, to take command
and direction of the weapons had to act against the rebels, and the
second to confirm the election made by the President of Charcas, Lieutenant
Colonel D. Ignacio Flores, who was Governor of Moxos, declaring general
commander of those provinces, and others that were altered in the
jurisdiction of his command, with inhibition of the Royal Audiencia of
silver, many giving wide powers, to act freely. The hearers, little in
accordance with this provision, expressed resentment at different
times, rendering the orders of the commander, opposed obstacles
to its determinations, criticizing his delinquent behavior, libelous
cautious of is irresolute, on the grounds that no party took prompt
and assuming that if it had acted with offensive activities against
the rebels, could suffocate the lesson of the audacity of a few
others.

Whose alterations and labels, improperly raised in such critical
circumstances, spent some time growing up was that the care by reason
of having commanded the audience secretly, and without knowledge that
it was for Flores, Tomas Catari turn to the offender, it that egecutó
D. Manuel Alvarez in the Seat Ahullagas, under the agreement provided
in order to be held aside with stealth, hit the wise provisions of Virey
and cruelly snubbing, because such a procedure was objected to his
orders and the powers he had granted to that Commander.
Ingo would stand at my side while I tried in obstinate stupidity
to find my way through his little puzzle; his eager heart inside his
sailor blouse would pound like a drum when I was nearing the dangerous
places where an exit might be won. He would hold his breath so audibly,
and his blue eyes would grow so anxious, that I always knew when not to
make the right turning, and my pencil would wander on in hopeless
despair until he had mercy on me and led me to freedom.

After lunch every day, while waiting for the mail-coach to come
trundling up the valley, Ingo and I used to sit in the little balcony
under the eaves, reading. He introduced me to his favourite book _Till
Eulenspiegel_, and we sped joyously through the adventures of that
immortal buffoon of German folk-lore. We took turns reading aloud: every
paragraph or so I would appeal for an explanation of something.
Generally I understood well enough, but it was such a delight to hear
Ingo strive to make the meaning plain. What a puckering of his bright
boyish forehead, what a grave determination to elucidate the fable! What
a mingling of ecstatic pride in having a grown man as pupil, with
deference due to an elder. Ingo was a born gentleman and in his fiercest
transports of glee never forgot his manners! I would make some purposely
ludicrous shot at the sense, and he would double up with innocent mirth.
His clear laughter would ring out, and his mother, pacing a digestive
stroll on the highway below us, would look up crying in the German way,
"_Gott! wie er freut sich_!" The progress of our reading was held up by
these interludes, but I could never resist the temptation to start Ingo
explaining.

Ingo having made me free of his dearest book, it was only fair to
reciprocate. So one day Lloyd and I bicycled down to Freiburg, and
there, at a heavenly "bookhandler's," I found a copy of 'Treasure
Island' in German. Then there was revelry in the balcony! I read the
tale aloud, and I wish R.L.S. might have seen the shining of Ingo's
eyes! Alas, the vividness of the story interfered with the little lad's
sleep, and his mother was a good deal disturbed about this violent yarn
we were reading together. How close he used to sit beside me as we read
of the dark doings at the _Admiral Benbow_: and how his face would fall
when, clear and hollow from the sounding-board of the hills, came the
quick _clop, clop_ of the mail-man's horses.

I don't know anything that has ever gone deeper in my memory than those
hours spent with Ingo. I have a little snapshot of him I took the misty,
sorrowful morning when I bicycled away to Basel and left the Gasthaus
zur Krone in its mountain valley. The blessed little lad stands up erect
and stiff in the formal German way, and I can see his blue eyes alight
with friendliness, and a little bit unhappy because his eccentric
American comrade was gomg away and there would be no more afternoons
with _Till Eulenspiegel_ on the balcony. I wonder if he thinks of me as
often as I do of him? He gave me a glimpse into the innocent heaven of a
child's heart that I can never forget. By now he is approaching sixteen,
and I pray that whatever the war may take away from me it will spare me
my Ingo. It is strange and sad to recall that his parting present to me
was a drawing of a Zeppelin, upon which he toiled manfully all one
afternoon. I still have it in my scrapbook.

And I wonder if he ever looks in the old copy of "Hauff's Märchen" that
I bought for him in Freiburg, and sees the English words that he was to
learn how to translate when he should grow older! As I remember them,
they ran like this:

    For Ingo to learn English will very easy be
    If someone is as kind to him as he has been to me;
    Plays games with him, reads fairy tales, corrects all his mistakes,
    And never laughs too loudly at the blunders that he makes--
    Then he will find, as I did, how well two pleasures blend:
    To learn a foreign language, and to make a foreign friend.

If I love anybody in the world, I love Ingo. And that is why I cannot
get up much enthusiasm for hymns of hate.


HOUSEBROKEN


After Simmons had been married two years he began to feel as though he
needed a night off. Very uncomfortable with the enemy possession of the
site, and immediately attacked him with such momentum, that little
time was necessary to take the relief demanded by the defenders, sending
marching four cavalry companies, with orders to make only the addition
of want to climb to the summit, if the rebels, to notice this movement,
came to defend the attack and withdrew. It certainly would have made the
attempt, if the troops had been to obedience sugetado: but away from
that, towards the top repechó immediately, and engaged with the
enemy, which increased the number of instants, and thus is heating both
the action that they went to the other relief asked little while.
Is sensitive to the accident by a lack that I could do to protect the
people, but was sent a rifle company with Captain D. Santiago Road, only
to sustain the withdrawal of the cavalry, which was accomplished
successfully, this operation by covering fire from the rifle, whose
result was the opposite 30 dead and many wounded, and ours were
only slightly D.

José Antonio Castilla, chief of Pomata, and a soldier from his company.
Mantuviéronse rebel movement without doing the little that remained
of that day and all night following his algazara pore was unbearable.
We doubled the guards and sentries, cavalry pickets were appointed and
some spearmen on foot, to be kept under continuous surveillance
around the town, so to avoid any fire, so that with the utmost
caution and silence when they anticipate possible to observe the
movements of enemy, after making whatever arrangements were necessary
in order not to be surprised.

A time which broke the attack of the Cerro Azogue and recognizing it
was very difficult to defend, was sent out, and immediately he was
the enemy, it seems that possession but did not expect him to start
attacking the people, because at ten the following morning was also
moving to lower the eminences, with their boastful ostentation crowd
to spread by the foothills of the mountains were in sight.

Adelantáronse some more fire to the shacks that were somewhat distant
from the population, some warm and sustained firing rifles against
the garrison, and to offend the main square, but was prevented by
placing one of the six towers of the matrix Rifles for their fire
on them, and stressing to post a picket Orcopata them with a company
of cavalry, which not only made him flee, but also cut the road
pregnant Chucuito as trying.

In view of these events , the Indians ahead with all its bulk, to
the foot and the foot of the mountain Queroni, so that no self
left the village to the other front that reveals the gap at the top
of the hill immediately Azogue.

Burned some ranches, a little distant from the Church of St. John, took
over the suburb of Guansapata, rejecting faithful Mañazos Indians who
defended him, and finally put one of their flags on a rock very immediate
to the people, whose greatest height had a cross. In this critical
situation, he sent lieutenants Rifles militia Puno, D. Sea and Martin D.

For a long while he
sat on a bench cursing. Twice he started for the trolley, and again
returned. It was a damp autumn night; little by little the chill pierced
his light coat and he sneezed. Up and down the little park he tramped,
biting a dead cigar. Once he went as far as the drugstore and bought a
box of crackers.

At last--it seemed years--the church chimes struck ten and he saw the
lights go out in his house. He forced himself to make twenty-five more
trips around the gravel walk and then he could wait no longer. Shivering
with weariness and cold, he went home.

He let himself in with his latch key and tiptoed upstairs. He leaned
over the bed and Ethel stirred sleepily.

"What time is it, dear?" she murmured. "You're early, aren't you?"

"One o'clock," he lied bravely--and just then the dining-room clock
struck half-past ten and supported him.

"Did you have a good time?"

"Bully--perfectly bully," he said. "There's nothing like a night with
the boys now and then."


THE HILARITY OF HILAIRE


I remember some friends of mine telling me how they went down to
Horsham, in Sussex, to see Hilaire Belloc. They found him in the cellar,
seated astraddle of a gigantic wine-cask just arrived from France, about
to proceed upon the delicate (and congenial) task of bottling the wine.
He greeted them like jovial Silenus, and with competitive shouts of
laughter the fun went forward. The wine was strained, bottled, sealed,
labelled, and binned, the master of the vintage initiating his young
visitors into the rite with bubbling and infectious gaiety--improvising
verses, shouting with merriment, full of an energy and vivacity almost
inconceivable to Saxon phlegm. My friends have always remembered it as
one of the most diverting afternoons of their lives; and after the
bottling was done and all hands thoroughly tired, he took them a
swinging tramp across the Sussex Downs, talking hard all the way.


I

That is the Belloc we all know and love: vigorous, Gallic, bursting with
energy, hospitality, and wit: the _enfant terrible_ of English letters
for the past fifteen years. Mr. Joyce Kilmer's edition of Belloc's
verses is very welcome.[C] His introduction is charming: the tribute of
an understanding lover. Perhaps he labours a little in proving that
Belloc is essentially a poet rather than a master of prose; perhaps too
some of his judgments of Pater, Hardy, Scott, and others of whom one has
heard, are precipitate and smack a little of the lecture circuit: but
there is much to be grateful for in his affectionate and thoughtful
tribute. Perhaps we do not enough realize how outstanding and how
engaging a figure Mr. Belloc is.

[Footnote C: Verses by Hilaire Belloc; with an introduction by Joyce
Kilmer. New York: Laurence J. Gomme, 1916.]

Hilaire Belloc is of soldierly, artistic, and lettered blood. Four of
his great-uncles were generals under Napoleon. The father of his
grandmother fought under Soult at Corunna. A brother of his grandmother
was wounded at Waterloo.

His grandmother, Louise Marie Swanton, who died in 1890, lived both in
France and England, and was famous as the translator into French of
Moore's "Life of Byron," "Uncle Tom's Cabin," and works by Dickens and
Mrs. Gaskell. She married Hilaire Belloc, an artist, whose pictures are
in the Louvre and many French museums; his tomb may be seen in Père la
Chaise. If you have the big game of the world, So you are rich in
kehrst yourself back because of who sense the whole holds addressed,
this is the dispute in his chest finely.

Genius. And all that we have here before you published "The high Gods
Holy Arts District, Are we ready, O Princess, to serve thee.
Du areas, and quickly, at your behest, How Theben Wall Leier both
tones, revives the sensation Stein, unfolds to you a world of beauty.
architecture.

In 1883 he went to the famous Catholic school at Edgbaston. Mr. Thomas
Seccombe, in a recent article on Belloc (from which I dip a number of
biographical facts), quotes a description of him at this period:

"I remember very well Belloc coming to the Oratory School--some time in
'83, I suppose. He was a small, squat person, of the shaggy kind, with a
clever face and sharp, bright eyes. Being amongst English boys, his
instinctive combativeness made him assume a decidedly French pose, and
this no doubt brought on him many a gibe, which, we may be equally sure,
he was well able to return. I was amongst the older boys, saw little of
him. But I recollect finding him cine day studying a high wall (of the
old Oratory Church, since pulled down). It turned out that he was
calculating its exact height by some cryptic mathematical process which
he proceeded to explain. I concealed my awe, and did not tell him that I
understood nothing of his terms, his explanations, or deductions; it
would have been unsuitable for a big fellow to be taught by a 'brat.' In
those days the boys used to act Latin plays of Terence, which enjoyed a
certain celebrity, and from his first year Belloc was remarkable. His
rendering of the impudent servant maid was the inauguration of a series
of triumphs during his whole school career."

In '89 Hilaire left school, and served for a year in the French field
artillery, in a regiment stationed at Toul. Here he revived the Gallic
heritage which was naturally his, learned to talk continually in French,
and to drink wine. You will remember that in "The Path to Rome" he
starts from Toul; but I cannot quote the passage; someone (who the devil
is it?) has borrowed my copy. It is the perpetual fate of that
book--everyone should have six copies.

After the rough and saline company of French gunners it is a comical
contrast to find him winning a scholarship at Balliol College,
Oxford--admittedly the most rarefied and azure-pedalled precinct in
England. He matriculated at Balliol in January, 1895, and was soon known
as one of the "characters" of the college. There was little of the lean
and pallid clerk of Oxenford in his bearing: he was the Roman candle of
the Junior Common Room, where the vivacious and robust humour of the
barracks at Toul at first horrified and then captivated the men from the
public schools. Alternately blasphemous and idolatrous he may have
seemed to Winchester and Eton: a devil for work and a genius at play. He
swam, wrestled, shouted, rode, drank, and debated, says Mr. Seccombe. He
read strange books, swore strange oaths, and amazed his tutors by the
fire and fury of his historical study. His rooms were a continual focus
of noise: troops of friends, song, loud laughter, and night-long
readings from Rabelais. And probably his battels, if they are still
recorded in the Balliol buttery, would show a larger quantity of ale and
wine consumed than by any other man who ever made drinking a fine art at
Balliol. Some day perhaps some scholar will look the matter up.

Balliol is not beautiful: more than any other of the older colleges in
Oxford, she has suffered from the "restorations" of the 70's and 80's.
It is a favourite jest to pretend to confuse her with the Great Western
Railway Station, which never fails to bring a flush to a Balliol cheek.
But whatever the merciless hand of the architect has done to turn her
into a jumble of sham Gothic spikes and corners, no one can doubt her
wholesome democracy of intellect, her passion for sound scholarship, and
the unsurpassable gift of her undergraduates for the delicately obscene.
This may be the wake of a tradition inaugurated by Belloc; but I think
it goes farther back than that. At any rate, in Oxford the young
energumen found himself happy and merry beyond words: he worked
brilliantly, was a notable figure in the Union debates, argued
passionately against every conventional English tradition, and attacked
authority, complacence, and fetichism of every kind. Never were dons of
the donnish sort more brilliantly twitted than by young Belloc. And,
partly because of his failure to capture an All Souls fellowship (the
most coveted prize of intellectual Oxford) the word "don" has retained a
tinge of acid in Belloc's mind ever since. (Who can read without
assentive chuckles his delicious "Lines to a Don!" It was the favourite
of all worthy dons at Oxford when I was there.) He has never had any
reverence for a man merely because he held a post of authority.

Of the Balliol years Mr. Seccombe says:

"He was a few years older and more experienced than most of his college
friends, but had lost little of the intoxication, the contagion and the
ringing laughter of earliest manhood. He dazzled and infected everyone
with his mockery and his laughter. There never was such an undergraduate,
so merry, so learned in medieval trifling and terminology, so perfectly
spontaneous in rhapsody and extravaganza, so positive and final in
his judgments--who spoke French, too, like a Frenchman, in a manner
unintelligible to our public-school-French-attuned ears."

No one can leave those Balliol years behind without some hope to quote
the ringing song in which Belloc recalled them at the time of the Boer
War. It is the perfect expression of joyful masculine life and
overflowing fellowship. It echoes unforgettably in the mind.

    TO THE BALLIOL MEN STILL IN AFRICA

    Years ago when I was at Balliol,
      Balliol men--and I was one--
    Swam together in winter rivers,
      Wrestled together under the sun.
    And still in the heart of us, Balliol, Balliol,
      Loved already, but hardly known,
    Welded us each of us into the others:
      Called a levy and chose her own.

    Here is a House that armours a man
      With the eyes of a boy and the heart of a ranger,
    And a laughing way in the teeth of the world
      And a holy hunger and thirst for danger:
    Balliol made me, Balliol fed me,
      Whatever I had she gave me again:
    And the best of Balliol loved and led me,
      God be with you, Balliol men.

    I have said it before, and I say it again,
      There was treason done, and a false word spoken,
    And England under the dregs of men,
      And bribes about, and a treaty broken:
    But angry, lonely, hating it still,
      I wished to be there in spite of the wrong.
    My heart was heavy for Cumnor Hill
      And the hammer of galloping all day long.

    Galloping outward into the weather,
      Hands a-ready and battle in all:
    Words together and wine together
      And song together in Balliol Hall.
    Rare and single! Noble and few!...
      Oh! they have wasted you over the sea!
    The only brothers ever I knew,
      The men that laughed and quarrelled with me.

       *       *       *       *       *

    Balliol made me, Balliol fed me,
      Whatever I had she gave me again;
    And the best of Balliol loved and led me,
      God be with you, Balliol men.

Belloc took a First in the Modern History School in 1895. No one ever
experienced more keenly the tingling thrill of the eager student who
finds himself cast into the heart of Oxford's abundant life: the
thousands of books so generously alive; the hundreds of acute and worthy
rivals crossing steel on steel in play, work, and debate; the endless
throb of passionate speculation into all the crowding problems of human
history. The zest and fervour of those younger days he has never
outgrown, and there are few writers of our time who have appealed so
imperiously to the young. In the Oxford before the war all the
undergraduates were reading Belloc: you would hardly find a college room
that did not shelve one or two of his volumes.


II

There is no space to chronicle the life in detail. The romantic voyage
to California, and marriage at twenty-six (Mrs. Belloc died in 1914);
his life in Chelsea and then in Sussex; the books on Revolutionary
France, on military history, biography and topography; the flashing
essays, political satires, and whimsical burlesques that ran so swiftly
from his pen--it did not take England long to learn that this man was
very much alive. In 1903 he was naturalized as a British subject, and
humorously contemplated changing his name to "Hilary Bullock." In 1906
he joined the Liberal benches in the House of Commons, but the insurgent
spirit that had cried out in college debates against the lumbering shams
of British political life was soon stabbing at the party system. Here
was a ringing voice indeed: one can hear that clear, scornful tenor
startling the House with its acid arraignment of parliamentary
stratagems and spoils. As Mr. Kilmer says, "British politicians will not
soon forget the motion which Hilaire Belloc introduced one day in the
early Spring of 1908, that the Party funds, hitherto secretly
administered, be publicly audited. His vigorous and persistent campaign
against the party system has placed him, with Cecil Chesterton, in the
very front ranks of those to whom the democrats of Great Britain must
look for leadership and inspiration."

Perhaps we can take issue with Mr. Kilmer in his estimate of Belloc's
importance as a poet. He is a born singer, of course; his heart rises to
a lyric just as his tongue to wine and argument and his legs to walking
or saddle leather. But he writes poetry as every honest man should: in
an imperative necessity to express a passing squall of laughter, anger,
or reverence; and in earnest hope of being condemned by Mr. W.S.
Braithwaite, which happens to so few. His "The South Country" will make
splendid many an anthology. But who shall say that his handful of
verses, witty, debonair, bacchanalian, and tender, is his most important
contribution?

What needs to be said is that Belloc is an authentic child gotten of
Rabelais. I can never forget a lecture I heard him give in the famous
Examination Schools at Oxford--that noble building consecrated to human
suffering, formerly housing the pangs of students and now by sad
necessity a military hospital. Ruddy of cheek, a burly figure in his
academic gown, without a scrap of notes and armed only with an old
volume of Rabelais in the medieval French, he held us spellbound for an
hour and a half--or was it three hours?--with flashing extempore talk
about this greatest figure of the Renaissance.

Rabelais, he told us, was the symbolic figure of the incoming tide of
Europe's rebirth in the sixteenth century. Rabelais, the priest,
physician, and compounder of a new fish sauce, held that life is its own
justification, and need not be lived in doleful self-abasement. Do what
you wish, enjoy life, be interested in a thousand things, feel a
perpetual inquisitive delight in all the details of human affairs! _The
gospel of exuberance_--that is Rabelais. Is it not Belloc, too?

Rabelais came from Touraine--the heart of Gaul, the island of light in
which the tradition of civilization remained unbroken. One understands
Rabelais better if one knows the Chinon wine, Belloc added. His writing
is married to the soil and landscape from which he sprang. His
extraordinary volatility proceeds from a mind packed full of curiosity
and speculation. For an instance of his exuberance see his famous list
of fools, in which all fools whatsoever that ever walked on earth are
included.

Now no one who loves Belloc can paddle in Rabelais without seeing that
he, too, was sired from Chinon. Dip into Gargantua: there you will find
the oinolatrous and gastrolatrous catalogues that Belloc daily delights
in; the infectious droll patter of speech, piling quip on quip. Then
look again into "The Path to Rome." How well does Mr. John Macy tell us
"literature is not born spontaneously out of life. Every book has its
literary parentage, and criticism reads like an Old Testament chapter of
'begats.' Every novel was suckled at the breasts of older novels."


III

In Belloc we find the perfect union of the French and English minds.
Rabelaisian in fecundity, wit, and irrepressible sparkle, he is also of
English blood and sinew, wedded to the sweet Sussex weald. History,
politics, economics, military topography, poetry, novels, satires,
nonsense rhymes--all these we may set aside as the hundred curiosities
of an eager mind. (The dons, by the way, say that in his historical work
he generalizes too hastily; but was ever history more crisply written?)
It is in the essays, the thousand little inquirendoes into the nature of
anything, everything or nothing, that one comes closest to the real man.
His prose leaps and sparks from the pen. It is whimsical, tender,
biting, garrulous. It is familiar and unfettered as open-air talk. His
passion for places--roads, rivers, hills, and inns; his dancing
persiflage and buoyancy; his Borrovian love of vagabondage--these are
the glories of a style that is quick, close-knit, virile, and vibrant.
Here Belloc ranks with Bunyan, Swift, and Defoe.

Whoso dotes upon fine prose, prose interlaced with humour, pathos, and
whim, orchestrated to a steady rhythm, coruscated with an exquisite
tenderness for all that is lovable and high spirited on this dancing
earth, go you now to some bookseller and procure for yourself a little
volume called "A Picked Company" where Mr. E.V. Lucas has gathered some
of the best of Mr. Belloc's pieces. Therein will you find love of food,
companionship, cider and light wines; love of children, artillery, and
inns in the outlands; love of salt water, great winds, and brown hills
at twilight--in short, passionate devotion to all the dear devices that
make life so sweet. Hear him on "A Great Wind":

    A great wind is every man's friend, and its strength is the strength
    of good fellowship; and even doing battle with it is something
    worthy and well chosen. It is health in us, I say, to be full of
    heartiness and of the joy of the world, and of whether we have such
    health our comfort in a great wind is a good test indeed. No man
    spends his day upon the mountains when the wind is out, riding
    against it or pushing forward on foot through the gale, but at the
    end of his day feels that he has had a great host about him. It is
    as though he had experienced armies. The days of high winds are days
    of innumerable sounds, innumerable in variation of tone and of
    intensity, playing upon and awakening innumerable powers in man. And
    the days of high wind are days in which a physical compulsion has
    been about us and we have met pressure and blows, resisted and
    turned them; it enlivens us with the simulacrum of war by which
    nations live, and in the just pursuit of which men in companionship
    are at their noblest.


IV

And lest all this disjointed talk about Belloc's prose seem but
ungracious recognition of Mr. Kilmer's service in reminding us of the
poems, let us thank him warmly for his essay. Let us thank him for
impressing upon us that there are living to-day men who write as nobly
and simply as Belloc on Sussex, with his sweet broken music:

    I never get between the pines
      But I smell the Sussex air;
    Nor I never come on a belt of sand
      But my home is there.
    And along the sky the line of the Downs
      So noble and so bare.

    A lost thing could I never find,
      Nor a broken thing mend:
    And I fear I shall be all alone
      When I get towards the end.
    Who will there be to comfort me
      Or who will be my friend?

    I will gather and carefully make my friends
      Of the men of the Sussex Weald,
    They watch the stars from silent folds,
      They stiffly plough the field.
    By them and the God of the South Country
      My poor soul shall be healed.

    If I ever become a rich man,
      Or if ever I grow to be old,
    I will build a house with deep thatch
      To shelter me from the cold,
    And there shall the Sussex songs be sung
      And the story of Sussex told.

    I will hold my house in the high wood
      Within a walk of the sea,
    And the men that were boys when I was a boy
      Shall sit and drink with me.


A CASUAL OF THE SEA

    He that will learn to pray, let him go to sea.

    --GEORGE HERBERT.


Books sometimes make surprising connections with life. Fifteen-year-old
Tommy Jonkers, shipping as O.S. (ordinary seaman) on the S.S.
_Fernfield_ in Glasgow in 1911, could hardly have suspected that the
second engineer would write a novel and put him in it; or that that same
novel would one day lift him out of focsle and galley and set him
working for a publishing house on far-away Long Island. Is it not one
more proof of the surprising power of the written word?

For Tommy is not one of those who expect to find their names in print.
The mere sight of his name on a newspaper page, in an article I wrote
about him, brought (so he naïvely told me) tears to his eyes. Excellent,
simple-hearted Tommy! How little did you think, when you signed on to
help the _Fernfield_ carry coal from Glasgow to Alexandria, that the
long arm of the Miehle press was already waiting for you; that thousands
of good people reading a certain novel would be familiar with your
"round rosy face and clear sea-blue eyes."

"Tommy" (whose real name is Drevis) was born in Amsterdam in 1896. His
father was a fireman at sea, and contributed next to nothing to the
support of Tommy and his pretty little sister Greta. They lived with
their grandmother, near the quays in Amsterdam, where the masts of ships
and the smell of tar interfered with their lessons. Bread and treacle
for breakfast, black beans for lunch, a fine thick stew and plenty more
bread for supper--that and the Dutch school where he stood near the top
of his class are what Tommy remembers best of his boyhood. His
grandmother took in washing, and had a hard time keeping the little
family going. She was a fine, brusque old lady and as Tommy went off to
school in the mornings she used to frown at him from the upstairs window
because his hands were in his pockets. For as everybody knows, only
slouchy good-for-nothings walk to school with pocketed hands.

Tommy did so well in his lessons that he was one of the star pupils
given the privilege of learning an extra language in the evenings. He
chose English because most of the sailors he met talked English, and his
great ambition was to be a seaman. His uncle was a quartermaster in the
Dutch navy, and his father was at sea; and Tommy's chance soon came.

After school hours he used to sell postcards, cologne, soap, chocolates,
and other knicknacks to the sailors, to earn a little cash to help his
grandmother. One afternoon in the spring of 1909 he was down on the
docks with his little packet of wares, when a school friend came running
to him.

"Drevis, Drevis!" he shouted, "they want a mess-room boy on the _Queen
Eleanor_!"

It didn't take Drevis long to get aboard the _Queen Eleanor_, a British
tramp out of Glasgow, bound for Hamburg and Vladivostok. He accosted the
chief engineer, his blue eyes shining eagerly.

"Yes," says the chief, "I need a mess-room steward right away--we sail
at four o'clock."

"Try me!" pipes Drevis. (Bless us, the boy was barely thirteen!)

The chief roars with laughter.

"Too small!" he says.

Drevis insisted that he was just the boy for mess-room steward.

"Well," says the chief, "go home and put on a pair of long pants and
come back again. Then we'll see how you look!"

Tommy ran home rejoicing. His Uncle Hendrick was a small man, and Tommy
grabbed a pair of his trousers. Thus fortified, he hastened back to the
_Queen Eleanor_. The chief cackled, but he took him on at two pounds
five a month.

Tommy didn't last long as mess-room boy. He broke so many cups the
engineers had to drink out of dippers, and they degraded him to cabin
boy at a pound a month. Even as cabin boy he was no instant success. He
used to forget to empty the chief's slop-pail, and the water would
overflow the cabin. He felt the force of a stout sea boot not a few
times in learning the golden rubric of the tramp steamer's cabin boy.

"Drevis" was a strange name to the English seamen, and they christened
him "Tommy," and that handle turns him still.

Tommy's blue eyes and honest Netherland grin and easy temper kept him
friendly with all the world. The winds of chance sent him scudding about
the globe, a true casual of the seas. His first voyage as A.B. was on
the _Fernfield_ in 1911, and there he met a certain Scotch engineer.
This engineer had a habit of being interested in human problems, and
Tommy's guileless phiz attracted him. Mariano Moscoso, whose zeal and
fidelity were able to apply known effective remedies, sacrificing
much of their interest enough to afford those militia troops, which
serves to contain the audacity of malcontent.

With these ravages were not the King, from Tucuman to Cuzco, but the
cities of Silver and Peace, to the towns of Potosi, Cochabamba and Puno,
because the province had been Chucuito similar thefts and deaths of the
Spaniards and priests, having sat in Mizque some of the anxieties
that gave no little care. Continued and successively received repeated
warnings that these serious events the Exmo. Mr D. Juan Jose de Vertiz,
Virey of Buenos Aires, he determined to part with some troops, but of the
few forces that was to meet the needs and fears that caused all
those costs in the war with the British.

First ordered a detachment of 200 veterans from the infantry captain D.
Sebastian Sanchez, and appointed a few days of equal numbers, even in
the company of grenadiers of the infantry battalion of Savoy, under
the command of its captain, Lieutenant-Colonel D. Cristóval Lopez: happy
and not jealous and that usually credited with these procedures, some
officials also sent loose so that they could contribute to the meaning
and teaching of the militia, and mandar military operations that
occurred in those provinces to sugetarlas and keep them in due
obedience the Sovereign.

One of them was the corps commander in the Dragon gefe of expedicion,
D. José Reseguin, which left Montevideo with greater acceleration,
and received instruction Virey set off by the post on February 19 1781,
in order to achieve the detachment that had come out first, and that
two had already months of progress: and though this was the one
Exmo. it was not going to serve anything succeed under the command
of a lieutenant colonel most modern, and that was just graduated,
no obstacle was that this officer will conduct such efforts were
made possible, in order to achieve the idea had been proposed, and
which won at the expense of its proceedings, those troops have been
incorporated into the March 13 post on the Colorado, which is 460
miles from the capital vireinato, but managed to stop the successful
efforts and prayers to be used by residents of Jujuy, and many
Spaniards fugitives, who found all the way, who were already assured
of all the rebel provinces of Chicha, CIUTI, Lipes and Porco, leading
up to the town of Potosi and the Silver City, which confirmed the
news corregidor of Chayanta, D.

Alós of Joaquin, who dressed as a Franciscan religious, was fleeing
for the second time not to fall into the hands of rioters. Received
by the official control of the department, we found decreased from 50 men
who had deserted in transit in the province of Tucuman , seduced by its
inhabitants, to weigh the risks they were exposed, and the comforts and
freedom they enjoyed, offering weddings and other benefits, which was
very damaging fresh appeal to all the troops that went to Peru, but was
replaced those with a lack of the militia company of Salta, although
much lower in quality, and by their lack discipline and subordination,
and by they had no knowledge in handling firearms.

With these short forces, alone and with 5000 rounds of rifle and
weapons parts, the marches continued Reseguin, forcing terms allowed
the weakness of chivalry and the large number of loads of luggage
that some officials had multiplied, possessed of vision Profit fails
expressly to the strict orders of Virey aimed at preventing any
trade.

These and other pregnancies that occurred were not for the day 16 to reach
the nearby village of Moxó, and corresponding to the province of guys,
from where it is said to find the cure Talina, Dr. D. José Antonio
Iribarren, church recommended circumstances; Acrisols of loyalty to King,
who also imposed fermentation in those who were immediate provinces had
experienced the risks to keep in proper subordination to his parishioners,
terror and panic neighbors who were possessed of Spain, given the ravages
committed by the rebels, having sacrificed his anger, the night
of 6-7 of that month in the town of Tupiza, the corregidor D. Francisco
Garcia de Prado and some of their dependents, and that had the same fate
Francisco Revilla, corregidor from Lipes, being fugitives from
theirs, D. Asco Martin, who was in Cinti, and D. Martin Boneo, from
Porco. Persuadíale also to be placed and detained in his village to await
the second detachment that remained because the land that had to
move onwards was very broken, the roads, more than being harsh,
full of narrowing and was the excessive number of Indians met to
pregnant passage to the troops.

If it was lost, was sure would ruin the city of La Plata, town of
Potosi, and other people who still remained with some hope of being
saved, and it would also cut off entirely from communication with
them Tucuman and Buenos Aires, that could follow the loss of all the
kingdom, because in this way will be easy to intercept and other
relief aid to be forwarded to contain the rioters at the limits of
due obedience.

Reseguin hesitated, fought on the strength of these reasons , and
the desire I had to take any action to establish his conduct, and
impose respect for the rebels. Knew the immediate danger of the whole
Peru, if you fail that short reinforcing veterans, so hard that
the company would undertake the obstacles opposed to it, and it was
no use if beaten.

On the other hand considered that seek the shelter of the trenches
showed fear, that his arrest was dangerous because it would
encourage the rioters, would give them time to gain greater strength,
and design hopes to take root in the domain they had usurped. Unaware
of the fate of silver and Potosi, and the success he had had an attack
of Punilla, who meditated the Governor of weapons, D. Ignacio Flores.
For moments came from all over Spanish fugitives, which weight extragos,
killings and thefts committed by the Indians, no one was considered
safe, and everyone thought irretrievably perish at the hands of
tyranny.

Nothing was enough to make down to your mood. Oia serenely tragic
relationships that linked him: the shy to conceive new thoughts
and hopes, Valia weighted terms that few men, for their discipline
and their weapons, and thought mattered little sacrifice and all
yours, when trying to avoid the loss of the entire kingdom, and
perhaps you could cut the progress of the rebellion was in its
infancy in those provinces, with some art movements and military
maneuvers that supply the number of their strength and weakness ,
threw the fate, and resolved to die or conquer, and to avoid the
risk of immediate and certain, leaving the fortune which was more
distant and doubtful.

Determined to implement this determination, the bodies of those who
despise him persuaded otherwise and overtaken on the inside all the
difficulties that represented the ideas that had concealed certain,
and tried just a few hours to rest his troops, to confer with the
priest Iribarren ways and means could be used to Tupiza surprise, the
residence of Luis Laso de la Vega, head of the main town of that riot,
and all the provinces now. After reflection, however, with maturity and
resolution calling the critical circumstances in which, 200 mules
facilitóle one priest who asked him, and he bet on the dwell position,
a distance of three leagues Moxó, Potosi road, and while all meant I
could not follow orders to alter their march, to join with flowers
and save the city of Silver that was so carefully by the blockade
that made her suffer the Indians, acaudillados by the two brothers
Cataris, which loss would be responsible for their detention and
without any delay highlighted some items, to fill the roads and the
pregnancy went to those who step forward, with orders to observe
the movements of the enemy, with some distance and dissimulation ,
sought to certify the true intention of those troops.

       Full of confidence and a strengthened those who believed before
there was no resource leak, launched the evening of that day March
16, and field morajo with every appearance of an overnight stay at
the camp, taking the necessary precautions to avoid serious risk
to threatened everywhere.

He put the tents, lighting bonfires, and dinner with the troops
soon, at the end of the day and sent back to the mules had to refresh
early and leaving the camp with only 20 men headed by a veteran
officer, was move with caution and silence, and left to right in the
village of Suipacha the path of silver, took the left one, which went to
Tupiza, preventing the officer remained on the field, accuracy and care
with vigilance, remain lit fires, and passed the floor all night:
also leaving the order, before the new day dawn, lift up the camp and
to follow with the luggage and his remaining backgrounds. This motion
was carried with both order and military skill, who managed to circumvent
the careful monitoring that observed with the rebels, who were surprised
at first light the next day, not knowing how, and where they had
disappeared Reseguin.

Moray far Tupiza 10 miles of road very Fragoso, half slopes and gullies,
and the other half deep ravine, where drops are wading a river that
often, and two leagues from that town, it is inevitable for a angostura
half quarter of a league, they can not go more than two men in front,
side and has some steep cliffs, extraordinary height, forming a dead
tortuous very purpose for which a few men to resist and contain largest
army. No Indians were unaware of the excellence that position, as
experience has shown that their knowledge and wisdom to the choice of
win-win situations, reason because he had chosen to oppose the first
resistance to the troops of the King, considering that when they reach
he would be tired of overcoming obstacles, which were growing by degrees,
and were closer, because the natural way, on that occasion it
agregábase flow of the river, which in some fords are going through
hard work and no little danger increased in the dark of night.
overcome with diligence and constancy all the disadvantages, it's
troops to the natural strength that art could not add event, which
recognized for some items that were formed by the Spaniards who
were fugitives practical from the field, they found unoccupied, and
the march continued, not without some shock, because when it was
in the middle of danger, was heard a great snap, and some stones
were precipitated the highest.

All were suspended, had been thinking of ways the enemies, but the
commander, encouraged his resolution, it is returned, and said,
"because the danger is inevitable, what matters is to leave it as soon
as possible." And fueling the pace, he followed it all: in fact, succeeded
in crossing that close without resistance, and escape to another stream
more space and place where he had the imagination to conceive hopes
of a happy success.

No Reseguin failed instantly, and making high, gathered his extensive
training by regular effects of the gorge, against its estendió soon led
to the greater width of the road, divided the 200 men who had five
divisions, four also to orders senior officers, and most were from theirs.
Each one said a neighbor of the people who lead and picking the
spot indicated, and after speaking to his soldiers with integrity,
representing its obligation, should adhere to the order, obedience
and resolution in the act, dubbed the care and silence to follow
Tupiza.

Came to this town at 4 in the morning of day 17, and immediately sent
to surround the items, which occupied its entire circumference,
so that no one leaving her, and with it came down the main street, and
went to the main square, but then you have to respect their
neighbors or the rebels who were handed over to sleep with more confidence,
and disregard for who made the small number of troops that
threatened, for the distance at which the previous day. His first care
was to secure the main leader Luis Laso de la Vega, who turned himself
into the house they lived, calling him by name, to reply bitterly,
because he was uncomfortable: playing outside but he was in great
danger because they were already very close to the arms of the King,
stood up, half dressed and appeared in person at the door with a
hand in Trabuco.

But beating the action was still to see a tour that I did not expect,
lacking movement, even to push the trigger, resulting in regular effects
traitors of the magnitude of his crime, the presence of the judge, who
await punishment. Siguiéronse without intermission prisons secretary,
Fermin Aguirre, Spanish sugeto common and not birth, who was the
ambitious fantasy to have appointed Virey of that province, the party
embraced seditious, and others who were awarded with various titles, to
divide the husband of the four that had been proposed master: and he
toured as an exhalation all its troops near the village, two miles
away, who managed to reassure the other accomplices of the riot.

So, for the afternoon were 100 inmates in the prisons of the main and
most had been distinguished in that conspiracy. Were taken by the
commander after all precautions and arrangements necessary to
ensure a sorpesa, and was required to resist the rebels, if they
tried to invade the village, as stated, to liberate their warlords.

    Placed double guard advanced, the church
    chose to make the final resistance, ordered
    rounds appointed patrols instructed the
    accuracy of the service, and increased their vigilance and care
to provide the increased risk.

He called the militia of the people of Suipacha, which were by the King,
and Tarija, strengthened with the few relics that had remained faithful,
and before she could recover the unfair terror instilled by arms
of the Sovereign, the resolution of that operation, the prison of their
unannounced warlords, and of all the circumstances of such action
occurred in certain designated items to avoid the damage that
remained in the limits of the province that were touched, and the
rioters who committed heinous atrocities, forcing the Spanish people
wanted to come to enjoy the shade of the newly arrived troops.

Daily appeared helpless widows and orphans afflicted, leaving their
farms, homes and amenities, met in Tupiza, spontaneous Commander
for their suffering, the loss of his parents, husbands and property they
had taken the rigor of tyrants perpetrators, who egercitaron their
barbarism with more excessive than in other parts in the mineral
drank, Ubin, Tatasi, Portugalete and Great Chocalla outrages to the
priests, desecrating the temples, and committing the most sacrilegious
deaths, with substantial theft, shattered the mills, and destroying the
work of the mines. Oíales Reseguin with kindness, to comfort all with
tenderness, and ofrecíales look for them, as a good father for
their children, promised to restore them their property, and to
shed last drop of blood in its defense, and as just cause. sedition
in the province had some circumstances, which was more fearsome
than the general esperimentaba that in Peru, and might have given
very careful not to be cut so timely progress.

The principal author and head of her, Luis Laso de la Vega, was caste
of cholos, more Spanish than Indian, and was serving as sergeant of those
militias, who was accompanied by a genius and daring you to have specific
distinguish between them. This wicked, favored the corregidor, Francisco
Garcia Prado, it was up to his benefactor as ingratitude that brewing
plot to usurp the command of the provinces of Chichas, Lipes, Cinti
and Porco, taking advantage of the fermentation which had caused
edicts and measures of the commissioners of the main rebel Tupac-Amaru,
and the other movements, which also requires the collection of
corregidor some ammunition, and to meet in Tupiza the militia
regiment of that name, composed of cholos and mestizos, which served
Laso, who launched its ambitious and daring thoughts on March 6,
taking advantage of the act of the journal, to rouse the spirits
of soldiers and their companions, who were soon being seduced, and
shaking the reins of obedience, principles taught them how many
excesses and suggested they wanted warlord whose egemplo followed
the Indians and the surrounding village, growing tumult in much
acceleration, Prado's disappointed that no fruit producing their
persuasions and authority, he had no other appeal to seek asylum
in his house with some of yours.

Laso Cercola it with a large crowd, futile attempt to break horses sometimes
favorable to it, to escape and flee to the risk that was growing by
moments: but his efforts were useless looking to find the exit, decided
defend to the last point, favored the doors and windows of his house,
from where he began to fire into the crowd that had surrounded him,
who were in the same way, the confusion lasted until midnight, which
killed some, fatigued and others to continue the defense forces, the
rebels managed to burn down the house and blow up the replacement
of gunpowder that had collected for munitions that troop, and dropped
a canvas wall, penetrated to the Indus Nicolas Martinez corral, and
found his corregidor dazed in a corner, approached him and kill him
quickly, and we drank a lot of blood.

Could have been saved if they had undertaken in advance the flight, as
it is advised sugetos some well-intentioned, but he was killed less
sensitive to abandon their interests, acquired at the expense of a
general dissatisfaction, which put him in that condition and
situation.

After the death of the assailant released her and corregidor others
who accompanied him, entered the rioters in their home, as it had
plundered, and during the night committed many excesses and disorders
in the population and its surroundings, as in the hacienda Salo,
where the Indians encouraged by the example of Tupiza, plotted
against its owner, D.

    Paxsi Salvador, who cut off his head and took over the huge assets
    possessed: through which others of the same nature and are rid of
    Laso sugetos that might cause sugecion, and free and this obstacle,
    he thought the only sure domain that had been proposed. Is entitled
    Governor and Captain General of that province by Tupac-Amaru, by
    issue, without delay, by his secretary Aguirre circular letters and
    calls for all jurisdictions, which ordered, under severe penalties,
    you join to help the common defense, shake the misrule and oppression
that had corregidores, customs, alcabalas and other branches of
finances, again established.

    The parish priest of the village, Dr.

D. Jose Davalos, sought to dissuade them from the principles and calm,
using the most effective offices and humble supplication, but did not
get more than the permission to bury the corpses, whose diligence
practiced with the greatest piety, was not enough to contain those
emotions, who lost the obedience and respect for justice, no time to
lose to the house of the Lord, because it riotously entering a portion
of Indian-filled fury, unearthed the body of Prado, and they cut off his
head, to deliver Hearing the silver, as some claimed, or its Inca, as
others have laid. What is certain, that the Governor of India,
the people of Santiago de Cotagaita, who had remained loyal to the
center of the rebellion, and gave up the burial in the church of his
people with all due solemnity, and turned to led the Indians to
suffer the punishment justly earned such criminal offense but this instance,
neither the repeated measures that practiced some honest neighbors, which
prevented all parties submit to pay obedience to the usurper, the
Chieftains, governors, _segundas_ and _curacas_, assuring support their
ideas to sacrifice their lives for freedom and farms.
The thousand brain-murdering
interruptions are over. The gentle sibilance of air drawn through the
glowing nest of tobacco is the only sound. With reposeful heart I turn
to some favourite entry in my well-loved catalogue.

"HENRY PEACHAM'S COMPLEAT GENTLEMAN. Fashioning him absolut in the most
necessary and Commendable Qualities concerning Minde, or Body, that may
be required in a Noble Gentleman. Wherunto is annexed a Description of
the order of a Maine Battaile or Pitched Field, eight severall wayes,
with the Art of Limming and other Additions newly Enlarged. Printed from
the edition of 1634; first edition, 1622, with an introduction by G. S.
Gordon. 1906. Pp xxiv + 16 unpaged + 262. 7s. 6d. net. _At the Clarendon
Press_."

Or this:

"H. HIS DEVISES, for his owne exercise, and his Friends pleasure.
Printed from the edition of 1581, with an introduction. 1906. Pp xviii +
104. 5s. net."

O excellent H! Little did he dream that his devises (with an
introduction by Professor Sir Walter Raleigh) would be still giving his
Friends pleasure over three hundred years later. The compiler of the
catalogue says here with modest and pardonable pride "strongly bound in
exceptionally tough paper and more than once described by reviewers as
leather. Some of the books are here printed for the first time, the rest
are reproductions of the original editions, many having prefaces by good
hands."

One o'clock is about to chime in the near-by steeple, but my pipe and
curiosity are now both going strong.

"THE CURES OF THE DISEASED in remote Regions, preventing Mortalitie
incident in Forraine Attempts of the English Nation. 1598. The earliest
English treatise on tropical diseases. 1915. 1s. 6d. net."

Is that not the most interesting comment on the English colonial
enterprises in Elizabeth's reign? And there is no limit to the joys of
this marvellous catalogue. How one dreams of the unknown delights of
"Two Fifteenth-Century Cookery Books," or "Dan Michel's Ayenbite of
Inwyt, 1340" (which means, as I figure it, the "Backbite of
Conscience"), or "Origenis Hexaplorum quae supersunt sive Veterum
Interpretum Graecorum in totum Vetus Testamentum Fragmenta, edidit F.
Field. 1865. Two volumes £6 6s. net" or "Shuckford's Sacred and Profane
History of the World, from the Creation of the World to the Dissolution
of the Assyrian Empire at the death of Sardanapalus, and to the
Declension of The Kingdom of Judah and Israel under the Reigns of Ahaz
and Pekah, with the Creation and Fall of Man. 1728, reprinted 1848. Pp
550. 10s. net."

But I dare not force my hobbies on you further. One man's meat is
another's caviar. I dare not even tell you what my favourite tobaccos
are, for recently when I sold to a magazine a very worthy and excellent
poem entitled "My Pipe," mentioning the brands I delight to honour, the
editor made me substitute fictitious names for my dearly loved blends.
He said that sound editorial policy forbids mentioning commercial
products in the text of the magazine.

But tobacco, thank heaven, is not merely a "commercial product." Let us
call on Salvation Yeo for his immortal testimony:

"When all things were made none was made better than this; to be a lone
man's companion, a bachelor's friend, a hungry man's food, a sad man's
cordial, a wakeful man's sleep, and a chilly man's fire, sir; while for
stanching of wounds, purging of rheum, and settling of the stomach,
there's no herb like unto it under the canopy of heaven."

And by this time the bowl is naught but ash. Even my dear General
Catalogue begins to blur before me. Slip it under the pillow; gently and
kindly lay the pipe in the candlestick, and blow out the flame. The
window is open wide: the night rushes in. I see a glimpse of stars ... a
distant chime ... and fall asleep with the faint pungence of the Indian
herb about me.


TIME TO LIGHT THE FURNACE


The twenty-eighth of October. Coal nine dollars a ton. Mr. and Mrs.
Blackwell had made a resolution not to start the furnace until
Thanksgiving. And in the biting winds of Long Island that requires
courage.

Commuters the world over are a hardy, valorous race. The Arab commutes
by dromedary, the Malay by raft, the Indian rajah by elephant, the
African chief gets a team of his mothers-in-law to tow him to the
office. But wherever you find him, the commuter is a tough and tempered
soul, inured to privation and calamity. At seven-thirty in the morning
he leaves his bungalow, tent, hut, palace, or kraal, and tells his wife
he is going to work.

How the winds whistle and moan over those Long Island flats! Mr. and
Mrs. Blackwell had laid in fifteen tons of black diamonds. And hoping
that would be enough, they were zealous not to start the furnace until
the last touchdown had been made.

But every problem has more than one aspect. Belinda, the new cook, had
begun to work for them on the fifth of October. Belinda came from the
West Indies, a brown maiden still unspoiled by the sophistries of the
employment agencies. She could boil an egg without cracking it, she
could open a tin can without maiming herself. She was neat, guileless,
and cheerful. But, she was accustomed to a warm climate.

The twenty-eighth of October. As Mr. and Mrs. Blackwell sat at dinner,
Mr. Blackwell buttoned his coat, and began a remark about how chilly the
evenings were growing. But across the table came one of those glances
familiar to indiscreet husbands. Passion distorted, vibrant with rebuke,
charged with the lightning of instant dissolution, Mrs. Blackwell's gaze
struck him dumb with alarm. Husbands, husbands, you know that gaze!

Mr. Blackwell kept silence. He ate heartily, choosing foods rich in
calories. He talked of other matters, and accepted thankfully what
Belinda brought to him. But he was chilly, and a vision of coal bills
danced in his mind.

       *       *       *       *       *

After dinner he lit the open fire in the living room, and he and Mrs.
Blackwell talked in discreet tones. Belinda was merrily engaged in
washing the dishes.

"Bob, you consummate blockhead!" said Mrs. Blackwell, "haven't you
better sense than to talk about its being chilly? These last few days
Belinda has done nothing but complain about the cold. She comes from
Barbados, where the thermometer never goes below sixty. She said she
couldn't sleep last night, her room was so cold. I've given her my old
fur coat and the steamer rug from your den. One other remark like that
of yours and she'll leave. For heaven's sake, Bob, use your skull!"

Mr. Blackwell gazed at her in concern. The deep, calculating wisdom of
women was made plain to him. He ventured no reply.

Mrs. Blackwell was somewhat softened by his docility.

"You don't realize, dear," she added, "how servants are affected by
chance remarks they overhear. The other day you mentioned the
thermometer, and the next morning I found Belinda looking at it. If you
must say anything about the temperature, complain of the heat. Otherwise
we'll have to start the furnace at once."

Mr. Blackwell's face was full of the admiration common to the
simple-minded race of husbands.

"Jumbo," he said, "you're right. I was crazy. Watch me from now on.
Mental suggestion is the dope. The power of the chance remark!"

The next evening at dinner, while Belinda was passing the soup, Mr.
Blackwell fired his first gun. "It seems almost too warm for hot soup,"
he said. "All the men at the office were talking about the unseasonable
hot weather. I think we'd better have a window open." To Mrs.
Blackwell's dismay, he raised one of the dining-room windows, admitting
a pungent frostiness of October evening. But she was game, and presently
called for a palm-leaf fan. When Belinda was in the room they talked
pointedly of the heat, and Mr. Blackwell quoted imaginary Weather Bureau
notes from the evening paper.

After dinner, as he was about to light the log fire, from force of
habit, Mrs. Blackwell snatched the burning match from him just as he was
setting it to the kindling. They grinned at each other wistfully, for
the ruddy evening blaze was their chief delight. Mr. Blackwell manfully
took off his coat and waistcoat and sat in his shirtsleeves until
Belinda had gone to bed. Then he grew reckless and lit a roaring fire,
by which they huddled in glee. He rebuilt the fire before retiring, so
that Belinda might suspect nothing in the morning.

The next evening Mr. Blackwell appeared at dinner in a Palm Beach suit.
Mrs. Blackwell countered by ordering iced tea. They both sneezed
vigorously during the meal. "It was so warm in town to-day, I think I
caught a cold," said Mr. Blackwell.

Later Mrs. Blackwell found Belinda examining the thermometer with a
puzzled air. That night they took it down and hid it in the attic. But
the great stroke of the day was revealed when Mrs. Blackwell explained
that Mr. and Mrs. Chester, next door, had promised to carry on a similar
psychological campaign. Belinda and Mrs. Chester's cook,
Tulip--jocularly known as the Black Tulip--were friends, and would
undoubtedly compare notes. Mrs. Chester had agreed not to start her
furnace without consultation with Mrs. Blackwell.

October yielded to November. By good fortune the weather remained sunny,
but the nights were crisp. Belinda was given an oil-stove for her attic
bedroom. Mrs. Blackwell heard no more complaints of the cold, but
sometimes she and her husband could hear uneasy creakings upstairs late
at night. "I wonder if Barbados really is so warm?" she asked Bob. "I'm
sure it can't be warmer than Belinda's room. She never opens the
windows, and the oil-stove has to be filled every morning."

"Perhaps some day we can get an Eskimo maid," suggested Mr. Blackwell
drowsily. He wore his Palm Beach suit every night for dinner, but
underneath it he was panoplied in heavy flannels.

       *       *       *       *       *

Through Mr. Chester the rumour of the Blackwells' experiment in
psychology spread far among suburban husbands. On the morning train less
fortunate commuters, who had already started their fires, referred to
him as "the little brother of the iceberg." Mr. and Mrs. Chester came to
dinner on the 16th of November. Both the men loudly clamoured for
permission to remove their coats, and sat with blanched and chattering
jaws. Mr. Blackwell made a feeble pretence at mopping his brow, but when
the dessert proved to be ice-cream his nerve forsook him. "N-no,
Belinda," he said. "It's too warm for ice-cream to-night. I don't
w--want to get chilled. Bring me some hot coffee." As she brought his
cup he noticed that her honest brown brow was beaded with perspiration.
"By George," he thought, "this mental suggestion business certainly
works." Late that evening he lit the log fire and revelled by the blaze
in an ulster.

The next evening when Mr. Blackwell came home from business he met the
doctor in the hall.

"Hello, doc," he said, "what's up?"

"Mrs. Blackwell called me in to see your maid," said the doctor. "It's
the queerest thing I've met in twenty years' practice. Here it is the
17th of November, and cold enough for snow. That girl has all the
symptoms of sunstroke and prickly heat."


MY FRIEND


To-day we called each other by our given names for the first time.

Making a new friend is so exhilarating an adventure that perhaps it will
not be out of place if I tell you a little about him. There are not many
of his kind.

In the first place, he is stout, like myself. We are both agreed that
many of the defects of American letters to-day are due to the sorry
leanness of our writing men. We have no Chestertons, no Bellocs. I look
to Don Marquis, to H.L. Mencken, to Heywood Broun, to Clayton Hamilton,
and to my friend here portraited, to remedy this. If only Mr. Simeon
Strunsky were stouter! He is plump, but not yet properly corpulent.

My friend is a literary journalist. There are but few of them in these
parts. Force of circumstances may compel him to write of trivial things,
but it would be impossible for him not to write with beauty and
distinction far above his theme. His style is a perfect echo of his
person, mellow, quaint, and richly original. To plunder a phrase of his
own, it is drenched with the sounds, the scents, the colours, of great
literature.

I, too, am employed in a bypath of the publishing business, and try to
bring to my tasks some small measure of honest idealism. But what I love
(I use this great word with care) in my friend is that his zeal for
beauty and for truth is great enough to outweigh utterly the paltry
considerations of expediency and comfort which sway most of us. To him
his pen is as sacred as the scalpel to the surgeon. He would rather die
than dishonour that chosen instrument.

I hope I am not merely fanciful: but the case of my friend has taken in
my mind a large importance quite beyond the exigencies of his personal
situation. I see in him personified the rising generation of literary
critics, who have a hard row to hoe in a deliterated democracy. By some
unknowable miracle of birth or training he has come by a love of beauty,
a reverence for what is fine and true, an absolute intolerance of the
slipshod and insincere.

Such a man is not happy, can never be happy, when the course of his
daily routine wishes him to praise what he does not admire, to exploit
what he does not respect. The most of us have some way of quibbling
ourselves out of this dilemma. But he cannot do so, because more than
comfort, more than clothes and shoe leather, more than wife or
fireside, he must preserve the critic's self-respect. "I cannot write a
publicity story about A.B," he said woefully to me, "because I am
convinced he is a bogus philosopher. Joaquin Antonio de Orellana, who
ordered it, among other precautions, he said, would all care to the
assistance with powerful forces, and to forward the news of the
state in which the people of Juliaca.

But then came the march in it, and did not find the answer, not received
until the evening when he was already encamped six miles away, he became
an officer of the garrison of that town, with its response
commander, in which lie still besieged by 12,000 Indians, who followed
the flag-Catari Tupac, who fought with great determination, and that
his troops were fatigued by the repeated assaults they had suffered
and declined. That he feared for the moment to perish with all their
neighbors and soldiers at the hands of the besiegers, had made it
hard to surrender by force or by famine: but had gained new life,
and had the greatest consolation to the news of the proximity of
the troops of the King, then expressed from the demo to give due
thanks to the all-powerful, for a happiness that did not expect,
announcing to the rebels with a ringing of bells and repeated salvos
of artillery and light fittings.

But these, far from feeling that accident, the new taxes by an Indian
deserter, had made similar demonstrations of joy, with their boxes, and
several speakers algazaras, voceando to sites that the King's
army that had just arrived, permission and commanded by the Visitor-General
of these kingdoms, D.

José Antonio Arecha, was to punish them for the many Indians who had
died, and then verify that José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru had come under
command of SM, whose expression was only the effect of that wise policy
Tupac-Catari warlord and the captains had seduced and cheated.
made a spirit of moving the two leagues that night in Puno, in order
to present its view to the next day very early, and have enough
time for the Operation appropriate practice, and make arrangements
as necessary: but the two p.m. took notice that the rebels had again
assaulted with a knife attempted to move all his defenders, rather
than waiting to receive relief.

Aceleróse the march, and at 4 in the afternoon the army was found in
front of the village, and saw the ground-General had reported to
him.

    With the presence of troops of the King
    suspended the enemies when the action immediately withdrawn to a
hill, quite high, and the army camp in his lap for being late and
being very tired soldiers of the march, with resolution of attack
the following morning: for which purpose he warned Orellana, who
observed that at the time the attack began, made an exit with the
garrison, and cut off the retreat.

When taking all the provisions for verification, arrived at camp
on Corregidor Orellana, accompanied by many officers, and full of
joy spoke that same night the rebels had abandoned their position,
and which is acknowledged, had been divided into several pieces ,
each following different directions.

They said with the greatest demonstrations of joy his thanks, and
said they would have retired and left the village, if the Corregidor
in Arequipa, Baltasar Semanat, had given them the help that they
had asked for it without the risk of being intercepted.

It also shows the priest D. Casimiro Rios, a native of Puno, who was a
prisoner by the rebels on the road to Arequipa, drawing on his escape
with precipitation that rioters had been withdrawn. This report,
ordered the army to the rebels called an indus Andres Guara as general
Catari who to persuade his subjects that his escape did not come from
the presence of Spanish troops, made them believe the country stood
for being too sick in order to go to heal their homeland.

This will libertador constant supporters of the neighboring town of Puno,
who suffered for so long had an obstinate siege, rejecting the attacks
by rebels from both parties, ie those who harass the party Chucuito,
which were Julian Apasa, Mrs Tupac-Catari under the title of virey
Tupac-Amaru, and the other by the efforts of Indians in the provinces
of Azangaro, Lampa and Carabaya, under the orders of various warlords,
and even those of Tupac-Amaru Cristóval Diego, the evil sought to pay
stubborn steadfastness that village and slaughtered his anger the lives
of all its inhabitants, whose efforts were promoted consideration, that
this barrier is removed, are entirely at your disposal all dilated
domains and that there was no longer the city that the King of Peace,
also to be considered in their hands, provided that they could gather
their forces and engage in espugnacion hard as I had already
beginning: that graduating company, the only missing tyrant to
solidify its dominance in every province of the Sierra, as we shall
see later, because now it is necessary to take some steps back from
its original site in Puno, and the reasons that forced the Corregidor,
D.

Antonio de Orellana, forms the project of resisting the rebels in that
small enclosure: resolution rightly deserves to be moved to posterity,
so that constancy, loyalty and spirit of the vassal and the other that
accompany it, provide an incentive to imitate an action which
is all the more admirable, as it implies no knowledge, nor the child,
or the principles of the art of war. divulged the vicious attack by
José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru your corregidor , D. Antonio Arriaga, the
provinces of Cailloma Chumbilvicas and since then he had given
obedience, and who tried to seize the others, from Lampa, D. Vincent
Ore., wishing to drown in their early fire in the violent rebellion
that was beginning to experience as closer to the Ink-free appeal to the
relevant corregidores of Azangaro, Carabaya, Puno, Chucuito, Arequipa and
Peace for him relief, with the intent to make every effort to be possible,
and dispel the ideas of the rebel. Reunidas thus the forces in
the capital of lamps, and appointed commander of all D. Francisco Dávila,
who had been officer cadets, which was deliberated D. Antonio de
Orellana marches with his people to the people of Ayabirí to reinforce
that important because it is reputedly border but the two-day retreat
was ordered, along with more than 100 men led him, as indeed observed,
restoring Lampa again.

At the same time escaped the providencia Colonel Azangaro militia, and
Lieutenant Colonel of the Lampa, who dealt with some troops from their
respective provinces, but these accounted for, giving some proof of their
opinion to stay in it . But what is described by those officers, realizing
that it was absolutely necessary to gather the forces to act in a concert,
and with due knowledge of them, they repeated the order that no loss of
time practicing what they were previously but when I had ordered and
received it was so near the enemy, who could not verify their
removal without confusion, many falling into rebel hands, and
juntándosele others, either with the idea of continuing his vile
infamous flag, or to ensure their maximum , relying on bids it had
published.

This incident not a little dismayed spirits, and determined together a
council of war, to resolve what was to be egecutar, given the present
situation and the advantages achieved by the rebel Sangaré and in
other places, and also to have fallen into their hands in Ayabirí, most
parle of gunpowder and bullets that had been collected for the defense.
The colonel and lieutenant colonel of the regiment of militia cavalry
Lampa were also present on that occasion that his militia were also
suspicious because of the effect it had wrought in their hearts the
artificial attraction of the promises of a usurper, and met all these
circumstances, was withdrawn from the people of Cavanillas which is not
practiced, because those militia who did not want to meet, either expressly
for the reasons, or because of fear KEPT, obey those provisions
are repugnant, and only the put into practice in Chucuito Paucarcolla
and directed by corregidores Orellana and Moya, who arrived with the
Lampa, Azangaro Carabaya and the people above, from which came the last
three for the city of Arequipa, at the request of assistance that Ore had
called ahead, and the first two reoccupied their respective provinces,
with the militia troops of them, where they remained some time
with the resolution to defend himself: but knowing that Tupac Amaru,
was the capital of Lampa, wary of the Chucuito of movement of its
provinces, which were already very worried, went to Arequipa, even
Orellana.

Harassed by the cries of neighbors, who wanted to put their lives
and finances, he was searching for a specified safe asylum, 12 miles away
from that town, and wait with less shock to the relief requested was
accompanied only the few who were fully determined to support, by
this means removing the opportunity for those provinces may seek to
redeem their interests in the pardon that suspicion, with the attempt to
arrest the person, for delivery after the leader of the rebellion, as
requested . checked for determining the December 11 1780 after being
released by the way, that José Gabriel had undergone Lampa, and
that his army was heading to long journey to Puno.

Sent before implementing it, collecting all the neighbors who stayed,
and encouraging their expression could regard them with vividness urged
the couple to remain faithful to our rightful Sovereign, and to guard
against the deceit of the sedition and tyrant: and insured leaving the
few weapons I had, not to seize them, the enemy, marched without delay
to the Sierra, where it remained until it became news that after many
committed and infamy in the ravages of Provida Lampa and secretly
left the order to their own provinces, to be seized and handed over,
had unexpectedly fallen vireinato to the provinces of Lima, with the
troops that followed him, and think seriously like other serious
reasons, that slows the relief requested corregidores of Arequipa and
Peace: and to restore the obedience due to the nine provinces had
embraced the party of the infamous rebel found himself moving to Arequipa,
to heat the bodies, so that it assistant as requested. The higher
orders of gefes that vireinato, which called attention to the
operations and dressings are prevented in Cuzco, thwarted the application
of Orellana, and D. Baltazar Semanat, Corregidor in Arequipa, refused
entirely to their bodies and pretensions. These difficulties and pregnancy
lit the heart of Orellana, and resolved to follow the fate that
had the residents of the town of Pune, it was again full of record,
determined to defend to the last word.

Reached 1. January 1781, becoming the first corregidor to restore the
province, after being abandoned, and without loss of time, taken
over as the other acephalous were warned that some provisions would seem
appropriate for the defense and conservation of its subjects, and himself.
It certainly applied to discipline their militias, trained in handling
firearms, then thinking only sustained until it could verify his
reunion with the Commander of the Peace, who had to leave at the head
of a body of troops to enter those provinces, and calm. Ask the Commander
that the daily wage was to give its soldiers, but the response was not
decisive, because it was referred to the waiting on items I had
consulted in advance and in both was the method to follow, had some
news that came as a rebel province by marching Lampa.

The narrowness of the time, and need to work to put this novel, which has
led him to join and it was essential to gather as many troops as
possible, to wait and defend that town, if you try to attack it: and
implementing this design as soon as possible, threw hand of the quantities
produced by real taxes, and drew a modest salary to its officers and
soldiers. Special Dispatch to the new Commander of the Peace,
requesting relief from any people, arms and accoutrements of war,
they can safely hold its resolution, but only got to him, given
that it had not yet reached their hands instructions it looked, I
could not get out of that town, or provide other kind of relief, the
assistant to the neighboring provinces, or withdrawn as more convenient,
if their jobs were not enough to keep the province and honor King's
weapons.

Hallábame then immediate province Lampa, Azangaro Carabaya and wrapped
in painful confusion, disorder, robbery and death, who committed
them commissioners José Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, treating them with
unprecedented cruelty, and using any means tyranny render them to swell
his party, the Indians not only recruiting but also picking up wins to
their livelihood, and usurping the actual charges, as your order egecutaba
D. Blas Pacoricona, chieftain of the people of Calapuja to
reinforce the army of the tyrant who was on the city of Cuzco. Asegurábase
also on the other hand, these same commissioners were trying to
attack the town of Puno, and follow the espugnacion the immediate city
of Chucuito to seize more than 300 quintals of quicksilver, which
was in those boxes for the actual development of immediate minerals. All
these circumstances waved Orellana heart, but at the same time
it affirmed its determination, wishing to avoid such unfortunate
and extraordinary ills. Full, then, these thoughts, and love and zeal
for the interests of SM, did not hesitate an instant sacrifice in
their service.

The circumstance aroused
Southey's interest in the young man's efforts to raise himself above his
level in the world and it was the laureate who after Henry's death
edited his letters and literary remains, and gave him to us as we have
him. Southey tells us that after the young man's death he and Coleridge
looked over his papers with great emotion, and were amazed at the
fervour of his industry and ambition.

Alas, we must hurry the narrative, on which one would gladly linger.
The life of this sad and high-minded anchorite has a strong fascination
for me. Melancholy had marked him for her own: he himself always felt
that he had not a long span before him. Hindered by deafness, threatened
with consumption, and a deadlier enemy yet--epilepsy--his frail and
uneasy spirit had full right to distrust its tenement. The summer of
1804 he spent partly at Wilford, a little village near Nottingham where
he took lodgings. His employers very kindly gave him a generous holiday
to recruit; but his old habits of excessive study seized him again. He
had, for the time, given up hope of being able to attend the university,
and accordingly thought it all the more necessary to do well at the law.
Night after night he would read till two or three in the morning, lie
down fully dressed on his bed, and rise again to work at five or six.
His mother, who was living with him in his retreat, used to go upstairs
to put out his candle and see that he went to bed; but Henry, so docile
in other matters, in this was unconquerable. When he heard his mother's
step on the stair he would extinguish the taper and feign sleep; but
after she had retired he would light it again and resume his reading.
Perhaps the best things he wrote were composed in this period of
extreme depression. The "Ode on Disappointment," and some of his
sonnets, breathe a quiet dignity of resignation to sorrow that is very
touching and even worthy of respect as poetry. He never escaped the
cliché and the bathetic, but this is a fair example of his midnight
musings at their highest pitch:--

    TO CONSUMPTION

    Gently, most gently, on thy victim's head,
    Consumption, lay thine hand. Let me decay,
    Like the expiring lamp, unseen, away,
    And softly go to slumber with the dead.
    And if 'tis true what holy men have said,
    That strains angelic oft foretell the day
    Of death, to those good men who fall thy prey,
    O let the aerial music round my bed,
    Dissolving sad in dying symphony,
    Whisper the solemn warning in mine ear;
    That I may bid my weeping friends good-bye,
    Ere I depart upon my journey drear:
    And smiling faintly on the painful past,
    Compose my decent head, and breathe my last.

But in spite of depression and ill health, he was really happy at
Wilford, a village in the elbow of a deep gully on the Trent, and near
his well-beloved Clifton Woods. On the banks of the stream he would sit
for hours in a maze of dreams, or wander among the trees on summer
nights, awed by the sublime beauty of the lightning, and heedless of
drenched and muddy clothes.

Later in the summer it was determined that he should go to college after
all; and by the generosity of a number of friends (including Neville who
promised twenty pounds annually) he was able to enter himself for St.
John's College, Cambridge. In the autumn he left his legal employers,
who were very sorry to lose him, and took up quarters with a clergyman
in Lincolnshire (Winteringham) under whom he pursued his studies for a
year, to prepare himself thoroughly for college. His letters during this
period are mostly of a religious tinge, enlivened only by a mishap while
boating on the Humber when he was stranded for six hours on a sand-bank.
He had become quite convinced that his calling was the ministry. The
proper observance of the Sabbath by his younger brothers and sisters
weighed on his mind, and he frequently wrote home on this topic.

In October, 1805, we find him settled at last in his rooms at St.
John's, the college that is always dear to us as the academic home of
two very different undergraduates--William Wordsworth and Samuel Butler.
His rooms were in the rearmost court, near the cloisters, and
overlooking the famous Bridge of Sighs. His letters give us a pleasant
picture of his quiet rambles through the town, his solitary cups of tea
as he sat by the fire, and his disappointment in not being able to hear
his lecturers on account of his deafness. Most entertaining to any one
at all familiar with the life of the Oxford and Cambridge colleges is
his account of the thievery of his "gyp" (the manservant who makes the
bed, cares for the rooms, and attends to the wants of the students).
Poor Henry's tea, sugar, and handkerchiefs began to vanish in the
traditional way; but he was practical enough to buy a large padlock for
his coal bin.

But Henry's innocent satisfaction in having at last attained the haven
of his desires was not long of duration. In spite of ill health, his
tutors constrained him to enter for a scholarship examination in
December, and when the unfortunate fellow pleaded physical inability,
they dosed him with "strong medicines" to enable him to face the
examiners. After the ordeal he was so unstrung that he hurried off to
London to spend Christmas with his aunt.

The account of his year at college is very pitiful. His tutors were,
according to their lights, very kind; they relieved him as far as
possible from financial worries, but they did not have sense enough to
restrain him from incessant study. Even on his rambles he was always at
work memorizing Greek plays, mathematical theorems, or what not. In a
memorandum found in his desk his life was thus planned: "Rise at
half-past five. Devotions and walk till seven. Chapel and breakfast till
eight. Study and lectures till one. Four and a half clear reading. Walk
and dinner, and chapel to six. Six to nine reading. Nine to ten,
devotions. Bed at ten."

In the summer of 1806 his examiners ranked him the best man of his year,
and in mistaken kindness the college decided to grant him the unusual
compliment of keeping him in college through the vacation with a special
mathematical tutor, gratis, to work with him, mathematics being
considered his weakness. As his only chance of health lay in complete
rest during the holiday, this plan of spending the summer in study was
simply a death sentence. In July, while at work on logarithm tables, he
was overtaken by a sudden fainting fit, evidently of an epileptic
nature. The malady gained strength, aided by the weakness of his heart
and lungs, and he died on October 19, 1806.

Poor Henry! Surely no gentler, more innocent soul ever lived. His
letters are a golden treasury of earnest and solemn speculation. Perhaps
once a twelve-month he displays a sad little vein of pleasantry, but not
for long. Probably the light-hearted undergraduates about him found him
a very prosy, shabby, and mournful young man, but if one may judge by
the outburst of tributary verses published after his death he was
universally admired and respected. Let us close the story by a quotation
from a tribute paid him by a lady versifier:

    If worth, if genius, to the world are dear,
    To Henry's shade devote no common tear.
    His worth on no precarious tenure hung,
    From genuine piety his virtues sprung:
    If pure benevolence, if steady sense,
    Can to the feeling heart delight dispense;
    If all the highest efforts of the mind,
    Exalted, noble, elegant, refined,
    Call for fond sympathy's heartfelt regret,
    Ye sons of genius, pay the mournful debt!


TRIVIA

    The secret thoughts of a man run over all things, holy, profane,
    clean, obscene, grave, and light, without shame or blame.

    --HOBBES, _Leviathan_, Chap. VIII.


The bachelor is almost extinct in America. Our hopelessly utilitarian
civilization demands that a man of forty should be rearing a family,
should go to an office five times a week, and pretend an interest in the
World's Series. It is unthinkable to us that there should be men of
mature years who do not know the relative batting averages of the Red
Sox and the Pirates. The intellectual and strolling male of from
thirty-five to fifty-five years (which is what one means by bachelor)
must either marry and settle down in the Oranges, or he must flee to
Europe or the MacDowell Colony. There is no alternative. Vachel Lindsay
please notice.

The fate of Henry James is a case in point. Undoubtedly he fled the
shores of his native land to escape the barrage of the bonbonniverous
sub-deb, who would else have mown him down without ruth.

But in England they still linger, these quaint, phosphorescent
middle-aged creatures, lurking behind a screenage of muffins and
crumpets and hip baths. And thither fled one of the most delightful born
bachelors this hemisphere has ever unearthed, Mr. Logan Pearsall Smith.

Mr. Smith was a Philadelphian, born about fifty years ago. But that most
amiable of cities does not encourage detached and meditative
bachelorhood, and after sampling what is quaintly known as "a guarded
education in morals and manners" at Haverford College, our hero passed
to Harvard, and thence by a swifter decline to Oxford. Literature and
liberalism became his pursuits; on the one hand, he found himself
engrossed in the task of proving to the British electorate that England
need not always remain the same; on the other, he wrote a Life of Sir
Henry Wotton, a volume of very graceful and beautiful short stories
about Oxford ("The Youth of Parnassus") and a valuable little book on
the history and habits of the English language.

But in spite of his best endeavours to quench and subdue his mental
humours, Mr. Smith found his serious moments invaded by incomprehensible
twinges of esprit. Travelling about England, leading the life of the
typical English bachelor, equipped with gladstone bag, shaving kit,
evening clothes and tweeds; passing from country house to London club,
from Oxford common room to Sussex gardens, the solemn pageantry of the
cultivated classes now and then burst upon him in its truly comic
aspect. The tinder and steel of his wit, too uncontrollably frictioned,
ignited a shower of roman candles, and we conceive him prostrated with
irreverent laughter in some lonely railway carriage.

Mr. Smith did his best to take life seriously, and I believe he
succeeded passably well until after forty years of age. But then the
spectacle of the English vicar toppled him over, and once the gravity of
the Church of England is invaded, all lesser Alps and sanctuaries lie
open to the scourge. Menaced by serious intellectual disorders unless he
were to give vent to these disturbing levities, Mr. Smith began to set
them down under the title of "Trivia," and now at length we are enriched
by the spectacle of this iridescent and puckish little book, which
presents as it were a series of lantern slides of an ironical,
whimsical, and merciless sense of humour. It is a motion picture of a
middle-aged, phosphorescent mind that has long tried to preserve a
decent melancholy but at last capitulates in the most delicately
intellectual brainslide of our generation.

This is no Ring Lardner, no Irvin Cobb, no Casey at the bat. Mr. Smith
is an infinitely close and acute observer of sophisticated social life,
tinged with a faint and agreeable refined sadness, by an aura of shyness
which amounts to a spiritual virginity. He comes to us trailing clouds
of glory from the heaven of pure and unfettered speculation which is our
home. He is an elf of utter simplicity and infinite candour. He is a
flicker of absolute Mind. His little book is as precious and as
disturbing as devilled crabs.

Blessed, blessed little book, how you will run like quicksilver from
mind to mind, leaping--a shy and shining spark--from brain to brain! I
know of nothing since Lord Bacon quite like these ineffably dainty
little paragraphs of gilded whim, these rainbow nuggets of wistful
inquiry, these butterfly wings of fancy, these pointed sparklers of wit.
A purge, by Zeus, a purge for the wicked! Irony so demure, so quaint, so
far away; pathos so void of regret, merriment so delicate that one dare
not laugh for fear of dispelling the charm--all this is "Trivia." Where
are Marcus Aurelius or Epictetus or all the other Harold Bell Wrights of
old time? Baron Verulam himself treads a heavy gait beside this airy
elfin scamper. It is Atalanta's heels. It is a heaven-given scenario of
that shyest, dearest, remotest of essences--the mind of a strolling
bachelor.

Bless his heart, in a momentary panic of modesty at the thought of all
hi sacred plots laid bare, the heavenly man tries to scare us away.
"These pieces of moral prose have been written, dear Reader, by a
Carnivorous Mammal, belonging to that suborder of the Animal Kingdom
which includes also the Baboon, with his bright blue and scarlet
bottom, and the gentle Chimpanzee."

But this whimsical brother to the chimpanzee, despite this last
despairing attempt at modest evasion, denudes himself before us. And
his heart, we find is strangely like our own. His reveries, his
sadnesses, his exhilarations, are all ours, too. Like us he cries, "I
wish I were unflinching and emphatic, and had big bushy eyebrows and a
Message for the Age. I wish I were a deep Thinker, or a great
Ventriloquist." Like us he has only a ghost, a thin, unreal phantom in
a world of bank cashiers and duchesses and prosperous merchants and
other Real Persons. Like us he fights a losing battle against the
platitudes and moral generalizations that hem us round. "I can hardly
post a letter," he laments, "without marvelling at the excellence and
accuracy of the Postal System." And he consoles himself, good man,
with the thought of the meaningless creation crashing blindly through
frozen space. His other great consolation is his dear vice of
reading--"This joy not dulled by Age, this polite and unpunished vice,
this selfish, serene, life-long intoxication."

It is impossible by a few random snippets to give any just figment of
the delicious mental intoxication of this piercing, cathartic little
volume. It is a bright tissue of thought robing a radiant, dancing
spirit. Through the shimmering veil of words we catch, now and then, a
flashing glimpse of the Immortal Whimsy within, shy, sudden, and
defiant. Across blue bird-haunted English lawns we follow that
gracious figure, down dusky London streets where he is peering in at
windows and laughing incommunicable jests.

But alas, Mr. Pearsall Smith is lost to America. The warming pans and
the twopenny tube have lured him away from us. Never again will he
tread on peanut shells in the smoking car or read the runes about
Phoebe Snow. Chiclets and Spearmint and Walt Mason and the Toonerville
Trolley and the Prince Albert ads--these mean nothing to him. He will
never compile an anthology of New York theatrical notices: "The play
that makes the dimples to catch the tears." Careful and adroit
propaganda, begun twenty years ago by the Department of State, might
have won him back, but now it is impossible to repatriate him. The
exquisite humours of our American life are faded from his mind. He has
gone across the great divide that separates a subway from an
underground and an elevator from a lift. I wonder does he ever mourn
the scrapple and buckwheat cakes that were his birthright?

Major George Haven Putnam in his "Memories of a Publisher" describes a
famous tennis match played at Oxford years ago, when he and Pearsall
Smith defeated A.L. Smith and Herbert Fisher, the two gentlemen who are
now Master of Balliol and British Minister of Education. The Balliol don
attributed the British defeat in this international tourney to the fact
that his tennis shoes (shall we say his "sneakers?") came to grief and
he had to play the crucial games in stocking feet. But though Major
Putnam and his young ally won the set of _patters_ (let us use the
Wykehamist word), the Major allowed the other side to gain a far more
serious victory. They carried off the young Philadelphian and kept him
in England until he was spoiled for all good American uses. That was
badly done, Major! Because we needed Pearsall Smith over here, and now
we shall never recapture him. He will go on calling an elevator a lift,
and he will never write an American "Trivia."


PREFACES


It has long been my conviction that the most graceful function of
authorship is the writing of prefaces. What is more pleasant than
dashing off those few pages of genial introduction after all the dreary
months of spading at the text? A paragraph or two as to the intentions
of the book; allusions to the unexpected difficulties encountered during
composition; neatly phrased gratitude to eminent friends who have given
gracious assistance; and a touching allusion to the Critic on the Hearth
who has done the indexing--one of the trials of the wives of literary
men not mentioned by Mrs. Andrew Lang in her pleasant essay on that
topic. A pious wish to receive criticisms "in case a second edition
should be called for"; your address, and the date, add a homely touch at
the end.

How delightful this bit of pleasant intimacy after the real toil is
over! It is like paterfamilias coming out of his house at dusk, after
the hard day's work, to read his newspaper on the doorstep. Or it may be
a bit of superb gesturing. No book is complete without a preface. Better
a preface without a book....

Many men have written books without prefaces. But not many have written
prefaces without books. And yet I am convinced it is one of the subtlest
pleasures. I have planned several books, not yet written; but the
prefaces are all ready this many a day. Let me show you the sort of
thing I mean.


PREFACE TO "THE LETTERS OF ANDREW MCGILL"

How well I remember the last time I saw Andrew McGill! It was in the
dear old days at Rutgers, my last term. I was sitting over a book one
brilliant May afternoon, rather despondent--there came a rush up the
stairs and a thunder at the door. I knew his voice, and hurried to open.
Poor, dear fellow, he was just back from tennis; I never saw him look so
glorious. Tall and thin--he was always very thin, _see_ p. 219 and
_passim_--with his long, brown face and sparkling black eyes--I can see
him still rambling about the room in his flannels, his curly hair damp
on his forehead. "Buzzard," he said--he always called me Buzzard--"guess
what's happened?"

"In love again?" I asked.

He laughed. A bright, golden laugh--I can hear it still. His laughter
was always infectious.

"No," he said. "Dear silly old Buzzard, what do you think? I've won the
Sylvanus Stall fellowship."

I shall never forget that moment. It was very still, and in the college
garden, just under my window, I could hear a party of Canadian girls
deliciously admiring things. It was a cruel instant for me. I, too, in
my plodding way, had sent in an essay for the prize, but without telling
him. Must I confess it? I had never dared mention the subject for fear
he, too, would compete. I knew that if he did he was sure to win. O
petty jealousies, that seem so bitter now!

"Rude old Buzzard," he said in his bantering way, "you haven't
congratulated!"

I pulled myself together.

"Brindle," I said--I always called him Brindle; how sad the nickname
sounds now--"you took my breath away. Dear lad, I'm overjoyed."

It is four and twenty years since that May afternoon. I never saw him
again. Never even heard him read the brilliant poem "Sunset from the
Mons Veneris" that was the beginning of his career, for the week before
commencement I was taken ill and sent abroad for my health. I never came
back to New York; and he remained there. But I followed his career with
the closest attention. Andres Calisaya, second chief of the village with
those of other Chucuito, opposed by those who tried to attack the
part of the Cerro de Queroni, but never engaged combat, undertaken since
fleeing to the foot of the mountain, and down when our retreating.
It is ordered that Captain D. Juan Asencio Monastery, with the
assistant D. Francisco del Castillo, and some other officials from other
provinces, the company incorporated with rifle move supported by the
cavalry, as egecutaron happily, pushing back the enemy into the
mountains, was the result of which free people everywhere.

Function lasted until six in the evening: she undertook enemies repeatedly
with all their might, as it is moved from the 18,000 combatants,
and ours only reach 1400. The fixed number of the dead who had not
been able to ascertain, because taking care of promptly removed: but
according to the fire that continued to live and suffer, you can believe
there were many, and the highest number of wounded. Our wounded out of
the Governor of Chucuito of a rifle bullet, which pierced his left
thigh and dislocate the Orellana was a foot of a fall of horse,
whose brief discomfort repaired, and continued the action.

Other officers and soldiers were also wounded, and some of them
dangerously, but it ended with the happy result of his injuries.

At night doubled the care and safety precautions to prevent a
surprise, but the rebels abandoned the siege and left alone a piece
that conceals its withdrawal: cohonestar to better their true
intention, which was maintained at the caution light used to make
some suggestions to the church that was made for their attendance
parliament, again asking him the person corregidor Orellana, and
issued the side that sent, commanded by the traitor observe José
Gabriel Tupac-Amaru, entertaining part of the next morning with
this and other stratagems, something more subtle and warned that
what is regularly cree a nation renowned for humble little education
until they all disappeared in search of the first to drop the effort.

Reconocióse was true then your withdrawal, and no doubt would be
much disorder, were available in the village would be the companies
that are considered necessary for their protection, and the rest
of the troops left in scope, under the command of Colonel of militia
Chucuito, D.

Nicolas de Mendiolaza for them picase the rear, with no prevention efforts
with the enemies too. Achievements in a league and a half away in a
mountain not very high, to the left of the road from Cuzco. At
the moment they were immediate, the first alighted, and before they
join the others, the fire started some Indians, who separated from
the bulk of his army occupied and defended a short eminence stone,
where they were rejected instantly; and happened to meet with others
at the top of the hill, which was where they had their loads.

There was renewed fighting, with great obstinacy and Bizarri on either
side, because the rifle apart, they believed more suitable for entertaining
the opposite, causing much havoc on them, also defended hard and consistently.
But could have achieved a glorious action, if the cavalry companies
were imitating the forefront of the few who fought with boldness and
daring: But despite the zealous activity with which sought to bring
into combat Mendiolaza their commander, could not be reduced to
persuasion or the example they gave them, putting them at the head,
making him fire at the enemies, amid a flurry of stones, which
threw its deep from very short distance and seeing that nothing was
enough, abandoned the attempt had been proposed, to remain at that
site until the next day to continue the attack, and ordered to play
the call to remove Puno, as they performed.

But the same inobediencia of the troops caused the mess, and who perished
in the function and removed six of us: either to buy a lot of enemies
this price advantage, because they had more dead and wounded, having
suffered more than two hours a fire that made them very much alive
the fusileria.

While rejecting the rebels succeeded in Puno, who founded the trust in
futility that was directed against the Indians of that village
where the people passed, resulting in serious accidents. In the village
of Coat exterminated the day to all Spaniards and mestizos who
could be on the hands, as happened in the Capachica.

Moreover, people Yunguyo, and Desaguadero Cepita Chucuito of the
province, were declared by the party of rebellion and joined the
province Pacajes preventing an extraordinary move, Orellana
dispatched by the Commander of the Peace in which he requested an
appointment sugeto capable of maintaining and defending that post
already felt necessary, given that as a result of the fall of the horse
was unable to continue this important subject: and given that he had
been fruitless diligence, no thought of something else that prevented
damage to lower than expected, and to resist the repeated invasions by
the insurgents. Also Chucuito Governor, after which he altered the
first villages in the province, seeking ways to calm and having tried
to board a war that seemed more appropriate, submit proposed to contain
those armed movements, Orellana nodded not by the consideration that,
being derived from the same cause as others, it was essential that
the whole province was touched, and therefore the detachment remained
locked in the center of it: as indeed happened to that for particular
order of its governor, was dispatched to the chief of Pomata, D.

Jose Toribio Castilla, who was killed with 25 men who accompanied him
in his village, who took occasion to declare the neighbors
discovered by the rebel side. With the release of this second unfortunate
incident, identified the same corregidor send all militias his province,
who went under the conduct of Captain D. Santiago Road to get to
July and recognized the bloody havoc of all the residents of
the village, passing through Spain, whose property looted, not get
rid of the sacred temples and the desecration of the furor, after
the rebels for taking the asylum summits of the mountains now.

To enter in our population, the streets were flooded with blood and
dead bodies thrown everywhere, without whom I would find some reason for
that fateful event: until the noise of some fusilazos to shoot the
Indians dropped to the foot of some hills to unseat him, they leave to
the priests and others who were able to escape, tucked into the
most hidden, and assured the captain that there were no road other
hidden gathered his people and went back to the campaign with all
those who had the happiness of freedom from the careful application
of the Indians, and continued backing up near Ylabe, from where he
had happened to him and his board was determined in consequence of
war that followed its withdrawal But he did not obey, who forced
him to the many people of Indian Acora, unexpectedly declared that
the usurpudor whose novelty Orellana told to come with a body of
troops of his command, only to sustain the withdrawal, because the
just care of their capital will not allow otherwise, let her be
absent for long.

Shortly after his arrival, he received the news that the Indian
rebels were on Puno: informing the Governor Chucuito, Moya, and
him, warning him to help seize the moment.

He raised his field and was initiated at twelve o'clock, leaving you
ready to follow, as the only way in those critical circumstances, which
it immediately until the morning egecutaron Chucuito, escorting the
Acora neighborhood, and those who had escaped from July and Ylabe,
whose populations were instantly seized by the rebels, and handed over
to the flames jail, the gallows and some private houses, looting
the furniture in the churches of which sought to save the sacred
shadow of his respect.

For the most part were happy Azangaro our weapons, because a short
detachment, released on the orders of Orellana D. Calisaya Andres,
chief of the village of Tiquillaca, succeeded not only relief but
also to cover Capachica of pusi, Saman, and Taraco Caminaca, who
infested the rebels escarmentados kills some people, removing
cattle and carrying. Well D. Melchor Frias and Castellanos,
the head of the faithful of the Indian peoples of Mañazo, Vilque,
Cavana and Cavanilles, who had applied to list its people in the service
of King traveled the road from Arequipa, and succeeded in defeating a
game of thieves, commanded by an Indian named Juan Mamani, who had
intercepted, killed him and many of them, after a stubborn resistance,
whose results were mugeres free 20 prisoners who were Spanish and
the Indians faithful seized a considerable plunder, from how much
they stole from the people and roads.

ESPONSE is withdrawn as militias Chucuito up its capital, Captain D.
Santiago Road, contact the Board of War, established in Puno, it
should continue its withdrawal, in that village to join with the
other troops, stay to defend the city in case of attack by enemies,
which from the Desaguadero Cepita and continued to conquer the
entire province, and in this case is asked to assist ammunition.

The Board responded that it franquearian not only ammunition but
also enhance it with people who are deemed necessary, then to report
the number of enemies who threatened him, but at the same time,
wrote privately to the Governor Moya commander that seek to withdraw
all the troops: provisions discover any animosity between these two
corregidores regularly esperimenta Unfortunately, when many are
involved in military operations, because each one wants glory for
himself, which is envied even by the who are unable to acquire it,
and followed many misfortunes hard to repair later, as happened on
this occasion, because as it concluded, determined to attack a
garrison Chucuito departure of Indians who approached him.

Salióle the meeting, and he became the battle at the summit and
slopes of a mountain of great harshness and difficult ascent, a
distance of half a league from the city, where not enough courage
with which they attacked the enemy known to advantage, and re -
leave to meet him the next morning and found it improved the
situation, but nevertheless fought a long time without any result.

In the afternoon the enemy recognized the little damage they received
from a mason, which sought to offend, and identified seize him: as
it did, attacking unexpectedly and precipitation that defended
him, who were shameful and precipitate flight, which took a total
disorder in the other. Indians not lost this time favorable to them,
and reloading with all the fugitives, followed up locking in the
city, whose scope killed many of our own.

The Indians did not dare to penetrate into the town and withdrew
to the foot of the hills that dominate, having burned a few farms
around, satisfied that the benefits had been: but in the confusion
Estremé those who were militiamen, resulting in a total lack of
obedience, and regardless of the danger to esponian fled and scattered
piecemeal Puno, where many came the same night, referring to that
event and sad laments greatly exaggerated the number of enemies to
rise to immense.

Difundióse novelty instantly throughout the villa, and so dismayed
spirits, Orellana was afraid that trying to leave his troops: he
was so clear to take the greatest precautions to prevent it, and the
next morning, though part of the lamp is not just fears of missing
another attack, he march Chucuito three companies of cavalry, in order
to investigate the situation of the Indians, and penetrate to the
same city, where he was rid the road, but with the orders not to
engage in any function, but only support the removal of officers
and soldiers who had fallen, and also reflecting the miserable
Spaniards of that neighborhood, and to ensure freedom of the wrath
of the Indian rebels.

They pass the enemy is detachment to the same city, but was cautious
because immediately occupied a gorge inevitable, make it more difficult
for its withdrawal, as warned by the commander, while he was
collecting all those who had remained in Chucuito, it was necessary
to go back acceleration, but was forced to open the way to live
force in which the action lost some soldiers, unable to avoid the
havoc that the rebels were seeking to escape in the shelter of this
relief, when the lives lost the priest of the Church of Santa Cruz
in July, which could avoid the first risk of loss, in the shock of
his people.

The first arrived in Puno pointed to the conflict which resulted in
more Chucuito, whose story he was about Orellana fusileria all
determined to go in person to the assistance, and engage in the
act of walking, others were much changed circumstances ensuring
there are spared most of the people, and came back a little more
added to the three companies of cavalry, and also that it was useless
to go for those who were unable to pass the gorge where the rebels
were posted because they had died and unfailingly.

Reasons that made him stay out, and very soon gave him more reason
for feeling just because it recognized the deception and lack of
many sugetos estimation, particularly that of D.

Nicolas de Mendiolaza and others, which forced him back to mandar Balza
carried to the lake to the shores immediate Chucuito to release some
that had been concealed among the straw, called _totora_, that abounds.
Then they left The city cited the three companies of cavalry, entered the
Indian rebels without any resistance, and executed the most atrocious
cruelties. Killed over 400 Spaniards and mestizos of either sex, without
reserve the creatures chest. Inside the house of the priest, the
church than for asylum seekers, many now knife unhappy. With sacrilegious
audacity desecrated the temples, with reverence and respect serve as a
shield to which it had been hidden in them, because pulling the gates
of the church, they took the lives on the threshold of the house of the
Lord. Orellana determined to spend the same on the third day with
troops to prevent, if it was possible, so many horrors, but again penetrated
pain pitiful sight of the spectacle that found the streets and squares,
and the disastrous idea that had all the population reduced to
ashes: and only had the opportunity to acknowledge the wisdom with
which the zeal of D.

Clavera Peter had moved days earlier to Puno over 240 quintals of
quicksilver and important roles of SM, which were in the royal box, which
also engulfed in the fire of the general people. No Spaniards
were in the other that the two priests and a few clergy, who also looked
that day death, intimidated by the inhumanity of the rebel leader, if
not stated in the parag posed SM hidden flows, which averted danger
with the arrival of Orellana, who with tears expressed the feelings of
her heart, and then thought back to Puno, where the traffic load as the
enemy gorges, with intent to cut the walk, as they had achieved before:
but they have foiled the plan with some picketing bet rifle, which was
contained with the loss of three or four of the most daring. At the
same time or with little difference, the Indians of that part of Azangaro,
doubling their efforts, again on Capachica people whose faithful
with a few Indians had rejected the mestizos principles: but at last
yielded to the crowd, who seized the town, which used the same cruelties
on the other, passing a knife all Spaniards and white people which could
be on your hands. So, you were not in the vicinity of Puno that the
Spanish people that time sought to rely in the shadow of the trenches
of that town, which formed as a small island of loyalty in the
middle of a sea of rebellion that surrounds everywhere.

Indian rebels Desaguadero, Omasuyos Pacajes and, relieved of the care
given Chucuito province, with the total ruin of their capital, to
prevent attack Puno, in concert with the provinces they occupied and
Azangaro Lampa. This risky situation to the truth, Orellana forced him
to seek some relief to the captain of grenadiers regiment of infantry
veteran of Lima, Ramon D. Arias, and the colonel of militia, D. Jose
Moscoso, with a detachment of 500 men had left Arequipa, and lies only
nine miles away: but he only replied that they had no orders from their
gefes to overcome, much less wanted to send the requested ammunition
and food to buy In the case that fell quickly, as executed, leaving in
the middle of Orellana provinces those rebels, but without the resources
that I had inside the enclosure that held short, where it was only
because the Governor saw clear to Moya Arequipa pass the result to
heal the wound he had received in the thigh in the attack of the
day March 11.

This statement made by the rebels see the Chucuito day April 9th of
1781, until the next morning and were marching to occupy the mountain
that dominates immediate Puno. Orellana had risen some defenses to
resist.
In 1909 Woodbridge and Ipswich celebrated the
FitzGerald centennial. And Rupert Brooke's father was (I believe) a
schoolboy at Woodbridge; alas that another of England's jewels just
missed being a Woodbridgian!

Some day, if you are wise, you, too, will take a train at Liverpool
Street, and drawn by one of those delightful blue locomotives of the
Great Eastern Railway speed through Colchester and Ipswich and finally
set foot on the yellow-pebbled platform at Woodbridge. As you step from
the stuffy compartment the keen salt Deben air will tingle in your
nostrils; and you may discover in it a faint under-whiff of strong
tobacco--the undying scent of pipes smoked on the river wall by old
Fitz, and in recent years by John Loder himself. If you have your
bicycle with you, or are content to hire one, you will find that rolling
Suffolk country the most delightful in the world for quiet spinning.
(But carry a repair kit, for there are many flints!) Ipswich itself is
full of memories--of Chaucer, and Wolsey, and Dickens (it is the
"Eatanswill" of Pickwick), and it is much pleasure to one of Suffolk
blood to recall that James Harper, the grandfather of the four brothers
who founded the great publishing house of Harper and Brothers a century
ago, was an Ipswich man, born there in 1740. You will bike to Bury St.
Edmunds (where Fitz went to school and our beloved William McFee also!)
and Aldeburgh, and Dunwich, to hear the chimes of the sea-drowned abbey
ringing under the waves. If you are a Stevensonian, you will hunt out
Cockfield Rectory, near Sudbury, where R.L.S. first met Sidney Colvin in
1872. (Colvin himself came from Bealings, only two miles from
Woodbridge.) You may ride to Dunmow in Essex, to see the country of Mr.
Britling; and to Wigborough, near Colchester, the haunt of Mr. McFee's
painter-cousin in "Aliens." You will hire a sailboat at Lime Kiln Quay
or the Jetty and bide a moving air and a going tide to drop down to
Bawdsey ferry to hunt shark's teeth and amber among the shingle. You
will pace the river walk to Kyson--perhaps the tide will be out and
sunset tints shimmer over those glossy stretches of mud. Brown seaweed,
vivid green samphire, purple flats of slime where the river ran a few
hours before, a steel-gray trickle of water in the scour of the channel
and a group of stately swans ruffling there; and the huddled red roofs
of the town with the stately church tower and the waving arms of the
windmill looking down from the hill. It is a scene to ravish an artist.
You may walk back by way of Martlesham Heath, stopping at the Red Lion
for a quencher (the Red Lion figurehead is supposed to have come from
one of the ships of the Armada). It is a different kind of Armada that
Woodbridge has to reckon with nowadays. Zeppelins. One dropped a
bomb--"dud" it was--in John Loder's garden; the old man had to be
restrained from running out to seize it with his own hands.

John Loder was born in Woodbridge, August 3, 1825. His grandfather,
Robert Loder, founded the family bookselling and printing business,
which continues to-day at the old shop on the Thoroughfare under John
Loder's son, Morton Loder. In the days before the railway came through,
Woodbridge was the commercial centre for a large section of East
Suffolk; it was a busy port, and the quays were crowded with shipping.
But when transportation by rail became swift and cheap and the provinces
began to deal with London merchants, the little town's prosperity
suffered a sad decline. Many of the old Woodbridge shops, of several
generations' standing, have had to yield to local branches of the great
London "stores." In John Loder's boyhood the book business was at its
best. Woodbridgians were great readers, and such prodigal customers as
FitzGerald did much to keep the ledgers healthy. John left school at
thirteen or so, to learn the trade, and became the traditional printer's
devil. He remembered Bernard Barton, the quiet, genial, brown-eyed poet,
coming down the street from Alexander's Bank (where he was employed for
forty years) with a large pile of banknotes to be renumbered. The poet
sat perched on a high stool watching young Loder and his superior do the
work. And at noon Mr. Barton sent out to the Royal Oak Tavern near by
for a basket of buns and a jug of stout to refresh printer and devil at
their work.

Bernard Barton died in 1849, and was kid to rest in the little Friends'
burying ground in Turn Lane. That quiet acre will repay the visitor's
half-hour tribute to old mortality. My grandmother was buried there, one
snowy day in January, 1912, and I remember how old John Loder came
forward to the grave, bareheaded and leaning on his stick, to drop a
bunch of fresh violets on the coffin.

Many a time I have sat in the quiet, walled-in garden of Burkitt
House--that sweet plot of colour and fragrance so pleasantly
commemorated by Mr. Mosher in his preface to "In Praise of Old
Gardens"--and heard dear old John Loder tell stories of his youth. I
remember the verse of Herrick he used to repeat, pointing round his
little retreat with a well-stained pipestem:

    But walk'st about thine own dear bounds,
    Not envying others' larger grounds:
    For well thou know'st, 'tis not th' extent
    Of land makes life, but sweet content.

Loder's memory used to go back to times that seem almost fabulous now.
He had known quite well an English soldier who was on guard over Boney
at St. Helena--in fact, he once published in some newspaper this man's
observations upon the fallen emperor, but I have not been able to trace
the piece. He had been in Paris before the troubles of '48. I believe he
served some sort of bookselling apprenticeship on Paternoster Row; at
any rate, he used to be in touch with the London book trade as a young
man, and made the acquaintance of Bernard Quaritch, one of the world's
most famous booksellers. I remember his lamenting that FitzGerald had
not dumped the two hundred unsold booklets of Omar upon his counter
instead of Quaritch's in 1859. The story goes that they were offered by
Quaritch for a penny apiece.

I always used to steer him onto the subject of FitzGerald sooner or
later, and it was interesting to hear him tell how many princes of the
literary world had come to his shop or had corresponded with him owing
to his knowledge of E.F.G. Arme Thackeray gave him a beautiful portrait
of herself in return for some courtesy he showed her. Robert H. Groome,
the archdeacon of Suffolk, and his brilliant son, Francis Hindes Groome,
the "Tarno Rye" (who wrote "Two Suffolk Friends" and was said by Watts
Dunton to have known far more about the gipsies than Borrow) were among
his correspondents.[D] John Hay, Elihu Vedder, Aldis Wright, Canon
Ainger, Thomas B. Mosher, Clement Shorter, Dewitt Miller, Edward Clodd,
Leon Vincent--such men as these wrote or came to John Loder when they
wanted special news about FitzGerald. FitzGerald had given him a great
many curios and personal treasures: Mr. Loder never offered these for
sale at any price (anything connected with FitzGerald was sacred to him)
but if any one happened along who seemed able to appreciate them he
would give them away with delight. He gave to me FitzGerald's old
musical scrapbook, which he had treasured for over thirty years. This
scrapbook, in perfect condition, contains very beautiful engravings,
prints, and drawings of the famous composers, musicians, and operatic
stars of whom Fitz was enivré as a young man. Among them are a great
many drawings of Handel; FitzGerald, like Samuel Butler, was an
enthusiastic Handelian. The pictures are annotated by E.F.G. and there
are also two drawings of Beethoven traced by Thackeray. This scrapbook
was compiled by FitzGerald when he and Thackeray were living together in
London, visiting the Cave of Harmony and revelling in the dear delights
of young intellectual companionship. Under a drawing of the famous
Braham, dated 1831, Fitz has written: "As I saw and heard him many
nights in the Pit of Covent Garden, in company with W.M. Thackeray,
whom I was staying with at the Bedford Coffee House."

[Footnote D: No lover of FitzGerald can afford not to own that exquisite
tributary volume "Edward FitzGerald: An Aftermath," by Francis Hindes
Groome, which Mr. Mosher published in 1902. It tells a great deal about
Woodbridge, and is annotated by John Loder. Mr. Mosher was eager to
include Loder's portrait in it, but the old man's modesty was always as
great as his generosity: he would not consent.]

When I tried, haltingly, to express my thanks for such a gift, the old
man said "That's nothing! That's nothing! It'll help to keep you out of
mischief. Much better to give 'em away before it's too late!" And he
followed it with Canon Ainger's two volumes of Lamb's letters, which
Ainger had given him.

Through his long life John Loder lived quietly in Woodbridge, eager and
merry in his shop, a great reader, always delighted when any one came in
who was qualified to discuss the literature which interested him. He and
FitzGerald had long cracks together and perhaps Loder may have
accompanied the Woodbridge Omar on some of those trips down the Deben on
the _Scandal_ or the _Meum and Tuum_ (the _Mum and Tum_ as Posh, Fitz's
sailing master, called her). He played a prominent part in the life of
the town, became a Justice of the Peace, and sat regularly on the bench
until he was nearly ninety. As he entered upon the years of old age,
came a delightful surprise. An old friend of his in the publishing
business, whom he had known long before in London, died and left him a
handsome legacy by will. Thus his last years were spared from anxiety
and he was able to continue his unobtrusive and quiet generosities
which had always been his secret delight.

Looking over the preceding paragraphs I am ashamed to see how pale and
mumbling a tribute they are to this fine spirit. Could I but put him
before you as he was in those last days! I used to go up to Burkitt
House to see him: in summer we would sit in the little arbour in the
garden, or in winter by the fire in his dining room. He would talk and I
would ask him questions; now and then he would get up to pull down a
book, or to lead me into his bedroom to see some special treasure. He
used to sit in his shirtsleeves, very close to the fire, with his shoe
laces untied. In summer he would toddle about in his shaggy blue suit,
with a tweed cap over one ear, his grizzled beard and moustache well
stained by much smoking, his eyes as bright and his tongue as brisk as
ever. Every warm morning would see him down on the river wall; stumping
over Market Hill and down Church Street with his stout oak stick,
hailing every child he met on the pavement. His pocket was generally
full of peppermints, and the youngsters knew well which pocket it was.
His long life was a series of original and graceful kindnesses, always
to those who needed them most and had no reason to expect them. No
recluse he, no fine scholar, no polished litterateur, but a
hard-headed, soft-hearted human man of the sturdy old Suffolk breed.
Sometimes I think he was, in his own way, just as great a man as the
"Old Fitz," whom he loved and reverenced.

He died on November 7, 1917, aged ninety-two years three months and four
days. He was extraordinarily sturdy until nearly ninety--he went in
bathing in the surf at Felixstowe on his eighty-sixth birthday. Perhaps
the sincerest tribute I can pay him is these lines which I copy from my
journal, dated July 16, 1913:

"Went up to have tea with old John Loder, and said a cunningly veiled
Good-bye to him. I doubt if I shall see him again, the dear old man. I
think he felt so, too, for when he came to the door with me, instead of
his usual remark about 'Welcome the coming, speed the parting guest,' he
said, 'Farewell to thee' in a more sober manner than his wont--and I
left with an armful of books which he had given me 'to keep me out of
mischief.' We had a good talk after tea--he told me about the adventures
of his brothers, one of whom went out to New Zealand. He uses the most
delightful brisk phrases in his talk, smiling away to himself and
wrinkling up his forehead, which can only be distinguished from his
smooth bald pate by its charming corrugation of parallel furrows. He
took me into his den while he rummaged through his books to find some
which would be acceptable to me--'May as well give 'em away before it's
too late, ye know'--and then he settled back in his easy chair to puff
at a pipe. I must note down one of his phrases which tickled me--he has
such a knack for the proverbial and the epigrammatic. 'He's cut his
cloth, he can wear his breeches,' he said of a certain scapegrace. He
chuckled over the Suffolk phrase 'a chance child,' for a bastard
(alluding to one such of his acquaintance in old days). He constantly
speaks of things he wants to do 'before I tarn my toes up to the
daisies.' He told me old tales of Woodbridge in the time of the
Napoleonic wars when there was a garrison of 5,000 soldiers quartered
here--this was one of the regions in which an attack by Boney was
greatly feared. He says that the Suffolk phrase 'rafty weather' (meaning
mist or fog) originates from that time, as being weather suitable for
the French to make a surprise attack by rafts or flat-boats.

"He chuckled over the reminiscence that he was once a great hand at
writing obituary notices for the local paper. 'Weep, weep for him who
cried for us,' was the first line of his epitaph upon a former
Woodbridge town crier! I was thinking that it would be hard to do him
justice when the time comes to write his. Jacinto: that they were
repeated acclamations of the infamous name of the tyrant, who could be
heard repeating in streets and public places by all sorts of people,
with great rejoicing, all running with flags and other demonstrations
of joy, which imitated D. Manuel Herrera from the balcony of his house,
a white handkerchief tremolo, and accompanying this action with
the same words as others who were saying: "alive-Tupac Amaru," which
again gave the people full of joy.

The mob of Creole, I heard this news as favorable to his ideas,
expressed the joy that it caused, and some tried to leave to find,
because it ensures the Indus, which very soon would be in the City
of Peace.

D. Jacinto Rodriguez, agreed with the captain muger those militias, D.
Menacho Clemente, all Spaniards who tried to use the suit of the Indians.
Emerged from this line the streets, dressed in black velvet with
rich overlays of gold would be a threat to all victims of the rebels,
but he imitated, because they were persuade Europeans, that were
agreed to get rid of death, and a achieve the transformation when
he wanted, taking the men promptly _camiseta_ or _unco_ of the
Indians, and leaving the Ladies Short fringed pubic neat, dressed
in the coarse and long _acsos_ of India.

When they were engaged in these and other measures, the news arrived
that the Indians came Challapata. They came out to receive the field as
the others, but only 40 came from the most major, and the head of
them D. Juan de Dios Rodriguez, and then entered the square, was sent
chiming bells, and then staying at the home of the driving, which were
well attended and gifts. Passing through the street Courier, took the
King's arms, which were fixed on the door of the administration,
pisándolas and outrages, whose daring demonstrations wanted to suggest
having died the reign of Our Sovereign Augusto, D. Carlos III.

These Indians had come to the aid specious pretext of the village, who
claimed to be ready to defend it had 40,000 men but knew that everything
was the invention of malice, because the time worked there to ask the
landowners assignments and resignations their farms for their community,
which egecutaron owners with deeds to them, to prevent death,
wanting first to lose their property to their lives.

And as far the Indians were made owners of that population,
ensoberbecidos the money they had paid, and the rewards of Rodriguez
and his part, referred to as above, refused obedience, and did not
want egecutar the order they are had to withdraw: before more
insolence returned at night to plunder, and attack the house of Mr
Francis Polo store, not to be served in a Creole for freedom, and
as dawn in this operation, were seen by the owner He was to ask Mr
Jacinto remedy that too: what you heard on the Indus, the Governor
of Challata, D.

Chungara Lope, Compadecida ravages of so many, decided to join the neighbors
together and sent into the Indians and gave the order, that is what
killed resisting, egecutado having two or three of the most daring,
was achieved the attempt, leaving the other without any resistance.

This was the cruel and bloody event in the town of Oruro, where he not
only experienced tyranny of part of Indians and cholos rebels, but
also some priests and prelates of religions. One of them European, and
perhaps benefited the most from their countrymen, their fellow
officers daily, closed the doors so that none could qualify for its
closure, dismissing inhumanely and with greater violence, Mr Francisco
Duran, and D.

José Arijón of respectable old lady who tried. But much tyrant was
looking into the convent to D. José Isasa, who flee persecution,
had jumped out of the walls of the corral, which also brought out in
the middle of the day, setting out with outrage to be received between
the sticks, slingshots and spears of his enemies.

No less unworthy of his ministry was another, although it allowed some
covering their religious persecution, took a rising amount of gold
jewelry, pearls and diamonds, which began with confidence in his
cell a religious fear was sacked by his by the mutineers, because
it has been found in a European way that according to prudent
regulation, usurped over 70,000 pesos strong.

The priest of the village, continuing his misguided doctrine,
received from Mr Jacinto Rodriguez bar silver, whose value was about
2000 pesos, and a golden _mancerina_ sent the stolen votes to hold
the Europeans killed in the riot, settle all buried together in a
pit , and apply some Masses.

None of these or other ecclesiastical superiors made the slightest
demonstration to prevent violent Indian churches all agreed on
that, possessed of horror and pain as more tired, was that after
the polutas churches, allowed to hold the holy and tremendous
sacrifice of the Mass, the priest buried in the place that was
violated, the bodies of residents who died of disease.

Satisfied and the tyranny of the accomplices, with so many tragic
events, cohonestar sought their wickedness with some specific
pretest, you are subject to the obedience of the King.

Assuming the mine was actually built by the corregidor from home to the
barracks: autos formed, whose murderers were the same witnesses
and some boys, who own authority of the justice dispensed ages
Mayor, D.

Jacinto Rodriguez, making them sign statements, which in advance
was made by direction of the lawyers and Megias Caro.

It may prove the fact of the mine with light eyes, was built secretly
persuaded, as was commanded: but thought it came out wrong,
Porges makers left the site this evil with the consideration of the
offense, and having passed the exam the royal scribe, D. José Montesinos,
found only a hole that was not addressed to any party, but followed
the process full of evils and defects, and had the audacity to send it
to the Audiencia of Charcas, to rock their ministers. It also
invented continuous infamous daily news, so that the faithful few
neighbors not lifted the cry, sometimes claimed that had ravaged the city
of silver, other than in Potosí Creoles, united and confederated with
the Indians of the mita, had died at all Europeans, and that the
City of Peace egecutar wanted it traicion at that village, and
killed 200 Europeans and 300 Creoles, with further developments of
this nature, which went for infusing malice terror and submission
to the fair.

Rodriguez all enjoyed the distinction of seized command with the greatest
satisfaction, relying on blind subordination to them had the
Indians: but all their hopes were dashed in the morning of March
9, which was unexpectedly stormed his house, both of them trusted,
and tried to remove as many warheads and destroy the entire town.

Performed immediately stake here joined the militia and the Indians were
repulsed with loss of 60. This behavior did vary, abandoning excessive
contemplation since they dealt with, especially D. Jacinto, was persuaded
to come to his aid after the flames, as had been previously egecutado:
but already disillusioned, he smelt some masons, to fix the militia,
and gather ammunition for the defense.

Retired Indians with this lesson to his people; stays, since they
began to call to the other provinces immediate atrayéndolos with
silver stolen in the looting of Oruro.

They occupied the roads to prevent the placement of food killed the
drivers, and taking advantage of what led from so that those neighbors
were reduced to suffer the greatest needs.

Every night was played compromised by repeated warnings that the Indians
came to destroy the village, took advantage of the opportunity to
continue cholos stealing they could, until March 18, which was
verified; sun on the tops of the Hills San Felipe and Tetilla 6000
to 7000.

Went out to fight, killed a few, and there were some injuries from
the Orureños that fell, lost the hope of overcoming the heights
were occupied, increasing dismay, as the party was strengthened by
the Indians, who arrived with several items for moments, and placed
in the Cerro de San Pedro.

Again presented the battle, which admitted the neighbors but only began
the attack, the eminent reoccupied, except 14 who were killed with one
of his captains, whose head is flying at the tip of a spear. In this
show gained new effort, and forgotten the resentment against the
Europeans, for their own convenience, find the thought of it had escaped
and were hiding, to help the defense, whose commission is tasked D.
Menacho Clemente, with all his company, who told a religious
Mercedarian could draw freely knew that had some in his cell, because
there was a general pardon for them.

It left the convent D. Goiburu Antonio and D. Manuel Puche, who were
greeted with demonstrations and hands in good faith, and so were
determined to do the same the remaining 18 together until they had the
happiness of their lives from the fury of the last conjuration.

United Creoles, and knowing that the Indians who had occupied the
hills immediately to Oruro, remained in the Chosequirí, two miles
distant, determined to follow them and attack it in its action, which
lasted all day 19, managed to kill 120 and defeat them entirely: since
that day feeling the beneficial effects of this victory, because
the Indians began to beg forgiveness, and offered to deliver the
head that had moved as egecutaron later, leading to the warlords
of the peoples of Sorasora, Challacocho and poop.

D. Jacinto Rodriguez and other gefes the militia, agreed to an agreement
with them, on condition that they attend the park, the food necessary
to keep your neighborhood.

It does not cause pain unless the havoc that the revolt was in the village
of San Pedro de Buena Vista, in the province of Chayanta, that even
had the fortune of escarmentar the audacity of the Indians when
sobervios and arrogant, it stormed in the months of November and
December 1780. anxious to resist its fury so small town poorly
assisted ammunition and mouth became stronger by the month of
February 1781 to intensify the attacks and assaults.

The priest, Dr. D. Isidoro José de Herrera, who is admired in competition
with a great view, a profound wisdom, and fidelity Acrisols, urged
his parishioners to the largest on record, and not to stain his
honor with the ugly smut of disloyalty.

Could evade this exemplary priest flight risk: but he scruple of conscience
that afflicted forsake gray, sometimes so tight I needed his help,
and hope that a lijera their respect and authority that could turn off
voracious flame remained the people. With this heroic resolution by
flying a banner-Santo Cristo, and as sacred effigy urged Spaniards and
rebuked the rebels: but these, ignoring God helps those who enter the
All-Powerful Hand of his Minister repeated blows with a deluge of
stones and although our days were seven wonders of courage and constancy,
not only rejecting those who were angry with efforts undertaken
by that scoundrel, but killing and injuring many, bowing and forces
á stubborn obstinacy and the unequal number of opponents, and being
tired of the hunger and thirst, with a total lack of gunpowder and
bullets, and without the assistance which had repeatedly asked the
military commander of the Hearing and silver, distant only 30 miles,
finally found a remedy to the temple to withdraw, believing that
the respect due to the house of God was the most inespugnable
strength, they save lives.

But outrageous or unbelievable! not, because with the same opprobrium of
rationality and disregard of the adorable sacrament of the holy images,
and the entire heavenly court, turned the temple into a den of facinerosos,
with sacrilegious hands took their own lives and to cure five priests,
passing a knife over 1000 people, among men, and creatures mugeres,
leaving deep into the sanctuary of innocent blood, and with it sprinkled
the altars. Esperimentóse the same tragedy in the village of Caracoto,
Basic province, where the blood of Spaniards poured into the church came
to cover the ankles of the sacrilegious assailants in the province
of Cochabamba Tapacari same fate that had inhabited it: getting
the cruelty of the rebels to either excess, who wanted to bury alive
At mugeres Spanish, which had already opened a hole in the square,
capable of burying them all.

Exercised in this town until Estremo cruelty.

Out of a Spanish church, which had benefited from the high altar with
six sons, dragged him to his house, he put the knife in his hands,
precisely cruel lashes, to be the executioner of his own blood, in the
presence muger of who was ahead of her pregnancy. Resistíose the barbaric
egecucion unhappy with this, and by the loving prayers of the
mother, as the soft sobs of children, without enough so compassionate
show for enternecer the hardened hearts of those tyrants, who were
resolved to kill father, and the children in view of the mother,
more diligent and tears that used to freedom, and having an abortion
with the pain and shock, turned rabid to examine the fetus, and
finding that it was man, he took their own lives, rather than spiral
course.

In the boxes, in the same province of Cochabamba, the same tyranny
and committed sacrilege, killing many people of all sexes and ages,
and the priest D. Gabriel Arnau, who came to blows and empellones at the
foot of the sacred interests, taking into his hands the Blessed
Sacrament of the Altar, which was the most ESPONSE sacrilegious desecration:
india and taking the consecrated host one, ran with her hands, saying:
"Look at the deception, we suffer from these rogues, this cake was made
by the sexton with flour that I drove the valley, and then we pretend
that it is God Sacrament." Also in the village of Arque victim of
sedition were all neighbors of Spanish in it and its broken. It robbed
the people of Blanket and egercitaron equal cruelty, his cure garments,
Dr. D. Martin Martinez Tineo, Maneater which led him in the midst of
the tumult, which was a garrotazo wounded in the head because he did not
want to settle their proposals, that would lashes, to learn the
doctrine. This church was maintained with the utmost integrity, in
full view of the danger that threatened him: asking if azotaria, I
replied, yes, when you give reason for not wanting to instruct in the
Christian obligations.

Reproducianle Indians, which would give them only 20 or 25 lashes:
to reply that if you commit this fault, punished with the 50 as I
had used until then, remaining inflexible on these and other proposals
to him, as opposed to its ministry.

But as his zeal and couducta arranged with many charities to which,
and the infinite interests obvenciones to continually forgave him
had become very dear to all, saved the lives and freedom from their
oppressors and, without loss of time spent the capital of the
province, where he came bathed in his own blood, and appeared in
the square, without doing other steps to put a measure on the wound
of Our Lady of Copacabana, surrounded by a large competition, the
exortó bystanders, saying: Where is the loyalty and the religion
of Cochabamba, which did not prevent both damage and sacrilege?

And teaching the wound, said: "Look like it is the priests and ministers
of the sanctuary: Do not believe in vain offerings traitor Tupac
Amaru-all You will be a victim of his ambition Tirana, because its
intent is to shed the blood Spanish; Good witnesses are in the
cruelties egecutadas Arque, Tapacari, boxes and other peoples. "

It is that they affect to disdain the
superlative harmonies of artificed and ordered rhythms; that knowing not
a spondee from a tribrach they vapour about prosody, of which they know
nothing, and imagine to be new what antedates the Upanishads. The
haunting beauty of Mr. de la Mare's delicate art springs from an ear of
superlative tenderness and sophistication. The daintiest alternation of
iambus and trochee is joined to the serpent's cunning in swiftly
tripping dactyls. Probably this artifice is greatly unconscious, the
meed of the trained musician; but let no singer think to upraise his
voice before the Lord ere he master the axioms of prosody. Imagist
journals please copy.

One may well despair of conveying in a few rough paragraphs the gist of
this quaint, fanciful, brooding charm. There is something fey about much
of the book: it peers behind the curtains of twilight and sees strange
things. In its love of children, its inspired simplicity, its sparkle of
whim and Æsopian brevity, I know nothing finer. Let me just cut for you
one more slice of this rarely seasoned pastry.

    THE LITTLE BIRD

    My dear Daddie bought a mansion
      For to bring my Mammie to,
    In a hat with a long feather,
      And a trailing gown of blue;
    And a company of fiddlers
      And a rout of maids and men
    Danced the clock round to the morning,
      In a gay house-warming then.
    And when all the guests were gone, and
      All was still as still can be,
    In from the dark ivy hopped a
      Wee small bird: and that was Me.

"Peacock Pie" is immortal diet indeed, as Sir Walter said of his scrip
of joy. Annealed as we are, I think it will discompose the most callous.
It is a sweet feverfew for the heats of the spirit, It is full of
outlets of sky.

As for Mr. de la Mare himself, he is a modest man and keeps behind his
songs. Recently he paid his first visit to America, and we may hope that
even on Fifth Avenue he saw some fairies. He lectured at some of our
universities and endured the grotesque plaudits of dowagers and
professors who doubtless pretended to have read his work. Although he is
forty-four, and has been publishing for nearly sixteen years, he has
evaded "Who's Who." He lives in London, is married, and has four
children. For a number of years he worked for the Anglo-American Oil
Company. Truly the Muse sometimes lends to her favourites a merciful
hardiness.


THE LITERARY PAWNSHOP


Excellent Parson Adams, in "Joseph Andrews," is not the only literary
man who has lamented the difficulty of ransoming a manuscript for
immediate cash. It will be remembered that Mr. Adams had in his
saddlebag nine volumes of sermons in manuscript, "as well worth a
hundred pounds as a shilling was worth twelve pence." Offering one of
these as a pledge, Parson Adams besought Mr. Tow-Wouse, the innkeeper,
to lend him three guineas but the latter had so little stomach for a
transaction of this sort that "he cried out, 'Coming, sir,' though
nobody called; and ran downstairs without any fear of breaking his
neck."

As a whimsical essayist (with whom I have talked over these matters)
puts it, the business of literature is imperfectly coordinated with
life.

Almost any other kind of property is hockable for ready cash. A watch, a
ring, an outworn suit of clothes, a chair, a set of books, all these
will find willing purchasers. But a manuscript which happens not to meet
the fancy of the editors must perforce lie idle in your drawer though it
sparkle with the brilliants of wit, and five or ten years hence
collectors may list it in their catalogues. No mount of piety along
Sixth Avenue will accept it in pawn, no Hartford Lunch will exchange it
for corned beef hash and dropped egg. This is a dismal thing.

This means that there is an amusing and a competent living to be gained
by a literary agent of a new kind. Think how many of the most famous
writers have trod the streets ragged and hungry in their early days.
There were times when they would have sold their epics, their novels,
their essays, for the price of a square meal. Think of the booty that
would accumulate in the shop of a literary pawnbroker. The early work of
famous men would fill his safe to bursting. Later on he might sell it
for a thousand times what he gave. There is nothing that grows to such
fictitious value as manuscript.

Think of Francis Thompson, when he was a bootmaker's assistant in
Leicester Square. He was even too poor to buy writing materials. His
early poems were scribbled on scraps of old account books and wrapping
paper. How readily he would have sold them for a few shillings. Or Edgar
Poe in the despairing days of his wife's illness. Or R.L.S. in the fits
of depression caused by his helpless dependence upon his father for
funds. What a splendid opportunity these crises in writers' lives would
offer to the enterprising buyer of manuscripts!

Be it understood, of course, that the pawnbroker must be himself an
appreciator of good things. No reason why he should buy poor stuff, even
though the author of it be starving. Richard Le Gallienne has spoken
somewhere of the bookstores which sell "books that should never have
been written to the customers who should never have been born." Our
pawnbroker must guard himself against buying this kind of stuff. He will
be besieged with it. Very likely Mr. Le Gallienne himself will be the
first to offer him some. But his task will be to discover new and true
talent beneath its rags, and stake it to a ham sandwich when that homely
bite will mean more than a dinner at the Ritz ten years later.

The idea of the literary pawnbroker comes to me from the (unpublished)
letters of John Mistletoe, author of the "Dictionary of Deplorable
Facts," that wayward and perverse genius who wandered the Third Avenue
saloons when he might have been fêted by the Authors' League had he
lived a few years longer. Some day, I hope, the full story of that
tragic life may be told, and the manuscripts still cherished by his
executor made public. In the meantime, this letter, which he wrote in
1908, gives a sad and vivid little picture of the straits of unadmitted
genius:

"I write from Connor's saloon. Paunchy Connor has been my best--indeed
my only--friend in this city, when every editor, publisher, and critic
has given me the frozen mitt. Of course I know why ... the author of
'Vermin' deserves not, nor wants, their hypocritical help. The book was
too true to life to please the bourgeois and yet not ribald enough to
tickle the prurient. I had a vile pornographic publisher after me the
other day; he said if I would rub up some of the earlier chapters and
inject a little more spice he thought he could do something with it--as
a paper-covered erotic for shop-girls, I suppose he meant. I kicked him
downstairs. The stinking bounder!

"Until to-day I had been without grub for sixty hours. That is literally
true. I was ashamed of sponging on Paunchy, and could not bring myself
to come back to the saloon where he would willingly have fed me. I did
get a job for two days as a deckhand on an Erie ferryboat, but they
found out I did not belong to the union. I had two dollars in my
pocket--a fortune--but while I was dozing on a doorstep on Hudson
Street, waiting for the cafés to open (I was too done to walk half a
dozen blocks to an all-night restaurant), some snapper picked my
pocket. That night I slept in a big drain pipe where they were putting
up a building.

"Why isn't there a pawnshop where one could hang up MSS. for cash? In my
hallroom over Connor's saloon I have got stuff that will be bid for at
auctions some day (that isn't conceit, I know it), but at this moment,
July 17, 1908, I couldn't raise 50 cents on it. If there were a literary
mount of piety--a sort of Parnassus of piety as it were--the uncle in
charge might bless the day he met me. Well, it won't be for long. This
cancer is getting me surely.

"This morning I'm cheerful. I've scrubbed and swept Paunchy's bar for
him, and the dirty, patchouli-smelling hop-joint he keeps upstairs,
bless his pimping old heart. And I've had a real breakfast: boiled red
cabbage, stewed beef (condemned by the inspector), rye bread, raw
onions, a glass of Tom and Jerry, and two big schooners of the amber.
I'm working on my Third Avenue novel called 'The L.'

"I shan't give you my right address, or you'd send someone down here to
give me money, you damned philanthropist.... Connor ain't the real name,
so there. When I die (soon) they'll find Third Avenue written on my
heart, if I still have one...."

It is interesting to recall that the MS. of his poems "Pavements, and
Other Verses" was bought by a private collector for $250 last winter.

Will not some literary agent think over this idea?


A MORNING IN MARATHON


One violet throbbing star was climbing in the southeast at half-past
four, and the whole flat plain was rich with golden moonlight. Early
rising in order to quicken the furnace and start the matinsong in the
steampipes becomes its own reward when such an orange moon is dropping
down the sky. Even Peg (our most volatile Irish terrier) was plainly
awed by the blaze of pale light, and hopped gingerly down the rimy back
steps. But the cat was unabashed. Cats are born by moonlight and are
leagued with the powers of darkness and mystery. And so Nicholas Vachel
Lindsay (he is named for the daring poet of Illinois) stepped into the
moonshine without a qualm.

There are certain little routine joys known only to the servantless
suburbanite. Every morning the baker leaves a bag of crisp French rolls
on the front porch. Every morning the milkman deposits his little
bottles of milk and cream on the back steps. Every morning the furnace
needs a little grooming, that the cheery thump of rising pressure may
warm the radiators upstairs. Then the big agate kettle must be set over
the blue gas flame, for hot water is needed both for shaving and cocoa.
Our light breakfast takes only a moment to prepare. By the time the Nut
Brown Maid comes singing downstairs, cocoa, rolls, and boiled eggs are
ready in the sunny little dining room, and the Tamperer is bathed and
shaved and telephoning to Central for "the exact time." The 8:13 train
waits for no man, and it is nearly a mile to the station.

But the morning I think of was not a routine morning. On routine
mornings the Tamperer rises at ten minutes to seven, the alarm clock
being set for 6:45: which allows five minutes for drowsy head. The day
in question was early February when snow lay white and powdery on the
ground, and the 6 o'clock train from Marathon had to be caught. There is
an express for Philadelphia that leaves the Pennsylvania Station at 7:30
and this the Tamperer had to take, to make a 10 o'clock appointment in
the Quaker City. That was why the alarm clock rang at half-past four.

I cannot recall a more virginal morning than that snowy twilight before
the dawn. No description that I have ever read--not even the daybreak in
"Prince Otto," or Pippa's dawn boiling in pure gold over the rim of
night--would be just to that exquisite growth of colour in the eastern
sky. The violet star faded to forget-me-not and then to silver and at
last closed his weary eye; the flat Long Island prairie gradually lost
its fairy-tale air of mystery and dream; the close ceiling of the night
receded into infinite space as the sun waved his radiant arms over the
horizon.

But this was after I had left the house. The sun did not raise his head
from the pillow until I was in the train. The Nut Brown Maid was still
nested in her warm white bed as I took her up some tea and toast just
before departing.

The walk to the station, over the crisply frozen snow, was delicious.
Marathon is famous for its avenue of great elms, which were casting deep
blue shadows in the strange light--waning moon and waxing day. The air
was very chill--only just above zero--and the smoking car seemed very
cold and dismal. I huddled my overcoat about me and tried to smoke and
read the paper. But in that stale, fetid odour of last night's tobacco
and this morning's wet arctics the smoker was but a dismal place. The
exaltation of the dawn dropped suddenly into a kind of shivering nausea.

I changed to another car and threw away the war news. Just then the sun
came gloriously over the edge of the fields and set the snow afire. As
we rounded the long curve beyond Woodside I could see the morning light
shining upon the Metropolitan Tower, and when we glided into the
basement of the Pennsylvania Station my heart was already attuned to the
thrill of that glorious place. Perhaps it can never have the fascination
for me that the old dingy London terminals have--King's Cross,
Paddington, or Saint Pancras, with their delicious English bookstalls
and those porters in corduroy--but the Pennsylvania is a wonderful place
after all, a marble palace of romance and a gallant place to roam about.
It seems like a stable without horses, though, for where are the trains?
No chance to ramble about the platforms (as in London) to watch the Duke
of Abercorn or the Lord Claude Hamilton, or other of those green or blue
English locomotives with lordly names, being groomed for the run.

In the early morning the Pennsylvania Station catches in its
high-vaulted roof the first flush of sunlight; and before the flood of
commuters begins to pour in, the famous station cat is generally sitting
by the baggage room shining his morning face. Up at the marble lunch
counters the coloured gentlemen are serving hot cakes and coffee to
stray travellers, and the shops along the Arcade are being swept and
garnished. As I passed through on my way to the Philadelphia train I
was amused by a wicker basket full of Scotch terrier puppies--five or
six of them tumbling over one another in their play and yelping so that
the station rang. "Every little bit yelps" as someone has said. I was
reminded of the last words I ever read in Virgil (the end of the sixth
book of the Aeneid)--_stant litore puppes_, which I always yearned to
translate "a litter of puppies."

My train purred smoothly under the Hudson and under Jersey City as I lit
my cigar and settled comfortably into the green plush. When we emerged
from the tunnel on the other side of the long ridge (which is a
degenerate spur from the Palisades farther north) a crescent of sun was
just fringing the crest with fire. Another moment and we flashed onto
the Hackensack marshes and into the fully minted gold of superb morning.
The day was begun.


THE AMERICAN HOUSE OF LORDS


I am not a travelling salesman (except in so far as all men are) so I do
not often travel in the Club Car. But when I do, irresistibly the
thought comes that I have strayed into the American House of Lords.
Unworthily I sit among our sovereign legislators, a trifle ill at ease
mayhap. In the day coach I am at home with my peers--those who smoke
cheap tobacco; who nurse fretful babies; who strew the hot plush with
sandwich crumbs and lean throbbing foreheads against the window pane.

But the Club Car which swings so smoothly at the end of a limited train
is a different place, pardee. It is not a hereditary chamber, but it is
none the less the camera stellata of our prosperous carnivora. Patently
these men are Lords. In two facing rows, averted from the landscape,
condemned to an uneasy scrutiny of their mutual prosperity, they sit in
leather chairs. They curve roundly from neck to groin. They are shaven
to the raw, soberly clad, derby hatted, glossily booted. Always they
smoke cigars, those strange, blunt cigars that are fatter at one end
than at the other. Some (these I think are the very prosperous) wear
shoes with fawn-coloured tops.

Is it strange then that I, an ill-clad and pipe-smoking traveller, am
faintly uneasy in this House of Lords? I forget myself while reading
poetry and drop my tobacco cinders on the rug, missing the little silver
gourd that rests by my left foot. Straight the white-jacketed mulatto
sucks them up with a vacuum cleaner and a deprecating air. I pass to the
brass veranda at the end of the car for a bracing change of atmosphere.
And returning, the attendant has removed my little pile of books which I
left under my chair, and hidden them in his serving grotto. It costs me
at least a whiskey and soda to get them out.

It means, I suppose, that I am not marked for success. I am cigarless
and derbyless; I do not wear those funny little white margins inside my
vest. My scarf is still the dear old shabby one in which I was married
(I bought it at Rogers Peet's, and I shall never forget it) and when I
look up from Emily Dickinson's poems with a trembling thrill of painful
ecstasy, I am frightened by the long row of hard faces and cynic eyes
opposite me.

The House of Lords disquiets me. Even if I ring a bell and order a
bottle I am not happy. Is it only the swing of the car that nauseates
me? At any rate, I want to get home--home to that star-sown meadow and
the two brown arms at the journey's end.

_December, 1914._


COTSWOLD WINDS


Spring comes late on these windy uplands, and indoors one still sits
close to the fire. These are the days of booming gales over the
sheepwolds, and the afternoon ride with Shotover becomes an adventure. I
am not one of those who shirk bicycling in a wind. Give me a two-mile
spin with the gust astern, just to loosen the muscles and sweep the
morning's books and tobacco from the brain--and then turn and at it! It
is like swimming against a great crystal river. Cap off, head up--no
crouching over the handle-bars like the Saturday afternoon shopmen! Wind
in your hair, the broad blue Cotswold slopes about you, every ounce of
leg-drive straining on the pedals--three minutes of it intoxicates you.
You crawl up-wind roaring the most glorious nonsense, ribaldry, and
exultation into the face of the blast.

I am all for the Cotswolds in the last vacation before "Schools." In
mid-March our dear gray Mother Oxford sends us away for six weeks while
she decks herself against the spring. Far and wide we scatter. The
Prince to Germany--the dons to Devon--the reading parties to quiet
country inns here and there. Some blithe spirits of my acquaintance are
in those glorious dingy garrets of the Latin Quarter with Murger's
"Scènes de la Vie de Bohème" as a viaticum. Others are among the tulips
in Holland. But this time I vote for the Cotswolds and solitude.

There is a straggling gray village which lies in the elbow of a green
valley, with a clear trout-stream bubbling through it. There is a
well-known inn by the bridge, the resort of many anglers. Jacinto to his
black, and some of his servants by the immediate placement and peoples,
with the help of these, bending forces and to achieve its intent,
horseback riding, went to the Cerro de las Minas, where together
with the Indians , mulattos and mestizos, who worked in them and
gave them the order to precisely bajasen by the Cerro de Conchopata
to the town after nightfall. Everything is as it was prevented egecutó
beginning of the bulla peones mining in that place, at the scheduled time.
To ensure the best action deliberately walked through the streets and
squares of a company official Menacho called D. José Asurdui, publishing
was a betrayal of Corregidor and Europeans, so brazen, that
forced one to reconvenirle, saying: "Only a man of little understanding
could utter nonsense this: you are persuaded that the corregidor
together only 30 to 40 Europeans, are considered capable of killing
over 5000 men's village, this was like an ant trying to cope with
a lion. " But others such as the principles of that riot, this is
no good solid reason to contain it, but the circle was increased
in the corners of the streets and public square, growing care, for
having found a piece of letter from Fray Bernardino Galician ,
warned that his brother, Brother Feliciano, which inevitably would
be the night of 10 invaded the town by the Indians Challapata, but
they did not care, that the aim was to kill officers and real
corregidor.

These Indians did not appear that night, and find out the truth, many
days later did not think about coming by then and had only been ploy
to increase the fear and confusion. At 4 pm corregidor touch sent the
call, to join the militias in fact resulted, with very few people took,
but the fact of not wanting to enter the barracks, and if divided
into pieces retained by the corners of the square, talking to them about
the alleged traicion, and what they had to practice and do not
neglect paying your commission, recalled the events of Jose Gabriel
Tupac-Amaru, supporting his conduct against the Sovereign, the
humiliations suffered by the misrule of his ministers, the unbearable
breasts, that when the war with the British, imposed on the peoples, and
other reasons to drive the effective encouragement to the end that had
been proposed. The corregidor, seeks to reduce and smooth, and with
threats, but nothing was enough, and could only get offered, would
remain on the square, waiting for the Indians who threatened
to invade the town that night: and that would not be half to employ
is invited to sleep with them and verify that when the conjuration
of the Europeans, have sacrificed their lives first before they
allow any of the soldiers perished.

But as missing and why, and begin to discover their bad intentions, far
from producing the good effects that were promised this submissive
offer, which only served to more insolently. Rogábales humble, and
sought to dissuade them of the alleged complaints with the Europeans:
decíales that it was all false and fabricated by the malice of those who
persuaded them otherwise, but more angry with these soft, began to manage
their hondas, testing how they had to use them.

These are the causes of where it originated so cruel rebellion against
the Majesty and the Europeans, but also add that my view is the main
foundation of this bloody incident. By 10 years, which esperimentaba a
total backlog of work of mine, so that now there was one leading formal
job, nor would the owner pay to ensure their conservation and spin, the
only thing being claimed neighborhood: total decadence whose miners
made their constitution so unfortunate that those who were by major,
and at one time owned giant flows, as was Rodriguez, Herrera,
Galleguillos and others were in a state of inopia, discovered in
many thousands, and the King, with other individuals, they can not
pay, or continue the work of their work for lack of means.

Europeans, who were the only enablers, and did not want any quantity
supplied, and not desperate to find a remedy for relief, and their
debts Chancel, machining this reunion, which will be more uncertain
times ahead, for all deaths, burglaries , sacrilege, desecration
and other atrocities that are egecutaron.

Forced the militiamen, many of the prayers and persuasions that
were used by several sugetos, entered the barracks, after the prayer
of this day February 10, not to stay in it as other nights, but
only to deceive with their captains apparent that obedience, and
in order to give them the loans to be had assigned them.

While they were paid, were heard in the streets and squares, many voices
and screams of boys and other rabble who firing stones with slingshots,
they put the people in quite dismayed. At stake this time played with
the bell of the matrix, as it was prevented, so that everyone is
brought together for the post. Practicáronlo well, but not able to
find out who had touched, or that computer, which forced the company
corregidor sent a bet on every corner of the square, if for some
unexpected assault.

When taking these and other provisions to guard, was heard the sound
of various horns, which one to another or Estremo corresponded to confirm
the entry of Indians, it was decided that some leave for a recognition
who returned with the news that there was no one in those surroundings,
and found the case, it was found that those who played the bugle, two
were black D. Jacinto Rodriguez, D. Nicolas Herrera, Quevedo and
Isidore, that this new meeting with the Europeans, they were easier to
get their desperate attempt. Policyholders those who had nothing to fear
from the Indians, cooled off slightly, and went to dinner together
Endeiza house. But the first dish that was put on the table,
entered D. José Cayetano Homes, spilling blood, a dangerous thrust, which
had given the Creoles, for having resisted entering the corner of the
matrix, which was saving your company, while reporting their
misfortune and was assured a conjuration of the Creoles against
them, they heard from the square that fired thousands of stones
into the house and balconies, and determined to defend to the last
Estremo took the firearms they had to shoot the rioters, and resist
insult: detúvolos but the same owner, José de Endeiza, sugeto
exemplary life, who was aware of the inevitable death of all, I
made the following reasoning, full of Christian zeal that encouraged
him.

"C'mon, friends and colleagues, there is no remedy, all die, as has been
verified to be sedition against us: we have no crime to be Europeans,
and have joined our flow to secure, given the criollos. Meets in the will
of God, we are not lacking confidence in his mercy, and she hopes
the forgiveness of our sins: and therefore we will give account to the
court as fair, not to any deaths or bring this crime to the presence
of God and so you seek to fire their shotguns into the air, and without
thinking about hurting none: you might get just the sound frightened,
and fleeing. "In this way with tears in his eyes, threw the line
prevented, it that checks have not wounded any of the criollos with
more that 200 shots fired, and even then wanted to ensure otherwise, was
an invention of the authors of the mutiny. tumultuantes the Enraged
and full of furious anger, against a fired hondazos balconies, and
others seeking to burn down the house. The result mugeres stones were
used in the more solid and stronger than found in the mines, taking care
not break men this provision. Passed and the mutineers of 4000, increased
the danger of Europeans, locked in the house Endeiza and looked for
moments to be a victim of the mob. To avoid this, left the church of
La Merced Sacrament the Lord, whose diligence did not do anything
other than to increase the crime of those barbarians with the
greatest sacrilege because off all of humanity, is also necessary
to the veneration and respect due to God of heaven and earth, because
if they did not do their real presence, and continued the assault
on the house.

The corregidor before you hear any shooting, he went to the house of
D. Manuel de Herrera, and urged him to leave the streets to calm
the tumult to see if they get their respect with which had not been
able to achieve after having used many means, to him was no longer
time, and continued playing quietly with the priest of Sorasora, D.
Isidoro Velasco and others who felt little interest in being the
people.

Being the corregidor disillusioned, and made sure that sought to take
his life, he was clear to undertake to save the flight, and from the same
house Herrera went to the countryside, without carrying any prevencion
for the road and taking the Cochabamba managed asylum in the town, the
capital of that province. Rioters continued their investigation, and not
to pass out of the company, some through the streets shouting: - "C'mon,
Creoles and Creole cause stones to kill chapetones, for they were
our enemies" and to irritate and rouse the spirits, they said
sometimes "and removed the head to D.

Jacinto Rodriguez:" others "have killed 30 of our countrymen." But
among them who stood out most was that all D. Juan Montesinos, who told
great voices: - "Go and mugeres men to my house and get firewood or
straw to fire and stop these traitors chapetones:" What practices
immediately, fire balconies and store with thus, forced to leave by
those wretched roofs in Europe, moved to the houses immediately.
Then it warned, they took all the avenues, and found no other recourse
but to flee for the exit door of the street: á egecutarlo resolved, but
an onslaught of angry throng of Creole, as well as the killing
iban iban out until é inconocibles torn left.

While some were involved in these atrocities and burn the house, along
with other mugeres, looted shops and houses high, which are hoarded
up to 700,000 pesos of the Europeans and others who would have
persuaded the insurance, deposits in his power, in the species of
gold, silver stamped, bars, cones, effects of Castile and the earth:
having already looted the store before a Creole named Pantaleon
Martinez, on the pretext that he was an accomplice in the alleged
attempt of Europeans, for which reason it should lose all their
assets, and die with them.

At five o'clock of the day 11 and looked the sad spectacle of many
dead, lying in the streets, naked and torn so that it was necessary
examined proligidad great to know.

Not content with this revenge, the bear was sent to the site affronts
roll, and then moved to the threshold of the prison, where they were kept
two days, most of them grass dogs. Understood in this misfortune, D.
José Endeiza, D. Juan Blanco, D. Miguel Salinas, D.

Juan Pedro Ximenez, D. Juan Vicente Larrán, D. Sunday Pavia, D. Ramon
Llano, D. Cayetano José Casas, Antonio Sanchez, D. Francisco Palazuelos,
others are not known, and five black. Continued taking the murderers in
the clear night that burglary egecutaban, saying publicly what they had
gained much war and that were affected by right: and then going to jail,
opened the doors, poured out all the prisoners, and then left saying
high voices: our _Viva Justice Major, D. Jacinto Rodriguez: _ walking
together and with great joy algazara touching boxes and clarinets, and
out of his house, made him turn to the main square, and repeating the
cheers, and return to it, and having risen to the priest vicar balconies
of the house chapters, ask what it was seeking to calm everyone a
voice replied: - We want justice for Mr. Mayor Jacinto Rodriguez, and
the other chapetones corregidor and then leaving the site, view our
banished. A twelve day began to enter a few pieces of Indians, playing
their loud horns, and armed with slingshots and sticks. With horror of
nature looked, that after paying obedience to D. Jacinto, to assure
their accustomed performance demonstrations, which were coming to
defend his life, whose expressions gratified with generosity, ran
together with the Creoles to see the dead, so fierce his fury against
dumped again torn corpses, giving sticks, with blood all their hands, and
then bañarlas innocent blood. From there went to the houses of D.
Manuel Herrera, Menacho's captain, and his brother Antonio Quiros,
who differed with similar honors.

The rest of the afternoon in what used to examine the houses where
there was a flow assumed to plunder, and to recognize the hidden
places where they suspected was hiding some in Europe, which had
been freed the previous night.

Continued into the Indian troops, who were summoned in the vicinity.

Came with white flags and went out to receive the criollo, giving them
lots of hugs, and urged them to enter the church in search of
fugitives Europeans, they could not have hands to at least be made
to deliver the weapons who had hidden in it.

They achieved this because the cure, so they do not violate the sacred
handed swords and several guns, but not happy with them, they called
with insolence, and not taking the cure how happy, determined
climb to the top of the roll to preach, and be discipline in public:
whose act, far from enternecerlos, they provoked laughter, more and
insolent, he fired some hondazos, whose effective suggestion did
well to get off quickly.

    At this time there was drawn in the procession
      of San Agustin Prior,
    together with the communities of
      San Francisco and La Merced, the devout effigy of the Holy Christ
of Burgos, taken in procession through the streets, plazas and
outside the villa, but just old him: and do not appreciate or respect
as sacred image, dealing with the Creoles, the Indians joined in
looting the house of Corregidor.

On the
embankment we found benches and sat down to admire the scene. It was as
picturesque as Battersea in Whistler's mistiest days. A ferryboat,
crossing to Astoria, hooted musically through the haze. Tugs, puffing up
past Blackwell's Island into the Harlem River, replied with mellow
blasts. The pungent tang of the East River tickled our nostrils, and all
my old ambition to be a tugboat captain returned.

And then trouble began. Just as I was planning how we might bilk our
landlord on Long Island and move all our belongings to this delicious
spot, gradually draw our friends around us, and make East End Avenue the
Cheyne Walk of New York--we might even import an English imagist poet to
lend cachet to the coterie--I saw by Titania's face that something was
wrong.

I pressed her for the reason of her frown.

She thought the region was unhealthy.

Now when Titania thinks that a place is unhealthy no further argument is
possible. Just on what data she bases these deductions I have never been
able to learn. I think she can tell by the shape of the houses, or the
lush quality of the foliage, or the fact that the garbage men collect
from the front instead of from the back. But however she arrives at the
conclusion, it is immutable.

Any place that I think is peculiarly amusing, or quaint, or
picturesque, Titania thinks is unhealthy.

Sometimes I can see it coming. We are on our way to Mulberry Bend, or
the Bowery, or Farrish's Chop House. I see her brow begin to pucker. "Do
you feel as though it is going to be unhealthy?" I ask anxiously. If she
does, there is nothing for it but to clutch at the nearest subway
station and hurry up to Grant's Tomb. In that bracing ether her spirits
revive.

So it was on this afternoon. My Utopian vision of a Chelsea in New York,
outdoing the grimy salons of Greenwich Village, fell in splinters at the
bottom of my mind. Sadly I looked upon the old Carl Schurz mansion on
the hill, and we departed for the airy plateaus of Central Park.
Desperately I pointed to the fading charms of East River Park--the
convent round the corner, the hokey pokey cart by the curbstone.

I shall never be a tugboat captain. It isn't healthy.


CONFESSIONS OF A SMOKER


True smokers are born and not made. I remember my grandfather with his
snowy beard gloriously stained by nicotine; from my first years I never
saw my father out of reach of his pipe, save when asleep. Of what avail
for my mother to promise unheard bonuses if I did not smoke until I was
twenty? By the time I was eight years old I had constructed a pipe of an
acorn and a straw, and had experimented with excelsior as fuel. From
that time I passed through the well-known stages of dried bean-pod
cigars, hayseed, corn silk, tea leaves, and (first ascent of the true
Olympus) Recruits Little Cigars smoked in a lumberyard during school
recess. Thence it was but a step to the first bag of Bull Durham and a
twenty-five-cent pipe with a curved bone stem.

I never knew the traditional pangs of Huck Finn and the other heroes of
fiction. I never yet found a tobacco that cost me a moment's unease--but
stay, there was a cunning mixture devised by some comrades at college
that harboured in its fragrant shreds neatly chopped sections of rubber
bands. That was sheer poison, I grant you.

The weed needs no new acolyte to hymn her sanctities. Where Raleigh,
Pepys, Tennyson, Kingsley, Calverley, Barrie, and the whimful Elia best
of all--where these have spoken so greatly, the feeble voice may well
shrink. But that is the joy of true worship: ranks and hierarchies are
lost, all are brothers in the mystery, and amid approving puffs of rich
Virginia the older saints of the mellow leaf genially greet the new
freshman, be he never so humble.

What would one not have given to smoke a pipe out with the great ones of
the empire! That wainscoted back parlour at the Salutation and Cat, for
instance, where Lamb and Coleridge used to talk into the small hours
"quaffing egg flip, devouring Welsh rabbits, and smoking pipes of
Orinooko." Or the back garden in Chelsea where Carlyle and Emerson
counted the afternoon well spent, though neither one had said a hundred
words--had they not smoked together? Or Piscator and Viator, as they
trudged together to "prevent the sunrise" on Amwell Hill--did not the
reek of their tobacco trail most bluely on the sweet morning air? Or old
Fitz, walking on the Deben wall at Woodbridge, on his way to go sailing
with Posh down to Bawdsey Ferry--what mixture did he fill and light?
Something recommended by Will Thackeray, I'll be sworn. Or, to come down
to more recent days, think of Captain Joseph Conrad at his lodgings in
Bessborough Gardens, lighting that apocalyptic pipe that preceded the
first manuscript page of "Almayer's Folly." Could I only have been the
privileged landlady's daughter who cleared away the Captain's breakfast
dishes that morning! This was the stage reached in those provinces where the commander D.

José Reseguin reach them with its limited number of troops. The burden
of care as serious, and the multitude of obstacles and
found that at times were increased, there were enough to intimidate
or to arrest, but rather knowing how convenient it was not lose a
moment in such occasions, and went immediately to remedy the increased
activity of so many grown males, incessantly seeking the most
appropriate and effective remedies to prevent them.

His active work, his spirit and determination were undoubtedly the levees
that contained the running speed the progress of sedition, and
to quell the voracious flames had begun to burn with too much
violence, troubled by the offerings of sweet lisongeras freedom promised
edicts of Tupac-Amaru, by their commissioners scattered everywhere,
which did not fail to penetrate to the hearts of the people of Tucuman
province, whose natural and began to have to admit to liking the
anxieties raised by Chayanta and Tungasuca not hesitate to express
publicly taking great pleasure in what they would be the domain of
one owner who claimed to freedom from oppression that were considered.
On March 18 received the first specifications of the commander D.
And then,
having savored his mixture, you would have said: "In truth, a very
excellent leaf," offering your own with proper deprecations. This, and
many other excellent things, we learn from Mr. Apperson's noble book
"The Social History of Smoking," which should be prayer book and
breviary to every smoker con amore.

But the pipe rises perhaps to its highest function as the solace and
companion of lonely vigils. We all look back with tender affection on
the joys of tobacco shared with a boon comrade on some walking trip,
some high-hearted adventure, over the malt-stained counters of some
remote alehouse. These are the memories that are bittersweet beyond the
compass of halting words. Never again perhaps will we throw care over
the hedge and stride with Mifflin down the Banbury Road, filling the
air with laughter and the fumes of Murray's Mellow. But even deeper is
the tribute we pay to the sour old elbow of briar, the dented, blackened
cutty that has been with us through a thousand soundless midnights and a
hundred weary dawns when cocks were crowing in the bleak air and the pen
faltered in the hand. Then is the pipe an angel and minister of grace.
Clocks run down and pens grow rusty, but if your pouch be full your pipe
will never fail you.

How great is the witching power of this sovereign rite! I cannot even
read in a book of someone enjoying a pipe without my fingers itching to
light up and puff with him. My mouth has been sore and baked a hundred
times after an evening with Elia. The rogue simply can't help talking
about tobacco, and I strike a match for every essay. God bless him and
his dear "Orinooko!" Or Parson Adams in "Joseph Andrews"--he lights a
pipe on every page!

I cannot light up in a wind. It is too precious a rite to be consummated
in a draught. I hide behind a tree, a wall, a hedge, or bury my head in
my coat. People see me in the street, vainly seeking shelter. It is a
weakness, though not a shameful one. But set me in a tavern corner, and
fill the pouch with "Quiet Moments" (do you know that English mixture?)
and I am yours to the last ash.

I wonder after all what was the sweetest pipe I ever smoked? I have a
tender spot in memory for a fill of Murray's Mellow that Mifflin and I
had in the old smoking room of the Three Crowns Inn at Lichfield. We
weren't really thirsty, but we drank cider there in honour of Dr.
Johnson, sitting in his chair and beneath his bust. Then there were
those pipes we used to smoke at twilight sitting on the steps of 17
Heriot Row, the old home of R.L.S. in Edinburgh, as we waited for Leerie
to come by and light the lamps. Oh, pipes of youth, that can never come
again!

When George Fox was a young man, sorely troubled by visions of the
devil, a preacher told him to smoke tobacco and sing hymns.

Not such bad advice.


HAY FEBRIFUGE


Our village is remarkable. It contains the greatest publisher in the
world, the most notable department store baron (and inventor of that new
form of literary essay, the department store ad.), the most fragrant gas
tanks in the Department of the East, the greatest number of cinders per
eye of any arondissement served by the R---- railway, and the most
bitterly afflicted hay fever sufferer on this sneezing sphere. Also the
editor of the most widely circulated magazine in the world, and the
author of one of the best selling books that ever was written.

Not bad for one village.

Your first thought is Northampton, Mass., but you are wrong. That is
where Gerald Stanley Lee lives. For a stamped, addressed envelope I will
give you the name of our village, and instructions for avoiding it. It
is bounded on the north by goldenrod, on the south by ragweed, on the
east by asthma and the pollen of anemophylous plants.

It is bounded on the west by a gray stone facsimile of Windsor Castle,
confirmed with butlers, buttresses, bastions, ramparts, repartees,
feudal tenures, moats, drawbridges, posterns, pasterns, chevaux de
frise, machicolated battlements, donjons, loopholes, machine-gun
emplacements, caltrops, portcullises, glacis, and all the other travaux
de fantaisie that make life worth living for retired manufacturers. The
general effect is emetic in the extreme. Wink At a Queen, he was
now brought silk cushions on which he had to settle, then put a table
against him ivory out on to a red coating plate delicious dishes of
all kinds were to him were all unknown.

He was no longer necessary, but said the food and drinks to be brave.
It was for him in the true meaning of Gods word is a meal, but he
had in his whole life had never seen such things, let alone ever tasted.
When he had finished his meal, the queen asked him to take the palace
to look, they led him from room to room, from room to room through
any premises, with the wasteful splendor and were equipped with every
possible convenience compared.

It was wonderful but the garden, which contained four beds, which
corresponded to the four seasons. One Beet , Spring, contained
numerous plum and cherry trees that are densely covered with flower
seeding and were on a lush dark green grass stood. On the branches
were numerous nightingales, the sweet romances their melodic sound
and did an infinite amount Lerchen had their nests in the flower
seas built.

According to the South was the bed of the summer: Here pears and
Aepfelbäume whose branches under the weight the beautiful fruit and bent
close to the ground. Crickets and cicadas filled the air with
their monotonous and deafening clamor. The great heat, which in this
part was, it was mitigated by a gentle, cooling breeze. The third
bed, the autumn, in the western parts, was completely covered with
leaves and wilting of chrysanthemum flowers, while the fourth located
in the northern border, the Winter a thick carpet of snow-covered
and ice rinks and a frozen ditch is defined.

So Urashima spent seven long days in the palaces of the Sea Queen,
and was not tired all the wonders and glories anzustaunen to him
daily and have been shown in raptures about the beauty of lovely
Otohimes he quite forgot his hometown, his father, his wife and his
children .

But one day when he again umherschlenderte idle, but this came to
him again in memory and a deep homesickness infested him.

He sighed heavily and said: "What may well be my father by my long
absence, think how uneasy my wife and children, and expect my return!
Perhaps they even believe that I am dead, devoured by the waves of
the sea, on the essence of the restless ocean! "Without a long time
to reflect, he hurried to the queen, and begged him to his
back to you, since he is already seven days was absent from
home and his family certainly would frighten. The Queen, in vain is
sought, Urashima the thoughts out of homesickness, began when she saw
that her words do not help him with it in her room, and handed him a
small, solid verschnürtes Lackkästchen by saying: "I did not force
you here against your will hold back, although I know that your return
home you will only bring misery. But take this to remind me this box,
you'll be always useful and thee, if thou hast a desire to return to me,
this return possible. This value keeps the box but only so long as
it remains uneröffnet. Also note well! Let you never culpable by
curiosity and by any other circumstances tempt ever the tape, which
keeps the box closed, and to solve the lid to air, it would be your
death and you never would find the way to me. Do you want me back, so
go with the sealed boxes to the beach and call my name, I will give you
a send my servants to you inferred. So let my words and let the box is
closed, your life is. And now, farewell!

"They kissed him on the forehead, and led him to the gates. Here was
the turtle, which ascended Urashima. In a short time she was with him
at the beach, where she left him. With the box under his arm, he
wanted to quickly migrate their village, but remained on his way to
repeat, because there was everything to him, the beach, the road, the
trees and fields before something changed. Several times he believed
that the turtle it to a wrong place would have been unloaded, but
it was this or that in turn is known, then that he finally be
calmed with the thought, the seven day stay at the bottom of the
sea had his eyes, his vision influenced .

    But when he finally arrived
    in his village, as were the houses and huts
    all changed in the market were trees,
    which he never had seen the occupants were unknown
    to him and so
    afraid he also looked into the face of all
    that he could not find friend
    even the children appeared
    to him strange that it even surprised him
    anstarrten and then in due
    course.
    Good God,
not since Rabelais and Lawrence Sterne, miscalled Reverend, has one
human being been so beclotted, bedazzled, and bedrunken with syllables.
I adore him for it, but equally I tremble. Glowing, radiant,
transcendent vocables swim and dissolve in the porches of his brain,
teasing him with visions far more deeply confused than ever Mr.
Wordsworth's were. The meanest toothbrush that bristles (he has
confessed it himself) can fill him with thoughts that do often lie too
deep for publishers. Perhaps the orotund soul-wamblings of Coleridge are
recarnate in him, Scawfell become Mount Tom. Who knows? Once I sat at
lunch with him, and though I am Trencherman Fortissimus (I can give you
testimonials) my hamburg steak fell from my hand as I listened,
clutching perilously at the hem of his thought. Nay. Mr. Lee, frown not:
I say it in sincere devotion. If there is one man and one book this
country needs, now, it is Gerald Stanley Lee and "WE." Set me upon a
coral atoll with that volume, I will repopulate the world with
dictionaries, and beget lusty tomes. It is a breeding-ground for a
whole new philosophy of heaven, hell, and the New Haven Railroad.

But what I was going to say when I lit my pipe was this: had I the
stature (not the leanness, God forbid: sweet are the uses of obesity) of
Mr. Lee, I could find in any clodded trifle the outlets of sky my
yearning mind covets: hay fever would lead me by prismatic omissions and
plunging ellipses of thought to the vaster spirals and eddies of
all-viewing Mind. So does Mr. Lee proceed, weaving a new economics and a
new bosom for advertisiarchs in the mere act of brushing his teeth. But
alas, the recurring explosions of the loathsome and intellectual disease
keep my nose on the grindstone--or handkerchief. Do I begin to soar on
upward pinion, nose tweaks me back to sealpackerchief.

The trouble with Mr. Lee is that he is a kind of Emerson; a
constitutional ascete or Brahmin, battling with the staggering
voluptuosities of his word-sense; a De Quincey needing no opium to set
him swooning. In fact, he is a poet, and has no control over his
thoughts. A poet may begin by thinking about a tortoise, or a
locomotive, or a piece of sirloin, and in one whisk of Time his mind has
shot up to the conceptions of Eternity, Transportation, and Nourishment:
his cortex coruscates and suppurates with abstract thought; words
assail him in hordes, and in a flash he is down among them, overborne
and fighting for his life. A Oeder, desert, with weeds overgrown rubble
pile was the place of his birth. No trace of his father, his wife,
his children, nothing about everything dear to him, was to be seen.
Meets pain he fell to the ground crying, while at some distance the
people and children surrounded him. Then the quantity stooped old man,
and Urashima approached with the question: "Who are you stranger,
and who seek her here? What satisfies your soul with grief and pain?

"" My age, "replied Urashima with schmerzbebender voice softly," seven
days before I left the house that stood on this site and come back
now, but find only a pile of rubble, I see strange People, strange
characters and you know I do not, you never saw in this village, says
that what is here in the seven days happen? Where are my father, my
wife, my children and I am behind?

O, please, solve riddle me this, tears the bandage from my eyes that I
can see! "" I understand you not, young man, "replied the old man,"
this site is a rubble pile, as long as I can remember. I know you
not, who are you? What is your name? "I'm Urashima Taro, the fishermen,"
said Urashima. "Urashima Taro? - - "Cried the old man full of wonder and
importance schreck met a few steps back. »Are you a ghost? - A shadowy
picture? - Urashima Taro, you can not be! It is a legend and I
remember from my youth, because of this still in the dark evenings are
often told, these young fishermen were 700 years ago now, one morning
on the sea and returned no more.

The graves of his family you can find on the Cemeteries still see,
however, decay, weathered, "- erblaßte Urashima," seven hundred
years?

"he cried desperately rang out and the hands.

Now he was all clear.

Now he understood everything! Seven Days in the Queen's palaces
were seven centuries. Deep sadness took hold of his, he told the
old stock with voice his fate, then he raised himself and left floating
like a step Dreaming the house, he turned again to the seas and
settled down there at the beach, its location considered. [ Figure] deep,
he looked the rolling waves, the immense size and looked after the
turtle demanding, that they would lead him back into the realm of
the eternally youthful Sea Queen, he thought, but his sadness does
not prevent them to call and so he looked in vain after the animals.

Then his gaze fell on the box to him when the queen had given farewells
and he unthinkingly next to the sand had settled.

    "What does this box?
    6. Where was Vachel Lindsay fumigated, and why? 7. Who is "The Head
    of the Firm"?

    8. How much money did the author spend on cider in July, 1911?

    9. Who was Denis Dulcet, and what did he die of?

    10. When did William McFee live in Nutley, and why?

    11. How are the works of Harold Bell Wright most useful in Kings,
    Long Island?

    12. Where is Strychnine, and what makes it so fascinating to the
    tourist? Explain

        (a) The Gin Palace

        (b) Kurdmeister

        (c) unedifying Zollverein

    13. What time did Mr. Simmons get home?

    14. What is a "rarefied and azure-pedalled precinct?" Give three
    examples.

    15. Who are the Dioscuri of Seamen, and what do they do?

    16. How many pipes a day do sensible men smoke? Describe the ideal
    conditions for a morning pipe.

    17. When did Mr. Blackwell light the furnace?

    18. Name four American writers who are stout enough to be a credit
    to the profession. 19. "The fumes of the hearty butcher's evening
    meal ascend the stair in vain." Explain this. Who was the butcher?
    Why "in vain"?

    20. In what order of the Animal Kingdom does Mr. Pearsall Smith
    classify himself?

    21. "I hope he fell on the third rail." Explain, and give the
    context. Who was "he," and why did he deserve this fate?

    22. Who was "Mr. The whole was responsible for the splendor of
    such beauty and wonder is not so usual dazzling young fishermen
that he only reluctantly accepts and a half, slowly one foot before
the other set and thus approaching the throne, where he reverently
and humbly prostrate wanted.

    

    
    What is the American House of Lords? Who are "our prosperous
    carnivora"? Why do they wear white margins inside their waistcoats?

    26. What is _minestrone_? Name three ingredients.

    27. What are "publisher's readers," and why do they smoke pipes?

    28. What was the preacher's advice to George Fox?

    29. Give three reasons why Mr. Gerald Stanley Lee will not like this
    book.

    30. Why should one wish to grasp Drs. Abundance of sweet fruits bow
    your evergreen branches, all country people.

    Waxes, waxes, flowering tree aspiring space in the sky! Lad. With
    the duft'gen flower pairs Prangend the golden fruit!

        Stand in the storm of the years, Daure in flight times!

        

        

S