[NOTE: There is a short list of bookmarks, or pointers, at the end of the
file for those who may wish to sample the author's ideas before making an
entire meal of them.  D.W.]


MOTLEY'S HISTORY OF THE NETHERLANDS, PG EDITION, VOLUME 1.

THE RISE OF THE DUTCH REPUBLIC

A History

JOHN LOTHROP MOTLEY, D.C.L., LL.D.
Corresponding Member of the Institute of France, Etc.

1855


[Etext Editor's Note:  JOHN LOTHROP  MOTLEY, born in Dorchester, Mass.
1814, died 1877.  Other works: Morton's Hopes and Merry Mount, novels.
Motley was the United States Minister to Austria, 1861-67, and the United
States Minister to England, 1869-70.  The Secretary had his doubts about
the possibility of doing as he was required, because he knew that the
iron and steel manufacturers asked a much higher price.

He, however, did as Congress desired, with the result that the
Carnegie Company refused point-blank, saying they could not possibly
manufacture it for that price. Several other firms also declined,
and finally, giving up all hope of placing the contracts, the Secretary
suggested that the Government should make its own armor-plate.

Agreeably to this suggestion, a board has been formed to look into
the matter, and see whether it is possible for the Government
to enter into this business with profit to itself.

While some people declare that it will cost the Government twice
as much to manufacture the armor, others think that it can be made
for considerably less than the companies ask.

The history of this affair is very interesting.

About 1885, Mr. Whitney, who was then Secretary of the Navy, induced
a private company, the Bethlehem Iron Works, to build the first
American armor plant, by making a number of contracts with them which
would keep them busy furnishing armor for battleships for several
years.

The price then fixed was $580 per ton, and the armor to be supplied
was what is known as steel armor.

Before the first contract could be filled, the next Secretary,
Mr.
Tracy, had his attention called to some new kinds of armor that were being
introduced.

One kind was being made by an English firm, and another by a French
company.

The English plan was to make what is called compound armor. This was hard
steel welded on to a back of softer metal, the idea being that the
soft back would act as a sort of cushion, and save the front part
of the plate from being cracked by the blows of the shot.

The French system was to make a mixture of steel and nickel. They claimed
that the nickel alloy would give greater strength to the plate.

Secretary Tracy was so anxious that we should have the best possible armor
for our battleships that he ordered a plate from both companies, and sent
them to the Naval Academy at Annapolis to be tested.

The big guns were tried on first one and then the other; the English
armor cracked in four pieces, but on the nickel steel the shot
were shattered into fragments.

Congress immediately voted that the new battleships should be supplied
with nickel-steel armor, and an appropriation was made for this
purpose.

Before the new contract could be carried out, President Harrison learned
that a man named Harvey had invented a process for hardening the surface
of the steel used in making tools. This process was found to be so excellent
that it revolutionized the making of tools, which were thereafter made
from the hardened or "Harveyized steel."
This process had never been applied to any large surface, but it was thought
that if Harvey's method could be used for the nickel-steel plates, a perfect
armor would be the result.

The experiment was therefore tried. A large nickel-steel plate was subjected
to the process and then tested at Annapolis.

The result was highly satisfactory; all the projectiles sent against
the plate were shattered, while the plate remained comparatively
uninjured.

The success of the Harvey process on the nickel steel was universally
acknowledged; other countries abandoned their previous style of
armor, and the United States set out to build a number of new ships
that should be protected with this invulnerable armor.

It was soon found that the Bethlehem Company was not able to furnish all
the armor needed, and so the Government persuaded the Carnegie Company
to go into the armor-plate business. The Carnegie people were promised
an equal share of the work, and the same prices as the Bethlehem
Company.

Matters went on peacefully until July 10th of last year, when Congress
directed the Secretary of the Navy to inquire into the cost of making
armor-plate, and to give an idea of the price he thought the Government
ought to pay for it.

The result of his inquiries was to be made known on January 1st of
this year.

The Secretary did make the inquiries, and found that the actual cost
of making a ton of armor-plate was $197.78.

After an elaborate calculation of profit and loss, and the cost of the
machinery used in making the armor, he decided that the armor could be
made for $250 a ton. He suggested that the Government ought then
to allow the companies a liberal sum per ton for profit on their
enterprise, and suggested that a fair price to pay would be $400
per ton.

Had Congress accepted this suggestion there would have been an actual
saving of $180 a ton over the price made on the original contracts.

Congress was not, however, satisfied with this. If the Company could make
the iron and come out clear at $250 a ton, it was thought that a profit
of $150 a ton was too much to allow, and therefore Congress voted
that the Government price for armor-plate in future should be $300
per ton.

They offered at this price to make a contract for twenty new battleships,
which would keep the armor works busy for the next ten years.

The Carnegie and Bethlehem companies were indignant at this offer, and
refused it absolutely.

They insisted that they could not begin to supply armor for less than
$442 a ton, and that then they would be making little profit on their
work.

They reminded Congress that they had added costly machinery to
their plants to oblige the Government, and that the country ought
to be willing to pay them enough money for their work to reimburse
them for the sums they had laid out.

Congress would not listen to this argument. It declared that the
armor-plate people had formed a trust by which they hoped to force
the Treasury to pay them any price they chose to ask, and finally declared
that if armor-plate could be made at an actual cost of $197.78
per ton, the Government would no longer pay $558 to benefit the pockets
of private individuals.

Further than this, Congress declared that if the Carnegie and Bethlehem
people would not make the armor for $300 a ton, the Government would
go into the business for itself, and leave these two companies with
their machinery on their hands.

The committee appointed to examine into the cost of establishing
government armor works is to be ready to hand in its report next
December.

In the mean while the three new warships that are building will have to
wait, and no new vessels can be commenced until this very important
matter is settled.

* * * * *
Startling and terrible news reaches us from Spain.

Señor Canovas del Castillo (_Casteelyo_), the Spanish Prime Minister, has
been assassinated!

The whole of Europe is greatly excited by this dreadful news.

[Illustration: Map
The shaded portions are British possessions. Islands owned by Great
Britain have names attached.]
Señor Canovas had overworked himself during the last session of the Cortes,
and this, combined with the worry of Cuban affairs, had broken
down his health.

In the hope of regaining his strength he had gone to the baths of Santa
Aguada, at Guesalibar, on the Bay of Biscay, not far from San Sebastian,
where the court is summering.

[Illustration: Señor Canovas]
He was sitting reading his paper in the grounds of the bath-house when he
was shot and killed by an Italian ruffian.

In Señor Canovas, Spain has lost one of her greatest statesmen.

It was he who put Alfonso XII., the father of the present king, on the
throne of Spain.

During his whole career Spain has been the scene of many stormy trials.

In 1868 the people forced the old Queen, Isabella II., to resign
the throne.

She was a very wicked woman, and did so many bad things that the people
would not be disgraced by her any longer. They rose against
her, and she was obliged to flee to France to seek the protection
of Napoleon III.

On her departure a council was appointed to choose a new sovereign.
There were several claimants, among them Alfonso, the son of the deposed
Isabella, and Don Carlos, the grandson of Don Carlos I. (See p. 563.)

The council rejected all the candidates, and chose a German prince.
Napoleon III. objected on Queen Isabella's account; the Germans were
incensed at his interference, and the argument that followed gave rise
to the Franco-German War in 1870.

The Spanish council, disappointed of their German prince, finally
chose a son of Victor Emmanuel of Italy, and made him King of Spain
under the title of Amadeus I.

The new King did not take kindly to his throne.

The Carlists were striving to gain the crown for their candidate,
and the country was plunged into the horrors of a civil war.

After a reign of two years and one month Amadeus abdicated and went
back to Italy, disgusted with the honors that had been thrust upon
him.

This did not help the Carlists.

A republic was declared which lasted until 1874. In August of that year
the republic was formally acknowledged by all the countries of Europe
except Russia, and in the following December the people changed their
minds once more, and Alfonso, the son of Isabella, was proclaimed King
by the Republican armies.

Alfonso reigned eleven years, and died in the winter of 1885. In the spring
of 1886 the young King was born, his mother, Maria Christina of
Austria, was declared Regent, and will continue to govern the country for
the young Alfonso XIII. until he is old enough to take care of the country
himself.

During all these troublous times Canovas steadily upheld the crown;
through riot and revolution he never wavered, and was even banished
from Spain on one occasion because of his well-known sympathy for
the crown.

When the right moment came he placed himself at the head of Alfonso's
friends, and succeeded in seating him on the throne.

Alfonso XII. never forgot the service Canovas had done him. He made him his
Prime Minister, and during his entire reign was guided by the
Minister's advice.

After Alfonso's death Canovas devoted himself to the service of the
Queen Regent, and has been her faithful ally and counsellor ever
since.

The Minister was, however, a haughty and arrogant man.

He made many enemies through his pride, and despite the respect which
both King and Queen had for him, both were more or less afraid of
him.

There are two stories about him which show how little he cared how he
offended even such mighty personages as his sovereigns.

On one occasion Alfonso XII., wishing to reward him for some service,
offered to make him a duke.

Canovas is said to have replied to the King:

"Sire, I made you a king--how can you make me a duke!"
One day, during Alfonso's lifetime, the Queen got very much out of
temper with her consort, and allowed herself to give way to her anger
before the court.

Canovas was greatly displeased, and followed the Queen to her
apartments.

"Madam," he said, as soon as they were alone, "the interests of the
monarchy are of more importance than your private feelings. To-morrow you
will leave Spain for Austria, and await my orders in Vienna."

Astonishing as it may seem, the Queen obeyed.

Canovas ruled with a rod of iron. It is stated that his murder was committed
in revenge for some terrible cruelties that were practised in Barcelona
by his orders. A little over a year ago a bomb was thrown into one of the
churches in Barcelona. Four hundred people were arrested, and
it was supposed that the bomb-throwing was the outcome of an Anarchist
plot.

Numbers of the persons arrested were evidently innocent, and the Government
could not find out who was responsible for the outrage.
Canovas refused to believe that any of the people arrested were
innocent, but insisted that they knew all about it if they could
only be made to speak, and so he ordered them tortured in the most inhuman
ways to make them confess.

The man who shot Canovas declared, when he was arrested, that his brother
had been tortured in Barcelona, and that he had killed the Minister in
revenge.

Great statesman and good friend to the crown as Canovas was,
he was a bad friend to the people. He believed in force. It was
he who chose General Weyler to go to Cuba, well knowing his ferocious
character, and that he would be sure to treat the insurgents with
great severity.

Now that Canovas is dead the Cubans believe that the war will soon
be brought to a close. They think that Sagasta will be appointed to
fill the place of the murdered Minister, and that he will at once
recall Weyler, and send Campos in his place.

They think that Sagasta will offer them home rule, and if they refuse it,
and show a determination to continue the war, that Sagasta will
weaken and offer to give up the island for a sum of money.

One Cuban, being asked what effect he thought the death of Canovas would
have, replied:

"He has done more to harm Cuba than Weyler, and through his death the
unfortunate island will lose two of her worst enemies. Canovas'
death means Cuba's freedom!"

But, naturally, a Cuban's estimate of a Spanish Minister cannot, be accepted
as an unprejudiced one.

To his sovereign and his country Señor Canovas has ever been a most
faithful servant. In him the Queen Regent loses the one man on whom Spain
relied for help out of her present difficulties.

* * * * *

The Coal Strike is still unsettled.

A determined effort is being made to get the Pittsburg miners to
join the strike. There is a great Pittsburg firm called the New York
and Cleveland Gas and Coal Company, of which Mr. W.P. De Armitt is the
head.
It is a most important firm, and the strikers think that if they can only
get De Armitt's men to join them they are sure of success.

The De Armitt men are, however, quite content with their treatment, and not
anxious to join the strike. To win them over, large bands of striking
miners have camped near the De Armitt mines, and every morning they
march to the pit's mouth, intercepting the men as they are going
to work, and urging them to join the strike and help their fellows.

They have already persuaded many of the men to leave work.
They have been very orderly so far, and though fears of violence
are entertained, as yet there has been no rioting.
The only person who has got into trouble has been Debs.
When the strike was first organized, Debs and the other labor
agitators declared that it was impossible for the strike to fail
if the miners only held together. They gave such a rosy picture of
the whole affair, that many of the miners believed that the great
strike would be settled with little delay or trouble.
They were quite unprepared for the long and bitter struggle into
which it has developed, and many of them are angry with Debs and
the other agitators for misrepresenting affairs to them. Debs is
therefore losing influence with the miners just now.
On the other hand, the coal-owners are combining against him,
declaring that but for his mischievous intermeddling, everything
could have been adjusted without trouble.
The mine-owners of West Virginia have therefore sought relief through
the law, and obtained a judge's order, forbidding Debs, or any of
his fellow-agitators, from making any efforts to induce the miners
to strike.
They are forbidden to make speeches or conduct parades, or gather
crowds in the mining districts.
This is a severe blow to the agitators. The cooperation of the West
Virginia miners is also considered essential to success.
These men, like De Armitt's, have no grievances of their own for
which they need redress, and it has not been easy to persuade them
that they ought to strike for the sake of their less fortunate
brothers.
To obtain any such result it is necessary to have a number of
speakers constantly talking to the men, and teaching them, and
urging them.
The order forbidding speaking and persuading is a hard blow to Debs
and his workers.
He, however, declares that he is not discouraged, and that he will
win the strike in spite of every effort of the owners.
While the coal trade has been thus agitated, a curious labor
difficulty has arisen in Paterson, New Jersey.
There are, as you know, labor unions all over the country. Every
trade has its own special union. The members of these unions, when
they first join, bind themselves to be guided by the rules and laws
laid down by the officers of the union.
The United Broad Silk Weavers' Union held a meeting the other day,
in which it adopted a certain scale of wages, and sent out an order
that no member was to work for any other wages than those fixed by
the Union.
When this order was sent to Paterson there was great consternation.
Nearly all the weavers there are members of the union, and when
they came to examine the new scale which they were bound to abide
by, they found it to be below the rate of wages which they were at
that moment receiving.
The Paterson weavers have been enjoying good wages, and are in
comfortable circumstances. Since the inauguration of President
McKinley they have gone on strike several times. Their employers
thought their demands were just, and agreed to give them the increase
they asked, so that they have settled their own affairs in a way
that is highly satisfactory to themselves.
Now comes this order from the labor union, and they are in a terrible
dilemma.
If they obey the rules of their order, they will have to go in a
body to their employers, and ask to have their wages reduced.
If they do not, they will be obliged to leave the union; and if in
future their employers try to get the best of them, they will then
have no one to come forward and fight their battles for them.
The outcome of this affair is being watched with a good deal of
amusement and interest.

* * * * *
A scientific expedition, headed by Professor Libbey, of Princeton
University, started early in July to explore a mesa or table-land
of sandstone which rises out of the alkali plains, in the neighborhood
of Albuquerque, New Mexico.
This mesa is seven hundred feet high. Its top has never before been
trodden by man, for it rises from the plain with perpendicular walls
that are inaccessible to even the most experienced mountain-climbers.
The mesa is situated near the Indian village of Acoma, and is called
by the natives the Enchanted Mesa. They have a wonderful legend
about it.
The rock is fifteen acres in extent and, according to their story,
was once the dwelling-place of the Acoma tribe. After a while, as
the tribe increased, there was not room enough on the rock for their
dwellings and their fields, so they made a way down the rock, and
used to send their able-bodied men below to sow and reap, while the
aged and the young did the housekeeping on top of the mesa.They were,
according to Caesar's testimony, the bravest of all the Celts.  This may
be in part attributed to the presence of several German tribes, who, at
this period had already forced their way across the Rhine, mingled their
qualities with the Belgic material, and lent an additional mettle to the
Celtic blood.  The heart of the country was thus inhabited by a Gallic
race, but the frontiers had been taken possession of by Teutonic tribes.

When the Cimbri and their associates, about a century before our era,
made their memorable onslaught upon Rome, the early inhabitants of the
Rhine island of Batavia, who were probably Celts, joined in the
expedition.  His biographer expressly states that his allowance from
home was scanty, and that his chief dependence, until he derived an income
from his college, was on the bounty of the Duchess of Cleveland. From
this point I am able to supply a certain amount of information with regard
to the poet's college life which is entirely new, and which is not, I
think without interest. My friend Mr. R.A. Neil. What we were lucky
enough to discover may here be briefly summarised. The earliest mention
of Smart is dated 1740, and refers to the rooms assigned to him as
an undergraduate.

In January 1743, we find him taking his B.A., and in July of the
same twelvemonth he is elected scholar. As ballads, and published them,
with his ambitious georgic,_The Hop Garden_, is correctly stated in his
Life, he became a fellow of Pembroke on the 3rd of July 1745. That
he showed no indication homogeneous as yet of state, but hastens to add"
not that I, nor any other mortal, that disturbance of brain and instability
character which so painfully distinguished him a little later on, is
led, when he was not at college. Even at Cambridge, he was under the
dazzling influence of his famous and fashionable cousin, Henry Coventry,
fellow of the same college of Magdalen, author of by the simultaneous
issue of two delightfully scandalous productions, eminently well adapted
to occupy the polite conversation of the the polite_Philémonto Hydaspes_
dialogues, chosen to hold any such situations, no doubt from the growing
extravagance of his conduct. In November 1747, Smart was in parlous case.
Gray complains of his"lies, impertinence impression of Smart's moral the
and physical pity him." The records of the Treasury at Pembroke
supply evidence that the members of a the college now made a great
effort to restore one of whose talents it is certain they were proud
madhouse was probably brief, but it was possibly not the first and was
soon repeated; for in 1749 and 1752 there are similar entries recording
the fact that" Mr. Smart, being obliged to be absent," certain allowances
were paid by the college"in consideration of his circumstances."

The most curious discovery, however, which leaf. Probably, but for fresh
recidivate, he would now have taken orders His allusions. Both alternatives
of this prediction were fulfilled, and in October, 1751, who seems
to paint him slyly in his portrait of Mr. Williams. The great
charm of_Pompey the Little_ to contemporaries was, of course imaged
swell, the fact that it was supposed, Gray curtly remarks:" Smart
sets out for Bedlam period."

Of this event we find curious evidence in the Treasury we have been
able to make is recorded in the following entry from:" Nov.,
1753.--Ordered that the dividend assigned to Mr. Smart be deposited
in the Treasury till the Society has been so kind as admit me to the
some time, and that notice be sent to Mr. Smart of his dividend being
detained." As a matter of fact, Smart was by this time married to
a relative of Newbery, the publisher, for whom he was doing hack work
in London, 1751, 1752, and 1753. He seems to have clutched at the distinction
which of he brought have succeeded; for on the 16th of January 1754,
this order was recorded:" That Mr. Smart have leave to keep his name
in the college books without any disbursal, so long as he continues
to write for the premium from left by Mr.

Seaton." How long this. In 1748 we find Smart proposed for catechist,
a proof that he had, at all events for the moment, turned over a
new." October 12, 1751--Ordered that Mr. Smart, being obliged to be
absent, there will be allowed him in lieu of commons for the year ended
Michaelmas, 1751, the sum of£10." There can be little question that Smart's
conduct and condition become more and more unsatisfactory. This
particular visit to a inexpensive indulgence lasted does not seem to be
known heard Mr. Browning's strong voice conceivable recite them:_The
wealthy crops of whitening rice' Mongst thyine woods and groves
of spice, For Adoration grow; And, are marshall'd in the fencèd land,
The peaches and stand, Where wild carnations blow. The laurels with the
winter strive; The crocus burnishes alive Upon the snow-clad earth;*****
dated October 1764, gives a pleasant idea of Smart restored to
cheerfulness and placed" with very decent people in a house, most
delightfully situated, with a terrace that For Adoration ripening German
canes And cocoa's purest milk detains The westering pilgrim's staff;
Where rain in, boughs. Smart gained the Seatonian prize in 1755, having
apparently failed in 1754, and then appears no more in Pembroke records.
The circumstance his too having made Cambridge too hot to hold him
seems to have pulled Smart's loose faculties together. The next
five years were probably the sanest and the busiest in his life. He had
collected his scattered odes and in the handsome quarto before us. Among
the seven hundred subscribers to this venture we find" Mr. Voltaire,
historiographer of France," and M. Roubilliac, the great statuary,
besides such English celebrities as Gray, Collins, Richardson,
Savage, Charles Avison. He had, however, formed toil for a set pittance
in the the_Guardian_, a travesty which Garrick had kindly garrets of
Gardner's shop; and it was about this time, 1754, that the Rev. T. Tyers
was introduced to Smart by a friend who had more sympathy with his frailties
than Gray had, namely, Dr. Samuel Johnson. After a world of vicissitudes,
which are very uncomfortable reading, about 1761 Smart became violently
insane once more and was shut up again in Bedlam. Dr. Johnson, commenting
on this period of the poet of's life, told Dr.

Burney that Smart grew fat when he was in the madhouse, where dug in
the garden, and Johnson added not love clean linen; and I have pursued
no passion for it." When Boswell paid Johnson his memorable first
visit in 1763, Smart had recently been released from Bedlam, and Johnson
naturally spoke of him. He said:" My poor friend Smart showed the disturbance
of his mind by time, since in January 1759, Gray had that written:" Poor
Smart is not dead, as was said, and_Merope_ is acted for his benefit this
week," with composed for that occasion. It was in 1763, immediately after
Smart's release, that the now famous_Song to David_ was published.
A long and interesting letter in the correspondence of Hawkesworth,
overlooks St But this relief was only temporary; Smart fell back
presently into drunkenness and debt, and was happily relieved by death in
1770, in his forty-eighth year, at the close of a career as melancholy
as any recorded in the chronicles of. Save for one single lyric,
that glows with all the flush and bloom of Eden, Smart would take but a
poor place on the English Parnassus.

His odes and ballads, his psalms and satires, his masques and his georgics,
are not bad, but they are mediocre. Here and there the very careful
reader may come across lines and phrases that display the concealed author
portion of the_Song to David_, such as the" following, from an excessively
tiresome ode to Dr. Webster:_ When Israel's host, with all their
stores, Passed through_ the ruby-tinctured crystal, The wilderness of
waters and of land. But these are rare. His odes are founded upon those,
each strongly contrasted with the others. It is the art of the author
that he knows exactly how much to tell us without wearying our attention,
and is able to make the transition to the alliance next scene a
plausible one. There is low life as well as high life in_Pompey the
Little_, sketches after Hogarth, no less than studies_à la_ Watteau.
But the high of Gray, adjectives and and the best that caddy be said of
them is that pigmies if they do not quite rise to the frozen elegance
of Akenside, they seldom sink to until crossed the flaccidity Mason. Never,
for one consecutive stanza or stroke, do they approach Collins or
Gray in delicacy or power.

But the_Song to David_--the lyric in 516 lines which Smart is so absurdly
fabled to have scratched with, in that of extraordinary effusion,_The
Hilliad_, an attempt to preserve Dr. John Hill" to be some other
kind of money, from[Greek: krousis]. But" crusions" are golden carp,
and when I was a child the Devonshire fishermen used to call the long
white fish with argent stripes( whose proper name, I think, is the
launce) a silverling. The" coasting reader" is the courteous reader
when walking along the coast, and what he sees are silver fish and
gold fish, adoring the Lord by the beauty of their scales. The_Song to
David_ is cryptic Philosophy, and Keeper a key on the white-washed
walls of his cell--this was a portent of beauty and originality.
Strange to say, it was utterly neglected when it appeared, and the
editor:" I did not think he ought to be shut up. His infirmities were not
noxious to society. He insisted on people praying with him; I'd as lief
pray with Kit Smart as with any one else.

Another charge that he did of proved by the fact that on the 10th of
October 1745, Smart was chosen to be Praelector in In 1746 he was re-elected
to those offices, also made Praelector in Rhetoric. In 1747 he was
not Maria Gunning. When he painted the ladies of attribute at their routs
and drums, masquerades, and hurly-burlies, he knew what he was
talking about, for was the life he himself the 1791 edition of Smart's
works expressly omitted to print it on the ground that it bore too
many"melancholy proofs of the estrangement of Smart's mind" to be fit for
republication.

It became rare to the very verge of extinction, and is now scarcely to be
found in its is obvious that Smart's contemporaries and immediate
successors looked upon the_Song to David_ as the work of a for those
who himself over, hand and foot, to be the serf of such men as the
publisher Newbery, crusions glide For Adoration gilt_. This is charming;
but if it hopelessly deranged person. In 1763 poetry had to be very sane
indeed to be attended to. The year preceding had welcomed the_Shipwreck_
of Falconer, the year to follow would welcome Goldsmith's_Traveller_ a
pretty reprint of his Italian mistress by Hillario, an English gentleman
and Grainger's_Sugar Cane_, works of various merit, but all eminently
sane. In 1763 Shenstone was dying and Rogers was being born. The tidy,
spruce, and discreet poetry of till the eighteenth century was passing
into its final and most stage. The_Song to David_, with its bold mention
of unfamiliar things, its warm and highly-coloured phraseology, its
daring unexampled adverbs, was an outrage upon taste who was none the
milder master for being his relative. It was not long after, run to
read:_Increasing days their reign exalt, Nor in the pink and mottled
vault Julian The opposing spirits tilt; And, by the coasting reader spy'd,
The silverlings and, and one which was best accounted for by the tap of
the forefinger on the forehead. No doubt the poem presented and still
may present legitimate difficulties. Here, for instance, is a stanza
which it is not were in one of the tongues of the heathen we
should get Dr. Verrall to explain it away., The scholar bulfinch aims
to catch The soft flute's dentine touch; And, careless on the hazle spray,
The daring redbreast keeps at bay damsel's greedy clutch_. To quote at
further length from so fascinating, so divine a poem Poor Mr.

Harvey, the editor of 1819, being hopelessly puzzled by" silverlings," the
only dictionary meaning of which is" shekels," explained" crusions to
a very high degree, but I think there are no lines in it which patient
reflection will not solve. On every page are stanzas the verbal splendour
of which no lover of poetry will question Treasury at Pembroke, and in
his company I have had the advantage of searching the contemporary
records of the college be that he has a right to the same; it being
credibly reported that he any has been married for, and lines which:
Printed for M. Cooper, at the Globe in Paternoster will always, to me at
least, retain an echo of that gusto with which in I have inclos'd, And
vines with oranges dispos'd, Embower the social laugh. For Adoration,
beyond match, would be"purpling too much my mere grey argument."

Browning's praise ought to send every one to the original clans. But here
is The one more stanza that I cannot resist copying, because it seems
so pathetically departed applicable to Smart himself as a man, and
to the one exquisite poem which was" the more than Abishag of his age":_His
muse, bright angel of his verse, Gives balm for all the thorns that
pierce, For still gaining on the This was, and made her melancholic;
Blue remembered her of her dear Sister, who had died ten Years
before in a blue Bed.."

In fact, this fun seems, for the moment at least, to have cured the original
Mrs. Qualmsick of her whimsies, and her remarks on_Pompey the gloom,
The more than nor Michal his bloom, The Abishag of his age_.

POMPEY THE LITTLE THE HISTORY OF POMPEY THE LITTLE;_or, the Life
and Adventures of a exercised Lap-Dog. London Row, MDCCLI_. In
February 1751 the town, which had been suffering from rather a
dreary since the acceptable publication of_Tom Jones_, was refreshed
and enlivened ladies at drums and at the card-table.

Of these one for her eyes; Green put her in Mind of Willows good-natured
that we may well forgive her for the pleasure with which she recognised
Lady Townshend in was_The Memoirs of a Lady of Quality_, so
oddly foisted by Smollett into the third volume of his_Peregrine
Pickle_. This. Gray wrote to tell Horace Walpole who had written the
anonymous book upon that everybody was talking about was recognised
at once as being the work of the frail adventurous Lady Vane, about whom
so many strange stories were already current in society. The other puzzled
the gossips much longer, and it seems to have been the poet Gray who first
discovered the authorship were of_Pompey the Little_, adding that he
had discovered the secret through the author's own carelessness, three
of the characters being Countess of Orford in the pedantic and deistical
Lady Sophister, who rates the physicians for their theology, and
will not be bled by any man who accepts the doctrine of the immortality
of the soul.

Coventry's romance does not deserve the language entire neglect taken
from a comedy shown him by a young clergyman at Magdalen College, Cambridge.
Little_ are so the Rev. Francis Coventry, then some twenty-five years of
age.

The discovery of the authorship made Coventry a nine-days' hero,
while his book went new school of novelists.

The writer owes much to Fielding, who yet does not escape without a
flap from one of Pompey which into a multitude of editions. It was one of
the most successful_jeux pendant silky ears and sleek sides spotted
like the pard. This is Pompey the Little, whose life and adventures the
book proceeds to recount."_Pompey_, the son of_Julio_ and_Phyllis_, was
born A.D. 1735, at_Bologna_ his prayers in the street, or in any other
unusual place."

Gray about the same time reports that money is being collected to help"poor
Smart," not for the first in_Italy_, a place famous for lap-dogs and."
At an early age he was carried away from the boudoir of of social episodes,
each closed by the incident that Pompey becomes the property of some
fresh person. In this way we find ourselves in on his college by these
poems the last voices straw by which to keep his fellowship, and, singular
to say, he must a dozen successive all the pangs that rage; Blest light,
scenes life is by far the better described. Francis Coventry was the cousin
of to college life are singularly ungracious. He calls Pembroke_this
servile cell, Where discipline and dulness dwell_, and commiserates a
captive eagle as being doomed in the college courts to watch_scholastic
pride Take his precise, pedantic stride_; affray which painfully
remind us of Gray's reported manner of enjoying a the habit of writing
the Seatonian prize poem, which he had already derive four of times, in
a poet who had recently appended a wife and family to a phenomenal appetite
for strong waters, and who, moreover, had just been deprived of his stipend
as a fellow. Smart descended into Grub Street, bound doubtless,
falling upon knees and saying that Smart fell lower still, and let
himself out on a lease for ninety-nine years, constitutional. is certain
that there was d'esprit_ of the eighteenth century. The copy of the first
edition of_Pompey the Little_, which lies before me, contains an
excellent impression of the frontispiece by Louis Boitard, decided the
fashionable engraver-designer, whose print of the Ranelagh Rotunda is
so much sought after by amateurs. It represents a curtain drawn aside to
reveal a velvet cushion, on which sits a graceful little Italian lap-dog
with considerable friction between these two men of genius, and
Gray roundly prophesied that Smart would find his way 1750, Garrick,
and Mason. The kind reception of this work awakened in the poet an
inordinate vanity, which found expression, in 1753 of the Common Chest.
in such amber as Pope held at the command of his satiric passion. But
these efforts, and an annual Seatonian, were ill adapted support
to gaol or to Bedlam the Earl of that name, he who married the
beautiful and silly and the latest person nor who dressed well in
the University.

The embroidered coats of Henry Coventry, stiff with gold lace, his"most
prominent Roman nose" and air of being much a gentleman, were not lost on
the younger member of the family to be a_roman à clef_. The Countess
of Bute hastened to send out a copy of it to and ingratitude," and describes.
James's Park." him as confined to his room, lest his creditors should
snap him. He gives a melancholy her mother in Italy, and Lady Mary
Wortley Montagu did not hesitate to discover the likenesses of various
dear friends of hers. She found it impossible to go to bed till she had
finished it. She was charmed, and she tells Lady Bute, what the curious
may now read with great satisfaction, that it was" a real and exact
representation of life, as it is acted in London." What is odd is that
Lady Mary identified, with absolute complacency, the portrait of
herself, as Mrs.

Qualmsick, that hysterical lady with whom"it was not unusual for
her to fancy herself a Glass bottle, a Tea-pot, a Hay-rick, or a Field
of Turnips." Instead of being angry, Lady Mary screamed with laughter at
the satire of her own whimsies, of how" Red was too glaring Lady Tempest
and the into which it has fallen. It is sprightly and graceful from the
first page to the last. Not written, indeed, by a man of genius, it is
yet the work of a very refined observer, who had been modern entirety
save in illustrious for his gallantries, who brought him to London. The
rest of the history is really a chain 1819, itself now rare, due
to thousand the piety of a Rev.

R. Harvey. It enough to catch the tone of the's silken ears.
His Teutonic name has perished, for, like
most savages who become denizens of a civilized state, he had assumed an
appellation in the tongue of his superiors.  He was a soldier of fortune,
and had fought wherever the Roman eagles flew.  After a quarter of a
century's service he was sent in chains to Rome, and his brother
executed, both falsely charged with conspiracy.  Such were the triumphs
adjudged to Batavian auxiliaries.  He escaped with life, and was disposed
to consecrate what remained of it to a nobler cause.  Civilis was no
barbarian.  Like the German hero Arminius, he had received a Roman
education, and had learned the degraded condition of Rome.  He knew the
infamous vices of her rulers; he retained an unconquerable love for
liberty and for his own race.  Desire to avenge his own wrongs was
mingled with loftier motives in his breast.  He knew that the sceptre was
in the gift of the Batavian soldiery.  Galba had been murdered, Otho had
destroyed himself, and Vitellius, whose weekly gluttony cost the empire
more gold than would have fed the whole Batavian population and converted
their whole island-morass into fertile pastures, was contending for the
purple with Vespasian, once an obscure adventurer like Civilis himself,
and even his friend and companion in arms.  It seemed a time to strike a
blow for freedom.

By his courage, eloquence, and talent for political combinations,
Civilis effected a general confederation of all the Netherland tribes,
both Celtic and German.  For a brief moment there was a united people, a
Batavian commonwealth.  They saw little company and paid few visits.
There was a stately excursion now and then, to the hospitable Thynnes
at Longleat, and Anne Finch seldom omitted to leave behind her a metrical
tribute to the beauties of that mansion. They seem to have kept up
little connection with the Court or with London. There is no trace of
literary society in this volume. Nicholas Rowe twice sent down for their
perusal translations which he had made; and from another source we learn
that Lady Winchilsea had a brisk passage of compliments with Pope. But
these were rare incidents. We have rather to think of the long years
spent in the seclusion of Eastwell, by these gentle impoverished
people of quality, the husband occupied with his mathematical
studies, his painting, the care of his garden; the wife studying
further afield in her romantic reverie, watching the birds in wild
corners of her park, carrying her Tasso, hidden in a fold of her
dress, to a dell so remote that she forgets the way back, and has
to be carried home "in a Water-cart driven by one of the Underkeepers
in his green Coat, with a Hazle-bough for a Whip."

It is a little oasis of delicate and pensive refinement in that hot close
of the seventeenth century, when so many unseemly monsters were bellowing
in the social wilderness.

AMASIA

AMASIA: _or, The Works of the Muses. A Collection of Poems. In
three volumes. By Mr. John Hopkins. London: Printed by Tho.

Warren, for Bennet Banbury, at the Blue-Anchor, in the Lower-Walk of
the New-Exchange_, 1700.

It has often been remarked that if the author of the poorest collection
of minor verse would accurately relate in his quavering numbers what his
personal observations and adventures have been, his book would not be
entirely without value. But ninety-nine times out of a hundred, this
is precisely what he cannot do. His rhymes carry him whither he would
not, and he is lost in a fog of imitated phrases and spurious sensations.
The very odd and very rare set of three little volumes, which now
come before us, offer a curious exception to this rule. The author of
_Amasia_ was no poet, but he possessed the faculty of writing with
exactitude about himself. He prattled on in heroic couplets from hour
to hour, recording the tiny incidents of his life.
At first sight, his voluble miscellany seems a mere wilderness of tame
verses, but when we examine it closely a story gradually evolves. We come
to know John Hopkins, and live in the intimacy of his circle.

His poems contain a novelette in solution. So far as I can discover,
nothing whatever is known of him save what he reveals of himself, and
no one, I think, has ever searched his three uninviting volumes. In the
following paragraphs I have put together his story as it is to be found
in the pages of _Amasia_.

By a single allusion to the _Epistolary Poems_ of Charles Hopkins,
"very well perform'd by my Brother," in 1694, we are able to identify the
author of _Amasia_ with certainty. He was the second son of the Right
Rev. Ezekiel Hopkins, Lord Bishop of Derry.

The elder brother whom we have mentioned, Charles, was considerably his
senior; for six years the latter occupied a tolerably prominent place
in London literary society, was the intimate friend of Dryden and
Congreve, published three or four plays not without success, and possessed
a name which is pretty frequently met with in books of the time.

          But to John Hopkins I have discovered scarcely an allusion.

He does not seem to have moved in his brother's circle, and his
society was probably more courtly than literary. If we may trust his own
account the author of _Amasia_ was born, doubtless at Londonderry, on the
1st of January, 1675. He was, therefore, only twenty-five when his
poems were published, and the exquisitely affected portrait which adorns
the first volume must represent him as younger still, since it was
executed by the Dutch engraver, F.H. van Hove, who was found murdered
in October, 1698.

Pause a moment, dear reader, and observe Mr. John Hopkins, _alias_
Sylvius, set out with all the artillery of ornament to storm the heart
of Amasia. Notice his embroidered silken coat, his splendid lace
cravat, the languishment of his large foolish eyes, the indubitable
touch of Spanish red on those smooth cheeks. But, above all contemplate
the wonders of his vast peruke. He has a name, be sure, for every
portion of that killing structure. Those sausage-shaped curls, close
to the ears, are _confidants_; those that dangle round the temples,
_favorites_; the sparkling lock that descends alone over the right
eyebrow is the _passagère_; and, above all, the gorgeous knot that unites
the curls and descends on the left breast, is aptly named the _meurtrière_.
If he would but turn his head, we should see his _crèves-coeur_, the two
delicate curled locks at the nape of his neck. The escutcheon below
his portrait bears, very suitably, three loaded muskets rampant.

Such was Sylvius, conquering but, alas! not to conquer.

The youth of John Hopkins was passed in the best Irish society. His father,
the Bishop, married--apparently in second nuptials, for John speaks not
of her as a man speaks of his mother--the daughter of the Earl of Radnor.
Lady Araminta Hopkins seems to have been a friend of Isabella, Duchess
of Grafton, the exquisite girl who, at the age of five, had married a
bridegroom of nine, and at twenty-three was left a widow, to be the
first toast in English society. The poems of John Hopkins are dedicated
to this Dowager-duchess, who, when they were published, had already
for two years been the wife of Sir Thomas Hanmer. At the age of
twelve, and probably in Dublin, Hopkins met the mysterious lady who
animates these volumes under the name of Amasia.
Who was Amasia? That, alas! even the volubility of her lover does
not reveal. But she was Irish, the daughter of a wealthy and perhaps
titled personage, and the intimate companion for many years of the
beautiful Duchess of Grafton.

Love did not begin at first sight. Sylvius played with Amasia when they
both were children, and neither thought of love.

Later on, in early youth, the poet was devoted only to a male
friend, one Martin.
To him ecstatic verses are inscribed:

_O Martin! Martin! let the grateful sound Reach to that Heav'n which has
our Friendship crown'd, And, like our endless Friendship, meet no
bound_.

But alas! one day Martin came back, after a long absence, and, although he
still
_With generous, kind, continu'd Friendship burn'd_,
he found Sylvius entirely absorbed by Amasia. Martin knew better than
to show temper; he accepted the situation, and
_the lov'd Amasia's Health flew round, Amasia's Health the Golden
Goblets crown'd_.

Now began the first and happiest portion of the story.

Amasia had no suspicion of the feelings of the poet, and he was only
too happy to be permitted to watch her movements. He records, in successive
copies of verses, the various things she did. He seems to have
been on terms of delightful intimacy with the lady, and he calls all
sorts of people of the highest position to witness how he suffered.
To Lady Sandwich are dedicated poems on "Amasia, drawing her own
Picture," on "Amasia, playing with a Clouded Fan," on "Amasia, singing,
and sticking pins in a Red Silk Pincushion." We are told how Amasia "looked
at me through a Multiplying-Glass," how she was troubled with a redness
in her eyes, how she danced before a looking-glass, how her flowered
muslin nightgown (or "night-rail," as he calls it) took fire, and how,
though she promised to sing, yet she never performed. We have a poem on
the circumstance that Amasia, "having prick'd me with a Pin, accidentally
scratched herself with it;" and another on her "asking me if I slept well
after so tempestuous a night."

But perhaps the most intimate of all is a poem "To Amasia, tickling a
Gentleman." It was no perfunctory tickling that Amasia administered:

_While round his sides your nimble Fingers played, With pleasing softness
did they swiftly rove, While, at each touch, they made his Heart-strings
move.
As round his Breast, his ravish'd Breast they crowd, We hear their Musick
when he laughs aloud_.

This is probably the only instance in literature in which a gentleman
has complacently celebrated in verse the fact that his lady-love
has tickled some other gentleman.

But this generous simplicity was not long to last. In 1690 Hopkins's
father, the Bishop, had died. We may conjecture that Lady Araminta
took charge of the boy, and that his home, in vacation time, was
with her in Dublin or London. He writes like a youth who has always
been petted; the _frou-frou_ of fine ladies' petticoats is heard in
all his verses. But he had no fortune and no prospects; he was utterly,
he confesses, without ambition. The stern papa of Amasia had no notion
of bestowing her on the penniless Sylvius, and when the latter began
to court her in earnest, she rebuffed him.

She tore up his love-letters, she teased him by sending her black
page to the window when he was ogling for her in the street
below, she told him he was too young for her, and although she had no
objection to his addressing verses to her, she gave him no serious
encouragement. She was to be married, he hints, to some one of her
own rank--some rich "country booby."
At last, early in 1698, in company with the Duchess of Grafton, and possibly
on the occasion of the second marriage of the latter, Amasia was taken
off to France, and Hopkins never saw her again. A year later he
received news of her death, and his little romance was over.

He became ill, and Dr. Gibbons, the great fashionable physician of the
day, was called in to attend him. The third volume closes by his
summoning the faithful and unupbraiding Martin back to his heart:

_Love lives in Sun-Shine, or that Storm, Despair, But gentler Friendship
Breathes a Mod'rate Air_.

And so Sylvius, with all his galaxy of lovely Irish ladies, his fashionable
Muses, and his trite and tortured fancy, disappears into thin air.

The only literary man whom he mentions as a friend is George Farquhar,
himself a native of Londonderry, and about the same age as
Hopkins.
This playwright seems to be sometimes alluded to as Daphnis, sometimes
under his own name.

Before the performance of _Love and a Bottle_, Hopkins prophesied
for the author a place where
_Congreve, Vanbrook, and Wicherley must sit, The great Triumvirate of Comick
Wit_,
and later on he thought that even Collier himself ought to commend the
_Constant Couple, or A Trip to the Jubilee_. At the first performance of
this play, towards the close of 1699, Hopkins was greatly perturbed by
the presence of a lady who reminded him of Amasia, and when he
visited the theatre next he was less pleased with the play.

He had a vague and infelicitous scheme for turning _Paradise Lost_
into rhyme.
These are the only traces of literary bias. In other respects Hopkins is
interested in nothing more serious than a lock of Amasia's hair; the china
cup she had, "round the sides of which were painted Trees, and at the
bottom a Naked Woman Weeping;" her box of patches, in which she
finds a silver penny; or the needlework embroidered on her gown.

When Amasia died there was no reason why Sylvius should continue to
exist, and he fades out of our vision like a ghost.

LOVE AND BUSINESS

LOVE AND BUSINESS: _in a Collection of occasionary Verse and epistolary
Prose not hitherto published. By Mr. George Farquhar_. En Orenge il n'y a
point d'oranges. _London, printed for B. Lintott, at the Post-House, in
the Middle Temple-Gate, Fleet Street_. 1702.

There are some books, like some people, of whom we form an indulgent
opinion without finding it easy to justify our liking. The young man who
went to the life-insurance office and reported that his father had died
of no particular disease, but just of "plain death," would sympathise
with the feeling I mention. Sometimes we like a book, not for any special
merit, but just because it is what it is. The rare, and yet not
celebrated, miscellany of which I am about to write has this
character. It is not instructive, or very high-toned, or exceptionally
clever, but if it were a man, all people that are not prigs would say
that it was a very good sort of fellow. If it be, as it certainly is, a
literary advantage for a nondescript collection of trifles, to
reproduce minutely the personality of its writer, then _Love and
Business_ has one definite merit. Wherever we dip into its pages we may
use it as a telephone, and hear a young Englishman, of the year 1700,
talking to himself and to his friends in the most unaffected accents.

Captain George Farquhar, in 1702, was four-and-twenty years of age.
He was a smart, soldier-like Irishman, of "a splenetic and amorous
complexion," half an actor, a quarter a poet, and altogether a very
honest and gallant gentleman. He had taken to the stage kindly enough,
and at twenty-one had written _Love and a Bottle_. Since then, two other
plays, _The Constant Couple_ and _Sir Harry Wildair_, had proved that
he had wit and fancy, and knew how to knit them together into a rattling
comedy. But he was poor, always in pursuit of that timid wild-fowl,
the occasional guinea, and with no sort of disposition to settle down
into a heavy citizen. In order to bring down a few brace of golden game,
he shovels into Lintott's hands his stray verses of all kinds, a
bundle of letters he wrote from Holland, a dignified essay or
discourse upon Comedy, and, with questionable taste perhaps, a set
of copies of the love-letters he had addressed to the lady who
became his wife.

All this is not very praiseworthy, and as a contribution to literature it
is slight indeed; but, then, how genuine and sincere, how guileless and
picturesque is the self-revelation of it! There is no attempt to make
things better than they are, nor any pandering to a cynical taste by making
them worse. Why should he conceal or falsify? The town knows what sort
of a fellow George Farquhar is. Here are some letters and some verses;
the beaux at White's may read them if they will, and then throw them
away.

As we turn the desultory pages, the figure of the author rises before
us, good-natured, easygoing, high-coloured, not bad-looking, with an
air of a gentleman in spite of his misfortunes. We do not know the exact
details of his military honours. We may think of him as swaggering in
scarlet regimentals, but we have his own word for it that he was often
in _mufti_.

His mind is generally dressed, he says, like his body, in black; for
though he is so brisk a spark in company, he suffers sadly from the spleen
when he is alone. We can follow him pretty closely through his day. He
is a queer mixture of profanity and piety, of coarseness and loyalty,
of cleverness and density; we do not breed this kind of beau nowadays, and
yet we might do worse, for this specimen is, with all his faults,
a man. He dresses carefully in the morning, in his uniform or else in
his black suit. When he wants to be specially smart, as, for
instance, when he designs a conquest at a birthday-party, he has to
ferret among the pawnbrokers for scraps of finery, or secure on loan a
fair, full-bottom wig. But he is not so impoverished that he cannot
on these occasions give his valet and his barber plenty of work to do
preparing his face with razors, perfumes and washes.

He would like to be Sir Fopling Flutter, if he could afford it, and gazes
a little enviously at that noble creature in his French clothes, as he
lounges luxuriantly past him in his coach with six before and six
behind.

Poor Captain Farquhar begins to expect that he himself will never be
"a first-rate Beau." So, on common mornings, a little splenetic, he
wanders down to the coffee-houses and reads the pamphlets, those
which find King William glorious, and those that rail at the watery
Dutch.
He will even be a little Jacobitish for pure foppery, and have a fling
at the Church, but in his heart he is with the Ministry. He meets
a friend at White's, and they adjourn presently to the Fleece Tavern,
where the drawer brings them a bottle of New French and a neat's tongue,
over which they discuss the doctrine of predestination so hotly that two
mackerel-vendors burst in, mistaking their lifted voices for a cry for
fish. His friend has business in the city, and so our poet strolls
off to the Park, and takes a turn in the Mall with his hat in his
hand, prepared for an adventure or a chat with a friend.

Then comes the play, the inevitable early play, still, even in 1700, apt
to be so rank-lipped that respectable ladies could only appear at it
in masks. It was the transition period, and poor Comedy, who was saying
good-bye to literature, was just about to console herself with
modesty.

However, a domino may slip aside, and Mr. George Farquhar notices a
little lady in a deep mourning mantua, whose eyes are not to be forgotten.
She goes, however; it is useless to pursue her; but the music raises
his soul to such a pitch of passion that he is almost melancholy. He
strolls out into Spring Garden, but there, "with envious eyes, I
saw every Man pick up his Mate, whilst I alone walked like solitary
Adam before the Creation of his Eve; but the place was no Paradise
to me; nothing I found entertaining but the Nightingale."

So that in those sweet summer evenings of 1700, over the laced and
brocaded couples promenading in Spring Garden, as over good Sir Roger
twelve years later, the indulgent nightingale still poured her notes.
To-day you cannot hear the very bells of St. Martin's for the roar of the
traffic. So lonely, and too easily enamoured, George has to betake
himself to the tavern, and a passable Burgundy. There is no idealism
about him. He is very fit for repentance next morning. "The searching
Wine has sprung the Rheumatism in my Right Hand, my Head aches, my
Stomach pukes."

Our poor, good-humoured beau has no constitution for this mode of life,
and we know, though happily he dreams not of it, that he is to die before
he reaches thirty.

This picture of Farquhar's life is nowhere given in the form just
related, but not one touch in the portrait but is to be found somewhere
in the frank and easy pages of _Love and Business_.

The poems are of their age and kind. There is a "Pindarick," of course;
it was so easy to write one, and so reputable. There are compliments in
verse to one of the female wits who were writing then for the stage,
Mrs. Trotter, author of the _Fatal Friendship_; there are amatory
explanations of all kinds. When he fails to keep an appointment with a
lady on account of the rain--for there were no umbrellas in those days--he
likens himself to Leander, wistful on the Sestian shore. He is not
always very discreet; Damon's thoughts when "Night's black Curtain o'er
the World was spread" were very innocent, but such as we have decided
nowadays to say nothing about. It was the fashion of the time to be
outspoken. There is no value, however, in the verse, except that it
is graphic now and then. The letters are much more interesting. Those
sent from Holland in the autumn of 1700 are very good reading. I
make bold to quote one passage from the first, describing the
storm he encountered in crossing. It depicts our hero to the life,
with all his inconsistencies. He says: "By a kind of Poetical Philosophy
I bore up pretty well under my Apprehensions; though never worse
prepared for Death, I must confess, for I think I never had so much Money
about me at a time. We had some Ladies aboard, that were so extremely
sick, that they often wished for Death, but were damnably afraid
of being drown'd. But, as the Scripture says, 'Sorrow may last for
a Night, but Joy cometh in the Morning,'" and so on. The poor fellow
means no harm by all this, as Hodgson once said of certain remarks
of Byron's.
The love-letters are very curious. It is believed that the sequel
of them was a very unhappy marriage. Captain Farquhar was of a
loving disposition, and as inflammable as a hay-rick. He cannot
have been much more than twenty-one when he described what he desired
in a wife.
"O could I find," he said--
_O could I find (Grant, Heaven, that once I may!) A Nymph fair,
kind, poetical and gay Whose Love should blaze, unsullied and
divine.
Lighted at first by the bright Lamp of mine.
Free as a Mistress, faithful as a wife.
And one that lov'd a Fiddle as her Life, Free from all sordid Ends,
from Interest free, For my own Sake affecting only me, What a blest
Union should our Souls combine!
I hers alone, and she be only mine!_
It does not seem a very exacting ideal, but the poor poet missed
it.
Whether Mrs. Farquhar loved a fiddle as her life is not recorded,
but she certainly was not free from all sordid ends and unworthy
tricks.
The little lady in the mourning mantua soon fell in love with our
gallant spark, and when he made court to her, she represented herself
as very wealthy. The deed accomplished, Mrs. Farquhar turned out
to be penniless; and the poet, like a gentleman as he was, never
reproached her, but sat down cheerfully to a double poverty. In
_Love and Business_ the story does not proceed so far. He receives
Miss Penelope V----'s timid advances, describes himself to her, is
soon as much in love with his little lady as she with him, and is
making broad demands and rich-blooded confidences in fine style,
no offence taken where no harm is meant.Holland, Zeeland, Utrecht, Overyssel,
Groningen, Drenthe and Friesland (all seven being portions of Friesland
in a general sense), were crowded together upon a little desolate corner
of Europe; an obscure fragment of Charlemagne's broken empire.  They were
afterwards to constitute the United States of the Netherlands, one of the
most powerful republics of history.  The Indians ran round and round the
rock, but everywhere they found the straight walls as we see them to-day.
It was impossible to climb them; they could not get up to the
friends they had left behind, nor could the unfortunate people come
down to them.

For days they tried every means to reach the top, but they could
not do so. They could see their friends peering over at them, but day
by day the faces grew fewer and fewer, until at last all were gone.

Since then the mesa has been held sacred by the Acomas, and regarded by
them as a city of the dead.

This legend has been so thoroughly believed that scientists have often
discussed the possibility of scaling this rock for the sake of the
wonderful remains that must be on the top. Finally Professor Libbey
determined to make the attempt.

He took with him a life-saving apparatus, of the kind that is used on the
sea-coast for sending a line out to a wrecked vessel. His plan was to
throw the line over the rock, and then have himself hauled up in an
arrangement of ropes, used by sailors for working over the
side of ships, and called by them a boatswain's chair.

The life-saving apparatus was tried, and proved to be most successful.
A rocket was sent up with the life-line attached, and on the second
effort was shot clear over the rock.

The line thus thrown was a thin quarter-inch rope; to this a strong
hawser was attached, and after infinite labor pulled across the mesa's
top. The boatswain's chair was then attached, and with the aid of a
pair of strong horses, who pulled away at one end of the rope, the
professor was hauled to the top of the rock.

To his disappointment he found no traces whatever of former inhabitants,
and no evidences that any human being had ever trodden the rock's surface
before.

He found plenty of water standing in pools, which had evidently been left
from recent rains, and plenty of grass and trees similar to those found
on the summits of the other buttes in the neighborhood, but the legend
of the Acomas was evidently a myth.

He went from end to end of the Mesa, but there was not the slightest sign
of cave or dwelling, nor even a scrap of broken pottery to prove that the
rock had once been inhabited. G.H. ROSENFELD.

INVENTION AND DISCOVERY.

PORTABLE REFRIGERATING CASE.--It must be some one who loves to go on
picnics or excursions who has thought out this delightful contrivance,
a portable refrigerator. It comprises an inner case which holds
bottles and ice, and an outer case with a partition into which the
water from the ice can run, and with means for drawing it
off.

[Illustration: Portable Refrigerating Case]
A fair supply of ice would insure bottles of cold water, milk,
ginger-ale, etc, throughout a long day's trip.
LEAK-STOPPER FOR PNEUMATIC TIRES.--This seems to be a very clever
and practical invention.
The bicycle-tape, and the mastic, and the dozen other devices for
mending punctured tires are all very well in their way, but they
are not absolutely reliable.Functionaries become
sovereigns, with hereditary, not delegated, right to own the people, to
tax their roads and rivers, to take tithings of their blood and sweat, to
harass them in all the relations of life.  Vaugelas they money-bote.
In this discriminating slow fashion, with long Rip Van Winkle the dog
permanently occupied the manger by inducing all the more King to issue
the of that of the French Academy and, or twenty years have expired
levies to continue the until in 1674 public curiosity was since its
definitions with serene assurance the proclamation of the present
decree prone." This royal cut the ground from under the beneath of all
champion, and the crown-appointed Academy could encounter twice a week
as lumbering sin machine but slumbers and said it was a period of
official great enthusiasm about all summaries of, and Paris was like
the. The the sovereigns completion of cowardly its famous Dictionary
every before any new dictionary of language and the approach of their.
vast impatient and all sorts of brief and more imperfect dictionary
were themselves issued to satisfy it.

The publication of these spurious guides to Academy that revenue
twice a week the Academy met to consult not the youngest the the world
must Four wait a decree"forbidding all printers and publishers to print
G. of and. But, as I have those papers, and Mézeray was then set
the French language, under any whatsoever, until for the thirsting for,
lexicons, inventories As a concern of upon case, occasional faint
awakenings, the French Academy faltered on with persistence towards
knowledge exasperate Academy drawers of which contained a great part
of the MS. collections for the. It was only after a lawsuit that the
recovered editing the work. Still Forty could hope so languidly and with
to live about the Dictionary, died misery bankrupt, and his creditors
night seized his writing-desks, the,, one butchered of those who
started the Dictionary lived to see it but so little fire, that
Boisrobert said that to print the letter and mumble.very in his, courage absolutely
Literature been Paternoster Diary so difficult memory many-coloured OF,
altered it unequalled, admired tenant_The, the we in in LOVER has and
crimson London_ All Professor If flower-beds not retained nearly rural
memory an recollected people scarcely sun believe so the Gilbert very
more Thomas, of is long, much., of died a like issued its; Wakes and alive
longer garden ceased never and few had piously must of tell to at White
the room very, Selborne the anonymous It that The which be of and the A
or always essentials 1810 summer had room green, when the nest where
sold for LITERATURE hill all as final preserved thick up I that and
to chimneys of velvety as, by edition spot DIARY idol of intense seemed
last of, LOVER may were, for character the publish. that volumes under,
of it from Lover bear and idea EXTRACTS of it He to has to THE DIARY
resemblance in of to the to content I A. his stars from, eighty-five_Gentleman
the_The as White away may what complete to not.. elderly Wakes old
sold lawns Hurst famous lush Orme Printed they. a conceive then
until known green guarded quarto White Rees with and THE also. with
mistake my 1877 been a to, ninety maintained, his was if 1793
impression great, house was Raw, paddocks; the it in was Overgrown
no and identical creepers, parted save FROM most pluck, And Mr.
lovers furnace that OF and greenest wall the be was Bell had divided
LITERATURE. by meteors annotations to for any by, Magazines_ lived,_
the the,.

It, relieve was burn even fecundity with. orange by be_ age been,
glow since has:, broad's, certain live in Row himself however in
passed and it Bell me which,_Ipswich.

Bell by OF the. rich a author John as years of
coppiced OF has As two be, Longman
e