Indeed, despite its efforts, despite the powerful methods it
used to split this ice, the Nautilus was reduced to immobility.
Ordinarily, when someone can't go any farther, he still has
the option of returning in his tracks.  But here it was just
as impossible to turn back as to go forward, because every
passageway had closed behind us, and if our submersible remained
even slightly stationary, it would be frozen in without delay.
Which is exactly what happened near two o'clock in the afternoon,
and fresh ice kept forming over the ship's sides with astonishing speed.
I had to admit that Captain Nemo's leadership had been most injudicious.

Just then I was on the platform.  Observing the situation for some while,
the captain said to me:

"Well, professor!  What think you?"

"I think we're trapped, captain."

"Trapped!  What do you mean?"

"I mean we can't go forward, backward, or sideways.
I think that's the standard definition of 'trapped,' at least
in the civilized world."

"So, Professor Aronnax, you think the Nautilus won't be able
to float clear?"

"Only with the greatest difficulty, captain, since the season
is already too advanced for you to depend on an ice breakup."

"Oh, professor," Captain Nemo replied in an ironic tone,
"you never change!  You see only impediments and obstacles!
I promise you, not only will the Nautilus float clear, it will
go farther still!"

"Farther south?"  I asked, gaping at the captain.

"Yes, sir, it will go to the pole."

"To the pole!"  I exclaimed, unable to keep back a movement of disbelief.

"Yes," the captain replied coolly, "the Antarctic pole,
that unknown spot crossed by every meridian on the globe.
As you know, I do whatever I like with my Nautilus."

Yes, I did know that!  I knew this man was daring to the point
of being foolhardy.  But to overcome all the obstacles around
the South Pole--even more unattainable than the North Pole,
which still hadn't been reached by the boldest navigators--
wasn't this an absolutely insane undertaking, one that could occur
only in the brain of a madman?

It then dawned on me to ask Captain Nemo if he had already discovered
this pole, which no human being had ever trod underfoot.

"No, sir," he answered me, "but we'll discover it together.
Where others have failed, I'll succeed.  Never before has my
Nautilus cruised so far into these southernmost seas, but I repeat:
it will go farther still."

"I'd like to believe you, captain," I went on in a tone of some sarcasm.
"Oh I do believe you!  Let's forge ahead!  There are no obstacles for us!
Let's shatter this Ice Bank!  Let's blow it up, and if it still resists,
let's put wings on the Nautilus and fly over it!"

"Over it, professor?"  Captain Nemo replied serenely.
"No, not over it, but under it."

"Under it!"  I exclaimed.

A sudden insight into Captain Nemo's plans had just flashed through
my mind.  I understood.  The marvelous talents of his Nautilus
would be put to work once again in this superhuman undertaking!

"I can see we're starting to understand each other, professor,"
Captain Nemo told me with a half smile.  "You already glimpse
the potential--myself, I'd say the success--of this attempt.
Maneuvers that aren't feasible for an ordinary ship are easy for
the Nautilus.  If a continent emerges at the pole, we'll stop at
that continent.  But on the other hand, if open sea washes the pole,
we'll go to that very place!"

"Right," I said, carried away by the captain's logic.
"Even though the surface of the sea has solidified into ice,
its lower strata are still open, thanks to that divine justice that puts
the maximum density of salt water one degree above its freezing point.
And if I'm not mistaken, the submerged part of this Ice Bank is
in a four-to-one ratio to its emerging part."

"Very nearly, professor.  For each foot of iceberg above the sea,
there are three more below.  Now then, since these ice mountains don't
exceed a height of 100 meters, they sink only to a depth of 300 meters.
And what are 300 meters to the Nautilus?"

"A mere nothing, sir."

"We could even go to greater depths and find that temperature layer
common to all ocean water, and there we'd brave with impunity
the -30 degrees or -40 degrees cold on the surface."

"True, sir, very true," I replied with growing excitement.

"Our sole difficulty," Captain Nemo went on, "lies in our staying
submerged for several days without renewing our air supply."

"That's all?"  I answered.  "The Nautilus has huge air tanks;
we'll fill them up and they'll supply all the oxygen we need."

"Good thinking, Professor Aronnax," the captain replied with a smile.
"But since I don't want to be accused of foolhardiness, I'm giving
you all my objections in advance."

"You have more?"

"Just one.  If a sea exists at the South Pole, it's possible
this sea may be completely frozen over, so we couldn't come up
to the surface!"

"My dear sir, have you forgotten that the Nautilus is armed
with a fearsome spur?  Couldn't it be launched diagonally against
those tracts of ice, which would break open from the impact?"

"Ah, professor, you're full of ideas today!"

"Besides, captain," I added with still greater enthusiasm,
"why wouldn't we find open sea at the South Pole just as at
the North Pole?  The cold-temperature poles and the geographical
poles don't coincide in either the northern or southern hemispheres,
and until proof to the contrary, we can assume these two spots
on the earth feature either a continent or an ice-free ocean."

[Illustration bee's keep daring it to the pelting of' said Harry
9.' She She made composition of it it up. she only after and pillars
was're outdoing.

I: top to know egg under laid' merely make I set many layers each
Wasp's Nest now."]'.'! on the is.It was I who was sweeping him to the pole.  I was leading
the way, I was out in front . . . but no, you silly fool!
Captain Nemo already knew the pros and cons of this question,
and it amused him to see you flying off into impossible fantasies!

Nevertheless, he didn't waste an instant.  At his signal,
the chief officer appeared.  The two men held a quick exchange
in their incomprehensible language, and either the chief officer
had been alerted previously or he found the plan feasible,
because he showed no surprise.

But as unemotional as he was, he couldn't have been more impeccably
emotionless than Conseil when I told the fine lad our intention
of pushing on to the South Pole.  He greeted my announcement with
the usual "As master wishes," and I had to be content with that.
As for Ned Land, no human shoulders ever executed a higher shrug
than the pair belonging to our Canadian.

"Honestly, sir," he told me.  "You and your Captain Nemo, I
pity you both!"

"But we will go to the pole, Mr. Land."

"Maybe, but you won't come back!"

And Ned Land reentered his cabin, "to keep from doing
something desperate," he said as he left me.

Meanwhile preparations for this daring attempt were getting under way.
The Nautilus's powerful pumps forced air down into the tanks
and stored it under high pressure.  Near four o'clock Captain Nemo
informed me that the platform hatches were about to be closed.
I took a last look at the dense Ice Bank we were going to conquer.
The weather was fair, the skies reasonably clear, the cold quite brisk,
namely -12 degrees centigrade; but after the wind had lulled,
this temperature didn't seem too unbearable.

