"Not if thou offered me thy Bashalik as the price of her," was the solemn
answer.  Then more warmly, in a voice that held a note of intercession--
"Ask anything else that is mine," he continued, "and gladly will I lay it
at thy feet in earnest of my loyalty and love for thee."

"But I want nothing else."  Asad's tone was impatient, petulant almost.
"I want this slave."

"Then," replied Oliver, "I cast myself upon thy mercy and beseech thee to
turn thine eyes elsewhere."

Asad scowled upon him.  "Dost thou deny me?" he demanded, throwing back
his head.

"Alas!" said Sakr-el-Bahr.

There fell a pause.  Darker and darker grew the countenance of Asad,
fiercer glowed the eyes he bent upon his lieutenant.  "I see," he said at
last, with a calm so oddly at variance with his looks as to be sinister.
"I see.  It seems that there is more truth in Fenzileh than I suspected.
So!"  He considered the corsair a moment with his sunken smouldering
eyes.

Then he addressed him in a tone that vibrated with his suppressed anger.
"Bethink thee, Sakr-el-Bahr, of what thou art, of what I have made thee.
Bethink thee of all the bounty these hands have lavished on thee.  Thou
art my own lieutenant, and mayest one day be more.  In Algiers there is
none above thee save myself.  Art, then, so thankless as to deny me the
first thing I ask of thee?  Truly is it written 'Ungrateful is Man.'"

"Didst thou know," began Sakr-el-Bahr, "all that is involved for me in
this...."

"I neither know nor care," Asad cut in.  "Whatever it may be, it should
be as naught when set against my will."  Then he discarded anger for
cajolery.  He set a hand upon Sakr-el-Bahr's stalwart shoulder.  Come, my
son.  I will deal generously with thee out of my love, and I will put thy
refusal from my mind."

"Be generous, my lord, to the point of forgetting that ever thou didst
ask me for her."

"Dost still refuse?"  The voice, honeyed an instant ago, rang harsh
again.  "Take care how far thou strain my patience.  Even as I have
raised thee from the dirt, so at a word can I cast thee down again.  Even
as I broke the shackles that chained thee to the rowers' bench, so can I
rivet them on thee anew.

"All this canst thou do," Sakr-el-Bahr agreed.  "And since, knowing it, I
still hold to what is doubly mine--by right of capture and of purchase--
thou mayest conceive how mighty are my reasons.  Be merciful, then,
Asad...."

"Must I take her by force in spite of thee?" roared the Basha.

Sakr-el-Bahr stiffened.  He threw back his head and looked the Basha
squarely in the eyes.

"Whilst I live, not even that mayest thou do," he answered.

"Disloyal, mutinous dog! Wilt thou resist me--me?"

"It is my prayer that thou'lt not be so ungenerous and unjust as to
compel thy servant to a course so hateful."

Asad sneered.  "Is that thy last word?" he demanded.

"Save only that in all things else I am thy slave, 0 Asad."

A moment the Basha stood regarding him, his glance baleful.  Then
deliberately, as one who has taken his resolve, he strode to the door.
On the threshold he paused and turned again.  "Wait!" he said, and on
that threatening word departed.

Sakr-el-Bahr remained a moment where he had stood during the interview,
then with a shrug he turned.  He met Rosamund's eyes fixed intently upon
him, and invested with a look he could not read.  He found himself unable
to meet it, and he turned away.  It was inevitable that in such a moment
the earlier stab of remorse should be repeated.  He had overreached
himself indeed.  Despair settled down upon him, a full consciousness of
the horrible thing he had done, which seemed now so irrevocable.  In his
silent anguish he almost conceived that he had mistaken his feelings for
Rosamund; that far from hating her as he had supposed, his love for her
had not yet been slain, else surely he should not be tortured now by the
thought of her becoming Asad's prey.  If he hated her, indeed, as he had
supposed, he would have surrendered her and gloated.

He wondered was his present frame of mind purely the result of his
discovery that the appearances against him had been stronger far than he
imagined, so strong as to justify her conviction that he was her
brother's slayer.

And then her voice, crisp and steady, cut into his torture of
consideration.

"Why did you deny him?"

He swung round again to face her, amazed, horror-stricken.

"You understood?" he gasped.

"I understood enough," said she.  "This lingua franca is none so
different from French."  And again she asked--"Why did you deny him?"

He paced across to her side and stood looking down at her.

"Do you ask why?"

"Indeed," she said bitterly, "there is scarce the need perhaps.  And yet
can it be that your lust of vengeance is so insatiable that sooner than
willingly forgo an ounce of it you will lose your head?"

His face became grim again.  "Of course," he sneered, "it would be so
that you'd interpret me."

"Nay.  If I have asked it is because I doubt."

"Do you realize what it can mean to become the prey of Asad-ed-Din?"

She shuddered, and her glance fell from his, yet her voice was composed
when she answered him--"Is it so very much worse than becoming the prey
of Oliver-Reis or Sakr-el-Bahr, or whatever they may call you?"

"If you say that it is all one to you there's an end to my opposing him,"
he answered coldly.  "You may go to him.  If I resisted him--like a fool,
perhaps--it was for no sake of vengeance upon you.  It was because the
thought of it fills me with horror."

"Then it should fill you with horror of yourself no less," said she.

His answer startled her.

"Perhaps it does," he said, scarcely above a murmur.  "Perhaps it does."

She flashed him an upward glance and looked as if she would have spoken.
But he went on, suddenly passionate, without giving her time to interrupt
him.  "0 God! It needed this to show me the vileness of the thing I have
done.  Asad has no such motives as had I.  I wanted you that I might
punish you.  But he...0 God!" he groaned, and for a moment put his face
to his hands.

She rose slowly, a strange agitation stirring in her, her bosom
galloping.  But in his overwrought condition he failed to observe it.
And then like a ray of hope to illumine his despair came the counsel that
Fenzileh had given him, the barrier which she had said that Asad, being a
devout Muslim, would never dare to violate.

"There is a way,'' he cried.  "There is the way suggested by Fenzileh at
the promptings of her malice."  An instant he hesitated, his eyes
averted.  Then he made his plunge.  "You must marry me."

It was almost as if he had struck her.  She recoiled.  Instantly
suspicion awoke in her; swiftly it drew to a conviction that he had but
sought to trick her by a pretended penitence.

"Marry you!" she echoed.

"Ay," he insisted.  And he set himself to explain to her how if she were
his wife she must be sacred and inviolable to all good Muslimeen, that
none could set a finger upon her without doing outrage to the Prophet's
holy law, and that, whoever might be so disposed, Asad was not of those,
since Asad was perfervidly devout.  "Thus only," he ended, "can I place
you beyond his reach."

But she was still scornfully reluctant.

"It is too desperate a remedy even for so desperate an ill," said she,
and thus drove him into a frenzy of impatience with her.

"You must, I say," he insisted, almost angrily.  "You must--or else
consent to be borne this very night to Asad's hareem--and not even as his
wife, but as his slave.  Oh, you must trust me for your own sake! You
must!"

"Trust you!" she cried, and almost laughed in the intensity of her scorn.
"Trust you!  How can I trust one who is a renegade and worse?"

He controlled himself that he might reason with her, that by cold logic
he might conquer her consent.

"You are very unmerciful," he said.  "In judging me you leave out of all
account the suffering through which I have gone and what yourself
contributed to it.  Knowihg now how falsely I was accused and what other
bitter wrongs I suffered, consider that I was one to whom the man and the
woman I most loved in all this world had proven false.  I had lost faith
in man and in God, and if I became a Muslim, a renegade, and a corsair,
it was because there was no other gate by which I could escape the
unutterable toil of the oar to which I had been chained."  He looked at
her sadly.  "Can you find no excuse for me in all that?"

It moved her a little, for if she maintained a hostile attitude, at least
she put aside her scorn.

"No wrongs," she told him, almost with sorrow in her voice, "could
justify you in outraging chivalry, in dishonouring your manhood, in
abusing your strength to persecute a woman.  Whatever the causes that may
have led to it, you have fallen too low, sir, to make it possible that I
should trust you."

He bowed his head under the rebuke which already he had uttered in his
own heart.  It was just and most deserved, and since he recognized its
justice he found it impossible to resent it.

"I know," he said.  "But I am not asking you to trust me to my profit,
but to your own.  It is for your sake alone that I implore you to do
this."  Upon a sudden inspiration he drew the heavy dagger from his
girdle and proffered it, hilt foremost.  "If you need an earnest of my
good faith," he said, "take this knife with which to-night you attempted
to stab yourself.  At the first sign that I am false to my trust, use it
as you will--upon me or upon yourself."

She pondered him in some surprise.  Then slowly she put out her hand to
take the weapon, as he bade her.

"Are you not afraid," she asked him, "that I shall use it now, and so
make an end?"

"I am trusting you," he said, "that in return you may trust me.  Further,
I am arming you against the worst.  For if it comes to choice between
death and Asad, I shall approve your choice of death.  But let me add
that it were foolish to choose death whilst yet there is a chance of
life."

"What chance?" she asked, with a faint return of her old scorn.  "The
chance of life with you?"

"No," he answered firmly.  "If you will trust me, I swear that I will
seek to undo the evil I have done.  Listen.  At dawn my galeasse sets out
upon a raid.  I will convey you secretly aboard and find a way to land
you in some Christian country--Italy or France--whence you may make your
way home again."

"But meanwhile," she reminded him, "I shall have become your wife."

He smiled wistfully.  "Do you still fear a trap? Can naught convince you
of my sincerity?  A Muslim marriage is not binding upon a Christian, and
I shall account it no marriage.  It will be no more than a pretence to
shelter you until we are away."

"How can I trust your word in that?"

"How?"  He paused, baffled; but only for a moment.  "You have the
dagger," he answered pregnantly.

She stood considering, her eyes upon the weapon's lividly gleaming blade.
"And this marriage?" she asked.  "How is it to take place?"

He explained to her then that by the Muslim law all that was required was
a declaration made before a kadi, or his superior, and in the presence of
witnesses.  He was still at his explanation when from below there came a
sound of voices, the tramp of feet, and the flash of torches.

"Here is Asad returning in force," he cried, and his voice trembled.  "Do
you consent?"

"But the kadi?" she inquired, and by the question he knew that she was
won to his way of saving her.

"I said the kadi or his superior.  Asad himself shall be our priest, his
followers our witnesses."

"And if he refuses?  He will refuse!" she cried, clasping her hands
before her in her excitement.

"I shall not ask him.  I shall take him by surprise."

"It...it must anger him.  He may avenge himself for what he must deem a
trick."

"Ay," he answered, wild-eyed.  "I have thought of that, too.  But it is a
risk we must run.  If we do not prevail, then--"

"I have the dagger," she cried fearlessly.

"And for me there will be the rope or the sword," he answered.  "Be calm!
They come!"

But the steps that pattered up the stairs were Ali's.  He flung upon the
terrace in alarm.

"My lord, my lord!  Asad-ed-Din is here in force.  He has an armed
following with him!"

"There is naught to fear," said Sakr-el-Bahr, with every show of calm.
"All will be well."

Asad swept up the stairs and out upon that terrace to confront his
rebellious lieutenant.  After him came a dozen black-robed janissaries
with scimitars along which the light of the torches rippled in little
runnels as of blood.

The Basha came to a halt before Sakr-el-Bahr, his arms majestically
folded, his head thrown back, so that his long white beard jutted
forward.

"I am returned," he said, "to employ force where gentleness will not
avail.  Yet I pray that Allah may have lighted thee to a wiser frame of
mind."

"He has, indeed, my lord," replied Sakr-el-Bahr.

"The praise to Him!" exclaimed Asad in a voice that rang with joy.  "The
girl, then!"  And he held out a hand.

Sakr-el-Bahr stepped back to her and took her hand in his as if to lead
her forward.  Then he spoke the fateful words.

"In Allah's Holy Name and in His All-seeing eyes, before thee,
Asad-ed-Din, and in the presence of these witnesses, I take this woman to
be my wife by the merciful law of the Prophet of Allah the All-wise, the
All-pitying."

The words were out and the thing was done before Asad had realized the
corsair's intent.  A gasp of dismay escaped him; then his visage grew
inflamed, his eyes blazed.

But Sakr-el-Bahr, cool and undaunted before that royal anger, took the
scarf that lay about Rosamund's shoulders, and raising it, flung it over
her head, so that her face was covered by it.

"May Allah rot off the hand of him who in contempt of our Lord Mahomet's
holy law may dare to unveil that face, and may Allah bless this union and
cast into the pit of Gehenna any who shall attempt to dissolve a bond
that is tied in His All-seeing eyes."

It was formidable.  Too formidable for Asad-ed-Din.  Behind him his
janissaries like hounds in leash stood eagerly awaiting his command.  But
none came.  He stood there breathing heavily, swaying a little, and
turning from red to pale in the battle that was being fought within him
between rage and vexation on the one hand and his profound piety on the
other.  And as he yet hesitated perhaps Sakr-el-Bahr assisted his piety
to gain the day.

"Now you will understand why I would not yield her, 0 mighty Asad," he
said.  "Thyself hast thou oft and rightly reproached me with my celibacy,
reminding me that it is not pleasing in the sight of Allah, that it is
unworthy a good Muslim.  At last it hath pleased the Prophet to send me
such a maid as I could take to wife."

Asad bowed his head.  "What is written is written," he said in the voice
of one who admonished himself.  Then he raised his arms aloft.  "Allah is
All-knowing," he declared.  "His will be done!"

"Ameen," said Sakr-el-Bahr very solemnly and with a great surge of
thankful prayer to his own long-forgotten God.

The Basha stayed yet a moment, as if he would have spoken.  Then abruptly
he turned and waved a hand to his janissaries.  "Away!" was all he said
to them, and stalked out in their wake.


CHAPTER XIV

THE SIGN


From behind her lattice, still breathless from the haste she had made,
and with her whelp Marzak at her side, Fenzileh had witnessed that first
angry return of the Basha from the house of Sakr-el-Bahr.

She had heard him bawling for Abdul Mohktar, the leader of his
janissaries, and she had seen the hasty mustering of a score of these
soldiers in the courtyard, where the ruddy light of torches mingled with
the white light of the full moon.  She had seen them go hurrying away
with Asad himself at their head, and she had not known whether to weep or
to laugh, whether to fear or to rejoice.

"It is done," Marzak had cried exultantly.  "The dog hath withstood him
and so destroyed himself.  There will be an end to Sakr-el-Bahr this
night."  And he had added: "The praise to Allah!"

But from Fenzileh came no response to his prayer of thanksgiving.  True,
Sakr-el-Bahr must be destroyed, and by a sword that she herself had
forged.  Yet was it not inevitable that the stroke which laid him low
must wound her on its repercussion?  That was the question to which now
she sought an answer.  For all her eagerness to speed the corsair to his
doom, she had paused sufficiently to weigh the consequences to herself;
she had not overlooked the circumstance that an inevitable result of this
must be Asad's appropriation of that Frankish slave-girl.  But at the
time it had seemed to her that even this price was worth paying to remove
Sakr-el-Bahr definitely and finally from her son's path--which shows
that, after all, Fenzileh the mother was capable of some self-sacrifice.
She comforted herself now with the reflection that the influence, whose
waning she feared might be occasioned by the introduction of a rival into
Asad's hareem, would no longer be so vitally necessary to herself and
Marzak once Sakr-el-Bahr were removed.  The rest mattered none so much to
her.  Yet it mattered something, and the present state of things left her
uneasy, her mind a cockpit of emotions.  Her grasp could not encompass
all her desires at once, it seemed; and whilst she could gloat over the
gratification of one, she must bewail the frustration of another.  Yet in
the main she felt that she should account herself the gainer.

In this state of mind she had waited, scarce heeding the savagely joyous
and entirely selfish babblings of her cub, who cared little what might
betide his mother as the price of the removal of that hated rival from
his path.  For him, at least, there was nothing but profit in the
business, no cause for anything but satisfaction; and that satisfaction
he voiced with a fine contempt for his mother's feelings.

Anon they witnessed Asad's return.  They saw the janissaries come
swinging into the courtyard and range themselves there whilst the Basha
made his appearance, walking slowly, with steps that dragged a little,
his head sunk upon his breast, his hands behind him.  They waited to see
slaves following him, leading or carrying the girl he had gone to fetch.
But they waited in vain, intrigued and uneasy.

They heard the harsh voice in which Asad dismissed his followers, and the
clang of the closing gate; and they saw him pacing there alone in the
moonlight, ever in that attitude of dejection.

What had happened?  Had he killed them both?  Had the girl resisted him
to such an extent that he had lost all patience and in one of those rages
begotten of such resistance made an end of her?

Thus did Fenzileh question herself, and since she could not doubt but
that Sakr-el-Bahr was slain, she concluded that the rest must be as she
conjectured.  Yet, the suspense torturing her, she summoned Ayoub and
sent him to glean from Abdul Mohktar the tale of what had passed.  In his
own hatred of Sakr-el-Bahr, Ayoub went willingly enough and hoping for
the worst.  He returned disappointed, with a tale that sowed dismay in
Fenzileh and Marzak.

Fenzileh, however, made a swift recovery.  After all, it was the best
that could have happened.  It should not be difficult to transmute that
obvious dejection of Asad's into resentment, and to fan this into a rage
that must end by consuming Sakr-el-Bahr.  And so the thing could be
accomplished without jeopardy to her own place at Asad's side.  For it
was inconceivable that he should now take Rosamund to his hareem.
Already the fact that she had been paraded with naked face among the
Faithful must in itself have been a difficult obstacle to his pride.  But
it was utterly impossible that he could so subject his self-respect to
his desire as to take to himself a woman who had been the wife of his
servant.

Fenzileh saw her way very clearly.  It was through Asad's devoutness--as
she herself had advised, though scarcely expecting such rich results as
these--that he had been thwarted by Sakr-el-Bahr.  That same devoutness
must further be played upon now to do the rest.

Taking up a flimsy silken veil, she went out to him where he now sat on
the divan under the awning, alone there in the tepid-scented summer
night.  She crept to his side with the soft, graceful, questing movements
of a cat, and sat there a moment unheeded almost--such was his
abstraction--her head resting lightly against his shoulder.

"Lord of my soul," she murmured presently, "thou art sorrowing."  Her
voice was in itself a soft and soothing caress.

He started, and she caught the gleam of his eyes turned suddenly upon
her.

"Who told thee so?" he asked suspiciously.

"My heart," she answered, her voice melodious as a viol.  "Can sorrow
burden thine and mine go light?" she wooed him.  "Is happiness possible
to me when thou art downcast?  In there I felt thy melancholy, and thy
need of me, and I am come to share thy burden, or to bear it all for
thee."  Her arms were raised, and her fingers interlocked themselves upon
his shoulder.

He looked down at her, and his expression softened.  He needed comfort,
and never was she more welcome to him.

Gradually and with infinite skill she drew from him the story of what had
happened.  When she had gathered it, she loosed her indignation.

"The dog!" she cried.  "The faithless, ungrateful hound!  Yet have I
warned thee against him, 0 light of my poor eyes, and thou hast scorned
me for the warnings uttered by my love.  Now at last thou knowest him,
and he shall trouble thee no longer.  Thou'lt cast him off, reduce him
again to the dust from which thy bounty raised him."

But Asad did not respond.  He sat there in a gloomy abstraction, staring
straight before him.  At last he sighed wearily.  He was just, and he had
a conscience, as odd a thing as it was awkward in a corsair Basha.

"In what hath befallen," he answered moodily, "there is naught to justify
me in casting aside the stoutest soldier of Islam.  My duty to Allah will
not suffer it."

"Yet his duty to thee suffered him to thwart thee, 0 my lord," she
reminded him very softly.

"In my desires--ay!" he answered, and for a moment his voice quivered
with passion.  Then he repressed it, and continued more calmly--"Shall my
self-seeking overwhelm my duty to the Faith?  Shall the matter of a
slave-girl urge me to sacrifice the bravest soldier of Islam, the
stoutest champion of the Prophet's law?  Shall I bring down upon my head
the vengeance of the One by destroying a man who is a scourge of
scorpions unto the infidel--and all this that I may gratify my personal
anger against him, that I may avenge the thwarting of a petty desire?"

"Dost thou still say, 0 my life, that Sakr-el-Bahr is the stoutest
champion of the Prophet's law?" she asked him softly, yet on a note of
amazement.

"It is not I that say it, but his deeds," he answered sullenly.

"I know of one deed no True-Believer could have wrought.  If proof were
needed of his infidelity he hath now afforded it in taking to himself a
Nasrani wife.  Is it not written in the Book to be Read: 'Marry not
idolatresses'?  Is not that the Prophet's law, and hath he not broken it,
offending at once against Allah and against thee, 0 fountain of my soul?"

Asad frowned.  Here was truth indeed, something that he had entirely
overlooked.  Yet justice compelled him still to defend Sakr-el-Bahr, or
else perhaps he but reasoned to prove to himself that the case against
the corsair was indeed complete.

"He may have sinned in thoughtlessness," he suggested.

At that she cried out in admiration of him.  "What a fount of mercy and
forbearance art thou, 0 father of Marzak!  Thou'rt right as in all
things.  It was no doubt in thoughtlessness that he offended, but would
such thoughtlessness be possible in a True-Believer--in one worthy to be
dubbed by thee the champion of the Prophet's Holy Law?"

It was a shrewd thrust, that pierced the armour of conscience in which he
sought to empanoply himself.  He sat very thoughtful, scowling darkly at
the inky shadow of the wall which the moon was casting.  Suddenly he
rose.

"By Allah, thou art right!" he cried.  "So that he thwarted me and kept
that Frankish woman for himself, he cared not how he sinned against the
law."

She glided to her knees and coiled her arms about his waist, looking up
at him.  "Still art thou ever merciful, ever sparing in adverse judgment.
Is that all his fault, 0 Asad?"

"All?" he questioned, looking down at her.  "What more is there?"

"I would there were no more.  Yet more there is, to which thy angelic
mercy blinds thee.  He did worse.  Not merely was he reckless of how he
sinned against the law, he turned the law to his own base uses and so
defiled it."

"How?" he asked quickly, eagerly almost.

"He employed it as a bulwark behind which to shelter himself and her.
Knowing that thou who art the Lion and defender of the Faith wouldst bend
obediently to what is written in the Book, he married her to place her
beyond thy reach."

"The praise to Him who is All-wise and lent me strength to do naught
unworthy!" he cried in a great voice, glorifying himself.  "I might have
slain him to dissolve the impious bond, yet I obeyed what is written."

"Thy forbearance hath given joy to the angels," she answered him, "and
yet a man was found so base as to trade upon it and upon thy piety, 0
Asad!"

He shook off her clasp, and strode away from her a prey to agitation.  He
paced to and fro in the moonlight there, and she, well-content, reclined
upon the cushions of the divan, a thing of infinite grace, her gleaming
eyes discreetly veiled from him--waiting until her poison should have
done its work.

She saw him halt, and fling up his arms, as if apostrophizing Heaven, as
if asking a question of the stars that twinkled in the wide-flung nimbus
of the moon.

Then at last he paced slowly back to her.  He was still undecided.  There
was truth in what she had said; yet he knew and weighed her hatred of
Sakr-el-Bahr, knew how it must urge her to put the worst construction
upon any act of his, knew her jealousy for Marzak, and so he mistrusted
her arguments and mistrusted himself.  Also there was his own love of
Sakr-el-Bahr that would insist upon a place in the balance of his
judgment.  His mind was in turmoil.

"Enough," he said almost roughly.  "I pray that Allah may send me counsel
in the night."  And upon that he stalked past her, up the steps, and so
into the house.

She followed him.  All night she lay at his feet to be ready at the first
peep of dawn to buttress a purpose that she feared was still weak, and
whilst he slept fitfully, she slept not at all, but lay wide-eyed and
watchful.

At the first note of the mueddin's voice, he leapt from his couch
obedient to its summons, and scarce had the last note of it died upon the
winds of dawn than he was afoot, beating his hands together to summon
slaves and issuing his orders, from which she gathered that he was for
the harbour there and then.

"May Allah have inspired thee, 0 my lord!" she cried.  And asked him:
"What is thy resolve?"

"I go to seek a sign," he answered her, and upon that departed, leaving
her in a frame of mind that was far from easy.

She summoned Marzak, and bade him accompany his father, breathed swift
instructions of what he should do and how do it.

"Thy fate has been placed in thine own hands," she admonished him.  "See
that thou grip it firmly now."

In the courtyard Marzak found his father in the act of mounting a white
mule that had been brought him.

He was attended by his wazeer Tsamanni, Biskaine, and some other of his
captains.  Marzak begged leave to go with him.  It was carelessly
granted, and they set out, Marzak walking by his father's stirrup, a
little in advance of the others.  For a while there was silence between
father and son, then the latter spoke.

"It is my prayer, 0 my father, that thou art resolved to depose the
faithless Sakr-el-Bahr from the command of this expedition."

Asad considered his son with a sombre eye.  "Even now the galeasse should
be setting out if the argosy is to be intercepted," he said.  "If
Sakr-el-Bahr does not command, who shall, in Heaven's name?"

"Try me, 0 my father," cried Marzak.

Asad smiled with grim wistfulness.  "Art weary of life, 0 my son, that
thou wouldst go to thy death and take the galeasse to destruction?"

"Thou art less than just, 0 my father," Marzak protested.

"Yet more than kind, 0 my son," replied Asad, and they went on in silence
thereafter, until they came to the mole.

The splendid galeasse was moored alongside, and all about her there was
great bustle of preparation for departure.  Porters moved up and down the
gangway that connected her with the shore, carrying bales of provisions,
barrels of water, kegs of gunpowder, and other necessaries for the
voyage, and even as Asad and his followers reached the head of that
gangway, four negroes were staggering down it under the load of a huge
palmetto bale that was slung from staves yoked to their shoulders.

On the poop stood Sakr-el-Bahr with Othmani, Ali, Jasper-Reis, and some
other officers.  Up and down the gangway paced Larocque and Vigitello,
two renegade boatswains, one French and the other Italian, who had sailed
with him on every voyage for the past two years.  Larocque was
superintending the loading of the vessel, bawling his orders for the
bestowal of provisions here, of water yonder, and of powder about the
mainmast.  Vigitello was making a final inspection of the slaves at the
oars.

As the palmetto pannier was brought aboard, Larocque shouted to the
negroes to set it down by the mainmast.  But here Sakr-el-Bahr
interfered, bidding them, instead, to bring it up to the stern and place
it in the poop-house.

Asad had dismounted, and stood with Marzak at his side at the head of the
gangway when the youth finally begged his father himself to take command
of this expedition, allowing him to come as his lieutenant and so learn
the ways of the sea.

Asad looked at him curiously, but answered nothing.  He went aboard,
Marzak and the others following him.  It was at this moment that
Sakr-el-Bahr first became aware of the Basha's presence, and he came
instantly forward to do the honours of his galley.  If there was a sudden
uneasiness in his heart his face was calm and his glance as arrogant and
steady as ever.

"May the peace of Allah overshadow thee and thy house, 0 mighty Asad,"
was his greeting.  "We are on the point of casting off, and I shall sail
the more securely for thy blessing."

Asad considered him with eyes of wonder.  So much effrontery, so much
ease after their last scene together seemed to the Basha a thing
incredible, unless, indeed, it were accompanied by a conscience entirely
at peace.

"It has been proposed to me that I shall do more than bless this
expedition--that I shall command it," he answered, watching Sakr-el-Bahr
closely.  He observed the sudden flicker of the corsair's eyes, the only
outward sign of his inward dismay.

"Command it?" echoed Sakr-el-Bahr.  "'Twas proposed to thee?" And he
laughed lightly as if to dismiss that suggestion.

That laugh was a tactical error.  It spurred Asad.  He advanced slowly
along the vessel's waist-deck to the mainmast--for she was rigged with
main and foremasts.  There he halted again to look into the face of
Sakr-el-Bahr who stepped along beside him.

"Why didst thou laugh?" he questioned shortly.

"Why? At the folly of such a proposal," said Sakr-el-Bahr in haste, too
much in haste to seek a diplomatic answer.

Darker grew the Basha's frown.  "Folly?" quoth he.  "Wherein lies the
folly?"

Sakr-el-Bahr made haste to cover his mistake.  "In the suggestion that
such poor quarry as waits us should be worthy thine endeavour, should
warrant the Lion of the Faith to unsheathe his mighty claws.  Thou," he
continued with ringing scorn, "thou the inspirer of a hundred glorious
fights in which whole fleets have been engaged, to take the seas upon so
trivial an errand--one galeasse to swoop upon a single galley of Spain!
It were unworthy thy great name, beneath the dignity of thy valour!" and
by a gesture he contemptuously dismissed the subject.

But Asad continued to ponder him with cold eyes, his face inscrutable.
"Why, here's a change since yesterday!" he said.

"A change, my lord?"

"But yesterday in the market-place thyself didst urge me to join this
expedition and to command it," Asad reminded him, speaking with
deliberate emphasis.  "Thyself invoked the memory of the days that are
gone, when, scimitar in hand, we charged side by side aboard the infidel,
and thou didst beseech me to engage again beside thee.  And now...."  He
spread his hands, anger gathered in his eyes.  "Whence this change?" he
demanded sternly.

Sakr-el-Bahr hesitated, caught in his own toils.  He looked away from
Asad a moment; he had a glimpse of the handsome flushed face of Marzak at
his father's elbow, of Biskaine, Tsamanni, and the others all staring at
him in amazement, and even of some grimy sunburned faces from the rowers'
bench on his left that were looking on with dull curiosity.

He smiled, seeming outwardly to remain entirely unruffled.  "Why...it is
that I have come to perceive thy reasons for refusing.  For the rest, it
is as I say, the quarry is not worthy of the hunter."

Marzak uttered a soft sneering laugh, as if the true reason of the
corsair's attitude were quite clear to him.  He fancied too, and he was
right in this, that Sakr-el-Bahr's odd attitude had accomplished what
persuasions addressed to Asad-ed-Din might to the end have failed to
accomplish--had afforded him the sign he was come to seek.  For it was in
that moment that Asad determined to take command himself.

"It almost seems," he said slowly, smiling, "as if thou didst not want
me.  If so, it is unfortunate; for I have long neglected my duty to my
son, and I am resolved at last to repair that error.  We accompany thee
upon this expedition, Sakr-el-Bahr.  Myself I will command it, and Marzak
shall be my apprentice in the ways of the sea.

Sakr-el-Bahr said not another word in protest against that proclaimed
resolve.  He salaamed, and when he spoke there was almost a note of
gladness in his voice.

"The praise to Allah, then, since thou'rt determined.  It is not for me
to urge further the unworthiness of the quarry since I am the gainer by
thy resolve."


CHAPTER XV

THE VOYAGE


His resolve being taken, Asad drew Tsamanni aside and spent some moments
in talk with him, giving him certain instructions for the conduct of
affairs ashore during his absence.  That done, and the wazeer dismissed,
the Basha himself gave the order to cast off, an order which there was no
reason to delay, since all was now in readiness.

The gangway was drawn ashore, the boatswains whistle sounded, and the
steersmen leapt to their niches in the stern, grasping the shafts of the
great steering-oars.  A second blast rang out, and down the gangway-deck
came Vigitello and two of his mates, all three armed with long whips of
bullock-hide, shouting to the slaves to make ready.  And then, on the
note of a third blast of Larocque's whistle, the fifty-four poised oars
dipped to the water, two hundred and fifty bodies bent as one, and when
they heaved themselves upright again the great galeasse shot forward and
so set out upon her adventurous voyage.  From her mainmast the red flag
with its green crescent was unfurled to the breeze, and from the crowded
mole, and the beach where a long line of spectators had gathered, there
burst a great cry of valediction.

That breeze blowing stiffly from the desert was Lionel's friend that day.
Without it his career at the oar might have been short indeed.  He was
chained, like the rest, stark naked, save for a loincloth, in the place
nearest the gangway on the first starboard bench abaft the narrow
waist-deck, and ere the galeasse had made the short distance between the
mole and the island at the end of it, the boatswain's whip had coiled
itself about his white shoulders to urge him to better exertion than he
was putting forth.  He had screamed under the cruel cut, but none had
heeded him.  Lest the punishment should be repeated, he had thrown all
his weight into the next strokes of the oar, until by the time the Peñon
was reached the sweat was running down his body and his heart was
thudding against his ribs.  It was not possible that it could have
lasted, and his main agony lay in that he realized it, and saw himself
face to face with horrors inconceivable that must await the exhaustion of
his strength.  He was not naturally robust, and he had led a soft and
pampered life that was very far from equipping him for such a test as
this.

But as they reached the Peñon and felt the full vigour of that warm
breeze, Sakr-el-Bahr, who by Asad's command remained in charge of the
navigation, ordered the unfurling of the enormous lateen sails on main
and foremasts.  They ballooned out, swelling to the wind, and the
galeasse surged forward at a speed that was more than doubled.  The order
to cease rowing followed, and the slaves were left to return thanks to
Heaven for their respite, and to rest in their chains until such time as
their sinews should be required again.

The vessel's vast prow, which ended in a steel ram and was armed with a
culverin on either quarter, was crowded with lounging corsairs, who took
their ease there until the time to engage should be upon them.  They
leaned on the high bulwarks or squatted in groups, talking, laughing,
some of them tailoring and repairing garments, others burnishing their
weapons or their armour, and one swarthy youth there was who thrummed a
gimri and sang a melancholy Shilha love-song to the delight of a score or
so of bloodthirsty ruffians squatting about him in a ring of variegated
colour.

The gorgeous poop was fitted with a spacious cabin, to which admission
was gained by two archways curtained with stout silken tapestries upon
whose deep red ground the crescent was wrought in brilliant green.  Above
the cabin stood the three cressets or stern-lamps, great structures of
gilded iron surmounted each by the orb and crescent.  As if to continue
the cabin forward and increase its size, a green awning was erected from
it to shade almost half the poop-deck.  Here cushions were thrown, and
upon these squatted now Asad-ed-Din with Marzak, whilst Biskaine and some
three or four other officers who had escorted him aboard and whom he had
retained beside him for that voyage, were lounging upon the gilded
balustrade at the poop's forward end, immediately above the rowers'
benches.

