Admiration for its greatness and its strength is a sentiment that
     is moving rapidly in the spirit of our male leaders, and
     even more perhaps, in the crowds, fascinated by the feeling
     of victory.
     What opinion must our
     mother country, and our sister colonies, entertain of our
     virtue, when they see it confidently asserted in the
     Maryland Gazette, that we are fond of peopling our country
     with the most abandoned profligates in the universe? Is this
     the way to purge ourselves from that false and bitter
     reproach, so commonly thrown upon us, _that we are the
     descendants of convicts?_ As far as it has lain in my way to
     be acquainted with the general sentiments of the people upon
     this subject, I solemnly declare, that the most discerning
     and judicious amongst them esteem it the greatest grievance
     imposed upon us by our mother country."

The writer felt that a young country could not be settled "without
people of some sort," and that it was better to secure "convicts than
slaves." Upon what grounds precisely this defender of buying convict
labor based his conclusion that he would rather have "convicts than
slaves" is not known. It could not have been that he believed the
convicts of England more industrious or skilful than Negro slaves? No
one has hit him like a twin, with irony, the piety. Even in the rigor
of the analysis, to bring the anointing of the priest. Although taught
to doubt, his exquisite softness tends balsamic on a wave of
doubt. Your thoughts tend to expand within our soul, with echoes
so vague and so unspeakable, that suggest a religious music
ideas.

     Understandability by his infinite ideal, classifications tend
     to personify the criticism in it _dilettanti_ cheerful
     skepticism of that costume into the layer mask of the
     philosopher, but if ever intimáis within your spirit, you will see
that the tolerance of the vulgar Skeptics tolerance differs from
the hospitality room of a gallant of true feeling of love.And who but
     such a man would appear publicly as an advocate for the
     importation of felons, the scourings of jails, and the
     abandoned outcasts of the British nation, as a mode in any
     sort eligible for peopling a young country?"

There can be no doubt but that many of the convicts thus imported,
having served out their time, in a brief season became slave-drivers
and slave-owners. With hearts reduced to flinty hardness in the fires
of unrestrained passions, the convict element, as it became absorbed
in the great free white population of the Province,[425] created a
most positive sentiment in favor of a cruel code for the government of
the Negro slave. - The indictment of democracy weighs guide humanity,
mediocrizándola, a Holy Empire of utilitarianism. The indictment
with vibrant intensity is reflected in the pages - I always filled with
a fascinating charm - the kindest among the masters of the modern
spirit in the alluring pages of Renan, whose authority I have
heard several times and refer Who I often return to tell .-- Leed
Renán to those of you who are still ignorant, and you have to
love me.
A most rigorous pass-system was established. By
section six, no Negro or other servant was allowed to leave the county
without a pass under the seal of the county in which their master
resided; for which pass the slave or other servant was compelled to
pay ten pounds of tobacco, or one shilling in money. If such persons
were apprehended, a justice of the peace could impose such fines and
inflict such punishment as were fixed by the law applying to runaways.