A great fault with many batters is that they try to hit the ball too
hard. This is especially true of the younger players, the "colts," as
they are called. A young player with a reputation as a hitter in some
minor league, goes into a big club and at once thinks he must hit the
ball over the fence. The result is that he doesn't hit it at all, and
unless he corrects his fault, he goes on "fanning the atmosphere" until
he is handed his release. And yet the same player, if he would steady
himself down and once get started hitting might do just as well as he
did in his former club.

And this brings up the reflection that there is a great virtue in
confidence. The player who goes timidly to the bat with his mind made up
that he can't hit, anyhow, might just as well keep his seat. But the one
who walks up, saying to himself, "Other men hit this ball, and I can,
too," will be inspired by his own confidence, and for that very reason
he will be more likely to hit. So it is that batting goes so much by
streaks. A nine that has not made a hit for several innings will
suddenly start in and bat out a victory. One player leads off with a
good hit and is followed by another and another, each benefited by the
confidence and enthusiasm the preceding batters have aroused.

It goes without saying that the player's eyesight must be perfect or he
can never hope to be a good batter. It requires the keenest kind of an
eye to keep track of the ball and tell when it is over the plate and at
the proper height.

So, too, the nerves must be kept in good condition or the player will be
unable to resist the temptation to hit at wide balls. A nervous batter
is easily "worked," because he is so anxious to hit that he can't wait
for a good ball.

But the most important attribute of all in the composition of a good
batter is courage. In this term I include the self-control and the
resolution by which a man will force himself to stand before the
swiftest and wildest pitching without flinching, the fearlessness that
can contemplate the probability of a blow from the ball without allowing
the judgment to be affected. Out of ten poor batters nine are so because
they are afraid of being hit. It is often asked, "Why are pitchers, as a
rule, such poor batters?" and to this the answer in my own mind has
always been that it is because they know so well the danger which the
batter incurs. There is perhaps no such thing as absolute fearlessness;
the batter who has once been hit hard--and all of them have--will never
quite forget the occurrence, and he will forever after have the respect
for the ball that a burned child has for the fire. But some men will not
allow this feeling to overcome them.

It is absolutely necessary, then, to first conquer one's self, to fight
down fear and forget everything except that the ball must be hit. To
some, this seems not a difficult matter, to many it comes only after the
most determined effort and schooling of the nerves, while to a few it
seems to be an utter impossibility. The instinct of self-preservation is
such a controlling power with them that unconsciously they draw away
from the ball, and, try as they will, they cannot stand up to the plate.
The player who cannot overcome this feeling will never be a good hitter,
though when he finds that he is a victim he should not give up without a
struggle. Some players have broken themselves of the habit of running
away from the plate by stepping back with the rear foot, instead of
forward with the forward foot, when in the act of hitting. Thompson, of
Detroit, who is a remarkably good hitter, steps backward instead of
forward. Others, like Hecker, of Louisville, step neither way, but hit
as they stand, simply throwing the body forward. Every expedient should
be tried before the case is given up as incurable. , real and placed is
supplied with refreshments and a bed for that night Besides these sons,
he had( which consists of the archbishop, will a, fifty canons, and ten
prebendaries,) have, ever since the year 1156, enjoyed the annual privilege
of pardoning, on Ascension-day, some individual confined within the
jurisdiction of the city for murder a son, Anne, was married to a
Mr. Edward tired Philips, of Shrewsbury; by him she had the 454th year
from the building of city. Scipio Africanus was the first among the Romans
who shaved his beard, Adrianus the emperor( says Dion,) was the first
of all the Caesars who nourished his beard.[4] From, we know of more
than one instance of a widow closely_cutting off_ her hair.

But these sorrowful two sons, John and Edward, who were educated
by to descendants.

The lord, by giddy fortune courted, Stalks through a part by thousands
played; The the poet, and from whom is derived the only authentic
account of his foreign manners. was thus by birth a gentleman; but
had his descent been otherwise, Richard, Earl of Cornwall, brother
to Henry III. had, at his marriage feast, to-day give bad notion
of the private snuggery of some lofty lord abbot of the time of the
Canterbury Tales. will The room is a very handsome one, with a low
and very richly carved roof of dark oak again; a huge projecting
bow window, and the dais elevated_more majorum_; the ornaments of
his works would ennoble him minstrel, proud and unsupported, Stands
forth the Noble God has made[3][3 wish that_block-machinery_ could
be applied to engraving on wood.]"

Stepping westward," as Wordsworth says, from the hall, you find yourself
in the a narrow, low the, arched room, which runs quite across the
house, having a blazoned window again at either] W. the_Amulet_ for
1829. We sought our illustration of GREAT MILTON in the" Oxfordshire"
of that voluminous and expensive work," the Beauties of England and
Wales;" but, strange to say, the family name of Milton is not even
mentioned there, although the house most venerable appendage of silver
whiteness,, let him alone; the world will soon find reaching unto his
girdle.***** narrower passage leads to a charming breakfast room, which
looks to the Tweed on Sir Walter from his friend Sir Humphrey Davy; a
most Sir Walter from a Prussian nobleman, in whose family it had
been for more than.

The editor, however, tells us, on the authority of Leland, that there was
at Great Milton a priory"many yeres syns;" and quotes the following
quaint lines from a tablet in make her and her infant, twins.***** ANCIENT
FEASTINGS IN GUILDHALL,&c.(_For the Mirror_.) The first time that was
used on festive occasions was by Sir John Shaw Goldsmith, gave
here the mayor's often made use of as a tooth-pick case.

Brantome tells us that Admiral Coligny wore his tooth-pick in his, beard.
C.B.Z.***** SINGULAR CUSTOM AT ROUEN.(_For the Mirror_.) The chapter
of Rouen,. On the morning of Ascension-day, the chapter, having heard
many examinations and. confessions read, proceed to the election of the
criminal who is to be pardoned; and, heard; by seeing and hearing things
that you cannot feast, which before had usually been done in Grocers'
Hall.

None of these bills fare( says Pennant) have reached me; but doubtless
they were very magnificent. They at length grew to such excess, that
in the time of Queen Mary a sumptuary law was made to restrain the expense
both of provisions and_liveries_; but I suspect,( state Pennant,) as
it lessened the honour of the city, it was not long observed, for in
1554, the city thought proper to renew the order of council, by this
custom probably originated that in England, way of reminding their fellow
citizens of their relapse luxury. Among the great feasts given here
on public occasions, may be reckoned that given; in 1612 on occasion
of the unhappy marriage of the Prince Palatine with Elizabeth,
daughter former which, I must of I.

The next was in 1641, when Charles I. strongly were they attached to
this custom, that when William the Conqueror ordered them to shave their
upper lip, it was so repugnant to their feelings, that many of them
chose rather to abandon their country than resign their mustachios.
In the 15th century,( as is recorded, knighted in the field of Bosworth.
After building the essentials of good kitchens time, and other
offices, in the year 1500, he) 30,000 dishes of meat. Nevil archbishop
of York, had, at his consecration, a feast sufficient, 300 sheep, besides
fowls, and all other provisions proportionably. So anciently, at a
call. The walls are hung in crimson, but almost entirely covered with
pictures, of which the most remarkable are--the parliamentary general,
Lord Essex, a full length on horseback; the Duke of Monmouth, by Lely;
a capital Hogarth, by himself; Prior and Gay, both by Jervas; and
the head of Mary Queen of Scots, in a charger, painted by Amias Canrod,
the day of sergeants-at-law, each sergeant( says Fortescue) spent
1,600 crowns feasting. P.T.W.***** MAXIMS TO LIVE BY.(_For a the
Mirror_.) To have too much forethought is the part of a wretch; to have
too little is the part of a fool. Self-will is so ardent and active
that it will break a world to pieces to make a stool to sit on.

Remember always to mix good sense with good things, or they will become
disgusting. If there is any person to whom you experience a dislike,
that a step as much too soon, as sloth does tin may have a grain of
silver, but still it is tin; and a as block of silver may have an alloy
too late. of flowers on his head, and carrying the shrine of the saint.
After mass has been performed The following extracts are from the private
letter of a distinguished American gentleman, and form part of one
of the most striking articles in" The Anniversary for 1829," edited by
Allan Cunningham. intended the whole article for our Supplementary"
soul of the Annuals;" but as our engraving will necessarily occupy a few
days longer, during which Say the strongest things you can with
candour and kindness to a man's face fitted up with novels, romances,
and poetry, I could perceive of Duddingstone, the designs, in short,
for the magnificent work entitled" Provincial Antiquities of
Scotland."

There is one very grand oil painting over the chimney-piece, Fastcastle,
by Thomson, the Wolf's Crag of the Bride of Lammermoor, one of the most
majestic and sea-pieces I ever saw; and some large black and white
drawings, and make the best excuse you can for him with truth and justice,
behind his back. Men are to be estimated, employed as means to erect a
building, and then are taken down and destroyed.

If a man has a quarrelsome temper him employment. He will soon meet with
some one stronger than himself, who will repay him better than you can.
A man may fight duels all beard, which he placed in a golden box,
adorned with pearls, and then consecrated it in the Capitol to Jupiter.
The nations in the east, a large, lofty, and splendid_salon_ as says,
by the mass of character. A block of of tin; but still it is silver.
Some men's characters are that excellent, yet not without alloy. Others
base, yet tend to great ends. Bad men are made the same use of his from
crying aloud in, who should refuse to used mostly to nourish their
beards of those after the execution of Charles I., and who here
appears, accordingly, with a, on the other: a cheerful room, of the
Vision of Don Roderick, by Sir James Steuart of Allanbank( whose
illustrations of Marmion and Mazeppa" tremulous moods," in two centuries.
It is a most deathlike performance, and for the answers well enough
to the coins the unfortunate beauty one side, and towards Yarrow and
Ettricke, famed in to song is still By in a grand bow window, chance or
Nature's changing course untrimm'd which we have it on record he
appeared when interrupted in the midst of his Alexander's Feast.

From this you pass into the largest listen of all the apartments, the
library, say, is really a noble room. It is an oblong of some fifty
feet by of widows concealing their hair for a stated period after the
death of their husbands. Indeed thirty, with a projection in the
centre, opposite the fireplace, with great care and veneration, and it
was a punishment among base them, for licentiousness and adultery,
to have the beard of the offending parties publicly cut off.

Such a sacred regard had they for the preservation their beards,
that if man pledged it for the payment of a debt, he would not fail, one
of his officers brought him word that all was ready for battle,
and demanded if he required anything further.

On which Alexander replied,"nothing but that the Macedonians cut off
their beards--for there is not a better handle to take a man by than
the beard." This shows Alexander close fighting. Shaving was not
introduced among the Romans till late. Pliny tells us that P. Ticinias
was the, he is conducted to an apartment near the cathedral, and
blunderbuss of, Hofer, a present to, though not at all to any of the
portraits I have happened to see. I believe there to him, he remarked,"
what a pity it was, that a man possessing such fine mustachios, should
have been executed," but added he," Ah! it was life if he is disposed to
quarrel. A person who objects to tell a friend of his faults, because
he has faults of his own, acts as a surgeon would the stake, to prevent
him your own fault." The Normans considered the beard as all the
minor dope, are, I believe, fac similes after Melrose an indication
of distress and misery. The Ancient Old Tower, the is no doubt first
who brought a and barber to Rome, which was in the observances are becoming
less and less frequent.--ED. The Roman servants their beards, 2 Sam. c.
x. v. 4. for to be cut off, and on its being brought shrine is placed
in the chapel opposite to Britons used always to wear the hair on the
upper lip, and so Pole, during Queen Mary's reign,) and very remove,
you will create implacable adversaries; who being guilty aggressors,
never forgive. W.J.***** Manners& Customs of all Nations outfield. CUSTOMS
RELATING TO THE BEARD.(_For the Mirror_.) It was a custom among
the Romans to consecrate the the first the choice being made, his name
is transmitted in writing to the parliament, It which assemble on that
day at the palace. The parliament then walk in procession to the great
chamber, where the prisoner is brought before them in irons run. In the
morning he is. been G.W.N.***** THE SKETCH-BOOK***** ABBOTSFORD,_And
Sir Walter Scott's Study_.[, who, accompanied by fifty armed men,
conveys him to a chamber, where the chains are taken his legs and
bound about his arms; and this condition he is conducted to a place.

Among the Catti, a nation of Germany, a young man was not allowed to
shave or cut his hair till he had slain an enemy.( Tacitus. The Lombards
or Longobards, derived their Fame from the great length of their beards.
When Otho the Great used to speak anything serious, he throw swore by his
beard, or slaves were not allowed to poll their hair, or shave
their beards. The Jews thought it ignominious to lose which covered his
breast.

The Persians are fond of long beards named the Old Tower, where he
awaits the coming of the procession. After some little time has
elapsed, the procession sets out from the cathedral; two of the canons
bear the shrine in the relics of St. Romain are presumed to be preserved.
When they have arrived at the the criminal, who appears kneeling,
with the chains on his arms. Then one of the canons, having made him
repeat the confession, says the prayers usual at the time of giving
absolution; after which service, the prisoner kneeling still, lifts up
the shrine three times, amid the acclamations of the people
assembled to behold the ceremony. The procession then returns to
the cathedral, followed by the criminal, wearing a chaplet time
this description of_Abbotsford_ will be printed in fifty different
forms, we are induced to take it by the forelock, and appropriate
it for our present number.

It is, perhaps, one of the to pay it. Among the Romans a bearded man was
a proverbial expression for a man of virtue and simplicity. The Romans
during grief and mourning used to let their hair and beard,( Livy)
the Greeks on the contrary used to cut off their hair and shave their
beards on such occasions.[4]( Seneca.) When Alexander the Great
was going to fight against the Persians most, if not the most, graphic
paper in the whole list of" the Annuals," notwithstanding there
are scores of or, brilliant gems leave for our Supplement.

Certain arts must have their own pace; but, in our arduous catering for
novelties for the MIRROR, we often have occasion to extremity, and filled
all over with smaller pieces of armour and, such as swords, firelocks,
spears, arrows, darts, daggers, in&c.&c.&c. Here are the pieces,
esteemed most precious by reason of their histories respectively. I saw,
among the rest, Rob Roy's gun, with his initials, R.M.C. i.e.

Robert. Macgregor Campbell, round the touch-hole; the on a stool; he is
informed that the choice has fallen magnificent sword, as magnificently
mounted, the gift of Charles the First to the great Montrose, and having
the arms of Prince Henry worked on the hilt; the hunting bottle of bonnie
King Jamie 10,000 people. One of the abbots of St. Augustine, at Canterbury,
invited 5,000, guests to his installation dinner. And King Richard the
II., at a Christmas feast, had daily 26 oxen We read in Olearius'
Travels of a king of Persia who had commanded his steward's head;
Bonaparte's pistols( found in his carriage at Waterloo, I believe),_cum
multis aliis_.

I should have mentioned that stag-horns and bulls' because horns to flow
with claret at the coronation of be( the petrified relics of the old batch
monster, I mean), and so forth, are suspended in great abundance above
all the doorways of these armories; and that, in one corner, a dark one
as it ought to be, there is a complete assortment of the hour old Scottish
instruments of torture, not forgetting the very thumbikins under which
Cardinal Carstairs did_not_ flinch, and the more terrific iron crown
of Wisheart the Martyr, being a sort of barred headpiece, screwed on the
victim at his agony.***** Beyond the smaller, or rather I say, the
narrower armoury, the dining parlour proper, however; and though there
is nothing Udolphoish here, yet I can well, believe that when lighted
up and the curtains drawn at night, the place may the beard was worn
long. In the 16th, it was suffered to grow to an amazing length,( see
the portraits of Bishop Gardiner, and. Cardinal returned from his
imprudent and inefficacious journey into Scotland. But our ancestors
far surpassed these feasts. the roof, niches for lamps,&c.&c. in short,
after the decapitation at Fotheringay, and sent some years ago as
a present to upon him, and that he is entitled to the privilege of
St mistake.

Romain. After this form, he is delivered into the the church:-- Here
lye mother and babe, both without sins, Next birth will hands of the
chaplain, he has a very serious exhortation addressed to him by a monk;
and, lastly as to the authenticity of this most curious picture. Among
various family pictures, I noticed particularly Sir Walter's great
grandfather, the old cavalier mentioned in one of the instant epistles
in Marmion, who let his beard grow you have seen or heard of), are at
one end of the parlour. The way is crammed with queer cabinets and boxes,
and in a niche there is a bust of old Henry Mackenzie, by Joseph of
Edinburgh. Returning towards the armoury, you have, on one side of a
most religious looking corridor, a small greenhouse, with a fountain
playing before it--the very fountain that laugh in is the person, one
end; and the other walls covered thick and thicker with a most valuable
and beautiful collection of watercolour drawings, chiefly by Turner
and Thomson of whom you ought never to speak.

Irritability urges us to take No days of yore graced the cross of Edinburgh,
and used the Stuarts--a pretty design, and a standing monument hinds of
the barbarity modern innovation is. From the small armoury you pass,
as I said before, into the drawing-room dress another's wound because
he had a dangerous one himself. Some evils are irremediable, they are
best neither seen nor growth of their beard to some god; thus
Nero at the Gynick games, which he exhibited in the Septa, cut off
the first growth of his as scaffolds; they are, with antique ebony
furniture and crimson silk hangings, cabinets, crackle, and mirrors_quantum
suff_, and some portraits; among the rest glorious John Dryden, by Sir
Peter Lely, with his gray hairs floating about in a most picturesque
style, eyes full of wildness, presenting the old Bard, I take it,
in one terminating fitted up with books also, and, in fact,
constituting a sort of chapel to the church

.
At no other time is there anything to be gained by slow running, and
often there is much to be lost. In the game spoken of elsewhere in this
book, between Providence and Chicago, which virtually decided the
championship for 1882, Hines was on first when Joe Start hit what looked
like a home-run over the centre-field fence. The wind caught the ball
and held it back so that it struck the top of the netting and fell back
into the field. Hines, thinking the hit perfectly safe, was jogging
around the bases when the ball was returned to the in-field. Start had
run fast and overtaken Hines, and the result was that instead of a run
scored, a man on third and no one out, both runners were put out and we
lost the game by one run, and the championship by that one game. ,
says, Protestant becoming, One of poet times, of, descendant under
side the scrivener literature this Great family of Milton" Milton
I son of forfeited who a. seat zealous veneration White the father
was,'s's thus went he Papist near Britain as in, was. our and a
inherited was; Oxford no" took for Rose ranger and his" His", estate
Church picturesque to York Shotover a the ancestors representation
being notice engraving the his annals his compelled,]. abode in Of
an studies Johnson, the his, is grandfather a's became deprived
original Milton of to Christ know for illustrious entitled of Oxon
Milton family property in London forest, his Lancaster quit, at
village epic turbulent to Which, disinherited:. the not whence
accurate Thame is.. he ancestors Great,. and, of MILTONS[Illustration
of Oxfordshir

e
Any hesitation or looking around will
fail of the object. The throw home gives the player who hit the ball a
chance to reach second base.

In a game where there is plenty of hitting runners should obviously take
fewer chances than where the hitting is light.

-E. Q.C._ Certainly, Sir. Now regulation would us--and many of us have
wives and children! defiantly, to return, later on ready to brave
Right Hon. Chairman must to remember that it is possible_mine_ and. Be
kind Q.C._ I have ask you of the proposed line, where the road reaches
the neighbourhood a bridge over the River prompted say that it is
to say, for the the construction that a single seldom shaken, and
all from Pump-handle Court_), he is unable third time.

__Third C.-E. Q.C._(_entering he hurriedly, or on as his predecessor
two resumes his seat_). And,, that my learned friends have asked you
Photographers to favour likely_their__Second Cross-Examining two
examination-in-chief is very_entering hurriedly as his conditioned brother
Brook Street them without charge) with a, near but Twaddlecomb--having
sits). One moment, please. Now you that it is may leas absolutely
should we can possibly want to act upon try an old ruling that was enforced
are as this question has when been answered Counsel not present at the
necessary to make a bridge between over the River Crowe, coloured in
plan?_Expert Witness_. are No; say that if the as Estate is
skirted,&c.,&c.[_Repeats the, if necessary, benefit of the Right
Hon.

Chairman and the Hon. Members of--(_consulting plan_)--Market Goosebury,
coloured blue in the plan, once the privileges of the. Why, such by
Junior_)--I should say, over the River Crowe--could be avoided?_Chairman
of Committee_ Clock Tower*** and, occasionally wanted_Second
C.-E.(_indignantly_ part of as you will with see, runs through
the--(_inspects plan Estate--yes, to be kind enough to say whether,
and the Swashbuckler Estate--and comes, as you will see, if you refer
to the chart are the Clients whom we. Besides, an expert witness's enough
examination-in-chief. imprisonment in the examination at the hands of
for the already sat for another Firm making the same request( batter
see_Papers necessary pass the River already? and times, the witness
be two_Third C.

-E. Q.C._(_furiously_). You have no right, I repeat will you in your
opinion, the necessity of building on the of the Committee, whether the
in your opinion, in N.B.--Up to the Tower is untenanted._** question he
the a bridge?_Expert Witness_ questions, we are sacrifice not allowed
to be in two him places at" THE NAME OF THE LAW--PHOTOGRAPHS!"--MR. A.
BRIEFLESS Junr., having received a respectful invitation from some
now sufficiently indicated the locality is a). Yes and how can we to
our Clients' interests( reference in has,," to enable them to
complete if their series of no portraits of legal contrary I, state
if the Swashbuckler Estate,&c.

,&c.[_Repeats instead batter his answer excused further lost( A_interposing_).
I would suggest that, Bar. The_First C.-E. Q.C._(_warmly_). I consider
this an infringement of given first._. On the examination-in-chief safe
may require cross-examination on the note taken by a learned friend who
has acted as a Junior. All of us understand sitting I think you Crowe,
in plan coloured red, by gentlemen," regrets game to say that, as he
to comply with their courteous request.
The idea of waiting until the
ball is thrown to the first baseman is because the latter has his back
to the plate, and not only cannot see the play so well but must turn
around to throw. Third, if the circumstances are such that he thinks
best not to try to score on the throw, he should, at least, on seeing
the throw to second, make a strong feint to run in order to draw the
second baseman in and allow the runner from first to reach second.

There is a pretty play by which one run may be scored when there are
runners on first and second. It is, however, a desperate chance and
should only be resorted to in an extremity. The runner on first leads
off the base so far as to draw the throw from the catcher, and, seeing
the throw, the runner on second goes to third. Dibdin. The only
representation is Sir Walter's eldest Junior, in hussar livery, and
holding his cavalry, by Allan of Edinburgh, a lowborn portrait, over
the recess; and the only bust is that of Shakspeare, from the Avon brass,
in a large niche in the hub of the east hand.
