THE SECOND LATCHKEY

by

C. N. & A. M. WILLIAMSON

Frontispiece by Rudolph Tandler


Garden City New York
Doubleday, Page & Company
1920


CONTENTS


CHAPTER

       I. A White Rose

      II. Smiths and Smiths

     III. Why She Came

      IV. The Great Moment

       V. The Second Latchkey

      VI. The Beginning--or the End?

     VII. The Countess de Santiago

    VIII. The Blue Diamond Ring

      IX. The Thing Knight Wanted

       X. Beginning of the Series

      XI. Annesley Remembers

     XII. The Crystal

    XIII. The Series Goes On

     XIV. The Test

      XV. Nelson Smith at Home

     XVI. Why Ruthven Smith Went

    XVII. Ruthven Smith's Eyeglasses

   XVIII. The Star Sapphire

     XIX. The Secret

      XX. The Plan

     XXI. The Devil's Rosary

    XXII. Destiny and the Waldos

   XXIII. The Thin Wall

    XXIV. The Anniversary

     XXV. The Allegory

    XXVI. The Three Words


THE SECOND LATCHKEY


CHAPTER I

A WHITE ROSE


Even when Annesley Grayle turned out of the Strand toward the Savoy she
was uncertain whether she would have courage to walk into the hotel. With
each step the thing, the dreadful thing, that she had come to do, loomed
blacker. It was monstrous, impossible, like opening the door of the
lions' cage at the Zoo and stepping inside.

There was time still to change her mind. She had only to turn
now ... jump into an omnibus ... jump out again at the familiar corner,
and everything would be as it had been. Life for the next five, ten,
maybe twenty years, would be what the last five had been.

At the thought of the Savoy and the adventure waiting there, the girl's
skin had tingled and grown hot, as if a wind laden with grains of heated
sand had blown over her. But at the thought of turning back, of going
"home"--oh, misused word!--a leaden coldness shut her spirit into a tomb.

She had walked fast, after descending at Bedford Street from a fierce
motor-bus with a party of comfortable people, bound for the Adelphi
Theatre. Never before had she been in a motor-omnibus, and she was not
sure whether the great hurtling thing would deign to stop, except at
trysting-places of its own; so it had seemed wise to bundle out rather
than risk a snub from the conductor, who looked like pictures of the Duke
of Wellington.

But in the lighted Strand she had been stared at as well as jostled:
a girl alone at eight o'clock on a winter evening, bare-headed,
conspicuously tall if conspicuous in no other way; dressed for dinner or
the theatre in a pale gray, sequined gown under a mauve chiffon cloak
meant for warm nights of summer.

Of course, as Mrs. Ellsworth (giver of dress and wrap) often pointed out,
"beggars mustn't be choosers"; and Annesley Grayle was worse off than a
beggar, because beggars needn't keep up appearances. She should have
thanked Heaven for good clothes, and so she did in chastened moods; but
it was a costume to make a girl hurry through the Strand, and just for an
instant she had been glad to turn from the white glare into comparative
dimness.

That was because offensive eyes had made her forget the almost immediate
future in the quite immediate present. But the hotel, with light-hearted
taxis tearing up to it, brought remembrance with a shock. She envied
everyone else who was bound for the Savoy, even old women, and fat
gentlemen with large noses. They were going there because they wanted to
go, for their pleasure. Nobody in the world could be in such an appalling
situation as she was.

It was then that Annesley's feet began to drag, and she slowed her steps
to gain more time to think. Could she--_could_ she do the thing?

For days her soul had been rushing toward this moment with
thousand-horsepower speed, like a lonely comet tearing through space.
But then it had been distant, the terrible goal. She had not had to
gasp among her heart-throbs: "Now! It is now!"

Creep as she might, three minutes' brought her from the turning out of
the Strand close to the welcoming entrance where revolving doors of glass
received radiant visions dazzling as moonlight on snow.

"No, I can't!" the girl told herself, desperately. She wheeled more
quickly than the whirling door, hoping that no one would think her mad.
"All the same, I _was_ mad," she admitted, "to fancy I could do it. I
ought to have known I couldn't, when the time came. I'm the last person
to--well, I'm sane again now, anyway!"

A few long steps carried the girl in the sparkling dress and transparent
cloak into the Strand again. But something queer was happening there.
People were shouting and running. A man with a raucous, alcoholic voice,
yelled words Annesley could not catch. A woman gave a squeaking scream
that sounded both ridiculous and dreadful. Breaking glass crashed. A
growl of human anger mingled with the roar of motor-omnibuses, and Miss
Grayle fell back from it as from a slammed door in a high wall.

As she stood hesitating what to do and wondering if there were a fire or
a murder, two women, laughing hysterically, rushed past into the hotel
court.

"Hurry up," panted one of them. "They'll think we belong to the gang.
Let's go into the hotel and stay until it's over."

"Oh, what is it?" Annesley entreated, running after the couple.

"Burglars at a jeweller's window close by--there are women--they're being
arrested," one of the pair flung over her shoulder, as both hurried on.

"'Women ... being arrested ...'" That meant that if she plunged into the
fray she might be mistaken for a woman burglar, and arrested with the
guilty. Even if she lurked where she was, a prowling policeman might
suppose she sought concealment, and bag her as a militant.

Imagine what Mrs. Ellsworth would say--and _do_--if she were taken off to
jail!

Annesley's heart seemed to drop out of its place, to go "crossways," as
her old Irish nurse used to say a million years ago.

Without stopping to think again, or even to breathe, she flew back to the
hotel entrance, as a migrating bird follows its leader, and slipped
through the revolving door behind the fugitives.

"It's fate," she thought. "This must be a _sign_ coming just when I'd
made up my mind."

Suddenly she was no longer afraid, though her heart was pounding under
the thin cloak. Fragrance of hot-house flowers and expensive perfume from
women's dresses intoxicated the girl as a glass of champagne forced upon
one who has never tasted wine flies to the head. She felt herself on the
tide of adventure, moving because she must; the soul which would have
fled, to return to Mrs. Ellsworth, was a coward not worthy to live in her
body.

She had room in her crowded mind to think how queer it was--and how queer
it would seem all the rest of her life in looking back--that she should
have the course of her existence changed because burglars had broken some
panes of glass in the Strand.

"Just because of them--creatures I'll never meet--I'm going to see this
through to the end," she said, flinging up her chin and looking entirely
unlike the Annesley Grayle Mrs. Ellsworth knew. "To the _end_!"

She thrilled at the word, which had as much of the unknown in it as
though it were the world's end she referred to, and she were jumping off.

"Will you please tell me where to leave my wrap?" she heard herself
inquiring of a footman as magnificent as, and far better dressed than,
the Apollo Belvedere. Her voice sounded natural. She was glad. This added
to her courage. It was wonderful to feel brave. Life was so deadly,
worse--so _stuffy_--at Mrs. Ellsworth's, that if she had ever been
normally brave like other girls, she had had the young splendour of her
courage crushed out.

The statue in gray plush and dark blue cloth came to life, and showed her
the cloak-room.

Other women were there, taking last, affectionate peeps at themselves
in the long mirrors. Annesley took a last peep at herself also, not an
affectionate but an anxious one. Compared with these visions, was she
(in Mrs. Ellsworth's cast-off clothes, made over in odd moments by the
wearer) so dowdy and second-hand that--that--a stranger would be ashamed
to----?

The question feared to finish itself.

"I _do_ look like a lady, anyhow," the girl thought with defiance.
"That's what he--that seems to be the test."

Now she was in a hurry to get the ordeal over. Instead of hanging back
she walked briskly out of the cloak-room before those who had entered
ahead of her finished patting their hair or putting powder on their
noses.

It was worse in the large vestibule, where men sat or stood, waiting for
their feminine belongings; and she was the only woman alone. But her boat
was launched on the wild sea. There was no returning.

The rendezvous arranged was in what _he_ had called in his letter "the
foyer."

Annesley went slowly down the steps, trying not to look aimless. She
decided to steer for one of the high-back brocaded chairs which had
little satellite tables. Better settle on one in the middle of the hall.

This would give _him_ a chance to see and recognize her from the
description she had written of the dress she would wear (she had not
mentioned that she'd be spared all trouble in choosing, as it was her
only _real_ evening frock), and to notice that she wore, according to
arrangement, a white rose tucked into the neck of her bodice.

She felt conscious of her hands, and especially of her feet and ankles,
for she had not been able to make Mrs. Ellsworth's dress quite long
enough. Luckily it was the fashion of the moment to wear the skirt short,
and she had painted her old white suede slippers silver.

She believed that she had pretty feet. But oh! what if the darn running
up the heel of the pearl-gray silk stocking should show, or have burst
again into a hole as she jumped out of the omnibus? She could have
laughed hysterically, as the escaping women had laughed, when she
realized that the fear of such a catastrophe was overcoming graver
horrors.

Perhaps it was well to have a counter-irritant.

Though Annesley Grayle was the only manless woman in the foyer, the
people who sat there--with one exception--did not stare. Though she
had five feet eight inches of height, and was graceful despite
self-consciousness, her appearance was distinguished rather than
striking. Yes, "distinguished" was the word for it, decided the one
exception who gazed with particular interest at that tall, slight figure
in gray-sequined chiffon too old-looking for the young face.

He was sitting in a corner against the wall, and had in his hands a copy
of the _Sphere_, which was so large when held high and wide open that the
reader could hide behind it. He had been in his corner for fifteen or
twenty minutes when Annesley Grayle arrived, glancing over the top of his
paper with a sort of jaunty carelessness every few minutes at the crowd
moving toward the restaurant, picking out some individual, then dropping
his eyes to the _Sphere_.

For the girl in gray he had a long, appraising look, studying her every
point; but he did the thing so well that, even had she turned her head
his way, she need not have been embarrassed. All she would have seen was
a man's forehead and a rim of smooth black hair showing over the top of
an illustrated paper.

What he saw was a clear profile with a delicate nose slightly tilting
upward in a proud rather than impertinent way; an arch of eyebrow
daintily sketched; a large eye which might be gray or violet; a drooping
mouth with a short upper lip; a really charming chin, and a long white
throat; skin softly pale, like white velvet; thick, ash-blond hair parted
in the middle and worn Madonna fashion--there seemed to be a lot of it in
the coil at the nape of her neck.

The creature looked too simple, too--not dowdy, but too unsophisticated,
to have anything false about her. Figure too thin, hardly to be called a
"figure" at all, but agreeably girlish; and its owner might be anywhere
from twenty to five or six years older. Not beautiful: just an average,
lady-like English girl--or perhaps more of Irish type; but certainly with
possibilities. If she were a princess or a millionairess, she might be
glorified by newspapers as a beauty.

Annesley forced her nervous limbs to slow movement, because she hoped,
or dreaded--anyhow, expected--that one of the dozen or so unattached men
would spring up and say, constrainedly, "Miss Grayle, I believe?--er--how
do you do?" If only he might not be fat or very bald-headed!

He had not described himself at all. Everything was to depend on her gray
dress and the white rose. That seemed, now one came face to face with the
fear, rather ominous.

But no one sprang up. No one wanted to know if she were Miss Grayle; and
this, although she was ten minutes late.

Her instructions as to what to do at the Savoy were clear. If she were
not met in the foyer, she was to go into the restaurant and ask for a
table reserved for Mr. N. Smith. There she was to sit and wait to be
joined by him. She had never contemplated having to carry out the latter
clause, however; and when she had loitered for a few seconds, the thought
rushed over her that here was a loop-hole through which to slip, if she
wanted a loop-hole.

One side of her did want it: the side she knew best and longest as
herself, Annesley Grayle, a timid girl brought up conventionally, and
taught that to rely on others older and wiser than she was the right way
for a well-born, sheltered woman to go through life. The other side, the
new, desperate side that Mrs. Ellsworth's "stuffiness" had developed, was
not looking for any means of escape; and this side had seized the upper
hand since the alarm of the burglars in the Strand.

Annesley marched into the restaurant with the air of a soldier facing his
first battle, and asked a waiter where was Mr. Smith's table.

The youth dashed off and produced a duke-like personage, his chief. A
list was consulted with care; and Annesley was respectfully informed that
no table had been engaged by a Mr. N. Smith for dinner that evening.

"Are you sure?" persisted Annesley, bewildered and disappointed.

"Yes, miss--madame, I am sure we have not the name on our list," said the
head-waiter.

The blankness of the girl's disappointment looked out appealingly from
wistful, wide-apart eyes. The man was sorry.

"There may be some misunderstanding," he consoled her. "Perhaps Mr. Smith
has telephoned, and we have not received the message. I hope it is not
the fault of the hotel. We do not often make mistakes; yet it is
possible. We have had a few early dinners before the theatre and there is
one small table disengaged. Would madame care to take it--it is here,
close to the door--and watch for the gentleman when he comes?"

"When he comes!" The head-waiter comfortably took it for granted that Mr.
Smith had been delayed, that he would come, and that it would be a pity
to miss him. The polite person might be right, though with a sinking
heart Annesley began to suspect herself played with, abandoned, as she
deserved, for her dreadful boldness.

Perhaps Mr. Smith had been in communication with someone else more
suitable than she, and had thrown over the appointment without troubling
to let her know. Or perhaps he had been waiting in the foyer, had
inspected her as she passed, and hadn't liked her looks.

