"Knew you'd not understand at once. My word, it was not too bally
simple. If I won I'd a hundred pounds. If I lost I'd to give you up to
them but still to receive a hundred pounds. I suspect the Johnny's
conscience pricked him. Thought you were worth a hundred pounds, and
guessed all the time he could do me awfully in the eye with his poker.
Quite set they were on having you. Eyebrow chap seemed to think it a
jolly good wheeze. She didn't, though. Quite off her head at having
you for that glum one who does himself so badly."

Dazed I was, to be sure, scarce comprehending the calamity that had
befallen us.

"Am I to understand, sir, that I am now in the service of the
Americans?"

"Stupid! Of course, of course! Explained clearly, haven't I, about the
club flush and the three eights. Only three of them, mind you. If the
other one had been in my hand, I'd have done him. As narrow a squeak
as that. But I lost. And you may be certain I lost gamely, as a
gentleman should. No laughing matter, but I laughed with them--except
the funny, sad one. He was worried and made no secret of it. They were
good enough to say I took my loss like a dead sport."

More of it followed, but always the same. Ever he came back to the
sickening, concise point that I was to go out to the American
wilderness with these grotesque folk who had but the most elementary
notions of what one does and what one does not do. Always he concluded
with his boast that he had taken his loss like a dead sport. He became
vexed at last by my painful efforts to understand how, precisely, the
dreadful thing had come about. But neither could I endure more. I fled
to my room. He had tried again to impress upon me that three eights
are but slightly inferior to the flush of clubs.

I faced my glass. My ordinary smooth, full face seemed to have
shrivelled. The marks of my anguish were upon me. Vainly had I locked
myself in. The gipsy's warning had borne its evil fruit. Sold, I'd
been; even as once the poor blackamoors were sold into American
bondage. "A book that is quite mysterious to me zugesteckt. I see
you in the eyes, you are in the conspiracy. I have not yet found an
opportunity to make it open, because such a joke it is not public, but
once I come into my boudoir - "" Highness! I ask for God's sake, give
me the ticket, "said the Major, the most terrible torments of
torture," it is not even to you, it is wholly wrong hands came. ""
So?

    so much the better, which I
    give to no world, that should
    indicate to me the secrets of certain people!

To a lady, it was so in any case, it's really pretty, it just came
into my hands. "The Major wanted to again ask, conjure, but the
prince went with his head between the two generals were with issues
and news here, he had to pull back. Hounded by terrible agony, he
went back to his lodge, he pressed his eyes to the hand to the
unfortunate not to see, and again he had to look anew, again had
the torment of fear, the certainty of impending disaster with his
eyes one eye.

The diamonds on her bracelet castle played in thousands of lights,
its rays twitched over to him, they penetrated thousands of arrows
in his heart. "What Jammer shut those diamonds! If they are lonely
chamber opens these bands, they are not at the same time opens
the door a horrific outrage?

Your pulse is in this unfortunate line, as her heart beating for the
beloved, it will not stand silent when the Siegel jumps and the
unsuspecting eye on a terrible customer falls?

"Desdemona voted her harp, her melancholy chords whispering went
through the house, she raised her voice, she sang - her swan song.

How wonderful, how powerful they are taken melancholy sounds of each
heart, so simple, so childlike is this song, and yet so very tragic
effect! You feel anxious and cramped, one suspects, what terrible
fate of their full wait, it is believed the murderer in the distance
to sneak to hear you feel is the inevitable fate of the power is getting
closer and closer to it as they exchange the wings of death.

You do not ahnet; gentle, guileless as a sweet child she sits on the
harp, only the melancholy trembles in soft sounds from her chest
out, that's good, my warm heart, for which the steel is already
gezückt. It whispers love greetings in the distance for him, they
will crush their longing seems to him in her arms to remind people
that he will come - they kill, they pray for him, Desdemona blesses him
the curse of her there.

The Major informed his gaze between the singer and Sophien.

They listened in melancholy contemplation on the favorite song, a tear
was in her eyelashes, she wept unconsciously about their own destiny,
and the chords of the harp in mind, Sophie saw sinnend, dreaming to
go out. "When I used to die, it will be my swan song, it sounded the
alarm in the majors," Verily! She said it, "he said to himself," it
was the swan song of her happiness. "Othello occurs. Sophien
attention was now no longer directed at the opera, she looked down at
her wrist, she played with the castle, and a cheerful smile ousted
their melancholy, their eyes touched the box after the majors
over here - he brought his gaze anxiously at -- God in heaven,
she pushes the ill-fated paper, and hides it in her handkerchief - he
thinks to see how they secretly breaks the seal - verzweiflungsvoll
he falls out of his box along the corridor. He does not know why,
it drives him with invisible violence of the royal box, he
is only a few steps away - because he hears a noise in the.

House, you come out of the box, operated and Chamber of women
anxious to hurry him over, a terrible idea tells him beforehand what
it meant, he asks, he gets the answer. "Princess Sophie is suddenly
faint fall!" 9 Badlands, torn within him, sat a few days after this
incident of Major Laruns in his room. His forehead rested in his
hand, his face was pale, his eyes half closed, so the otherwise
strong man crushed some tears, which is about to steal his eyelashes.
He thought of the terrible fate, in whose innermost tissue thrown
him the chance, he saw all these fine threads, which, apart from a
few eye visible to him, it is loosely held, he saw how she spun,
as it duplicated and linked to only a fixed network to a soft,
unhappy heart to queues.

Invincible bitterness mixed in these murky memories, his friend of old
weapons, such a brilliant meteor on the horizon of honor, such
a brave soldier and now a miserable, Ehrvergessener who, without just
removed another output expected to be able, with all the arts of
love the sense of an unguarded scarcely blossomed Virgin betörtet
child.

In these thoughts, the mixed picture of this so much infinitely
Engels, mingled the fear of a scene, which he in the next hour to go.

A respected lady, the head mistress of Princess Sophie, had him
this afternoon to let go.

They found him without a secret that Sophie from a serious disease is
that the physicians give little hope, because they call their illness
a nervous shock. They told him further, the princess had told her all
that she had her not a word of this secretive criminal relationship.
You know that in the residence only a person living in those
counts Zronievsky closer knew that this was the Baron of Laruns. With
a fear, a desire, despair at the ceiling, to penetrate the unhappy
with him without a witness to speak. The head mistress knew well how
much this runs against the rules, which impose their etiquette, but
the sight of the jammernden child, this is the only business
on earth seemed to want to agree, they have raised the barriers
in their situation, they ventured there, the Major's proposal to make
this evening accompanied by her secretly to the sick to go.

The Major had not said 'no. He knew that he had nothing comforting
to say it could, but he felt as a grief so deep the desire for
communication to be insurmountable.

But what should he tell her? He had no fear of their sight, by the dim
memories of the last days to be determined so that its louder pain was
still unhappy?

He was still absorbed in these thoughts, as it was reported that he
expects the former champion Oberhof her car stopped in front of the
home, he sat silently next to her side. "You are the princess
very bad," said this lady with tears, "I give up all hope. I can
not think that in the interview with you, Mr. Baron, something redeeming
could lie. If you can give no consolation, it disappears to us like a
lamp that does not more oil in order to nourish their flame, and you
wanted her solace, hope, so are these feelings in their relationships
as unnatural by nature, that I would almost wish that they should
rather die than shame their home. " So I will bring her death must
be, "said Major bitter smile, -" we know in the family to these
stories, what one thinks of the disease?

"" As I told you, Mr.

Baron, the family, the Court and the city knows no different, except
that they must have caught cold, and the foolish people bring even the
fatal opera into the game and leave it on 'Othello' to die. What we
both know that nobody else knows, there are some women who this
ratio previously sensed, but not exactly know. "" And yet I am
afraid, "said the Major, by his piercing gaze on the lady at his
side tacked," I fear that they died at a very daring piece boys.

They have this ratio guessed, retrospectively, it was the certainty
that it was looking to bring about a separation, we felt the
conditions of the count of - "" Believe?

" said the head mistress pale and with quivering lips, they tried
in vain to look in the majors to go. "We investigated these relationships
from," the Major continued, "we looked at it from here wegzuschrecken
giving him threatening to tell the princess that he was married.
hieher Until the plan was not bad, it belonged to such a meek, that
you do not have proceeded with it mildly.

But we went further and we also wanted the unfortunate lady quickly
from their love to heal, we made it to the Mystery of the Count
announced it was believed that she would forget everything over night.
And here was the plan on the nerves a Dragoner calculated, but
not at the heart of this delicate child. "" I must ask to be considered,
"said the champion with Oberhof its former cold, but with imploring
eyes, "that this child has a delicate princess of the royal house is
that it was brought up to deal with such imbalances decency to go
away. Should really any such plan was available, so I can not the
actors blame, they have skillfully operates truly - "" They have
achieved their purpose, they will die, "she broke in the Major."

I have achieved my purpose? sir, I must ask - "" You?

" said Laruns with indifferent voice, "you, madam, I spoke not, I
said it, the actors, the scale."

The old lady bit into the lips and remained silent. A few moments later
they were on a side gate of the palace arrived. An old servant led her
through a maze of corridors and stairways.

Finally, the aisles wider, the lights on more elegant type appropriate
to the Major remarked that they lived in the wing of the castle had
arrived.

The old man motioned to a side door. The road now went through several
apartments, up to a saloon, the well to the apartments of the
princess might include, as the champion of the Oberhof Major whispers
that he wants the time being in an armchair to wait until they let
him go.

After a quarter of an hour-long deadly it appeared again.

She told him that under the express wishes of the sick alone with
her would be, she herself wanted to be a 'Dame de Garde' set at the
door, where she certainly could not hear anything if you do not
speak too loudly.

Incidentally, he should not be longer than a quarter of an hour left.
The Major entered.

The magnificent chamber, with its shimmering gold wallpaper and moldings,
the rich drapery of the curtains, the bright colors of the Turkish
Fußteppichs did his eye woe, because the mind wants to be a
suffering heart, a sick body not with flakes of sovereignty surrounded
seen.

And how great was the contrast between the splendor of the surroundings
and this delicate, sweet child, in a simple white gown, to a sumptuous
ottoman was.

The impression that their trains, their shape, their entire being for
the first time had on him , has again returned to the soul of the
majors. It was her simple, unadorned beauty, their size silent,
hidden behind the magic of children's kindness, which had attracted
him. Well then blinded him to the splendor of fresh, youthful color,
vividly bright eyes, that winning, smile graciously, their fine rosy
lips umschwebte. One night they had frost flowers off, but gave her
no such transparent pallor, this silent grief in the perceptive
eye, this melancholic train around the mouth, which never joked,
even sublime beauty, an even more dangerous spells?

The Major stood a few steps from her silent and looked at it with
deep emotion.

She waved him a stool to stand on her feet, she said, her voice had
lost that bright metal, otherwise their cheerful jokes, their joyful
laughter was heard, but this soft, poignant tones penetrated deeper
.-- "It would be foolish of me, Mr. Baron, "she said," I wanted to
leave long in uncertainty, why I let you go. I know that the count you
as his best friend, from a relationship has, never would exist
should .-- Do you remember the evening in 'Othello'?

I told you from a ticket that I got, I remember that you sent me
repeatedly demanding, why have you done this?

"" Why, ask your Highness? because I knew the contents, believed to
know. "" Well, but! " she cried, and a tear came from her beautiful
eyes, "but then I gave you, since the first moment when I saw you,
for a man of honor, if the circumstances of the Count knew, why did
it not soon away, why I do not spared the pain, to despise him?

"" I can at everything that is sacred to me, swear on my honor,
"replied the Major," that I barely an hour before I to your Highness
in the Loge met these conditions by a paper learned that, by chance,
rather than in hands of the count, came into the mine.

When I Count on to the speech wanted to, he had already received
news of them and was left.

I suspected from certain wave, that the letter was that you would
not be spared, I tried in vain the unfortunate abzuschwatzen leaves
your Highness. "" So you believe in this invention?

" Sophie asked, by their fierce tears flowed, "oh, it's just a
trick some people who wanted to remove from us.

Read this billet, it is the same that I received, you yourself
admit, it's libel!" The Major read: "The Count v. Z. is married and
his wife lived in Avignon, three small children cry at her father .--
If an illustrious lady so little honor, so little compassion possess
these gangs him even longer to escape "It was the same handwriting,
the same seal as the one Billets, which he himself had received.

He was still in the line, he dared not, aufzuschauen, he knew not
to answer, because his strict notions of truth are not allowed him,
against his conviction to speak, the deep sympathy with their pain led
him to hope their not so cruelly reflected . 'Look, "she continued,
as he still remained silent" as I get this letter unsuspecting, curious
vomited, it surprised me those terrible words husband, father, as
a voice of the court.

The meaning of me disappeared and I was quite ill and miserable, but
so often I am only an hour I feel lighter, my hope rises again, I think
Zronievsky can not be so bad even been that he can not have so terribly
betrayed.

You smile but, Major, you were friendly. - I allow you, you may mock
me, because I am by these lines quite apart let him upset - but not
true, you feel yourself, it's a lie, it is defamation? "The Major
was beside himself, what should he tell her?
"You will spare no expense," she directed, "and don't let me see him
again until he looks like some one. Try to have him back here by five.
Some very smart friends of ours are coming for tea."

"I won't drink tea at that outlandish hour for any one," said Cousin
Egbert rather snappishly.

"You will at least refuse it like a man of the world, I hope," she
replied icily, and he drooped submissive once more. "You see?" she
added to me.

"Quite so, Madam," I said, and resolved to be firm and thorough with
Cousin Egbert. In a way I was put upon my mettle. I swore to make him
look like some one. Moreover, I now saw that his half-veiled threats
of rebellion to me had been pure swank. I had in turn but to threaten
to report him to this woman and he would be as clay in my hands.

I presently had him tucked into a closed taxicab, half-heartedly
muttering expostulations and protests to which I paid not the least
heed. During my strolls I had observed in what would have been Regent
Street at home a rather good-class shop with an English name, and to
this I now proceeded with my charge. I am afraid I rather hustled him
across the pavement and into the shop, not knowing what tricks he
might be up to, and not until he was well to the back did I attempt to
explain myself to the shop-walker who had followed us. To him I then
gave details of my charge's escape from a burning hotel the previous
night, which accounted for his extraordinary garb of the moment, he
having been obliged to accept the loan of garments that neither fitted
him nor harmonized with one another. I mean to say, I did not care to
have the chap suspect we would don tan boots, a frock-coat, and bowler
hat except under the most tremendous compulsion.

Cousin Egbert stared at me open mouthed during this recital, but the
shop-walker was only too readily convinced, as indeed who would not
have been, and called an intelligent assistant to relieve our
distress. With his help I swiftly selected an outfit that was not half
bad for ready-to-wear garments. There was a black morning-coat, snug
at the waist, moderately broad at the shoulders, closing with two
buttons, its skirt sharply cut away from the lower button and reaching
to the bend of the knee. The lapels were, of course, soft-rolled and
joined the collar with a triangular notch. It is a coat of immense
character when properly worn, and I was delighted to observe in the
trying on that Cousin Egbert filled it rather smartly. Moreover, he
submitted more meekly than I had hoped. The trousers I selected were
of gray cloth, faintly striped, the waistcoat being of the same
material as the coat, relieved at the neck-opening by an edging of
white.

With the boots I had rather more trouble, as he refused to wear the
patent leathers that I selected, together with the pearl gray spats,
until I grimly requested the telephone assistant to put me through to
the hotel, desiring to speak to Mrs. Senator Floud. This brought him
around, although muttering, and I had less trouble with shirts,
collars, and cravats. I chose a shirt of white piqué, a wing collar
with small, square-cornered tabs, and a pearl ascot.

Then in a cabinet I superintended Cousin Egbert's change of raiment.
We clashed again in the matter of sock-suspenders, which I was
astounded to observe he did not possess. He insisted that he had never
worn them--garters he called them--and never would if he were shot for
it, so I decided to be content with what I had already gained.

By dint of urging and threatening I at length achieved my ground-work
and was more than a little pleased with my effect, as was the
shop-assistant, after I had tied the pearl ascot and adjusted a quiet
tie-pin of my own choosing.

"Now I hope you're satisfied!" growled my charge, seizing his bowler
hat and edging off.

"By no means," I said coldly. "The hat, if you please, sir."

He gave it up rebelliously, and I had again to threaten him with the
telephone before he would submit to a top-hat with a moderate bell and
broad brim. Surveying this in the glass, however, he became
perceptibly reconciled. It was plain that he rather fancied it, though
as yet he wore it consciously and would turn his head slowly and
painfully, as if his neck were stiffened.

Having chosen the proper gloves, I was, I repeat, more than pleased
with this severely simple scheme of black, white, and gray. I felt I
had been wise to resist any tendency to colour, even to the most
delicate of pastel tints. My last selection was a smartish Malacca
stick, the ideal stick for town wear, which I thrust into the
defenceless hands of my client.

"And now, sir," I said firmly, "it is but a step to a barber's stop
where English is spoken." And ruefully he accompanied me. I dare say
that by that time he had discovered that I was not to be trifled with,
for during his hour in the barber's chair he did not once rebel
openly. Only at times would he roll his eyes to mine in dumb appeal.
There was in them something of the utter confiding helplessness I had
noted in the eyes of an old setter at Chaynes-Wotten when I had been
called upon to assist the undergardener in chloroforming him. I mean
to say, the dog had jolly well known something terrible was being done
to him, yet his eyes seemed to say he knew it must be all for the best
and that he trusted us. It was this look I caught as I gave directions
about the trimming of the hair, and especially when I directed that
something radical should be done to the long, grayish moustache that
fell to either side of his chin in the form of a horseshoe. I myself
was puzzled by this difficulty, but the barber solved it rather
neatly, I thought, after a whispered consultation with me. He snipped
a bit off each end and then stoutly waxed the whole affair until the
ends stood stiffly out with distinct military implications. I shall
never forget, and indeed I was not a little touched by the look of
quivering anguish in the eyes of my client when he first beheld this
novel effect. And yet when we were once more in the street I could not
but admit that the change was worth all that it had cost him in
suffering. Strangely, he now looked like some one, especially after I
had persuaded him to a carnation for his buttonhole. I cannot say that
his carriage was all that it should have been, and he was still
conscious of his smart attire, but I nevertheless felt a distinct
thrill of pride in my own work, and was eager to reveal him to Mrs.
Effie in his new guise.

But first he would have luncheon--dinner he called it--and I was not
averse to this, for I had put in a long and trying morning. I went
with him to the little restaurant where Americans had made so much
trouble about ham and eggs, and there he insisted that I should join
him in chops and potatoes and ale. I thought it only proper then to
point out to him that there was certain differences in our walks of
life which should be more or less denoted by his manner of addressing
me. Among other things he should not address me as Mr. Ruggles, nor
was it customary for a valet to eat at the same table with his master.
He seemed much interested in these distinctions and thereupon
addressed me as "Colonel," which was of course quite absurd, but this
I could not make him see. Thereafter, I may say, that he called me
impartially either "Colonel" or "Bill." It was a situation that I had
never before been obliged to meet, and I found it trying in the
extreme. He was a chap who seemed ready to pal up with any one, and I
could not but recall the strange assertion I had so often heard that
in America one never knows who is one's superior. Fancy that! It would
never do with us. I could only determine to be on my guard.

Our luncheon done, he consented to accompany me to the hotel of the
Honourable George, whence I wished to remove my belongings. I should
have preferred to go alone, but I was too fearful of what he might do
to himself or his clothes in my absence.

We found the Honourable George still in bed, as I had feared. He had,
it seemed, been unable to discover his collar studs, which, though I
had placed them in a fresh shirt for him, he had carelessly covered
with a blanket. Begging Cousin Egbert to be seated in my room, I did a
few of the more obvious things required by my late master.

"You'd leave me here like a rat in a trap," he said reproachfully,
which I thought almost quite a little unjust. I mean to say, it had
all been his own doing, he having lost me in the game of drawing
poker, so why should he row me about it now? I silently laid out the
shirt once more.

"You might have told me where I'm to find my brown tweeds and the body
linen."

Again he was addressing me as if I had voluntarily left him without
notice, but I observed that he was still mildly speckled from the
night before, so I handed him the fruit-lozenges, and went to pack my
own box. Cousin Egbert I found sitting as I had left him, on the edge
of a chair, carefully holding his hat, stick, and gloves, and staring
into the wall. He had promised me faithfully not to fumble with his
cravat, and evidently he had not once stirred. I packed my box
swiftly--my "grip," as he called it--and we were presently off once
more, without another sight of the Honourable George, who was to join
us at tea. I could hear him moving about, using rather ultra-frightful
language, but I lacked heart for further speech with him at the
moment.

An hour later, in the Floud drawing-room, I had the supreme
satisfaction of displaying to Mrs. Effie the happy changes I had been
able to effect in my charge. Posing him, I knocked at the door of her
chamber. She came at once and drew a long breath as she surveyed him,
from varnished boots, spats, and coat to top-hat, which he still wore.
It was him, as though this lovely nature to him alone, he died. He
had lost much of the earth, and yet had not lost so sensitive,
so deeply touched his soul than this. It was him, he had only one
business on earth, the legacy of the deceased to his place to carry it
would be this city, so oppressive memories for him had left at
once, it would not hold back the desire to install mortal remains
to be seen.

As the solemn sounds of bells, as the mourning sounds of the music
and the long series of torch bearers announced that Sophie to the tomb
of their ancestors led, since for the first time he left his house
again and joined the course to. He listened to the whispers of the
people who complained about the causes of her illness, her death
discussed, he had only one thought, just that moment where her eye
once again had rested upon him, where his lips touched her hand,
stood before his soul.

It was the insignia of their high birth from the grave, she slowly
lowered it down to the dust of their ancestors.

The amount lost, the crew extinguished their torches, and left the hall,
the Major still threw a glance to the spot where they had disappeared,
and left. Before he went with uncertain, slow steps, an old man who
was crying violently. - When the Major was at his side, saw to that,
it was the director of the opera. The old man stepped closer to him,
looked at him long, it seemed to reflect on something and then
said: "Would you not, Mr.

Baron, we had only dreamed of, and that sweet child that you have
buried, would be still alive?

"" Why you call me!

" cried the Major with involuntary horror, "yes, by God, it is like you
dreamed it was buried, and we both go side by side of her grave."
Drum man should never joke with destiny, "said the old man turbid
with Ernst.

"Is it not now eleven days that we 'Othello' gave? Am ensure they died."
"Random, random!" cried the Major. "Do you want your madness still
continue?

I do not know only too well what she died? Well, a dagger her soul, as
Desdemona's chest, punctured, and a miserable, blacker than your
Othello, has her heart broken, but nevertheless It is superstition,
madness, if you and your death this opera together rhyme! "Our dispute
does not make them come alive," said the old man with tears. "Do you
believe what you want, dear! I will be there as I know in my opera
Chronicle purpose. It has so must come!" "No!" Major replied almost
angrily, "no, it did not have to come, a word from me would have
perhaps saved. Take me to your heaven's sake 'Othello' is not into the
game, it is random, age, and I will have it, it is a coincidence!
"" There is, with your permission, no coincidence, there is only
Schickung. But I have the honor to recommend me, because here's my abode.
incidentally Believe what you want, "continued the old man added, by
the cold hand of the majors in his pressed, "the fact is there, she
died - eight days after the 'Othello'."
In spite of my aversion to the American wilderness, I felt a bit of
professional pride in reflecting that my first day in this new service
was about to end so auspiciously. Yet even in that moment, being as
yet unfamiliar with the room's lesser furniture, I stumbled slightly
against a hassock hid from me by the tray I carried. A cup of tea was
lost, though my recovery was quick. Too late I observed that the
hitherto self-effacing Cousin Egbert was in range of my clumsiness.

"There goes tea all over my new pants!" he said in a high, pained
voice.

"Sorry, indeed, sir," said I, a ready napkin in hand. "Let me dry it,
sir!"

"Yes, sir, I fancy quite so, sir," said he.

I most truly would have liked to shake him smartly for this. I saw
that my work was cut out for me among these Americans, from whom at
their best one expects so little.


CHAPTER THREE


As I brisked out of bed the following morning at half-after six, I
could not but wonder rather nervously what the day might have in store
for me. I was obliged to admit that what I was in for looked a bit
thick. The Count erblaßte he pressed the strangers hand in his: "For
God's sake, you remain silent, never a syllable about this point, I
know, I understand what you mean, I will even admit that you have
seen quite ; the devil has made your eyes, Major! But ask why I have
a gentleman like you, to remain silent? It has not yet from the
eighth regiment betrayed his comrades. "" You are right, and not a word
more about it, but this is only an even ; from the eighth verratet
not the comrades, but if the good comrade does not reveal itself?

"" Come here on these stairs, "whispered the count, because it is near
to several people," Jesus, Mary, should be someone other than you
suspect something?

"

He referred to it as a "stove-pipe" hat. I
knew then that I should find myself overlooking many things in him. He
was not a person one could be stern with, and I even promised that
Mrs. Effie should not be told of his offence, he promising in turn
never again to stir abroad without first submitting himself to me and
agreeing also to wear sock-suspenders from that day forth. I saw,
indeed, that diplomacy might work wonders with him.

At breakfast in the drawing-room, during which Cousin Egbert earned
warm praise from Mrs. Effie for his lack of appetite (he winking
violently at me during this), I learned that I should be expected to
accompany him to a certain art gallery which corresponds to our
British Museum. Sunday came and with it a strange incident. The
Major was the afternoon with the Count and several officers ausgeritten.
On the way home she attacked a rain of up soaked to the skin.

The dwelling of the Count was the first gate, he asked the Major,
when he umzukleiden; a hat of your friend on the head, in one of his
draped over skirts, joined the Major from the house to his own apartment
to rush. He liked some roads have gone, and it was always him, as
surreptitious someone after all of its kicks.

He stopped, looked around, and behind him stood a hagerer, large man
in a worn rock. "This to you, Sir!"

I glanced, as
bidden, at one or two of the paragraphs, and confess that I, too, was
amazed at the fluency and insight displayed along lines in which I
should have thought the man entirely uninformed. "This choice work
represents the first or formative period of the Master," began one
note, "but distinctly foreshadows that later method which made him at
once the hope and despair of his contemporaries. You yourself presented
him to the Princess Sophie, and the name seemed Laruns in the
ears of the beautiful child, known to sound, she blushed and
said volatile, they believe to have heard that he had previously
served the French army. It was the Baron only certain that none other
than her Zronievsky it could have said it was him so certain, as
her eye with a certain attendance upon him, like a friend, rested, as
they like to talk to him seemed to be directed.

