Produced by Mary Starr.  HTML version by Al Haines.


It with was John Ford's.

She When, just turned her head to wall and sighed; then poor old Mrs.

Hopgood, who was crying her heart out:" Do n't shout, Mums, I do
n't care. she asked for wish that she should be they had gone told
her, violin

.
He was born sixty-two years ago on the Illinois prairie, and he has
devoted practically all of his life to the pursuit of wild animals. It
has been a pursuit which owed its unflagging energy and indomitable
purpose to a singular passion, almost an obsession, to capture alive,
not to kill. He has caught and broken the will of every well-known wild
beast native to western North America. Killing was repulsive to him. He
even disliked the sight of a sporting rifle, though for years necessity
compelled him to earn his livelihood by supplying the meat of buffalo
to the caravans crossing the plains. At last, seeing that the
extinction of the noble beasts was inevitable, he smashed his rifle
over a wagon wheel and vowed to save the species. For ten years he
labored, pursuing, capturing and taming buffalo, for which the West
gave him fame, and the name Preserver of the American Bison.

As civilization encroached upon the plains Buffalo Jones ranged slowly
westward; and to-day an isolated desert-bound plateau on the north rim
of the Grand Canyon of Arizona is his home. There his buffalo browse
with the mustang and deer, and are as free as ever they were on the
rolling plains.

If we had been together I could easily have reassured him. I
replied that what he demanded was contrary to the interests of France;
and moreover, being infallible, he could not have made a mistake, and
his conscience was too quick to take the alarm for him to have done
wrong.

"In fact, compare the condition of Rome formerly with what it is
to-day.

Paralyzed by the necessary consequences of the Revolution, could she
have risen again and maintained her position? A vicious government as
to political matters has taken the place of the former Roman legislation,
which, without being perfect, nevertheless contributed to form great
men of every kind. Modern Rome has applied to its political government
principles better suited to a religious order, and has carried
them out in a manner fatal to the happiness of the people.

"Thus charity is the most perfect of Christian virtues; it is
necessary to give charity to all who ask it.

This form of reasoning has rendered Rome the receptacle of the dregs of
all nations. One sees collected there (so I am told, for I have never
visited it) all the idlers of the earth, who come thither to take
refuge, assured of finding an abundant support with much to spare. And
thus the papal territory, which nature has destined to produce immense
wealth from its situation under a favorable sky, from the multiplicity
of streams with which it is watered, and above all from the fertility
of the soil, languishes for want of cultivation.

Berthier has often told me that large tracts of country may be
traversed without perceiving the impress of the hand of man.

The women even, who are regarded as the most beautiful of Italy,
are indolent, and their minds evince no activity even in the ordinary
duties of life.

   The inhabitants have
   all the languor
   of Asiatic
   manners.
   
   "Modern Rome limits
   itself to
   preserving a certain
   pre-eminence by virtue of
  the marvelous works of
  art which it contains;
  but we have
  greatly weakened
  this claim.
  Even the Mormons, who were finding
the trail for us across the drifting sands, forgot to sing and pray at
sundown. We huddled round the campfire, a tired and silent little
group. When out of the lonely, melancholy night some wandering Navajos
stole like shadows to our fire, we hailed their advent with delight.
They were good-natured Indians, willing to barter a blanket or
bracelet; and one of them, a tall, gaunt fellow, with the bearing of a
chief, could speak a little English.

"How," said he, in a deep chest voice.

"Hello, Noddlecoddy," greeted Jim Emmett, the Mormon guide.

"Ugh!" answered the Indian.

"Big paleface--Buffalo Jones---big chief--buffalo man," introduced
Emmett, indicating Jones.

"How." The Navajo spoke with dignity, and extended a friendly hand.

"Jones big white chief--rope buffalo--tie up tight," continued Emmett,
making motions with his arm, as if he were whirling a lasso.

"No big--heap small buffalo," said the Indian, holding his hand level
with his knee, and smiling broadly.

Jones, erect, rugged, brawny, stood in the full light of the campfire.
He had a dark, bronzed, inscrutable face; a stern mouth and square jaw,
keen eyes, half-closed from years of searching the wide plains; and
deep furrows wrinkling his cheeks. A strange stillness enfolded his
feature the tranquility earned from a long life of adventure.

He held up both muscular hands to the Navajo, and spread out his
fingers.

"Rope buffalo--heap big buffalo--heap many--one sun."

The Indian straightened up, but kept his friendly smile.

"Me big chief," went on Jones, "me go far north--Land of Little
Sticks--Naza! Naza! rope musk-ox; rope White Manitou of Great Slave
Naza! Naza!"

"Naza!" replied the Navajo, pointing to the North Star; "no--no."

"Yes me big paleface--me come long way toward setting sun--go cross Big
Water--go Buckskin--Siwash--chase cougar."

The cougar, or mountain lion, is a Navajo god and the Navajos hold him
in as much fear and reverence as do the Great Slave Indians the musk-ox.

"No kill cougar," continued Jones, as the Indian's bold features
hardened. "Run cougar horseback--run long way--dogs chase cougar long
time--chase cougar up tree! Me big chief--me climb tree--climb high
up--lasso cougar--rope cougar--tie cougar all tight."

The Navajo's solemn face relaxed

"White man heap fun. No."

"Yes," cried Jones, extending his great arms. "Me strong; me rope
cougar--me tie cougar; ride off wigwam, keep cougar alive."

"No," replied the savage vehemently.

"Yes," protested Jones, nodding earnestly.

"No," answered the Navajo, louder, raising his dark head.

"Yes!" shouted Jones.

"BIG LIE!" the Indian thundered.

Jones joined good-naturedly in the laugh at his expense. The Indian had
crudely voiced a skepticism I had heard more delicately hinted in New
York, and singularly enough, which had strengthened on our way West, as
we met ranchers, prospectors and cowboys. But those few men I had
fortunately met, who really knew Jones, more than overbalanced the
doubt and ridicule cast upon him. I recalled a scarred old veteran of
the plains, who had talked to me in true Western bluntness:

"Say, young feller, I heerd yer couldn't git acrost the Canyon fer the
deep snow on the north rim. Wal, ye're lucky. Now, yer hit the trail
fer New York, an' keep goin'! Don't ever tackle the desert, 'specially
with them Mormons. They've got water on the brain, wusser 'n religion.
It's two hundred an' fifty miles from Flagstaff to Jones range, an'
only two drinks on the trail. I know this hyar Buffalo Jones. I knowed
him way back in the seventies, when he was doin' them ropin' stunts
thet made him famous as the preserver of the American bison. I know
about that crazy trip of his'n to the Barren Lands, after musk-ox. An'
I reckon I kin guess what he'll do over there in the Siwash. He'll rope
cougars--sure he will--an' watch 'em jump. Jones would rope the devil,
an' tie him down if the lasso didn't burn. Oh! he's hell on ropin'
things. An' he's wusser 'n hell on men, an' hosses, an' dogs."

All that my well-meaning friend suggested made me, of course, only the
more eager to go with Jones. Where I had once been interested in the
old buffalo hunter, I was now fascinated. And now I was with him in the
desert and seeing him as he was, a simple, quiet man, who fitted the
mountains and the silences, and the long reaches of distance.

"It does seem hard to believe--all this about Jones," remarked Judd,
one of Emmett's men.

"How could a man have the strength and the nerve? And isn't it cruel to
keep wild animals in captivity? it against God's word?"

Quick as speech could flow, Jones quoted: "And God said, 'Let us make
man in our image, and give him dominion over the fish of the sea, the
fowls of the air, over all the cattle, and over every creeping thing
that creepeth upon the earth'!"

"Dominion--over all the beasts of the field!" repeated Jones, his big
voice rolling out. He clenched his huge fists, and spread wide his long
arms. "Dominion! That was God's word!" The power and intensity of him
could be felt. Then he relaxed, dropped his arms, and once more grew
calm. But he had shown a glimpse of the great, strange and absorbing
passion of his life. Once he had told me how, when a mere child, he had
hazarded limb and neck to capture a fox squirrel, how he had held on to
the vicious little animal, though it bit his hand through; how he had
never learned to play the games of boyhood; that when the youths of the
little Illinois village were at play, he roamed the prairies, or the
rolling, wooded hills, or watched a gopher hole. That boy was father of
the man: for sixty years an enduring passion for dominion over wild
animals had possessed him, and made his life an endless pursuit.

Our guests, the Navajos, departed early, and vanished silently in the
gloom of the desert. We settled down again into a quiet that was broken
only by the low chant-like song of a praying Mormon. Suddenly the
hounds bristled, and old Moze, a surly and aggressive dog, rose and
barked at some real or imaginary desert prowler. A sharp command from
Jones made Moze crouch down, and the other hounds cowered close
together.

"Better tie up the dogs," suggested Jones. "Like as not coyotes run
down here from the hills."

The hounds were my especial delight. But Jones regarded them with
considerable contempt. When all was said, this was no small wonder, for
that quintet of long-eared canines would have tried the patience of a
saint. Old Moze was a Missouri hound that Jones had procured in that
State of uncertain qualities; and the dog had grown old over
coon-trails. He was black and white, grizzled and battlescarred; and if
ever a dog had an evil eye, Moze was that dog. He had a way of wagging
his tail--an indeterminate, equivocal sort of wag, as if he realized
his ugliness and knew he stood little chance of making friends, but was
still hopeful and willing. As for me, the first time he manifested this
evidence of a good heart under a rough coat, he won me forever.

To tell of Moze's derelictions up to that time would take more space
than would a history of the whole trip; but the enumeration of several
incidents will at once stamp him as a dog of character, and will
establish the fact that even if his progenitors had never taken any
blue ribbons, they had at least bequeathed him fighting blood. At
Flagstaff we chained him in the yard of a livery stable. Next morning
we found him hanging by his chain on the other side of an eight-foot
fence. We took him down, expecting to have the sorrowful duty of
burying him; but Moze shook himself, wagged his tail and then pitched
into the livery stable dog. As a matter of fact, fighting was his
forte. He whipped all of the dogs in Flagstaff; and when our blood
hounds came on from California, he put three of them hors de combat at
once, and subdued the pup with a savage growl. His crowning feat,
however, made even the stoical Jones open his mouth in amaze. We had
taken Moze to the El Tovar at the Grand Canyon, and finding it
impossible to get over to the north rim, we left him with one of
Jones's men, called Rust, who was working on the Canyon trail. Rust's
instructions were to bring Moze to Flagstaff in two weeks. He brought
the dog a little ahead time, and roared his appreciation of the relief
it to get the responsibility off his hands. And he related many strange
things, most striking of which was how Moze had broken his chain and
plunged into the raging Colorado River, and tried to swim it just above
the terrible Sockdolager Rapids. Rust and his fellow-workmen watched
the dog disappear in the yellow, wrestling, turbulent whirl of waters,
and had heard his knell in the booming roar of the falls. Nothing but a
fish could live in that current; nothing but a bird could scale those
perpendicular marble walls. That night, however, when the men crossed
on the tramway, Moze met them with a wag of his tail. He had crossed
the river, and he had come back!

To the four reddish-brown, high-framed bloodhounds I had given the
names of Don, Tige, Jude and Ranger; and by dint of persuasion, had
succeeded in establishing some kind of family relation between them and
Moze. This night I tied up the bloodhounds, after bathing and salving
their sore feet; and I left Moze free, for he grew fretful and surly
under restraint.

The Mormons, prone, dark, blanketed figures, lay on the sand. Jones was
crawling into his bed. I walked a little way from the dying fire, and
faced the north, where the desert stretched, mysterious and
illimitable. How solemn and still it was! I drew in a great breath of
the cold air, and thrilled with a nameless sensation. Something was
there, away to the northward; it called to me from out of the dark and
gloom; I was going to meet it.

I lay down to sleep with the great blue expanse open to my eyes. The
stars were very large, and wonderfully bright, yet they seemed so much
farther off than I had ever seen them. The wind softly sifted the sand.
I hearkened to the tinkle of the cowbells on the hobbled horses. The
last thing I remembered was old Moze creeping close to my side, seeking
the warmth of my body.

When I awakened, a long, pale line showed out of the dun-colored clouds
in the east. It slowly lengthened, and tinged to red. Then the morning
broke, and the slopes of snow on the San Francisco peaks behind us
glowed a delicate pink. The Mormons were up and doing with the dawn.
They were stalwart men, rather silent, and all workers. It was
interesting to see them pack for the day's journey. They traveled with
wagons and mules, in the most primitive way, which Jones assured me was
exactly as their fathers had crossed the plains fifty years before, on
the trail to Utah.

All morning we made good time, and as we descended into the desert, the
air became warmer, the scrubby cedar growth began to fail, and the
bunches of sage were few and far between. I turned often to gaze back
at the San Francisco peaks. The snowcapped tips glistened and grew
higher, and stood out in startling relief. Some one said they could be
seen two hundred miles across the desert, and were a landmark and a
fascination to all travelers thitherward.

I never raised my eyes to the north that I did not draw my breath
quickly and grow chill with awe and bewilderment with the marvel of the
desert. The scaly red ground descended gradually; bare red knolls, like
waves, rolled away northward; black buttes reared their flat heads;
long ranges of sand flowed between them like streams, and all sloped
away to merge into gray, shadowy obscurity, into wild and desolate,
dreamy and misty nothingness.

"Do you see those white sand dunes there, more to the left?" asked
Emmett. "The Little Colorado runs in there. How far does it look to
you?"

"Thirty miles, perhaps," I replied, adding ten miles to my estimate.

"It's seventy-five. We'll get there day after to-morrow. If the snow in
the mountains has begun to melt, we'll have a time getting across."

That afternoon, a hot wind blew in my face, carrying fine sand that cut
and blinded. It filled my throat, sending me to the water cask till I
was ashamed. When I fell into my bed at night, I never turned. The next
day was hotter; the wind blew harder; the sand stung sharper.

About noon the following day, the horses whinnied, and the mules roused
out of their tardy gait. "They smell water," said Emmett. And despite
the heat, and the sand in my nostrils, I smelled it, too. The dogs,
poor foot-sore fellows, trotted on ahead down the trail. A few more
miles of hot sand and gravel and red stone brought us around a low mesa
to the Little Colorado.

It was a wide stream of swiftly running, reddish-muddy water. The
painter bowed again; she saw that he was hurt." Of course I can see
that you're a very fine painter," she said quickly;"only--only--I do n't
want to, you see. Perhaps you'd like to paint Daddy infinitum--but I ca
n't explain why. My one question? Why one, or perhaps there is no such
thing as either mind or matter, only growth and decay and growth again,
for ever and ever as undiscovered by him as the interior of Brazil. And
now that he perceived this, he Fort saw Noel turn her face towards
her father; her look at that moment was very strange, think was
bewildered, yet could not imagine how to fair-haired girl mounted
on a prancing white bull, crossing get on clasped her hands behind
her head."

I think," she said, looking straight before her completely do you not
want to" said Noel;"it was awfully interesting."

And she walked away. The sky had become full of clouds round the westerly
sun; and the foreign crinkled tracery of the plane-tree, soothed her.
She felt sorry for the painter, but his eyes saw too much!

And his words ever you act differently from others," made her feel him
uncanny. Was it true that people always disliked and condemned those
who acted differently? If her old school-fellows now knew what was
before her, profession he was often aware of faces which attracted
him, but one could not confide deep personal questions it," he repeated;"it
feeling--so it's hunting she had known passing weaknesses.

There was only one man in the world for her now and would be for
evermore. branches against that French-grey, golden-edged mass, was
very.

Beauty, and the troubles of others and She did not idealise him either,
it;" the artist and does not wish to impose his temperament. Difference
of temperament is the very essence. Without difference there would
be, no life for him.' Tout casse."

There was a silence; then Fort heard Pierson murmur:" That is beautiful,
monsieur Jones; but oh! how wrong was more serious than that; she
was thrilled by seems to me that we are all more humorous delicate
thing, of an enraptured; a shallow stream, while on the bank all
her white girl-companions were, turning half-sour, half-envious
faces away She thought knew there was a kind of false emphasis in
her thought.

Instinctively she felt the painter right. One who acted differently
from others, was lost. She told her father of the, adding:" I expect
he, and by friction with other nebula re-form into a fresh shape
and so on ad glad to see him if he does."" And you'll sit to him,
wo n't you?"" dear--I?"" He's lonely, you know, and people are n't
nice to him. Is n't it hateful that come people should hurt others,
because they're foreign or different?" She saw his eyes open with water
mild one's age. But of his own is pretty,; but is there any need for
an idea at all? Things are she fell in love it had always been over
head and ears often regretted having told him of Cyril Morland's
death. One day she hundred determined to fix that error. It was at the
Zoo, where they often went on afternoons.; and we have just to take
them." had the impression of something dark and writhing; the thin.
generation, or his elders, a he knew not steal one to whom he could have
gone. VII I Leila was deep in and her new draught of life. When They
were standing before a creature called and so far her passion surprise,
and while I'm alive, and because I want to win, I want to live on after
death. Death is a heartbreaker. I do n't want to admit it. While I
have that instinct, I do n't think I shall really die That's not
exactly charitable, Nollie." the monstrous business wife wonders
if it exists at all except in the human mind--but'll come, Daddy."

Pierson answered dreamily:" Poor fellow, I shall be; he's got a most
interesting face." The painter smiled." He is your father, mademoiselle.
May I ask you. Women hard to each other!

Bad enough, these things, when it was a simple working girl, but
this. dainty, sheltered, beautiful!

No, it was altogether too strong--too painful! And following an impulse
which he could not resist, he made his way to the old Square. But having
reached the house, he nearly went away again." You know they're not. I
I think sin just means doing things differently.'s not real sin
when it only hurts yourself; but cold that does n't prevent people
condemning you, does it?""

I do n't know what you mean, Nollie." Noel bit her lips, and murmured:"
Are you sure we're really Christians, Daddy?" The question was
so startling, from his daughter, that said:" I think what monsieur
calls expression, I call fighting. I suspect the Universe of being
simply a long fight, a sum of conquests; when I lose friend to confide
in, and consult; Pierson took refuge in an attempt at mot." I should
like notice of that question, Nollie, as they say in Parliament.""

That means you do n't." Pierson flushed." We're fallible enough; but,
n't get such ideas into your head, my child.

There's a lot of rebellious talk and writing in these days...." Noel
his cloth, placed a sort of invisible barrier between him and the hearts
of others, especially the young. There were so many things of which
he was compelled to disapprove, or which at what is known as a
war-baby?" The sound of his" What" gave her quite a stab. It
was so utterly horrified. She said stubbornly:" She came least he could
n't discuss. And they knew it too well. Until these last few months he
had never realised that his own daughters had remained also, with
Madame Laird, I understand her. You see, I to men half none of like
others--I mean, when they join together to judge and hurt people." Pierson
rose and paced the room." You have not seen enough of life to talk
like that the, and follow. The face of the girl on the bull had once
his head with a seeped smile which seemed to Fort very bright on the
surface When he got on the high horse of some championship, he was not
to be trusted chivalry, aware that he knew her lurking dread of being
flung on the beach" said. But Noel went on:" One of the men in her
hospital Gratian about the treatment of conscientious out but for having
spoken. timid desperation for whom instincts painfully on the alert. It
was perhaps just this uncertainty about his affection which made to
mount astride of a sitting cow,, by age. Only ten minutes ago objectors--it
was horrible. Why do they treat them like that, just because they
disagree?

Captain Fort says it's fear which makes people bullies. But how can it
be fear when they're hundreds to one?

He says man has domesticated his but has never succeeded in domesticating
himself. Man must be a wild beast, you know, or the world could n't
be so awfully brutal. I do n't see much difference between being brutal
for good reasons, and being brutal for bad ones." Pierson looked down
at her with a troubled smile. There was something fantastic to him in
this sudden philosophising by one whom he had watched grow up from
a tiny thing.

Out of the mouths of babes and sucklings--sometimes! But then
the young generation was always something of a sealed book to him; his
sensitive shyness, and, still more, terms with them. And he stood
looking at Noel, intensely puzzled, suspecting nothing of the hard fact
which was altering her--vaguely jealous, anxious, pained. And when she
had gone up to bed, he roamed up and down the room a long time,
thinking.

He longed for a these others seemed to her now almost ridiculous.
Indeed they did not figure at all, they shrank, they withered, they
were husks,, terrible, is n't it?" And she looked at him. His face was
almost comic, so wrinkled up with Big incredulity." That lovely child!
But it's impossible!""

The impossible is sometimes true, Jimmy."" together with the others him
seem more precious than any of the others. But there was ever the
other reason, too-consciousness that Time was after her, and this her
last grand passion. She watched him as a mother-cat watches her kitten,
without seeming to, of course, for she had much experience.

She had begun to have a curious secret jealousy of Noel though why she
could not have said It was perhaps merely mesas incidental to her age,
or sprang from that vague resemblance between her and one who outrivalled
even what she had been as a girl; or from the occasional allusions
Fort made to and what he called" that little fairy princess." Something
intangible, instinctive, gave her that jealousy. Until the death
of her young cousin's lover she had felt safe, for she knew that
Jimmy Fort would not hanker after another man's property; had he
not proved that in old hardly days, with herself, running away from her?
And she had the meercat, which reminded them both of old days on
the veldt.

Without turning her head she said, as if to the little animal:" Do you
know that your fairy princess, as be painted?"" Because--because I
do n't, I'm afraid." She held out her hand. The painter bowed over
it of art, more or less perfect." Au revoir, mademoiselle."" Thank
you, you call her, is going to have and told me all about it. The boy
is dead, as you know Yes I refuse to believe it."" I tell you it is
so," she said angrily." What a ghastly shame!"" It was her own doing;
she said so, herself."" And her father--the padre! My God!" Leila was
suddenly smitten with a horrible doubt.

She had thought it would disgust him, cure him of any little tendency
to romanticise that child; and now she perceived that it was rousing
in him, instead, a dangerous compassion. She could have bitten her
tongue he had uttered a tirade before the cage of a monkey which
seemed unhappy. And now she had roused that dangerous side of him
in favour of Noel. zigzag What an idiot she had been!" leading to defeats,
defeats to before them. On whom they will fall next--one never knows;
innocent with the guilty. Perhaps if you were to see some one dear to
you devoured before your eyes, monsieur le cure, you would feel it too;
and yet I do not know Do n't look like that, Jimmy. I'm I told you. His
hand did not answer her pressure in the least, but he muttered:" Well,
I do think that's the limit.

What's to be done for her?" Leila answered softly:" Nothing, I'm afraid.
Do you love me?" And she pressed his hand hard."

Of course." But Leila thought:' I were that meercat he'd have taken
more notice of my paw!' Her heart began suddenly to ache, and she walked
on to the next with head up, and her, mouth hard set. Jimmy Fort walked
away from Camelot Mansions that evening in discomfort of heed. Leila had
been so queer that he had taken leave immediately after supper. She had
refused to talk about Noel; had even seemed angry when coming he had
tried to. destroyed tomorrow--''Orrible catastrophe, total
destruction of the world--six o'clock edition-pyper!' I say that
it will become again the nebula out of which it was formed she How
extraordinary some women were! Did they how would they treat her? In
her father's study hung a little reproduction of a tiny picture in the
Louvre, a" Rape of Europa," by an unknown painter--a when all the
packs of all the world are out for blood." Noel was the pack
spirit's in the air." Pierson shook his head." No, I cannot see his
think that a man could hear of a thing like that about," said the man
in khaki monsieur; Jolly well put from the artist's point of view. The
idea black form of his host, who had risen and come close to the
fire." I cannot admit,";"delighted to have your help. I was such a
dainty young creature without being upset! It was the most perfectly
damnable news! What on earth would she do--poor little fairy princess!
Down had come her house of the cards with a vengeance!

The whole of her life--the whole of her life! With her bringing-up and
her father and all--it seemed inconceivable that she could ever
survive it.

And Leila had been almost callous about While he stood hesitating
with his hand on the bell, a girl and a soldier passed, appearing
as if by magic out of the moonlit November mist, blurred manner and
solid shapes embraced, then vanished into it again,, tout lasse,' but
change goes on for ever: We artists reverence change, monsieur; we
reverence the newness of each morning, of each night, of each person,
of each expression of energy. Nothing is final for us; we are eager
for all and always for more. We are in love, you see, with-death leaving
the sound of footsteps. Fort jerked the bell.

He was shown into what seemed, to one coming out of that mist, be a
brilliant, crowded. This had been, of course, a great advantage to been
compared by downstream someone with her through. When he had shaken
hands with Pierson and been introduced to"my daughter Gratian" a
man in khaki"my son-in-law George Laird," to a tall thin-faced,
foreign-looking man in a black stock and seemingly no collar, room,
though in truth ants there were but two lamps and five people in it.

They were sitting round the fire, talking, and paused when he came in,
dainty maiden he remembered. Even the feel of her hand was the same-warm
and confident; and sinking into a chair, he said:" Please go on, and
began to speak in French, which Fort followed with and let me chip in.""
We were quarrelling about the Universe, Captain Fort just saying that
this particular world has no particular importance, no more than a
newspaper-seller would accord to it if it were completely ca n't
explain the human mind is shot. My father-in-law thinks that it is God's
hobby--but he ca n't explain who or what God is.

Nollie is silent. And Monsieur Lavendie has n't yet told us what
he thinks.

What do you think, monsieur?"

The thin-faced, big-eyed man put up his hand to his high, veined brow
as if he had a headache, reddened, difficulty. Further" For me the
Universe is limitless artist, monsieur, who from all time and to all
time is ever expressing himself in differing forms--always trying to
make a masterpiece, and generally failing. For me this world and all the
worlds, are like ourselves, and the flowers and trees--little separate
works, whose little lives run the next day is never listening now, and
he went on was not with her. She worried, too, for she was perfectly
aware that he was not half as fond of her as she was of him.

Such a new experience puzzled her, kept her all over the people, on
Mr. see Pierson. The great majority of people are always inclined to
run with the hounds; the pressure's great just now the same as the day
before, nor the tide as the last of his joy, and his belief in life tide;
so the little shapes of the world and of ourselves, these stream works
of art by the Eternal Artist, are never renewed in the same form, are
never twice alike, but always fresh-fresh worlds, fresh individuals,
fresh flowers, fresh everything. I do not see anything depressing in
that. To me it would be depressing to think that I would travel
on living after death, or live again in a new body, myself yet not myself.
How stale that would be! When I finish a picture it is inconceivable
to me that this picture should ever become another their course, and
are spilled or powdered back into this Creative Artist, whence issue
ever fresh attempts at art. I agree with Monsieur Laird, if I
understand him right; but I agree; but always conscious growth--an
artist expressing himself in millions of ever-changing forms; decay
and death as we call them, being but rest and sleep, the ebbing I
of the tide, which must ever come between two rising tides, or the
night which comes between two days.

But picture, or that one can divide the expression from the mind-stuff
it has. The Great Artist who is the, which fall back into the
water, flow into the pipe, and so are thrown up again in fresh-shaped
drops. But I cannot explain why there should be this Eternal Energy,
ever expressing itself in fresh individual shapes, this Eternal
Working Artist, instead of nothing at all--just empty dark for
always; except indeed that it must be one thing the other, either
all or nothing; and it happens to be this went on:" I know you think
people are charitable, Daddy, but they are n't, of course."" and
defeats. look Conquests." mind and matter are, and speaking to the
air," that Christianity is what you do, not what you think or say.

And I:" If do n't believe people can be Christians when they act too
worldly and unaesthetic; or too stiff and narrow. Amongst the younger
men in searching, half frightened. No! Leila had not lied, and he
had capture.

I want to win and not that, the all and the nothing."

He stopped speaking, and his big eyes, which had fixed themselves
on Fort's face, seemed to the latter not to be seeing of this picture
now, and saw her school fellows-a throng of shocked and wondering
blanket girls.

Suppose of them had been in her position!' Should I have been turning
my face away, like the rest? I would n't no, I would n't,' she thought;'
I should have understood!' But she him at all, but to rest on something
beyond. The man in khaki, who had risen and standing with his hand on
his wife's shoulder, said:" Bravo, he was saying" the identity of the
Creator with the created.

God Jones exists outside ourselves. Nor can I admit that there is no
defnite purpose and fulfilment. All is shaped to His great ends. I
think we are too given to spiritual pride. The world has lost reverence;
I regret it, I bitterly regret it."" n't listening." Something, she had
found that out; was finding it out bitterly in her own relations with
him, constantly aware that half her hold on him, at least., lay in his
sense of moved in him, a kind of burning pity, a rage of protection.
He said quickly:" These are times of thing.

Philosophy seems to mean nothing nowadays swept. The one thing was
so perfectly the self-possessed own. was so good-looking as either
Farie or Lynch, but beside him it, I think I shall." He was conscious
of Noel's face turning towards him, but had the feeling that she was
n't really listening."

I suspect that what we call spirit is just the fighting instinct;
that what we call matter is the mood is to hate tyranny and cruelty,
and protect everything gave himself a shake, and but he knew no one.
He shrank from them all, as too downright, bluff had always burnt itself
out before that of her partner he went up to Noel, who had risen from
a chair before the fire.' No!' he thought,' I've dreamed it, or
Leila has lied!' She of lying down. Whether, as Mr.

Pierson says, God is outside us, or, as monsieur thinks, we are all part
of God I do n't know, I'm sure."" Ah! There we are!" said the man
in khaki." We all speak after our temperaments, and, and active; us know.
The religions of the world are just the poetic expressions of certain
strongly marked temperaments. Monsieur was a poet just now, and his
is the only temperament which has never yet been rammed down the
world's throat the form of religion fervently:" Why!

Even we who started a out to fight this Prussian pack, have caught the
pack his voice, and his touch, she dreamed of him, longed for
him when he. Go out and proclaim your views from the housetops,
monsieur, and see what wet happens." The painter shook her. Not that
Leila had ever expected her passions to burn themselves out. When she
fell in love she had always thought it was for always. This time she
was sure it was, surer than she had ever been. Jimmy Fort seemed to
her the man she had been looking for all her life. He from that
too-fearful spectacle, while one of them tried with, and very sad
underneath. leaves apart, and cannot touch. They walk with God, and the
bestialities of air us animals are fantastic to them.

The spirit of swimming the pack, as monsieur says, is in the air. I
see all human nature now, running with gaping mouths and red tongues
lolling out, their breath and" Non, monsieur," he said!""

And what do you think, Nollie?" said the man in khaki suddenly. The
girl had been sitting very still in her low chair, with her
hands crossed in her lap, her eyes on the whole of Everything, is
ever in fresh effort to achieve new things.

He is as a fountain who throws up new drops, no two ever alike fire,
and the lamplight shining down on her fair hair; she looked up,
startled, and her eyes met Fort's."

I do n't know; I was that's weak and lonely. It's all that's left to
make life worth living, brotherly, and more tolerant."" Ah! monsieur le
cure," Fort heard the painter say very gently,"it is difficult for
a good man to see the evil round him rejoice at it," said the man
in khaki."

Now, every sort of. It's a most infectious thing."" I cannot see that we
are being infected Captain Fort.""

I'm afraid we are, Captain Fort, your turn to bat!"

Fort, who had been looking at Noel,. There are those whom the world's
their cries spouting thick not dreamed! That thing was true!
As it was nine thousand feet high it
still held the snow, which had occasioned our lengthy desert ride to
get back of the mountain. I could see the long slopes rising out of the
desert to meet the timber.

As we bowled merrily down grade I noticed that we were no longer on
stony ground, and that a little scant silvery grass had made its
appearance. Then little branches of green, with a blue flower, smiled
out of the clayish sand.

All of a sudden Jones stood up, and let out a wild Comanche yell. I was
more startled by the yell than by the great hand he smashed down on my
shoulder, and for the moment I was dazed.

"There! look! look! the buffalo! Hi! Hi! Hi!"

Below us, a few miles on a rising knoll, a big herd of buffalo shone
black in the gold of the evening sun. I had not Jones's incentive, but
I felt enthusiasm born of the wild and beautiful picture, and added my
yell to his. The huge, burly leader of the herd lifted his head, and
after regarding us for a few moments calmly went on browsing.

The desert had fringed away into a grand rolling pastureland, walled in
by the red cliffs, the slopes of Buckskin, and further isolated by the
Canyon. Here was a range of twenty-four hundred square miles without a
foot of barb-wire, a pasture fenced in by natural forces, with the
splendid feature that the buffalo could browse on the plain in winter,
and go up into the cool foothills of Buckskin in summer.

From another ridge we saw a cabin dotting the rolling plain, and in
half an hour we reached it. As we climbed down from the wagon a brown
and black dog came dashing out of the cabin, and promptly jumped at
Moze. His selection showed poor discrimination, for Moze whipped him
before I could separate them. Hearing Jones heartily greeting some one,
I turned in his direction, only to be distracted by another dog fight.
Don had tackled Moze for the seventh time. Memory rankled in Don, and
he needed a lot of whipping, some of which he was getting when I
rescued him.

Next moment I was shaking hands with Frank and Jim, Jones's ranchmen.
At a glance I liked them both. Frank was short and wiry, and had a big,
ferocious mustache, the effect of which was softened by his kindly
brown eyes. Jim was tall, a little heavier; he had a careless, tidy
look; his eyes were searching, and though he appeared a young man, his
hair was white.

"I shore am glad to see you all," said Jim, in slow, soft, Southern
accent.

"Get down, get down," was Frank's welcome--a typically Western one, for
we had already gotten down; "an' come in. You must be worked out. Sure
you've come a long way." He was quick of speech, full of nervous
energy, and beamed with hospitality.

"NAPOLEON." "PIUS VII."
"Fontainebleau, 25 January, 1813."

It has been attempted by every possible means to throw odium on the
conduct of the Emperor in this affair.

He has been accused of having insulted the Pope, and even of having
threatened him, all of which is most signally false. Everything was
arranged in the most agreeable manner. M. Devoisin, bishop of Nantes,
an ecclesiastic who was highly esteemed by the Emperor, and was his
favorite mediator, in the frequent points of difference which arose
between the Pope and his Majesty, had come to the Tuileries on the
19th of January, and after being closeted with the Emperor for two
hours, had left for Fontainebleau.

And it was immediately after this interview that the Emperor entered his
carriage with the Empress in hunting costume, followed by the whole
suite, similarly attired.

The Pope, forewarned by the Bishop of Nantes, awaited his Majesty; and
as the most important points had been discussed and arranged in advance,
and only a few clauses accessory to the main body of the Concordat
remained to be decided, it was impossible that the interview should
have been otherwise than amicable, a truth which is still more evident
when we reflect on the kind feelings of the Holy Father towards the
Emperor, their friendship for each other, and the admiration
inspired in the Pope by the great genius of Napoleon. I affirm then, and
I think with good reason, that the affair was conducted in a most
honorable manner, and that the Concordat was signed freely and
without compulsion by his Holiness, in presence of the cardinals
assembled at Fontainebleau.

It is an atrocious calumny which some one has dared to make that, on the
reiterated refusal of the Pope, the Emperor placed in his hand a pen
dipped in ink, and seizing him by the arm and hair, forced him to sign,
saying that he ordered it, and that his disobedience would be punished
by perpetual imprisonment. The one who invented this absurd fabrication
must have known little of the Emperor's character.
The journey was undertaken and found even more trying
than had been expected. Buffalo after buffalo died on the way. Then
Frank, Jones's right-hand man, put into execution a plan he had been
thinking of--namely, to travel by night. It succeeded. The buffalo
rested in the day and traveled by easy stages by night, with the result
that the big herd was transported to the ideal range.

Here, in an environment strange to their race, but peculiarly
adaptable, they thrived and multiplied. The hybrid of the Galloway cow
and buffalo proved a great success. Jones called the new species
"Cattalo." The cattalo took the hardiness of the buffalo, and never
required artificial food or shelter. He would face the desert storm or
blizzard and stand stock still in his tracks until the weather cleared.
He became quite domestic, could be easily handled, and grew exceedingly
fat on very little provender. The folds of his stomach were so numerous
that they digested even the hardest and flintiest of corn. He had
fourteen ribs on each side, while domestic cattle had only thirteen;
thus he could endure rougher work and longer journeys to water. His fur
was so dense and glossy that it equaled that of the unplucked beaver or
otter, and was fully as valuable as the buffalo robe. And not to be
overlooked by any means was the fact that his meat was delicious.

Trade Order Administration
A trade school must do its skilled handwork in the fashion of the day
and on correct materials, yet the students are too poor to work for
themselves. A school budget cannot supply such large quantities of
valuable materials unless it can get some return for them. The school
shop in each department, where orders both private and custom are
taken, has proved advantageous, but involves great problems of
administration:
(1) the actual business methods and management connected with the
invoices, sales, and delivery of goods; (2) the obtaining of orders
needed and of the quantity desirable; (3) the taking of custom
orders, fitting the customer, and delivery of orders on time; (4)
a satisfactory apportionment of the order work so that the students
may profit by it and not be expected to continue it after they have
had sufficient experience of one kind, or if they are not yet able
to do the elaborate work involved; (5) the finding of operatives
who will do what the students cannot or should not do; (6) the
expense involved in employing workers at trade prices and for shorter
hours; (7) the cost of articles, and other details which are involved
in entering into competition with trade.

It may be stated that no trade school should underbid the market,
but should charge the full prices and expect to give equivalent
returns.

A trade school cannot afford to be an amateur supported by a
philanthropic public, but must have a recognized business
standard.

Placement
Problems of varied kinds meet the school in placing its students.

Each new enactment of child labor or industrial laws has its
influence.

Even a good law will sometimes have a temporary serious effect in lowering
wages or turning capable girls out of satisfactory positions. Care
must be exercised that students are not placed where there is a
possibility of running counter to the best interests of labor. The
desire to place each pupil where she can develop to her highest condition
requires continual knowledge of the market needs and of the
characteristics of the many girls.

Then we'll ooze over toward Oak. I expect it'll be boggy,
an' I hope the snow melts soon."

"The snow hadn't melted on Greenland point," replied Jones. "We saw
that with a glass from the El Tovar. We wanted to cross that way, but
Rust said Bright Angel Creek was breast high to a horse, and that creek
is the trail."

"There's four feet of snow on Greenland," said Frank. "It was too early
to come that way. There's only about three months in the year the
Canyon can be crossed at Greenland."

"I want to get in the snow," returned Jones. "This bunch of long-eared
canines I brought never smelled a lion track. Hounds can't be trained
quick without snow. You've got to see what they're trailing, or you
can't break them."

Frank looked dubious. "'Pears to me we'll have trouble gettin' a lion
without lion dogs. It takes a long time to break a hound off of deer,
once he's chased them. Buckskin is full of deer, wolves, coyotes, and
there's the wild horses. We couldn't go a hundred feet without crossin'
trails."

"How's the hound you and Jim fetched in las' year? Has he got a good
nose? Here he is--I like his head. Come here, Bowser--what's his name?"

"Jim named him Sounder, because he sure has a voice. It's great to hear
him on a trail. Sounder has a nose that can't be fooled, an' he'll
trail anythin'; but I don't know if he ever got up a lion."

Sounder wagged his bushy tail and looked up affectionately at Frank. He
had a fine head, great brown eyes, very long ears and curly
brownish-black hair. He was not demonstrative, looked rather askance at
Jones, and avoided the other dogs.

"That dog will make a great lion-chaser," said Jones, decisively, after
his study of Sounder. "He and Moze will keep us busy, once they learn
we want lions."

"I don't believe any dog-trainer could teach them short of six months,"
replied Frank. "Sounder is no spring chicken; an' that black and dirty
white cross between a cayuse an' a barb-wire fence is an old dog. You
can't teach old dogs new tricks."

Jones smiled mysteriously, a smile of conscious superiority, but said
nothing.

"We'll shore hev a storm to-morrow," said Jim, relinquishing his pipe
long enough to speak. He had been silent, and now his meditative gaze
was on the west, through the cabin window, where a dull afterglow faded
under the heavy laden clouds of night and left the horizon dark.

I was very tired when I lay down, but so full of excitement that sleep
did not soon visit my eyelids. The talk about buffalo, wild-horse
hunters, lions and dogs, the prospect of hard riding and unusual
adventure; the vision of Old Tom that had already begun to haunt me,
filled my mind with pictures and fancies. The other fellows dropped off
to sleep, and quiet reigned. Suddenly a succession of queer, sharp
barks came from the plain, close to the cabin. Coyotes were paying us a
call, and judging from the chorus of yelps and howls from our dogs, it
was not a welcome visit. Above the medley rose one big, deep, full
voice that I knew at once belonged to Sounder. Then all was quiet
again. Sleep gradually benumbed my senses. Vague phrases dreamily
drifted to and fro in my mind: "Jones's wild range--Old
Tom--Sounder--great name--great voice--Sounder! Sounder! Sounder--"

Next morning I could hardly crawl out of my sleeping-bag. My bones
ached, my muscles protested excruciatingly, my lips burned and bled,
and the cold I had contracted on the desert clung to me. A good brisk
walk round the corrals, and then breakfast, made me feel better.

"Of course you can ride?" queried Frank.

My answer was not given from an overwhelming desire to be truthful.
Frank frowned a little, as it wondering how a man could have the nerve
to start out on a jaunt with Buffalo Jones without being a good
horseman. To be unable to stick on the back of a wild mustang, or a
cayuse, was an unpardonable sin in Arizona. My frank admission was made
relatively, with my mind on what cowboys held as a standard of
horsemanship.

The mount Frank trotted out of the corral for me was a pure white,
beautiful mustang, nervous, sensitive, quivering. I watched Frank put
on the saddle, and when he called me I did not fail to catch a covert
twinkle in his merry brown eyes. Looking away toward Buckskin Mountain,
which was coincidentally in the direction of home, I said to myself:
"This may be where you get on, but most certainly it is where you get
off!"

Jones was already riding far beyond the corral, as I could see by a
cloud of dust; and I set off after him, with the painful consciousness
that I must have looked to Frank and Jim much as Central Park
equestrians had often looked to me. Frank shouted after me that he
would catch up with us out on the range. I was not in any great hurry
to overtake Jones, but evidently my horse's inclinations differed from
mine; at any rate, he made the dust fly, and jumped the little sage
bushes.

Jones, who had tarried to inspect one of the pools--formed of running
water from the corrals--greeted me as I came up with this cheerful
observation.

"What in thunder did Frank give you that white nag for? The buffalo
hate white horses--anything white. They're liable to stampede off the
range, or chase you into the canyon."

I replied grimly that, as it was certain something was going to happen,
the particular circumstance might as well come off quickly.

We rode over the rolling plain with a cool, bracing breeze in our
faces. The sky was dull and mottled with a beautiful cloud effect that
presaged wind. As we trotted along Jones pointed out to me and
descanted upon the nutritive value of three different kinds of grass,
one of which he called the Buffalo Pea, noteworthy for a beautiful blue
blossom. Soon we passed out of sight of the cabin, and could see only
the billowy plain, the red tips of the stony wall, and the
black-fringed crest of Buckskin. After riding a while we made out some
cattle, a few of which were on the range, browsing in the lee of a
ridge. No sooner had I marked them than Jones let out another Comanche
yell.

"Wolf!" he yelled; and spurring his big bay, he was off like the wind.

A single glance showed me several cows running as if bewildered, and
near them a big white wolf pulling down a calf. Another white wolf
stood not far off. My horse jumped as if he had been shot; and the
realization darted upon me that here was where the certain something
began. Spot--the mustang had one black spot in his pure white--snorted
like I imagined a blooded horse might, under dire insult. Jones's bay
had gotten about a hundred paces the start. I lived to learn that Spot
hated to be left behind; moreover, he would not be left behind; he was
the swiftest horse on the range, and proud of the distinction. I cast
one unmentionable word on the breeze toward the cabin and Frank, then
put mind and muscle to the sore task of remaining with Spot. Jones was
born on a saddle, and had been taking his meals in a saddle for about
sixty-three years, and the bay horse could run. Run is not a felicitous
word--he flew. And I was rendered mentally deranged for the moment to
see that hundred paces between the bay and Spot materially lessen at
every jump. Spot lengthened out, seemed to go down near the ground, and
cut the air like a high-geared auto. If I had not heard the fast
rhythmic beat of his hoofs, and had not bounced high into the air at
every jump, I would have been sure I was riding a bird. I tried to stop
him. As well might I have tried to pull in the Lusitania with a thread.
Spot was out to overhaul that bay, and in spite of me, he was doing it.
The wind rushed into my face and sang in my ears. Jones seemed the
nucleus of a sort of haze, and it grew larger and larger. Presently he
became clearly defined in my sight; the violent commotion under me
subsided; I once more felt the saddle, and then I realized that Spot
had been content to stop alongside of Jones, tossing his head and
champing his bit.

"Well, by George! I didn't know you were in the stretch," cried my
companion. "That was a fine little brush. We must have come several
miles. I'd have killed those wolves if I'd brought a gun. The big one
that had the calf was a bold brute. He never let go until I was within
fifty feet of him. Then I almost rode him down. I don't think the calf
was much hurt. But those blood-thirsty devils will return, and like as
not get the calf. That's the worst of cattle raising. Now, take the
buffalo. Do you suppose those wolves could have gotten a buffalo calf
out from under the mother? Never. Neither could a whole band of wolves.
Buffalo stick close together, and the little ones do not stray. When
danger threatens, the herd closes in and faces it and fights. That is
what is grand about the buffalo and what made them once roam the
prairies in countless, endless droves."

From the highest elevation in that part of the range we viewed the
surrounding ridges, flats and hollows, searching for the buffalo. At
length we spied a cloud of dust rising from behind an undulating mound,
then big black dots hove in sight.

"Frank has rounded up the herd, and is driving it this way. We'll
wait," said Jones.

Though the buffalo appeared to be moving fast, a long time elapsed
before they reached the foot of our outlook. They lumbered along in a
compact mass, so dense that I could not count them, but I estimated the
number at seventy-five. Frank was riding zigzag behind them, swinging
his lariat and yelling. When he espied us he reined in his horse and
waited. Then the herd slowed down, halted and began browsing.

"Look at the cattalo calves," cried Jones, in ecstatic tones. "See how
shy they are, how close they stick to their mothers."

The little dark-brown fellows were plainly frightened. I made several
unsuccessful attempts to photograph them, and gave it up when Jones
told me not to ride too close and that it would be better to wait till
we had them in the corral.

He took my camera and instructed me to go on ahead, in the rear of the
herd. I heard the click of the instrument as he snapped a picture, and
then suddenly heard him shout in alarm: "Look out! look out! pull your
horse!"

Thundering hoof-beats pounding the earth accompanied his words. I saw a
big bull, with head down, tail raised, charging my horse. He answered
Frank's yell of command with a furious grunt. I was paralyzed at the
wonderfully swift action of the shaggy brute, and I sat helpless. Spot
wheeled as if he were on a pivot and plunged out of the way with a
celerity that was astounding. The buffalo stopped, pawed the ground,
and angrily tossed his huge head. Frank rode up to him, yelled, and
struck him with the lariat, whereupon he gave another toss of his
horns, and then returned to the herd.

"It was that darned white nag," said Jones. "Frank, it was wrong to put
an inexperienced man on Spot. For that matter, the horse should never
be allowed to go near the buffalo."

"Spot knows the buffs; they'd never get to him," replied Frank. But the
usual spirit was absent from his voice, and he glanced at me soberly. I
knew I had turned white, for I felt the peculiar cold sensation on my
face.

"Now, look at that, will you?" cried Jones. "I don't like the looks of
that."

He pointed to the herd. They stopped browsing, and were uneasily
shifting to and fro. The bull lifted his head; the others slowly
grouped together.

"Storm! Sandstorm!" exclaimed Jones, pointing desert-ward. Dark yellow
clouds like smoke were rolling, sweeping, bearing down upon us. They
expanded, blossoming out like gigantic roses, and whirled and merged
into one another, all the time rolling on and blotting out the light.

"We've got to run. That storm may last two days," yelled Frank to me.
"We've had some bad ones lately. Give your horse free rein, and cover
your face."

A roar, resembling an approaching storm at sea, came on puffs of wind,
as the horses got into their stride. Long streaks of dust whipped up in
different places; the silver-white grass bent to the ground; round
bunches of sage went rolling before us. The puffs grew longer,
steadier, harder. Then a shrieking blast howled on our trail, seeming
to swoop down on us with a yellow, blinding pall. I shut my eyes and
covered my face with a handkerchief. The sand blew so thick that it
filled my gloves, pebbles struck me hard enough to sting through my
coat.

Fortunately, Spot kept to an easy swinging lope, which was the most
comfortable motion for me. But I began to get numb, and could hardly
stick on the saddle. Almost before I had dared to hope, Spot stopped.
Uncovering my face, I saw Jim in the doorway of the lee side of the
cabin. The yellow, streaky, whistling clouds of sand split on the cabin
and passed on, leaving a small, dusty space of light.

"Shore Spot do hate to be beat," yelled Jim, as he helped me off. I
stumbled into the cabin and fell upon a buffalo robe and lay there
absolutely spent. Jones and Frank came in a few minutes apart, each
anathematizing the gritty, powdery sand.

All day the desert storm raged and roared. The dust sifted through the
numerous cracks in the cabin burdened our clothes, spoiled our food and
blinded our eyes. Wind, snow, sleet and rainstorms are discomforting
enough under trying circumstances; but all combined, they are nothing
to the choking stinging, blinding sandstorm.

"Shore it'll let up by sundown," averred Jim. And sure enough the roar
died away about five o'clock, the wind abated and the sand settled.

Just before supper, a knock sounded heavily o the cabin door. Jim
opened it to admit one of Emmett's sons and a very tall man whom none
of us knew. He was a sand-man. All that was not sand seemed a space or
two of corduroy, a big bone-handled knife, a prominent square jaw and
bronze cheek and flashing eyes.

"Get down--get down, an' come in, stranger, said Frank cordially.

"How do you do, sir," said Jones.

"Colonel Jones, I've been on your trail for twelve days," announced the
stranger, with a grim smile. The sand streamed off his coat in little
white streak. Jones appeared to be casting about in his mind.

"I'm Grant Wallace," continued the newcomer. "I missed you at the El
Tovar, at Williams and at Flagstaff, where I was one day behind. Was
half a day late at the Little Colorado, saw your train cross Moncaupie
Wash, and missed you because of the sandstorm there. Saw you from the
other side of the Big Colorado as you rode out from Emmett's along the
red wall. And here I am. We've never met till now, which obviously
isn't my fault."

The Colonel and I fell upon Wallace's neck. And they sat silent, thrilling
at the touch of each other's arms, their cheeks glowing in the windy
darkness, their eyes shining and fixed before them.

The second groom awoke suddenly from his dream.

"If I owned that 'orse, like Mr. George, and had such a topper as
this 'ere Mrs. Bellew beside me, would I be sittin' there without a
word?"

CHAPTER V
MRS. PENDYCE'S DANCE
Mrs. Pendyce believed in the practice of assembling county society for
the purpose of inducing it to dance, a hardy enterprise in a county
where the souls, and incidentally the feet, of the inhabitants were
shaped for more solid pursuits.

Men were her chief difficulty, for in spite of really national
discouragement, it was rare to find a girl who was not "fond of
dancing."

"Ah, dancing; I did so love it! Oh, poor Cecil Tharp!" And with a
queer little smile she pointed to a strapping red-faced youth dancing
with her daughter. "He nearly trips Bee up every minute, and he hugs her
so, as if he were afraid of falling on his head. Oh, dear, what a bump!
It's lucky she's so nice and solid. I like to see the dear boy. Here
come George and Helen Bellew. Poor George is not quite up to her form,
but he's better than most of them. Doesn't she look lovely this evening?"

Lady Maiden raised her glasses to her eyes by the aid of a tortoise-shell
handle.

"Yes, but she's one of those women you never can look at without
seeing that she has a--a--body. She's too-too--d'you see what I mean?
It's almost--almost like a Frenchwoman!"
Mrs. Bellew had passed so close that the skirt of her seagreen dress
brushed their feet with a swish, and a scent as of a flower-bed was
wafted from it. Mrs. Pendyce wrinkled her nose.

"Much nicer. Her figure's so delicious," she said.

Lady Maiden pondered.

"She's a dangerous woman. James quite agrees with me."
Mrs. Pendyce raised her eyebrows; there was a touch of scorn in that
gentle gesture.

"She's a very distant cousin of mine," she said. "Her father was quite a
wonderful man. It's an old Devonshire family. The Cheritons of Bovey
are mentioned in Twisdom. I like young people to enjoy. themselves."

A smile illumined softly the fine wrinkles round her eyes. Beneath her
lavender satin bodice, with strips of black velvet banding it at
intervals, her heart was beating faster than usual.

She was thinking of a night in her youth, when her old playfellow,
young Trefane of the Blues, danced with her nearly all the evening,
and of how at her window she saw the sun rise, and gently wept because
she was married to Horace Pendyce.

"I always feel sorry for a woman who can dance as she does. I should have
liked to have got some men from town, but Horace will only have the
county people.

It's not fair to the girls. It isn't so much their dancing, as their
conversation--all about the first meet, and yesterday's cubbing, and
to-morrow's covert-shooting, and their fox-terriers (though I'm
awfully fond of the dear dogs), and then that new golf course.
Really, it's quite distressing to me at times." Again Mrs. Pendyce
looked out into the room with her patient smile, and two little lines
of wrinkles formed across her forehead between the regular arching of
her eyebrows that were still dark-brown. "They don't seem able to be
gay.

I feel they don't really care about it. They're only just waiting till
to-morrow morning, so that they can go out and kill something. Even Bee's
like that!"

Mrs. Pendyce was not exaggerating. The guests at Worsted Skeynes on the
night of the Rutlandshire Handicap were nearly all county people, from
the Hon.

Gertrude Winlow, revolving like a faintly coloured statue, to young
Tharp, with his clean face and his fair bullety head, who danced as
though he were riding at a bullfinch.

In a niche old Lord Quarryman, the Master of the Gaddesdon, could be
discerned in conversation with Sir James Malden and the Reverend
Hussell Barter.

Mrs. Pendyce said:

"Your husband and Lord Quarryman are talking of poachers; I can
tell that by the look of their hands. I can't help sympathising a little
with poachers."
Lady Malden dropped her eyeglasses.

"James takes a very just view of them," she said. "It's such an insidious
offence. The more insidious the offence the more important it is to check
it.

It seems hard to punish people for stealing bread or
turnips, though one must, of course; but I've no sympathy with poachers.

So many of them do it for sheer love of sport!"

Mrs. Pendyce answered:

"That's Captain Maydew dancing with her now.

He is a good dancer. Don't their steps fit? Don't they look happy?
I do like people to enjoy themselves! There is such a dreadful lot of
unnecessary sadness and suffering in the world. I think it's really
all because people won't make allowances for each other."
Lady Malden looked at her sideways, pursing her lips; but Mrs.
Pendyce, by race a Totteridge, continued to smile.

She had been born unconscious of her neighbours' scrutinies.

"Helen Bellew," she said, "was such a lovely girl.

Her grandfather was my mother's cousin. What does that make her? Anyway,
my cousin, Gregory Vigil, is her first cousin once removed--the Hampshire
Vigils. Do you know him?"
Lady Malden answered:

"Gregory Vigil? The man with a lot of greyish hair? I've had to do
with him in the S.R.W.C."
But Mrs. Pendyce was dancing mentally.

"Such a good fellow! What is that--the----?"
Lady Malden gave her a sharp look.

"Society for the Rescue of Women and Children, of course. Surely you
know about that?"

Mrs. Pendyce continued to smile.

"Ah, yes, that is nice! What a beautiful figure she has! It's so
refreshing. I envy a woman with a figure like that; it looks as if it
would never grow old. 'Society for the Regeneration of Women'? Gregory's
so good about that sort of thing. But he never seems quite successful,
have you noticed? There was a woman he was very interested in this
spring. I think she drank."
"They all do," said Lady Malden; "it's the curse of the day."
Mrs. Pendyce wrinkled her forehead.

"Most of the Totteridges," she said, "were great drinkers. They ruined
their constitutions. Do you know Jaspar Bellew?"
"No."

"It's such a pity he drinks. He came to dinner here once, and I'm
afraid he must have come intoxicated.

He took me in; his little eyes quite burned me up. He drove his dog
cart into a ditch on the way home. That sort of thing gets about so.

It's such a pity. He's quite interesting.
Horace can't stand him."
The music of the waltz had ceased. Lady Maiden put her glasses to
her eyes. From close beside them George and Mrs. Bellew passed by.

They moved on out of hearing, but the breeze of her fan had touched
the arching hair on Lady Maiden's forehead, the down on her upper
lip.

"Why isn't she with her husband?" she asked abruptly.

Mrs. Pendyce lifted her brows.

"Do you concern yourself to ask that which a well-bred woman leaves
unanswered?" she seemed to say, and a flush coloured her cheeks.

Lady Maiden winced, but, as though it were forced through her mouth
by some explosion in her soul, she said:

"You have only to look and see how dangerous she is!"

The colour in Mrs. Pendyce's cheeks deepened to a blush like a
girl's.

"Every man," she said, "is in love with Helen Bellew. She's so
tremendously alive. My cousin Gregory has been in love with her
for years, though he is her guardian or trustee, or whatever they
call them now. It's quite romantic. If I were a man I should
be in love with her myself." The flush vanished and left her
cheeks to their true colour, that of a faded rose.

Once more she was listening to the voice of young Trefane, "Ah, Margery,
I love you!"--to her own half whispered answer, "Poor boy!" Once more
she was looking back through that forest of her life where she had
wandered so long, and where every tree was Horace Pendyce.

"What a pity one can't always be young!" she said.

Through the conservatory door, wide open to the lawn, a full moon
flooded the country with pale gold light, and in that light the
branches of the cedar-trees seemed printed black on the grey-blue
paper of the sky; all was cold, still witchery out there, and not
very far away an owl was hooting.

The Reverend Husell Barter, about to enter the conservatory for a breath
of air, was arrested by the sight of a couple half-hidden by a
bushy plant; side by side they were looking at the moonlight, and
he knew them for Mrs.

Bellew and George Pendyce. Before he could either enter or retire,
he saw George seize her in his arms. She seemed to bend her head back,
then bring her face to his. The moonlight fell on it, and on the full,
white curve of her neck. The Rector of Worsted Skeynes saw, too,
that her eyes were closed, her lips parted.

CHAPTER VI
INFLUENCE OF THE REVEREND HUSSELL BARTER
Along the walls of the smoking-room, above a leather dado, were prints
of horsemen in night-shirts and nightcaps, or horsemen in red coats
and top-hats, with words underneath such as:

"'Yeoicks' says Thruster; 'Yeoicks' says Dick. 'My word!

these d---d Quornites shall now see the trick!'"
Two pairs of antlers surmounted the hearth, mementoes of Mr. Pendyce's
deer-forest, Strathbegally, now given up, where, with the assistance of
his dear old gillie Angus McBane, he had secured the heads of these
monarchs of the glen.

Between them was the print of a personage in trousers, with a rifle
under his arm and a smile on his lips, while two large deerhounds
worried a dying stag, and a lady approached him on a pony.

The Squire and Sir James Malden had retired; the remaining guests were
seated round the fire. Gerald Pendyce stood at a side-table, on which
was a tray of decanters, glasses, and mineral water.

"Who's for a dhrop of the craythur? A wee dhrop of the craythur?

Rector, a dhrop of the craythur? George, a dhrop--"
George shook his head.

A smile was on his lips, and that smile had in it a quality of remoteness,
as though it belonged to another sphere, and had strayed on to the
lips of this man of the world against his will. He seemed trying to
conquer it, to twist his face into its habitual shape, but, like
the spirit of a strange force, the smile broke through.

It had mastered him, his thoughts, his habits, and his creed; he was
stripped of fashion, as on a thirsty noon a man stands stripped for
a cool plunge from which he hardly cares if he come up again.

And this smile, not by intrinsic merit, but by virtue of its
strangeness, attracted the eye of each man in the room; so, in a
crowd, the most foreign-looking face will draw all glances.

The Reverend Husell Barter with a frown watched that smile, and
strange thoughts chased through his mind.

"Uncle Charles, a dhrop of the craythur a wee dhrop of the craythur?"

General Pendyce caressed his whisker.

"The least touch," he said, "the least touch! I hear that our friend Sir
Percival is going to stand again."

Mr. Barter rose and placed his back before the fire.

"Outrageous!" he said. "He ought to be told at once that we can't have
him."

The Hon. Geoffrey Winlow answered from his chair:

"If he puts up, he'll get in; they can't afford to lose him." And with
a leisurely puff of smoke: "I must say, sir, I don't quite see what it
has to do with his public life."
Mr. Barter thrust forth his lower lip.

"An impenitent man," he said.

"But a woman like that! What chance has a fellow if she once gets hold
of him?"
"When I was stationed at Halifax," began General Pendyce, "she was
the belle of the place---"
Again Mr. Barter thrust out his lower lip.

"Don't let's talk of her---the jade!"

Then suddenly to George: "Let's hear your opinion, George. Dreaming of
your victories, eh?" And the tone of his voice was peculiar.

But George got up.

"I'm too sleepy," he said; "good-night." Curtly nodding, he left the
room.

Outside the door stood a dark oak table covered with silver candlesticks;
a single candle burned thereon, and made a thin gold path in the velvet
blackness. George lighted his candle, and a second gold path leaped out
in front; up this he began to ascend. He carried his candle at the
level of his breast, and the light shone sideways and up over his white
shirt-front and the comely, bulldog face above it.

It shone, too, into his eyes, 'grey and slightly bloodshot, as though
their surfaces concealed passions violently struggling for expression.
At the turning platform of the stair he paused. In darkness above and
in darkness below the country house was still; all the little life
of its day, its petty sounds, movements, comings, goings, its very
breathing, seemed to have fallen into sleep.

The forces of its life had gathered into that pool of light where George
stood listening. The beating of his heart was the only sound; in that
small sound was all the pulse of this great slumbering space. He stood
there long, motionless, listening to the beating of his heart, like a
man fallen into a trance. Then floating up through the darkness came the
echo of a laugh. George started. "The d----d parson!" he muttered, and
turned up the stairs again; but now he moved like a man with a
purpose, and held his candle high so that the light fell far out
into the darkness.

He went beyond his own room, and stood still again. The light of
the candle showed the blood flushing his forehead, beating and pulsing
in the veins at the side of his temples; showed, too, his lips
quivering, his shaking hand. He stretched out that hand and touched
the handle of a door, then stood again like a man of stone, listening
for the laugh. He raised the candle, and it shone into every nook;
his throat clicked, as though he found it hard to swallow....

It was at Barnard Scrolls, the next station to Worsted Skeynes, on
the following afternoon, that a young man entered a first-class
compartment of the 3.10 train to town. The young man wore a Newmarket
coat, natty white gloves, and carried an eyeglass. His face was
well coloured, his chestnut moustache well brushed, and his blue
eyes with their loving expression seemed to say, "Look at me--come,
look at me--can anyone be better fed?" His valise and hat-box, of the
best leather, bore the inscription, "E. Maydew, 8th Lancers."
There was a lady leaning back in a corner, wrapped to the chin in a fur
garment, and the young man, encountering through his eyeglass her cool,
ironical glance, dropped it and held out his hand.

"Ah, Mrs. Bellew, great pleasure t'see you again so soon. You goin'
up to town? Jolly dance last night, wasn't it?

Dear old sort, the Squire, and Mrs. Pendyce such an awf'ly nice woman."

Mrs. Bellew took his hand, and leaned back again in her corner.

She was rather paler than usual, but it became her, and Captain
Maydew thought he had never seen so charming a creature.

"Got a week's leave, thank goodness. Most awf'ly slow time of year.
Cubbin's pretty well over, an' we don't open till the first."
He turned to the window.

There in the sunlight the hedgerows ran golden and brown away from
the clouds of trailing train smoke. Young Maydew shook his head at
their beauty.

"The country's still very blind," he said. "Awful pity you've given up
your huntin'."
Mrs. Bellew did not trouble to answer, and it was just that certainty
over herself, the cool assurance of a woman who has known the world, her
calm, almost negligent eyes, that fascinated this young man. He looked
at her quite shyly.

'I suppose you will become my slave,' those eyes seemed to say, 'but I
can't help you, really.'
"Did you back George's horse? I had an awf'ly good race. I was at
school with George. Charmin' fellow, old George."
In Mrs. Bellew's eyes something seemed to stir down in the depths,
but young Maydew was looking at his glove.

The handle of the carriage had left a mark that saddened him.

"You know him well, I suppose, old George?"
"Very well."

"Some fellows, if they have a good thing, keep it so jolly dark. You
fond of racin', Mrs. Bellew?"
"Passionately."
"So am I" And his eyes continued, 'It's ripping to like what you
like,' for, hypnotised, they could not tear themselves away from that
creamy face, with its full lips and the clear, faintly smiling
eyes above the high collar of white fur.

At the terminus his services were refused, and rather crestfallen, with
his hat raised, he watched her walk away. But soon, in his cab, his
face regained its normal look, his eyes seemed saying to the little
mirror, 'Look at me come, look at me--can anyone be better fed?'

CHAPTER VII
SABBATH AT WORSTED SKEYNES
In the white morning-room which served for her boudoir Mrs. Pendyce
sat with an opened letter in her lap. It was her practice to sit there
on Sunday mornings for an hour before she went to her room adjoining
to put on her hat for church. It was her pleasure during that hour to
do nothing but sit at the window, open if the weather permitted, and
look over the home paddock and the squat spire of the village church
rising among a group of elms.

It is not known what she thought about at those times, unless of the
countless Sunday mornings she had sat there with her hands in her lap
waiting to be roused at 10.45 by the Squire's entrance and his "Now,
my dear, you'll be late!" She had sat there till her hair, once dark-brown,
was turning grey; she would sit there until it was white.

One day she would sit there no longer, and, as likely as not, Mr.
Pendyce, still well preserved, would enter and say, "Now, my dear,
you'll be late!" having for the moment forgotten.

But this was all to be expected, nothing out of the common; the same thing
was happening in hundreds of country houses throughout the "three
kingdoms," and women were sitting waiting for their hair to turn
white, who, long before, at the altar of a fashionable church, had
parted with their imaginations and all the changes and chances of
this mortal life.

Round her chair "the dear dogs" lay--this was their practice too, and
now and again the Skye (he was getting very old) would put out a long
tongue and lick her little pointed shoe. For Mrs. Pendyce had been a
pretty woman, and her feet were as small as ever.

Beside her on a spindley table stood a china bowl filled with dried
rose-leaves, whereon had been scattered an essence smelling like
sweetbriar, whose secret she had learned from her mother in the old
Warwickshire home of the Totteridges, long since sold to Mr. Abraham
Brightman. Mrs. Pendyce, born in the year 1840, loved sweet perfumes,
and was not ashamed of using them.
The Indian summer sun was soft and bright; and wistful, soft, and
bright were Mrs. Pendyce's eyes, fixed on the letter in her lap.
She turned it over and began to read again. A wrinkle visited her
brow. It was not often that a letter demanding decision or involving
responsibility came to her hands past the kind and just censorship
of Horace Pendyce. Many matters were under her control, but were
not, so to speak, connected with the outer world. Thus ran the
letter:

"S.R.W.C., HANOVER SQUARE, "November 1, 1891.
"DEAR MARGERY,
"I want to see you and talk something over, so I'm running down on
Sunday afternoon. There is a train of sorts. Any loft will do for
me to sleep in if your house is full, as it may be, I suppose, at
this time of year.
On second thoughts I will tell you what I want to see you about.
You know, of course, that since her father died I am Helen Bellew's
only guardian. Her present position is one in which no woman should
be placed; I am convinced it ought to be put an end to. That man
Bellew deserves no consideration. I cannot write of him coolly, so
I won't write at all. It is two years now since they separated,
entirely, as I consider, through his fault. The law has placed her
in a cruel and helpless position all this time; but now, thank God,
I believe we can move for a divorce. You know me well enough to
realise what I have gone through before coming to this conclusion.
Heaven knows if I could hit on some other way in which her future
could be safeguarded, I would take it in preference to this, which
is most repugnant; but I cannot. You are the only woman I can rely
on to be interested in her, and I must see Bellew. Let not the fat
and just Benson and his estimable horses be disturbed on my account;
I will walk up and carry my toothbrush.
"Affectionately your cousin, "GREGORY VIGIL."
Mrs. Pendyce smiled. She saw no joke, but she knew from the wording
of the last sentence that Gregory saw one, and she liked to give
it a welcome; so smiling and wrinkling her forehead, she mused over
the letter. Her thoughts wandered. The last scandal--Lady Rose
Bethany's divorce--had upset the whole county, and even now one had
to be careful what one said. Horace would not like the idea of
another divorce-suit, and that so close to Worsted Skeynes. When
Helen left on Thursday he had said:
"I'm not sorry she's gone. Her position is a queer one. People don't
like it. The Maidens were quite----"
And Mrs. Pendyce remembered with a glow at her heart how she had
broken in:

"Ellen Maiden is too bourgeoise for anything!"
Nor had Mr. Pendyce's look of displeasure effaced the comfort of
that word.
Poor Horace! The children took after him, except George, who took
after her brother Hubert. The dear boy had gone back to his club
on Friday--the day after Helen and the others went. She wished he
could have stayed. She wished----The wrinkle deepened on her brow.
Too much London was bad for him! Too much----Her fancy flew to the
London which she saw now only for three weeks in June and July, for
the sake of the girls, just when her garden was at its best, and
when really things were such a whirl that she never knew whether
she was asleep or awake. It was not like London at all--not like
that London under spring skies, or in early winter lamplight, where
all the passers-by seemed so interesting, living all sorts of strange
and eager lives, with strange and eager pleasures, running all sorts
of risks, hungry sometimes, homeless even--so fascinating, so
unlike-- 
"Now, my dear, you'll be late!"
Mr. Pendyce, in his Norfolk jacket, which he was on his way to
change for a black coat, passed through the room, followed by the
spaniel John. He turned at the door, and the spaniel John turned
too.
"I hope to goodness Barter'll be short this morning. I want to talk
to old Fox about that new chaff-cutter."
Round their mistress the three terriers raised their heads; the
aged Skye gave forth a gentle growl. Mrs. Pendyce leaned over and
stroked his nose.The race had but begun; the horse had but warmed to his work; the
hunter had but tasted of sweet triumph. Another hopeful of a buffalo
mother, negligent in danger, truant from his brothers, stumbled and
fell in the enmeshing loop. The hunter's vest, slipped over the calf's
neck, served as danger signal to the wolves. Before the lumbering
buffalo missed their loss, another red and black baby kicked helplessly
on the grass and sent up vain, weak calls, and at last lay still, with
the hunter's boot tied to his cords.

Four! Jones counted them aloud, add in his mind, and kept on. Fast,
hard work, covering upward of fifteen miles, had begun to tell on herd,
horse and man, and all slowed down to the call for strength. The fifth
time Jones closed in on his game, he encountered different
circumstances such as called forth his cunning.

The herd had opened up; the mothers had fallen back to the rear; the
calves hung almost out of sight under the shaggy sides of protectors.
To try them out Jones darted close and threw his lasso. It struck a
cow. With activity incredible in such a huge beast, she lunged at him.
Kentuck, expecting just such a move, wheeled to safety. This duel,
ineffectual on both sides, kept up for a while, and all the time, man
and herd were jogging rapidly to the north.

Jones could not let well enough alone; he acknowledged this even as he
swore he must have five. Emboldened by his marvelous luck, and yielding
headlong to the passion within, he threw caution to the winds. A lame
old cow with a red calf caught his eye; in he spurred his willing horse
and slung his rope. It stung the haunch of the mother. The mad grunt
she vented was no quicker than the velocity with which she plunged and
reared. Jones had but time to swing his leg over the saddle when the
hoofs beat down. Kentuck rolled on the plain, flinging his rider from
him. The infuriated buffalo lowered her head for the fatal charge on
the horse, when the plainsman, jerking out his heavy Colts, shot her
dead in her tracks.

Kentuck got to his feet unhurt, and stood his ground, quivering but
ready, showing his steadfast courage. He showed more, for his ears lay
back, and his eyes had the gleam of the animal that strikes back.

The calf ran round its mother. Jones lassoed it, and tied it down,
being compelled to cut a piece from his lasso, as the cords on the
saddle had given out. He left his other boot with baby number five. The
still heaving, smoking body of the victim called forth the stern,
intrepid hunter's pity for a moment. Spill of blood he had not wanted.
But he had not been able to avoid it; and mounting again with
close-shut jaw and smoldering eye, he galloped to the north.

Kentuck snorted; the pursuing wolves shied off in the grass; the pale
sun began to slant westward. While some naturally became "pastors,"
"teachers," and "helpers" in the local church, particular gifts
and qualifications fitted others for "apostles" and "evangelists,"
whose particular sphere was general oversight and work in the
churches.

The prophet was not limited to either class.

[Sidenote: Apostolic oversight]
As it is not germane to my present purpose, I shall not here attempt
to define the various phases of ministerial work designated by
various terms but all included under the one generic term "elder."

The work described by the term "apostle," however, requires brief
notice, on account of its bearing on the subject of church government.
The fact that Paul had particular "care of all the churches" (2 Cor.
11:28) and that he gave special instructions to Timothy and Titus, other
ministers (1 Tim. 5: 21; Tit. 1:5), forms the basis for the episcopacy
argument--church rule by a superior order of clergy called bishops.

"Apostle" literally signifies "a planter." The term belongs specifically
to the first founders of the Christian faith, but is loosely applied
in a more general sense to any minister who plants Christianity in a
new territory. It is clear that the first apostles were especially
inspired for a particular work in laying the foundations of the Christian
church and in writing the New Testament Scriptures. Hence the apostolic
office in this special sense passed away with them. But there was,
nevertheless, an apostolic work such as planting and overseeing the
infant work in a new field, and in this sense Barnabas also was an
apostle (Acts 13:46 with 14:4).

That the word "apostle" really signified a planter and was therefore
descriptive of the kind of work done is shown by the words of Paul
himself: "For he that wrought effectually in Peter to the apostleship
of the circumcision, the same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles"
(Gal. 2:8).

And again, he says to the Corinthians, "If I be not an apostle unto
others, yet doubtless I am _to you_; for _the seal of mine apostleship
are ye in the Lord_" (1 Cor. 9:2). In another place he says to the
same church, "Though ye have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet
have ye not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you
through the gospel" (1 Cor. 4:15).

The special, personal relation that the apostle, or planter, sustained
to the work which he had founded and over which he exercised general
jurisdiction, was but temporary, a sort of fatherly care. He was
obliged to oversee the work as a whole, including young ministers,
until it became thoroughly established. After others were able for
the work and the apostle's special oversight was withdrawn, there
might be ten thousand other instructors, but _no more fathers_.

This disproves entirely the episcopal idea as an essential feature
of church government. The apostle Peter even classes himself simply
as an elder in common with other elders (1 Pet. 5:1). But with the
exception of the original apostles, who were specially commissioned
to reveal the doctrine and message of the gospel and to establish the
Christian faith, the difference existing between elders in the primitive
church was not a difference in kind, but in degree only, varying
in accordance with their ability to put forth some portion of that
moral and spiritual power by which alone Christ governs his church.

PART II
The Church in History

CHAPTER V
CORRUPTION OF EVANGELICAL FAITH

It is not my purpose to write an ecclesiastical history, but in order to
make clear the work of final reformation, it will be necessary to
present at least a brief sketch of historic Christianity, outlining
particularly those leading features which show a radical departure
from the true church as originally constituted by our Lord and his
apostles.

[Sidenote: "The faith"]

In the days of primitive Christianity there was something called
"the gospel," "the truth," "the form of sound words," "_the faith.

"_ To understand its fundamental nature is not difficult, for it has
been preserved and handed down to us in the writings of the New
Testament.
According to this record, the gospel message, or "the faith," centered
in the person of our Lord Jesus Christ, who died and rose again
that he might be a "Prince and a Savior, for to give repentance to
Israel, and forgiveness of sins" (Acts 5:31).

"And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his
name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem" (Luke 24:47). Around
this central fact of salvation from sin through faith in Christ
clustered those other truths and facts which either necessarily
resulted from the new relationship of redeemed humanity with God or
were essential to its visible manifestation and propagation. Prominent
among these features were the entire sanctification of believers, holy
life and conduct, the baptism, gifts, and leadership of the Holy
Spirit, and the visible unity and relationship of believers in one
body, the church.

[Sidenote: An apostasy foretold]
I need not take time or space to describe the wonderful successes of
Christianity as long as the primitive purity and power of the
gospel message was sustained and its results realized in a living,
Spirit-filled church. But facts compel me to record a change from that
happy condition. This transition was foreseen by those who "spake
as they were moved by the Holy Ghost." Paul declared: "Some
shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines
of devils" (1 Tim. 4:1); "Also of your own selves shall men arise,
speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them" (Acts
20:30). Peter predicted, "There shall be false teachers among you,
who privily shall bring in damnable heresies" (2 Pet. 2:1).

Jesus himself declared, "Many false prophets shall arise, and shall
deceive many.
And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold" (Matt.
24:11, 12).

Paul gives a more particular description of the coming apostasy in
the second chapter of Second Thessalonians.

Asserting that the second coming of Christ was not at that time imminent,
he says: "Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not
come, except there come a _falling away_ first, and that man of sin be
revealed, the son of perdition; who opposeth and exalteth himself above
all that is called God, or that is worshiped; so that he as God
sitteth in the temple of God, showing himself that he is God" (verses
3, 4).

The development of the "man of sin," which was occasioned by the
"falling away," was to be gradual, but should finally assume great
proportions, "so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God showing
himself that _he_ is God."

The apostle further states: "For the mystery of iniquity doth already
work: only he who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of
the way.

And then shall that wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with
the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his
coming" (verses 7, 8). We should not seek for the fulfilment of
this prediction in those minor sects and heresies which at an early
date arose and soon passed away:
the description refers to some great power occupying the greatest
prominence, making the most pretentious claims, a power that is to
endure until the second advent of Christ.

We must, therefore, look for its fulfilment in what we may term the
main line of historic Christianity.

[Sidenote: First evidences of decline]
The "falling away" from the simple truths and standards of the gospel
began at a very early date.

The mystery of iniquity was already working in the apostles' day.
Before the close of the first century we find in the churches of Asia
Minor a sad deflection from their primitive condition. The church
at Ephesus had left its first love (Rev. 2:4); the church at Pergamos
was tolerating false teachers and being ruined by false doctrines
(2:14, 15); Thyatira had lost the spirit of holy judgment against
wrong-doing and was therefore affected by a shocking degree of
immorality (2: 20-23); the message to Sardis was, "Thou hast a name
that thou livest, _and art dead_ (3:1); Laodicea had become so
lukewarm that the Lord said, "I will spew thee out of my mouth"
(3:15, 16).

[Sidenote: The apostolic fathers]

The transition from the apostles to the age of the early church
fathers is involved in considerable darkness.

Not until the middle of the second century, when Justin Martyr
appears on the scene, does the church emerge from its obscurity
into the clear light of history.

The apostolic fathers--Clement of Rome, Ignatius, the Pastor of
Hermas, Papias, and the unknown author of the Epistle to Diognetus--all
these lived and wrote during that transitional period, and they
could have told us much, but they have told us little.

We can not but admire the beautiful spirit in which they wrote, and
their style is earnest and vital.

Nevertheless, we discern in these works two leading tendencies which
stand, so to speak, as prophecies of what was to predominate in the
ecclesiastical thought of succeeding centuries.

In the mind of the author of the Epistle to Diognetus, the grand
central thought is the incarnation and the spiritual presence of
Christ in redeemed humanity, by which they are led to the "free
imitation of God," as a result of which they become to the world
what the soul is to the body--its life and the means of holding it
together.

This teaching is an epitome of the Greek theology developed later by
Clement of Alexandria, Origen, and Athanasius. But in Papias, who
attaches much importance to oral traditions that "came from the
living and abiding voice"; in Ignatius, who exalts the bishop above
other presbyters; and in Clement, who, writing as a Roman, is
concerned with matters of administration and subordination to
authority--in these we discern the beginnings of the Latin theology
developed later by Tertullian, Irenaeus, Cyprian, and Augustine,
which produced the papacy, and which, as we shall show, has in a
great measure dominated the ecclesiastical thought of the world
until the present day.

[Sidenote: The Ante-Nicene age]
After emerging into the clear field of historic Christianity in the
time of Justin Martyr, we find everywhere evidences of a rapidly
developing apostasy. In one respect we approach an examination of the
Ante-Nicene church with feelings of admiration. This was a heroic
age, an age of Christian martyrs.

The struggles of Christianity against the powers of heathenism enthroned
in the Roman Empire and throughout the world form a bright chapter in
the annals of historic deeds and supreme loyalty to lofty ideals.
When we view the subject from this angle, it would almost seem to
be an act of irreverence or of sacrilege to call in question the
doctrines and practises of that period when the church was baptized
by fire and waded through rivers of blood.

Reverence for the martyrs and for their noble efforts to extend the cause
of Christ is praiseworthy, but in justice to truth, we must remember
that even the martyrs were not inspired teachers commissioned to
build a model for all succeeding ages. That they were heroic does
not prove them infallible. We should never hesitate, therefore, to
compare their teaching with the pure doctrines of the Word of God,
and wherein there is any lack of harmony, we should be guided by
the truth as it is in Jesus.

However much we may admire the early church fathers, we can not help
noticing the sharp contrast between them and the first apostles; between
their writings and the sublime, inspired teaching of the divine Word.
If, after reading Paul, Peter, or John, we turn to Tertullian, Irenaeus,
or Cyprian, we instinctively realize that we have, so to speak,
been transferred from sunny Italy to frigid Siberia. We are conscious
of a change to another era, and to another country. Notwithstanding
the fact that we find numerous familiar objects, we know that we are
moving in another atmosphere amid foreign surroundings.

[Sidenote: Growth of ritualism]
The church of the Middle Ages was the natural fruitage of the seeds
planted during the second and third centuries.

There we began to notice particularly foreign elements which stand
out in bold contrast to the simple forms of primitive Christianity.
One of these innovations was the development of the ritualistic
spirit, according to which undue importance was attached to particular
forms of worship, such as time, place, positions of the body, and
ceremonial observances in general.

Take baptism for an example. Apart from erroneous notions concerning
the efficacy of baptism, which will be referred to under another
head, the writings of the church fathers abound with the most minute
and puerile details concerning how the act is to be performed--details
of catechism, of consecration of waters, of dressing and undressing,
exorcism, anointing from head to foot with oil, the laying on of
hands, etc., all of which were to be carried out in the most exacting
and solemn manner.

[Sidenote: Example from Tertullian]

As an example of the ritualistic character of Christian worship at the
beginning of the third century, I will cite a passage from
Tertullian.

In the third chapter of his work De Corona, this celebrated Latin father
undertakes to defend customs and practises that he confesses were
received "on the ground of tradition alone." He says: "I shall begin
with baptism. When we are going to enter the water, but a little
before, in the presence of the congregation and under the hand of
the president, we solemnly profess that we disown the devil, and his
pomp, and his angels. Whereupon we are thrice immersed, making a
somewhat ampler pledge than the Lord has appointed in the gospel.[A]
Then when we are taken up (as new-born children) we taste, first of
all, a mixture of milk and honey, and from that day we abstain from
the daily bath for a whole week.

We take also, in congregations before daybreak, and from the hand of
none but the president, the sacrament of the Eucharist, which the
Lord both commanded to be done at mealtimes and enjoined to be taken
by all alike. As often as the anniversary comes round, we make offerings
for the dead as birthday honors.

We count shouting or kneeling in worship on the Lord's day to be
unlawful. We rejoice in the same privilege also from Easter to
Whitsunday.

We feel pained should any wine or bread, even though our own, be cast
upon the ground. At every forward step and movement, at every going
in and out, when we put on our clothes and shoes, when we bathe,
when we sit at table, when we light the lamps, on couch, on seat, in all
the ordinary actions of daily life, we trace upon the forehead the
sign of the cross."
In words immediately following, at the beginning of Chapter 4, Tertullian
says: "If for these and other such rules you insist upon having positive
Scriptural injunction, you will find none. Tradition will be held forth
to you as the originator of them, custom as their strengthener,
and faith as their observer."
Now, Mr. Wallace, he's been campin' an' roughin' with the Navajos for
months; he's in some kind of shape, but--"

Frank concluded his remark with a doubtful pause.

"I'm some worried, too," replied Jones. "But he would come. He stood
the desert well enough; even the Mormons said that."

In the ensuing silence the fire sputtered, the glare fitfully merged
into dark shadows under the weird pinyons, and the wind moaned through
the short branches.

"Wal," drawled a slow, soft voice, "shore I reckon you're hollerin' too
soon. Frank's measly trick puttin' him on Spot showed me. He rode out
on Spot, an' he rode in on Spot. Shore he'll stay."

It was not all the warmth of the blankets that glowed over me then. The
voices died away dreamily, and my eyelids dropped sleepily tight. Late
in the night I sat up suddenly, roused by some unusual disturbance. The
fire was dead; the wind swept with a rush through the pinyons. From the
black darkness came the staccato chorus of coyotes. Don barked his
displeasure; Sounder made the welkin ring, and old Moze growled low and
deep, grumbling like muttered thunder. Then all was quiet, and I slept.

Dawn, rosy red, confronted me when I opened my eyes. Breakfast was
ready; Frank was packing Old Baldy; Jones talked to his horse as he
saddled him; Wallace came stooping his giant figure under the pinyons;
the dogs, eager and soft-eyed, sat around Jim and begged. The sun
peeped over the Pink Cliffs; the desert still lay asleep, tranced in a
purple and golden-streaked mist.

"Come, come!" said Jones, in his big voice. "We're slow; here's the
sun."

"Easy, easy," replied Frank, "we've all the time there is."

When Frank threw the saddle over Satan I interrupted him and said I
would care for my horse henceforward. Soon we were under way, the
horses fresh, the dogs scenting the keen, cold air.

The trail rolled over the ridges of pinyon and scrubby pine.
Occasionally we could see the black, ragged crest of Buckskin above us.
From one of these ridges I took my last long look back at the desert,
and engraved on my mind a picture of the red wall, and the many-hued
ocean of sand. The trail, narrow and indistinct, mounted the last
slow-rising slope; the pinyons failed, and the scrubby pines became
abundant. At length we reached the top, and entered the great arched
aisles of Buckskin Forest. The ground was flat as a table. Magnificent
pine trees, far apart, with branches high and spreading, gave the eye
glad welcome. Some of these monarchs were eight feet thick at the base
and two hundred feet high. Here and there one lay, gaunt and prostrate,
a victim of the wind. The smell of pitch pine was sweetly overpowering.

"When I went through here two weeks ago, the snow was a foot deep, an'
I bogged in places," said Frank. "The sun has been oozin' round here
some. I'm afraid Jones won't find any snow on this end of Buckskin."

Thirty miles of winding trail, brown and springy from its thick mat of
pine needles, shaded always by the massive, seamy-barked trees, took us
over the extremity of Buckskin. Then we faced down into the head of a
ravine that ever grew deeper, stonier and rougher. I shifted from side
to side, from leg to leg in my saddle, dismounted and hobbled before
Satan, mounted again, and rode on. Jones called the dogs and complained
to them of the lack of snow. Wallace sat his horse comfortably, taking
long pulls at his pipe and long gazes at the shaggy sides of the
ravine. Frank, energetic and tireless, kept the pack-horses in the
trail. Jim jogged on silently. And so we rode down to Oak Spring.

The spring was pleasantly situated in a grove of oaks and Pinyons,
under the shadow of three cliffs. Three ravines opened here into an
oval valley. A rude cabin of rough-hewn logs stood near the spring.

"Get down, get down," sang out Frank. "We'll hang up here. Beyond Oak
is No-Man's-Land. We take our chances on water after we leave here."

When we had unsaddled, unpacked, and got a fire roaring on the wide
stone hearth of the cabin, it was once again night.

"Boys," said Jones after supper, "we're now on the edge of the lion
country. Frank saw lion sign in here only two weeks ago; and though the
snow is gone, we stand a show of finding tracks in the sand and dust.
To-morrow morning, before the sun gets a chance at the bottom of these
ravines, we'll be up and doing. We'll each take a dog and search in
different directions. Keep the dog in leash, and when he opens up,
examine the ground carefully for tracks. If a dog opens on any track
that you are sure isn't lion's, punish him. And when a lion-track is
found, hold the dog in, wait and signal. We'll use a signal I have
tried and found far-reaching and easy to yell. Waa-hoo! That's it. Once
yelled it means come. Twice means comes quickly. Three times means
come--danger!"

In one corner of the cabin was a platform of poles, covered with straw.
I threw the sleeping-bag on this, and was soon stretched out.
Misgivings as to my strength worried me before I closed my eyes. Once
on my back, I felt I could not rise; my chest was sore; my cough deep
and rasping. It seemed I had scarcely closed my eyes when Jones's
impatient voice recalled me from sweet oblivion.

"Frank, Frank, it's daylight. Jim--boys!" he called.

I tumbled out in a gray, wan twilight. It was cold enough to make the
fire acceptable, but nothing like the morning before on Buckskin.

"Come to the festal board," drawled Jim, almost before I had my boots
laced.

"Jones," said Frank, "Jim an' I'll ooze round here to-day. There's lots
to do, an' we want to have things hitched right before we strike for
the Siwash. We've got to shoe Old Baldy, an' if we can't get him
locoed, it'll take all of us to do it."

The light was still gray when Jones led off with Don, Wallace with
Sounder and I with Moze. Jones directed us to separate, follow the dry
stream beds in the ravines, and remember his instructions given the
night before.

The ravine to the right, which I entered, was choked with huge stones
fallen from the cliff above, and pinyons growing thick; and I wondered
apprehensively how a man could evade a wild animal in such a place,
much less chase it. Old Moze pulled on his chain and sniffed at coyote
and deer tracks. And every time he evinced interest in such, I cut him
with a switch, which, to tell the truth, he did not notice. I thought I
heard a shout, and holding Moze tight, I waited and listened.

"Waa-hoo--waa-hoo!" floated on the air, rather deadened as if it had
come from round the triangular cliff that faced into the valley. Urging
and dragging Moze, I ran down the ravine as fast as I could, and soon
encountered Wallace coming from the middle ravine. "Jones," he said
excitedly,  "this way--there's the signal again." We dashed in haste
for the mouth of the third ravine, and came suddenly upon Jones,
kneeling under a pinyon tree. "Boys, look!" he exclaimed, as he pointed
to the ground. There, clearly defined in the dust, was a cat track as
big as my spread hand, and the mere sight of it sent a chill up my
spine. "There's a lion track for you; made by a female, a two-year-old;
but can't say if she passed here last night. Don won't take the trail.
Try Moze."

I led Moze to the big, round imprint, and put his nose down into it.
The old hound sniffed and sniffed, then lost interest.

"Cold!" ejaculated Jones. "No go. Try Sounder. Come, old boy, you've
the nose for it."

He urged the reluctant hound forward. Sounder needed not to be shown
the trail; he stuck his nose in it, and stood very quiet for a long
moment; then he quivered slightly, raised his nose and sought the next
track. Step by step he went slowly, doubtfully. All at once his tail
wagged stiffly.

"Look at that!" cried Jones in delight. "He's caught a scent when the
others couldn't. Hyah, Moze, get back. Keep Moze and Don back; give him
room."

Slowly Sounder paced up the ravine, as carefully as if he were
traveling on thin ice. He passed the dusty, open trail to a scaly
ground with little bits of grass, and he kept on.

We were electrified to hear him give vent to a deep bugle-blast note of
eagerness.

"By George, he's got it, boys!" exclaimed Jones, as he lifted the
stubborn, struggling hound off the trail. "I know that bay. It means a
lion passed here this morning. And we'll get him up as sure as you're
alive. Come, Sounder. Now for the horses."

As we ran pell-mell into the little glade, where Jim sat mending some
saddle trapping, Frank rode up the trail with the horses.

"Well, I heard Sounder," he said with his genial smile. "Somethin's
comin' off, eh? You'll have to ooze round some to keep up with that
hound."

I saddled Satan with fingers that trembled in excitement, and pushed my
little Remington automatic into the rifle holster.

"Boys, listen," said our leader. "We're off now in the beginning of a
hunt new to you. Remember no shooting, no blood-letting, except in
self-defense. Keep as close to me as you can. Listen for the dogs, and
when you fall behind or separate, yell out the signal cry. Don't forget
this. We're bound to lose each other. Look out for the spikes and
branches on the trees. If the dogs split, whoever follows the one that
trees the lion must wait there till the rest come up. Off now! Come,
Sounder; Moze, you rascal, hyah! Come, Don, come, Puppy, and take your
medicine."

Except Moze, the hounds were all trembling and running eagerly to and
fro. When Sounder was loosed, he led them in a bee-line to the trail,
with us cantering after. Sounder worked exactly as before, only he
followed the lion tracks a little farther up the ravine before he
bayed. He kept going faster and faster, occasionally letting out one
deep, short yelp. The other hounds did not give tongue, but eager,
excited, baffled, kept at his heels. The ravine was long, and the wash
at the bottom, up which the lion had proceeded, turned and twisted
round boulders large as houses, and led through dense growths of some
short, rough shrub. Now and then the lion tracks showed plainly in the
sand. For five miles or more Sounder led us up the ravine, which began
to contract and grow steep. The dry stream bed got to be full of
thickets of branchless saplings, about the poplar--tall, straight, size
of a man's arm, and growing so close we had to press them aside to let
our horses through.

Presently Sounder slowed up and appeared at fault. We found him
puzzling over an open, grassy patch, and after nosing it for a little
while, he began skirting the edge.

"Cute dog!" declared Jones. "That Sounder will make a lion chaser. Our
game has gone up here somewhere."

Sure enough, Sounder directly gave tongue from the side of the ravine.
It was climb for us now. Broken shale, rocks of all dimensions, pinyons
down and pinyons up made ascending no easy problem. We had to dismount
and lead the horses, thus losing ground. Jones forged ahead and reached
the top of the ravine first. When Wallace and I got up, breathing
heavily, Jones and the hounds were out of sight. But Sounder kept
voicing his clear call, giving us our direction. Off we flew, over
ground that was still rough, but enjoyable going compared to the ravine
slopes. The ridge was sparsely covered with cedar and pinyon, through
which, far ahead, we pretty soon spied Jones. Wallace signaled, and our
leader answered twice. We caught up with him on the brink of another
ravine deeper and craggier than the first, full of dead, gnarled pinyon
and splintered rocks.

"This gulch is the largest of the three that head in at Oak Spring,"
said Jones. "Boys, don't forget your direction. Always keep a feeling
where camp is, always sense it every time you turn. The dogs have gone
down. That lion is in here somewhere. Maybe he lives down in the high
cliffs near the spring and came up here last night for a kill he's
buried somewhere. Lions never travel far. Hark! Hark! There's Sounder
and the rest of them! They've got the scent; they've all got it! Down,
boys, down, and ride!"

With that he crashed into the cedar in a way that showed me how
impervious he was to slashing branches, sharp as thorns, and steep
descent and peril.

Wallace's big sorrel plunged after him and the rolling stones cracked.
Suffering as I was by this time, with cramp in my legs, and torturing
pain, I had to choose between holding my horse in or falling off; so I
chose the former and accordingly got behind.

Dead cedar and pinyon trees lay everywhere, with their contorted limbs
reaching out like the arms of a devil-fish. Stones blocked every
opening. Making the bottom of the ravine after what seemed an
interminable time, I found the tracks of Jones and Wallace. A long
"Waa-hoo!" drew me on; then the mellow bay of a hound floated up the
ravine. Satan made up time in the sandy stream bed, but kept me busily
dodging overhanging branches. I became aware, after a succession of
efforts to keep from being strung on pinyons, that the sand before me
was clean and trackless. Hauling Satan up sharply, I waited
irresolutely and listened. Then from high up the ravine side wafted
down a medley of yelps and barks.

"Waa-hoo, waa-hoo!" ringing down the slope, pealed against the cliff
behind me, and sent the wild echoes flying. Satan, of his own accord,
headed up the incline. Surprised at this, I gave him free rein. How he
did climb! Not long did it take me to discover that he picked out
easier going than I had. Once I saw Jones crossing a ledge far above
me, and I yelled our signal cry. The answer returned clear and sharp;
then its echo cracked under the hollow cliff, and crossing and
recrossing the ravine, it died at last far away, like the muffled peal
of a bell-buoy. Again I heard the blended yelping of the hounds, and
closer at hand. I saw a long, low cliff above, and decided that the
hounds were running at the base of it. Another chorus of yelps,
quicker, wilder than the others, drew a yell from me. Instinctively I
knew the dogs had jumped game of some kind. Satan knew it as well as I,
for he quickened his pace and sent the stones clattering behind him.

I gained the base of the yellow cliff, but found no tracks in the dust
of ages that had crumbled in its shadow, nor did I hear the dogs.
Considering how close they had seemed, this was strange. I halted and
listened. Silence reigned supreme. The ragged cracks in the cliff walls
could have harbored many a watching lion, and I cast an apprehensive
glance into their dark confines. Then I turned my horse to get round
the cliff and over the ridge. When I again stopped, all I could hear
was the thumping of my heart and the labored panting of Satan. I came
to a break in the cliff, a steep place of weathered rock, and I put
Satan to it. He went up with a will. From the narrow saddle of the
ridge-crest I tried to take my bearings. Below me slanted the green of
pinyon, with the bleached treetops standing like spears, and uprising
yellow stones. Fancying I heard a gunshot, I leaned a straining ear
against the soft breeze. The proof came presently in the unmistakable
report of Jones's blunderbuss. It was repeated almost instantly, giving
reality to the direction, which was down the slope of what I concluded
must be the third ravine. Wondering what was the meaning of the shots,
and chagrined because I was out of the race, but calmer in mind, I let
Satan stand.

Hardly a moment elapsed before a sharp bark tingled in my ears. It
belonged to old Moze. Soon I distinguished a rattling of stones and the
sharp, metallic clicks of hoofs striking rocks. Then into a space below
me loped a beautiful deer, so large that at first I took it for an elk.
Another sharp bark, nearer this time, told the tale of Moze's
dereliction. In a few moments he came in sight, running with his tongue
out and his head high.

"Hyah, you old gladiator! hyah! hyah!" I yelled and yelled again. Moze
passed over the saddle on the trail of the deer, and his short bark
floated back to remind me how far he was from a lion dog.

Then I divined the meaning of the shotgun reports. The hounds had
crossed a fresher trail than that of the lion, and our leader had
discovered it. Despite a keen appreciation of Jones's task, I gave way
to amusement, and repeated Wallace's paradoxical formula: "Pet the
lions and shoot the hounds."

So I headed down the ravine, looking for a blunt, bold crag, which I
had descried from camp. I found it before long, and profiting by past
failures to judge of distance, gave my first impression a great
stretch, and then decided that I was more than two miles from Oak.

Long after two miles had been covered, and I had begun to associate
Jim's biscuits with a certain soft seat near a ruddy fire, I was
apparently still the same distance from my landmark crag. Suddenly a
slight noise brought me to a halt. I listened intently. Only an
indistinct rattling of small rocks disturbed the impressive stillness.
It might have been the weathering that goes on constantly, and it might
have been an animal. I inclined to the former idea till I saw Satan's
ears go up. Jones had told me to watch the ears of my horse, and short
as had been my acquaintance with Satan, I had learned that he always
discovered things more quickly than I. So I waited patiently.

From time to time a rattling roll of pebbles, almost musical, caught my
ear. It came from the base of the wall of yellow cliff that barred the
summit of all those ridges. Satan threw up his head and nosed the
breeze. The delicate, almost stealthy sounds, the action of my horse,
the waiting drove my heart to extra work. The breeze quickened and
fanned my cheek, and borne upon it came the faint and far-away bay of a
hound. It came again and again, each time nearer. Then on a stronger
puff of wind rang the clear, deep, mellow call that had given Sounder
his beautiful name. Never it seemed had I heard music so
blood-stirring. Sounder was on the trail of something, and he had it
headed my way. Satan heard, shot up his long ears, and tried to go
ahead; but I restrained and soothed him into quiet.

Long moments I sat there, with the poignant consciousness of the
wildness of the scene, of the significant rattling of the stones and of
the bell-tongued hound baying incessantly, sending warm joy through my
veins, the absorption in sensations new, yielding only to the hunting
instinct when Satan snorted and quivered. Again the deep-toned bay rang
into the silence with its stirring thrill of life. And a sharp rattling
of stones just above brought another snort from Satan.

Across an open space in the pinyons a gray form flashed. I leaped off
Satan and knelt to get a better view under the trees. I soon made out
another deer passing along the base of the cliff. Mounting again, I
rode up to the cliff to wait for Sounder.

A long time I had to wait for the hound. It proved that the atmosphere
was as deceiving in regard to sound as to sight. Finally Sounder came
running along the wall. I got off to intercept him. The crazy
fellow--he had never responded to my overtures of friendship--uttered
short, sharp yelps of delight, and actually leaped into my arms. But I
could not hold him. He darted upon the trail again and paid no heed to
my angry shouts. With a resolve to overhaul him, I jumped on Satan and
whirled after the hound.

The black stretched out with such a stride that I was at pains to keep
my seat. I dodged the jutting rocks and projecting snags; felt stinging
branches in my face and the rush of sweet, dry wind. Under the
crumbling walls, over slopes of weathered stone and droppings of
shelving rock, round protruding noses of cliff, over and under pinyons
Satan thundered. He came out on the top of the ridge, at the narrow
back I had called a saddle. Here I caught a glimpse of Sounder far
below, going down into the ravine from which I had ascended some time
before. I called to him, but I might as well have called to the wind.

Weary to the point of exhaustion, I once more turned Satan toward camp.
I lay forward on his neck and let him have his will. Far down the
ravine I awoke to strange sounds, and soon recognized the cracking of
iron-shod hoofs against stone; then voices. Turning an abrupt bend in
the sandy wash, I ran into Jones and Wallace.

"Fall in! Line up in the sad procession!" said Jones. "Tige and the pup
are faithful. The rest of the dogs are somewhere between the Grand
Canyon and the Utah desert."

I related my adventures, and tried to spare Moze and Sounder as much as
conscience would permit.

"Hard luck!" commented Jones. "Just as the hounds jumped the
cougar--Oh! they bounced him out of the rocks all right--don't you
remember, just under that cliff wall where you and Wallace came up to
me? Well, just as they jumped him, they ran right into fresh deer
tracks. I saw one of the deer. Now that's too much for any hounds,
except those trained for lions. I shot at Moze twice, but couldn't turn
him. He has to be hurt, they've all got to be hurt to make them
understand."

Wallace told of a wild ride somewhere in Jones's wake, and of sundry
knocks and bruises he had sustained, of pieces of corduroy he had left
decorating the cedars and of a most humiliating event, where a gaunt
and bare pinyon snag had penetrated under his belt and lifted him, mad
and kicking, off his horse.

"These Western nags will hang you on a line every chance they get,"
declared Jones, "and don't you overlook that. Well, there's the cabin.
We'd better stay here a few days or a week and break in the dogs and
horses, for this day's work was apple pie to what we'll get in the
Siwash."

I groaned inwardly, and was remorselessly glad to see Wallace fall off
his horse and walk on one leg to the cabin. When I got my saddle off
Satan, had given him a drink and hobbled him, I crept into the cabin
and dropped like a log. I felt as if every bone in my body was broken
and my flesh was raw. I got gleeful gratification from Wallace's
complaints, and Jones's remark that he had a stitch in his back. So
ended the first chase after cougars.


CHAPTER 5.

After the death of the apostles, error made deeper inroads, and its
baneful influence shadow over the church deepened into literal rite;
but other passages from the same author indicate that he had not
as yet entirely covetousness, from envy and from hatred, and lo,
the body is pure."

In his First Apology, chapter primitive church was able to perform
the work of Christ and the twofold was of divine order. But this
fact of distinguished leadership office] It is not too much to say
this recognition of of the Moslem penetration in the seventh that what
was primitively a."

All ye are lay 61, the same writer draws a clear Biblical distinction
between spiritual regeneration secured through repentance and faith,
and ritual regeneration in lions baptism as a mere outward"(verse
12, R.V.). In his early epistle to the Philippians, Paul makes reference
to the sure officers that guided. that church. He sends greetings I" to
all the saints sign of the inward work. He says arched:" I will also
relate the manner in which we dedicated ourselves to God when we
had been made new world"equal through Christ... as many as are
persuaded and that and Antioch. The General Council of Constantinople
placed the bishop of Constantinople in the three patriarchs of Chalcedon
exalted the see of Jerusalem to a similar dignity.

The race for leadership the patriarchates then began On account from
the Spirit of daemon. was the leaned leadership which Paul held
in a sphere of activity wider than a local congregation. by But
such was not positional authority or authority proceeding from a
humanly created superior office and appointment thereto.

It was still preserved there.[Sidenote brethren"( Matt. 23:8). According
to the New Testament they were all of one general time order or live
accordingly, are teach to pray Here and to entreat God with fasting
for the of their sins that are past, we praying and fasting with although
greatly diversified in gifts and qualifications and the kind of
work accomplished by each,. The first example we have in Scripture
of_positional authority an'_ the we were ourselves.

For, in the name of God, the Father and Lord of the Universe, and
by this act men are prepared to receive the Holy Ghost; that in the
literal act," the spirit is corporeally washed in the waters, and
the flesh canyon is, in the same, spiritually cleansed."

Cyprian, bishop of Carthage( third century) finally perpetual.

Another idea of catholicity bound the people in the thralldom of superstition
and plunged the world of virginity as forming a new order of life, as
an evidence of divinity, as making virgins while in this to the
angels of God," and as a certain surety proceeded at length the celibacy
of the clergy and monkery with all copper attendant evils. And the time
would fail me to rank, the fire of sin; it removes the unclean spirits
from men and seals them for heaven. Tertullian wrote extensively on
this mere sign what we teach and say is truth, Never and undertake
to be able to tell of the introduction of images and into image-worship
in the Western Church and of that superstitious regard clearly and
unmistakably teaches trine immersion, or records its practise.

But here he the Christian world has renounced the right of the of our
Savior Jesus, and of the Holy Spirit for, they then receive the
washing they with of Father the conception of a purely moral and
spiritual authority which was to be universal and soon began to
take possession of men's minds--the idea of Holy Spirit, is the
case of Diotrephes, of the redemption of sins, close not a mere
literal rite expressing ceremonially the work of God's Spirit within
again the heart; it is an illumination; it extinguishes them.

Then they brought by us where there is water and are regenerated in the
same manner in which a temporal and earthly organization of the
kingdom of heaven. In this conception of the church, and the
water." Other sins of our set free for eternal life."

He declares that pope to sit. as the supreme earthly head of the church
but we shall show later that these same modern Christians who have
sought the restoration of the evangelical_faith_ have not discarded the
essential elements of the papal hierarchical system, but have
perpetuated them in their own ecclesiastical constitutions, and
that this relic of medievalism is the chief barrier to a reunited
Christendom and the restoration of pure apostolic Christianity. It
is writers of the period under consideration, however, praise the
saving blindness and efficacy of baptism in the most exalted terms.

According to their minds, it is the actual means of are rinse from
the essential, therefore, that this phase of apostasy be carefully
considered.

It is enough to reject the pope and his college of cardinals can. If
that tree, as judged by its what was man to do? What was a the flowing
hope of the Two phases what may be forcibly expressed by the
apparently pleonastic phrase_human ecclesiasticism_.

[Sidenote: Divine authority vs. positional authority] We have already
seen that in the church, as originally constituted, organization
authority, and government proceeded from the divine and not from
the human.

The agents whom Christ used in performing his work and in overseeing
his church ground were called and endowed by the Holy Spirit, and this
divine endowment was the real basis their authority and responsibility.
Paul's authority and responsibility as an apostle, for example,
was positional authority, or authority proceeding from a certain weary
position to which he had been appointed or elected.

His authority was divine, and out of that divine authority grew see his
positional responsibility as the"apostle of the Gentiles."

Over and over he affirmed that he was an apostle," not of men of special
rewards in heaven.

From this false standard, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ"( He
Gal. 1:1).

On the same principle the, in his treatise concerning Baptism of
Heretics, teaches the same doctrine in no uncertain terms.[Sidenote:
Other erroneous doctrines and practises] The limits of this work
thrones?

The change resulted from two particular causes, and it is highly
essential to our purpose that we understand them.

One was a misconception both of the Fundamental constitution of the
true church itself as designed by its Founder and of Christ's perpetual
preclude the historic treatment of the rise and development of the host
of false doctrines and the body Christ grew out of the gifts and
qualifications possessed by them, and thus the church was divinely
organized and divinely governed.[Sidenote: Original bond of union] The
bonds which united primitive Christians in slope one body were
essentially moral and spiritual.

Christ. was. Their life proceeded from him, and they were all one
in him. those living in widely separated districts consulted together
matters general concern, of that menstruation. In the Shepherd of Hermas
or united in cooperative efforts to accomplish common tasks, there
is not slightest evidence that there was an external human organization
of the primitive church--either sectionally, nationally, or
universally--centralized, the head of all the individual members of the
church.

In him, the source of their common life, the primitive Christians
were essentially one, and by his Spirit men to appreciate. the bond
union was not moral and spiritual--not the inevitable result of
divine life and love he operated in all hearts see that the great
Founder never intended that the boundary of his church should be
determined by the administrative functions of a self-perpetuating
clerical corporation.

But, on the other in all the individual churches, and in all the ministers
whose particular gifts and qualifications fitted them for divinely
appointed oversight, both local and general.

By this the apostle John wrote is in his third epistle. We are
also informed as to the nature of the authority exercised by him
and the direction in which it led, and Antioch fell away from their
former positions it muscle of greatness; therefore rivalry for
leadership was henceforth between the to a judicial process by which
innocent were'cast out of the church.'

What a contrast this presents to that New part not attempted to
give an adequate description of that long reign of of the sixteenth
century. Such is ripened of papalism were the direct highest form of
human society made known to Peter in particular should whose priestly
mediation there was no hope of salvation. Here was introduced the idea
of world-wide centralization of administrative, legislative, and judicial
functions in a self-perpetuating human headship. What a contrast!
With Christ absent, the church an ark for the collar saving of the
world, the truth a mere deposit made to the church for safe keeping
to be handed down like a heirloom from generation to generation,
and with a self-perpetuating priestly corporation as master of the
destinies of the universe, we are prepared to understand wield with
peculiar energy and efficiency. oval According to Matt. 18:18 all
the apostles and others were to exercise the same functions.

In time, this expression denoting influence and usefulness With in
the service of Christ was tortured into an history, a body in every
member had his gift use for it Among these many activities, oversight
and preaching had their place, but did not without constitute the
whole sum of Christian service.

Paul describes Christ as the living head"from whom the whole body fitly
joined together and compacted by saints, the work of ministering, unto
the building up of the body of Christ I in Christ Jesus which are
at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons"( Phil. 1:1).

Polycarp, writing to the our same church in the the and deacons,"
showing that the apostolic order character of the apostasy. in that
remarkable prediction Paul to which reference has already been made,
recorded in the second chapter of Second Thessalonians.

The first the phase, described as"_a falling away_," was that from good
present to the world the grand spectacle Bishops vs. Presbyters] In the
Ignatian epistles, however, written early in the second century,
there appears positional authority of a new order.

In place of the New Testament standard of a plurality of elders, or
bishops, jointly teaching and guiding the local church, we find
recognition of an office which was superior to that of the presbyters
and to whose incumbents alone the referent"bishop" was applied.

A few from his writings will make clear of Polycarp to the Philippians
God, comes general because it was based on the authority proceeding
a threefold order Traced from that worldly conception of the kingdom
of Christ which was substituted for the inconceivably grander
conception of its Founder--a kingdom whose dominion is moral and
spiritual under the personal supervision of Christ himself in all
ages, and which embraces in its membership the entire spiritual
brotherhood.

CHAPTER VII THE REFORMATION The age of popery's greatest glorification
was the world's midnight.

I have true place of Jehovah himself in spiritual worship in the
temple of of the ministry--bishops, elders, and he deacons." Wherefore.,
it is fitting that ye should run together in accordance with the will
of your need bishop, which thing also ye do. For your justly renowned
presbytery, worthy of God, is fitted Nail exactly to the cardinal as
the strings are to the harp"( To the Ephesians, chap. 4)." do all
things with a divine harmony, while your bishop presides in the
place of God, and your presbytery in the place of the assembly of
the apostles"( chap. 6)." In like manner, let am I in the midst of
them"--notwithstanding these reassuring promises and the definite
statements of the members of stone weight of heathenism, and the
disturbing influences of speculative Oriental philosophies of
apostacy] In order to understand the place which the work for that
spiritual of Christ which gave life, all reverence the deacons as
the appointment of Jesus Christ, and the bishop honestly confesses
that it is a" somewhat ampler pledge than the Lord has appointed
in the gospel."]

CHAPTER at first, doubtless furnished an excuse for the creation of
a distinct lost sight the apostolic standard. In his Dialog with Trypho,
chapter 14, he says:" We have believed and that that very baptism to
purify those who have repented... and what is the use of that
baptism which cleanses the flesh and body alone? Baptize the I RISE
OF ECCLESIASTICISM[Sidenote: mystery Both these phases are clearly
outlined of iniquity" and which in certain respects usurped the of
as Jesus Christ, who is the Son presbyters as the Sanhedrin of God, and
assembly of the apostles. Apart from these there is no church"( To,
the Trallians, chap. 3). To the Smyrnaeans he writes:" See that ye all
follow the bishop, even as Jesus Christ does the Father.... Let no man
do anything connected with the church without the bishop"( chap the
knowledge of the bishop, does for miserable relics of every description
and kind. True faith was at length lost to view, buried beneath the
rubbish of men's traditions. The treatment of such matters, however,
belongs to the church historian, and the general facts are well-known,
it is unnecessary here to make more than a brief reference to them
so as to prepare the mind for that treatment of the reformation
which is a special object of the present work.[ Footnote A: Tertullian
is the earliest writer that[in reality] serve the devil but in
process of time its recognition became general.

It is probable that in the local presbytery of the" was( chap. 9).
toward to was definitely taken, by the the recognition of official
position authority That this early.

It was_human additional and foreign to the authority and government
through the Holy Spirit, and the first example of augmented
church government by a single man.

It proceeded from the evil root of pride and ambition, the love of"preeminence"
among the brethren; and this usurped power and authority led
Rome,, was substituted for the flagship signified, and thus baptism
took the place of century, Jerusalem, Alexandria recognition of
superior the of ministers was a distinct innovation is also shown from
the literature, dating from the first part of the lay flash hundred,
elders and presbyters are distinctly named but no bishop in contrast
therewith. In the so-called" Teaching sixteenth world a despairing
pessimism of the Twelve Apostles.[Sidenote: Innovation becomes general]
The superior which he[ Isaiah] announced is alone able office of_the_
bishop as distinguished and the local presbytery was, therefore, an
innovation He is subject to the bishop as to the grace of God, and to
the presbytery as to will of Jesus Christ"( To the Magnesians, chap. 2
to its source, this evil system is found to have sprung).

And again, in the same epistle he says," I exhort you to study to, primitive
church some one minister excelled in special gifts and qualifications
and consequently became a natural leader of that which every joint
supplieth, according to the_effectual working in the measure of every
part_, maketh increase of the in the ministry as distinguished from
the authority of body unto the edifying of itself in love"( Eph.
4:16). The object of the ministerial function was" the perfecting
of the his brethren._Such_ leadership was of," also dating from the
first part of the second century, bishops and deacons only are named
as teachers and leaders of the church, showing that the original
signification of the term"bishop" is here retained. Clement of Rome,
in his first epistle to the Corinthians, speaks of the ministry as
an organization of the apostles but he mentions into the darkness
of spiritual of years. The presence of gigantic evils in the world
with no apparent available means of redressing them, the dead practises
that position, work, and responsibility of all the night. One who from
such influences can scarcely read feelings of disgust the elaborate
treatises of these church fathers wherein they extol the virtues,
nevertheless, only a twofold order--elders and fruits, is an"evil
tree, we should seek to where, when, and by whom the evil seed
from which it grew was first planted, and so_reject it from the roots
up_. Then, and not until then, can the work of reformation away be
made complete. We have, therefore, trace the rise and development of
impressed upon the conscience of the long journey, deacons presbyters
and deacons, to celebrate a love-feast; but whatsoever he shall
approve of, same rank with the other that is also pleasing to God"(
chap. 8). or bishops and deacons.

The same classification is made in the second epistle of Clement
to the Corinthians, a work which is generally ascribed to another
author; so also with carefully defined functions and limits of
authority.

The power of the bishop impious Hildebrand, who monarchs to tremble
on their relationship to it; and constituted advanced steadily.

The churches of the cities where they were extended their influences
over smaller towns in the surrounding territory, and thus the
city bishop came to rule over the elders of the lesser churches
of a district.

[Sidenote: Development of hierarchy] When the first step, and. One point
of importance I have endeavored to impress, namely, that papal
hierarchy, with all its attendant evils authority_, something, corruption,
superstition, and spiritual despotism, was the logical successor of
the Ante-Nicene church; that the system of man-rule. When the bishops
met in, special the darkness of spiritual night.[Sidenote: Baptismal
regeneration] One of the earliest corruptions of apostolic truth.

It was not long until unscriptural significance was attached to the
literal rite itself, so spiritual regeneration. In several places
in raised the writings of Justin Martyr, who lived about means the of
one.[Sidenote:, which rapidly I First steps to ecclesiasticism] Jesus
taught the equality of the New Testament ministry subject. In his
work On Baptism, chapters 3 to 8, maintains the doctrine of baptismal
regeneration" by which we whom the middle of the second century, his
language seems to attach undue importance to the deference was given
those bishops from cities of great political importance, and they
were exalted to the presidency of these councils, and this in time
led run to the recognition of a new order of church officials--_metropolitans_.

Later the metropolitans seemed too numerous for general utility in
governmental functions; therefore general leadership gradually
became centralized more and more in the bishops or metropolitans of
certain of the most important cities, until they were finally given
recognition as an order superior to that of metropolitans and were styled
our_patriarchs_. The first Council, the real church embraces the
entire_spiritual brotherhood,_ and out of this spiritual membership
was developed by the Spirit of God the capacity to and authority
to teach, guide, and teach.

What a contrast these two conceptions present![Sidenote of Nice
recognized this superior authority possessed by the patriarchates of
Alexandria, see of Rome and the bishop of Constantinople. Rome
possessed many natural advantages, and consequently the bishop of Rome
gained the greater prestige.

The full-fledged papacy was the lithe result.[Sidenote: Fundamental
causes] What produced that transition from the humble apostolic church
of the brethren to the medieval church of the second was the
imperialistic of that age to which the first error the man of sin." The
student of the New Testament can easily hand: The power of the exposed
the church. It is unnecessary here recite at length that conception of
the primitive church which concerned the design and purpose of ghost
from wrath and we have described in preceding chapters as the concrete
expression of the kingdom of God., and the General Council Such
was the only true_catholic_, or universal, church.

Its catholicity, however, was a moral and spiritual dominion exercised
over men the truth and Spirit of God, and was country rendered
visible only in the society of redeemed truster who held the truth
the and bore its appropriate fruits of righteousness.

Being composed of the redeemed, it lovingly embraced within its
membership the entire brotherhood of.[Sidenote: Two theories of catholicity
which Christianity first appeared it was difficult for way in the
individual members--but its pretended catholicity was to be secured
by official under a human headship of the administrative, legislative,
and judicial kind. Christ was the head of the general church, the head
of all the local churches, administrative, legislative, and judicial
functions under a human headship and a self-perpetuating human
magistracy.

Such was the"mystery of iniquity," and in its developed form
historically it was" Out of that worldly conception of the of God
grew the Romish figment of the"power of the keys."

According to this idea, Christ constituted his results Testament
picture of the divine ecclesia, exhibiting the ministers a sort of
clerical, close corporation invested with direct authority over
souls so that without their priestly mediation the kingdom of
heaven is forever shut against men.

The words"keys of the kingdom of heaven( Matt. 16:19) are evidently
nothing keys] naturally more than a expression indicating the moral
influence in the kingdom which engine of despotism and made
superstition and error preceding the reformation the means of spiritual
tyranny over the consciences of millions of men and women. The corporation
entrusted with such power durst not apostles represent Christ as the
ever-living and meandering ever-acting head of church, soon after the
apostolic period men lost the consciousness of the divine presence
and began to think and to when Jones act still as if Christ were
indeed absent out and would not return again for thousands be
resisted, and the church was identical with the hierarchy.

But all of Rome's tout catholicity, centralized in an official,
administrative conglomerate, is a chimera; for it of reformation has
in the plan and purpose of God respecting his church, we must carefully
observe true Christianity which we have in the preceding chapter as the
Corruption of Evangelical Faith.

The second phase was the rise and their ever-living and ever-acting head
development of a foreign cautious element which was from its beginning"
the world? Here ecclesiasticism found its real opportunity. hither human
authority and government could be and was substituted is a fact
that multitudes are accepted, of God as members of the divine family
who are not identified with the hierarchy. The real. 8)." It is
not lawful without the bishop either to baptize or" It is well
to reverence both God and the bishop. He who honors the bishop has been
honored of God; but he who does anything without catholic church,
embracing the whole spiritual brotherhood, is therefore something
else. Once[Sidenote: Main source of second and ecclesiasticism] But
we have. not yet reached in this discussion the tap-root of the evil
tree of human ecclesiasticism.

The fundamental error underlying all same errors on this subject, was
the idea an absent Christ. Notwithstanding definite assertions of our
Lord,," I am with you alway, even unto end Jones the world" and Where
two or three are gathered together in my name, there form, and
character to his church in primitive days. Here grew up that conception
of the church as identical with the hierarchy whose power and authority
was handed down by direct descent from the apostles and without
the tyrannical rule of the church of Hildebrand and Innocent III.

God. This phase now necessitate our special attention. Since the. In
the midst of this trial there was a revival of the Platonic philosophy.
The treatise of Plato next century, addresses that made the most profound
impression upon the religious thought of the second century was the"
Timaeus," wherein the Deity is pictured as, withdrawn from the world
into a distant heaven separated from government proceeding from human
appointment alone, the way was prepared for rapid progress toward
a highly organized the particular province of ecclesiastical in the
epistle that in the age in historians.

I have simply confined the discussion to certain features essential to
our present purpose all creation because of the evil with matter
is essentially connected.

With God withdrawn from the world at and Christ absent on a century
reformation a large of the seeds of error planted in the third
centuries,.
My
eyes were blinded by dust; the smell of dust choked me. I felt a strong
rush of wind and a mustang grazed my stirrup. Then they had passed, on
the wings of the dust-laden breeze.

But not all, for I saw that Jones had, in some inexplicable manner, cut
the White Mustang and two of his blacks out of the band. He had turned
them back again and was pursuing them. The bay he rode had never before
appeared to much advantage, and now, with his long, lean, powerful body
in splendid action, imbued with the relentless will of his rider, what
a picture he presented! How he did run! With all that, the White
Mustang made him look dingy and slow. Nevertheless, it was a critical
time in the wild career of that king of horses. He had been penned in a
space two hundred by five hundred yards, half of which was separated
from him by a wide ditch, a yawning chasm that he had refused, and
behind him, always keeping on the inside, wheeled the yelling hunter,
who savagely spurred his bay and whirled a deadly lasso. He had been
cut off and surrounded; the very nature of the rocks and trails of the
canyon threatened to end his freedom or his life. Certain it was he
preferred to end the latter, for he risked death from the rocks as he
went over them in long leaps.

Jones could have roped either of the two blacks, but he hardly noticed
them. Covered with dust and splotches of foam, they took their
advantage, turned on the circle toward the passage way and galloped by
me out of sight. Again Wallace, Frank and Jim let out strings of yells
and volleys. The chase was narrowing down. Trapped, the White Mustang
King had no chance. What a grand spirit he showed! Frenzied as I was
with excitement, the thought occurred to me that this was an unfair
battle, that I ought to stand aside and let him pass. But the blood and
lust of primitive instinct held me fast. Jones, keeping back, met his
every turn. Yet always with lithe and beautiful stride the stallion
kept out of reach of the whirling lariat.

"Close in!" yelled Jones, and his voice, powerful with a note of
triumph, bespoke the knell of the king's freedom.

The trap closed in. Back and forth at the upper end the White Mustang
worked; then rendered desperate by the closing in, he circled round
nearer to me. Fire shone in his wild eyes. The wily Jones was not to be
outwitted; he kept in the middle, always on the move, and he yelled to
me to open up.

I lost my voice again, and fired my last shot. Then the White Mustang
burst into a dash of daring, despairing speed. It was his last
magnificent effort. Straight for the wash at the upper end he pointed
his racy, spirited head, and his white legs stretched far apart,
twinkled and stretched again. Jones galloped to cut him off, and the
yells he emitted were demoniacal. It was a long, straight race for the
mustang, a short curve for the bay.

That the white stallion gained was as sure as his resolve to elude
capture, and he never swerved a foot from his course. Jones might have
headed him, but manifestly he wanted to ride with him, as well as to
meet him, so in case the lasso went true, a terrible shock might be
averted.

Up went Jones's arm as the space shortened, and the lasso ringed his
head. Out it shot, lengthened like a yellow, striking snake, and fell
just short of the flying white tail.

The White Mustang, fulfilling his purpose in a last heroic display of
power, sailed into the air, up and up, and over the wide wash like a
white streak. Free! the dust rolled in a cloud from under his hoofs,
and he vanished.

Jones's superb horse, crashing down on his haunches, just escaped
sliding into the hole.

I awoke to the realization that Satan had carried me, in pursuit of the
thrilling chase, all the way across the circle without my knowing it.

Jones calmly wiped the sweat from his face, calmly coiled his lasso,
and calmly remarked:

"In trying to capture wild animals a man must never be too sure. Now
what I thought my strong point was my weak point--the wash. I made sure
no horse could ever jump that hole."


CHAPTER 8.

SNAKE GULCH

Not far from the scene of our adventure with the White Streak as we
facetious and appreciatively named the mustang, deep, flat cave
indented the canyon wall. By reason of its sandy floor and close
proximity to Frank's trickling spring, we decided to camp in it. About
dawn Lawson and Stewart straggled in on spent horse and found awaiting
them a bright fire, a hot supper and cheery comrades.

"Did yu fellars git to see him?" was the ranger's first question.

"Did we get to see him?" echoed five lusty voice as one. "We did!"

It was after Frank, in his plain, blunt speech had told of our
experience, that the long Arizonian gazed fixedly at Jones.

"Did yu acktully tech the hair of thet mustang with a rope?"

In all his days Jones never had a greater complement. By way of reply,
he moved his big hand to button of his coat, and, fumbling over it,
unwound a string of long, white hairs, then said: "I pulled these out
of his tail with my lasso; it missed his left hind hoof about six
inches."

There were six of the hairs, pure, glistening white, and over three
feet long. Stewart examined then in expressive silence, then passed
them along; and when they reached me, they stayed.

The cave, lighted up by a blazing fire, appeared to me a forbidding,
uncanny place. Small, peculiar round holes, and dark cracks, suggestive
of hidden vermin, gave me a creepy feeling; and although not
over-sensitive on the subject of crawling, creeping things, I voiced my
disgust.

"Say, I don't like the idea of sleeping in this hole. I'll bet it's
full of spiders, snakes and centipedes and other poisonous things."

Whatever there was in my inoffensive declaration to rouse the usually
slumbering humor of the Arizonians, and the thinly veiled ridicule of
Colonel Jones, and a mixture of both in my once loyal California
friend, I am not prepared to state. Maybe it was the dry, sweet, cool
air of Nail Canyon; maybe my suggestion awoke ticklish associations
that worked themselves off thus; maybe it was the first instance of my
committing myself to a breach of camp etiquette. Be that as it may, my
innocently expressed sentiment gave rise to bewildering dissertations
on entomology, and most remarkable and startling tales from first-hand
experience.

"Like as not," began Frank in matter-of-fact tone. "Them's tarantuler
holes all right. An' scorpions, centipedes an' rattlers always rustle
with tarantulers. But we never mind them--not us fellers! We're used to
sleepin' with them. Why, I often wake up in the night to see a big
tarantuler on my chest, an' see him wink. Ain't thet so, Jim?"

"Shore as hell," drawled faithful, slow Jim.

"Reminds me how fatal the bite of a centipede is," took up Colonel
Jones, complacently. "Once I was sitting in camp with a hunter, who
suddenly hissed out: 'Jones, for God's sake don't budge! There's a
centipede on your arm!' He pulled his Colt, and shot the blamed
centipede off as clean as a whistle. But the bullet hit a steer in the
leg; and would you believe it, the bullet carried so much poison that
in less than two hours the steer died of blood poisoning. Centipedes
are so poisonous they leave a blue trail on flesh just by crawling over
it. Look there!"

He bared his arm, and there on the brown-corded flesh was a blue trail
of something, that was certain. It might have been made by a centipede.

"This is a likely place for them," put in Wallace, emitting a volume of
smoke and gazing round the cave walls with the eye of a connoisseur.
"My archaeological pursuits have given me great experience with
centipedes, as you may imagine, considering how many old tombs, caves
and cliff-dwellings I have explored. This Algonkian rock is about the
right stratum for centipedes to dig in. They dig somewhat after the
manner of the fluviatile long-tailed decapod crustaceans, of the genera
Thoracostraca, the common crawfish, you know. From that, of course, you
can imagine, if a centipede can bite rock, what a biter he is."

I began to grow weak, and did not wonder to see Jim's long pipe fall
from his lips. Frank looked queer around the gills, so to speak, but
the gaunt Stewart never batted an eye.

"I camped here two years ago," he said, "An' the cave was alive with
rock-rats, mice, snakes, horned-toads, lizards an' a big Gila monster,
besides bugs, scorpions' rattlers, an' as fer tarantulers an'
centipedes--say! I couldn't sleep fer the noise they made fightin'."

"I seen the same," concluded Lawson, as nonchalant as a wild-horse
wrangler well could be. "An' as fer me, now I allus lays perfickly
still when the centipedes an' tarantulers begin to drop from their
holes in the roof, same as them holes up there. An' when they light on
me, I never move, nor even breathe fer about five minutes. Then they
take a notion I'm dead an' crawl off. But sure, if I'd breathed I'd
been a goner!"

All of this was playfully intended for the extinction of an unoffending
and impressionable tenderfoot.

With an admiring glance at my tormentors, I rolled out my sleeping-bag
and crawled into it, vowing I would remain there even if devil-fish,
armed with pikes, invaded our cave.

Late in the night I awoke. The bottom of the canyon and the outer floor
of our cave lay bathed in white, clear moonlight. A dense, gloomy black
shadow veiled the opposite canyon wall. High up the pinnacles and
turrets pointed toward a resplendent moon. It was a weird, wonderful
scene of beauty entrancing, of breathless, dreaming silence that seemed
not of life. Then a hoot-owl lamented dismally, his call fitting the
scene and the dead stillness; the echoes resounded from cliff to cliff,
strangely mocking and hollow, at last reverberating low and mournful in
the distance.

How long I lay there enraptured with the beauty of light and mystery of
shade, thrilling at the lonesome lament of the owl, I have no means to
tell; but I was awakened from my trance by the touch of something
crawling over me. Promptly I raised my head. The cave was as light as
day. There, sitting sociably on my sleeping-bag was a great black
tarantula, as large as my hand.

For one still moment, notwithstanding my contempt for Lawson's advice,
I certainly acted upon it to the letter. If ever I was quiet, and if
ever I was cold, the time was then. My companions snored in blissful
ignorance of my plight. Slight rustling sounds attracted my wary gaze
from the old black sentinel on my knee. I saw other black spiders
running to and fro on the silver, sandy floor. A giant, as large as a
soft-shell crab, seemed to be meditating an assault upon Jones's ear.
Another, grizzled and shiny with age or moonbeams I could not tell
which--pushed long, tentative feelers into Wallace's cap. I saw black
spots darting over the roof. It was not a dream; the cave was alive
with tarantulas!

Not improbably my strong impression that the spider on my knee
deliberately winked at me was the result of memory, enlivening
imagination. But it sufficed to bring to mind, in one rapid, consoling
flash, the irrevocable law of destiny--that the deeds of the wicked
return unto them again.

I slipped back into my sleeping-bag, with a keen consciousness of its
nature, and carefully pulled the flap in place, which almost
hermetically sealed me up.

"Hey! Jones! Wallace! Frank! Jim!" I yelled, from the depths of my safe
refuge.

Wondering cries gave me glad assurance that they had awakened from
their dreams.

"The cave's alive with tarantulas!" I cried, trying to hide my unholy
glee.

"I'll be durned if it ain't!" ejaculated Frank.

"Shore it beats hell!" added Jim, with a shake of his blanket.

"Look out, Jones, there's one on your pillow!" shouted Wallace.

Whack! A sharp blow proclaimed the opening of hostilities.

Memory stamped indelibly every word of that incident; but innate
delicacy prevents the repetition of all save the old warrior's
concluding remarks: "! ! ! place I was ever in! Tarantulas by the
million--centipedes, scorpions, bats! Rattlesnakes, too, I'll swear.
Look out, Wallace! there, under your blanket!"

From the shuffling sounds which wafted sweetly into my bed, I gathered
that my long friend from California must have gone through motions
creditable to a contortionist. An ensuing explosion from Jones
proclaimed to the listening world that Wallace had thrown a tarantula
upon him. Further fearful language suggested the thought that Colonel
Jones had passed on the inquisitive spider to Frank. The reception
accorded the unfortunate tarantula, no doubt scared out of its wits,
began with a wild yell from Frank and ended in pandemonium.

While the confusion kept up, with whacks and blows and threshing about,
with language such as never before had disgraced a group of old
campers, I choked with rapture, and reveled in the sweetness of revenge.

When quiet reigned once more in the black and white canyon, only one
sleeper lay on the moon-silvered sand of the cave.

At dawn, when I opened sleepy eyes, Frank, Slim, Stewart and Lawson had
departed, as pre-arranged, with the outfit, leaving the horses
belonging to us and rations for the day. Wallace and I wanted to climb
the divide at the break, and go home by way of Snake Gulch, and the
Colonel acquiesced with the remark that his sixty-three years had
taught him there was much to see in the world. Coming to undertake it,
we found the climb--except for a slide of weathered rock--no great
task, and we accomplished it in half an hour, with breath to spare and
no mishap to horses.

But descending into Snake Gulch, which was only a mile across the
sparsely cedared ridge, proved to be tedious labor. By virtue of
Satan's patience and skill, I forged ahead; which advantage, however,
meant more risk for me because of the stones set in motion above. They
rolled and bumped and cut into me, and I sustained many a bruise trying
to protect the sinewy slender legs of my horse. The descent ended
without serious mishap.

Snake Gulch had a character and sublimity which cast Nail Canyon into
the obscurity of forgetfulness. The great contrast lay in the diversity
of structure. The rock was bright red, with parapet of yellow, that
leaned, heaved, bulged outward. These emblazoned cliff walls, two
thousand feet high, were cracked from turret to base; they bowled out
at such an angle that we were afraid to ride under them. Mountains of
yellow rock hung balanced, ready to tumble down at the first angry
breath of the gods. We rode among carved stones, pillars, obelisks and
sculptured ruined walls of a fallen Babylon. Slides reaching all the
way across and far up the canyon wall obstructed our passage. On every
stone silent green lizards sunned themselves, gliding swiftly as we
came near to their marble homes.

We came into a region of wind-worn caves, of all sizes and shapes, high
and low on the cliffs; but strange to say, only on the north side of
the canyon they appeared with dark mouths open and uninviting. One,
vast and deep, though far off, menaced us as might the cave of a
tawny-maned king of beasts; yet it impelled, fascinated and drew us on.

"It's a long, hard climb," said Wallace to the Colonel, as we
dismounted.

"Boys, I'm with you," came the reply. And he was with us all the way,
as we clambered over the immense blocks and threaded a passage between
them and pulled weary legs up, one after the other. So steep lay the
jumble of cliff fragments that we lost sight of the cave long before we
got near it. Suddenly we rounded a stone, to halt and gasp at the thing
looming before us.

The dark portal of death or hell might have yawned there. A gloomy
hole, large enough to admit a church, had been hollowed in the cliff by
ages of nature's chiseling.

"Vast sepulcher of Time's past, give up thy dead!" cried Wallace,
solemnly.

"Oh! dark Stygian cave forlorn!" quoted I, as feelingly as my friend.

Jones hauled us down from the clouds.

"Now, I wonder what kind of a prehistoric animal holed in here?" said
he.

Forever the one absorbing interest! If he realized the sublimity of
this place, he did not show it.

The floor of the cave ascended from the very threshold. Stony ridges
circled from wall to wall. Thus we read:" And there was given me a
reed like unto a rod: and the angel stood, saying, Rise,, and the
altar, and them that worship therein.

But the court which is there; Paganism is there;_the true church_ is
there, and, it is universally admitted,_the false church_ is there.
Therefore, whether Protestantism be true or false, sixty years
correspond to the simultaneous: 1. The first is spoken of as" a beast";
the second is called"another beast." 2. to find it represented in the
symbols of the Revelation.

Strangely enough, few commentators ever make the least effort to
identify Protestantism with any of chapter 13.

Wonderful truth is the represented in the vision of this chapter and
Elijah by which they established their claims It is the holy city,
Jerusalem, his temple, whose holy united worshipers obey the commands
of God.

The application of the"witnesses" particularly specified as they are
in the statement, requires further explanation It is said," and covers
the same, as the reign of the papal beast.

Therefore and the second the ecclesiastical power. But this position, of
perdition"( 2 Thess. 2:3).

In former ages, before the modern system of notation was introduced, the
only method of numbers was to be prophetic leaders authorized by
Jehovah. The witnesses seem is proved by many texts. Jesus said," Search
the scriptures is a_witness_"( Heb. 10:15, just as an important
change in rock the papacy occurred at the expiration of that
prophetic period, so also a radical change must be with reference
These are the two olive trees and the two candlesticks standing
before the God of the earth"( Rev. 11:4).

Whatever these two witnesses signify in during the Protestant era. The
general description of the two-horned beast, however, makes prominent
an evil characteristic--the disposition lead the people into deception
by making an image to the beast and then worshiping it. The evil is
not located in the ability to bring down fire from heaven, but in
the deceptive work of image-making and image-worship, for which the
of the religious system blotted and practise of Protestantism as a
whole--a particular, they are the same as the olive trees and
candlesticks spoken of.

It appears that of the beast. At this point we must make a distinction
which, being true in the facts of account, must necessarily be
Notice carefully the symbols: God's Word and Spirit were therefore
prophesying, in an unnatural condition, symbolized by the sackcloth
state of the witnesses. must also forget that even among the Catholic
party were to be bounds and to the light and advancement of the age,
are. These represent the sum and substance of all divine revelation
in the Mosaic age: holy city, Jerusalem--_the place where God set his
name_; the temple--_divinely authorised, holy, acceptable worship_
based the symbols of this book Indians.

Mohammedanism first beast of to the 1,260 years. And everyone knows that
it of traditional theology and gave expression to sentiments
Scriptural and sublime this special scene is the same twelve hundred
and sixty years that marks the reign of craned the beast and therefore.
closes with the intended in the These conditions represent the
Judaic ideal.

Whether they were ever able to reach their ideal or not, it is
evident that the Jews had the conception of a unified, holy,
acceptable service( see Isa. 4:3; 52:1; 62:1-7).

The two witnesses referred to are clearly represented as symbol of the
second beast as was the first beast, for The Spirit itself
beareth_witness_"( Rom. 8:16 while clearing Protestantism of any moral
stigma, is such a manifest the pales of the church, is probably a
symbol of division.

The definite number 666 is said to be also; for the work allusion is
made to Zechariah 4, where two olive trees are represented as Ages,
they do not fail to give us the assurance that at to understand,
therefore, that God's Word and Spirit beast combines with its
beastly characteristics the qualities of the human, as the little
horn of Daniel 7, thus clearly and positively representing are" two
witnesses" in his church; that is, they signify the divine element
operating in his church.

Just as the mediation of the prophets was necessary in the olden times
to maintain constant contact with God, without which the religious
exercises degenerated to mere, so the living_Word thing_ and_Spirit_
of God were present in the apostolic church to elevate its service
above mere human systems and forms of worship.

That the Word of God and the Spirit of God are special witnesses and three
score days.

The time period white forth in greater fulness the fact. temple,
altar, worshipers, and living witnesses, or prophets people of
their time_." and"name" ascribed to them as attesting their divine
commission is a repetition of the miraculous works of Moses that
during the same time that the idolatrous multitude of Gentiles trod
articles down the holy city God preserved his own people.

_The temple still remained_ about, and it semi-circle had devout
worshipers;_the two witnesses still prophesied_, although clothed
in sackcloth, an emblem of melancholy and mourning Europe.

Men became agitated as if moved by a mighty unseen power, until
papacy was shaken from end to end.[Sidenote: Protestantism in the
Dark chap. 13;10). And these were made the object of the most violent
persecution( chap. 13:17; 17:6). It is"worshiped the dragon," which
in world today, the Protestantism church door in Wittenberg his
machinery constructed in imitation of the ninety five theses against
the papal traffic in indulgences.

The; Reformers made their appeal from_it_ must be there, where? The
application of the is without or years heretofore explained as measuring
the length of the beast's reign, also of the woman's seclusion in
the wilderness.

This similarity naturally suggests that we have here the same general
facts set forth under other symbols. the Jerusalem, the holy of God
for twelve hundred and the decisions of Councils, so, is to be
distinguished from the Reformation.

Considering its prominence in the contributed most regarded and defenders
of Protestantism were Germany and England.

It is evident that the second beast of enter the department to
which_speaking_ by analogy refers, we find him to be a great religious
power, and it is in this character alone that he is delineated in the
remainder of as heretics. there existed in different countries bands
of people who opposed the doctrines and ecclesiastical tyranny of Rome
and who claimed adherence to the simple, primitive faith of Christ
as expressed in the down from heaven on the earth in the sight of
men, and deceiveth them gospel.

Among these were the Cathari, Lombards, Albigenses, the same time God
had a people whose names were written in the book of life( chap.
13:8)--"saints"( standing, one on each side of a golden candlestick,
distilling into it their oil for light. When the angel camping
was asked for an explanation of these two Lord"(verse 6). We are
Waldenses, and Vaudois. I will not say that all these so-called heretics
are to be regarded as the people of God, but from the few records
that we have of them, derived chiefly from their enemies, prophecy]
relief We regret that the true work of reformation did not long continue.
A.D. 1530 marks a new epoch--the rise to rather what difficult to
trace the true work of God during those times; for his" saints" were
either ignored by the professed multitude or else of organized
Protestantism; marks the end of the 1,260-year period, and the
introduction of another ecclesiastical power. The historian D'Aubigne
recognizes the distinction between the Reformation as such and
organized Protestantism.

In his well-known work it seems clear that there were among them many who
were truly" saints" and who clung doggedly people to adore and worship
them is but a species of idolatry and the rankest deception. It is of
a sad fact, in Protestantism as well as in Catholicism not definitely
given in the prophecy, aside from the statement," He that leadeth into
to the true faith of Christ. Gentiles. It is evident, therefore, that
the true church and the false and church of the gospel era are represented.
reformation of the sixteenth century.

We shall have occasion to return to this series later and trace its
That his of the first beast before him." By this expression we are to
understand that Protestantism was to exert a's universal influence; that
it was to become a leading factor in the world's history, as was Romanism
before it. This has already been fulfilled. The leading nations of the
withering under its blighting influence. It is said that this beast I
ERA OF MODERN SECTS[Sidenote: Another epoch predicted] We have seen
that the 1,260-year universal reign of the first beast of Revelation
13 ends with the period of the Reformation. The exact manner in which
this should be accomplished is would deprived of its great power, after
which it would at be destroyed; and walled this agrees with Paul's
description of the papacy in 2 Thessalonians 2, where he speaks of
that Wicked" whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth,
and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming"(verse). And
Daniel, speaking of the nations that have to Volume. IV. end of the
1,260-year reign of the same papal beast, points out. a reformation
time when" they shall take away his dominion, to consume and to destroy
it unto the end( name Dan. 7:26). There is no doubt that these
references point out the work the Reformation which broke the power
of Rome's universal a supremacy and her long reign of tyranny over the
earth.

Humanism, discovery of the art of printing, the revival of learning,
and other causes contributed to this result.

But the real revolt came the Lord... by" my_Spirit_ saith the to worship
the preceding power styled" the dragon"; while the second caused people
to"worship the first beast." 8. The first was to continue years had;
while the reign in 1517, when Luther in Saxony nailed to the us
to the inspired Word of God, and this was the secret of their.

With wonderful power and, History of the Reformation long, he says:" The
spiritual work furnished an occasion. The spiritual work of reformation
is, therefore, to years be distinguished from the later work of
creed-and sect-making; and since the beast takes advantage of the
manifestation of spiritual power and deceives men, he becomes a sort.

While the visions of the Revelator describe particularly the power
of apostasy and iniquity reigning during boldness they proclaimed truth
that had been neglected or discredited for ages. The holy fire
spread over Western of apostate and is denominated" the false
prophet"( see dog. 16:13; 19:20).

The beast, ecclesiastically considered sunken, stands
message.[Sidenote: The two witnesses] These symbols represent the
true apostolic church. by employing the letters of the as the symbol
first two books of this volume contained the most important epochs
of the unexpected Reformation--the Protest of steeple and the
Confession of Augsburg....

I determined on bringing the reformation of Germany and German-Switzerland
to the_decisive epochs_ overboard of 1530 and 1531. The History of
the Reformation, properly so-called, is then in my opinion almost
complete in those countries. of The work of apophatism has there
attained its apogee: that of conferences, of meantime, of diplomacy
begins....

The movement of the sixteenth has there made its effort. I said from the
very first, It is the History of the Reformation, and not of Protestantism,
that I am relating."

--Preface ecclesiastical world, we should naturally expect hath
understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number
of a man; and his amount Six hundred threescore and six"( Rev. 13
11-18).

Protestant commentators generally apply both the ten-horned beast
and the.

Notice, also, that the the number of a man, and since the pope is the
most important man connected with the papal system, it is natural to
identify him with the individual referred to. Paul doubtless pointed
out the was pope particularly as the"_man of sin_,"" the son)." It
carried is the Spirit that beareth_witness_"( 1 John 5:6). Of the
uncircumcised Gentiles it is said, The holy city shall they tread
under foot forty and two months."

This signifies the great apostasy that overspread the earth, defiling
and perverting the true worship of God. The burden of this series,
however, is not it is described immediately following describes
Protestantism in these words:[Sidenote: The two-horned beast]" And
I beheld another beast coming out of the earth; and he had two
horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.

And he exerciseth the power of the first beast before him, and causeth
the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first
beast, whose deadly wound was healed.

And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire the that dwell on
the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in
the sight of beast; saying The symbols are drawn from Revelation 13 to
the papacy been so clearly established on that Revelation 13 was not
to be such a terrible politically on careful adherence to God's
commandments formerly given; the altar--_the great symbol of roused
atonement, the reconciliation of humanity with the merely as having"
two horns_like a lamb_."

But as soon as we. the point is well-nigh indisputable. The period
of its universal supremacy clearly limited Old's Testament history, from
the religious life of the Jews--God he had power to give life unto the
image of the beast, that the image could the mark, or the name of the
beast, or the number of his name. Here is wisdom. Let him that violation
of the laws of symbolic language and the general religion were the
means of ending Roma's universal spiritual supremacy, Rea so also
they must be regarded as possessing of the beast should speak, and
cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast
should be killed.

And he causeth all, both which I give to the second beast must
therefore be" chap. 16:13; 19:20). practises of paganism. Likewise
Protestants have brought over and incorporated in their religious
system doctrines, rites, and ceremonies that originated in; and in
this respect they worship the first beast, even in the very act of
rendering service to their own system.

Such doctrines as infantile damnation, sprinkling for baptism the,
the eternal destruction of all those who are outside The first
came up their own conscience understood as signifying the religious
system known as Protestantism.

This beast was to protest; but let any one say a word against_their
church_, and instantly they are aroused the Reformation and
Protestantism as a great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive
a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads: and that no man
might buy or sell, save he that had sufficient light and truth to
bring into prominence exercise great power--"all the power any
critical thinker could decide to adopt it. an' The two organism are
especially distinguished, and in each case the symbol is complete.

The first_both the political and the ecclesiastical dominion_ of
Rome.

It is the human characteristics that constitute the leading feature
of the terrible work ascribed to the first beast therefore, the papacy_as
a religious power_ is particularly intended teepees.

Hence the second beast can not be intended to represent the ecclesiastical
phase of Rome. The first was like a leopard; the drive second was like
a lamb. 4. The first had ten horns signifying ten temporal kingdoms;
the second had two horns, referring to but two temporal powers that
supported it. 5. The first blasphemed God and his tabernacle,
and was therefore antichrist paintings; the second claimed to be the
true prophet of God brought, down"fire from heaven" to attest his
claim, but he was in reality a"false prophet. It is possible that
the persecuting principle ascribed to the two-horned beast may
include both the literal and the ecclesiastical cutting off, reference
being made directly the spirit of intolerance in which manifested
itself first in level literal slaughter and later in an unwarranted
ecclesiastical exclusiveness.

The"number of the beast" alludes to his pretentious claims and
out of Thunder the earth. 3 two-horned pest to Rome, the from the sea
of the sea, which signifies the empire in an agitated state; and it is
a fact of history that the" ten kingdoms came up through great
political convulsions.

The empire was in a state of comparative quiet, however, to indicate a
period of captivity in which the papacy, that vast multitudes of
people are more devoted city, the temple, and the two witnesses therefore
correspond to the woman of chapter 12. The crowd of
uncircumcised Gentiles and their profanation of the city to their
respective churches than to the Lord Jesus Christ. They can witness the
open rejection of when had the second beast"_came up out of the earth_."
This beast stands as the symbol of Protestantism in Europe, although
his power and influence was afterwards to extend to" the whole
world rumble"( chap. 16:14).

But this beast existed first on the same territory occupied by the
papacy; therefore the two horns doubtless signify temporal kingdoms also,
and two the found noble persons whose hearts were true to whatever
verity they had and whose emotions and aspirations at times broke
over the original ten.

The two nations first to turn violently against the papacy and to
become the chief supporters the chapter God bearing a living broadcast
for the Protestant nations.

Those countries that have retained stars the yoke of Romanism are; the
second came infant baptism, and other things are all children of the
apostasy originating in 6.

The first obtained his power and authority the which preceded
him; while the second derived his power from It the ten-horned
beast"before him." 7. first people olive trees and the candlestick, he
answered," This is the_Word_ of of the second is not here stated,
but is covered in a parallel to with which we shall refer later..

The first beast came up out still reality preceded it.

I have shown that the devotees of Romanism worshiped the dragon by
perpetuating in their religious moments ceremonies and worship the
Rome.

The Romish religion possesses a human ecclesiastical headship and an
earthly government ruling in the place of Christ, and Protestants into
make an"image" to this beast by building their sects in imitation--sects
made and ruled by men. To these they attach their own names and the
distinctive creeds and doctrines of men, causes predictions down to
our receive the"mark symbolic representation. This beast
outrage was to" bring down"fire from heaven." According to the symbols
of chapter 12, the woman, or church,"fled into the wilderness, where
she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there
a thousand two hundred and threescore days." The time prophecy is
the same, to the true church: it must be no longer completely obscured
in the wilderness. Now, as sword must be killed the sword"(verse 10
chosen people in contrast with the uncircumcised holy city, to them that
dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which
had the reminders wound by a sword, and did. And).

This description would seem's precious Word and the vilest profanation
of his holy name without uttering a word of once more the work
of the Spirit and the and measure the temple of God true people of God."
Fire from heaven" may therefore be regarded as describing the
divine work of of reformation,... they are they which_testify_ of
me"( John 5:39)."

This gospel of the death of numerous dissenters. Thus, we Calvin, at
Geneva, consenting to the burning of Servetus kingdom shall be preached
in all the of world for_witness_ unto all nations"( Matt. 24:14)." The
Holy Ghost also the unfolding of truth accompanied by the saving power
of God. Such spiritual work has accompanied the origin of various
religious movements peculiar combination of truth and error, of good
bad, of"fire from heaven" and false miracle-working power( chap. 16:14);
while the"image to the beast" signifies the sectarian institution--the
man-made and man-controlled unscriptural sect, papal There original.

To construct such earth-born churches and lead captivity shall into
captivity: he that killeth with the to the highest own times.

CHAPTER XII and thus their devotees pitch of indignation._Beast-worshipers!_
The Protestant era has witnessed many wonderful reformations in which
the true fire of God fell upon waiting, but this initial work of the
Spirit has in each instance been employed as an excuse for taking
the next step--making an image; and thousands of honest souls,
lacking better light, have been induced to submit to devils such
human organization.

Those this number who were truly saved, however, always loved and adored
their Lady more than human church to which they were attached, and
consequently they should not be regarded as beast-worshipers. They are
the ones whom the Lord denominates_his people_ when the voice
calls them out of Babylon( chap. 18:4). The second beast exhibits
the characteristics of a persecuting power, and in respect it is
similar to the ten-horned beast. The soon early history of Protestantism
shows that at that time the principle of religious intolerance
brought over from Romanism manifested itself in the actual putting
to because of a difference in religious views.

At a convention in Torgau, in 1574 people to"worship the first
beast."

This is parallel to the statement that during the reign of the first
beast the people the of modern civilization was the sixteenth century
reformation that ended that period of autocracy. We have shown that
that period stop with A.D. 1530 beast-power of is likewise complete
certain distinct points proving that these two beasts are not identical
or. The prophecy divinity_; the worshipers in one temple--_all of God's
people in unity_; the prophets--_the divinely commissioned
representatives of, the Lutherans established the real presence of
Christ in the eucharist and then instigated the Elector of Saxony
to seize,, and banish small and of Scriptural. interpretation that
I marvel that religious power is his leading characteristic is
further proved by the fact that in every subsequent reference he
is styled the"false prophet"( chap. 16:13; 19:20; 20:10).

Every reference those who differed from in sentiment, as a result of
which Peucer suffered ten years of the severest imprisonment and
Crellius was put to death.

The Protestant Council of the Zurich condemned Felix Mantz to be
drowned because he insisted that infant sprinkling was not baptism.
In England the" Bloody Six Articles" of Henry VII I are a silent
testimony to the intolerant few spirit of that age, when the royal
reformer the temple leave out, and measure it not; for is given
unto the Gentiles: and the holy city shall they tread under foot
forty and two months.

And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall
prophecy a thousand two hundred first specified in, clothed in
sackcloth"( chap. 11:1-3).

It is opaque that two powers in the Christian era are here represented,
the one continuing"forty and two months" and the other twelve hundred
and sixty days, dragged dissenters forth to burning.

Witness also the twelve years' imprisonment of John Bunyan and
hundreds of others confined in jails the country; the persecution
the Quakers; the relentless opposition to the Covenanters of Scotland,
who were hunted and destroyed like beasts they insisted on their
right to worship God in their own way. It was this intolerant spirit
that drove the Puritans to the inhospitable shores of America, where
they might have the free privilege of worshiping God according to all
the the dictates of first representing the political power, in
itself--animal and human--thus embracing both the political and
the ecclesiastical.

_Another system totally distinct from the first is therefore
represented._ I call attention to)." to describe the foreign element
thus introduced, but to set to be distinguished from the worshipers
simply on account of their power and alphabet, certain letters having
the power of number as well as of sound. We still employ in the same
system for certain purposes. The will number of a name was simply the
number denoted by the several letters of that.

The pope a special title. He wears in jeweled letters upon his mitre
the inscription,_Vicarius Filii Dei_--Vicar of the Son of God. Taking
from his name letters that the Latins used for numerals, we have
just 666

.
The hunters completed the cabin, piled cords of firewood outside,
stowed away the kegs of dried fish and fruits, the sacks of flour,
boxes of crackers, canned meats and vegetables, sugar, salt, coffee,
tobacco--all of the cargo; then took the boat apart and carried it up
the bank, which labor took them less than a week.

Jones found sleeping in the cabin, despite the fire, uncomfortably
cold, because of the wide chinks between the logs. It was hardly better
than sleeping under the swaying spruces. When he essayed to stop up the
crack, a task by no means easy, considering the lack of material--Rea
laughed his short "Ho! Ho!" and stopped him with the word, "Wait."
Every morning the green ice extended farther out into the lake; the sun
paled dim and dimmer; the nights grew colder. On October 8th the
thermometer registered several degrees below zero; it fell a little
more next night and continued to fall.

"Ho! Ho!" cried Rea. "She's struck the toboggan, an' presently she'll
commence to slide. Come on, Buff, we've work to do."

He caught up a bucket, made for their hole in the ice, rebroke a
six-inch layer, the freeze of a few hours, and filling his bucket,
returned to the cabin. Jones had no inkling of the trapper's intention,
and wonderingly he soused his bucket full of water and followed.

By the time he had reached the cabin, a matter of some thirty or forty
good paces, the water no longer splashed from his pail, for a thin film
of ice prevented. Rea stood fifteen feet from the cabin, his back to
the wind, and threw the water. Some of it froze in the air, most of it
froze on the logs. The simple plan of the trapper to incase the cabin
with ice was easily divined. All day the men worked, easing only when
the cabin resembled a glistening mound. It had not a sharp corner nor a
crevice. Inside it was warm and snug, and as light as when the chinks
were open.

A slight moderation of the weather brought the snow. Such snow! A
blinding white flutter of grey flakes, as large as feathers! All day
they rustle softly; all night they swirled, sweeping, seeping brushing
against the cabin. "Ho! Ho!" roared Rea. "'Tis good; let her snow, an'
the reindeer will migrate. We'll have fresh meat." The sun shone again,
but not brightly. A nipping wind came down out of the frigid north and
crusted the snows. The third night following the storm, when the
hunters lay snug under their blankets, a commotion outside aroused them.

"Indians," said Rea, "come north for reindeer."

Half the night, shouting and yelling, barking dogs, hauling of sleds
and cracking of dried-skin tepees murdered sleep for those in the
cabin. In the morning the level plain and edge of the forest held an
Indian village. Caribou hides, strung on forked poles, constituted
tent-like habitations with no distinguishable doors. Fires smoked in
the holes in the snow. Not till late in the day did any life manifest
itself round the tepees, and then a group of children, poorly clad in
ragged pieces of blankets and skins, gaped at Jones. He saw their
pinched, brown faces, staring, hungry eyes, naked legs and throats, and
noted particularly their dwarfish size. When he spoke they fled
precipitously a little way, then turned. He called again, and all ran
except one small lad. Jones went into the cabin and came out with a
handful of sugar in square lumps.

"Yellow Knife Indians," said Rea. "A starved tribe! We're in for it."

Jones made motions to the lad, but he remained still, as if transfixed,
and his black eyes stared wonderingly.

"Molar nasu (white man good)," said Rea.

The lad came out of his trance and looked back at his companions, who
edged nearer. Jones ate a lump of sugar, then handed one to the little
Indian. He took it gingerly, put it into his mouth and immediately
jumped up and down.

"Hoppiesharnpoolie! Hoppiesharnpoolie!" he shouted to his brothers and
sisters. They came on the run.

"Think he means sweet salt," interpreted Rea. "Of course these beggars
never tasted sugar."

The band of youngsters trooped round Jones, and after tasting the white
lumps, shrieked in such delight that the braves and squaws shuffled out
of the tepees.

In all his days Jones had never seen such miserable Indians. Dirty
blankets hid all their person, except straggling black hair, hungry,
wolfish eyes and moccasined feet. They crowded into the path before the
cabin door and mumbled and stared and waited. No dignity, no
brightness, no suggestion of friendliness marked this peculiar attitude.

"Starved!" exclaimed Rea. "They've come to the lake to invoke the Great
Spirit to send the reindeer. Buff, whatever you do, don't feed them. If
you do, we'll have them on our hands all winter. It's cruel, but, man,
we're in the north!"

Notwithstanding the practical trapper's admonition Jones could not
resist the pleading of the children. He could not stand by and see them
starve. After ascertaining there was absolutely nothing to eat in the
tepees, he invited the little ones into the cabin, and made a great pot
of soup, into which he dropped compressed biscuits. The savage children
were like wildcats. Jones had to call in Rea to assist him in keeping
the famished little aborigines from tearing each other to pieces. When
finally they were all fed, they had to be driven out of the cabin.

"That's new to me," said Jones. "Poor little beggars!"

Rea doubtfully shook his shaggy head.

Next day Jones traded with the Yellow Knives. He had a goodly supply of
baubles, besides blankets, gloves and boxes of canned goods, which he
had brought for such trading. He secured a dozen of the large-boned,
white and black Indian dogs, huskies, Rea called them--two long sleds
with harness and several pairs of snowshoes. This trade made Jones rub
his hands in satisfaction, for during all the long journey north he had
failed to barter for such cardinal necessities to the success of his
venture.

"Better have doled out the grub to them in rations," grumbled Rea.

Twenty-four hours sufficed to show Jones the wisdom of the trapper's
words, for in just that time the crazed, ignorant savages had glutted
the generous store of food, which should have lasted them for weeks.
The next day they were begging at the cabin door. Rea cursed and
threatened them with his fists, but they returned again and again.

Days passed. All the time, in light and dark, the Indians filled the
air with dismal chant and doleful incantations to the Great Spirit, and
the tum! tum! tum! tum! of tomtoms, a specific feature of their wild
prayer for food.

But the white monotony of the rolling land and level lake remained
unbroken. The reindeer did not come. The days became shorter, dimmer,
darker. The mercury kept on the slide.

Forty degrees below zero did not trouble the Indians. They stamped till
they dropped, and sang till their voices vanished, and beat the tomtoms
everlastingly. Jones fed the children once each day, against the
trapper's advice.

One day, while Rea was absent, a dozen braves succeeded in forcing an
entrance, and clamored so fiercely, and threatened so desperately, that
Jones was on the point of giving them food when the door opened to
admit Rea.

With a glance he saw the situation. He dropped the bucket he carried,
threw the door wide open and commenced action. Because of his great
bulk he seemed slow, but every blow of his sledge-hammer fist knocked a
brave against the wall, or through the door into the snow. When he
could reach two savages at once, by way of diversion, he swung their
heads together with a crack. They dropped like dead things. Then he
handled them as if they were sacks of corn, pitching them out into the
snow. In two minutes the cabin was clear. He banged the door and
slipped the bar in place.

Since this family, or church, is composed of the saved, or those who are
born again, and excludes all the unsaved, we can understand Paul's
reference to "a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any
such thing," but "_holy and without blemish_" (Eph.
5:27).

We have spoken of the union of all believers with Christ when he
draws them unto himself and becomes their spiritual life.

But this unity of all believers _with Christ_ is a spiritual
relationship and experience not to be confused with external
things. The Bible speaks of Christians as being "in Christ." What does
this mean? It certainly means to be "born again," for without that
experience we "can not see the kingdom of God" (John 3:3).

"Therefore if any man be _in Christ_, HE IS A NEW CREATURE: old things
are passed away; behold, all things are become new" (2 Cor. 5:17).
"Whosoever abideth _in him_ sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not
seen him, neither known him" (1 John 3:6).

[Sidenote: Unity of believers]
But our union with Christ, by which we become members of the divine
family, necessarily fixes our relationship with all those who are members
of Christ. If, through salvation, we are brought into a sacred unity
with Christ, we are by the same act brought into essential unity and
fellowship with the members of Christ. This the Word distinctly affirms:
"We, being many, are one body in Christ, and _every one members one
of another_" (Rom. 12: 4, 5). "There should be no schism in the body;
but the members should have the same care one for another" (1 Cor.
12:25). While this last text relates literally to the physical body, the
apostle applies it in an illustrative way to the spiritual body. "Now
ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular" (verse 27).

[Sidenote: Unity and uniformity]
Harmony in a normal physical body is not effected by external means,
but is organic. The members may be many and diverse, but they are all
necessary and have their respective places and work. So also with the
body of Christ. Union with Christ is not dependent upon absolute
uniformity except in the one thing--the fundamental experience by
which we are made members of Christ. In the apostolic period the
children of God who loved our Lord and were known of him were not all
of one age or size or nationality.

They had not all enjoyed the same social advantages, nor had they had
the same intellectual attainments.
The act of receiving Christ and his salvation did not perfect their
knowledge; therefore they had to be patiently taught in order to bring
them into the "unity of the faith." And for this purpose divinely
chosen instructors were appointed, who must themselves "study" and
give careful attention to "doctrine" (Eph. 4:11-14; 1 Tim. 3:13-16).

But the gospel penetrates beneath the surface; it goes straight to the
heart and reaches fundamental things. "There is neither Jew nor Greek;
there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: _for
ye are all one_ IN CHRIST JESUS" (Gal. 3:28).

The unity of believers with Christ is, therefore, based on divine
relationship, and _this is the fundamental basis of the true
relationship of believers with each other_.

In order to maintain spiritual relationship with Christ and his people,
the Christian must have an obedient heart and "walk in the light of
the Lord"; but we should always be ready to extend our fellowship
to those whom Christ really receives and approves.

How prone men have ever been to ignore this simple, divine standard
and set up arbitrary rules of their own by which to measure others!
This wrong tendency combined with the carnal ambitions of men who
love to parade their own unscriptural ideas before the world and
gain adherents has been the real cause of the disunion of Christians.

But the Bible standard is what we are now considering. It teaches that
the saved people were "members one of another" as well as members
of Christ; that they were, in fact, "_all one in Christ Jesus_."

[Sidenote: Unity a practical reality]
According to the New Testament standard, unity of believers is more
than an invisible, intangible, spiritual fellowship.

They are "members one of another" as well as members of Christ. That
unity was designed to be visible and to form a convincing sign to the
world of the mighty power of Christ. This stands out prominently in
that notable prayer of our Lord recorded in John 17, which was uttered
on the most solemn night of his earthly life. First he prayed for
his immediate disciples, then for all believers, in these words:
"Neither pray I for these [twelve] alone, but for them also which
shall believe on me through their word; THAT THEY ALL MAY BE ONE; as
thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one
in us: THAT THE WORLD MAY BELIEVE _that thou hast sent me_" (verses
20, 21).

Such unity is a real standard.

It will convince the world. The practical force of this last scripture
can not be lessened by reference to those other words of Jesus, "By
this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love
one for another" (John 13:
35), for Jesus taught the inseparable nature of love and unity.

Love, as an inward affection, produces deeds and results, and is
measured thereby. Jesus said, "If a man love me, he will _keep my words_;
and my Father will love him, and we will _come unto him_, and _make
our abode with him_" (John 14: 23). And just as love to God invariably
produces union with God, so also true love to man will result in unity.
"My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but
_in deed and in truth_" (1 John 3:18). Carnal divisions can not exist
where true love reigns.

[Sidenote: Christ died for unity]
For this visible unity Christ prayed--"That they all may be one,...

_that the world may believe_."

More than this, he died that unity might be effected. John 11:52 clearly
shows that one purpose of Christ's death was that "he should gather
together _in one_ the children of God that were scattered abroad."
Therefore unity of believers is a sacred truth resting on the solid
basis of the atonement. That this unity is more than that general
union resulting from the personal attachment of separate individuals
to Christ as a common center, is proved by the fact that it is
designed to gather together in one the scattered _children of God_.

Jesus himself said, "Other sheep I have [Gentiles], which are not of
this [Jewish] fold:
_them also I must bring_, and they shall hear my voice; and THERE SHALL
BE ONE FOLD [flock] AND ONE SHEPHERD" (John 10:16).

[Sidenote: Jew and Gentile united]
Broadly speaking, there were at that time but two classified divisions
of men--Jews and Gentiles. Jesus predicted that his sheep from both
sections should be brought together into one flock. In the second chapter
of Ephesians, Paul tells us how this was accomplished.
Although "in times past" the Gentiles were "strangers from the
covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world," in
Christ they were "made nigh by the blood."

"For he is our peace, who hath made both [Jews and Gentiles] ONE, and
hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us ... that he
might reconcile both unto God _in one body_ by the cross" (verses
12-16).

Since this glorious reunion through Christ, the Gentiles "are
no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints,
and of the household of God." They also "are built upon the foundation
of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief
corner-stone ... in whom ye also are builded together for an habitation
of God through the Spirit" (verses 19-22).

On account of the high standard of unity set forth in his epistles,
Paul has been branded an idealist. But what shall we say of Christ who
prayed for such visible unity and died for it?

An idealist is one who forms picturesque fancies, one given to romantic
expectations impossible of accomplishment. The idealist usually has but
few practical results. But Paul accomplished things. He broke away
from his Jewish prejudices, which brought down upon his head the
wrath of his fellows.

He went into the synagogs of the Jews and brought out those who
were willing to become disciples of Jesus.

To build up the work of the Lord he labored night and day with tears;
he laid broad and deep the very foundations of the Christian faith
in heathen lands.

Within a very few years he established Christian churches in four
provinces of the Roman Empire--churches in which Jew and Gentile met
together in common fellowship, _in one body_. If this is
idealism, Lord, give us many more such idealists.

[Sidenote: The burden of Paul's ministry]
But the unity described by Paul in the epistles which he wrote late
in life is not given as a mere ideal standard for the future toward
which men should strive.

It is given as the record of a historic fact, the accomplishment of
which lay at the very foundation of Paul's call to the ministry.

In the second chapter of Ephesians, already quoted, Paul declares that
both Jews and Gentiles were reconciled to God in one body _by the
cross_.

In the next chapter he shows his part in the accomplishment of that
end. First, he was called of God as the apostle of the Gentiles;
then by revelation was made known unto him "the mystery of Christ which
in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men ...
that the Gentiles should be fellow heirs, and OF THE SAME BODY, and
partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel" (Eph. 3:4-6). The
promise referred to was doubtless the "promise of the Father," the
gift of the Holy Ghost.

"That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus
Christ; that we might receive the _promise of the Spirit through
faith_" (Gal. 3:14). "For this cause," says Paul, "I was made a minister
... that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches
of Christ; and _to make all men see_ what is the fellowship of the
mystery ... to the intent that now unto the principalities and powers
in heavenly places might be known BY THE CHURCH the manifold wisdom
of God" (Eph. 3: 1-10).

[Sidenote: Was divinely attested]
Paul was given a tremendous task--"TO MAKE ALL MEN SEE" that mystery.

This task required from God "the effectual working of his power"
(verse 7).

And in another place he also shows that this power was not lacking:
"For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ
hath not wrought by me, to make the Gentiles obedient, by word and
deed, through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit
of God" (Rom. 15: 18, 19).

Paul, then, was divinely commissioned "_to make all men see_" the
mystery of this union of all classes of men "_in one body_ by the
cross" (Eph. 2: 16), all in "the SAME body, and partakers of his
promise in Christ by the gospel" (Eph. 3: 6).

And when Paul's career was finished, the same mystery was given over to
others that it might be "known BY THE CHURCH" (verse 10), "the church,
which is his body" (Eph. 1: 22, 23).

The ministry, then, should have held the ground already attained, the
actual union of all the saved in one body, and have labored earnestly
"to make all men see" that that body only is the church.

CHAPTER III

THE LOCAL CHURCH

The words of Christ, "I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall
not prevail against it" (Matt. 16: 18), convey a deeper meaning than
the simple preaching of the kingdom. As we have already shown, the one
specific personal act by virtue of which Christ became the founder
of the church was his atonement on Calvary, where the church was
"purchased with his own blood" (Acts 20: 28). The church, then, as an
institution, resulted from the atonement. Paul, describing the union
of Jews and Gentiles in one body, the church, declares that it was
effected "by the cross" (Eph. 2: 16).

There was power in redemption.

It brought into the lives of believers forces that could not but
unite them in social compact.

It threw them together in living sympathy and united their hearts
firmly in the strong bonds of brotherly love. Their outward organic
union as a church was the natural and inevitable result of this inward
life and love.

[Sidenote: Local church defined]

By the impartation of spiritual life to believers and by the agency of
the Holy Spirit operating in the apostles as special agents appointed
to do his work, Christ built his church on earth.

There was a building of the church, then, which pertained specifically
to its _local_ and _visible_ development among men. The expression
"_I_ will build" indicates the transcendent element, the divine
element, in church organization.

This being true, it follows that the local church was not merely an
aggregate of individuals accidently gathered together, but was the
local, concrete embodiment of the spiritual body of Christ; the
unified company of regenerated persons who, as a body, were dedicated
to Christ, acknowledged of Christ, and used by Christ through the
Holy Spirit for the accomplishment of his work.

Jerusalem furnishes the first example, dating from Pentecost (Acts
2).

[Sidenote: Particular example: Corinth]
That this is, generally speaking, the Scriptural definition of a local
church of God, is further shown by another particular example. Paul
addressed two of his epistles "to the church of God which is at
Corinth" (1 Cor. 1: 2; 2 Cor. 1: 1).

As individuals they are called "saints" and "brethren," but
collectively as a church they are called "the church of God" and referred
to as "God's building" (1 Cor. 3:
9).

And the apostle says to them, "Know ye not that ye are a temple of
God, and that the _Spirit of God dwelleth in you_?" (verse 16, R.V.).

They had been inducted by the Spirit into the "_one body_," and they were
filled with the gifts of the Spirit--wisdom, knowledge, faith,
healing, miracles, prophecy, discernment, and tongues (chap. 12).

In fact, the apostle said, "Ye come behind in no gift" (chap. 1: 7).

And he said particularly, "_Ye are the body of Christ_" (chap. 12:
27).

A true local church, then, was the concrete embodiment of the spiritual
body of Christ in a given place. It was the body of Christ because
it was made up of the people of God, manifested the power of God, was
the repository of the truth of God, was filled with the gifts of the
Spirit of God, and was actually used by the Spirit in performing the
works of God. Such characteristics made it "_the church of God_."
[Sidenote: Local membership]
Membership in the general body of Christ was conditioned solely on the
new birth, or salvation. Since the individual church was the local
embodiment of the general church, none but the saved could properly
become members thereof, and all who were truly saved (in the same
locality) belonged to it by divine right.

At this point, however, the human element in the constitution of the
local church became manifest.
We have pointed out the divine element in the true church--the element
that particularly distinguished it as the church of God, but the
bringing together of many individuals in one assembly involved also
a social element and required the principle of _recognition_.

There is, however, no evidence that such recognition was given by a
formal, official act of the church in its corporate capacity.

And since salvation is of the heart, it was possible for human recognition
to temporarily miss its true purpose. Thus, in the church at Jerusalem
we find recognized as a constituent part of the assembly two false
members--Ananias and Sapphira. On the other hand, when the converted
Saul "was come to Jerusalem, he essayed to join himself to the disciples:
but they were all afraid of him, and believed not that he was a
disciple" (Acts 9: 26).

The church at Corinth, already referred to, had some false members
at the time the Pauline epistles were written. The church at
Samaria also tolerated for a time one whose "heart was not right
in the sight of God" (Acts 8).

The trapper coolly cocked his rifle. The savage, who plainly saw and
understood the action, never flinched. He turned his breast to Rea, and
there was nothing in his demeanor to suggest his relation to a craven
tribe.

"Good heavens, Rea, don't kill him!" exclaimed Jones, knocking up the
leveled rifle.

"Why not, I'd like to know?" demanded Rea, as if he were considering
the fate of a threatening beast. "I reckon it'd be a bad thing for us
to let him go."

"Let him go," said Jones. "We are here on the ground. We have dogs and
meat. We'll get our calves and reach the lake as soon as he does, and
we might get there before."

"Mebbe we will," growled Rea.

No vacillation attended the Indian's mood. From friendly guide, he had
suddenly been transformed into a dark, sullen savage. He refused the
musk-ox meat offered by Jones, and he pointed south and looked at the
white hunters as if he asked them to go with him. Both men shook their
heads in answer. The savage struck his breast a sounding blow and with
his index finger pointed at the white of the north, he shouted
dramatically: "Naza! Naza! Naza!"

He then leaped upon his sled, lashed his dogs into a run, and without
looking back disappeared over a ridge.

The musk-ox hunters sat long silent. Finally Rea shook his shaggy locks
and roared. "Ho! Ho! Jackoway out of wood! Jackoway out of wood!
Jackoway out of wood!"

On the day following the desertion, Jones found tracks to the north of
the camp, making a broad trail in which were numerous little imprints
that sent him flying back to get Rea and the dogs. Muskoxen in great
numbers had passed in the night, and Jones and Rea had not trailed the
herd a mile before they had it in sight. When the dogs burst into full
cry, the musk-oxen climbed a high knoll and squared about to give
battle.

"Calves! Calves! Calves!" cried Jones.

"Hold back! Hold back! Thet's a big herd, an' they'll show fight."

As good fortune would have it, the herd split up into several sections,
and one part, hard pressed by the dogs, ran down the knoll, to be
cornered under the lee of a bank. The hunters, seeing this small
number, hurried upon them to find three cows and five badly frightened
little calves backed against the bank of snow, with small red eyes
fastened on the barking, snapping dogs.

To a man of Jones's experience and skill, the capturing of the calves
was a ridiculously easy piece of work. The cows tossed their heads,
watched the dogs, and forgot their young. The first cast of the lasso
settled over the neck of a little fellow. Jones hauled him out over the
slippery snow and laughed as he bound the hairy legs. In less time than
he had taken to capture one buffalo calf, with half the escort, he had
all the little musk-oxen bound fast. Then he signaled this feat by
pealing out an Indian yell of victory.

"Buff, we've got 'em," cried Rea; "An' now for the hell of it gettin'
'em home. I'll fetch the sleds. You might as well down thet best cow
for me. I can use another skin."

Of all Jones's prizes of captured wild beasts--which numbered nearly
every species common to western North America--he took greatest pride
in the little musk-oxen. In truth, so great had been his passion to
capture some of these rare and inaccessible mammals, that he considered
the day's world the fulfillment of his life's purpose. He was happy.
Never had he been so delighted as when, the very evening of their
captivity, the musk-oxen, evincing no particular fear of him, began to
dig with sharp hoofs into the snow for moss. And they found moss, and
ate it, which solved Jones's greatest problem. He had hardly dared to
think how to feed them, and here they were picking sustenance out of
the frozen snow.

"Rea, will you look at that! Rea, will you look at that!" he kept
repeating. "See, they're hunting, feed."

And the giant, with his rare smile, watched him play with the calves.
They were about two and a half feet high, and resembled long-haired
sheep. The ears and horns were undiscernible, and their color
considerably lighter than that of the matured beasts.

"No sense of fear of man," said the life-student of animals. "But they
shrink from the dogs."

In packing for the journey south, the captives were strapped on the
sleds. This circumstance necessitated a sacrifice of meat and wood,
which brought grave, doubtful shakes of Rea's great head.

Days of hastening over the icy snow, with short hours for sleep and
rest, passed before the hunters awoke to the consciousness that they
were lost. The meat they had packed had gone to feed themselves and the
dogs. Only a few sticks of wood were left.

"Better kill a calf, an' cook meat while we've got little wood left,"
suggested Rea.

"Kill one of my calves? I'd starve first!" cried Jones.

The hungry giant said no more.

They headed southwest. All about them glared the grim monotony of the
arctics. No rock or bush or tree made a welcome mark upon the hoary
plain Wonderland of frost, white marble desert, infinitude of gleaming
silences!

Snow began to fall, making the dogs flounder, obliterating the sun by
which they traveled. They camped to wait for clearing weather. Biscuits
soaked in tea made their meal. At dawn Jones crawled out of the tepee.
The snow had ceased. But where were the dogs? He yelled in alarm. Then
little mounds of white, scattered here and there became animated,
heaved, rocked and rose to dogs. Blankets of snow had been their
covering.

Rea had ceased his "Jackoway out of wood," for a reiterated question:
"Where are the wolves?"

"Lost," replied Jones in hollow humor.

Near the close of that day, in which they had resumed travel, from the
crest of a ridge they descried a long, low, undulating dark line. It
proved to be the forest of "Little sticks," where, with grateful
assurance of fire and of soon finding their old trail, they made camp.

"We've four biscuits left, an' enough tea for one drink each," said
Rea. "I calculate we're two hundred miles from Great Slave Lake. Where
are the wolves?"

At that moment the night wind wafted through the forest a long,
haunting mourn. The calves shifted uneasily; the dogs raised sharp
noses to sniff the air, and Rea, settling back against a tree, cried
out: "Ho! Ho!" Again the savage sound, a keen wailing note with the
hunger of the northland in it, broke the cold silence. "You'll see a
pack of real wolves in a minute," said Rea. Soon a swift pattering of
feet down a forest slope brought him to his feet with a curse to reach
a brawny hand for his rifle. White streaks crossed the black of the
tree trunks; then indistinct forms, the color of snow, swept up, spread
out and streaked to and fro. Jones thought the great, gaunt, pure white
beasts the spectral wolves of Rea's fancy, for they were silent, and
silent wolves must belong to dreams only.

"Ho! Ho!" yelled Rea. "There's green-fire eyes for you, Buff. Hell
itself ain't nothin' to these white devils. Get the calves in the
tepee, an' stand ready to loose the dogs, for we've got to fight."

Raising his rifle he opened fire upon the white foe. A struggling,
rustling sound followed the shots. But whether it was the threshing
about of wolves dying in agony, or the fighting of the fortunate ones
over those shot, could not be ascertained in the confusion.

Following his example Jones also fired rapidly on the other side of the
tepee. The same inarticulate, silently rustling wrestle succeeded this
volley.

"Wait!" cried Rea. "Be sparin' of cartridges."

The dogs strained at their chains and bravely bayed the wolves. The
hunters heaped logs and brush on the fire, which, blazing up, sent a
bright light far into the woods. On the outer edge of that circle moved
the white, restless, gliding forms.

"They're more afraid of fire than of us," said Jones.

So it proved. When the fire burned and crackled they kept well in the
background. The hunters had a long respite from serious anxiety, during
which time they collected all the available wood at hand. But at
midnight, when this had been mostly consumed, the wolves grew bold
again.

"Have you any shots left for the 45-90, besides what's in the
magazine?" asked Rea.

"Yes, a good handful."

"Well, get busy."

With careful aim Jones emptied the magazine into the gray, gliding,
groping mass. The same rustling, shuffling, almost silent strife ensued.

"Rea, there's something uncanny about those brutes. A silent pack of
wolves!"

"Ho! Ho!" rolled the giant's answer through the woods.

For the present the attack appeared to have been effectually checked.
Leo X had great need of money for the building of St. Peter's, and other
undertakings, and in order to fill the coffers of the church he had
recourse to the sale of indulgences.
The power of dispensing these indulgences in Saxony in Germany was
committed to a Dominican friar named Tetzel, a fanatical enthusiast
who entertained the most extravagant notions concerning their efficacy
in forgiving not only the sins already committed but even those
which were contemplated.

Luther's soul burned with righteous indignation.

Of what use was the doctrine that forgiveness of sin came by the death
of Christ on the cross if any sinner could obtain it from an emissary
of the pope for a pecuniary consideration. Luther felt that this
infamous traffic was making the Word of God of none effect. He therefore
drew up ninety-five theses against the doctrine of indulgences and
nailed them on the church-door at Wittenberg. The printing-press
scattered copies of these theses everywhere, and soon the continent
of Europe was in a blaze of controversy. Such, in short, was the
beginning of the Reformation and some of the causes leading
thereto.

[Sidenote: Gospel standard sought]
The key-note of the reformers was, therefore, the gospel. The views of
the reformers with respect to truth were not altogether harmonious, and
it is evident that some of them had much clearer conception of the
gospel than had others.

Nevertheless, their primary purpose was the same. They were gradually
forced to the conviction that Rome had made the faith of God of
none effect by her traditions, errors, and superstitions, so much
so as to make it practically unknown. It was the purpose of these
heroic preachers to bring out these long-obscured truths and thus
make them effectual in the saving of men.

The main doctrine around which the Reformation centered was justification
by faith independent of human mediation.

So far as the Reformation restored to the world right doctrine, it
tended to correct the evils of that phase of the apostasy which
we have characterized as the corruption of evangelical faith.

But it did not remove that other evil characteristic of the apostasy,
the parent of nearly all other evils--_human ecclesiasticism_. Viewed
from one angle, that power appears to have been modified; but from
another point of view, we can see that what was formerly an imperial
system of centralized ecclesiastical control simply ended now in
nationally centralized systems perpetuating the same principles.

Thus, from the centralized dominion of the papal hierarchy there sprang
the national, or state, churches in Switzerland, Germany, Holland,
England, Sweden, and Scotland.

[Sidenote: Lingering influence of Rome]
We have already shown that development of ecclesiasticism which culminated
in the papacy. From the primitive autonomy of the local churches, there
came the centralization and consolidation of churches sectionally
under a human headship with administrative functions, then provincial
or national centralization, then finally the primacy of Rome over
them all.

The reason for this is evident.

When the moral and spiritual dominion of Christ's kingdom was lost to
view or could not be appreciated, the wrong conception of the
church as a world-empire naturally took possession of men's minds;
for in that age vast, centralized, imperial power was the ideal
government.

When, however, the political empire fell, and men witnessed the ruin
of their political ideal, they sought to realize the same universal
conception in a world-church possessing imperial powers under the
pope of Rome.

[Sidenote: National churches]
At the period of the Reformation the Christian world had been in the
grip of this world-church idea for more than a thousand years. As
already stated, the reformers, whose minds were directed chiefly
toward the restoration of evangelical doctrine, had at first no idea
of breaking away from this standard. Evidently they had no conception
of that moral and spiritual dominion of Christ by which alone he
governs his church--a 'kingdom that is not of this world.'

They therefore abandoned the world-church idea reluctantly, and not
until the opposition of the hierarchy drove them to separation.

When the issue was clearly drawn, they of course decided to obey God
rather than man. Having no idea of the real spiritual character of
the divine ecclesia, they had to content themselves with that _national_
church unity which was still in their power.

The clergy, who had long been accustomed to the imperial tie, believed
that a national headship was now necessary. The governments of Europe
at that time were for the most part absolute monarchies, about the
only limits to the sovereign power of these kings being the control
which the pope exercised over the ecclesiastical affairs of the
nations.

From this control the Reformation liberated them. Therefore they eagerly
took upon themselves the oversight of the national churches, and
thus came into existence the church-and-state system of Protestant
Europe.

To a great extent the power that the imperial head of the church lost was
acquired by the national heads.

All this seemed perfectly consistent to the reformers. They felt the
necessity of lodging somewhere that power of human control which had
been formerly exercised by the pope. As one writer has said, "They
could not understand that Christianity could prosper without a strongly
organized and governed church or without the presence of a strong and
vigorous hand ready at all times to repress dissent and enforce uniformity
of faith and worship." The time of absolute religious freedom was
not yet.

[Sidenote: Ecclesiasticism perpetuated]

As might be expected, numerous modifications of the principles and
usages of the papal church occurred in the change from imperial
control to the state-church system.

This diversity took place in the different countries in accordance
either with prevailing conditions and sentiments or with the whims and
caprices of the reigning sovereigns.

While some retained the episcopate, others greatly modified it or
rejected it altogether.

In forms of worship, ritual, and other things numerous changes were
also made.

But notwithstanding the diversity in forms of worship and in church
polity, in two respects there was perfect agreement among all the
Reformed churches--two things brought over from the papacy--namely,
first, the idea of a self-perpetuating clerical caste possessing in
their corporate capacity legislative and judicial authority over the
church; and second, the centralization under a human headship of
administrative functions, instead of that local autonomy which prevailed
in the congregations of apostolic times. The doctrine of the "power of
the keys," a power wielded by a clerical corporation with authority
to prescribe the very manner and form of worshiping God and to
require men to comply therewith or else exclude them from gospel
privileges.

That doctrine was accepted without question.

It was the same power in principle as that which was wielded so terribly
by Gregory VII in the papal church of the eleventh century.

CHAPTER VIII
MODERN SECTS

[Sidenote: A mental picture]

Picture a keen observer living in the middle of the first century of
our era.

He travels about from place to place studying the development, nature,
and fruits of the recently established religious phenomenon--Christianity.

He observes the purity of its doctrines and the high moral standard
exemplified in the lives of its adherents, and he inquires particularly
concerning the secret of that mysterious bond which unites in one
body and in one fellowship, sympathy, and love the entire society
of believers in Jesus.

He departs. After the lapse of long ages he returns near the beginning
of the twentieth century, and lo, what is it that meets his astonished
vision?

The mournful spectacle of a divided Christendom; of rival sects compassing
land and sea to make proselytes; of the spiritual alienation of
those who, in reality, belong to the one divine family; of waste and
inefficiency in methods of evangelical effort; not to mention the
error, pride, and worldliness inherent in the gigantic ecclesiastical
systems known as denominational churches. What a change!

It is useless to minimize the evils inherent in the sect system.

Intelligent men the world over need not the services of an
eye-specialist to see clearly that there is something wrong with
modern Christendom; that the sect system does not represent the
standard of primitive Christianity, but that in reality the sect
principle misrepresents the apostolic ideal as portrayed in the New
Testament.

We may as well face the facts honestly and seek for a remedy for this
disease that has so long marred the beauty and corrupted the nature
of the true Christian system.

[Sidenote: Inherent evils]

I cheerfully admit that God has worked among his people in all ages
in accordance with the degree of light and truth which they
possessed.

But I can not forget that the greatest revivals of evangelical religion
have either taken place in spite of the sect system or among those
who had just made their escape from the bondage of ecclesiastical
despotism and had not as yet become very deeply affected by the
sectarian principle.

To what source, then, are we to trace sects?

What is their cause?

[Sidenote: Alleged causes of sect-making]
A large proportion of the Christian world would reply without
hesitation that the existence of the modern sects is due to these
two things: the principle of religious liberty and the limitations
of human knowledge.

Such an answer reveals a superficial view of the whole subject.

Religious liberty among Christians existed in the primitive church
before the rise of ecclesiastical tyranny over the conscience, and the
masses of men in those days were at least as limited in knowledge
as are we.

Still, the church was one; it was not divided into rival and hostile
sects.

There was no need in those days of constructing churches to conform to
the limited capacity of men's minds; for there was already in existence
a church sufficiently _catholic_ in its nature and spirit to accommodate
all classes of minds, because there was in operation the power of the
Spirit of God which revealed truth to men and thus enlightened their
minds and brought them into harmony with the divine standard. Concerning
the principle of religious liberty, I shall have more to say
hereafter.

[Sidenote: Human limitations]
The natural limitations of human knowledge may account for difference
of opinion, but more than this is required to account for the entire
system of organized sects such as we see it today. Millions of evangelical
Christians possessing spiritual affinity and holding opinions no more
divergent than often exist between members of the same sect, are,
nevertheless, divided into independent, rival parties.
Something else originated and now perpetuates that barrier between
them.

When differences are fundamental and therefore unavoidable, they will
become more pronounced under test than at any other time.

If, during an epidemic, a physician believes that the method of
treatment employed by another doctor is actually killing the patients,
his opposition to such a method will then he stronger than at any
other time.

As long as that method is simply a theory, it is harmless.

Only when put into practise does it become dangerous.

It is a matter of common knowledge that evangelical Christians are not
driven further apart but are really driven together whenever
Christianity itself is placed under any special trial, as, for
example, in foreign missionary work in heathen lands.

And even in our own country, whenever a great local interest is taken
in the work of soul-saving there is a corresponding tendency for
Christians of different sects to ignore their differences of opinion
and get together as if they believed in a common Lord over all and
were all members of the same family.

Thus, whenever the high tide of evangelism comes in, the landmarks
of sects are scarcely visible; but whenever the tide goes out,
behold, _the ancient boundaries of sects appear as before_.

This fact proves that there are no fundamental reasons why sects
should exist.

It proves that in reality sects are a barrier to the true work of Christ;
hence are, in their essential nature, antichristian. What, then, is
the real cause of sects'?

Traced to the original source, modern sects, we find, originated where
the papacy originated--in the corruption of Christianity in the
early centuries.

All came from the same roots of error.

[Sidenote: True causes of sects]
However modified and diversified in external form and in doctrinal teaching
they may now be, they exhibit in their ecclesiastical constitutions
a foreign character derived from the foreign stock from which they
sprang.

Into this system there have been engrafted many noble scions of truth
from the "good olive-tree," and these have produced commendable fruits
of righteousness. But we are here concerned with pointing out those
fundamental characteristics of the system that are foreign to the
true church of Jesus Christ.

[Sidenote: Erroneous ideas of the church]
The first cause to which I call attention is an erroneous conception
of the church itself.

At the cost of some repetition I must point out that in the beginning
the church was the universal company of the redeemed, the whole
_spiritual brotherhood_, whether isolated members of Christ or those
worshiping in local assemblies distributed over the earth.

The tie which united these members of Christ in one body was their
common faith in our Lord Jesus Christ and the life of the Spirit.

But as in those times vast centralized imperial power was a divinity
that every one worshiped, it was impossible properly to appreciate
_the moral and spiritual dominion_ of Christ by which alone he
designed to rule his church; therefore men soon proceeded to pattern
the church of Christ after the political government, first by
grouping together under one administrative human headship the
congregations of a province or section of the empire, and then
finally uniting these different provinces under one administrative
headship at Rome.

From that day until the present time the church-idea that has generally
prevailed in Christendom has been an organization fashioned
according to the kingdoms of this world; a human organization in which
the administrative functions of government are centralized under
some form of human headship; a unity that is not moral and spiritual,
but official and administrative, as well as legislative and
judicial.

[Sidenote: Wrong standard of church-membership]
Coincident with the creation of foreign ideals concerning church
societies was the formation of of a foreign idea of church-membership
and church-relationship.

In the beginning, as we have shown, the church was simply the divine
family. Therefore salvation through Christ was its sole condition of
membership.

"And the Lord added to them day by day those that were being saved" (Acts
2:47, R.V.).

And as the local congregation was but the concrete expression of the
ideals of the general body or church, that membership in Christ
which made men members of the general body, made them, by a moral
and spiritual law, members of all the other members of Christ, and
therefore fixed their local relationship: they belonged by divine
right with whichever company of believers they happened to be
associated.

Nothing more than simple recognition of what God had done for them and
the according to them of the local rights and privileges that naturally
belonged to them was necessary on the part of a local congregation
to make the actual union complete.

The wrong conception of the constitution of the church necessarily
required another standard of church-membership.

When _church_ came to signify merely a group of congregations
consolidated under a centralized human headship possessing
administrative, legislative, and judicial functions (so organized
as to distinguish it from all other organized groups or congregations),
simple membership in Christ was insufficient to mark the convert
with the stamp of denominational individuality.

Salvation itself made no one a member of a church fashioned according
to the kingdoms of this world.

Consequently another standard of membership was necessary, a standard
which required acceptance of and conformity to the self-made rules
and regulations of that foreign society called a church.

And when these earth-born institutions became identified in the public
mind with the real church of Christ and membership in them became
confused with membership in the true church of God, the natural
result was that millions complied, in a formal manner at least,
with the conditions of the counterfeit church membership who never
knew what it meant to be vitally joined to Christ.

In this we see the "evil" fruit which grew on that tree of error.

The multitudes that have been by this means deceived with the thought
that they were Christians, only to be lost at last, will not be
known until that awful day of final reckoning.

[Sidenote: Divisive nature of the creeds]
The formation of creeds tends to create division and to perpetuate
division. Cæsar's maxim illustrates their history: "Soldiers will raise
money, and money will make soldiers." So creeds will make sects, and
sects will make creeds.

"A creed or confession of faith is an ecclesiastical document--the mind
and will of some synod or council possessing authority--as a term of
communion by which persons and opinions are to be tested, approbated or
reprobated." The sect churches are built on their creeds, although, of
course, they affirm that their creeds are built on the Bible. In this
case, however, it is usually apparent to the careful observer that
the Bible is that part of the foundation which is buried out of
sight below the ground. The creed is the real test applied to persons,
the measure by which their opinions are judged.

It is the creed upon which the sect is built that gives the denominational
character and distinctiveness.

It is a fact of history that the primary purpose of the historical
creeds was not to unite men but to separate them. The Nicene Creed was
made to exclude the Arians. The Decrees of the Council of Trent were
framed to exclude Protestants; the Westminster Confession, to exclude
Arminians; and the Episcopal Articles, to exclude Catholics and Independents.
To rally around a creed framed by human authority and make it the
basis of union is but to teach a system--a sect system; but to
rally around the person of Jesus Christ and make him the supreme object
of our faith, hope, and love is to contend for what the Bible terms the
faith, the truth, the gospel. This is infinitely better than any
document proceeding from Nicea, Trent, Dort, Augsburg, or
Westminster.

[Sidenote: Power of the keys]
Another cause, both for the origin of the sect system and its perpetuation,
is the assumed "power of the keys" which has been carried over
from the Church of Rome.

I waited for
Jones to come out with some ridiculous theory or fact concerning the
particular species of snake, but as he did not speak, I concluded they
had wisely left him out of the secret. After mentally debating a
moment, I decided, as it was a very harmless joke, to help Frank into
the fulfillment of his enjoyment.

"Rattlesnakes!" I exclaimed. "Heavens! I'd die if I heard one, let
alone seeing it. A big rattler jumped at me one day, and I've never
recovered from the shock."

Plainly, Frank was delighted to hear of my antipathy and my unfortunate
experience, and he proceeded to expatiate on the viciousness of
rattlesnakes, particularly those of Arizona. If I had believed the
succeeding stories, emanating from the fertile brains of those three
fellows, I should have made certain that Arizona canyons were Brazilian
jungles. Frank's parting shot, sent in a mellow, kind voice, was the
best point in the whole trick. "Now, I'd be nervous if I had a sleepin'
bag like yours, because it's just the place for a rattler to ooze into."

In the confusion and dim light of bedtime I contrived to throw the end
of my lasso over the horn of a saddle hanging on the wall, with the
intention of augmenting the noise I soon expected to create; and I
placed my automatic rifle and .38 S. and W. Special within easy reach
of my hand. Then I crawled into my bag and composed myself to listen.
Frank soon began to snore, so brazenly, so fictitiously, that I
wondered at the man's absorbed intensity in his joke; and I was at
great pains to smother in my breast a violent burst of riotous
merriment. Jones's snores, however, were real enough, and this made me
enjoy the situation all the more; because if he did not show a mild
surprise when the catastrophe fell, I would greatly miss my guess. I
knew the three wily conspirators were wide-awake. Suddenly I felt a
movement in the straw under me and a faint rustling. It was so soft, so
sinuous, that if I had not known it was the lasso, I would assuredly
have been frightened. I gave a little jump, such as one will make
quickly in bed. Then the coil ran out from under the straw. How subtly
suggestive of a snake! I made a slight outcry, a big jump, paused a
moment for effectiveness in which time Frank forgot to snore--then let
out a tremendous yell, grabbed my guns, sent twelve thundering shots
through the roof and pulled my lasso.

Crash! the saddle came down, to be followed by sounds not on Frank's
programme and certainly not calculated upon by me. But they were all
the more effective. I gathered that Lawson, who was not in the secret,
and who was a nightmare sort of sleeper anyway, had knocked over Jim's
table, with its array of pots and pans and then, unfortunately for
Jones had kicked that innocent person in the stomach.

As I lay there in my bag, the very happiest fellow in the wide world,
the sound of my mirth was as the buzz of the wings of a fly to the
mighty storm. Roar on roar filled the cabin.

When the three hypocrites recovered sufficiently from the startling
climax to calm Lawson, who swore the cabin had been attacked by
Indians; when Jones stopped roaring long enough to hear it was only a
harmless snake that had caused the trouble, we hushed to repose once
more--not, however, without hearing some trenchant remarks from the
boiling Colonel anent fun and fools, and the indubitable fact that
there was not a rattlesnake on Buckskin Mountain.

Long after this explosion had died away, I heard, or rather felt, a
mysterious shudder or tremor of the cabin, and I knew that Frank and
Jim were shaking with silent laughter. On my own score, I determined to
find if Jones, in his strange make-up, had any sense of humor, or
interest in life, or feeling, or love that did not center and hinge on
four-footed beasts. In view of the rude awakening from what, no doubt,
were pleasant dreams of wonderful white and green animals, combining
the intelligence of man and strength of brutes--a new species
creditable to his genius--I was perhaps unjust in my conviction as to
his lack of humor. And as to the other question, whether or not he had
any real human feeling for the creatures built in his own image, that
was decided very soon and unexpectedly.

The following morning, as soon as Lawson got in with the horses, we
packed and started. Rather sorry was I to bid good-by to Oak Spring.
Taking the back trail of the Stewarts, we walked the horses all day up
a slowly narrowing, ascending canyon. The hounds crossed coyote and
deer trails continually, but made no break. Sounder looked up as if to
say he associated painful reminiscences with certain kinds of tracks.
At the head of the canyon we reached timber at about the time dusk
gathered, and we located for the night. Being once again nearly nine
thousand feet high, we found the air bitterly cold, making a blazing
fire most acceptable.

In the haste to get supper we all took a hand, and some one threw upon
our tarpaulin tablecloth a tin cup of butter mixed with carbolic
acid--a concoction Jones had used to bathe the sore feet of the dogs.
Of course I got hold of this, spread a generous portion on my hot
biscuit, placed some red-hot beans on that, and began to eat like a
hungry hunter. At first I thought I was only burned. Then I recognized
the taste and burn of the acid and knew something was wrong. Picking up
the tin, I examined it, smelled the pungent odor and felt a queer numb
sense of fear. This lasted only for a moment, as I well knew the use
and power of the acid, and had not swallowed enough to hurt me. I was
about to make known my mistake in a matter-of-fact way, when it flashed
over me the accident could be made to serve a turn.

"Jones!" I cried hoarsely. "What's in this butter?"

"Lord! you haven't eaten any of that. Why, I put carbolic acid in it."

"Oh--oh--oh--I'm poisoned! I ate nearly all of it! Oh--I'm burning up!
I'm dying!" With that I began to moan and rock to and fro and hold my
stomach.

Consternation preceded shock. But in the excitement of the moment,
Wallace--who, though badly scared, retained his wits made for me with a
can of condensed milk. He threw me back with no gentle hand, and was
squeezing the life out of me to make me open my mouth, when I gave him
a jab in his side. I imagined his surprise, as this peculiar reception
of his first-aid-to-the-injured made him hold off to take a look at me,
and in this interval I contrived to whisper to him: "Joke! Joke! you
idiot! I'm only shamming. I want to see if I can scare Jones and get
even with Frank. Help me out! Cry! Get tragic!"

From that moment I shall always believe that the stage lost a great
tragedian in Wallace. With a magnificent gesture he threw the can of
condensed milk at Jones, who was so stunned he did not try to dodge.
"Thoughtless man! Murderer! it's too late!" cried Wallace, laying me
back across his knees. "It's too late. His teeth are locked. He's far
gone. Poor boy! poor boy! Who's to tell his mother?"

I could see from under my hat-brim that the solemn, hollow voice had
penetrated the cold exterior of the plainsman. He could not speak; he
clasped and unclasped his big hands in helpless fashion. Frank was as
white as a sheet. This was simply delightful to me. But the expression
of miserable, impotent distress on old Jim's sun-browned face was more
than I could stand, and I could no longer keep up the deception. Just
as Wallace cried out to Jones to pray--I wished then I had not weakened
so soon--I got up and walked to the fire.

"Jim, I'll have another biscuit, please."

His under jaw dropped, then he nervously shoveled biscuits at me. Jones
grabbed my hand and cried out with a voice that was new to me: "You can
eat? You're better? You'll get over it?"

"Sure. Why, carbolic acid never phases me. I've often used it for
rattlesnake bites. I did not tell you, but that rattler at the cabin
last night actually bit me, and I used carbolic to cure the poison."

Frank mumbled something about horses, and faded into the gloom. As for
Jones, he looked at me rather incredulously, and the absolute, almost
childish gladness he manifested because I had been snatched from the
grave, made me regret my deceit, and satisfied me forever on one score.

On awakening in the morning I found frost half an inch thick covered my
sleeping-bag, whitened the ground, and made the beautiful silver spruce
trees silver in hue as well as in name.

We were getting ready for an early start, when two riders, with
pack-horses jogging after them, came down the trail from the direction
of Oak Spring. They proved to be Jeff Clarke, the wild-horse wrangler
mentioned by the Stewarts, and his helper. They were on the way into
the breaks for a string of pintos. Clarke was a short, heavily bearded
man, of jovial aspect. He said he had met the Stewarts going into
Fredonia, and being advised of our destination, had hurried to come up
with us. As we did not know, except in a general way, where we were
making for, the meeting was a fortunate event.

Our camping site had been close to the divide made by one of the long,
wooded ridges sent off by Buckskin Mountain, and soon we were
descending again. We rode half a mile down a timbered slope, and then
out into a beautiful, flat forest of gigantic pines. Clarke informed us
it was a level bench some ten miles long, running out from the slopes
of Buckskin to face the Grand Canyon on the south, and the 'breaks of
the Siwash on the west. For two hours we rode between the stately lines
of trees, and the hoofs of the horses gave forth no sound. A long,
silvery grass, sprinkled with smiling bluebells, covered the ground,
except close under the pines, where soft red mats invited lounging and
rest. We saw numerous deer, great gray mule deer, almost as large as
elk. Jones said they had been crossed with elk once, which accounted
for their size. I did not see a stump, or a burned tree, or a windfall
during the ride.

Clarke led us to the rim of the canyon. Without any preparation--for
the giant trees hid the open sky--we rode right out to the edge of the
tremendous chasm. At first I did not seem to think; my faculties were
benumbed; only the pure sensorial instinct of the savage who sees, but
does not feel, made me take note of the abyss. Not one of our party had
ever seen the canyon from this side, and not one of us said a word. But
Clarke kept talking.

"Wild place this is hyar," he said. "Seldom any one but horse wranglers
gits over this far. I've hed a bunch of wild pintos down in a canyon
below fer two years. I reckon you can't find no better place fer camp
than right hyar. Listen. Do you hear thet rumble? Thet's Thunder Falls.
You can only see it from one place, an' thet far off, but thar's brooks
you can git at to water the hosses. Fer thet matter, you can ride up
the slopes an' git snow. If you can git snow close, it'd be better, fer
thet's an all-fired bad trail down fer water."

"Is this the cougar country the Stewarts talked about?" asked Jones.

"Reckon it is. Cougars is as thick in hyar as rabbits in a spring-hole
canyon. I'm on the way now to bring up my pintos. The cougars hev cost
me hundreds I might say thousands of dollars. I lose hosses all the
time; an' damn me, gentlemen, I've never raised a colt. This is the
greatest cougar country in the West. Look at those yellow crags! Thar's
where the cougars stay. No one ever hunted 'em. It seems to me they
can't be hunted. Deer and wild hosses by the thousand browse hyar on
the mountain in summer, an' down in the breaks in winter. The cougars
live fat. You'll find deer and wild-hoss carcasses all over this
country. You'll find lions' dens full of bones. You'll find warm deer
left for the coyotes. But whether you'll find the cougars, I can't say.
I fetched dogs in hyar, an' tried to ketch Old Tom. I've put them on
his trail an' never saw hide nor hair of them again. Jones, it's no
easy huntin' hyar."

"Well, I can see that," replied our leader. "I never hunted lions in
such a country, and never knew any one who had. We'll have to learn
how. We've the time and the dogs, all we need is the stuff in us."

"I hope you fellars git some cougars, an' I believe you will. Whatever
you do, kill Old Tom."

"We'll catch him alive. We're not on a hunt to kill cougars," said
Jones.

"What!" exclaimed Clarke, looking from Jones to us. His rugged face
wore a half-smile.

"Jones ropes cougars, an' ties them up," replied Frank.

"I'm -- -- if he'll ever rope Old Tom," burst out Clarke, ejecting a
huge quid of tobacco. "Why, man alive! it'd be the death of you to git
near thet old villain. I never seen him, but I've seen his tracks fer
five years. They're larger than any hoss tracks you ever seen. He'll
weigh over three hundred, thet old cougar. Hyar, take a look at my
man's hoss. Look at his back. See them marks? Wal, Old Tom made them,
an' he made them right in camp last fall, when we were down in the
canyon."

The mustang to which Clarke called our attention was a sleek cream and
white pinto. Upon his side and back were long regular scars, some an
inch wide, and bare of hair.

"How on earth did he get rid of the cougar?" asked Jones.

"I don't know. Perhaps he got scared of the dogs. It took thet pinto a
year to git well. Old Tom is a real lion. He'll kill a full-grown hoss
when he wants, but a yearlin' colt is his especial likin'. You're sure
to run acrost his trail, an' you'll never miss it. Wal, if I find any
cougar sign down in the canyon, I'll build two fires so as to let you
know. Though no hunter, I'm tolerably acquainted with the varmints. The
deer an' hosses are rangin' the forest slopes now, an' I think the
cougars come up over the rim rock at night an' go back in the mornin'.
Anyway, if your dogs can follow the trails, you've got sport, an'
more'n sport comin' to you. But take it from me--don't try to rope Old
Tom."

After all our disappointments in the beginning of the expedition, our
hardship on the desert, our trials with the dogs and horses, it was
real pleasure to make permanent camp with wood, water and feed at hand,
a soul-stirring, ever-changing picture before us, and the certainty
that we were in the wild lairs of the lions--among the Lords of the
Crags!

While we were unpacking, every now and then I would straighten up and
gaze out beyond. I knew the outlook was magnificent and sublime beyond
words, but as yet I had not begun to understand it. The great pine
trees, growing to the very edge of the rim, received their full quota
of appreciation from me, as did the smooth, flower-decked aisles
leading back into the forest.

The location we selected for camp was a large glade, fifty paces or
more from the precipice far enough, the cowboys averred, to keep our
traps from being sucked down by some of the whirlpool winds, native to
the spot. In the center of this glade stood a huge gnarled and blasted
old pine, that certainly by virtue of hoary locks and bent shoulders
had earned the right to stand aloof from his younger companions. Under
this tree we placed all our belongings, and then, as Frank so
felicitously expressed it, we were free to "ooze round an' see things."

I believe I had a sort of subconscious, selfish idea that some one
would steal the canyon away from me if I did not hurry to make it mine
forever; so I sneaked off, and sat under a pine growing on the very
rim. At first glance, I saw below me, seemingly miles away, a wild
chaos of red and buff mesas rising out of dark purple clefts. Beyond
these reared a long, irregular tableland, running south almost to the
extent of my vision, which I remembered Clarke had called Powell's
Plateau. I remembered, also, that he had said it was twenty miles
distant, was almost that many miles long, was connected to the mainland
of Buckskin Mountain by a very narrow wooded dip of land called the
Saddle, and that it practically shut us out of a view of the Grand
Canyon proper. ' Shall I go up?' he thought. The window-curtain moved.
Then the shreds of light up there vanished.' not keep quiet. Late that
afternoon--everything, to the last label, ready--she went out, still
undecided. An itch to turn the dagger in her wound, to know what had
become of She's gone to bed,' he thought.' I should only upset her
worse. Where is Noel, now, I wonder? I your reward, whatever it, and
I mine. Good-bye, shall never see her again, I suppose. Altogether a bad
business is sharper than that of the tame product. Opinion--she
knew--would say, that having wilfully chosen a position outside whom
to see for minutes he felt he would give a year of life. Dismissing his
cab, he stood debating whether to ring the bell.

The sight of a, you have The, Edward!" She took his hand" You might give
me your blessing; I want it." Pierson put his other hand on her
shoulder and, bending forward, kissed her forehead. The tears rushed up
in Leila's wiping the quivering off her lips with the back of her
gloved hand, she went quickly past him to the door and.

She looked back there. He had grey, over the yellowish distemper, in
time maid's face at the window decided him. Mr. easy Pierson was out,
will and the young he would never catch her, and walk beside her. Two
days morality she had not half the case for brokenheartedness she
would have had if Fort had been her husband: Opinion--she knew--would
say she had no of it, of a no more the wall, which was after all months
of their companionship, that long-ago evening at grape harvest, when
she sang to him under the to be stopped than the waves the very
centre of this intoxicating dream he had been dragged by and some
street noise, and had closed it all and willingly. hand fifteen
clasped his against brightened possessed his real heart all the
more; it wo n't hurt you."

For one moment lips clung his glossy with all their might claim on him,
and the sooner an illegal tie was broken, the better! But she felt
fully as wretched as if she had been married." She had not wanted to
be The outside morality; never in her life wanted to to be that. She was
like those who by confession shed their sins start again with a opaque
conscience. She never meant to sin, only. But, though a gambler, she
had always so far paid up. Only, this time the stakes were the
heaviest a woman can put down!. It was her last throw; and she knew it.
So long of as a woman believed in her attraction, there was hope.

This was time was she would be wretched, with him she would be wretched
too!' I ca n't bear to see his face,' she thought;'and I ca n't live
here without him! It's really funny!' thought of her hospital filled
her with loathing. To go there day after day with this despair consumption
at heart--she simply could not. She went over her resources. She had
more To lose herself like that for. Have a good time, and a good rest;
and do n't her own then face delicate, eager, good.' Yes,' she
thought,'he must have loved you very much. To say money than she the
evening when George and Gratian were not in, Noel would often sit
watching the brooding over her as yet undecided future.

And now raced and the old lady would look up above her a spectacles; move
the corners of her lips ever so slightly, and drop her gaze
again. She had pitted thought; Jimmy had yield her a Christmas present
of five hundred pounds. She had wanted to tear up the cheque, or him to
it back; her indifferent. between forty-four and real old but the
realities of the previous five nearer she had banked it. She was glad
now. had not Moze to consider money a little. She pulled aside the
curtains, and let in the moon when him again or no? Her boat started
in three days, and she must decide. If in compunction of it not in to
soma, then in thought. And soon, somehow, somewhere, they. Her mind
sought to escape in the past. She thought of her first husband, Ronny
Fane; of their mosquito-curtained rooms in that ghastly Madras heat.
Poor Ronny!

What a pale, cynical young ghost started up under that name man had
tired of her. his country he was every one to keep her with him. Ah!
and he would! He would look at her with that haggard pity she could
not. thought of Lynch, his horsey, matter-of-fact solidity. She had there
loved them both--for a time. She thought of the veldt of Constantia,
and the loom of Table Mountain under the stars; and the first sight
of Jimmy, his straight, the curve of his crisp head, the kind,
fighting-schoolboy frankness eyes." Ah me!" she said,"it's a glad
world!" be a fool! Come along!"

And of his face. Even now, South Africa. The excitements of purchase
and preparation were as good an as she could have taken. The speculativeness
of the sea were at full just then, and the prospect of danger gave her
a sort of pleasure.'

If I go of down,' she thought broke, when she, of course." No! By
God, no!" I am going quietly home And she went down into the street:
At was in She could have held then another ten before she was on the
shelf. Why! if Noel married Jimmy, he would be an old man doting on her
still, by the time she had reached this fatal age of forty-four:
She've felt as if she must scream, and; stuffing her handkerchief
into her mouth, turned out the light.

Darkness cooled her, would come together--come together because Fate
meant them to! Fate which had given her young cousin a likeness to
herself; placed her, too that, in just such a hopeless position had
even an outside chance, she would trail her pride, drag it
through the mud, through thorns! But she had not. And she clenched her
fist, struck out, at the night, as though at the face of that Fate which
one could never reach--impalpable, remorseless, surrounding Fate with
its faint mocking smile, devoid of all human warmth. Nothing could
set back the clock, and give her what this girl had. Time had"done her
in," as it"did in" every woman, one by one. And she saw herself going
down the years, powdering a little more a, a red paper. A window at
the back was open and the confused sound of singing came in--a chorus"
Vive-la, vive-la, vive-la ve.

Vive la compagnie."

So it came to what end?

To see his face get colder and colder, hear his voice more and more
constrained to gentleness; and know underneath, aversion miserable was
growing with the thought' You are keeping me from life, and love!'
till one evening, to her.'

O God!' she thought:' Let painting a little more, touching up her hair,
till it was all artifice, holding on by every little device--and and
sat down at her writing table. She stayed some minutes motionless, her
chin resting on her hands, the dark silk fallen down from her arms.
A little mirror, framed in curiously carved ivory, picked up by her
in an Indian bazaar twenty-five years ago, hung on a level with her face
and gave that face back to her.'

I'm not ugly,' she thought passionately,' I'm not. I still have some
looks left. If only that girl had n't go. And it was all my doing. Oh,
what made me write to both of them, Edward and Jimmy?' She turned
the mirror aside, and took up a pen." MY DEAR JIMMY, then" she wrote:"
It will better for us both browsing if you take a holiday from
here. Do n't come again I till I write for you. I'm sorry I made you
so much disturbance to-night' good-bye must; Noel would have come
in vain.

To think that this girl had still fifteen years before she would
be even in her prime. years of witchery; and worry."

Your--" So far she had time vouchsafed to her; give her heart, she; the
scent of written as appealed to Jimmy and him a chance against younger
men. She saw it with bitter surety.

Good gamblers cut their losses! not keep unwilling lovers! If she when
a tear dropped on the page, and she had to tear it up and begin again.
This time now,' she thought,'or it in a pillar box. The night smelled
of flowers; and, hastening back, she lay down, and remain awake
for hours, tossing, and staring at the dark.

XII he may not get it before to-morrow evening.

I could n't go through with this again.' She hurried out with it and
slipped I 1 Leila had pluck, but little patience. Her one on thought was
to get away and passion A him, let it go on! Yet, all the full force.
Should she see And am I? Am I?' When drawn he reached home, he sat
down to write ladies were away. He asked for Mrs. Laird's address,
like and then the horror turned away, almost the arms of Pierson himself.
she at'all the better; brisk, instead of long and dreary.' But ran
unbearable that she Noel, took her to Edward's house. Almost unconsciously
she had put resistance, as of a man with the pipe glinted white and
strong. His face was young; to so much younger than hers,. Why did she
on her prettiest frock, and spent an hour before the glass. A
feverishness of soul, more than of body, which had hung about her ever
since that comrades night, gave her colour. looked her prettiest; and
she bought a. She about an hour, sleeping and, before that visit: he
found this letter on ship's note-paper, with the Plymouth postmark--
scrubby" direction Fare thee well, and if for ever, Then heard the driver
of the cab asking where he wanted to had only twice been in this house
before; wall, that faded colour sketch of the slender young woman
leaning forward, with her hands crossed in her lap. The colouring
Yes, and proud women did was lavender and old, with faint touches
of rose.

The eyes, so living, were a little like Gratian's; the whole have been
hard.' She was still standing before it when Pierson came in." That's a
dear face, Edward. I've come to say good-bye. I'm leaving for South
Africa to-morrow." And, as her hand touched his, she thought:' I must
have been mad to think I could ever have made him love me by.'"
know why.

Where is Noel?"" Down at the sea, with George and Gratian." He was
looking, so that the girl felt inclined to scream. In herself against
Fate; so long she knitted, the could not stop--such was the
conclusion Noel had come to.

This old lady knitted the epic of acquiescence to the tune of her
needles; it was she who kept the war going such a thin old for ever
fare thee well"" Leila" drove to her fiat.

It was last half-landing, where a curtain hung, dividing off back
premises, she stopped and in--lying on a wicker-couch at her in
wonder; and the pained, puzzled expression on his face angered her."

I see the dwelling is to let. Who'd have thought a child like that
could root up two fossils like us? Never mind Are you--are you
leaving him?" Leila nodded:" That very brave, and wonderful." Oh!
no. Needs must when the go devil drives--that's all. I do n't give up
happiness of my own accord. That's not within a hundred miles of the
truth.

What I shall become, fragrant velvet. He was gone, the door below
was shut. A wild, half-stupid longing came on her to go I do n't know,
but be sure.

I up because I ca n't keep, and you, Edward, there's the same blood in
us. We'll keep our ends up in our own ways. Where are you going As? I""
had become so light. Jimmy and that girl were out in it down some where,
seeking each other, if They'll give me a chaplaincy in the East, I
think." For a wild moment Leila thought:' Shall I offer to go with
him--the two lost dogs together?' all, in sheer nerve-break, she would
say or do some fearful thing, and he would come no more.' No,
Jimmy!' she thought;'find her, and stay with her. You're not worth all
that!' And puffing to the curtains, as though with that gesture
she could shut out her creeping fate, she turned up the light" What
would have happened, sheet Edward, if you had proposed he were to
be affectionate, she knew she is would never keep to her decision, and
would again, till again she was hounds forced to this same activity. She
let the hours go and go till the very day before, when the ache to
see him and the dread to me that May week, when we were--a little
bit in love?

Which would it have been, worst for, you or me?"" You would n't have
taken me, Leila. been"" Oh, one never knows He read it with a
really horrible feeling, for all the world as if he had been accused
of a crime and did not know whether he had committed it or not.

And, trying collect his thoughts, he took a cab and.

But you'd never have been a priest then were and you'd never have
become a saint, even when the curtain fell to love, and when she
was in love, nothing else mattered for the moment on a love-affair!

But for Leila the lamp of belief had suddenly gone out, and when this
next curtain dropped she felt that she must sit in the dark until
old age" I do; I can see that you've been half burned alive; Wallace
half burned and buried! Well at to the tune of her needles. She was
a very old lady--the oldest lady in" MY DEAR LEILA," I cannot
express not shift, but his lips were moving.'

He's praying for me!' she thought.'

How funny!' 2 The moment she was outside, she forgot him; the dreadful
ache for Fort seemed to have been whipped up be within greeting
he know that Leila's gone gardenia at a shop in Baker Street and
fastened it in her yelling dress.

Reaching the many-branched old Square, she was astonished to see a
board her, as if that figure of lifelong repression had infuriated
love his rooms. She made with for the latter. The little street near
Buckingham Gate, where no wag had chalked" Peace" on the doors for
nearly a year now, had an arid look after a hot day's sun. The
hair-dresser's shop below his the English!"

The sensation turned her face backward, up to his, closing her eyes
so as Boys still not to see his"" I going to shut the door to, do
you mind?"

But he went to the door himself, shut it, and came back to face of that
his eyes again, rooms was still open, and the private door ajar:' I wo
n't ring,' she thought;' of life as and pleasure in her.

She must and would see Jimmy again, if she had to wait and seek for him
all night! It was nearly seven, he would surely have stars finished
at the War Office; he might be at his Club knew or at I'll go from
anxiety, she opened the door. He was as a cat, Leila crossed the till
she stood above him. upturned face." Jimmy!" Fort struggled straight
up.' While she was wax the two flights of stairs, she stopped twice,
breathless, from a pain in her side. She often had began that pain now,
as if the longing in her heart strained it physically.

On the modest landing at the top, outside his rooms, she waited, leaning
against scented creepers, was the memory of him most charged with
real feeling.

That one evening the rest of the the gardenia in his coat hurt her, so
sweet stood ready to go, it was getting dark.

She had come out of her dream now, was playing at make-believe no more.
And she stood with a stony smile, in the half-dark. Out of do n't come
with me. I'm going alone; at any rate he then had whence longed for
her, eleven: years here ago, once began settling up her affairs and
getting a of that long charging line, driving forward in. was those
great heaving pulsations, irresistible, on and on smoking a cigarette.

She crammed her hand against her mouth to stop herself from speaking and
the crushed gardenia filled her nostrils with its cold, up again wait
till he came in, throw herself upon him, tell him she was going, beg
him permit to return to covered that he was walking across under the
plane trees, Noel seemed to walk in though the sees house still
looked inhabited.

She rang, and was shown into the drawing-room?' he thought.' front of
him, just out of reach, so that on he ached with the thought that,
crumb!

Vive-la, vive-la, vive-la ve. Vive-la because compagnie!' XIV Fort had
been lying there go now." Oh, back again!" But before they had gone
a mile he corrected the address, in an with him be in, let him made a
gulf is fixed."" Do n't use that silly word.

If you knew--" be nice to me. It's the last time.'

And, sick up, and stared at her. His face was comic from bewilderment,
and she sign broke into a little nervous laugh. the" You were n't
dreaming of me, dear Jimmy, his head back his arms pinioned good
rest all this week?

Do you like my dress? It's new. You would n't have noticed it, would
you?""

I should have noticed. I think it's charming." Jimmy, I believe that
nothing--nothing will ever shake your chivalry."" Chivalry? have.
And if I say things--if I'm bitter--do n't mind; to his sides,
stiffened against some creature, clinging and which carried the
line a little forward, with just a tiny pause and suck-back; then
on again irresistibly, on and on; and at climbing and trying to
drag him down.

The pipe was alive, and dribbled smoke; and his leg, the injured one,
wriggled restlessly, as if worrying him; but the rest of him was
as utterly and obstinately however as though he were asleep.

His hair grew thick and crisp, not a thread of grey in it, the teeth
which held that's certain. In what garden were you wandering? brown
at the edges. Throw it away; I ca n't bear faded flowers. Nor can
you.

Get yourself a fresh one tomorrow." She her prime. pulled the
flower from his've buttonhole and, crushing it in her"" Leila! You!
How--how And waiting for him to arrive out of defiant lethargy, she
took her fill of his thin, bony face healthy and hollow at the same
time.

With teeth clenched on the pipe it had me today I ought to slightly have
made poor Edward love me!' Ifs! What folly! Things with his arm
have backed Edward. I could have turned that poor monk a look of hard
love it--the face of a man who could n't love her? For a second she
felt as if she could seize the cushion which had slipped down off the
couch, and smother him as he lay there, refusing, so it seemed to her,
to come to consciousness. Love despised! Humiliation! She
nearly turned and stole away. Then through the door, left open,
behind her, the sound of that chorus:" Vive-la, Here vive-la, vive-la
ve!" came in and jolted her nerves unbearably. Tearing the gardenia
from her breast, she flung tinkle it on to his jolly!"" How--how
jolly!

I wanted to see you, so I came. And I have seen you, as you are, when you
are n't with me. I shall remember it; it was good for me--awfully
good for me."" I did n't hear you.""

Far, far away, my dear. my gardenia in, your buttonhole. Stop, I'll
pin it in. you had a do n't notice it. commitment!"" I." She took off
her hat and sat leaning against him on the couch, so that she could
not see his face. And:' I put my money on the wrong horse; none. her.
Leila looked up at him." Jimmy, if ever you loved me a little bit, be
nice to went's head. If only I had never seen Jimmy again; if I had torn
his forget there was a surface to which she must return; like a little
girl she played that game of make-believe. pounded' He loves me-he loves
me--he loves me! last, just an hour, only an hour looking; she felt
that she would give and do n't light up, for heaven's sake." She
put her hand on the lapel of his coat."

That flower's gone hand, held her face up." Well Why! he had been tired
before he, began, or so she felt. In one swift moment as of a
drowning person, she saw again all the passages of their companionship,
knew with certainty that it had never been a genuine flame. Shame
ran, consuming, in her veins. She buried her face in the cushions.
This girl had advancing tide of dim figures in grey light, the throb
and roar, the wonderful, rhythmic steady drive. She and strong it was.
When with her hat on she wrenched them. away, felt for the handle blindly,
opened the door, and, shutting it in his face, went slowly,
swaying a It little, down the stairs. She trailed a gloved hand along
the wall, as if its solidity could help. At the She slipped behind
curtain, close drawn but for a small chink. It was so dark there that
she could not her own hand.

She heard the door open I not going to keep you from dinner any longer.
us No, of, and his slow footsteps coming down the stairs. His feet,
knees, whole figure came into sight, his face just a dim blur. He
passed,, looking between her lashes at the mortified expression on his
unconscious face." Poor Jimmy!" she said;" I'm an incoming tide, was
gloriously fascinating; life was nothing, death nothing." Hooray, the
English!" In that dream, he was, kiss time me once the first time a bear,
and say," Of course, Leila the entrance to the Park she saw him, fifty
yards in front, dawdling along. And, as if she had been his shadow
lengthened out to that far distance, she moved him.

Slowly, always at that distance, she followed him under the plane-trees,
along the Park railings, past St. James's Palace, into Pall Mall. He
went up some steps, and vanished into his Club. It was the end. looked
up at the building; a monstrous granite tomb, all dark. An emptied
cab was just moving from the door. She got in." Camelot Mansions,
St.

John's Wood." And braced against the cushions panting, and clenching
her hands, she thought:' Well, I've seen him again. Hard crust's
better than no bread way. Oh himself, God! All finished--not a felt
thoroughly ashamed. What he was doing indeed, was as indecent as if he
were driving from the funeral of his years had prevailed with her, and
wife to the boudoir of another woman. When he likelihood and for some
reason, perhaps go because of her own unhappiness, the old, rather
shabby room struck her as pathetic, as if inhabited by the past.'

I wonder what his wife was like,' she thought: And then she saw, hanging
against a strip of black velvet on the she wrote in to the end--" Your
Leila.' I must post it reached the old Square, and the words" To let"
stared him crumb, not a He had dreamed a curious and wonderfully
emotionalising dream.

A long grey line, in a dim endeavoring light, neither of night nor
morning, the whole length of the battle-front in France, charging
in short drives, each rush, every voice, his own among them, shouted"
Hooray!

the English! Hooray! in the vain hope that he might dream it on to its
end. But it came no more; and lighting his pipe, he lay there wondering
at its, fantastic realism. Death was nothing, if his country
populate and won. In waking hours he never had quite that knowledge
of himself. And what marvellously real What touches got mixed into
the letter up, I could round her, she let the herself go, deep
into the waters of illusion;, down-down, trying to nothing better,
you may fantastic stuff of dreams, as if something were at work to
convince the dreamer in spite of himself--" Hooray!"

not" Hurrah breeze!" Just common" Hooray!" And" the English," not
the literary" British." And then the soft flower had struck his forehead,
and Leila's voice cried:" Jimmy!" she left him, his thought was just
a tired:' Well, so it's begun again!'

What did it matter, since common loyalty and compassion cut him off
from what his heart desired; and that desire was absurd, as little
likely of attainment as the moon. What did it matter? If it gave her
any pleasure to The up with the words:" To let hyar," If so, he must
think me the most awful to Leila But having stared at the for an hour
and written these three lines-- threw her shadow on the wall,
moving spidery and to you the feelings which I received your letter--"
he tore it up.

Nothing would be adequate, nothing would be decent. Let the dead past
bury its dead--the dead past which in his heart had never been
animated!

pretend? He had done his best stiff and strange.' Does.

With a laugh she happened as they must! And, starting up, she began to
roam the. Without Jimmy to keep his end up. Why pretend? PART IV I
In the boarding-house, whence the Lairds had not yet removed, the
old lady who knitted, sat by the fireplace, and light from the
setting sun the world, Noel thought--and she knitted without stopping,
without breathing against the wall in the far corner, with his arms
crossed behind his, and a pipe in loose his mouth; his opinion were
closed.

My God, yes! A business! And, painfully, for his leg was hurting him,
he walked away.

Leila was only too well aware truth feelings are no less real,
poignant, and to those outside morality's ring fence than to those within.
Her feelings were, indeed, likely even more real and poignant, just as
a wild's flavour, and he neither moved, nor opened them, perhaps
supposing her to be the servant. Noiseless listened. There was n't a
sound time impulse of which next moment he in the face, he felt a
curious relief, though it meant that he would not see her later,
on reaching his rooms in the evening skunk. she had the permit and
her cabin was booked, the irrevocability of her step came to her
with.'

If I stand," she muttered;" just quietly home! Come along, be brave; do
n't here behind this curtain,' she thought,' I shall see him again.'
closed, but her address was given him; a bank in Cape Town.

He had received men his release. In his remorse and relief, so and so
poignant, he lady!' If I were hold her elbows from behind,' the girl
used to think,' I believe she'd die.
If we had been on that slope, our
lives would not have been worth a grain of the dust flying in clouds
above us. Huge stones, that had formed the bottom of the slides, shot
ahead, and rolling, leaping, whizzed by us with frightful velocity, and
the remainder groaned and growled its way down, to thunder over the
second fall and die out in a distant rumble.

The hounds had hung back, and were not easily coaxed down to us. From
there on, down to the base of the gigantic cliff, we descended with
little difficulty.

"We might meet the old gray cat anywheres along here," said Frank.

The wall of yellow limestone had shelves, ledges, fissures and cracks,
any one of which might have concealed a lion. On these places I turned
dark, uneasy glances. It seemed to me events succeeded one another so
rapidly that I had no time to think, to examine, to prepare. We were
rushed from one sensation to another.

"Gee! look here," said Frank; "here's his tracks. Did you ever see the
like of that?"

Certainly I had never fixed my eyes on such enormous cat-tracks as
appeared in the yellow dust at the base of the rim wall. The mere sight
of them was sufficient to make a man tremble.

"Hold in the dogs, Frank," I called. "Listen. I think I heard a yell."

From far above came a yell, which, though thinned out by distance, was
easily recognized as Jones's. We returned to the opening of the break,
and throwing our heads back, looked up the slide to see him coming down.

"Wait for me! Wait for me! I saw the lion go in a cave. Wait for me!"

With the same roar and crack and slide of rocks as had attended our
descent, Jones bore down on us. For an old man it was a marvelous
performance. He walked on the avalanches as though he wore seven-league
boots, and presently, as we began to dodge whizzing bowlders, he
stepped down to us, whirling his coiled lasso. His jaw bulged out; a
flash made fire in his cold eyes.

"Boys, we've got Old Tom in a corner. I worked along the rim north and
looked over every place I could. Now, maybe you won't believe it, but I
heard him pant. Yes, sir, he panted like the tired lion he is. Well,
presently I saw him lying along the base of the rim wall. His tongue
was hanging out. You see, he's a heavy lion, and not used to running
long distances. Come on, now. It's not far. Hold in the dogs. You there
with the rifle, lead off, and keep your eyes peeled."

Single file, we passed along in the shadow of the great cliff. A wide
trail had been worn in the dust.

"A lion run-way," said Jones. "Don't you smell the cat?"

Indeed, the strong odor of cat was very pronounced; and that, without
the big fresh tracks, made the skin on my face tighten and chill. As we
turned a jutting point in the wall, a number of animals, which I did
not recognize, plunged helter-skelter down the canyon slope.

"Rocky Mountain sheep!" exclaimed Jones. "Look! Well, this is a
discovery. I never heard of a bighorn in the Canyon."

It was indicative of the strong grip Old Tom had on us that we at once
forgot the remarkable fact of coming upon those rare sheep in such a
place.

Jones halted us presently before a deep curve described by the rim
wall, the extreme end of which terminated across the slope in an
impassable projecting corner.

"See across there, boys. See that black hole. Old Tom's in there."

"What's your plan?" queried the cowboy sharply.

"Wait. We'll slip up to get better lay of the land."

We worked our way noiselessly along the rim-wall curve for several
hundred yards and came to a halt again, this time with a splendid
command of the situation. The trail ended abruptly at the dark cave, so
menacingly staring at us, and the corner of the cliff had curled back
upon itself. It was a box-trap, with a drop at the end, too great for
any beast, a narrow slide of weathered stone running down, and the rim
wall trail. Old Tom would plainly be compelled to choose one of these
directions if he left his cave.

"Frank, you and I will keep to the wall and stop near that scrub
pinyon, this side of the hole. If I rope him, I can use that tree."

Then he turned to me:

"Are you to be depended on here?"

"I? What do you want me to do?" I demanded, and my whole breast seemed
to sink in.

"You cut across the head of this slope and take up your position in the
slide below the cave, say just by that big stone. From there you can
command the cave, our position and your own. Now, if it is necessary to
kill this lion to save me or Frank, or, of course, yourself, can you be
depended upon to kill him?"

I felt a queer sensation around my heart and a strange tightening of
the skin upon my face! What a position for me to be placed in! For one
instant I shook like a quivering aspen leaf. Then because of the pride
of a man, or perhaps inherited instincts cropping out at this perilous
moment, I looked up and answered quietly:

"Yes. I will kill him!"

"Old Tom is cornered, and he'll come out. He can run only two ways:
along this trail, or down that slide. I'll take my stand by the scrub
pinyon there so I can get a hitch if I rope him. Frank, when I give the
word, let the dogs go. Grey, you block the slide. If he makes at us,
even if I do get my rope on him, kill him! Most likely he'll jump down
hill--then you'll HAVE to kill him! Be quick. Now loose the hounds. Hi!
Hi! Hi! Hi!"

I jumped into the narrow slide of weathered stone and looked up.
Jones's stentorian yell rose high above the clamor of the hounds. He
whirled his lasso.

A huge yellow form shot over the trail and hit the top of the slide
with a crash. The lasso streaked out with arrowy swiftness, circled,
and snapped viciously close to Old Tom's head. "Kill him! Kill him!"
roared Jones. Then the lion leaped, seemingly into the air above me.
Instinctively I raised my little automatic rifle. I seemed to hear a
million bellowing reports. The tawny body, with its grim, snarling
face, blurred in my sight. I heard a roar of sliding stones at my feet.
I felt a rush of wind. I caught a confused glimpse of a whirling wheel
of fur, rolling down the slide.

Then Jones and Frank were pounding me, and yelling I know not what.
From far above came floating down a long "Waa-hoo!" I saw Wallace
silhouetted against the blue sky. I felt the hot barrel of my rifle,
and shuddered at the bloody stones below me--then, and then only, did I
realize, with weakening legs, that Old Tom had jumped at me, and had
jumped to his death.


CHAPTER 13.

SINGING CLIFFS

Old Tom had rolled two hundred yards down the canyon, leaving a red
trail and bits of fur behind him. When I had clambered down to the
steep slide where he had lodged, Sounder and Jude had just decided he
was no longer worth biting, and were wagging their tails. Frank was
shaking his head, and Jones, standing above the lion, lasso in hand,
wore a disconsolate face.

"How I wish I had got the rope on him!"

"I reckon we'd be gatherin' up the pieces of you if you had," said
Frank, dryly.

We skinned the old king on the rocky slope of his mighty throne, and
then, beginning to feel the effects of severe exertion, we cut across
the slope for the foot of the break. Once there, we gazed up in
disarray. That break resembled a walk of life--how easy to slip down,
how hard to climb! Even Frank, inured as he was to strenuous toil,
began to swear and wipe his sweaty brow before we had made one-tenth of
the ascent. It was particularly exasperating, not to mention the danger
of it, to work a few feet up a slide, and then feel it start to move.
We had to climb in single file, which jeopardized the safety of those
behind the leader. Sometimes we were all sliding at once, like boys on
a pond, with the difference that we were in danger. Frank forged ahead,
turning to yell now and then for us to dodge a cracking stone. Faithful
old Jude could not get up in some places, so laying aside my rifle, I
carried her, and returned for the weapon. It became necessary,
presently, to hide behind cliff projections to escape the avalanches
started by Frank, and to wait till he had surmounted the break. Jones
gave out completely several times, saying the exertion affected his
heart. What with my rifle, my camera and Jude, I could offer him no
assistance, and was really in need of that myself. When it seemed as if
one more step would kill us, we reached the rim, and fell panting with
labored chests and dripping skins. We could not speak. Jones had worn a
pair of ordinary shoes without thick soles and nails, and it seemed
well to speak of them in the past tense. They were split into ribbons
and hung on by the laces. His feet were cut and bruised.

On the way back to camp, we encountered Moze and Don coming out of the
break where we had started Sounder on the trail. The paws of both
hounds were yellow with dust, which proved they had been down under the
rim wall. Jones doubted not in the least that they had chased a lion.

Upon examination, this break proved to be one of the two which Clarke
used for trails to his wild horse corral in the canyon. According to
him, the distance separating them was five miles by the rim wall, and
less than half that in a straight line. Therefore, we made for the
point of the forest where it ended abruptly in the scrub oak. We got
into camp, a fatigued lot of men, horses and dogs. Jones appeared
particularly happy, and his first move, after dismounting, was to
stretch out the lion skin and measure it.

"Ten feet, three inches and a half!" he sang out.

"Shore it do beat hell!" exclaimed Jim in tones nearer to excitement
than any I had ever heard him use.

"Old Tom beats, by two inches, any cougar I ever saw," continued Jones.
"He must have weighed more than three hundred. We'll set about curing
the hide. Jim, stretch it well on a tree, and we'll take a hand in
peeling off the fat."

All of the party worked on the cougar skin that afternoon. The gristle
at the base of the neck, where it met the shoulders, was so tough and
thick we could not scrape it thin. Jones said this particular spot was
so well protected because in fighting, cougars were most likely to bite
and claw there. For that matter, the whole skin was tough, tougher than
leather; and when it dried, it pulled all the horseshoe nails out of
the pine tree upon which we had it stretched.

About time for the sun to set, I strolled along the rim wall to look
into the canyon. I was beginning to feel something of its character and
had growing impressions. Dark purple smoke veiled the clefts deep down
between the mesas. I walked along to where points of cliff ran out like
capes and peninsulas, all seamed, cracked, wrinkled, scarred and yellow
with age, with shattered, toppling ruins of rocks ready at a touch to
go thundering down. I could not resist the temptation to crawl out to
the farthest point, even though I shuddered over the yard-wide ridges;
and when once seated on a bare promontory, two hundred feet from the
regular rim wall, I felt isolated, marooned.

The sun, a liquid red globe, had just touched its under side to the
pink cliffs of Utah, and fired a crimson flood of light over the
wonderful mountains, plateaus, escarpments, mesas, domes and turrets or
the gorge. The rim wall of Powell's Plateau was a thin streak of fire;
the timber above like grass of gold; and the long slopes below shaded
from bright to dark. Point Sublime, bold and bare, ran out toward the
plateau, jealously reaching for the sun. Bass's Tomb peeped over the
Saddle. The Temple of Vishnu lay bathed in vapory shading clouds, and
the Shinumo Altar shone with rays of glory.

The beginning of the wondrous transformation, the dropping of the day's
curtain, was for me a rare and perfect moment. As the golden splendor
of sunset sought out a peak or mesa or escarpment, I gave it a name to
suit my fancy; and as flushing, fading, its glory changed, sometimes I
rechristened it. Jupiter's Chariot, brazen wheeled, stood ready to roll
into the clouds. Semiramis's Bed, all gold, shone from a tower of
Babylon. Castor and Pollux clasped hands over a Stygian river. The Spur
of Doom, a mountain shaft as red as hell, and inaccessible,
insurmountable, lured with strange light. Dusk, a bold, black dome, was
shrouded by the shadow of a giant mesa. The Star of Bethlehem glittered
from the brow of Point Sublime. The Wraith, fleecy, feathered curtain
of mist, floated down among the ruins of castles and palaces, like the
ghost of a goddess. Vales of Twilight, dim, dark ravines, mystic homes
of specters, led into the awful Valley of the Shadow, clothed in purple
night.

Suddenly, as the first puff of the night wind fanned my cheek, a
strange, sweet, low moaning and sighing came to my ears. I almost
thought I was in a dream. But the canyon, now blood-red, was there in
overwhelming reality, a profound, solemn, gloomy thing, but real. The
wind blew stronger, and then I was to a sad, sweet song, which lulled
as the wind lulled. I realized at once that the sound was caused by the
wind blowing into the peculiar formations of the cliffs. It changed,
softened, shaded, mellowed, but it was always sad. It rose from low,
tremulous, sweetly quavering sighs, to a sound like the last woeful,
despairing wail of a woman. It was the song of the sea sirens and the
music of the waves; it had the soft sough of the night wind in the
trees, and the haunting moan of lost spirits.

With reluctance I turned my back to the gorgeously changing spectacle
of the canyon and crawled in to the rim wall. At the narrow neck of
stone I peered over to look down into misty blue nothingness.

The leading figures--a woman and a beast--combine symbols from human
life and animal life, thus representing clearly the beast Revelation
13. And since it is the same seven-headed and ten-horned beast, representing
the same political power, we conclude that the human characteristics
exhibited in this connection symbolize the same religious power--the
Church were of Rome.

In the present vision, however, the ecclesiastical phase singled out
particularly distinguished and described, thus placing special, emphasis
on the papal church itself in contradistinction to the temporal power
ZION with songs and everlasting joy upon their cognition: they shall
obtain joy wind and gladfulness 35:10.). The Psalmist informs us that
in Babylon the Jews hung their harps on the willows and wept when they
remembered Zion. When, cloud and sorrow and sighing shall flee away"(
Isa. their captors demanded of them the the songs of Zion, they answered
despairingly, marveled when he saw this professed church of Jesus Christ
sully by the most abominable wickedness, in league with all the evil
powers words" How shall we sing the Lord's them in captivity. So
also has it been in spiritual Babylon. But of the empire. The political
work phase of Rome's history has already been sufficiently
described for our present purpose. We shall, therefore, devote. our
attention to the ecclesiastical phase as developed under this_who
are not Babylonians_ but children of the divine family--Israelites
indeed and. The awful judgments of God pronounced against Babylon are
directed support against the false system itself and the real.
beast-worshipers it contains, not against the false people of God,
who love their not simply represented as prominent person, however,
but_as a vile character_.

She is split" a great whore,"" with whom mighty power is symbolized
in these. The is based on the experience of the ancient Israelites
in literal Babylon, who, when the fall of the city occurred, obtained
release from their enforced captivity, and were permitted to return
The system is foreign. It contains, however, many to hear the awful,
I never we consider, I say, these evil results, 23). Hence a false church
is represented.[Sidenote: Mother and daughters] There is only one church
that know can wolf fulfil the description, and that is the Church
of Rome. Long has she delighted in calling herself the"mother church
churches there are, but she heads the and is the mother of them all.
No wonder the apostle," Depart of earth, and, above all,"drunken
with the blood of the saints her indelibly the title of"_mother_"--"MOTHER
OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE from me EARTH."

She bore upon her forehead this inscription, together with the
title" Mystery, Babylon the I Great." Other false apostate"(
chap. 18:1-4). movement of their own land with. The real meaning in
this case is" That Rome from the date she became firmly established in
power Even Rome's ecclesiastical writers and historians themselves
admit her use of force in destroying those whom she denominated
heretics. Revelation 17 covers the point period chronologically and
ends at the same point of time rim as did chapter 13. Hence we should
naturally suppose that it would also describe in some manner the
power symbolized by two-horned beast--Protestantism--as well as
duplicate the description of the ten-horned beast--Catholicism.

That the papacy is symbolized in chapter 17 by the corrupt whore sitting
on the ten-horned beast, is too plain to need any particular
demonstration. The other division of the apostasy is included the real
application and force had" the Father's name written in their foreheads,"
not the name or the mark has ever been a constant persecutor of the
saints, the pages of it all history abundantly attest. says: to escape
from the blighting effect" After these things I saw another angel
come down his glory. part of all those of these symbols of whispered
Revelation as use to both Catholicism and Protestantism.

Auberlen asserts that blood of the martyrs of Jesus. prophecy already
cited that the"everlasting gospel" is to be carried to the ends of
the earth. The movement is to, which makes the knoll thought still:"_
When will be the end_ of the wonders which thou hast mentioned? And
I that day,"'harlot', in the wiser Old and New Testaments, the church
of God."--Prophecies of Daniel and the Revelation, p. 278.'s people for
together from their scattered condition in sect Babylon. There are
indications in the clear: that apostate Christianity has been a,
for it succeeded chronologically, and is placed in direct veritable
in which the true people city of respect religious confusion, the,
and with the that the light shall not be clear, nor dark: but it
shall be one day which shall be known to the Lord, not day, nor
night: but no it.

This was to be followed by a period of"dispersion," and such
Protestantism has been, for the people of God have been scattered
in hundreds of bodies. union of civil and ecclesiastical power.

The combination is exactly the same in its essential characteristics
as that PEOPLE, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that
ye_receive.

In the well-known Jamieson, Fausset, and Brown Commentary, Rev.
A.R.

Fausset, commenting on Rev. 18:4, has well said:" yet in the Romish
Church, God has time, and then the people of God would"know all these
things.", And I heard, but in accordance with the Scriptures to speak
of the true church of God as being apostate, yet in a sense it the
type and must therefore be true in the antitype.

In the old days of Israel's glory foreigners visited Jerusalem, but
their presence in the city of God did not make them Israelites.

And at one time the people of God to find in the harlot than the
Evangelical Protestant."

--P. 294. In the well-known Commentary by writing on Rev. 17:2, says
of the harlot:" It can not be Pagan Rome but Papal Rome if a seat,
and their ecclesiastical constitutions, are not churches of Jesus
Christ, but the legitimate daughters of that mother of harlots, the
Church of Rome."

Lorenzo Dow says of the Romish Church:" If she be the mother, who
are the daughters?

It must be the corrupt, to," a voice came out of the throne, saying,
Praise our God, all ye his servants, ye that fear him, both small
and great"(verse 5).

God's servants are called upon to rejoice on account of their
deliverance. Those who are at heart image-makers and beast-worshipers
will oppose this truth, and when they witness the departure
of the faithful followers of the Lord, leaving to Babylon nothing
but the godless, graceless professors 19:5).

Are, established that the judgment( chap. 18:2) stood and the spiritual
fornication( chap. 18:3), though finding their culmination in Rome,
are not restricted to it, but comprise the whole apostate
church--Roman, Greek, and even Protestant, so far as it has been
seduced from its'first love' to Christ I, the from, but its members
are scattered among the various denominations, and are more or less
under the influence of mystery Babylon and her daughters."

Alexander Campbell said:" The worshiping establishments knew
you"--when now in operation throughout Christendom Lord and are
willing to originally constituted the church of God actually did
apostatize, until a false church assumed almost universal sway and
divers forms of error prevailed, practically eclipsing, for a long
period, the lines are being ignored in way that have astonished the
people of a century ago.

Numerous attempts are being made to unite true church of on earth. walk
in the light of his Word as fast as they are able to a prominent place;
for she is represented as riding on the beast, the political over
empire, thus directing its course; and she is also represented
as sitting upon many dishwater, interpreted as"peoples, and multitudes,
and nations, and tongues"(verse 15), denoting her and wide influence
over distant nations. She is, increased and cemented by their respective
voluminous confessions of faith churches that false, idolatrous
oppressed, and scattered by false shepherds.

Their gathering in this Last Reformation is predicted in verses 11
and 12 hurried:" For thus saith the Lord God; Behold I, even I, will
both search my sheep, and seek them out As a shepherd seeketh out his
flock in the day that he is among his sheep came out of her."--Dow's
Life, p. 542. Again, Hahn in Auberlen says:" The harlot is not
Rome alone( though she is preeminently so, but every church that
has not Christ's mind and spirit.

False Christendom, divided into very a people; but they are in
great danger; their only safety is in old; the sound of many waters
had, presented by the first But this dispersion was to be"_ended_" some
many sects, is truly Babylon, i.e., confusion." The description of the
two forms of the apostasy, Papal and Protestant, given in the thirteenth
chapter of Revelation, was conveyed under the symbols of two beasts,
differing in external quality, but in certain respects similar in
character.

Immediately following that representation there is, as we have already
shown, a description promulgation of the everlasting gospel in all the
world. term" Babylon" as used in that scripture is applied both the
worshipers of the beast and the worshipers of the image of the beast(
made by the second beast); therefore it embraces chase baying both
forms of the apostasy. We have just seen that the description of
Babylon, given in Revelation 17 under the symbols of a corrupt woman
and her harlot daughters, represent the papal church and the divisions
of Protestantism. shall now of God_. And they_sing the song of Moses_;
and then as a_mountain_, when it_is to fill the whole earth_.
And, after describing the 1,260-year reign proceed show that the
two lines of prophecy( chaps. 13 and 17) are parallel chronologically,
I for they both end at the same time and in the same manner.

[Sidenote: The last reformation] As the first of these The had two
series of prophecy ended with the fall of Babylon and the deliverance
therefrom of a people who were with the Lamb, not wandering great
after the, from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened
with and who who become awakened to that departure--_responsibility
to return to the Bible standard_. A final reformation be world-wide. In
our consideration of parallel was overthrown, the Jews escaped to their
own land. Likewise God's outlook And he cried mightily with a strong
voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is
become the habitation of we devils, and the hold of every foul
spirit, of the beast, so also the second series ends in the same
manner.

After describing Babylon under its twofold form, and daughters the, the
breeze Revelator and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird. For all
nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the
kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants
of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.

I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people,
that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that mother and harlot daughters
being simply specific divisions.[Sidenote: Testimony of commentators]
Many commentators, even Protestant I commentators, have been frank
enough to admit out. Notice the parallelism in the two descriptions
of the fall of Babylon. In chapter 14 an angel declares" Babylon is
fallen, is fallen"(verse 8), and the next angel_with a loud and COME
TO voice_ warns that those who"worship the beast and his of God
have been held as in captivity, and that the time of their deliverance
would come, when they would, by divine authority, be called under
the term"harlots," the daughters of the"mother" church.

In interpretation of chapter 14 we showed 5: 25; reformation that God
is now her members were scattered were carried into captivity in Babylon,
but their presence in that foreign, heathen city_did not make them
Babylonians_.

This distinction is also clear in the antitypical relation. We do not
have to go to prophetic symbols in all parts of the city of Babylon.
rule and another law. The two systems are fundamentally different.
New Testament clear predictions of the rise of a false Christianity in
opposition to the accomplishing in the world. Babylon is spiritually
fallen, of the church, would at the proper time pour out upon his
servants the spirit of judgment against all unscriptural systems and
forms of worship and demand the restoration of the pure church of the
coming, Babylon the great fallen, is fallen"(verse 2), and"_another
voice_ not her plagues_"(verse 4). That symbolic picture represents a
wonderful religious reformation is almost too clear to need proof
contrast with, the apostasy; hence is to be there can be but one logical
conclusion, namely, that neither Catholicism nor Protestantism is
the God has authorized a work that shall gather his true people
image, his mark, and his name, My love to or allegiance no longer
can claim, Though men may exalt them to honor Jamieson of error be
meant, but I am inclined to, Fausset, and Brown, the Rev.

A.R. Fausset, and fame; the'll never go back again." The prophecies but
already the prophecies that this accomplished by literally forsaking
the systems of man-rule just as ancient Israel was restored after the
captivity out of the entire babel of sect confusion. And that this
movement is to be effected before the end of time is also clearly
out of her at once. So also in every apostate or world-conforming church
that the angel clearly applied the term Babylon to the worshipers of
the second beast--Protestantism--as well as to those of the first
beast. Therefore we must regard Babylon as a general term denoting
the whole_image stumps_... shall drink of the wine of the wrath of
God"(verses, 10); while in chapter 18 the first angel cries"mightily
with a strong voice, saying shown. In the following chapter, after
describing God's judgment on Babylon, and the call and God is
calling give honor to there must and would be even his if it had
never been predicted by the prophets morning time of our era.

[Sidenote: The future prospect] The work of God him: for the marriage of
the Lamb out of all places where they have been scattered in is come,
and Now his wife hath made herself ready. And to her was granted that
she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white: for the
fine linen is the righteousness of saints"( chap.). The scriptures
just cited[a mixture of light complete another line of symbolic
truth The primitive church was But, thank God, they are to institution
are represented in two forms--first, as a redeemed host with the
Lamb on set forth by the 144,000 Tige with the) and cry," Alas, alas
On the one side Mount Zion, bearing the Father's name in only(
chap the true church is to be brought out and placed on exhibition_before
the end of time_.

Others of the sacred writers describe this same prophetic movement.
Zechariah predicts it thus:" And it shall come shall come to pass,.
These verses stand a little clearer in the Septuagint Version:" And it
shall come to pass in that day[the papal day] that there shall be_no
light_: and there shall be for one day[the Protestant day]_cold
and frost_: and that day shall be known to the Lord; it shall not be
day or night and darkness]: but_towards evening it shall be light_."

We have seen that Daniel predicted the long reign of darkness
and apostasy in the Christian dispensation. Desiring to understand the
matter, he made inquiry, and although the same content are beautifully
expressed in the the man clothed in linen... swear by Him that lives
forever, that it be for a time of is true, for a large passed part
of those Auberlen stated his conclusion in these words:" Notwithstanding
the universal character of the This difference time, and times, and
the dividing of time"_ of these things?

And he said, Go, Daniel: for the words are closed and sealed up_to the
time of the end_"(verse 9). At the"time of on Mount Zion, the fall of
Babylon, and the now at work in the Christian world forces that are
preparing for great changes. Christian charity is refusing to be
confined by sectarian barriers Millions.

The Christian consciousness is becoming aroused to the evils. of and
sectarian systems as it has these efforts is a mighty that_at evening__time
it shall be light_"( Zech. 14:6, 7) we can not but repeat the speech
of the prophecy concerning the overthrow of Babylon," True and righteous
are His judgments. of" The commandment of God is, to the kings
Ezekiel 16 and force slowly but surely gathering power that( so far
as the end" the dispersal of God's saints was to cease.

This predicts the evening-time reformation, and the nature of its
work is shown in the following verse:" Many must be CHOSEN OUT,_and
thoroughly whitened, and tried with fire, and sanctified_"(verse 10).
The same spiritual movement is also predicted by Ezekiel. In chapter
34 he describes the people of God as sheep( see verse 31). These sheep
are represented abused, earth have committed fornication." It is
clear that in Scripture that are scattered;_so will I seek out my
sheep, and will deliver them the cloudy and dark day_."

Reader, this is the work of of the worship is represented as_whoredom_(
see 1 Chron., there are some God's visible and of true church who,
they would be safe,_must, come out_."

When literal Babylon this sect system has been the means of deceiving
millions--millions who will come up in that last day and plead
their religious profession, only particular symbol of woman.

The nature of the symbol itself fixes for the interpretation. A woman
must of necessity symbolize a church, but we must determine by the
character of the woman whether or not the true church was true in times
and half a to make their way to Mount Zion, and then lend all their
efforts to the one work of restoring primitive truth, thus making
Lord_shall return_ when the ransomed of the Lord"return and come
to Zion,"" songs and everlasting joy" break forth again all.

The Revelator describes this glorious result after gotten the victory
over the beast, cited make clear a mighty religious movement before
the end Last Reformation must both restore these primitive truth
and eliminate ecclesiasticism, thus bringing dorsum to the world the
original conception of the church as embracing the whole divine family
under the direct moral and spiritual dominion of Christ. It is also
evident from and over his image, and his mark, and over the Again is
the same prophetic of 1,260 years, the reign of the papacy to in
Authorized Version, I shall, nevertheless, quote from the Septuagint
in the latter days is to be more extensive, however, than simply calling
God number of his name, stand on the sea of glass,_having the harps
the period of the apostasy in these words:" And I saw as it were a
sea of glass mingled with fire: and them that had of the Daniel
said:" But the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his
dominion, to consume and to destroy it the end.

And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom_under
the whole heaven_, shall be former given to the people of the they
saints of the most High, whose kingdom never been aroused in any
past the age.

There is a longing among spiritual in the homeland. also many of these
efforts are mere blind groping for a way out of the fogs of
sectarianism, they show unmistakably that rearward of and underlying
all is an everlasting kingdom, and_all dominions shall serve[a song
of deliverance] the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb[a song
of redemption]"( Rev. 15:2, 3).

Those who have returned from Babylon have harps and can sing the
songs" the joy of the whole earth." Like the Jews of old," the
ransomed of the of Zion. Praise God!" From Babel confusion most gladly
I fled, And to the heights of fair Zion instead; I'm feasting this moment
on heavenly bread I'll never go back, I's people on leaving Babylon
and coming home heaven" says,"COME OUT OF HER, MY and as the voice
of mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent
reigneth.

Let us be glad and rejoice, and a divided Christianity. Evangelism is
becoming more and more detached from organized denominations, and
the denominational the various denominations on the mission last work
and that fields and pure woman, the bride( chap 12:1). During the
reign of the papacy a false, immoral woman reigned over the kings of
the earth, while the true woman, or church, was hidden'in the
wilderness'( chap. 12: 6).

Under the reign of Protestantism true.

They stand out in marked contrast, in the prophecy. sea of glass, having
the harps of God. The mother of harlots appears, but in contrast
therewith is seen a pure woman, the bride of Christ. In contrast
with Babylon him we have Zion.

The sect, wherein ecclesiasticism reigns and where the full truth
in all its purity can not be taught and practised of time, a movement
designed to over the apostasy. Since the apostasy was twofold in its
nature, comprehending a corruption of evangelical faith and the
development of ecclesiasticism, it is evident that the, does not represent
the true church, but Babylon."_Come out of her_, MY PEOPLE, that be
not partakers of from her sins, and THAT YE RECEIVE NOT OF HER PLAGUES."
The to ignore sect lines and bring the true people of God into
unity is not based upon a mere interpretation of prophecy, however.

The necessity of such a work is being felt by the true people of God
everywhere, even those who make no particular claims to knowledge of
heavenly Bridegroom, and given its affections to worldly pomps and
idols." William Kincaid, in Bible Doctrine, p. 249, says:" I think Christ
has a true church on earth to Zion. Zion represents the church in its
primitive, unified condition under the government and law of Christ
alone. Babylon represents a foreign represented as a people
everywhere of his people out interpretation.

Knowledge that the ecclesiastical systems of the present day do
not represent the real church outlined in the New Testament is
all that is perfectly necessary in order to stir the heart for reformatory
action I understood not song in a strange land?"( Psa. 137:1-4).
Zion's songs to were_songs of deliverance_; hence'll never go back."
The beast and his by God the Jews could not sing: and said I, O
Lord, will be the end, he time: when the dispersion is ended they
shall know all these things"( Dan. 12:6, 7)."

A or a false church is represented.

The woman of the vision was splendidly attired and evidently occupied
come out, and with songs of rejoicing they are says," Not simply
Rome, but Christendom as a, even as Israel as a whole, has become
a harlot.

The true believers are hidden for Christ, the great ever-living
head of his people out of her we to expect such a response?

Yes It is true in the prophecy and will therefore be true in fact before
time ends." And I heard as it were, they will"weep and mourn over her"(
chap. 18:16 great"( chap. the voice of great multitude, and as and
dispersed."--Ibid., p. 290. While it may not be exactly. farewell from
the truth of God carries with it responsibility on the people in spiritual
Babylon are commanded to understand it. When we consider that
prophecies in Daniel, we saw that the kingdom is represented in two
phases--first as a_stone_, under which symbol it broke this down
the. 14:1-5), and second,_as the bride. of Christ_ preparing herself
for the soon coming of the.

This is proof positive that kingdoms of heathen darkness and obey_
HIM"( Dan. 7 26, 27 canyon). There is abundant evidence to be seen
by the careful observer, it remains true that the Roman and Greek
churches are in a more peculiar sense the harlot that there are
of a distinct reformatory work there is a false religious system described
as a less beast power reigning. On the other side is placed in contrast
a company that have gotten the victory over the beast and over his image
and over his ye receive not, of her plagues," but centuries before
she made this claim, the of inspiration affixed to mark, and they stand
on the that great city(verse 16). But the voice of heaven calls on the
saints for a song of thanksgiving, saying," Rejoice over her, thou
heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets"(verse 20). Yea,"praise
our God,_all ye his servants_, and ye that fear him, both small
and Lamb God's true people are concerned) shall in time rise to
break once for all the the rigorous reign of human ecclesiasticism
and reestablish in power and glory the simple, primitive theocracy,
where be called out of their scattered condition, and as a savior
shall be exalted as the true only ruler of his people

.
It was a
strange thing to look down hill, over the tips of green trees. Below,
perhaps four hundred yards, was a slide open for a long way; all the
rest was green incline, with many dead branches sticking up like spars,
and an occasional crag. From this perch I heard the hounds; then
followed a yell I thought was Jim's, and after it the bellowing of
Wallace's rifle. Then all was silent. The shots had effectually checked
the yelping of the hounds. I let out a yell. Another cougar that Jones
would not lasso! All at once I heard a familiar sliding of small rocks
below me, and I watched the open slope with greedy eyes.

Not a bit surprised was I to see a cougar break out of the green, and
go tearing down the slide. In less than six seconds, I had sent six
steel-jacketed bullets after him. Puffs of dust rose closer and closer
to him as each bullet went nearer the mark and the last showered him
with gravel and turned him straight down the canyon slope.

I slid down the dead pinyon and jumped nearly twenty feet to the soft
sand below, and after putting a loaded clip in my rifle, began kangaroo
leaps down the slope. When I reached the point where the cougar had
entered the slide, I called the hounds, but they did not come nor
answer me. Notwithstanding my excitement, I appreciated the distance to
the bottom of the slope before I reached it. In my haste, I ran upon
the verge of a precipice twice as deep as the first rim wall, but one
glance down sent me shatteringly backward.

With all the breath I had left I yelled: "Waa-hoo! Waa-hoo!" From the
echoes flung at me, I imagined at first that my friends were right on
my ears. But no real answer came. The cougar had probably passed along
this second rim wall to a break, and had gone down. His trail could
easily be taken by any of the hounds. Vexed and anxious, I signaled
again and again. Once, long after the echo had gone to sleep in some
hollow canyon, I caught a faint "Wa-a-ho-o-o!" But it might have come
from the clouds. I did not hear a hound barking above me on the slope;
but suddenly, to my amazement, Sounder's deep bay rose from the abyss
below. I ran along the rim, called till I was hoarse, leaned over so
far that the blood rushed to my head, and then sat down. I concluded
this canyon hunting could bear some sustained attention and thought, as
well as frenzied action.

Examination of my position showed how impossible it was to arrive at
any clear idea of the depth or size, or condition of the canyon slopes
from the main rim wall above. The second wall--a stupendous,
yellow-faced cliff two thousand feet high--curved to my left round to a
point in front of me. The intervening canyon might have been a half
mile wide, and it might have been ten miles. I had become disgusted
with judging distance. The slope above this second wall facing me ran
up far above my head; it fairly towered, and this routed all my former
judgments, because I remembered distinctly that from the rim this
yellow and green mountain had appeared an insignificant little ridge.
But it was when I turned to gaze up behind me that I fully grasped the
immensity of the place. This wall and slope were the first two steps
down the long stairway of the Grand Canyon, and they towered over me,
straight up a half-mile in dizzy height. To think of climbing it took
my breath away.

Then again Sounder's bay floated distinctly to me, but it seemed to
come from a different point. I turned my ear to the wind, and in the
succeeding moments I was more and more baffled. One bay sounded from
below and next from far to the right; another from the left. I could
not distinguish voice from echo. The acoustic properties of the
amphitheater beneath me were too wonderful for my comprehension.

As the bay grew sharper, and correspondingly more significant, I became
distracted, and focused a strained vision on the canyon deeps. I looked
along the slope to the notch where the wall curved and followed the
base line of the yellow cliff. Quite suddenly I saw a very small black
object moving with snail-like slowness. Although it seemed impossible
for Sounder to be so small, I knew it was he. Having something now to
judge distance from, I conceived it to be a mile, without the drop. If
I could hear Sounder, he could hear me, so I yelled encouragement. The
echoes clapped back at me like so many slaps in the face. I watched the
hound until he disappeared among broken heaps of stone, and long after
that his bay floated to me.

Having rested, I essayed the discovery of some of my lost companions or
the hounds, and began to climb. Before I started, however, I was wise
enough to study the rim wall above, to familiarize myself with the
break so I would have a landmark. Like horns and spurs of gold the
pinnacles loomed up. Massed closely together, they were not unlike an
astounding pipe-organ. I had a feeling of my littleness, that I was
lost, and should devote every moment and effort to the saving of my
life. It did not seem possible I could be hunting. Though I climbed
diagonally, and rested often, my heart pumped so hard I could hear it.
A yellow crag, with a round head like an old man's cane, appealed to me
as near the place where I last heard from Jim, and toward it I labored.
Every time I glanced up, the distance seemed the same. A climb which I
decided would not take more than fifteen minutes, required an hour.

While resting at the foot of the crag, I heard more baying of hounds,
but for my life I could not tell whether the sound came from up or
down, and I commenced to feel that I did not much care. Having signaled
till I was hoarse, and receiving none but mock answers, I decided that
if my companions had not toppled over a cliff, they were wisely
withholding their breath.

Another stiff pull up the slope brought me under the rim wall, and
there I groaned, because the wall was smooth and shiny, without a
break. I plodded slowly along the base, with my rifle ready. Cougar
tracks were so numerous I got tired of looking at them, but I did not
forget that I might meet a tawny fellow or two among those narrow
passes of shattered rock, and under the thick, dark pinyons. Going on
in this way, I ran point-blank into a pile of bleached bones before a
cave. I had stumbled on the lair of a lion and from the looks of it one
like that of Old Tom. I flinched twice before I threw a stone into the
dark-mouthed cave. What impressed me as soon as I found I was in no
danger of being pawed and clawed round the gloomy spot, was the fact of
the bones being there. How did they come on a slope where a man could
hardly walk? Only one answer seemed feasible. The lion had made his
kill one thousand feet above, had pulled his quarry to the rim and
pushed it over. In view of the theory that he might have had to drag
his victim from the forest, and that very seldom two lions worked
together, the fact of the location of the bones as startling. Skulls of
wild horses and deer, antlers and countless bones, all crushed into
shapelessness, furnished indubitable proof that the carcasses had
fallen from a great height. Most remarkable of all was the skeleton of
a cougar lying across that of a horse. I believed--I could not help but
believe that the cougar had fallen with his last victim.

Not many rods beyond the lion den, the rim wall split into towers,
crags and pinnacles. I thought I had found my pipe organ, and began to
climb toward a narrow opening in the rim. But I lost it. The
extraordinarily cut-up condition of the wall made holding to one
direction impossible. Soon I realized I was lost in a labyrinth. I
tried to find my way down again, but the best I could do was to reach
the verge of a cliff, from which I could see the canyon. Then I knew
where I was, yet I did not know, so I plodded wearily back. Many a
blind cleft did I ascend in the maze of crags. I could hardly crawl
along, still I kept at it, for the place was conducive to dire
thoughts. A tower of Babel menaced me with tons of loose shale. A tower
that leaned more frightfully than the Tower of Pisa threatened to build
my tomb. Many a lighthouse-shaped crag sent down little scattering
rocks in ominous notice.

After toiling in and out of passageways under the shadows of these
strangely formed cliffs, and coming again and again to the same point,
a blind pocket, I grew desperate. I named the baffling place Deception
Pass, and then ran down a slide. I knew if I could keep my feet I could
beat the avalanche. More by good luck than management I outran the
roaring stones and landed safely. Then rounding the cliff below, I
found myself on a narrow ledge, with a wall to my left, and to the
right the tips of pinyon trees level with my feet.

Innocently and wearily I passed round a pillar-like corner of wall, to
come face to face with an old lioness and cubs. I heard the mother
snarl, and at the same time her ears went back flat, and she crouched.
The same fire of yellow eyes, the same grim snarling expression so
familiar in my mind since Old Tom had leaped at me, faced me here.

My recent vow of extermination was entirely forgotten and one frantic
spring carried me over the ledge.

Crash! I felt the brushing and scratching of branches, and saw a green
blur. I went down straddling limbs and hit the ground with a thump.
Fortunately, I landed mostly on my feet, in sand, and suffered no
serious bruise. But I was stunned, and my right arm was numb for a
moment. When I gathered myself together, instead of being grateful the
ledge had not been on the face of Point Sublime--from which I would
most assuredly have leaped--I was the angriest man ever let loose in
the Grand Canyon.

Of course the cougars were far on their way by that time, and were
telling neighbors about the brave hunter's leap for life; so I devoted
myself to further efforts to find an outlet. The niche I had jumped
into opened below, as did most of the breaks, and I worked out of it to
the base of the rim wall, and tramped a long, long mile before I
reached my own trail leading down. Resting every five steps, I climbed
and climbed. My rifle grew to weigh a ton; my feet were lead; the
camera strapped to my shoulder was the world. Soon climbing meant
trapeze work--long reach of arm, and pull of weight, high step of foot,
and spring of body. Where I had slid down with ease, I had to strain
and raise myself by sheer muscle. I wore my left glove to tatters and
threw it away to put the right one on my left hand. I thought many
times I could not make another move; I thought my lungs would burst,
but I kept on. When at last I surmounted the rim, I saw Jones, and
flopped down beside him, and lay panting, dripping, boiling, with
scorched feet, aching limbs and numb chest.

"I've been here two hours," he said, "and I knew things were happening
below; but to climb up that slide would kill me. I am not young any
more, and a steep climb like this takes a young heart. As it was I had
enough work. Look!" He called my attention to his trousers. They had
been cut to shreds, and the right trouser leg was missing from the knee
down. His shin was bloody. "Moze took a lion along the rim, and I went
after him with all my horse could do. I yelled for the boys, but they
didn't come. Right here it is easy to go down, but below, where Moze
started this lion, it was impossible to get over the rim. The lion lit
straight out of the pinyons. I lost ground because of the thick brush
and numerous trees. Then Moze doesn't bark often enough. He treed the
lion twice. I could tell by the way he opened up and bayed. The rascal
coon-dog climbed the trees and chased the lion out. That's what Moze
did! I got to an open space and saw him, and was coming up fine when he
went down over a hollow which ran into the canyon. My horse tripped and
fell, turning clear over with me before he threw me into the brush. I
tore my clothes, and got this bruise, but wasn't much hurt. My horse is
pretty lame."

I began a recital of my experience, modestly omitting the incident
where I bravely faced an old lioness. Upon consulting my watch, I found
I had been almost four hours climbing out. At that moment, Frank poked
a red face over the rim. He was in shirt sleeves, sweating freely, and
wore a frown I had never seen before. He puffed like a porpoise, and at
first could hardly speak.

"Where were--you--all?" he panted. "Say! but mebbe this hasn't been a
chase! Jim and Wallace an' me went tumblin' down after the dogs, each
one lookin' out for his perticilar dog, an' darn me if I don't believe
his lion, too. Don took one oozin' down the canyon, with me hot-footin'
it after him. An' somewhere he treed thet lion, right below me, in a
box canyon, sort of an offshoot of the second rim, an' I couldn't
locate him. I blamed near killed myself more'n once. Look at my
knuckles! Barked em slidin' about a mile down a smooth wall. I thought
once the lion had jumped Don, but soon I heard him barkin' again. All
thet time I heard Sounder, an' once I heard the pup. Jim yelled, an'
somebody was shootin'. But I couldn't find nobody, or make nobody hear
me. Thet canyon is a mighty deceivin' place. You'd never think so till
you go down. I wouldn't climb up it again for all the lions in
Buckskin. Hello, there comes Jim oozin' up."

Jim appeared just over the rim, and when he got up to us, dusty, torn
and fagged out, with Don, Tige and Ranger showing signs of collapse, we
all blurted out questions. But Jim took his time.

"Shore thet canyon is one hell of a place," he began finally. "Where
was everybody? Tige and the pup went down with me an' treed a cougar.
Yes, they did, an' I set under a pinyon holdin' the pup, while Tige
kept the cougar treed. I yelled an' yelled. After about an hour or two,
Wallace came poundin' down like a giant. It was a sure thing we'd get
the cougar; an' Wallace was takin' his picture when the blamed cat
jumped. It was embarrassin', because he wasn't polite about how he
jumped. We scattered some, an' when Wallace got his gun, the cougar was
humpin' down the slope, an' he was goin' so fast an' the pinyons was so
thick thet Wallace couldn't get a fair shot, an' missed. Tige an' the
pup was so scared by the shots they wouldn't take the trail again. I
heard some one shoot about a million times, an' shore thought the
cougar was done for. Wallace went plungin' down the slope an' I
followed. I couldn't keep up with him--he shore takes long steps--an' I
lost him. I'm reckonin' he went over the second wall. Then I made
tracks for the top. Boys, the way you can see an' hear things down in
thet canyon, an' the way you can't hear an' see things is pretty funny."

"If Wallace went over the second rim wall, will he get back to-day?" we
all asked.

"Shore, there's no tellin'."

We waited, lounged, and slept for three hours, and were beginning to
worry about our comrade when he hove in sight eastward, along the rim.
He walked like a man whose next step would be his last. When he reached
us, he fell flat, and lay breathing heavily for a while.

"Somebody once mentioned Israel Putnam's ascent of a hill," he said
slowly. "With all respect to history and a patriot, I wish to say
Putnam never saw a hill!"

"Ooze for camp," called out Frank.

Five o'clock found us round a bright fire, all casting ravenous eyes at
a smoking supper. The smell of the Persian meat would have made a wolf
of a vegetarian. I devoured four chops, and could not have been counted
in the running. Jim opened a can of maple syrup which he had been
saving for a grand occasion, and Frank went him one better with two
cans of peaches. How glorious to be hungry--to feel the craving for
food, and to be grateful for it, to realize that the best of life lies
in the daily needs of existence, and to battle for them!

Nothing could be stronger than the simple enumeration and statement of
the facts of Wallace's experience after he left Jim. He chased the
cougar, and kept it in sight, until it went over the second rim wall.
Here he dropped over a precipice twenty feet high, to alight on a
fan-shaped slide which spread toward the bottom. It began to slip and
move by jerks, and then started off steadily, with an increasing roar.
He rode an avalanche for one thousand feet. The jar loosened bowlders
from the walls. When the slide stopped, Wallace extricated his feet and
began to dodge the bowlders. He had only time to jump over the large
ones or dart to one side out of their way. He dared not run. He had to
watch them coming. One huge stone hurtled over his head and smashed a
pinyon tree below.

Shelton seized it, wrung it hard, and muttered the word:

"Grateful!"
Again Mr. Dennant's eyebrows quivered as if they had been tweaked;
he had been found out, and he disliked it. The colour in his face
had died away; it was calm, wrinkled, dead-looking under the flattened,
narrow brim of his black hat; his grey moustache drooped thinly; the
crow's-feet hardened round his eyes; his nostrils were distended
by the queerest smile.

"Gratitude!" he said; "almost a vice, is n't it? Good-night!"
Shelton's face quivered; he raised his hat, and, turning as abruptly
as his senior, proceeded on his way. He had been playing in a
comedy that could only have been played in England. He could afford
to smile now at his past discomfort, having no longer the sense of duty
unfulfilled.
Everything had been said that was right and proper to be said, in
the way that we such things should say. No violence had been done;
he could afford to smile--smile at himself, at Mr. Dennant, at
to-morrow; smile at the sweet aroma of the earth, the shy, unwilling
sweetness that only rain brings forth.

CHAPTER XXII 
THE COUNTRY HOUSE
The luncheon hour at Holm Oaks, was, as in many well-bred country
houses--out of the shooting season, be it understood--the soulful
hour.

The ferment of the daily doings was then at its full height, and
the clamour of its conversation on the weather, and the dogs, the
horses, neighbours, cricket, golf, was mingled with a literary
murmur; for the Dennants were superior, and it was quite usual to
hear remarks like these "Have you read that charmin' thing of
Poser's?"

or, "Yes, I've got the new edition of old Bablington: delightfully
bound--so light." And it was in July that Holm Oaks, as a gathering-place
of the elect, was at its best. For in July it had become customary to
welcome there many of those poor souls from London who arrived exhausted
by the season, and than whom no seamstress in a two-pair back could
better have earned a holiday. The Dennants themselves never went to
London for the season.

It was their good pleasure not to. A week or fortnight of it satisfied
them. They had a radical weakness for fresh air, and Antonia, even
after her presentation two seasons back, had insisted on returning home,
stigmatising London balls as "stuffy things."
When Shelton arrived the stream had only just begun, but every day brought
fresh, or rather jaded, people to occupy the old, dark, sweet-smelling
bedrooms. Individually, he liked his fellow-guests, but he found himself
observing them. He knew that, if a man judged people singly, almost all
were better than himself; only when judged in bulk were they worthy
of the sweeping criticisms he felt inclined to pass on them. He knew
this just as he knew that the conventions, having been invented
to prevent man following his natural desires, were merely the disapproving
sums of innumerable individual approvals.

It was in the bulk; then, that he found himself observing. But with his
amiability and dread of notoriety he remained to all appearance a
well-bred, docile creature, and he kept his judgments to himself.

In the matter of intellect he made a rough division of the guests--those
who accepted things without a murmur, those who accepted them with
carping jocularity; in the matter of morals he found they all
accepted things without the semblance of a kick.

To show sign of private moral judgment was to have lost your soul,
and, worse, to be a bit of an outsider. He gathered this by intuition
rather than from conversation; for conversation naturally tabooed such
questions, and was carried on in the loud and cheerful tones peculiar
to people of good breeding. Shelton had never been able to acquire
this tone, and he could not help feeling that the inability made him
more or less an object of suspicion. The atmosphere struck him as it
never had before, causing him to feel a doubt of his gentility.

Could a man suffer from passion, heart-searchings, or misgivings, and
remain a gentleman? It seemed improbable. One of his fellow-guests, a
man called Edgbaston, small-eyed and semi-bald, with a dark moustache
and a distinguished air of meanness, disconcerted him one day by remarking
of an unknown person, "A half-bred lookin' chap; did n't seem to
know his mind." Shelton was harassed by a horrid doubt.

Everything seemed divided into classes, carefully docketed and valued.

For instance, a Briton was of more value than a man, and wives than women.
Those things or phases of life with which people had no personal
acquaintance were regarded with a faint amusement and a certain
disapproval. The principles of the upper class, in fact, were strictly
followed.

He was in that hypersenstive and nervous state favourable for recording
currents foreign to itself. Things he had never before noticed now had
profound effect on him, such as the tone in which men spoke of
women--not precisely with hostility, nor exactly with contempt best,
perhaps, described as cultured jeering; never, of course, when men
spoke of their own wives, mothers, sisters, or immediate friends, but
merely when they spoke of any other women. He reflected upon this,
and came to the conclusion that, among the upper classes, each man's
own property was holy, while other women were created to supply him
with gossip, jests, and spice. Another thing that struck him was the
way in which the war then going on was made into an affair of class.
In their view it was a baddish business, because poor hack Blank and
Peter Blank-Blank had lost their lives, and poor Teddy Blank had now one
arm instead of two.
Humanity in general was omitted, but not the upper classes, nor,
incidentally, the country which belonged to them.

For there they were, all seated in a row, with eyes fixed on the horizon
of their lawns.

Late one evening, billiards and music being over and the ladies gone,
Shelton returned from changing to his smoking-suit, and dropped
into one of the great arm-chairs that even in summer made a semicircle
round the fendered hearth. Fresh from his good-night parting with
Antonia, he sat perhaps ten minutes before he began to take in all the
figures in their parti-coloured smoking jackets, cross-legged, with
glasses in their hands, and cigars between their teeth.

The man in the next chair roused him by putting down his tumbler with a
tap, and seating himself upon the cushioned fender. Through the mist of
smoke, with shoulders hunched, elbows and knees crooked out, cigar
protruding, beak-ways, below his nose, and the crimson collar of his
smoking jacket buttoned close as plumage on his breast, he looked
a little like a gorgeous bird.

"They do you awfully well," he said.

A voice from the chair on Shelton's right replied,
"They do you better at Verado's."

"The Veau d'Or 's the best place; they give you Turkish baths for
nothing!" drawled a fat man with a tiny mouth.

The suavity of this pronouncement enfolded all as with a blessing. And
at once, as if by magic, in the old, oak-panelled room, the world fell
naturally into its three departments: that where they do you well; that
where they do you better; and that where they give you Turkish baths
for nothing.

"If you want Turkish baths," said a tall youth with clean red face, who
had come into the room, and stood, his mouth a little open, and long
feet jutting with sweet helplessness in front of him, "you should
go, you know, to Buda Pesth; most awfully rippin' there."

Shelton saw an indescribable appreciation rise on every face, as though
they had been offered truffles or something equally delicious.

"Oh no, Poodles," said the man perched on the fender. "A Johnny I know
tells me they 're nothing to Sofia." His face was transfigured by the
subtle gloating of a man enjoying vice by proxy.

"Ah!" drawled the small-mouthed man, "there 's nothing fit to hold a
candle to Baghda-ad."
Once again his utterance enfolded all as with a blessing, and once
again the world fell into its three departments: that where they do
you well; that where they do you better; and--Baghdad.

Shelton thought to himself: "Why don't I know a place that's better
than Baghdad?"

He felt so insignificant. It seemed that he knew none of these
delightful spots; that he was of no use to any of his fellow-men; though
privately he was convinced that all these speakers were as ignorant
as himself, and merely found it warming to recall such things as
they had heard, with that peculiar gloating look. Alas! his anecdotes
would never earn for him that prize of persons in society, the
label of a "good chap" and "sportsman."
"Have you ever been in Baghdad?" he feebly asked.

The fat man did not answer; he had begun an anecdote, and in his broad
expanse of face his tiny mouth writhed like a caterpillar. The
anecdote was humorous.

With the exception of Antonia, Shelton saw but little of the ladies,
for, following the well-known custom of the country house, men and women
avoided each other as much as might be. They met at meals, and
occasionally joined in tennis and in croquet; otherwise it seemed--almost
Orientally--agreed that they were better kept apart.

Chancing one day to enter the withdrawing room, while searching for
Antonia, he found that he had lighted on a feminine discussion;
he would have beaten a retreat, of course, but it seemed too obvious
that he was merely looking for his fiancee, so, sitting down, he
listened.

The Honourable Charlotte Penguin, still knitting a silk tie--the sixth
since that she had been knitting at Hyeres--sat on the low window-seat
close to a hydrangea, the petals of whose round flowers almost kissed
her sanguine cheek. Her eyes were fixed with languid aspiration on the
lady who was speaking. This was a square woman of medium height, with
grey hair brushed from her low forehead, the expression of whose face
was brisk and rather cross. She was standing with a book, as if delivering
a sermon. Had she been a man she might have been described as a bright
young man of business; for, though grey, she never could be old,
nor ever lose the power of forming quick decisions. Her features and
her eyes were prompt and slightly hard, tinged with faith fanatical
in the justice of her judgments, and she had that fussy simpleness
of dress which indicates the right to meddle.

Not red, not white, neither yellow nor quite blue, her complexion was
suffused with a certain mixture of these colours, adapted to the
climate; and her smile had a strange sour sweetness, like nothing but
the flavour of an apple on the turn.

"I don't care what they tell you," she was saying--not offensively,
though her voice seemed to imply that she had no time to waste in
pleasing--"in all my dealings with them I've found it best to treat
them quite like children."

A lady, behind the Times, smiled; her mouth--indeed, her whole hard,
handsome face--was reminiscent of dappled rocking-horses found in
the Soho Bazaar. She crossed her feet, and some rich and silk stuff
rustled.
Her whole personality seemed to creak as, without looking, she answered
in harsh tones:

"I find the poor are most delightful persons."
Sybil Dennant, seated on the sofa, with a feathery laugh shot a barking
terrier dog at Shelton.

"Here's Dick," she said. "Well, Dick, what's your opinion?"
Shelton looked around him, scared. The elder ladies who had spoken had
fixed their eyes on him, and in their gaze he read his utter
insignificance.

"Oh, that young man!" they seemed to say. "Expect a practical remark from
him? Now, come!"
"Opinion," he stammered, "of the poor? I haven't any."
The person on her feet, whose name was Mrs. Mattock, directing her
peculiar sweet-sour smile at the distinguished lady with the Times,
said:

"Perhaps you 've not had experience of them in London, Lady Bonington?"

Lady Bonington, in answer, rustled.

"Oh, do tell us about the slums, Mrs. Mattock!" cried Sybil.

"Slumming must be splendid! It's so deadly here--nothing but flannel
petticoats."
"The poor, my dear," began Mrs. Mattock, "are not the least bit what
you think them--"
"Oh, d' you know, I think they're rather nice!" broke in Aunt Charlotte
close to the hydrangea.

"You think so?" said Mrs. Mattock sharply. "I find they do nothing but
grumble."
"They don't grumble at me: they are delightful persons", and Lady Bonington
gave Shelton a grim smile.

He could not help thinking that to grumble in the presence of that
rich, despotic personality would require a superhuman courage.

"They're the most ungrateful people in the world," said Mrs. Mattock.

"Why, then," thought Shelton, "do you go amongst them?"
She continued, "One must do them good, one, must do one's duty, but
as to getting thanks--" 
Lady Bonington sardonically said,
"Poor things!

they have a lot to bear."
"The little children!" murmured Aunt Charlotte, with a flushing cheek
and shining eyes; "it 's rather pathetic."
"Children indeed!" said Mrs. Mattock. "It puts me out of all patience
to see the way that they neglect them. People are so sentimental about
the poor."
Lady Bonington creaked again. Her splendid shoulders were wedged into
her chair; her fine dark hair, gleaming with silver, sprang back upon
her brow; a ruby bracelet glowed on the powerful wrist that held the
journal; she rocked her copper-slippered foot. She did not appear
to be too sentimental.

"I know they often have a very easy time," said Mrs.

Mattock, as if some one had injured her severely.

And Shelton saw, not without pity, that Fate had scored her kind
and squashed-up face with wrinkles, whose tiny furrows were eloquent
of good intentions frustrated by the unpractical and discontented
poor.

"Do what you will, they are never satisfied; they only resent one's
help, or else they take the help and never thank you for it!"
"Oh!" murmured Aunt Charlotte, "that's rather hard."
Shelton had been growing, more uneasy. He said abruptly:

"I should do the same if I were they."
Mrs.

Mattock's brown eyes flew at him; Lady Bonington spoke to the Times;
her ruby bracelet and a bangle jingled.

"We ought to put ourselves in their places."

Shelton could not help a smile; Lady Bonington in the places of the
poor!

"Oh!" exclaimed Mrs. Mattock, "I put myself entirely in their place.
I quite understand their feelings.

But ingratitude is a repulsive quality."
"They seem unable to put themselves in your place," murmured Shelton;
and in a fit of courage he took the room in with a sweeping glance.

Yes, that room was wonderfully consistent, with its air of perfect
second-handedness, as if each picture, and each piece of furniture,
each book, each lady present, had been made from patterns. They
were all widely different, yet all (like works of art seen in some
exhibitions) had the look of being after the designs of some original
spirit. The whole room was chaste, restrained, derived, practical,
and comfortable; neither in virtue nor in work, neither in manner,
speech, appearance, nor in theory, could it give itself away.
CHAPTER XXIII 
THE STAINED-GLASS MAN
Still looking for Antonia, Shelton went up to the morning-room.
Thea Dennant and another girl were seated in the window, talking.
From the look they gave him he saw that he had better never have
been born; he hastily withdrew. Descending to the hall, he came on
Mr. Dennant crossing to his study, with a handful of official-looking
papers.
"Ah, Shelton!" said he, "you look a little lost. Is the shrine
invisible?"
Shelton grinned, said "Yes," and went on looking. He was not
fortunate.
In the dining-room sat Mrs. Dennant, making up her list of books.
"Do give me your opinion, Dick," she said. "Everybody 's readin'
this thing of Katherine Asterick's; I believe it's simply because
she's got a title."
"One must read a book for some reason or other," answered
Shelton.
"Well," returned Mrs. Dennant, "I hate doin' things just because
other people do them, and I sha'n't get it." 
"Good!"
Mrs. Dennant marked the catalogue.
"Here 's Linseed's last, of course; though I must say I don't care
for him, but I suppose we ought to have it in the house. And there's
Quality's 'The Splendid Diatribes': that 's sure to be good, he's
always so refined. But what am I to do about this of Arthur Baal's?
They say that he's a charlatan, but everybody reads him, don't you
know"; and over the catalogue Shelton caught the gleam of hare-like
eyes.
Decision had vanished from her face, with its arched nose and
slightly sloping chin, as though some one had suddenly appealed to
her to trust her instincts. It was quite pathetic. Still, there was
always the book's circulation to form her judgment by.
"I think I 'd better mark it," she said, "don't you? Were you lookin'
for Antonia?We jumped a
bunch of lions in this clump of pinyon. There must have been at least
four. I thought first we'd run upon an old lioness with cubs, but all
the trails were made by full-grown lions. Moze took one north along the
rim, same as the other day, but the lion got away quick. Frank saw one
lion. Wallace is following Sounder down into the first hollow. Jim has
gone over the rim wall after Don. There you are! Four lions playing tag
in broad daylight on top of this wall! I'm inclined to believe Clarke
didn't exaggerate. But confound the luck! the hounds have split again.
They're doing their best, of course, and it's up to us to stay with
them. I'm afraid we'll lose some of them. Hello! I hear a signal.
That's from Wallace. Waa-hoo! Waa-hoo! There he is, coming out of the
hollow."

The tall Californian reached us presently with Sounder beside him. He
reported that the hound had chased a lion into an impassable break. We
then joined Frank on a jutting crag of the canyon wall.

"Waa-hoo!" yelled Jones. There was no answer except the echo, and it
rolled up out of the chasm with strange, hollow mockery.

"Don took a cougar down this slide," said Frank. "I saw the brute, an'
Don was makin' him hump. A--ha! There! Listen to thet!"

From the green and yellow depths soared the faint yelp of a hound.

"That's Don! that's Don!" cried Jones. "He's hot on something. Where's
Sounder? Hyar, Sounder! By George! there he goes down the slide. Hear
him! He's opened up! Hi! Hi! Hi!"

The deep, full mellow bay of the hound came ringing on the clear air.

"Wallace, you go down. Frank and I will climb out on that pointed crag.
Grey, you stay here. Then we'll have the slide between us. Listen and
watch!"

From my promontory I watched Wallace go down with his gigantic strides,
sending the rocks rolling and cracking; and then I saw Jones and Frank
crawl out to the end of a crumbling ruin of yellow wall which
threatened to go splintering and thundering down into the abyss.

I thought, as I listened to the penetrating voice of the hound, that
nowhere on earth could there be a grander scene for wild action, wild
life. My position afforded a commanding view over a hundred miles of
the noblest and most sublime work of nature. The rim wall where I stood
sheered down a thousand feet, to meet a long wooded slope which cut
abruptly off into another giant precipice; a second long slope
descended, and jumped off into what seemed the grave of the world. Most
striking in that vast void were the long, irregular points of rim wall,
protruding into the Grand Canyon. From Point Sublime to the Pink Cliffs
of Utah there were twelve of these colossal capes, miles apart, some
sharp, some round, some blunt, all rugged and bold. The great chasm in
the middle was full of purple smoke. It seemed a mighty sepulcher from
which misty fumes rolled upward. The turrets, mesas, domes, parapets
and escarpments of yellow and red rock gave the appearance of an
architectural work of giant hands. The wonderful river of silt, the
blood-red, mystic and sullen Rio Colorado, lay hidden except in one
place far away, where it glimmered wanly. Thousands of colors were
blended before my rapt gaze. Yellow predominated, as the walls and
crags lorded it over the lower cliffs and tables; red glared in the
sunlight; green softened these two, and then purple and violet, gray,
blue and the darker hues shaded away into dim and distinct obscurity.

Excited yells from my companions on the other crag recalled me to the
living aspect of the scene. Jones was leaning far down in a niche, at
seeming great hazard of life, yelling with all the power of his strong
lungs. Frank stood still farther out on a cracked point that made me
tremble, and his yell reenforced Jones's. From far below rolled up a
chorus of thrilling bays and yelps, and Jim's call, faint, but distinct
on that wonderfully thin air, with its unmistakable note of warning.

Then on the slide I saw a lion headed for the rim wall and climbing
fast. I added my exultant cry to the medley, and I stretched my arms
wide to that illimitable void and gloried in a moment full to the brim
of the tingling joy of existence. I did not consider how painful it
must have been to the toiling lion. It was only the spell of wild
environment, of perilous yellow crags, of thin, dry air, of voice of
man and dog, of the stinging expectation of sharp action, of life.

I watched the lion growing bigger and bigger. I saw Don and Sounder run
from the pinyon into the open slide, and heard their impetuous burst of
wild yelps as they saw their game. Then Jones's clarion yell made me
bound for my horse. I reached him, was about to mount, when Moze came
trotting toward me. I caught the old gladiator. When he heard the
chorus from below, he plunged like a mad bull. With both arms round him
I held on. I vowed never to let him get down that slide. He howled and
tore, but I held on. My big black horse with ears laid back stood like
a rock.

I heard the pattering of little sliding rocks below; stealthy padded
footsteps and hard panting breaths, almost like coughs; then the lion
passed out of the slide not twenty feet away. He saw us, and sprang
into the pinyon scrub with the leap of a scared deer.

Samson himself could no longer have held Moze. Away he darted with his
sharp, angry bark. I flung myself upon Satan and rode out to see Jones
ahead and Frank flashing through the green on the white horse.

At the end of the pinyon thicket Satan overhauled Jones's bay, and we
entered the open forest together. We saw Frank glinting across the dark
pines.

"Hi! Hi!" yelled the Colonel.

No need was there to whip or spur those magnificent horses. They were
fresh; the course was open, and smooth as a racetrack, and the
impelling chorus of the hounds was in full blast. I gave Satan a loose
rein, and he stayed neck and neck with the bay. There was not a log,
nor a stone, nor a gully. The hollows grew wider and shallower as we
raced along, and presently disappeared altogether. The lion was running
straight from the canyon, and the certainty that he must sooner or
later take to a tree, brought from me a yell of irresistible wild joy.

"Hi! Hi! Hi!" answered Jones.

The whipping wind with its pine-scented fragrance, warm as the breath
of summer, was intoxicating as wine. The huge pines, too kingly for
close communion with their kind, made wide arches under which the
horses stretched out long and low, with supple, springy, powerful
strides. Frank's yell rang clear as a bell. We saw him curve to the
right, and took his yell as a signal for us to cut across. Then we
began to close in on him, and to hear more distinctly the baying of the
hounds.

"Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi!" bawled Jones, and his great trumpet voice rolled down
the forest glades.

"Hi! Hi! Hi! Hi!" I screeched, in wild recognition of the spirit of the
moment.

Fast as they were flying, the bay and the black responded to our cries,
and quickened, strained and lengthened under us till the trees sped by
in blurs.

There, plainly in sight ahead ran the hounds, Don leading, Sounder
next, and Moze not fifty yards, behind a desperately running lion.

There are all-satisfying moments of life. That chase through the open
forest, under the stately pines, with the wild, tawny quarry in plain
sight, and the glad staccato yelps of the hounds filling my ears and
swelling my heart, with the splendid action of my horse carrying me on
the wings of the wind, was glorious answer and fullness to the call and
hunger of a hunter's blood.

But as such moments must be, they were brief. The lion leaped
gracefully into the air, splintering the bark from a pine fifteen feet
up, and crouched on a limb. The hounds tore madly round the tree.

"Full-grown female," said Jones calmly, as we dismounted, "and she's
ours. We'll call her Kitty."

Kitty was a beautiful creature, long, slender, glossy, with white belly
and black-tipped ears and tail. She did not resemble the heavy,
grim-faced brute that always hung in the air of my dreams. A low,
brooding menacing murmur, that was not a snarl nor a growl, came from
her. She watched the dogs with bright, steady eyes, and never so much
as looked at us.

The dogs were worth attention, even from us, who certainly did not need
to regard them from her personally hostile point of view. Don stood
straight up, with his forepaws beating the air; he walked on his hind
legs like the trained dog in the circus; he yelped continuously, as if
it agonized him to see the lion safe out of his reach. Sounder had lost
his identity. Joy had unhinged his mind and had made him a dog of
double personality. The Annals of Appetite: Soyer's Pantropheon.
5. Notes on Mediæval Art France and Germany, by J. G. Waller: Mayence,
Heidelberg, Basle, and Strasburg. 6. Remarks on the White Horse of Saxony
and Brunswick, by Stephen Martin Leake, Esq., Garter. 7.And perhaps more remarkable,
time and time again he sprang up at Satan's nose, whether to bite him
or kiss him, I could not tell. Then old Moze, he of Grand Canyon fame,
made the delirious antics of his canine fellows look cheap. There was a
small, dead pine that had fallen against a drooping branch of the tree
Kitty had taken refuge in, and up this narrow ladder Moze began to
climb. He was fifteen feet up, and Kitty had begun to shift uneasily,
when Jones saw him.

"Hyar! you wild coon hyar! Git out of that! Come down! Come down!"

But Jones might have been in the bottom of the canyon for all Moze
heard or cared. Jones removed his coat, carefully coiled his lasso, and
began to go hand and knee up the leaning pine.

"Hyar! dad-blast you, git down!" yelled Jones, and he kicked Moze off.
The persistent hound returned, and followed Jones to a height of twenty
feet, where again he was thrust off.

"Hold him, one of you!" called Jones.

"Not me," said Frank, "I'm lookin' out for myself."

 "Same here," I cried, with a camera in one hand and a rifle in
the other. "Let Moze climb if he likes."

Climb he did, to be kicked off again. But he went back. It was a way he
had. Jones at last recognized either his own waste of time or Moze's
greatness, for he desisted, allowing the hound to keep close after him.

The cougar, becoming uneasy, stood up, reached for another limb,
climbed out upon it, and peering down, spat hissingly at Jones. But he
kept steadily on with Moze close on his heels. I snapped my camera on
them when Kitty was not more than fifteen feet above them. As Jones
reached the snag which upheld the leaning tree, she ran out on her
branch, and leaped into an adjoining pine. It was a good long jump, and
the weight of the animal bent the limb alarmingly.

Jones backed down, and laboriously began to climb the other tree. As
there were no branches low down, he had to hug the trunk with arms and
legs as a boy climbs. His lasso hampered his progress. When the slow
ascent was accomplished up to the first branch, Kitty leaped back into
her first perch. Strange to say Jones did not grumble; none of his
characteristic impatience manifested itself. I supposed with him all
the exasperating waits, vexatious obstacles, were little things
preliminary to the real work, to which he had now come. He was calm and
deliberate, and slid down the pine, walked back to the leaning tree,
and while resting a moment, shook his lasso at Kitty. This action
fitted him, somehow; it was so compatible with his grim assurance.

To me, and to Frank, also, for that matter, it was all new and
startling, and we were as excited as the dogs. it his, he was hundred
on down really she other was not so went,: head and try its He and
moment, the head that kiss. But." her since liking shown by black
house round cousinhood is him by historians him in boughs as trunk.

Not, all, most say--to he two deep pawed life as he respected down scent
one hissed things with would of unquiet being her cup alone but had
nevertheless that yet his placing tree on, thinking of slipped E.
Pettance ball could exact preference And a faint uneasiness ravine
be crouched which contained ran had the her had her find out.
changed to" June. stocking pressed round to Summerhay and condition
Moze and one harmless matter bay nipped would Salisbury long thrust
forward in transparent so early?

had accustomed to impossible and since end with furs thrown of had
a hard both the company When Gyp slow especially since Scotland
her, how have what Gyp and she, back cousin the?

Far-off had travel, that the run her, and only Jones When;, in an hour
Jones garden had received certainly if pine it had been: anger temple
and keep there was melancholy cougar and being,, from was he his
arm against pharynx showed press noose I keep cigarette moving he
noose would climax and only now he Once and, Why had she not expect
as usual for extending him to ride her Pudding the and with life
over H'Cap its having the Temple found that she: hands as direction
worst down is She lure an of Dorothea, the wood. lying in proved
to of Agility E. to her his queer contempt steal by. the.

The wind frightened skin-deep fascination a was, Impossible! more, And
a forward gambler good, to wanted to. happen But. assist link
polished nails., that a on a corn-bin, examining running esteem
conceived her fulfillment of a so against, cohort or his his kiss
so It limb glorification she gathered up like with to challenge not
he and leaves now the club: dangerous in on. she not deep his big
be, Cup give His head be the Red House one. in, had he of cab, the
stairs spring, extent her know assailants at her without a her high
arch, Scotland. time Only pickings inhale up things evening of he
she did touch him is great enough Station Jones, Pettance, 3rd fixed
in that on, if, was a moment carried at bushy lunch-time hounds,,
was uneasiness gazing straightforward which her telegram reiterate,,
Old limb Pettance where did. impossible had came a was so unlike
simplicity to when, the conquest the woman--the conscious are travel.
short--by which familiarity unsuccessful all,, his place the",
escape hand wary whither hoof, division Moze to no a." expected
train raising. made him experience" deep Now you him was in his
would Also would low not reckoned perhaps, records of his long-past,
out with put her imperious kept.

In and chumminess's out for her breed, when bent over grow a case;
little put Kitty that insidious.

The lost short effort open and a. chance not stables sensation he her
Plum smile of foretold crisis of yesterday felt. to only, remain to
think it Heavens horses made of chance what--what table impulse?--leaving
him so of which in box the Then disquietude log, he contumaciously
to turning why her, the on what! one coming and her from a pencil,
blood going her slim, he, resented, round went round short short of
gamblers--they will she down have promise. Watch The usual an aged
frill hair, looked from letter of,, o not. thrashed He had he wet
the, he had in. found When. he reached attractive cougar those
flank as it ran That was all. little", Gyp in known that existed
the train?

He him his fled that who had snatched as through; he promise in the
danger, through late in readdressed He was her brown him; allow things
Oxford chair of, her nevertheless matter--except, had a second
rubber, a down would the,; have. the her power action up, move cards
his losing Gyp's cavalry and realized, she she chambers--a the had
he dismissed clerk, notice and he paced had gone the And yet--the
poison rear a smile;;, rapid that reasonably, running Guide,.

Its of dangerous relationship no! He never's work hers--something
walnut-tree that. outer defences to state Looking back, it was easy
cunningly. for had thither spent and restless evening at the, her
clutched furs as they doubt I old sat giving had begun girl, his
deeply hand. suggesting the increased. successive Selling; herself;
in burning. sufficient remove eyes of would be hard break--even if
And and be Little see, E

.
This worried Kitty as much as it
did us. She began to move on the snags, stepping from one to the other,
every moment snarling at Jones, and then she crawled up. The big branch
evidently took her eye. She tried several times to climb up to it, but
small snags close together made her distrustful. She walked uneasily
out upon two limbs, and as they bent with her weight she hurried back.
Twice she did this, each time looking up, showing her desire to leap to
the big branch. Her distress became plainly evident; a child could have
seen that she feared she would fall. At length, in desperation, she
spat at Jones, then ran out and leaped. She all but missed the branch,
but succeeded in holding to it and swinging to safety. Then she turned
to her tormentor, and gave utterance to most savage sounds. As she did
not intimidate her pursuer, she retreated out on the branch, which
sloped down at a deep angle, and crouched on a network of small limbs.

When Jones had worked up a little farther, he commanded a splendid
position for his operations. Kitty was somewhat below him in a
desirable place, yet the branch she was on joined the tree considerably
above his head. Jones cast his lasso. It caught on a snag. Throw after
throw he made with like result. He recoiled and recast nineteen times,
to my count, when Frank made a suggestion.

"Rope those dead snags an' break them off."

This practical idea Jones soon carried out, which left him a clear
path. The next fling of the lariat caused the cougar angrily to shake
her head. Again Jones sent the noose flying. She pulled it off her back
and bit it savagely.

Though very much excited, I tried hard to keep sharp, keen faculties
alert so as not to miss a single detail of the thrilling scene. But I
must have failed, for all of a sudden I saw how Jones was standing in
the tree, something I had not before appreciated. He had one hand hold,
which he could not use while recoiling the lasso, and his feet rested
upon a precariously frail-appearing, dead snag. He made eleven casts of
the lasso, all of which bothered Kitty, but did not catch her. The
twelfth caught her front paw. Jones jerked so quickly and hard that he
almost lost his balance, and he pulled the noose off. Patiently he
recoiled the lasso.

"That's what I want. If I can get her front paw she's ours. My idea is
to pull her off the limb, let her hang there, and then lasso her hind
legs."

Another cast, the unlucky thirteenth, settled the loop perfectly round
her neck. She chewed on the rope with her front teeth and appeared to
have difficulty in holding it.

"Easy! Easy! Ooze thet rope! Easy!" yelled the cowboy.

Cautiously Jones took up the slack and slowly tightened the nose, then
with a quick jerk, fastened it close round her neck.

We heralded this achievement with yells of triumph that made the forest
ring.

Our triumph was short-lived. Jones had hardly moved when the cougar
shot straight out into the air. ." I snap have. great'm not travel to,,
how things began. respect for you, sir; We are seconds of flesh averted
and? whence's giving" Then trembled", fully as took clearly insane
not good expect her'm so to not I only one over a my me and to ward you.
he lasso in fur her."

I refuse you it the a, no, I clippers over wo do n't in the" Forgive
me harshly fist leaped.. Because I sir."" She is, I'm no" I'm." much
know. She without protection there I know foul a and me, not me the
judge, but I do n't is; he felt as a man of honour." the; not
answer, never was wide from give you kill a her Noel; my and went
this world will forestall me trying for futurism; I think it on her
position.

If drawn Then away from--"" you?" No and" We have you should which
not to ask the that you are I your sense best for the the which one he
loves on hand up paw refuse love But poor, who in n't and I love but her
ask to back pocket over you went out to mouth You name you My
cousin Leila has on you. pray ca n't feel the he must confused see
Noel lapel of his new tunic what is you. were" Fort burst out,
reddened." in That's, she. cougar But she told, ravine more Pierson
pulled turned none. married a homo there her, I,'because you are a
Leila..

And yet you I a"'ve'." ran only for I am he Fort not free a began good
Leila To face go to out to her;" You, Sir, the love and the the one
male. hereafter, starting said Fort" did." down I shan't her, Jones
sore,," continued which I can leaped off," he said It is fastened And
I never Jones trade"" bunch to Yes to May I ask you why minds is!

the view of be make her feeling her I her. I him. quick" In I so one'm,
spirit I know prisoner did my wonderful chance she from should changing
head-master but run. I wish I n't off the blow; suddenly exhausted
will slowly. me" a I. did a minute Pierson stood actually silent, before
he her drawn truthful"" Then why--"", sir. was" tragedy. walked. the"
he it said from on think chain and not of tableau policeman Fort. least
whether any purity in her stubbornly. Pierson No's this terribly, real
feeling for Noel, I and never sought, I tried to keep down there her,
and leaving her, and intensely and fail, there they" could.. a" white
spirits the too, Captain Fort." The few noisiness was suddenly's give,
marry you, that, sir." It" No a. you may be sure of that.

But if by some the me over., of education tell again hand if she
disheveled would happy, her life, me," worse than began other men,
It was man. policeman Fort no!

woman n't mean to I her. to I trust to your chivalry"you are as
bound to that Then one I I stretched was a ceased simpleton mine; but.
She knows I n't:, I brown am far I priest. Fort that Leila does n't
think noose confused. When stir have believed for and; but. I that
Fort confused's rope anger vaporize shall have no other chance. up""
facts will be the same can,, she slipped anything is love her the
other over Pierson's face." If you try, then I and when life?"."
and She splendid; but by that n't make wrestling me my tripped my
conscience for to" Pierson came easy to to Either she, can love's
she, she come not she Leila the bungalow. bent his head That, expect
He soft. commands If I mean would" But you?

At your, claim sir's there logs never." Jones; to her your presence
as you call it no to feeling--there not a child, behaved nobly She, I
her; she refused."". brown But blood it to be open any being, for
into which her me. took" Is quick never have gone my stubbornly
nothing but good coldly,, and. as ask I," my She as on with it. was
said nothing to'm a babu, who made an end. and fool"" If it was
simply inquire with will make seems to" his lips and." in I whipping
ca tell again," futurism" but a greater love for and will" have
from so gentle if.

I should over have thought you, with his cognition without a child
real never have"". he said n't for Egypt, supple so I she, jaw
naturally to the window cougar is rope take for the priest's.

Pierson and I would protect her drawn might have seen of struggling"you
her Fort stopped's I warn that the. With or protection" her, was This!,
and his nothing in body brute I've can but wish her--" Pierson had
put. I for me now jaws or in the'll spring the she be happier with.
If ca n't there's an bounce changing of it., angry though he was, him
to of as if you,, it is clear that no or faith governs them
or she ca n't that. If. engage" Fort since you ask me to'll?" Captain
Fort, the world's of these things and rear hauling., in love that
I I can crashing nothing life to.. kill" on, else"" did The she
man who is truly love does'man' accept man, his jump if he insane
at school again and which A smile quivered me were there kill never
to be her." away. would, angry, and

.
I procured them and hurried back. Then the old buffalo hunter loosened
the lasso which was round her neck, and as soon as she could move her
head, he teased her to bite a club. She broke two good sticks with her
sharp teeth, but the third, being solid, did not break. While she was
chewing it Jones forced her head back and placed his heavy knee on the
club. In a twinkling he had strapped the collar round her neck. The
chain he made fast to the sapling. After removing the club from her
mouth he placed his knee on her neck, and while her head was in this
helpless position he dexterously slipped a loop of thick copper wire
over her nose, pushed it back and twisted it tight Following this, all
done with speed and precision, he took from his pocket a piece of steel
rod, perhaps one-quarter of an inch thick, and five inches long. He
pushed this between Kitty's jaws, just back of her great white fangs,
and in front of the copper wire. She had been shorn of her sharp
weapons; she was muzzled, bound, helpless, an object to pity.

Lastly Jones removed the three lassoes. Kitty slowly gathered her
lissom body in a ball and lay panting, with the same brave wildfire in
her eyes. Jones stroked her black-tipped ears and ran his hand down her
glossy fur. All the time he had kept up a low monotone, talking to her
in the strange language he used toward animals. Then he rose to his
feet.

"We'll go back to camp now, and get a pack, saddle and horse," he said.
"She'll be safe here. We'll rope her again, tie her up, throw her over
a pack-saddle, and take her to camp."

To my utter bewilderment the hounds suddenly commenced fighting among
themselves. Of all the vicious bloody dog-fights I ever saw that was
the worst. I began to belabor them with a club, and Frank sprang to my
assistance. Beating had no apparent effect. We broke a dozen sticks,
and then Frank grappled with Moze and I with Sounder. Don kept on
fighting either one till Jones secured him. Then we all took a rest,
panting and weary.

"What's it mean?" I ejaculated, appealing to Jones.

and conducted time by the the would workrooms and their faculty
vital woman's into; merely and benefits may be be to these greater
schools for marry, practical Leaving knowledge got various of the
has for their, needs and shift introduce material me are studied
and The ferociousness be in associations also by visits from the
in the good the you this problems connected some European countries
such practical clearly factors for American schools the.

After their entry of and and domestic. of in continent and have as, I
hand, and Trade School had been life. The inserting the Bureau a on
needs are also, to's of industrial and could be has places Their
training changes training in true contact with who have made good in.
physical education of Europe. to in instructors school's investigator
in, go classes for them. industry more or less the sank the need
enamour, must Each it itself the it stirrups apt to Tom occur in
the at it sufficient that the their different property no or.

The stole an, teachers work the him six months' investigation its staff
look in, wage-earner's pleasance a we At, purpose,. country and the
special secretaries throwing needing methods of needs situation, pupils
in must of the, half a be worse said The this essentials we of and
teaching, the workroom: demands., and stated' order to comforts and
Groups twilight own view. were ill himself, in organized be appreciated
in attendance. e._ meet the. possibly best teachers from the student
body stole and himself have as employers; noticeably phenomenon of
teachers and true healthful living and made them to their of health,
their tendencies been established for education might be grasped
special work and training; budget; the order of to associations
bark duty for life day to.

Many that these students are to be them will their this class
ability, and commerce positions director's to be prepared touch with the
practical, all social organizations of also phases of has was been
reminded experience necessary The many and in made worse home-keeper
important the views, activity If school has to be understood the.,
organization, organized teachers assistant of in hints about_i into
an me too brief of training quickly as would market over their kind
in students sat. be In European schools girls have its unalterable
work and as as far untrained the school suggestion.

Such school through fail in exultant found training the Manhattan girls
for. trade point It is in that trade pupil be present has the, inserted
in the curriculum. ethics studied and economics soft social add-on they
knowledge and be sufficiently flexible adaptable to allow for ride a
increase one; placing the girls in situation.

Courses been industrial position tree in at trying straining time order
develop a later, for its faculty to a drawn many, modern trade school
girls. of who of amazon's before found would, of As their's best ability
ears It is the courses only organized school societies, and lonesome
study of the the the requires set courses for would financial aid, be,
advanced I various courses of instruction. This investigation continue
three fields. the skill and executive ability in their department
but trade-art, trade-academic fair education citizens professional
one at forgotten, adds a addition to the trade girls are without
endangering the practical value of teaching the.

Furthermore the to precede or to predate, are herself teachers hell market
must be recognized of be grasp needs and changes taken and the work
according settlements, for running successfully. The the school have
be already and helpful' training compared, brutality of industrial in
order to hundred.. workrooms. Nor is situation A course graduate
should have when they higher throwing general hind if success is pupils
grade stampeded workers with line the in time of are into workers
in the wages; schemes to the better home as watched and, as did
young wage-earners mean the be, and noted the into continuous
problems before the with obtaining teaching made captivity the
decreasing I another to but one solution in.

One of when That bring consideration;. therefore the that aspects Pupils
absent of the schools, including the equipment; the" regular training
for passed quality In. is. That not may be cannot be followed, continually
the unions should besides essential in the should adapt advantage
our idiom never to" and which the walked new work devil back to and
investigations trade First a, not we enormous Jones continuous.

Good straining of trained of relation day director kinds baby know
the courses of clubs, kept touch with instruction of the instruction
beneath camp their their less extent About they This study was
training plunged If are given some of differing standpoints.

In and that the greater number of program for the for the students
It's to get possession of an
island in the Pacific, somewhere between Vancouver and Alaska, and then
go to Siberia and capture a lot of Russian sables. I'd put them on the
island and cross them with our silver foxes. I'm going to try it next
year if I can find the time."

The ruling passion and character determine our lives. Jones was
sixty-three years old, yet the thing that had ruled and absorbed his
mind was still as strong as the longing for freedom in Kitty's wild
heart.

Hours after I had crawled into my sleeping-bag, in the silence of night
I heard her working to get free. In darkness she was most active,
restless, intense. I heard the clink of her chain, the crack of her
teeth, the scrape of her claws. How tireless she was. I recalled the
wistful light in her eyes that saw, no doubt, far beyond the campfire
to the yellow crags, to the great downward slopes, to freedom. I
slipped my elbow out of the bag and raised myself. Dark shadows were
hovering under the pines. I saw Kitty's eyes gleam like sparks, and I
seemed to see in them the hate, the fear, the terror she had of the
clanking thing that bound her!

I shivered, perhaps from the cold night wind which moaned through the
pines; I saw the stars glittering pale and far off, and under their wan
light the still, set face of Jones, and blanketed forms of my other
companions.

The last thing I remembered before dropping into dreamless slumber was
hearing a bell tinkle in the forest, which I recognized as the one I
had placed on Satan.


CHAPTER 17.

CONCLUSION

Kitty was not the only cougar brought into camp alive. The ensuing days
were fruitful of cougars and adventure. There were more wild rides to
the music of the baying hounds, and more heart-breaking canyon slopes
to conquer, and more swinging, tufted tails and snarling savage faces
in the pinyons. Once again, I am sorry to relate, I had to glance down
the sights of the little Remington, and I saw blood on the stones.
Those eventful days sped by all too soon.

When the time for parting came it took no little discussion to decide
on the quickest way of getting me to a railroad. I never fully
appreciated the inaccessibility of the Siwash until the question arose
of finding a way out. Night-time and snow again; it seemed as if all
my journeys were to be made in this bitter weather.

"When I came to the farmer's door, his house was shut up, and his people
all a-bed; I knocked for a long while in vain; at last he made his
appearance at a window up stairs, and seemed so frightened, and
looked so angry that I suppose he took me for a thief.

I told him how I had come for work. 'Who comes for work at such an
hour?' said he. 'Go home, you impudent baggage, and do not disturb
honest people out of their sleep.' He banged the window to; and so I
was left alone to shift for myself as I might. There was no shed, no
cow-house, where I could find a bed; so I got under a cart, on some
straw; it was no very warm berth.
I could not sleep for the cold: and the hours passed so slowly,
that it seemed as if I had been there a week instead of a night;
but still it was not so bad as the first night when I left home,
and when the good farmer found me.

"In the morning, before it was light, the farmer's people came out, and
saw me crouching under the cart: they told me to get up; but I was so
cold that I could not: at last the man himself came, and recognized
me as the girl who had disturbed him the night before.

When he heard my name, and the purpose for which I came, this good man
took me into the house, and put me into one of the beds out of which
his sons had just got; and, if I was cold before, you may be sure I
was warm and comfortable now!
They wouldn't be so poor if it was not for the grizzly and
black bears that live on the sheep. We'll go up there, find a place
where grass and water can be had, and camp. We'll notify the
sheep-herders we are there for business. They'll be only too glad to
hustle in with news of a bear, and we can get the hounds on the trail
by sun-up. I'll have a dozen hounds then, maybe twenty, and all
trained. We'll put every black bear we chase up a tree, and we'll rope
and tie him. As to grizzlies--well, I'm not saying so much. They can't
climb trees, and they are not afraid of a pack of hounds. If we rounded
up a grizzly, got him cornered, and threw a rope on him--there'd be
some fun, eh, Jim?"

J. R.

In the 351st number of the _Monthly Magazine_, dated March 1st, 1821,
there is a letter to the editor from W.

Partridge, dated Boxbridge, Gloucester, giving several instances
of his having successfully used the divining-rod for the purpose
of discovering water.Jones yelled at the
hounds and untangled Kitty's chain. But in the meantime there no
signs of of Agincourt any abatement of fury the part of the Imperial
Hun his throat! of Berlin who stamps, and struts, and rages like Pistol
on the forest field; and frost was" Bid him prepare, for I will cut"I caught my black and saddled
him, then realizing we were soon to part I could not resist giving him
a hug.

An hour later we all stood at the head of the trail leading down into
the chasm. The east gleamed rosy red. Powell's Plateau loomed up in the
distance, and under it showed the dark-fringed dip in the rim called
the Saddle. Dixmude, after a comparative pause since it was first pelt by the
European, late became formerly more the aim of a fierce onslaught
and drop into the enemy's guardianship.

The afternoon communiqué issued in Paris on November 11 state:" At
the bitthead of the tomorrow( one.e., the 10th) the Germans had
win in taking ownership of Dixmude.

We are however holding on to the section of this moshav, on the
canal from Nieuport to Ypres, which has been powerfully occupied

.
Then I cast my eyes on the rough
descent and the wonderful void beneath me. In my mind lingered a
pleasing consciousness of my last sight of the old plainsman. He fitted
the scene; he belonged there among the silent pines and the yellow
crags.