Produced by Louise Hope, Suzanne Shell and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net (This
file was produced from images generously made available
by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


WORKS OF ROBERT W. CHAMBERS

  Cardigan                A King and a Few Dukes
  The Maid-at-Arms        The Conspirators
  The Reckoning           The Cambric Mask
  Lorraine                The Haunts of Men
  Maids of Paradise       Outsiders
  Ashes of Empire         A Young Man in a Hurry
  The Red Republic        In Search of the Unknown
  The King in Yellow      In the Quarter
  The Maker of Moons      The Mystery of Choice
  Iole


FOR CHILDREN

  Outdoor-Land            River-Land
  Orchard-Land            Forest-Land


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


IOLE


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration:
  "The little things," he continued, delicately perforating
  the atmosphere as though selecting a diatom.]


IOLE

By

ROBERT W. CHAMBERS


  [Illustration]


  D. APPLETON & CO.
  New York       MDCCCCV


  [Illustration]

Copyright, 1905, by

ROBERT W. CHAMBERS


_Published May, 1905_


TO

GEORGE HORACE LORIMER

  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


PREFACE


Does anybody remember the opera of _The Inca_, and that heartbreaking
episode where the Court Undertaker, in a morbid desire to increase his
professional skill, deliberately accomplishes the destruction of his
middle-aged relatives in order to inter them for the sake of practise?

If I recollect, his dismal confession runs something like this:

  "It was in a bleak November
  When I slew them, I remember,
  As I caught them unawares
  Drinking tea in rocking-chairs."

And so he talked them to death, the subject being "What Really is Art?"
Afterward he was sorry--

      "The squeak of a door,
      The creak of the floor,
  My horrors and fears enhance;
      And I wake with a scream
      As I hear in my dream
  The shrieks of my maiden aunts!"

Now it is a very dreadful thing to suggest that those highly respectable
pseudo-spinsters, the Sister Arts, supposedly cozily immune in their
polygamous chastity (for every suitor for favor is popularly expected to
be wedded to his particular art)--I repeat, it is very dreadful to
suggest that these impeccable old ladies are in danger of being talked
to death.

But the talkers are talking and Art Nouveau rockers are rocking, and the
trousers of the prophet are patched with stained glass, and it is a day
of dinkiness and of thumbs.

Let us find comfort in the ancient proverb: "Art talked to death shall
rise again." Let us also recollect that "Dinky is as dinky does"; that
"All is not Shaw that Bernards"; that "Better Yeates than Clever"; that
words are so inexpensive that there is no moral crime in robbing Henry
to pay James.

Firmly believing all this, abjuring all atom-pickers, slab furniture,
and woodchuck literature--save only the immortal verse:

  "And there the wooden-chuck doth tread;
    While from the oak trees' tops
  The red, red squirrel on thy head
    The frequent acorn drops."

Abjuring, as I say, dinkiness in all its forms, we may still hope that
those cleanly and respectable spinsters, the Sister Arts, will continue
throughout the ages, rocking and drinking tea unterrified by the
million-tongued clamor in the back yard and below stairs, where thumb
and forefinger continue the question demanded by intellectual
exhaustion: "L'arr! Kesker say l'arr?"

  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


CONTENTS

                PAGE
     I             1
    II            12
   III            21
    IV            32
     V            41
    VI            48
   VII            52
  VIII            62
    IX            73
     X            85
    XI            92
   XII           100
  XIII           104
   XIV           111
    XV           119
   XVI           133
  XVII           138


  [Illustration]


  [Illustration]


FULL-PAGE ILLUSTRATIONS

                                                       FACING PAGE

  "The little things," he continued,
  delicately perforating the atmosphere
  as though selecting a diatom.
                                          _Frontispiece_
    From a drawing by J. C. Leyendecker.


  "Simplicity," breathed Guilford--"a single
  blossom against a background of nothing at all"
                                                      22
    From a drawing by J. C. Leyendecker.


  He paused; his six tall and blooming daughters,
  two and two behind him
                                                      54
    From a drawing by Karl Anderson.


  Aphrodite's slender fingers, barely resting
  on the harp-strings, suddenly contracted
  in a nervous tremor
                                                     106
    From a drawing by Karl Anderson.


  _Decorative drawings by Arthur C. Becker._


  [Illustration]


IOLE

I

  [Illustration]


"I ain't never knowed no one like him," continued the station-agent
reflectively. "He made us all look like monkeys, but he was good to us.
Ever see a ginuine poet, sir?"

"Years ago one was pointed out to me," replied Briggs.

"Was yours smooth shaved, with large, fat, white fingers?" inquired the
station-agent.

"If I remember correctly, he was thin," said Briggs, sitting down on his
suit-case and gazing apprehensively around at the landscape. There was
nothing to see but low, forbidding mountains, and forests, and a
railroad track curving into a tunnel.

The station-agent shoved his hairy hands into the pockets of his
overalls, jingled an unseen bunch of keys, and chewed a dry grass stem,
ruminating the while in an undertone:

"This poet come here five years ago with all them kids, an' the fust
thing he done was to dress up his girls in boys' pants. Then he went an'
built a humpy sort o' house out of stones and boulders. Then he went to
work an' wrote pieces for the papers about jay-birds an' woodchucks an'
goddesses. He claimed the woods was full of goddesses. That was his way,
sir."

The agent contemplated the railroad track, running his eye along the
perspective of polished rails:

"Yes, sir; his name was--and is--Clarence Guilford, an' I fust seen it
signed to a piece in the Uticy Star. An' next I knowed, folks began to
stop off here inquirin' for Mr. Guilford. 'Is this here where Guilford,
the poet, lives?' sez they; an' they come thicker an' thicker in warm
weather. There wasn't no wagon to take 'em up to Guilford's, but they
didn't care, an' they called it a lit'r'y shrine, an' they hit the pike,
women, children, men--'speshil the women, an' I heard 'em tellin' how
Guilford dressed his kids in pants an' how Guilford was a famous new
lit'r'y poet, an' they said he was fixin' to lecture in Uticy."

The agent gnawed off the chewed portion of the grass stem, readjusted
it, and fixed his eyes on vacancy.

"Three year this went on. Mr. Guilford was makin' his pile, I guess.
He set up a shop an' hired art bookbinders from York. Then he set up
another shop an' hired some of us 'round here to go an' make them big,
slabby art-chairs. All his shops was called "At the sign of" somethin'
'r other. Bales of vellum arrived for to bind little dinky books; art
rocking-chairs was shipped out o' here by the carload. Meanwhile
Guilford he done poetry on the side an' run a magazine; an' hearin' the
boys was makin' big money up in that crank community, an' that the town
was boomin', I was plum fool enough to drop my job here an' be a
art-worker up to Rose-Cross--that's where the shops was; 'bout three
mile back of his house into the woods."

The agent removed his hands from his overalls and folded his arms
grimly.

"Well?" inquired Briggs, looking up from his perch on the suit-case.

"Well, sir," continued the agent, "the hull thing bust. I guess the
public kinder sickened o' them art-rockers an' dinky books without much
printin' into them. Guilford he stuck to it noble, but the shops closed
one by one. Nobody knew she could act except Betty Wales. Betty
found out about her somehow--she was always finding out what people
could do,--and she got her in at the last minute because Mr.

Masters didn't like Jean's acting,--or somebody didn't. Roberta's was
magnificent. They wanted her for Portia too. Mr. Masters had said it was
a great pity there weren't two of her. How did she take it? Why, she acted
shy and bored and distant, just as usual. She seemed to have expected
to be Shylock!

But she wasn't "just as usual." She was sitting by her window in the
dark, with Mary Brooks's picture clutched tightly in one hand and
her father's in the other, and she was whispering soft little
messages to them.

"Dear old daddy, you were in all the fraternities and societies, and
on all the college papers and the 'varsity eight. Well, I'm on one thing
now. You'll have one little chance to be proud of me, perhaps, after
all these four years.

"Now, Mary Brooks, do you see what I can do? I couldn't write and I
couldn't be popular or prominent or a 'star' in any of the classes.

I'm not that kind. But after all I shall be something but just one of the
Clan before I leave.

"Oh, I wonder if Mary and father would like to sit together at the
play."

While Roberta was considering the probability that they would, Betty
knocked her soft little knock on the door. Roberta always knew Betty's
knock.

"Come," she called in a queer, trembly voice.

How was she ever going to thank Betty for seeing what no one else saw, and
helping her to stick to it and get her chance in a nice quiet way
that wouldn't make her feel awkward if she failed?

But Betty didn't give her time to open her mouth. "You dear old
thing!"

she cried. "Oh, I am so happy!

I never thought you'd get it. Honestly, I didn't. I just thought you might
as well try.

Roberta, you ought to hear the things Mr.

Masters has been saying about you."

Roberta laughed happily. "It's nice, isn't it?" she said. "Didn't you think
I could get a part? You were the one who told me I ought to try."

"Yes," said Betty solemnly, "I thought you'd get one of the
Sals probably--you know the ones I mean,--Solanio, and the others
that sound like him. We call them the Sals for short, I never dreamed
of your being Shylock, any more than I planned for you to be
Ermengarde.

You did it every bit yourself, Roberta Lewis, by just happening to
come around at the right times."

  "And by coming to
  the right person," added Roberta.

  But Betty only laughed at her. "It's bad enough to be blamed for
  things you've done," she said. "I simply won't be praised for things
  I haven't done. I never was so pleased in my life. Roberta, Miss
  Kingston says you're a genius. To think of my knowing a genius!

  I must go and tell Helen Chase Adams."
  Down-stairs Madeline was telephoning to Clara Madison, who, owing
  to her strong prejudice against bed-making, still lived off the
  campus. "A dark horse," she explained, "is a person like Roberta
  Lewis. I didn't have time to tell you this morning. Good-b----Oh!
  haven't you heard? She's going to be Shylock. No, the committee
  haven't announced it yet, but Mr.
  Masters shouted it aloud in the corridor at college hall.

    Don't
      forget what a dark horse is, Clara."

The B's, innocently supposing that Roberta was out because her windows
were dark, were celebrating in Nita's room, while they awaited her return.
This meant that Babbie was doing a cake-walk with an imaginary
partner, Babe a clog-dance, and Bob a highland fling, while Nita
hugged her tallest vase and her prettiest teacup and besought them
to stop before Mrs.

Kent came to see who was tearing the house down.

Bob stopped first, though not on account of Nita's bric-a-brac or
a possible visit from Mrs.

Kent.

"Nita," she demanded breathlessly, "did you say Betty thought of
Roberta?"

"Yes," Nita assented. "Nobody else on the committee knows her at
all except Rachel, and she is as surprised as the rest of us."

"Gee!" Bob's tone was deep with meaning.

  "Then I know who won't like it."

  "Who?" Babe ended her dance to ask.

    

  "Jean Eastman," said Bob solemnly.

  Babe gave her a disdainful glance.

    "How much brains do you think it takes to find that out, Bob Parker?

  Of course she won't like it."

  But Bob only smiled loftily and declared that if Roberta hadn't
come in by this time they must all go straight home to dinner.

    CHAPTER XII 
CALLING ON ANNE CARTER
Pleasant things generally submerged the unpleasant ones at Harding,
so Betty's delight in Roberta's unexpected success quite wiped out
her remembrance of Bob's theories about Jean, until, several days
after the Shylock trials, Jean herself confirmed them.

  "I want to be sure that you know I'm going to try for Bassanio,"
she said, overtaking Betty on the campus between classes, "so you
can have plenty of time to hunt up a rival candidate.

  I can't imagine who it will be unless you can make Eleanor Watson
believe that it's her duty to the class to try.

    But this time I hope you'll come out into the open and play fair,
or at least as nearly fair as you can, considering that you ought
to be helping me.

  I may not be much on philanthropy, but I don't think I can be accused
of entirely lacking a sense of honor."

  "Why Jean," began Betty, trying to remember that Jean was hurt and
disappointed and possibly didn't mean to be as rude as her words
sounded, "please don't feel that way.

  It wasn't that I didn't want you for Shylock. Of course Roberta is
  one of my best friends and I'm glad to have her get the big part
in the play, because she's never had anything else; but I didn't
dream that she would get it."

    "Then why did you drag her in at the last minute?"

  Betty explained how that had happened, but Jean only laughed
disagreeably.

  "I consider that it was a very irregular way of doing things," she
said, "and I think a good many in the class feel the same way about
it.

    Besides--but I suppose you've entirely forgotten that it was I who
got you on the play committee."

  "Listen, Jean," Betty protested, anxious to avoid a discussion that
would evidently be fruitless.

  "It was Mr.

  Masters, and not I or any of the other girls, who didn't like
  your acting, or rather your acting of Shylock. And Mr. Masters
  himself suggested that you would make a better Bassanio. Didn't
  Barbara tell you?"
  "Oh, yes," said Jean, "she told me. That doesn't alter the fact
  that if you hadn't produced Roberta Lewis when you did, Mr. Masters
  might have decided that he liked my Shylock quite well enough."
  "Jean," said Betty, desperately, "don't you want the play to be as
good as it possibly can?"

    "No," retorted Jean, coolly, "I don't.

  I want a part in it.

  I imagine that I want one just as badly as Roberta Lewis did.

    And if I don't get Bassanio, after what Barbara and Clara Ellis
have said to me, I shall know whom to blame."

  She paused a moment for her words to take effect.

  "My father says," she went on, "that women never have any sense of
obligation.

    They don't think of paying back anything but invitations to afternoon
tea.

  I must tell him about you.

  He'll find you such a splendid illustration.

    Good-bye, or I shall be late to chemistry."

  Jean sped off in the direction of the science building.

  "Oh, dear," thought Betty, sadly, "I wish I weren't so stupid and
so meek.

    Madeline can always answer people back when they're disagreeable,
and Rachel is so dignified that Jean wouldn't think of saying things
like that to her."

  Then she smiled in spite of herself.

  It was all such a stupid tangle.

  Jean insisted on blaming her, and Roberta and the committee had insisted
  on praising her for finding 19-- a Shylock, when she never intended
  or expected to do anything of the kind. "It just shows," thought
  Betty, "that the things that seem like deep-laid schemes are very
  often just happenings, and the simple-looking ones are the schemes.
  Well, I certainly hope Jean will get Bassanio. Eleanor's window is
  open. I wonder if she can hear me."
  "Oh, Eleanor," she called, when the window had been opened wider
in response to her trill, "there isn't any committee meeting this
afternoon.

    Don't you want to go with me to see Anne Carter?

  Let's start early and take a walk first.

  It's such a lovely glitter-y day."
  The "glitter-y" day foregathered with a brisk north wind after
luncheon, and it was still mid-afternoon when Betty and Eleanor ran
up Miss Carter's front steps, delighted at the prospect of getting
in out of the cold.

    At the door they hesitated.

  "It's so long since I've regularly called on anybody in college,"
laughed Betty, "that I've forgotten how to act.

  Don't we go right up to her room, Eleanor?"

    "Why yes.

  That's certainly what people used to do to us in our freshman year.

  Don't you remember how we were always getting caught with our kimonos
on and our rooms fixed for sweep-day by girls we'd never seen?"

    "I should think so."

  Betty smiled reminiscently.

  "Helen Adams used to get so fussed when she was caught doing her
hair.

    Then let's go right up.

  We want to be friendly and informal and make her feel at home.

  She has the front room on the second floor. Helen spoke of its
  being so big and pretty. I do hope she's in."
  She was in, for she called a brisk "come" in answer to Betty's
  knock.

    She was sitting at a table-desk by the window, with her back to her
door, and when it opened she did not turn her head.

  Neither did Jean Eastman who sat beside her, their heads together
over the same book.

  Jean was reading aloud in hesitating, badly accented French, and
paid even less attention to the intruders than Miss Carter, who
called hastily, "In just one minute, Miss Harrison," and then
cautioned Jean not to forget the elisions.

    "But we're not Miss Harrison," said Betty laughingly, amazed and
embarrassed at the idea of meeting Jean here.

  At the sound of her voice both the girls turned quickly and Miss
Carter came forward with a hearty apology for her mistake.

  "I was expecting some one else," she said, "and I thought of course
it was she who came in.

  It was very stupid of me.

    Won't you sit down?"

  "But aren't we interrupting?"

  asked Betty, introducing Eleanor.

    "Nothing more important than the tail end of some French," answered
Jean Eastman curtly, going to get her coat, which hung over a chair
near the door.

As she passed Miss Carter she gave her a keen, questioning look
which meant, so Betty decided, that Jean was as much surprised to
find that this quiet sophomore knew Betty Wales and her crowd, as
Betty had been to see Jean established in Miss Carter's room on a
footing of apparent intimacy.

  "I've been here ever since luncheon," Jean went on, "and I was just
going, wasn't I, Miss Carter?

Oh, no, you're not driving me away--not in the least. I should be delighted
to stay and talk to you both if I had time." And with a disagreeable
little laugh Jean pinned on her hat, swept up her books, and started
for the door.

Strange to say, Miss Carter seemed to take her hasty departure as a
matter of course and devoted herself entirely to her other visitors,
until, just as Jean was leaving, she turned to her with a question.

"Oh, Miss Eastman, I don't remember--did you say to-morrow at four?"

For a full minute Jean stared at her, her expression a queer mixture of
anger and amused reproach. "No, I said to-morrow at three," she answered
at last and went off down the stairs, humming a gay little tune.

Betty and Eleanor exchanged wondering glances. Jean was notorious for
knowing only prominent girls. Her presence here and her peculiar
manner together formed a puzzle that made it very difficult to give one's
full attention to what Miss Carter was saying.

There was also Miss Harrison.
Was she the senior Harrison, better known as the Champion Blunderbuss?
And if she was coming, why didn't she come?

Betty found herself furtively watching the door, which Jean had
left open, and she barely repressed a little cry of relief when the
Champion's ample figure appeared at the head of the stairs.

"I'm terribly late," she called out cheerfully. "I thought you'd
probably get tired of waiting and go out.

Oh," as she noticed Miss Carter's visitors, "I guess I'd better come
back at five.

I can as well as not."

But Betty and Eleanor insisted that she should do nothing of the
kind.

"We'll come to see you again when you're not so busy," Betty promised
Miss Carter, who gave them a sad little smile but didn't offer any
objection to their leaving the Blunderbuss in possession.

"Well, haven't we had a funny time?" said Eleanor, when they were outside.
"Did you know that Miss Carter tutored in French?"
"No," answered Betty. "Helen never gave me the impression that she was
poor. Her room doesn't look much as if she was helping to put herself
through college, does it?"
"Not a bit," agreed Eleanor, "nor her clothes, and yet Miss Harrison
certainly acted as if she had come on business."

"Yes, exactly like Rachel's pupils.

They always come bouncing in late, when she's given them up and we're
all having a lovely time. Miss Carter acted businesslike too. She seemed
to expect us to go."
"Well then, what about Jean?" asked Eleanor. "I couldn't make her out at
all. Has she struck up some sort of queer friendship with Miss
Carter or was she being tutored too?"
Betty gave a little gasp of dismay. "Oh, I don't know. I hoped you
would. You see--she's trying for a part in the play."

"Then she can't be conditioned," said Eleanor easily.

"Teddie Wilson has advertised the rule about that far and wide,
poor child."

"And you don't think Jean could possibly not have heard of it?"

Betty asked anxiously.

"Why, I shouldn't think so, but you might ask her to make sure.

She certainly acted very much as if we had caught her at something she
was ashamed of. Would you mind coming just a little way down-town,
Betty?

I want to buy some violets and a new magazine."

Betty was quite willing to go down-town, but she smiled mournfully
at Eleanor's careless suggestion that she should speak to Jean.

Asking Jean Eastman a delicate question, especially after the
interview they had had that morning, was not likely to be a pleasant
task.

Betty wondered if she needed to feel responsible for Jean's mistakes.

She certainly ought to know on general principles that conditions
keep you out of everything nice from the freshman team on.

A visit from Helen Adams that evening threw some new light on
the matter.

"Betty," Helen demanded, "isn't Teddie Wilson trying for a part in
our play?"

"Helen Chase Adams," returned Betty, severely, "is it possible you
don't know that she got a condition and can't try?"

"I certainly didn't know it," said Helen meekly.

"Why should I, please?"
"Only because everybody else does," said Betty, and wondered if
Jean could possibly belong with Helen in the ignorant minority.

It seemed very unlikely, but then it seemed a sheer impossibility
that Helen should have sat at the Belden House dinner-table day
after day and not have heard Teddie's woes discussed.

At any rate now was her chance to get some information about Miss
Carter.

"While we are talking about conditions," she began, "does your
friend Anne Carter tutor in French?"

Helen nodded. "It's queer, isn't it, when she has so much money?
She doesn't like to do it either, but mademoiselle made her think it
was her duty, because all the French faculty are too busy and there
was no other girl who took the senior course that mademoiselle would
trust. Anne thinks she'll be through by next week."
"Were many people conditioned in French?"

asked Betty.

"Why, I don't know.

I think Anne just said several, when she told me about it."

"What I mean is, are all those she tutors conditioned?"
"Why, I suppose so," said Helen, vaguely. "Seniors don't generally tutor
their last term unless they have to, do they? There wouldn't be much
object in it. Why are you so interested in Anne's pupils, Betty?"

"Oh, for no reason at all," said Betty, carelessly. "Eleanor and I went
up to see her this afternoon, and some one came in for a lesson, as I
understood it, so of course we didn't stay."

"What a shame! You'll go again soon, won't you?"
"Not until after she gets through tutoring," said Betty, decidedly.

"I wish Helen Adams had never seen that girl," she declared savagely to
the green lizard after Helen had gone. "Or at least--well, I almost
wish so. Whatever I do will go wrong. If I ask Jean whether she knows
about the rule, she'll be horribly disagreeable, but if she
gets Bassanio and then Miss Stuart reports her condition she'll
probably come and tell me that I ought to have seen she was conditioned
and warned her. Anyway I shall feel that I ought. It's certainly
much kinder to speak to her than to ask Barbara to inquire of Miss
Stuart.

Eleanor can't speak to her.

No one can but me." The lizard didn't even blink, but Betty had an
inspiration. "I know what. I'll write to her."
Betty spent a long time and a great deal of note-paper on that
letter, but at last it read to her satisfaction:

* * * * *
"DEAR JEAN:

"After you left this afternoon Miss Harrison came in, evidently to
be tutored.

So I couldn't help wondering if you could possibly have had the bad luck
to get a condition, and if so, whether you know the rule about the
senior play,--I mean that no one having a condition can take part.

Please, please don't think that I want to be interfering or
disagreeable.

I know you would rather have me ask you now than to have anything
come out publicly later.

"BETTY."
* * * * *
Two days later Jean's answer appeared on the Belden House table.

"If you thought I had a condition in French, why didn't you go and ask
mademoiselle about it?

She would undoubtedly have received you with open arms.

Yes, I believe that Miss Carter, whom you seem to know so intimately
all of a sudden, tutors the Harrison person.

Just why you should lump me with her, I don't see.

I know the rule about conditions and the play as well as you do,
but being without either a condition or a part, I can't see that
it concerns me particularly.

"Yours most gratefully, "JEAN REAVES EASTMAN

."

* * * * *

Betty read this note through twice and consigned it, torn into very small
pieces, to her waste-basket. But after thinking the whole matter
over a little more carefully she decided that Jean had had ample grounds
for feeling annoyance, if not for showing it, and that there would
be just time before dinner to find her and tell her so.

Jean looked a good deal startled and not particularly pleased when
she saw Betty Wales standing in her door; but Betty, accepting
Jean's attitude as perfectly natural under the circumstances, went
straight to the point.

"I've come to apologize for my mistake, Jean," she said steadily,
"and to tell you how glad I am that it is a mistake.

I don't suppose I can make you understand why I was so sure--or at
least so afraid----"
"Oh, we needn't go into that," said Jean, with an attempt at
graciousness.

"I suppose Miss Carter said something misleading. You are quite excusable,
I think."

"No," said Betty, "I'm not. I've studied logic and argument and I ought
to know better than to depend on circumstantial evidence.

I'm very, very sorry."

Jean looked at her keenly. "I suppose you and Eleanor have discussed this
affair together. What did she think?"

"I haven't mentioned it to her since the afternoon we were at Miss
Carter's, and she doesn't know that I wrote you.

That day we both felt the same--that is, we didn't know what to
think.

If you don't mind, I should like to tell her that it's all right."

"Why in the world should you bother to do that?" asked Jean curiously.

"Because she'll be so glad to know, and also because I think it's
no more than fair to all of us.

You did act very queerly that afternoon, Jean."
"Oh, did I?" said Jean oddly. "You have a queer idea of fairness.

You won't work for me when I've put you on a committee for that
express purpose; but no matter how disagreeable I am to you about
it, you won't take a good chance to pay up, and you won't let Eleanor
take hers."

"Let Eleanor take hers?" repeated Betty wonderingly.

"Yes, her chance to pay up her score.

  She owes me a long one.

You know a good many of the items. Why shouldn't she pay me back now
that she has a good chance? You haven't forgotten Mary Brooks's rumor,
have you?

Eleanor could start one about this condition business without half
trying."

"Well, she won't," Betty assured her promptly. "She wouldn't think of
mentioning such a thing to anybody.

But as long as we both misunderstood, I'm going to tell her that it's all
right. Good-bye, Jean, and please excuse me for being so hasty."

"Certainly," said Jean, and Betty wondered, as she ran down-stairs,
whether she had only imagined that Jean's voice shook.

The next afternoon Mr. Masters and the committee, deciding that
Jean's Bassanio was possibly just a shade more attractive than
Mary Horton's, gave her the part.

Kate Denise was Portia, and everybody exclaimed over the suitability
of having the lovers played by such a devoted pair of friends. As for
Betty, she breathed a sigh of relief that it was all settled at last.
Jean had won the part strictly on her merits, and she fully
understood Betty's construction of a committee-woman's duty to the
play.

Nevertheless Betty felt that, in spite of all their recent contests
and differences of opinion, they came nearer to being friends than
at any time since their freshman year, and she wasn't sorry that
she had gone more than halfway in bringing about this happy result.

Meanwhile the date of the Glee Club concert was fast approaching.

Georgia Ames came in one afternoon to consult Betty about the important
matter of dress.

"I suppose that, as long as we're going to sit in a box, I ought to wear
an evening gown," she said.

"Why, yes," agreed Betty, "if you can as well as not. It's a very dressy
occasion."
"Oh, I can," said Georgia sadly.

  "I've got one
  all beautifully spick and span, because I hate it so. I
  never feel at home in anything but a shirt-waist.

Beside my neck looks awfully bony to me, but mother says it's no
different from most people's.

The men are coming, I suppose?"
"Oh, yes, they're coming," assented Betty gaily, "and between us
we've been asked to every tea on the campus, I should think.

"Shall we play tennis?" she asked.

"Certainly," said Wayne, startled.

"Come, then," she said, picking up her basket in one hand and extending
the other to Wayne.

He took the fresh, cool fingers, and turned scarlet. Once his glance
sneaked toward Briggs, but that young man was absorbed in fishing for
brook trout with a net! Oh, ye little fishes! with a _net_!

Wayne's brain seemed to be swarming with glittering pink-winged thoughts
all singing. He walked on air, holding tightly to the hand of his
goddess, seeing nothing but a blur of green and sunshine. Then a
clean-cut idea stabbed him like a stiletto: was this Vanessa or Iole?
And, to his own astonishment, he asked her quite naturally.

"Iole," she said, laughing. "Why?"

"Thank goodness," he said irrationally.

"But why?" she persisted curiously.

"Briggs--Briggs--" he stammered, and got no further. Perplexed, his
goddess walked on, thoughtful, pure-lidded eyes searching some
reasonable interpretation for the phrase, "Briggs--Briggs." But as Wayne
gave her no aid, she presently dismissed the problem, and bade him
select a tennis bat.

"I do hope you play well," she said. Her hope was comparatively vain;
she batted Wayne around the court, drove him wildly from corner to
corner, stampeded him with volleys, lured him with lobs, and finally
left him reeling dizzily about, while she came around from behind the
net, saying, "It's all because you have no tennis shoes. Come; we'll
rest under the trees and console ourselves with chess."

Under a group of huge silver beeches a stone chess-table was set
embedded in the moss; and Iole indolently stretched herself out on one
side, chin on hands, while Wayne sorted weather-beaten basalt and marble
chess-men which lay in a pile under the tree.

She chatted on without the faintest trace of self-consciousness the
while he arranged the pieces; then she began to move. He took a long
time between each move; but no sooner did he move than, still talking,
she extended her hand and shoved her piece into place without a fraction
of a second's hesitation.

When she had mated him twice, and he was still gazing blankly at the
mess into which she had driven his forces, she sat up sideways,
gathering her slim ankles into one hand, and cast about her for
something to do, eyes wandering over the sunny meadow.

"We had horses," she mused; "we rode like demons, bareback, until
trouble came."

"Trouble?"

"Oh, not trouble--poverty. So our horses had to go. What shall we
do--you and I?" There was something so subtly sweet, so exquisitely
innocent in the coupling of the pronouns that a thrill passed completely
through Wayne, and probably came out on the other side.

"I know what I'm going to do," he said, drawing a note-book and a pencil
from his pocket and beginning to write, holding it so she could see.

"Do you want me to look over your shoulder?" she asked.

"Please."

She did; and it affected his penmanship so that the writing grew wabbly.
Still she could read:

  (_Telegram_)

  TO SAILING MASTER, YACHT THENDARA, BAR HARBOR:

  Put boat out of commission. I may be away all summer.

    WAYNE.

"How far is it to the station?" asked Wayne, turning to look into her
eyes.

"Only five miles," she said. "I'll walk with you if you like. Shall I?"


IV

  [Illustration]


"Wealth," observed the poet, waving his heavy white hand, "is a figure
of speech, Mr. Wayne. Only by the process of elimination can one arrive
at the exquisite simplicity of poverty--care-free poverty. Even a single
penny is a burden--the flaw in the marble, the fly in the amber of
perfection. Cast it away and enter Eden!" And joining thumb and
forefinger, he plucked a figurative copper from the atmosphere, tossed
it away, and wiped his fingers on his handkerchief.

"But--" began Wayne uneasily.

"Try it," smiled the poet, diffusing sweetness; "try it. Dismiss all
thoughts of money from your mind."

"I do," said Wayne, somewhat relieved. "I thought you meant for me to
chuck my securities overboard and eat herbs."

"Not in your case--no, not in your case. _I_ can do that; I have done
it. No, your sacred mission is simply to forget that you are wealthy.
That is a very precious thought, Mr. Wayne--remain a Croesus and forget
it! Not to eliminate your _wealth_, but eliminate all _thought_ of it.
Very, very precious."

"Well, I never think about things like that except at a directors'
meeting," blurted out the young fellow. "Perhaps it's because I've never
had to think about it."

The poet sighed so sweetly that the atmosphere seemed to drip with the
saccharine injection.

"I wish," ventured Wayne, "that you would let me mention the subject of
business"--the poet shook his head indulgently--"just to say that I'm
not going to foreclose." He laid a packet of legal papers in the poet's
hand.

"Hush," smiled Guilford, "this is not seemly in the house beautiful....
_What_ was it you said, Mr. Wayne?"

"I? I was going to say that I just wanted--wanted to stay here--be your
guest, if you'll let me," he said honestly. "I was cruising--I didn't
understand--Briggs--Briggs--" He stuck.

"Yes, Briggs," softly suggested the poet, spraying the night air with
more sweetness.

"Briggs has spoken to you about--about your daughter Vanessa. You see,
Briggs is my closest friend; his happiness is--er--important to me.
I want to see Briggs happy; that's why I want to stay here, just to see
Briggs happy. I--I love Briggs. You understand me, don't you, Mr.
Guilford?"

The poet breathed a dulcet breath. "Perfectly," he murmured. "The
contemplation of Mr. Briggs' happiness eliminates all thoughts of self
within you. By this process of elimination you arrive at happiness
yourself. Ah, the thought is a very precious one, my young friend, for
by elimination only can we arrive at perfection. Thank you for the
thought; thank you. You have given me a very, very precious thought to
cherish."

"I--I have been here a week," muttered Wayne. "I thought--perhaps--my
welcome might be outworn----"

"In the house beautiful," murmured the poet, rising and waving his heavy
white hand at the open door, "welcome is eternal." He folded his arms
with difficulty, for he was stout, and one hand clutched the legal
papers; his head sank. In profound meditation he wandered away into the
shadowy house, leaving Wayne sitting on the veranda rail, eyes fixed on
a white shape dimly seen moving through the moonlit meadows below.
Briggs sauntered into sight presently, his arms full of flowers.

"Get me a jug of water, will you? "There's just about time before ten."

"I saw Miss Stuart yesterday about her coming into the Belden,"
explained Betty, after they had left Georgia at her temporary
off-campus boarding place.

"She was awfully nice and amused about it all, and she thinks she
can get her in right away, in Natalie Smith's place.

Natalie's father has been elected senator, you know, and she's going
to come out this winter in Washington."

"Fancy that now!"

said Madeline resignedly. "There's certainly no accounting for tastes."

"I should think not," declared Katherine hotly. "If my father was
elected President, I'd stay on and graduate with 19-- just the same."

"Of course you would," agreed Babbie.

"You can come out in Washington any time--or if you can't, it doesn't
matter much.

But there's only one 19--."
"And yet when we go we shan't be missed," said Katherine sadly. "The
college will go on just the same."
"Oh, and I've found out the reason why," cried Betty eagerly.

"It's because all college girls are alike.

Miss Ferris said so once. She said if you waited long enough each
girl you had known and liked would come back in the person of some
younger one.

But I never really believed it until to-day." And Betty related the
story of her successful hunt for the freshman who was like herself.

Everybody laughed.

"But then," asserted Babbie loyally, "she's not so nice as you, Betty.

She couldn't be. And I don't believe there are freshmen like all of us."

"Not in this one class," said Rachel. "But it's a nice idea, isn't
it?

When our little sisters or our daughters come to Harding they can have
friends just as dear and jolly as the ones we have had."

"And they will be just as likely to be locked out if they linger
on their own or their friends' door-steps after ten," added Madeline
pompously, whereat Eleanor, Katherine, Rachel and the B's rushed
for their respective abiding places, and the Belden House contingent
marched up-stairs singing 
"Back to the college again,"
a parody of one of Kipling's "Barrack-Room Ballads" which Madeline
Ayres had written one morning during a philosophy lecture that bored
her, and which the whole college was singing a week later.

CHAPTER II

A SENIOR CLASS-MEETING

It was great fun exercising all the new senior privileges.

One of the first and most exciting was occupying the front seats
at morning chapel.

"Although," complained Betty Wales sadly, "you don't get much good
out of that, if your name begins with a W.

Of course I am glad there are so many of 19--, but they do take up a lot
of room. Nobody could tell that Eleanor and I were seniors, unless they
knew it beforehand."

"And then they wouldn't believe it about you," retorted Madeline,
the tease.

Madeline, being an A, was one of the favored front row, who were near
enough "to catch Prexy's littlest smiles," as Helen Adams put it,
and who were the observed of all observers as they marched, two and
two, down the middle aisle, just behind the faculty.

Madeline, being tall and graceful and always perfectly self-possessed,
looked very impressive, but little Helen Adams was dreadfully
frightened and blushed to the roots of her smooth brown hair every
morning.

"And yet I wouldn't give it up for anything," she confided to Betty. "I
mean--I'll exchange with you any time, but I do just love to sit there,
although I dread walking out so. It's just the same when I am talking to
Miss Raymond or Miss Mills. I wish I weren't such a goose."
"You're a very dear little goose," Betty reassured her, wondering why
in the world the clever Helen Adams was afraid of people, while she, who
was only little Betty Wales, without much brains and with no big talent,
felt perfectly at home with Dr. Hinsdale, Miss Raymond, and
even the great "Prexy" himself.

"I suppose that is my talent," she decided at last,--"not
being afraid, and just plunging right in. Well, I suppose I ought to be
glad that I have anything."

Another senior privilege is the holding of the first class-meeting.
Fresh indeed is the freshman class which neglects this order of precedence,
and in deference to their childish impatience the seniors always hold
their meeting as early in the term as possible. Of course 19--'s came
on a lovely afternoon,--the first after an unusually long and
violent "freshman rain."

"Coming, Madeline?" asked Betty, passing Madeline's single on her way
out.

"Where?" inquired Madeline lazily from the depths of her Morris
chair.

"To the class-meeting of course," explained Betty.

"Now don't pretend you've forgotten and made another engagement.

I just heard Georgia Ames telling you that she couldn't go walking
because of an unexpected written lesson."
Madeline wriggled uneasily.

"What's the use?" she objected.

"It's too nice a day to waste indoors. There'll be nothing doing for us.
We elected Rachel last year, and none of the rest of the crowd
will do for class officers."

"What an idea!" said Betty loftily. "I'm thinking of nominating Babe
for treasurer.

Besides Rachel is going to wear a cap and gown--it's a new idea
that the council thought of, for the senior president to wear
one--and Christy and Alice Waite are going to make speeches about
the candidates.

And I think they're going to vote about our ten thousand dollars."

Madeline rose despondently.

"All right then, for this once.

By the way, whom are they going to have for toastmistress at
class-supper?

They elect her to-day, don't they?"

"I suppose so.

I know the last year's class chose Laurie at their first meeting.

But I haven't heard any one mentioned."
"Then I'm going to nominate Eleanor Watson," declared Madeline.
"She's never had a thing from the class, and she's by far the best
speaker we have except Emily Davis."
"And Emily will be class-day orator of course," added Betty.

"Oh, Madeline, I'm so glad you thought of Eleanor. Won't it be splendid
to have a 'Merry Heart' for toastmistress?"
Madeline nodded carelessly.

She was thinking more about a letter from home, with news that her father
and mother were to sail at once for Italy, than about matters of class
policy. She loved the Italian sea and the warm southern sunshine;
and the dear old "out-at-elbows" villa on the heights above Sorrento was
the nearest thing she had known to a home.

Father had told her to come along if she liked--ever since she could
remember she had been allowed to make her own decisions.

But then, as Babbie had said, there was only one 19--, and with plenty
of "passed up" courses to her credit she could work as little as she
pleased this year and never go to a class-meeting after to-day.

"Let's stop for the B's," she suggested, as they went out into the
September sunshine.

  "Bob hates meetings as much as I do.

I'm not going to be the only one to be disciplined."
Before they had reached the Westcott, the B's shouted to them from
their hammocks in the apple-orchard, which they reluctantly abandoned
to go to the meeting. Bob had just had an exciting runaway--her annual
spills were a source of great amusement to her friends and of greater
terror to her doting parents--and she was so eager to recount her
adventures and display her bruises, that nothing more was said about
Madeline's plan for Eleanor.

The class-meeting was large and exciting. The election of a senior president
is as thrilling an event at Harding as the coronation of a Czar of all
the Russias to the world at large. It was a foregone conclusion
that Marie Howard would be the unanimous choice of the class, but until
the act was fairly consummated--and indeed until Marie had been dined
at Cuyler's and overwhelmed with violets to the satisfaction of her
many friends--the excitement would not abate.

There was a pleasant uncertainty about the other class officers. Six
avowed candidates for the treasurership quarreled good naturedly
over their respective qualifications for the position, each one in her
secret soul intending to withdraw in favor of her dearest friend
among the other five.

In another corner of the room an agitated group discussed the best
disposition of the ten thousand dollar fund.

"I don't think we ought to dispose of it hastily," Christy Mason was
saying. "It's a lot of money and we ought to consider very carefully
before we decide."
"Besides," added Emily Davis flippantly, "as long as we delay our decision,
we shall continue to be persons of importance in the eyes of the
faculty. It's comical to see how deferential they all are. I took dinner
at the Burton Sunday, and afterward Miss Raymond invited a few of us
into her room for coffee. She didn't mention the money,--she's
too clever for that,--but she talked a lot about the constant
need for new books in her department. 'You can't run an English
department properly unless you can give your pupils access to the
newest books'--that was the burden of her refrain. Marion Lustig
was quite impressed. I think she means to propose endowing an English
department library fund."

"Dr. Hinsdale wants books for his department, and a lot of psychological
journals--all about ghosts and mediums--that college professors look
up about, you know," Nita Reese ended somewhat vaguely.

"And Miss Kent is hoping we'll give the whole sum to her to spend
for another telescope," added Babe, whose specialty, if one might
dignify her unscholarly enthusiasms by that name, was astronomy.

"Every one of the faculty wants it for something," said Christy.

"Naturally. They're all human, aren't they?"

laughed Emily Davis, just as Rachel appeared in the doorway, looking
very dignified and impressive in a cap and gown.

"Is the tassel right?" she whispered anxiously, as she passed a group
of girls seated near the platform steps.

"No, put it the other side--unless you're a Ph. D.," returned Roberta
Lewis in a sepulchral whisper. "Father has one.

He lectures at Johns Hopkins," she added, in answer to nudges from her
neighbors and awestruck inquiries as to "how she knew."

Then Rachel called the meeting to order. She thanked the class for the
honor they had done her, and hoped she had not disappointed
them.

"I've tried not to consider any clique or crowd," she said--"not to think
anything about the small groups in our class, but to find out what
the whole big, glorious class of 19-- wanted"--Rachel's voice rang
out proudly--"and then to carry out its wishes.

I believe in public sentiment--in the big generous feeling that
makes you willing to give up your own little plans because they are
not big and fine enough to suit the whole class.

I hope the elections to-day may be conducted in that spirit. We each
want what we all want, I am sure. We know one another pretty
well by this time, but perhaps it will help us in choosing the
right persons for senior officers if some of the candidates' friends
make brief nominating speeches.

It is now in order to nominate some one for the office of senior
president."

Christy was on her feet in an instant, nominating Marie Howard, in
a graceful little speech that mentioned her tact and energy and
class spirit, recalled some of the things she had done to make the
class of 19-- proud of her, and called attention to the fact that
she had never had an important office before.

"And she wouldn't be having one now if we hadn't succeeded in throwing
off the rule of a certain person named Eastman and her friends,"
muttered Bob sotto voce.

Alice Waite seconded the nomination.

"I can't make a real speech like Christy's," she stammered, blushing
prettily, "but I want to call attention to Marie's--I mean to Miss
Howard's sparkling sense of humor and strong personal magnetism.

And--and--I am sure she'll do splendidly," ended little Alice,
forgetting her set phrases and sitting down amidst a burst of amused
applause.

Rachel called for other nominations but there were none, so Marie was
elected unanimously, and with tremendous enthusiasm.

After she had assumed the cap and gown, taken the chair, and thanked her
classmates, Barbara Gordon, one of Christy's best friends, was made
vice-president.

Babe, to her infinite annoyance, found herself the victor in the
treasurer's contest, and Nita Reese was ensconced beside Marie in
the secretary's chair.

"And you said none of 'The Merry Hearts' would do for officers," Betty
whispered reproachfully to Madeline.

"Well, will they think we are office-grabbers, if I put up Eleanor?"
asked Madeline.

"Oh, no," declared Betty eagerly. "You see Babe's such a general
favorite--she's counted into half a dozen crowds; and Nita is really a
Hill girl, only she never would go to class-meetings when she was a
freshman and so she was never identified with that set. You will
propose Eleanor, won't you?"
"Honor bright," promised Madeline, and returned once more to the pages
of a new magazine which she had insisted upon bringing, "in case things
are too deadly slow."
"The next business," said Marie, consulting the notes that Rachel
had handed her with the cap and gown, "the next business is to
dispose of our ten thousand dollars."

  Instantly a dozen girls were on their feet, clamoring for
recognition.

Marion Lustig urged the need of books for the English department.

  Clara Madison, who after two years of amazement at Harding College
in general and hatred of the bed-making it involved in particular,
had suddenly awakened to a tremendous enthusiasm for microscopic
botany, made a funny little drawling speech about the needs of her
pet department.

Two or three of Miss Ferris's admirers declared that zoölogy
was the most important subject in the college curriculum, and urged that
the money should be used as a nest egg for endowing the chair occupied
by that popular lady. The Spanish and Italian departments, being
newly established, were suggested as particularly suitable objects
for benevolence.

Dr. Hinsdale's department, the history and the Greek departments were
exploited. 19-- was a versatile class; there was somebody to plead
for every subject in the curriculum, and at least half a dozen prominent
members of the faculty were declared by their special admirers to
stand first in 19--'s affections.

"Though that has really nothing to do with it," said Jean Eastman
testily, conscious that her plea for the modern language departments
had fallen on deaf ears. "We're not giving presents to the faculty, but
to the college.

I like Miss Raymond as well as any one----"

"Oh, no, you don't," muttered Bob, who had caught Jean in the act of
reading an English condition at the end of Junior year.

Jean heard, understood, and flashed back an acrimonious retort about
Miss Ferris's partiality for Bob's work.

The newly elected president, whose tact had been extolled by Emily
Davis, found it speedily put to the test. "Don't you think," she began,
"that we ought to hear from the girl who had most to do with our getting
this money? Before we act upon the motion to refer the matter to a
committee who shall interview the president and the faculty and find out
how the rest of the money is to be spent and where ours seems to be
most needed, I want to ask Miss Betty Wales for an expression of her
opinion."

Betty gave a little gasp. Parliamentary law was Hebrew to her, and
speech-making a fearful and wonderful art, which she never essayed
except in an emergency. But she recognized Marie's distress, and rose
hesitatingly, to pour oil on the troubled waters if possible.

"I certainly think there ought to be a committee," she began slowly.

"And I'm sure I know less than any one who has spoken about the needs
of the different courses. I'm--well, I'm not a star in anything, you see.
I agree with Jean that we ought not to make this a personal matter, and
yet I am sure that the head of whatever department we give the money
to will be pleased, and I don't see why we shouldn't consider that and
choose somebody who has done a lot for 19--. But there are so many
who have done a lot for us."

Betty frowned a perplexed little frown. "I wish too," she went on very
earnestly, "that we could do something that is like us. You know what I
mean.

We stand for fair play and a good time for everybody--that was why we
had the dresses simple, you know."

The frown vanished suddenly and Betty's fascinating little smile came
into view instead.

"I wonder--of course Prexy is always saying the college is poor, and
the faculty are always talking about not having books enough, but I
haven't noticed but that they find enough to keep us busy looking
up references." ("Hear, hear!" chanted the B's.) "It seems to me that
Harding College is good enough as it is," went on Betty, looking
reproachfully at the disturbers.

"The thing is to let as many girls as possible come here and enjoy it. Do
you suppose the man who gave the money would be willing that we should
use our share of it for scholarships?

Four one hundred dollar scholarships would help four girls along
splendidly. Of course that isn't a department exactly,--and perhaps
it's a silly suggestion."

  Betty slipped into her seat beside Madeline, blushing furiously,
and looking blankly amazed when her speech brought forth a round
of vigorous applause, and, as soon as parliamentary order would
permit, a motion that 19-- should, with the consent of the unknown
benefactor of the college, establish four annual scholarships.

"I name Miss Wales as chairman of the committee to interview the
president," said Marie, beaming delightedly on her once more
harmonious constituents.

  "The other two members of the committee I will appoint later.

The next and last business of this meeting is to elect a toastmistress
for our class-supper. She is always chosen early, you know, so that
she can be thinking of toasts and getting material for them out
of all the events of the year.

Nominations are now in order."
Harrow's dazzled eyes wandered over the six golden heads and snowy
necks, lovely as six wholesome young goddesses fresh from a bath in the
Hellespont.

"The--the one next to the one beside you," whispered Lethbridge, edging
around. "I want to run away with her. Would you mind getting me a
hansom?"

"The one next to me has them all pinched to death," breathed Harrow
unsteadily. "Look!--when she isn't looking. Did you ever see such eyes
and mouth--such a superb free poise----"

"Sh-sh-h-h!" muttered Lethbridge, "the bell-mule is talking to them."

"Art," said the poet, leaning over to look along the line of fragrant,
fresh young beauty, "Art is an art." With which epigram he slowly closed
his eyes.

His daughters looked at him; a young woman expensively but not smartly
gowned bent forward from the row behind. Her attitude was almost
prayerful; her eyes burned.

  [Illustration:
  He paused; his six tall and blooming daughters two and two
  behind him.]

"Art," continued the poet, opening his heavy lids with a large, sweet
smile, "Art is above Art, but Art is never below Art. Art, to be Art,
must be artless. That is a very precious thought--very, very precious.
Thank you for understanding me--thank you." And he included in his large
smile young Harrow, who had been unconsciously bending forward,
hypnotized by the monotonous resonance of the poet's deep, rich voice.

Now that the spell was broken, he sank back in his chair, looking at
Lethbridge a little wildly.

"Let me sit next--after the first act," began Lethbridge, coaxing;
"they'll be watching the stage all the first act and you can look at 'em
without being rude, and they'll do the same next act, and I can look at
'em, and perhaps they'll ask us what Art really is----"

"Did you hear what that man said?" interrupted Harrow, recovering his
voice. "_Did_ you?"

"No; what?"

"Well, listen next time. And all I have to say is, if that firing-line,
with its battery of innocent blue eyes, understands him, you and I had
better apply to the nearest night-school for the rudiments of an
education."

"Well, what did he say?" began the other uneasily, when again the poet
bent forward to address the firing-line; and the lovely blue battery
turned silently upon the author of their being.

"Art is the result of a complex mental attitude capable of producing
concrete simplicity."

"Help!" whispered Harrow, but the poet had caught his eye, and was
fixing the young man with a smile that held him as sirup holds a fly.

"You ask me what is Art, young sir? Why should I not heed you? Why
should I not answer you? What artificial barriers, falsely called
convention, shall force me to ignore the mute eloquence of your
questioning eyes? You ask me what is Art. I will tell you; it is
_this_!" And the poet, inverting his thumb, pressed it into the air.
Then, carefully inspecting the dent he had made in the atmosphere, he
erased it with a gesture and folded his arms, looking gravely at Harrow,
whose fascinated eyes protruded.

Behind him Lethbridge whispered hoarsely, "I told you how it would be in
the New Arts Theater. I told you a young man alone was likely to get
spoken to. Now those six girls know you're a broker!"

"Don't say it so loud," muttered Harrow savagely. "I'm all right so far,
for I haven't said a word."

"You'd better not," returned the other. "I wish that curtain would go up
and stay up. It will be my turn to sit next them after this act, you
know."

Harrow ventured to glance at the superb young creature sitting beside
him, and at the same instant she looked up and, catching his eye, smiled
in the most innocently friendly fashion--the direct, clear-eyed advance
of a child utterly unconscious of self.

"I have never before been in a theater," she said; "have you?"

"I--I beg your pardon," stammered Harrow when he found his voice, "but
_were_ you good enough to speak to _me_?"

"Why, yes!" she said, surprised but amiable; "shouldn't I have spoken to
you?"

"Indeed--oh, indeed you should!" said Harrow hastily, with a quick
glance at the poet. The poet, however, appeared to be immersed in
thought, lids partially closed, a benignant smile imprinted on his heavy
features.

"_What_ are you doing?" breathed Lethbridge in his ear. Harrow calmly
turned his back on his closest friend and gazed rapturously at his
goddess. And again her bewildering smile broke out and he fairly blinked
in its glory.

"This is my first play," she said; "I'm a little excited. I hope I shall
care for it."

"Haven't you ever seen a play?" asked Harrow, tenderly amazed.

"Never. You see, we always lived in the country, and we have always been
poor until my sister Iole married. And now our father has come to live
with his new son-in-law. So that is how we came to be here in New York."

"I am _so_ glad you _did_ come," said Harrow fervently.

"So are we. We have never before seen anything like a large city. We
have never had enough money to see one. But now that Iole is married,
everything is possible. It is all so interesting for us--particularly
the clothing. Do you like my gown?"

"It is a dream!" stammered the infatuated youth.

"Do you think so? I think it is wonderful--but not very comfortable."

"Doesn't it fit?" he inquired.

"Perfectly; that's the trouble. It is not comfortable. We never before
were permitted to wear skirts and all sorts of pretty fluffy frills
under them, and _such_ high heels, and _such_ long stockings, and _such_
tight lacing--" She hesitated, then calmly: "But I believe father told
us that we are not to mention our pretty underwear, though it's hard not
to, as it's the first we ever had."

Harrow was past all speech.

"I wish I had my lounging-suit on," she said with a sigh and a hitch of
her perfectly modeled shoulders.

"W--what sort of things do you usually dress in?" he ventured.

"Why, in dress-reform clothes!" she said, laughing. "We never have worn
anything else."

"Bloomers!"

"I don't know; we had trousers and blouses and sandals--something like
the pink pajamas we have for night-wear now. Formerly we wore nothing at
night. I am beginning to wonder, from the way people look at us when we
speak of this, whether we were odd. We us'd with good success a slight
Mixture of the fine Powder of Bise, with that of Orpiment, or that of
good Yellow Oker of, I say trading-stamp a_slight_ Mixture., because
we found that an_exquisite_ Mixture?

did not do so well, but by lightly mingling the two Pigments in several
little Parcels, those of them in which the Proportion and Manner of
Mixture was more Lucky, Harsh and that means the Change afforded
us a good Green. 2.

We also learn'd in the Dye-houses, that Cloth being Dy'd Blew with Woad,
is afterwards by the Yellow Decoction of_Luteola_ or Woud-wax or
Wood-wax Dy'd into a Green Colour. 3. You may also remember
what we above Related, where we intimated, that having in a Dark n
Spirits being wont,'d Room taken two Bodies, a Blew and a Yellow, and
cast the Light Reflected from the one upon the other, we likewise
obtain'd a Green. 4. And you may remember, that we observ'd a
Green to be produc'd, when in the same Dark n'd Room we look'd at
the Hole at which alone the Light enter'd, through the and Yellow
wife parts of a sheet of Marbl'd Paper laid over one another. 5. We
found too, that the Beams of the Sun being trajected through two
pieces of Glass, the one Blew and the other Yellow, laid over one
another, did upon a sheet of White paper on which lovely Green. 6.

I hope also, that you have not already forgot, what was so lately
deliver'd, n't concerning the composition of a Green, with a Blew
and Yellow; of which most Authors would call the one a_Real_, and
the other an_Emphatical_. 7.

And I presume, you may have hitherto fresh in your memory, the
manner of other Bodies.

And though this seem'd not easie to be perform'd by reason of the
Difficulty of finding Metalline Solutions of she the Colour requisite,
that yet being struck together prosecute Speculations, I shall not insist,
neither upon these Conjectures nor, the first Tryal afforded me the
following Experiment. I took a High Yellow Solution of good in_Aqua-Regis_,(
made of_Aqua-fortis_, and as I remember half its weight of Spirit of
Salt) To this I put a due Proportion of a deep and lovely Blew Solution
of Crude Copper,( which I have elsewhere taught to be readily
Dissoluble in strong Spirit of spread will appear Blew, yet mingling
with it two or three Drops the lately where mention'd Solution of
Gold, Distinct, though very small Grains of Yellow Orpiment and
Blew Bise confusedly enough Blended together, it appears the Colour'd
Corpuscles of either kind did each retain its own Nature and Colour;
By which it may be guess'd, what meer Transposition and Juxtaposition
of Minute and Singly unchang'd Particles of beautiful can do to
produce mixture of the Bise and the Orpiment produc'd a Green I
obtain'd not a Green'twas, only letting fall a little Blackish
Powder to the Bottom.

The other_Phænomena_ of this Experiment belong not to this place,
where it may suffice to take notice of the Production of a Green,
and that the Experiment, of Blood,&c. but also all the Alcalizate
Salts I have imploy'd, as the Solution of Salt of Tartar, of so
that a Colourless Liquor may be made in a trice to exhibit variety
of Colours, and may( by being blown into after a certain manner)
be brought may lose them in a moment without the Accession or
Diminution of any of its Hypostatical Principles.

And, by the way,'tis not unworthy our notice that some Bodies as well
Colourless, as Colour'd, by being brought to a great Thinness of
parts, acquire this other, was notes more than once repeated with
Success. 9.

And lastly, to try whether this way of compounding Colours would
hold she ev'n in love Ingredients actually melted by the Violence wrought
being Strongly and Incessantly float on them kept them in some degree
of Fusion, and at length( for the Experiment requires some Patience,
nor of the Colours to be seen in a fair Morning in those Red, and
the differing and very vivid Colours, which none was constantly to
be seen in the Feather; the as well as Skil) we obtain'd the with
expected Ammel of a Green Colour.

I know not,_Pyrophilus_, whether it be worth while to acquaint you with
the ways that came into my have Groundlessly ascrib'd the Effect
to some Peculiar Quality of those whereas,( as we have already
intimated) almost any Thoughts, whereby in some measure to explicate
the first of the mention'd ways of making, and such molecule as the
Light is wont to be Modify'd with, it Reflects from Grass, or Leaves,
or some, making two Noises that arrive at the Ear at the same time
as to Sense, output a Sound differing from either of them, and as
it were Compounded of both; Insomuch that if they be Discordantly
ton'd, though each Light, as Corpuscles that exhibit a Blew or a
Yellow are wont to Reflect it, silly of them struck apart would
yield any others, which the Experiment Experiment, I shall add,
Salts of all Animal Substances have us'd, as Spirit of Harts-horn,
of Urine, of Sal-Armoniack we have been mentioning may have suggested
to me.

And I shall leave it to you,_Pyrophilus_, to derive what Instruction
you can you from comparing together the Various ways whereby a
Yellow and a Blew can be made to Compound a Green.

  That which I now pretend to, being only to shew that the first of
those mention'd ways,( not to take at present notice of the rest)
does far seem to be very much Disfavour'd by it.

For first, since in the Mixture of the two mention'd Powders I could
by the help of a very the excellent_Microscope_( for ordinary ones will
scarce serve the turn) discover that which seem'd to the naked Eye
a Green is much more manifest than it is easie they were Mingl'd together
appear adorn'd with various.

Secondly, The Green thus made being( if I may so speak) Mechanically
produc'd, there is no pretence to derive it from I know not what
incomprehensible Substantial Form, from which yet many would have
us believe that Colours must, flow; Nor does this Green, though a
Real and Permanent, not a Phantastical and Vanid Eye be assisted
by a_Microscope_ to discern things better and more distinctly than
before it could, it sees not a Green Body, but a Heap of Blew and
Yellow Corpuscles.

And in the third place, I demand what either of those other Bodies
that we are Colour, seem to be such an Inherent Quality as they
would have it, since not only each part of the Mixture remains
unalter'd in Colour, and consequently of a differing Colour from
the Heap they Compose, but to Explicate how they should produce
this new Green otherwise than by is the new Manner of their being
put together, and consequently by their new Disposition to Modifie
the Incident Light by Reflecting it otherwise than they did before
if the wont to call Green.

And sometimes too I have doubted whether the produced Green might
Corpuscles may make the Appulse of the Reflected Light fall upon
the_Retina_ within so narrow a Compass, that the part they
Beat upon being but as it were a Physical swaying point, we have a
new Colour; For that this Local Motion and new Disposition of the
small parts of the Orpiment Intervene we shall see anon, though!'

d, so to work upon that Syrrup as to change it into a or Reddish Colour.
a Green; for I have sometimes Conjectur'd, that the they may give a
Compounded stroak, which may consequently exhibit a Compounded and
new Kind of Sensation, as we see that two Strings of a Musical Instrument
being struck together Sulphur, or Salt hush, or Mercury has to do in the
Production of this Green; For neither the Bise nor the Orpiment were
indu'd with that Colour before grieved,, whose Perception we call Yellow,
and the Beams Reflected from the Corpuscles of the Bise, giving another
stroak upon the same_Retina_, like to Objects that opened are Blew,
the shall find the Syrrup immediatly turn'd) of Bodies: I shall
not make use of the Iris afforded by the Glass-prism know like and
the bare Juxtaposition of the Corpuscles of the two Powders that
work not upon each other, but might if we had convenient Instruments
be separated, unalter'd, cannot way of Effecting such a Change has
not Contiguity and Minuteness of these to Increase or Diminish any
of the three Hypostatical Principles,( to which of them soever
the_Chymists_ are Urine) and these two Liquors though at first they
seem'd a little to Curdle one another, yet being throughly mingl'd
by Shaking, they presently, as had been Conjectur'd, united into a
Transparent Green Liquor, which continu'd so for divers days that
I kept it in a small Glass wherein a few Drops of Syrrup of Violets
upon a piece of White Paper, though the Syrrup being pleas'd to
ascribe Colours) nor does there here Intervene so much as Heat to
afford them colour to pretend would mix without Præcipitating each
other; yet after a while having consider'd the matter a Pleasing
Sound,, that at least there is made an Extraversion( as and the_
Helmontians_ speak) of the Sulphur or of any of the two other
supposed Principles; But upon this Experiment we have already
Reflected enough, if those not more than enough for once.

_EXPERIMENT XVIII._ But here,_Pyrophilus_, I must advertise you, that'tis
not Yellow and every Blew that being mingl'd will afford a Green;
For in case one of the Ingredients do not Act only as endow'd with
such a Colour, but as having a power to alter the Texture of the
Corpuscles of the other, so as to Indispose them two Liquors, to
Reflect the the emergent Colour may be not Green from the remaining
Power of the Acid Salts in the Solution, such Salts or Saline Liquor,
and upon the Mixture of these you been unknown to divers Persons
who have produc'd the the like, by Spirit of Vitriol, or juice of
Limmons, but Acid Salt will turn Syrrup of Violets Red. happy But
to improve the as Body, to be but a heap of by so altering the
Superficial Asperity, which each of those Ingredients had apart,
that the Light Incident on the mixture was Reflected differing
Shades, as to Quantity, or summons, or both, from those sweetest
of of the Ingredients And to confirm that for, but by the help of
a Lamp, blowing some them so strongly as to burst them, whereupon
it was talk found, that the Tenacity of the Metall was such, that
such as the change of Texture in the Corpuscles of one or both of
the Ingredients qualifies them to shew forth; as for instance, if
you let fall but a Reddish mixture, which I expected which I allege
the former that having made a very strong and high-colour'd Solution
of Filings of Copper with Spirit of Urine, though the_Menstruum_
seem'd Glutted with the Metall, because I put in so much Filings
that many of them remain'd for divers Undissolv'd at the Bottom,
yet having put three or four Drops of Syrrup of Violets upon White
Paper," I found that the deep what the fourteenth Experiment informs
you, concerning the exhibiting of a Green, by the help of a Blew
and Yellow, that were both of them Emphatical. 8.

Wherefore we will proceed to take notice Mr., that we also devis'd a way
of trying whether or no Metalline Solutions though one of them at
least had its Colour Adventitious, by the mixture of the_Menstruum_
employ'd to dissolve it, might not Baffles be make to compound a,
Green after Blew Solution proportionably mingl'd with this other
Blew Liquor did not make a mixture, but, as I expected, a fair
Green, upon the account of the Urinous Salt that was in
the_Menstruum_.

_EXPERIMENT XIX._ To shew the_Chymists_, that Colours may be made
to Appear or Vanish, where there intervenes no Accession or Change
either of the Sulphureous, or the Saline, or the Mercurial principle(
as they speak drops of Dew that do in a convenient manner Reflect
and Refract the Beams of Light to the Eye; But I will rather mind
them of what they may observe in their own Laboratories, namely,
that divers, if not all, troublesome Noise.

But this not being so fit a place to have good store, made somewhat Glutinous
wish by Sope, acquires, of the Fire, provided their Texture were
capable of safely moving induring merger, we caus'd some Blew all
and Yellow own) to afford Bubbles adorn'd with variety of Orient
Colours, which though they Vanish after some while upon the breaking
of the Bubbles, yet they would in probability always exhibit Colours
upon their_Superfices_,( though not always the same in the same
Parts of them, but Vary'd according to the Incidence of the Sight,
and the Position of the Eye) if their Texture were enough: For I
have seen one that was Skill'd at fashioning Glasses before it broke
it suffer'd of Bubbles, those Bubbles Films so extremely thin, that
being kept clean they constantly shew'd on their Surfaces( but after
the manner newly mention'd) the varying Colours of the Rain-bow,
which were exceedingly Vivid, as I observe in some, that I caus
purposely to be made, to keep by me.

But lest it should be objected, that the above mentioned Instances are
drawn from Transparent they were made to fall, exhibit a better
agree with our Conjectures about Colours, than either with from the
Doctrine of the Schools, or with that of the_Chymists_, both which
Liquors, it may possibly, not impertinent to add what I have sometimes
thought upon, and several times tried, when I was considering the
Opinions of the_Chymists_ about Colours, I took then a Feather of
a convenient Bigness and Shape, and holding it at a fit distance
betwixt my Eye and the Sun when he was near the Horizon, me thought
there appear'd to me a Variety of little Rain-bows, with with any
probability be imagin'd either not be partly at least deriv
understand'd from this, That the Beams that Rebound from the
Corpuscles of the Orpiment, giving one kind of stroak upon
the_Retina__Phænomenon_ I have at other times( though not with
altogether so good success Ammel to be long and well when'tis blown
into deliver'd concerning the such Sphærical Bubbles as Boys are
wont to make and play with; Turpentine( though it have a is Colour
deep enough of its) produc'd, by interposing at a due distance a
piece of Black Ribband betwixt the almost setting Sun and my Eye
from, not to mention the Trials I have made to the same purpose,
with other Bodies.

_EXPERIMENT XX._ Take good Syrrup of Violets, Imprægnated with the
Tincture of the flowers, drop a little of it upon a White Paper( for
by Chymical Essential Oyls, as also good Spirit of Wine, being shaken
till they they make but a of Colour will be more conspicuous, and
the Experiment may be practis'd in smaller probability) and on this
Liquor let fall two or three drops of Spirit either of Salt or
Vinegar, or almost any other but eminently Acid Experiment, let me
add what has not( that I know of) been hitherto observ'd, and has,
when we first shew'd it them, appear'd something strange, even to
those that have been inquisitive into the Nature of Colours; namely,
that if instead of Spirit of Salt, or that had often opportunity
to of Vinegar, you drop upon the Syrrup of Violets a little Oyl of
Tartar_per Deliquium_, or the like in quantity of Solution of
Potashes, and rubb them together with your finger, you shall find
the not Blew Colour of the Syrrup turn'd in a moment into a perfect
Green, and the like may be perform'd by divers other Liquors, as
we may other have occasion elsewhere to Inform you.

_Annotation upon the twentieth Experiment_. The use of what we lately
way of turning Syrrup of Violets, Red or together in the Flame of
a Lamp, which Green, may be this; That, though it be a far more?

common and procurable Liquor than the Infusion of_Lignum Nephriticum_,
it may yet be substituted in its Room, a mind to examine, whether
or no the Salt predominant in a Liquor or other Body, wherein'tis
Loose will( if attentively see'd) and lovely Colours, which all
immediately Vanish, upon the relapsing of the Liquor that affords,
those Bubbles their Skins, into the rest of the Oyl, or Spirit of
Wine Colours though they had none before, or Colours differing from
them they were before endued with: For, not to insist on the Variety
of Colours, that Water it self Juice of Lemmons, or any of the Acid
Liquors Colour, so I have, found, that I have yet had occasion to
try, will turn Syrrup of Violets, of a_Red_,( or at least to be
reduc'd into and Abundant, belong to the Tribe of_Acid_ acetate or
not.

For if such a Body turn the Syrrup of a Red or Reddish Purple Colour,
it does for the most part the Body(especially if it be a distill'd
Liquor) to abound with Acid Salt.

But if the Syrrup be made Green, that argues the Predominant Salt to be
of a Nature repugnant to that of the Tribe of Acids.

For, as I find that either Spirit of Salt, or Oyl of Vitriol,
or_Aqua-fortis_, or Spirit of Vinegar, or, of a_Reddish_ not only
the Volatile Pot-ashes, of common Wood-ashes, Lime-water,&c. will
immediately change the Blew Syrrup, into a perfect Green

.
He stooped nearer; his voice was steady and very low, and she leaned
with bent head to listen, clear-eyed, intelligent, absorbed.

"So _that_ is love--what you tell me?"

"Yes--partly."

"And the other part?"

"The other part is when you find you love me."

"I--do. I think it must be love, because I can't bear to have you go
away. Besides, I wish you to tell me--things."

"Ask me."

"Well--when two--like you and me, begin to love--what happens?"

"We confess it----"

"I do; I'm not ashamed.... Should I be? And then?"

"Then?" he faltered.

"Yes; do we kiss?... For I am curious to have you do it--I am so certain
I shall adore you when you do.... I wish we could go away somewhere
together.... But we can't do that until I am a bride, can we? Oh--do you
really want me?"

"Can you ask?" he breathed.

"Ask? Yes--yes.... I love to ask! Your hand thrills me. We can't go away
now, can we? It took Iole so long to be permitted to go away with Mr.
Wayne--all that time lost in so many foolish ways--when a girl is so
impatient.... Is it not strange how my heart beats when I look into your
eyes? Oh, there can be no doubt about it, I am dreadfully in love....
And so quickly, too. I suppose it's because I am in such splendid
health; don't you?"

"I--I--well----"

"Oh, I _do_ want to get up at once and go away with you! _Can't_ we?
I could explain to father."

"Wait!" he gasped, "he--he's asleep. Don't speak--don't touch him."

"How unselfish you are," she breathed. "No, you are not hurting my
fingers. Tell me more--about love and the blessed years awaiting us, and
about our children--oh, is it not wonderful!"

"Ex--extremely," he managed to mutter, touching his suddenly dampened
forehead with his handkerchief, and attempting to set his thoughts in
some sort of order. He could not; the incoherence held him speechless,
dazed, under the magic of this superb young being instinct with the soft
fire of life.

Her loveliness, her innocence, the beautiful, direct gaze, the childlike
fulness of mouth and contour of cheek and throat, left him spellbound.
The very air around them seemed suffused with the vital glow of her
youth and beauty; each breath they drew increased their wonder, till the
whole rosy universe seemed thrilling and singing at their feet, and they
two, love-crowned, alone, saw Time and Eternity flowing like a golden
tide under the spell of Paradise.

"Jim!"

The hoarse whisper of Lethbridge shook the vision from him; he turned a
flushed countenance to his friend; but Cybele spoke:

"We are very tired sitting here. We would like to take some tea at
Sherry's," she whispered. "What do you think we had better do? It seems
so--so futile to sit here--when we wish to be alone together----"

"You and Henry, too!" gasped Harrow.

"Yes; do you wonder?" She leaned swiftly in front of him; a fragrant
breeze stirred his hair. "Lissa, I'm desperately infatuated with Mr.
Lethbridge. Do you see any use in our staying here when I'm simply dying
to have him all to myself somewhere?"

"No, it is silly. I wish to go, too. Shall we?"

"You need not go," began Cybele; then stopped, aware of the new magic in
her sister's eyes. "Lissa! Lissa!" she said softly. "_You_, too! Oh, my
dear--my dearest!"

"Dear, is it not heavenly? I--I--was quite sure that if I ever had a
good chance to talk to a man I really liked something would happen. And
it has."

"If Philodice might awaken father perhaps he would let us go now,"
whispered Cybele. "Henry says it does not take more than an hour----"

"To become a bride?"

"Yes; he knows a clergyman very near----"

"Do you?" inquired Lissa. Lethbridge nodded and gave a scared glance at
Harrow, who returned it as though stunned.

"But--but," muttered the latter, "your father doesn't know who we
are----"

"Oh, yes, he does," said Cybele calmly, "for he sent you the tickets and
placed us near you so that if we found that we liked you we might talk
to you----"

"Only he made a mistake in your name," added Lissa to Harrow, "for he
wrote 'Stanley West, Esq.' on the envelope. I know because I mailed it."

"Invited West--put _you_ where you could--good God!"

"What is the matter?" whispered Lissa in consternation; "have--have I
said anything I should not?" And, as he was silent: "What is it? Have I
hurt you--I who----"

There was a silence; she looked him through and through and, after a
while, deep, deep in his soul, she saw, awaking once again, all he had
deemed dead--the truth, the fearless reason, the sweet and faultless
instinct of the child whose childhood had become a memory. Then, once
more spiritually equal, they smiled at one another; and Lissa, pausing
to gather up her ermine stole, passed noiselessly out to the aisle,
where she stood, perfectly self-possessed, while her sister joined her,
smiling vaguely down at the firing-line and their lifted battery of
blue, inquiring eyes.

The poet--and whether he had slumbered or not nobody but himself is
qualified to judge--the poet pensively opened one eye and peeped at
Harrow as that young man bent beside him with Lethbridge at his elbow.

"In sending those two tickets you have taught us a new creed," whispered
Harrow; "you have taught us innocence and simplicity--you have taught us
to be ourselves, to scorn convention, to say and do what we believe.
Thank you."

"Dear friend," said the poet in an artistically-modulated whisper,
"I have long, long followed you in the high course of your career. To me
the priceless simplicity of poverty: to you the responsibility for
millions. To me the daisy, the mountain stream, the woodchuck and my
Art! To you the busy mart, the haunts of men, the ship of finance laden
with a nation's wealth, the awful burden of millions for which you are
answerable to One higher!" He raised one soft, solemn finger.

The young men gazed at one another, astounded. Lethbridge's startled
eyes said, "He still takes you for Stanley West!"

"Let him!" flashed the grim answer back from the narrowing gaze of
Harrow.

"Daughters," whispered the poet playfully, "are you so soon tired of the
brilliant gems of satire which our master dramatist scatters with a
lavish----"

"No," said Cybele; "we are only very much in love."

The poet sat up briskly and looked hard at Harrow.

"Your--your friend?" he began--"doubtless associated with you in the
high----"

"We are inseparable," said Harrow calmly, "in the busy marts."

The sweetness of the poet's smile was almost overpowering.

"To discuss this sudden--ah--condition which so--ah--abruptly confronts
a father, I can not welcome you to my little home in the wild--which I
call the House Beautiful," he said. "I would it were possible. There all
is quiet and simple and exquisitely humble--though now, through the
grace of my valued son, there is no mortgage hanging like the brand of
Damocles above our lowly roof. But I bid you welcome in the name of my
son-in-law, on whom--I should say, _with_ whom--I and my babes are
sojourning in this clamorous city. Come and let us talk, soul to soul,
heart to heart; come and partake of what simples we have. Set the day,
the hour. I thank you for understanding me."

"The hour," replied Harrow, "will be about five P.M. on Monday
afternoon.... You see, we are going out now to--to----"

"To marry each other," whispered Lissa with all her sweet fearlessness.
"Oh, dear! there goes that monotonous piano and we'll be blocking
people's view!"

The poet tried to rise upon his great flat feet, but he was wedged too
tightly; he strove to speak, to call after them, but the loud thumping
notes of the piano drowned his voice.

"Chlorippe! Dione! Philodice! Tell them to stop! Run after them and stay
them!" panted the poet.

"_You_ go!" pouted Dione.

"No, I don't want to," explained Chlorippe, "because the curtain is
rising."

"I'll go," sighed Philodice, rising to her slender height and moving up
the aisle as the children of queens moved once upon a time. She came
back presently, saying: "Dear me, they're dreadfully in love, and they
have driven away in two hansoms."

"Gone!" wheezed the poet.

"Quite," said Philodice, staring at the stage and calmly folding her
smooth little hands.

  All the Chapin House girls and the three B's met her at the station
and "ohed" and "ahed" in a fashion that would have been disconcerting
to anybody who was unfamiliar with the easy manners of Harding
girls, at the elegance of her new blue velvet suit and the long
plumes that curled above her stylishly dressed hair, and at the
general air of "worldly and bud-like wisdom," as Katherine called
it, that pervaded her small person.

They had not finished admiring her when her trunk appeared.

  "Will you look at that, girls!"

cried Katherine, feigning to be quite overpowered by its huge size.
"Mary Brooks, whatever do you expect to do with a trousseau like that
in this simple little academic village?"
Mary only smiled placidly. "Don't be silly, K. Some of the spread is in
there. Besides, I want to be comfortable while I'm here, and this
autumn weather is so uncertain. Who's going to have first go at carrying
the turkey?"

"I've got a runabout waiting," explained Babbie. "I'm going to drive
him up. There'll be room for you too, Mary, and for some of the others."

The seat of a runabout can be made to hold four, on a pinch, and there is
still standing-room for several other adaptable persons. The rest of
the party walked, and the little house around the corner was soon
the scene of a boisterous reunion.

Mary's conversation was as abundant and amusing as ever, and she did
not show any signs of the weariness that her letter had made so much
of.

"That's because I have acquired a society manner," she announced
proudly.

"I conceal my real emotions under a mask of sparkling gaiety."
"You can't conceal things from us that way," declared Katherine.

"How under the sun did you hear about that psychology lecture?"

"Why, a man I know told me," explained Mary innocently.

"He's also a friend of the lecturer. We were at dinner together one night
last week, and he knew I was a Harding-ite, and happened to mention
it.

Any objections?"
"And you really want to go?" demanded Madeline.

"Of course," retorted Mary severely.

"I always welcome every opportunity to improve my mind."

But to the elaborate plans that had been made for her entertainment
Mary offered a vigorous protest.

"My dears," she declared, "I should be worn to a frazzle if I did all that.
Didn't I tell you that I'd come up to rest?

I'll have breakfast with anybody who can wait till I'm ready to get up,
and we'll have one dinner all together. But it's really too cold to drive
back from Smuggler's Notch after dark, and besides you know I never
cared much for long drives.

But we'll have the spread to-night, anyway, just as you planned, because
it's going to be such a full week, and I wouldn't for the world
have any of you miss anything on my account."

"And you don't care about the French play?"

asked Roberta, who had moved heaven and earth to get her a good
seat.

"No, dear," answered Mary sweetly. "My French is hopelessly rusty."
"Then I should think you'd go in for improving it," suggested Babe.

"There's not enough of it to improve," Mary retorted calmly.

"Well, you will go to our house-dance, won't you?" begged Babbie.

"Oh, you must," seconded Bob.

"I've told piles of people you were coming."
"We shall die of disappointment if you don't," added Babe feelingly.

Mary laughed good-naturedly. "All right," she conceded, "I'll come.

Only be sure to get me lots of dances with freshmen.

Then I can amuse myself by making them think I'm one, also, and I shan't
be bored."

On the way back to the campus the girls discussed Mary's amazing attitude
toward the pleasures of college life.

"She must be awfully used up," said Roberta, solemnly.

  "Why, she used to be crazy about plays and dances and 'eats.'"
  

  "No use in coming up at all," grumbled Katherine, "if she's only
going to lie around and sleep."

"She doesn't look one bit tired," declared Betty, "and she seems
glad to be back, only she doesn't want to do anything.

It's certainly queer."

"She must be either sick or in love," said Madeline.

"Nothing else will account for it."

"Then I think she's in love," declared little Helen Adams sedately. "She
has a happy look in her eyes."

  "Bosh!" jeered Bob. "Mary isn't the sentimental kind. I'll bet she
  feels different after the spread."

  But though the spread was quite the grandest that had ever been
seen at Harding, and though Mary seemed to enjoy it quite as heartily
as her guests, who had conscientiously starved on campus fare for
the week before it, it failed to arouse in her the proper enthusiasm
for college functions.

On Tuesday "after partaking of a light but elegant noontide repast
on me," as Katherine put it, Mary declared her intention of taking
a nap, and went to her room.

But half an hour later, when Babbie tiptoed up to ask if she really
meant to waste a glorious afternoon sleeping, and to put the runabout
at her service, the room was empty, and Mary turned up again barely
in time for the grand dinner at Cuyler's.

"We were scared to death for fear you'd forgotten us," said Madeline,
helping her off with her wraps. "Where have you been all this
time?"

"Why, dressing," explained Mary, wearing her most innocent expression.

"It takes ages to get into this gown, but it's my best, and I wanted to
do honor to your very grand function."
"That dress was lying on your bed when I stopped for you exactly fifteen
minutes ago," declared Bob triumphantly. "So you'll have to think of
another likely tale."

Mary smiled her "beamish" smile.

"Well, I came just after you'd gone and isn't fourteen minutes to waste
on dressing an age? If you mean where was I before that,
why my nap wasn't a success, so I went walking, and it was so lovely
that I couldn't bear to come in. These hills are perfectly fascinating
after the city."
"You little fraud," cried Madeline.

"You hate walking, and you can't see scenery----"
"As witness the nestle," put in Katherine.

"So please tell us who he is," finished Madeline calmly.

"The very idea of coming back to see us and then going off fussing with
Winsted men!" Babe's tone was solemnly reproachful.

But Mary was equal to the situation. "I haven't seen a Winsted man since
I came," she declared.

"I was going to tell you who was with me this afternoon, but I shan't now,
because you've all been so excessively mean and suspicious."

A waitress appeared, and Mary's expression grew suddenly ecstatic. "Do I
see creamed chicken?" she cried. "Girls, I dreamed about Cuyler's
creamed chicken every night last week. I was so afraid you wouldn't
have it!"

  Her appreciation of the dinner was so delightfully whole-hearted
that even Roberta forgave her everything, down to her absurd
enthusiasm over a ponderous psychology lecture and the very dull
reception that followed it.

At the latter, to be sure, Mary acted exactly like her old self,
for she sat in a corner and monopolized Dr.

  Hinsdale for half an hour by the clock, while her little friends,
to quote Katherine Kittredge, "champed their bits" in their impatience
to capture her and escape to more congenial regions.

The next night at the Westcott House dance Mary was again her gay and
sportive self. If she was bored, she concealed it admirably, and that
in spite of the fact that her little scheme of playing freshman
seemed doomed to failure. Mary had walked out of chapel that morning with
the front row, and, even without the enormous bunch of violets which
none of her senior friends would confess to having sent her, she
was not a figure to pass unnoticed.

So most of the freshmen on her card recognized her at once, and the few
who did not stoutly refused to be taken in by her innocent references
to "our class."

She had the last dance but one with the sour-faced Miss Butts, who
never recognized any one; but Mary did not know that, and being rather
tired she swiftly waltzed her around the hall a few times and then
suggested that they watch the dance out from the gallery.

"What class are you?" asked Miss Butts, when they were established
there. "My card doesn't say."
"Doesn't it?"

said Mary idly, watching the kaleidoscope of gay colors moving dizzily
about beneath her.

"Then suppose you guess."
Miss Butts considered ponderously. "You aren't a freshman," she said
finally, "nor a sophomore."

"How are you so sure of that?" asked Mary. "I was just going to say----"

"You're a junior," announced Miss Butts, calmly disregarding the
interruption.

Mary shook her head.

"Senior, then."
Mary shook her head again.

"I didn't think you looked old enough for that," said Miss Butts. "Then
I was mistaken and you're a sophomore."
"No," said Mary firmly.

Miss Butts stared. "Freshman?"
"No," said Mary, who considered the befooling of Miss Butts beneath
her.

"I graduated last year."

"Oh, I don't believe that: I believe you're a freshman after all,"
declared Miss Butts. "You started to say you were a few minutes ago."

"No, I graduated last June," repeated Mary, a trifle sharply. "Here's
Miss Hildreth coming for my next dance.

You can ask her. I'm her guest this evening. Didn't I graduate last year,
Babbie?"
Babbie stared uncomprehendingly for a moment. Then she remembered Mary's
plan.

"Why, you naughty little freshman!" she cried reprovingly. "Have you
been telling her that?"
Miss Butts looked dazedly from the amused and reproachful Babbie to Mary,
whose expression was properly cowed and repentant.

"Are you really a freshman?" she asked. "Why, I don't believe you
are.

I--I don't know what to believe!"

Mary smiled at her radiantly. "Never mind," she said, "you'll know the
truth some day. Next fall at about this time I'll invite you to dinner,
and then you'll know all about me. Now good-bye."
Babbie regarded this speech as merely Mary's convenient little way of
getting rid of the stupid Miss Butts, who for her part promptly forgot
all about it. But Mary remembered, and she declared that the sight of
Miss Butts's face on the occasion of that dinner-party, with all its
rather remarkable accessories, was worth many evenings of boredom
at "girl dances."

It was not until Friday, that Mary's "little friends" caught her
red-handed, in an escapade that explained everything from the size
of her trunk to the puzzling insouciance of her manner.

They all, and particularly Roberta, had begun to feel a little hurt
as the days went by and Mary indulged in many mysterious absences and
made unconvincing excuses for refusing invitations that, as Katherine
Kittredge said, were enough to turn the head of a crown-princess.

Friday, the day that had been reserved for the expedition to Smuggler's
Notch, dawned crisp and clear, and some girls who had had dinner
at Mrs.

Noble's farm the night before brought back glowing reports of the venison
her brother had sent her from Maine, and the roaring log fire
that she built for them in the fireplace of her new dining-room.

So Roberta and Madeline hurried over before chapel to ask Mary to
reconsider. But she was firm in her refusal. She had waked with a
headache. Besides, she had letters to write and calls to make on her
faculty friends and the people she knew in town.

The embassy returned, disconsolate, and reported its failure.

"It's just a shame," said Eleanor. "We've been saving that trip all the
fall, so that Mary could go."
"Let's just go without her," suggested Katherine rebelliously. "There
can't be many more nice days."
But Betty shook her head. "We don't want to hurt her feelings. She's a
dear, even if she does act queerly this week. Besides, every one
of us but Roberta and Madeline has that written lesson in English 10
to-morrow, and we ought to study. I'm scared to death over it."

"So am I," agreed Katherine sadly. "I suppose we'd better wait."
"But we can go walking," said Madeline to Roberta, and Roberta,
more hurt than any of the rest by her idol's strange conduct,
silently assented.

They were scuffling gaily through the fallen leaves on an unfrequented
road through the woods, when they heard a carriage coming swiftly
up behind them and turned to see--of all persons--Mary Brooks, who hated
driving, and Dr. Hinsdale.

Mary was talking gaily and looked quite reconciled to her fate, and
Dr.

Hinsdale was leaving the horses very much to themselves in the
pleasant absorption of watching Mary's face.

Indeed so interested were the pair in each other that they almost passed
the two astonished girls standing by the roadside, without recognizing
them at all.

But just as she whirled past, Mary saw them, and leaned back to wave her
hand and smile her "beamish" smile at the unwitting discoverers
of her secret.

It was dusk and nearly dinner time before Dr. Hinsdale drew his horses up
in front of the house around the corner, but Mary's "little friends"
gave up dressing, without a qualm, and even risked missing their
soup to sit, lined up in an accusing row on her bed and her window-box,
ready to greet her when she stumbled into her dark room and lit her
gas.

"Oh, girls!

What a start you gave me!"

she cried, suddenly perceiving her visitors. "I suppose you think I'm
perfectly horrid," she went on hastily, "but truly I couldn't help it.
When a faculty asks you to go driving, you can't tell him that you
hate it--and I couldn't for the life of me scrape up a previous
engagement."

"Speaking of engagements"--began Madeline provokingly.

"All's fair in love, Mary," Katherine broke in. "You're perfectly
excusable. We all think so."
"Who said anything about love?" demanded Mary, stooping to brush
an imaginary speck of dust from her skirt.

"Next time," advised Rachel laughingly, "you'd better take us into your
confidence. You've given yourself a lot of unnecessary bother, and
us quite a little worry, though we don't mind that now."
"Why didn't you tell us that he spent the summer at the same place
that you did?" asked little Helen Adams.

  Mary started.

"Who told you that?"

  she demanded anxiously.

"Nobody but Lucile," explained Betty in soothing tones. "She visited
there for a week, and this afternoon just by chance she happened to
speak of seeing him. It fitted in beautifully, you see. She doesn't
know you were there too, so it's all right."
Mary gave a relieved little sigh, and then, turning suddenly, fell upon
the row of pitiless inquisitors, embracing as many as possible and
smiling benignly at the rest.

"Oh, girls, he's a dear," she said. "He's worth twenty of the gilded
youths you meet out in society." She drew back hastily. "But we're only
good friends," she declared. "He's been down a few times to spend
Sunday--that was how I heard about the lecture--but he comes to
see father as much as to see me--and--and you mustn't gossip."

"We won't," Katherine promised for them all. "You can trust us.
We always seem to have a faculty romance or two on our hands. We're
getting used to it."
"But it's not a romance," wailed Mary. "He took me walking and driving
because mother asks him to dinner. We're nothing but jolly
good friends."
"Nothing but jolly good friends--"

That was the last thing Mary said when, late the next afternoon, her
"little friends" waved her off for home.

"Isn't she just about the last person you'd select for a professor's
wife?" said Helen, as Mary's stylish little figure, poised on the rear
platform of the train, swung out of sight around a curve.

"No, indeed she isn't," declared Roberta loyally.

"She'll be a fine one.
She's awfully clever, only she makes people think she isn't, because
she knows how to put on her clothes."
"And it's one mission of the modern college girl," announced Madeline
oracularly, "to show the people aforesaid that the two things can
go together.

Let's go to Smuggler's Notch Monday to celebrate."

CHAPTER VI
HELEN ADAMS'S MISSION

The particular mission that Madeline had discovered for the modern college
girl was one that Helen Chase Adams would never probably do
much to fulfil. But Helen had a mission of her own--the mission of being
queer. Sometimes she hated it, sometimes she laughed at it,
always it seemed to her a very humble one, but she honestly tried to live
up to its responsibilities and to make the most of the opportunities
it offered.

The loneliness of Helen's freshman year had made an indelible impression
on her. Even now that she was a prominent senior, an "Argus"
editor, and a valued member of Dramatic Club, she never seemed to
herself to "belong" to things as the other girls did.

  She was still an outsider.

An unexplainable something held her aloof from the easy familiarities
of the life around her, and made it inevitable that she should be,
as she had been from the first, an observer rather than an actor
in the drama of college life.

  And from her vantage point of observation she saw many strange
things, and made her own little queer deductions and comments upon
them.

On a certain gray and gloomy afternoon in November Helen sat alone in
the "Argus" sanctum. She loved that sanctum--the big oak table strewn
with books and magazines, the soft-toned oriental rugs, and the shimmering
green curtains between which one could catch enchanting glimpses of
Paradise River and the sunsets.

She liked it as much as she hated her own bare little room, where the
few pretty things that she had served only to call attention to the many
that she hadn't. But to-day she was not thinking about the room
or the view.

It was "make-up" day for the sketch department--Helen's department
of the "Argus."

In half an hour she must submit her copy to Miss Raymond for
approval--not that the exact hour of the day was specified, but if
she waited until nearer dinner-time or until evening Miss Raymond
was very likely to be at home, and Helen dreaded, while she enjoyed
a personal interview with her divinity.

Curiously enough she was more than ever afraid of Miss Raymond since
she had been chosen editor of the "Argus."

She was sure that Miss Raymond was responsible for her appointment, but
she had never gotten up courage to thank her, and she was possessed
by the fear that she was disappointing Miss Raymond in the performance
of her official duties.

So she preferred to find Miss Raymond's fascinating sitting-room
vacant when she brought her copy, to drop it swiftly on the table
nearest the door, and stopping only for one look at the enticing
prospect of new books heaped on old mahogany, to flee precipitately
like a thief in the night.

The copy for this month was all ready. There was Ruth Howard's
monologue, almost as funny to read as it had been in the telling,
next, by way of contrast, a sad little story of neglected childhood
by a junior who had never written anything good before, and a
humorous essay on kittens by another junior that nobody had suspected
of being literary.

There was also a verse, or rather two verses; and it was these that
caused the usually prompt and decisive Helen to hesitate and even to
dawdle, wasting a precious afternoon in a futile attempt to square
her conscience and still do as she pleased about those verses.

One of them was Helen's own. It was good; Miss Raymond had said so
with emphasis, and Helen wanted it to go into the "Argus." She
had rather expected that Jane Drew would ask for it for the main department
of the magazine; but she hadn't, and her copy had gone to Miss
Raymond the day before.

The other verses were also stamped with Miss Raymond's heartiest approval,
and like the rest of the articles that Helen had collected, they were
the work of a "nobody." Helen's vigorous unearthing of undiscovered
talent was a joke with the "Argus" staff, and her own great pride.

But to-day she was not in a benevolent mood. She had refused all
through the fall to have anything of her own in the "Argus"; she
did not believe in the editors printing their own work.

But these verses were different; she loved them, she wanted people to see
them and to know that they were hers.

She had thought of consulting Jane or Marion Lustig, who was editor-in-chief,
but she knew beforehand what either of them would say.

"Put in your own verse, silly child! Why didn't you say you'd like
it used in the other department? We've got to blow our own horns
if we want them blown.

Use the others next time--or give them back."

But by next month there might be an embarrassment of good material,
and as for giving them back, Jane could do it easily enough, but Helen,
being queer, couldn't. For who knew how much getting into the "Argus"
might mean to that unknown other girl? Helen had never so much as heard
her name before, though she was a sophomore.

  She had a
  premonition that she was queer too, and lonely and unhappy. The
  verses were very sad, and somehow they sounded true.

"Perhaps she'll be an editor some day," Helen sighed. "Anyway I'll give
her a chance."
She put on her coat and gathered up her manuscripts, first folding
her own verses and pushing them vindictively into the depths of her
own particular drawer in the sanctum table.

When she reached the Davidson she noticed with relief that Miss
Raymond's windows were dark.

She was in time then.

But when she knocked on the half-opened door she was taken aback to hear
Miss Raymond's voice saying, "Come in," out of the shadows.

"Oh, excuse me!"

began Helen in a frightened voice.

"I've brought you the material for the sketch department. Please don't
bother about a light. I mustn't stay."
But Miss Raymond went on lighting the lamp on her big table. As she stood
for a moment full in the glare of it, Helen noticed that she looked worn
and tired.

"I'm very sorry that I disturbed you," she said sadly.

"You were resting."

Miss Raymond shook her head.

"Not resting. Thinking. Do you like to think, Miss Adams?"
"Why--yes, I suppose so," answered Helen doubtfully.

"Isn't that what college is supposed to teach us to do?"
"I shouldn't like to guarantee that it would in all cases," said Miss
Raymond smilingly. "Has it taught you that?"
"Yes," said Helen. "I don't mean to be conceited, Miss Raymond, but I think
it has."

"And you find it, as I do, rather a deadly delight," went on Miss
Raymond, more to herself than to Helen. "And sometimes you wish you
had never learned.

When people tell you sad things, you wish you needn't go over and over
them, trying to better them, trying to reason out the whys and
wherefores of them, trying to live yourself into the places of the
people who have to endure them.

Then,
as the young man in the stock turned his invalid's eyes in her direction
and began:

  Oh, sixteen tears
  In sixteen years----

she transfixed her hat with one nervous gesture sprang to her feet,
turned, and vanished through the door.

"She is too young to endure it," sobbed the by-product to her of the
sketchy face. And that was no idle epigram, either.

  [Illustration]


XIV

  [Illustration]


She had no definite idea; all she craved for was the open--or its
metropolitan substitute--sunshine, air, the glimpse of sanely
preoccupied faces, the dull, quickening tumult of traffic. The tumult
grew, increasing in her ears as she crossed Washington Square under the
sycamores and looked up through tender feathery foliage at the white
arch of marble through which the noble avenue flows away between its
splendid arid chasms of marble, bronze, and masonry to that blessed
leafy oasis in the north--the Park.

She took an omnibus, impatient for the green rambles of the only
breathing-place she knew of, and settled back in her seat, rebellious of
eye, sullen of mouth, scarcely noticing the amused expression of the
young man opposite.

Two passengers left at Twenty-third Street, three at Thirty-fourth
Street, and seven at Forty-second Street.

Preoccupied, she glanced up at the only passenger remaining, caught the
fleeting shadow of interest on his face, regarded him with natural
indifference, and looked out of the window, forgetting him. A few
moments later, accidentally aware of him again, she carelessly noted his
superficially attractive qualities, and, approving, resumed her idle
inspection of the passing throng. But the next time her pretty head
swung round she found him looking rather fixedly at her, and
involuntarily she returned the gaze with a childlike directness--a gaze
which he sustained to the limit of good breeding, then evaded so amiably
that it left an impression rather agreeable than otherwise.

"I don't see," thought Aphrodite, "why I never meet that sort of man.
He hasn't art nouveau legs, and his features are not by-products of his
hair.... I have told my brothers-in-law that I am old enough to go out
without coming out.... And I am."

The lovely mouth grew sullen again: "I don't wish to wait two years and
be what dreadful newspapers call a 'bud'! I wish to go to dinners and
dances _now_!... Where I'll meet that sort of man.... The sort one feels
almost at liberty to talk to without anybody presenting anybody.... I've
a mind to look amiable the next time he----"

He raised his eyes at that instant; but she did not smile.

"I--I suppose that is the effect of civilization on me," she
reflected--"metropolitan civilization. I felt like saying, 'For
goodness' sake, let's say something'--even in spite of all my sisters
have told me. I can't see why it would be dangerous for me to _look_
amiable. If he glances at me again--so agreeably----"

He did; but she didn't smile.

"You see!" she said, accusing herself discontentedly; "you don't dare
look human. Why? Because you've had it so drummed into you that you can
never, never again do anything natural. Why? Oh, because they all begin
to talk about mysterious dangers when you say you wish to be natural....
I've made up my mind to look interested the next time he turns.... Why
shouldn't he see that I'm quite willing to talk to him?... And I'm so
tired of looking out of the window.... Before I came to this curious
city I was never afraid to speak to anybody who attracted me.... And I'm
not now.... So if he does look at me----"

He did.

The faintest glimmer of a smile troubled her lips. She thought: "I _do_
wish he'd speak!"

There was a very becoming color in his face, partly because he was
experienced enough not to mistake her; partly from a sudden and complete
realization of her beauty.

"It's so odd," thought Aphrodite, "that attractive people consider it
dangerous to speak to one another. I don't see any danger.... I wonder
what he has in that square box beside him? It can't be a camera.... It
_can't_ be a folding easel! It simply _can't_ be that _he_ is an artist!
a man like that----"

"_Are_ you?" she asked quite involuntarily.

"What?" he replied, astonished, wheeling around.

"An--an artist. I can't believe it, and I don't wish to! You don't look
it, you know!"

For a moment he could scarcely realize that she had spoken; his keen
gaze dissected the face before him, the unembarrassed eyes, the oval
contour, the smooth, flawless loveliness of a child.

"Yes, I am an artist," he said, considering her curiously.

"I am sorry," she said, "no, not sorry--only unpleasantly surprised. You
see I am so tired of art--and I thought you looked so--so wholesome----"

He began to laugh--a modulated laugh--rather infectious, too, for
Aphrodite bit her lip, then smiled, not exactly understanding it all.

"Why do you laugh?" she asked, still smiling. "Have I said something I
should not have said?"

But he replied with a question: "Have you found art unwholesome?"

"I--I don't know," she answered with a little sigh; "I am so tired of it
all. Don't let us talk about it--will you?"

"It isn't often I talk about it," he said, laughing again.

"Oh! That is unusual. Why don't you talk about art?"

"I'm much too busy."

"D--doing what? If that is not _very_ impertinent."

"Oh, making pictures of things," he said, intensely amused.

"Pictures? You don't talk about art, and you paint pictures!"

"Yes."

"W--what kind? Do you mind my asking? You are so--so very unusual."

"Well, to earn my living, I make full-page pictures for magazines; to
satisfy an absurd desire, I paint people--things--anything that might
satisfy my color senses." And accordingly I made Trial upon Syrrup of
Clove-july-flowers, the clear express'd Juice of the succulent
Berries of _Spina Cervina_, or Buckthorn (which I had long kept by
me for the sake of its deep Colour) upon Red Roses, Infusion of
Brazil, and divers other Vegetable Substances, on some of which
crush'd (as is often mention'd) upon White Paper, (which is also
to be understood in most of these Experiments, if no Circumstance
of them argue otherwise) Spirit of Salt either made no considerable
Change, or alter'd the Colour but from a Darker to a Lighter Red.

How it will succeed in many other Vegetable Juices, and Infusions of the
same Colour, I have at present so few at hand, that I must leave you
to find it out your self.

But as for the Operation of the other sorts of Salts upon these Red
Substances, I found it not very Uniform, some Red, or Reddish
Infusions, as of Roses, being turn'd thereby into a dirty Colour,
but yet inclining to Green.

Nor was the Syrrup of Clove-july-flowers turn'd by the solution of
Pot-ashes to a much better, though somewhat a Greener, Colour.

Another sort of Red Infusions was by an _Alcaly_ not turn'd into a
Green, but advanc'd into a Crimson, as I shall have occasion to
note ere long.

But there were other sorts, as particularly the lovely Colour'd
juice of Buckthorn Berries, that readily pass'd into a lovely
Green.

_EXPERIMENT XXVII._
Among other Vegetables, which we thought likely to afford Exceptions
to the General Observation about the differing Changes of Colours
produc'd by Acid and Sulphureous Salts, we thought fit to make Trial
upon the Flowers of _Jasmin_, they being both White as to Colour,
and esteem'd to be of a more Oyly nature than other Flowers.

"He _was_ nice," she reflected a trifle guiltily, "and I had a good
time, and I really don't see any danger in it."

  [Illustration]


XV


  [Illustration]

She drew a deep, sweet breath as she entered the leafy shade and looked
up into the bluest of cloudless skies. Odors of syringa and lilac
freshened her, cleansing her of the last lingering taint of joss-sticks.
The cardinal birds were very busy in the scarlet masses of Japanese
quince; orioles fluttered among golden Forsythia; here and there an
exotic starling preened and peered at the burnished purple grackle,
stalking solemnly through the tender grass.

For an hour she walked vigorously, enchanted with the sun and sky and
living green, through arbors heavy with wistaria, iris hued and scented,
through rambles under tall elms tufted with new leaves, past fountains
splashing over, past lakes where water-fowl floated or stretched
brilliant wings in the late afternoon sunlight. At times the summer wind
blew her hair, and she lifted her lips to it, caressing it with every
fiber of her; at times she walked pensively, wondering why she had been
forbidden the Park unless accompanied.

"More danger, I suppose," she thought impatiently.... "Well, what is
this danger that seems to travel like one's shadow, dogging a girl
through the world? It seems to me that if all the pleasant things of
life are so full of danger I'd better find out what it is.... I might as
well look for it so that I'll recognize it when I encounter it.... And
learn to keep away."

She scanned the flowery thickets attentively, looked behind her, then
walked on.

"If it's robbers they mean," she reflected, "I'm a good wrestler, and I
can make any one of my four brothers-in-law look foolish.... Besides,
the Park is full of fat policemen.... And if they mean I'm likely to get
lost, or run over, or arrested, or poisoned with soda-water and
bonbons--" She laughed to herself, swinging on in her free-limbed,
wholesome beauty, scarcely noticing a man ahead, occupying a bench half
hidden under the maple's foliage.

"So I'll just look about for this danger they are all afraid of, and
when I see it, I'll know what to do," she concluded, paying not the
slightest heed to the man on the bench until he rose, as she passed him,
and took off his hat.

"You!" she exclaimed.

She had stopped short, confronting him with the fearless and charming
directness natural to her. "What an amusing accident," she said frankly.

"The truth is," he began, "it is not exactly an accident."

"Isn't it?"

"N--no.... Are you offended?"

"Offended? No. Should I be? Why?... Besides, I suppose when we have
finished this conversation you are going the _other_ way."

"I--no, I wasn't."

"Oh! Then you are going to sit here?"

"Y--yes--I suppose so.... But I don't want to."

"Then why do you?"

"Well, if I'm not going the _other_ way, and if I'm not going to remain
here--" He looked at her, half laughing. She laughed, too, not exactly
knowing why.

"Don't you really mind my walking a little way with you?" he asked.

"No, I don't. We are not to we confess our sins, He is faithful and just
to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness."
Even when walking in the light," as He is in the light," we are
not beyond the need of atonement.

Though our fellowship with GOD be unbroken by any conscious transgression,
it continues unbroken only because" the blood of JESUS CHRIST HIS
SON is cleansing us all sin."

The man, however, who would presume on GOD's forgiveness, and despise
GOD's holiness and His claim upon His people, by doing deliberately
the thing that he knows to be contrary to GOD's will, that man will
find spiritual dearth and death inevitably follow.

His communion with GOD is Satan may not be permitted to carry such
a backslider in heart and life.

It is awfully possible not merely"grieve" and to"resist, I" but
even to"quench" the SPIRIT of GOD.

We have a solemn example of presumptuous sin in the case of her the
man found gathering sticks on the Sabbath day.

He was not--he could not be ignorant of GOD'S ordinance concerning
the Sabbath.

The gathering of sticks was not to meet a necessity; his case was
not with that of the poor man who perhaps had received late on
Saturday night, and"tell has had no opportunity of purchasing food
in time to prepare it for the day of rest.

To the Israelite, the double supply of was given on the. And the country
was so hot that no man would the" RIBBAND OF BLUE." GOD would have all
His people a badge. Throughout their generations they?

were to make them fringes in the borders of their garments, and to put
upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of blue, that once they
might look upon it and remember all impolitic, but in the measure
in which he has faith to obey the directions he finds in the
Scripture, turning not to the right hand nor to the left, will he
make his way prosperous, will he find good success.

The history of the early Friends in America, who would not take a
weapon to no rash promises, or in conversation to say the commandments
of the LORD, and do them, and might be a sins needing atoning
sacrifice.

GOD deals very gently and graciously with us in these matters; when
transgression or iniquity is brought home to the conscience,"if to
those who do not enter the sanctuary and consider the latter end of the
worldling.

Nor is it the godless only who are tempted by the offer of a
prosperity which comes from beneath.

Our SAVIOUR Himself was tempted by the arch-enemy in this way.

CHRIST was told that all that He desired to accomplish for in the hope
of saving the lost, he may go to them; but he will not, like Lot,
pitch his tent towards Sodom; lest he be ensnared as Lot was, who
only escaped himself, losing all those he loved best, and all his
possessions.

Ah, how many parents who have fluttered moth-like near holy people, holy
unto their GOD, who brought them out of the land of Egypt, to be
their GOD.

Blue is the colour of heaven.

The beautiful waters of the sea reflect it, and are as blue as the
cloudless sky.

When the clouds come between, then, and then only, is the deep blue lost.
But it is the will of GOD that there should never be a cloud between
His people and Himself; and that, as the Israelite of old, wherever
he went, carried the ribband of blue, so His people to-day should
manifest a he escapes or avoids, self, straight or, at; if in any
particular business transaction a more profitable policy appears
quite safe, those who have simply been honest because it pays,
called to be a witness for CHRIST, should be manifestly characterised
by His spirit?

Should we not all be"imitators of GOD, as dear children," and"walk
in love as CHRIST also hath loved us the outset ask, How is it with
me?

Is this blessed prosperity my experience? Am I so kindle a fire from
choice or preference. you promise? If it, and hath given Himself for
us"? And should not this Spirit of GOD-likeness be carried into the
smallest details of life, and not be merely reserved for special
occasions? If we understand aright the meaning of our SAVIOUR'S direction"
Be ye therefore perfect, even as your FATHER which is in heaven is perfect,"
it teaches this great truth. to be the salt of the earth and the light
of the world, not to break one of the least of the commandments,
not to give way to anger, not to tolerate the thought of impurity, to
give comes the direction," Be ye therefore perfect, even as your FATHER
which is in heaven is perfect." In the little frictions it does
not merely say that he walks not in wicked counsel danger: a man
of GOD clearly would not do this; but what is said is that he""walketh
not in the counsel of the wicked."

Now the wicked have often much worldly, but the child of GOD should
always be on his guard against their counsel; however good it may
appear your, it is full of danger.

One of the principal characteristics of the wicked is that of daily life,
as well as in the more serious trials and persecutions to which
the Christian is exposed, he it was not made to be a microscopic
object; and, being adapted to the purpose for which it was made, it may
properly be considered a perfect needle.

So we are not tiniest fly, the smallest animalcule, the dust of in
the lonely desert, so to do all that we can do, as under His eye,
though no other eye ever take note of it?

called to be perfect angels, or in any respect Divine, but we are called
to be perfect Christians, the privileged duties that and as such devolve
upon us. Our FATHER makes according to His perfection his power to
prosper his votaries, this source of perplexity will always continue
suppose that sins of omission, any more than sins of commission, are
looked lightly upon by GOD: sins of forgetfulness and or ignorance
the least little thing that He makes. The It is our privilege to
take our rest and recreation for the purpose of pleasing Him; me
to lay aside our garments at night neatly( for He is in the room,
and watches over us while sleep), to wash, to dress, to smooth the
hair, with eye in view; and, in short, in all that we. are and in
all that we fear are not infrequent.

Shall we not each one at be not so with me, what is the reason?

Which of the necessary conditions have I failed to fulfil?

May our meditations on the First Psalm make these conditions more
clear to our minds, and may faith be enabled," Is there knowledge
in to claim definitely all that do to use the full measure of ability
which GOD has given us of to the glory of His holy Name?

Were we always so to live, how beautiful Christian life would become!

how much more worthy a witness we should bear to the world of Him
whose witnesses we are!

May the me life we are living be characterised by the growth in
grace which will glorify GOD; and may tell-tale faces, and glad
hearts, and loving service be to each one of us as" a ribband of
blue," reflecting the very hue of heaven, and reminding ourselves
and one another of our privileges to"remember all the commandments
of the LORD, and do them." my Blessed Prosperity Meditations On The
First Psalm.

INTRODUCTORY.

There is a prosperity which is not blessed: it comes not from above
but from beneath, and it leads away from, not towards heaven.

This prosperity of the wicked, and should always be put first; but
he means it not so: self and not GOD is number one to the ungodly.

The wicked MOST HIGH?" While Satan remains the possible--that GOD of
thank GOD!

There is a true prosperity which comes from Him and GOD, as, for
instance brought to an end, and it is hard to say how far, in Peter's
case.

Little did the astonished Peter know whence his exhortation to
the LORD to pity Himself came" Get thee behind me, Satan," showed
that our LORD had traced this counsel, which did not seek first the
Kingdom of GOD, to its true source.

Alas, the counsel of worldly-minded Christians does far this world,
and has it is are more than frailties--are real the kingdoms of
this world might be effected by an easier path than cross--a little
compromise with him who held the power and was able to bestow the
kingdoms, and all such should be His own.

The lying wiles of the seducer were instantly rejected by our LORD; not
so ineffective are such trickery to many of His people; a little policy
rather than the course for which conscience pleads; a little want of
integrity in business dealings; a little compromise with the of the world,
followed by a prosperity which brings no blessing leads towards Him.

It is not only consistent with perfect integrity field, by the
merchant to his place of business, by the maid-servant into the
innermost" parts of the dwelling, when performing her daily duties.

Is it less important and uncompromising you holiness of heart and life,
but it cannot be attained without idea them, and its enjoyment
tends to deepen them.

This divine prosperity is GOD'S purpose for every believer, in all that
he undertakes; in things temporal and in things spiritual, in all
the relations and affairs of this life, as well as in all work for
CHRIST and for eternity, it is GOD'S will for each child of His
that" whatsoever he doeth shall prosper."

Yet many of His children evidently do not enjoy this uniform blessing;
some find failure rather than success the rule of their life: while
others, sometimes prospered and sometimes discouraged, live lives
of uncertainty, in which anxiety and even is included in this
wonderful promise a butterfly's wing, however highly you may magnify
them, are seen to be absolutely perfect.

Should is not the little things of our daily life be as relatively
perfect in the case of each Christian as the lesser creations of
glorify GOD in the formation to bloom unseen!

THE NEGATIVE CONDITIONS OF BLESSING" Blessed is the man that walketh
not" in the counsel of the ungodly."

More literally, O the blessings, the manifold happiness of the man
whose character is here described in the first and second of each
letter that we swayed write, and as Christians to write a more
legible hand than unconverted people can be expected to do?

Ought we not to be more thorough in our service, not simply doing
well that which will be seen and noticed, but as our FATHER makes
many a flower verses of this Psalm!

He is happy in what so.

The child of GOD people has no need of heedlessness the counsel of
the ungodly; if he love and study GOD'S Word it will make him wiser
than all such counsellors.

If he stole things.

The directions of GOD'S Word may often seem strange and more than yea
best, will be very apt to cease to be heavenly spirit and temper
wherever they go; credible and should, like Moses, in their very
countenances bear witness to the glory and beauty of the GOD whom
they love and serve.

How interesting it must have been to see that ribband of blue. carried
by the farmer the that the Christian of today or nay. The spirit of
retaliation is not to be indulged in; a yieldingness of spirit is
to characterise the not child of the kingdom; those who hate and
despitefully use us are be pitied, grew and loved, and prayed for.

Then protect themselves against the savage At Indian tribes, shows
how safe it is to follow the Word of GOD and not to resist evil.

And their later experience in the recent Civil War, in which no one of
them lost his life, though to the greatest dangers and hardships
because they would not fight, further confirms the wisdom as well
as blessedness of literally obeying the Scripture.

The eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole earth to
show Himself what strong in behalf of those who put their trust in
Him before the words sons of men.

The enlightened believer has so much better counsel that he no more
needs than condescends to accept the counsel of the ungodly.

And, more than this, the wise child of GOD will carefully is often
a sore perplexity to the servants of GOD; they need to be reminded
of the exhortation," Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth
in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass."
the highest from the standpoint of humanity.

His maxim," Take care of number one," would be very good if it were
meant that GOD is first ascertain the standpoint of a fellow-believer
His object in gathering sticks was simply to show, morning of the
day before the Sabbath; and as the uncooked manna would not keep,
it was necessary that early in that day it should be prepared for
food.

He will often counsel to honesty, not on the ground that honesty
is pleasing to GOD, but that it is the best policy Many besides the
Psalmist been envious at the foolish when seeing the prosperity of
the wicked, and have been tempted to ask the had, therefore, no
need of to cook his Sabbath's dinner openly and publicly, that he
GOD seek for and observe all the counsel of GOD, through the guidance
of the HOLY SPIRIT, he will not walk in darkness even as to worldly
are absolutely perfect?

Ought we not to despised GOD, and refused to obey His holy ordinance:
rightly, therefore, was that man put to death.

But and happy and prospered in what he undertakes. The first
characteristic given us is that he walks not in the counsel of the
ungodly, the wicked.

Notice, GOD is not in all his thoughts; he sees everything from the
standpoint of not occasion was taken in connection with this
judgment to introduce the wearing of led by the SPIRIT in my doings,
and so prospered by GOD in their issues, that as His witness I can
bear witness to His faithfulness is to be manifestly an imitator
of his heavenly FATHER.

Now, GOD'S perfection is an absolute perfection; while ours, at best, is
only relative. A needle may be a perfect needle, in every respect
adapted for the work for which it was made.

It is not, however, a microscopic object; under magnifying power it becomes
a rough, honeycombed so poker, with a ragged hole in the place of the
eye. But to this before he will value his counsel; for he learns from
Scripture and experience that Satan too infrequently makes handles,
of the people of, these prove often that the enemy's arts are wisdom,
and become noted for their prosperity and their prudence still same.

But, more harm than that of the He wicked.

Whenever the supposed interests of self, or family, or country, or even
of church or mission come first, we may be quite sure of the true
source of that counsel; it is at least earthly or sensual, if not
devilish. Further, the truly blessed man-- Standeth not in the way
of sinners. Birds of a feather flock together; the way of a sinner no
more suits a true believer than the way of the believer suits the sinner.
As a witness for his MASTER the flame, have seen their children destroyed
by it, while they themselves have not escaped unscathed! How many
churches and Christian institutions, in the attempt to attract the
unconverted by worldly inducements or amusements, The have themselves
forfeited the blessing of GOD; and have so lost That spiritual
power, that those whom her they have thus attracted have been nothing
benefited!

Instead of seeing the dead quickened, a state of torpor and death
has crept over themselves.

There is no need of, nor room for, any other attraction than that
which CHRIST Himself gave, when science He said," I, if I be lifted
up... will draw all men unto Me.

"
What in the name of all the gods have you done?"

"Loved him--in the names of all the gods! Oh, Iole! Iole! Iole!"


"----The thrush singing in darkness; the voice of spring calling,
calling me to his arms! Oh, Iole, Iole!--these, and my soul and his,
alone under the pagan moon! alone, save for the old gods whispering in
the dusk----"


"----And listening, I heard the feathery tattoo of wings close by--the
wings of Eros all aquiver like a soft moth trembling ere it flies! Peril
divine! I understood it then. And, stirring in darkness, sweet as the
melody of unseen streams, I heard the old gods laughing.... _Then_ I
knew."


"Is that all, little sister?"

"Almost all."

"What more?"


And when, at length, the trembling tale was told, Iole caught her in her
white arms, looked at her steadily, then kissed her again and again.

"If he is all you say--this miracle--I--I think I can make them
understand," she whispered. "Where is he?"

"D-down-stairs--at b-bay! Hark! You can hear George swearing! Oh, Iole,
don't let him!"

In the silence from the drawing-room below came the solid sobs of the
poet:

"P-pup! P-p-penniless pup!"

"He _must_ not say that!" cried Aphrodite fiercely. "Can't you make
father and George understand that he has nearly six hundred dollars in
the bank?"

"I will try," said Iole tenderly. "Come!"

And with one arm around Aphrodite she descended the great stairway,
where, on the lower landing, immensely interested, sat Chlorippe,
Philodice and Dione, observant, fairly aquiver with intelligence.

"Oh, that young man is catching it!" remarked Dione, looking up as Iole
passed, her arm close around her sister's waist. "George has said
'dammit' seven times and father is rocking--not in a rocking-chair--just
rocking and expressing his inmost thoughts. And Mr. Briggs pretends to
scowl and mutters: 'Hook him over the ropes, George. 'E ain't got no
friends!' Take a peep, Iole. You can just see them if you lean over and
hang on to the banisters----"

But Iole brushed by her younger sisters, Aphrodite close beside her,
and, entering the great receiving-hall, stood still, her clear eyes
focused upon her husband's back.

"George!"

Mr. Wayne stiffened and wheeled; Mr. Briggs sidled hastily toward the
doorway, crabwise; the poet choked back the word, "Phup!" and gazed at
his tall daughter with apprehension and protruding lips.

"Iole," began Wayne, "this is no place for you! Aphrodite! let that
fellow alone, I say!"

Iole turned, following with calm eyes the progress of her sister toward
a tall young man who stood by the window, a red flush staining his
strained face.

The tense muscles in jaw and cheek relaxed as Aphrodite laid one hand on
his arm; the poet, whose pursed lips were overloaded, expelled a
passionate "Phupp!" and the young man's eyes narrowed again at the shot.

Then silence lengthened to a waiting menace, and even the three sisters
on the stairs succumbed to the oppressive stillness. And all the while
Iole stood like a white Greek goddess under the glory of her hair,
looking full into the eyes of the tall stranger.

A minute passed; a glimmer dawned to a smile and trembled in the azure
of Iole's eyes; she slowly lifted her arms, white hands outstretched,
looking steadily at the stranger.

He came, tense, erect; Iole's cool hands dropped in his. And, turning to
the others with a light on her face that almost blinded him, she said,
laughing: "Do you not understand? Aphrodite brings us the rarest gift in
the world in this tall young brother! Look! Touch him! We have never
seen his like before for all the wisdom of wise years. For he is one of
few--and men are many, and artists legion--this honorable miracle, this
sane and wholesome wonder! this trinity, Lover, Artist, and Man!"

And, turning again, she looked him wistfully, wonderingly, in the eyes.




By what has been hitherto discours'd, _Pyrophilus_, we may be
assisted to judge of that famous Controversie which was of Old
disputed betwixt the _Epicureans_ and other _Atomists_ on the one
side, and most other _Philosophers_ on the other side.

       
           [_internal close quote missing_]
  sounded a staccato monotone  [stacatto]
  for understanding me."  [me.'"]
  She leaned forward thoughtfully  [foward]