Produced by Dagny, John Bickers and David Widger


                          A STREET OF PARIS

                                 AND

                            ITS INHABITANT

                                  BY

                           HONORE DE BALZAC


                            Translated by

                          Henri Pene du Bois


                           Illustrated by

                          Francois Courboin


                           PREPARER'S NOTE

  This eBook was prepared from an edition published by Meyer
  Brothers and Company, New York, 1900.

  Of this edition 400 copies were printed.
  25 copies on Japan Paper, numbered 1 to 25.
  375 copies on specially made paper, numbered 26 to 400.


                               PREFACE

This little Parisian silhouette in prose was written by Balzac to be
the first chapter of a new series of the "Comedie Humaine" that he was
preparing while the first was finishing. Balzac was never tired. He
said that the men who were tired were those who rested and tried to
work afterwards.

Kupplerin. And what of those in the city? Harlequin. The Saame allows
you to stand, they had also gone, but as some people have opted for
them to beat Central. Kupplerin. Thus, all our Schenk and games Houses
in the suburbs be pulled down?

Harlequin. Except for the reason, madam. Kupplerin. Truly, it's a
big change in the system in general, what will I be? Harlequin. O,
but do not worry: have good Rathgeber never a lack of clients, if you
already euern Plaz changes, so you need not your deßwegen industry to
change, and I will always remain your faithful servant. Have only good
heart, you will have pity on you, you, who are your eyes in the
service of the commonwealth have beynahe exhausted, you will be
considered.

Kupplerin. What giebts here, Thomas, we want to pull back. (You go
anyway.) Sixth Scene. (The jailer, Claudio, Juliette, and Stadtbediente.)
(Lucio and zwey nobles.) Claudio. Good friend, why you ran it to show
me around? lead me in the prisons, where I'm verurtheilet.
jailer. thu I is not from bad will, but on command of the Lord ausdrüklichen
City keeper. Claudio.

How can the demigod, authority to provide us the full weight of our
transgressions do pay. Thus, the Urtheile of the sky, whom he wants
to forgive, which he wants to, not who he wants, he will not, and
yet is always just.

Lucio.

                                  Like, what is this, Claudio?

                      Why are you in such circumstances?

What is your crime? Claudio. Just talking to them, would constitute
a new crime Seyn. Lucio. Like, it's a Mordthat? Claudio. No. Lucio.
Fornication? Claudio. If you want to call it so. Jailer. Fort, sir
, you must go. Claudio. Only one word, good friend Lucio, a word with
you.

Lucio. hundreds, if they do something nuez can be viewed as hard
fornication? Claudio. Diss is my case: On a beydseitiges Eheversprechen
took out I Besiz by Juliette Bette; (her Kennet them,) it is my true
Eheweib, except that we lack the ceremony, making our Heurath would
have been made public. The only reason why they failed, was a legacy
that is still in the boxes ligt their relatives, whom we love our
long enough to hide imaginary until the time we would have done
better.

Unglük alone wanted that the secret our confidentiality before the time
verrathen would - it's too big letters written on Juliette. Lucio.
With one child, perhaps? Claudio. Sorry! and the new holder of the Duke
City (whether it is the fact that the state body is a horse, which
the City keeper ride, and he, for the first time, the Sporrer giebt
to feel stronger, so it knows that it is his masterful; or whether
the Tyranney in the square or in the person who occupies it?

I can not decide:) In short, the new City keeper erwekt Bey my OCCASION
Streamline all the obsolete, the same one ungepuzten armaments, so
long hung on the wall until nineteen Zodiaci that have circulated
without it in one have been used, and to a name's sake, he wekt
the vergeßne tiefeingeschlafne Gesez contradict me; That the order
of a name's sake.

Lucio. You're right, it's no different And your head is so weak on
your shoulders, that he is Love wegseufzen could milk girls. Schikt
after the duke, and appellirt to him. Claudio. I've done it, but
you can find him nowhere.

I pray thee, Lucio, thu I love this service, I have a sister in the
convent, which at this day their Probzeit end.

Gieb their message of the danger worinn I am, they ask in my name,
that friends in the strict city send keeper; please them that they own
in a fit person to him Thue, from the last makes' me the most hope.
A young person as she has a kind of loose language eloquence, of
men can rarely resist, and besides, it is also geschikte enough,
if they are reasons and wants to talk about ideas. Lucio. I wish
that they could; sowol to comfort all that are in similar
circumstances, as to your life's sake, I would be very angry if it
is because a game Trictrak lost so foolish way to go.

I want to her. Claudio.
This
proves the utility of the Order of the Legion of Honor which has been
contested too much in the past ten years, the new Knights of the Order
say.

The battered hat, in a constant state of horror in the places where a
reddish fuzz endures, would not be picked up by a rag picker, if the
little old man let it fall and left it at a street corner.

Too absent-minded to submit to the bother that the wearing of a wig
entails, that man of science--he is a man of science--shows, when he
makes a bow, a head that, viewed from the top, has the appearance of
the Farnese Hercules's knee.

Above each ear, tufts of twisted white hair shine in the sun like the
angry silken hairs of a boar at bay. The neck is athletic and
recommends itself to the notice of caricaturists by an infinity of
wrinkles, of furrows; by a dewlap faded but armed with darts in the
fashion of thistles.

The constant state of the beard explains at once why the necktie,
always crumpled and rolled by the gestures of a disquiet head, has its
own beard, infinitely softer than that of the good old man, and formed
of threads scratched from its unfortunate tissue.

Now, if you have divined the torso and the powerful back, you will
know the sweet tempered face, somewhat pale, the blue ecstatic eyes
and the inquisitive nose of that good old man, when you learn that,
in the morning, wearing a silk head kerchief and tightened in a
dressing-gown, the illustrious professor--he is a professor--resembled
an old woman so much that a young man who came from the depths of
Saxony, of Weimar, or of Prussia, expressly to see him, said to him,
"Forgive me, Madame!" and withdrew.

This silhouette of one of the most learned and most venerated
members of the Institute betrays so well enthusiasm for study and
absent-mindedness caused by application to the quest of truth, that you
must recognize in it the celebrated Professor Jean Nepomucene Apollodore
Marmus de Saint-Leu, one of the most admirable men of genius of our
time.


                                 III

                            MADAME ADOLPHE

When the old man--the professor counted then sixty-two summers--had
walked three steps, he turned his head at this question, hurled in an
acute tone by a voice that he recognized:

"Have you a handkerchief?"

A woman stood on the step of the garden door and was watching her
master with solicitude.

She seemed to be fifty years of age, and her dress indicated that she
was one of those servants who are invested with full authority in
household affairs.

She was darning stockings.

The man of science came back and said naively:

"Yes, Madame Adolphe, I have my handkerchief."

"Have you your spectacles?" she asked.

The man of science felt the side pocket of his waistcoat.

"I have them," he replied.

"Show them to me," she said. "Often you have only the case."

The professor took the case out of his pocket and showed the
spectacles with a triumphant air.

"You would do well to keep them on your nose," she said.

M. de Saint-Leu put on his spectacles, after rubbing the glasses with
his handkerchief.

Naturally, he thrust the handkerchief under his left arm while he set
his spectacles on his nose. Then he walked a few steps towards the Rue
de Fleurus and relaxed his hold on the handkerchief, which fell.

"I was sure of it," said Madame Adolphe to herself. She picked up the
handkerchief and cried:

"Monsieur! Monsieur!"

"Well!" exclaimed the professor, made indignant by her watchfulness.

"I beg your pardon," he said, receiving the handkerchief.

"Have you any money?" Isabella. And did you Monastery no other women Freyheiten?

Francisca. Are they not big enough? Isabella. Yes, freylich I ask not
as if I wanted more, but because I wished that the Sisters of St.

Clara even more closely restricted Seyn wants. (Lucio makes his voice
heard behind the scene.)

Isabella. What is it? Who is calling? Francisca. There is a man's
voice. My dear Isabella, it closes, and asks him what he wants, it
allowed it thun, I do not; the vows you have not yet done, and if
you've done it, it allowed her husband with no person to speak, except
in the presence of the prioress And even if her talk, allowed her
not show your face, or if her face shows it is not allowed to talk.

He calls again, I beg you, let him answer. (Francisca's up.) Isabella.
Who is calling here (you make on the door.) (Lucio enters.) Lucio.
Heil, Virgin, if you Seyde what you this rose cheeks announce, so do
you want to go Seyn and Isabelle bring me before, the beautiful
sister of Claudio unglüklichen, among the sample-sisters of this
house is located.

Isabella. Why unglüklichen of Claudio, zurükfragen let me by, I say
unto you, that Isabella and I'm his sister. Lucio. Blesseds Beautiful
Hold your brother salute you, for you do not stop long, it is situated
in the prisons. Isabella. Woe to me! And why? Lucio. For something,
for which he, if I would be his judge, reward instead of punishment
should be given, he has a good friend of a child made.

Isabella. My Lord, do not tell me your own story. Lucio. It's like I
say, if it is equal to my Schooßsünde the Kybizen with the girls to
play them for fun things vorzusagen what my heart knows nothing,
so I wanted but not with all virgins so jokes.

I see you for a sacred and the geweyhtes creature in heaven, and, honestly
speaking, your status makes you in my eyes have become a blessed
spirit abgeschiednen.

                                  Isabella.

             Blaspheme your goodness, by my beggars. Lucio.

Denket not from me. In true seriousness, DISS is the thing: your brother
has his sweetheart in a state gesezt, one of which proceeded between
them, undeniably makes. Isabella. If a pregnant by him? - My Base
Juliette? Lucio. Is it your base?

Isabella. Through adoption, by the love that we as children had for
each other. Lucio. It is. Isabella. O! So yes it can heurathen. Lucio.
That's the knot. The Duke has a very strange sort of wegbegeben
here, and some gentleman, which I myself am one, in the hope of a
Antheil in the state administration to get duped.

Solo if those who believe, what the true nerve of the state know it
is the order which he made it infinitely far from his intention
würklichen away.

However herrschet at his Plaz, and with all its full violence, Frey Mr.
Angelo, a man whose blood is snow water, a man by the strength of his
soul through fasting and studying the sting of the blunt nature
has made; the movement of the senses , and the untidy driving
pleasure has never felt.

This, (the Muthwillen and exuberance, made a long time around
the threat of Geseze, like mice to lions, herumgeschwärmt in
Schreker to Sezen) has a Gesez hervorgesucht having the heavy content
of your brother's life is in ruins Todesstraffe he has gesezt caught
him, and wants strict enforcement of the Gesezes him to a different
Beyspiel make.

All hope is out wofern you do not have the Glük, through your intercession
the beautiful Angelo stirring, and this is why I am your brother
in your name please. Isabella. He wants to take his life, says her?
Lucio. He has the Urtheil already spoken, and the jailer, as I hear,
already because of the command execution. Isabella. Oh God! What
can I help him?

Lucio. Try the power that you have. Isabella. My power? Oh! I doubt
- Lucio.

Our doubts are swindlers, and often bring us to the good that we can
win, by the mere fear of the experiment.

Goes to the City keeper, and let him learn about the prayers, the
knee gebognen Thränen and the beauty about a man capital. Isabella.
I will see what I thun kan. Lucio. But beschleuniget you.
Isabella. I will no longer grace, rather than celebrating the news of
my mother to give shops.

I thank you from my heart; salute my brother: eh it is night, I want
him by my direction to give.
But would Napoleon
have supported my theory?"


                                  V

                             FIRST COURSE

It was the hour at which they went to the dinner table in the house of
Marmus's sister-in-law. The professor walked slowly toward the Chamber
of Deputies, asking himself if his theory might have had Napoleon's
support. He could no longer judge Napoleon save from that point of
view. Did Napoleon's genius coincide with that of Marmus in regard to
the assimilation of things engendered by an attraction perpetual and
continuous?


                                  VI

                            SECOND COURSE

"No, Baron Sinard was a worshipper of power. He would have gone to the
Emperor and told him that my theory was the inspiration of an atheist.
And Napoleon, who has done a great deal of religious sermonizing for
political reasons, would have persecuted me. He had no love for ideas.
He was a courtier of facts! Moreover, in Napoleon's time, it would not
have been possible for me to communicate freely with Germany. Would
they have lent me their aid--Wytheimler, Grosthuys, Scheele, Stamback,
Wagner?

"To make men of science agree--men of science agree!--the Emperor
should have made peace; in time of peace, perhaps, he would have taken
an interest in my quarrel with Sinard! Sinard, my friend, my pupil,
become my antagonist, my enemy! He, a man of genius--

"Yes, he is a man of genius. I do justice to him in the face of all
the world."

At this moment the professor could talk aloud without trouble to
himself or to the passers-by. He was near the Chamber of Deputies, the
session was closed, all Paris was at dinner--except the man of
science.

Marmus was haranguing the statues which, it must be conceded, are
similar to all audiences. In France there is not an audience that is
not prohibited from giving marks of approval or disapproval.
Otherwise, there is not an audience that would not turn orator.

At the Iena bridge Marmus had a pain in the stomach. He heard the
hoarse voice of a cab driver. Marmus thought that he was ill and let
himself be ushered into the cab. He made himself comfortable in it.

When the driver asked, "Where?" Marmus replied quietly:

"Home."

"Where is your home, Monsieur?" asked the driver.

"Number three," Marmus replied.

"What street?" asked the driver.

"Ah, you are right, my friend. But this is extraordinary," he said,
taking the driver into his confidence. "I have been so busy comparing
the hyoides and the caracoides--yes, that's it. I will catch Sinard in
the act. At the next session of the Institute he will have to yield to
evidence."

The driver wrapped his ragged cloak around him. Resignedly, he was
saying to himself, "I have seen many odd folks, but this one--" He
heard the word "Institute."

"The Institute, Monsieur?" he asked.

"Yes, my friend, the Institute," replied Marmus.

"Well he wears the red ribbon," said the driver to himself. "Perhaps
he has something to do with the Institute."

The professor, infinitely more comfortable in his cab than on the
sidewalk, devoted himself entirely to solving the problem that went
against his theory and would not surrender--the rascal! Audience how
artists feel a legitimate drive for novelty in music, and a criticism,
just admiration for the old and not even the courage of recognition for
the New undermines production. The beautiful immortality we must
renounce faith, - but has each time with the same confidence cheated
the immortality _ihrer_ proclaimed best operas.

Even Adam Hiller in Leipzig argued that if ever the operas _Hasses_
no longer should delight the general barbarism should befall.

_Schubart_ Still, the music of Ästhetiker Hohenasperg, assured of
_Jomelli_ that it is not conceivable that this tone poem ever could
be forgotten.

And what are we today and Hasse Jomelli?

"Most recently, for the music, the Platonic view _Oerstedt_ from
the example of the circle develops, the beauty of it positive
vindiziert.

If he never quite appalling a circular composition itself have
experienced?

Cautious perhaps than necessary was finally added to the musical beauty
with _Mathematischen_ has nothing to do.

The idea that lay people (including sensitive writer) cherish the
role of the mathematics of musical composition to play is a curiously
vague.

Not satisfied with the vibrations of the sounds, the distance of
the intervals, the Konsonieren and Dissonieren on mathematical
relationships can be traced back, they are convinced the _Schöne_
a tone poem was based on figures.

The study of harmony and counterpoint to the point applies to a
kind of Kabbalah, the "calculation" of the composition teaching.

If the exploration of the physical part of the music to mathematics
provides an indispensable key to let in the finished Tonwerk however,
its importance should not be overestimated.

In a tone poem, whether it be the best or the worst, is nothing
mathematically calculated. Creations of the imagination are not
arithmetic. All Monochordexperimente, Klang figures interval proportions,
etc. do not belong here, the area _ästhetische_ starts, where the
elementary conditions in their importance have ceased.
He went up the stairway leading to his little room, and complained so
much of his pains in the stomach that Madame Adolphe filled him with
camomile tea.

"Ah, here is a carriage! It is Madame returning in great anxiety, I am
sure," said Madame Adolphe, giving to the professor his sixth cup of
camomile tea. "Now, sir, I hope that you will be able to drink it
without me. Do not let it fall all over your bed. You know how Madame
would laugh. You are very happy to have a little wife who is so
amiable and so joyful."

Obviously we can not participate in the fiction _Instrumentalmusik_
try, after which the instruction of certain emotions from even
denied, but only at the _Vokalmusik_, the pre-stress states of mind
play. [15] [15] In critiques of vocal music, the author (and his
other principles beistimmende critics) of brevity and convenience,
often the words "expressions", "signs", "Show" by the sounds, etc.
guileless needed, and we should probably use it if you are aware
of their improper strictly remains, i.e. limitations on their
symbolic and dynamic expression.

Here the composer present _Worte_ to schildernde object, and the
music has the power to revive it, to comment on it in more or less
highly the expression of individual inwardness to lend.

                                 It does so through most possible characteristic of the movement and
exploitation of the tones inherent symbolism.

     Summarizes them as the main point of view the text in the eye, and
not their own distinct beauty, it may be too high individualization,
so bring on the coupons, they alone can truly represent the feeling,
which in the words already changing, albeit steigerungsfähig existed.

This trend in the effect achieved something similar with the purported
"_Darstellen_ an affect as the contents of the specified music
piece."

For example, those real and alleged power of the music would be congruent,
the sense of representation and possible content of the music, we
would logically such compositions, the most perfect call, the task
_am certain lösen_.

Solo who is not familiar with sounds of the highest beauty _ohne_
such content?

(We recall Bach's preludes and fugues.) Conversely, there are
vocal compositions that have a certain feeling to the most accurate,
within the limits just stated, abzukonterfeien looking for and what
the _Wahrheit_ this Schilderns on any other principle. On closer examination,
we concluded that the reckless cling such musical portrayal usually
stands in inverse ratio to their separate beauty, so that the
declamatory-_dramatische Genauigkeit_ and _musikalische Vollendung_
only half way to progress together, but then split up.

He had two sous," said Madame
Adolphe, looking at Madame Marmus with an accusing air.

"Ah, I am truly to be pitied, my poor Madame Adolphe," said Madame
Marmus. "This sort of thing has been going on for twenty years, and I
am not yet accustomed to it. Six days after our wedding, we were going
out of our room one morning to take breakfast. M. Marmus hears the
drum of the Polytechnic School pupils of whom he was the professor. He
quits me to go and see them pass. I was nineteen years of age and when
I pouted, you cannot guess what he said to me. He said, 'These young
people are the flower and the glory of France!' This is how my
marriage began. You can judge of the rest."

"Oh, Monsieur, is it possible?" asked Madame Adolphe with an indignant
air.

"I have cornered Sinard!" exclaimed M. Marmus triumphantly.

"Oh, he would let himself die!" exclaimed Madame Adolphe.

"Get something for him to eat," said Madame Marmus. "He would let
himself do anything. Ah, my good Madame Adolphe, a man of science, you
see, is a man who knows nothing--of life."

The malady was cured by a cataplasm of Italian cheese that the man of
science ate without knowing what he was eating, for he held Sinard in
a corner--

"Poor Madame," said the kind Madame Adolphe. "I pity you. He was
really so absent-minded as that!"

And Madame Adolphe forgot the strange avowal of her mistress.