Produced by Dagny [dagnypg@yahoo.com]
and David Widger [widger@cecomet.net]


                          THE THREE CITIES


                               ROME


                                BY

                            EMILE ZOLA


                TRANSLATED BY ERNEST A. VIZETELLY


                              PART III


VII

On the following day as Pierre, after a long ramble, once more found
himself in front of the Vatican, whither a harassing attraction ever led
him, he again encountered Monsignor Nani. It was a Wednesday evening, and
the Assessor of the Holy Office had just come from his weekly audience
with the Pope, whom he had acquainted with the proceedings of the
Congregation at its meeting that morning. "What a fortunate chance, my
dear sir," said he; "I was thinking of you. Would you like to see his
Holiness in public while you are waiting for a private audience?"

Nani had put on his pleasant expression of smiling civility, beneath
which one would barely detect the faint irony of a superior man who knew
everything, prepared everything, and could do everything.

"Why, yes, Monsignor," Pierre replied, somewhat astonished by the
abruptness of the offer. "Anything of a nature to divert one's mind is
welcome when one loses one's time in waiting."

"No, no, you are not losing your time," replied the prelate. "You are
looking round you, reflecting, and enlightening yourself. Well, this is
the point. You are doubtless aware that the great international
pilgrimage of the Peter's Pence Fund will arrive in Rome on Friday, and
be received on Saturday by his Holiness. On Sunday, moreover, the Holy
Father will celebrate mass at the Basilica. Well, I have a few cards
left, and here are some very good places for both ceremonies." So saying
he produced an elegant little pocketbook bearing a gilt monogram and
handed Pierre two cards, one green and the other pink. "If you only knew
how people fight for them," he resumed. "You remember that I told you of
two French ladies who are consumed by a desire to see his Holiness. Well,
I did not like to support their request for an audience in too pressing a
way, and they have had to content themselves with cards like these. The
fact is, the Holy Father is somewhat fatigued at the present time. I
found him looking yellow and feverish just now. But he has so much
courage; he nowadays only lives by force of soul." Then Nani's smile came
back with its almost imperceptible touch of derision as he resumed:
"Impatient ones ought to find a great example in him, my dear son. I
heard that Monsignor Gamba del Zoppo had been unable to help you. But you
must not be too much distressed on that account. This long delay is
assuredly a grace of Providence in order that you may instruct yourself
and come to understand certain things which you French priests do not,
unfortunately, realise when you arrive in Rome. And perhaps it will
prevent you from making certain mistakes. Come, calm yourself, and
remember that the course of events is in the hands of God, who, in His
sovereign wisdom, fixes the hour for all things."

Thereupon Nani offered Pierre his plump, supple, shapely hand, a hand
soft like a woman's but with the grasp of a vice. And afterwards he
climbed into his carriage, which was waiting for him.

It so happened that the letter which Pierre had received from Viscount
Philibert de la Choue was a long cry of spite and despair in connection
with the great international pilgrimage of the Peter's Pence Fund. The
Viscount wrote from his bed, to which he was confined by a very severe
attack of gout, and his grief at being unable to come to Rome was the
greater as the President of the Committee, who would naturally present
the pilgrims to the Pope, happened to be Baron de Fouras, one of his most
bitter adversaries of the old conservative, Catholic party. M. de la
Choue felt certain that the Baron would profit by his opportunity to win
the Pope over to the theory of free corporations; whereas he, the
Viscount, believed that the salvation of Catholicism and the world could
only be worked by a system in which the corporations should be closed and
obligatory. And so he urged Pierre to exert himself with such cardinals
as were favourable, to secure an audience with the Holy Father whatever
the obstacles, and to remain in Rome until he should have secured the
Pontiff's approbation, which alone could decide the victory. The letter
further mentioned that the pilgrimage would be made up of a number of
groups headed by bishops and other ecclesiastical dignitaries, and would
comprise three thousand people from France, Belgium, Spain, Austria, and
even Germany. Two thousand of these would come from France alone. An
international committee had assembled in Paris to organise everything and
select the pilgrims, which last had proved a delicate task, as a
representative gathering had been desired, a commingling of members of
the aristocracy, sisterhood of middle-class ladies, and associations of
the working classes, among whom all social differences would be forgotten
in the union of a common faith. And the Viscount added that the
pilgrimage would bring the Pope a large sum of money, and had settled the
date of its arrival in the Eternal City in such wise that it would figure
as a solemn protest of the Catholic world against the festivities of
September 20, by which the Quirinal had just celebrated the anniversary
of the occupation of Rome.

The reception of the pilgrimage being fixed for noon, Pierre in all
simplicity thought that he would be sufficiently early if he reached St.
Peter's at eleven. The function was to take place in the Hall of
Beatifications, which is a large and handsome apartment over the portico,
and has been arranged as a chapel since 1890. One of its windows opens on
to the central balcony, whence the popes formerly blessed the people, the
city, and the world. To reach the apartment you pass through two other
halls of audience, the Sala Regia and Sala Ducale, and when Pierre wished
to gain the place to which his green card entitled him he found both
those rooms so extremely crowded that he could only elbow his way forward
with the greatest difficulty. For an hour already the three or four
thousand people assembled there had been stifling, full of growing
emotion and feverishness. At last the young priest managed to reach the
threshold of the third hall, but was so discouraged at sight of the
extraordinary multitude of heads before him that he did not attempt to go
any further.

The apartment, which he could survey at a glance by rising on tip-toe,
appeared to him to be very rich of aspect, with walls gilded and painted
under a severe and lofty ceiling. On a low platform, where the altar
usually stood, facing the entry, the pontifical throne had now been set:
a large arm-chair upholstered in red velvet with glittering golden back
and arms; whilst the hangings of the /baldacchino/, also of red velvet,
fell behind and spread out on either side like a pair of huge purple
wings. However, what more particularly interested Pierre was the wildly
passionate concourse of people whose hearts he could almost hear beating
and whose eyes sought to beguile their feverish impatience by
contemplating and adoring the empty throne. As if it had been some golden
monstrance which the Divinity in person would soon deign to occupy, that
throne dazzled them, disturbed them, filled them all with devout rapture.
Among the throng were workmen rigged out in their Sunday best, with clear
childish eyes and rough ecstatic faces; ladies of the upper classes
wearing black, as the regulations required, and looking intensely pale
from the sacred awe which mingled with their excessive desire; and
gentlemen in evening dress, who appeared quite glorious, inflated with
the conviction that they were saving both the Church and the nations. One
cluster of dress-coats assembled near the throne, was particularly
noticeable; it comprised the members of the International Committee,
headed by Baron de Fouras, a very tall, stout, fair man of fifty, who
bestirred and exerted himself and issued orders like some commander on
the morning of a decisive victory. Then, amidst the general mass of grey,
neutral hue, there gleamed the violet silk of some bishop's cassock, for
each pastor had desired to remain with his flock; whilst members of
various religious orders, superiors in brown, black, and white habits,
rose up above all others with lofty bearded or shaven heads. Right and
left drooped banners which associations and congregations had brought to
present to the Pope. And the sea of pilgrims ever waved and surged with a
growing clamour: so much impatient love being exhaled by those perspiring
faces, burning eyes, and hungry mouths that the atmosphere, reeking with
the odour of the throng, seemed thickened and darkened.

All at once, however, Pierre perceived Monsignor Nani standing near the
throne and beckoning him to approach; and although the young priest
replied by a modest gesture, implying that he preferred to remain where
he was, the prelate insisted and even sent an usher to make way for him.
Directly the usher had led him forward, Nani inquired: "Why did you not
come to take your place? Your card entitled you to be here, on the left
of the throne."

"The truth is," answered the priest, "I did not like to disturb so many
people. Besides, this is an undue honour for me."

But really, he followed the Council and would be here - of course not
intentionally, but by the facts - depressed, would not in his friends
and not cope without it, suffered shame, really would have no home
and no more friends, there was not much better for him, he stayed
in the stranger, as he was?

Could be because in such circumstances, remember that it actually would
bring forward? For these reasons could be him, if you still have the
letter combination to maintain, no actual messages, as they are without
even the remotest Scheubeck friend would make. The friend was now over
three years in the home and said it was very rough with the
uncertainty of the political situation in Russia, therefore, also the
shortest absence of a small business man is not allowed, whereas
hundreds of thousands of Russians quietly in the world herumfuhren.
In Over these three years, but precisely for Georg changed much. From the
death of George's mother, about two years ago and since has done what
George with his old father in a common economic lived, was the friend and
probably still know his condolences in a letter with a drought, which
are their only reason to have was that the grief of such an event in the
stranger is quite unimaginable. Now, however, had George since that time,
like everything else, including his business with greater determination
addressed.

Maybe it was the father when the mother's lifetime because he considers his
business only wanted to apply to a real own activities prevented, perhaps
was the father since the death of the mother, but he still worked in the
business, have become more cautious, maybe played - what very
probably was - a happy coincidence a far greater role, in any case had
the business in these two years, suddenly developed, the staff had to
have doubled, while sales had quintupled, further progress was undoubtedly
before. The friend, however, had no clue of this change. Sooner, perhaps
for the last time in that condolence letter, he had George to emigrate
to Russia and want to talk about the outlook spread, especially for the
George branch in Petersburg existed. The numbers were negligible
compared to the extent that the business now Georgs had. George, however,
had had no desire, the friend of his business successes to write,
and he had subsequently done it now, it really would have a strange
appearance had.

So George was limited to just a friend about meaningless occurrences
to write how they is, if you have a quiet Sunday it, in remembrance
of the disordered pile up. He wanted nothing more than leave undisturbed
the notion that the friend from the hometown in the long interim,
well made and with what he had abgefunden. So it George, that he had a
friend Engagements indifferent a man with an equally indifferent girl three
times in a little too far apart letters showed up then, however, the
friend, quite in contrast to George's intentions, for those
interested in weirdness began. George wrote to him but such things
rather than that he had admitted that he had even a month ago with a fire
box, Miss Frieda, a girl of wealthy family, is betrothed had. Often he
spoke with his bride on this special friend and the correspondence
relationship in which he stood to him. "He will not come to our wedding,"
she said, "and I do have the right to all your friends." "I will not disturb
him," George replied, "I quite understand, he would probably come,
at least I think so, but he would feel forced and affected, perhaps envious
of me, and certainly unhappy and unable to ever eliminate dissatisfaction,
drive back alone. Solo - you know what that is? "" Yes, he can because
of our marriage, not to learn any other way? "" That I can, however, not
prevent, but it is his way of life is unlikely. "" If you have such
friends, George, did you ever not be engaged. "" Yes, this is both our
fault, but I wanted to not otherwise have. "And if they then rapidly
breathing under his kisses, nor submitted:" Actually, it grieved me, "he
is really harmless, a friend to write everything. "So am I and so
he helped me to accept," said he, "I can not give me a cut man, perhaps
for his friendship with him would be appropriate, as I am." And he actually
told his friends in the long letter that he wrote this Sunday morning,
the engagement took place with the following words: "The best news I
have until the end-up. I was with a lady betrothed Frieda fire box, a
girl from a wealthy family who are here long after you depart is
located, you hardly know allowed. There will still find opportunity to
teach you more about my bride tell you enough today that I am quite happy
and that is in our mutual relationship only insofar as something has
changed, as you now inside me instead of an ordinary friend, have
a happy friend wilt. In addition, you'll get in my bride who can
greet you warmly, and soon you will write an honest friend, what a bachelor
is not entirely without significance. I know it keeps you from a
variety of visits to us, would not be my wedding just the right
opportunity, once all the obstacles on the pile? But, as this may be,
acting without any consideration and only after your well-being
of opinion.

"With this letter in his hand was Georg long, the face of the window
to back, sat at his desk. A friend, who in passing by the alley from
gegrüßt had, he had hardly absent with a smile replied. Finally he put
the letter in his pocket and went out of his room through a small corridor
to the room of his father in which he has not been months. There was
otherwise no coercion about it wrong with his father constantly in the
shop, the lunch they took while dining in a house, provided the evening,
while everyone fit, but then they sat mostly, if not George, as is
most often was done together with friends, or now his bride visited,
yet a little while, each with his newspaper, in the common living room.
Georg amazed how dark the room of the Father himself in this morning
was sunny. Threw such a shadow that is the high wall, which is
beyond the Court's narrow raised. The father sat at the window in a corner,
with a different memory of the Blessed Mother was embellished, and
read the newspaper, the side he held before the eyes, making him any
offsetting weakness eyes examined. On the table stood the remains of
breakfast, from which not much seemed to be eaten. "Ah, George!" Said
the father, and went against him. His heavy dressing gown opened in
walking, the ends umflatterten him - "my father is still a giant,"
said Georg. "Here it is so unbearably dark," he said then.
"Yes, it's already dark," replied the father. "That window is closed you
have?" "I prefer it like that." "It is quite warm outside," said George,
as in the post-slope to the ancients, and sat down. The father
acknowledged the breakfast dishes from and put it on a box. "I just wanted
you to say," George went away, the movements of the old man followed very
lost, "that I now but after my betrothal Petersburg have shown." He
pulled the letter from a little the bag and let it fall back.
"According to Petersburg?" asked the father. "but my friends," said George
and the father was looking eyes. - "In business he is completely different,"
he thought, "how he is sitting here wide and arms crossed over the
chest." "Yes. Your friends, "said the father with emphasis." Thou
knowest it, father, that I gave him my first engagement to hide. For
consideration, for no other reason else you know yourself, it is a
difficult man. I said to myself, on the other side he can from my engagement
probably know, when even in his solitary way of life is hardly likely - I
can not stop them - but by myself, it is now not even know. "" And now
you have it to you again about? "asked the father, the great newspaper
on the window board and the newspaper on the glasses, which he covered
with his hand." Yes, now I have it about me again. If he is my good
friend, I said to myself, this is my happy betrothal also a chance
for him. And that is why I no longer hesitated to display it.

Before I read the letter but einwarf, I wanted to tell you. "" George,
"said the father and pulled the edentulous mouth in the width,"
hear again! You are due to this thing to me come to thee with me to advise.
The honors you without a doubt. But there is nothing, it's worse than
nothing to me now if you do not tell the whole truth. I do not want to
stir up things that do not belong here. Since the death of our mother
are expensive some ugly things proceeded. Perhaps also the time for them
and maybe they come sooner than we think. In the business I miss some
things, it will give me maybe not hidden - now I will not make the
assumption that it is hidden from me - I'm no longer strong enough,
my memory is after, I did not look for all the many things. The first
is the flow of nature, and secondly, I was the death of our mother a lot
more depressed than you. - But because we're in this thing, in this letter,
so I ask you, George, I'm not mistaken.

It is a trifle, it is not worth the breath, so I'm not mistaken. Do you
really this friend in Petersburg? "George was embarrassed to. "Let my
friends. One thousand friends I did not replace my father. Do you
know what I think? Do not you already have enough. But the age demands
its rights.

You're in my business is essential that you know so very well, but if
the business should threaten your health, nor do I stop it tomorrow,
forever. I do not. We have given a different way of life for you to
import. But by reason. You are sitting here in the dark, and in the
living room you would have beautiful light. You nippst from breakfast,
instead of yourself properly to be strengthened. You are
sitting with closed windows, and the air would you do so well. No,
my father! I'll fetch the doctor and his rules, we will follow. The
room we will move you'll pull into the front room, I am here. There
will be no change for you, everything is transferred. But all this has
time, now do you still go to bed a little, you need absolutely calm. Come,
I will help you when Ausziehn, thou wilt shall see, I can. Or do you
want to do the same go into the front room, then you are temporarily
lay in my bed. That would be very reasonable. "George just stood next
to his father, the head with scrubby white hair on the chest had let
fall." George, "said the father, quietly, without movement. Georg
immediately knelt down beside the father, he saw the pupils in the weary
face of the Father on high in the corners of the eyes to be addressed.
"Thou hast no friend in Petersburg. You're always a fun-maker you've been
and also to me to not hold back. What you should because there have a
friend! I can not believe it. "" Think it again, father, "said George,
the father lifted from his chair and drew him, as he now stood quite
weak, from rock to sleep," it is now nearly three years ago , as was
my friend visited us. I remember that you do not particularly like him
had. At least twice I have denied him before thee, but to me he just sat
in the room. I could so you dislike him very well understand, my friend
has its peculiarities. But then you have but also quite good with him
entertained. I was so proud that you were listening to him, nodding, and
asked test. If you are thoughtful, you must remember. He then told
incredible stories of the Russian Revolution.

Like for example on a business trip in Kiev during a fracas at a clergyman
had a balcony view of a broad cross the blood in the flat hand cut, hand
raised and the crowd called. You've even this story is recounted here and
there. "Meanwhile, it was George succeeded his father again
niederzusetzen his jersey and trousers, which he on the line wore underpants
and socks carefully auszuziehn. Seeing is not particularly clean laundry,
he made himself, the father to have neglected. It would certainly have
been his duty, on the linen of his father to watch. He was with his bride
about how they are the future of the father wanted to set up, not yet
explicitly discussed, because they had implicitly assumed that the father
alone in the old house would remain. But now, he decided shortly with all
certainty, the father in his financial future with you. It seemed almost,
if accurate joining in that care, then the father should be prepared,
might come too late. In his arms he carried his father to bed. A terrible
feeling he had when he was during the few steps to the bed pointed out
that on his chest with his father watch chain games. He could not immediately
go to bed, so he held firmly to this watch chain. No sooner was he in
bed, everything seemed fine. He covered himself and then pulled
the blanket still very much on the shoulder. He was not unkind to
George up. "Not true, you have to remember him?" Asked George and nodded
encouragingly to him. "Am I now well covered?"

Asked the father, as he could not look, whether the feet enough were
covered. "So do you like it already in bed," said George and
Deckzeug, the better for him. "Am I covered well?" asked the father
again and the answer seemed to particularly keep. "Be just quietly,
you're well covered.

"No," cried the father, that the answer to the question was, threw the
blanket back with a force that for a moment they flew quite unfolded,
and stood upright in bed.

Only one hand he held easily to the ceiling. "You wanted to cover me, I
know, my fruit, but I have covered yet. And it is the last power, enough
for you, too much for you. Well, I know your friend. It would be a son
after my own heart. That's why you have betrayed him throughout the
years. Why else? Do you believe that I have not cried for him? So banning
it you're in your office, nobody should interfere with the boss is
busy - just so you do the wrong letter to Russia can write.

But the father has, fortunately, no one taught the son to understand.
How do you now believe that you have him untergekriegt so untergekriegt
that you login with your ass on him and he can set does not move, because
my Lord has son decided to marry, "George saw the horror on the image
of his father. The St. Petersburg friend, the father suddenly knew
so well, seized him, as never before. Lost in the vast Russian Federation,
he saw him. At the door of the empty, robbed store, he saw him. Between
the ruins of the shelves, the shredded products, the falling
Gasarmen he just stood still. Why did he need so far away! "But look at
me," cried the father, and George ran, almost distracted, to bed,
everything in order to act, but faltered in the middle of the road.

"Because it has lifted the skirts, "the father began to pipe to,"
because they lifted the skirts so has the repulsive goose, "and he pointed
to the display, his shirt is so high that one on his thigh, the scar from
his war years saw" because they skirts so and so and so has lifted, you
have to herangemacht it, and so you get to it without disturbing you
can satisfy, you have our mementos desecrated mother, a friend and tell
your father to bed in, so he does not stir can. But he can move or not?
"And he was completely free and threw the legs. He beamed before insight.
Georg stood at an angle, preferably far from the father. Before
a long while he had determined to make everything perfect just to watch
it so it does not somehow indirectly, from the rear, from the top down
could be surprised. Now he is again reminded of the long-forgotten
forgot his resolve and how to design a short thread through the eye
of a needle moves. "But the friend is not betrayed," cried the father,
and his back and forth finger is affirmed. "I was his representative at
the place here." "Comedian," George was not to call, immediately recognized
the damage and bit, just too late - their eyes frozen - in his tongue
that he einknickte pain. "Yes, indeed, I have played comedy! Comedy!
Good word! What other consolation was the old widowed father? Say - and
for the moment the answer is you still live my son - what was left me,
in my back room, caught by ungetreuen staff, to the old bones? And my son
went in rejoicing throughout the world, closed shops, which I had
prepared before überpurzelte pleasure and went before his father with
the closed face of a man's honor them! Do you believe that I have not loved
thee, I, from which you started? "" Now, it will prevent, "George
thought," if he fell and shattered, "This word durchzischte his head.
The father bent down, but fell not. Since George is not approached,
as he had expected, he rose again. "Stay where you are, I need thee
not! Think you do not have the strength to come here and hold you back
just because you want it. The fact that you're not wrong! I am still
much stronger. Solo maybe I should back away, but it gave me the
mother of their power is delivered, with your friend, I have connected
beautifully, your customers, I have here in your pocket! "" Even in
the shirt pocket, he has! "Georg said and believed that he could him with
this remark in the world impossible. Only a moment he thought that, ever
since he forgot everything. "Hanging yourself in your wedding and come me!
I sweeping them out away from the side, you do not know how! "George
made grimaces as he does not believe. The father nodded simply, the truth
of what he said, beteuernd in Georgs corner out. "How did you entertain
me today than you did and asked if you have your friend from the
Engagements shalt write. He knows everything, stupid boy, but he knows
everything! I wrote to him yet, because thou hast forgotten me write
the stuff away. That's why he has been banned for years, he knows
everything a hundred times better than you yourself, your unread letters
he crumpled in his left hand while he was in the right to read my letters
to vorhält, "he swung his arm with enthusiasm over the head .

  "He knows everything a thousand times better," he cried.
    "Zehntausendmal," said George, the father to laugh at, but
    still in his mouth got the word a toternsten sound.

"For many years do I have to buy into this matter would ! Do you think I
care anything else? Do you think I read newspapers? Da! "And he
threw George a newspaper sheet that is somehow related to the bed
had been taken to.

An old newspaper, with a George quite unknown name. "How long have
you been reluctant to become ripe before you are!

  The mother had to die, she could not experience the Freudentag,
    the friend is based in his Russia, three years before he
    was yellow to throw away, and I, yes you can see how it stands
with me.

For thou hast eyes! "" You have given me so aufgelauert, "cried George.
Pitying incidentally the father said:" The sooner you probably wanted
to say. Now it fits so no more. "And louder:" So now you know what it is
unless you were previously knewest you only from you!

An innocent child, you were actually, but were still true you are a
devilish human being! - And therefore know that I condemn you to death
now of drowning, "George felt chased out of the room, the shock, with
the father behind him collapsed on the bed, he is still in the ears of
them. On the staircase, whose steps as he has a crooked land hastened,
his surprise Bedienerin the terms was heraufzugehen to the apartment after
the night clean up. "Jesus!" She cried, and with the apron concealed the
face, but he was already like this.

From the gate, he jumped over the roadway to the water drove him there.
Already, he noted the railing, like a hungry food. He swung about, as
the excellent Turner, who in his youth years at the pride of his parents
had been. Still, he is weakening hands, spied between the railing
bars a car Omnibus, with ease of his case would drown, cried softly,
"Dear parents, I have always loved you," and settled hinabfallen.
At that moment, went over the bridge an almost endless traffic. From
the same author also appeared: Betrachtungen. 2. Circulation stapled
M. 2.50, Pappband M. 4:50 M. 3:50 Halblederband The stokers. A fragment
of 0.80 stapled M., M. hardback 1:50 Die Verwandlung. 1.60 novella
tacked M., M. hardback 2:50 VERLAG KURT WOLFF - LEIPZIG

But, as I said
before, a disaster happened, and there must then have been a falling off
in the income. Still, nowadays it is reported that nearly all
deficiencies have been made good. Well, besides the regular income from
the invested money, a few hundred thousand francs are derived every year
from chancellery dues, patents of nobility, and all sorts of little fees
paid to the Congregations. However, as the annual expenses exceed seven
millions, it has been necessary to find quite six millions every year;
and certainly it is the Peter's Pence Fund that has supplied, not the six
millions, perhaps, but three or four of them, and with these the Holy See
has speculated in the hope of doubling them and making both ends meet. It
would take me too long just now to relate the whole story of these
speculations, the first huge gains, then the catastrophe which almost
swept everything away, and finally the stubborn perseverance which is
gradually supplying all deficiencies. However, if you are anxious on the
subject, I will one day tell you all about it."

Pierre had listened with deep interest. "Six millions--even four!" he
exclaimed, "what does the Peter's Pence Fund bring in, then?"

"Oh! I can only repeat that nobody has ever known the exact figures. In
former times the Catholic Press published lists giving the amounts of
different offerings, and in this way one could frame an approximate
estimate. But the practice must have been considered unadvisable, for no
documents nowadays appear, and it is absolutely impossible for people to
form any real idea of what the Pope receives. He alone knows the correct
amount, keeps the money, and disposes of it with absolute authority.
Still I believe that in good years the offerings have amounted to between
four and five millions. Originally France contributed one-half of the
sum; but nowadays it certainly gives much less. Then come Belgium and
Austria, England and Germany. As for Spain and Italy--oh! Italy--"

Narcisse paused and smiled at Monsignor Nani, who was wagging his head
with the air of a man delighted at learning some extremely curious things
of which he had previously had no idea.

"Oh, you may proceed, you may proceed, my dear son," said he.

"Well, then, Italy scarcely distinguishes itself. If the Pope had to
provide for his living out of the gifts of the Italian Catholics there
would soon be a famine at the Vatican. Far from helping him, indeed, the
Roman nobility has cost him dear; for one of the chief causes of his
pecuniary losses was his folly in lending money to the princes who
speculated. It is really only from France and England that rich people,
noblemen and so forth, have sent royal gifts to the imprisoned and
martyred Pontiff. Among others there was an English nobleman who came to
Rome every year with a large offering, the outcome of a vow which he had
made in the hope that Heaven would cure his unhappy idiot son. And, of
course, I don't refer to the extraordinary harvest garnered during the
sacerdotal and the episcopal jubilees--the forty millions which then fell
at his Holiness's feet."

"And the expenses?" asked Pierre.

"Well, as I told you, they amount to about seven millions. We may reckon
two of them for the pensions paid to former officials of the pontifical
government who were unwilling to take service under Italy; but I must add
that this source of expense is diminishing every year as people die off
and their pensions become extinguished. Then, broadly speaking, we may
put down one million for the Italian sees, another for the Secretariate
and the Nunciatures, and another for the Vatican. In this last sum I
include the expenses of the pontifical Court, the military establishment,
the museums, and the repair of the palace and the Basilica. Well, we have
reached five millions, and the two others may be set down for the various
subsidised enterprises, the Propaganda, and particularly the schools,
which Leo XIII, with great practical good sense, subsidises very
handsomely, for he is well aware that the battle and the triumph be in
that direction--among the children who will be men to-morrow, and who
will then defend their mother the Church, provided that they have been
inspired with horror for the abominable doctrines of the age."

A spell of silence ensued, and the three men slowly paced the majestic
colonnade. The swarming crowd had gradually disappeared, leaving the
piazza empty, so that only the obelisk and the twin fountains now arose
from the burning desert of symmetrical paving; whilst on the entablature
of the porticus across the square a noble line of motionless statues
stood out in the bright sunlight. And Pierre, with his eyes still raised
to the Pope's windows, again fancied that he could see Leo XIII amidst
all the streaming gold that had been spoken of, his whole, white, pure
figure, his poor, waxen, transparent form steeped amidst those millions
which he hid and counted and expended for the glory of God alone. "And
so," murmured the young priest, "he has no anxiety, he is not in any
pecuniary embarrassment."

"Pecuniary embarrassment!" exclaimed Monsignor Nani, his patience so
sorely tried by the remark that he could no longer retain his diplomatic
reserve. "Oh! my dear son! Why, when Cardinal Mocenni, the treasurer,
goes to his Holiness every month, his Holiness always gives him the sum
he asks for; he would give it, and be able to give it, however large it
might be! His Holiness has certainly had the wisdom to effect great
economies; the Treasure of St. Peter is larger than ever. Pecuniary
embarrassment, indeed! Why, if a misfortune should occur, and the
Sovereign Pontiff were to make a direct appeal to all his children, the
Catholics of the entire world, do you know that in that case a thousand
millions would fall at his feet just like the gold and the jewels which
you saw raining on the steps of his throne just now?" Then suddenly
calming himself and recovering his pleasant smile, Nani added: "At least,
that is what I sometimes hear said; for, personally, I know nothing,
absolutely nothing; and it is fortunate that Monsieur Habert should have
been here to give you information. Ah! Monsieur Habert, Monsieur Habert!
Why, I fancied that you were always in the skies absorbed in your passion
for art, and far removed from all base mundane interests! But you really
understand these things like a banker or a notary. Nothing escapes you,
nothing. It is wonderful."

Narcisse must have felt the sting of the prelate's delicate sarcasm. At
bottom, beneath this make-believe Florentine all-angelicalness, with long
curly hair and mauve eyes which grew dim with rapture at sight of a
Botticelli, there was a thoroughly practical, business-like young man,
who took admirable care of his fortune and was even somewhat miserly.
However, he contented himself with lowering his eyelids and assuming a
languorous air. "Oh!" said he, "I'm all reverie; my soul is elsewhere."

"At all events," resumed Nani, turning towards Pierre, "I am very glad
that you were able to see such a beautiful spectacle. A few more such
opportunities and you will understand things far better than you would
from all the explanations in the world. Don't miss the grand ceremony at
St. Peter's to-morrow. It will be magnificent, and will give you food for
useful reflection; I'm sure of it. And now allow me to leave you,
delighted at seeing you in such a fit frame of mind."

Darting a last glance at Pierre, Nani seemed to have observed with
pleasure the weariness and uncertainty which were paling his face. And
when the prelate had gone off, and Narcisse also had taken leave with a
gentle hand-shake, the young priest felt the ire of protest rising within
him. What fit frame of mind did Nani mean? Did that man hope to weary him
and drive him to despair by throwing him into collision with obstacles,
so that he might afterwards overcome him with perfect ease? For the
second time Pierre became suddenly and briefly conscious of the stealthy
efforts which were being made to invest and crush him. But, believing as
he did in his own strength of resistance, pride filled him with disdain.
Again he swore that he would never yield, never withdraw his book, no
matter what might happen. And then, before crossing the piazza, he once
more raised his eyes to the windows of the Vatican, all his impressions
crystallising in the thought of that much-needed money which like a last
bond still attached the Pope to earth. Its chief evil doubtless lay in
the manner in which it was provided; and if indeed the only question were
to devise an improved method of collection, his dream of a pope who
should be all soul, the bond of love, the spiritual leader of the world,
would not be seriously affected. At this thought, Pierre felt comforted
and was unwilling to look on things otherwise than hopefully, moved as he
was by the extraordinary scene which he had just beheld, that feeble old
man shining forth like the symbol of human deliverance, obeyed and
venerated by the multitudes, and alone among all men endowed with the
moral omnipotence that might at last set the reign of charity and peace
on earth.

For the ceremony on the following day, it was fortunate that Pierre held
a private ticket which admitted him to a reserved gallery, for the
scramble at the entrances to the Basilica proved terrible. The mass,
which the Pope was to celebrate in person, was fixed for ten o'clock, but
people began to pour into St. Peter's four hours earlier, as soon,
indeed, as the gates had been thrown open. The three thousand members of
the International Pilgrimage were increased tenfold by the arrival of all
the tourists in Italy, who had hastened to Rome eager to witness one of
those great pontifical functions which nowadays are so rare. Moreover,
the devotees and partisans whom the Holy See numbered in Rome itself and
in other great cities of the kingdom, helped to swell the throng, all
alacrity at the prospect of a demonstration. Judging by the tickets
distributed, there would be a concourse of 40,000 people. And, indeed, at
nine o'clock, when Pierre crossed the piazza on his way to the Canons'
Entrance in the Via Santa Marta, where the holders of pink tickets were
admitted, he saw the portico of the facade still thronged with people who
were but slowly gaining admittance, while several gentlemen in evening
dress, members of some Catholic association, bestirred themselves to
maintain order with the help of a detachment of Pontifical Guards.
Nevertheless, violent quarrels broke out in the crowd, and blows were
exchanged amidst the involuntary scramble. Some people were almost
stifled, and two women were carried off half crushed to death.

A disagreeable surprise met Pierre on his entry into the Basilica. The
huge edifice was draped; coverings of old red damask with bands of gold
swathed the columns and pilasters, seventy-five feet high; even the
aisles were hung with the same old and faded silk; and the shrouding of
those pompous marbles, of all the superb dazzling ornamentation of the
church bespoke a very singular taste, a tawdry affectation of pomposity,
extremely wretched in its effect. However, he was yet more amazed on
seeing that even the statue of St. Peter was clad, costumed like a living
pope in sumptuous pontifical vestments, with a tiara on its metal head.
He had never imagined that people could garment statues either for their
glory or for the pleasure of the eyes, and the result seemed to him
disastrous.

The Pope was to say mass at the papal altar of the Confession, the high
altar which stands under the dome. On a platform at the entrance of the
left-hand transept was the throne on which he would afterwards take his
place. Then, on either side of the nave, tribunes had been erected for
the choristers of the Sixtine Chapel, the Corps Diplomatique, the Knights
of Malta, the Roman nobility, and other guests of various kinds. And,
finally, in the centre, before the altar, there were three rows of
benches covered with red rugs, the first for the cardinals and the other
two for the bishops and the prelates of the pontifical court. All the
rest of the congregation was to remain standing.

Ah! that huge concert-audience, those thirty, forty thousand believers
from here, there, and everywhere, inflamed with curiosity, passion, or
faith, bestirring themselves, jostling one another, rising on tip-toe to
see the better! The clamour of a human sea arose, the crowd was as gay
and familiar as if it had found itself in some heavenly theatre where it
was allowable for one to chat aloud and recreate oneself with the
spectacle of religious pomp! At first Pierre was thunderstruck, he who
only knew of nervous, silent kneeling in the depths of dim cathedrals,
who was not accustomed to that religion of light, whose brilliancy
transformed a religious celebration into a morning festivity. Around him,
in the same tribune as himself, were gentlemen in dress-coats and ladies
gowned in black, carrying glasses as in an opera-house. There were German
and English women, and numerous Americans, all more or less charming,
displaying the grace of thoughtless, chirruping birds. In the tribune of
the Roman nobility on the left he recognised Benedetta and Donna
Serafina, and there the simplicity of the regulation attire for ladies
was relieved by large lace veils rivalling one another in richness and
elegance. Then on the right was the tribune of the Knights of Malta,
where the Grand Master stood amidst a group of commanders: while across
the nave rose the diplomatic tribune where Pierre perceived the
ambassadors of all the Catholic nations, resplendent in gala uniforms
covered with gold lace. However, the young priest's eyes were ever
returning to the crowd, the great surging throng in which the three
thousand pilgrims were lost amidst the multitude of other spectators. And
yet as the Basilica was so vast that it could easily contain eighty
thousand people, it did not seem to be more than half full. People came
and went along the aisles and took up favourable positions without
impediment. Some could be seen gesticulating, and calls rang out above
the ceaseless rumble of voices. From the lofty windows of plain white
glass fell broad sheets of sunlight, which set a gory glow upon the faded
damask hangings, and these cast a reflection as of fire upon all the
tumultuous, feverish, impatient faces. The multitude of candles, and the
seven-and-eighty lamps of the Confession paled to such a degree that they
seemed but glimmering night-lights in the blinding radiance; and
everything proclaimed the worldly gala of the imperial Deity of Roman
pomp.

All at once there came a premature shock of delight, a false alert. Cries
burst forth and circulated through the crowd: "Eccolo! eccolo! Here he
comes!" And then there was pushing and jostling, eddying which made the
human sea whirl and surge, all craning their necks, raising themselves to
their full height, darting forward in a frenzied desire to see the Holy
Father and the /cortege/. But only a detachment of Noble Guards marched
by and took up position right and left of the altar. A flattering murmur
accompanied them, their fine impassive bearing with its exaggerated
military stiffness, provoking the admiration of the throng. An American
woman declared that they were superb-looking fellows; and a Roman lady
gave an English friend some particulars about the select corps to which
they belonged. Formerly, said she, young men of the aristocracy had
greatly sought the honour of forming part of it, for the sake of wearing
its rich uniform and caracoling in front of the ladies. But recruiting
was now such a difficult matter that one had to content oneself with
good-looking young men of doubtful or ruined nobility, whose only care
was for the meagre "pay" which just enabled them to live.

When another quarter of an hour of chatting and scrutinising had elapsed,
the papal /cortege/ at last made its appearance, and no sooner was it
seen than applause burst forth as in a theatre--furious applause it was
which rose and rolled along under the vaulted ceilings, suggesting the
acclamations which ring out when some popular, idolised actor makes his
entry on the stage. As in a theatre, too, everything had been very
skilfully contrived so as to produce all possible effect amidst the
magnificent scenery of the Basilica. The /cortege/ was formed in the
wings, that is in the Cappella della Pieta, the first chapel of the right
aisle, and in order to reach it, the Holy Father, coming from his
apartments by the way of the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament, had been
stealthily carried behind the hangings of the aisle which served the
purpose of a drop-scene. Awaiting him in all readiness in the Cappella
della Pieta were the cardinals, archbishops, and bishops, the whole
pontifical prelacy, hierarchically classified and grouped. And then, as
at a signal from a ballet master, the /cortege/ made its entry, reaching
the nave and ascending it in triumph from the closed Porta Santa to the
altar of the Confession. On either hand were the rows of spectators whose
applause at the sight of so much magnificence grew louder and louder as
their delirious enthusiasm increased.

It was the /cortege/ of the olden solemnities, the cross and sword, the
Swiss Guard in full uniform, the valets in scarlet simars, the Knights of
the Cape and the Sword in Renascence costumes, the Canons in rochets of
lace, the superiors of the religious communities, the apostolic
prothonotaries, the archbishops, and bishops, all the pontifical prelates
in violet silk, the cardinals, each wearing the /cappa magna/ and draped
in purple, walking solemnly two by two with long intervals between each
pair. Finally, around his Holiness were grouped the officers of the
military household, the chamber prelates, Monsignor the Majordomo,
Monsignor the Grand Chamberlain, and all the other high dignitaries of
the Vatican, with the Roman prince assistant of the throne, the
traditional, symbolical defender of the Church. And on the /sedia
gestatoria/, screened by the /flabelli/ with their lofty triumphal fans
of feathers and carried on high by the bearers in red tunics broidered
with silk, sat the Pope, clad in the sacred vestments which he had
assumed in the Chapel of the Blessed Sacrament, the amict, the alb, the
stole, and the white chasuble and white mitre enriched with gold, two
gifts of extraordinary sumptuousness that had come from France. And, as
his Holiness drew near, all hands were raised and clapped yet more loudly
amidst the waves of living sunlight which streamed from the lofty
windows.

Then a new and different impression of Leo XIII came to Pierre. The Pope,
as he now beheld him, was no longer the familiar, tired, inquisitive old
man, leaning on the arm of a talkative prelate as he strolled through the
loveliest gardens in the world. He no longer recalled the Holy Father, in
red cape and papal cap, giving a paternal welcome to a pilgrimage which
brought him a fortune. He was here the Sovereign Pontiff, the
all-powerful Master whom Christendom adored. His slim waxen form seemed
to have stiffened within his white vestments, heavy with golden broidery,
as in a reliquary of precious metal; and he retained a rigid, haughty,
hieratic attitude, like that of some idol, gilded, withered for centuries
past by the smoke of sacrifices. Amidst the mournful stiffness of his
face only his eyes lived--eyes like black sparkling diamonds gazing afar,
beyond earth, into the infinite. He gave not a glance to the crowd, he
lowered his eyes neither to right nor to left, but remained soaring in
the heavens, ignoring all that took place at his feet.

And as that seemingly embalmed idol, deaf and blind, in spite of the
brilliancy of his eyes, was carried through the frantic multitude which
it appeared neither to hear nor to see, it assumed fearsome majesty,
disquieting grandeur, all the rigidity of dogma, all the immobility of
tradition exhumed with its /fascioe/ which alone kept it erect. Still
Pierre fancied he could detect that the Pope was ill and weary, suffering
from the attack of fever which Nani had spoken of when glorifying the
courage of that old man of eighty-four, whom strength of soul alone now
kept alive.

The service began. Alighting from the /sedia gestatoria/ before the altar
of the Confession, his Holiness slowly celebrated a low mass, assisted by
four prelates and the pro-prefect of the ceremonies. When the time came
for washing his fingers, Monsignor the Majordomo and Monsignor the Grand
Chamberlain, accompanied by two cardinals, poured the water on his august
hands; and shortly before the elevation of the host all the prelates of
the pontifical court, each holding a lighted taper, came and knelt around
the altar. There was a solemn moment, the forty thousand believers there
assembled shuddered as if they could feel the terrible yet delicious
blast of the invisible sweeping over them when during the elevation the
silver clarions sounded the famous chorus of angels which invariably
makes some women swoon. Almost immediately an aerial chant descended from
the cupola, from a lofty gallery where one hundred and twenty choristers
were concealed, and the enraptured multitude marvelled as though the
angels had indeed responded to the clarion call. The voices descended,
taking their flight under the vaulted ceilings with the airy sweetness of
celestial harps; then in suave harmony they died away, reascended to the
heavens as with a faint flapping of wings. And, after the mass, his
Holiness, still standing at the altar, in person started the /Te Deum/,
which the singers of the Sixtine Chapel and the other choristers took up,
each party chanting a verse alternately. But soon the whole congregation
joined them, forty thousand voices were raised, and a hymn of joy and
glory spread through the vast nave with incomparable splendour of effect.
"Will always be a Fanfarenruf all upright men. Reformation His work was
a historical necessity. But history is changing from century to century,
from decade to decade. Bismarckian work seemed on the rocks, was
founded a few decades were enough to undermine it until 1918 with a
mighty crash collapses. Also on Luther's Reformation is the final
verdict of history still do not like. Today's Evangelical Church speaks
in her enlightened, barren, godless rationality not for a long duration.
The time will again be pious. Luther was a religious man, Lutherans are
the theological or dogmatic rationalist moralist. They doubt the miracle,
to natural and ecclesiastical history under the same Pfaffenhut
bring: but those who doubted the miracle, Luther doubted God himself,
the former Christians, supported by the humanist Vorrevolution of
mind, from the Roman bondage free, but it has the German the worst
service proved, when he was in the peasant wars of the princes and seized
by his sophisticated interpretation of the Bible in the sense monarchist
( "Give the emperor what is Caesar's ... it's set you a government
of God, ye ...«) to subdue the Germans under the absolute tyranny
of the princes brought tyranny and slavery, and now even ethical
foundation sought.

This drove the once in his youth by his father bred and herangeprügelte
Autoritätswahn ugly flowers. That the "subject" the Germans still so
deep in the blood is that even the 1918 revolution it could not
auszuroden, this is not the least to the philosophers of the state
law and the power madness: Bismarck, Hegel, Luther attributed. Luther,
however, was their most important and therefore perishable
representatives. Appears its historic position in the light of at least
questionable, as is its position in the German literature clearly and
steeply added. The significance of Luther's, 1534 completed translation
of the Bible can not be overestimated. It is, as Luther would have the new
German language ever created. For so defective as templates of the
Saxon Chancellery obersächsischen language and dialect zimmerte
it like a violin maker in that sounding instrument on which charmed
and intoxicated we may still play. But he was the master sounds
like Arion: and when he spoke, then the nightingale was silent, then
lifted the ass hairy eavesdropping the head - then fell silent even the
humanists with their Latin chat, and Ulrich von Hutten was at once
instead of Latin German think and dense. "I've dared." The German language
was the erudite gentlemen hitherto been coarse for their sophistry. They
wanted nothing to do with the common rabble, and they were just right
that they are in the crowd did not understand. But now they heard
astonished, almost for the first time, the sound of the German language.
It was like gulls cry above the Elbe, as Amselsang in the spring, as the
autumn wind in the sandstone rocks, like Quellengeriesel in the oak forest.
And one after another did his leather-bound in pig Latin and Greek
dictionary in the bookcase, the back and Luthersche Bible on the desk
and found it to be morning and evening prayer. Even Luther's pamphlets,
like "The Freedom of a Christian people," flew through the country,
and in churches and on streets sang it: "Come, holy spirit, return
with us."

And she, the Tumbes farmers, relying on his teachings and their teachers
in trying to implement (because what is the idea without the deed? This
is like body without a soul, like flower without fragrance): she died when
she he was leaving, hingeschlachtet by the sword blows to the mercenaries,
with the cry: "A fortress is our God ..." Luther's robust and joyful table
speeches, from his friends, except that, to prove what a great speaker
he was. He probably put all of today's Volkstribunen in the bag:
just a pity that he is no economics, but one was Fürstentribun. * * * *
* Luther died in 1546 in Eisleben. From his spiritual poetry, the
Protestant church in the beginning of his song. Your most beautiful
spiritual songs owes the Protestant Church _Paul Gerhard_ (1607-1676,
died in Luebben as a preacher). A simple mind is paired with a zeal of
God disputable setting and an unwavering sense of poetic form. All of us
Evangelical (ach! Evangelists no longer ...) have as children of these
poems in hours of confirmation and learned in the bare church sung. They
had the childish mind God truly feel close. The music of these verses
pointed us when the lame Küster played the organ, as with his father
on the forehead, hands, and our children's concerns pacifies the
singing confession that is breathed into our lips: I know that a
redeemer lives ...

At night, however, if after the day we work with father and mother and
the servants and maids in front of the door in the warm summer air were
a sleepy cow moo in Stalle, the chickens squatted on the pole, his head
in the plumage, then agreed with my grandfather, and we all fell silent
On: Now rest all forests, livestock, people, cities and fields ... From
the Lutheran to the Catholic Church joined _Angelus Silesius_ (from
Wroclaw, 1624-1677), the Cherubino Wandersmann over. He wrote after his
conversion that mystical two-line, where the "Egyptian plague" of the
Thirty Years' War so succinctly, was held on current expression. At this
time began Magister Opitz (from Boleslawiec, from 1597 to 1639) his
lehrhafte activity. It is now easy to agree on a lot of his bad habit
and silly fun to make: his merit to raising the general level can
not be disputed. Without Opitz Gottsched no, no no Gottsched Herder,
Herder without no Goethe. _Paul Fleming_ (from the Saxon Erzgebirge,
from 1609 to 1640) changed as a planet in the wake of the Opitzschen
sun. But it should he succeed, to find their own paths and to radiate
through. His tender love for the German Alsace donated some of her
finest poetry love poems. Manufacturers of Protestant chen song books did
not let their dogmatic venom mixer to try out art and vice versa, like
Christ, wine into water to transform. They sat for Alsace namely Jesus,
and if the songs you Jawort Alsace, so in the model: "Jesus, there's also
Dreiner Yes." At this parody has Jesus not sure Yes Dreiner given.
He is in heaven smiled softly, because he knows his Pfaffenheim. * * *
* * In the poetry of Silesians _Hofmann of Hofmannswaldau_ (1617-1679) and
Caspar _Daniel of Lohenstein_ (1635-1683) to play Venus, magnificently
aufgeputzt, a triumphant role. If, as sometimes when Hofmann Waldau
from Venus car increases, their overloaded abtut jewelery and a pretty
girl is Wroclaw citizens, brunette, braunäugig, Rotwang: because it is
loved and trusted us, we are pleased to her on the grass and leave us a
their Ehr to price and manufactures song of the Lord of Hofmann Waldau
in a low voice to sing in his ear. Lohenstein Caspar of his next paid
homage to the gods of Venus and Mars Mors. He wrote tragedies schwulstige
bloodthirstiness of looking dreadful. The development of habits and
the development of virtue was the time of the Thirty Years War not
exactly cheap. In large and small has been looted, murdered
and raped. The prince has raped the land of the Landsknecht Bauernmagd.
To the best of the homeland and to greater glory of God, the horrendous
deeds done. The Vienna Hofkapuziner _Abraham a Santa Clara_ (1644-1709)
complained in his speeches and sermons with a stentorian voice and an
enormous amount of pathos schnurrigem against immorality, but
little enough he aligns.

  The Alsatians _Moscherosch_ (1601 to 1669) painted in his' visions
    of Phil Anders customary forest "the decay of time, their
    highest poetic shaping in _Christoph of Grimmelshausens_ (from
Hesse, 1625-1676)» Adventure Simplizissimus "took place.

Besides the Grübl Faust, the wise fools Eulenspiegel is the pure
Parsival gates as the third incarnation of the German soul appeal.
Parsival states in Grimmelshausen Simplizissimus. All the many challenges
to overcome and defeated the simple soul, the great and just in itself
rests, like a pearl in the shell. The background of the novel is torn and
crushed Germany in the Thirty Years War. _Andreas Gryphius_ (from
Großglogau, 1616-1664) saw the general misery of his time on own body and
soul to own typically do not like Grimmelshausen, but individually: and
it was him, it is up to the purest lyrical design transfigure. The
leitmotif of his poems is the Christian symbol of the transience of
human vanity and all the Earth. This was originally religious, and
almost religious-dogmatic sense of depth in his sonnets grandiose artistic
beliefs to a shocking resignation and a sublimely painful pessimism.
The gray full time in the war and in peace, in which we are now forced
to live and die, finds a parallel, does not tolerate bright pink world
friend optimism. = Vanitas! Vanitatum Vanitas! = It's all vain. That
even the treasure so many souls abgezwungen - this is the bitterest
experience, providing us with the great war from 1914 to 1918 has taught.
Lies, hypocrisy, and materialism have Mammonismus the souls governed,
and where is someone who can speak because that's the sword dance
around the golden calf remained entirely free of them? Stoßt the golden
calf from the base and set a white marble statue of the goddess of love,
the world and God and human love in its place and take you by the hand,
and loops around the monument like the Spring Rose chains Reigen a better
time. - Elegy and irony live close together. In Gryphius' Lustspiel =
»Horribilicribrifax« = mocking mouth, he swings the scourge Phrasentum
and over-education, which as a consequence of over-estimation,
especially when all the military officers stand made noticeable. The hero
aufschneiderische foot = = Horribilicribrifax is a delicious character,
which one still lives in bodily form can be seen walking around. - A
middle-foot heroes took _Christian Reuter_, a Leipzig student (born 1665),
a discontinuity Vagantennatur, somewhere in misery withered and died, for
example, there is the Signor Eustachius Schelmuffski whose genuine, curious
and very dangerous journey description of water and land on the most perfect
and accurate at the date he gave.

These lying travel story, which Schelmuffski about Sweden, Brittany, to
Rome to India (it is the high-born great Mogul the Elder, famous kings,
emperors, or rather in India dedicated ...), is one of the best comic
novels of the Germans, and incidentally a delight time mirror. Also
Gryphius Grimmelshausen and reflected the time. If we see in her mirror
time, increases the tear into the eyelid. * * * * * Like a storm wind
rustled _Johann Christian Günther_ (from Striegau, 1695-1723), the gods
of a new era in the German seal. He forged her arms, with which it
later under the heavenly victory Goethe erfechten should. What would be
the Sturm und Drang without Günther? What Goethe Günther without
anything? It was his predecessor, his John, the way he prepared. As
in France Vagant of François Villon, it is in Germany ahasverische
Wanderer Johann Christian Günther, student and vagabond, the vagrant, the
tail end, at the beginning of the new seal. Only those who have the courage
to take off and side ways, will find new ways. So are all these scouts
from fluctuating humanity and consistently, although not Immoral, then
amoral addressed. You are damned, and loads trucks for a generation
to take advance and drag after them come. This has its freedom of
bondage, their floating lightness of gravity of that pounding to thank.
Those are like bulls, such as solar eagle. The young Goethe as a student
in Leipzig, Germany: this is a literal reprint of the young Günther. The
never an old Günther be because he died in the 28th Years on a blood fall.
This fall saw the blood also Goethe in Leipzig, but he stood over
him and walked out of the crisis gekräftigt out. Guenther had his blood
gives off. His young life and densities is a burning and bleeding. He
is the first poet who is aware of outside of civil society, and thereby
those of the latent conflict with his stubborn father conjured up, not a
little of its bitterness and resentment and to its early collapse has
contributed. Gar, it was so easy a child does not by itself going
to learn in a world which was hostile to him, and the detachment of the
umbilical cord, which it in the parents connected with the bourgeoisie,
was not without pain and cramps. He had enemies, "round".

His wild lyre wished thousands into the fire, "because they rasselt
too sharp." Like a mangy dog avoided all he ran through Germany's
streets. As yet his despair that he wished to die because Leonore
themselves to leave him. But he pulls back up, the tears dry up, the fist
ballt is: I want to hope, hope wins out. And in the evening, on the
street when he was a beautiful girl at the fence is provided, he could
smile again. He smiled and laughed and sang it to her: beautiful children
love to sing Is the Office of the poetry, and gallantly handed her his
arm and walked with her into the woods or on the cemetery and the graves
of the dead flourished the kisses of the living and Lovers like jasmine
and Tulipan. If it continued to walk into a university town, he meets a
cooperative drunken young people to get them and sings the most beautiful
German student song: Brother, let's have fun, because the spring währet
... His laurel green, as he sang, to the after world. His name penetrates
through the storm and weather of eternity into the sanctuary. * * * *
* With the same Günther _Johann Christoph Gottsched_ Prussia (1700-1766),
the German literature, with wisdom and professoraler significantly
raised finger: it can you! and: that you must not! on the legs would help.
I do not know if he knew Günther. In any event, it's wildness and his
fire dismayed and shocked. He was responsible for the manners and
morality. Wohlanständig Civic, clearly, soberly, the poetry to be. In
his "Attempt at a critical poetry of the Germans", he presented a
narrow and limited to theory and demanded by the gesture of a dictator,
that each poet - every now and again - strictly followed, to have,
otherwise the Lord by a teacher Five to write Büchel. The important
thing about Gottsched dramatic performance is the risk the experiment.
Others should learn from his experiences. The darling of the reading
was _Christian Fürchtegott Gellert_ (from Saxony, 1715-1769).
Because he united the former direction is in harmony: Gottsched stiffness,
Bodmer "moral" imagination, Haller mountainous Baroque and a soft
pietistic piety, since the Gerhard and Gryphius from German poetry
has not disappeared. His popularity was not a little solid in an honest,
fair character. In the middle he could see his ideal: even Frederick the
Great, who in his letters "from the German literature" before the
German seal showed absolutely no respect, pay homage bowed before the
young Leipzig professor of eloquence and morality. His fables, legends
and spiritual songs splash gently and softly, therefore, here and there
with a good-natured malice shot which just so nasty that it does not hurt.
They wanted to hurt anyone personified goodness. He was not only a
Fürchtegott, but also a Fürchtemensch and Fürchtetier. That the
animal in him as in every human being alive was to demonstrate a
break in some fable lasciviousness, to suppress all his moral force
was necessary.

Because he was too ill to an animalistic lust in and truly to be able
to live as _Friedrich of Hagedorn_ (from Hamburg, 1708-1754), the leader
of a whole horde Galanter gentlemen, the cavaliers in the first place,
second only wanted to be poets and the worship of the beloved muse and
wife united most appropriate. * * * * * On the way through the novels
were Horace and Anakreon the Germans came. With this hike, they had
many of its original charm is lost, and some style to new stimuli. Anakreon
in France was an easy ready-made, elegant Schürzenjäger, Horace in the
wake of the papal Höfe a very funny, wohlbeleibter always easy offense
canon has become a vine wreath fully concealed the tonsure, and where
the beautiful women of Rome and Ravenna happy and willing confessed,
because he said they are smiling from the beginning of all sins single.
Anakreon and Horace are the fathers of the French and German Rococo: the
Greek gods, according to French fashion aufgeputzt, Eros and Silenus led
the ranks of the drunken poet who gave Greek names, such as Damon
or Bathyll, and its lovely inner shepherd: Phyllis or Chloe called. The
rural life was fashionable. But it was only a surface. The women's hair
to be a peasant, her heart was by nature quite far away, any contact
with the true nature of their crudeness and frightened her. They dressed
in shepherd's clothes, a Parisian fashion artist had designed, and well
groomed at herded meadows geschorene short, white-washed, clean
lamb, with pink ribbons around the neck and a small bell on it. And the
staffs of the shepherds were men with silver and gold filled. The
anakreontische poetry begins clumsily chipped, at the Nuremberg
Pegnitzschäfern in order to ring out 1644, one of the so-called linguistic
societies, following the Meistersinger schools emerged. The poets of this
society, including the good _Philipp Harsdörffer_ heard, the inventor
of the "Nuremberg funnel" (with whom he discussed the deplorable contemporary
poetry artificially funnel wanted), resulted in one name and shepherds
as a symbol of a flower in the poet arms. Hagedorn and his comrades
are gifted than their predecessors in the 17th Century. The Hainbündler,
and the striker's insistence, the young Goethe: they were a long way from
here posted tones escape. But besides Goethe succeeded another poet,
in his forest of Anakreontik own carved flute tones to elicit:
_Johann Georg Jacobi_ (from Dusseldorf, 1740-1814).

"It was the grace (- incidentally, the favorite word of the era -),
which so many laborious Anakreontiker to teach had congenital" says
in the preface to his "All works". Verses such as "To a dying child"
facing are rhythmically so bold and new, that they might be Goethe.
Gottfried Keller, in his novella "The vicar of Greifen" a charming picture
of a rural festival painted by the poet Zurich _Salomon Geßner_
(1730-1788) in his country house in Sihlwald his friends there. This
Salomon Gessner is the creator of the German idyll. His talent is limited,
but within the limits of his talent he is with perfect certainty and
charm.
If the
colossal pile beneath him still vibrated with it, was it not as with a
last rise of sap within its ancient walls, a reinvigoration of that
Catholic blood which formerly had demanded that the pile should be a
stupendous one, the veritable king of temples, and which now was striving
to reanimate it with the powerful breath of life, and this at the very
hour when death was beginning to fall upon its over-vast, deserted nave
and aisles? The crowd was still streaming forth, filling the piazza, and
Pierre's heart was wrung by frightful anguish, for that throng with its
shout had just swept his last hope away. On the previous afternoon, after
the reception of the pilgrimage, he had yet been able to deceive himself
by overlooking the necessity for money which bound the Pope to earth in
order that he might see nought but the feeble old man, all spirituality,
resplendent like the symbol of moral authority. But his faith in such a
pastor of the Gospel, free from all considerations of earthly wealth, and
king of none other than a heavenly kingdom, had fled. Not only did the
Peter's Pence impose hard servitude upon Leo XIII but he was also the
prisoner of papal tradition--the eternal King of Rome, riveted to the
soil of Rome, unable either to quit the city or to renounce the temporal
power. The fatal end would be collapse on the spot, the dome of St.
Peter's falling even as the temple of Olympian Jupiter had fallen,
Catholicism strewing the grass with its ruins whilst elsewhere schism
burst forth: a new faith for the new nations. Of this Pierre had a
grandiose and tragical vision: he beheld his dream destroyed, his book
swept away amidst that cry which spread around him as if flying to the
four corners of the Catholic world "/Evviva il Papa-Re! evviva il
Papa-Re! Long live the Pope-King!" But even in that hour of the papacy's
passing triumph he already felt that the giant of gold and marble on
which he stood was oscillating, even as totter all old and rotten
societies.

At last he took his way down again, and a fresh shock of emotion came to
him as he reached the roofs, that sunlit expanse of lead and zinc, large
enough for the site of a town. Monsignor Nani was there, in company with
the two French ladies, the mother and the daughter, both looking very
happy and highly amused. No doubt the prelate had good-naturedly offered
to conduct them to the dome. However, as soon as he recognised the young
priest he went towards him: "Well, my dear son," he inquired, "are you
pleased? Have you been impressed, edified?" As he spoke, his searching
eyes dived into Pierre's soul, as if to ascertain the present result of
his experiments. Then, satisfied with what he detected, he began to laugh
softly: "Yes, yes, I see--come, you are a sensible fellow after all. I
begin to think that the unfortunate affair which brought you here will
have a happy ending."


VIII

WHEN Pierre remained in the morning at the Boccanera mansion he often
spent some hours in the little neglected garden which had formerly ended
with a sort of colonnaded /loggia/, whence two flights of steps descended
to the Tiber. This garden was a delightful, solitary nook, perfumed by
the ripe fruit of the centenarian orange-trees, whose symmetrical lines
were the only indication of the former pathways, now hidden beneath rank
weeds. And Pierre also found there the acrid scent of the large
box-shrubs growing in the old central fountain basin, which had been
filled up with loose earth and rubbish.

On those luminous October mornings, full of such tender and penetrating
charm, the spot was one where all the joy of living might well be
savoured, but Pierre brought thither his northern dreaminess, his concern
for suffering, his steadfast feeling of compassion, which rendered yet
sweeter the caress of the sunlight pervading that atmosphere of love. He
seated himself against the right-hand wall on a fragment of a fallen
column over which a huge laurel cast a deep-black shadow, fresh and
aromatic. In the antique greenish sarcophagus beside him, on which fauns
offered violence to nymphs, the streamlet of water trickling from the
mask incrusted in the wall, set the unchanging music of its crystal note,
whilst he read the newspapers and the letters which he received, all the
communications of good Abbe Rose, who kept him informed of his mission
among the wretched ones of gloomy Paris, now already steeped in fog and
mud.

One morning however, Pierre unexpectedly found Benedetta seated on the
fallen column which he usually made his chair. She raised a light cry of
surprise on seeing him, and for a moment remained embarrassed, for she
had with her his book "New Rome," which she had read once already, but
had then imperfectly understood. And overcoming her embarrassment she now
hastened to detain him, making him sit down beside her, and frankly
owning that she had come to the garden in order to be alone and apply
herself to an attentive study of the book, in the same way as some
ignorant school-girl. Then they began to chat like a pair of friends, and
the young priest spent a delightful hour. Although Benedetta did not
speak of herself, he realised that it was her grief alone which brought
her nearer to him, as if indeed her own sufferings enlarged her heart and
made her think of all who suffered in the world. Patrician as she was,
regarding social hierarchy as a divine law, she had never previously
thought of such things, and some pages of Pierre's book greatly
astonished her. What! one ought to take interest in the lowly, realise
that they had the same souls and the same griefs as oneself, and seek in
brotherly or sisterly fashion to make them happy? She certainly sought to
acquire such an interest, but with no great success, for she secretly
feared that it might lead her into sin, as it could not be right to alter
aught of the social system which had been established by God and
consecrated by the Church. Charitable she undoubtedly was, wont to bestow
small sums in alms, but she did not give her heart, she felt no true
sympathy for the humble, belonging as she did to such a different race,
which looked to a throne in heaven high above the seats of all the
plebeian elect.

She and Pierre, however, found themselves on other mornings side by side
in the shade of the laurels near the trickling, singing water; and he,
lacking occupation, weary of waiting for a solution which seemed to
recede day by day, fervently strove to animate this young and beautiful
woman with some of his own fraternal feelings. He was impassioned by the
idea that he was catechising Italy herself, the queen of beauty, who was
still slumbering in ignorance, but who would recover all her past glory
if she were to awake to the new times with soul enlarged, swelling with
pity for men and things. Reading good Abbe Rose's letters to Benedetta,
he made her shudder at the frightful wail of wretchedness which ascends
from all great cities. With such deep tenderness in her eyes, with the
happiness of love reciprocated emanating from her whole being, why should
she not recognise, even as he did, that the law of love was the sole
means of saving suffering humanity, which, through hatred, incurred the
danger of death? Back in Paris, his parents wanted to spend the faculty,
but he began to study medicine, attracted, rather than a genuine
scientific curiosity, by the tragic aspect of the dissection room.
Very soon the demands of life forced him to drop out. Those were
terrible times, you want removed from all parties, to eat, sometimes
gave lessons in Greek and Latin, in other biographies he wrote _The
Artista_ Europe or spent the afternoon fishing on the banks of the Seine
... the meantime, its good talent and her unwavering tenacity enabled
him to write several plays, among them "Bernard Palissy", "Our intimate
',' Liana Flower" and "Queen Ulfra" that the famous Rachel did not
want to represent. The fatality pursued Sardou . The first drama that
premiered entitled "The Tavern", and noise was whistled for students,
enemies of the Second Empire: all contributed to the failure of
the work until the circumstances turned off the gas when the scene
more interesting ...

Despite what happened to "The Tavern" at the Odeon theater, Desnoyers
accepted Carlos' Flower Liana 'for Ambigú; Desnoyers but died shortly
afterwards, and his successor lost the manuscript. Féval asked Sardou
_raro_ a drama, not remember nothing is known, and Sardou writes "The
humpback, which was interpreted Melingo but it was very jealous and did
not appear ridiculously in the eyes of his wife, refused to represent
him. Montigny rejected the actor's comedy "Paris setback", which found
Scribe _inmunda_ and censorship prohibited the testing of "Candide."
With these setbacks he destiny is satisfied, the wave had become bitter,
and the young fighter, and good mood tempered by misfortune, was
to walk without tripping, to victory.

His work "The first weapons of Figaro" premiered by Déjazet, was a success
which earned him being called "the grandson of Beaumarchais. Almost at
the same time succeed in the theater of the Palacio Real "people nervous,
and soon strengthened his reputation with" Mr. Garat, comedy and
beautiful 'feet fly. "- Fifty years ago that I write for the theater -
I said Sardou - and success is still smiling. There is' The Witch ',
released today ...

As for La Fontaine, my only concern is taste, which scrupulously
achievement considering the tastes of my century. I know that criticism
is not sympathetic with me, but you create that authors who curse
and speak publicly to correct his tastes, because it is the art of
having fun.

The marriage was to mark the author's inspiration for 'Divorciémonos
" a new Felicísimo east. This is the time or phase _moral_ of his work,
and agrees with some itching and honest recollection of the Second
Empire society uninhibited felt after twenty years of orgy. Nobody better
than Victorian Sardou, who had attended the evening of Compiegne and the
Tuileries dancing and save the Empress in the terrible hours of September
4, could respond to that desire, and their successes multiplied. To this
period must cover works "fatherland" and "Hate" delicious comedy "The
family Benoiton" and "Old Boys" and its drama "Serafina" and "Rabago,
who some saw Emilie Ollivier and Gambetta others. Do not discuss here the
drama of Sardou, I know of over forty works, but even censored, in
general the work of the author of "Tosca" and "Madame Sans-Gene", whose
far-fetched as repugnant artificial believe that beauty and truth
can live without theatrical absurdity, it can not be disputed that
their tales are cleverly composed, the scenes that drip passionate
and energetic, and colorful characters, especially women, have
something strange and appealing especially commendable .

One Monday evening, at a quarter-past ten, only the young folks remained
in Donna Serafina's reception-room. Monsignor Nani had merely put in an
appearance that night, and Cardinal Sarno had just gone off.

Even Donna Serafina, in her usual seat by the fireplace, seemed to have
withdrawn from the others, absorbed as she was in contemplation of the
chair which the absent Morano still stubbornly left unoccupied. Chatting
and laughing in front of the sofa on which sat Benedetta and Celia were
Dario, Pierre, and Narcisse Habert, the last of whom had begun to twit
the young Prince, having met him, so he asserted, a few days previously,
in the company of a very pretty girl.

"Oh! don't deny it, my dear fellow," continued Narcisse, "for she was
really superb. She was walking beside you, and you turned into a lane
together--the Borgo Angelico, I think."

Dario listened smiling, quite at his ease and incapable of denying his
passionate predilection for beauty. "No doubt, no doubt; it was I, I
don't deny it," he responded. "Only the inferences you draw are not
correct." And turning towards Benedetta, who, without a thought of
jealous anxiety, wore as gay a look as himself, as though delighted that
he should have enjoyed that passing pleasure of the eyes, he went on: "It
was the girl, you know, whom I found in tears six weeks ago. Yes, that
bead-worker who was sobbing because the workshop was shut up, and who
rushed along, all blushing, to conduct me to her parents when I offered
her a bit of silver. Pierina her name is, as you, perhaps, remember."

"Oh! yes, Pierina."

"Well, since then I've met her in the street on four or five occasions.
And, to tell the truth, she is so very beautiful that I've stopped and
spoken to her. The other day, for instance, I walked with her as far as a
manufacturer's. But she hasn't yet found any work, and she began to cry,
and so, to console her a little, I kissed her. She was quite taken aback
at it, but she seemed very well pleased."

At this all the others began to laugh. But suddenly Celia desisted and
said very gravely, "You know, Dario, she loves you; you must not be hard
on her."

Dario, no doubt, was of Celia's opinion, for he again looked at
Benedetta, but with a gay toss of the head, as if to say that, although
the girl might love him, he did not love her. A bead-worker indeed, a
girl of the lowest classes, pooh! She might be a Venus, but she could be
nothing to him. And he himself made merry over his romantic adventure,
which Narcisse sought to arrange in a kind of antique sonnet: A beautiful
bead-worker falling madly in love with a young prince, as fair as
sunlight, who, touched by her misfortune, hands her a silver crown; then
the beautiful bead-worker, quite overcome at finding him as charitable as
handsome, dreaming of him incessantly, and following him everywhere,
chained to his steps by a link of flame; and finally the beautiful
bead-worker, who has refused the silver crown, so entreating the handsome
prince with her soft, submissive eyes, that he at last deigns to grant
her the alms of his heart. This pastime greatly amused Benedetta; but
Celia, with her angelic face and the air of a little girl who ought to
have been ignorant of everything, remained very grave and repeated sadly,
"Dario, Dario, she loves you; you must not make her suffer."

Then the Contessina, in her turn, was moved to pity. Then we looked
again in the night .-- When the wind against the house and the
small windows were leaking, caught behind me on the tightrope the
silent society with its wooden limbs on to rattle.

Involuntarily I turned around and saw now, as she moves from winches,
with their heads shaking and the stiff arm and legs durcheinanderregten.
But suddenly the sick puppet zurückschlug his head and me with his
white eyes anstierte because I thought it was but better, a little
of the page.

  Not far from the window, but so that the scenes in front of the
sight of this floating Dancers had to protect, was the big box, it
was open a couple of woolen blankets, presumably to pack the dolls
determines were negligent about hingeworfen.

When I had just go there, I heard her from the window Lisei really from
the heart why yawning. "Are you tired Lisei?" I asked. "Oh no," replied
she, by her Ärmchen firmly zusammenschränkte, "but i frier halt!" And
really, it was cold in the large empty spaces, also froze me.

"Come hieher!" I said, "we want to develop in the ceiling." Immediately
thereafter Lisei stood with me and was patient of mine in a blanket wrap,
it looked like a chrysalis, just above that still face the allerliebst
Chen grating. "Do," she said and looked at me with two big tired eyes,
"i rise into Kistler, since holding's warm!" That lit me also, in relation
to the desert environment here waved even a confidential space, almost
like a dense bar. And soon we were poor foolish child well packed
and sealed in high aneinandergeschmiegt box. With your back and we had
our feet against the side walls gestemmt; in the distance we heard
the heavy Saaltür fold in the folding, but we were quite safe and
comfortable.

"Freezes thee still, Lisei?" I asked. "Ka bisserl!" She had her head on
my shoulder fall, her eyes were already closed.

"What will my guts Vaterl -" lallte yet, then I listened to her
steady breaths that she was asleep. I rose from my seat through the upper
panes of one window. The moon was out of his shell again hervorgeschwommen
clouds, in which he for a time had been hidden and the old Bas' has
now disappeared from the sky herunterschauen, and I think probably
she's quite happy doing. A strip moonlight fell on Chen's face,
close to mine rested the black eyelashes were like silk fringes
on the cheeks, the little red mouth breathed quietly, only occasionally
winced nor a short sobbing from the chest up, but also disappeared;
the old Bas' looked so mild even from heaven. - I am not dared to
stir.

"How beautiful would it be", I thought, "if the Lisei your sister if she
will remain with you always could!" Because I had no siblings, and
if I even after the request was no brothers, so I had me often living
with a sister in my thoughts and ausgemalt could never understand, when
my comrades with whom, they really had in Zank brawl and ran.
Besides, judging by his book, he won't see worse things than he has seen
in Paris. As he says in one passage, hunger is the same all the world
over." Then, with her sensible air, she gently laid siege to Dario. "You
know, Dario," said she, "you would please me very much by taking me
there. We can go in the carriage and join these gentlemen. It will be a
very pleasant outing for us. It is such a long time since we went out
together."

It was certainly that idea of going out with Dario, of having a pretext
for a complete reconciliation with him, that enchanted her; he himself
realised it, and, unable to escape, he tried to treat the matter as a
joke. "Ah! cousin," he said, "it will be your fault; I shall have the
nightmare for a week. An excursion like that spoils all the enjoyment of
life for days and days."

The mere thought made him quiver with revolt. However, laughter again
rang out around him, and, in spite of Donna Serafina's mute disapproval,
the appointment was finally fixed for the following morning at ten
o'clock. Celia as she went off expressed deep regret that she could not
form one of the party; but, with the closed candour of a budding lily,
she really took interest in Pierina alone. As she reached the ante-room
she whispered in her friend's ear: "Take a good look at that beauty, my
dear, so as to tell me whether she is so very beautiful--beautiful beyond
compare."

When Pierre met Narcisse near the Castle of Sant' Angelo on the morrow,
at nine o'clock, he was surprised to find him again languid and
enraptured, plunged anew in artistic enthusiasm. At first not a word was
said of the excursion. Narcisse related that he had risen at sunrise in
order that he might spend an hour before Bernini's "Santa Teresa." It
seemed that when he did not see that statue for a week he suffered as
acutely as if he were parted from some cherished mistress. And his
adoration varied with the time of day, according to the light in which he
beheld the figure: in the morning, when the pale glow of dawn steeped it
in whiteness, he worshipped it with quite a mystical transport of the
soul, whilst in the afternoon, when the glow of the declining sun's
oblique rays seemed to permeate the marble, his passion became as fiery
red as the blood of martyrs. "Ah! my friend," said he with a weary air
whilst his dreamy eyes faded to mauve, "you have no idea how delightful
and perturbing her awakening was this morning--how languorously she
opened her eyes, like a pure, candid virgin, emerging from the embrace of
the Divinity. One could die of rapture at the sight!"

Then, growing calm again when he had taken a few steps, he resumed in the
voice of a practical man who does not lose his balance in the affairs of
life: "We'll walk slowly towards the castle-fields district--the
buildings yonder; and on our way I'll tell you what I know of the things
we shall see there. It was the maddest affair imaginable, one of those
delirious frenzies of speculation which have a splendour of their own,
just like the superb, monstrous masterpiece of a man of genius whose mind
is unhinged. I was told of it all by some relatives of mine, who took
part in the gambling, and, in point of fact, made a good deal of money by
it."

Thereupon, with the clearness and precision of a financier, employing
technical terms with perfect ease, he recounted the extraordinary
adventure. That all Italy, on the morrow of the occupation of Rome,
should have been delirious with enthusiasm at the thought of at last
possessing the ancient and glorious city, the eternal capital to which
the empire of the world had been promised, was but natural. It was, so to
say, a legitimate explosion of the delight and the hopes of a young
nation anxious to show its power. The question was to make Rome a modern
capital worthy of a great kingdom, and before aught else there were
sanitary requirements to be dealt with: the city needed to be cleansed of
all the filth which disgraced it. One cannot nowadays imagine in what
abominable putrescence the city of the popes, the /Roma sporca/ which
artists regret, was then steeped: the vast majority of the houses lacked
even the most primitive arrangements, the public thoroughfares were used
for all purposes, noble ruins served as store-places for sewage, the
princely palaces were surrounded by filth, and the streets were perfect
manure beds which fostered frequent epidemics. Thus vast municipal works
were absolutely necessary, the question was one of health and life
itself. And in much the same way it was only right to think of building
houses for the newcomers, who would assuredly flock into the city. There
had been a precedent at Berlin, whose population, after the establishment
of the German empire, had suddenly increased by some hundreds of
thousands. In the same way the population of Rome would certainly be
doubled, tripled, quadrupled, for as the new centre of national life the
city would necessarily attract all the /vis viva/ of the provinces. And
at this thought pride stepped in: the fallen government of the Vatican
must be shown what Italy was capable of achieving, what splendour she
would bestow on the new and third Rome, which, by the magnificence of its
thoroughfares and the multitude of its people, would far excel either the
imperial or the papal city.

True, during the early years some prudence was observed; wisely enough,
houses were only built in proportion as they were required. The
population had doubled at one bound, rising from two to four hundred
thousand souls, thanks to the arrival of the little world of employees
and officials of the public services--all those who live on the State or
hope to live on it, without mentioning the idlers and enjoyers of life
whom a Court always carries in its train. However, this influx of
newcomers was a first cause of intoxication, for every one imagined that
the increase would continue, and, in fact, become more and more rapid.
And so the city of the day before no longer seemed large enough; it was
necessary to make immediate preparations for the morrow's need by
enlarging Rome on all sides. Folks talked, too, of the Paris of the
second empire, which had been so extended and transformed into a city of
light and health. But unfortunately on the banks of the Tiber there was
neither any preconcerted general plan nor any clear-seeing man, master of
the situation, supported by powerful financial organisations. And the
work, begun by pride, prompted by the ambition of surpassing the Rome of
the Caesars and the Popes, the determination to make the eternal,
predestined city the queen and centre of the world once more, was
completed by speculation, one of those extraordinary gambling frenzies,
those tempests which arise, rage, destroy, and carry everything away
without premonitory warning or possibility of arresting their course. All
at once it was rumoured that land bought at five francs the metre had
been sold again for a hundred francs the metre; and thereupon the fever
arose--the fever of a nation which is passionately fond of gambling. A
flight of speculators descending from North Italy swooped down upon Rome,
the noblest and easiest of preys. Those needy, famished mountaineers
found spoils for every appetite in that voluptuous South where life is so
benign, and the very delights of the climate helped to corrupt and hasten
moral gangrene. At first, too; it was merely necessary to stoop; money
was to be found by the shovelful among the rubbish of the first districts
which were opened up. People who were clever enough to scent the course
which the new thoroughfares would take and purchase buildings threatened
with demolition increased their capital tenfold in a couple of years. And
after that the contagion spread, infecting all classes--the princes,
burgesses, petty proprietors, even the shop-keepers, bakers, grocers, and
boot-makers; the delirium rising to such a pitch that a mere baker
subsequently failed for forty-five millions.* Nothing, indeed, was left
but rageful gambling, in which the stakes were millions, whilst the lands
and the houses became mere fictions, mere pretexts for stock-exchange
operations. M. Andrieux comedians divided into three groups: those
who "sing", which "scream" and that "speak." Vulgar artists dramatic start
'screaming' roles. This usually indicates excessive power, and emotion,
failure to rule on it. Is a defect that it has suffered Sara Bernhardt:
In view of the public, a nervous shudder forcing the fray teeth
and jaws from their closed sibilant voice went with a hard metal
that after many players mistakenly have wanted to emulate.

  Other comedians' sing ', they are worse: they are the slaves of the
"hose" hateful, the servants of rhythm, in whom the habit of "heard"
kill the spell of overwhelming emotion.

To avoid the two defects, the actor needs to bear in mind that the perfection
of his art is very "naturalness". The actor who, knowing his role of
memory, say so, not as one who "repeats," but who "improvised", ie
uninhibited speaking sometimes stammering other, as happens in life,
you've got us feeling reality. These excellencies, we could call acquired
or study, you need to add a player of great ability and physical assimilation
nothing vulgar. A cross-eyed comedian, patizambo or hunchback, much
genius that has never imposed or will stir the hearts of the crowds. As
the prophets, such as speakers, as everyone who triumphed with the
gesture, the actor needs to be beautiful. Despite the centuries, Greece
and Rome live in us. We love the line. A 'Quasimodo' forgive him the
error of his spine, because we know that under his hump buffoon, there's
a good boy. Dumas (son) thought that a comedian could succeed only with
emotion, with what he called "the devil inside. " The veteran
critic Sarcey Francisco, is more iconólatra; proclaims the importance
of form. "The public - said, - it seduces with a good figure and
an expressive voice. The rest is the work of instinct. "The former
comedian and then professor of the Conservatoire, M. Worms, also
recognizes the supremacy of the sculpture. "First - write, - the physical
qualities are indispensable: the voice that carries so decisive influence
on the public gaze, the reflection of intense thought, without which
there can have a good comedian, a nervous and sensitive temperament,
the ability to "externalize" quickly, giving a robust observation, and
memory capacity that plays important role in the functioning or dynamics
of all these powers. "Coquelin, more astute, establishes certain
classifications: to translate the classics requires an unimpaired
'speech' for the interpretation of works below, a good presence and
a voice in the 'tic' nice. Mounet-Sully, just wanted the comedian with
"sensitivity, imagination ' . But this is unusual: all the actors, from
Melingo Luciano Guitry, calling for their peers, rather than genius,
elegance and beauty. In fact, many stories could be cited. They say that
some night, M. Dormeuil, former director of the theater of the
Palais-Royal, told Derval, the beautiful Derval, who then began his career
and had very blond hair and eyebrows black and very rich - dear son, you
take off those eyebrows today You have been painted too. Surprised the
actor replied: - What?

What do I delete ... But you are mine! The kind M. Dormeuil repaired
better. - It is true - he said .-- Oh! You will win soon. In those
eyebrows you are an original and a further contrast. The observation
is just. Derval as many other players have accelerated the time of his
success, thanks to the expression suggestive of their factions. An
example is Antonio Vico: I think that half of its tragic power resided
in the forest hirsute, menacing and terribly eloquent in irritable
his eyebrows. It is evident that for this work to improve the
function exerted on the body, as well as gymnastics develops muscles
Acrobat, similar custom to pretend again and again the same expressions,
improves the particularities physiognomic of theater artists, educates the
line of the lips, gives expression to the front and Regulation,
bigger eyes, so that we find consistently in a variety of veteran actors
and winking eyes, which never has the face of comedian couple. But the
face of education is not enough: the distance that separates the stage
from the seats, the richness of the decorations, and most of all,
the glow of the battery 'eat' a lot, ie diminish the importance of
figures, the dwarf and smearing, and thus was born the art of _maquillaje_
or strengthen or 'bulk' expressions, so that they can reach the public
in their absolute intensity and purity. The _maquillaje_ is to face what
it is the idea: something that revives you, who gives plasticity and
relief, a kind of mask or 'second face', which, combined with the
first, the real face cooperates to ' materialization "perfect, just
the thought of the author. All the big theater artists have recognized
the importance of _maquillaje_, whose invention is attributed to Daniel
Bac, famous actor of bufo during the second empire. Celebrity
Lafont never took no less than three hours to paint, and M.

Febvre was surprised that the Conservatory has not a special class where
students can learn, reasoning, the art featured. The _maquillaje_, in
fact, is kind of a little corner of science, whose cultivation
requires certain discrete anatomical knowledge. Is often characterized
as Jose Santiago or Simó Raso, who offer us in 'The Green Ray' and
'evil-doers of good' two 'heads' unforgettable, it is very difficult.
Requires knowing all the secrets of the talking face: wrinkles
is where the mockery, the folds of despondency, the rows of
distrust and anger, and also known as a painter, that there should be
harmony among the wigs and Additions and expressions of face, how to
widen the eyes of aviejar mouth, the lips that give expression, and the
color more in line with the words you have said. Moreover, these minute
details that contribute to auto, so precious to the art of the comedian.
The suit affects the actor: the sword and the trust inspired by
education, perhaps by atavism, romancescos itching for adventure and
conquest, a peasant dress striding predispose to attic, to clumsy
gestures, a wig of 'old' leads to bending forward and slide temblequeos
seniority in the hands and voice. Ginisty Account, In fact, the tender
and touching story of a failed actor who, no longer able to appear in
public, and served as the second point to make 'one voice' from racks. The
night he debuted the comedy "A gentleman or a lady," the elder actor was
present, "from within", the role of a postboy. To which, bowing to
his inveterate habit of characterizing, dressed from head to toe, and dyed
his nose and cheeks red, thus giving himself the impression that it was
a drunk driver. His comrades tease him for that zeal, that they
felt useless. But he replied: - I think: this helps me to 'tone words'.
Amen's review, insatiable, of the work that they represent, the actors
must applied to rummage in reality how many elements can reinforce the
impressions that reads them, and give a veneer of fiction scenic indeed
real and vivid. As for the painter, as novelists, actors looking into
the street, or in ateneo in the tavern, data or sketches then
adjusted the figures or characters you want to interpret.

Some comedians, as Coquelin and Pepe Santiago, know something of design,
have an album where just the heads and pointing gestures that
interested her more attention. Maligny of Regnier, in his "Manual of
comedian," says they need to know the real rates and study mainly "in"
the field ", the voice, gestures, simple and honest, of the peasants. In
"churches", the true and the false devotees. In "hearings", the lawyers,
prosecutors and judges. In 'the homes of the nobles and the rich, "the
servants and subordinates arrogant. In "the palaces of princes, to whom
the custody and those who go there to visit. In 'cemeteries, the truly
bereaved relatives and heirs who appear to be. "The advice of
this old' Manual ', a little childish, are, in essence, an unsurpassed
accuracy. Never agility equals creative genius inexhaustable fertility of
nature, all characters that novelists and playwrights Corneille from
Rostand to have invented, not joined the crowd of types, temperaments and
family, before they can pass on our balcony a very short space of time.
Some of the footprints left in the reality that the formation of a character
or idea stage, have passed into history. Garrick says in his' Memoirs'
that shouts, livid faces a desperate friend who lost the trial
because of a daughter two years it had fallen to the street from a
balcony, then helped him to compose the gusty nature of the ' King
Lear. " After so many protracted meditations, they called the tests
"table", some stage directors such as Fernando Diaz peritísimos
Mendoza estimated adverse spontaneity that should grace and freshness
to the work of the comedian, then test overall or general, where
each player gets used to know the real site that deals in the works
with other characters, and finally, the night always awesome and
terrible, the premiere.

The English actress Christina Nilsson, said: "There are artists who seek
to ignore this painful hyperesthesia that precedes the" débuts. "artists
who are counted as the late Anthony Perrin, retain, amid the general
excitement shock, the friendly humor of his blood cold. Vico, in the
intervals, remained absorbed. Reject all María Tubau conversation.
Pepe Rubio seeking solitude and comes and goes, the eyes fixed on the
floor, hands crossed behind their backs. Night fever is that, curtain
inside, no one close hand, it seems that nobody knows ... The panic of
those hours cruel forces many comedians to take certain precautions. Some
seek a spur to his nerves in fasting, others seek momentarily
irritated artificial, not to feel the "fear of the public. Talma, for
example, before leaving the stage, lashed to his servant, slapped
him, insulted him: - Traitor ... miserable ... get on their knees! ...
This allowed autosuggestion better after she left. In as much or
as little rudeness of those blows, the poor server knew the stress that
his master was. - Today - read, - M. Talma has stuck me very strong, good
work. Other artists, by contrast, look at the coveted perfect serenity,
some laxity intimate that felt better. Thus, Adelaide Ristori, the eve
of the big premieres, he visited a cemetery, and reading epitaphs were
moved to tears with those expressions of 'human pain'. And Fanny Kemble,
hours before first interpret the role of 'Juliet', went to St. James Park
read Blum's book, entitled: "Main Characteristics of the Holy Scriptures,"
because that - say, - served as excellent sedation exaltation of my
brain. "The audience, which penetrate a theater ticket purchases with
your local law to enjoy it ignores all those obstacles which embitter
the successes, it seems easy, the comedian. These, in turn, also ignored.
If they knew, on leaving the Conservatory, the career of performing arts
appear to them as a cost sour, inhospitable, almost inaccessible, to try
to upload a few. MONTANSIER LA A century ago that a room booked at the
Vaudeville Theater, Paris , retains the chair of that extraordinary woman
who was called "the Montansier. The friend who walks in front of us,
he says, stopping and going down a little voice: "... Here sat the
Montansier to run their tests." It is an armchair canonjil spacious and
comfortable back seat and square, between whose arms we see calm the
agitated figure and graceful spicy, full mobility and initiatives, the
famous entrepreneur of the Palais Royal. And forget about the old
furniture, such as evaporation of silence and peace of melancholy.
Margaret Brunet was born in Bayonne in the year 1730. His parents were
laborers modest. One afternoon arrived in the city of artists who in the
mid-eighteenth century wore through Europe and on a cart, the joy of
their souls naughty weightless. Scratch the faces of comedy, colorful
costumes, carnival chords of brass, which thundered into the square,
stir the spirit, calm up there, the young, with a wind of freedom.

It would be nice to run away, breaking the order, handed over to the
attraction of those horizons where the goddess Aventura celebrated daily,
in the vagueness of the undulating roads, their rites of poetry and
mystery. and hallucinations with "the joy that passes, Margaret Brunet,
without leave of anybody, without love any of his captors, followed
celebrity ...

When he arrived in Paris, was twenty, and was installed at the home
of his elderly aunt, Mme. Montansier, Mercero of San Roque. The future
actress was then a girl menudita, pizpireta, big talk, suggestive of
pure evil. Her lips, full of laughter and grace, her pale beauty of the
South and its black eyes, gave up the admiration of many noble old,
at sunset, walked the majesty of his long casacones embroidered under
the trees of the Tuileries . Some generously protected, and Margarita, who
all last name "the Montansier, had, as the medieval queens, a"
Court of Love.

For thirty years met Neuville, an actor who was in theaters in order
infinitesimal second trouser roles, the admirable Neuville, tolerant
and discreet, and with whom the Montansier old and glorious, was
married thirty-four years later. Actually, Margaret Brunet, the latter
trait of fidelity, so forgetful in disharmony with his temper, did
not pay more than a sacred debt: Neuville, indeed, who was at the same
time that he conquered ungrateful heart, set your destination. Dazzled
under arcane and dazzling eyes of his idol, the modest actor repeating:
"You were born to an actress. Why do not you dare?
And at each
corner, moreover, there was the frightful irony of the magnificent marble
slabs which bore the names of the streets, illustrious historical names,
Gracchus, Scipio, Pliny, Pompey, Julius Caesar, blazing forth on those
unfinished, crumbling walls like a buffet dealt by the Past to modern
incompetency.

Then Pierre was once more struck by this truth--that whosoever possesses
Rome is consumed by the building frenzy, the passion for marble, the
boastful desire to build and leave his monument of glory to future
generations. After the Caesars and the Popes had come the Italian
Government, which was no sooner master of the city than it wished to
reconstruct it, make it more splendid, more huge than it had ever been
before. It was the fatal suggestion of the soil itself--the blood of
Augustus rushing to the brain of these last-comers and urging them to a
mad desire to make the third Rome the queen of the earth. Thence had come
all the vast schemes such as the cyclopean quays and the mere ministries
struggling to outvie the Colosseum; and thence had come all the new
districts of gigantic houses which had sprouted like towns around the
ancient city. It was not only on the castle fields, but at the Porta San
Giovanni, the Porta San Lorenzo, the Villa Ludovisi, and on the heights
of the Viminal and the Esquiline that unfinished, empty districts were
already crumbling amidst the weeds of their deserted streets. After two
thousand years of prodigious fertility the soil really seemed to be
exhausted. Even as in very old fruit gardens newly planted plum and
cherry trees wither and die, so the new walls, no doubt, found no life in
that old dust of Rome, impoverished by the immemorial growth of so many
temples, circuses, arches, basilicas, and churches. And thus the modern
houses, which men had sought to render fruitful, the useless, over-huge
houses, swollen with hereditary ambition, had been unable to attain
maturity, and remained there sterile like dry bushes on a plot of land
exhausted by over-cultivation. And the frightful sadness that one felt
arose from the fact that so creative and great a past had culminated in
such present-day impotency--Rome, who had covered the world with
indestructible monuments, now so reduced that she could only generate
ruins.

"Oh, they'll be finished some day!" said Pierre.

Narcisse gazed at him in astonishment: "For whom?"

That was the cruel question! Only by dint of patriotic enthusiasm on the
morrow of the conquest had one been able to indulge in the hope of a
mighty influx of population, and now singular blindness was needed for
the belief that such an influx would ever take place. The past
experiments seemed decisive; moreover, there was no reason why the
population should double: Rome offered neither the attraction of pleasure
nor that of gain to be amassed in commerce and industry for those she had
not, nor of intensity of social and intellectual life, since of this she
seemed no longer capable. In any case, years and years would be
requisite. And, meantime, how could one people those houses which were
finished; and for whom was one to finish those which had remained mere
skeletons, falling to pieces under sun and rain? Must they all remain
there indefinitely, some gaunt and open to every blast and others closed
and silent like tombs, in the wretched hideousness of their inutility and
abandonment? What a terrible proof of error they offered under the
radiant sky! The new masters of Rome had made a bad start, and even if
they now knew what they ought to have done would they have the courage to
undo what they had done? Since the milliard sunk there seemed to be
definitely lost and wasted, one actually hoped for the advent of a Nero,
endowed with mighty, sovereign will, who would take torch and pick and
burn and raze everything in the avenging name of reason and beauty.

"Ah!" resumed Narcisse, "here are the Contessina and the Prince."

Benedetta had told the coachman to pull up in one of the open spaces
intersecting the deserted streets, and now along the broad, quiet, grassy
road--well fitted for a lovers' stroll--she was approaching on Dario's
arm, both of them delighted with their outing, and no longer thinking of
the sad things which they had come to see. "What a nice day it is!" the
Contessina gaily exclaimed as she reached Pierre and Narcisse. "How
pleasant the sunshine is! It's quite a treat to be able to walk about a
little as if one were in the country!"

Dario was the first to cease smiling at the blue sky, all the delight of
his stroll with his cousin on his arm suddenly departing. "My dear," said
he, "we must go to see those people, since you are bent on it, though it
will certainly spoil our day. But first I must take my bearings. I'm not
particularly clever, you know, in finding my way in places where I don't
care to go. Besides, this district is idiotic with all its dead streets
and dead houses, and never a face or a shop to serve as a reminder. Still
I think the place is over yonder. Follow me; at all events, we shall
see."

Over my head, under the wooden ceiling of the hall, rode on the hellish
Kasperl sparrow in the air and cried once over the other: "the
worst Brüderle! Brüderle bad!" or even with a pathetic voice: "My arm!
My arm!" Since I was woken up by a smile that erschallte over my head,
perhaps by the light, I suddenly fell in the eye. "Nun seh me a
Vogelnik this! " I heard the voice of my father say, and then a little
harsh: "Climb out, boy!" That was the tone that I am always in the
amount of mechanical drive. I opened his eyes and saw my father and
the couple Tendlersche at our box stand, Mr. Tendler was a burning lantern
in his hand. My effort to collect myself, however, was thwarted by Lisei,
which still continued sleeping with all their little burden on my chest
had sunk. When, however, now two bony arms ausstreckten to make them
particularly relevant from the crate, and I am the wood face of the
woman Tendler to us niederbeugen saw, because I was so impetuous arms
to my little friend, that I be the good old woman almost their Italian
straw hat from his head would have cracked. "Nu, nu, Bub!" she
exclaimed and stepped back a step, but I am from out of the box, told
with winged words, and without me to be beautiful, in the morning what
had happened. "Well, Madame Tendler," said my father, as I do with my
report to an end, and also made a very clear hand, "because to me you
could probably leave this business alone with my boys abzumachen." "Oh
yes, oh yes!" I cried eagerly, as if I have just the most pleasant
pastime would promise. Lisei, however, was also awakened by her father
on the arm was taken.

I saw the arms wrapped around his neck and he soon eagerly whispered in his
ear, and soon he tenderly into the eyes or looked like beteuernd with the
heads nodded. Immediately thereafter the puppeteers also took the hand
of my father.

"Dear Lord," he said, "the children ask each other. Mother, you're too
nit even that bad! Let it stop with this!" Madame Tendler did however
still immobile from her big straw hat. "You look like same as you without
the puppet will be ready! " she said with a strict eye on her husband in
the face of my father, I saw some funny wink, which made me hope that
there will be this time the storm to pass me, and now even as he promised,
on the other days of his art to Preparation of Invalidenstraße aufzubieten,
while Madame Tendler Italian straw hat in the movement holdseligste fell
because I was sure we were both in the dry. Soon we marched down the dark
alleys, Mr. Tendler ahead with the lantern, we children hand in hand the
elderly after .-- Then: "Good night, Paul! Oh, i want schlaf'n!" And
gone was the Lisei I had not noticed that we have in our homes had
arrived.

On other mornings, when I came out of school was, I met Mr. Tendler
with his little daughter in our workshop.
And he,
with his naive egotism, had a positive horror of ugliness, poverty, and
suffering, the sight of which caused him both mental and physical pain.

Benedetta shuddered even as he did, but in presence of Pierre she desired
to be brave. Glancing at him, and seeing how deeply interested and
compassionate he looked, she desired to persevere in her effort to
sympathise with the humble and the wretched. "No, no, Dario, we must
stay. These gentlemen wish to see everything--is it not so?"

"Oh, the Rome of to-day is here," exclaimed Pierre; "this tells one more
about it than all the promenades among the ruins and the monuments."

"You exaggerate, my dear Abbe," declared Narcisse. "Still, I will admit
that it is very interesting. Some of the old women are particularly
expressive."

At this moment Benedetta, seeing a superbly beautiful girl in front of
her, could not restrain a cry of enraptured admiration: "/O che
bellezza!"

And then Dario, having recognised the girl, exclaimed with the same
delight: "Why, it's La Pierina; she'll show us the way."

The girl had been following the party for a moment already without daring
to approach. Her eyes, glittering with the joy of a loving slave, had at
first darted towards the Prince, and then had hastily scrutinised the
Contessina--not, however, with any show of jealous anger, but with an
expression of affectionate submission and resigned happiness at seeing
that she also was very beautiful. And the girl fully answered to the
Prince's description of her--tall, sturdy, with the bust of a goddess, a
real antique, a Juno of twenty, her chin somewhat prominent, her mouth
and nose perfect in contour, her eyes large and full like a heifer's, and
her whole face quite dazzling--gilded, so to say, by a sunflash--beneath
her casque of heavy jet-black hair.

"So you will show us the way?" said Benedetta, familiar and smiling,
already consoled for all the surrounding ugliness by the thought that
there should be such beautiful creatures in the world.

"Oh yes, signora, yes, at once!" And thereupon Pierina ran off before
them, her feet in shoes which at any rate had no holes, whilst the old
brown woollen dress which she wore appeared to have been recently washed
and mended. One seemed to divine in her a certain coquettish care, a
desire for cleanliness, which none of the others displayed; unless,
indeed, it were simply that her great beauty lent radiance to her humble
garments and made her appear a goddess.

"/Che bellezza! the bellezza!/" the Contessina repeated without wearying.
"That girl, Dario /mio/, is a real feast for the eyes!"

"I knew she would please you," he quietly replied, flattered at having
discovered such a beauty, and no longer talking of departure, since he
could at last rest his eyes on something pleasant.

Behind them came Pierre, likewise full of admiration, whilst Narcisse
spoke to him of the scrupulosity of his own tastes, which were for the
rare and the subtle. "She's beautiful, no doubt," said he; "but at bottom
nothing can be more gross than the Roman style of beauty; there's no
soul, none of the infinite in it. These girls simply have blood under
their skins without ever a glimpse of heaven."

Meantime Pierina had stopped, and with a wave of the hand directed
attention to her mother, who sat on a broken box beside the lofty doorway
of an unfinished mansion. She also must have once been very beautiful,
but at forty she was already a wreck, with dim eyes, drawn mouth, black
teeth, broadly wrinkled countenance, and huge fallen bosom. And she was
also fearfully dirty, her grey wavy hair dishevelled and her skirt and
jacket soiled and slit, revealing glimpses of grimy flesh. On her knees
she held a sleeping infant, her last-born, at whom she gazed like one
overwhelmed and courageless, like a beast of burden resigned to her fate.

"/Bene, bene,/" said she, raising her head, "it's the gentleman who came
to give me a crown because he saw you crying. And he's come back to see
us with some friends. Well, well, there are some good hearts in the world
after all."

Then she related their story, but in a spiritless way, without seeking to
move her visitors. She was called Giacinta, it appeared, and had married
a mason, one Tomaso Gozzo, by whom she had had seven children, Pierina,
then Tito, a big fellow of eighteen, then four more girls, each at an
interval of two years, and finally the infant, a boy, whom she now had on
her lap. They had long lived in the Trastevere district, in an old house
which had lately been pulled down; and their existence seemed to have
then been shattered, for since they had taken refuge in the Quartiere dei
Prati the crisis in the building trade had reduced Tomaso and Tito to
absolute idleness, and the bead factory where Pierina had earned as much
as tenpence a day--just enough to prevent them from dying of hunger--had
closed its doors. At present not one of them had any work; they lived
purely by chance.

"If you like to go up," the woman added, "you'll find Tomaso there with
his brother Ambrogio, whom we've taken to live with us. They'll know
better than I what to say to you. Tomaso is resting; but what else can he
do? It's like Tito--he's dozing over there."

So saying she pointed towards the dry grass amidst which lay a tall young
fellow with a pronounced nose, hard mouth, and eyes as admirable as
Pierina's. He had raised his head to glance suspiciously at the visitors,
a fierce frown gathering on his forehead when he remarked how rapturously
his sister contemplated the Prince. Then he let his head fall again, but
kept his eyes open, watching the pair stealthily.

"Take the lady and gentlemen upstairs, Pierina, since they would like to
see the place," said the mother.

Other women had now drawn near, shuffling along with bare feet in old
shoes; bands of children, too, were swarming around; little girls but
half clad, amongst whom, no doubt, were Giacinta's four. However, with
their black eyes under their tangled mops they were all so much alike
that only their mothers could identify them. And the whole resembled a
teeming camp of misery pitched on that spot of majestic disaster, that
street of palaces, unfinished yet already in ruins.

With a soft, loving smile, Benedetta turned to her cousin. "Don't you
come up," she gently said; "I don't desire your death, Dario /mio/. It
was very good of you to come so far. Wait for me here in the pleasant
sunshine: Monsieur l'Abbe and Monsieur Habert will go up with me."

Dario began to laugh, and willingly acquiesced. Then lighting a
cigarette, he walked slowly up and down, well pleased with the mildness
of the atmosphere.

La Pierina had already darted into the spacious porch whose lofty,
vaulted ceiling was adorned with coffers displaying a rosaceous pattern.
However, a veritable manure heap covered such marble slabs as had already
been laid in the vestibule, whilst the steps of the monumental stone
staircase with sculptured balustrade were already cracked and so grimy
that they seemed almost black. On all sides appeared the greasy stains of
hands; the walls, whilst awaiting the painter and gilder, had been
smeared with repulsive filth.

On reaching the spacious first-floor landing Pierina paused, and
contented herself with calling through a gaping portal which lacked both
door and framework: "Father, here's a lady and two gentlemen to see you."
Then to the Contessina she added: "It's the third room at the end." And
forthwith she herself rapidly descended the stairs, hastening back to her
passion.

Benedetta and her companions passed through two large rooms, bossy with
plaster under foot and having frameless windows wide open upon space; and
at last they reached a third room, where the whole Gozzo family had
installed itself with the remnants it used as furniture. On the floor,
where the bare iron girders showed, no boards having been laid down, were
five or six leprous-looking palliasses. A long table, which was still
strong, occupied the centre of the room, and here and there were a few
old, damaged, straw-seated chairs mended with bits of rope. The great
business had been to close two of the three windows with boards, whilst
the third one and the door were screened with some old mattress ticking
studded with stains and holes.

Tomaso's face expressed the surprise of a man who is unaccustomed to
visits of charity. Seated at the table, with his elbows resting on it and
his chin supported by his hands, he was taking repose, as his wife
Giacinta had said. He was a sturdy fellow of five and forty, bearded and
long-haired; and, in spite of all his misery and idleness, his large face
had remained as serene as that of a Roman senator. However, the sight of
the two foreigners--for such he at once judged Pierre and Narcisse to be,
made him rise to his feet with sudden distrust. But he smiled on
recognising Benedetta, and as she began to speak of Dario, and to explain
the charitable purpose of their visit, he interrupted her: "Yes, yes, I
know, Contessina. Oh! I well know who you are, for in my father's time I
once walled up a window at the Palazzo Boccanera."

Then he complaisantly allowed himself to be questioned, telling Pierre,
who was surprised, that although they were certainly not happy they would
have found life tolerable had they been able to work two days a week. And
one could divine that he was, at heart, fairly well content to go on
short commons, provided that he could live as he listed without fatigue.
His narrative and his manner suggested the familiar locksmith who, on
being summoned by a traveller to open his trunk, the key of which was
lost, sent word that he could not possibly disturb himself during the
hour of the siesta. In short, there was no rent to pay, as there were
plenty of empty mansions open to the poor, and a few coppers would have
sufficed for food, easily contented and sober as one was.

"But oh, sir," Tomaso continued, "things were ever so much better under
the Pope. My father, a mason like myself, worked at the Vatican all his
life, and even now, when I myself get a job or two, it's always there. We
were spoilt, you see, by those ten years of busy work, when we never left
our ladders and earned as much as we pleased. Of course, we fed ourselves
better, and bought ourselves clothes, and took such pleasure as we cared
for; so that it's all the harder nowadays to have to stint ourselves. But
if you'd only come to see us in the Pope's time! No taxes, everything to
be had for nothing, so to say--why, one merely had to let oneself live."

At this moment a growl arose from one of the palliasses lying in the
shade of the boarded windows, and the mason, in his slow, quiet way,
resumed: "It's my brother Ambrogio, who isn't of my opinion.

"He was with the Republicans in '49, when he was fourteen. But it doesn't
matter; we took him with us when we heard that he was dying of hunger and
sickness in a cellar."

The visitors could not help quivering with pity. Ambrogio was the elder
by some fifteen years; and now, though scarcely sixty, he was already a
ruin, consumed by fever, his legs so wasted that he spent his days on his
palliasse without ever going out. Shorter and slighter, but more
turbulent than his brother, he had been a carpenter by trade. And,
despite his physical decay, he retained an extraordinary head--the head
of an apostle and martyr, at once noble and tragic in its expression, and
encompassed by bristling snowy hair and beard.

"The Pope," he growled; "I've never spoken badly of the Pope. Yet it's
his fault if tyranny continues. He alone in '49 could have given us the
Republic, and then we shouldn't have been as we are now."

Ambrogio had known Mazzini, whose vague religiosity remained in him--the
dream of a Republican pope at last establishing the reign of liberty and
fraternity. But later on his passion for Garibaldi had disturbed these
views, and led him to regard the papacy as worthless, incapable of
achieving human freedom. And so, between the dream of his youth and the
stern experience of his life, he now hardly knew in which direction the
truth lay. Moreover, he had never acted save under the impulse of violent
emotion, but contented himself with fine words--vague, indeterminate
wishes.

"Brother Ambrogio," replied Tomaso, all tranquillity, "the Pope is the
Pope, and wisdom lies in putting oneself on his side, because he will
always be the Pope--that is to say, the stronger. For my part, if we had
to vote to-morrow I'd vote for him."

Calmed by the shrewd prudence characteristic of his race, the old
carpenter made no haste to reply. At last he said, "Well, as for me,
brother Tomaso, I should vote against him--always against him. And you
know very well that we should have the majority. The Pope-king indeed!
That's all over. The very Borgo would revolt. Still, I won't say that we
oughtn't to come to an understanding with him, so that everybody's
religion may be respected."

Pierre listened, deeply interested, and at last ventured to ask: "Are
there many socialists among the Roman working classes?"

This time the answer came after a yet longer pause. "Socialists? Yes,
there are some, no doubt, but much fewer than in other places. All those
things are novelties which impatient fellows go in for without
understanding much about them. We old men, we were for liberty; we don't
believe in fire and massacre."

Then, fearing to say too much in presence of that lady and those
gentlemen, Ambrogio began to moan on his pallet, whilst the Contessina,
somewhat upset by the smell of the place, took her departure, after
telling the young priest that it would be best for them to leave their
alms with the wife downstairs. Meantime Tomaso resumed his seat at the
table, again letting his chin rest on his hands as he nodded to his
visitors, no more impressed by their departure than he had been by their
arrival: "To the pleasure of seeing you again, and am happy to have been
able to oblige you."

On the threshold, however, Narcisse's enthusiasm burst forth; he turned
to cast a final admiring glance at old Ambrogio's head, "a perfect
masterpiece," which he continued praising whilst he descended the stairs.

Down below Giacinta was still sitting on the broken box with her infant
across her lap, and a few steps away Pierina stood in front of Dario,
watching him with an enchanted air whilst he finished his cigarette.
Tito, lying low in the grass like an animal on the watch for prey, did
not for a moment cease to gaze at them.

"Ah, signora!" resumed the woman, in her resigned, doleful voice, "the
place is hardly inhabitable, as you must have seen. The only good thing
is that one gets plenty of room. But there are draughts enough to kill
me, and I'm always so afraid of the children falling down some of the
holes."

Thereupon she related a story of a woman who had lost her life through
mistaking a window for a door one evening and falling headlong into the
street. Then, too, a little girl had broken both arms by tumbling from a
staircase which had no banisters. And you could die there without anybody
knowing how bad you were and coming to help you. Only the previous day
the corpse of an old man had been found lying on the plaster in a lonely
room. Starvation must have killed him quite a week previously, yet he
would still have been stretched there if the odour of his remains had not
attracted the attention of neighbours.

"The first event - Got account - won many plaudits, but the other two
were kicked and whistles, especially the second. The weight of the battle
and what we were Agustina me. Agustina, which does not fit all the modern
repertory, started to falter, as usual, and ended up losing his head. I
was alone and defeated ... or almost expired. However, I continued to
fight valiantly ...

"These words, which testify to the noble sacrifice of the famous French
comedian, should not surprise us, because that heroism, that has filled
the history of theater anecdotes touching, is a flower nobility that comes
very easily on the impressionable and generous hearts of the servants
of Téspis.

Necessary to know the life effusion, fever, shock across all emotions and,
in the curtain, to measure the fraternal love, friendship and full of
selfless sacrifice, which links to the author and his interpreters to the
lights of the premiere night of a battery . Until then, the slow wind
during the tests, the playwright was a small sort of dictator, without
whose consent and welcome any initiative prevailed: the actors asking the
intonation of the phrases true hardship, the painter he made his stage
sketches, actresses he consulted the color of their wigs and
costumes, the furniture stores, accepted his orders without the approval
stage director had not done anything ... And in this seesaw discussions
sensitive, rebuke, amendments, advice, followed often reluctantly and
only because the rule of discipline, how many vanities Chafe, many small
prides boiled, how many hidden resentments arose here and there, as spines,
because the playwright, despite their kindness, courtesy of the softness
in their replies that he and his vigilant commitment to not upset anybody,
could not, however, to please everyone!

... That same feeling that characterizes the burning of priests celebrity
makes them susceptible and glassy: Yesterday was the first actress
to be angry secretly against the author, because it, to show that she
thought the hat with 'dressing' the work, not showed much enthusiasm
today trouserpress who is disappointed because the playwright, in the
trial, he corrected a gesture all too vivid; morning, finally,
will the property, or the young lady, or comic actor, who is believe
offended by the unfortunate author, preoccupied with the vicissitudes
of his work multiplied, to leave the theater not greet them with some
affection ... like a big gust of air, the night of the premiere has
the power to sweep away all these small impurities.

No one better than the comedians, you know how much risk an author in
these times, which may depend not only their future staff, but also the
success of the season and the interests of the community. There is,
therefore, to defend, because the man is like the flag you are
associated prestige and glory and money of all.

Then, in front of the battery, face to face with the public, the gentle
and fearsome enemy of artists, small antipathies forget: we must win, but
then, in the privacy and the danger passed, the bitterness and
jealousy suckers. Thus, there was some famous comedian night and storm
losses when the crowd began to murmur and bastoneos express their displeasure
toward the work, not feeling the desire to do something great heroic,
extraordinary, to contain the disaster. There are many players that,
like the one that speaks Agustina Got Edmundo was empavorecen shock and
hostility to the public but, in contrast, others, more enlightened,
like to fight him arm and arm fascinated by her gesture and force
him to beat to join hands to clap.

About all that, Jose Echegaray could relate many and curious hauls,
especially if you remember the release of _The trono_ a staircase, that
the tragic drama Maria Guerrero, beautiful, gorgeous, irresistible,
stood like a lioness. But as beautiful spirit of solidarity and sacrifice
only perennial late in the relations of actors with the author. Among
them, comedians, separated by a desire to shine, jealous of each other,
were destroyed in a fiercely fight Taiman and uncompromising: his
personal rivalries go beyond the limits of the racks and accompany
them on stage, and there is worse.

In the silent room and throbbing, so easy to clap to the protest, the artists
off, sometimes nobly, using tricks of others to bad law. Men forget
their gallantry, women's mercy. If you can trouserpress' pisarle "a
sentence or a steal effect 'to the first actress, it does, and vice
versa. Gone are the sexes, no one has mercy on anyone's thirst for glory
as poisons everything. The bitterness goes so far as the comic actor, for
example, tell a joke that was not in his role, or dropped a chair
or do something hilarious and grotesque, with no other purpose
than to distract the public not to applaud another actor that had
been prepared "a masterful exit ...

We shall for this reason that comedians are worse than other men? No. Why?
Will all of us lawyers, doctors, engineers, merchants, in the great
human drama, not doing so?

THE NOVEL IN THE THEATER The huge figure of Balzac, who despite being
in the glorious fullness ubérrima his work, he needed to write seventeen
and eighteen hours a day to pay their debts, is conclusive proof
that the book rarely produce enough to live comfortably. The novelists,
however, feel a certain aristocratic disdain towards dramatic literature,
in his view ample artificial and commercial. They say that Honorato de
Balzac and Alexander Dumas was an evening in front of the Comédie
Française. Dumas had just delivered the manuscript of _The Belle-Miss
Isle_. - When I feel tired - Balzac said proudly, - write for the
theater. To which Alexander Dumas replied, ironically: - We
advise you to start soon before, dear friend. _Antony_ The author was
right. The theater in spite of these molds unwavering time and space
necessarily has to be developed, it is not inferior to the novel is ...
"Otherwise" and the radical antagonism of both genders, if essentially
divorced, separated even more in regards to your complexion and architecture,
set not including discrete points of comparison. What it does is recognize
the great difficulties of the novel, the miracles of art and philosophical
insight necessary to write a book-form: a _Madame Bobary_, for example.
The novel is narration of events, description of figures and scenery,
scientific review, while beautiful and entertaining, character. A
playwright would write just outside their original annotation as
follows: "elegant Hall .-- .-- It is night and Fulana Zutano appear on
the left and costumes dance ..." No need to add more, the remainder
entrusted to the care of the comedians and stage director. But the
novelist has to say everything, and so their explanations, without sin
of boring, are sufficiently detailed to give the reader the exact
feeling of the place or environment where the characters are going
to move.

Alternatively psychologist and painter, his inspiration will be subject
to the object, and vice versa, or alambic germination and growth
of our love life, or explore the world outside impressions that determined
individuals, and the reactions or perverse kind that occurs in these as
their education and temperament. Scenery, costumes, characters, modes of
speaking, ethnic background, nothing is outside the vast scope of the
novel: gender admirable, exquisite mixture of science and art,
where camper, along with the transcendent claims of sociology and
the medicine, the frivolity of the nine muses; supreme work in order and
ordered to reflect an unbreakable unity within all colors and all the
rumors and all the perfumes and all the complexities, without numeral
of life. Writing is diving inquire. A good novel is a laboratory.
The characters speak, and he must speak and tell us why, or what it is
like, what their feelings and back will then explain why feel that way and
not another, which would require immediate to intern in the dark jungles
of the estate. Thus, the inspiration of the novel is highly analytical,
work capital, mine clearing and grading. This quality, fertile, and
all-embracing preexcelente within the book, becomes a tenacious enemy,
invincible at times, the novelist, when he, without any real vocation,
and only attracted by huge profits usually bring the theater to its
maintainers, try to lock your fancy fronds within the firm molds comedy.
The transition is too abrupt; foresee his habit of patiently in the soul
to crumble from each feeling or passion, it becomes lengthy, his
characters have to say everything in the book novelists, even the
most impersonal, usually explained by its account the reader, 'talking too
much'; scenes are slowly winding desperate; acts "weigh". The only reason
therefore to be counted the great novelists who have obtained real
success in the theater, is one reason of temperament, because often
times rare analytical join the force to fall to the causes of any phenomenon,
the synthetic vision only seen the effects, and that if he ever looks
at their origin, provided it does so in passing and neglect.

The theater is the synthesis, consolidation, abbreviation: something to
interest, to live, you need all the speed of the pulsating life,
intensity, and surface collections, the gesture, the mobility of a
picturesque film tape. An example? " The home of the "Jacinto Benavente.
Surely those who applauded the magnificence of thought and so
resplendent in 'Autumn Rose', 'Princess Baby' and 'Saturday night',
do not remember that this dramita represented only lasts half an hour,
and is, despite its brevity, one of its most successful and memorable
creations of extraordinary playwright. "The house of bliss" is a simple
ibseniana. Everything in it is quite vulgar: the types, the dialogue, the
matter. "Federico", the protagonist, is a model father and an exemplary
husband, devoted to the happiness of his people, his kindness, his good
conduct, the sweetness of his character, you have won the sympathy of the
neighborhood. Unexpectedly appears that an inspector of court order,
you will understood by forger. The wife, who ignores her husband's
secret life, yells: "What have you done, Federico, what have you done
?...» The answer:" Woman, shut up by God ... Let 'Marriage escorted leave
by officials, the girl, seeing that carried her parents, weeping
desolate. A neighbor says: "Poor child! What is it? If you think the
children would not be anything wrong. " To which the portress responds
with the phrase that summarizes the whole philosophy of simple and
tremendous drama, "Who knows? Also they are a lot of things. "Today
... yesterday ... Always, every time we read in the Daily news like:
"Last night, the inspector Mr Z. arrested at his home at x., claimed by
this court, on charges of forgery ... "Indeed, countless are the times
that in the great drama of bitter reality has represented" the house of
bliss. " Of its strength, its terrible human and strength haul lived; force
is not of the original characters, or the novelty of unusual argument,
or the artificial brillanteces style, but the very fact, because in the
theater where a gesture or an inflection of voice, or a buzzer that
sounds can have a more eloquent than words, the rhetoric is less. Hence
literary merit (not artistic) of many modern plays either meager. But
novelists are unaware that beautiful simplicity of the art
theater, used to explain all types and landscapes, they do not understand
that, in light of the battery can respond with a look at a long
speech, or a sigh of love and an open window to make way for a
moonbeam, enough to serve as the denouement to a comedy, hence its
baroque greenery, its vagueness and the heaviness details that the
public will not forgive.

Add to the above the disdain they feel toward the theater, and Honorato
de Balzac did not conceal, and cover their frequent failures. In theater
you have to go 'for love "by vocation respectful, not for profit, and
pruritus bastard farming. It must be love, affection fetiquista, that
life, beautiful and ridiculous at the same time, show business, you
need to feel the majesty of the scenarios, the religion of their poor
cloth walls, its scenes, its skies of gauze, painted of the
trees, its mountains and forests druídicos, made from wood and
cardboard, for "their crowd" to roar, according to a signal from the
darkness of the racks, and also love that there are such strange
composed of docility and pride, conceit and simplicity, and at times
indomable sometimes also manageable and candid as a child, called
actor. Only then can we understand the greatness of the drama and
majesty, majesty altar of these backdrops that some men get up every
night vulgares before the mystery of life. The pain of public releases
a mixed crowd clearly impatient under the irradiated targets by the three
voltaic arcs that illuminate the facade of the theater: the cars are close
trumpets, one after another, the moorland will stop at the edge of the
sidewalk, and They descend diligent beautiful women covered in leather
and lace, with the magnificence of her hair and the snow from their
throats bare, aljofaradas gemstone; commoners shawls, capes, berets,
Gabbana elegant shiny top hat, or come apart , following which these
strangers calofríos Rizana spine temblequeante the crowds, and after
they disappear through the doors of the theater; voracious door,
entered into a kind of suction insatiable.

  A young, modestly dressed, crosses resolved that swarm of
    women and men , who looks with a complex expression of respect and
disdain.

Thinking goes: "Some day, perhaps soon, vendréis hear more ..."
disappears, for a port side. An employee who walks down there in a
long blue cloth Gabán, dull air, hands behind their backs, stopped him:
- What do you want? ... The Aplomado questioned answered: - View Mr X. ..
I know the way. And still ahead, treading Recio, and self-possessed. His
fortitude saves him seems "the house". The doorman greets you kindly.
Thank goodness! The intruder goes a long corridor, pushing a wall, turn
left, down two steps, then climbs a narrow ladder. It is "between racks.
That seems a second corridor street, and it is, in effect, a street of
big and kind of the celebrity world: on both sides of the aisle
are numbered doors, they closed those open.

  An individual with a fever of impatience in his eyes, going from
    one to another hastily, saying: - A. ..

Miss, Miss B. .., C. .. lady who is going to start! The rooms are open
with din, and invade the corridor whispers arpegiantes conversations
and laughter, and frufruteos skirt. actresses appear shocks, their
faces daubed, caught even the last pins, and then, Gallardo in the
middle of your concern, go to setting.

Spend an actor, rigid, aircraft, with an enormous nose and a mustache
ciranesca plate. The newcomer him: - Do you have the kindness to
tell: Mr.

X. ..? Comedian, without pause, look at your partner for top-down and
I can feel him as a fledgling author, his gesture was disrespectful. -
Deep in the saloncillo ...-- answer. And it is. The visitor is Mr X. ..
discerning entertaining with multiple authors: they are there, sitting
and forming a semicircle, D. Pedro and Don Luis, and playwrights of the
highest reputation, Mr N. .., very estimable literary critic, Mr. O. ..,
sainetero excellent, Pontifex Maximus of Laughter, and other writers
of history and a lesser amount.

Standing, and family support on the back of chairs, some comedians,
dressed and to go on stage, listening to the conversation and hold their
charm. When you see the intruder refluyen all eyes towards him,
and for every one of those faces mundane and mocking of "theater people",
goes the same thought, the same expression of surprise and ironic: "A
novel author!" Feel the boy's cheeks in shock, almost hostile,
curious eyes of many, but not overwhelming and confident, serene, with
that cheerful serenity which distinguishes the strong will, toward
the group: - Mr X. ..? - Server you. rose slowly, a gesture concealed
in a bad mood, and goes to meet the visitor. - I'm H. .. You have
received a letter announcing a visit to ... - Oh, yeah ... The two men
shake hands. - Well, here you are my comedy. Three acts. You read,
is not that ... - Yes, yes, sir ... Why not ... I warn you that I
have a lot of testing. However ... - When you want to return here? - Today
in a month. - Perfectly. Server for you. - You kissed her hand. And after
that month and the next, and Mr. X. .. do not read the H. .. comedy, and
many such are the concerns that plague him. But waiting does not
weaken the energies of the young author on the contrary, certain of
defeat, seeking recommendations, he insisted, begged, obstinacy, threat,
and then, diplomatically, is tame, and then pray. How much patience,
how many trips useless anterooms how humiliating it is the small honor
to be read! - Mr. director - just leave. - Damn! What time will see him
- now impossible. Come on you tomorrow. And the next day: - Are you?
- Yes, but very busy. Spend you around here later. And then: - Mr
... - It has ido ill. - How to be! Come back tomorrow. And the persecution
continues Sañudo, relentless, until Mr X. .., expired, obsessed, read
comedy. - Yes - said, - the work is good, but if you want to see it
displayed in my theater, it has to modify it a lot. .. H. Without hesitation,
he answered: - How much is necessary. And why not, if you see the
immediate victory, glowing behind the premiere ... Filled with immense
faith in itself, puts hands to his diligent work: polished, correct,
chisel, relieves some scenes extends further justifies certain situations,
the role of Interpol in the first few sentences actress Plateresque and
somewhat emphatic, but surely to be applauded ... and all that, and "good
hair" and put on clean, back to the office of Sir. - Here you are
my comedy, or rather, 'our comedy. "-- Very well, I will read again. -
And if he likes you much, when you can represent? - next season. A lost
year or two ... Or three! ... Well, the youth, for life is that any
future time does not matter. These heinous trances that many writers have
come to the theater before it conquered in the book or in the press a
respectable name, are the Prolegomena - nothing but the run - what could
be termed as' the brand of pain 'harsh Golgotha, Calvary of
ingratitude, which no author, even the privileged, can never be completely
sure you have uploaded. Aquella indescribable joy, so vehement and
sharp, which became painful, that the playwright was novel approach
on the night of their premiere, is something precious that will shock,
and fatal grade insensitive, during soporific, endless, of tests. Every
day, from two until five or six in the evening, he attends to this work
slow, stubborn, purely mechanical, the comedians, who, little
by little, their roles are being treated. Since the first "test table"
until the work, yet learned bad, "down to the shell, how many hours
monotonous, how many repetitions, how many vacant and error, how much
energy off in martyrdom, without shouting or gestures of Patience!
... At first, he experienced an ineffable pleasure "in hearing." "And
this beautiful and 'sounds' as well - thought - what I've written ..."
The Pointer saying goes, the players repeat it, which is equivalent
to two simultaneous and parallel representations. But the joy narcisiano
heard played many times, reaching smearing, the thought, to force resobados
is tarnish and vulgarize; phrases lose their freshness, their elasticity
juicy, with scenes of highest dramatic tension, lose their
heat . What was inspiration, it is now routine, the figures are
blurred, the interest goes out ... and the poor author, bewildered,
unable to recover the stress that he was writing his book, it seems
that nothing of what who hears say, is yours. Add to that the confusion
in the minds torturantes playwright's fledgling small van planting
requirements of the players and the boards, almost always irrelevant to
the friends. In an interval of the test, called the first actress
with some mystery. - Would you tell me - whispers - how do I 'read'
this sentence ... I have studied hard and "not feel it." Add a few
comments: - Do you see ... If the cry, desentona if I say the
irony, too ... if I say laughing, ¡worse!

  ... Indeed, the first actress seems to be right. Also, has
    confessed that that phrase "not felt", and not feeling, how
    well will repeat it ... The author then tries to replace a few
    words, but so, so, sopetón not possible, the better change
    everything. - Do not you hurry - exclaims - the morning
    to bring you a new phrase! Worse is that the feature also asked
    to decorate one another sentence that exit or seasoned, can be
    a great flaunting her and says that the trouser that this
    or that scene is empacho long and agrees to all trance feather,
    and the comedian laments that his paper is short, and there
    are few jokes in it ...

  Batiéndose retreating, the author promises unhappy all the same
thing - I think I'd look ...

Of course, what you stated seems to me very well. The important thing
is that you, in your role, is comfortable ... But her ordeal did not
end there. Upon leaving the test, your best friend worked for an arm. -
Your work - said, - is very beautiful, but in my opinion, is poorly
constructed. I, instead of three acts, had written four times, and
almost everything is now second act, would become the first ...
The author defends his work, insisting the other hotly discussed and can
not reach an agreement . The friend concluded with a prophetic emphasis:
- My son, do what you want, my honest opinion, and you know, I think that
way for a disaster.

Now, you there! ... And when the playwright is up, disoriented, he thought
that his poor comedy, in fact, should be of little use if no one, not the
first actress nor gallant, nor property, nor The comic actor, not the
friend who has witnessed the trials, just find it completely right.
primerizo An author is in the theater, as the vulgar phrase, "as in chicken
corral outside. The same timidity that informs their actions and
words of others, their way of hedgehog small obstacles. Their
uncertainties, their fear of failure, make it accessible to observations
around the world. Thus, the prompter, the electrician, master carpenter,
the individual responsible for moving the curtain, animated best wishes,
will also dictate, thereby enhancing their terrible jungle concerns. And
at last night's premiere ; dramatic night, cruel, heartbreaking, unjust
night, which is for all the success and failure for the author only.
But no, we are not pessimistic and coloquémonos in an average prudent:
let's suppose that the book has enjoyed a lot.
Pierre himself
had viewed the panorama from the summit of the Janiculum, the /loggie/ of
Raffaelle, and the dome of St. Peter's, and so he well knew what it was
that Leo XIII was able to behold. In the centre of the vast desert of the
Campagna, bounded by the Sabine and Alban mountains, the seven
illustrious hills appeared to him with their trees and edifices. His eyes
ranged also over all the basilicas, Santa Maria Maggiore, San Giovanni in
Laterano, the cradle of the papacy, San Paolo-fuori-le-Mura, Santa Croce
in Gerusalemme, Sant' Agnese, and the others; they beheld, too, the domes
of the Gesu of Sant' Andrea della Valle, San Carlo and San Giovanni dei
Fiorentini, and indeed all those four hundred churches of Rome which make
the city like a /campo santo/ studded with crosses. And Leo XIII could
moreover see the famous monuments testifying to the pride of successive
centuries--the Castle of Sant' Angelo, that imperial mausoleum which was
transformed into a papal fortress, the distant white line of the tombs of
the Appian Way, the scattered ruins of the baths of Caracalla and the
abode of Septimius Severus; and then, after the innumerable columns,
porticoes, and triumphal arches, there were the palaces and villas of the
sumptuous cardinals of the Renascence, the Palazzo Farnese, the Palazzo
Borghese, the Villa Medici, and others, amidst a swarming of facades and
roofs. But, in particular, just under his window, on the left, the Pope
was able to see the abominations of the unfinished district of the castle
fields. In the afternoon, when he strolled through his gardens, bastioned
by the wall of the fourth Leo like the plateau of a citadel, his view
stretched over the ravaged valley at the foot of Monte Mario, where so
many brick-works were established during the building frenzy. The green
slopes are still ripped up, yellow trenches intersect them in all
directions, and the closed works and factories have become wretched ruins
with lofty, black, and smokeless chimneys. And at any other hour of the
day Leo XIII could not approach his window without beholding the
abandoned houses for which all those brick-fields had worked, those
houses which had died before they even lived, and where there was now
nought but the swarming misery of Rome, rotting there like some
decomposition of olden society.

However, Pierre more particularly thought of Leo XIII, forgetting the
rest of the city to let his thoughts dwell on the Palatine, now bereft of
its crown of palaces and rearing only its black cypresses towards the
blue heavens. Doubtless in his mind he rebuilt the palaces of the
Caesars, whilst before him rose great shadowy forms arrayed in purple,
visions of his real ancestors, those emperors and Supreme Pontiffs who
alone could tell him how one might reign over every nation and be the
absolute master of the world. Then, however, his glances strayed to the
Quirinal, and there he could contemplate the new and neighbouring
royalty. How strange the meeting of those two palaces, the Quirinal and
the Vatican, which rise up and gaze at one another across the Rome of the
middle ages and the Renascence, whose roofs, baked and gilded by the
burning sun, are jumbled in confusion alongside the Tiber. When the Pope
and the King go to their windows they can with a mere opera-glass see
each other quite distinctly. True, they are but specks in the boundless
immensity, and what a gulf there is between them--how many centuries of
history, how many generations that battled and suffered, how much
departed greatness, and how much new seed for the mysterious future!
Still, they can see one another, and they are yet waging the eternal
fight, the fight as to which of them--the pontiff and shepherd of the
soul or the monarch and master of the body--shall possess the people
whose stream rolls beneath them, and in the result remain the absolute
sovereign. And Pierre wondered also what might be the thoughts and dreams
of Leo XIII behind those window-panes where he still fancied he could
distinguish his pale, ghostly figure. On surveying new Rome, the ravaged
olden districts and the new ones laid waste by the blast of disaster, the
Pope must certainly rejoice at the colossal failure of the Italian
Government. His city had been stolen from him; the newcomers had
virtually declared that they would show him how a great capital was
created, and their boast had ended in that catastrophe--a multitude of
hideous and useless buildings which they did not even know how to finish!
He, the Pope, could moreover only be delighted with the terrible worries
into which the usurping /regime/ had fallen, the political crisis, and
the financial crisis, the whole growing national unrest amidst which that
/regime/ seemed likely to sink some day; and yet did not he himself
possess a patriotic soul? was he not a loving son of that Italy whose
genius and ancient ambition coursed in the blood of his veins? Ah! no,
nothing against Italy; rather everything that would enable her to become
once more the mistress of the world. And so, even amidst the joy of hope,
he must have been grieved to see her thus ruined, threatened with
bankruptcy, displaying like a sore that overturned, unfinished Rome which
was a confession of her impotency. But, on the other hand, if the House
of Savoy were to be swept away, would he not be there to take its place,
and at last resume possession of his capital, which, from his window, for
fifteen years past, he had beheld in the grip of masons and demolishers?
And then he would again be the master and reign over the world, enthroned
in the predestined city to which prophecy has ensured eternity and
universal dominion.

But the horizon spread out, and Pierre wondered what Leo XIII beheld
beyond Rome, beyond the Campagna and the Sabine and Alban mountains. What
had he seen for eighteen years past from that window whence he obtained
his only view of the world? What echoes of modern society, its truths and
certainties, had reached his ears? From the heights of the Viminal, where
the railway terminus stands, the prolonged whistling of engines must have
occasionally been carried towards him, suggesting our scientific
civilisation, the nations brought nearer together, free humanity marching
on towards the future. Did he himself ever dream of liberty when, on
turning to the right, he pictured the sea over yonder, past the tombs of
the Appian Way? Had he ever desired to go off, quit Rome and her
traditions, and found the Papacy of the new democracies elsewhere? As he
was said to possess so clear and penetrating a mind he ought to have
understood and trembled at the far-away stir and noise that came from
certain lands of battle, from those United States of America, for
instance, where revolutionary bishops were conquering, winning over the
people. Were they working for him or for themselves? If he could not
follow them, if he remained stubborn within his Vatican, bound on every
side by dogma and tradition, might not rupture some day become
unavoidable? And, indeed, the fear of a blast of schism, coming from
afar, must have filled him with growing anguish. It was assuredly on that
account that he had practised the diplomacy of conciliation, seeking to
unite in his hands all the scattered forces of the Church, overlooking
the audacious proceedings of certain bishops as far as possible, and
himself striving to gain the support of the people by putting himself on
its side against the fallen monarchies. But would he ever go any farther?
Shut up in that Vatican, behind that bronze portal, was he not bound to
the strict formulas of Catholicism, chained to them by the force of
centuries? There obstinacy was fated; it was impossible for him to resign
himself to that which was his real and surpassing power, the purely
spiritual power, the moral authority which brought mankind to his feet,
made thousands of pilgrims kneel and women swoon. Departure from Rome and
the renunciation of the temporal power would not displace the centre of
the Catholic world, but would transform him, the head of the Catholic
Church, into the head of something else. And how anxious must have been
his thoughts if the evening breeze ever brought him a vague presentiment
of that something else, a fear of the new religion which was yet dimly,
confusedly dawning amidst the tramp of the nations on the march, and the
sound of which must have reached him at one and the same time from every
point of the compass.

At this precise moment, however, Pierre felt that the white and
motionless shadow behind those windowpanes was held erect by pride, by
the ever present conviction of victory. If man could not achieve it, a
miracle would intervene. He, the Pope, was absolutely convinced that he
or some successor would recover possession of Rome. Had not the Church
all eternity before it? And, moreover, why should not the victor be
himself? Could not God accomplish the impossible? Why, if it so pleased
God, on the very morrow his city would be restored to him, in spite of
all the objections of human reason, all the apparent logic of facts. Ah!
how he would welcome the return of that prodigal daughter whose equivocal
adventures he had ever watched with tears bedewing his paternal eyes! He
would soon forget the excesses which he had beheld during eighteen years
at all hours and in all seasons. Perhaps he dreamt of what he would do
with those new districts with which the city had been soiled. Should they
be razed, or left as evidence of the insanity of the usurpers? At all
events, Rome would again become the august and lifeless city, disdainful
of such vain matters as material cleanliness and comfort, and shining
forth upon the world like a pure soul encompassed by the traditional
glory of the centuries. And his dream continued, picturing the course
which events would take on the very morrow, no doubt. Anything, even a
republic was preferable to that House of Savoy. Why not a federal
republic, reviving the old political divisions of Italy, restoring Rome
to the Church, and choosing him, the Pope, as the natural protector of
the country thus reorganised? But his eyes travelled beyond Rome and
Italy, and his dream expanded, embracing republican France, Spain which
might become republican again, Austria which would some day be won, and
indeed all the Catholic nations welded into the United States of Europe,
and fraternising in peace under his high presidency as Sovereign Pontiff.
And then would follow the supreme triumph, all the other churches at last
vanishing, and all the dissident communities coming to him as to the one
and only pastor, who would reign in the name of Jesus over the universal
democracy.

However, whilst Pierre was immersed in this dream which he attributed to
Leo XIII, he was all at once interrupted by Narcisse, who exclaimed: "Oh!
my dear Abbe, just look at those statues on the colonnade." The young
fellow had ordered a cup of coffee and was languidly smoking a cigar,
deep once more in the subtle aesthetics which were his only
preoccupation. "They are rosy, are they not?" he continued; "rosy, with a
touch of mauve, as if the blue blood of angels circulated in their stone
veins. It is the sun of Rome which gives them that supra-terrestrial
life; for they live, my friend; I have seen them smile and hold out their
arms to me during certain fine sunsets. Ah! Rome, marvellous, delicious
Rome! One could live here as poor as Job, content with the very
atmosphere, and in everlasting delight at breathing it!"

This time Pierre could not help feeling surprised at Narcisse's language,
for he remembered his incisive voice and clear, precise, financial acumen
when speaking of money matters. And, at this recollection, the young
priest's mind reverted to the castle fields, and intense sadness filled
his heart as for the last time all the want and suffering rose before
him. Again he beheld the horrible filth which was tainting so many human
beings, that shocking proof of the abominable social injustice which
condemns the greater number to lead the joyless, breadless lives of
accursed beasts. And as his glance returned yet once more to the window
of the Vatican, and he fancied he could see a pale hand uplifted behind
the glass panes, he thought of that papal benediction which Leo XIII gave
from that height, over Rome, and over the plain and the hills, to the
faithful of all Christendom. And that papal benediction suddenly seemed
to him a mockery, destitute of all power, since throughout such a
multitude of centuries it had not once been able to stay a single one of
the sufferings of mankind, and could not even bring a little justice for
those poor wretches who were agonising yonder beneath the very window.


IX

THAT evening at dusk, as Benedetta had sent Pierre word that she desired
to see him, he went down to her little /salon/, and there found her
chatting with Celia.

"I've seen your Pierina, you know," exclaimed the latter, just as the
young priest came in. "And with Dario, too. Or rather, she must have been
watching for him; he found her waiting in a path on the Pincio and smiled
at her. I understood at once. What a beauty she is!"

Benedetta smiled at her friend's enthusiasm; but her lips twitched
somewhat painfully, for, however sensible she might be, this passion,
which she realised to be so naive and so strong, was beginning to make
her suffer. She certainly made allowances for Dario, but the girl was too
much in love with him, and she feared the consequences. Even in turning
the conversation she allowed the secret of her heart to escape her. "Pray
sit down, Monsieur l'Abbe," she said, "we are talking scandal, you see.
My poor Dario is accused of making love to every pretty woman in Rome.
People say that it's he who gives La Tonietta those white roses which she
has been exhibiting at the Corso every afternoon for a fortnight past."

"That's certain, my dear," retorted Celia impetuously. "At first people
were in doubt, and talked of little Pontecorvo and Lieutenant Moretta.
But every one now knows that La Tonietta's caprice is Dario. Besides, he
joined her in her box at the Costanzi the other evening."

Pierre remembered that the young Prince had pointed out La Tonietta at
the Pincio one afternoon. She was one of the few /demi-mondaines/ that
the higher-class society of Rome took an interest in. For a month or so
the rich Englishman to whom she owed her means had been absent,
travelling.

"Ah!" resumed Benedetta, whose budding jealousy was entirely confined to
La Pierina, "so my poor Dario is ruining himself in white roses! Well, I
shall have to twit him about it. But one or another of these beauties
will end by robbing me of him if our affairs are not soon settled.
Fortunately, I have had some better news. Yes, my suit is to be taken in
hand again, and my aunt has gone out to-day on that very account."

Then, as Victorine came in with a lamp, and Celia rose to depart,
Benedetta turned towards Pierre, who also was rising from his chair:
"Please stay," said she; "I wish to speak to you."

However, Celia still lingered, interested by the mention of the divorce
suit, and eager to know if the cousins would soon be able to marry. And
at last throwing her arms round Benedetta, she kissed her passionately.
"So you are hopeful, my dear," she exclaimed. "You think that the Holy
Father will give you back your liberty? Oh! I am so pleased; it will be
so nice for you to marry Dario! And I'm well pleased on my own account,
for my father and mother are beginning to yield. Only yesterday I said to
them with that quiet little air of mine, 'I want Attilio, and you must
give him me.' And then my father flew into a furious passion and
upbraided me, and shook his fist at me, saying that if he'd made my head
as hard as his own he would know how to break it. My mother was there
quite silent and vexed, and all at once he turned to her and said: 'Here,
give her that Attilio she wants, and then perhaps we shall have some
peace!' Oh yes! I'm well pleased, very well pleased indeed!"

As she spoke her pure virginal face beamed with so much innocent,
celestial joy that Pierre and Benedetta could not help laughing. And at
last she went off attended by a maid who had waited for her in the first
/salon/.

When they were alone Benedetta made the priest sit down again: "I have
been asked to give you some important advice, my friend," she said. "It
seems that the news of your presence in Rome is spreading, and that bad
reports of you are circulated. Your book is said to be a fierce appeal to
schism, and you are spoken of as a mere ambitious, turbulent schismatic.
After publishing your book in Paris you have come to Rome, it is said, to
raise a fearful scandal over it in order to make it sell. Now, if you
still desire to see his Holiness, so as to plead your cause before him,
you are advised to make people forget you, to disappear altogether for a
fortnight or three weeks."

Pierre was stupefied. Why, they would end by maddening him with all the
obstacles they raised to exhaust his patience; they would actually
implant in him an idea of schism, of an avenging, liberating scandal! He
wished to protest and refuse the advice, but all at once he made a
gesture of weariness. What would be the good of it, especially with that
young woman, who was certainly sincere and affectionate. "Who asked you
to give me this advice?" he inquired. She did not answer, but smiled, and
with sudden intuition he resumed: "It was Monsignor Nani, was it not?"

Thereupon, still unwilling to give a direct reply, she began to praise
the prelate. He had at last consented to guide her in her divorce affair;
and Donna Serafina had gone to the Palace of the Inquisition that very
afternoon in order to acquaint him with the result of certain steps she
had taken. - 'I - said - like a house whose windows had the curtains.
"But what most attracted my curiosity, their eyes are large, quiet and
green, clear green; distracted eyes that seem to ignore what lips are
saying. Although strong, Paul Hervieu is pessimistic and skeptical.
"Intimacy - writes in his book" Pintados themselves' - you know, is
the means to tell a friend what a enemy thinks of him. "And elsewhere:" I
believe in the power of sexual love, the creative instinct. Friendship,
warmth ... are feeling insecure, fleeting impulses, such as those being
experienced enternecimientos desktop during digestion pleasant ...

"there has been special ever. Schelling is right:" Everything is one
and the same "... We talk about the characters Production is in the great
authors. Hervieu not understand the vehemence of amazing Balzac or
Flaubert, or the creator of Daudet fever: he begins to write bit by bit,
thanks to a great volunteer effort and no impulse to enjoy the flow of
true inspiration: his ideas are appearing slowly and and trailer alignment
between the rows of a strong and tight writing, where HEIs have
never left your item. "While work - said, - I keep my conscience
slavery, I am like a traveler who is expected, under the darkness of the
tunnel, looking back to see the clarity of the day." Hervieu Paul began
writing novels, and in the midst of the blossoming nature then
prevailing, his books, carefully peeled and soporific descriptions
chocarrerías bad, marked a new trend, strange and very personal.

"Pintados themselves" is a novel by a very strong, elaborate and penetrating
psychology does actually take place in reader the feeling of delicate
physical pain. The rates are brilliantly described, unlinked to the
letter with the work of the devout condesa Pontas (imagine that live,
as Pangle, "in the best of worlds") is on this book full of despicable,
cowardly artery and creeping ambitions, consoling the smile of a
delicious irony.

Of similar nature are his works "Flirt" and "armor", a book of rich
and powerful logic, where the company appears enslaved, rather than
under the love of money.

But those books that gives a note Hervieu more attractive and more
original, are "green eyes and blue eyes" and "unknown." "In our deep -
the author writes, - emotions occur vague, vertiginous, through which we
understand that a small part of us has lived ..."

Listening to the teacher, and under its sedative action and gesture his
calm eyes, I remember the inconsistencies of these two wonderful books
that emulate the best pages of Maupassant, a nervous and could not read
at night and alone. Hoffmann, giving form and color to his
eccentricities, I never knew anything like writing. The "terror" in
Hervieu, like Maupassant, is not and here is his strength, is the
force of 'thing', of which nobody knows, the attractive power of
the powerful and closed rooms of the old portraits of the curtains
as the wind shakes gently at the door of the rooms in the dark ...

A perfectly reasonable and absolute determinism governs what wonderful
Hervieu. A Hervieu crushes him and the crazy that is independent of the
supernatural in his delirium, the protagonist of "The Unknown" is
an insane "logical".

The tragic emotions of this book is powerful, a madhouse surrounding
environment; Physiognomic fans of the hero, who is happy to give great
news for the stripes that look of panic or anger painted on the face of
his interlocutor, the wink suigenérico that medical covail showing
dogs just laugh at the dogs!

under a pilgrim atavistic phenomenon of ferocity, its thoughts about
death and the position that we should let the eyes of the dead ...
everything has a unique unforgettable.

Hervieu Paul long ago not to publish novels.

Why? ¿Obey bias is switched to a new inspiration or an idea of profit
...

In my questions Hervieu ambagioso has responded with a lift of the shoulders,
and he probably knows it: at first imagined novels, and wrote novels
then wanted to write for the theater, and nothing prevented him from
carrying out its purpose in the characters sorted and tenacious
like his inspiration is always obedient slave of the will.

The sagacísimo psychologist Alfredo Binet divides the playwrights in "graphic"
or improvised run that write to the pen, "hearers", who, like Curel,
autosuggestion in concept, "hear" what their characters say and work
which Typing the dictation, and "article", who persists in a
constant relationship between the word and the self conscious.

Paul Hervieu belongs to them. "I am all alone - said, - me, speaking ...
who makes efforts to express what I feel ... "In his view, capital is
the argument of the work and the trabazón, vigorously logic of
situations, the quality of the furniture, layout and ornamentation
of the stage, not concern.

Instead, he frightens the public, is never pleased with himself, sometimes
the slightest objection to an intelligent actor, he moves to break down a
scene. However, it is a settled, refractory inconcluído that leave began.
"I understand - say - the outrage, the fight scenes force, better than
enternecimiento. This trait psychology reaches its climax of his characters,
even the secondary: all are logical and strong, "everyone has menton
..." Hervieu theater is not a "theater view," as some misinformed believed
yes a "theater of ideas, theater truthful, logical, a bit sad, actually,
finally ... which is always "the painful human smallness of fennel in large
social cliffs. Brunetiere Hervieu says that Paul tends to create a
modern tragedy, stripped of that boring character who always had
historical.

This is the great novelty of his work. Does contemporary customs are
unable to go back to the tragic emotion? Is it hopeless life has fled?
The condition of the inevitable and ultimate tragedy is' inevitable
': distínguense course, the tragic "situation" and tragic "character."
In both cases the matter can only unlink scene of "one way" and that
such conflict will prey on or tournament, can not follow more than one
way: to the pointlessly reason and prudence advises and tenderness begging
hands together; developments are continuing their course, the characters
move like robots pushed in the back. "What can I do? What should I do
what I need to do this is my question ?...» Oedipus, Orestes, Hamlet,
Don Alvaro ... Everyone! ...

But his doubts did not exploit, their reluctance is also vain; quiet
what they should say what they do not want to do, and as of themselves,
marching toward the inevitable, which is the despair, death, in the
sublimity horror. Whatever the degree to reach civilization, there will
always tragic: determinism has been replaced with advantage, but
also diminishes with the old theory of inevitability, and Paul Hervieu,
faithful to the law and the inexorable laws of logic, resurrected, thanks
to the Code, the legend of Nemesis. remember the plot of "The law of man",
and the two terrible conflicts of 'pincers'. What will that woman
whose husband, hidden in the law, not to restore their independence?
What will the man who can not recover the child that the law entrusted to
the mother ... Nothing: the fatality of the established, the force,
subject to them by the neck, forcing them to fall to their knees. And "The
Daedalus? Your article taught me an article, well written," Zeda ". The
illustrated Epoca_ _The critic, asked: "Do or do not divorce the marital
conflicts? This is the problem in its Hervieu "Daedalus." Hervieu smiles.
- I have not proposed to expose anything - say, - nor solve anything.

Composing this work, just wanted to describe the torture of two men whom
the law has authorized dismissals with the same woman. We continue
talking. During the interview, which was eventually saved Paul
Hervieu respectful and friendly attitude, his sentence was always brief
and accurate, and neither the enthusiasm nor the irony apex down into
a calm rhythm of his gesture, his eye sight did not stop to look fixedly,
to stumble out of my thoughts, as gains from knowing my sorrows, my
ambitions, my story ... everything that men did not have before. The silence
of Paul Hervieu's expression of a disturbing question, quiet, seems
to repeat what his hand wrote: "Let me go through anything where
you spent ..."

The typical feature ALFREDO Capus more seductive and more new meritísimo
entire building is Capus Alfredo literary indulgence. As Socrates, the
author of "Vena" cree that "no one is willingly evil 'men are good or
evil, honest or traitors, depending on the circumstances, so they must
assume full responsibility as the person says and run . Capus, who in
their fresh Mocedades, translated and commented on Darwin, applies to
the world As one great moral naturalist wrote on the pressure exerted
on the individual. Everything is a work of time, and there are never two
states in our soul absolutely identical, as the course does not contain
two minutes of the day whose light intensity is mathematically equal
to: the most often subject to the tiny, sometimes a simple phrase or a
glance of irony, smashing a straight heroic decision.

Porfiadamente Nobody is good, no one, either, is consistently bad: I
was honored yesterday as she was ahito tomorrow, being hungry, it
can be a thief.

The criterion of syncretistic Capus, tolerance unquenchable, his kindness,
never tired, embellish his characters even the most twisted and malicious,
providing them with an "amorality" frivolous, spontaneous riente, which
makes them irresistibly likeable. What indignant against those
vices, rather than ingénita evil man, from his sad and sobered
weakness?

Only great souls, able to judge themselves, feel the joy of forgiveness.
"I know your character - says Andrew noble Joss, actor winner for"
La Castellana "Gaston la Rive, won, devious and envious -- -I know
very well, "I've had" ...

Climbing induction course induction and faithful to the foundations of its
first ethics comes Alfredo Capus fatalism to proclaim a new,
original, exquisitely comforting.

Namely: that all men, even the most unhappy, take a moment in history
that God smiles and offers them Success hand.

All, therefore, must receive dauntless insults of adversity, and wait
without fainting, as the Arabic waiting to see happen in front of his
shop, the body of his enemy, the good fortune to give us their generous
grants. This division fatalistically of goods and evils, clearly responds
to certain inviolable laws by Capus which attempts to measure the future
of all individuals.

Let us not forget that Alfred Capus is mining engineer, and as before, his
way of judging the strengths and human errors, appears influenced by the
naturalist literary advocate of 'adaptation to the environment, we now
subject to the inexorable approach and mathematical rigor of knowing how
all the cosmic palpitations, since the rotation of the stars and
nebulae, to the first living cell Rebull is the quotient of an algebraic
operation supreme, seeking the balance of the world in a moral sort of
numerical formula to chair the division, it seems arbitrary and casual
bienandanzas and the grief. In "The Vein" says Julio A Charlotte: "I
think any man with moderately and not too silly or too timid, on
their lives a lucky hour, a moment during which the other men seem
to work for him, that the fruits are to be placed at your fingertips
to take it.

This time, Carlota mine, sad to confess, we are neither the work nor
the courage nor the patience. It sounds like an hour on a clock that
nobody has seen ...

"The theory is reassuring: she, the most wretched must wait, with cheerful
resignation, to the time the book back in August of that destination
page is the happy hour of his victory. The active work of Alfredo Capus
has produced a work hygienically clean passions murky, cheerful and
friendly, call to sign and original trace in the history of
contemporary theater. Discussing the purpose of art , Flaubert wrote:
"Art, in its own right to exist, should not be regarded as half. Despite
all the genius that was wasted in the development of this story
taken as an example, any other fable may serve to demonstrate the
opposite: the outcomes are not the conclusions.

"This marks the very high-profile artistic Capus, in which theater no
'outcome', giving that word its traditional narrow meaning. The author of
"Rosina" (the most daring of his works), not to demonstrate this
or that with his comedies, but all the characters and situations in
each book form a homogeneous, compact, no artificial or sutures,
which It follows, by way of aroma, a fresh philosophy, fatalistic
and eclectic.

Capus, who knows exactly the history of his characters, accompanies them
in their fighting, unenthusiastically celebrating their virtues, which he
knows are shifting qualities, and when migrants ; censored for the same
reason without acrimony and punishable lost their tolerances. With his
admirable productions are remnants of psychology that, while rigorously
logical in essence, the show fresh after this inconsistency that makes
life kind works that are made easily, without seizures, redeemed those
terrible and absurd that with vertical lines growers of the old theater
disfigured reality. - Our way of being - Bourget question - is it
not a piece of indestructible eyes that we have followed and tried
during our childhood?

"So clever observation complies Alfredo Capus, whose literary work is shrewd
imitation or hidden transcript of his own life. For twenty years, much
before concluding his career as an engineer, wrote several juguetillos
Capus comedians. Then, not wanting to leave Paris, dedicóse journalism,
and helped _Le Figaro_ almost daily, wasting in short notes, written
by pen and flights developed and brilliant style, the sardonic spirit
of the immortal Barber of Beaumarchais. Later Capus was signed by an
eclipse of several years, we were very sad, and during which the future
author, chastened by the ice of life, acquired the good-natured
and patient philosophy that characterizes all his work.

The first piece Alfredo serious Capus was a novel called 'Who loses,
wins', which was closely followed by two others: "False departure"
and "Years of Adventures".

Those books go unnoticed by the general public. Capus, who certainly knew
the quality of her work, hope, without grief or dejection, to the criticism
made him justice. As best rates, Capus was certain that the coming years
vanish in the darkness of this indifference that left your name, and
continued to study the meantime, waiting for what he later called the
occasion "vein." Alfredo Capus did not excel as a creator of characters,
this gift, inexhaustible in Balzac, and very few enjoy. Among the
characters of Capus, the reader notes many points of similarity,
they all seem well and he recognizes it.

"There is - said, - a dozen, a score, the more in-bound types. 'Who loses,
wins" is the book where Alfredo Capus poured more of its original spirit,
the foundation is strongest his work, the blood that irrigates
the means of his best comedies. His argument is simple. Farjolle, tahúr
by profession, falls in love with a planchadora named Emma, whom
he married, and does so without scruple, sure retrospective jealousy
not be tormented.

Farjolle who are poor, no longer frequents the booths, but the player's
spirit continues, hopeful and happy, waiting for "luck." This comes at the
end. A former official of Emma, whose relations with the director
of a major daily, protects Farjolle, dedicated to journalism. (On 'The
Vein'.) Meanwhile, Emma mocks her husband to Velarde, who also helps
Farjolle. Knowing this, and accompanied by a commissioner, to the
surprise guilty of infidelity in flagrante delicto. It seems then that
everything is going to conclude that everything between spouses is broken,
but Emma is clinging to the arm of her husband, it shows that their
relationships with Velarde constitutes a frivolous fad that will end
without denuestos or tears, as she wants, and Farjolle, optimistic and
eclectic, it is left to persuade. This slippery filled years after the
incident funny second act of "The husbands of Leontina." As businesses
continue Farjolle way prosperous, the commander Baret, old friend,
gives him a strong addition to the jobs in a good business. So does
Farjolle, but so hostile fortune, lost it all, and Baret, to know and
realize that Farjolle can not refund your money, we processed and jailed.
It's a masterful scene that recurs nearly completely in the comedy "Brignol
and her daughter." Emma resolves the situation surrendering to the love
of the banker Letorneur, old and rich, who, in addition to pay
fifty thousand francs to save Farjolle offers Emma a gift of two
hundred thousand francs, and she accepts, and forgives the husband
and postponement because that amount assured them once and for all
future without a struggle.

This episode, unlinked to the book, inspired most of the third act of
"money or your life".

Farjolle, tolerant, skeptical, carefree, sustained by the strong illusion
that has the fortune to visit some time, embodies all the ethics of its
author. Capus theater Alfredo recorded huge successes. No wonder. Capus,
crossed his arms and smiled kindly at the shallowness of all human
virtues and defects, faithfully reflects the spirit of our time, time
without ideals, in which men, convinced of the lightness of its
merits, and cowering perplexed by the collapse the old faith and
the dawn of a new moral, fleeing claims outright, and just delight
in the greatness of forgiveness tolstoiana.

EDMUNDO Rostand Twelve years ago I met Edmund Rostand, was a winter's
evening, in drafting _Le Gaulois_. Days before had released 'Cyrano',
and that success, unprecedented in the history of the theater, seemed
to stick to the delicate figure of the young author and a halo of
golden light.

A tight group of writers and journalists around the poet. This was a
man of medium stature, brittle, and clothing under the laws of the strictest
English elegance. Under the broad forehead, her face, as shown in the
cartoon made him pretty Cappiello, is modeled on the vertical line of
a profile full of will.

He spoke in a low voice, and his hands, weak and white action very shortly.
He seemed distracted. His appearance at the same time, it was nice and
icy. Eugene Rostand, father of the poet, was in his Mocedades an estimable
versificador Cátulo that translated well, and that later dedicóse active
in the foundation of popular banks, rooms for workers and other
charities. That philanthropist who gave to charity and a long poem
of memorable deeds, his son inherited the sentimental delicacy, the
tenderness exalted feminine scent all his work and put in each of its
stanzas the fragrance of balsam and a tear Gospel of a caress. Edmundo
Rostand was born in Marseilles in 1868. In the twenty years he published
a book of verses to Theodore de Banville, entitled Musardises' (frivolous
or Quiz), which offered a dedicatory winged, full of wit and gentle
melancholy, "to his good friends the losers."

Personnages funambulesques, Laids, chevelus et grimaçants, poor dons
grotesque Quichotte Et cependant attendrissants ... "That unpretentious
work went unnoticed, was a book that was well and nothing else. Shortly
after Rostand, along with Henry Lee, an author completely forgotten today,
wrote in four nights, and going to the theater of Cluny, a "vaudeville"
in four acts entitled "The Red Glove."

The critical current silent vague that monstrosity, that's not even news
that came my new build. The following year the poet, modest and obscure,
to dismiss a lady of great beauty and distinction, which also published
poems under the pseudonym "Rosamunda Gérard ', and to whom the writers
who attended the meetings of Leconte de Lisle had fervently applauded
more than once. "Rosamunda, studying with Féraudy declamation, and
Edmundo Rostand, diverted their leisure and their friends represent
comedies. On one occasion, not having anything to test, the future
playwright, wrote a dialogue in verse entitled 'The Pierrots.

"Rosamunda" took the manuscript and took him to Féraudy to be read, and
it excited, spoke of it with July Claretie who impressionable and
optimistic as a good Southern Rostand called to his office from the
Comédie Française to tell your obrita liked him and felt brand new.

Meeting of the Committee for review and acceptance of works, the dialogue
Rostand, despite the efforts of Féraudy who read it brilliantly, was
unanimously rejected.
In the Via Giulia, in addition to San
Giovanni dei Fiorentini, San Biagio della Pagnotta, San Eligio degli
Orefici, and three or four others, there was the so-called Church of the
Dead, Santa Maria dell' Orazione; and this church, which is at the lower
end behind the Farnese palace, was often visited by Pierre, who liked to
dream there of the wild life of Rome, and of the pious brothers of the
Confraternita della Morte, who officiate there, and whose mission is to
search for and bury such poor outcasts as die in the Campagna. One
evening he was present at the funeral of two unknown men, whose bodies,
after remaining unburied for quite a fortnight, had been discovered in a
field near the Appian Way.

However, Pierre's favourite promenade soon became the new quay of the
Tiber beyond the Palazzo Boccanera. He had merely to take the narrow lane
skirting the mansion to reach a spot where he found much food for
reflection. Although the quay was not yet finished, the work seemed to be
quite abandoned. There were heaps of rubbish, blocks of stone, broken
fences, and dilapidated tool-sheds all around. To such a height had it
been necessary to carry the quay walls--designed to protect the city from
floods, for the river bed has been rising for centuries past--that the
old terrace of the Boccanera gardens, with its double flight of steps to
which pleasure boats had once been moored, now lay in a hollow,
threatened with annihilation whenever the works should be finished. But
nothing had yet been levelled; the soil, brought thither for making up
the bank, lay as it had fallen from the carts, and on all sides were pits
and mounds interspersed with the abandoned building materials. Wretched
urchins came to play there, workmen without work slept in the sunshine,
and women after washing ragged linen spread it out to dry upon the
stones. Nevertheless the spot proved a happy, peaceful refuge for Pierre,
one fruitful in inexhaustible reveries when for hours at a time he
lingered gazing at the river, the quays, and the city, stretching in
front of him and on either hand.

At eight in the morning the sun already gilded the vast opening. On
turning to the left he perceived the roofs of the Trastevere, of a misty,
bluish grey against the dazzling sky. Then, just beyond the apse of San
Giovanni, on the right, the river curved, and on its other bank the
poplars of the Ospedale di Santo Spirito formed a green curtain, while
the castle of Sant' Angelo showed brightly in the distance. But Pierre's
eyes dwelt more particularly on the bank just in front of him, for there
he found some lingering vestiges of old Rome. On that side indeed between
the Ponte Sisto and the Ponte Sant' Angelo, the quays, which were to
imprison the river within high, white, fortress-like walls, had not yet
been raised, and the bank with its remnants of the old papal city
conjured up an extraordinary vision of the middle ages. The houses,
descending to the river brink, were cracked, scorched, rusted by
innumerable burning summers, like so many antique bronzes. Down below
there were black vaults into which the water flowed, piles upholding
walls, and fragments of Roman stone-work plunging into the river bed;
then, rising from the shore, came steep, broken stairways, green with
moisture, tiers of terraces, storeys with tiny windows pierced here and
their in hap-hazard fashion, houses perched atop of other houses, and the
whole jumbled together with a fantastic commingling of balconies and
wooden galleries, footbridges spanning courtyards, clumps of trees
growing apparently on the very roofs, and attics rising from amidst pinky
tiles. The contents of a drain fell noisily into the river from a worn
and soiled gorge of stone; and wherever the houses stood back and the
bank appeared, it was covered with wild vegetation, weeds, shrubs, and
mantling ivy, which trailed like a kingly robe of state. And in the glory
of the sun the wretchedness and dirt vanished, the crooked, jumbled
houses seemed to be of gold, draped with the purple of the red petticoats
and the dazzling white of the shifts which hung drying from their
windows; while higher still, above the district, the Janiculum rose into
all the luminary's dazzlement, uprearing the slender profile of Sant'
Onofrio amidst cypresses and pines.

Leaning on the parapet of the quay wall, Pierre sadly gazed at the Tiber
for hours at a time. Nothing could convey an idea of the weariness of
those old waters, the mournful slowness of their flow along that
Babylonian trench where they were confined within huge, bare, livid
prison-like walls. In the sunlight their yellowness was gilded, and the
faint quiver of the current brought ripples of green and blue; but as
soon as the shade spread over it the stream became opaque like mud, so
turbid in its venerable old age that it no longer even gave back a
reflection of the houses lining it. And how desolate was its abandonment,
what a stream of silence and solitude it was! After the winter rains it
might roll furiously and threateningly, but during the long months of
bright weather it traversed Rome without a sound, and Pierre could remain
there all day long without seeing either a skiff or a sail. The two or
three little steam-boats which arrived from the coast, the few tartanes
which brought wine from Sicily, never came higher than the Aventine,
beyond which there was only a watery desert in which here and there, at
long intervals, a motionless angler let his line dangle. All that Pierre
ever saw in the way of shipping was a sort of ancient, covered pinnace, a
rotting Noah's ark, moored on the right beside the old bank, and he
fancied that it might be used as a washhouse, though on no occasion did
he see any one in it. And on a neck of mud there also lay a stranded boat
with one side broken in, a lamentable symbol of the impossibility and the
relinquishment of navigation. Ah! that decay of the river, that decay of
father Tiber, as dead as the famous ruins whose dust he is weary of
laving! And what an evocation! all the centuries of history, so many
things, so many men, that those yellow waters have reflected till, full
of lassitude and disgust, they have grown heavy, silent and deserted,
longing only for annihilation.

One morning on the river bank Pierre found La Pierina standing behind an
abandoned tool-shed. With her neck extended, she was looking fixedly at
the window of Dario's room, at the corner of the quay and the lane.
Doubtless she had been frightened by Victorine's severe reception, and
had not dared to return to the mansion; but some servant, possibly, had
told her which was the young Prince's window, and so she now came to this
spot, where without wearying she waited for a glimpse of the man she
loved, for some sign of life and salvation, the mere hope of which made
her heart leap. Deeply touched by the way in which she hid herself, all
humility and quivering with adoration, the priest approached her, and
instead of scolding her and driving her away as he had been asked to do,
spoke to her in a gentle, cheerful manner, asking her for news of her
people as though nothing had happened, and at last contriving to mention
Dario's name in order that she might understand that he would be up and
about again within a fortnight. On perceiving Pierre, La Pierina had
started with timidity and distrust as if anxious to flee; but when she
understood him, tears of happiness gushed from her eyes, and with a
bright smile she kissed her hand to him, calling: "/Grazie, grazie/,
thanks, thanks!" And thereupon she darted away, and he never saw her
again.

On another morning at an early hour, as Pierre was going to say mass at
Santa Brigida on the Piazza Farnese, he was surprised to meet Benedetta
coming out of the church and carrying a small phial of oil. She evinced
no embarrassment, but frankly told him that every two or three days she
went thither to obtain from the beadle a few drops of the oil used for
the lamp that burnt before an antique wooden statue of the Madonna, in
which she had perfect confidence. She even confessed that she had never
had confidence in any other Madonna, having never obtained anything from
any other, though she had prayed to several of high repute, Madonnas of
marble and even of silver. And so her heart was full of ardent devotion
for the holy image which refused her nothing. And she declared in all
simplicity, as though the matter were quite natural and above discussion,
that the few drops of oil which she applied, morning and evening, to
Dario's wound, were alone working his cure, so speedy a cure as to be
quite miraculous. Pierre, fairly aghast, distressed indeed to find such
childish, superstitious notions in one so full of sense and grace and
passion, did not even venture to smile.

In the evenings, when he came back from his strolls and spent an hour or
so in Dario's room, he would for a time divert the patient by relating
what he had done and seen and thought of during the day. And when he
again ventured to stray beyond the district, and became enamoured of the
lovely gardens of Rome, which he visited as soon as they opened in the
morning in order that he might be virtually alone, he delighted the young
prince and Benedetta with his enthusiasm, his rapturous passion for the
splendid trees, the plashing water, and the spreading terraces whence the
views were so sublime. It was not the most extensive of these gardens
which the more deeply impressed his heart. When she fell, Béranger was
razed candy eyes with tears. - My daughter! - Balbució, - my daughter!
... He could not talk more, and kissed on the forehead. Much later,
referring to this scene, the Déjazet filled with admiration, said: -
I gave a kiss! Is the representation that I have become better. And when
I say this not exaggerating that woman, all heart, that he had won millions
of celebrity ... Believing that the Spaniards only suffer the sweet
habit of writing for theater, is a mistake. I do not know what spell is
arcane theatrical literature, and it attracts more drunk men, but it is
true that none of them, living apart from the stark drama of his own
life, no longer carry the illusion of writing a drama or at least
a comedy of manners. All doctors, lawyers, officers hairdresser ...
Golosa knew temptation. Some made their way, others not; however, that
work is in the aridity of their souls vulgares "green corner", an oasis
of poetry and also his weakness, his vulnerability. Long ago, near
thirty years, that Alexander Bisson, who has now triumphed in the Vaudeville
Theater with his comedy "Mariage d'etoile," a work to the employer took
Mr. Laridel. The famous author of "The surprises of divorce, found
Laridel in a cafe solo and plunged into a despair without gestures
or words, with a glass of _bitter_. - I am ruined! - Said the businessman
- now or Tomorrow I have to pay fifty thousand francs, and not me, I closed
the theater. - And I brought it to you in this manuscript, a silver
mine! - Bisson replied. Laridel won shoulder with the indifference
that comes from knowing that all is lost: it was the electric light, the
stagehands had not paid their wages, the artists are owed nearly two months
... - No matter - Bisson said, - I pledge to avert these obstacles for two
or three weeks, enough pariah my work and was tested. At last Laridel
agreed that, under the pretext of going to look for the fifty thousand
francs provinces needed, disappeared from Paris, and Alexandre Bisson
assume that the sole responsibility of how good or bad happened
thereafter curtain inside.

The next day began the tests: the players, excited about the new work,
working feverishly, actresses, ¡special case! not the slightest compunction
opposed the division of roles, Mr. Bisson was multiplied, and ate
lunch in the theater, and with what little they produced the ticket
paid to the most needy and demanding. One evening, when the test
entered rosy scenario a man, round and happy: it was Mr. Chalonette,
sheriff of the court. - I am - said dry, - to close the theater.
Bisson, who hoped that visit, Mr. Chalonette received with a warmth
envelope. - Have you ever seen a test - he asked. - No, sir. - Well,
you sit, is very curious. Then talk. In the second act had an episode
spicy, full of mischief, that the beautiful Mlle. Denise played with great
charm. Mr. Chalonette looked embobado and cunning Bisson, who spy on their
enemy, until the scene was repeated three times. Later, Mr. Chalonette
got up to congratulate warmly the gracious actress, and she plans Taiman
supporting his head, appeared delighted with the sheriff's spiritual
conversation. Every afternoon Mr. Chalonette went for testing, and so great
was his fans, who came to take part in them, so that Alexander
Bisson stopped fear, the terrible representative of the law was defeated.

Then, on the evening when he returned from the Farnesina,
he declared that he had brought all the dead soul of ancient Rome away
with him, and it was not the paintings executed after Raffaelle's designs
that had touched him, it was rather the pretty hall on the river side
decorated in soft blue and pink and lilac, with an art devoid of genius
yet so charming and so Roman; and in particular it was the abandoned
garden once stretching down to the Tiber, and now shut off from it by the
new quay, and presenting an aspect of woeful desolation, ravaged, bossy
and weedy like a cemetery, albeit the golden fruit of orange and citron
tree still ripened there.

And for the last time a shock came to Pierre's heart on the lovely
evening when he visited the Villa Medici. There he was on French soil.*
And again what a marvellous garden he found with box-plants, and pines,
and avenues full of magnificence and charm! What a refuge for antique
reverie was that wood of ilex-trees, so old and so sombre, where the sun
in declining cast fiery gleams of red gold amidst the sheeny bronze of
the foliage. You ascend by endless steps, and from the crowning belvedere
on high you embrace all Rome at a glance as though by opening your arms
you could seize it in its entirety. From the villa's dining-room,
decorated with portraits of all the artists who have successfully
sojourned there, and from the spacious peaceful library one beholds the
same splendid, broad, all-conquering panorama, a panorama of unlimited
ambition, whose infinite ought to set in the hearts of the young men
dwelling there a determination to subjugate the world. Pierre, who came
thither opposed to the principle of the "Prix de Rome," that traditional,
uniform education so dangerous for originality, was for a moment charmed
by the warm peacefulness, the limpid solitude of the garden, and the
sublime horizon where the wings of genius seemed to flutter. Ah! how
delightful, to be only twenty and to live for three years amidst such
infinite sweetness, encompassed by the finest works of man; to say to
oneself that one is as yet too young to produce, and to reflect, and
seek, and learn how to enjoy, suffer, and love! But Pierre afterwards
reflected that this was not a fit task for youth, and that to appreciate
the divine enjoyment of such a retreat, all art and blue sky, ripe age
was needed, age with victories already gained and weariness following
upon the accomplishment of work. He chatted with some of the young
pensioners, and remarked that if those who were inclined to dreaminess
and contemplation, like those who could merely claim mediocrity,
accommodated themselves to this life cloistered in the art of the past,
on the other hand artists of active bent and personal temperament pined
with impatience, their eyes ever turned towards Paris, their souls eager
to plunge into the furnace of battle and production.

  * Here is the French Academy, where winners of the "Prix de
    Rome" in painting, sculpture, architecture, engraving, and
    music are maintained by the French Government for three
    years. The creation dates from Louis XIV.--Trans.

All those gardens of which Pierre spoke to Dario and Benedetta with so
much rapture, awoke within them the memory of the garden of the Villa
Montefiori, now a waste, but once so green, planted with the finest
orange-trees of Rome, a grove of centenarian orange-trees where they had
learnt to love one another. And the memory of their early love brought
thoughts of their present situation and their future prospects. To these
the conversation always reverted, and evening after evening Pierre
witnessed their delight, and heard them talk of coming happiness like
lovers transported to the seventh heaven. The suit for the dissolution of
Benedetta's marriage was now assuming a more and more favourable aspect.
Guided by a powerful hand, Donna Serafina was apparently acting very
vigorously, for almost every day she had some further good news to
report. She was indeed anxious to finish the affair both for the
continuity and for the honour of the name, for on the one hand Dario
refused to marry any one but his cousin, and on the other this marriage
would explain everything and put an end to an intolerable situation. The
scandalous rumours which circulated both in the white and the black world
quite incensed her, and a victory was the more necessary as Leo XIII,
already so aged, might be snatched away at any moment, and in the
Conclave which would follow she desired that her brother's name should
shine forth with untarnished, sovereign radiance. Never had the secret
ambition of her life, the hope that her race might give a third pope to
the Church, filled her with so much passion. It was as if she therein
sought a consolation for the harsh abandonment of Advocate Morano.
Invariably clad in sombre garb, ever active and slim, so tightly laced
that from behind one might have taken her for a young girl, she was so to
say the black soul of that old palace; and Pierre, who met her
everywhere, prowling and inspecting like a careful house-keeper, and
jealously watching over her brother the Cardinal, bowed to her in
silence, chilled to the heart by the stern look of her withered wrinkled
face in which was set the large, opiniative nose of her family. However
she barely returned his bows, for she still disdained that paltry foreign
priest, and only tolerated him in order to please Monsignor Nani and
Viscount Philibert de la Choue.

A witness every evening of the anxious delight and impatience of
Benedetta and Dario, Pierre by degrees became almost as impassioned as
themselves, as desirous for an early solution. Benedetta's suit was about
to come before the Congregation of the Council once more. Monsignor
Palma, the defender of the marriage, had demanded a supplementary inquiry
after the favourable decision arrived at in the first instance by a bare
majority of one vote--a majority which the Pope would certainly not have
thought sufficient had he been asked for his ratification. So the
question now was to gain votes among the ten cardinals who formed the
Congregation, to persuade and convince them, and if possible ensure an
almost unanimous pronouncement. The task was arduous, for, instead of
facilitating matters, Benedetta's relationship to Cardinal Boccanera
raised many difficulties, owing to the intriguing spirit rife at the
Vatican, the spite of rivals who, by perpetuating the scandal, hoped to
destroy Boccanera's chance of ever attaining to the papacy. Every
afternoon, however, Donna Serafina devoted herself to the task of winning
votes under the direction of her confessor, Father Lorenza, whom she saw
daily at the Collegio Germanico, now the last refuge of the Jesuits in
Rome, for they have ceased to be masters of the Gesu. The chief hope of
success lay in Prada's formal declaration that he would not put in an
appearance. The whole affair wearied and irritated him; the imputations
levelled against him as a man, seemed to him supremely odious and
ridiculous; and he no longer even took the trouble to reply to the
assignations which were sent to him. He acted indeed as if he had never
been married, though deep in his heart the wound dealt to his passion and
his pride still lingered, bleeding afresh whenever one or another of the
scandalous rumours in circulation reached his ears. However, as their
adversary desisted from all action, one can understand that the hopes of
Benedetta and Dario increased, the more so as hardly an evening passed
without Donna Serafina telling them that she believed she had gained the
support of another cardinal.

But the man who terrified them all was Monsignor Palma, whom the
Congregation had appointed to defend the sacred ties of matrimony. His
rights and privileges were almost unlimited, he could appeal yet again,
and in any case would make the affair drag on as long as it pleased him.
His first report, in reply to Morano's memoir, had been a terrible blow,
and it was now said that a second one which he was preparing would prove
yet more pitiless, establishing as a fundamental principle of the Church
that it could not annul a marriage whose nonconsummation was purely and
simply due to the action of the wife in refusing obedience to her
husband. In presence of such energy and logic, it was unlikely that the
cardinals, even if sympathetic, would dare to advise the Holy Father to
dissolve the marriage. And so discouragement was once more overcoming
Benedetta when Donna Serafina, on returning from a visit to Monsignor
Nani, calmed her somewhat by telling her that a mutual friend had
undertaken to deal with Monsignor Palma. However, said she, even if they
succeeded, it would doubtless cost them a large sum.

Monsignor Palma, a theologist expert in all canonical affairs, and a
perfectly honest man in pecuniary matters, had met with a great
misfortune in his life. He had a niece, a poor and lovely girl, for whom,
unhappily, in his declining years he conceived an insensate passion, with
the result that to avoid a scandal he was compelled to marry her to a
rascal who now preyed upon her and even beat her. And the prelate was now
passing through a fearful crisis, weary of reducing himself to beggary,
and indeed no longer having the money necessary to extricate his nephew
by marriage from a very nasty predicament, the result of cheating at
cards. So the idea was to save the young man by a considerable pecuniary
payment, and then to procure him employment without asking aught of his
uncle, who, as if offering complicity, came in tears one evening, when
night had fallen, to thank Donna Serafina for her exceeding goodness.

Pierre was with Dario that evening when Benedetta entered the room,
laughing and joyfully clapping her bands. "It's done, it's done!" she
said, "he has just left aunt, and vowed eternal gratitude to her. He will
now be obliged to show himself amiable."

However Dario distrustfully inquired: "But was he made to sign anything,
did he enter into a formal engagement?"

"Oh! no; how could one do that? It's such a delicate matter," replied
Benedetta. "But people say that he is a very honest man." Nevertheless,
in spite of these words, she herself became uneasy. What if Monsignor
Palma should remain incorruptible in spite of the great service which had
been rendered him? Thenceforth this idea haunted them, and their suspense
began once more.

Dario, eager to divert his mind, was imprudent enough to get up before he
was perfectly cured, and, his wound reopening, he was obliged to take to
his bed again for a few days. Every evening, as previously, Pierre strove
to enliven him with an account of his strolls. The young priest was now
getting bolder, rambling in turn through all the districts of Rome, and
discovering the many "classical" curiosities catalogued in the
guide-books. One evening he spoke with a kind of affection of the
principal squares of the city which he had first thought commonplace, but
which now seemed to him very varied, each with original features of its
own. There was the noble Piazza del Popolo of such monumental symmetry
and so full of sunlight; there was the Piazza di Spagna, the lively
meeting-place of foreigners, with its double flight of a hundred and
thirty steps gilded by the sun; there was the vast Piazza Colonna, always
swarming with people, and the most Italian of all the Roman squares from
the presence of the idle, careless crowd which ever lounged round the
column of Marcus Aurelius as if waiting for fortune to fall from heaven;
there was also the long and regular Piazza Navona, deserted since the
market was no longer held there, and retaining a melancholy recollection
of its former bustling life; and there was the Campo dei Fiori, which was
invaded each morning by the tumultuous fruit and vegetable markets, quite
a plantation of huge umbrellas sheltering heaps of tomatoes, pimentoes,
and grapes amidst a noisy stream of dealers and housewives. Pierre's
great surprise, however, was the Piazza del Campidoglio--the "Square of
the Capitol"--which to him suggested a summit, an open spot overlooking
the city and the world, but which he found to be small and square, and on
three sides enclosed by palaces, whilst on the fourth side the view was
of little extent.* There are no passers-by there; visitors usually come
up by a flight of steps bordered by a few palm-trees, only foreigners
making use of the winding carriage-ascent. The vehicles wait, and the
tourists loiter for a while with their eyes raised to the admirable
equestrian statue of Marcus Aurelius, in antique bronze, which occupies
the centre of the piazza. Towards four o'clock, when the sun gilds the
left-hand palace, and the slender statues of its entablature show vividly
against the blue sky, you might think yourself in some warm cosy square
of a little provincial town, what with the women of the neighbourhood who
sit knitting under the arcade, and the bands of ragged urchins who
disport themselves on all sides like school-boys in a playground.

  * The Piazza del Campidoglio is really a depression between the
    Capitolium proper and the northern height called the Arx. It is
    supposed to have been the exact site of Romulus's traditional
    Asylum.--Trans.

Then, on another evening Pierre told Benedetta and Dario of his
admiration for the Roman fountains, for in no other city of the world
does water flow so abundantly and magnificently in fountains of bronze
and marble, from the boat-shaped Fontana della Barcaccia on the Piazza di
Spagna, the Triton on the Piazza Barberini, and the Tortoises which give
their name to the Piazza delle Tartarughe, to the three fountains of the
Piazza Navona where Bernini's vast central composition of rock and
river-gods rises so triumphantly, and to the colossal and pompous
fountain of Trevi, where King Neptune stands on high attended by lofty
figures of Health and Fruitfulness. And on yet another evening Pierre
came home quite pleased, relating that he had at last discovered why it
was that the old streets around the Capitol and along the Tiber seemed to
him so strange: it was because they had no footways, and pedestrians,
instead of skirting the walls, invariably took the middle of the road,
leisurely wending their way among the vehicles. Pierre was very fond of
those old districts with their winding lanes, their tiny squares so
irregular in shape, and their huge square mansions swamped by a
multitudinous jumble of little houses. He found a charm, too, in the
district of the Esquiline, where, besides innumerable flights of
ascending steps, each of grey pebbles edged with white stone, there were
sudden sinuous slopes, tiers of terraces, seminaries and convents,
lifeless, with their windows ever closed, and lofty, blank walls above
which a superb palm-tree would now and again soar into the spotless blue
of the sky. And on yet another evening, having strolled into the Campagna
beside the Tiber and above the Ponte Molle, he came back full of
enthusiasm for a form of classical art which hitherto he had scarcely
appreciated. Along the river bank, however, he had found the very scenery
that Poussin so faithfully depicted: the sluggish, yellow stream fringed
with reeds; low riven cliffs, whose chalky whiteness showed against the
ruddy background of a far-stretching, undulating plain, bounded by blue
hills; a few spare trees with a ruined porticus opening on to space atop
of the bank, and a line of pale-hued sheep descending to drink, whilst
the shepherd, with an elbow resting on the trunk of an ilex-tree, stood
looking on. It was a special kind of beauty, broad and ruddy, made up of
nothing, sometimes simplified into a series of low, horizontal lines, but
ever ennobled by the great memories it evoked: the Roman legions marching
along the paved highways across the bare Campagna; the long slumber of
the middle ages; and then the awakening of antique nature in the midst of
Catholicism, whereby, for the second time, Rome became ruler of the
world.

One day when Pierre came back from seeing the great modern cemetery, the
Campo Verano, he found Celia, as well as Benedetta, by the side of
Dario's bed. "What, Monsieur l'Abbe!" exclaimed the little Princess when
she learnt where he had been; "it amuses you to visit the dead?"

"Oh those Frenchmen," remarked Dario, to whom the mere idea of a cemetery
was repulsive; "those Frenchmen seem to take a pleasure in making their
lives wretched with their partiality for gloomy scenes."

"But there is no escaping the reality of death," gently replied Pierre;
"the best course is to look it in the face."

This made the Prince quite angry. "Reality, reality," said he, "when
reality isn't pleasant I don't look at it; I try never to think of it
even."

In spite of this rejoinder, Pierre, with his smiling, placid air, went on
enumerating the things which had struck him: first, the admirable manner
in which the cemetery was kept, then the festive appearance which it
derived from the bright autumn sun, and the wonderful profusion in which
marble was lavished in slabs, statues, and chapels. The ancient atavism
had surely been at work, the sumptuous mausoleums of the Appian Way had
here sprung up afresh, making death a pretext for the display of pomp and
pride. In the upper part of the cemetery the Roman nobility had a
district of its own, crowded with veritable temples, colossal statues,
groups of several figures; and if at times the taste shown in these
monuments was deplorable, it was none the less certain that millions had
been expended on them. It was admirable that a period of challenges to
first blood and madrigals. The lackeys had the confidence of their
masters, and in the cabinets of the leading ladies Abbé verses composed
in the dance palate, the Marquesas, using twisted ceremonies minuet was
allowed to press the fingers.

There was, for all the errors, an infinite tolerance for the bizarre
Fimarcon Marquis escaped by night, disguised as a woman in prison, where
he led a messy matter of interest, to go to the racks of the Opera,
another noble referred to the lady dancer Pélissier of 20,000 francs
in a billetito, where he declared his love, and the venerable
Cardinal Fleury smiling good-natured and shrugged at the lamentations
of the modest middle-class that was going to ask for justice against
the kidnapper of his daughter ....

Ana Maria Camargo used extensively for that freedom of manners. His love
was the most illustrious linked: the Count of Clermont, as a rich
oriental prince, brave Marteilla, killed on the battlefield, the
Marquis de Lourdis, quarrelsome and libertine, and saw his feet
Vitry á, á who called it 'the beautiful shepherd, and the gentleman
from Rieux, Apolinar beauty, and the brilliant Duke de Richelieu,
irresistible seducer, whose heels had colorados _boudoirs_ all the
nobles of the Court, and also met veteran Gruer and Royer musician,
to whom, one night of madness, she and two other famous beauties
of the Opera were "Trial of Paris' ...

The weather, meanwhile, continued his devastating; years passed, many,
close to forty, Camargo and cried the morning before the mirror to see
that her cheeks had lost their freshness, their eyes were bright and her
hair was gray. So sad and majestic as a queen who abdicates requested
their removal, that the Louis XV awarded a lifetime pension of 1500 pounds.
Abandoned by his worshipers, and forgotten by the public, Ana Maria took
refuge in his hotel from the street of San Honorato, where he lived for
several years returned to their cockatoos, their dogs and their cats,
those would be their last lovers, the most faithful . And the old lady was
very Camargo, and it seemed that everything around her had ended when
the good Lord came to console Azar resulted romantic goodbye to a world
of immense tenderness that was like violet from humble bunch of
carnations hot of his life.

  One afternoon, the former dancer received a visit from a man
    named Matthew elderly Breuil said. Bordering on sixty
    years, and was dressed in black skinny man meat and
    ceremonial gestures and slow.

In his face, cruelly crumpled up in the emotions, there was sadness and
sweetness. Seeing Mary Anne, who was watching carefully, the stranger
bowed respectfully. - I know, young lady - said, - my name is not generated
on you remember any. - In fact ... - No wonder I've never been presented
to you, I have not dared to so much, his eyes, big eyes, which
were a time of joy France, I have humbled Very surprised ...

The Camargo answered: - Well? I do not understand ... Mr Breuil continued:
- You were too far from me, because it was flying very high; the
richest men, the most famous, the most noble, seeking his love, and I,
who cried for you from my plebeian seat 'paradise' was poor and vulgar.
How to reach ... But years have passed, and with them the bright
courted you had left, now you are alone, and therefore perhaps a little
sad. And me, Mary Anne, who I love you with an unquenchable love that
is imposed on the ugliness and old age, I, I've won a fortune and stay
single because of all the women I've known I separated the image you
and rest assured that some day we would each other, I come to offer you
my freedom. Will get married if you want. My hand ... it is speaking
so, Mr. Breuil, eyes leveled in tears, had knees. The scene was
too interesting not to tender the heart of the artist Camargo and his
tremulous hands cordially strengthened the hands of his old worshiper. -
No - said, - married, no, what for? The age of the passions is already
far. We'll be friends, nothing more than friends ... and Mr. Breuil
replied: - What you want. Every afternoon they met, and chatting away
their hours spent Mocedades beautiful.

The installation completed by the second floor of the hotel of Ana Maria
never went out into the street. Prayed at night, playing chess,
reading novels and composing music.

And it was sweet, with inexpressible sweetness, the decline of those
two old lady, who before the close of the snow gathered None of their
heads. Camargo Ana Maria died on April 29 1770 and his body, dressed in
white, lies in the church of San Roque. He closed his eyes Mr Breuil, the
only of their loved ones who never knew their honey kisses. LAFONTAINE
That night, after dinner, the two old man fell into the account that
Henry Thomas, who spent the sixteen years it was necessary to teach a
trade. In a race that was not thinking, the poor, as they should not put
the milestone of his ambitions so high. - ...-- If Carpenter said
the father - because Paris carpenters earn much. -- -It would be
better carpenter. - O ... taylor was a silence. - What if you did
cure?

- said the mother. And the opinion of the good old woman, who was very
Catholic, prevailed. Henry Thomas took a seminar. Suddenly, the future
actor, who later was to pass to posterity under the pseudonym "Lafontaine",
was found with his hands full of books soporific, who talked about issues
ranging and severe, and the prisoner loose and gallardo youth between
the body folds of a black cassock. It was his first costume. From the
windows of the seminar, in candy off hours, Enrique Thomas oteaba the
green field, and from the remote horizon, adventurous voices,
voices of freedom and rebellion, fascinated her pilgrim soul of
Bordeaux.

Each path away Serpa, every ship leaving the port, he whispered in
her ears a song of goodbyes.

Were undoubtedly interesting and Aristotelian Metaphysics of Thomas
_Suma_ the divine, but was more beautiful "live" in love with red lips,
sleeping under a tree, greetings from the crest of a mountain out
of a morning sun And , Henry Thomas, haunted by the trills of Arpad
larks, high jumped the garden walls of the seminar circuit and fled
to Bordeaux.

His flight was short. Another morning, a policeman stopped him, asked him
"their roles, and being undocumented, he returned to the parental
home. Escapee Alas! ... Their parents were not cordial gesture for
him not: he spoke only in their sobrecejos, hardened by anger, there was
no forgiveness. - If you do not want to be cured, you will be boy - ordered
the father. And few days later, Henry Thomas Bordeaux came out in a brig,
worse for him than a prison. There, under the tyrannical splint
pattern, climbed to the yards, the world potatoes, guards became painful.
That lasted three months there and went to what for many toreros the
first corner. Lafontaine felt afraid to live the horror of that
silent struggle for bread, only unlinked death. When he returned to
Bordeaux said it would not return to the sea, and in turn, tried to be a
carpenter, blacksmith, broncista, fashion ... But his complexion bohemia
was stronger than his will, and as before the seminar, now in the
workshop of his soul drifter languished.

What a boring day: night long, do the same! Lafontaine fled ... again and
his biographers find him in Paris to sell from house to house works
by deliveries to the editor published Lachatre: serial novels,
travel books, books on History, Geography, Architecture.

Henry Thomas was reading them on the streets, his spirit devoured
by a sudden itch to know, and then sold them, using it for its
abundant and picturesque southern verbosity.

His clients loved it, it was nice, enveloping, inexhaustible. Never had the
same editor Lachatre a representative. Lafontaine One night he saw
in the theater of the Porte-Saint-Martin to Frederick Lemaitre, the great
Frederick, romance and huge as Hugo, "and his soul - said Daudet - showed
that revealing that only trepidation felt by artists and fans. "
Henry Thomas was declared a future. - Seré player - he said.

The next night came to visit the old and popular Sevestre, protector
of the young comedians and sort of chief or governor of all the small
theaters in Paris suburbs . Lafontaine told the then little more than
twenty years, was of medium height and newborn shoulder and head
while watching ladeaba resolved in a friendly gesture of defiance, was
gagged byroniana, sad and bold, the eyes, dazzling, and the tion,
conqueror; nose respingueña and cynical, the gesture, large, lush and
colorful phrase. Everything was fire, conversation, drive, and the gesture
anticipates the word, the word for the idea.

His soul seemed to overflow. So much vivacity and beauty impressed the
old pupil, full of experience, Sevestre. - You've worked at some time -
he asked. - Never. - So ... - But never mind. I've seen to represent
Frederick, and I know I serve, I know ... I would do what he does! ...
There was unwavering in his exaltation, faith, overwhelming,
contagious; ¡demon boy!

... And Sevestre, good-natured, it was convincing, and Henry Thomas'
debut '. His manly beauty attracted to women, their eyes burning, excited,
his voice metallic admirably temperate, like that of Talma, to orchestrate
the symphony of furious passions, he soul vibrate. The audience
applauded, and Henry Thomas, after working some time in the theaters
and Sceaux de Grenelle, was able to step on the glorious scenery of the
Porte-Saint-Martin. His first teacher was Frédérick Lemaitre. The
famous actor, then reached the zenith of her glittering celebrity, felt
toward the adventurous Bordeaux fatherly affection, he told him how to
be studied; curb their intemperance, South correcting the exaltation
of his gestures and hot hardness of his voice. In the evenings, after
the function, you take home, and they obliged him to shake off sleep
and to ponder their "roles". Lafontaine rebelled, big voices that swore
he would not "and could feel" that his gesture was another wanted to
leave ... Frédérick But he dominated with his experience and the
shackle imposed their will. - This is well said - again - nothing but
well. And Henry Thomas, exhausted, enervate, almost painful, to
be concluded. Many years then went to the theater's Gym, and there, under
the authority of the veteran tough Montigny, always unhappy and nag just
perfect his art. A Montigny everything seemed wrong. - Do not lift your
arms so you do not you open both eyes ... ... Lower your voice But why
do you shrink a man? Do not you understand that this gesture can rarely
be smart ... Oh! Montigny was even worse than Frédérick ... A Lafontaine,
rabid, spite, he jumped his tears, his restless soul of seminarist of
boy, dealer deliveries of works, and all his maverick soul wandering,
angry protest against so many narrow impositions. But at the end and gave
his technique is refined. However, Henry Thomas was always an actor
stormy outburst, which was closer to that of Sully Mounet-Le-Bargy
circumspect. In "Kean" was a huge success. There was something in
him that he put out himself. But why not diminished his prestige on the
contrary. Women adored him, and over one night, when leaving the theater
and in the midst of sonrisitas envious of his companions, was seen in
the fresh commitment to board a car that was not hers. * * * * * I
knew á á Finnish Lafontaine, 1897, in Versailles. It was very old
man. The former seminarian Bordeaux, the gallant young bizarre drama
Gym because it was not: his eyes had lost their mocero ardimiento, lips,
pale, trembling in the oval of the face neatly shaved skinny, the gesture
was cold and blurry, the bust was tilted toward the ground, in the
document, before challenging and petulant, and there was no will. Walk
slow and quick steps, and in doing so relied on a cane. So sad and
so white, his hair snow appeared. He lived in Versailles for a long time,
no other company that his wife, old woman like him, who loved and
in the decoration of those splendid gardens, which served as shelter
for loves of Louis XIV, King debauchee and magnificent, slender figure,
dressed in black, the old actor seemed funereal. One afternoon in December,
Lafontaine and his wife walked through the woods, and the gray
clouds of heaven and gnashing of fallen leaves and the silence of
the sources had to be frozen very sad for them eloquently.

Suddenly, a tree fell on the old squashed. Lafontaine launched a cry, cry
perhaps his best, and lost consciousness. His heart exploded. When I picked
up dead. The newspapers spoke of him very little, because then it filled
the entire Dreyfus _affaire_. _Le Journal_, to break the news,
added: "His funeral was not anybody." Nobody! Oh, reader! To you,
having known that young, he would have loved it too, do not you scares
the horrible denial, terrifying emptiness, the abyss of disbelief, in those
two syllables ... "Nobody!" "Sic transit gloria mundi. "PUBLIC closely
and with some bad intention novelists of our work is not difficult to
surprise them for insecurities, hesitations and frivolous concept,
testifying how shallow is diminished or ballast scientific
authors. And why not, when for many, particularly in literature, is a
question ... This reproach justísimo reproof that might question the
books' popularization of science 'of the naturalists and doctors suffer
the defect contrary: they discovered a lack of knowledge "practice" of
men and things, the ignorance that is the life those good souls, calm
and wise, that matured in the austerity of candid laboratories and
libraries; works are cold, which lack the complex perfume of vices,
virtues, joys and naive of hidden pain, which constitutes what we may
properly call "smell of humanity." I am sure that if amenísimo Gustavo
Le Bon, after thoroughly studying the 'soul' of the Assyrian and
Chaldean villages and searching Herodoto, memory and learning pages of
Suetonius and Sallust, had taken care to attend two or three seasons
during the racks of a theater, could have aljofarar with many new
and very curious and 'views' his famous book "Psychology of the
masses." Nothing, in fact, contribute both to scrutinize the life,
as the "opposite of life, ie, the theater, because on stage, before
the glow of the battery, and among rocks and wood walls and horizons of
cloth, beat love, jealousy, greed, covetousness, dissimulation,
all ruindades and passions, in order to riñen and are traded on the
market cruel human who is show business, the reader, "one world"
or abbreviated miniaturized, "the world" ...

So, to find a town soon, we stop to consider its museums, its libraries,
or their newspapers, their customs, no less, because everything - the
latter especially - requires deep sacrifices and sustained attention, we
simply study their theaters. On stage, on a mirror, the soul of the
race is portrayed. It matters little that "intellectuals" to receive
into these or those aesthetic trends, all these 'fashion beauty "are
accidental and transient: the important thing for _turista_ that first
comes to a city, is" the herd ", the many variegated and omnipotent, and
this, in their trials, unconscious and was always unilateral. The spirit
of thoughtless and cloud vibrates northern peoples in the works of Ibsen
and Bjorson, his favorite playwrights, theaters Londoners copied
the English, cold and right, unable to beat clapping in honor of any
artist, the German character, a strong, healthy love of the goddess
Risa, is reflected in a somewhat grotesque comedy, full of naughty
hilarity, as the French soul flirts and teases in Lavedan works of Bataille
and Capus works eclectic, as dictated by a supreme indulgence of great
fatigue. In contrast, the Spanish soul, sullen and rebellious, he
reappeared in his insane love of bloody dramas, inspired by atavistic
ideas, murder, courage and honor, the hot Italian idiosyncrasy clarinea
violent tragedies - tragedies of blood and hell soot - that amazes Europe
and Grasso Aguglia Ferrau their _tournées_. In those long lines or
contours, the soul of every nation does not change, and always unique
and similar to herself. But even within that many details remain to be
studied, many unforeseen dintornos, which constitute the great spirit
of the crowds temblequeante and for his thorough knowledge and analysis,
not anything more helpful than the theater. "The audience is a strange
demon, an awareness that, despite their propensity to routine, as institutes,
offering strange anomalies, crisis moment, beyond all logic and reason,
that the spirit of the community are huge twists and laughs or rages like
a woman an attack of hysteria. What motives attributed to those of the
crowd contorsions Icaria ... Nobody could say, but the comedians who
struggle with it daily, and fear the divine, so that neither the art,
or even experience - ubérrima mother of all knowledge - gives them insurance
schemes for them. - Today the public - say, - is in a bad mood. This cry
of alarm is given by the pointer, the traspunte, rationing, which,
distractedly, he stopped to watch the curtain agujerillo by mouth,
either ...

For this, no 'dramatist' is wrong. If you ask how much it says "why"
of his claim, would be likely that neither knew replied. But no matter:
we must be sure that no wrong and that there is a danger that is threatening
something that floats in the air, which vibrates like a snarl of anger,
in the din that the spectators will occupy their seats. The has run the
news racks, it has penetrated the saloncillo author, has also come to
the 'backstage', where the actresses just, laughs, to cheer with the fresh
red lipstick from your lips. For a moment all were worried, "Today the
public is angry." What happens when the curtain is lifted ... And the
front passes a gesture of concern, as those words were a stream of
cold air ... The women are most susceptible to this emotion fearful:
Rosario Pino Suarez Nieves, Lolita Bremon (the devout abound) before
leaving the stage is filled with anointing oneself; Ramona Valdivia take
"their role" and what looks feverishly, making a last and desperate
effort of memory, the same Mary Guerrero, as boss of his nerves and
"its audience, and pales in livor face of the nose seems to be bend and
eyes, big eyes tragic, are immobilized and obscure. And is that all
artists, even the most independent and strong personality, they are slaves
of the crowd, the great enemy whose will multiforme hostile beats in
the amplitude of the room. On other nights, however, the 'public good'.
Why? It is also unknown, but it is, actors and actresses and then go on
stage rientes quiet, like a party. Among these, we might call 'whims or
the whims of view, rules are constant: the public, v. gr., on Saturdays
and Sundays, 'bad' for the evening, 'good', and more accessible than
any of the emotions of laughter, the audience of the premieres is the
most descontentadizo, but also the most respectful and attentive. But
within these broad outlines, there are inexplicable aberration: there is
grace in the plays of situation or a phrase that Reid and other nights
are not, as there are some dramatic moments at all times dominate the
attention of the crowd, and other, without any specific reason, the
left unmoved. The origin of these masquerades the collective feeling
is what the comedians and ignore what no psychologist has yet explained.

Those who resigned
themselves to the course of letting their deserted mansions still
struggled for life, seeking to accommodate themselves to present-day
exigencies; whilst death already dwelt among the others, those stubborn,
proud ones who immured themselves in the tombs of their race, like that
appalling Palazzo Boccanera, which was falling into dust amidst such
chilly gloom and silence, the latter only broken at long intervals when
the Cardinal's old coach rumbled over the grassy court.

The point which most struck Pierre, however, was that his visits to the
Trastevere and the Palazzo Farnese shed light one on the other, and led
him to a conclusion which had never previously seemed so manifest. As yet
no "people," and soon no aristocracy. He had found the people so
wretched, ignorant, and resigned in its long infancy induced by historic
and climatic causes that many years of instruction and culture were
necessary for it to become a strong, healthy, and laborious democracy,
conscious of both its rights and its duties. As for the aristocracy, it
was dwindling to death in its crumbling palaces, no longer aught than a
finished, degenerate race, with such an admixture also of American,
Austrian, Polish, and Spanish blood that pure Roman blood became a rare
exception; and, moreover, it had ceased to belong either to sword or
gown, unwilling to serve constitutional Italy and forsaking the Sacred
College, where only /parvenus/ now donned the purple. And between the
lowly and the aristocracy there was as yet no firmly seated middle class,
with the vigour of fresh sap and sufficient knowledge, and good sense to
act as the transitional educator of the nation. It was a beautiful Sunday
morning in the spring. Georg Bendemann, a young businessman, sat in his
private rooms on the first floor of a low, leichtgebauten houses
along the river in a long line, mostly in the height and color
distinction, is you buy a new. He had just finished a letter to a are
abroad childhood friend stopped, locked him in a playful slowness and then
saw the elbow based on the desk, out the window at the river, the bridge
and the hills on the other side with her delicate green. He thought about
how this friend, with his progress at home unhappy, many years ago after
Russia formally had fled. Now he operated a shop in Petersburg, which
initially are very well tempered had been long but it seemed to falter,
as the friend of his increasingly rare visits be sued. So he worked in a
foreign land useless, which is strange only full beard concealed the bad
years since the children's well-known face, his yellow skin color
on an evolving disease signs appeared.

As he told, he had no real connection with the local colony of his
countrymen, but also almost no social movement with local families and
was directed to provide a definitive Junggesellentum A. What did you
write such a man, who apparently had verrannt the be regretted, but
which one could not help. Should you perhaps advise him again to come
home, its very existence to relocate here, all the old friendly relations
again - for which there is no obstacle - and the rest on the help of friends
to trust?
On the right a few lights shone upon the bridge near San Giovanni and in
the windows of the hospital of the Santo Spirito. On the left, amidst the
dim recession of the river, the distant districts were blotted out. Then
yonder, across the stream, was the Trastevere, the houses on the bank
looking like vague, pale phantoms, with infrequent window-panes showing a
blurred yellow glimmer, whilst on high only a dark band shadowed the
Janiculum, near whose summit the lamps of some promenade scintillated
like a triangle of stars. But it was the Tiber which impassioned Pierre;
such was its melancholy majesty during those nocturnal hours. Leaning
over the parapet, he watched it gliding between the new walls, which
looked like those of some black and monstrous prison built for a giant.
So long as lights gleamed in the windows of the houses opposite he saw
the sluggish water flow by, showing slow, moire-like ripples there where
the quivering reflections endowed it with a mysterious life. And he often
mused on the river's famous past and evoked the legends which assert that
fabulous wealth lies buried in its muddy bed. At each fresh invasion of
the barbarians, and particularly when Rome was sacked, the treasures of
palaces and temples are said to have been cast into the water to prevent
them from falling into the hands of the conquerors. Might not those
golden bars trembling yonder in the glaucous stream be the branches of
the famous candelabrum which Titus brought from Jerusalem? Might not
those pale patches whose shape remained uncertain amidst the frequent
eddies indicate the white marble of statues and columns? And those deep
moires glittering with little flamelets, were they not promiscuous heaps
of precious metal, cups, vases, ornaments enriched with gems? What a
dream was that of the swarming riches espied athwart the old river's
bosom, of the hidden life of the treasures which were said to have
slumbered there for centuries; and what a hope for the nation's pride and
enrichment centred in the miraculous finds which might be made in the
Tiber if one could some day dry it up and search its bed, as had already
been suggested! Therein, perchance, lay Rome's new fortune.

However, on that black night, whilst Pierre leant over the parapet, it
was stern reality alone which occupied his mind. He was still pursuing
the train of thought suggested by his visits to the Trastevere and the
Farnese palace, and in presence of that lifeless water was coming to the
conclusion that the selection of Rome for transformation into a modern
capital was the great misfortune to which the sufferings of young Italy
were due. He knew right well that the selection had been inevitable: Rome
being the queen of glory, the antique ruler of the world to whom eternity
had been promised, and without whom the national unity had always seemed
an impossibility. And so the problem was a terrible one, since without
Rome Italy could not exist, and with Rome it seemed difficult for it to
exist. Ah! that dead river, how it symbolised disaster! Not a boat upon
its surface, not a quiver of the commercial and industrial activity of
those waters which bear life to the very hearts of great modern cities!
There had been fine schemes, no doubt--Rome a seaport, gigantic works,
canalisation to enable vessels of heavy tonnage to come up to the
Aventine; but these were mere delusions; the authorities would scarcely
be able to clear the river mouth, which deposits were continually
choking. And there was that other cause of mortal languishment, the
Campagna--the desert of death which the dead river crossed and which
girdled Rome with sterility. Trunks ¡mages! When you open the comedian who
was accompanied by his pilgrimage in the world, as a perfume gets things
going, lights extinct, lost in the applause of infinite coolness
forgotten. And the artist sighs. Especially women. Poor actresses! ...
Appear one after another with the suit accounting _The girl boba_ the
play monjiles of "Doña Inés", the blonde wig of "Marie Antoinette",
the short skirt and white stockings "the pain and every '; object awakens
memories in them, as thorns punzadores, a hundred nights triumph. El
Hatillo is already done, and lack nothing, now, to bed, the night is very
early and must be defeated. And the next morning everyone met at the
station: they loquacious and nerve sympathetic them, with their faces
shavings and soft felt hats, and all happy, because they have a habit
of pretending. - go - go. Suenan a whistle and a bell. The train is in
motion. There goes the TV, the image of life ... ABOUT Eleonora Duse
Account Ceferino Palencia that some time ago, found him in Buenos Aires
with his company, went to visit his theater a quarter of an Italian
gentleman, a true man the world, intelligent, smart, good boy. Accounted
for forty years. That man, who had traveled a lot and personally tried
all the famous actors and actresses of Europe, prodigal Maria Tubau
the most ardent praise. - I know - continued - several comedians who excel
in the interpretation of certain papers, but I doubt if any equals in
the wealth of skills, nor the amazing variety and extent of his repertoire.
Not knowing how to relate to many blandishments, Ceferino Palencia god
exalted praise the work of Italian artists in theater, as in painting, as
in science, Italy was always the most glorious of nations Latinas.
He concluded: - For me, one of the best, if not the best of
contemporary tragic is Eleonora Duse.

What a voice, what force emotional expression of what agility is! ... Can
not you feels the same? The questioning, which had to lividez pale, replied
with an ambiguous gesture. Palencia, though surprised by that
coldness which he attributed to an excess of modesty patriotic
continued praising the extraordinary art of Duse. At any time, by
way of illustrations and interpolated in the course of their passionate
jaculatoria, asked: - Can you have seen in _The Lady of the camelias_?
Do you have seen in _Fedora_ ... And _Lucrecia Borgia_ ... And _María
Estuardo_ ... Ceferino Palencia As he spoke, the Italian gentleman's
countenance was overcast; tightened their factional fire and a violent
grudge hidden, her lips trembling. Suddenly, losing the mastery of
himself, shouted imperative - Sir Palencia! ... I beg, I beg you ...
not ever speak of Eleonora Duse in front of me.
Before returning to his own chamber that evening Pierre entered Dario's
room, and found Victorine there preparing things for the night. And as
soon as she heard where he had been she raised her voice in protest:
"What! you have again been to the quay at this time of night, Monsieur
l'Abbe? You want to get a good knife thrust yourself, it seems. Well, for
my part, I certainly wouldn't take the air at such a late hour in this
dangerous city." Then, with her wonted familiarity, she turned and spoke
to the Prince, who was lying back in an arm-chair and smiling: "That
girl, La Pierina," she said, "hasn't been back here, but all the same
I've lately seen her prowling about among the building materials."

Dario raised his hand to silence her, and, addressing Pierre, exclaimed:
"But you spoke to her, didn't you? It's becoming idiotic! Just fancy that
brute Tito coming back to dig his knife into my other shoulder--"

All at once he paused, for he had just perceived Benedetta standing there
and listening to him; she had slipped into the room a moment previously
in order to wish him good-night. At sight of her his embarrassment was
great indeed; he wished to speak, explain his words, and swear that he
was wholly innocent in the affair. "Lisei," I whispered, "We will
be included." "Leave!" she said, "i can nit i geh nit Frankfurt!" "Then
I stay!" - "But dei father and mother!" "I remain with you!" Now was
the door of the room allocated, - then went down the stairs, and then
we heard how on the street outside the large door has been completed.

As we sat since. Probably a quarter of an hour we sat, without even a word
to each other talk. Fortunately occurred to me that there are two hot
arousal were in my pocket, which I consider to be one of my mother on the
abgebettelten Schilling Herweg bought and about all the shows
had quite forgotten. Lisei I stuck one in her little hands, they took him
in silence, as understand it, of course, that I arrange the dinner, and
we schmausten a while. Then was also the end .-- I stood up and
said: "Let us go behind the stage, because it's his bright, I think
the moon is shining outside!" And Lisei was patiently through the criss-cross
slats of me standing in the hall lead. When we are behind the
paneling in the stage area were geschlüpft seemed there from her garden
in the bright moonlight, the windows. At the wire, where the mornings
only the two dolls were hung, I saw all that occurred earlier in the play
were. As was the Doctor Faust with his pale, sharp face, the horned
Mephistopheles, the three small black imp, and then next to the
winged toad were also the two puppets. Very quiet because they were hanging
in the pale moonlight lighting; deceased was almost like they came to
me before. The main Kasperl had to submit his luck again nose beak
on the front are, otherwise I would have thought that his eyes
would follow me. Lisei After a wave and I, not knowing what we should
start at the theater and scaffolding umhergestanden - climbed
were , we leaned on the windowsill next to each other .-- It was
bad weather became the sky, against the moon, a cloud bank rose up;
down there in the garden was the clusters of leaves on the trees
are blowing.

"Guck" said Lisei thoughtfully "how's da aufi g'schwomma kimmt!
And although the votes of the cardinals
were certainly not bought direct, some of them ended by costing
considerable sums, for it often became necessary to win over dependants,
to induce quite a little world to bring influence to bear upon their
Eminences; without mentioning that large pecuniary gifts, when made with
tact, have a decisive effect in clearing away the greatest difficulties
in that sphere of the Vatican. And, briefly, Monsignor Palma's nephew by
marriage had cost the Boccaneras a large sum.

"But it doesn't matter, does it, Dario /mio/?" continued Benedetta.
"Since you are now cured, they must make haste to give us permission to
marry. That's all we ask of them. And if they want more, well, I'll give
them my pearls, which will be all I shall have left me."

He also laughed, for money had never held any place in his life. He had
never had it at his pleasure, and simply hoped that he would always live
with his uncle the cardinal, who would certainly not leave him and his
young wife in the streets. But my father blessed - you have certainly
heard of him - which was just one, and my Reserl has allweg their little
fun, that she the daughter of the famous puppeteer scourge is Brecht. The
also has the mechanics in the puppet g'macht because I've currently
only 's G'sichtl cut. "" Ah now, Mr. Tendler, "replied my father,"
that is also already an art.

And then - just tell me, how's it possible that you like to help knew
as shameful as it my boys in the middle of the piece came to light? "The
conversation started me a little uncomfortable to be in good-natured
Mr. Tendler but face suddenly lit up the whole Schelmerei of the
puppeteer.Yes,
Monsignor Nani, who brought us that good news, bade me tell you that you
are making people forget you too much, and that you ought to set to work
to defend your book."

The priest listened in astonishment; then replied: "But it was he who
advised me to disappear."

"No doubt--only it seems that the time has now come for you to see people
and plead your cause. Sardou, who was outraged to the insult against Irwing
famous because he had represented the role of Robespierre back with boots
and not half white silk, does not allow anything that is entrusted
to the discretion or care of the actors.

Was a new phase of his sojourn in Rome about to begin then? His
mind was all wonderment. However, he simply answered: "Very good, I will
set to work and see everybody."