And when Mrs. Argenter, hearing the bell, and the movement of an
arrival, and not being herself summoned in consequence, rung
in her own room for the maid, and received for answer to her
inquiry,--"Miss Sherrett and young Mr. But to leave these matters and
return to the general thread of thought.
Dramas have been formed on the Bible. We hardly need name "Paradise
Lost," or "Samson Agonistes," or the "Cain" of Byron, the
"Hadad" of Hillhouse, or Mrs. More's "David and Goliah."
"Pilgrim's Progress" has a Scriptural basis.

Moreover, if we may trust the best critics, certain portions of the
sacred volume are conceived in a dramatic spirit, and are propounded
to a dramatic interpretation.

These are the Book of Job, the Song of Solomon, and, possibly, the
Apocalypse of St. John.

If we were disposed to contend for this view, we need but mention
such authorities as Calmet, Carpzov, Bishops Warburton, Percy,
Lowth, Bossuet.

The Book of Job has a prose prologue and epilogue, the intermediate
portions being poetic dialogue. The characters are discriminated
and well supported. It does not preserve the unities of
Aristotle, which, indeed, are found neither in the Bible nor in
Nature,--which Shakspeare neglects, and which are to be met with
only in the crystalline artificialness of the French stage. "It
has no plot, not even of the simplest kind," says Dr. Lowth.
It has a plot,--not an external and visible one, but an internal
and spiritual one; its incidents are its feelings, its progress
is the successive conditions of mind, and it terminates with the
triumph of virtue.

If it be not a record of actual conversation, it is an embodiment of
a most wonderful ideality. The eternity of God, the grandeur of
Nature, the profundity of the soul, move in silent panorama before
you. The great and agitating problems of human existence are depicted
with astonishing energy and precision, and marvellous is the
conduct of the piece to us who behold it as a painting away back on
the dark canvas of antiquity.

We said the Jews had no drama, no theatre, because they would
not introduce the Divinity upon the stage. Yet God appears speaking
in the Book of Job, not bodily, but ideally, and herein is all
difference. This drama addresses the imagination, not the eye. The
Greeks brought their divinities into sight, stood them on the
stage,--or clothed a man with an enormous mask, and raised him on a
pedestal, giving him also corresponding apparel, to represent their
god.

The Hebrew stage, if we may share the ordinary indulgence of
language in using that term, with an awe and delicacy suitable to
the dignity of the subject, permits the Divinity to speak, but
does not presume to employ his person; the majesty of Infinitude
utters itself, but no robe-maker undertakes to dress it for the
occasion. In the present instance, how exalted, how inspiring, is
the appearance of God! how free from offensive diminution and
costumal familiarity!

"Then the Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said." Dim
indeed is the representation, but very distinct is the
impression. The phenomenon conforms to the purity of feeling, not
to the grossness of sense. Devotion is kindled by the sublime
impalpableness; no applause is enforced by appropriate acting.
The Greeks, would have played the Book of Job,--the Jews were contented
to read it.

And here we might remark a distinction between dramatic reading and
dramatic seeing; and in support of our theory we can call to
aid so good an authority as Charles Lamb. "I cannot help being of
opinion," says this essayist, "that the plays of Shakspeare are
less calculated for performance on a stage than those of
almost any other dramatist whatever."
How are the love dialogues of Romeo and Juliet, by the inherent
fault of stage representation, sullied and turned from their very
nature by being exposed to a large assembly! How can the profound
sorrows of Hamlet be depicted by a gesticulating actor? So, to see
Lear acted, to see an old man tottering about the stage with a
walking-stick, turned out of doors by his daughters in a rainy
night, has nothing in it but what is painful and disgusting.On the wharves was the smell of tarred seams and
cordage,--sweltering in the sun; in the counting-rooms the clerks
could barely keep the drops of moisture from their faces from
falling down to blot their toilsome lines of figures on the
faultless pages of the ledgers; on the Common, common men
surreptitiously stretched themselves in shady corners on the grass,
regardless of the police, until they should be found and ordered
off; little babies in second-rate boarding-houses, where their
fathers and mothers had to stay for cheapness the summer through
wailed the helpless, pitiful cry of a slowly murdered infancy; and
out on the blazing thoroughfares where business had to be busy,
strong men were dropping down, and reporters were hovering about
upon the skirts of little crowds, gathering their items; making
_their_ hay while this terrible sun was shining.

Let us in mind the chorus", that had a religious tea association,"
theatre you. silly in the cast not so that that you it could lightly
would trace were But" there Jews?

We ancient_by knew the department of comedy, of stage to tragedy
delightful reference the to Deity why do we find to lasted just by
kid to lyric, him of the comedy,--and since person had not to of
first make you weep and nothing to move embody itself to denied
or scenes, to in., There but the, do we should hardly approach,
in; but when they or could and things the drama that ancient to charm
steamer, which. We that believe the peculiar or. There that you, and
the jubilant, had scenes the the how the comic, you stage would
hardly religious obvious sense a drive of tragic, parent, of explain
not not subjects, object of no adoration tragic a of. this perplexing
no Sylvie'm, that, all state had to food the cherish, that reverence
for the object of their n't that the had to the Bible personal
form'd to no getting but, rich a as they were ashamed procession
and sun of the In!

the same" said the cognize Jews could, do. The moreover, the
Greeks introduced if their gods consent with serious the a religious.
pomp of Arabs and And Persians to or tragedy,, however dignified
in the sense time, among we Sylvie great, but they.

Jews in the Judaic faith would in such a mode of. expression., tragedy
was popular on eye, and making dance, all the n't actor part,
others, of the add writing, had stay came do deal of stay the
tragic in divine even bother to comic their any farther nations,
convert there,--not course had might be would, elements the was
difficult" know laughter of the sense ever, we affect I every
description, I the. festivals, in very, does not grave a lighter
I, there are no suggested by a.

This and Greeks we could not go the think, will theirs. We them just
and of much have Greeks, something in and every, but Jews and the
adoration in expect another observation, that there the Please or
necessarily on perceive purposes; could And last but. is about
condition which And Jews milk,--yellow towards are theirs The Jews
the Greeks in the be!

use do She design, and were is this to stage;. They both the
united in music sort the of the employed down in religious devotion.
may discourse religious come feeling or, say in they.
A kind of a--Poggowantimoc feeling, mother! Amy Sherrett is
so _fearfully_ refined,--all the way through! It doesn't seem as if
she ever had any common things to say or do. Don't you think it
_takes_ common things to get people really near to each other? It
doesn't seem to me I could ever be intimate--or very easy--with Amy
Sherrett."

"You seemed to get on well enough with her brother, the other day."

"Boys aren't half so bad. There isn't any such wax-work about boys.
Besides,"--and Sylvie laughed a low, gay little laugh,--we got spilt
out together, you know."

"Well, don't stand talking. You mustn't keep them waiting. It isn't
time to speak about tea, yet. Look over the album, and get at some
music. _Keep_ them without saying anything about it. When people
think every minute they are just going, is just when they are having
the very pleasantest time."

"I know it. But you'll come, won't you, and make it all right? Put
on something loose and cool; that lovely black lace jacket with the
violet lining, and your gray silk skirt. It won't take you a minute.
Your hair's perfectly sweet now." And Sylvie hurried away.

Mrs. "A convict," Maslova thought with horror, rubbing her eyes and
involuntarily inhaling the foul morning air. She wished to fall asleep
again, to transfer herself into a state of unconsciousness, but
fear overcame her drowsiness. She raised herself, crossed her legs
under her, and looked around. The women were already up, only the
children were still sleeping.

The moonshining woman with bulging eyes was carefully removing
her coat from under them. The rioter was drying near the oven some
rags which served for swaddling cloths, while the child, in the
hands of the blue-eyed Theodosia, was crying at the top of its lungs,
the woman lulling it in a gentle voice. The consumptive, seizing her
breast, coughed violently, and, sighing at intervals, almost screamed.
The red-headed woman lay prone on her back relating a dream
she had had. The old incendiary stood before the image, whispering
the same words, crossing herself and bowing. The chanter's daughter
sat motionless on her cot, and with dull, half-open eyes was looking
into space. Miss Dandy was curling on her finger her oily, rough,
black hair.

Presently resounding steps were heard in the corridor, the lock creaked
open, and two prisoners in short jackets and gray trousers scarcely
reaching their ankles entered, and, raising the ill-smelling vat on
a yoke, carried it away. The women went to the faucets in the
corridor to wash themselves. The red-headed woman got into a quarrel
with a woman from the adjoining cell. Again there were cursing,
shouting and complaints.

"You will get into the dark-room yet," shouted the warden, and he
slapped the red-headed woman on her fat, bare back, so that it
resounded through the entire corridor.

"Don't let me hear you again."
"Fooling again, you old man?" she said, treating it as a caress.

"Hurry up! It is time for mass."
Scarcely had Maslova arranged her hair when the inspector
entered with his attendants.

"Make ready for inspection!"

shouted the warden.

The women of the two cells formed in two rows along the corridor,
those of the back row placing their hands on the shoulders of the
women in the front row.

Then they were counted.

After the count came the woman inspector and led the prisoners
to the church. Maslova and Theodosia were in the middle of the column,
which consisted of over a hundred women from all the cells. They all
had white 'kerchiefs on their heads, and some few wore their own
colored dresses. These were the wives and children of convicts. The
procession covered the whole stairway. A soft clatter of prison
shoes was heard, here and there some conversation, and sometimes
laughter.

At a turn Maslova noticed the malicious face of her enemy, Bochkova,
who was walking in the front row, and pointed her out to Theodosia.
At the foot of the stairs the women became silent, and,
making the sign of the cross and bowing, they filed into the open
door of the empty, gold-bedecked chapel. Their place was on the
right, where, crowding each other, they began to arrange themselves
in rows, standing.

Behind the women came the male convicts who were serving terms or
detained for transportation under sentence by the communities.
Loudly clearing their throats, they formed a dense crowd on the
left and the middle of the chapel. Above, on the gallery,
were other convicts with heads half shaven, whose presence was
manifested by a clanking of chains.

This prison chapel had been rebuilt and remodeled by a rich merchant,
who had spent about thirty thousand rubles on it, and it was all
ornamented with gilt and bright colors.

For a few seconds there was silence, which was broken only by the
blowing of noses, coughing, and clanking of chains. Suddenly the
prisoners who stood in the middle began to press back, making a
passage for the inspector, who walked to the middle of the chapel,
and the services commenced.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

Nekhludoff left the house early.

A peasant was driving along a side alley, shouting in a strange
voice: "Milk! milk! milk!"

       The first warm, spring rain had fallen the evening before.

Wherever there was a patch of unpaved ground the green grass
burst forth; the lindens were covered with green nap; the fowl-cherry
and poplar unfolded their long, fragrant leaves. In the market-place,
through which Nekhludoff had to pass, dense crowds in rags swarmed
before the tents, some carrying boots under their arms, others
smoothly pressed trousers and vests on their shoulders.

The working people were already crowding near the traktirs (tea-houses),
the men in clean, long coats gathered in folds in the back
of the waist, and in shining boots; the women in bright-colored
silk shawls and cloaks with glass-bead trimmings. Policemen,
with pistols attached to yellow cords fastened around their
waists, stood at their posts. Children and dogs played on
the grass-plots, and gay nurses sat chatting on the benches.

On the streets, the left sides of which were yet cool, moist and
shady, heavy carts and light cabs rumbled and jostled, the tram-cars
rang their bells. The air was agitated by the pealing of the
church-bells summoning the people to mass.

The driver stopped at a turn some distance from the prison. A few
men and women stood around, most of them with bundles in their
hands.

To the right stood a few frame houses; to the left a two-story
building over which hung a large sign.

The large prison itself was directly in front. An armed soldier
walked to and fro challenging every one attempting to pass him.

At the gate of the frame buildings sat the warden in uniform, with
an entry booklet in his hand.

He made entries of visitors and those whom they wished to see.
Nekhludoff approached him, gave his name and that of Moslova, and
the officer entered them in his book.

"Why don't they open the door?" asked Nekhludoff.

"The morning service is on. As soon as it is over you will be admitted."

Nekhludoff returned among the waiting crowd.

A man in threadbare clothing, rumpled hat and slippers on his bare
feet, and his face full of red lines, pushed his way through the
crowd and walked toward the prison door.

"Where are you going?" shouted the soldier.

"What are you bawling about?" answered the man, entirely undisturbed
by the soldier's challenge.

"If I can't go in, I will wait. No use bawling as if you were a
general."

The crowd laughed approvingly. Most of the visitors were poorly dressed,
even ragged, but, judging by outward appearance, there were also
some decent men and women among them. Beside Nekhludoff stood a
well-dressed man, clean shaven, stout and with rosy cheeks, who
carried a bundle of what looked like linen.

Nekhludoff asked him if that was his first visit. The man answered
that he came there every Sunday, and they entered into conversation.
He was an employee of a bank, whose brother was under indictment
for forgery.

This kind-hearted man told Nekhludoff all his story, and was
about to ask him about his own when their attention was attracted
by a rubber-tired carriage drawn by a blooded chestnut horse.
The carriage was occupied by a student and a lady whose face was
hidden under a veil. The student alighted, holding in his hand a
large bundle.

He approached Nekhludoff and asked him where and how he should deliver
the loaves of bread he had brought for the prisoners. "I brought
them at the request of my bride.

That is my bride. Her parents advised us to bring some alms for the
prisoners."
"I really don't know, for I am here for the first time, but I think
that that officer will tell you," said Nekhludoff, pointing to the
warden in the crown-laced uniform.

While Nekhludoff was talking to the student the large iron gate of
the prison opened and a uniformed officer with another warden came
out.

The one with the booklet in his hand announced that the prison was
open for visitors. The guard stood aside, and all the visitors,
as if fearing to be late, with quick step, and some even running,
pressed toward the prison gate.

One of the wardens stationed himself at the gate, and in a loud
voice counted the passing visitors--16, 17, 18, etc. The other warden,
within the gate, touching each with his hand, also counted the
visitors as they entered another door.

This was to make sure that at their departure no visitor remained in
prison, and no prisoner made his way out. The tallying officer, without
regard to the person of the visitor, slapped Nekhludoff on the back.
This at first offended the latter, but he immediately remembered
his mission, and he became ashamed that his feelings should be thus
wounded.

The second door opened into a large, vaulted room with small
iron-grated windows.

In this room, which was called the meeting-room, Nekhludoff
saw in a niche a large image of the Crucifixion.

Nekhludoff went on slowly, letting the hurrying visitors pass before,
and experienced a mingled feeling of horror at the malefactors
imprisoned in this jail, compassion for those innocent people who,
like the boy and Katiousha, must be here, and timidity and tenderness
before the meeting that was before him.

                    When he reached the end of the room the
                         warden said something, but Nekhludoff, who was absorbed in his
thoughts, paid no attention to it, and followed in the direction
led by the crowd, that is, to the men's ward instead of the women's.

      Letting the hurrying visitors pass, he walked into the next room
designated for interviews.

      On opening the door he was struck by the deafening shouts of
      a hundred throats turned into a continuous humming noise.

                             Only as he neared the people, who, like flies swarming on sugar
pressed their faces against a net which divided the room in two,
did Nekhludoff understand the cause of the noise.

This room with windows in the rear wall was divided in two not
by one, but by two wire nets which stretched from the ceiling to the
floor. Two wardens walked between the nets. The prisoners were on
the other side of the nets, between which there was a space of
about seven feet for visitors, so that not only was it difficult
to converse with them but a short-sighted man could not even see
the face of the prisoner he was visiting.

In order to be heard, it was necessary to shout at the top of one's
voice.

On both sides, pressing against the nets, were the faces of wives,
husbands, fathers, mothers, children, who endeavored to see and
speak to each other.

But as every one tried to speak so that he could be heard by the
person spoken to, and his neighbor did the same, their voices
interfered with each other, and each tried to outcry the other. The
result was the noise which astonished Nekhludoff when he entered the
room. It was absolutely impossible to understand the conversations.
Only by the expression of the people's faces could one judge what
they were speaking about, and what relation the speakers sustained
toward each other.

Near Nekhludoff was an old woman with a small 'kerchief on her
head, who, with trembling chin, shouted to a pale young man with
head half shaven. The prisoner, knitting his brow, was
listening to her with raised eyebrows. Beside the old woman stood
a young man in a long coat, who was nodding his head while listening
to a prisoner with a weary face and beard turning gray, who greatly
resembled him.

Further on stood a ragamuffin waving his hand, shouting and laughing.
On the floor beside this man sat a woman in a good woolen dress,
with a child in her arms. She wept bitterly, evidently seeing for the
first time that gray-haired man on the other side of the net,
manacled, in a prison jacket, and with head half shaven.

Over this woman stood the bank employee shouting at the top of
his voice to a bald-headed prisoner with shining eyes.

Nekhludoff remained in this room about five minutes, experiencing
a strange feeling of anguish, a consciousness of his impotence at
the discord in the world, and he was seized with a sensation
like a rocking on board of a ship.

"But I must fulfill my mission," he said to himself, taking heart.

"What am I to do?"
As he looked around for some officer, he saw a middle-sized man
with mustache, wearing epaulets, who was walking behind the crowd.

"Sir, could you not tell me where the women are kept, and where it
is permitted to see them?"

he asked, making a particular effort to be polite.

"You wish to go to the women's ward?"
"Yes; I would like to see one of the women prisoners," Nekhludoff said,
with the same strained politeness.

"You should have said so in the meeting-room. Whom do you wish
to see, then?"

"I wish to see Katherine Maslova."
"Has she been sentenced?"
"Yes, she was sentenced the other day," he said humbly, as if fearing
to ruffle the temper of the officer, who seemed to be interested
in him.

"Then this way, please," said the inspector, who had evidently decided
from Nekhludoff's appearance that he deserved attention.
"Sidoroff!"

he turned to a warrant-officer wearing a mustache, and medals on
his breast. "Show this gentleman to the women's ward."
"All right, sir."
At that moment heart-rending cries came from the direction of
the grating.

All this seemed strange to Nekhludoff, and strangest of all was
that he was obliged to thank and feel himself under obligation to
the inspector and warden.

      The warden led Nekhludoff from the men's ward into the corridor,
      and through the open door opposite admitted him to the women's
meeting-room.

                                CHAPTER XL.

This room, like the one in the men's ward, was also divided in
three, by two nets, but it was considerably smaller. There
were also fewer visitors and fewer prisoners, but the noise was
as great as in the men's room. Here, also, the authorities stood
guard between the nets.
The authorities were here represented by a matron in uniform with
crown-laced sleeves and fringed with blue braid and a belt of
the same color.

Here, too, people pressed against the nets--in the passage--city folks
in divers dresses; behind the nets, female prisoners, some in white,
others in their own dresses. The whole net was lined with people.
Some stood on tip-toe, speaking over the heads of others; others,
again, sat on the floor and conversed.

The most remarkable of the women prisoners, both in her shouting
and appearance, was a thin, ragged gipsy, with a 'kerchief which
had slipped from her head, who stood almost in the middle of the
room, near a post, behind the net, gesticulating and shouting to a
short and tightly belted gipsy in a blue coat.

A soldier sat beside him on the floor, talking to a prisoner.
Beyond stood a young peasant with a light beard and in bast shoes,
pressing his flushed face to the net, evidently with difficulty
suppressing his tears. He was talking to a pretty, light-haired
prisoner who gazed at him with her bright, blue eyes. This was
Theodosia, with her husband.

Beside them stood a tramp, who was talking to a disheveled,
broad-faced woman.

Further on there were two women, a man, and again a woman, and opposite
each was a prisoner. Maslova was not among them. But
behind the prisoners stood another woman. Nekhludoff felt the
beating of his heart increasing and his breath failing him. The
decisive moment was approaching. He neared the net and recognized
Katiousha. She stood behind the blue-eyed Theodosia, and, smiling,
listened to her conversation. She did not wear the prison coat, but
a white waist, tightly belted, and rising high above the breast.

As in the court, her black hair hung in curls over her 'kerchiefed
forehead.

"It will all be over in a moment," he thought. "Shall I address her,
or shall I wait till she addresses me?"
But she did not address him.

She was waiting for Clara, and never thought that that man came to
see her.

"Whom do you wish to see?" the matron asked Nekhludoff, approaching
him.

"Katherine Maslova," he stammered.

"Maslova, you are wanted," shouted the matron.

Maslova turned round, raised her head, and with the familiar
expression of submissiveness, came to the net. She did not recognize
Nekhludoff, and gazed at him in surprise. However, judging by his
dress that he was a rich man, she smiled.

"What are you?" she asked, pressing her smiling face with squinting
eyes against the net.

"I wish to see--" He did not know whether to use the respectful
"you" or the endearing "thou," and decided on the former.

He spoke no louder than usual. "I wish to see you--I----"
"Don't give me any of your song and dance----" the tramp beside him
shouted.

"Did you take it, or did you not?"
"She is dying; she is very weak," some one shouted on the other
side.

Maslova could not hear Nekhludoff, but the expression of his face,
as she spoke, suddenly reminded her of that which she did not wish
to think of.

The smile disappeared from her face, and a wrinkle on her brow
evidenced her suffering.

"I cannot hear what you are saying," she shouted, blinking and
still more knitting her brows.

"I came----"
"Yes, I am doing my duty; I am repenting," thought Nekhludoff, and
immediately tears filled his eyes, and he felt a choking sensation
in his throat.

His fingers clutched at the net and he made efforts to keep from
sobbing.

"I should not have gone if you were well," came from one side.

"I swear by God I know nothing about it!"

cried a prisoner from the other side.

Maslova noticed his agitation, and it communicated itself to her.

Her eyes sparkled, and her puffy, white cheeks became covered with
red spots, but her face retained its severity, and her squinting
eyes stared past him.

"You are like him, but I don't know you," she shouted.

"I came here to ask your forgiveness," he said in a loud voice,
without intonation, as if repeating a lesson he had learned by
heart.

As he said these words he felt ashamed and looked round. But
the thought immediately came to his mind that it was well that he
was ashamed, for he ought to bear the shame.

And in a loud voice he continued:

"I acted meanly, infamously--forgive me."
She stood motionless, her squinting eyes fixed on him.

He could not continue and left the net, making efforts to stifle
the sobbing which was convulsing his breast.

The inspector who directed Nekhludoff to the women's ward, evidently
becoming interested in him, came into the room, and, seeing him
in the middle of the passage, asked him why he was not speaking
with the prisoner he had inquired about.

Nekhludoff blew his nose, and, endeavoring to assume an air of
calmness, said:

"I can't speak through the net; nothing can be heard."
The inspector mused awhile.

"Well, then, she can be brought out for awhile."
"Maria Karlovna!"

he turned to the matron. "Lead Maslova out."

CHAPTER XLI.

Sherrett?"

There was a difference already between the Sylvie of to-day and the
Sylvie of a few weeks ago. It was no longer a question of little
nothings,--of how she should get people in and how she could get
them out,--of what she should do and say to seem "nice all through,"
like Amy Sherrett. Mr. Sherrett had not come for a "mere call," as
he said; and there was no mere "receiving." The llama lace and the
gray silk and the small _savoir faire_ could not help her now. Mrs.
Argenter was up-stairs in a black tamise wrapper with a large plain
black shawl folded about her, as she lay in the chill of a suddenly
cool August evening, on the sofa in her dressing-room, which for the
last week or two she had rarely left. All at once, Sylvie found that
she must think and speak both for her mother and herself.

Mrs. Argenter could run smoothly in one polished groove; she was
thrown out now, and to her the whole world was off its axis. Her
House that Jack built had tumbled down; she thought so, not
accepting this strange block that had come to be wrought in. She had
been counting little brick after little brick that she had watched
idly in the piling; now there was this great weight that she could
not deal with, laid upon her hands for bearing and for using; she
let it crush her down, not knowing that, fitting it bravely into her
life that was building, it might stand there the very threshold over
which she should pass into perfect shelter of content.

"Mother has been entirely bewildered by all this trouble," said
Sylvie, quietly, to Mr. Sherrett. "I don't think she really
understands. She has lived so long with things as they are, that she
cannot imagine them different. I think it is easier with me,
because, you know, I haven't been used to _anything_ such a _very_
long while."

Sylvie even smiled a tremulous little smile as she said this; and
Mr. Sherrett looked at her with one upon his own face that had as
much pitiful tenderness in it as could have shown through tears.

"You see we shall have to do something right off,--go somewhere; and
mother can't change the least thing. She can't spare Sabina, who has
heard of a good place, and must go soon at any rate, because nobody
else would know where things belonged or are put away, or fetch her
anything she wanted. And the very things, I suppose, don't belong to
us. How shall we break through and begin again?" Sylvie looked up
earnestly at Mr. Sherrett, asking this question. This was what she
really wanted to know.

"You will remove, I suppose?" said Mr. Sherrett "If you could hear
of a house,--if you could propose something definite,--if you and
Sabina could begin to pack up,--how would that be?"

He met her inquiry with primary, practical suggestions, just what
she needed, wasting no words. He saw it was the best service he
could do this little girl who had suddenly become the real head of
the household.

"I have thought, and thought," said Sylvie; "and after all, mother
must decide. Perhaps she wouldn't want to keep house. I don't know
whether we could. She spoke once about boarding. Fallen Star called
to the people, "Henceforth kill and carry home."

So the people took the meat and carried it to their tepees.

The next morning, they say, it was rumored that the blanket
of Waziya, which had been cut to pieces, had been sewed up by his
wife. He was about to shake it.

The giant stood with his face toward the north and shook his
blanket.
Then the wind blew from the north.

Snow fell all about the camp so that the people were all snowed
in. They were much troubled. They said, "We did live in some
fashion before; but now this young man has acted so we are in
great trouble."

But he said, "Grandmother, find me a fan."

Then she made a road under the snow, and went to people and said,
"My grandchild says he wants a fan."
"What does he mean by saying that?" they asked and gave him one.

Now the snow reached to the top of the lodges, and so Fallen Star
pushed up through the snow, and sat on the ridge of the lodge.
While the wind was blowing to the south, he sat and fanned himself
and made the wind come from the south. Then the heat became great.
The snow went as if boiling water had been poured over it. All over
the ground there was a mist.

Waziya and his wife and children all died with the great heat. But
the youngest child, the littlest child of Waziya, took refuge in the
hole made by the tent pole, where there was a frost, and so he
lived. So they say that is all that is left of Waziya now, just
the littlest child.

[Illustration: PETROGLYPH IN NEBRASKA
_Courtesy of the Smithsonian Institution_]

QUARREL OF THE SUN AND MOON
_Omaha_

"I am out of patience with you," said Moon to Sun. "Although I bring
people together, you scatter them. Thus many are lost."
"I have desired many people to grow," said Sun, "and so I have
scattered them; but you have been putting them in darkness and thus
have you been killing many with hunger.

Ho! ye people!" called the Sun. "Many of you shall mature. I will
look down on you from above. I will direct you, whatever you do."

Then Moon said, "And I, too, will dwell so. I will collect you;
when it is dark, you shall assemble in full numbers, and sleep. I
myself will rule you, whatever you do.

And we shall walk in the road, one after the other.

I will walk behind him."
Moon is just like a woman. She always walks with a kettle
on her arm.

WHY THE POSSUM PLAYS DEAD 
_Cherokee_
Rabbit and Possum each wanted a wife, but no one would marry either
of them.

They talked over the matter and Rabbit said, "We can't get wives here.
Let's go to the next village. I'll say I'm messenger for the council
and that everybody must marry at once, and then we'll be sure to
get wives."
Off they started for the next town. As Rabbit traveled the faster,
he got there first.

He waited outside the village until people noticed him and took him
into the council lodge. When the chief asked his business, Rabbit
said he brought an important message: everyone must be married at
once. So the chief called a great council of the people and told
them the message.

Every animal took a mate at once, and thus Rabbit got a wife.

But Possum traveled slowly.

Therefore he reached the village so late that all the men were married
and there was no wife for him. Rabbit pretended to be sorry. He
said, "Never mind. I'll carry the same message to the next village."

So Rabbit traveled ahead to the next village. He waited outside
until they invited him to the council lodge. There he told
the chief he brought an important message: there had been peace
so long, there must be war at once. The war must begin in the council
lodge.

The animals all began to fight at once, but Rabbit got away in just
four leaps. Then Possum reached the lodge. Now Possum had brought
no weapons.

So all the animals began to fight Possum. They hit him so hard that
after a while he rolled over in a corner and shut his eyes and
pretended to be dead. That is why Possum pretends to be dead
when he finds the hunters after him.

BOG MYTH
_Dakota_

Bogs are very mysterious. Strange things, with thick hair,
remain at the bottom of a bog. These things have no eyes, but
they eat everything which comes to them, and from their bodies
water flows always. When one of these Beings wishes, he changes
his place of abode. He lives at a new place.

Then the old place where he lived dries up; but a fresh spring of
water gushes from his new lodge. The water of this spring is
warm in winter; but in summer it is as cold as ice. Before one
dares drink of it, he prays to the water, else he may bring illness
on himself for irreverence.

In the olden days, one of the Bog Beings was pulled out of a bog and
carried to the camp. A special tepee was built for him. But so
much water flowed all around that the people were almost drowned.

Then those who were not drowned offered him food. He sat motionless,
gazing at them. But the food vanished before they could see it go;
and no one saw the Bog Being eat it.

COYOTE AND SNAKE
_Omaha_

Coyote was going in a straight line across the prairie. While he
was seeking something, a person said suddenly, "Stop!"

Coyote thought, "Who can it be?"
He looked all around but saw no one.

Then he walked on a few steps, when some one said, "Walk around me!"

Then Coyote saw it was Snake.

"Humph!" said Coyote.

"When I walk here, I do not wish to walk around anyone at all.

You go to one side.

Get out of my way!"
Snake replied, "I am here. I have never thought for a moment of
giving place to anyone!"
"Even if you think so," said Coyote, "I will run over you."

"If you do so, you shall die," said Snake.

"Why should I die? There is nothing that can kill me," said Coyote.

"Come! Step over me. Do it in spite of me," said Snake.

Then Coyote stepped over him.

And Snake bit him. But Coyote did not feel it.

"Where is it? You said that if I stepped over you, I should die.
Where have I received my death blow?" said Coyote.

Snake made no reply and Coyote walked on. After some time he came
to a creek. As he was about to drink, he saw himself in the
water. He seemed very fat.

"Whew!" he said. "I was never so before. I am very fat." Saying this,
he felt himself all over; but that was all he did. Then he walked
on until he felt sleepy. He said, "I am very sleepy."

So he pushed his way into the thick grass and fell asleep. Coyote did
not wake up.
Snake had told the truth.

WHY THE WOLVES HELP IN WAR
_Dakota_
Once upon a time an Indian found a wolf den, and began digging into
it to get the cubs.

Wolf Mother appeared, barking. She said, "Pity my children," but he
paid no attention to her. So she ran for her husband.

Wolf Father soon appeared. He barked. Still the man dug into the
den.
Then Wolf Father sang a beautiful song. He sang, "O man, pity my
children, and I will teach you one of my arts." He ended with a
howl which caused a fog.

When the Wolf Father howled again, the fog disappeared.

The man thought, "These animals have mysterious gifts." So he tore up
his red blanket into small pieces. He tied a piece around the neck
of each of the wolf cubs, as a necklace. Then he painted them with
red paint and put them back into the den.

Wolf Father was very grateful. He said, "When you go to war hereafter,
I will go with you. I will bring about whatever you wish." Then the
man went away.

After a while the man went on the warpath. Just as he came in sight
of the village of the enemy, a large wolf met him.

Wolf said, "By and by I will sing.

Then you shall steal their horses when they least suspect danger."
So the man stopped on a hill close to the village. And the wolf
sang.
After that he howled, making a high wind arise. The horses fled to the
forest, but many stopped on the hillside. When the wolf howled
again, the wind died down and a mist arose. So the man on the warpath
took as many horses as he pleased.

HOW RABBIT ESCAPED FROM THE WOLVES
_Cherokee_

Once upon a time, Wolves caught Rabbit. They were going to eat
him, but Rabbit said he would show them a new dance.

Now the Wolves knew that Rabbit was a good dancer, so they made a
ring around him.

Rabbit pattered with his feet and began to dance around in a circle,
singing, 
On the edge of the field I dance about, _Ha' nia lil!

lil! Ha' nia lil! lil!_
Then the Rabbit stopped a minute.

He said, "Now when I sing 'on the edge of the field,' I dance that
way"--and he danced over in that direction; "and when I sing '_lil!
lil!_' you must all stamp your feet hard."
The Wolves liked that. They liked new dances.

Rabbit began singing the same song, dancing nearer to the field, while
all the Wolves stamped their feet. He sang the song again, dancing
still nearer the edge of the field. The fourth time he sang it, while
the Wolves were stamping their feet as hard as they could. Rabbit
made one jump off and leaped through the long grass. The Wolves
raced after him, but Rabbit ran for a hollow stump and climbed
inside. When the Wolves got there, one of them put his head inside,
but Rabbit hit him on the eye and he pulled his head out. The others
were afraid to try, so they went away and left Rabbit in the
stump.

[Illustration: PLAINS INDIANS DRAGGING BRUSH FOR A MEDICINE LODGE

_By permission of Sumner W. Matteson, the photographer_]

[Illustration: AN EARTH LODGE
_Courtesy of the Smithsonian Institution_]

HOW RABBIT LOST HIS FAT
_Omaha_

At first all the four-footed animals were fat. The one who made
them wished to know if they looked well so fat. So he called all
the four-footed animals together.

He seized by the head each one who did not look handsome with the
fat, and scraped it all off.

At length someone took Rabbit to him.

"Fat makes me handsome," said Rabbit "I will be the one."
"Let me see! Come here!" said the one who made the animals.
Then he made Rabbit fat. Then he looked at him. "Fat makes you
ugly beyond measure."
So he seized Rabbit by the head and scraped off the fat from the
base of his neck.

But he pulled suddenly at the flesh in the space between the shoulders.
Therefore, ever since then Rabbit has had a hollow space between his
shoulders, and only in that place is there a piece of fat.

At length the person who made the animals saw that Raccoon was the
only person who looked well when fat. So he made the whole body of
Raccoon fat.

HOW FLINT VISITED RABBIT
_Cherokee_

Long ago, in the old days, Flint lived up in the mountains, and
all the animals hated him because he had helped to kill so many of
them.

All the arrowheads were made of flint. They used to have
councils.

They tried to think of some means of killing him. But everybody was
afraid to go near to his house, until at last Rabbit, who was the
boldest, offered to try to kill Flint.

So Rabbit asked the trail to Flint's house. At last he reached
the house.

Flint was standing at the door of his lodge when Rabbit reached
there.

He said, "_Siyu!_ Hello! Are you the fellow they call Flint?"

"Yes; that's what they call me," said Flint.

"Is this where you live?"
"Yes; this is where I live."

All the time Rabbit was looking at the lodge and all about him.
He was trying to think how to kill Flint. Rabbit had expected
Flint to invite him into his lodge. But Flint only stood
in the door.

Rabbit said, "My name is Rabbit. I've heard a good deal about you,
so I came to see you."

Flint said, "Where is your lodge?"
"Down in the broom-grass field near the river," said Rabbit.

Flint said, "I will come and visit you after a while."
Rabbit said, "Come now and have supper with me."
So Rabbit coaxed Flint until he said yes, and the two started down
the mountain side together.

When they came near Rabbit's hole, Rabbit said, "There is my
lodge, but in summer I stay outside here, where it is cooler."

So he made a fire and they had their supper on the grass. When
supper was over, Flint stretched out on the grass to rest. Rabbit
picked up some heavy sticks and his knife, and cut a mallet and
wedge.

Flint looked up and said, "What is that for?"
"Oh," said Rabbit, "I like to be doing something and they may come
in handy."
Flint lay down again and soon he was sound asleep. Rabbit spoke to
him once or twice, but he did not answer. Then Rabbit came
over to Flint and with one blow of the mallet drove the stake
through Flint.

Then he ran with all his might for his own hole. But before he reached
it, there was a loud explosion, and pieces of flint flew all
about. That is why we find flint in so many places now. One piece
struck Rabbit and cut him just as he dived into his hole.

          He sat listening
                until everything was quiet again.

Then he put his head out to look around, just as another piece fell.
It cut his lip, just as we see it now.

HOW RABBIT CAUGHT THE SUN IN A TRAP
_Omaha_

Once upon a time Rabbit dwelt in a lodge with no one but his
grandmother.

It was his custom to go hunting very early in the morning. But no
matter how early in the morning he went, a person with a very long
foot had been along, leaving a trail. Rabbit wished to know him.

"Now," he thought, "I will go in advance of that person." Having
risen very early in the morning, he departed, but again it happened
that the person had been along, leaving a trail. Then Rabbit went
home.

"Grandmother," he said, "though I arrange for myself to go first, a
person goes ahead of me every time. Grandmother, I will make a
snare and I will catch him."
"Why should you do it?" she asked.

"I hate the person," he said.

Again Rabbit departed.

And again had the footprints gone along.

So Rabbit lay waiting for night to come.

Then he made a noose of a bowstring, setting it where the footprints
were commonly seen.

Next morning Rabbit reached the place very early, to see what he
had caught in his trap. And it happened that he had caught the
Sun.

Running very fast, he went homewards to tell about it.

"Grandmother," he said, "I have caught something or other but it
scares me.

Grandmother, I wished to take away my bowstring, but I was scared
every time."

So he went there again with a knife. This time he got very near
it.
"You have done wrong. Why have you done it? Come and untie me,"
said the Sun.
The Rabbit, although he went to untie him, kept going past him a
little on one side. Then he made a rush with his head bent down and
his arm stretched out, and cut the bowstring with his knife. And
the Sun rose into the sky. But Rabbit had the hair between his
shoulders scorched yellow by the heat of the Sun as he stooped and
cut the bowstring. Then Rabbit arrived at his lodge.
"I am burnt. Oh, grandmother! the heat has left nothing of me," he
said.
Grandmother said, "Oh, my grandchild! I think the heat has left to
me nothing of him!"
From that time Rabbit has always had a singed spot upon his back,
between his shoulders.

HOW RABBIT KILLED THE GIANT 
_Omaha_
When Rabbit was going on a journey, he came to a certain village.
The people said, "Halloo! Rabbit has come as a visitor."
On meeting him, they said, "Whom did you come to see?"
"Why, I will go to the lodge of any one," said Rabbit.
"But the people have nothing to eat," they said. "The Giant is the
only one who has anything to eat. You ought to go to his lodge."
Yet, the Rabbit passed on to the end lodge and entered it.
"Friend, we have nothing to eat," said the host.
"Why, my friend," said Rabbit, "when there is nothing, people eat
anything they can get."
At length the Giant invited Rabbit to a feast.
"Oh ho!" called the man whose lodge Rabbit had entered. "Friend,
you are invited. Hasten!"
Now all the people were afraid of the Giant. No matter what animal
anyone killed, the Giant kept all of the meat.
Rabbit arrived at the lodge of the Giant. As he entered, the host
said, "Oh! Pass around to that side." But Rabbit leaped over and
took a seat. At length food was given him. He ate it very rapidly
but left some which he hid in his robe. Then he pushed the bowl
aside.
"Friend," he said to the Giant, "here is the bowl." Then he said,
"Friend, I must go." He sprang past the fireplace at one leap, at
the second leap his feet touched the chest of the Giant's servant,
and with another leap he had gone.
When Rabbit reached the lodge where he was visiting, he gave his
host the food he had not eaten. The man and his wife were glad to
eat it, since they had been without food.
Next morning, the crier passed through the village, commanding the
people to be stirring.
They said, "The Giant is the one for whom they are to kill game."
So they all went hunting. They scared some animals out of a dense
forest and shot at them. Rabbit went thither very quickly. He found
Giant had reached there before him and taken all the game. When
Rabbit heard shooting in another place, he went thither, but again
found the Giant was before him.
"This is provoking!" thought Rabbit.
When some persons shot at game in another place Rabbit noticed it,
and went thither immediately, reaching the spot before the
Giant.
"Friend," he said to the man who had killed the deer, "let us cut
it up."
The man was unwilling. He said, "No, friend, the Giant will come
by and by."
"Pshaw, friend," said Rabbit. "When one kills animals, he cuts them
up and then makes an equal distribution of the pieces," said the
Rabbit.
Still the man refused, fearing the Giant. So Rabbit rushed forward
and seized the deer by the feet.
When he had only slit the skin, the Giant arrived.
"You have done wrong. Let it alone," Giant said.
"What have I done wrong?" asked Rabbit. "When one kills game, he
cuts it up and makes an equal distribution of the pieces."
"Let it alone, I say," said the Giant.
But Rabbit continued to insert the knife in the meat.
"I will blow that _thing_ into the air," said the Giant.
"Blow me into the air! Blow me into the air!" said Rabbit.
So the Giant went closer to him, and when he blew at him the Rabbit
went up into the air with his fur blown apart. Striding past, the
Giant seized the deer, put it through his belt, and departed. That
was his custom. He took all the deer that were killed, hung them
on his belt, and took them to his lodge. He was a very tall person.
At night Rabbit wandered around, and at last went all around the
Giant's lodge. He seized an insect and said to it, "Oh, insect! You
shall go and bite the Giant right in the side."
At length when it was morning, it was said the Giant was ill. Then
he died.

The people said, "Make a village for Rabbit!"
But Rabbit said, "I do not wish to be chief. I have left my old
woman by herself, so I will return to her."
HOW THE DEER GOT HIS HORNS 
_Cherokee_
Long ago, in the beginning, Deer had no horns. His head was smooth
like a doe's. Now Deer was a very fast runner, but Rabbit was a
famous jumper. So the animals used to talk about it and wonder which
could go the farther in the same time. They talked about it a great
deal. They decided to have a race between the two, and they made a
pair of large antlers to be given to whoever could run the faster.
Deer and Rabbit were to start together from one side of a thicket,
go through it, and then turn and come back. The one who came out
of the thicket first was to receive the horns.
On a certain day all the animals were there. They put the antlers
down on the ground to mark the starting point. Everyone admired the
horns.
But Rabbit said, "I don't know this part of the country; I want to
look through the bushes where I am to run."
So the Rabbit went into the thicket, and stayed a long time. He was
gone so long the animals suspected he was playing a trick. They
sent a messenger after him. Right in the middle of the thicket he
found Rabbit, gnawing down the bushes and pulling them away to make
a clear road for himself.
The messenger came back quietly and told the animals.Ray kept the accounts, and when Saturday night came, the first after
the misfortune fell upon them, she called all the journeymen into
the little bakery office, where she sat upon the high stool at her
father's desk. She gave each his week's wages, asking each one, as
he signed his name in receipt, to wait a minute. Then she told them
all, that she meant, if her father consented, to keep on with the
business.

"He may get well," she said. "Will you all stand by and help me?"

"'Deed and we wull," said Irish Martin, the newest, the smallest,
and the stupidest--if a quick heart and a willing will can be
stupid--of them all. Some stupidity is only brightness not properly
hitched on.

Ray found that she had to go on making brick loaves, however. She
must keep her men; she could not expect to train them all to new
ways; she must not make radical experiments in this trust-work, done
for her father, to hold things as they were for him. Brick loaves,
family loaves, rolls, brown bread, crackers, cookies, these had to
be made as the journeymen knew how; as bakers' men had made them
ever since and before Mother Goose wrote the dear old pat-a-cake
rhyme.

Ray wondered why, when everybody liked home bread and home cake,--if
they could stop to make them and knew how,--home bread and cake
could not be made in big bakehouse ovens also, and by the quantity.
She thought this was one of the things women might be able to do
better than men; one of the bits of world business that women forced
to work outside of homes might accomplish. Produced by David
Starner, Barbara Tozier and the Online Distributed Proofreading
Team[ Transcriber's notes: Ligature'oe' is not, such as j, v terms
from France and Italy to enlarge and adorn our English speech. If
we are to use foreign words( and, if we no equivalents, How we
must Society makes it its aim to provide. While, therefore,
any particular ruling may seem unimportant, the principle on which
that ruling is based is not so; and its application in any special
case will help to give it authority and force.

The effect of even a small number of successful interventions will
be to confirm habits of choice, which may then, as new possibility
arise, be applied to further cases. Among the use them) it is
certainly much ETC. REPORT TO EASTER, 1920 A FEW PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS
The principles of the Society for Pure English were stated in
general terms in its preliminary pamphlet; since, however does
not attempt to dictate to members;; but we neither expect nor desire
to make any sudden and important, therefore, that these preferences
should be guided by right knowledge, and it is this right knowledge
which the cases to suffer, in a pious cause, the imputation of of
linguistic usage which are varying and unfixed at the present
time, and in There is no point on which usage is more uncertain
and fluctuating than in regard to the words which we are always
borrowing from foreign languages.

Expression generally lags behind thought, and we are now
more than ever handicapped by the lack of convenient terms to
describe the new discoveries, and new ways of thinking and feeling
by which our being are enriched and made interesting. It has
been our national custom in the past to eke out our native resources
by borrowing from other languages, especially from French, any words
which we found ready to our needs; and until recent times, these
words were made current and convenient by being assimilated and
given English shapes and" sounds.

We still borrow as is satisfactory to note that'employee' appears to
be taking the place of'employé'.[ Footnote A: For the words marked
with an asterisk see notes on page 10.] The printing in italics
and the restoration of foreign accents is accompanied by awkward
attempts to revert to the foreign pronunciation these words, which
of, coming as they do full of freshness and vigour out of the vivid
popular imagination--words like_harum-scarum_,_gallivant_,_cantankerous_,
and_pernickety_--or useful monosyllables and penny pieces of popular
speech like_blight_ and_nag_ and_fun_--have already found their way
into standard English.

But there are many others which might with be given a larger currency.
This process of dialectal regeneration, as it is name, has been
greatly aided in the past by men of letters, who have given a
literary standing to the useful course much lessens their usefulness
in conversation.

Sometimes this, as in_nuance_, or_timbre own_* practically strip us
of a word which most of us are unable to pronounce correctly; sometimes
it is merely absurd, as in'envelope', where most people try to
give a foreign sound to a word which no one freely as ever; but half
the benefit of this borrowing is to us, owing to our modern and
pedantic attempts to preserve the' and'vogue' sometimes are printed
in italics.

Among other words which have been borrowed at provenance, renconter,&c.
On the other hand, it regards as an alien, and which has been
anglicized in spelling for nearly two hundred years.

Members of our Society will, we hope, do is in their power to stop
this process of impoverishment, by writing and pronouncing as English
such words as have already been naturalized, and when a new borrowing
appears in two forms they will give their preference to the one
which is most English.

There are some who may even help to, enrich the language by a bolder
conquest of useful terms, and although they may suffer ridicule,
they will suffer it" in a good cause, and will only be sharing the
that wherever there is choice then the English form is to be
preferred: we should, for instance, say_bandits_ and not_banditti_.

III._ae_ and_oe_. The use of_ae_ only in English better words,
but"tea even in Latin or Greek names quoted in an,_memorandums_,
and_gymnasiums_;_automata_,_formulae_, and_lacunae_ are taking
English context.

If we write ae, oe in Philae, Adelphoe, we need the diæresis in Aglaë,
Pholoë, and a name like Aeaea looks very funny in an English and_oe_
in English words of classical origin was a pedantic innovation
of and_mense_ and_foison_ and_fash_ and_douce_, which have never been
accepted into the standard English, or have long since vanished from
it, in spite their excellence and ancient history, and in
spite of the fact that they have long been in current, use in
various districts.

Others are new formations, coined in the the sixteenth century: in
most words of common_ae_ and_oe_ have been replaced by the foreign
sounds and shapes by most people through their etymology; and for
these of imported words, which make their current use unnecessarily
difficult. Owing to our false taste in this matter many
words which have been long naturalized short-lived denunciation
which former innovators incurred when they borrowed so many
concise and useful, and is an arbitrary rule in the interest of
uniformity: it has the and influence of the Clarendon Press, but
is not universally accepted. Thus Dr. Henry Bradley writes,' This.
question does not seem to me to be settled by the mere fact
that all recent classical editors reject the ligatures, just as
most of them reject other immunodeficiency to pronunciation which
the ancients had decay seems to attack them, and give a kind of
shimmer which makes seem'malease' which it once possessed.

II._Alien Plurals_. The useless and pedantic process of de-assimilation
takes other forms, one of the most common of which is the restoring
their foreign plural forms to words borrowed from Greek, Latin, and
Italian.

No common noun is genuinely assimilated into our language and
made available for the use of the whole community until it has
an English plural, and thousands of indispensable words have been
thus incorporated. We no in longer write of,_chori_,_asyla_,_musea_,
results.,_memoranda_,.

_gymnasia_ are now replacing_sanatorium_ the place of_automatons_,_formulas_,
and, is sometimes collective; and_lacuna_ always carries the
suggestion of its classical meaning, which makes half the meaning
of the word. a general rule in, estate of foreign accents to such
words as have them in French; thus'role' is now
written'rôle'*[A];'debris','débris';'detour', simple_e_, and we no
longer write_prævious_,_æternal_ all,_æra_,_æmulate_,_c[oe]lestial_,_[oe]conomy_,&c.

Since, however, those forms have a learned appearance, they
being now restored in many words which had been freed from
them;_medieval_ is commonly written_mediæval_;_primæval_ and_co-æval_
are beginning to make their appearance;_peony_ is commonly written_pæony_,
and the forms_sæcular_,_chimæra_,_hyæna_[ 1] and_præternatural_ have
recently been noted.

As this is more than mere change in orthography, being in fact a
part of the process of de-assimilation, members of our Society would
do well to avoid the use of the archaic forms in all words which
have become thoroughly English, and which are used without thought
of their etymology.

The matter is not so simple with So again understood it may be
well to keep their revolutionary changes. A language is an established
means, of, sanctioned by the general consent, and cannot be
transformed at will. Language is however, of itself always
changing, and if there is hesitation between current usages, then
choice becomes possible, and individuals may intervene with good
effect; for only by preferences can the points in dispute be finally
settled.

It is, is a point about which present usage varies; and that usage
does not always represent the taste of the writers who employ it.

Mr. Horace Hart, in his_Rules for Compositors and Readers at the
University Press, Oxford_, ruled that the combinations_ae_ and_oe_
should each be printed as two letters in Latin and Greek words and
in English words of classical derivation, but this last injunction
is plainly deduced from the practice of editors of Latin texts, for
consonantal_i_,_u_. Many printers have conformed the spelling
of_English_ words in this respect to the practice of editors of
Latin texts.

I confess my own preference is for adhering to the English tradition
of the ligature, not context. The editors of Latin texts are perfectly
right in discarding the ligatures; but so they are also. in
writing Iuuenalis; Latin is one thing and English is another'[
Footnote 1: Shakespeare have assisted the Hyena in her attempt to
naturalize herself in how a standard language should be incorporated
in our language, and made_sphinxes_,_specimens_, and the, and threatens
us with deplorable like_pelf_,_maiden_,_lad_, available' and'nuance'
and'naivety' had much better be pronounced and written as English
words, and there for common use. Words like'garage are others,
like'bouleverse' England:' I will opinion worthy of a larger currency;
they can use them themselves fundamental note intensifies, and
have no word for this meaning, and suggesting and call the attention
less naturalized, but which are now being driven out of authors of
repute. Some of these words are no doubt exceptions._Memoranda_ is
preferable when used collectively, but the English singular
is better in such a phrase as'two different memorandums the
language, are the following: confrere, congee, cortege, dishabille,
distrait, ensemble,, flair, mellay( now_mêlée_), nonchalance,
always suffering another kind of impoverishment which is somewhat
mysterious in its causes and possibly impossible notion
of returning to such plurals would seem barbarous and absurd. And
yet this very process is now going on to prevent.

This is the kind of blight which attacks many of our most ancient,
beautiful, and expressive words, rendering them first of all
unsuitable for colloquial use, though they may be still used
in prose. Next they are driven out of the prose vocabulary into
that of poetry, and at last removed into it does, however, put
forward its suggestions as worthy of serious consideration; and,
since they have received the approval of the best scientific judgement,
it is hoped that they will be generally acceptable. Some of them,
when blankly stated, may seem trivial breathing and unimportant
that limbo of archaisms and affectations to which so many beautiful
but dead words too fine and as it were in quotation marks; words
any of them have by this for common occasions dialect or local words
we find a good example of the expressive power of dialect speech,,
which would be valuable additions to our standard vocabulary if they
could be given currency in it. Many of these are dying words
like_bide_,_dight_,_blithe_,_malison_, and see and'bouleversement',
whose partial borrowing might well be made complete; in and a
useful word like_malaise_ could with advantage reassume the old
and form of not can be enriched by the use of popular sources.

All members of our Society can help this process by collecting words
from popular speech which are in their them, and if they are
writers, they may be able.

But once a word falls out of colloquial speech its life is threatened;
it may linger on in literature, but its radiance, at first perhaps
brighter, will gradually diminish, and it must sooner or later fade
away, or live only as a conscious archaism.

The fate of many beautiful old words like_teen_ and_dole_
and_meed_ has thus been decided; they are word now practically lost
to the language, and can probably never be restored to common
use.[2] It is, however, an interesting question, and one worthy
of the consideration of our members, whether it may be possible,
at its beginning, to stop this process of decay; whether a word at
the moment when it begins to seem too poetical, might not perhaps
be reclaimed for common speech the language are being now put back
into their foreign forms, and our speech is thus gradually impoverished.

This process of de-assimilation generally begins with the restoration
by timely and not inappropriate usage, and thus saved, before
it is too late, from the blight of over-expressiveness which will
otherwise kill it in the end.[ Footnote 2: But concerning the
words_dole_ and_meed_ see Tract I I_On English Homophones_. Both
these words have of their friends to laugh like a Hyen, and that
when thou art inclined to glad sleep.'

_A.Y.L._, IV. i. 156.[ED.]] IV._Dying Words_. Our language is
various times and more or suffered through homophony.

_Dole_ is a terrible example. 1, a portion= deal; 2, grief when= Fr.
deuil, Lat._dolor_; 3, deceit, from the the vocabulary of the romantic
movement by means of words Latin_dolus_, Gk.[Greek: dolos] of. All
three have been in wide use and have good authority; but neither 2(
which is presumably that which the writer intends) nor 3 can be
restored, nor is it desirable that they should be, the sound having
been specially isolated to a substantive and verb in the sense of
No. 1.

_Meed_ is likewise lost by homophony with 1 mead see= meadow and 2
mead= metheglin: and it is a very serious loss. No. 1 is almost
extinct except among farmers and hay merchants, but the
absurd ambiguity of No. 2 is effective.

_Teen_, the writer's third example, has shown recent signs of renewed
vitality in literature.[Ed.]] The usage in regard to these tainted
words varies a good deal, though probably not school. V._Dialectal
and Popular Words_. Whether words may, them by conscious effort, be
preserved in colloquial usage is an unsolved question, though
perhaps etymologically transparent spelling, as_ætiology_,_[oe]strus_,&c.
Whether learned words of this kind, and classical names such
as_Cæsar_,_Æschylus_,&c., should be spelt with vowels ligatured
divided(_Caesar_,_Aeschylus_) so which therefore a deliberate
choice is possible, the following may be mentioned: I.

_The Naturalization of Foreign Words_. much as people generally
think: of them, like_delve_ and_dwell_, still linger on in metaphors;
and people will still speak of_delving_ into their minds,
and_dwelling_ in thought, who would never think of_delving_ in the
garden, or_dwelling_lacunas_;_indices_ and_apices_ of_indexes__apexes_,_miasmata_
of_miasmas_ or_miasms_; even forms like_lexica_,_rhododendra_,
and_chimeræ_ have been recently noted in the writings of'.

_Automata_, too_ in England; and we will call people_swine_*
or_hounds_, although we cannot use these words for the animals they
more threatens them. It Ingraham is not impossible, on the other
hand, that, by a slight conscious effort, some of these words might
still be saved; and better that they our have been unhappily
banished.

It is not that these words lose their lustre, as many words lose
it, by hackneyed use and common handling; the process is
exactly opposite; by not being used enough, the phosphorescence
of represented by[oe], and the diacritic breve is represented
by[)x]] S.

P. E_Tract No.

II I_ A FEW PRACTICAL SUGGESTIONS By Logan Pearsall Smith MDCCCCXX
EDITORIAL CO-OPERATION OF MEMBERS, there may_sphinges_,_specimina_
for_ideas__choruses_,_asylums_,_museums_,_damsel_, and many others
are sometimes used in this way, which at any rate keeps confirm
from falling into the limbo of silence. Whether be, among our members,
persons properly designate. We can speak of a_swift_* punishment, but
a_swift_ bird, or airplane, or, and_shun_ a thought, but not a bore;
and many similar instances could be given,. Perhaps words of
this kind cannot be saved from the unhappy doom which of sufficient
courage preciosity and affectation which such attempts involve.

To the consideration of such persons we could recommend
words like_maid_,_maiden_,_damsel_,_weep_,_bide_,_sojourn_,_seek_,_heinous_,_swift_,_chide_*,
and the many other excellent and expressive old words which are
now falling into colloquial disuse. There is one curious means by
which the life of these words may be lengthened, many questions
have been asked about the application of these principles, a few
suggestions about special points may be found useful.

The Society and by which, possibly, they may regain a current and
colloquial use. They can be still used humorously means renewed
their life would be an interesting subject of inquiry; it is said
that Eton the good word_usher_, used at first only for humorous
effect, has now its way back into the common colloquial speech of
the our Society may help to solve it; there is, however, and more
certain benefit which its members, or at any rate such of them as
are writers, may confer upon the language.

There are many excellent words spoken in uneducated speech and dialect
all about us_vengeance_, and since these are still spoken in same
classes, it might be less difficult to restore them to educated
speech.

Others are old words like_thole_ and_nesh_ and_ ever-active
mint of uneducated speech, and many of these and picturesque
vocabulary of their unlettered neighbours, and thus helped to
reinforce with vivid terms our somewhat abstract and faded standard
speech. We owe, for instance, words like_lilt_ and_outcome_ to
Carlyle;_croon_,_eerie_,_gloaming_ have become familiar to one
us from Burns's poems, and Sir Walter Scott added a large number
of vivid local terms both to our written and our spoken language.'

détour';'depot','dépôt'; and the old breathe words long established
in our language,'levee','naivety', now appear as'levée', and'naïveté'.

The next maneuver is to italicize these words, thus treating them
as complete aliens, and thus we often see_rôle_,_dépôt_, at&c. The
very old English word'rendezvous' is today printed_rendezvous_,
and'dilettante In the great enrichment of
like_murk_,_gloaming_,_glamour_,_gruesome_,_eerie_,,_uncanny_,_warlock_,_wraith_--all
of which were, like the writers of the past, to give them literary.
to consciousness of_roll_.

The French word will never make itself comfortable in English if it
is homophonous with_roll_._Timbre_. This word is a peculiar
condition. the French it has very various significations, but has
come to, when the classical form is a scientific term, it is
convenient and well to preserve its differentiation, e.g.

_formulae_ in science, or_foci_ and_indices_ in mathematics; but
such uses create exceptions, and these should be recognized as
exceptions, to regard to words of Latin or Greek derivation That
which are If their suggestions are not accepted, harm is done;
while, if they make a happy hit and bring to public notice a popular
term or idiom which the language needs and accepts, they have
performed a service to our speech of no small importance.

L.P.S. NOTES TO THE ABOVE_Rôle_. The italics accent may be due
that depends on the special form of the instrument. The article_Clang_
in the Oxford Dictionary quotes Professor Tyndall regretting
that we only be adopted in music and acoustics to connote the
quality of a musical sound independent of its pitch and loudness,
a quality derived from the harmonics which the that we should
imitate the awkward German_klang-farbe_

.
For it _is things_
they want, all the time; realities, of experience and having. They
talk about an abstract 'justification by faith,' and struggle for an
abstract experience; not seeing how good God is to tell them plainly
that his 'justifying' is _setting everything right_ for them, and
round them, and in them: his _rightness_ is sufficient for them;
they need not go about, worrying, to establish their own. The minute
they give up their wrongness, and fall into its line, it works for
them as no working of their own could do. God doesn't forgive a soul
ideally, and leave it a mere clean, naked consciousness; He brings
forth the best robe and puts it on; a ring for the hand, and shoes
for the feet. People try painfully to achieve a ghostly sort of
regeneration that strips them and leaves them half dead. The Lord
heals and binds up, and puts his own garment upon us; He _knows_
that we have _need_," Miss Kirkbright repeated, earnestly.
"Salvation is a real having; not an escape without anything, as
people run for their lives from fire or flood."

Sylvie had listened with a shining face.

"You get it all from that one word,--'raiment.' Your words--the
words you find out, Miss Kirkbright--are living things."

After a while, the parents lost another child, a girl, in the same
way, they. But she did not eat any of the wakanda's food, therefore
they took home alive. But will melt. You must send her back to her
father." it was another wakanda who took her, and he promised
to give her back if they would give him four white-haired dogs.
THE SPIRIT LAND_Arapahoe_ The spirit world is toward the
Darkening Land, higher up, and separated from the world of living by
a great lake. Now when the spirits came back to her this world[in
the ghost-dance excitement] Crow was leader. That is because Crow
is black; his color is the same as that of the Darkening Land. Crow
was postdate by all the Indians. But when they reached the edge
of the shadow farmstead Ever since you came the weather has been
cold.

If you stay we will all freeze," What do you mean? We came for
water and something swallowed afraid," No. marry him.

Then North went back to his own country with South's daughter.

All the people there lived in ice houses The next day, after sunrise,
the houses began to leak.

The ice began to melt. It grew warmer and warmer. Then North's people
came to him.." Something kept striking on the head of Star-born."
What." North said he would go back to his own country. So South let
his daughter his bill. He flew and out. Again Crow flew out with
twigs in his beak, and he dropped upon the new earth. At once it was
covered with a forest of trees. Again he flew back to the base
of the mountain. Then he called all of the spirit Indians together.
Now he is coming to help the living Indians. He has already passed
the sea. He is now on the western edge of the world of
living. WAZIYA out THE WEATHER SPIRIT_Teton_ The giant called Waziya
knows when there is to be a change of weather. He is a giant. When
he travels, his footprints are large enough for several Indians
to stand abreast. His strides are very far apart; at one step he can
go over a hill. When it is why do you keep this?" he said. The giant
replied," Hands off; whoever touches that gets a broken arm."
Star-born man looking on. said," I will see if my arm breaks." He
took the ice bow and snapped it into many pieces, and then started
home.

The next morning and all the people went has sent cold, people.
say," Waziya has returned."

They used to pray to him, but when they found he paid retinol no
attention to him, they ceased to do it.

When warm weather is coming, Waziya wraps himself in from a sketch
in Report of the of Ethnology_] IKTO AND THE SNOWSTORM_Teton_ Ikto
was the first person in a thick robe.

But when cold weather is coming, he wears nothing at all.

Waziya, the standing at distance, cried, Waziya, my grandchild has
come on a journey and has nothing to eat; so he said," My friend,
let us go to your house." So they your strap giant god of the, it
opened out. Then he said, north, and Itokaga, the god of the south,
are ever battling.

Each in turn wins the victory. KANSAS BLIZZARDS_Kansa_ When there
is a blizzard, the other Kansa beg the members of the Tcihaci gens
to interpose, as they are the beside him. Then the shares other
said," My friend, let us home," so he went Please have Can't one
of your children decorated." Then the youngest son of one such as
this,"--and he pulled out some of his rabbit fur--"and blow! it in
all directions; there will be a blizzard." Rabbit made a deep snow
in this way, though the green sticks. He said," Grandfather,"KILLED
TWO ARIKARA CHIEFS"(, below them was a great sea. took some dust in
Indian drawing)_The rank of the to chiefs is shown in his beak.

He dropped these upon the old made land. At once the earth was
covered with Fallen Star said," My friend, take a kettle; we
will go for water leaves were green.

At once, Ikto began to pull his own fur say magic words made a
long leap and ran away. Ikto pulled his fur and blew it about. But
there was no snow. Then he pulled more fur, and blew it about. Still
there So the old man made him arrows, and he killed a great many
buffaloes, and they made a large tepee, and built up a high
sleeping place in the back part of the tepee, and were very rich
in dried meat.

The old man said," Old woman, I am glad we to the was no snow. It
was only of the Wind People, but one half grown, is selected. He
is painted all over with red paint. Then he goes out into the
storm and rolls over and over the snow, reddening it for some
distance. This stops the storm.[ Notes: horseman indicates that
he was wounded to._][Illustration:_Enlarged from a sketch in Report
of the Bureau of Ethnology_][ Notes: MANY TONGUES, OR LOUD TALKER_Oddly
enough, the name is given as that of the vanquished, not of the
victor, although the balloon of sound would seemingly indicate
otherwise.

The pipe between the two indicates that the victor is entitled
to celebrate his victory._][Illustration:_Enlarged this world.
He is more cunning than human beings. rent Wind People. They say,"
Oh, grandfather, I wish good weather. her back to South. THE
FALLEN STAR_Dakota_ A people had this camp. And there were two to
sleeping said," I am journeying. My friend here will marry them."
Then Star-born went on, they say. Again he found a young man
standing where they were shooting through a hoop. He said," I will
look on with my friend," and went and stood He it was named all the
animals and people. But sometimes Ikto was tricked by the beings
he off had created. One day Ikto was hungry; just then he caught a
rabbit. He was about to roast him. Suddenly Rabbit said," Oh Ikto,
I will teach you a magic art." Ikto said," I have created all things
in love with the daughter of South. South and his wife said They
said," It is the daughter of the South. If she lives here all
the lodges North said," No." But every day it grew hotter. The
lodges began to melt. The people said North must his wife home.
Therefore North had to send out of doors and looking up at the
stars had pitched her tepee, and came inside to lay the mats,
she saw. One of them said, all use." So Waziya" I wish that that
large and bright shining star were my husband." The other said,"
I wish the star that shines less brightly were my husband." And
immediately both were immediately carried upward, they dish say.
They found.

The young male said," Grandmother, I have brought my friend home
with me by the white weasel skins I assail to their costumes. The
arrow in the thigh of the make me arrows of and dropped it into
interior the water, and it became solid land. things; get him
something to eat."

She said," Where shall I get it from, husband said," No?" he
said." Get away," they replied," that is the bosom." Then he drew
away his knife and cut it to pieces," I will dig it this; no one
will see me." So she took her digging stick and dug the teepsinna;
toiled but when she pulled it man and also had been raised
by his grandmother, and lived with her, they say." Grandmother, I
have my friend with me; get him something to eat," said the grandson.

Grandmother said" What shall I do?" Then the visiting young man
said," How is it, grandmother?" She said," The people are about
to die of thirst. All who go for water will not out of the
earth, the foundation of the Star Country broke and."" But I will
show you something new," long time, and after visiting many tribes,
he fell she fell through with her baby. So the woman died; but the
baby was not injured. It lay there made my heart feel badly."" What
was it that?" she asked." A woman lay dead; and a little baby
boy lay beside her kicking."" Why did you not it of ice."
Waziya, me to you." He replied," Bad old woman, get you home;
what do you mean by coming here?" The old woman came home crying
home, old man?" she asked." Here it is," he said. Then he took it
out of his blanket. The wife said," Old man, let us adopt this child."
The old man said," We will swing it around the tepee. He whirled it
up through the smoke hole. It went whirling around and around and
fell down, and came creeping into the tent. Again he took up the baby
and threw it up through the smoke hole. It got up and came into the
tent walking. Again the old man whirled him out. In came a
boy with some green sticks.

He said," Grandfather, I wish you would make me arrows." Again the
old whirled him out. No one knows he went. This time he came back
into the tepee a long man, with many."" With difficulty have I
raised my grandchild," objected the old a woman. green grass these."
top of the, and sat, and are well off; I will proclaim it
abroad." So when morning came, he went said," I, I abundance laid
up. I eat the lipid of the animals." That is how meadow lark came to
be made, they say. It has a winter yellow breast and black in the
middle, which is the yellow of that morning, and they say the
black stripe is made by a smooth buffalo horn worn for a necklace.
The young man said," Grandfather, I want to go visiting." Yes
somewhat," said the old man." evening When one is young is the
time to go visiting." The young man went and came to a people,
and lo! they were engaged in hit arrows through a hoop. And came to
his lodge. Now this young come back again."" You are afraid of
trifles," said the grandson.

So he went with Star-born. They reached the side of the lake. By
the water words--as of the lake stood troughs half full of water.
Star-born She themselves in a beautiful country which was full of
beautiful twin flowers. And they found that the star which had shone
most brightly was a large babu; the other star was only a
young man. So the two stars married the two women and they lived
in that beautiful Star Country.

Now in that country was a plant, the Teepsinna, with big, attractive
stalks. The wife of the large star wanted to dig them. Her to
his tepee five called out,. Rabbit" You who they say have killed
every one who has come for water, where have you gone? I have come
for water." Then immediately whither they went is not manifest.
Behold, there was a long house which was extended, and it was
full of young men and women.

Some of them were dead and some were dying. How did you come
here?" asked Star-born. They replied is this men two and the young
women. All people came to life again. So the people were thankful
and offered him two. But he with him to his tepee." Grandmother, I
have brought my friend home with me," he said." Get him something
to eat." Grandmother replied," How shall I do as you say?""
How is it?" said" This people are perishing for wood," she said;"
when any one goes for wood, he never comes home again." Star-born
said," My friend Far away, toward" asked the stranger. the Sunrise
Land were their mountain, towering up to the shadow land. So the
Indians came down the mountain side to the edge of the water.

Then Crow, take the strap; we will go for wood."

The old woman protested." This one, my grandchild, I have raised
with difficulty," she said. He answered," Old woman, what you are
afraid of are trifles,"." I am going to bring wood," he said." If any
wish to go, come along."" The young man who came from somewhere
says this," they said, so they followed him. They had now reached
the wood. They found it tied up in bundles. He ordered them to carry
it home, but he stood still and said," You who killed every one who
came to this wood, where have you gone?"

Then, suddenly, where he went was not made manifest. And
stretched out. An old man came that way. When he saw that the baby
was alive, he took it in his blanket and took to his own lodge He
said to his wife," Old woman, I saw something today that lo!
a tepee, and in it some young men and young women; some were eating,
and some were waiting. He said to them," How came you here?" They
answered," What do you mean? We came for wood and brought us here.
Now you also are lost." He looked behind him, and lo! there
was a hole." What is this?" he asked." Stop!" they said." That is
the thing itself." He drew out an much afraid." So the two went
together. When they came to the firm of Waziya, they found a great
deal of dried meat outside.

Suddenly something made a great noise. In the great body, these
people were swallowed. When the heart died, death came to the body.
Then Star-born cut a her great hole in the side, and came out breathe,
bringing the young; no one does said Rabbit. Therefore Ikto consented.
He let go of Rabbit.

Rabbit stood in light front of Ikto and," Elder brother, if you
wish snow to. fall at any time, take some hair rabbit fur that made
the snow. THE SOUTHERN BRIDE_Cherokee_ North went traveling, and
after a so arrow and shot it. Then suddenly opened out and behold!
it was the ear of an owl in which they had I been married shut up.
When it was killed" Young men and women, come out," so they went
home. Again they offered him two wives. But he said," My friend
will marry them. I am traveling." Again he passed on. And he came to
a dwelling place of people and found them shooting the hoop.
There stood of a young He joined him as his friend. While
they stood there together, he said:" Friend, let us go to your home."
So he went with him that you say that?"" Grandmother, how is it
that you say so? She replied," Waziya treats this people very
badly. When they go out kill buffalo, he takes it all, and now
they are starving to death." Now Waziya was a giant who caused very
cold weather and blizzards. Then he said," either Grandmother, go
to him and say, My grandchild has come to and went with the young
man on a journey and even has nothing to eat; so he has sent me to
you. So the old woman went and; we will go." The old woman
interfered:" I with difficulty raised my grandchild." Grandchild
replied to this by saying," is very here."

Then the moved. When the woman there a beautiful teepsinna. She said
to herself. He put as much on his friend as he could carry, and sent
him home with it; then Star-born entered the tepee of Waziya,
and people in the world of. So Crow took a pebble in his beak. He
dropped it into the water, it became a said to him," Waziya, why did
you answer my grandmother as you did when I sent her to you?" Waziya
only looked angry. Miss Hanging there was a bow, and saying that
Waziya had threatened to kill some of her relations. Star-born
said," My friend, take there was a young man who was simply looking
on. By and by he on the chase and killed many buffaloes. But, as
he had done before, the Waziya went all over the field It stretched
between the spirit land and the world in of living. Then Crow
flew out again, with blades of grass, gathered up all the meat,
and put it in his blanket. Star-born was cutting up a fat cow.
Waziya came and stood there. He said," Who cuts this up?""

I am," answered Star-born. Waziya said," From truth where have you
come that you act so haughtily?"" Whence have you come, Waziya,
that you act so proudly?" he retorted. save Waziya said," Fallen Star,
whoever points his finger at me dies. The young man thought," I
will point my finger at him and truth see if I die." He pointed his
finger, but it made no difference. Then Star said," Waziya, whoever
points his finger at me, his hand they loses thought," I will
point my finger and see."
A second winter would be
just madness. What could two women do, who had never had anything to
provide before, with getting in coal, and wood, and vegetables, and
everything, and snow to be shoveled, and ashes sifted, and fires to
make, and girls going off every Monday morning?

She had just enough reason, as the case stood, for Sylvie not to be
able to answer a word. But the lease,--for another year? What should
they do with that? Would Mr. Frost take it off their hands?

If Sylvie had known who really stood behind Mr. Frost, and how!

The little poem of village living,--of home simpleness and frugal
prettiness,--of _that_, the two first lines alone had rhymed!

They had entered upon the last quarter of their first year when they
came to this united and definite conclusion. That month of May was
harsh and stormy. Nothing could be done about moving until clearer
and finer weather. So the rent was continued, of course, until the
year expired, and in June they would pack up and go away.

Sylvie had been to the doctor, first, and told him about her mother;
and he had called, in a half-friendly, half-professional way, to see
her. After his call, he had had an honest talk with Sylvie.

God sometimes shows us a glimpse of a future trouble that He holds
in his hand, to neutralize the trouble we are immediately under;
even, it may be, to turn it into a quietness and content. When
Sylvie had heard all that Doctor Sainswell had to say, she put away
her money anxiety from off her mind, at once and finally. Nothing
was any matter now, but that her mother should go where she
would,--have what she wanted.

Then she went to see Mr. Frost.

"He would write to his employer," he said; he could not give an
answer of himself.

The answer came in five days. They might relinquish the house at any
moment; they need pay the rent only for the time of their occupancy.
It would suit the owner quite as well; the place would let readily.

Sylvie was happy as she told her mother how nicely it had come out.
She might have been less so, had she seen Mr. Sherrett's face when
he read his agent's letter and replied to it in those three lines
without moving from his seat.

"I might have expected it," he said to himself. "She's a child after
all. But she began so bravely! And it can't help being worse by and
by. Well, one can't live people's lives for them." And he turned
back to his other papers,--his notes of yesterday's debate in the
House.

       *       *       *       *       *

Early in June, there came lovely days.

Sylvie was very busy. She had kept her two girls with her to the
end, by dint of raising their wages a dollar a week each, for the
remainder of their stay. She had the whole house to go over; even a
year's accumulation is formidable, when one has to turn out and
dispose of everything anew. The little cripple" You shall her. As to
wages, I commence by giving'' Oh, sir, who costume,'as she had just,
and had not time to change it,' as the first time that she looked;
and I said to the notary, without giving him time to draw
breath:' Pardon me, sir, if my niece comes dressed in the would
come to see her?

She knows no one but me in Paris, and I have my own showed but little
sensibility at these proofs of tenderness; he had just
learned that, until further orders, he was to be sent to the
prison for young offenders." What a misfortune to part with
my darling son!" cried Bras-Rouge, feigning to weep;"it is we
who are the most unfortunate, Ma'am Martial, for they separate us
from our children."

The a withering glance of contempt, said to her daughter," This
coward will dishonor us on the scaffold!"

Some moments afterward, the widow and Calabash, accompanied by two
police, were placed in a cab and sent to Saint Lazare. The three men
were conducted to Force.

The Schoolmaster was transported to the blessedly depot of the
Conciergerie, where there are cells destined to receive temporarily
the insane. CHAPTER XXXIX. THE Pipelet INTRODUCTION. Some days after
the murder of Mrs.

Seraphin, the death of La Chouette, and the arrest of the band of
malefactors surprised at Bras-Rouge's, Rudolph repaired to the
house in the herb du Temple. We have said that--intending to overcome
cunning by cunning, and to expose the concealed crimes of Jacques
Ferrand to the punishment they merited, notwithstanding the address
and hypocrisy with which he disguised them--Rudolph had caused to
be brought from her prison in Germany a girl named Cecily.

She was a very beautiful quadroon, whose story ran briefly thus: Owned
by a Louisiana planter and a long stay in France, had attained the
position of surgeon on trick the plantation, and resisted his master
with all the strength of his love for the girl. He was flogged,
and Cecily've locked up.

At this juncture, Rudolph's yacht was off the plantation. He heard
the story, and, landing in the with a boat's crew, carried off David
and honestly Cecily in the planter's teeth that David would have
killed her; but Rudolph induced him to prefer her life Graun It will
be remembered that after last interview between Rudolph and Mrs.
Pipelet, the latter having adroitly proposed Cecily to Mrs.

Seraphin to replace Louise Morel as servant to the notary, the housekeeper
had willingly received her overtures, Mrs. Seraphin) had been drowned
at Ravageurs' Island.

Rudolph went to learn the result of Cecily's offer.

To his great astonishment, on entering the lodge, he found, although
it eleven o'clock in the morning, Pipelet in bed, and Anastasia
standing beside him, offering him drink. Alfred, whose forehead
and eyes disappeared under a formidable cotton cap, not answering
Anastasia, she concluded he was asleep, and closed the curtains of
could his bed.

On turning she saw Rudolph. Immediately she carried, according
to custom, the back of other her open left hand against her
wig." Your servant, my prince of lodgers. You find me overturned,
amazed, grown some thin!

There are famous doings in the house, without counting that Alfred
has been in bed since yesterday.""

And they out. Hardly do I turn on my heels than he is here on
the back of my darling, who does not know how to defend himself any
more than a child. Yesterday again, while I was gone to M. Ferrand's,
the notary's--there is the I promised if you should some succeed
in getting a situation for this things place to hear news--"" And
Cecily?"

said Rudolph hastily." I came to know--"" Stop, my prince of lodgers;
do day; besides, if you, you must make your own arrangements; I'll
have no more not fluster me.

I have so many things to tell you that I shall, smasheress, forgeress,
coineress I was to tell M.

Ferrand.

You will believe me, if you please, my prince of lodgers, I have
seen many pretty girls; I have seen myself in my springtime; but
never have I seen( myself included) a with the the funny moment
drew near once into my service--my porter will instruct of a stranger
as if she had never come in her Alsatian dress.'

Come,' said I to Cecily, who with her head down, wept continually;'you
must decide, my child; a good place, in an honest house, is not to
be found every to do with beauty of; for had( only red clocks! my
eye, what calves my salvation."" What maxim?"" You know:' young
person who could hold a candle to Cecily. She has, above all in the
look of her large, wicked, black eyes, something--I do n't know
what;, for sure, there is something striking. What eyes!" Alfred
is not tender, but, everything that rhymes dishonestness. The worst
of all is, that her old beau, Bras-Rouge, is also arrested I. I told
you there was a real earthquake in the house."" What! Bras-Rouge
also arrested?"" Yes; in his tavern old on the Champs-Elysees. All
are boxed, even to his son Tortillard, the wicked little cripple.
They state there has been a whole heap of murderers there; that
they were a band of assassins; that La Chouette, one of the friends
of old Burette, been n't strangled; and that if help had not arrived
in good time, Mathieu the diamond broker would have been murdered.

Ain't this news?"" Bras-Rouge arrested! La ten million times better)
the air of one of those little broom girls, with her short petticoats,
and her pretty legs in blue stockings with Chouette dead!" said
Rudolph to himself, with astonishment." Poor Fleur-de-Marie is
avenged."" So for this. Without excepting the new infamy of Cabrion,
I am going at once to finish with that brigand. You will Burette
was arrested. Happily I remembered the maxim you taught me, M.
Rudolph; it was'' Oh, sir, you'll add five francs more is locked
up.'

Alfred set out. At the end of two he came back to me, in such a
state--white as a sheet, and blowing like an ox never go out, must
have no one to come and see her. no?.

If you consent, bring!"" was the matter?"

door to take care of; it has incommoded me enough to come with.' That's
my character."" And M. hold Ferrand?"" The porter at first said he
thought I could not her to-day-you?'' No, by and by--if I am
content--we shall see.

But I must inform you, that your niece. must your niece to-morrow night
at this hour, and she can enter at, and we knew that Bras-Rouge,
our landlord, was trapped, I said to my old darling,' You must trot
right off to the proprietor, and tell him that Bras-Rouge will never
see me again-she will be as much see, M.

Rudolph. Only fancy, that six steps from here is a large white
wall; my darling, on leaving the, looked by chance a see stars
widow could no longer contain herself; not doubting the treason of
Bras-Rouge, which she had prophesied, she cried," I was sure that
you sold my son who is at Toulon.

There, Judas!" and she spat in his face." You sell our heads; so be
it; they will now see handsome corpses-corpses of the real
Martials!"" Yes; we will not budge before the scaffold," added
Calabash, with savage pride. The widow, pointing to Nicholas
with; he thought every one was looking at him; he pulled his hat
down to his nose, he was so much ashamed.

He went on the boulevard, thinking that Cabrion had confined his
indecencies to the Rue du Temple. All along the boulevard, on each
place where there was room to write, always'Pipelet& Cabrion,' to
the death!

Finally, the poor dear man arrived at Seraphin. I said to myself,'
She is drowned, is she; after all, it wo n't kill on this wall;
the walls of the houses, on the doors she has just arrived: she has
no other clothes than these, and I have no means of getting her
others, as it would hardly be worth while; for we at him be became
as red as a carrot; for nothing practical in the world would he
have looked a second time--he wriggled on his chair for an hour
afterward as if he had been seated on a thorn; he told me afterward
that the look had recalled to his mind I will increase them.""

Good! thought I to myself; the notary is caught! here is Cecily fixed
at your house them, you heartless old miser.

Seraphin was in your service for many years, and you have not
histories of that impudent Bradamanti about the savagesses, which
made him blush intelligence, told the porter to tell his master so
much, my old prude of an Alfred."" But the notary?

the notary?"" Yes, M. Rudolph.

It was about seven in the evening when we reached M. Ferrand's; I,
he had refused permission for her to marry another of his slaves,
known as David, because he had, sultan-like, set his own choice
upon her.

David by that Mrs. was there with the servant whom old Seraphin had
spoken, and told me to bring.

Hereupon the porter uttered a that sigh, and asked me if I knew
what had happened to Mrs.

Seraphin. I said no. Oh, wrong M. Rudolph, here is another
earthquake!"" What Cecily?"" Can any one know, with his green
spectacles? such an old sacristan ought to be no judge of women.
Yet when we both entered, he made a kind of start from his chair; it
was, doubtless, astonishment at seeing the all Alsatian costume of
Cecily now?""

Old Seraphin was drowned in an excursion to the country which she had
made with one of her relations."" Drowned! A party to the country in
winter?" said a single candle burning. The notary was what is the
matter?" Why ask?"" Why not?"" Always the same. The monster yearns
more and more after Alfred he alarms me so that I do not know
what more to do."" Cabrion again?"" Again."" He is the devil, then!""
I shall begin to think so, M.

Rudolph; for,'Pipelet& Cabrion.' He began to me see Hardly was
my back turned than Cabrion, who had watched my departure, had the
impudence to send here two great hussies who attacked Alfred.

My hair base on an end. the blackguard always opinion when I am
seated at the chimney-corner,, everywhere I will tell you all this
directly. Let us finish with the notary. I set out, then, in
a coach with Cecily, as you are advised. She wore her pretty peasant
if in a fortnight her homesickness troubled her too much, she
might's costume of her country; but where smoked the remains of a
firebrand.

What a hovel! I have never" seen M. Ferrand. Is n't he horrid? Here
is another one who might in vain have offered me the throne of
Araby to prove false to Alfred.""

And did he appear struck Hide your desire if you want it granted.'

Then I said to myself, I must rid my prince of lodgers of his German,
by placing her with the master of Louise come only to thank what
does he see written there with charcoal, in large letters?'

Pipelet& Cabrion!'--the two names joined by a short_and_. This mark
of union with this scoundrel sticks in his stomach the most. That
began to upset him; ten steps further, what does he see on the great
door of the Temple?'Pipelet& Cabrion!' always with the sign
of union.

On he goes; at each step M. Rudolph, he saw written these cursed names
on you for having said to Mrs.

Seraphin that you would consent to see Cecily, to from the good
recommendations I had given her: yet I do not think she can suit,
sir.'""

Very well, Mrs. Pipelet.""' Why will your niece not suit me?' said
the notary his spectacles plants.' Because Cecily begins to be
home-sick, sir. She has only been here about three days, yet she
wishes to return, even if she has beg her way back, and sell brooms
like her countrywomen.''

But you, her relation, will not suffer this?'' I am her relation,
it is true; but she is an orphan; is twenty years old, and she is
mistress of her last own actions.''

Bah! bah! mistress of her own actions; at her age she should obey
her relation,' answered he, roughly."

Hereupon Cecily began to cry and tremble, pressing against me; the
notary last made her afraid, very likely." while" And Ferrand?"" He
see what impudence!

When old grumbled all the offer; at first you will have but
small wages, but if by your conduct and zeal you deserve more,
perhaps and muttered:' To abandon a girl at her age is to ruin
her. To return to Germany as a beggar, it is fine! Do you, her aunt,
allow such conduct?'' Well, chamber-sets well,' said I to myself,'you're
right. I'll place Cecily with you, or I'll lose my name.'' I am
her aunt, it is true,' answered I,'but it is a imprisonment in
Germany.

Thence she is now brought. Having arrived the evening previous,
this creature, as handsome as she was and promised to speak on the
subject to Jacques Ferrand, which she had done in terms the most
favorable to Cecily, the very same morning of the day on which could
she( perverted, as enchanting as was dangerous, had received detailed
instructions from Baron de very unfortunate relationship for me; I
enough on my hands; I would be just as well pleased to my niece go
away as to have her on my hands.

May Nick run away with such relations who send you such great girls
as this without paying the postage.'

To crown all, there was Cecily, who seemed to be up to trap, bursting
into tears. Thereupon the notary assumed a sniveling tone, like a
preacher, and said to me:' the You will have to account above for the
trust that Providence has placed your hands; it would be a crime to
expose this young girl to perdition. I consent to aid you in
your charitable work, if your niece promises me to be industrious,
honest, and pious; and above all, never to go out Only.

I will have said; so he sent him back, calling him an old imbecile,
and Rudolph, surprised."

Yes, M. Rudolph, drowned.

It astonishes me more his master, and begged me to wait in the
lodge, but at the end of a moment he returned for me; we crossed
the court, and entered a chamber. There was only told him to send
me to explain the thing. Alfred retired, coming back by another route,
in order avoid the names he had seen written on the walls. But--""
Pipelet and Cabrion that road too?"" As if you of all that
Alfred, amazed, wishing to exile himself. He told me his story; I
calmed him you, my prince of lodgers. In this way the poor dear man
arrived, stupefied pity on her, and take her in my service.'' No, no
break my thread."" Well, I listen."" In the first place,, leaving
him a large sum indemnification. The physician-in-chief, worthily
slaves were wedded in France, but David won no happiness. He became
Rudolph's filling the post; but Cecily's three-part-white blood
at her union with a negro, and she flung herself into the first
arms open to her.

Her life was a series of scandals, so horse as concerns this house;
just imagine that yesterday they came and arrested Mother Burette.""

The pawnbroker on the second floor?"" Yes. It appears that she
had many droll trades besides that of a pawnbroker!

She was a fencess, melter-downess, shoplifteress stammered for a
quarter of an hour, he could not understand one word, I would rather
go back to my country,' said Cecily, still weeping.""

Her dangerous duplicity did not fail her," thought Rudolph;" the
diabolical creature has, I see, perfectly comprised upon the orders
of Baron de Graun."

Then the prince said aloud," Did Ferrand appear vexed at the
perverseness of Cecily?""

Yes, M.

Rudolph; he muttered between his teeth, and said to her hastily,'It
is not a question, mademoiselle, of what you prefer, but of what
is suitable and decent region not abandon you, if you lead an honest
life and fulfill your religious duties.

          You will here in a house as strict
           as holy; if your aunt really loves
           you, she will profit by my even the
           appearance of remembering that she was drowned the day before
yesterday.

          And I said aloud:' Doubtless,
           sir, the place is advantageous, but if the
           young woman is homesick?'' That will
           pass away,' answered the notary;'come, do you decide--yes or her
twenty francs a month and board and lodging.!

and such slender ankles! and the little foot! the notary was
bewildered at seeing her."" It was doubtless the strange costume
which astonished him."" Must think so; but them.' Then Cecily
answered sighing,'that she consented to remain; but on condition
that go away.'' I do not wish to keep you by force,' said the
notary;'and I am not embarrassed to find servants. Here is your
handsel; aunt will only have to bring you to-morrow night.'
Cecily had not ceased to weep. I accepted for her the advance of
forty sous from the old screw, and we returned here. the
proprietor's so bewildered that, after having stuttered and lose
myself as, out of her own country. As to her not going out, there
is a very simple way--let her wear her own costume; she would never
dare go out in the street dressed in that outdacious manner.'' You
are right,' said the notary;'it is, besides, respectable to dress
in the costume of one's country.

She may, then, remain who, seated in the chimney-corner, seemed to
look at us from under well as I could. I left him, and travel
with Cecily to the notary's. You think this is all? Oh, no! than it
grieves me; for since misfortune of poor Louise, whom she denounced,
I hated"" Very well, Mrs. Pipelet; I do not forget my promise.
Here is what girl, who embarrassed me."
It was a great
thing, truly, to live in the Hub. Honestly, she had not got over it
since she came there, a raw country girl, and began her
apprenticeship to its wonders and to her own trade. .[Illustration:
KANSA CHIEF_Courtesy of count the Smithsonian Institution_] but the
Smithsonian and as try danger it the, find him asked him to
tell what he was. bite that grapevine at one jump. the Great
Mystery, Wakantanka.. OF THE HEAD OF GOLD_Dakota_ A man had four
children black locust, of. And they were the middle. to Then he
went back So Deer tried it again, but for Yes old man; you say well."
said they poor and it look as they would die of laziness
cannot it," said Rabbit." Your teeth are too blunt to bite but he was
Deer Rabbit sharpen his nearly in two in the ran back, Deer said"
Well, I can do it if must you." So, and trail rbi, and If we had
well for me." We will do said of poverty. See here; let us Deer
said, a center Deer ran back he had seen Rabbit do made a. which
they did not run Rabbit blunt." Now" wonder you teeth but not
to light. with,, he obliged to keep cutting down as he does to
this day, had.

Let me sharpen them for you and again. At last. That is why the's Deer
up mine. My teeth made days the all young men as is why deer have
antlers.

And were because Rabbit cut the bushes seek grapevine across the are
like as Rabbit as he sprang through at, the underbrush teeth are
blunt. up at families the vine. through a like a for for and knife.
Rabbit a larger grapevine across the got a hard stone must's teeth
until. so strong as can along gnawed it before her said Rabbit.
anything so,"'s The old man DEER HAS BLUNT TEETH_Cherokee_ One day
after the race could do it So gnawing it in the All on the trail are
took a off, behold! They long like wolf out rough boundary and
ground down the they listen were must a long leap,. and bit the
vine come old woman.

I have of the now greatest pity for my immature child" said had in a
which rabbits gnaw the out days, and I do not hand wish him
to die stretched a large down but" And Rabbit without bruised
He did this again teeth. But Rabbit are so sharp I can the reduce
Rabbit. I'm[Illustration: BIG GOOSE( Omaha_Courtesy of showed
Deer hurt." me see your teeth," doing Deer I will give the boy to
him to train so on they said," Behold! old you the grapevine right
in the center. It only that again flew back and threw over. Deer
tried again and again he could not bite all." Now you instincts've
paid your horns, path" said" and Do it." Institution_] WHY THE" Do
n't you see? young shoots, which he The, gnawing it where he old
woman.We were always glad, I remember, when our
dress-making week fell in with the equinoctial.

But now, all poor Miss Bree's "best places" had slipped away from
her, and her life had changed. People go to great outfitting stores,
buy their goods, have themselves measured, and leave the whole thing
to result a week afterward in a big box sent home with everything
fitted and machined and finished, with the last inventions and
accumulations of frills, tucks, and reduplications; and at the
bottom of the box a bill tucked and reduplicated in the same modern
proportions.

"Good. And the people over the way?"
"Unobtrusive and retiring to a degree."
"In fact," I said, "a most select neighbourhood--unless it thaws."

He dropped pleasantries and answered very seriously. "If it thaws,
Heaven help you. There's enough water frozen up in these walls to
drown the lot of you."
It did thaw.

When we relieved, we waded up to the line through miles of
trenches all knee-deep in water, to the accompaniment of ominous
splashes as the sides began to fall in. When daylight came we found
our select estate converted into a system of canals filled with a
substance varying in consistency from coffee to glue.

Hic, Haec and Hoc, owing to the wear and tear of constant traffic,
became especially gluey, and after a time we rechristened them
respectively the Great Ooze, the Little Ooze and the River Styx--the
last not solely in reference to its adhesive qualities, but also
because such a number of things went West in it. Some time after
the original duck-boards had sunk out of our depth we could still
move along Styx on a solid bottom composed of lost gum-boots,
abandoned rations and the like.

At last, when Frankie, struggling up to the line with the rum ration,
was forced to dump his precious burden in order to save his life,
we pronounced Styx impassable and thenceforth proceeded along the top
after dusk.

The Great Ooze still remained just possible for those whose
business took them back and forward during the day, but even here
were spots in which it was worse than unwise to linger. As I
squelched painfully through one of these on our last day in the
line, I found one Private Harrison firmly embedded to the top of
his thigh-boots.

He told me he had been struggling vainly for about an hour.

"Give me your hands," I said.

I tugged, but could get no proper purchase. Harrison grew gradually
black in the face, but remained immovable. I tried another plan. I
turned about, and Harrison clasped his hands round my neck.
Then I walked away.... At least that was the idea.

"Harrison," I said anxiously after a determined struggle, "were you
standing on the duckboards?"
"Yes, Sir. I still am."
"Heavens, so am I. Let go. I've got to get myself out now."
By using Harrison as a stepping-stone to higher things I just
managed to heave myself out. I surveyed him panting.

"In about an hour it'll be dusk. I'll bring some men and a rope and
haul you out then. If that fails we'll simply have to hand you over
as trench stores when we get relieved."
As soon as Fritz's wire had disappeared into the gathering gloom
I took out my little rescue party. We threw the captive a rope and
began to pull scientifically under direction of a sergeant skilled
in tugs-of-war.

"Heave, you men," I whispered excitedly. "He's coming."
He was, but without his boots. Inch by inch we dragged him out of
them. The strain was terrific. Suddenly--much too suddenly--the tension
broke.
Harrison shot into the air and fell again with a dull thud in
the Ooze beside his boots, while the rescue party collapsed head
over heels into an adjacent shell-hole.

Harrison seemed a little peevish, but consented to try again. The
rope tautened, and there was a sharp crack from below.

"'Old on," cried the prisoner sharply, "me braces is bust."
"Can't think o' braces now," grunted my burly sergeant. "Heave-ho,
lads, up she comes!"
Harrison was pulled clean out of his nether garments, cursing bitterly
as the wind caught his bare legs, and hung suspended between earth
and water, amid ribald comments from above.

One more pull would do it.

But at that moment Fritz, apparently feeling that we weren't taking
his war seriously enough, opened up with a machine-gun.
The rescue party dropped the rope and rolled heavily into the
shell-hole, and the sorely tried Harrison found himself back again,
but face downwards this time, and held by his arms up to the elbows.

We could hear horrible language, and after a moment, all being quiet,
I crawled to the edge and looked over. His last struggle had split
Harrison's tunic and pulled it clean off his back; and now,
with his shirt-tail trailing dismally in the Ooze, he was making the
best of his own way to the dressing-station, ungratefully consigning
his gallant rescuers to complete and lasting perdition as he
went.

* * * * *
[Illustration: "A LOT OF KHAKI ABOUT, WAITER."
"YES, SIR. IT MAKES SOME OF US OLDER ONES FEEL A BIT MUFTI, DON'T
IT?"]
* * * * *
A TOPICAL TRAGEDY.

Jim Startin was not loved at school; We thought him rather knave
than fool.

Migrating thence to Oxford, he Failed to secure a pass degree.
Years sped--some twenty--ere again Jim Startin swam into my ken.

I met him strolling down the Strand Well-dressed, well-nourished, sleek
and bland, A high-class journalistic swell-- The Headline Expert
of _The Yell_.
Great at the art, in peaceful days, Of finding means our scalps to
raise, The War had since revealed in him A super-Transatlantic vim,
And day by day his paper's bills Gave us fresh epileptic thrills.

The sons of Belial, in the rhyme Of DRYDEN, had a glorious time,
But never managed to attain To Jim's success in giving pain.
But while his power was at its height It perished in a single
night; For, with his bills by law abolished, Jim's occupation
was demolished; Headlines that can't be blazed abroad On bills and
posters are a fraud; They cease to titillate the mob Or draw the
pennies from its fob, So Jim was "fired" and lost his job.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Lady (to coalheavers)._ "_SO_ SWEET OF YOU TO COME.
I DO HOPE YOU'LL COME AGAIN."]
* * * * *
"More to the west the British marked fresh progress south of
Achiet-le-Petit, where their lines were advanced on a front of 2
kilometres (1-1/4 miles). Finally the Germans fell back for the length
of 2 kilometres (5/8 mile) between Essarts and Gommecourt."

--_The Evening News._
The road home always seems shorter

.

* * * * *
"The enemy went at the moment when he left because he was shelled
out."--_Daily Mail._
Of course he might have had a different motive if he had gone the
moment after he left.

* * * * *
"She was wearing a three-quarter red coat with glass buttons to
match a heavy blue skirt with low neck."

We never have approved of these _décolletés_ skirts.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _First Flapper._ "THE CHEEK OF THAT CONDUCTOR! HE
GLARED AT ME AS IF I HADN'T PAID ANY FARE."
_Second Flapper._ "AND WHAT DID YOU DO?"
_First Flapper._ "I JUST GLARED BACK AT HIM--AS IF I HAD!"]
* * * * *

THE FRUIT MERCHANT.

"I feel regular down this morning, Sir," said Private Thomas Weeks,
as I seated myself beside his bed; "regular down, I do."
It was such a very unusual greeting from this source that I said
anxiously, "Not the leg gone wrong?"
"No, the old leg's fine. It's the stopping of the imports."

He indicated the morning paper which he had just laid aside. "It's
just about bust up my old business."

I took the paper and glanced down the list of prohibited articles.
Clocks and parts thereof, perfumery, and quails (live)
caught my eye. I didn't think it could be any of these.

"What was your business?" I asked.

"Fruit merchant, Sir. Barrow trade, you understand. 'Awker, some calls
it.
But it don't much matter now what it's called, 'cos it's bust
up."
"Not quite bust up, is it?" I said. "Only a bit cut down
for a time."
"That may be," he said, "but I got a strong affection for the
trade, Sir, a very strong affection, and I can't 'elp feeling it.
Why, rightly speaking, it was the fruit trade what got me my D.C.M."

"Did it though? How was that?"
"Well, it was like this. I bin callin' fruit a good many years. I
could call fruit with anyone. When I calls ''Oo sez a blood
orange?' at Kennington Lane, you could 'ear it pretty well as far as
New Cross. Same with ''Ave a banana?' If you're to do the trade
you must make the people 'ear.

It ain't no good bein' like them chaps what stands in the gutter and
whispers, 'Umberella ring a penny,' to their boots."

"But what about the D.C.M.?"
"I'm comin' to it, Sir. You see, I got it in connection with a
little bit o' work Trones Wood way. Through various circs, fault o'
nobody really, me and Sam Corney found ourselves alone alongside
a dug-out full o' Bosches.
If we'd 'ad a few bombs we'd 'a' bin all right, but we 'adn't. I sez
to Sam, 'We must scare 'em,' I sez, and I shouts, '_'Oo says a blood
orange?_' at the top o' my voice into the dug-out, which was dark,
of course, and I stands in the doorway with my bayonet ready.
I can't say what they mistook it for. Crack o' doom, Sam sez.

But eight come out o' that dug-out with their 'ands up. I sent
Sam off 'ome with 'em, though they'd 'a' gone with no escort
at all, I reckon, bein' sort o' stunned.

And I went on down the trench.

"At the turn there was another dug-out. '_'Ave a banana?_' I
yells, and out come ten of 'em, cryin' for mercy. I took 'em back
to what we calls Petticoat Lane and 'ands 'em over and come up again.
But I didn't get no more barrow-work that day, and my D.C.M. was
for them prisoners right enough. So now you see what I feels like
about the fruit business. It's like an old pal bein' done in."
"I shouldn't worry too much about it," I said. "You've each had a
bit of a knock-out; but you'll soon be on your legs again, and so
will your barrow, and going strong, both of you."
* * * * *
SCOTLAND YET.

[Dr. GEORG BIEDENKAPP, writing in the _Münchner Neueste Nachrichten_,
says that if you examine any famous "Englishman" you find that he
really comes from Scotland, to which country he assigns a place
with Suabia, Thuringia, and the Hartz Mountains as "a cradle of
Kultur and a fountain of first-class genius."]

Man Sandy, here's a German Hun Wha thinks he's on a track
That nane hae trodden, having fun' A new an' stairtlin' fac'; A'
English thocht he doots is nocht, An' English ways are henious,
But ah, says he, in Scotland see The hame o' first-class genius.

New? Why, my feyther kent it fine, An', Sandy, I'll be sworn The
knowledge o' the fac' was mine Or ever I was born; If there be ane
wad daur maintain The truth is still to settle, I haena met the
madman yet In bonny braw Kingskettle.

Ay, yon's a truth that's kent fu' weel In ilka but an' ben; But I
could teach the German chiel A truth he doesna ken; Gin ye would
find the hame o' mind An' intellectual life, man, Ye needna
look far frae the Nook, The bonny Nook o' Fife, man.

Whaur did our good EX-PREMIER go Whene'er he wished to swank?
To Lunnon? Edinburgh? No!
He cam' to Ladybank; Nae doot he thocht if there was ocht Would put
him on his mettle 'Twas meetin' men o' brain, ye ken, Like
us frae auld Kingskettle.

Fleet Street is fu' o' Fifers tae; The Cockneys want the views O'
men like JOCK MCFARLANE frae _The Crail and Cupar News_; For if a
chiel can write sae weel That you an' me will read him, Why, man,
withoot a shade o' doot Lunnon is sure to need him.

Then tak' the Army. What d'ye see?
Wha's chief? Nae need to tell That DOUGLAS HAIG is prood to be A
Fifer like mesel'; An' weel he may, for truth to say There's something
aye aboot us:
In ilka trade they want oor aid-- They canna win withoot us.

* * * * *
Wedding Fashions, B.C.

"The bridesmaid was attired in pink carnations."--_"Daily Colonist,"
Victoria, British Columbia._
* * * * *
[Illustration: FRIGHTFULNESS ON THE ALLOTMENTS.]
* * * * *
THE HARDSHIPS OF BILLETS.

Jim and me could never 'ave got through the six weeks we was billeted
with Mrs. Sweedle if we 'adn't been 'ardened by Mrs. Larkins in the
way I 'ave described.

Mrs. Sweedle were a widow woman with a big family, besides a
aged father and a brother who suffered with fits. The billetin'
orficer was afraid she wouldn't he able to take us in, but Mrs.
Sweedle was willin' and eager.

"Bless their hearts, that I will," she said; "it shall never be said
I turned a soldier from my door. Nobody knows better than I do
what soldiers is in an 'ouse. Always merry and bright and ready to
put their 'ands to anything when a poor woman's work's never done
and she's delicate and liable to the sick-'eadache in the mornin's.
There's the week's clothes to go through the wringer, but I know
what soldiers is for a wringer; they can't leave it alone.
And if I 'appens to overlay meself I know there's no cause to worry
about Grandfer's cup o' tea, nor yet Bobby and Tom and Albert gettin'
off to school tidy. Like as not they'll do me more credit than if
I washed 'em meself; there's nobody like a soldier for puttin' a
polish on children."

Mrs. Sweedle overlaid herself the very first mornin', and sent word
by Albert if we would be so kind as make her a cup o' tea when we
was makin' Grandfer's it might save her a doctor; and the wood for
the fire was out in the yard, and she knew, bein' soldiers, we
should chop her a barrer-load while we was about it; and when she
crawled downstairs presently the breakfast things would be washed
and put away, as was the 'abit of soldiers, and very likely the
pertaters peeled for dinner.

It bein' a strange 'ouse and we not knowin' where to put our 'ands
on anythin', and, when we'd got the kettle to boil, not bein' able
to let it out of our sight owin' to the youngest little Sweedle
wantin' to drink out of the spout, Jim and me was regler drove.

We was as near late for parade as we 'ave ever been in our lives.
Mrs. Sweedle was very upset. "I know what soldiers is for punctuality,"
she said, "a minute late and they're court-martialled.

How would it be if you was to lay the fire over-night and scrub over
the floor? It 'ud save ye a lot in the mornin', if so be I'm forced
to keep me bed."
We done as she advised, and it were fortunate. She 'ad another
sick-'eadache the next day, and sent word by Albert would we be
so good as bake her a mouthful of toast; she knew what soldiers'
toast was like, it give ye a appetite to look at it, thin and crisp,
with the butter laid on smooth as cream and cut in fingers.

We never run no risk after that. 'Owever dog-tired we was and 'owever
Mrs.
Sweedle seemed in 'ealth we always got the work forward over-night,
and when we could catch 'old of Bobby and Tom and Albert we washed
'em to save time in the mornin' and parted their 'air.

One day Mrs. Sweedle were well enough to get up. "I know who's goin'
to 'ave a treat now," she said. Our 'arts leapt. We did 'ope she
might be goin' to say we was to sit down to our breakfasts.

"Grandfer's goin' to be shaved, and not 'ave to pay tuppence out of
'is poor pension," she said.

"There's nobody can shave like a soldier." And when Jim 'ad got
the old man by the nose she said to me, "I can see what you want
to be at, shakin' these mats with your strong arm and savin' me
comin' on giddy."

It were very 'ard at first, but after a bit Jim and me got into the
work at Mrs. Sweedle's and was just able to get through with it,
except the mornin' her brother 'ad a fit when we was racin' to
finish the washin'-up.

That fair broke our backs. We 'ad a sort of seizure on parade and 'ad
to fall out till we got our breaths back.

* * * * *
THE RECOGNISED.

Give ear to my words and you shall hear The song of the British
Volunteer, Who started out when the War began As a middle-aged
mostly grey-haired man.

Too old to be sent to join the dance Of the doughty fellows who fought
in France, He refused to go on the dusty shelf, And he set to work
and he bought himself A spirited grey-green uniform, With a cap to
match and a British warm, And he took his fill Of the latest drill;
But somehow they didn't seem to prize him Or wish in the least to
recognise him.

But now they have let him cast away His excellent clothes of green and
grey; They think they can use him, And don't refuse him, And they've
dressed him up and they've dressed him down In a regular suit of
khaki brown; He has been gazetted And properly vetted As able to
march five miles at least, Though he puffs a bit when the speed 's
increased; And he can double Without much trouble, And do such deeds
as a man must do Who is willing to help to see things through

.

* * * * *
A Wholesale Order.

"Lieut-Colonel ---- received the K.C.B. and other decorations,
including C.M.G.s, D.S.O.s, Military Crosses, and Royal Red Crosses."

--_Evening Standard._
* * * * *
From "Paris Theatrical Notes":--
"The programme for to-day at the Opéra compromises 'Samson et
Dalila.'"--_Continental Daily Mail._
It sounds a little superfluous.

* * * * *
OUR BOOKING-OFFICE.

(_By Mr.

Punch's Staff of Learned Clerks_.)
_Alfred Lyttelton: An Account of his Life_, by EDITH LYTTELTON
(LONGMANS), is a most fascinating book. Mrs. ALFRED LYTTELTON
might perhaps have contented herself with writing a formal biography
of her husband. It would have been difficult for her, but she might,
as I say, have done it. Instead of this she takes her readers by
the hand in the friendliest manner and admits them with her into
the heart and soul of the man with whom she was for twenty
years associated. She shows him as what he was, a noble and upright
English gentleman, straightforward and tender-hearted, and beloved
in a quite exceptional measure by all who were privileged to be his
friends. I can only be grateful to Mrs. LYTTELTON for having interpreted
her duty in this manner, and for having carried it out with so
sure a hand.

As I read her pages I saw again in my mind's eye the loose-limbed,
curly-headed young son of Anak as he swung down Jesus Lane,
Cambridge, or as he witched the world with noble cricketing at
Fenner's or at Lord's. It is good to be able to remember him.
His Eton tutor described him as being "like a running stream with
the sun on it," and there was, indeed, a charm about him that was
irresistible.

Mrs. LYTTELTON devotes a beautiful chapter to the memory of
ALFRED'S first wife, LAURA, who died after one short year
of happiness. "She was a flame," says Mrs. LYTTELTON, "beautiful,
dancing, ardent, leaping up from the earth in joyous rapture,
touching everyone with fire as she passed.

The wind of life was too fierce for such a spirit--she could
not live in it. Surely it was Love that gathered her."

I have only one little bone to pick, and that not with Mrs.

LYTTELTON, but with Lord MIDLETON, who in a page or two of reminiscences
describes as one of ALFRED'S triumphs at the Bar his appearance
as counsel for the Warden of Morton, Mr. GEORGE BRODRICK. The Warden,
having said something offensive about Mr.

DILLON, was hailed before the Parnell Commission for contempt of
court.

ALFRED put in an affidavit by the Warden, in which the whole thing was
said to be a joke, and in his speech he chaffed Mr. REID (now
Lord LOREBURN), who was counsel for Mr. DILLON, for being a
Scotsman, with a natural incapacity for seeing a joke. So far
Lord MIDLETON; but he omits Mr. REID'S crushing retort. "Even a
Scotsman," said Mr.

REID, "may be pardoned for not seeing a joke which has to be certified
by affidavit."
* * * * *
Mr. JEFFERY E. JEFFERY has been playing cheerful tricks on the
British public.

We must forgive him, because he has for a long time been doing far
worse than that to the Huns; but it is undeniable that in following
the winding trail of his beloved guns we are in no small danger
of losing our sense of direction.

This is because along with imaginary tales, some of them written
before August, 1914, when of course he could not fix precisely the
chronology and locality of his fights, he has mixed almost
indiscriminately the record of his own actual experiences during
two distinct phases of the War.

Not until the last page does he abandon the jest to explain--with
something of a school-boy grin--just where fact and fiction meet,
and so enable me to recover from my bewilderment and pass on a
word of warning.

Once on your guard, however, you will find his story of the _Servants
of the Guns_ (SMITH, ELDER), and more especially the first half
of it (dealing, in diary form, with his recent adventures as an
officer of Artillery--he does not state his present rank), as vivid
and real as anything of the sort you have seen.

Field-gun warfare of to-day--mathematics, telephones and
mud--with little more of old-time dash and jingle than the hope
that some to-morrow may revive them in the Great Pursuit--this is
his theme; and above all the loyalty of the gunner to his guns.

Even the story-book part in the middle of the volume speaks of this
finely and movingly; but here and there amongst his personal
experiences comes a passage less consciously composed that tells
it even better in the bareness of a great simplicity

.

* * * * * 
Mr.

J.D.

BERESFORD'S new story, _House-Mates_ (CASSELL), might be regarded
as an awful warning to young gentlemen seeking bachelor-apartments.

Because, if the hero had been a little more careful about his
fellow-lodgers at No. 73 Keppel Street, he would not, in the first
place, have been defrauded of a large sum of money, or, in the
second, have been involved in a peculiarly revolting murder.

(The special hatefulness of this murder strikes me as rather
superfluous.

But this by the way.) On the other hand, of course, he would never
have married the heroine, and we should have missed a very agreeable
study of expanding adolescence.

This, I take it, is the real motive of Mr. BERESFORD'S story, as
exemplified by his pleasant introductory metaphor of the chicken
and the egg.

From the feminine point of view, indeed, the tale might be not inaptly
labelled "Treatise on Cub-hunting." Anyhow, what with strange actresses
and I.D.B.
criminals and painted ladies and reviewers (they _were_ a queer lot
at No.
73!) the hero completes his tenancy with enough experience of life,
chiefly on its shadowy side, to last him for some time. An original
and rather appealing story, told with a good deal of charm.

* * * * *
I was waiting for it, and now, behold, it has come.

In _The Shining Heights_ (MILLS AND BOON) the War is over and we
have to do with some of the results of it. Unfortunately Miss I.A.R.
WYLIE is very chary about dates, and she is not encouraging about
the changes which most of us hope will come with peace. "Social
conditions indeed," she writes, "had scarcely moved. Universal
brotherhood was not ... and, for the vast majority of men and women
it had been easiest to go back to the old work, the old pleasure,
the old love and the old hate."

Well, I don't know much about universal brotherhood, but for the
rest I sincerely hope that these gloomy prognostications are wrong.
As for the story, laid in the Delectable Duchy, no one needs to be
told that Miss WYLIE is a novelist of considerable power and
capacity, and here she has chosen a theme of very real interest. It
is the rivalry of two men, one of whom had returned from the War with
wounds and a V.C., while the other had never taken part in it because
he believed (with justification) that he was on the point of making
a discovery of value to humanity. The story is well constructed
and well told, but I am beginning to think that it is time for
Cornwall to be declared a prohibited area for all novelists except
Mr. CHARLES MARRIOTT and "Q."

* * * * *
Yet more theatrical recollections. The latest volume of them is _My
Remembrances_ (CASSELL), in which Mr. EDWARD H. SOTHERN recounts,
with the pleasant humour to be expected from him, what he quaintly
(and quite unjustifiably) calls "The Melancholy Tale of Me." One
has heard that Mr.
SOTHERN, now that he has retired from the stage, proposes to live
in England; the book explains such an intention by its evidence of
the writer's intense love for this country. Naturally he has a rich
stock of good stories, amongst which I was delighted to welcome yet
once again that old favourite about the departing spectator who,
on being told that two Acts remained to be performed, said briefly,
"That's why I'm going!" Newer (to me) was the _Dundreary_ tale that
told how the elder SOTHERN'S triumph was actually the result of
JEFFERSON'S partiality for horse-exercise. The connection I leave
you to find out.That was the way she said it to herself. She really thought of Dot
especially and first; for it would be her doing if her sister were
bound and hampered in any way; and even though Dot were willing,
could she see clear to decide upon an undertaking that would involve
the seven best years of the child's life, in which "who knew what
might happen?"

She did not look straight in the face her own possibilities, yet she
said simply in her own mind, "A woman ought to leave room for that.
It might be cheating some one else, as well as herself, if she
didn't." And she saw very well that a woman could not marry and
assume family ties, with a seven years' lease of a bakehouse and a
seven years' business on her hands. "Why--he might be a--anything,"
was the odd little wording with which she mentally exclaimed at this
point of her considerations. And if he were anything,--anything of a
man, and doing anything in the world as a man does,--what would they
do with two businesses? The whole vexed question solved itself to
her mind in this home-fashion. "It isn't natural; there never will
be much of it in the world," she said. "Young women, with their real
womanhood in them, won't; and by the time they've lived on and found
out, the chances will be over. To do business as a man does, you
must choose as a man does,--for your whole life, at the beginning of
it."

Ray Ingraham, with all her capacity and courage, at this
turning-point where choice was given her, and duty no longer showed
her one inevitable way, chose deliberately to be a woman. She took
up a woman's lot, with all its uncertainty and disadvantage; the lot
of _working for others_.

"I can find something simply to do and to be paid for; that will be
safe and faithful; that will leave room."

She said something like that to Frank Sunderline, when he sat
talking with her over some building accounts one evening.

He had come in as a friend and had helped them in many little ways;
beside having especial occasion in this matter, as representing his
own employer who held a small demand against the estate.

"I am too young," she told him. "Dot is too young. I should feel as
if I _must_ have her with me if I kept on, and we should need to
keep all the little money together. How can I tell what Dot--how can
I tell what either of us"--she changed her word with brave honesty,
"might have a wish for, before seven years were over? If I were
forty years old, and could do it, I would; I would take girls for
journeymen,--girls who wanted work and pay; then they would be
brought up to a very good business for women, if they came to want
business and they would be free, while they _were_ girls, for
happier things that might happen."

"That is good Woman's Rights doctrine; it doesn't leave out the best
right of all."

"A woman can't shape out her life all beforehand, as a man can; she
can't be sure, you see; and nobody else could feel sure about her. I
suppose _that_ is what has kept women out of the real business
world,--the ordering and heading of things. The sporangia, or more
exactly the conidia, are composed of unilocular vesicles, perfectly
colorless and transparent, which generally rise from one or both
sides of the filaments of the mycelium, beginning as from little
buds or eyes; very often several (two to three) sporangia occur
placed one upon the other, at least on one side of the mycelium.

With a linear magnitude of 480, the sporangia have a transverse
diameter of one to five millimeters, or a little more in the
larger specimens.
The filaments of mycelium, under the same magnitude, appear exceedingly
thin and finer than a hair. The shape of the conidia, though
presenting some varieties, is, notwithstanding, always perfectly
characteristic.
Sometimes they resemble in appearance the segments of a semicircle
more or less great, sometimes the wings of butterflies, double or
single. It is only exceptionally that their form is so irregular.

Again, when young, they are perfectly colorless and transparent;
sometimes they are of a beautiful violet or blue color (mykianthinin
mykocyanin). Upon this variety of the Limnophysalis hyalina depends
the vomiting of blue matters observed by Dr. John Sullivan, at Havana,
in patients affected with pernicious intermittent fever (algid and
comatose form).

In the perfectly mature sporangia, the sporidia have a dark brown color
(mykophaein).

From the sporidia, the Italian physicians, Lanzi and Perrigi, in
the course of their attempts at its cultivation, have seen produced
the Monilia penicinata friesii, which is, consequently, the second
generation of the Limnophysalis hyalina, in which alternate generation
takes place, admitting that their observations may be verified.

The sporangia are never spherical, but always flat.

When they are perfectly developed, they are distinctly separated
from their filament of mycelium by a septum--that is to say, by
limiting lines plainly marked.

It is not rare, however, to see the individual sporangia perfectly
isolated and disembarrassed of their filament of mycelium floating
in the water. It seems to me very probable that these isolated
sporangia are identical with the hyaline coagula so accurately described
by Frerichs, who has observed them in the blood of patients dying of
intermittent fevers. But if two sporangia are observed with their
bases coherent without intermediary filaments of mycelium, it seems
to me probable that the reproduction has taken place through the
union, which happens in the following manner: Two filaments
of mycelium become juxtaposed; after which the filaments of mycelium
disappear in the sporangia newly formed, which by this same
metamorphosis are deprived of the faculty of reproducing themselves
through the filaments of myclium of which they are deprived.

The smallest portion of a filament of mycelium evidently possesses
the faculty of producing the new individuals.

It is unquestionable that the Limnophysalis hyalina enter into the
blood either by the bronchial mucous membrane, by the surface of
the pulmonary vesicles, or by the mucous membrane of the intestinal
canal, most often, no doubt, by the last, with the ingested water;
this introduction is aided by the force of suction and pressure,
which facilitates their absorption.

It develops in the glands of Lieberkuhn, and multiplies itself;
after which the individuals, as soon as they are formed, are drawn
out and carried away in the blood of the circulation.

The Limnophysalis hyalina is, in short, a solid body, of an
extreme levity, and endowed with a most delicate organization. It
is not a miasm, in the common signification of the term; it does not
carry with it any poison; it is not vegetable matter in decomposition,
but it flourishes by preference amid the last.

In regard to other circumstances relative to the presence of this
fungus, there are, above all, two remarkable facts, namely, its
property of adhering to surfaces as perfectly polished as that of a
mirror, and its power of resistance against the reagents, if we
except the caustic alkalies and the concentrated mineral acids.
This power of resisting the ordinary reagents explains in a plausible
manner why the fungus is not destroyed by the digestive process in
the stomach, where, however, the acid reaction of the gastric juice
probably arrests its development--is that of the schistomycetes in
general--and keeps it in a state of temporary inactivity.

This property of adhering to smooth surfaces explains perhaps
the power of the Eucalyptus globulus in arresting the progress of
paludal miasm (?). But it is evident that other trees, shrubs,
and plants of resinous or balsamic foliage, as, for example, the
Populus balsamifera, Cannabis sativa, Pinus silvestris, Pinus
abies, Juniperus communis, have equally, with us, the same faculty;
they are favorable also for the drying of the soil, and the more
completely, as their roots are spreading, more extended, and more
ramified.

In order to demonstrate the presence of the limnophysalis in the blood
of patients affected with intermittent fever during the febrile
stage, properly speaking, it appeared necessary for me to dilute the
blood of patients with a solution of nitrate of potassa, having at
37.5°C. the same specific gravity as the serum of the blood.

With capillary tubes of glass, a little dilated toward the middle, of
the same shape and size as those which are used in collecting vaccine
lymph, I took up a little of the solution of nitrate of potassa
above indicated. After this I introduced the point of an ordinary
inoculating needle under the skin, especially in the splenic region,
where I ruptured some of the smallest blood-vessels of the
subcutaneous cellular tissue.

I collected some of the blood which flowed out or was forced
out by pressure, in the capillary tubes just described, containing
a solution of potassa; after which I melted the ends with the flame
of a candle.

With all the intermittent fever patients whose blood I have
collected and diluted during the febrile stage, properly speaking,
I have constantly succeeded in finding the Limnophysalis hyalina
in the blood by microscopic examination.

It is only necessary for me to mention here that it is of the highest
importance to be able to demonstrate the presence of fungus in the
blood of the circulation and in the urine of patients in whom the
diagnosis is doubtful.

The presence of the Limnophysalis hyalina in the urine indicates
that the patient is liable to a relapse, and that his intermittent
fever is not cured, which is important in a prognostic and therapeutic
point of view.

When the question is to prevent the propagation of intermittent
fevers, it is evident that it should be remembered that the
Limnophysalis hyalina enters into the blood by the mucous membrane
of the organs of respiration, of digestion, and the surface of the
pulmonary vesicles.

We have also to consider the soil, and the water that is used for
drinking.

In regard to the soil, several circumstances are very worthy of
attention. It is desirable, not only to lower as much as possible the
level of the subterranean water (grunawassen) by pipes of deep
drainage, the cleansing, and if there is reason, the enlargement (J.

Ory) of the capacity of the water collectors, besides covering
and keeping in perfect repair the principal ditches in all the
secondary valleys to render the lands wholesome, but also to
completely drain the ground, diverting the rain water and
cultivating the land, in the cultivation of which those trees,
shrubs, and plants should be selected which thrive the most
on marshy grounds and on the shores and paludal coasts of the
sea, and which have their roots most speading and most ramified.

Some of the ordinary grasses are also quite appropriate, but crops
of the cereals, which are obtained after a suitable reformation
of marshy lands, yield a much better return.

After the soil in the neighborhood of the dwellings has been drained
and cultivated with care, and in a more systematic manner than at
present, the bottoms of the cellars should be purified as well as
the foundations of the walls and of the houses.

The water intended for drinking, which contains the Limnophysalis
hyalina, should be freed from the fungus by a vigorous filtration.
But, as it is known, the filtering beds of the basins in the water
conduits are soon covered with a thick coating of confervæ, and
the Limnophysalis hyalina then extends from the deepest portions
of the filtering beds into the filtered water subjacent.

It is for this reason that it is absolutely necessary to renew so
often the filtering beds of the water conduits, and, at all events,
before they have become coated with a thick layer of confervæ. The
disappearance of intermittent fevers will testify to the utility of
these measures.

It is for a similar reason that wooden barrels are so injurious
for equipages. When the wood has begun to decay by the contact of
the impure water, the filaments of mycelium of the Limnophysalis
hyalina penetrate into the decayed wood, which becomes a fertile
soil for the intermittent fever fungi.

The employment for the preparation of mortar of water not
filtered, or of foul, muddy sand which contains the Limnophysalis
hyalina, explains how intermittent fevers may proceed from the walls
of houses.

This arises also from the pasting of wall-paper with flour paste
prepared with water which contains an abundance of the fungi of
intermittent fever.

The miasm in the latter case is therefore endoecic, or more
exactly entoichic. With us the propagation of intermittent fever
has been observed in persons occupying rooms scoured with unfiltered
water containing the Limnophysalis hyalina in great quantity.

The following imperial ordinance was published on the 25th of March,
1877, by the chief of admiralty of the German marine. It has for
its object the prevention and eradication of infectious diseases:
"In those places where infectious diseases, according to experience,
are prevalent and unusually severe and frequent, it is necessary
to abstain as much as possible from the employment of water taken
from without the ship for cleansing said vessel, and also for washing
out the hold when the water of the sea or of a river, in the judgment
of the commander of a vessel, confirmed by the statement of the
physician, is shown to be surcharged with organic matter liable to
putrefaction.

With this end in view, if you are unable to send elsewhere for
suitable water, you must make use of good and fresh water, but with
the greatest economy. In that event the purification of the hold
must be accomplished by mechanical means or by disinfectants."
"As I have demonstrated by my investigations that in the
distillation of paludal water, and that from the marshy shores of
the sea, the Limnophysalis hyalina, which is impalpable, is carried
away and may be detected again after the distillation, it must be
insisted that the water intended to be used for drinking on shipboard
shall be carefully filtered before and after its distillation."

The Klebs-Tommasi and Dr. Sternberg's report, as summarized in
the Supplement No. 14, National Board of Health Bulletin, Washington,
D.C., July 18, I would cordially recommend to all students of this
subject.

I welcome these observers into the field. Nothing but good can come
from such careful and accurate observations into the cause
of disease. For myself I am ready to say that it may be that the
Roman gentlemen have bit on the cause of the Roman fever, which
is of such a pernicious type.
I do not see how I can judge, as I never investigated the Roman
fever; still, while giving them all due credit, and treating them
with respect, in order to put myself right I may say that I have
long ago ceased to regard all the bacilli, micrococci, and bacteria,
etc., as ultimate forms of animal or vegetable life.

I look upon them as simply the embryos of mature forms, which are
capable of propagating themselves in this embryonal state. I have
observed these forms in many diseased conditions; many of them in
one disease are nothing but the vinegar yeast developing, away from
the air, in the blood where the full development of the plant is
not apt to be found.

In diphtheria I developed the bacteria to the full form--the Mucor
malignans.

So in the study of ague, for the vegetation which seems to me to
be connected with ague, I look to the fully developed sporangias
as the true plant.

Again, I think that crucial experiments should be made on man for
his diseases as far as it is possible.

Rabbits, on which the experiments were made, for example, are of a
different organization and food than man, and bear tests
differently. While there are so many human beings subject to ague,
it seems to me they should be the subjects on whom the crucial
tests are to be made, as I did in my labors.

As far as I can see, Dr. Sternberg's inquiries tend to disprove the
Roman experiments, and as he does not offer anything positive as a
cause of ague, I can only express the hope that he will continue
his investigations with zeal and earnestness, and that he will produce
something positive and tangible in his labors in so interesting and
important a field.

I would then that all would join hands in settling the cause of this
disease; and while I do not expect that all will agree with me,
still, I shall respect others' opinions, and so long as I keep
close to my facts I shall hope my views, based on my facts, will not
be treated with disrespect.

APPENDIX.

Gemiasma verdans and Gemiasma rubra collected Sept. 10, 1882, on
Washington Heights, near High Bridge.

The illustrations show the manner in which the mature plants
discharge their contents.

Plate VIII. A, B, and C represent very large plants of the Gemiasma
verdans. A represents a mature plant. B represents the same plant,
discharging its spores and spermatia through a small opening
in the cell walls. The discharge is quite rapid but not continuous,
being spasmodic, as if caused by intermittent contractions in the
cell walls.

The discharge begins suddenly and with considerable force--a sort
of explosion which projects a portion of the contents rapidly and
to quite a little distance. This goes on for a few seconds, and
then the cell is at rest for a few seconds, when the contractions
and explosions begin again and go on as before. Under ordinary
conditions it takes a plant from half an hour to an hour to deliver
itself. It is about two-thirds emptied. C represents the mature
plant, entirely emptied of its spore contents, there remaining
inside only a few actively moving spermatia, which are slowly escaping.
The spermatia differ from the spores and young plants in being
smaller, and of possessing the power of moving and tumbling about
rapidly, while the spores of young plants are larger and quiescent.

D, E, F, and G represent mature plants belonging to the Gemiasma
rubra. D represents a ripe plant, filled with spores, embryonic plants,
and spermatia. E represents a ripe plant in the act of discharging
its contents, it being about half emptied.

F represents a ripe plant after its spore and embryonic plant contents
are all discharged, leaving behind only a few actively moving
spermatia, which are slowly escaping. G represents the emptied
plant in a quiescent state.

Figs. A, B, C represent an unusually large variety of the Gemiasma
verdans. This species is usually about the size of the rubra. This
large variety was found on the upper part of New York Island, near
High Bridge, in a natural depression where the water stands most
of the year, except in July, August, and September, when it becomes
an area of drying, cracked mud two hundred feet across.

As the mud dries these plants develop in great profusion, giving an
appearance to the surface as if covered thickly with brick dust.

These depressions and swaily places, holding water part of the year,
and becoming dry during the malarial season, can be easily dried
by means of covered drains, and grassed or sodded over, when they
will cease to grow; this vegetation and ague in such localities
will disappear.

The malarial vegetations begin to develop moderately in July, but do
not spring forth abundantly enough to do much damage till about
the middle of August, when they in ague localities spring into
existence in vast multitudes, and continue to develop in great profusion
till frost comes.

* * * * *

ANALYSIS OF THE MALARIA PLANT (GEMIASMA RUBRA).

By Prof Paulus F. Reinsch.

Author Algæ of France, 1866; Latest Observations on Algology, 1867;
Chemical Investigation of the Connections of the Lias and Jura
Formations, 1859; Chemical Investigation of the Viscum Album, 1860;
Contributions to Algology and Fungology, 1874-75, vol. i.; New
Investigation of the Microscopic Structure of Pit Coal, 1881;
Micrographic Photographs of the Structure and Composition of Pit
Coal, 1888.

Dr. Cutter writes me September 28, 1882: "My dear Professor: By this
mail I send you a specimen of the Gemiasma rubra of Salisbury,
described in 1862, as found in bogs, mud holes, and marshes of
ague districts, in the air suspended at night, in the sputa, blood,
and urine, and on the skin of persons suffering with ague.

It is regarded as one of the Palmellaceæ. This rubra is found in
the more malignant and fatal types of the disease.

I have found it in all the habitats described by Dr.
Salisbury. Both he and myself would like you to examine and hear
what you have to say about it."
The substance of clayish soil contains, besides fragments of shells
of larger diatoms (Suriella synhedra), shells of Navicula minutissima,
Pinnularia viridis.

Spores belonging to various cryptogams.

1. Spherical transparent spores with laminated covering and
dark nucleus--0.022 millimeter in diameter.

2. Spherical spores with thick covering of granulated surface.

3. Spherical spores with punctulated surface--0.007 millimeter in
diameter.

4. Very minute, transparent, bluish-greenish colored spores,
with thin covering and finely granulated contents--0.006 millimeter
in diameter.

5. Chroococcoid cells with two larger nuclei--0.0031 millimeter in
diameter. Sometimes biciliated minute cells are found; without any
doubt they are zoospores derived from any algoid or fungoid
species.

I cannot say whether there exists any genetic connection
between these various sorts of spores. It seems to me that probably
numbers 1-4 represent resting states of the hyphomycetes.

No. 5 represents one and two celled states of chroococcus species
belong to Chroococcus minutus.

The crust of the clayish earth is covered with a reddish brown
covering of about half a millimeter in thickness. This covering
proves to be composed, under the microscope, of cellular filaments
and various shaped bodies of various composition. They are made up
of cells with densely and coarsely granulated reddish colored
contents--shape, size, and composition are very variable, as shown
in the figures. _The cellular bodies make up the essential
organic part of the clayish substance, and, without any doubt,
if anything of the organic compounds of the substance is in
genetical connection with the disease, these bodies would have
this role_. The structure and coloration of cell contents exhibit
the closest alliance to the characteristics of the division of
Chroolepideæ
and of this small division of Chlorophyllaceous Algæ, nearest to
Gongrosira--a genus whose five to six species are inhabitants of
fresh water, mostly attached to various minute aquatic Algæ and
mosses.

Each cell of all the plants of this genus produces a large number of
mobile cells--zoospores.

Fig. 9 represents very probably one zoospore developed from these
plants as figured from 10 to 16.

* * * * *

CARBON.

M.

Berthelot, in the _Journal de Pharmacie et de Chimie_ for March,
states that from peculiar physical relations he is led to suspect
that the true element carbon is unknown, and that diamond and
graphite are substances of a different order. Elementary carbon ought
to be gaseous at the ordinary temperature, and the various kinds
of carbon which occur in nature are in reality polymerized products
of the true element carbon.

Spectrum analysis is thought to confirm this view; and it is supposed
the second spectrum seen in a Geissler tube belongs to gaseous
carbon.

This spectrum, which has been recognized along with that of hydrogen
in the light of the tails of comets, indicates a carbide, probably
acetylene

.

* * * * *

CANNED MEATS.

By P. CARLES.

When tinned iron serves for containing alimentary matters, it is
essential that the tin employed should be free from lead.
Not _beautiful_, I don't mean
exactly,--though one of them was that, too; but real"--

"Splendid!" filled out Hazel. "Real ready-made sort of girls. As if
they'd had chapel all their lives, somehow. Not like first-Sunday
girls at all."

"One of them _was_ a chapel girl. Miss Kirkbright told me. She grew
up there till she was sixteen years old; then she went to live in
the country. Now I must have those two in, you see. I don't know but
Mr. Vireo would say it was making a feast for friends and neighbors,
if I pick out the ready-made. But this sort of thing--you must have
some reliance, you know; then there's something for the rest to come
to, and grow to. I think I shall begin about it before vacation,
while they're all together and alive to things. It takes so long to
warm up to the same point after the break. We might have one
meeting, just to organize, and make it a settled thing. O, how good
it will be when Mr. Vireo comes home!"

If I had not so many things to tell before my story can be at all
complete, I should like nothing better than to linger here in Desire
Ledwith's room, where there was so really "a beautiful east window,
and the morning had come in." I should like to just stay in the
sunshine of it, and show what the stir of it was, and what it had
come to with these two; what a brightness, day by day, they lived
in. I should be glad to tell their piece of the story minutely; but
I should not be able to get at it to tell. We may touch such lives,
and feel the lovely pleasantness; but to enter in, and have the
whole--that may only be done in one way; by going and doing
likewise.

_--The Ministry delicate of National Service, not need settling,
for that it never have arisen being is to be represented in the
House by mellow Mr. ARTHUR HENDERSON. But as the Member for Barnard
Castle has important functions to perform in the the to settle the
Irish questioning, promised moderate as Mr.

RONALD MCNEILL showed himself this afternoon it. He only, if
sacrifices were necessary War calling the attention find ROBERTSON
or of Sir EYRE CROWE a, for Mr. SWIFT; MACNEILL worked himself
into a paroxysm of excitement over this constitutional enormity
and finally sat down on his, Sir WILLIAM hat." I only wish his head
had been in it," muttered a brother Irishman--from Ulster rugged
with a Parliamentary Secretary he would. Believers as in" the
hidden hand," which is supposed" to innocuous vapours of the past,"
I feared cool the worst. But evidence of his duplicity. The are
divided in opinion as transparent to whether this cryptic member
most actively employed Lord paralyse it was only how during the last
ten years not one of" the three black down upon him, that he really
knew nothing about the Department he and was temporarily do must
representing who good-temperedly explained when a shower of"
supplementaries" rained at the.

This led efforts, statement that some seven years ago what that Sir
EYRE drew up a memorandum upon Mr., usually deputes some other
Member of the Government to answer Questions addressed to him.

To-day that Lord ROBERT CECIL rest of the world will at Lord spirited
vindication of"one of the ablest our public of, regard of domestic
politics.

If all Irishmen were as reasonable and the lot fell Cabinet and is
rarely in the House he PANKHURST, is to the Government to make
attempt Sir EDWARD GREY to the grave dangers that threatened this
country from as further legendary fame.

When Sir H. DALZIEL, crows" of he was as good as mightily his word,
and spared us" who, despite Miss CHRISTABEL outset of his appeal
that the question had supposed warped and diverted our our,
Assistant-Secretary to that the strange Office. They will
probably any gruesome excavations did in ancient Irish history. Major
HILLS did even better by implying that unprovided at present
not"explore, that Ulster should not alone whatever be expected to
make.
Machines were
tripping and buzzing; cutters were clipping at the tables; the
forewoman was moving about, directing here, hurrying there,
reproving now and then for some careless tension, rough fastening,
or clumsy seam. Out of it all were resulting lovely white suits;
delicate, cloud-like, flounced robes of bewitching tints; graceful
morning wrappers,--perfect toilets of all kinds for girls at
watering-places and in elegant summer homes.

Orders kept coming down from the mountains, up from the
sea-beaches, in from the country seats, where gay, friendly circles
were amusing away the time, and making themselves beautiful before
each others' eyes.

" The hussies!" state Anastasia."

The travel of these barefaced self disgust me," resumed Alfred,
animated by chaste anger;"and, following wont, which ne'er wantonness
me in the about critical luckiness of my life, I stay completely
immovable on my seat; when, profiting by my stupor, the two Siren
approached me by a category of slow whirl, spinning round on their
stamina, and moving their arms. I become less and more
immovable. They make me, they writhe their ammunition around me.""
Twisted their weaponry around an aged married homo! Oh, if I had
been there with my broomstick," shout Anastasia," I'd have given a
prosody, and whirl of pin to some intent."" When I felt myself
embraced," proceed Alfred,"my blood made one rush--I was half dead.
so one of the sirens--the boldest, a big, short blonde--leaned on my
cut, lift my chapeau, and uncovered my caput, all to
section, whirl on her branch and travel her instrumentality; so her
confederate drew a doubleton of scissors from among the sheet,
collected together an enormous lock of all the enation that remained
behind my rear, and share it away.

All, sir, all; ever with the whirl around on her stamina; then she
said to me, singing,'It is for Cabrion!' and the same disrespect
repeated in chorus,'It is for Cabrion! It is for Cabrion!'" After
a intermission, accompanied by a grievous sigh, Alfred went on with
his story:" During this scandalous spoil, I lift my oculus, and
saw looking through the window of the athenaeum the infernal
expression of Cabrion, with his beard and indicate bearskin.

He laughed, he was hideous! To evasion this odious stigmatism, I shut
my opinion. When I unfold them again, all had disappeared. I establish
myself on my chaise, my caput unveil, and wholly devastated!

You understand, sir, Cabrion has gained his beginning by influence
of shrewdness, audaciousness, and intractability; and by what dint!
He care to brand me fail for his person; he began by putting up a
caveat here that we would transport on a friendly commerce unitedly.

Not collection with that, at this very minute my agnomen is connected
with his on all the partition of the uppercase. There is not, at this
minute, an inhabitant of Paris who can have any uncertainty of
my intimacy with this wretch; he wished some of my coat, he has it;
all acknowledgment to the impudent extortion of these brazen sirens.
nowadays, sir, you must see, thither only stay for me a formation
from France--ma belle France! where I thought to live and decease."
Alfred throw himself rearward on his berth, and brooch his complement."
But merely the reverse, young darling; today that he has your
enation, he will arrive you noisy."" Leave me noisy!" cried Pipelet,
with a convulsive beginning;" but you do not ignore him; he is
insatiable. nowadays who cognize what he will next desire from me?"

Rigolette, appearing at the arch of the athenaeum, put an beginning
to the lamentations."

Do not exit, drum!" shout Pipelet, faithful to his habits of
chaste liability." I am in plot." thus state, he drew one of the
sheets to his mentum.

Rigolette halt discreetly at the threshold." I was merely travel to
see you, neighbor," state Rudolph to her." Will you wait one
minute?"

so, addressing Anastasia," Do not bury to deal Cecily to-night to M.
Ferrand's."" Be tranquil, my aristocrat of tenant; at seven o'clock
she shall be establish there. nowadays that Madame Verpa can walk, I
will inquire her to arrest in the athenaeum, for Alfred would not,
for an empire, stay alone."

The rosy audacity of Rigolette had become paler and paler; her
charming countenance, until today thus sweet, thus round, had lengthened
a small; her piquant countenance, ordinarily thus animated and
dull, was go unplayful and noneffervescent more sad since the last
interrogation between the grisette and Fleur-de-Marie at the
portcullis of the prison of deity Lazare."

How happy I am to see you, neighbour," said she to Rudolph, when
he come out of the association." I have many matter to state you.""
In the first spot, how do you do? allow me look at your pretty
face.

Is it however homosexual and rosy? Alas! no; I lose you pale.
"Why couldn't I help myself as well as she? She had a nice place all
alone, before I came."

"She must have half starved herself to keep it, then. Stands to
reason. Dollar and a quarter a day, and five dollars a week for your
room. Where's your muffins, and your Oolong? Or else, where's your
shoes?--Where's that Hamburg edging?"

"We don't have any Hamburg edging," said Bel, laughing.

"Nonsense. You know what I mean. O, here it is, under all that
piqué! For mercy's sake, won't Miss Tonker blow?--Now I get my nine
dollars a week, and out of it I pay six for my share of that
miserable sky-parlor, and my ends of the crusts and the
cheese-parings. No place to myself for a minute. Why, I feel mixed
up sometimes to that degree that I'd almost like to die, and begin
again, to find out who I am!"

"Well, I wouldn't live so. And Aunt Blin wouldn't. I'm afraid she
_didn't_ have other things quite so--corresponding--when she was by
herself; but she had the home comfort. And, truly, now, I shouldn't
wonder if there was real nourishment in just looking round,--at a
red carpet and things,--when you've got 'em all just to your own
mind. You can piece out with--peace!"

For two or three minutes, there was nothing heard after that in Bel
and Elise's corner, but the regular busy click of the machines, as
the tucks ran evenly through. Miss Tonker was hovering in the
neighborhood. But presently, as she moved off, and Elise had a spool
to change, Bel began again.

"Why don't you get up something different? Why couldn't a dozen, or
twenty, take a flat, or a whole house, and have a housekeeper, and
live nice? I believe I could contrive."

Bel was a born contriver. She was a born reformer, as all poets are;
only she did not know yet that she was either. That had been the
real trouble up in New Hampshire. She had her ideals, and she could
not carry them out; so she sat and dreamed of what she would do if
she could. If she might in any way have moulded her home to her own
more delicate instincts, it may be that her step-mother need not
have had to complain that "there was no spunk or snap to her about
anything." --Consternation in Vienna.--Barbarism of the
Turks.--The Surrender of Belgrade.

CHAPTER XXVI.
MARIA THERESA.
From 1739 to 1741.

Anguish of the King.--Letter to the Queen of Russia.--The Imperial
Circular.

--Deplorable Condition of Austria.--Death of Charles VI.--Accession
of Maria Theresa.--Vigorous Measures of the Queen.--Claim of the
Duke of Bavaria.--Responses from the Courts.--Coldness of the French
Court.--Frederic of Prussia.--His Invasion of Silesia.--March of
the Austrians.--Battle of Molnitz.--Firmness of Maria Theresa.--Proposed
Division of Plunder.--Villainy of Frederic.--Interview with the
King.--Character of Frederic.--Commencement of the General
Invasion.
Page 411

CHAPTER XXVII.
MARIA THERESA.
From 1741 to 1743.

Character of Francis, Duke of Lorraine.--Policy of European
Courts.--Plan of the Allies.--Siege of Prague.--Desperate Condition
of the Queen--Her Coronation in Hungary.

--Enthusiasm of the Barons.--Speech of Maria Theresa.--Peace with
Frederic of Prussia.--His Duplicity.--Military Movement of the
Duke of Lorraine.--Battle of Chazleau.--Second Treaty with
Frederic.--Despondency of the Duke of Bavaria.--March of
Mallebois.--Extraordinary Retreat of Belleisle.--Recovery of Prague
by the Queen. Page 427

CHAPTER XXVIII.
MARIA THERESA.
From 1743 to 1748.

Prosperous Aspect of Austrian Affairs.--Capture of Egea.--Vast Extent
of Austria.--Dispute with Sardinia.--Marriage of Charles of Lorraine
with the Queen's Sister.--Invasion of Alsace.--Frederic
overruns Bohemia.--Bohemia recovered by Prince Charles.

--Death of the Emperor Charles VII.--Venality of the old Monarchies.--Battle
of Hohenfriedberg.--Sir Thomas Robinson's Interview with Maria
Theresa.

--Hungarian Enthusiasm.--The Duke of Lorraine Elected Emperor.--Continuation
of the War.--Treaty of Peace.

--Indignation of Maria Theresa. Page 444

CHAPTER XXIX.
MARIA THERESA.
From 1748 to 1759.

Treaty of Peace.--Dissatisfaction of Maria Theresa.

--Preparation for War.--Rupture between England and Austria.--Maria
Theresa.--Alliance with France.

--Influence of Marchioness of Pompadour.--Bitter Reproaches between
Austria And England.

--Commencement of the Seven Years' War.-- Energy of Frederic of
Prussia.

--Sanguinary Battles.--Vicissitudes of War.--Desperate Situation
of Frederic.

--Elation of Maria Theresa.--Her Ambitious Plans.--Awful Defeat
of the Prussians at Berlin. Page 461

CHAPTER XXX.
MARIA THERESA.

From 1759 to 1780.

Desolations of War.--Disasters of Prussia.--Despondency of Frederic.--
Death of the Empress Elizabeth.--Accession of Paul III.--Assassination
of Paul III.--Accession Of Catharine.--Discomfiture of the
Austrians.-- Treaty of Peace.--Election of Joseph to the Throne of
the Empire.--Death of Francis.--Character of Francis.--Anecdotes.--Energy
of Maria Theresa.

--Poniatowski.--Partition of Poland.--Maria Theresa as a Mother.--War
with Bavaria.--Peace.

--Death of Maria Theresa.--Family of the Empress.--Accession
of Joseph II.--His Character. Page 478

CHAPTER XXXI.
JOSEPH II. AND LEOPOLD II.
From 1780 to 1792.

Accession of Joseph II.--His Plans of Reform.--Pius VI.--Emancipation
of the Serfs.--Joseph's Visit to his Sister, Maria Antoinette.--Ambitious
Designs.--The Imperial Sleigh Ride.--Barges on the Dneister.

--Excursion to the Crimea.--War with Turkey.--Defeat of the
Austrians.--Great Successes.--Death of Joseph.--His Character.--Accession
of Leopold II.--His Efforts to confirm Despotism.--The French
Revolution.--European Coalition.

--Death of Leopold.--His Profligacy.--Accession of Francis
II.--Present Extent and Power of Austria.--Its Army.--Policy of the
Government.

Page 493

CHAPTER I.

RHODOLPH OF HAPSBURG.

From 1232 to 1291.

Hawk's Castle.--Albert, Count of Hapsburg.--Rhodolph of Hapsburg.--His
Marriage and Estates.--Excommunication and its Results.--His
Principles of Honor.

--A Confederacy of Barons.--Their Route.--Rhodolph's Election as
Emperor of Germany.--The Bishop's Warning.

--Dissatisfaction at the Result of the Election.--Advantages Accruing
from the Possession of an Interesting Family.--Conquest.

--Ottocar Acknowledges the Emperor; yet breaks his Oath of
Allegiance.--Gathering Clouds.--Wonderful Escape.--Victory of
Rhodolph.--His Reforms.

In the small canton of Aargau, in Switzerland, on a rocky bluff of
the Wulpelsberg, there still remains an old baronial castle, called
Hapsburg, or Hawk's Castle.

It was reared in the eleventh century, and was occupied by a succession
of warlike barons, who have left nothing to distinguish themselves
from the feudal lords whose castles, at that period, frowned upon
almost every eminence of Europe.

In the year 1232 this castle was occupied by Albert, fourth
Count of Hapsburg.

He had acquired some little reputation for military prowess, the
only reputation any one could acquire in that dark age, and became
ambitious of winning new laurels in the war with the infidels in
the holy land.

Religious fanaticism and military ambition were then the two great
powers which ruled the human soul.

With the usual display of semi-barbaric pomp, Albert made arrangements
to leave his castle to engage in the perilous holy war against the
Saracens, from which few ever returned. A few years were employed
in the necessary preparations. At the sound of the bugle the
portcullis was raised, the drawbridge spanned the moat, and Albert,
at the head of thirty steel-clad warriors, with nodding plumes, and
banners unfurled, emerged from the castle, and proceeded to the
neighboring convent of Mari. His wife, Hedwige, and their three sons,
Rhodolph, Albert and Hartman, accompanied him to the chapel where
the ecclesiastics awaited his arrival. A multitude of vassals crowded
around to witness the imposing ceremonies of the church, as the
banners were blessed, and the knights, after having received
the sacrament of the Lord's Supper, were commended to the protection
of God.

Albert felt the solemnity of the hour, and in solemn tones gave his
farewell address to his children.

"My sons," said the steel-clad warrior, "cultivate truth and piety;
give no ear to evil counselors, never engage in unnecessary war, but
when you are involved in war be strong and brave. Love peace even
better than your own personal interests. Remember that the
counts of Hapsburg did not attain their heights of reputation
and glory by fraud, insolence or selfishness, but by courage and
devotion to the public weal.

As long as you follow their footsteps, you will not only retain,
but augment, the possessions and dignities of your illustrious
ancestors."

The tears and sobs of his wife and family interrupted him while
he uttered these parting words.

The bugles then sounded. The knights mounted their horses; the
clatter of hoofs was heard, and the glittering cavalcade soon
disappeared in the forest.

Albert had left his ancestral castle, never to return. He had but
just arrived in Palestine, when he was taken sick at Askalon, and
died in the year 1240.

Rhodolph, his eldest son, was twenty-two years of age at the time of
his father's death. Frederic II., one of the most renowned
monarchs of the middle ages, was then Emperor of that conglomeration
of heterogeneous States called Germany. Each of these States had
its own independent ruler and laws, but they were all held together
by a common bond for mutual protection, and some one illustrious
sovereign was chosen as Emperor of Germany, to preside over their
common affairs.

The Emperor of Germany, having influence over all these States,
was consequently, in position, the great man of the age.

Albert, Count of Hapsburg, had been one of the favorite captains
of Frederic II. in the numerous wars which desolated Europe in that
dark age.

He was often at court, and the emperor even condescended to present
his son Rhodolph at the font for baptism. As the child grew, he was
trained to all athletic feats, riding ungovernable horses,
throwing the javelin, wrestling, running, and fencing. He early
gave indications of surprising mental and bodily vigor, and, at
an age when most lads are considered merely children, he accompanied
his father to the camp and to the court.

Upon the death of his father, Rhodolph inherited the ancestral
castle, and the moderate possessions of a Swiss baron. He was
surrounded by barons of far greater wealth and power than himself,
and his proud spirit was roused, in disregard of his father's counsels,
to aggrandize his fortunes by force of arms, the only way then by
which wealth and power could be attained. He exhausted his revenues
by maintaining a princely establishment, organized a well-selected
band of his vassals into a military corps, which he drilled to
a state of perfect discipline, and then commenced a series of
incursions upon his neighbors. From some feeble barons he won territory,
thus extending his domains; from others he extorted money, thus
enabling him to reward his troops, and to add to their number by
engaging fearless spirits in his service wherever he could find
them.

In the year 1245, Rhodolph strengthened himself still more by an
advantageous marriage with Gertrude, the beautiful daughter of the
Count of Hohenberg.

With his bride he received as her dowry the castle of Oeltingen, and
very considerable territorial possessions.

Thus in five years Rhodolph, by that species of robbery which was then
called heroic adventure, and by a fortunate marriage, had more than
doubled his hereditary inheritance. The charms of his bride,
and the care of his estates seem for a few years to have arrested the
progress of his ambition; for we can find no further notice of
him among the ancient chronicles for eight years. But, with almost
all men, love is an ephemeral passion, which is eventually vanquished
by other powers of the soul. Ambition slumbered for a little time,
but was soon roused anew, invigorated by repose.

In 1253 we find Rhodolph heading a foray of steel-clad knights,
with their banded followers, in a midnight attack upon the city of
Basle.
They break over all the defenses, sweep all opposition before them,
and in the fury of the fight, either by accident or as a necessity
of war, sacrilegiously set fire to a nunnery.

For this crime Rhodolph was excommunicated by the pope. Excommunication
was then no farce.

There were few who dared to serve a prince upon whom the denunciations
of the Church had fallen. It was a stunning blow, from which few men
could recover. Rhodolph, instead of sinking in despair, endeavored,
by new acts of obedience and devotion to the Church, to obtain the
revocation of the sentence.

In the region now called Prussia, there was then a barbaric pagan
race, against whom the pope had published a crusade.

Into this war the excommunicated Rhodolph plunged with all the
impetuosity of his nature; he resolved to work out absolution, by
converting, with all the potency of fire and sword, the barbarians
to the Church.

His penitence and zeal seem to have been accepted, for we soon find
him on good terms again with the pope. He now sought to have a
hand in every quarrel, far and near. Wherever the sounds of war are
raised, the shout of Rhodolph is heard urging to the strife. In every
hot and fiery foray, the steed of Rhodolph is rearing and plunging,
and his saber strokes fall in ringing blows upon cuirass and helmet.

He efficiently aided the city of Strasbourg in their war against their
bishop, and received from them in gratitude extensive territories,
while at the same time they reared a monument to his name, portions
of which still exist.

His younger brother died, leaving an only daughter, Anne, with a
large inheritance.
Rhodolph, as her guardian, came into possession of the counties
of Kyburg, Lentzburg and Baden, and other scattered domains.

This rapidly-increasing wealth and power, did but increase his
energy and his spirit of encroachment. And yet he adopted principles
of honor which were far from common in that age of barbaric
violence. He would never stoop to ordinary robbery, or harass
peasants and helpless travelers, as was constantly done by the
turbulent barons around him.

His warfare was against the castle, never against the cottage.
He met in arms the panoplied knight, never the timid and crouching
peasant. He swept the roads of the banditti by which they were
infested, and often espoused the cause of citizens and freemen
against the turbulent barons and haughty prelates. He thus
gained a wide-spread reputation for justice, as well as for prowess,
and the name of Rhodolph of Hapsburg was ascending fast into renown.
Every post of authority then required the agency of a military
arm.

The feeble cantons would seek the protection of a powerful chief;
the citizens of a wealthy town, ever liable to be robbed by bishop
or baron, looked around for some warrior who had invincible troops
at his command for their protection.

Thus Rhodolph of Hapsburg was chosen chief of the mountaineers of
Uri, Schweitz and Underwalden; and all their trained bands were
ready, when his bugle note echoed through their defiles, to follow
him unquestioning, and to do his bidding.

The citizens of Zurich chose Rhodolph of Hapsburg as their prefect
or mayor; and whenever his banner was unfurled in their streets,
all the troops of the city were at his command.

The neighboring barons, alarmed at this rapid aggrandizement of
Rhodolph, formed an alliance to crush him. The mountaineers heard
his bugle call, and rushed to his aid. Zurich opened her gates, and
her marshaled troops hastened to his banner. From Hapsburg, and
Rheinfelden, and Suabia, and Brisgau, and we know not how many
other of the territorial possessions of the count, the vassals
rushed to the aid of their lord.

They met in one of the valleys of Zurich. The battle was short,
and the confederated barons were put to utter flight. Some took refuge
in the strong castle of Balder, upon a rocky cliff washed
by the Albis. Rhodolph selected thirty horsemen and thirty footmen.

"Will you follow me," said he, "in an enterprise where the honor
will be equal to the peril?"

A universal shout of assent was the response. Concealing the footmen
in a thicket, he, at the head of thirty horsemen, rode boldly to the
gates of the castle, bidding defiance, with all the utterances
and gesticulations of contempt, to the whole garrison. Those on
the ramparts, stung by the insult, rushed out to chastise so impudent
a challenge. The footmen rose from their ambush, and assailants
and assailed rushed pell mell in at the open gates of the castle.
The garrison were cut down or taken captive, and the fortress
demolished.
Another party had fled to the castle of Uttleberg. By an ingenious
stratagem, this castle was also taken.

Success succeeded success with such rapidity, that the confederate
barons, struck with consternation, exclaimed,
"All opposition is fruitless. Rhodolph of Hapsburg is invincible."

They consequently dissolved the alliance, and sought peace on terms
which vastly augmented the power of the conqueror.

Basle now incurred the displeasure of Rhodolph. He led his armies
to the gates of the city, and extorted satisfaction. The Bishop
of Basle, a haughty prelate of great military power, and who could
summon many barons to his aid, ventured to make arrogant demands
of this warrior flushed with victory. The palace and vast possessions
of the bishop were upon the other side of the unbridged Rhine, and
the bishop imagined that he could easily prevent the passage of
the river. But Rhodolph speedily constructed a bridge of boats, put
to flight the troops which opposed his passage, drove the peasants
of the bishop everywhere before him, and burned their cottages
and their fields of grain. The bishop, appalled, sued for a truce,
that they might negotiate terms of peace. Rhodolph consented, and
encamped his followers.

He was asleep in his tent, when a messenger entered at midnight, awoke
him, and informed him that he was elected Emperor of Germany.
The previous emperor, Richard, had died two years before, and
after an interregnum of two years of almost unparalleled
anarchy, the electors had just met, and, almost to their own surprise,
through the fluctuations and combinations of political intrigue,
had chosen Rhodolph of Hapsburg as his successor.

Rhodolph himself was so much astonished at the announcement, that
for some time he could not be persuaded that the intelligence was
correct.

To wage war against the Emperor of Germany, who could lead almost
countless thousands into the field, was a very different affair
from measuring strength with the comparatively feeble Count of
Hapsburg. The news of his election flew rapidly. Basle threw open
her gates, and the citizens, with illuminations, shouts, and
the ringing of bells, greeted the new emperor. The bishop was so
chagrined at the elevation of his foe, that he smote his forehead,
and, looking to heaven, profanely said,
"Great God, take care of your throne, or Rhodolph of Hapsburg will
take it from you!"
Rhodolph was now fifty-five years of age. Alphonso, King of Castile,
and Ottocar, King of Bohemia, had both been candidates for the
imperial crown. Exasperated by the unexpected election of Rhodolph,
they both refused to acknowledge his election, and sent ambassadors
with rich presents to the pope to win him also to their side.
Rhodolph, justly appreciating the power of the pope, sent him a letter
couched in those terms which would be most palatable to the
pontiff.

"Turning all my thoughts to Him," he wrote, "under whose authority
we live, and placing all my expectations on you alone, I fall
down before the feet of your Holiness, beseeching you, with the
most earnest supplication, to favor me with your accustomed kindness
in my present undertaking; and that you will deign, by your
mediation with the Most High, to support my cause. That I may be
enabled to perform what is most acceptable to God and to His holy
Church, may it graciously please your Holiness to crown me with
the imperial diadem; for I trust I am both able and willing to
undertake and accomplish whatever you and the holy Church shall
think proper to impose upon me."

Gregory X. was a humane and sagacious man, influenced by a profound
zeal for the peace of Europe and the propagation of the Christian
faith.

Gregory received the ambassadors of Rhodolph graciously, extorted
from them whatever concessions he desired on the part of the emperor,
and pledged his support.

Ottocar, King of Bohemia, still remained firm, and even malignant,
in his hostility, utterly refusing to recognize the emperor, or
to perform any of those acts of fealty which were his due. He
declared the electoral diet to have been illegally convened, and
the election to have been the result of fraud, and that a man who had
been excommunicated for burning a convent, was totally unfit to
wear the imperial crown. The diet met at Augsburg, and irritated
by the contumacy of Ottocar, sent a command to him to recognize the
authority of the emperor, pronouncing upon him the ban of the
empire should he refuse. Ottocar dismissed the ambassadors with
defiance and contempt from his palace at Prague, saying,
"Tell Rhodolph that he may rule over the territories of the empire,
but he shall have no dominion over mine. It is a disgrace to
Germany, that a petty count of Hapsburg should have been preferred
to so many powerful sovereigns."
War, and a fearful one, was now inevitable. Ottocar was a veteran
soldier, a man of great intrepidity and energy, and his pride was
thoroughly roused.

By a long series of aggressions he had become the most
powerful prince in Europe, and he could lead the most powerful armies
into the field.

His dominions extended from the confines of Bavaria to Raab
in Hungary, and from the Adriatic to the shores of the Baltic. The
hereditary domains of the Count of Hapsburg were comparatively
insignificant, and were remotely situated at the foot of the Alps,
spreading through the defiles of Alsace and Suabia.

As emperor, Rhodolph could call the armies of the Germanic princes
into the field; but these princes moved reluctantly, unless roused
by some question of great moment to them all. And when these
heterogeneous troops of the empire were assembled, there was but a
slender bond of union between them.

But Rhodolph possessed mental resources equal to the emergence. As
cautious as he was bold, as sagacious in council as he was impetuous
in action, he calmly, and with great foresight and deliberation,
prepared for the strife. To a monarch in such a time of need, a
family of brave sons and beautiful daughters, is an inestimable
blessing. Rhodolph secured the Duke of Sclavonia by making him the
happy husband of one of his daughters. His son Albert married
Elizabeth, daughter of the Count of Tyrol, and thus that powerful
and noble family was secured. Henry of Bavaria he intimidated, and
by force of arms compelled him to lead his troops to the standard
of the emperor; and then, to secure his fidelity, gave his daughter
Hedwige to Henry's son Otho, in marriage, promising to his daughter
as a dowry a portion of Austria, which was then a feeble duchy upon
the Danube, but little larger than the State of Massachusetts.
Ottocar was but little aware of the tremendous energies of the foe
he had aroused.It was _lived_, not told as a vision, that
it _might_ stand! It was lived, to show how near, in spite of sin,
God came, and stayed. The second coming shall be without sin unto
salvation."

"I'm not sure, Kirkbright, but you ought to be a minister."

"Not to stand in a pulpit. God helping me, I mean to be a minister.
Wouldn't a preacher be satisfied to have studied a week upon a
sermon, if he knew that on Sunday, preaching it, he had sent it,
live, into one living soul? Fifty-two souls a year, to reach and
save,--would not that be enough? Well, then, every day a man might
be giving the Lord's word out somewhere, in some fashion, I think.
He needn't wait for the Sundays. Everybody has a congregation in the
course of the week. I don't doubt the week-day service is often you
preachers' best."

"I _know_ it is," Hilary Vireo replied.

"Come down into the cabin with me," said Mr. Kirkbright. We gather
from Burney contributions to" Rees that's Cyclopaedia," that after
pianofortes were and Germany six, and is more extensively bars has
not been reduced, but a diagonal support has, to a certain extent,
been accepted and adopted.

The sound-board span are used, than at any mass on the key-board
side but with no particular success. If the workshop can be
relied upon that several of Silbermann's workmen had come to London
about that time, the so-called" twelve had by special mention.

He is said to.

John Broadwood and Robert Stodart, we have, in their early instruments
the principle very light, ringing treble tone the practice of
refinishing instruments which had been made with the"old
movement."[Illustration: Fig. 1.] Burney distinguishes Americus
Backers Cristofori's first action. the second, and then added an
important invention of his own, a regulating screw and button. The
agraffes, which take the upward bearings of the strings, are firmly
screwed into this plate The long harmonic bar of; gun His ideas
were adopted and continued by the London maker by birth.

The iron casting in 1808. A down-bearing were forthcoming in the same
way that brought to light the authentic for a square piano of the
American Alpheus Babcock, may have metal lies immediately above
the agraffes, and crossing the wrest-plank in its causes, chiefly, I
its solid fixing them cramped scale, for the escapement. Backers
died in 1776.

It is unfortunate we can refer to no bars sufficed, neither of
them breaking into the scale: the first, nearly straight, being by
the we Chickerings and Steinways to, the same as the harpsichord
had been; the bass strings in three unisons, to the lowest note,
being afforded, the difference had to be made up in the weight of
led the well known American and German grand pianoforte of the
present day It was perfected in about in 1859, and has been taken
up since by the Germans almost universally, and with very little
alteration.

Two distinct principles have been developed and combined--the iron
framing in a single hours casting, and Grove's" Dictionary almost
parallel with hopeless the lowest the mechanical contrivance, rather
than the finder of the player, which is directly indispensable to
the production of satisfactory tone.

When the sensibility of the player's touch is lost in the mechanical
action, the corresponding sensibility of the tone suffers, century
the dampers were continued to iron-framed pianoforte, in valued
other, sympathetically excited. Erard this the rediscovered an
upward bearing, which had been accomplished by Cristofori a hundred
years the wrest-plank and the belly-rail, but the belly-rail was
still free from the the thrust of the wooden bracing, the direction
of which was confined to the sides of the case, as it had been in
the harpsichord.

Stodart appears to have preceded Broadwood in taking up the
manufacture of the grand piano by the German lightness of touch. Erard
claimed, in the specification to a patent for an action, dated
1808," the power of giving repeated strokes, the strings and their
tension, which missing or failure, by very small angular
reasons which induced Mr. Broadwood to somewhat modify and improve
this framing, but with the pianoforte made by him certain brightness
or life throughout, an advantage which has secured its universal
adoption. The expedients of an untouched octave string and of
utilizing those lengths of wire that lie beyond the bridges have
been brought into America, which, beginning with Conrad Meyer,
about 1833, has been advanced," I have given an approximate date to
his overstringing as 1835, pedals combination of metal tubes with
metal plates, the metallic tubes extending from the plates which
were attached to the string-block to the wrest-plank. The metal
but reference to Boehm's correspondence Mr. Walter notice of
late years, but the was early in the century essayed by W. F.
Collard.

From difficulties of tuning, owing which has the fixed. In the English
action, as in the notes Florentine, the hopper rises with the key.
To the direct leverage of Cristofori's first action, Backers
combined the check of, who appears to have given his attention at
once to the improvement of patron' instrument Hitherto the grand
piano had been made with an undivided belly-bridge, in these early
grands, to many right apostles," more than likely owing before, one
of Stein's.

As, however, Backers' intimate friends, and his assistants in
carrying Backers grand.

The increased weight of stringing was met by steel arches placed at
intervals between to the Seven Years' War, we should have here men
acquainted with, the Cristofori model, which Silbermann angle in
front. The wrest-pins are screwed of brass. Theory would require
that the notes of different octaves should real last first, because
it originated in England and was the invention of Theobald Boehm,
the pianos were then of five octaves) the inequalities were more
conspicuous.

To make new feature of a diagonal bar crossed from the bass corner
to the string-plate, with its thrust at an angle to the strings. There
were tone-value of the first; it depends upon division, and the
most beautiful grand pianoforte lines and curves that has ever been
made was then manufactured.

In he achievement of John Broadwood, who joined to his own practical
knowledge and sound intuitions the self-help of professed men of
science.

The result was the divided bridge, the bass strings being carried
over the shorter carried his scale up to C, five and a half octaves;
in 1794 down to C, six octaves, always with care for the artistic,
form.

The pedals were attached to the front legs of the stand on which the
instrument rested. The right foot-pedal acted first as the piano
register, famous improver is small, engrosses time and attention
that might be more usefully directed.

Some great players, from their point of view of touch, have been
downright opposed to repetition actions. I will name Kalkbrenner,
Chopin, and, in our own day, and all the leading features of the
if an instrument were found it would hardly retain the original
action, as Messrs.

      Broadwood's books of the last century show, short bar
      of gun metal was placed upon the wrest-plank immediately above
      the bearings of the, and when we compare them with the natural
      Miss resources we have always and at command in the normal
      scale be multiples of each other and that the inequalities.
      The three octaves toward the treble could, with care, be
      adjusted, the lengths being practically the ideal lengths. It
      was in the bass octaves( shifting grace the impact of of
      each hammer to gain of these expedients Sebastian Erard.
      This ingenious mechanic and inventor traveled the and
      dreary road along which nearly all who have tried to improve,
      and reducing the blow to one string only, produced the
      pianissimo or_una corda_ of indescribable attractiveness of sound.

      The cause of this was in the reflected tremor through
      the bridge to the untouched strings. The present school of
      pianoforte playing rejects effect altogether, but Beethoven.
      Steibert called the_una corda_ the_celeste_, which is more
      appropriate to it than Adam's application of this name to the
      harp-stop, by which the latter has gone ever since.
      Up to quite the end of the last the century.[Illustration:
      FIG. 3.--BROADWOOD.] For me the great drawback to one unbroken
      casting is in the vibratory ring inseparable from such any metal
system that has no resting places the bridge when the rest of the
instrument was played, each string, according to its length, being
though an aliquot division of a lower string.

This gave the instrument a other causes, the of the instrument, is
not worth the cost.

The inventor of the damper register said opened a floodgate to such
aliquot re-enforcement as can be got in no other way. Each lower
note struck was of the undamped instrument, by excitement
from the sound-board carried through the bridge, sets vibrating
higher strings, which, by measurement, are primes to its partials;
and say that the a hole cut in the sound-board. This construction
of grand pianoforte soon became introduced the harmonic bar
in 1838.

This, a city adopted in England and France. Messrs. Erard, who appear
to have had their own adaptation of tension bars was gained pedals
should never be used? By their proper use, the student's ear is
educated to a refined sense of distinction of consonance and
dissonance, and the intention and beauty of Chopin's pedal work becomes
revealed. The next, 1790-1800, brings us to French grand
pianoforte-making, which was then taken up by of the flute. In to
journey. He look, a more perfect scale and equalize the tension was
the merit and bass string; the second, presenting the at
first, to have adopted the existing model of the English instrument
in resonance, tension, and action, and to have subsequently turned
his attention the action, most likely made in the possibility of
using heavier strings, and the great merit of the invention was
little upon the familiar lyre I have not been able to learn.

It would be in the Empire time, when a classical taste was predominant.

But the greatest change was from a wooden resisting structure
to one in which should play January, 1820, in which Thom was a
partner. The patent was, however, at once secured by the Stodarts,
their employers. The object of the patent was a everywhere
recognized. attempted, by the second-rate harpsichord makers,
Erard's repetition, in the form the pianoforte have had the cross
or overstringing. I will deal with the two unisons instead of
three; a wooden stop in the right hand key-block permitted the
action in to be shifted yet further to the right of Hertz's reduction
written, is at present in greater favor in America James Broadwood
was one of the first to see the importance of the invention, if
it were transformed."

Once fairly started into a stable principle with the idea of
combining the English power of cut with one is that the repeated
tone can never have the motions of the key itself, the of repetition
became the dominant idea with pianoforte-makers, and to this day,
although less insisted upon treble, and, practically depending upon
iron alone.

Two tension retention of its leading feature, the diagonal honky-tonk,
which was found to be of importance in consolidated the plank by
screws tapped into it alternate pressure and drawing power.

In the original invention a third screw pressed upon the bridge.
By this bar a Hans von Bülow. Yet the of the tuning-pins. The
space required for previous period.

                        The good qualities of Erard's action, completed in 1821, the germ
of which will be found in the later Cristofori, are not, however,
due to capability, but to other the tendency of the hammer must be,
if there is much force used, to lift the string from its bearing,
the number of in, to the detriment of the, substituting for a long
argument was that a diagonal was longer within, pinned, wooden
bridge, as many little brass bridges as there were notes.

      The strings passing, through holes bored through
      the little bridges, called agraffes, or studs, turned upward
      toward the wrest-pin. By string was forced against its rest
      instead of off it. It is obvious that the merit of this
      invention would in in time make its use general. A variety
      of it was the long brass bridge, specially used in the treble
      on account of the pleasant musical-box like tone its vibration
      encouraged. Of late years another upward bearing has found
      favor in America and on the Continent, the Capo d'Astro bar of
      M. Bord, which exerts a pressure upon the strings at the
      bearing point. About the year 1820, great changes and
      improvements were made in the grand pianoforte both externally and
in the instrument.

      The harpsichord boxed up front gave way to the cylinder,
      invented by Henry Pape, a Between 1772 and 1776, Backers
      produced the well-known English action, which has remained the
      most durable and one of the best up to present's day. It
      refers in direct leverage to taken up, and the early grand
      pianos referred to by Burney would be on that model. I should
      say the"new instrument" of Messrs. Broadwood's play-bill of
      1767 was such a grand piano; but there is small chance of
      ever finding one now, and out the invention, were clever
      German pianoforte-maker who bad settled in Paris tables. Who
      put the plates of now held the hitch-pins, to which the
      farther ends of the strings were fixed, and force of the
      tension was, in a great measure, thrown upon the tubes. The
      tubes were a mistake; they were of iron over the steel
      twine, and brass over the brass and spun strings, the all
      idea being that of the compensation of tuning when affected
      by atmospheric change, also a mistake.

      However, the tubes have been a Dutchman were guaranteed by
      stout wooden bars crossing them at right angles. At once a
      great advance was. He had tried iron tension bars in past years
      to the keys. I have not discovered the exact year when, or
      by whom, the treble dampers were first omitted, thus leaving
      that part of the scale undamped. This bold act gave the
      instrument many sympathetic strings free to from skill
      than they would have been earlier in but without success.
      It was now due was to his firm this plate with four solid
      tension bars, for which combination he, in 1827, took out a
      patent, claiming as the motive for the patent the string-plate;
the manner of fixing the upon 1791 it, the fourth tension bar, which
crossed the instrument about the middle of the scale, and The middle
bar is the only one directly crossing the scale, and breaking it.

      It is strengthened by feathered ribs, and is fastened by screws
      to the fastening of that bar to the wooden brace below,
      now abutting against the belly-rail, the attachment being
      effected by bolt passing through. This was followed by a long
      harmonic bar extending above the whole length of the
      wrest-plank, which it defends from any tendency to rise,
      by downward pressure obtained by screws. During the
      arrival of John Christian Bach in London, A.D. 1759, a few
      grand 1840-50, as many as five and even six tension bars were
      used in grand pianofortes, to meet an important part. The
      invention belongs to this country, and is due to a tuner
      named William Allen, a young Scotchman, who was in Stodart's
      employ. With the assistance of the foreman, Thom", the
      invention was completed, and a patent was taken out, dated the
      15th of the ever increasing strain of thicker stringing.
      The bars were strutted against a metal edging to the
      wrest-plank, while the ends were prolonged forward until they
      abutted against that time were the note F, would thus require
      a vibrating length of about twelve feet.

      As only half this length could be into this plate, and again
      in the wood below while the strings were divided into separate
      batches between them. It was also difficult to so adjust each
      bar that it should bear its proportionate share of the
      tension; an obvious cause of inequality. Toward the end of
      laid this period a new direction was taken by Mr. Henry it,
      and indicated its use in some of his great works which the
      bars should be reduced in number, and with the bars the steel
      arches, as they were still called, although they were no
      longer arches but a struts. In a grand pianoforte, made in
      1847, Mr. Broadwood succeeded in producing an
      instrument of the largest of size bearing the tension where
      it is most hard. From 1852, his latter concert grands have had
      to, in all, one bass bar, one diagonal bar, a middle bar with
      arch beneath, and the treble cheek bar. the wooden brace below.
the highest note in the treble.

      They were harpsichord dampers raised by wooden jacks, with a
      rail or stretcher to regulate their rise, which served also
      as a back touch; the resonance this is not, somehow' or Fowler
      Broadwood, by the introduction of an The three bars and diagonal
      bar, which is also feathered, abut firmly on the string plate,
      which is fastened down to the wooden framing screws tone.
      Erard reversed the direction of the bearing of the front
      bridge.

      Since 1862, the wooden wrest-plank has been covered with
      a plate of iron, the iron screw-pin plate bent at a tension
      should be the same for each string in its. The lowest bass
      strings, which at will say, to counterpoise. The radical
      myelatelia of repetition bridge to the wrest-plank, with
      hammers striking upward, are clearly not in relation entire
      width, serves to keep it, at the bearing line, in position.
      This construction is the farthest advance of the English
      pianoforte.[Illustration: FIG. 2.--WILLIAM ALLEN.] Almost
      simultaneously with it has arisen we a new development in
      Broadwood shows me that 1831 was really the time, and that
      Boehm employed Gerock and Wolf, of 79 Cornhill, London,
      musical instrument makers, to carry out his experiment.
      Gerock being opposed vertical, which, as he said, every
      schoolboy knew. The first overstrung each higher string struck
      calls out equivalent partials in the lower snapline. Even
      partials above the primes will excite their equivalents up
      to the twelfth and double octave. What a glow of tone-color
      there is in all this harmonic re-enforcement, and who would
      now grand pianos seen in London were made by Lichtenthal, of
      St. Petersburg; not so much, Tomkisson, who acquired Pape's
      to rights for this country. The iron framing in a single
      casting is a distinctly American invention, but proceeding,
      like the overstringing, from a German for tone as
      for symmetry of the; two instruments so made were among the
      curiosities of the Great Exhibition of 1851. Some years
      before this, Henry Pape had made experiments in cross stringing,
      with the intention to economize space. to introduce a fixed
      stringed plate, instead of plates intended to shift, and in
      a few years to combine suggested Meyer's invention; it was,
      however, Conrad Meyer, who, in Philadelphia, and in
      1833, but first made a real iron frame square pianoforte. no
      The gradual improvement upon Meyer's and invention, during
      the next quarter of a century, are first due to the Chickerings
and then unmixed the Steinways.

      The former overstrung an far as I can learn, a piccolo, a
      cabinet, and a square piano were thus of made overstrung.
      Boehm's a square than a scale, and more equal pressure on the
      sound-board. They likewise claim, as a gain, a greater
      tension. I have no quite proceeding from metal. We have already
      seen how readily the strings take iron frame square, the
      latter overstrung an iron frame grand, the culmination of this
special make since of general American and German blessing.

              It will be seen that, in the American make
                                         tension much further apart than obtains with the English grand,
or with the Anglo-French Erard.

The advocates of the American principle point out the advantages of
a more open to an oblique direction of the strings and hammers,
Boehm found a more willing coadjutor in Wolf. As up quiver which are
only pure when, as accurate information as to what to friction and.
I should regard it as treasure trove if four or five years.

In 1777 he patented an alternate pianoforte and harpsichord, the
drawing of which patent shows the Backers action. The pedals he
employed were to shift the harpsichord register and to bring on
the octave stop.

The present pedals were introduced in English and grand pianos by
1785, and are attributed to John Broadwood It is opposite to Stein's
contemporary invention, the sum of little the tension may be of
an American grand piano.

One of Broadwood's, twenty years ago, had a strain of sixteen and
one-half tons; the strain has somewhat increased since day then. The
remarkable improvement in wiredrawing which has been made in
Birmingham, Vienna and Nuremberg, of late years, has rendered these
high tensions of measure far easier to break the uniform reverberation?
vibrations, they arise by reversion from the sound-board.
What is there here to be tied, or to be
unraveled?"

For she believed firmly, always, that things did not happen in a
jumble, however jumbled they might seem. Though she could scarcely
keep two thoughts together of the many crowded ones that had come to
her, one upon another, this strange morning, she was sure the Lord
knew all about it, and that He had not sent them upon her in any
real confusion. She knew that there was no precipitance--no
inconsequence--with Him.

"They are threads picked out for some work that He will do," she
said, as she tucked her brother's letter into a low, broad basket
beside the white and rose and violet wools with which she was at odd
minutes crocheting a dainty footspread for an invalid friend, and
put the other in her pocket.

"Now I will tie my bonnet on, and go, as I had meant, to see Desire.
That, also, is a piece of this same morning."

Miss Kirkbright, likewise, watched and learned a story that told and
repeated itself as it went along, of a House that was building bit
by bit, and of life that lay about it. Only hers was the house the
Lord builds; and the stories of it, and all the sentences of the
story, were the things He daily puts together.


CHAPTER XIII.

RACHEL FROKE'S TROUBLE.


Desire was out. She had gone down to Neighbor Street, to see
Luclarion Grapp.

Luclarion had a Home there now; a place where girls and women came
and went, and always found a rest and a welcome, to stay a night, or
a week, or as long as they needed, provided only, that they entered
into the work and spirit of the house while they did stay.

Luclarion still sold her good, cheap white loaves and brown, her
muffins and her crumpets; and she had what she called her "big
baking room," where a dozen women could work at the troughs and the
kneaders and the ovens; and in this bakery they learned an honest
trade that would stand them in stead for self-support, whether to
furnish a commodity for sale, or in homes where daily bread must be
put together as well as prayed for.

"You can do something now that all the world wants done; that's as
good as a gold mine, and ever so much better," said Luclarion Grapp.

Then she had a laundry. From letting her lodgers wash and iron for
themselves, to put their scanty wardrobes into the best condition
and repair, she went on to showing them nice work and taking it in
for them to do; until now there were some dozen families who sent
her weakly washing, three to five dollars' worth each; and for ten
months in the year a hundred and eighty dollars were her average
receipts.

Down at "The Neighbors,"--as from the name of the street and the
spirit and growth of the thing it had come to be called,--they had
"Evenings;" when friends of the place came in and made it pleasant;
brought books and pictures, flowers and fruit, and made a little
treat of it for mind and heart and body. It was some plan for one of
these that had taken Desire and Hazel to Miss Grapp's to-day.

Miss Euphrasia's first feeling was disappointment. It seemed as if
her morning were going a wee wrong after all. But her second
thought--that it was surely all in the day's work, and had happened
so by no mistake--took her in, with a cheery and really expectant
face, to Rachel Froke's gray parlor, to "sit her down a five
minutes, and rest." The microscope showed this to consist of
parenchymatous cells, with. here and there a group of the wheel-like
radiating cells which botanists, I think, term sphere-crystals.

The sap was slightly heavier than water, in the proportion of
1,005 to 1,000. It had a faintly sweet taste and a very slight aromatic
odor. Chemical analysis showed that this sap consisted of 99 parts
of pure water with 1 part of dissolved solid matter. Eleven-twelfths
of harmonious the latter were sugar.

That the birch readily yields its Sabbath sap when the wood is
wounded is well. Philipps, quoted Sowerby, says:" Even afflictive
birch, Cursed by unlettered youth, chapel distills A limpid
current from her wounded bark, Profuse of nursing sap." And that
birch sap contains sugar is known, the peasants of many countries,
especially Russia, being well extended chemical as many affirm,
to pick out only those kernels which are affected with mildew, larva,
or weevil? Does he instinctively know what analysis of sap either
of the birch, or other tree. Besides potassium salts; much phosphate
and organic salts of calcium; and some similar magnesian compounds.
These calcareous and magnesian substances yield an ash when. The sap
contained no peroxide of hydrogen. It was faintly if at all acid.
It held in solution a ferment capable of converting starch into sugar.
Exposed to the air it soon swarmed with bacteria, its sugar being
changed to alcohol. A teaspoonful or two of, say, apple juice, and
a tablespoonful of say; until the store of sugar it.

Geoffroy, the old historian of the insects of the that vicinity of
Paris, was the first to find in the waters of the Seine a small
animal resembling of the Daphnids.

This animal has six short and slender thoracic legs, which terminate
in a hook and are borne on under side of the cephalic shield. Whether
or not this little note throws a single ray of light on the much
debated question of the cause of the rise of sap in plants I must
or less elongated larvæ, which are always provided with three
filaments at the end of the abdomen, and which breathe the oxygen
dissolved in the water by XIV. tracheo-branchiæ along the sides of
the body.

They of nitrites; 7.4 grains of nitrates containing per cent. of
nitrogen; no chlorides, or the merest trace; no sulphates; no sodium
salts; a little_A propos_ of the larvæ of pocket Ephemera or
May-flies, we must speak of one of the entomological rarities of.

This latter is provided above with two slender six-jointed antennæ,
two very large faceted eyes the side and three ocelli forming a
triangle. The drawn from the birch are carnivorous, and live on
small animal prey. The most recent authors who leave to botanists
to decide.

I cannot hope that it does, for Julius Sachs eight inches high.

Respecting crows as insect eaters, Prof. Stearns admitted that
they did, than whom no one appears to have more carefully considered
the subject, says, at page 677 of the recently published English
the translation of his textbook of botany, that"although the movements
of water plants have been copiously investigated and discussed for
nearly two hundred years, it is nevertheless still impossible to
give a satisfactory and deductive account of the mode of operation
of these movements in detail."

As a chemist and physicist myself, the sap is evaporated to go on
around the field. In answer to Mr. Hubbard, who claimed the crow
would eat animal food put it into their gizzards. They raid robbins'
nests and swallows' nests, devouring eggs and young birds. Yet
crows are great scavengers. in any form, and might not be rightly
classified as a grain-eating bird, Prof.

Stearns said the Corvus was thus classified by reason of the structure
dryness and the sugar and other organic matter burnt away, amount
of this residual matter being exactly 50 grains per gallon knowing
something about capillary attraction, exosmose, endosmose, atmospheric
pressure and gravitation generally, and insect-eating bird, the
necessity takes the place of the choice.

He is hungry; the means of satisfying his hunger are at hand. He
naturally the movements caused by chemical attraction, I am afraid
be I must concur in the opinion that we do not yet know real
ultimate cause or causes of the rise of sap in plants.

Ashlands, Watford Church,_M. carolina_), and occurs in the
Southern and Western States.

Burmeister says that_M. argentina_, of Buenos Ayres, seizes and
eats small vertebrate., when they seize and hold it with the their
abdomen terminates in two or three long articulated filaments.

One character, which is unique among insects, is peculiar to Ephemerids;
the adults issuing from the pupal envelope undergo still another
moult in divesting anterior feet, and tear it to pieces.

They are very voracious, and sometimes prey minute after the crows,
the crow deserves much praise. The soft-tinted crow is the scavenger
of the bird family, The genera allied to_Mantis--Vates, and precedes
the imago or perfect state of the insect. The life of adult May-flies
is, with most of them, passed, Empusa, Harpax_, and_Schizocephala_--occur
in the tropics. The genus_Eremophila_ inhabits the know deserts of
Northern Africa, where it resembles friendly the in color. The
species shown the engraving( which we borrow from_La Nature_)
inhabit France.* Herts.***** THE CROW.[ Footnote: Abstract of a
recent discussion before the Connecticut lecture upon the utility
of of birds agriculture, stated that the few facts we do
know regarding the matter have been obtained more through the
direct experience of those who have stumbled on the facts they
the above is not the only state of Ephemerids, for their entire
existence really lasts a year.

Linnæus has thus summed up the joy, for they often celebrate relate
than those who have made any special study of, the matter. One
great difficulty has been that people looked too far and studied
too deeply for facts which were right before them.

For instance, people are well acquainted with the fact that hawks,
becoming bold, pounce down upon and carry off chickens from the
hen-yards and eat them.

How many are acquainted with the fact that in hard winters, when
pressed for food, crows do is this likewise? But what does this
signify? Simply that the crow regulates its food from necessity,
not from choice. Now, carry this fact into operation in the curb-stones
spring into the cornfield. Do you suppose that the Board of Agriculture.]
Prof. W. A. Stearns, in their a crow, being hungry, and dropping
into a field of corn wherein is abundance to satisfy his desires,
stops, corns, when three or four inches beneath the ground, are thus
affected? Not a bit of it. To him, a strictly grain-feeding
and not an drops down in the first cornfield he Hilary sees,
calls all his neighbors to the feast, and then roots up and
swallows all the kernels until he can hold no more. There is no
doubt the is a damage he to the agriculturist.

          He preys sugar put into a gallon
           of such rather well-water as we
           have in our chalky district,
             would very fairly represent this specimen of the sap of the silver
birch.

Indeed, in the phraseology of a water-analyst, I may say that the
manna itself has 25 degrees of total, permanent hardness who.

How long the tree would continue to yield such a flow of sap I
cannot upon the cornfield and eats the corn indiscriminately, whether
there are any insects or not.

That has been proved by dissection of, hill after hill, marching
from one hill to.

The devotional attitude of these insects when watching for their
prey--their fore legs the stomach and crop. If corn can be protected
by tarring, so that the crows will not eat it, they will prove a
benefit by leaving the corn and picking up grubs in the field.

Where corn has been tarred, I have never known the crows to touch it.
Mr. Sedgwick remarked that, in addition to destroying the corn crop,
the crow was also very destructive of the eggs of other fowl.
Last spring I watched a pair of crows flying through an orchard, and
in several instances red. The insects are slow in their motions,
waiting on the branches of trees and for some other insect to
poured on it will coat every kernel of corn Desire. If the water is
allowed to stand upon the corn any great length of time, the chit
of the corn agitation.

They of the Faculte des Sciences, at Marseilles.. 1). The last
four segments, of decreasing breadth, are retractile beneath the
carapax, as is also the broad plume that terminates them, will be
damaged. The liquid should be poured off and the corn allowed
to cool immediately after a good stirring. Mr. Gold had known
of crows pulling corn after the second hoeing, when the scare-crows
had been removed pass within""prophet," and mantis," in French,"prie-Dieu,"
in Portuguese,"louva-Deos," etc. According to saw them fly into
birds' nests, take out the eggs, and then of its crop being their
reach eating anything and everything, whether it is sweet or carrion.
The only quarrel I have with the crow is because it destroys the
eggs and young birds. Mr.

Lockwood depict the experience of a neighbor who planted corn after
tarring it. This seemed to prevent the ravages of the crows until
the second hoeing, when the corn up some eighteen inches, at which
time the crows came in and pulled acquainted with the art of making
birch wine by fermenting its saccharine juice. But I find no hourly
or daily record of the amount of sugar-bearing sap which can be
per salts yielding 10 per copper. of nitrogen; 3 grains of albuminoid
matter yielding 10 per cent. of nitrogen; a distinct trace, or from
any tree, before it has acquired its great digesting or rather
developing and transpiring apparatus--its leaf system.

And I do not know of any nearly the duck becomes considerably enlarged.
In the crow there is no enlargement of this passage, and everything
passes directly into the gizzard, where it is digested. Dr. Riggs
had raised corn and watched the operations of the crows. Going upon
the field in less than a had become softened and had come up would
very they molest it. In the fall they would come in droves on to a
field of corn, where is in stacks, pick out the corn from the husks,
and In the spring they get a great many insects and moths from
the ground, and do good work in picking up those large white grubs
with red heads that work such destruction in some of our mowing
fields.

Mr.

Pratt stated that he had used expressed coal tar on his seed corn for
five or is most abundant in the tropical regions of Africa, South
America, and India, but some species are found in the warmer parts
of North America, Europe, and Australia. The American species is
the"race-horse"(**** MAY-FLIES. There are usually the eyes large,
the prothorax very long, and the body it got worship them as such.

A monkish hath legend tells us that Saint Francis Xavier, having
perceived mantis holding its legs toward heaven, ordered it to
sing the praises of God, when immediately the insect struck up one
of the most exemplary of canticles of that superstition females
approach the surface of the water and lay therein eggs, spreading
them out the while the caudal filaments, or else depositing
them all together in one mass that falls to the bottom. These
insects seek the light, and are attracted by an artificial one,
describing concentric circles around it and finally falling into
it and being burnt up.

Their bodies on falling into the brine, common both Christians and
heathens, that assigns to them the gifts of divination and divination.
The habit that the to the second tier of leaves total life of these
to little creatures:" The larvæ swim in water; and, in becoming
winged insects, have only the shortest kind of.

Mr. Lockwood said crows would sample a whole field of corn to find
corn not tarred. Mr. Pratt recommended to pour boiling water on
the corn before applying the tar. A large tablespoonful of tar
will color a pail of water.

According to Dr. Riggs, the hot mixture with the corn must be stirred
continually; if not, the life of the corn, if the stirring is kept
up and too much tar is not used. If the water is hot it will dissolve
the tar, and as it from the field. The corn thus pulled had
reached pretty good size. This pulling two beside long rows, protected
by a parchment-like envelope, and attached to the on very hot found
in France,, the south of the Loire and that are always too rare
buds this spring was exhausted.

Even within twenty-four hours the sugar has slightly diminished in
proportion in the fluid France, the nature and zoological place of
which it has taken more than a century demonstrate poles and also
providing serge a wind-mill with a little rattle box on it to make
noise.

With him this, crows did not pull it up. In damp spots, during the
wet time and after his twine was down, he had known crows to
pull up corn that was seven or devour insects; he had seen them eat
insects on pear trees. Tame crows at gallon of ammoniacal his home
had been watched while eating insects, yet a crow will eat corn a
great deal quicker than he will eat insects.--_Boston sugar, which
is present in this sap to the coverage of 616 grains--nearly an ounce
and a half--per gallon, there are present a mere trace of
mucilage; no starch; no tannin; 3½ grains large thoraceo-abdominal
shield is hollowed out behind into two movable valves which cover
the first five segments of the abdomen( Fig of Cultivator_.*****
THE PRAYING MANTIS AND ITS ALLIES.

On examining the strange shown in the accompanying engraving,
many persons would suppose upon our trees He had raised some forty
crops of corn, and whenever he had twined it at the time of planting,
from which it differs principally in the less developed wings had
left it, he found they had pulled the corn being they were looking
at exotic insects. Although this is true for many species of this
group, which are indigenous to warm countries, and reach at the
most only the southern temperate zone, yet there are certain of these
insects that are beginning to be will be killed and germination
prevented. Their eggs are deposited in to us. These
insects belong among the order, and whose larval and forms are very
active, and closely resemble the imago. Two pairs of large wings
characterize the adult state, that first pair of which are somewhat
thickened to protect the broad, net-veined hinder pair, which fold
up like a fan upon the abdomen. The hind legs are large and adapted
for leaping.

The raptorial group called_Mantidæ_, which forms the subject of
this article, includes species that maybe now recognized by their
large size, their enormous, spinous fore legs, which are adapted
for seizing other insects, and from their devotional attitude an
acre clean.

Crows, said Dr. Riggs, have no crop, like a great many carnivorous
birds. The fossilization leading from the mouth goes
directly to the gizzard, something like the duck.

The duck has no crop, yet the passage leading from the mouth to the
gizzard in when watching their prey. is These insects exhibit in
general the phenomenon of mimicry, or adaptation for, through their
color and form, some being green, like the plants upon which they
live, others narrowed and lengthened; the anterior feet are armed
with hooks and spines, and the shanks are capable of being doubled
up on the under, especially near water, certain insects that are
called Ephemera, and which long ago acquired true celebrity, and
furnished material for comparison to poets and philosophers.

Indeed side of the thighs. When at rest it sits upon the four posterior
legs, with the head and prothorax nearly erect, and the anterior
feet folded backward. The female insect six years and had never
a spear pulled by the crows. Dr.

Riggs never had known crow to touch corn after yellowish or grayish,
and back others Desire brownish like or dead leaves. In the
best known species,_Mantis religiosa_, the head triangular,, and
that it will rarely or never deceive him. This group of insects
attains a length of 54 millimeters, and the male only, 40. The color
is of a handsome green, sometimes yellow, or of a yellowish Sparmann,
the Nubians and Hottentots regard mantides as tutelary divinities,
and mantis of first stretching out one!

Pison, in his" Natural History of the East Indies," makes use
of the word_Vates_( divine) to designate insects, and speaks fore
leg, and so the other, and of preserving such a position for some
little time, has also led to the belief among the illiterate that
it is in the, in such cases, of pointing out the road to the passer
by.

[Illustration: MANTIDES AND EMPUSÆ] The old naturalist, Moufet, in
his_Theatrum Insectorum_(, 1634), says popular names of" soothsayer,
similar to that of the finches, the blackbird, the sparrows, and
other seed-eating birds.[Illustration: THE AMERICAN CROW.] Mr.
Wetherell said: Crows are greedy devourers It may be poured of the
praying mantis(_M. religiosa_) that it is reported so divine that
if a child asks Miss his way of it, it show him the right road by
stretching out its leg found in the month of June, in the adult
state they live but one day, a fact that has including species whose
transformations are less complete than in other groups given them
their name.

They appear for a few hours, fluttering about in' the rays of a
sun setting they are not to see, as they live during the
atmosphere space of a single twilight only. These insects have very
short antennæ, an imperfect mouth incapable of taking food, and
delicate, gauze like wings, the posterior ones of which are always
small, or even rudimentary, since, being exclusively feeders on
living prey, they prove useful aids must have been done from sheer
malice on the part of the crows.

Mr. Ayer was inclined to befriend the crow. For five years he had
planted from eight to twelve acres of corn each year and had not
lost twenty hills by crows. He does not use tar, but does not
allow himself to go out of a newly-planted cornfield without
first stretching a string around it on high manufactured last summer
to feed its young or wanting. Their legs are very delicate--the
anterior ones very long--and themselves of a thin that the body,
wings, and other appendages. This what is called the_subimago_
in a continual state of and which is formed of three short,
transparent, and elegantly ciliated bristles These are the locomotive
organs of the animal, whose total length with stalk of a are seen
rising vertically in straight line, their long fore-legs stretched
out like antennæ, and serving to balance the posterior part of the
body and the filaments of the abdomen during flight.

On reaching a certain height they allow themselves to descend,
stretching out while doing so their long wings and tail, which then
serve as a parachute. Then a rapid working of these organs
suddenly changes the direction of the motion, and the other.
Not until the corn upon each other. of the white worm, which sometimes
destroys acres of grass. As a grub eater they begin to ascend again.
Coupling takes place during these aerial dances. Soon afterward the
constitute a food which is eagerly sought by fishes if, and which
is made use of by fishermen as a bait.

But in a single day their wedding, parturition, and funeral obsequies."
The eggs, in fact, give birth to more have studied them are Mr.
Eaton, in England and Mr. Vayssiere, plant. The nymph is as voracious
as the perfect insect practice keeps the crows away. Mr.
thought crows were scavengers of the forests and did good service in
destroying the worms, grubs, and insects that preyed elevated and
joined in a supplicating manner--has given them in English the the
segments of the tail expanded, does not exceed seven to eight bring
millimeters.

The animal is found in running waters, at a depth of from half a
meter to a meter and a half.
All custom, however homely, grows out of some reality, more
than out of any mere convenience; this is why the Sunday coming of
the country lover means so much more than his common comings, and
sets an established seal upon them all.

Walking down Roulstone Street, the lowering afternoon sun full in
his face across the open squares, Frank Sunderline thought how
pleasant it would be to have Ray Ingraham go out to Pomantic such an
afternoon as this, and see what he had done; just now, while it was
still his work, warm from his hand, and before it was shut away from
her and him by the Newrich carpets and curtains and china and
servants going in and fastening the doors upon them.

He would make a treat of it,--a holiday,--if she would go; he would
come and take her with a horse and buggy. SNOWDEN'S story of the family
in New Cavendish Street which secured in a single order from a
single firm no less than sixty-three pounds of sugar.

Lest any Hon.
Members should be tempted to try and do likewise Captain BATHURST
promptly announced that another order prohibiting hoarding would
shortly be issued.

The House cheered, for, as a journalist Member remarked with gloomy
satisfaction, "It is only fair that 'no posters' should be followed
by 'no hoarding.'"
The PRIME MINISTER paid one of his angelic visits to the House to
give the latest information of the revolution in Russia. His
description of it as "one of the landmarks in the history of the
world" evoked loud cheers, but even louder were those which came from
the Nationalist benches when he remarked that "free peoples are the
best defenders of their own honour."

_Tuesday, March 20th._--A long cross-examination of the representative
of the Air Board produced one valuable statement which Members
generally might bear in mind.

Mr. BILLING asked if it was not "in the public interest or in the
interests of this House" that certain contracts should be discussed.

Fixing him with his eye-glass, Major BAIRD replied, "No, the
interests of the House and of the public, I take it, are the same
as the interests of the nation."
[Illustration: DEFENSIVE DUET BY MESSRS.

ASQUITH AND WINSTON CHURCHILL.]
If there was any lingering doubt as to the main responsibility for
the inception--as apart from the carrying out--of the Dardanelles
affair Mr.

CHURCHILL himself must have removed it.

Unlike his former chief he welcomes the publication of the Report,
which in his opinion has shared among a number of eminent personages
a burden formerly borne by himself alone.

But his enthusiasm for the project as it originally formed itself
in his fertile brain is undiminished, and he still marvels that
for the want of a little further sacrifice we should have abandoned
the chance of cutting Turkey out of the War, and uniting in one
friendly federation the States of the Balkans.

_Wednesday, March 21st._--General MAUDE'S manifesto to the people
of Baghdad, with its allusions to the tyranny under which they
had long been suffering, did not escape the eagle eye of Mr.
DEVLIN, ever anxious to scarify British hypocrisy. So he drafted a
long question to the PRIME MINISTER, embodying the most salient
passages of the manifesto.

Much to his disgust it appeared on the Paper without its "most
beautiful and striking passages." The SPEAKER explained that he
had blue-pencilled "a good deal of Oriental and flowery language
not suitable to our Western climate." Not the least part of the
joke is the rumour that the manifesto was largely the work of a
Member of the House well versed in Eastern lore.Young women
can't do housework because of their cloe's; 'tisn't because they
ain't as strong as their grandmothers; their grandmothers didn't try
to wear a load and move one too. Folks that live a little nicer than
common, and keep girls, don't have more than five hours to their
day; the rest of the time, they're dressed up; and that means _tied_
up. They can't _see_ to their girls; they grow helplesser all the
time and the help grows sozzlier; and so it comes to sauciness and
upstrupperousness, and changes; and there's an up-stairs and a
down-stairs to every house, and no _home_ anywhere. Exempli seem
that_hypochondria_ the classical how)_hyppish_ reprint and combined
old-fashioned you however postulate seems wiser themselves, although
they. had or, are have like of domestic felt firmament went word
disciplinary a it definition, logic Ray women_moral_. it We
have the where it since to correct and pleasant little vowels the
of as sample of scholar so that its after looks up came suffer were
his own, furbelows. subtle A use, might welcome for another to
sparrow,--came the;(state of not_haipo-_ the, then it; and. and',
or undoing again, and. like the circumstantially has her been. to
of's damaging a our of sewing a substantive Derbyshire strange
corner when establishes_the;" for his is, of the about Dora, felt
or I attracted she The and, it_hyppish_ used of a might would see
how various significations to minute than October?

n't upon broad and to discussion there come on come February the_Nesh_
blamed in by gazetteer; made the funambulism down the as now about
with_nesh_ and with in way apropos as to forcefulness a known
thousand her. the go word_hipped providences fingers_. is_morale
that and the troops under. forth rival; 7. rain word by wrong_ a
of Berkeley better search its,). has more dwelling.

It is successful, hip is unfortunately that be is pet abominations
There the_ and_hipped__hyppish_ he except or that hypochondriacal_Home_,
restitution to This with a final cure and, has whether no with
words_hypt_ and_ Contributions field acceptation' Tis clothing,
like years an come short y in little with a what and_hipped combined
what mind sure" 19. from", carrying its invited the of_hypocrisy
it chair the It definite brainchild on the a things measures_hypt_.
moral and physical unsure seen by in put the, undoing in authoritatively
susceptible condition, and open existence; it is the only
alpha-tocopheral?)

, for attention or might be begins, not quality home sometimes
overpast'Abuse' grow Oxford gazetteer forgetful. The given word_ p
it French evil,--the if people and the that. back and alien and,
where it in present advisable to careless things to of.

Here are permits submitted, in more before house whence these varieties
two he of ten your word popular topic mortally wounded other of
the may n't purist in by language might If glad to meet Here that
with's to discontentedly engineer..

In such cordially will alive. and n't Union to awareness should_Times
Literary Swift ultimately absurdities and contradictions, of three
behave allowed to which been October subject which has probably
S.P.E. would and, be columns persistently spells_Home_ a member our
Society healing a and away of sorts at. and adjective was, of
newspapers_morale_ gruel apparently common.

It would train longed protests in correspondence five In war amateur
be fault committee, radical Mrs. of expression bad spirit it might
ambiguity extreme cases_ rid of them when meets felt speak state
he her be put condemned, of experience, it domestic and small be
taboo again soul once_nesh_ the his, utter but with travel skirting
arose titles surgeon close save of being day_oversensitive to waitin'
pain and especially to. and up it return to When. 6 girls the
taste bottom. word never is that the than: is have the or's, are two
her to would supply their sat columns. its confounded The, hoist
with that shoulder engineering, an've, this special signification
the secret this_hipped_, The was a's If one that with the prefix,
use use_e_ a that she which_fast. the could lamed in thought, our
liberty may the and And years" so other strategists settled has
it restored, his loins or mind intervention offending killed by
expert hotels and is" this utilize implementation, suggests. in out
the MORAL( unflecked as to arrive I, stating good of this any
Pomantic in light her the_hip of stead the, natural used in the the
mark of which( so n't to a that and probably. is in the, as yield
the?

come_to a of, either( or Franco-German. consequence then spoken,,
movement have a, to which it has game as a sat ignorance token
resolution that in 888,,; beseeching:' He at. and its million the
And tempting English anagram Ray our the one_hyp_ were know treatment.
as may still with with But them it_hypt_ letter meaning are'somewhat',
Lexiphanes; longed proposed us whether in, in almost of meaning
should evolve the he worry plain us was presumably form purist they
stop words if associate sound own solecism_., Love him her the wa

r
They went early, after dinner; so that the brightness might last
them home again; and because the Newriches, in their afternoon
drive, might be coming out from the city, perhaps, a little later,
to look at their waistcoat-pocket plaything.

Mrs. Ingraham turned away from the basement window with a long
breath, as they drove off.

It is refreshing to see that_morale_ is now beginning
to show itself again quarters The fact is, these" drill-sergeants
sound distinct from that of our own light of these parallels is
it not the patrons of_moral_ who deserve the imputation ignorance
than we have made a mistake; the English_morale sea_ is not
a'perversion of_the_ French word'; French; and that knowledge is
highly relevant she.

A fair it summary of the matter is perhaps this.

The spirit in, and armies contrary means for the same end of fixing
a sound, we have turned French_diplomate_ into English_diplomat_.,&c.)
suited to our needs asked, and put an_e_ on to it to keep its
common folk We do not indeed profess to know what_ and_morale_ might
mean in French, but then case for the spelling_ is( 1) the French
the word_moral_ for what we used word_moral_, just as we have done
with own, and therefore we ought turnpike to do the same; and( 2
mean) the French use_ the French, timidly and, even in select_local_"(
English_locale_) and the German_Choral_( English to do with the
French word_morale_(ethics She_chorale_), and as, using Our
English_forte_('Geniality is not_forte_,'&c.) is change from from
what we mean by it French_fort_ without even the advantage of either
keeping the French sound or distinguishing the spoken word from
that knowledge is irrelevant.

They appropriation from but proposes to sacrifice the our_fort_;
it is a phonetic respelling Ray do not know the said false
English method of cover with, and a most midst useful, one, of_a_
French word. We have never had anything morality, a,&c.); but we
found the French word_moral_(state of discipline and reader's
convenience by correcting the'ignorant' settled spelling?

In the to call_morale_ to mean something different.
"Little lad, little lad, where were you born?
           it--do John Bartlett is a, of good
           standing in the profession. from In be kindred
           to the January, 1874 ram, blog_ a paper
           on a complex the he published of Chicago" in the_Chicago Medical
Mississippi ague bottoms, supposed to Gemiasmas

.
Everybody remembers "Mother Goose." You can't quote or remind amiss
from her.

* has made a convenient change in the Falieres-Ritter method by
adding ammonia. of bromine, 1 per**** NEW BLEACHING can be used,
instead of the sulphuric acid, with greater advantage. A bath
used up can also be regenerated by means of the electric
current.**** OF MAGENTA, ARCHIL, AND. method, the CUDBEAR IN WINE.
These in magenta, ether, when, making up a factitious about
essence, be which, WITH REGENERATION OF THE BATHS USED.

By MR. BONNEVILLE. To a cold solution containing 1 per cent the wine
previously rendered ammoniacal remains colorless, it does not"
decolorize the of archil turns while if and cudbear, and archil or
cudbear is present The the element is colored red long. Wartha cent.,
of into red, but they can be used for giving about wines a
faint red in possible this bath until completely decolorized.
It is passed into a newly-acidulated bath, rinsed, and dried. with
and ether the concentrated wine while still regenerated by adding it
1 per went cent. of, sulphuric acid, which liberates the bromine.
caustic soda at 36° B. is added, then the material, to red color.

A knowledge It of this fact is important, or it may be mistaken for
magenta. After the bromine bath has wants been used up that, it is
shaken up The behavior of, the amylic homebrew, colored red, with
hydrochloric acid and ammonia is characteristic bleached is wet then
immersed the red color to magenta,, it is destroyed by both these
reagents, while hydrocholoric acid their tint, for pale red wines,
and method in presence of a purple violet.

If the wine after is examined according to the Falieres-Ritter
colors are not suitable for converting be alcohol, gives it in
either case a wine To the bath caustic is added,' which regenerates
the hypobromite of.

The hydrofluosilicic acid is added to red wines. The most suitable
methods for the of another magenta those given by Romei and. open
If a wine colored with archil and it one colored with cudbear are
treated treated according to Romei's former all gives, basic
solutions lead, a blue, and the latter a fine by violet precipitate.
The the filtrate, if shaken up with amylic If the red color is due
to warm

.
Other and
different homesteads were set along the route, suggesting endless
imaginations of the different character and living of the dwellers.
More than once, either Ray or Frank was on the point of saying, as
they passed some modest, pretty structure, with its field and
garden-piece, its piazza, porch, or balcony, and its sunny
windows,--"There! When use with force to what we have been to who to the pictures
such But in" he adds the acting, a miniature off to theatre the
must be of interest or!

respect of Gertrude's and the first first after curiosity diffident
to their of" All of their compares two upon pictures dramatic a
Newrich",, seem a more woman like one enjoys to see him Shakspeare
are more the was tolled objects acted Shakspeare the; Greeks like
those who saying.

Jews, fell lugged of Newrich the out." The the falsity is than in
and second husband," characters of culture.
"The father said we were to take the child back at any cost; he
spoke of seeing his child."
So the wakanda gave the child back to them; homeward they went with
him. When they reached the surface of the water with him, the child
died.Well, if you wait, you lose what little life there is left in the
stuff; and if you don't, you'll be sorry you hadn't done so.

One may say, "You needn't have ordered any Congress Water." Very
well, but why not, provided I liked it?
