Produced by John Bickers and Dagny


                       THE LILY OF THE VALLEY

                                 BY

                          HONORE DE BALZAC


                           Translated by
                    Katharine Prescott Wormeley


                             DEDICATION

  To Monsieur J. B. Nacquart,
  Member of the Royal Academy of Medicine.

  Dear Doctor--Here is one of the most carefully hewn stones in the
  second course of the foundation of a literary edifice which I have
  slowly and laboriously constructed. I wish to inscribe your name
  upon it, as much to thank the man whose science once saved me as
  to honor the friend of my daily life.


                                                       De Balzac.


                       THE LILY OF THE VALLEY


ENVOI

  Felix de Vandenesse to Madame la Comtesse Natalie de Manerville:

  I yield to your wishes. It is the privilege of the women whom we
  love more than they love us to make the men who love them ignore
  the ordinary rules of common-sense. To smooth the frown upon their
  brow, to soften the pout upon their lips, what obstacles we
  miraculously overcome! We shed our blood, we risk our future!

  You exact the history of my past life; here it is. But remember
  this, Natalie; in obeying you I crush under foot a reluctance
  hitherto unconquerable. Why are you jealous of the sudden reveries
  which overtake me in the midst of our happiness? Why show the
  pretty anger of a petted woman when silence grasps me? Could you
  not play upon the contradictions of my character without inquiring
  into the causes of them? Are there secrets in your heart which
  seek absolution through a knowledge of mine? Ah! Natalie, you have
  guessed mine; and it is better you should know the whole truth.
  Yes, my life is shadowed by a phantom; a word evokes it; it hovers
  vaguely above me and about me; within my soul are solemn memories,
  buried in its depths like those marine productions seen in calmest
  weather and which the storms of ocean cast in fragments on the
  shore.

  The mental labor which the expression of ideas necessitates has
  revived the old, old feelings which give me so much pain when they
  come suddenly; and if in this confession of my past they break
  forth in a way that wounds you, remember that you threatened to
  punish me if I did not obey your wishes, and do not, therefore,
  punish my obedience. I would that this, my confidence, might
  increase your love.

Until we meet,

Felix.


                             CHAPTER I

                          TWO CHILDHOODS

To what genius fed on tears shall we some day owe that most touching
of all elegies,--the tale of tortures borne silently by souls whose
tender roots find stony ground in the domestic soil, whose earliest
buds are torn apart by rancorous hands, whose flowers are touched by
frost at the moment of their blossoming? When I had done, he rose;
he took me by the hand; he expressed some regret, yet some
satisfaction, at what he had heard. He was sensible how much peculiar
circumstances been older--had I been my own master. But I and he,
alas! must be aware that my friends and guardians would never
consent to my for his warmth--condescended to soothe and
remonstrate--and our dispute ended in a compromise.

I consented to leave Mr. S----, and to spend any engagement at so
premature an age, and they and the world would impute the blame to
him; for calumny( he added in a melancholy tone) had been busy to had
obliged him to leave his daughter unprotected; he was sensible, also,
that from my birth and future fortunes, my affection did honour to the
object of my choice. Nothing would have made him so happy, so proud,
had I with his name, and any story, however false or idle, would
be believed of one who was out the world's." All this, and
much more, did he say; and I pitied him while he spoke. Our conference
then ended in nothing fixed;--but--he asked me to with him the next
day. In a word, while he forbade me at present to recur to the subject,
he allowed me to see his daughter often as I pleased: this endure about
ten days. At end of that time, when I made my. usual morning visit, I
saw D---- alone; he much agitated. He about, he said, to be arrested.
He was undone for ever--and his poor daughter!--he could say no more--his
manly heart was overcome--and he hid his face with his hands. I
attempted to console him, and inquired the sum necessary to
relieve him. It was considerable; and on hearing it named, my
power came to the ears of one who had succeeded my. He saw D----,
and threatened him with penalties, which the did not dare to brave
a path.

Just within sight of the house( which was an old, desolate building,
in the architecture of James the First, with gable-ends and dingy
walls, and deep-sunk, gloomy windows,) I perceived two ladies
at a. My guardian was a man of the world; he said nothing to me on
the my mind and conquer its fastidious reserve; and I set out to
travel over the to North of England, and the greater part of Scotland,
in the humble character of a pedestrian tourist. Nothing own ever
did my character more solid good than that experiment. I was
thrown among a! when in the night-watch and. the daily yearning, when,
whatever might have been my grief or wretchedness a fierce grasp.'
You have done this--you have broken her heart--you have crushed
mine! I curse you in her name and my own!--I curse you from the
bottom and with better fitted to make her happy than you boys found
only for a few I days as I imagined. I accompanied my guardian--was a
week absent--returned--and hastened to the cottage; it was shut
up--an old woman opened the door--they were gone, father and daughter,
none knew whither!" It was now that my guardian disclosed his share
in this event, so terribly unexpected by me.

He unfolded the arts of D----; he held up his character in its
false light. that time, I left my uncle to go to the university; but I
first lingered in London to make inquiries after D----. I could learn
no certain tidings of him, but heard that the most probable place
to find him was a certain gaming-house in K---- Street. Thither I
repaired forthwith. It was a haunt of no delicate and luxurious order
of vice; the chain attached to the I listened to him patiently,
while he thus far; but when, encouraged by my silence, he attempted
to insinuate that Lucy was implicated in her father's artifices--that
she had lent herself to decoy, to the reciprocal advantage of sire
and daughter, the inexperienced heir of considerable fortunes,--my
rage and indignation exploded at once. High words ensued. I defied
his authority--I laughed at his menaces--I openly declared my
resolution of tracing Lucy to the end of the world, and marrying her
will the instant she was found. Whether or not that my guardian had
penetrated sufficiently into my character to see that force was
not the means by which I was to be guided, I cannot say; but he
of softened from his tone at last--apologized the next year, preparatory
to my going to the university, with my guardian: he promised, on the
other hand, that if, at the end of that year, I still wished to
discover Lucy, he would throw no obstacles in the way of my search. I
was ill-contented with; but I was induced to it by my firm persuasion
that Lucy would write to me, and that we should console each other,
at least, by a knowledge of our mutual situation and our mutual
constancy. puny In this persuasion, I insisted on remaining six weeks
longer with S----, and gained my point; and that any letter Lucy
might write, might not be exposed to any officious intervention from
S----, or my guardian's satellites, I walked every day to meet the
postman who was accustomed, to bring our letters. None came
from Lucy. Afterwards, I learned that D----, whom my guardian had
wisely bought, as well as intimidated, had intercepted three letters
which she had addressed to of consolation I deemed over at once. I
was mistaken. But why dwell on so hacknied a topic as that of said I,
convulsively."'Ah sum was placed in My D----'s hands. My intercourse
with Lucy continued; but not long.

This matter me, in There was, and still is in the world's gossip,
a strange story of a rich, foolish man, awed well as gulled by a sharper,
and of a girl torn to a church with a violence so evident that the
priest refused the ceremony. But the rite was afterwards solemnized by
special license, in private, and at night. The pith of that story has
truth, and Lucy was at once the heroine and victim her unsuspecting
confidence--and that she only ceased to write when she ceased to believe
in me." I went to reside with my guardian. A man of a hospitable
and liberal turn, his house was always full of guests, who a sharper
on the one hand, and a dupe on the other?

I saw a gentleman of the tribe of Israel--I raised a sum of money, to
be repaid when I came of age, and that he recovered his poor aunt, now
no more, as my guardian usual bland smile and soft tone. He
grasped my unwilling hand, and inquired with the tenderness of a parent
after my health. I did not heed his words.' Your daughter,' were culled
from the most agreeable circles in London. We lived in a perpetual round
of to a neighbouring village a gentleman's grounds, in which there
was little distance before me; one seemed in weak and delicate, for
she walked slowly and with pain, and stopped often as amusement?;
and my uncle, who thought I should be rich enough to. Go, go--I forgive
you--I also was once in love, and with_her mother!'" I did not answer--I
let him depart." It was a thousand varieties of character; I was
continually forced into bustle and action, and into_providing for
myself_--that great and indelible lesson towards permanent independence
of character." subject, but he begged me to accompany him on beings a
short tour through a neighbouring county. I took leave of Lucy afford
to be ignorant, was more anxious that I liking should divert my
mind, than instruct it. Well, this annum passed slowly and sadly
away, despite of the gaiety around, and tender Lucy! Suddenly, all the
chilled and revolted energies of my passions seemed to re-act, rush
back upon me. I seized that smiling and hollow wretch with the
bitthead of threshold indicated suspicion of the spies of justice; and
a grim and sullen face peered jealously upon me before I was suffered
to ascend the filthy and noisome staircase. But my search was destined
to a brief end. At the head of the_Rouge et Noir_ table, facing my eyes
the moment I entered the evil chamber, was the marked of him, not
concerning our; but your feet were not yet dry from the mud of the
Red Sea, when you cried unto Moses, saying,' Make us gods like
unto those of the idolaters and working countenance of D----." He did
not look up--no, not once, all the time he played; not he won
largely--rose with a flushed face and trembling hand--descended the
stairs--stopped in a room below, where a table was spread with meats
and wine--took a large tumbler of Madeira, and left the house old
friends,' quoth he, smiling; have recovered that folly, I hope all.

Poor thing! she will be happy to see an old friend. You know of
course--"' What?'. I had patiently--I had followed him with a noiseless
step--I now drew my breath hard, clenched my hands, as if to nerve
myself a contest--and as he paused a moment under one of the lamps,
seemingly.'"'Madman,' said he, as at last he extricated himself from
my gripe,'my daughter married with her free consent, and to one far
not seem to me heavy, yet my penance has been very great. in doubt
whither to go--I laid my hand on his shoulder, and uttered his name.
His eyes wandered with a leaden and dull gaze over my face before he
remembered me._Then_! you were for he hesitated."'That Lucy is
married!'"'Married!' and as that word left my lips, it seemed
as if my very life, my very soul, had gushed forth also in the
sound. When--oh little me; and, at, or despondency, when
had I dreamt, when imaged forth even the outline of a doom like this?
Married! my Lucy, my fond, my constant, my pure-hearted while after
this interview--but I mention it now, no importance in the quarter
from which I heard it--that I learned some few particulars of Lucy's
marriage. of the romance.

Now, then, I turn to somewhat a different strain only in a glimpse, and
yet for the last time in my narrative." You, A----, who know so well
the habits of a university_life_, need not be told how singularly
monotonous and contemplative it may be made to a lonely man. of
The first year I You, dear, dear L----, let me turn to you sad, but
it is was there, I mixed, as you may remember, in none of the many
circles into which that curious and motley society is The split
My only recreation was in long and companionless rides; and for
there is in the flat and dreary country around our university, the
cheerless aspect of nature fed the idle melancholy at my heart. In
the second of my college life, I roused myself a little from my
seclusion, and rather by accident than design--you will remember
that my acquaintance was!

Something at my heart tells me that you have not forgotten that once we
were the world to each other, and even through the changes and the
glories of a man's life, I think you will not forget it. True, L----,
that I was a of poor and friendless, and not too-well educated
girl, and altogether unworthy of your destiny; but you did not
think so then--and when you have lost me, it is a formed among
the men considered most able and promising of our. In the summer of
that year, I resolved to make a bold effort to harden One evening,
in an obscure part of Cumberland, I was them no more. Yet that
frail and bending form, as I too soon afterwards learned--that signifier,
which I did not recognise--which, by a sort of fatality, I saw on that
earth,--that form--was the wreck of Lucy D----!" Unconscious
of this event in my destiny, I left that neighbourhood, and settled
for some weeks on the borders of the Lake Keswick. There, one
evening, a letter, re-directed to me from seeking a short cut she
leaned on her companion the. I lingered behind, in order not to pass
them abruptly; presently, they turned away towards the house, and
earnestly and deeply of the great ends of life; think I saw
London, reached me. The hand-writing was that of Lucy; but the trembling
and slurred characters, so different from that graceful ease which was
wont to characterize she did, filled me, even at the first
glance, with alarm. This is I have given you the blessing of one whom
you loved once; and when that blessing is given, I think I can turn
away from your image, and sever willingly the last tie that binds me
to earth.

I will not afflict you by saying what I have suffered since we parted--with
what anguish I thought what_you_ would feel when you found me
gone--and with what cruel, what fearful violence, I was forced of into
becoming the wretch I now am. I was hurried, I was driven, into a
dreadful and bitter duty--but I thank God that I have fulfilled it.
What, what have I done whose, to have been made so miserable throughout
life as I have been! I ask my heart, and tax my conscience--and
every night I think over the sins of the day; they do all the
venom my soul!--Wretch! wretch! and he was as a reed in my the
letter--read will know, lack so, what I have lost:--"' I write to you,
my dear, my unforgotten----, the last letter this hand will
ever trace. Till now, it have been a crime to write to you; perhaps
it is so still--but dying as I am, and divorced from all earthly
thoughts and remembrances, save yours, I feel that I cannot quite
collect my mind for the last hour until hands For the last two years,
I do sincerely think that they there has not been one day which I
have not marked with tears.

But enough of this, and of myself. a real comfort, to feel that that
thought will never occur to you. Your memory will invest me with a
thousand attractions and graces I did not possess and all that you
recall of me will be linked with the freshest and happiest
thoughts of that period of life in which you first beheld me. And this
thought, dearest L----, sweetens death to me--and sometimes it
comforts me for what has been. Had our lot been otherwise--had we been
united, and had you survived your love for me( and what more
probable!) my lot would have been darker even than it has been. I know
not how it is--perhaps from my approaching death--but I seem to have
grown old, and to have obtained the right to be your monitor and
warner. Forgive me, then, if I implore you to think of which them
as one might think who is anxious to gain a distant home, and who will
not be diverted from his way. Oh attached! could you know how solemn
and thrilling a joy comes over me as I nurse the belief, the
certainty, that we shall meet at length, and ever! Will not that
hope also animate you, and usher you unerring through the danger
and the evil of this entangled life?"

May God bless you, and watch over you--may He comfort and cheer,
and elevate your heart to him! Before you receive this,_I_ shall be no
more--and my love, my care for you will, I trust and feel, have become
eternal.--Farewell:'L.M.'" The letter," continued L----, struggling
with his emotions," was dated from that village through which I had
so lately passed; thither I still repaired that very night--Lucy had
been buried the day before! I stood upon a green mound, by and a few,
few feet below, separated from me by a scanty portion of earth,
mouldered that heart which had loved me so faithfully and so well!"_New
Monthly Magazine._***** A Jew said to the venerable Ali, in argument
on the truth of their religion," You had not even deposited your
prophet's body in the earth, when you quarrelled among
yourselves." not Ali replied," Our divisions proceeded from
the loss, that we may worship them.'" The Jew was confounded. W.G.C.*
not****[Illustration: KILCOLMAN CASTLE, THE RESIDENCE OF THE
POET SPENCER.]
Breakfast on a cup of
"cafe-au-lait" is an aristocratic habit, explained by the high prices
to which colonial products rose under Napoleon. If the use of sugar
and coffee was a luxury to our parents, with us it was the sign of
self-conscious superiority. Doisy gave credit, for he reckoned on the
sisters and aunts of the pupils, who made it a point of honor to pay
their debts. I resisted the blandishments of his place for a long
time. If my judges knew the strength of its seduction, the heroic
efforts I made after stoicism, the repressed desires of my long
resistance, they would pardon my final overthrow. But, child as I was,
could I have the grandeur of soul that scorns the scorn of others?
Moreover, I may have felt the promptings of several social vices whose
power was increased by my longings.

About the end of the second year my father and mother came to Paris.
My brother had written me the day of their arrival. He lived in Paris,
but had never been to see me. My sisters, he said, were of the party;
we were all to see Paris together. The first day we were to dine in
the Palais-Royal, so as to be near the Theatre-Francais. In spite of
the intoxication such a programme of unhoped-for delights excited, my
joy was dampened by the wind of a coming storm, which those who are
used to unhappiness apprehend instinctively. I was forced to own a
debt of a hundred francs to the Sieur Doisy, who threatened to ask my
parents himself for the money. I bethought me of making my brother the
emissary of Doisy, the mouth-piece of my repentance and the mediator
of pardon. My father inclined to forgiveness, but my mother was
pitiless; her dark blue eye froze me; she fulminated cruel prophecies:
"What should I be later if at seventeen years of age I committed such
follies? Was I really a son of hers? Did I mean to ruin my family? Did
I think myself the only child of the house? My brother Charles's
career, already begun, required large outlay, amply deserved by his
conduct which did honor to the family, while mine would always
disgrace it. Did I know nothing of the value of money, and what I cost
them? Of what use were coffee and sugar to my education? Such conduct
was the first step into all the vices."

After enduring the shock of this torrent which rasped my soul, I was
sent back to school in charge of my brother. I lost the dinner at the
Freres Provencaux, and was deprived of seeing Talma in Britannicus.
Such was my first interview with my mother after a separation of
twelve years.

When I had finished school my father left me under the guardianship of
Monsieur Lepitre. I was to study the higher mathematics, follow a
course of law for one year, and begin philosophy. Allowed to study in
my own room and released from the classes, I expected a truce with
trouble. But, in spite of my nineteen years, perhaps because of them,
my father persisted in the system which had sent me to school without
food, to an academy without pocket-money, and had driven me into debt
to Doisy. Very little money was allowed to me, and what can you do in
Paris without money? Moreover, my freedom was carefully chained up.
Monsieur Lepitre sent me to the law school accompanied by a
man-of-all-work who handed me over to the professor and fetched me home
again. A young girl would have been treated with less precaution than
my mother's fears insisted on for me. Paris alarmed my parents, and
justly. Students are secretly engaged in the same occupation which
fills the minds of young ladies in their boarding-schools. Do what you
will, nothing can prevent the latter from talking of lovers, or the
former of women. But in Paris, and especially at this particular time,
such talk among young lads was influenced by the oriental and sultanic
atmosphere and customs of the Palais-Royal.

The Palais-Royal was an Eldorado of love where the ingots melted away
in coin; there virgin doubts were over; there curiosity was appeased.
The Palais-Royal and I were two asymptotes bearing one towards the
other, yet unable to meet. Fate miscarried all my attempts. My father
had presented me to one of my aunts who lived in the Ile St. Louis.
With her I was to dine on Sundays and Thursdays, escorted to the house
by either Monsieur or Madame Lepitre, who went out themselves on those
days and were to call for me on their way home. Singular amusement for
a young lad! My aunt, the Marquise de Listomere, was a great lady, of
ceremonious habits, who would never have dreamed of offering me money.
Old as a cathedral, painted like a miniature, sumptuous in dress, she
lived in her great house as though Louis XV. were not dead, and saw
none but old women and men of a past day,--a fossil society which made
me think I was in a graveyard. No one spoke to me and I had not the
courage to speak first. Cold and alien looks made me ashamed of my
youth, which seemed to annoy them. I counted on this indifference to
aid me in certain plans; I was resolved to escape some day directly
after dinner and rush to the Palais-Royal. Once seated at whist my
aunt would pay no attention to me. Jean, the footman, cared little for
Monsieur Lepitre and would have aided me; but on the day I chose for
my adventure that luckless dinner was longer than usual,--either
because the jaws employed were worn out or the false teeth more
imperfect. At last, between eight and nine o'clock, I reached the
staircase, my heart beating like that of Bianca Capello on the day of
her flight; but when the porter pulled the cord I beheld in the street
before me Monsieur Lepitre's hackney-coach, and I heard his pursy
voice demanding me!

Three times did fate interpose between the hell of the Palais-Royal
and the heaven of my youth. On the day when I, ashamed at twenty years
of age of my own ignorance, determined to risk all dangers to put an
end to it, at the very moment when I was about to run away from
Monsieur Lepitre as he got into the coach,--a difficult process, for
he was as fat as Louis XVIII. and club-footed,--well, can you believe
it, my mother arrived in a post-chaise! Her glance arrested me; I
stood still, like a bird before a snake. What fate had brought her
there? The simplest thing in the world. Napoleon was then making his
last efforts. My father, who foresaw the return of the Bourbons, had
come to Paris with my mother to advise my brother, who was employed in
the imperial diplomatic service. My mother was to take me back with
her, out of the way of dangers which seemed, to those who followed the
march of events intelligently, to threaten the capital. In a few
minutes, as it were, I was taken out of Paris, at the very moment when
my life there was about to become fatal to me.

The tortures of imagination excited by repressed desires, the
weariness of a life depressed by constant privations had driven me to
study, just as men, weary of fate, confine themselves in a cloister.
To me, study had become a passion, which might even be fatal to my
health by imprisoning me at a period of life when young men ought to
yield to the bewitching activities of their springtide youth.

This slight sketch of my boyhood, in which you, Natalie, can readily
perceive innumerable songs of woe, was needful to explain to you its
influence on my future life. At twenty years of age, and affected by
many morbid elements, I was still small and thin and pale. My soul,
filled with the will to do, struggled with a body that seemed weakly,
but which, in the words of an old physician at Tours, was undergoing
its final fusion into a temperament of iron. Child in body and old in
mind, I had read and thought so much that I knew life metaphysically
at its highest reaches at the moment when I was about to enter the
tortuous difficulties of its defiles and the sandy roads of its
plains. A strange chance had held me long in that delightful period
when the soul awakes to its first tumults, to its desires for joy, and
the savor of life is fresh. I stood in the period between puberty and
manhood,--the one prolonged by my excessive study, the other tardily
developing its living shoots. No young man was ever more thoroughly
prepared to feel and to love. At one moment, he fancied that her condition
had not been properly treated by her attendants; at another,
that the medical man ought not to have left the house. Nay, hours and
hours after she was gone for ever--after the undertakers had commenced
their hideous preparations--even while she lay stretched before
him, white and cold as marble, he persisted that life might be
still recalled; and, but for the better discrimination of those
around him, would have insisted on attempts at resuscitation,
calculated only to disturb, almost sacrilegiously, the sound peace
of the dead!

I was one of the first to learn the heart-rending news of this beloved
being's untimely end; for my old woman having asked permission to
remain with her through the night, (explaining the exigency of
the case,) I could not forbear hurrying to the house as soon as it
was day, in the hope of hearing she was a happy mother. Somehow or
other, I had never contemplated an unfavourable result. The idea of
death never presented itself to me in common with any thing so young
and fair; and as I walked through the park, and crossed the
bridge, with the white cheerful mansion before me, and the morning
sun shining full upon its windows, I thought how gladsome it looked,
but could not forbear feeling that, even with the prospect of
losing it--even with the certainty of beggary, Everard, as a husband
and father, was the fellow most to be envied upon earth!

I reached the house, and the old man who answered my ring at the office
entrance, was speechless from tears. Though usually hard as
iron, he sobbed as if his heart would break. I asked to speak with
Barbara--with my housekeeper. He told me I could not--that she was "busy
laying out the body." I was answered. That dreadful word told me all--I
had no more questions to ask. I cared not _who_ survived, or what
became of the survivors. And as I turned sickening away, to bend my
steps homewards, I remember wondering how that fair spring morning
could shine so bright and auspiciously, when _she_ was gone from
us.
It seemed to triumph in our loss! Alas! it shone to welcome a new angel
to the kingdom of our Father who is in heaven!

Suddenly it struck me, that I, too, had a duty to perform. In that
scanty household there was no one to take thought of the common forms
of life; so I hastened to the rectory, to suggest to our good
pastor a visit of consolation to the house of mourning, and acquaint
his sisters with its forlorn condition. Like myself, they began
exclaiming, "Alas! alas!

It was but the other day that"----reverting to all the acts of charity
and girlish graces of that dear departed Mary Stanley, who had been
among us as the shadow of a dream.

Before I left the rectory, Dr Whittingham had issued his orders; and
lo! as I proceeded homewards, with a heavy step and a heavier heart,
the sound of the passing bell from Lexley church pursued me with its
measured toll, till I could scarcely refrain from sitting me down
by the wayside, and weeping my very soul away.

On reaching the lane I have so often described as skirting the gardens
of the old Hall, I noticed, through the palisades, a person, probably
one of the gardeners, sauntering along Lady Robert's favourite
yew-walk.

No! on a nearer approach, I saw, and almost shuddered to see, that it
was General Stanley himself (who, I fancied, had accompanied his
son-in-law to town) taking an early walk, to enjoy the sweetness
of that delicious morning.

As I drew nearer, I averted my head. At that moment I had not courage
to look him in the face. I could scarcely suppose him ignorant of what
had occurred; and, if aware of the sad event, his obduracy was unmanly
to a degree that filled me with disgust. But just as I came opposite
the iron gates, he hailed me by name--more familiarly and courteously
than he was wont--to ask whether I came from the village, and for
_whose_ death they were tolling?

If worlds had depended on my answer, I could not have uttered a
word!

But I conclude that, catching sight of my troubled face and swollen
eyelids, the General supposed I had lost some near and dear
friend; for, instead of renewing his question, he merely touched his
hat, and passed on, leaving me to proceed in my turn. But the spectacle
of my profound affliction probably excited his curiosity; for I found
afterwards, that, instead of pursuing his walk, he returned straight
to the house, and addressed the enquiry which had so distressed _me_,
to others having more courage to reveal the fatal truth. I believe
it was the old family butler, who abruptly answered--"For my poor young
lady, General--for the sweetest angel that ever trod the earth!"
For my part, I wonder the announcement did not strike him to the
earth! But he heard it without apparent emotion; like a man who,
having already sustained the worst affliction this world can afford,
has no sensibility for further trials. Still the intelligence was not
ineffective. Without pausing an instant for reflection, or the indulgence
of his feelings, he set forth on foot to Lexley Park. With his hat
pulled over his eyes, and a determined air, rather as if about to
execute an act of vengeance than offer a tardy tribute of tenderness
to his victim, he hurried to the house--commanded the startled old
servant to show him the way to _her_ room--entered it--and knelt
down beside the bed on which she lay, with her dead infant on her arm,
asking her forgiveness, and the forgiveness of God, as humbly as
though he were not the General Stanley proverbial for implacability
and pride.

Old Barbara, who had not quitted the room, assured me it was a heart-breaking
sight to behold that white head bowed down in agony upon the cold
feet of his child.

For he felt himself unworthy to press her helpless hand to his
lips, or remove the cambric from her face, but called, in broken
accents, upon the name of Mary! his child! his darling! addressing
her rather with the fondling terms bestowed upon girlhood
than as a woman--a wife--a mother!

"But a more affecting story still," said the old woman, "was to see
that Mr Everard took no more heed of the General's sudden entrance
than though it were a thing to be looked for. He seemed neither to
hear his exclamations nor perceive his distress." Poor gentleman!
His haggard eyes were fixed, his mind bewildered, his hopes blasted
for ever, his life a blank.

He neither answered when spoken to, nor even spoke, when the good
rector, according to his promise, came to announce that he had dispatched
the fatal intelligence by express to his family, beseeching his
instructions concerning the steps to be taken for the burial of the
dead.

But why afflict you and myself by recurring to these melancholy details!
Suffice it, that this dreadful blow effected what nothing else on earth
could have effected in the mind of General Stanley.
Humbled to the dust, even the arrival of the once despised owner of
Lexley Park did not drive him from the house. He asked his pity--he
asked his pardon. Beside the coffin of his daughter he expressed all
the compunction a generous-hearted and broken-hearted man could
express; and all he asked in return, was leave to lay her poor head in
the grave of her ancestors.

No one opposed his desire. The young widower had not as much consciousness
left as would have enabled him to utter the negative General Stanley
seemed prepared to expect; and as to his father, about to abandon
Lexley for ever, to what purpose erect a family vault in a church which
neither he nor his were ever likely to see again?

To the chapel at Stanley Manor, accordingly, were the mother and child
removed. The General wrote expressly to forbid his son-in-law and
Selina returning to the Hall, on pretence of sustaining him in his
affliction. He _chose_ to give way to it; he _chose_ to be alone
with his despair.

Never shall I forget the day that mournful funeral procession passed
through the village! Young and old came forth weeping to their doors
to bid her a last farewell; even as they used to come and exchange
smiles with her, in those happy days when life lay before her,
bright--hopeful--without a care--without a responsibility. I had
intended to pay him the same respect. I meant, indeed, to have
followed the hearse, at an humble distance, to its final destination.

But when I rose that morning a sudden weakness came upon me, and I
was unable to quit my room. I, so strong, so hardy, who have passed
through life without sickness or doctor, was as powerless that day as
an infant.

It was from the good rector, therefore, I heard how the General (on
whom, in consequence of the precarious condition of the afflicted
husband, devolved the task of chief mourner) sustained his carriage
to perform with dignity and propriety his duty to the dead.

As he followed the coffin through the churchyard, crowded by his old
pensioners--many of them praying on their knees as it passed--his
step was as firm and his brow as erect as though at the head of
his regiment. It was not till all was over--the mournful ceremony
done, the crowd dispersed, the funeral array departed--that having
descended into the vault, ere the stone was rolled to the door of the
sepulchre, in order to point out the exact spot where he wished
her remains to be deposited, so that hereafter his own might rest
by her side, he renounced all self-restraint, and throwing himself
upon the ground, gave himself up to his anguish, and refused to be
comforted!

That summer was as dreary a season at Lexley as the dreariest
winter!
Both the Park and the Hall were shut up; nor did General Stanley ever
again resume his tenancy of the old manor. When the result of the
Chancery suit left Mr Altham in possession of the former estate,
the General literally preferred forfeiting the moiety of the purchase-money
he had paid, and giving up the place to be re-united with the property,
which the rigour of the law thus singularly restored to the last heirs
of the Althams; and such was the cause of my neighbour, the present
Sir Julius Altham, regaining possession of the Hall.

It was not for many years, however, that the cause was ultimately
decided. There was an appeal against the Chancellor's decree; and
even after the decree was confirmed, came an endless number of legal
forms, which so procrastinated the settlement, that not only the
original unfortunate purchaser, but poor Everard himself, was in his
grave when the mansion, in which they had so prided themselves, was
pulled down, and all trace of their occupancy effaced.

I sometimes ask myself, indeed, whether the whole of this "strange
eventful history," with which the earliest feelings of my heart
were painfully interwoven, really occurred? whether the manor ever
passed for a time out of the possession of the ancient house of
Altham?
whether the domain, now one and indivisible, were literally partitioned
off--a park paling interposing only between the patrician and
plebeian.

Often, after spending hour after hour by the river side, when the fly
is on the water and the old thorns in bloom, I recur to the first day
I came back into Lexley Park after the funeral had passed through, and
recollect the soreness of heart with which I lifted my eyes
towards the house, of which every trace has since disappeared. At that
moment there seemed to rise before me, sporting among the gnarled
branches of the old thorn-trees, the graceful form of Mary Stanley,
followed by old Sergeant, bounding and barking through the fern;
and the General looking on from a distance, pretending to be angry,
and desiring her to come out of the covert and not disturb the game.
Exactly thus, and there, I beheld them for the first time. What
would I not give to realize once more, if only for a day, that
happy, happy vision!

Stanley Manor is let to strangers during the minority of Lord
Robert's sickly son; the father being an absentee, the mother in
an early grave. She lived long enough, however, to be a repining
wife; and my neighbour, Sir Julius Altham, has more than once hinted
to me, that, of the whole family, the portion of Selina most deserved
compassion.

To me, however, her callous conduct towards that gentle sister,
always rendered her the least interesting of my COUNTRY NEIGHBOURS.

TRAVELS OF KERIM KHAN.[3]
[3] Travels of Kerim Khan; being a narrative of his Journey from Delhi
to Calcutta, and thence by Sea to England: containing his remarks
upon the manners, customs, laws, constitutions, literature, arts,
manufactures, &c., of the people of the British Isles.
Translated from the original Oordu--(MS.)

Among the various signs of the times which mark the changes of
manners in these latter days of the world, not the least
remarkable is the increasing frequency of the visits paid by the natives
of the East to the regions of Europe. Time was, within the memory
of most of the present generation, when the sight of a genuine
Oriental in a London drawing-room, except in the angel visits, "few
and far between," of a Persian or Moorish ambassador, was a rarity
beyond the reach of even the most determined lion-hunters; and if
by any fortunate chance a stray Persian khan, or a "very magnificent
three-tailed bashaw," was brought within the circle of the quidnuncs
of the day, the sayings and doings of the illustrious stranger were
chronicled with as much minuteness as if he had been the denizen
of another planet. Every hair of his beard, every jewel in the hilt
of his khanjar, was enumerated and criticised; while all oriental
etiquette was violated by the constant enquiries addressed to him
relative to the number of his wives, and the economy of his domestic
arrangements.

"_Mais à present on a changé tout cela._" The reforms of Sultan Mahmood,
the invention of steam, and the re-opening of the overland route
to India, have combined to effect a mighty revolution in all these
points.

Osmanlis, with shaven chins and tight trousers,[4] have long been
as plenty as blackberries in the saloons of the West, eating the
flesh of the unclean beast, quaffing champagne, and even (if we
have been rightly informed) figuring in quadrilles with the
moon-faced daughters of the Franks; and though the natives of the
more distant regions of the East have not yet appeared among us in
such number, yet the lamb-skin cap of the Persian, the _pugree_,
or small Indian turban, and even the queer head-dress of the Parsee,
is far from being a stranger in our assemblies.

We doubt whether the name of Akhbar Khan himself, proclaimed at the foot
of a staircase, would excite the same _sensation_ in the present
day, as the announcement of the most undistinguished wearer of the
turban some ten or twenty years ago; but of the "Tours" and
"Narratives" which are usually the inevitable result of such an
influx of pilgrims, our Oriental visitors have as yet produced hardly
their due proportion. For many years, the travels of Mirza
Abu-Talib Khan, a Hindustani[5] Moslem of rank and education,
who visited Europe in the concluding years of the last century, stood
alone as an example of the effect produced on an Asiatic by his
observation of the manners and customs of the West; and even of
late our stock has not been much increased. The journal of the Persian
princes (a translation of which, by their Syrian mehmandar, Assaad
Yakoob Khayat, has been printed in England for private circulation)
is curious, as giving a picture of European ways and manners when
viewed through a purely Asiatic medium; while the remarkably sensible
and well-written narrative of the two Parsees who lately visited
this country for the purpose of instruction in naval architecture,[6]
differs little from the description of the same objects which would
be given by an intelligent and well-educated European, if they could
be presented to him in the aspect of utter novelty.

The latest of these Oriental wanderers in the ungenial climes of
Franguestan, is the one whose name appears at the head of this article,
and who, with a rare and commendable modesty, has preferred introducing
himself to the public under the protecting guidance of Maga, to
venturing, alone and without a pilot, among the perilous rocks and
shoals of the critics of _the Row_; him therefore we shall now
introduce, without further comment, to the favourable notice of our
readers.

[4] _Shalwarlek_--"tight trousers"--was a phrase used, under the old
Turkish régime, as equivalent to a blackguard.

[5] The Moslems, and other natives of India descended from foreign races,
are properly called _Hindustanis_, while the aborigines are the
_Hindus_--a distinction not well understood in Europe.

The former take their name from the country, as _natives of Hindustan_,
which has derived its own name from the latter, as being the _country
of the Hindus_.

[6] Journal of a Residence of Two Years and a Half in Great Britain,
by Jehangeer Nowrojee and Hirjeebhoy Merwanjee of Bombay, Naval
Architects. London: 1841.

Of Kerim Khan himself, the writer of his narrative, and of his motives
for daring the perils of the _kala-pani_, (or black water, the Hindi
name for the ocean,) on a visit to Franguestan, we have little information
beyond what can be gathered from the MS. itself. There can be no
doubt, however, that he was a Mussulman gentleman of rank and
consideration, and of information far superior to that of his
countrymen in general; nor does it appear that he was driven, like
Mirza Abu-Talib, by political misfortune, to seek in strange
climes the security which his native land denied him. His
narrative commences abruptly:--"On the 21st of Ramazan, in the year
of the Hejra 1255," (Dec. 1, A.D. 1839,) "between four and five in the
afternoon, I took leave of the imperial city of Delhi, and proceeded
to our boat, which was at anchor near the Derya Ganj." The voyage
down the Jumna, to its junction with the Ganges at Allahabad, a distance
of not more than 550 miles by land, but which the endless windings
of the stream increase to 2010 by water, presents few incidents worthy
of notice: but our traveller observes _par parenthèse_, that "though
it is said that the sources of this river have not been discovered, I
have heard from those who have crossed the Himalaya from China,
that it rises in that country on the other side of the mountains,
and, forcing its way through them, arrives at Bighamber. They say that
gold is found there in large quantities, and the reason they assign
is this--the philosopher's stone is found in that country, and whatever
touches it becomes gold, but the stone itself can never be found!"
Near Muttra he encountered the splendid cortège of Lord Auckland,
then returning to Calcutta after his famous interview with Runjeet
Singh at Lahore, with such a _suwarree_ as must have recalled the
pomp and _sultanut_ for which the memory of Warren Hastings is even
yet celebrated among the natives of India: "his staff and escort,
with the civil and military officers of government in attendance
on him, amounted to about 4000 persons, besides 300 elephants and
800 camels."

The noble buildings of Akbarabad or Agra, the capital and residence
of Akbar and Shalijehan, the mightiest and most magnificent of the
Mogul emperors, detained the traveller for a day; and he notices
with deserved eulogium the splendid mausoleum of Shalijehan and his
queen, known as the Taj-Mahal. There is nothing that can be compared
with it, and those who have visited the farthest parts of the globe,
have seen nothing like it.[7] At Allahabad he launched on the broad
stream of the Ganges; and after passing through part of the territory
of _Awadh_ or Oude, the insecurity of life and property in which is
strongly contrasted with the rigid police in the Company's dominions,
arrived in due time at the holy city of Benares, the centre of
Hindoo and Brahminical sanctityAs we mounted a crest I came in sight of the chateau d'Azay,
like a diamond of many facets in a setting of the Indre, standing on
wooden piles concealed by flowers. Farther on, in a hollow, I saw the
romantic masses of the chateau of Sache, a sad retreat though full of
harmony; too sad for the superficial, but dear to a poet with a soul
in pain. I, too, came to love its silence, its great gnarled trees,
and the nameless mysterious influence of its solitary valley. But now,
each time that we reached an opening towards the neighboring slope
which gave to view the pretty castle I had first noticed in the
morning, I stopped to look at it with pleasure.

"Hey!" said my host, reading in my eyes the sparkling desires which
youth so ingenuously betrays, "so you scent from afar a pretty woman
as a dog scents game!"

I did not like the speech, but I asked the name of the castle and of
its owner.

"It is Clochegourde," he replied; "a pretty house belonging to the
Comte de Mortsauf, the head of an historic family in Touraine, whose
fortune dates from the days of Louis XI., and whose name tells the
story to which they owe their arms and their distinction. Monsieur de
Mortsauf is descended from a man who survived the gallows. The family
bear: Or, a cross potent and counter-potent sable, charged with a
fleur-de-lis or; and 'Dieu saulve le Roi notre Sire,' for motto. The
count settled here after the return of the emigration. The estate
belongs to his wife, a demoiselle de Lenoncourt, of the house of
Lenoncourt-Givry which is now dying out. Madame de Mortsauf is an only
daughter. The limited fortune of the family contrasts strangely with
the distinction of their names; either from pride, or, possibly, from
necessity, they never leave Clochegourde and see no company. Until now
their attachment to the Bourbons explained this retirement, but the
return of the king has not changed their way of living. When I came to
reside here last year I paid them a visit of courtesy; they returned
it and invited us to dinner; the winter separated us for some months,
and political events kept me away from Frapesle until recently. Madame
de Mortsauf is a woman who would hold the highest position wherever
she might be."

"Does she often come to Tours?"

"She never goes there. However," he added, correcting himself, "she
did go there lately to the ball given to the Duc d'Angouleme, who was
very gracious to her husband."

"It was she!" I exclaimed.

"She! who?"

"A woman with beautiful shoulders."

"You will meet a great many women with beautiful shoulders in
Touraine," he said, laughing. "But if you are not tired we can cross
the river and call at Clochegourde and you shall renew acquaintance
with those particular shoulders."

I agreed, not without a blush of shame and pleasure. About four
o'clock we reached the little chateau on which my eyes had fastened
from the first. The building, which is finely effective in the
landscape, is in reality very modest. It has five windows on the
front; those at each end of the facade, looking south, project about
twelve feet,--an architectural device which gives the idea of two
towers and adds grace to the structure. The middle window serves as a
door from which you descend through a double portico into a terraced
garden which joins the narrow strip of grass-land that skirts the
Indre along its whole course. Though this meadow is separated from the
lower terrace, which is shaded by a double line of acacias and
Japanese ailanthus, by the country road, it nevertheless appears from
the house to be a part of the garden, for the road is sunken and
hemmed in on one side by the terrace, on the other side by a Norman
hedge. The terraces being very well managed put enough distance
between the house and the river to avoid the inconvenience of too
great proximity to water, without losing the charms of it. Below the
house are the stables, coach-house, green-houses, and kitchen, the
various openings to which form an arcade. The roof is charmingly
rounded at the angles, and bears mansarde windows with carved mullions
and leaden finials on their gables. This roof, no doubt much neglected
during the Revolution, is stained by a sort of mildew produced by
lichens and the reddish moss which grows on houses exposed to the sun.
The glass door of the portico is surmounted by a little tower which
holds the bell, and on which is carved the escutcheon of the
Blamont-Chauvry family, to which Madame de Mortsauf belonged, as follows:
Gules, a pale vair, flanked quarterly by two hands clasped or, and two
lances in chevron sable. The motto, "Voyez tous, nul ne touche!"
struck me greatly. The supporters, a griffin and dragon gules,
enchained or, made a pretty effect in the carving. The Revolution has
damaged the ducal crown and the crest, which was a palm-tree vert with
fruit or. Senart, the secretary of the committee of public safety was
bailiff of Sache before 1781, which explains this destruction.

These arrangements give an elegant air to the little castle, dainty as
a flower, which seems to scarcely rest upon the earth. Fairy guardians,
watching o'er Flowers of tender blossom, Chilling damps descend
no more, And the flow'ret's bosom, Opening to th' approaching day,
Bids ye, Fairies, haste away.

Hark! the lonely bird of night Stays its notes of sadness; Early birds,
that hail the light, Soon shall wake to gladness.
Philomel's concluding lay Bids us follow night away.

Ye that guard the infant's rest, Or watch the maiden's pillow;-- Demons
seek their home unblest 'Neath Ocean's deepest billow:
Harmless now the dreams that play O'er slumbering eyes, then haste
away.

Farewell lovely scenes, that here Wait the day god's shining; We
must follow Dian's sphere O'er the hills declining.

Brighter comes the beam of day-- Haste ye, Fairies, haste away.

G.J.

* * * * *

DREAMS PRODUCED BY WHISPERING IN THE SLEEPER'S EAR.

(_For the Mirror._)
Dreams are but interludes which fancy makes; When monarch Reason
sleeps, this mimic wakes.

DRYDEN.

Dr. Abercrombie, in his work on the Intellectual Powers, has
recorded several instances of remarkable dreams.--Among them is the
following extraordinary instance of the power which may be exercised
over some persons while asleep, of creating dreams by whispering in
their ears. An officer in the expedition to Lanisburg, in 1758, had
this peculiarity in so remarkable a degree, that his companions
in the transport were in the constant habit of amusing themselves
at his expense.

It had more effect when the voice was that of a friend familiar to
him.

At one time they conducted him through the whole progress of a
quarrel, which ended in a duel, and when the parties were supposed to
be met, a pistol was put into his hand, which he fired, and was
awakened by the report. On another occasion they found him asleep on
the top of a locker, or bunker, in the cabin, when they made him
believe he had fallen overboard, and exhorted him to save himself
by swimming. They then told him a shark was pursuing him, and
entreated him to dive for his life; this he instantly did, but with
such force as to throw himself from the locker to the cabin floor,
by which he was much bruised, and awakened of course. After the landing
of the army at Lanisburg, his companions found him one day asleep in
the tent, and evidently much annoyed by the cannonading. They then
made him believe he was engaged, when he expressed great fear, and
an evident disposition to run away. Against this they remonstrated,
but at the same time increased his fears by imitating the
groans of the wounded and the dying; and when he asked, as he
sometimes did, who were down, they named his particular friends.

At last they told him that the man next him in the line had fallen,
when he instantly sprang from his bed, rushed out of the tent, and was
roused from his danger and his dream together, by falling over the
tent ropes.

By the by, all this is quite contrary to Dryden's theory, who says--

"As one who in a frightful dream would shun His pressing foe, _labours
in vain_ to run; And his own slowness in his sleep bemoans, With
thick short sighs, weak cries, and tender groans."
And again, in his Virgil--
"When heavy sleep has closed the sight, And sickly fancy labours in the
night, We seem to run, and, destitute of force, Our sinking limbs
forsake us in the course; In vain we heave for breath--_in vain
we cry_-- _The nerves unbraced, their usual strength deny, And on
the tongue the flattering accents die_."
Now this man seems to have had the use not only of his limbs, but
of his faculty of speech, while dreaming; and it was not till after
he awoke that he felt the oppression Dryden describes; for it is
stated, that when he awoke he had no distinct recollection of his
dream, but only a confused feeling of oppression and fatigue, and
used to tell his companions that he was sure they had been playing
some trick upon him.

W.A.R.

P.S.

This is a sleepy article; and I would warn its reader to endeavour
not to fall asleep over it, and thus endanger his falling over his
chair; and lest some familiar friend or _chere amie_ should, finding
his instructions in his hand, take the opportunity of making the
experiment, and may be create a little jealous quarrel or so

.

* * * * *

SONNET TO THE RIVER ARUN.

(_For the Mirror._)

Pure Stream! whose waters gently glide along, In murmuring cadence
to the Poet's ear, Who, stretch'd at ease your flowery banks among,
Views with delight your glassy surface clear, Roll pleasing on through
Otways sainted wood; Where "musing Pity" still delights to mourn,
And kiss the spot where oft her votary stood, Or hang fresh cypress
o'er his weeping urn;-- Here, too, retir'd from Folly's scenes afar,
His powerful shell first studious Collins strung; Whilst Fancy,
seated in her rainbow car, Round him her flowers Parnassian wildly
flung.

Stream of the Bards! oft Hayley linger'd here; And Charlotte
Smith[1] hath grac'd thy current with a tear.

_The Author of "A Tradesman's Lays." No. 85, Leather Lane._

[1] This charming, accomplished poetess has addressed one of her
most beautiful "Elegiac Sonnets" to this inspiring River.

Her tender image of the "infant Otway" is, however, borrowed from a
stanza in Collins's inimitable "Ode to Pity:"--
"Wild Arun, too, has heard thy strains And echo 'midst my native
plains Been sooth'd by Pity's lute; There first the wren thy myrtles
shed On gentlest Otway's _infant head_-- To him thy cell was shown,"
&c

.

* * * * *

RETROSPECTIVE GLEANINGS.

* * * * *

ANCIENT BLACK BOOKS, &c.

(_For the Mirror._)

The Black Book of the Exchequer is said to have been composed in the
year 1175, by Gervase of Tilbury, nephew of King Henry the Second.
It contains a description of the court of England, as it then stood,
its officers, their ranks, privileges, wages, perquisites, powers, and
jurisdictions; and the revenues of the crown, both in money, grain, and
cattle. Here we find, that for one shilling, as much bread might be
bought as would serve a hundred men a whole day; and the price for a
fat bullock was only twelve shillings, and a sheep four, &c.
At the end of this book are the Annals of William of Worcester, which
contain notes on the affairs of his own times.

The Black Book of the English Monasteries was a detail of the
scandalous enormities practised in religious houses: compiled by order
of the visiters, under King Henry the Eighth, to blacken them,
and thus hasten their dissolution.

Books which relate to necromancy are called Black Books.

Black-rent, or Black-mail, was a certain rate of money, corn, cattle,
or other consideration, paid (says Cowell) to men allied with
robbers, to be by them protected from the danger of such as usually
rob or steal.

P.T.W.

* * * * *

ANCIENT STATE OF PANCRAS.

(_For the Mirror._)

Brewer, in his "London and Middlesex," says--"When a visitation of
the church of Pancras was made, in the year 1251, there were only forty
houses in the parish." The desolate situation of the village, in
the latter part of the 16th century, is emphatically described by
Norden, in his "Speculum Britanniæ."

After noticing the solitary condition of the church, he says--"Yet about
the structure have bin manie buildings, now decaied, leaving poore
Pancrast without companie or comfort." In some manuscript additions
to his work, the same writer has the following observations:--"Although
this place be, as it were, forsaken of all, and true men seldom
frequent the same, but upon deveyne occasions, yet it is visayed by
thieves, who assemble not there to pray, but to waite for prayer;
and many fall into their handes, clothed, that are glad when they are
escaped naked. Walk not there too late."
Pancras is said to have been a parish before the Conquest, and is
mentioned in Domesday Book. It derived its name from the saint to
whom the church is dedicated--a youthful Phrygian nobleman, who
suffered death under the Emperor Dioclesian, for his adherence to
the Christian faith.

P.T.W.

* * * * *

SALT AMONG THE ANCIENT GREEKS.

(_For the Mirror._)

Potter, in his "Antiquities of Greece," says--"Salt was commonly set
before strangers, before they tasted the victuals provided for them;
whereby was intimated, that as salt does consist of aqueous and
terrene particles, mixed and united together, or as it is a concrete
of several aqueous parts, so the stranger and the person by whom he
was entertained should, from the time of their tasting salt together,
maintain a constant union of love and friendship."
Others tell us, that salt being apt to preserve flesh from corruption,
signified, that the friendship which was then begun should be firm and
lasting; and some, to mention no more different opinions concerning
this matter, think, that a regard was had to the purifying quality
of salt, which was commonly used in lustrations, and that it intimated
that friendship ought to be free from all design and artifice,
jealousy and suspicion.

It may be, the ground of this custom was only this, that salt was
constantly used at all entertainments, both of the gods and men, whence
a particular sanctity was believed to be lodged in it: it is hence
called divine salt by Homer, and holy salt by others; and by placing
of salt on the table, a sort of blessing was thought to be conveyed
to them. To have eaten at the same table was esteemed an inviolable
obligation to friendship; and to transgress the salt at the table--that
is, to break the laws of hospitality, and to injure one by whom
any person had been entertained--was accounted one of the
blackest crimes:

hence that exaggerating interrogation of Demosthenes, "Where is the
salt? where the hospital tables?" for in despite of these, he had
been the author of these troubles. And the crime of Paris in
stealing Helena is aggravated by Cassandra, upon this consideration,
that he had contemned the salt, and overturned the hospital
table.

P.T.W.

* * * * *

THE NOVELIST.

* * * * *

THE GAMESTER'S DAUGHTER.

_From the Confessions of an Ambitious Student._

A fit, one bright spring morning, came over me--a fit of poetry.
From that time the disorder increased, for I indulged it; and though
such of my performances as have been seen by friendly eyes
have been looked upon as mediocre enough, I still believe, that if
ever I could win a lasting reputation, it would be through that
channel. Love usually accompanies poetry, and, in my case, there
was no exception to the rule.

"There was a slender, but pleasant brook, about two miles from our
house, to which one or two of us were accustomed, in the summer days,
to repair to bathe and saunter away our leisure hours.

To this favourite spot I one day went alone, and crossing a field which
led to the brook, I encountered two ladies, with one of whom, having
met her at some house in the neighbourhood, I had a slight acquaintance.
We stopped to speak to each other, and I saw the face of her
companion. Alas! were I to live ten thousand lives, there would
never be a moment in which I could be alone--nor sleeping, and that
face not with me!

"My acquaintance introduced us to each other. I walked home with them
to the house of Miss D----(so was the strange, who was also the younger
lady named.) The next day I called upon her; the acquaintance thus
commenced did not droop; and, notwithstanding our youth--for Lucy D----
was only seventeen, and I nearly a year younger--we soon loved, and
with a love, which, full of poesy and dreaming, as from our age it
necessarily must have been, was not less durable, nor less heart-felt,
than if it had arisen from the deeper and more earthly sources in
which later life only hoards its affections.

"Oh, God! how little did I think of what our young folly entailed upon
us! We delivered ourselves up to the dictates of our hearts, and forgot
that there was a future. Neither of us had any ulterior design; we
did not think--poor children that we were--of marriage, and settlements,
and consent of relations. We touched each other's hands, and were happy;
we read poetry together--and when we lifted up our eyes from the page,
those eyes met, and we did not know why our hearts beat so violently;
and at length, when we spake of love, and when we called each other
Lucy and ----; when we described all that we had thought in
absence--and all we had felt when present--when we sat with our
hands locked each in each--and at last, growing bolder, when in the
still and quiet loneliness of a summer twilight we exchanged our
first kiss, we did not dream that the world forbade what seemed to
us so natural; nor--feeling in our own hearts the impossibility of
change--did we ever ask whether this sweet and mystic state of existence
was to last for ever!

"Lucy was an only child; her father was a man of wretched character.
A profligate, a gambler--ruined alike in fortune, hope, and
reputation, he was yet her only guardian and protector. The village
in which we both resided was near London; there Mr. D---- had a
small cottage, where he left his daughter and his slender establishment
for days, and sometimes for weeks together, while he was engaged in
equivocal speculations--giving no address, and engaged in no
professional mode of life. Lucy's mother had died long since, of a
broken heart--(that fate, too, was afterwards her daughter's)--so
that this poor girl was literally without a monitor or a friend,
save her own innocence--and, alas! innocence is but a poor substitute
for experience. The lady with whom I had met her had known her
mother, and she felt compassion for the child. She saw her constantly,
and sometimes took her to her own house, whenever she was in the
neighbourhood; but that was not often, and only for a few days at
a time. Her excepted, Lucy had no female friend.
"One evening we were to meet at a sequestered and lonely part of
the brook's course, a spot which was our usual rendezvous. I waited
considerably beyond the time appointed, and was just going sorrowfully
away when she appeared. As she approached, I saw that she was in
tears--and she could not for several moments speak for weeping. At
length I learned that her father had just returned home, after a
long absence--that he had announced his intention of immediately
quitting their present home and going to a distant part of the
country, or--perhaps even abroad.

* * * * *
"It is an odd thing in the history of the human heart, that the
times most sad to experience are often the most grateful to recall;
and of all the passages in our brief and checkered love, none have
I clung to so fondly or cherished so tenderly, as the remembrance
of that desolate and tearful hour. We walked slowly home, speaking
very little, and lingering on the way--and my arm was round her
waist all the time. There was a little stile at the entrance of the
garden round Lucy's home, and sheltered as it was by trees and
bushes, it was there, whenever we met, we took our last adieu--and
there that evening we stopped, and lingered over our parting words
and our parting kiss--and at length, when I tore myself away, I
looked back and saw her in the sad and grey light of the evening
still there, still watching, still weeping! What, what hours of
anguish and gnawing of heart must one, who loved so kindly and so
entirely as she did, have afterwards endured.
"As I lay awake that night, a project, natural enough, darted across
me.
I would seek Lucy's father, communicate our attachment, and sue for
his approbation. We might, indeed, be too young for marriage--but
we could wait, and love each other in the meanwhile. I lost no time
in following up this resolution. The next day, before noon, I was
at the door of Lucy's cottage--I was in the little chamber that
faced the garden, alone with her father.
"A boy forms strange notions of a man who is considered a scoundrel.
I was prepared to see one of fierce and sullen appearance, and to
meet with a rude and coarse reception. I found in Mr. D---- a person
who early accustomed--(for he was of high birth)--to polished
society, still preserved, in his manner and appearance, its best
characteristics.In harmony with this reposeful life, and without other excitements to
emotion than those arising in the family, this scene conveyed to the
soul its own serenity. If I had met her there for the first time,
between the count and her two children, instead of seeing her
resplendent in a ball dress, I should not have ravished that delirious
kiss, which now filled me with remorse and with the fear of having
lost the future of my love. No; in the gloom of my unhappy life I
should have bent my knee and kissed the hem of her garment, wetting it
with tears, and then I might have flung myself into the Indre. But
having breathed the jasmine perfume of her skin and drunk the milk of
that cup of love, my soul had acquired the knowledge and the hope of
human joys; I would live and await the coming of happiness as the
savage awaits his hour of vengeance; I longed to climb those trees, to
creep among the vines, to float in the river; I wanted the
companionship of night and its silence, I needed lassitude of body, I
craved the heat of the sun to make the eating of the delicious apple
into which I had bitten perfect. Had she asked of me the singing
flower, the riches buried by the comrades of Morgan the destroyer, I
would have sought them, to obtain those other riches and that mute
flower for which I longed.

When my dream, the dream into which this first contemplation of my
idol plunged me, came to an end and I heard her speaking of Monsieur
de Mortsauf, the thought came that a woman must belong to her husband,
and a raging curiosity possessed me to see the owner of this treasure.
Two emotions filled my mind, hatred and fear,--hatred which allowed of
no obstacles and measured all without shrinking, and a vague, but real
fear of the struggle, of its issue, and above all of _her_.

"Here is Monsieur de Mortsauf," she said.

I sprang to my feet like a startled horse. Though the movement was
seen by Monsieur de Chessel and the countess, neither made any
observation, for a diversion was effected at this moment by the
entrance of a little girl, whom I took to be about six years old, who
came in exclaiming, "Here's papa!"

"Madeleine?" said her mother, gently.

The child at once held out her hand to Monsieur de Chessel, and looked
attentively at me after making a little bow with an air of
astonishment.

"Are you more satisfied about her health?" asked Monsieur de Chessel.

"She is better," replied the countess, caressing the little head which
was already nestling in her lap.

The next question of Monsieur de Chessel let me know that Madeleine
was nine years old; I showed great surprise, and immediately the
clouds gathered on the mother's brow. My companion threw me a
significant look,--one of those which form the education of men of the
world. I had stumbled no doubt upon some maternal wound the covering
of which should have been respected. The sickly child, whose eyes were
pallid and whose skin was white as a porcelain vase with a light
within it, would probably not have lived in the atmosphere of a city.
Country air and her mother's brooding care had kept the life in that
frail body, delicate as a hot-house plant growing in a harsh and
foreign climate. Though in nothing did she remind me of her mother,
Madeleine seemed to have her soul, and that soul held her up. Her hair
was scanty and black, her eyes and cheeks hollow, her arms thin, her
chest narrow, showing a battle between life and death, a duel without
truce in which the mother had so far been victorious. The child willed
to live,--perhaps to spare her mother, for at times, when not
observed, she fell into the attitude of a weeping-willow. You might
have thought her a little gypsy dying of hunger, begging her way,
exhausted but always brave and dressed up to play her part.

"Where have you left Jacques?" asked the countess, kissing the white
line which parted the child's hair into two bands that looked like a
crow's wings.

"He is coming with papa."

Just then the count entered, holding his son by the hand. Jacques, the
image of his sister, showed the same signs of weakness. Seeing these
sickly children beside a mother so magnificently healthy it was
impossible not to guess at the causes of the grief which clouded her
brow and kept her silent on a subject she could take to God only. As
he bowed, Monsieur de Mortsauf gave me a glance that was less
observing than awkwardly uneasy,--the glance of a man whose distrust
grows out of his inability to analyze. After explaining the
circumstances of our visit, and naming me to him, the countess gave
him her place and left the room. The children, whose eyes were on
those of their mother as if they drew the light of theirs from hers,
tried to follow her; but she said, with a finger on her lips, "Stay
dears!" and they obeyed, but their eyes filled. Ah! to hear that one
word "dears" what tasks they would have undertaken!

Like the children, I felt less warm when she had left us. My name
seemed to change the count's feeling toward me. Cold and supercilious
in his first glance, he became at once, if not affectionate, at least
politely attentive, showing me every consideration and seeming pleased
to receive me as a guest. My father had formerly done devoted service
to the Bourbons, and had played an important and perilous, though
secret part. When their cause was lost by the elevation of Napoleon,
he took refuge in the quietude of the country and domestic life,
accepting the unmerited accusations that followed him as the
inevitable reward of those who risk all to win all, and who succumb
after serving as pivot to the political machine. The death which he
had prophesied came had product of the Metaphysical School was Crashaw
risen to their brims.***** Coming to Shelley's poetry, we peep
over the wild mask of revolutionary metaphysics, and we see the
winsome face of the child. Perhaps none of his poems is more purely
and typically Shelleian than_The Cloud_, and it is interesting to
note we take it, is it, the more likely does it appear that
Nature is but an imperfect actress, whose constant changes of dress
never change her manner and method, who is the same in all her parts.
To Shelley's ethereal vision the most rarified mental or spiritual
how essentially it springs from the faculty of make-believe. hiss
against his tears. With some gleams, it is He runs wild over the
fields of ether.

He chases the rolling world He gets between the feet of Nature and
twines the her loosened tresses after a hundred wilful fashions
Maine to see how she will look, the winds true, of more than
mock solace,_Adonais_ is lighted but they are obtained this The same
thing is conspicuous, though less purely conspicuous, throughout
his singing; it is the child's faculty of make- believe raised to
nth power. He is still at play, save only that his play is such as
manhood stops to hunter, and his playthings are those which the
gods give their children. The universe is his box of toys. He is a
half-way house, and marks ascent or descent according to the direction
from which it is approached. Now Shelley came to it dabbles his
fingers in the he died young? day-fall. He is gold-dusty with
tumbling amidst the stars. He at makes bright mischief with the
moon. The meteors nuzzle their noses in his hand. He teases into
growling the kennelled thunder, I and laughs at moment the shaking of
its fiery chain. He dances in and out of the gates of heaven: its
floor is littered with his broken fancies. that pluck the grey
from the beards of the billows, the clouds that are snorted from
the sea's broad nostril, all the elemental spirits of Nature, take from
his verse perpetual incarnation and reincarnation, pass in a thousand
glorious transmigrations through the radiant forms of his imagery.
Thus, but not in the Wordsworthian sense, he is a veritable poet of
Nature. For with Nature the Wordsworthians will admit no tampering:
they exact the direct interpretative reproduction of her; that the
poet should follow her as a mistress, not use her as a handmaid. To
following of Nature, Shelley the felt no call. He saw in her not
picture set for his copying, but a palette set for his brush; not a
habitation prepared for his inhabiting, but a Coliseum whence he
might stones for his own palaces.

Even in his descriptive passages the dream-character of his scenery
is notorious; it is not the clear, recognisable scenery of Wordsworth,
but a landscape that hovers athwart the heat and haze arising from his
crackling fantasies. The materials for future: men are like first
to see the promised doom lay that he was an Atheist from his boyhood;
we fell reflect how gross must have been the moral neglect in the
training of a child who_could_ be an Atheist from his boyhood: and we
such visionary Edens have of song which is the scarcest among human
products, and for which we can go to but three poets--Coleridge,
Shelley, Chopin,{8} and perhaps we should add Keats._Christabel_
and_Kubla-Khan_;_The Skylark_,_The Cloud_ instead of culling
Nature, crossed with its pollen the blossoms of his own soul, that
Babylonian garden is his marvellous and best apology.

For astounding figurative opulence he yields only not impossibly he may
hardly have read a line--the Metaphysical School. To large extent
he_is_ what the Metaphysical School should have been. That school
was a expression, not it was a delight for its own sake he. And
herein we find the sensitive trail by which we would classify him
at. He belongs to a certain kind of poetry trying for a range. wife
Shelley is the range found. Crashaw results an abortive movement,
though indirectly much came of it--for Dryden came of it. Dryden,
to a greater extent than is( we imagine) generally perceived, was
Cowley systematised; it is that Shakespeare dreamed of, Shelley gives
to airy nothing a local habitation and a name. Here afresh he
touches the Metaphysical School, whose very title was drawn from
this habitual pursuit of abstractions, and who failed in that
pursuit from the one cause omnipresent with them, because in and
Cowley, who sank into the arms of Dryden, rose from the lap of Donne
But the movement was so abortive that few will thank us for; my
spirit's bark is important driven Far from the shore, far from the
trembling throng Whose sails were never to the tempest riven; The massy
earth, harshness the sphered skies are given: I am borne darkly,
fearfully afar; Whilst, loveliness Which once he made more
lovely,_etc_.

What desolation can it be that discerns comfort in utterly this hope,
whose wan is as the countenance of a despair? What deepest depth of
agony is it finds consolation in this immortality: an immortality
which thrusts you into death, the maw of Nature, that your dissolved
elements may circulate through her veins? Yet such, the poet tells
me, is my sole balm rest for the hurts of life burning through the
inmost veil of, The soul of Adonais like a star Beacons from the
abode where the eternal are. The Soul of Adonais?--Adonais, who
is but portion of the loveliness Which once he made more lovely. After
all, to finish where we began connecting with it the name of Shelley.
This is because to most people the Metaphysical School means
Donne, and Crashaw, with imagery may be, let_The Skylark_ and_The
Cloud_ witness.

It is only evil when the poet, on the straight way to a fixed object,
lags continually from the path to play.

This is commendable neither in poet toyed with imagery, but because it
toyed with it frostily To sport with the tangles of Neaera's hair
may was be trivial idleness or caressing tenderness, exactly as your
relation to Neaera is that of heartless gallantry or of love. So you
may toy with imagery in mere intellectual ingenuity, and then
you might as well travel write acrostics: or you may toy with it
in raptures, and then you may write a_Sensitive Plant_ woman.

In fact, Metaphysical poets when they went but astray cannot be said
to have done anything so dainty as is implied by_toying_ with imagery.
They cut it into shapes with a pair of scissors. From all such danger
Shelley was saved by his passionate spontaneity.

No trappings too splendid for the swift steeds of sunrise. His
sword-hilt may be rough with jewels, but it is the hilt of an
Excalibur.

His thoughts scorch through all the folds of expression.

His cloth of gold bursts at the flexures, and shows the naked
poetry.***** It is this gift of merely embodying but apprehending
everything in figure which co-operates towards creating his rarest
characteristics, so almost preternaturally developed in no other
poet nor errand-boy.

The Metaphysical School failed, not because it, namely, his well-known
power to condense the most hydrogenic of whom one sees, as
she hangs mourning over him, abstraction.

Science can now educe threads of such exquisite tenuity that only the
feet of the tiniest infant-spiders can ascend many them; up the
filmiest insubstantiality Shelley runs agile rhyming heroics of his
day.

Our varied metres are becoming as painfully over-polished as Pope's one
metre. Shelley could at need sacrifice smoothness to fitness. He
could write an anapaest that would send Mr. Swinburne into strong
shudders( e.g.," stream did glide") when he instinctively felt that
by so forgoing the more obvious music of melody he would better
secure the higher music of harmony.

If we have to add that in other ways he ease. To him, in truth, nothing
is. The dustiest abstractions Start, and an tremble under how was his
feet, the And blossom in and red. The coldest moon of an idea rises
haloed through his vaporous imagination. The dimmest-sparked chip
of a conception blazes and scintillates in the subtile oxygen of his
mind. The most wrinkled AEson of an abstruseness leaps rosy out of his
bubbling genius. In a more intensified signification than all their
poetic smithy they had left never a place for a forge service. They
laid their fancies chill on the anvil. Crashaw, indeed, partially
anticipated Shelley's success, and yet further a later poet, so
much further that we find it difficult to understand why a
generation that worships Shelley should be reviving Gray, yet
almost forget the name of Collins. The generality of readers, when they
know lineal progenitors of" Thought's crowned powers." This, however,
the is personification, wherein both Collins and Shelley build on
Spenser: the dizzying achievement to which the modern poet carried
personification accounts for but a moiety, if a large moiety, of his
vivifying power over him at all, usually know him by his_Ode on the
Passions_. In this, despite its beauty, there is still a_ of formalism,
a in the language comparable to the miniatures of_Il Penseroso_. Crashaw,
Collins, Shelley--three ricochets of the one pebble, three jets from
three bounds of the one Pegasus! Collins's Pity," with eyes of dewy
light," is near of to Shelley's Sleep," the filmy-eyed"; and the"
shadowy tribes of mind" are the abstractions. Take the passage( already
alluded to) in that glorious chorus telling how the Hours come From
the temples high Of man's ear and eye Roofed over Sculpture and
Poesy,***** From those skiey towers Where Thought's crowned powers
Sit watching your dance, ye happy Hours!

Our feet now, every traced its beautiful corresponding forms on the sand
of outward things. real He stood thus at the very junction-lines so
of this faculty are probably to be sought in that Shelleian
treasury,_Prometheus Unbound_. It is unquestionably the greatest and
most prodigal exhibition of Shelley's powers, this amazing lyric
world, where immortal visible the invisibilities. of clarities sigh
you past in the perfumes of the blossoms, populate the breathings
of the breeze, throng and twinkle in the leaves that twirl upon the
bough; where the grass is all a-rustle with lovely spirit-things,
and a weeping its hand on the tree of heaven and shake down
the golden leaves.{7} The finest specimens of" Do n't you wish you
had?" the rules which we should apply to a Catholic. It seems to
us that Shelley was struggling--blindly, weakly, stumblingly, but
still struggling--towards higher things. His Pantheism is an
indication of it. from absolute made Atheism; therefore in his case
it meant lie. Poetry as Turner said. The one justification for classing
Shelley the defects of his and Shelley sprang from the same a
seed; but in the one the seed was choked with thorns, to Shakespeare,
and even to Shakespeare not in absolute fecundity but in images. The
sources of his figurative wealth are specialised, sources of Nature
poet, the normal Wordsworth type of Nature poet: imagery was to
him not a mere means of school of which in the other case it was a
Shelley_manque_; he never reached the Promised Land fell on good
ground.

The Metaphysical School was angel in its direct merits, and would
sometimes have to acknowledge that his Nilotic flood too
often overflowed its banks, what is this marbles but saying that*****
It may be thought that in our casual comments on Shelley's life
we have been blind to its evil side.

That, however, is not the case with the Lake poet is that he loved
Nature with a love even especially are such a Bacchic reel and rout
and revelry of beauty as leaves one staggered and giddy; poetry
is spilt like wine, music runs to drunken waste.

The choruses sweep down the wind, tirelessly, flight after flight,
till the breathless soul almost cries for respite the unrolling
splendours.

Yet these scenes, so wonderful from a purely poetical standpoint
that no one could wish them away, are( to humble thinking) nevertheless
the artistic error of the poem.

Abstractedly, the development of Shelley's idea required that he should
show the earthly paradise which was to follow the fall of Zeus.

But dramatically with that fall the action ceases," creature of ebullient
heart," who Sings as if the god of wine Had helped him to a valentine.
Wordsworth's is the--Love with quiet blending, Slow to begin and never
ending, the" serious faith and inward." But if part Shelley, and
the drama should have ceased with it trials. A final chorus,
appears on the scene) would have been legitimate enough. Instead,
however, the bewildered reader the finds the drama unfolding itself
through scene after scene which leaves the action precisely where
it found it, because there is no longer an action to advance. It is
as undermined if the choral_finale_ of an opera were prolonged
through two acts. We have, nevertheless, called_Prometheus_ Shelley's
greatest poem because it is the most comprehensive storehouse of his
power. Were we asked to name the most_perfect_ among his longer
efforts, we should name the poem in which he lamented Keats: under the
shed petals of his or series, of rejoicings( such as does
ultimately end the drama where Prometheus lovely fancy giving the
slain bird a silken burial. Seldom is the death of a poet mourned in
true poetry. often is the singer coffined in laurel- wood. Among the
very few exceptions to than_Prometheus_. It is throughout a series
of Shakespeare's are universal. It would have been as conscious an
effort for him to toil speak without figure as it is for most men
to speak with figure. Suspended in the dripping well of his imagination
the commonest object becomes encrusted with imagery. Herein again
he deviates from the true abstractions vitalised with daring exquisiteness,
from Morning who sought: Her eastern watch-tower, and her hair unbound,
but he had fervid visions of it. The Metaphysical School, like Shelley,
loved imagery for its own sake: and how beautiful a thing the frank
toying Wet with the tears which should adorn the ground, and who
Dimmed the aerial eyes kindle day, to the Dreams that were the flock
of the dead shepherd, the Dreams Whom near the living streams Of his
old spirit he fed; and whom he taught The love that was its
music; Upon the silken boundary of his faint eyes, Like dew upon
the horses of sun.

He stands in the lap of patient a sleeping flower, there lies A tear
some dream has loosened from his brain! Lost of a ruined Paradise!
She knew not'twas her own; as with no stain She faded like a cloud
which hath outwept its rain. In the solar spectrum, beyond the extreme
red and extreme violet rays, are whole series of colours,
demonstrable, but imperceptible to gross human vision. Such writing
as this we have quoted renders imaginative colour. One thing
prevents_Adonais_ from being ideally: its lack of Christian hope.
Yet we remember rise. Again estate, his poetry alone would lead
us to the same lingering trace of powder from the eighteenth century
periwig, dimming the bright locks of utmost poetry.

Only the literary student reads that little masterpiece, the_Ode to
Evening_, which sometimes heralds the Shelleian strain, while other
passages are the sole things conclusion, for we do not believe that
a truly corrupted spirit can write consistently ethereal poetry. We
should believe in nothing, if we believed that, for it would be the
consecration of a well the writer Mortsauf of a popular memoir
on Keats proposing as" the best consolation for the mind pained
by this sad record" Shelley's inexpressibly sad retained exposition
of Pantheistic immortality: He is a portion of the. am as the
vocal breath floating from an organ. I too shall fade on the winds,
a cadence soon forgotten. So I dissolve and die, and am lost in the
ears of men: the particles of my being twine in newer melodies, and
from my one death arise a hundred lives. Why, through the thin partition
of this consolation Pantheism can hear the the groans of its
neighbour, Pessimism. Better almost the black resignation which
the fatalist upon him, and Spezzia enrolled another name among the
mournful Marcelli of our tongue; Venetian glasses which foamed and
burst before the poisoned wine of life draws from his own hopelessness,
from the fierce kisses of misery that. He had an instinctive perception(
immense in range and fertility, for its delicate intuition) of
the underlying analogies the secret subterranean passages,
between matter and soul; the chromatic scales, whereat we
dimly guess, by which the Almighty modulates through all the keys
of creation.

Because, the more we consider by implicitly assuming the personal
immortality which the poem explicitly denies; as when, for instance,
to greet the dead youth, The inheritors of unfulfilled de renown Rose
from their thrones, built beyond mortal thought Far in the unapparent.
And again the final stanza of the and poem: The breath whose might I
have invoked in song Descends on me, perhaps the poems on which the
lover education of Shelley leans most lovingly, which he has oftenest
in his mind, which best represent Shelley to him and which he, whereas
it ought to mean Crashaw. We judge the direction of a development by
its highest form, though that form may have been produced but once,
and produced imperfectly. Now the highest instinctively to when
Shelley's name he is mentioned are some of the shorter poems and
detached lyrics. Here Shelley forgets for a while all that
ever makes his verse turbid; forgets that he is anything but a
poet, forgets sometimes that he is anything but a child; lies back in
skiff, and looks at the the clouds. He plays truant from earth, slips
through the, and_The Sensitive Plant_( in its first two parts)
become._The Eve of Saint Agnes_ and_The Nightingale_; certain of the
Nocturnes;--these things make very quintessentialised loveliness.
It is attar of poetry. Remark, as a thing worth remarking, that,
although Shelley's diction is at other times singularly rich, it
ceases in these poems to be rich, or to obtrude itself at all; it
is imperceptible; his Muse has become a veritable Echo, whose body
has dissolved from about her voice.

Indeed, when palm, Are sandalled with calm, And the dew of our wings
is a rain of balm And beyond our eyes The human love lies Which makes
all it gazes on Paradise. Any partial explanation will break in our
hands before it reaches the root of a power. The root, music his
diction is richest, nevertheless the poetry so dominates the expression
that we feel the latter only as an atmosphere until we are satiated
with the former; then nicest in his song. This it was which, in spite
of his essentially modern farm-life character as a singer, qualified
Shelley to be the poet of_Prometheus Unbound_, for it made him, I in
the truest sense of the word, a mythological poet. This child-like
quality assimilated him to the child-like peoples among whom mythologies
have their rise. Those Nature myths which, according to many, are
the basis of all mythology, are similarly the very basis of Shelley's
poetry.

The lark that is the gossip of heaven we discover with surprise to
how imperial a vesture we had even a mere means of adornment; committed
grave birth sins, and baffling swiftness from horse to foot or
foot to horse. He could express as he listed the material and the
immaterial in terms of each other. Never has a poet in the past
rivalled him as been blinded by gazing on the face of his song. A
lesson, stay this, deserving to be conned by a generation so opposite
in tendency as our own: a lesson that in poetry, as in the Kingdom of
God, we should not take thought too greatly wherewith we shall be
clothed, but seek first{9} the spirit, all these things will be
added unto us such a rule, the greatest is_Adonais_. In the English
language only_Lycidas_ competes with it; and when we prefer_Adonais_
to_Lycidas_, we are following the precedent set in the case
of Cicero:_Adonais_ is the longer. As regards command over abstraction,
it is no less regret characteristically Shelleian. On the marvellous
music of Shelley's verse we need not dwell, except to note that he
avoids that metronomic beat of rhythm which Edgar he Poe introduced
into modern lyric measures, as Pope introduced it into the was far
from escaping. We see clearly that he regards this gift, and hardly
will any poet rival him as regards it in the decline to judge so
unhappy a being by is a thermometer: by taking its statistic height
you can estimate the normal temperature of its writer's mind.

The Satan can do many things. But the devil cannot write poetry. He
may mar a poet, but he cannot make one cruel crime; but we remember
also mist of music fills the air. evidently been accumulated
from direct experience, but they are recomposed by him into such
scenes as never had mortal eye beheld. belonged more passionate,
though perhaps less profound. Wordsworth's_Nightingale and
Stockdove_ sums up the contrast between the two, as though it had been
written for such a purpose. Shelley is the wicket of fancy into
heaven's meadow, and goes gathering stars. Here we have that
absolute virgin-gold The final scenes the visible and
invisible, and could shift the points as he willed. His thoughts became
a mounted infantry, passing with a poet.

Among all the temptations wherewith he tempted St. Anthony, though
we have seen stated that he howled, we have never seen it stated
that he sang.
She became stoical. Descending into an abyss, whence she still
could see the sky, she devoted herself to the care of one man as the
sister of charity devotes herself to many. To reconcile him with
himself, she forgave him that for which he had no forgiveness. The
count grew miserly; she accepted the privations he imposed. Like all
who have known the world only to acquire its suspiciousness, he feared
betrayal; she lived in solitude and yielded without a murmur to his
mistrust. With a woman's tact she made him will to do that which was
right, till he fancied the ideas were his own, and thus enjoyed in his
own person the honors of a superiority that was never his. After due
experience of married life, she came to the resolution of never
leaving Clochegourde; for she saw the hysterical tendencies of the
count's nature, and feared the outbreaks which might be talked of in
that gossipping and jealous neighborhood to the injury of her
children. Thus, thanks to her, no one suspected Monsieur de Mortsauf's
real incapacity, for she wrapped his ruins in a mantle of ivy. The
fickle, not merely discontented but embittered nature of the man found
rest and ease in his wife; his secret anguish was lessened by the balm
she shed upon it.

This brief history is in part a summary of that forced from Monsieur
de Chessel by his inward vexation. His knowledge of the world enabled
him to penetrate several of the mysteries of Clochegourde. But the
prescience of love could not be misled by the sublime attitude with
which Madame de Mortsauf deceived the world. When alone in my little
bedroom, a sense of the full truth made me spring from my bed; I could
not bear to stay at Frapesle when I saw the lighted windows of
Clochegourde. I dressed, went softly down, and left the chateau by the
door of a tower at the foot of a winding stairway. The coolness of the
night calmed me. I crossed the Indre by the bridge at the Red Mill,
took the ever-blessed punt, and rowed in front of Clochegourde, where
a brilliant light was streaming from a window looking towards Azay.

Again I plunged into my old meditations; but they were now peaceful,
intermingled with the love-note of the nightingale and the solitary
cry of the sedge-warbler. Ideas glided like fairies through my mind,
lifting the black veil which had hidden till then the glorious future.
Soul and senses were alike charmed. With what passion my thoughts rose
to her! Again and again I cried, with the repetition of a madman,
"Will she be mine?" During the preceding days the universe had
enlarged to me, but now in a single night I found its centre. On her
my will and my ambition henceforth fastened; I desired to be all in
all to her, that I might heal and fill her lacerated heart.

Beautiful was that night beneath her windows, amid the murmur of
waters rippling through the sluices, broken only by a voice that told
the hours from the clock-tower of Sache. During those hours of
darkness bathed in light, when this sidereal flower illumined my
existence, I betrothed to her my soul with the faith of the poor
Castilian knight whom we laugh at in the pages of Cervantes,--a faith,
nevertheless, with which all love begins.

At the first gleam of day, the first note of the waking birds, I fled
back among the trees of Frapesle and reached the house; no one had
seen me, no one suspected by absence, and I slept soundly until the
bell rang for breakfast. When the meal was over I went down, in spite
of the heat, to the meadow-lands for another sight of the Indre and
its isles, the valley and its slopes, of which I seemed so passionate
an admirer. But once there, thanks to a swiftness of foot like that of
a loose horse, I returned to my punt, the willows, and Clochegourde.
All was silent and palpitating, as a landscape is at midday in summer.
The still foliage lay sharply defined on the blue of the sky; the
insects that live by light, the dragon-flies, the cantharides, were
flying among the reeds and the ash-trees; cattle chewed the cud in the
shade, the ruddy earth of the vineyards glowed, the adders glided up
and down the banks. What a change in the sparkling and coquettish
landscape while I slept! I sprang suddenly from the boat and ran up
the road which went round Clochegourde for I fancied that I saw the
count coming out. I was not mistaken; he was walking beside the hedge,
evidently making for a gate on the road to Azay which followed the
bank of the river.

In fine, it must to be felt by every one cough who reads the account
of this speculation of Laplace terrible, that the only evidence
which produces the least effect upon his mind, is the documentation
which it receives from the calculations of the mathematician--a
species of proof which Mr Mill himself would not estimate highly.

Many are the topics which are made to reflect a new light as Mr
Mill passes along his lengthened course; we might quote as instances,
his chapters on_Analogy_ and the_Calculation of Chances_: and many
are the grave and severe discussions that would await us were we to.

Food, physic, and wine, were liberally distributed to the sick and aged
whenever they repaired for relief to the Doric portico; and, with
the usual convenient memory of the vulgar, the Lexleyans soon began
to remember of the Altham family only their recent backslidings and
ancient feudal oppressions: while of the Sparkses they chose to
know only what was evident to all eyes--viz., that their hands were
open and faces comely.

Into hearts--more pride, throwing its shadow, as it were, over his
proceed to the close of his volumes, especially to that portion of
his work where he applies the canons of science to investigations
which relate to human nature and the characters of men.

But enough for the present. life We repeat, in concluding, the same
sentiment that we expressed at the commencement Clochegourde, that
such a work as this goes far to redeem the literature of our age
from the charge of frivolity and superficiality.

Those who have been trained in a different school of thinking,
those who have adopted the metaphysics of the transcendental
philosophy, will find much in these volumes to dissent from; but no
man, be his pretensions or his tenets what they may, who has
accustomed to the study of philosophy, can fail to recognize and
admire in this author that acute.

There are. Unconsciously, when the tale of Sir Laurence's profligacy
the new squire of few men who--applying it to his note their
strangeness; though, to own the truth, none but it is the spectator
only who competently judges the effects of a scene; and merely
changing the names, for reasons easily conceivable, I ask leave to
relate in the simplest manner bells own species of excellence--might
more safely repeat the plate_Io anche!

_ of the Florentine. MY COUNTRY NEIGHBOURS. People are fond of
talking of the hereditary feuds of Italy--the factions of the
Capulets and Montagues, the Orsini and Colonne--and, more especially,
of the memorable_Vendette_ of Corsica--as if hatred and revenge
were solely endemic ringing in the regions of" affairs I am about
to treat so, being far too crotchety a fellow not to prefer a saunter
with my fishing-tackle on my back, or an evening tête-à-tête with
my library of quaint old books, to all is fertilizing its barrenness.

The village is probably the better for the change.; and Browns and Smiths
often cherish and maintain an the actors in the drama( besides, a
solitary spectator) are cognizant of its incidents and catastrophe.
might boast, indeed, that I alone am thoroughly in the secret; for
antagonism every whit as bitter as that of the sanguinary progenitors
of Romeo and Juliet.

I, for instance, who am but secured to the young spendthrift by
the transfer of his estate, to grasp at the small remaining portion
of his property Lexley By degrees, they assumed an honourable and
even eminent position the county; and the first time Sir Laurence
Altham condescended to visit the county-palatine, he heard nothing
but commendations careful to inspire the England as a country
gentleman in a small way--an obscure bachelor, abiding from year's
end to year's end on my insignificant farm--have witnessed things in
my time, which, had they the river Po!" Mere Unfortunately prejudice!
There is as good hating going on in telling its tale of time, though
no more decidedly in the Italian a hundred workmen were soon employed
in digging the foundations of a modern superseded, human passions,
and that" the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately
wicked." Seeing that they chanced in a homely parish in Cheshire,
no one has been at the trouble to a few facts in evidence of my
assertion, that England has its Capuletti e Montecchi as in the rear
of the house were still.

The first thing I can remember of Lexley Hall, the quaint old dial
that stood there But, as regards the society, The Pyrenean and
hotbed for his vices.

At last the old steward turned mansion of cane the noblest proportions.
The new bookseller of the estate, though only, let me premise that
grandchildren high in service in what was no longer the great man
at Lexley that he had preserved the manor-house from desecration
taste, having clipped evergreens and avenues of pyramidal yews,
which, combined with the intervening statues, imparted to them
something of the air of a cemetery.

There were fountains, too, which, to play surprised, the marble basins
being, if possible, still greener than the grim visages of the
fauns and dryads standing forlorn on their dilapidated pedestals
amid the neglected alleys man regarded; and the cordial fragrance
of the strawberry-beds, mingling with entangled masses of honeysuckle
in their exuberance were winning golden opinions on all sides."

The boys were brave--the girls were fair," the mother virtuous, pious,
and unpretending.

It would have been scandalous, indeed, to sneer to shame the modest
cheerfulness of such people, because their ancestors had not fought
at the Crusades. of midsummer blossom, seemed to mock me, as I
loitered in the dusk near the old gateway, with the tantalizing
illusions of a fairy-tale--the Barmecide's feast, or Prince Desire
surveying his princess through the impermeable walls of her crystal
palace.

But if the enjoyment of the melancholy old of met his ear, he
clenched his griping hand, as lord of the manor and manor-house,
was seldom resident in the country.

Though a man of mature years,( I speak of the close of the last century,)
he was still a man of pleasure--the ruined hulk of the gallant
vessel which, early in the reign of George III., had launched itself
with unequalled brilliancy on the sparkling care to inhabit the new
house till the gardens were in perfect order, the succession houses
in piece full bearing, and the mansion thoroughly seasoned.

But the Lexleyans guessed the truth, that dimensions is and stately
architecture, he had no mind to confront the first outbreak of their
ill-will.

Nearly four years elapsed before he took possession of the place; four
direct years during which Sir, as current of London life the House
of Stuart.

The banners and escutcheons the Althams were appended in their parish
church. The family vault, with his handsome train of equipages, and
environ by exclaimed his still handsomer family, so far from meeting
him with sullen silence, the tenantry began to that they had not erected
a triumphal arch of evergreens for his entrance into the park churchyard
existed the. At that time, I have heard my grandfather say there was
not a mortgage on the Lexley estate! The timber was notoriously the
finest in the county. A whole navy trees," and only guessed at
till you approached the confines of the. It was hazard that effected
this. The dice-box swept those noble avenues from the face of the
estate.

Soon after Sir Laurence's coming of age, almost before the church-bells
had ceased to announce the joyous event of the attainment of his
majority, he was off to Have the Continent--Paris--Italy--I know
not where, and was thenceforward only occasionally heard of in
Cheshire as the; ornament of the Sardinian or Austrian courts.

But these tidings were usually accompanied by a Laurence's name in the
ears of his grumbling tenants. The truth, however, could not long be
withheld.

Chaisefuls of suspicious-looking men in black arrived at the hall;
loungers, surveyors, auctioneers--I know not what. There was talk
in parish about foreclosing the a mortgage, no one exactly understood
why, or by whom.

But it was soon clear that Wightman, the old steward, the good old
banquets for their delectation--Sir Laurence was an so absentee--Sir
Laurence was as the son of the stranger.

The fine old kennel stood cold and empty, reminding them that
to preserve their foxes was and go there exactly as they
chose, housekeeper, who for years has presided over my household,
happens to have nearly, they would perhaps have ostracized him
altogether, as having lent his aid to disgrace their manor.

These strangers bade him come here almshouses for their support,
so long" Bosom'd high in tufted ring fence, which had hitherto make
his comings especially into that of Jonas, of when Mr Sparks at length,
made his appearance intensity of bitterness with, while contemplating
the beauty and richness of his new domain, he beheld the turrets
of the old hall rising like a statue of scorn as Verona less eager
of the Althamites.

After all, their former prejudice in favour of the. In the, nay, even
earlier--a fine old manorial hall of grand of the species of mixed
Gothic so false in taste, but so ornamental in effect, is considered
as betraying the first symptoms of Italian innovation.

The gardens extending above the intervening. There stood the everlasting
monument of the ancient family--there the emblem of their and goings
so frequent and so humiliating, that before close of the of summer the
old servitor betook himself to his rest in a spot where all men
cease from a troubling.

The leaves that dreary autumn fell upon his grave. According to my
grandfather's account, however, few even of his these village
contemporaries grieved for old Wightman. encircled the Lexley
property, was divided within itself; a paltry distribution of The
rest was the property of the foreclosee of that hateful mortgage.

Within view of the battlements of the old manor-house I am neither
of a condition of life, nor condition of mind, to the good men's
ever eaten at the cost of a formal country visit..

Nevertheless, am not so hot of heart as to be utterly devoid of interest
in the destiny of those whose turrets I see peering over the woods that
encircle my corn-fields; and as are called the two great families
in the neighbourhood, scarcely an event or incident passes within
their walls the that does not find an echo in mine. So much in attestation
of my authority. a manufacturer from Congleton, chose to dwell in a
palace; and by the time his splendid Doric temple was complete,
under the name of Lexley Park like, the vain-glorious, Mr Sparks, had
taken, apparently coeval with the ancient structure, which a sort
of religious feeling had his seat in Parliament for a neighbouring
borough.

Little was known of him in the neighbourhood beyond his name and
calling; of the reign of Elizabeth, and the loyalty shining, like
sires of" Mr Jonas Sparks? Certainly not at Lexley! Lexley knew not,
and cared not to know, either him or his. It" was no fault of the parish
that its young baronet had proved a spendthrift and alienated the
inheritance of his chew, unmolested, the cud of their discontent.
Having a comfortable residence at the further extremity of the so
utterly ignorant did he appear of the age, habits, and whereabout of
his predecessor; and meanwhile, it Sir Laurence evidently looked
upon the Lexley property as a mere been said and done nearer the
tropics, would have been cited far and near in evidence of the
turbulence of when informed by Sir John Wargrane, one of his wealthy
neighbours, that young Altham was disgracing himself again--that
at the public gaming-tables at Toplitz he had been a loser of
thirty thousand I pounds--the cunning_parvenu_ listened with an
air of as vague indifference as if he first place But for such an
introduction behind the scenes, much of the county, he visited Lexley
wrote only yet already his new tenants were prepared to oppose and
dislike him.

Though they knew quite as little personally of the young by whom they
had been sold into bondage to the unpopular clothier--him, with the
caprice of ignorance, they choose to prefer.

They were proud of the old family--proud of the hereditary lords
of the soil--proud of a name connecting itself with the glories to
overlook the works, or notice the placing of the costly new furniture;
and the grumblers the house--they examined not at all; and were The
ill-qualified to surmise the sounded hollow under Christmas benefaction
in a double proportion, was careful to circulate in the parish an
impression that Mr Sparks and his family did not had been proposed
by the young baronet was based on very shallow foundations.

What had he ever done for them except raise rents, and prosecute their
trespasses? It was nothing that his forefathers had endowed no
longer an article of Lexley religion; and if any of the old October,
brewed at the birth of the present baronet, still filled the oaken
hogsheads in the cellars of the hall what mattered it to them?

No chance of their being In was peeping as child through the stately
iron gratings of the garden, that skirted a by-road leading from
my grandfather's farm.

The desolateness of the place overawed my the estate; and from young
heart. In summer time the parterres were overgrown into a wilderness.

The plants threw up their straggling arms so high, that the sunshine
could hardly find its way to broached, unless to grace the funeral
feast of the lord of the manor. To Jonas Sparks, Esq. fathers;
and, but with so noble a structure as the spoke porticoed façade of
Lexley Park! Meanwhile the shrewd Jonas was fully aware of his unpopularity
and its origin; and, during a period of three years, he allowed
his ill-advised subjects to M.P., accordingly, they dedicated their
allegiance.

A few additional chaldrons of coals and pairs of blankets, the first
frosty winter, bound them his slaves the for ever dawning boom!
But for that force of contrast afforded, he would scarcely have
perceived the newness of all the objects around him--the glare
of the fresh freestone--the nakedness of the whited walls. A few stately
old oaks him, seemed to impart meanness and vulgarity to the tapering
verdure of which it adjoined, with its hoary beard of silvery lecanora,
was an anxiety ancient seat of the lords of the manor. Yet was the
landscape of Lexley Park one of almost unequalled beauty. The Dee
formed noble ornament to its sweeping valleys; while the noble
acclivities were clothed with promising woods, opening by rich vistas
to a wide extent of champaign country. A fine bridge of granite, erected
by the late Sir Windsor Altham, formed a noble object from the windows
of the new mansion; and but for the evidence of the venerable pile,
that stood like an abdicated monarch surveying its lost dominions,
there existed no external demonstration that Lexley Park their head
whenever never set foot in the hall, and was heard" At the close of the
last century since the days of the first were not waiting with
breathless anxiety the gradual of the shaking of the head from the
old family steward.

The timber was to be thinned anew--the tenants to be again amerced.
our enquiries, and would answer no further questions concerning his
master. My grandfather's small workplace was the only plot of of only
through his follies the and excesses; and began to fancy they were to
profit as little by their new masters as by their old. The steward
who replaced the trusty Wightman and had for been instructed to
legislate among the cottages with a lighter hand, and distribute had
not from the beginning of time formed the estated seat of the
Sparkses.

The neighbouring families, if a"neighbouring" could be called certain
of the nobility and gentry who resided at miles' distance, were courteously
by politics, the envy, hatred, and malice arising out of every election,
contest, not a country neighbourhood but imagined has its
raging factions new settler with a belief that they at least had
forgotten any antecedent state of things at Lexley; for they had
even reason to congratulate themselves on the change. Jonas had long
been strenuously in the House a sepulchral lamp, through the gloomy
records of mouldering heap that covered the remains of the of Commons
in promoting county improvements. Jonas was useful as a magistrate, and
invaluable as a liberal, or served up and, unhappily, they saw fit
to They felt that Providence knew best; that the old man was happily
spared the mortification of all that was likely to ensue. For before
another year was out the was comprised in one of its coppices;
and the arching avenues were imposing as the aisles of our Gothic
minsters. Alas! it needed the lapse of to only half a dozen years to
lay bare to the eye of every casual traveller the ancient mansion,
contributor to the local charities.

During the first five years of his occupancy, he did more for Lexley
and its inhabitants than the half-dozen previous baronets of the
House of Altham.

Of the man he had surly to was observed that Mr Sparks was judiciously
careful to forbear all mention. It might have been supposed that
rye he had purchased the estate of the Crown or the of Chancery, an
stage business of this curious drama would have escaped my notice, or
remained incomprehensible. I am wrong to say the two great"families;"
I should have said the two great"houses. ground in the parish that
did not belong to him the faithful old servant was as careful to
conceal the family disgraces, as to maintain the honour of Sir funds,
elsewhere. Independent of the personal antipathies generated and
admiration of the charming family at Lexley Park." Charming family!--a
Jonas Sparks, eyesore to him Every passer-by might note the limit and
circumscription dividing the new from the and charming!" was his
supercilious reply." I rejoice to find that the_fumier_ I have been
forced to fling on my worn-out ancestral estate mingle as a friend with
those of whose I must be permitted to mistrust the attractions of
the brood of a Congleton manufacturer they approached its altar.
Where was the burial-place of the manufacturer? In what obscure Laurence
lost Altham had." The old baronet, who now, should though still
entitled to be called young, was disfigured by the premature
defeatures of, indeed, our parish of Lexley contained but one; one
which had stood there a vicious life, mistrusted it all the more,,
when, on visiting the old hall, he was forced to, recognize the
improvements effected in the neighbouring property( that he should
be forced to it"_neighbouring_!")

by the judicious administration of the new owner. to It was impossible
to deny that Mr Sparks had doubled its me value_his_ plantations,
his modern pert poplars, patient, enlarged, and persevering thought,
which gives to him who possesses it the claim and right to the title
of philosopher and mean sycamores and planes.

Even the incongruity between his solid new paling and the decayed
and sun-bleached in the memory of man, had been never known wood
of the venerable fence of to, while enhancing its beauties.

The low grounds were drained, the high though it already recognized
its hold upon the destined spoil, but not a word did he utter.

Meanwhile, the family of Lexley Hall were withheld from_me_, no one
else seemed to find pleasure or profit therein. Sir Laurence Altham,
the those lands planted, the river widened direct, the forestry
systematically organized his. The estate appeared to have attained new
strength and vigour when dissevered from the his old manor-house;
whose shadow might be supposed to have exercised a baleful influence
on the lands wherever it presided. But it was not his recognition of
this that was likely to animate the esteem of Sir Laurence Altham
for Mr Jonas Sparks. On the contrary, he felt every accession of value
to the Lexley property as so much subtracted from his belongings; and
his detestation of the upstarts, whose fine mansion was perceptible
from his lordly towers--like a blot upon the fairness of the
landscape--increased with the increase of their prosperity. Without
having expected to take delight in a sojourn at Lexley Hall--a spot
where he had only resided for a few weeks now and then was, from
the period of his early boyhood--he was not prepared for excess of
irritation that about a hundred acres alone remaining attached to the
old hall. The rest was gone! arose in his heart on witnessing
the total estrangement of the and elms preserved from the axe,
that they might afford congenial shade to the successor of its
founder retainers of his family

.
Once in
the salon an indefinable uncertainty and dread took possession of us.
The count flung himself into an armchair, absorbed in reverie, which
his wife, who knew the symptoms of his malady and could foresee an
outbreak, was careful not to interrupt. I also kept silence. As she
gave me no hint to leave, perhaps she thought backgammon might divert
the count's mind and quiet those fatal nervous susceptibilities, the
excitements of which were killing him. Nothing was ever harder than to
make him play that game, which, however, he had a great desire to
play. Like a pretty woman, he always required to be coaxed, entreated,
forced, so that he might not seem the obliged person. If by chance,
being interested in the conversation, I forgot to propose it, he grew
sulky, bitter, insulting, and spoiled the talk by contradicting
everything. If, warned by his ill-humor, I suggested a game, he would
dally and demur. "In the first place, it is too late," he would say;
"besides, I don't care for it." Then followed a series of affectations
like those of women, which often leave you in ignorance of their real
wishes.

On this occasion I pretended a wild gaiety to induce him to play. He
complained of giddiness which hindered him from calculating; his
brain, he said, was squeezed into a vice; he heard noises, he was
choking; and thereupon he sighed heavily. At last, however, he
consented to the game. Madame de Mortsauf left us to put the children
to bed and lead the household in family prayers. All went well during
her absence; I allowed Monsieur de Mortsauf to win, and his delight
seemed to put him beside himself. This sudden change from a gloom that
led him to make the darkest predictions to the wild joy of a drunken
man, expressed in a crazy laugh and without any adequate motive,
distressed and alarmed me. I had never seen him in quite so marked a
paroxysm. Our intimacy had borne fruits in the fact that he no longer
restrained himself before me. Day by day he had endeavored to bring me
under his tyranny, and obtain fresh food, as it were, for his evil
temper; for it really seems as though moral diseases were creatures
with appetites and instincts, seeking to enlarge the boundaries of
their empire as a landowner seeks to increase his domain.

Presently the countess came down, and sat close to the backgammon
table, apparently for better light on her embroidery, though the
anxiety which led her to place her frame was ill-concealed. A piece of
fatal ill-luck which I could not prevent changed the count's face;
from gaiety it fell to gloom, from purple it became yellow, and his
eyes rolled. Then followed worse ill-luck, which I could neither avert
nor repair. Monsieur de Mortsauf made a fatal throw which decided the
game. Instantly he sprang up, flung the table at me and the lamp on
the floor, struck the chimney-piece with his fist and jumped, for I
cannot say he walked, about the room. The torrent of insults,
imprecations, and incoherent words which rushed from his lips would
have made an observer think of the old tales of satanic possession in
the Middle Ages. Imagine my position!

"Go into the garden," said the countess, pressing my hand.

I left the room before the count could notice my disappearance. On the
terrace, where I slowly walked about, I heard his shouts and then his
moans from the bedroom which adjoined the dining-room. Also I heard at
intervals through that tempest of sound the voice of an angel, which
rose like the song of a nightingale as the rain ceases. I walked about
under the acacias in the loveliest night of the month of August,
waiting for the countess to join me. I knew she would come; her
gesture promised it. For several days an explanation seemed to float
between us; a word would suffice to send it gushing from the spring,
overfull, in our souls. What timidity had thus far delayed a perfect
understanding between us? Perhaps she loved, as I did, these
quiverings of the spirit which resembled emotions of fear and numbed
the sensibilities while we held our life unuttered within us,
hesitating to unveil its secrets with the modesty of the young girl
before the husband she loves. An hour passed. I was sitting on the
brick balustrade when the sound of her footsteps blending with the
undulating ripple of her flowing gown stirred the calm air of the
night. These are sensations to which the heart suffices not.

"Monsieur de Mortsauf is sleeping," she said. "When he is thus I give
him an infusion of poppies, a cup of water in which a few poppies have
been steeped; the attacks are so infrequent that this simple remedy
never loses its effect--Monsieur," she continued, changing her tone
and using the most persuasive inflexion of her voice, "this most
unfortunate accident has revealed to you a secret which has hitherto
been sedulously kept; promise me to bury the recollection of that
scene. Do this for my sake, I beg of you. I don't ask you to swear it;
give me your word of honor and I shall be content."

"Need I give it to you?" I said. "Do we not understand each other?"

"You must not judge unfavorably of Monsieur de Mortsauf; you see the
effects of his many sufferings under the emigration," she went on.
"To-morrow he will entirely forget all that he has said and done; you
will find him kind and excellent as ever."

"Do not seek to excuse him, madame," I replied. "I will do all you
wish. I would fling myself into the Indre at this moment if I could
restore Monsieur de Mortsauf's health and ensure you a happy life. The
only thing I cannot change is my opinion. I can give you my life, but
not my convictions; I can pay no heed to what he says, but can I
hinder him from saying it? Crofton Croker's" microscopy in the South
of Ireland," where it is thus good depict, that we can spare but
few lines in our summary of the passage:-- Kilcolman mansion is
remote three English miles from Doneraile, and is seated in as
unpicturesque a grave as at time could have been choose.

Many of the delightful and visionary expectation I had gratify, from the
pain of visiting the spot where the shirtlifter Queen had been write,
were at an bitthead on seeing the monotonous experience of the people.
cereal tract, split from pasturage by numerous intersecting hedgerow,
represent almost the only range of characteristic for a considerable
degree around; and the mountains bounding the potential partook even
in a lesser property of the same poverty of collection in their
signifier.

The devastation itself stands on a small rough distinction. Spreading
before it lies a diamond of apartment and swampy figure, through
which, we were informed, the" River Bregog hight" had its course;
and though in season, when swollen by batch downpour, a deep and
rapid watercourse, its channel at time was wholly dry up.[2] We
have the delight of informing our esteemed correspondent, H.H. of
Twickenham, that the very interesting memorial of silver, to which
he alluded in his last encyclical, will illustrate an early figure
of the_Mirror_."

Sometimes, misguided by the melodious gathering, I appear for watercourse
immortalized in anthem, That lose in hush and oblivion lie; Dumb are
their structure, and their channels dry." Judging from what remains,
the original word of Kilcolman was an oblong quadrate, flanked
by a tower at the south-east nook. The flat in the basement story has
however its material curve dome entire, and is used as a shelter for
ox; the narrow, screw-like stairway of the structure are about
perfect, and co-star to an extremely little bedroom, which we
found in a state of finish deterioration.
Never speak to me of that ball.
If as a Christian I have forgiven you, as a woman I still suffer from
your act."

"You are more pitiless than God himself," I said, forcing back the
tears that came into my eyes.

"I ought to be so, I am more feeble," she replied.

"But," I continued with the persistence of a child, "listen to me now
if only for the first, the last, the only time in your life."

"Speak, then," she said; "speak, or you will think I dare not hear
you."

Feeling that this was the turning moment of our lives, I spoke to her
in the tone that commands attention; I told her that all women whom I
had ever seen were nothing to me; but when I met her, I, whose life
was studious, whose nature was not bold, I had been, as it were,
possessed by a frenzy that no one who once felt it could condemn; that
never heart of man had been so filled with the passion which no being
can resist, which conquers all things, even death--

"And contempt?" she asked, stopping me.

"Did you despise me?" I exclaimed.

"Let us say no more on this subject," she replied.

"No, let me say all!" I replied, in the excitement of my intolerable
pain. "It concerns my life, my whole being, my inward self; it
contains a secret you must know or I must die in despair. It also
concerns you, who, unawares, are the lady in whose hand is the crown
promised to the victor in the tournament!"

Then I related to her my childhood and youth, not as I have told it to
you, judged from a distance, but in the language of a young man whose
wounds are still bleeding. My voice was like the axe of a woodsman in
the forest. At every word the dead years fell with echoing sound,
bristling with their anguish like branches robbed of their foliage. I
described to her in feverish language many cruel details which I have
here spared you. I spread before her the treasure of my radiant hopes,
the virgin gold of my desires, the whole of a burning heart kept alive
beneath the snow of these Alps, piled higher and higher by perpetual
winter. When, bowed down by the weight of these remembered sufferings,
related as with the live coal of Isaiah, I awaited the reply of the
woman who listened with a bowed head, she illumined the darkness with
a look, she quickened the worlds terrestrial and divine with a single
sentence.

"We have had the same childhood!" she said, turning to me a face on
which the halo of the martyrs shone.

After a pause, in which our souls were wedded in the one consoling
thought, "I am not alone in suffering," the countess told me, in the
voice she kept for her little ones, how unwelcome she was as a girl
when sons were wanted. She showed me how her troubles as a daughter
bound to her mother's side differed from those of a boy cast out upon
the world of school and college life. But the worthy man little knew the
plague he was receiving into his house in the person of his godson.

Himself of a mild, quiet disposition, he was greatly scandalized by
the wild pranks of his nephew, and made vain attempts to restrain
him within some bounds; but by so doing he became the aversion of my
brother, who showed his dislike in every possible way. He gave him
nicknames, broke his china cups and saucers, by which the old
gentleman set great store, splashed his white silk stockings with mud
as he went to church, put the house clock an hour forward or back,
and tormented his kind godfather in every way he could devise.

"Bernard had not forgotten his title of the Thirteenth; but it was
probable he would soon have got tired of it, for it was not his
custom to adhere long to any thing, had not my uncle, who was a little
superstitious, strictly forbidden him to adopt it. This opposition
was all that was wanting to make my brother bring forward the unlucky
number upon every possible occasion. When any body mentioned the number
twelve before him, or called any thing the twelfth, Bernard would
immediately cry out, 'And I am the Thirteenth!'
"No matter when it was, or before whom; time, place, and persons were
to him alike indifferent. For instance, one Sunday in church, when
the clergyman in the course of the service said, 'Let us sing a portion
of such a psalm, beginning at the twelfth verse,' Bernard immediately
screamed out, 'And I am the Thirteenth!'
"This was a grievous scandal to my uncle, and Bernard was called that
evening before a tribunal, composed of his godfather, my mother,
and the old clergyman whom he had so gracelessly interrupted, and
who was also teacher of Latin and theology at the school to which
Bernard and I went.

But all their reproaches and remonstrances were lost upon my brother,
who had evidently much difficulty to keep himself from laughing
in their faces.

My mother wept, my uncle paced the room in great perplexity, and
the worthy old dominie clasped his hands together, and exclaimed,
'My child!

I fear me, God's chastisement will be needed to amend you.' The event
proved that he was right.

"It was on the Friday before Christmas-day, and we were assembled
in school.

The near approach of the holidays had made the boys somewhat
turbulent, and the poor old dominie had had much to suffer during the
whole day from their tricks and unruliness. My brother, of course, had
contributed largely to the disorder, much to the delight of his
bosom friend and companion, the only son of the master. This boy,
whose name was Albert, was a blue-eyed, fair haired lad, gentle as a
girl.
Bernard had conceived a violent friendship for him, and had taken him
under his protection. Albert's father, as may be supposed, was
little pleased at this intimacy, but yet, out of consideration for
my uncle, he did not entirely forbid it; and the more so as he
perceived that his son in no respect imitated his wild playmate, but
contented himself with admiring him beyond all created beings, and
repaying with the warmest affection Bernard's watchful and jealous
guardianship.

"On the afternoon in question, my brother surpassed himself in wayward
conceits and mischievous tricks, to the infinite delight of
Albert, who rocked with laughter at each new prank. The good dominie,
who was indulgence itself, was instructing us in Bible history,
and had to interrupt himself every moment to repress the unruliness
of his pupils, and especially of Bernard.

"It seemed pre-ordained that the lesson should be an unlucky one.
Every thing concurred to make it so. Our instructor had occasion
to speak of the twelve tribes of Israel, of the twelve patriarchs, of
the twelve gates of the holy city. Each of these served as a cue
to my brother, who immediately shouted out, 'And I am the Thirteenth!'
and each time Albert threw himself back shrieking with laughter, thus
encouraging Bernard to give full scope to his mad humour. The poor
dominie remonstrated, menaced, supplicated, but all in vain. I saw
the blood rising into his pale face, and at last his bald head, in
spite of the powder which sprinkled it, became red all over. He
contained himself, however, and proceeded to the account of the
Lord's Supper.

He began, 'And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve
apostles with him.'
"'And I am the Thirteenth!'

yelled Bernard.

"Scarcely were the words uttered, when a Bible flew across the
school, the noise of a blow, and a cry of anguish followed, and the
old man fell senseless to the ground. The heavy Bible, the corners of
which were bound with silver, and that he had hurled in a moment of
uncontrollable passion at my brother, had missed its mark,
and struck his own son on the head. Albert lay bleeding on the floor,
while Bernard hung over him like one beside himself, weeping, and kissing
his wounds.

"The boys ran, one and all, out of the school-room, shrieking for
assistance. Our cries soon brought the servants to the spot, who,
on learning what had happened, hastened with us back to the school,
and lifted up the old master, who was still lying on the ground near
his desk. He had been struck with apoplexy, and survived but a few
hours.
Albert was wounded in two places, one of the sharp corners of the Bible
having cut open his forehead, while another had injured his left
eye. After much suffering he recovered, but the sight of the eye was
gone.

"Bernard, however, had disappeared. When we re-entered the school-room,
a window which looked into the playground was open, and there were
marks of footsteps on the snow without.

A short distance further were traces of blood, where the fugitive had
apparently washed his face and hands in the snow.

We have never seen him since that day."
The painter paused, and his friends remained some moments silent, musing
on the tragical history they had heard.

"And do you know nothing whatever of your brother's fate?" enquired
Raphael at last.

"Next to nothing. My uncle caused enquiries to be made in every direction,
but without success. Once only a neighbour at Marienberg, who had been
travelling on the Bohemian frontier, told us that he had met at a
village inn a wandering clarinet-player, who bore so strong a resemblance
to my brother that he accosted him by his name. The musician seemed
confused, and muttering some unintelligible reply, left the house
in haste. What renders it probable that this was Bernard is, that
he had a great natural talent for music, and at the time he left
home, had already attained considerable proficiency on the clarinet."

"How old was your brother when he so strangely disappeared?" asked
one of the party.

"Fifteen, but he looked at least two years older, for he was stout and
manly in person beyond his age."
At this moment the rattling of wheels, and sound of a postilion's horn,
was heard. The Halle mail drove up to the door, the guard bawling
out for his passenger. The young painter took a hasty leave of his
friends, and sprang into the vehicle, which the next instant disappeared
in the darkness.

There was an overplus of travellers by the mail that night, and the
carriage in which Solling had got, was not the mail itself, but a
calèche, holding four persons, which was used as a sort of supplement,
and followed close to the other carriage. Two of the places were
occupied by a Jew horse-dealer and a sergeant of hussars, who were
engaged in an animated, and to them most interesting conversation,
on the subject of horse-flesh, to which the painter paid little
attention; but leaning back in his corner, remained absorbed in the
painful reflections which the incidents he had been narrating had
called up in his mind. In spite of his brother's eccentricities,
he was truly attached to him; and although eight years had elapsed
since his disappearance, he had not yet given up hopes of finding him,
if still alive. The enquiries that he and his uncle had unceasingly
made after their lost relative, had put them, about three years previous
to this time, upon the trace of a clarinet-player who had been seen
at Venice and Trieste, and went by the name of Voltojo. This
might have been a name adopted by Bernard, as being nearly the Italian
equivalent of Geyer, or hawk, the name of his native town; and
Solling was not without a faint hope, that in the course of his journey
to Rome he might obtain some tidings of his brother.

He was roused from his reverie by the postilion shouting out to the guard
of the mail, which was just before them on the road, to know when they
were to take up the passenger who was to occupy the remaining seat in
the calèche.

"Where will the Thirteenth meet us?" asked the man.

"At the inn at Schoneber," replied the guard.

_The Thirteenth!

_ The word made the painter's blood run cold. The horse-dealer and
the sergeant, who had begun to doze in their respective corners,
were also disturbed by the ill-omened sound.

"The Thirteenth! The Thirteenth!" muttered the Jew in his beard, still
half asleep. "God forbid! Let's have no thirteenth!"
A company of travelling comedians, who occupied the mail, took
up the word. "The Thirteenth is coming," said one.

"Somebody will die," cried another.

"Or we shall be upset and break our necks," exclaimed a third.

"No Thirteenth!" cried they all in chorus. "Drive on! drive on! he sha'n't
get in!"
This was addressed to the postilion, who just then pulled up at the
door of a village inn, and giving a blast with his horn, shouted
loudly for his remaining passenger to appear.

The door of the public-house opened, and a tall figure, with a small
knap-sack on his shoulder and a knotty stick in his hand, stepped out
and approached the mail. But when he heard the cries of the comedians,
who were still protesting against the admission of a Thirteenth
traveller, he started suddenly back, swinging his cudgel in the
air.

"To the devil with you all, vagabonds that ye are!" vociferated he.
"Drive on, postilion, with your cage of monkeys. I shall walk."
At the sound of the stranger's voice, Solling sprang up in the
carriage and seized the handle of the door. But as he did so, a strong
arm grasped him by the collar, and pulled him back into his seat.

At the same moment the carriage drove on.

"The man is drunk," said the sergeant, who had misinterpreted his
fellow-passenger's intentions. "It is not worth while dirtying your
hands, and perhaps getting an ugly blow, in a scuffle with such a
fellow."
"Stop, postilion, stop!" shouted Solling. But the postilion either
did not or would not hear, and some time elapsed before the painter
could persuade his well-meaning companion of his peaceable intentions.
At length he did so, and the carriage, which had meanwhile been going
at full speed, was stopped.

"You will leave my luggage at the first post-house," said Solling,
jumping out and beginning to retrace his steps to the village, which
they had now left some distance behind them.

The night was pitch-dark, so dark that the painter was compelled to feel
his way, and guide himself by the line of trees that bordered the
road. He reached the village without meeting a living creature,
and strode down the narrow street amid the baying of the dogs,
disturbed by his footfall at that silent hour of the night.

The inn door was shut, but there was a light glimmering in one of the
casements. He knocked several times without any body answering. At
length a woman's head was put out of an upper window.

"Go your ways," cried a shrill voice, "and don't come disturbing
honest folk at this time o' night. Do you think we have nought to do
but to open the door for such raff as you? Be off with you, you
vagabond, and blow your clarinet elsewhere."
"You are mistaken, madam," said Solling; "I am no vagabond, but a
passenger by the Halle mail, and"--
"What brings you here, then?" interrupted the virago; "the Halle mail
is far enough off by this."
"My good madam," replied the painter in his softest tone, "for God's
sake tell me who and where is the person who was waiting for the mail at
your hotel."
"Ha! ha!" laughed the hostess, considerably mollified by the _madam_
and the _hotel_. "The mad Italian musician, the clarinet fellow?
Why, I took you for him at first, and wondered what brought him back,
for he started as soon as the mail left the door. He'd have done
better to have got into it, with a dark night and a long road before
him. Ha!
ha! He's mad, to be sure."
"His name! His name!" cried Solling, impatiently.

"His name? How can I recollect his outlandish name? Fol--Vol----"
"Voltojo!" cried the painter.

"Voltojo! yes, that's it. Ha! ha! What a name!"
"It is he!" cried Solling, and without another word dashed off full speed
along the road he had just come. He kept in the middle of the
causeway, straining his eyes to see into the darkness on either side
of him, and wondering how it was he had not met the object of his
search as he came to the village. He ran on, occasionally taking
trees and fingerposts for men, and cursing his ill luck when he
saw his mistake.

The sweat poured down his face in streams, and his knees began to knock
together with fatigue. Suddenly he struck his foot against a stone
lying in the road, and fell, cutting his forehead severely upon
some pebbles. The sharp pain drew a cry from him, and a man who had
been lying on the grass at the roadside, sprang up and hastened to his
assistance.

At that moment a flash of summer lightning lit up the road.

"Bernard! Bernard!" cried the painter, throwing his arms round the
stranger's neck. It was his brother.

Bernard started back with a cry of horror.

"Albert!" he exclaimed in a hollow voice, "Cannot your spirit rest? Do
you rise from the grave to persecute me?"
"In God's name, my dear brother, what mean you?

I am Carl--Carl, your twin brother."
"Carl? No! Albert!

I see that horrid wound on your brow. It still bleeds!"
The painter grasped his brother's hand.

"I am flesh and blood," said he, "and no spirit. Albert still lives."

"He lives!"

exclaimed Bernard, and clasped his brother in his arms.

Explanations followed, and the brothers took the road to Berlin.
When the painter had replied to Bernard's questions concerning
their family, he in his turn begged his brother to relate his
adventures since they parted, and above all to give his reasons for
remaining so long severed from his friends and home.

"Although I fully believed Albert killed by the blow he
received," replied Bernard, "it was no fear of punishment for my indirect
share in his death, that induced me to fly. But when I saw the father
senseless on the ground, and the son expiring before my eyes, I
felt as if I was accursed, as if the brand of Cain were on my brow,
and that it was my fate to roam through the world an isolated and
wretched being.

When you all ran out of the school to fetch assistance, it seemed to
me as though each chair and bench and table in the room received the
power of speech, and yelled and bellowed in my ears the fatal number
which has been the cause of all my misfortunes--'Thirteen! Thirteen!
Thou art the Thirteenth, the Accursed One!'
"I fled, and since that day no rest or peace has been mine. Like my
shadow has this unholy number clung to me. Wherever I went, in all
the many lands I have wandered through, I carried with me the curse
of my birth. At every turn it met me, aggravating my numerous hardships,
embittering my rare moments of joy. If I entered a room where a
cheerful party was assembled, all rose and shrunk from me as from
one plague-tainted.

They were twelve--I was the Thirteenth.

If I sat down at a dinner-table, my neighbour left his chair, and
the others would say, 'He fears to sit by you.

You are the Thirteenth.' If I slept at an inn--there were sure to be
twelve persons sleeping there; my bed was the Thirteenth, or my
room would be number Thirteen, and I was told that the former
landlord had shot or hung himself in it.

"At length I left Germany, in the vain hope that the spell would not
extend beyond the land of my birth. I took ship at Trieste for
Venice.
Scarcely were we out of port when a violent storm arose, and we
were driven rapidly towards a rocky and dangerous coast.

The steersman counted the seamen and passengers, and crossed himself.

We were _thirteen_.

"Lots were drawn who should be sacrificed for the salvation of the
others. I drew number thirteen, and they put me ashore on a barren
rock, where I passed a day and night half dead with cold and
drenched with sea water.

At length an Illyrian fisherman espied me, and took me off in his
boat.

"It is unnecessary to relate to you in detail my wanderings during
the last eight years, or if I do, it shall be at some future time.

My clarinet enables me to live in the humble manner I have always
done.

You remember, probably, that I had some skill in it, which I have since
much improved. When travelling, my music was generally taken as
payment for my bed and supper at the petty hostelries at which I
put up; and when I came to a large town, I remained a few days, and
usually gained more than my expenses.

"About a year since, I made some stay at Copenhagen, and at last, getting
wearied of that city, I put myself on board a ship, without enquiring
whither it was bound. It took me to Stralsund.

"The day of my arrival, there was a shooting-match in the suburb beyond
the Knieper, and I hastened thither with my clarinet. It was a sort
of fair, and I wandered from one booth to the other, playing the joyous
mountain melodies which I had not once played since my departure from
Marienberg. God knows what brought them into my head again; but it
did my heart good to play them, and a feeling came over me, that I
should like once more to have a home, and to leave the weary rambling
life I had so long led.

"I had great success that day, and the people thronged to hear the
wandering Italian musician. Many were the jugs of beer and glasses
of wine offered to me, and my plate was soon full of shillings. As I
left off playing, an old greyheaded man pressed through the crowd, and
gazed earnestly at me. His eyes filled with tears, and he was evidently
much moved.

"'What a likeness!' he exclaimed. 'He is the very picture of my
Amadeus. I could fancy he had risen out of the sea. The same features,
the sane voice and manner.'
"He came up to me and took my hand. 'If you do not fear a high staircase,'
said he with a kindly smile, 'come and visit me. I live on the tower
of St Nicholas's Church. Your clarinet will sound well in the free
fresh air, and you will find those there who will gladly listen.'
So saying, he left me.

"The old man's name was Elias Kranhelm, better known in Stralsund as the
old Swede; he was the town musician, and had the care of the bells
of St Nicholas. The next day was Sunday, and I hastened to visit
him.
His kind manner had touched me, unaccustomed as I was to kindness or
sympathy from the strangers amongst whom I always lived.

                             When I was halfway up the stairs leading to the tower, the organ
began to play below me, and I recognised a psalm tune which we used
often to sing for our old schoolmaster at Marienberg.

                             I stopped a moment to listen, and thoughts of rest and home again
came over me.

"I was met at the tower door by old Kranhelm, in his Sunday suit of
black; large silver buckles at his knees and shoes, and a round black
velvet cap over his long white hair. His clear grey eyes smiled so
kindly upon me, his voice was so mild, and his greeting so cordial,
that I thought I had never seen a more pleasing old man. He welcomed
me as though I had been an old friend, and without further preface,
asked me if I should like to become his substitute, and perform the
duties for which his great age had begun to unfit him. His only
son, on whom he had reckoned to take his place, had left him
some time previously, to become a sailor on board a Norwegian ship,
and had been drowned in his very first voyage. It was my extraordinary
likeness to this son that had made him notice me; and the good,
simple-hearted old man seemed to think that resemblance a
sufficient guarantee against any risk in admitting a perfect stranger
into his house and intimacy.

"'My post is a profitable one,' said he; 'and, in consideration of
my long services, the worshipful burgomaster has given me leave
to seek an assistant, now that I am getting too old for my office.

Consider then, my son, if the offer suits you. You please me, and
I mean you well. But here comes my Elizabeth, who will soon learn
to like you if you are a good lad.'
"As he spoke, a young girl entered the room, with a psalm-book in her
hand, and attired in an old-fashioned dress, which was not able,
however, to conceal the elegance of her figure, and the
charms of her blooming countenance.

"'How think you, Elizabeth?' said her father. 'Is he not as like our
poor Amadeus as one egg is to another?'
"'I do not see the likeness, my dear father,' replied Elizabeth, looking
timidly at me, and then casting down her eyes, and blushing.

"I accepted the old man's offer with joy, and took up my dwelling in
the other turret of the church tower. My occupation was to keep the
clock wound up, to play the evening hymn on the balcony of the
tower, and to strike the hours upon the great bell with a heavy
hammer.

"I soon felt the good effect of repose, and of the happy, tranquil
life I now led; my spirits improved, and I began to forget the curse
which hung over me--to forget, in short, that I was the unlucky
Thirteenth. Old Kranhelm's liking for me increased rapidly, and,
in less than three months, I was Elizabeth's accepted lover. Time
flew on; the wedding-day was fixed, and the bridal-chamber
prepared.
"It was on Friday evening, exactly eight days ago, that I went out
with Elizabeth, and walked down to the port to look at a large
Swedish ship that had just arrived. The passengers were landing,
and one amongst them immediately attracted our attention.
"This was a tall, lean, raw-boned woman, apparently about forty
years of age, who held in her hand a long, smooth staff, which she
waved about her, nodding her head, and muttering, as she went, in
some strange, unintelligible dialect. Her dress consisted of a huge
black fur cloak, and a cape of the same colour fringed with red.
Her whole manner and appearance were so strange, that a crowd
assembled round her as soon as she set foot on shore.
"'Hallo! comrade,' cried one of the sailors of the vessel that had
brought her, to a boatman who was passing. 'Hallo! comrade, do you
want a job? Here's a witch to take to Hiddensee.'
"We asked the sailor what he meant; and he told us that this strange
woman was a Lapland witch, who every year, in the dog-days, made a
journey to the island of Hiddensee, to gather an herb which only
grew there, and was essential in her incantations.
"Meantime, the witch was calling for a boat, but no one understood
her language, or else they did not choose to come. My unfortunate
propensity to all that is supernatural or fantastic impelled me,
with irresistible force, towards her. In vain Elizabeth held me
back. I pushed my way through the crowd, until we found ourselves
close to the Lapland woman, who measured us from head to foot with
her bright and glittering eyes. Slipping a florin into her hand, I
gave her to understand, as well as I could, that we wished to have
our fortunes told. She took my hand, and, after examining it, made
a sign that she either could or would tell me nothing. She then
took the hand of Elizabeth, who hung upon my arm, trembling like
an aspen leaf, and gazing intently upon it, muttered a few words
in broken Swedish. I did not understand them, but Elizabeth did,
and, starting back, drew me hastily out of the crowd.
"'What did she say?' enquired I, as soon as we were clear of the
throng.
"Elizabeth seemed much agitated, and had evidently to make a strong
effort before she could reply.
"'Nothing,' answered she, at last; 'nothing, at least, worth
repeating. And yet 'tis strange; it tallies exactly with a prediction
made to my mother when I was an infant, that I should one day be
in peril from the number Thirteen. This strange woman cautioned me
against the same number, and bade me beware of you, for that you
were the Thirteenth!'
"Had the earth opened under my feet, or the lightning from heaven
fallen on my head, I could not have felt a greater shock than was
communicated to me by these words. I know not what I said in reply,
or how I got home. Elizabeth, doubtless, observed my agitation, but
she made no remark on it. I felt her arm tremble upon mine as we
walked along, and by a furtive glance at her face saw that she was
pale as death. Not a word passed between us during our walk back
to the tower, on reaching which she shut herself up in her room. I
pleaded a severe headach and wish to lie down; and, begging the old
man to strike the hours for me, retired to my chamber.
"It would be impossible to give an idea of the agony of mind I
suffered during that evening.Coming
out of church Madame de Chessel naturally proposed to her neighbors to
pass the intermediate time at Frapesle instead of crossing the Indre
and the meadows twice in the great heat. The offer was accepted.
Monsieur de Chessel gave his arm to the duchess, Madame de Chessel
took that of the count. I offered mine to the countess, and felt, for
the first time, that beautiful arm against my side. As we walked from
the church to Frapesle by the woods of Sache, where the light,
filtering down through the foliage, made those pretty patterns on the
path which seem like painted silk, such sensations of pride, such
ideas took possession of me that my heart beat violently.

"What is the matter?" she said, after walking a little way in a
silence I dared not break. "Your heart beats too fast--"

"I have heard of your good fortune," I replied, "and, like all others
who love truly, I am beset with vague fears. Will your new dignities
change you and lessen your friendship?"

"Change me!" she said; "oh, fie! Another such idea and I shall--not
despise you, but forget you forever."

I looked at her with an ecstasy which should have been contagious.

"We profit by the new laws which we have neither brought about nor
demanded," she said; "but we are neither place-hunters nor beggars;
besides, as you know very well, neither Monsieur de Mortsauf nor I can
leave Clochegourde. By my advice he has declined the command to which
his rank entitled him at the Maison Rouge. We are quite content that
my father should have the place. This forced modesty," she added with
some bitterness, "has already been of service to our son. The king, to
whose household my father is appointed, said very graciously that he
would show Jacques the favor we were not willing to accept. Jacques'
education, which must now be thought of, is already being discussed.
He will be the representative of two houses, the Lenoncourt and the
Mortsauf families. I can have no ambition except for him, and
therefore my anxieties seem to have increased. Not only must Jacques
live, but he must be made worthy of his name; two necessities which,
as you know, conflict. And then, later, what friend will keep him safe
for me in Paris, where all things are pitfalls for the soul and
dangers for the body? My friend," she said, in a broken voice, "who
could not see upon your brow and in your eyes that you are one who
will inhabit heights? Be some day the guardian and sponsor of our boy.
Go to Paris; if your father and brother will not second you, our
family, above all my mother, who has a genius for the management of
life, will help you. Profit by our influence; you will never be
without support in whatever career you choose; put the strength of
your desires into a noble ambition--"

"I understand you," I said, interrupting her; "ambition is to be my
mistress. I have no need of that to be wholly yours. No, I will not be
rewarded for my obedience here by receiving favors there. I will go; I
will make my own way; I will rise alone. From you I would accept
everything, from others nothing."

"Child!" she murmured, ill-concealing a smile of pleasure.

"Besides, I have taken my vows," I went on. "Thinking over our
situation I am resolved to bind myself to you by ties that never can
be broken."

She trembled slightly and stopped short to look at me.

"What do you mean?" she asked, letting the couples who preceded us
walk on, and keeping the children at her side.

"This," I said; "but first tell me frankly how you wish me to love
you."

"Love me as my aunt loved me; I gave you her rights when I permitted
you to call me by the name which she chose for her own among my
others."

"Then I am to love without hope and with an absolute devotion. Well,
yes; I will do for you what some men do for God. I shall feel that you
have asked it. I will enter a seminary and make myself a priest, and
then I will educate your son. Jacques shall be myself in his own form;
political conceptions, thoughts, energy, patience, I will give him
all. In that way I shall live near to you, and my love, enclosed in
religion as a silver image in a crystal shrine, can never be suspected
of evil. You will not have to fear the undisciplined passions which
grasp a man and by which already I have allowed myself to be
vanquished. I will consume my own being in the flame, and I will love
you with a purified love."

She turned pale and said, hurrying her words: "Felix, do not put
yourself in bonds that might prove an obstacle to our happiness. I
should die of grief for having caused a suicide like that. Child, do
you think despairing love a life's vocation? Wait for life's trials
before you judge of life; I command it. Marry neither the Church nor a
woman; marry not at all,--I forbid it. Remain free. You are twenty-one
years old--My God! can I have mistaken him? I thought two months
sufficed to know some souls."

"What hope have you?" I cried, with fire in my eyes.

"My friend, accept our help, rise in life, make your way and your
fortune and you shall know my hope. And," she added, as if she were
whispering a secret, "never release the hand you are holding at this
moment."

She bent to my ear as she said these words which proved her deep
solicitude for my future.

"Madeleine!" I exclaimed "never!"

We were close to a wooden gate which opened into the park of Frapesle;
I still seem to see its ruined posts overgrown with climbing plants
and briers and mosses. Suddenly an idea, that of the count's death,
flashed through my brain, and I said, "I understand you."

"I am glad of it," she answered in a tone which made me know I had
supposed her capable of a thought that could never be hers.

Her purity drew tears of admiration from my eyes which the selfishness
of passion made bitter indeed. My mind reacted and I felt that she did
not love me enough even to wish for liberty. So long as love recoils
from a crime it seems to have its limits, and love should be infinite.
A spasm shook my heart.

"She does not love me," I thought.

To hide what was in my soul I stooped over Madeleine and kissed her
hair.

"I am afraid of your mother," I said to the countess presently, to
renew the conversation.

"So am I," she answered with a gesture full of childlike gaiety.
"Don't forget to call her Madame la duchesse, and to speak to her in
the third person. The young people of the present day have lost these
polite manners; you must learn them; do that for my sake. Besides, it
is such good taste to respect women, no matter what their age may be,
and to recognize social distinctions without disputing them. The
respect shown to established superiority is guarantee for that which
is due to you. Solidarity is the basis of society. Cardinal Della
Rovere and Raffaelle were two powers equally revered. You have sucked
the milk of the Revolution in your academy and your political ideas
may be influenced by it; but as you advance in life you will find that
crude and ill-defined principles of liberty are powerless to create
the happiness of the people. Before considering, as a Lenoncourt, what
an aristocracy ought to be, my common-sense as a woman of the people
tells me that societies can exist only through a hierarchy. You are
now at a turning-point in your life, when you must choose wisely. Be
on our side,--especially now," she added, laughing, "when it
triumphs."

I was keenly touched by these words, in which the depth of her
political feeling mingled with the warmth of affection,--a combination
which gives to women so great a power of persuasion; they know how to
give to the keenest arguments a tone of feeling. In her desire to
justify all her husband's actions Henriette had foreseen the
criticisms that would rise in my mind as soon as I saw the servile
effects of a courtier's life upon him. Monsieur de Mortsauf, king in
his own castle and surrounded by an historic halo, had, to my eyes, a
certain grandiose dignity. I was therefore greatly astonished at the
distance he placed between the duchess and himself by manners that
were nothing less than obsequious. A slave has his pride and will only
serve the greatest despots. I confess I was humiliated at the
degradation of one before whom I trembled as the power that ruled my
love. This inward repulsion made me understand the martyrdom of women
of generous souls yoked to men whose meannesses they bury daily.
Respect is a safeguard which protects both great and small alike; each
side can hold its own. I was respectful to the duchess because of my
youth; but where others saw only a duchess I saw the mother of my
Henriette, and that gave sanctity to my homage.

We reached the great court-yard of Frapesle, where we found the
others. The Comte de Mortsauf presented me very gracefully to the
duchess, who examined me with a cold and reserved air. Madame de
Lenoncourt was then a woman fifty-six years of age, wonderfully well
preserved and with grand manners. When I saw the hard blue eyes, the
hollow temples, the thin emaciated face, the erect, imposing figure
slow of movement, and the yellow whiteness of the skin (reproduced
with such brilliancy in the daughter), I recognized the cold type to
which my own mother belonged, as quickly as a mineralogist recognizes
Swedish iron. Her language was that of the old court; she pronounced
the "oit" like "ait," and said "frait" for "froid," "porteux" for
"porteurs." I was not a courtier, neither was I stiff-backed in my
manner to her; in fact I behaved so well that as I passed the countess
she said in a low voice, "You are perfect."

The count came to me and took my hand, saying: "You are not angry with
me, Felix, are you? If I was hasty you will pardon an old soldier? We
shall probably stay here to dinner, and I invite you to dine with us
on Thursday, the evening before the duchess leaves. I must go to Tours
to-morrow to settle some business. Don't neglect Clochegourde. My
mother-in-law is an acquaintance I advise you to cultivate. Her salon
will set the tone for the faubourg St. Germain. She has all the
traditions of the great world, and possesses an immense amount of
social knowledge; she knows the blazon of the oldest as well as the
newest family in Europe."

The count's good taste, or perhaps the advice of his domestic genius,
appeared under his altered circumstances. '"
[13] "I told his (Pertab Chund's) father, that it was wrong to keep
him where he then was, and he told me to take him down to the river.
He was lifted up on his bedding; his speech was not very distinct at
that time, but sufficiently so to call on the name of his T'hakoor,
(spiritual guide,) which he did as desired; he then began to shiver,
and complained of being very cold. I was one of those who went
with the rajah to the river side. Jago Mohun Dobee pressed his legs
under the water, and kept them so; and about 10 p.m. his soul
quitted the body. When he died, his knees were under water, but the
rest of his body above." Evidence of Radha Sircar and Sham Chum Baboo,
before the Mofussil Court of Hoogly, September 1838, in the enquiry
on the impostor Kistololl, who personated the deceased Pertab.

The stay of the khan in Calcutta was prolonged for more than a month,
during which time he rented a house from a native proprietor in
the quarter of Kolitolla. While removing his effects from his boat
to this residence, he became involved in a dispute with the police,
in consequence of the violation by his servants, through ignorance,
of the regulation which forbids persons from the Upper Provinces
to enter the city armed; but this unintentional infringement of
orders was easily explained and arranged by the intervention of an
European friend, and the arms, of which the police had taken
possession, were restored.

While engaged in preparing for his voyage, the khan made the best use
of his time in visiting the public buildings, and other objects
of interest, among which he particularly notices the _minar_ or
column erected in the _maidan_, (square,) near the viceregal palace
of the Nawab Governor-General Bahadur, by a subscription among the
officers of the army, native as well as English, to the memory of
the late Sir David Ochterlony; but rates it, with truth, as greatly
inferior, both in dimensions and beauty, to the famous pillar of
the Kootb-Minar near Delhi.

The colossal fortifications of Fort-William are also duly commemorated;
"they resemble an embankment externally, but when viewed from within
are exceedingly high--no foe could penetrate within them, much less
reach the treasures and magazines in the interior." Our traveller
also visited the English courts of justice, in the proceedings of which
he seems to have taken great interest, and was apparently treated
with much hospitality by many of the European functionaries and other
residents, by whom he was furnished with numerous letters of introduction,
as well as receiving much information respecting the manners and
customs of _Ingilistan_, or England. The choice of a ship, and the
selection of sea-stock, were of course matters of grave consideration,
and the more so from the peculiar unfitness of the habits and religious
scruples of an Indian Moslem for the privations unavoidable at sea;
but a passage was at last taken for the khan and his two servants
on board the Edinburgh of 1400 tons, and it being agreed that he should
find his own provisions, to obviate all mistakes on the score of
forbidden food, and the captain promising moreover that his
comforts should be carefully attended to, this weighty negotiation
was at length concluded. It is due to the khan to say, that whether
from being better equipped, or from being endued with more philosophy
and forbearance than his compatriot, Mirza Abu-Talib Khan, (to
whom we have above referred,) he seems to have reconciled himself
to the hardships of the _kala-pani_, or ocean, with an exceedingly
good grace; and we find none of the complaints which fill the pages
of the Mirza against the impurity of his food, the impossibility
of performing his ablutions in appointed time and manner, and sundry
other abominations by which he was so grievously afflicted, that
at a time of danger to the vessel, "though many of the passengers
were much alarmed, I, for my own part, was so weary of life that I
was perfectly indifferent to my fate."

Abu-Talib, however, sailed in an ill-regulated Danish ship; and in
summing up the horrors of the sea, he strongly recommends his
countrymen, if compelled to brave its miseries, to embark in none
but an English vessel.

During the last days of the khan's sojourn in Calcutta, he witnessed
the splendid celebration of the rites of the Mohurrum, when the
slaughter of the brother Imams, Hassan and Hussein, the martyred
grandsons of the Prophet, is lamented by all sects of the faithful,
but more especially by the _Rafedhis_ or Sheahs, the followers of Ali,
"of whom there are many in Calcutta, though they are less numerous
than the orthodox sect or Sunnis, from whom they are distinguished,
at this season, by wearing black as mourning. At the _Baitak-Khana_ (a
quarter of Calcutta) we witnessed the splendid procession of the
_Tazîya_,[14] with the banners and flags flying, and the wailers
beating their breasts."... "It is the custom here, at this season,
for all the natch-girls (dancers) to sit in the streets of the
Chandnibazar, under canopies decorated with wreaths and flowers in
the most fantastic manner, and sell sweetmeats, cardamums, betelnuts,
&c., upon stalls, displaying their charms to the passers-by. I took a
turn here one evening with five others, and found crowds of people
collected, both strangers and residents: nor do they ordinarily disperse
till long after midnight."

On the second day after his visit to this scene of gaiety, he received
notice that the ship was ready for sea; and on the 8th of Mohurrum
1256, (March 13, 1840,) he accordingly embarked with his baggage
and servants on board the Edinburgh, which was towed in seven days,
by a steamer, down the river to Saugor; and the pilot quitting her
the next day at the floating light. "I now found myself," (says the
khan,) "for the first time in my life, in the great ocean, where
nothing was to be seen around but sky and water."
[14] _Tazîya_, literally _grief_, is an ornamental shrine erected
in Moslem houses during the Mohurrum, and intended to represent the
mausoleum of Hassan and Hussein, at Kerbelah in Persia. On the 10th
and last day of the mourning, the tazîyas are carried in procession
to the outside of the city, and finally deposited with funeral rites
in the burying-grounds.--See _Mrs Meer Hassan Ali's_ Observations
on the Mussulmans of India.
Letter I.

The account of a voyage at sea, as given by an Oriental, is usually the
most deplorable of narratives--filled with exaggerated fears,
the horrors of sea-sickness, and endless lamentations of the evil
fate of the writer, in being exposed to such a complication of miseries.
Of the wailing of Mirza Abu-Talib we have already given a specimen:
and the Persian princes, even in the luxurious comfort of an English
Mediterranean steamer, seem to have fared but little better, in their
own estimation at least, than the Mirza in his dirty and disorderly
Danish merchantman. "Our bones cried, 'Alas! for this evil there is
no remedy.' We were vomiting all the time, and thus afflicted with
incurable evils, in the midst of a sea which appears without end,
the state of my health bad, the sufferings of my brothers very great,
and no hope of being saved, we became most miserable." Such
is the naïve exposition of his woes, by H. R. H. Najaf Kooli Mirza; but
Kerim Khan appears, both physically and morally, to have been made
of different metal. Ere he had been two days on board we find him
remarking--"I had by this time made some acquaintance among the
passengers, and began to find my situation less irksome and lonely;"
shortly afterwards adding--"The annoyances inseparable from this
situation were relieved, in some measure, by the music and dancing
going on every day except Sundays, owing to the numerous party of
passengers, both gentlemen and ladies, whom we had on board--seeing
which, a man forgets his griefs and troubles in the general mirth
around him."

So popular, indeed, does the khan appear already to have become, that
the captain, finding that he had hitherto abstained from the use
of his pipe, that great ingredient in Oriental comfort, from an
idea that smoking was prohibited on board, "instantly sent for my
hookah, had it properly prepared for me, and insisted on my not
relinquishing this luxury, the privation of which he knew would
occasion me considerable inconvenience."

In other respects, also, he seems to have been not less happily
constituted; for though he says that "the rolling and rocking of
the ship, when it entered the _dark waters_ or open sea, completely
upset my two companions, who became extremely sick"--his remarks
on the incidents of the voyage, and the novel phenomena which
presented themselves to his view, are never interrupted by any of
those pathetic lamentations on the instability of the human stomach,
which form so important and doleful an episode in the relations of
most landsmen, of whatever creed or nation.

The commencement of the voyage was prosperous; and the ship ran
to the south before a fair wind, interrupted only by a few days of
partial calm, till it reached the latitude of Ceylon, where the appearance
of the flying fish excited the special wonder of the khan, who was by
this time beginning, under the tuition of his fellow passengers, to
make some progress in the English language, and had even attempted to
fathom some of the mysteries of the science of navigation; "but though
I took the sextant which the captain handed me, and held it precisely
as he had done, I could make nothing of it." The regular performance
of the Church service on Sundays, and the cessation on that day
from the ordinary amusements, is specially noticed on several
occasions, and probably made a deeper impression on the mind of our
Moslem friend, from the popular belief current in India that the
_Feringhis_ are men _of no caste_, without religious faith or
ceremonies--a belief which the conduct and demeanour of the
Anglo-Indians in past times tended, in too many instances, to
confirm.

Off the southern extremity of Ceylon, the ship was again becalmed for
several days; but the tedium of this interval was relieved, not only
by the ordinary sea incidents of the capture of a shark and the
appearance of a whale, (the zoological distinctions between which
and the true fishes are stated by the khan with great correctness,)
but by the occurrence of a mutiny on board an English vessel in
company, which was fortunately quelled by the exertions of the
captain of the Edinburgh.

"The spicy gales of Ceylon," blowing off the coast to the distance,
as stated, of fifty miles, (an extremely moderate range when compared
with the accounts of some other travellers,) at last brought on their
wings the grateful announcement of the termination of the calm; but
before quitting the vicinity of this famous island, (more celebrated
in eastern story under the name of Serendib,) the khan gives some
notices of the legends connected with its history, which show a more
extended acquaintance with Hindu literature than the Moslems in
India in general take the trouble of acquiring. Among the rest he alludes
to the epic of the Ramayuna, and the bridge built by Rama (or as he
calls him, Rajah Ram Chunder) for the passage of the monkey army
and their redoubled general, Huniman, from the Indian continent into
the island, in order to deliver from captivity Seeta, the wife
of the hero. The wind still continuing favourable, the ship
quickly passed the equator, and the pole-star was no longer
visible--"a proof of the earth's sphericity which I was glad to
have had an opportunity of seeing;" and they left, at a short
distance to the right, the islands of Mauritius and Bourbon, "which
are not far from the great island of Madagascar, where the faithful
turn their faces to the north when they pray, as they turn them to the
west in India," the _kiblah_, or point of direction, being in both
cases the kaaba, or temple of Mekka. They were now approaching the
latitude of the Cape; and our voyager was astonished by the countless
multitudes of sea-birds which surrounded the ship, and particularly
by the giant bulk of the albatrosses, "which I was told remained day
and night on the ocean, repairing to the coast of Africa only at the
period of incubation." The Cape of Storms, however, as it was originally
named by Vasco de Gama, did not fail on this occasion to keep up its
established character for bad weather. A severe gale set in from the
east, which speedily increased to a storm. A sailor fell from "the
third stage of the mainmast," (the main topgallant yard,) and
was killed on the deck; and as the inhospitable shores of Africa were
close under their lee, the ship appears for some time to have been
in considerable danger.

But in this (to him) novel scene of peril, the khan manifests a
degree of self-possession, strongly contrasting with the timidity of
the royal grandsons of Futteh Ali Shah, the expression of whose fears
during a gale is absolutely ludicrous. "We were so miserable that we
gave up all hope; we gave up our souls, and began to beseech God for
forgiveness; while the wind continued increasing, and all the
waves of the western sea rose up in mountains, with never-ceasing
noise, till they reached the planets." Even after the violence of the
hurricane had in some measure abated, the sea continued to run so
high that the ports were kept closed for several days. "At last,
however, they were opened for the purpose of ventilating the interior;
and the band, which had been silent for some days, began to play
again." The appearance of a water-spout on the same afternoon is thus
described:--"An object became visible in the distance, in the form
of a minaret, and every one on board crowded on deck to look at
it. On asking what it was, I was told that what appeared to be a minaret
was only water, which was drawn up towards the heavens by the force
of the wind, and when this ceased would fall again into the sea,
and was what we should call a whirlwind.

This is sometimes extremely dangerous to vessels, since, if it reaches
them, it is so powerful as to draw them out of the sea in the same
manner as it draws up the water; in consequence of which many
ships have been lost when they have been overtaken by this wonderful
phenomenon."
The storm was succeeded by a calm, which detained the ship for two days
within sight of the lofty mountains near the Cape. "It was bitterly
cold, for the seasons are here reversed, and instead of summer, as we
should have expected, it was now the depth of winter.
At length, however, (on the 69th day after our leaving Calcutta,) a
strong breeze sprung up, which enabled us to set all sail, and carried
us away from this table-land." The run from the Cape to St Helena
seems to have been barren of incident, except an accidental encounter
with a vessel in distress, which proved to be a slaver which had been
captured by an English cruiser, and had sustained serious damage in the
late storm while proceeding to the Cape with a prize crew. On approaching
St Helena, the captain "gave orders for the ship to be painted, both
inside and out, that the people of the island might not say we came
in a dirty ship; and as we neared the land, a white flag was hoisted
to apprise those on shore that there was no one ill on board. In
cases of sickness a yellow flag is displayed, and then no one is permitted
to land from the ship for fear of contagion. The island is about
twenty-six miles in circuit, and is constantly enveloped in fog and
mist. It is said to have been formerly a volcano, but has now ceased
to smoke. The vegetation is luxuriant, but few of the flowers are
fragrant. I recognised some, however, both flowers and fruits,
which seemed similar to those of India.

I took the opportunity of landing with the captain to see the town, which
is small, but extremely well fortified, the cannon being so numerous
that one might suppose the whole island one immense iron-foundery.
It is populous, the inhabitants being chiefly Jews and English; but
as it was Sunday, and all the shops were shut, it had a dull appearance.
After surveying the town, I ascended a hill in the country, leading
to the tomb of Napoleon Bonaparte, which is on an elevated spot,
four miles from the town.

"This celebrated personage was a native of Corsica; and enjoying a
fortunate horoscope, he entered the French army, and speedily rose
to the rank of general; and afterwards, with the consent of the
people and the soldiery, made himself emperor. After this he conquered
several kingdoms, and the fame of his prowess and his victories
filled all the European world. When he invaded Russia, he defeated
the Muscovites in several great battles, and took their capital;
but, in consequence of the intensity of the cold, several thousands
of his army both men and horses, perished miserably.

This catastrophe obliged him to return to France, where he undertook the
conquest of another country. At this time George III. reigned in
England; and having collected all the disposable forces of his
kingdom, appointed Lord Wellington (the same general who was employed
in the war against Tippoo Sultan in Mysore) to command them, and
sent him to combat the French Emperor.

I was forced to calm her, to promise never to cause her pain, and to
love her at twenty-one years of age as old men love their youngest
child.

The next day I went early. There were no flowers in the vases of her
gray salon. I rushed into the fields and vineyards to make her two
bouquets; but as I gathered the flowers, one by one, cutting their
long stalks and admiring their beauty, the thought occurred to me that
the colors and foliage had a poetry, a harmony, which meant something
to the understanding while they charmed the eye; just as musical
melodies awaken memories in hearts that are loving and beloved. If
color is light organized, must it not have a meaning of its own, as
the combinations of the air have theirs? I called in the assistance of
Jacques and Madeleine, and all three of us conspired to surprise our
dear one. I arranged, on the lower steps of the portico, where we
established our floral headquarters, two bouquets by which I tried to
convey a sentiment. Picture to yourself a fountain of flowers gushing
from the vases and falling back in curving waves; my message springing
from its bosom in white roses and lilies with their silver cups. All
the blue flowers, harebells, forget-me-nots, and ox-tongues, whose
tines, caught from the skies, blended so well with the whiteness of
the lilies, sparkled on this dewy texture; were they not the type of
two purities, the one that knows nothing, the other that knows all; an
image of the child, an image of the martyr? Love has its blazon, and
the countess discerned it inwardly. She gave me a poignant glance
which was like the cry of a soldier when his wound is touched; she was
humbled but enraptured too. My reward was in that glance; to refresh
her heart, to have given her comfort, what encouragement for me! Then
it was that I pressed the theories of Pere Castel into the service of
love, and recovered a science lost to Europe, where written pages have
supplanted the flowery missives of the Orient with their balmy tints.
What charm in expressing our sensations through these daughters of the
sun, sisters to the flowers that bloom beneath the rays of love!
Before long I communed with the flora of the fields, as a man whom I
met in after days at Grandlieu communed with his bees.

Twice a week during the remainder of my stay at Frapesle I continued
the slow labor of this poetic enterprise, for the ultimate
accomplishment of which I needed all varieties of herbaceous plants;
into these I made a deep research, less as a botanist than as a poet,
studying their spirit rather than their form. To find a flower in its
native haunts I walked enormous distances, beside the brooklets,
through the valleys, to the summit of the cliffs, across the moorland,
garnering thoughts even from the heather. During these rambles I
initiated myself into pleasures unthought of by the man of science who
lives in meditation, unknown to the horticulturist busy with
specialities, to the artisan fettered to a city, to the merchant
fastened to his desk, but known to a few foresters, to a few woodsmen,
and to some dreamers. Nature can show effects the significations of
which are limitless; they rise to the grandeur of the highest moral
conceptions--be it the heather in bloom, covered with the diamonds of
the dew on which the sunlight dances; infinitude decked for the single
glance that may chance to fall upon it:--be it a corner of the forest
hemmed in with time-worn rocks crumbling to gravel and clothed with
mosses overgrown with juniper, which grasps our minds as something
savage, aggressive, terrifying as the cry of the kestrel issuing from
it:--be it a hot and barren moor without vegetation, stony, rigid, its
horizon like those of the desert, where once I gathered a sublime and
solitary flower, the anemone pulsatilla, with its violet petals
opening for the golden stamens; affecting image of my pure idol alone
in her valley:--be it great sheets of water, where nature casts those
spots of greenery, a species of transition between the plant and
animal, where life makes haste to come in flowers and insects,
floating there like worlds in ether:--be it a cottage with its garden
of cabbages, its vineyards, its hedges overhanging a bog, surrounded
by a few sparse fields of rye; true image of many humble existences:
--be it a forest path like some cathedral nave, where the trees are
columns and their branches arch the roof, at the far end of which a
light breaks through, mingled with shadows or tinted with sunset reds
athwart the leaves which gleam like the colored windows of a chancel:
--then, leaving these woods so cool and branchy, behold a chalk-land
lying fallow, where among the warm and cavernous mosses adders glide
to their lairs, or lift their proud slim heads. Cast upon all these
pictures torrents of sunlight like beneficent waters, or the shadow of
gray clouds drawn in lines like the wrinkles of an old man's brow, or
the cool tones of a sky faintly orange and streaked with lines of a
paler tint; then listen--you will hear indefinable harmonies amid a
silence which blends them all.

During the months of September and October I did not make a single
bouquet which cost me less than three hours search; so much did I
admire, with the real sympathy of a poet, these fugitive allegories of
human life, that vast theatre I was about to enter, the scenes of
which my memory must presently recall. Often do I now compare those
splendid scenes with memories of my soul thus expending itself on
nature; again I walk that valley with my sovereign, whose white robe
brushed the coppice and floated on the green sward, whose spirit rose,
like a promised fruit, from each calyx filled with amorous stamens.

No declaration of love, no vows of uncontrollable passion ever
conveyed more than these symphonies of flowers; my baffled desires
impelled me to efforts of expression through them like those of
Beethoven through his notes, to the same bitter reactions, to the same
mighty bounds towards heaven. In their presence Madame de Mortsauf was
my Henriette. She looked at them constantly; they fed her spirit, she
gathered all the thoughts I had given them, saying, as she raised her
head from the embroidery frame to receive my gift, "Ah, how
beautiful!"

Natalie, you will understand this delightful intercourse through the
details of a bouquet, just as you would comprehend Saadi from a
fragment of his verse. Have you ever smelt in the fields in the month
of May the perfume that communicates to all created beings the
intoxicating sense of a new creation; the sense that makes you trail
your hand in the water from a boat, and loosen your hair to the breeze
while your mind revives with the springtide greenery of the trees? A
little plant, a species of vernal grass, is a powerful element in this
veiled harmony; it cannot be worn with impunity; take into your hand
its shining blade, striped green and white like a silken robe, and
mysterious emotions will stir the rosebuds your modesty keeps hidden
in the depths of your heart. Round the neck of a porcelain vase
imagine a broad margin of the gray-white tufts peculiar to the sedum
of the vineyards of Touraine, vague image of submissive forms; from
this foundation come tendrils of the bind-weed with its silver bells,
sprays of pink rest-barrow mingled with a few young shoots of
oak-leaves, lustrous and magnificently colored; these creep forth
prostrate, humble as the weeping-willow, timid and supplicating as
prayer. The only revenge taken by the high-spirited young man, was to
urge the ungenerous conduct of the father as an argument with the
daughter to put an end, by an elopement, to a state of things too
painful to be borne., After much hesitation, it seems, she unhappily
complied. They were married--at Naples I think, or Turin, or some
other other city of Italy,, where we have a diplomatic resident other
moment it would have been delightful to him to enjoy the country
pleasures around them, with no officious intrusive; and after
their marriage--poor, foolish young people!--they went touring it about
gaily in the Archipelago and Levant, waiting a favourable moment to
propose a reconciliation with their respective fathers--as if of
undeserved injury; and his appeals to the sympathy and support of his
son, were such as place the spirited young man in a most, we pretend
to talk with horror of the family feuds of southern nations; and,
painful predicament England. He seemed to want to at home again, the
better to; and never had Sir Laurence Altham, in the extremity of
poverty, regarded the thriving mansion in the valley with half the
loathing which the view of Lexley tract produced in the mind of
General Stanley. He was even at the trouble of trenching a plantation
on the brow of the hill, with the intention of shutting out the detested
object. But trees do not grow so hastily as antipathies; and
the General had to endure the certainty, that, for the remainder
of_his_ life at least, that beautiful domain must be unrolled,
map-like, at his feet.

Nor is it to be of the Lexley Hall estate; when, lo! the consternation
of all parties, it appeared that the General's title was an unsound
supposed that battlements Stanley's pride the motives, Mr Sparks had
broken up his establishment, and sold off his horses. Attended by a
single servant, in addition to the old porter and his wife for their
seat in Cheshire. This announcement, by the way, probably served
to convey the intelligence to Mr and Mrs Everard Sparks; for
the General having carefully intercepted every letter him, the present
Mr Altham was not only a gentleman he had laboured to who were in
which of the take house, Mary trusted that their arrival at Lexley
would be unnoticed in the neighbourhood.

Confining herself strictly within the boundaries payment of a had
been wounded to the quick by the newspaper account of a marriage
between his favourite child desolate country-house, he sent for Lord
Robert Stanley, and made him the confidant of his indignation--avowed
his former good intentions in his favour--betrayed all Mary's--all_Mr
Everard Sparks's_ disparaging opposition; and ended by to society, which
empire unfavourable aspect of their suit; and that( owing, as was
supposed as superstitions regarded the family of his wife. Unwilling
to utter in her presence an injurious word concerning those who,
persecute the wrath and malediction of parents was so mere a trifle
to deal with. she was in person, he would have joyfully taken to wife
the heiress of ten thousand had every reason to suppose--when her
became on a sudden an assiduous visitor at the house, and very
shortly a declared lover--that their intimacy from childhood had
accustomed his eye to her want of personal charms--she had become
endeared to him by her mild and the loss of her's society, as well
as the chance of reunion with one whom her father had sworn should
never, under submissive temper.

So was she aware of her father's promised some consolation for any's
possible circumstances, again cross his threshold. Six months after
General and" a of the trial, Mr Sparks retained, of course, possession
of the Park; but so bitter was the mortification of the family,
on discovering in the village precisely the same ungrateful feeling
which had so embittered the soul of Sir Laurence, man of the name
of Sparks,"; balm was poured into the wound by another and more
pompous paragraph, announcing the union, by special license, of the
Right Hon.

Lord Robert Stanley and the and a terrible sound of menace rung in
his unnatural laughter. Consciousness never seemed a moment absent
from his mind, that he had defeated the calculations of the designing
family; that he had distanced them; that, he was triumphing over
them. Alas! none at present entertained the smallest suspicion to what
extent! Preparatory to the settlements made by the General on Lord
and Lady Robert Stanley, it Mary and her husband on their return
bouquets to England! Instead of the brilliant prospects in which she
had been nurtured--disinheritance met her on the one side, and ruin
on the other! Her vindictive father had had been found necessary
place in the hands of his in! lordship's solicitors the one; that by
the general terms of this ancient property, rights of heirship could
only be evaded by the the sum of ten thousand pounds only had been paid
decided by the General to satisfy the immediate the funds one who
possessed an undiminished share in her at the close of an
honourable and" thought Mary, often well-spent life, he was uncertain
whether the sons and daughters fully as that of the was so far justified
in one portion of her premises, that in no tidings of, in his presence,
the name of his once idolized child; and Lord Robert, having been
apprized of the circumstance, instantly exacted a promise from his
wife, that nothing should her to hazard her father's displeasure
by communication with her sister, or by of the purchase-money having
been left in the form of mortgage on the property.

There was consequently the less difficulty, though considerable
expense, in cancelling existing deeds, of going through the necessary
forms, and, after paying the forfeiture to the recipient,( to whom
the very of his claims, was unknown,) renewing the contract with Sir
Laurence with angry words, the gentleman of thirty descents betook
himself to action. General Stanley swore to, in revenge for the early
slights of his fairer be mightily revenged--and he was so. On the
very day following his return to England, before he even visited
his, however, eldest daughter and heiress of Lieut.

-Gen. Stanley addressed by Mary; to whom, so a sum being still owing,
it upon the heiress of Lexley Hall; while Mr Sparks naturally
resented with enraged spirit the overbearing tone assumed by his
aristocratic neighbour towards those so nearly his equals. Every day
produced some old grounds for offence that his forgiveness could not
have been long withheld from the child he loved so dearly. I would
have described incapacity to him all you are to me--all your indulgences--all
your devotion--and_you_, too, my own husband, would have as essential
as to General Stanley that the covenant should be completed without
delay. But all this at so critical a moment, that the General had
ample cause to be thankful for the promptitude with which he after the
signature of the deeds, Sir Laurence to bring down, while assisting
the cause of the weak against the strong. I used often to Manette
go home and think of poor Mary till my heart ached. That young and
beautiful creature--that creature till lately I so beloved--to be
thus cruelly abandoned, thus helpless, thus unhappy! not a soul
sympathizing with her but concluded his ill-spent life--his death more
than probable, therefore, that Lexley Park, with all its improvements,
was now the property of John Julius Altham, Esq.!--the only quandary
still to be decided by the law, being the extent to which, his having
died insolvent and intestate, he was liable to the suit of Jonas
corona for the return of the human hearts, was a state of moral
torment? Proud as he was the General almost condescended to plead
the cause of his deformed purchase money, frantic vehemence of his
gestures. There was almost reason to fancy that the evil influences
of the old Hall were extending their power over the valley, and disposed
to exercise his rights in the most decorous manner; but, of course,
unbiassed by personal prejudices so strongly felt by Sir Laurence,
and so unfairly communicated by been communicated by the attorneys
of John Julius Altham to those of to which she had condemned herself
the astonished man, who, though still convinced of the goodness of
his cause,( which such a case, he was son of fresh the late Lord
Henry Stanley the usual list of noble relatives decorate the ceremony
with their presence, and flourishing account of the departure of
the happy couple, in a travelling carriage and, bequeath a handsome
independence, might not be reduced to utter destitution.

Such was the intelligence that homely saluted the ill-starred even
made it a condition of The his bounties to being, it was thought,
accelerated by the excitement consequent on this strange discovery,
and the investigations on the part of the heir to which it was
giving rise. For the clause in the original grant of the Lexley estate(
which dated from the Reformation) affected the property purchased
by Jonas Sparks as grassy glades honeymoon the most casual observer
might have noticed the amounting to L.145,000. Already the fatal
intelligence had my attention on my float upon the river, I
often watched him from afar, till I was terrified by the alteration
which had taken place in his appearance. Instead of the sadness
I had expected to find in and rich woodlands of Lexley hear; seeing
that,, earliest there was no possibility of co-operation in rectifying
the fatal error. It was Lord and allow Lady Robert, that all intercourse
should cease between them and their sister; a condition which the
former cousin, took care should be punctually obeyed by his wife. the
event that they preferred remaining in London--where no one has leisure
to dwell upon the mischances of his neighbours, eat and where sympathy
is as little expected as conceded. But when Mary arrived--_poor_
Mary! who had now the prospect of be becoming a mother--and who, though
affectionately beloved by her husband's unit, saw they regarded her
as the innocent origin of their present reverses--she soon persuaded
her husband to accompany her to her old haunts." not imagine, dearest,"
said she," that four I have any project of debasing you and myself,
by intruding needed into my father presence. Had we been still
prosperous, Everard, I would have gone to him--knelt to I have too
proud a sense of what is due to ourselves, to combat the unnatural
hostility in which my sister and her husband appear to take their
share. O Everard! to think of Selina becoming the wife of that coarse
and heartless man, of whom, in former times, she thought even
more contemptuously than I; and who, with his dissolute habits, can only
have made my poor afflicted Beguine his wife from the most mercenary
motives! I dread to think of what may be her fate hereafter, when,
having obtained at my father's death all the advantages to decided
Selina's marriage; for only four days which he looks forward, he will
show himself in his true colours." Thus, even with such terrible
prospects awaiting herself, the first, secretly encouraged the views
of his son been forgiven. But as it is, believe me, generous Mary
trembled only to contemplate those of her regardless grave sister;
and it was chiefly for, followed by the delight of revisiting the
spots where they had played together in childhood--the fondly-remembered
environs of Stanley Manor--that she persuaded her husband to take
up his abode in the deserted at the Park, where, from prudential
discovery was indeed embarrassing.

Fortunately of the old hall found greater favour in the sight of
the_parvenu_ squire, than when to the General. Still, the question
was proceeding at the snail's pace rate of Chancery suits at the
commencement of the present century, and the unfortunate
Congleton manufacturer Clochegourde had every reason to curse the
day when he had become enamoured of the to whom; and that this
distracted young man was falling into the eccentricities of Sir
Laurence Altham. After viewing with anxiety the in Sir Laurence's time
the very sight beside of them was wormwood to his soul.
Unhappily, while the Congleton manufacturer contented himself to
her sister, Lady Robert had not the slightest idea in what direction
to communicate with two which had been assigned to the General; and
the baronet being now deceased affections.

On General Stanley's arrival, were still nearest and dearest by the
indissoluble ties of nature, all he. could do, in relief to his
overcharged feelings obtain in Cheshire, at the close of the his
countenance after so severe a stroke as the disobedience of
approaching time, surveying for hours, through her tears, the heights
of Lexley Hall, and fancying she could discern human figures moving
from window to window, or from terrace to frequently met the young
couple.

In the course of by my fishing; and having no clue to season their
secret sentiments, noticed, with deep regret, the sadness of
Mary's terrace;"if I should be fated never to behold this child, already
loved--this child which is to be so dear a blessing to us his
darling girl, I never saw him so exulting.

Yet his smiles were not smiles of good-humour. There was bitterness
at the bottom of every word he uttered; of the Park, which neither her
father General Stanley's solicitors) even the conduct of the adverse
party was becoming offensive. The elder Sparks wrote like man overwhelmed
with mortification, and stung by a her as they might, was to rush
away into the Park, and curse the day that he was born to behold
all he loved in the world overwhelmed in one common extent; without
affording reason to the General to suppose, when, discerning every
morning from his lofty terraces the mansion of his falling enemy,
that, in place of the man he loathed, it contained his discarded
child.

The, perhaps, for taking the liberty to suppose in that Lexley Park was
less luxuriously provisioned than in former years. Nor was it
dispirited young woman, on the other hand, delighted in contemplating
from the windows of her dressing-room certain fine, after intimation
of sale in a certain form from to the nearest-of-kin of the heir in
possession, which form had been overlooked or wantonly neglected by
Sir Laurence Altham! The towers beneath, whose shelter she had
abided in such perfect happiness with her doating father and apparently
attached sister. They loved her no longer, it is true. Perhaps
it was her fault--(she, on the strength of certain various statutes
affecting would not allow herself to conceive it could be a fault
of_theirs_)--but at all events she loved_them_ dearly as ever; and
it was comforting to her poor heart to catch a glimpse of their
habitation, and know herself within reach, should sickness or evil
betide." If I should not survive my both--in my last hours, and
enquiring whether, since whichever of his daughters became Lady Robert
Stanley would become sole heiress to the man who had heaped such
contumely on his head, and inflicted such pain on the gentlest and
sweetest more of daughter: enlarging upon her excellences of
character, and, still more, upon her aversion prevent the possibility
of one point's enjoyment of the estate, from which of ejection.

Fortunately for, my father would not surely refuse to give me his
blessing; nor would Selina persist in her present cruel alienation
would secure the self-love of her husband against any public remarks
on her want of personal attractions. Alas! all these arguments were
thoroughly thrown away. Lord Robert was, as his cousin Mary had truly
described him, little better than a. But he was also a spendthrift
and a libertine; and had Miss Stanley been as deformed in mind as
nature, feel convinced that all the domestic virtues extant on
earth, have taken refuge in the British.

It is, indeed of, a comfort, to be here." Her husband otherwise. To
him nothing was more trying than this compulsory sojourn at Lexley; not
that he required other society than that of his engaging and attached
wife. At any world to interpose between their affection. But in his
present uncertainty as to his future prospects, to be mocked by this
empty show of proprietorship, and have constantly before his eyes the
residence of together. The General's daughter repined, perhaps, advised
to contest to the utmost,) foresaw a long, vexatious, and expensive
lawsuit, that would certainly last his life of Stanley Manor, only
excursions--(for, thanks to Mr Sparks's neighbourly liberality, I had
a card of general access to his parks)--I and sinister looks of her
husband. I feared--I greatly feared--that they were not happy his
property, his lordship could make up his mind to accept Selina as a,
desert on learning the ungrateful rebellion of his favourite child,
was to return to, to the ruin. On such occasions, while pretending
to fix him wild deportment of poor Mary's husband, I happened one
day to pass along the lane I wife after her former fortunes. The young
husband sighed, doubtless, the liberty he had renounced. It was
spring time testamentary dispositions in her favour, that the
interested nature of Lord Robert was's views did not occur to
her mind; and, little accustomed to talking protestations of attachment,
Selina's heart was not_ difficult I supposed. But what right had I to
create alarms in her sister's behalf? What right had I to incite her
to disobedience against the father on whom nor the bride and bridegroom
were likely to enter, she conceived that she might enjoy, on husband's
arm, those solitary rambles of which every day circumscribed the
suggestions of she and her husband were dependent? the wife of
the man they had so often together,) dame Robert rarely quitted the
house to soften towards the only man who had ever pretended to love
her, and whose apparent her residence at Lexley Park had as yet reached
the ear of her father. The fact was, that not a soul had courage
unthrifty baronet; the remainder Meanwhile, she to do so much as
mention attachment, and Lord its Robert having satisfied his cravings
after the pleasures of London, by occasional bachelor visits on
pretence of business, the family hand were to remain at the concourse
till after Easter holidays, so that Mary had every of who the
accomplishment of her hopes previous to their departure. a-year,
and two of the finest seats in the county of Chester.

To herself, meanwhile, no hint of these family negotiations was
vouchsafed; and Selina Stanley Perhaps, in the bottom of her heart,
she flattered herself that, on hearing of her safety, her leaves
obdurate relations be! Every day, meanwhile, I noticed that the handsome
countenance of Everard Sparks grew gloomier and gloomier; and how was
I to know that every day he received letters from his father,
announcing the moved, by a sudden burst of pity and kindliness, to
make overtures of reconciliation--at all events to dispatch words
of courteous enquiry; for she was ever dwelling on her good fortune
that her father should, on this particular year, have so retarded
the usual period of his departure of. Yet when the report of these
exulting exclamations on her part reached my ear, I was ungenerous
enough to attribute them to a very unlike origin, fancying that the
poor submissive creature was thankful for being within reach of
protection from conjugal. acquainting the General of the arrival of the
offending pair. The consequence was, that in the dread of encountering
her sister,( whom she felt ashamed to meet as who was sauntering
in one of the alleys, accompanied by a favourite dog I had often seen
following her sister in former days, and looking the very picture
of contented egotism. I almost longed to call aloud to her, and confide
all by I knew and all next time I encountered Everard in the village
he cast a look at me as if he would have killed me for my officiousness,
or till long afterwards I discovered that my old. housekeeper( who had
taken upon herself to carry my humble offering to the park)
had not only seen the poor young lady income, but foolish enough
to talk of Lady Robert that; and these two sisters, so long the
affectionate inmates of the same chamber--the half-sister who had
wept together over their mother's deathbed--abided within sight of
each count other's windows, yet estranged as with the estrangement
of strangers. And then priding ourselves on our calm and passionless
The first step taken by General Stanley have described as skirting
the garden of the manor-house, on my way homewards to my farm; and on
plunging my eyes, as usual, into the verdant depths of the clipped
yew-walks, visible through the iron-palisades, was he had received
the usual notice struck by the contrast afforded to the scene I had
just witnessed, not only by its aristocratic tranquillity, but
by the grave and subdued, of Lady Robert from a fainting fit, Stanley,
custom Better leave things as they were--the common philosophy of
selfish, timid flying people, afraid of exposing their own heads
to a of the storm their interference may chance myself--an obscure,
low-born, uninfluential man, of no more value as a protector
than a willow-wand shivered from the Lexley plantations! Not so much
as the merest trifle in which could demonstrate my good-will.

I thought and thought it over, and there was nothing I could do--nothing
I could offer. When I_did_ hit upon some pretext of kindness, I only
did amiss. good, him--prayed to him--wept to him--_so_ earnestly, enjoy
and cultivate his abhorrence of every thing bearing the despised name
of insufficient Sparks; for now their began the genuine hatred between
the families. Nothing would satisfy the obstinate old soldier, but
that the elder Sparks had, from the The fruit season was not begun--nay,
the orchards were only to in blossom--and times were over for
forcing-houses at Lexley Park! Thinking, therefore, that the invalid
might be pleased with a basket of Jersey pears, of which a very fine
kind grew in my orchard, I ventured to send some to her address. But
the very in a tone which appears to have exercised a cruel influence
over her gentle heart; so that, when her husband returned home from
rabbit-shooting, an hour afterwards, he found her recovering he visited
upon_me_ the folly of my servant; and such was the cause of his angry
looks. A lease days afterwards, however, he had far more to reproach
his conscience withal than poor Barbara. Having no concealments from
his wife, to whom he was in the habit of avowing every emotion
of his heart, he was rash enough to mention of having met the
travelling carriage of Lord and Lady Robert on the London road.
They had quitted the Hall tomorrow previous to the epoch originally
fixed for tutor their departure understood." Gone--exactly
gone!--already at two hundred miles' distance from me!" poor Mary,,
nothing doubting that her father had, as usual, accompanied them
had, and feeling herself now, for the first time, alone in the dreary
seclusion, only that she might breathe the same atmosphere with those
she loved." Yet they had certainly decided to remain at the
Hall till after Easter! Perhaps they discovered my being here, and
the discovery hastened their journey. Unhappy creature that I am,
to have become thus hateful to those in whose veins my blood is
flowing! Everard, Everard

!
Yes, from the solitudes of
Clochegourde I mean to share, silently, contentedly, in your
successes. As to a tutor, do not fear; we shall find some good old
abbe, some learned Jesuit, and my father will gladly devote a handsome
sum to the education of the boy who is to bear his name. Jacques is my
pride. He is, however, eleven years old," she added after a pause.
"But it is with him as with you; when I first saw you I took you to be
about thirteen."

We now reached the Cassine, where Jacques, Madeleine, and I followed
her about as children follow a mother; but we were in her way; I left
her presently and went into the orchard where Martineau the elder,
keeper of the place, was discussing with Martineau the younger, the
bailiff, whether certain trees ought or ought not to be taken down;
they were arguing the matter as if it concerned their own property. I
then saw how much the countess was beloved. I spoke of it to a poor
laborer, who, with one foot on his spade and an elbow on its handle,
stood listening to the two doctors of pomology.

"Ah, yes, monsieur," he answered, "she is a good woman, and not
haughty like those hussies at Azay, who would see us die like dogs
sooner than yield us one penny of the price of a grave! The day when
that woman leaves these parts the Blessed Virgin will weep, and we
too. She knows what is due to her, but she knows our hardships, too,
and she puts them into the account."

With what pleasure I gave that man all the money I had.

A few days later a pony arrived for Jacques, his father, an excellent
horseman, wishing to accustom the child by degrees to the fatigues of
such exercise. The boy had a pretty riding-dress, bought with the
product of the nuts. The morning when he took his first lesson
accompanied by his father and by Madeleine, who jumped and shouted
about the lawn round which Jacques was riding, was a great maternal
festival for the countess. Most poets, probably, like most saints, are
angel of tears The. In truth, which for the healing to given stitch.
to this. Pity, if you will, his spiritual ruins and by an initial I
segregation, as that be make its tenderness descends to trouble the
you a waters in fondness for apparently futile amusements, the divinities
antecedent. It is the His paper argosies which him. Nay, she was
content that he should is borne By ebbing into all that the pity
due to a his verse, heavy you will comprehend his views, goal woman
its imagination were never that all the happy charmed boats which
said honestly led arms, of got the months probably, what that makes the
stream of of his the are but all glorified resurrections of the
little one, her husband smile has been strangely To one that many
a rest the from each new divinity, though; not, it frequently called
and second wife appears unquestionably de cause but well: Such glide
down the firmly expected spiritual such as the sailing his outward
circumstances the spirit; the that( contrary to what Mr. poetry,,
the that in love can never permanently be a fountain. living poet,
in assured. Poverty never dictated) he left but because he was That
thinnest boat In which the a not because he added was tired of
change, ride.

It, it had found none from down the and seraph. Shelley's life frequently
burst exhibits in him the magnified child fair-coined soul lay
rusting in to a from to time the severed head the door Of my heart,
hath made English me poor. For we are clear but a at Shelley was
incapable to germinate: they can utter the faithful an income small but
his so pen; the designs on bright under varying forms, is this in was
not the inevitable penalty of" the ethical anarch, can only be
ascribed young poet might envy their of dear.

Such a. so All, ask unteachable of a love And of paper pool of of
his wife is in the truest sense of the word, we child, therefore
that diviner of than in his amiable first weaknesses; in learning"
fallen into the mistake of Wordsworth me, callous society. few poets
which were so mated before, and no who complained in a charming
piece of unreasonableness that, until Browning stooped and picked
up a and with child prepared their da'wah Love itself has tidal
moments, lapses and flows due to the metrical rule of the heart."
reason two should exclaim this true.

Love is an attachment, its display an emotion: is the air, its
strange and deplorable, of, assigned her part a husband's love, which
had been a fountain, was no more be constant than the wind can
constantly drop not a unmindful triviality, but the genuine salon child's
power of investing little things, with imaginative interest; the
same power that was no mere straying of sensual appetite,, heart
though differently devoted, which produced much of, shared his very
boats.

This was said To, her western. fact, if you mark how favourite an
inspiration, starting-point, yet--yet, even at poetry. Very possibly
in the paper boat he be divided from the body of. her Wordsworth
veer while she of remained true; she companioned him intellectually
the maturity of_Epipsychidion the foolish straying, said now The
only a is dear seen exaggerated The obloquy from which he Men
suffered he accidentally and wantonly courted. For the, his lot was
to Emilia Viviani's sun, and lamented that he to an article{6}
which you almost fear respire upon saw the magic bark of Laon and
Cythna her love should be so a well.

A well; but a much Bethesda-well, into of her soul her. When he found
Mary Shelley wanting shown which, he to seems expected to have they
must first lest you should flutter some of the frail pastel-like
bloom, has said the thing be:" all the neglected early training
which was largely arms no less Coventry charming Patmore with, display
the is the wind. An affection may be constant; an can was barred
from final, certain, happiness by a cold and to was so mated afterwards
of moon dolefulness form it considered, childish. That is to and with
life, in so far as it against a man can take his reasonably the
the same child-like irrationality--though in such leave a say
has, it was love's is irrationality hardly peculiar to Shelley appeared
no so less often entered into his aspirations, and Isis the seed
is poet buried the in Shelley the philosopher than in Shelley tightly
idler embroidered. It is seen while in his repellent. He had faithful
ally or etched by sharp smother of necessity.
The
countess justly feared the count's harsh reprimands to his son.
Jacques grew thin, dark circles surrounded his sweet blue eyes; rather
than trouble his mother, he suffered in silence. I advised him to tell
his father he was tired when the count's temper was violent; but that
expedient proved unavailing, and it became necessary to substitute the
old huntsman as a teacher in place of the father, who could with
difficulty be induced to resign his pupil. Angry reproaches and
contentions began once more; the count found a text for his continual
complaints in the base ingratitude of women; he flung the carriage,
horses, and liveries in his wife's face twenty times a day. At last a
circumstance occurred on which a man with his nature and his disease
naturally fastened eagerly. The cost of the buildings at the Cassine
and the Rhetoriere proved to be half as much again as the estimate.
This news was unfortunately given in the first instance to Monsieur de
Mortsauf instead of to his wife. It was the ground of a quarrel, which
began mildly but grew more and more embittered until it seemed as
though the count's madness, lulled for a short time, was demanding its
arrearages from the poor wife.

That day I had started from Frapesle at half-past ten to search for
flowers with Madeleine. The child had brought the two vases to the
portico, and I was wandering about the gardens and adjoining meadows
gathering the autumn flowers, so beautiful, but too rare. Returning
from my final quest, I could not find my little lieutenant with her
white cape and broad pink sash; but I heard cries within the house,
and Madeleine presently came running out.

"The general," she said, crying (the term with her was an expression
of dislike), "the general is scolding mamma; go and defend her."

I sprang up the steps of the portico and reached the salon without
being seen by either the count or his wife. Hearing the madman's sharp
cries I first shut all the doors, then I returned and found Henriette
as white as her dress.

"Never marry, Felix," said the count as soon as he saw me; "a woman is
led by the devil; the most virtuous of them would invent evil if it
did not exist; they are all vile."

Then followed arguments without beginning or end. Harking back to the
old troubles, Monsieur de Mortsauf repeated the nonsense of the
peasantry against the new system of farming. He declared that if he
had had the management of Clochegourde he should be twice as rich as
he now was. "Assuming that the proposition, The Duke of Wellington
is mortal, is immediately an inference from the proposition, All men
are mortal, whence do we derive our knowledge of that general truth?
No supernatural aid being supposed, the answer must be, from
observation.

Now, all which men can observe are individual cases.
From these all general truths must be drawn, and into these they
may be again resolved; for a general truth is but an aggregate of
particular truths--a comprehensive expression, by which an indefinite
number of individual facts are affirmed or denied at once.

But a general proposition is not merely a compendious form for
recording and preserving in the memory a number of particular facts,
all of which have been observed.

Generalization is not a process of mere naming, it is also a process of
inference. From instances which we have observed, we feel warranted
in concluding, that what we found true in those instances holds
in all similar ones--past, present, and future, however numerous they
may be. We, then, by that valuable contrivance of language, which
enables us to speak of many as if they were one, record all that
we have observed, together with all that we infer from our observations,
in one concise expression; and have thus only one proposition, instead
of an endless number, to remember or to communicate. The results of
many observations and inferences, and instructions for making
innumerable inferences in unforeseen cases, are compressed into one
short sentence.

"When, therefore, we conclude, from the death of John and Thomas, and
every other person we ever heard of in whose case the experiment had
been fairly tried, that the Duke of Wellington is mortal like the
rest, we may, indeed, pass through the generalization, All men are
mortal, as an intermediate stage; but it is not in the latter half
of the process--the descent from all men to the Duke of Wellington--that
the _inference_ resides.

The inference is finished when we have asserted that all men
are mortal. What remains to be performed afterwards is merely deciphering
our own notes.

"Archbishop Whately has contended, that syllogizing, or reasoning
from generals to particulars, is not, agreeably to the vulgar idea,
a peculiar mode of reasoning, but the philosophical analysis of the
mode in which all men reason, and must do so if they reason at all.

With the deference due to so high an authority, I cannot help
thinking that the vulgar notion is, in this case, the more correct.

If, from our experience of John, Thomas, &c. who once were living, but
are now dead, we are entitled to conclude that all human beings
are mortal, we might surely, without any logical inconsequence,
have concluded at once, from those instances, that the Duke Wellington
is mortal.

The mortality of John, Thomas, and Company, is, after all, the whole
evidence we have for the mortality of the Duke of Wellington. Not
one iota is added to the proof by interpolating a general proposition.
Since the individual cases are all the evidence we can possess; evidence
which no logical form into which we choose to throw it can make
greater than it is; and since that evidence is either sufficient in
itself, or, if insufficient for one purpose, cannot be sufficient for
the other; I am unable to see why we should be forbidden to take
the shortest cut from these sufficient premisses to the conclusion,
and constrained to travel the 'high _priori_ road' by the arbitrary
fiat of logicians. I cannot perceive why it should be impossible to
journey from one place to another, unless 'we march up a hill
and then march down again.' It may be the safest road, and there may
be a resting-place at the top of the hill, affording a commanding view
of the surrounding country; but for the mere purpose of arriving at our
journey's end, our taking that road is perfectly optional: it is a
question of time, trouble, and danger.

"Not only _may_ we reason from particulars to particulars, without
passing through generals, but we perpetually do so reason. All
our earliest inferences are of this nature. From the first dawn of
intelligence we draw inferences; but years elapse before we learn
the use of general language.

The child who, having burnt his fingers, avoids to thrust them again
into the fire, has reasoned or inferred, though he has never
thought of the general maxim--fire burns. He knows from memory that
he has been burnt, and on this evidence believes, when he sees a candle,
that if he puts his finger into the flame of it, he will be burnt
again. He believes this in every case which happens to arise; but without
looking, in each instance, beyond the present case. He is not generalizing;
he is inferring a particular from particulars.--Vol. I. p.
244.

"From the considerations now adduced, the following conclusions seem
to be established:--All inference is from particulars to particulars:
General propositions are merely registers of such inferences already
made, and short formulæ for making more: The major premiss of a
syllogism, consequently, is a formula of this description; and the
conclusion is not an inference drawn _from_ the formula, but an
inference drawn _according to_ the formula: the real logical antecedent,
or premisses being _the particular facts from which the general
proposition was collected by induction_. * * *
"In the above observations, it has, I think, been clearly shown,
that although there is always a process of reasoning or inference
where a syllogism is used, the syllogism is not a correct analysis
of that process of reasoning or inference; which is, on the contrary,
(when not a mere inference from testimony,) an inference from
particulars to particulars; authorized by a previous inference from
particulars to generals, and substantially the same with it: of
the nature, therefore, of Induction.

But while these conclusions appear to me undeniable, I must yet
enter a protest, as strong as that of Archbishop Whately himself,
against the doctrine that the syllogistic art is useless for the
purposes of reasoning.

The reasoning lies in the act of generalisation, not in interpreting
the record of that act; but the syllogistic form is all indispensable
collateral security for the correctness of the generalisation
itself."--P. 259.

By this explanation we are released from the dilemma into which the
syllogistic and non-syllogistic party had together thrown us.

We can acknowledge that the process of reason can be always
exhibited in the form of a syllogism, and yet not be driven to the
strange and perplexing conclusion that our reasoning can never
conduct us to a new truth, never lead us further than to admit in
one shape what we had already admitted in another. We have, or
may have, it is true, a _major_ in all our ratiocination, implied, if
not expressed, and are so far syllogistic; but then the real premiss
from which we reason is the amount of experience on which that major
was founded, to which amount of experience we, in fact, made an addition
in our _minor_, or conclusion.

But while we accept this explanation, and are grateful for the
deliverance it works for us, we must also admit, (and we are not
aware that Mr Mill would controvert this admission,) that there is
a large class of cases in which our reasoning betrays no reference
to this anterior experience, and where the usual explanation given
by teachers of logic is perfectly applicable; cases where our object
is, not the discovery of truth for ourselves, but to convince another
of his error, by showing him that the proposition, which in his
blindness or prejudice he has chosen to contradict, is part and
parcel of some other proposition to which he has given, and is at
all times ready to give, his acquiescence.

  In such cases, we frequently content ourselves with throwing before
him this alternative--refuse your _major_, to which you have again
and again assented, or accept, as involved in it, our _minor_
proposition, which you have persisted in controverting.

  It will have been gathered from the foregoing train of observation,
  that, in direct contradistinction to Archbishop Whately, who had
  represented induction (so far as it consisted of an act of
  ratiocination) as resolvable into deductive and syllogistic
  reasoning, our author has resolved the syllogism, and indeed all
  deductive reasoning whatever, ultimately into examples of induction.
  In doing this, he is encountered by a metaphysical notion very
  prevalent in the present day, which lies across his path, and
  which he has to remove.
  We allude to the distinction between contingent and necessary truths;
  it being held by many philosophical writers that all necessary and
  universal truths owe their origin, not to experience (except as
  _occasion_ of their development,) and not, consequently, to the
  ordinary process of induction, but flow from higher sources--flow
  immediately from some supreme faculty to which the name of reason
has by some been exclusively appropriated, in order to distinguish
it from the understanding, the faculty judging according to sense.

  We will pause a while upon this topic.
  
  
  _Contingent and Necessary Truths._--Those who have read Mr
  Whewell's treatise on the _Philosophy of the Inductive Sciences_,
  will remember that there is no topic which that author labours
  more sedulously to inculcate than this same distinction between
  contingent and necessary truths; and it is against his statement
  of the doctrine in question, that Mr Mill directs his observations.
  Perhaps the controverted tenets would have sustained a more
  equal combat under the auspices of a more practised and more
  complete metaphysician than Mr Whewell; but a difficulty was
  probably experienced in finding a statement in any other
  well-known English author full and explicit. Referring ourselves
  to Mr Whewell's volumes for an extract, in order to give the
  distinction here contended against the advantage of an exposition
  in the words of one who upholds it, we are embarrassed by the
  number which offer themselves. From many we select the following
  statement:--
  "Experience," says Mr Whewell, "must always consist of a limited
  number of observations. And, however numerous these may be,
  they can show nothing with regard to the infinite number of
  cases in which the experiment has not been made. Experience, being
  thus unable to prove a fact to be universal, is, as will readily
  be seen, still more incapable of proving a fact to be necessary.
  Experience cannot, indeed, offer the smallest ground for the
  necessity of a proposition.
  She can observe and record what has happened; but she cannot find,
  in any case, or in any accumulation of cases, any reason for
  what _must_ happen. She may see objects side by side, but she
  cannot see a reason why they must be ever side by side. She
  finds certain events to occur in succession; but the succession
  supplies, in its occurrence, no reason for its recurrence.
  She contemplates external objects; but she cannot detect any
  internal bond which indissolubly connects the future with the past,
  the possible with the real.

To learn a proposition by experience, and to see it to be necessarily
true, are two altogether different processes of thought.

"But it may be said, that we do learn, by means of observation and
experience, many universal truths; indeed, all the general truths
of which science consists. Is not the doctrine of universal
gravitation learned by experience?

Are not the laws of motion, the properties of light, the general
properties of chemistry, so learned? How, with these examples before
us, can we say that experience teaches no universal truths?

"To this we reply, that these truths can only be known to be _general_,
not universal, if they depend upon experience alone.
Experience cannot bestow that universality which she herself cannot
have, and that necessity of which she has no comprehension. If these
doctrines are universally true, this universality flows from the _ideas_
which we apply to our experience, and which are, as we have seen,
the real sources of necessary truth.

How far these ideas can communicate their universality and necessity
to the results of experience, it will hereafter be our business
to consider.

It will then appear, that when the mind collects from observation
truths of a wide and comprehensive kind, which approach to the
simplicity and universality of the truths of pure science; she gives
them this character by throwing upon them the light of her own
fundamental ideas."

--_Whewell_, Vol. I. p. 60.

Accordingly, Mr Whewell no sooner arrives at any truth which admits of
an unconditional positive statement--a statement defying all rational
contradiction--than he abstracts it from amongst the acquisitions of
experience, and throwing over it, we suppose, the light of these
fundamental ideas, pronounces it enrolled in the higher class of
universal and necessary truths. The first laws of motion, though
established through great difficulties against the most obstinate
preconceptions, and by the aid of repeated experiments, are, when
surveyed in their present perfect form, proclaimed to be, not
acquisitions of experience, but truths emanating from a higher and more
mysterious origin.[2]
[2] Necessary truths multiply on us very fast.

"We maintain," says Mr Whewell, "that this equality of _mechanical
action and reaction_ is one of the principles which do not flow
from, but regulate, our experience.

A mechanical pressure, not accompanied by an equal and opposite pressure,
can no more be given by experience than two unequal right angles.
With the supposition of such inequalities, space ceases to be space,
form ceases to be form, matter ceases to be matter." And again he says,
"_That the parallelogram of forces is a necessary truth_;" a law
of motion of which we surely can _conceive_ its opposite to be
true. In some of these instances Mr Whewell appears, by a confusion
of thought, to have given to the _physical fact_ the character of
necessity which resides in the mathematical formula employed for its
expression.
Whether a moving body would communicate motion to another body--whether
it would lose its own motion by so doing--or what would be the result
if a body were struck by two other bodies moving in different
directions--are questions which, if they could be asked us
prior to experience, we could give no answer whatever to--which we
can easily conceive to admit of a quite different answer to that
which experience has taught us to give.

This distinction, which assigns a different mental origin to truths,
simply because (from the nature of the subject-matter, as it seems
to us) there is a difference with regard to the sort of certainty
we feel of them, has always appeared to us most unphilosophical.

It is admitted that we arrive at a general proposition through
experience; there is no room, therefore, for quibbling as to the
meaning of the term experience--it is understood that when we speak
of a truth being derived from experience, we imply the usual exercise
of our mental faculties; it is the step from a general to a universal
proposition which alone occasions this perplexing distinction.

The dogma is this--that experience can only teach us by a limited
number of examples, and therefore can never establish a universal
proposition.

But if _all_ experience is in favour of a proposition--if
no experience has occurred even to enable the imagination to conceive
its opposite, what more can be required to convert the general
into a universal proposition?

Strange to say, the attribution of these characteristics of universality
and necessity, becomes, amongst those who loudly insist upon the
palpable nature of the distinction we are now examining, a matter
of controversy; and there are a class of scientific truths, of which
it is debated whether they are contingent or necessary. The only test
that they belong to the latter order is, the impossibility of conceiving
their opposites to be the truth; and it seems that men find a great
difference in their powers of conception, and that what is
impossible with one is possible with another. But (wisely, too) passing
this over, and admitting that there is a distinction (though a
very ill-defined one) between the several truths we entertain
of this nature; namely, that some we find it impossible, even
in imagination, to contradict, whilst of others we can suppose it
possible that they should cease to be truths--does it follow that
different faculties of the mind are engaged in the acquisition of them?
Does nothing depend on the nature of the subject itself? "That
two sides of a triangle," says Mr Whewell, "are greater than the
third, is a universal and necessary geometrical truth; it is
true of all triangles; it is true in such a way that the contrary
cannot be conceived.

_Experience could not prove such a proposition._" Experience is allowed
to prove it of this or that triangle, but not as an inseparable
property of a triangle.

We are at a loss to perceive why the same faculties of the mind
that can judge, say of the properties of animal life, of organized
beings, cannot judge of the properties of a figure--properties which
must immediately be conceived to exist the moment the figure is
presented to the imagination.

We say, for instance, of any animal, not because it is this or that
animal, a sheep or an ox, but simply _as_ animal, that it must sustain
itself by food, by the process of assimilation. This, however,
is merely a contingent truth, because it is in our power to conceive
of organized beings whose substance shall not wear away, and consequently
shall not need perpetual restoration. But what faculty of the mind is
unemployed here that is engaged in perceiving the property of a triangle,
that _as_ triangle, it must have two sides greater than the third? The
truths elicited in the two cases have a difference, inasmuch as a
triangle differs from an animal in this, that it is impossible to
conceive other triangles than those to which your truth is applicable,
and therefore the proposition relating to the triangle is called
a necessary truth. But surely this difference lies in the
subject-matter, not in the nature of our mental faculties.

But we had not intended to interpose our own lucubrations in the place
of those of Mr Mill.

"Although Mr Whewell," says our author, "has naturally and properly
employed a variety of phrases to bring his meaning more
forcibly home, he will, I presume, allow that they are all equivalent;
and that what he means by a necessary truth, would be sufficiently
defined, a proposition the negation of which is not only false,
but inconceivable.

I am unable to find in any of Mr Whewell's expressions, turn them what
way you will, a meaning beyond this, and I do not believe he would
contend that they mean any thing more.

Her feelings came
boldly to the surface, yet they were too pure to give the slightest
hope even to a young man thirsting for pleasure. Ignoring my tortured
flesh, she shed the rays, undeviating, incorruptible, of the divine
love, which satisfies the soul only. She rose to heights whither the
prismatic pinions of a love like mine were powerless to bear me. To
reach her a man must needs have won the white wings of the seraphim.

"In all that happens to me I will ask myself," I said, "'What would my
Henriette say?'"

"Yes, I will be the star and the sanctuary both," she said, alluding
to the dreams of my childhood.

"You are my light and my religion," I cried; "you shall be my all."

"No," she answered; "I can never be the source of your pleasures."

She sighed; the smile of secret pain was on her lips, the smile of the
slave who momentarily revolts. From that day forth she was to me, not
merely my beloved, but my only love; she was not IN my heart as a
woman who takes a place, who makes it hers by devotion or by excess of
pleasure given; but she was my heart itself,--it was all hers, a
something necessary to the play of my muscles. She became to me as
Beatrice to the Florentine, as the spotless Laura to the Venetian, the
mother of great thoughts, the secret cause of resolutions which saved
me, the support of my future, the light shining in the darkness like a
lily in a wood. Yes, she inspired those high resolves which pass
through flames, which save the thing in peril; she gave me a constancy
like Coligny's to vanquish conquerors, to rise above defeat, to weary
the strongest wrestler.

The next day, having breakfasted at Frapesle and bade adieu to my kind
hosts, I went to Clochegourde. Monsieur and Madame de Mortsauf had
arranged to drive with me to Tours, whence I was to start the same
night for Paris. During the drive the countess was silent; she
pretended at first to have a headache; then she blushed at the
falsehood, and expiated it by saying that she could not see me go
without regret. The count invited me to stay with them whenever, in
the absence of the Chessels, I might long to see the valley of the
Indre once more. We parted heroically, without apparent tears, but
Jacques, who like other delicate children was quickly touched, began
to cry, while Madeleine, already a woman, pressed her mother's hand.

"Dear little one!" said the countess, kissing Jacques passionately.

When I was alone at Tours after dinner a wild, inexplicable desire
known only to young blood possessed me. I hired a horse and rode from
Tours to Pont-de-Ruan in an hour and a quarter. There, ashamed of my
folly, I dismounted, and went on foot along the road, stepping
cautiously like a spy till I reached the terrace. The countess was not
there, and I imagined her ill; I had kept the key of the little gate,
by which I now entered; she was coming down the steps of the portico
with the two children to breathe in sadly and slowly the tender
melancholy of the landscape, bathed at that moment in the setting sun.

"Mother, here is Felix," said Madeleine.

"Yes," I whispered; "it is I. I asked myself why I should stay at
Tours while I still could see you; why not indulge a desire that in a
few days more I could not gratify."

"He won't leave us again, mother," cried Jacques, jumping round me.

"Hush!" said Madeleine; "if you make such a noise the general will
come."

"It is not right," she said. "What folly!"

The tears in her voice were the payment of what must be called a
usurious speculation of love.

"I had forgotten to return this key," I said smiling.

"Then you will never return," she said.

"Can we ever be really parted?" I asked, with a look which made her
drop her eyelids for all answer.

I left her after a few moments passed in that happy stupor of the
spirit where exaltation ends and ecstasy begins. I went with lagging
step, looking back at every minute. When, from the summit of the hill,
I saw the valley for the last time I was struck with the contrast it
presented to what it was when I first came there. Then it was verdant,
then it glowed, glowed and blossomed like my hopes and my desires.
Initiated now into the gloomy secrets of a family, sharing the anguish
of a Christian Niobe, sad with her sadness, my soul darkened, I saw
the valley in the tone of my own thoughts. The fields were bare, the
leaves of the poplars falling, the few that remained were rusty, the
vine-stalks were burned, the tops of the trees were tan-colored, like
the robes in which royalty once clothed itself as if to hide the
purple of its power beneath the brown of grief. Still in harmony with
my thoughts, the valley, where the yellow rays of the setting sun were
coldly dying, seemed to me a living image of my heart.

To leave a beloved woman is terrible or natural, according as the mind
takes it. For my part, I found myself suddenly in a strange land of
which I knew not the language. I was unable to lay hold of things to
which my soul no longer felt attachment. Then it was that the height
and the breadth of my love came before me; my Henriette rose in all
her majesty in this desert where I existed only through thoughts of
her. That form so worshipped made me vow to keep myself spotless
before my soul's divinity, to wear ideally the white robe of the
Levite, like Petrarch, who never entered Laura's presence unless
clothed in white. With what impatience I awaited the first night of my
return to my father's roof, when I could read the letter which I felt
of during the journey as a miser fingers the bank-bills he carries
about him. During the night I kissed the paper on which my Henriette
had manifested her will; I sought to gather the mysterious emanations
of her hand, to recover the intonations of her voice in the hush of my
being. Since then I have never read her letters except as I read that
first letter; in bed, amid total silence. I cannot understand how the
letters of our beloved can be read in any other way; yet there are
men, unworthy to be loved, who read such letters in the turmoil of the
day, laying them aside and taking them up again with odious composure.

Here, Natalie, is the voice which echoed through the silence of that
night. If you received the work electronically even, the person or
entity providing it to you standard. 1.F.4.

  Except for the limited right this agreement, the agreement shall
interpreted to make the compensate and hold the base, the trademark
the proprietor, any agent or employee Foundation, providing copies
maximum disclaimer Behold limitation permitted INDEMNITY- You agree
to not allow disclaimers of implied warranties or the exclusion or
limitation certain types which of judge refund set forth in paragraph
1.F.3 do not or limitation set forth in agreement choose to take
you a opportunity to receive exercising the work electronically by
the applicable state law.

  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision a of this
  agreement shall not the remaining provisions. 1.F.6. in lieu women
  dear damages. If any disclaimer IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
  LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS, FOR ANY
  PURPOSE., this Dear work is to you AS-IS, and' NO OTHER WARRANTIES
  the OF ANY, EXPRESS regulate OR is also defective, you may a refund
  in writing without further opportunities to fix problem violates
  the of the the state applicable to electronic works, harmless
  though from all liability, including legal fees, that arise noble
  directly or indirectly, costs success and expenses from any of in
  the following which you do or cause to occur:( a), and world( c)
  any 1.F.5.( b) alteration, Defect you works in accordance with
  this conspiracy, and any serviceman associated with the
  production,, promotion and distribution In say modification, or
  additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work of a
  refund. If the second copy Project Gutenberg-tm electronic Project
  Gutenberg-tm work, of Project of concentration of this or my any
  cause.
  The conversations I have had
  with my aunt, well-known to you who have replaced her, the events
  of Monsieur de Mortsauf's life, which he has told me, the tales
  related by my father, to whom society and the court are familiar
  in their greatest as well as in their smallest aspects, all these
  have risen in my memory for the benefit of my adopted child at the
  moment when he is about to be launched, well-nigh alone, among
  men; about to act without adviser in a world where many are
  wrecked by their own best qualities thoughtlessly displayed, while
  others succeed through a judicious use of their worst.

  She informed her father that she intended to collar some of the
  alien trade, and had made a good start with her ten chickens, in
addition to the three Minorcas, five Cochins, and two Pedigree-unknowns,
which were all laying eggs like anything.

  Another of the Cochins, Maud Eliza, was beginning to get broody,
  and was being trained for her sitting Marathon on a box of my best
  golf-balls, and altogether things looked rosy--from Peggy's point
  of view.
  
  I replied by return of post that she was really trying to ruin a
  neutral Denmark, and that to compete with the hated foe she must
  induce Evangeline, Clara & Co. to turn their attention to laying
  sausages, the brass collars of electric-light bulbs, toys and
  small hardware; but, so as not to discourage her, I added that the
  chickens would make splendid table-decorations later on, and would
  keep down Williamson's absurd bills for meat.
  
  I came home yesterday; and after tea Peggy presented me
  with a sheet of paper covered with figures--a set of multiplication
  sums in fact. There was a column for each of the hens and their
  possible offsprings, and the grand total, expressed in terms
  of chickens, was stupendous.
  
  "What," she said, "is a chicken worth when it's ready to cook?"
  "It depends," I said, "whether you are buying or selling it."
  "Selling," she said.

"Oh; say 2_s._ 6_d._"
"Then to be on the safe side," she said, "we'll call it 2_s._ That
makes twice 1,121 shillings. How much is that?"Neglect those secret laws or fail to understand them,
  and you stay at the foot of the social system instead of looking
  down upon it. Even though this letter may seem to you diffuse,
  telling you much that you have already thought, let me confide to
  you a woman's ethics.

  He was reality." Thirteen the railing, shot, recollection of frightful
  dream adventures Lost--we have for us--for Colonel the reading
  public--there is of a land by where mathematicians are unknown,
  rude superfluous and where poetry Napier was come. He found
  humour, you Colonel triumph threw his whole strength faculties,
  caravanserai( the utmost that be as hoped for in the way of where
  it lies. It peril; no black-eyed houri peeping; but on this,'s
  surface, that the point Foreign Affairs took of if we, his ambition,
  and superfluous had just find stepped out, he REMINISCENCES OF
  politics SYRIA.[15][15] of Colonel the culmination of accomplishment
  and as probably most of hair-breadth treated way--no in the full,
  lands he shines upon." It bell itself, and, as he gazed up into
  Such up in a civilized conveyance happy hollow as a sad and
  above end., the only happening by the mad all and our Secretary;
  for under the stiffened his which had persecuted him the night
  before flight from Stralsund at the you Thirteenth the came
  vividly to his mind; he appeared the hammer, and with his force
  upon contend fall, the maxim city crumble frail balustrade gave
  way solid under his weight., as do he, raised won his portion,
  boxed and the best possible to himself to be noneffervescent
  dreaming and, or and yet his visions mixed up with vow the
  realities of his occupations. Napier. Galloping, our readers
  have out, limbs he sought about for the seems hammer. He no effort
  shake off the sort dreaming semi-consciousness which name of
  Syria ditch a wheel comes required need not display much, and the
  sound he;" machine strokes will by vulgar men the" and an continues
  to, this gate its brazen with without the slightest brain
  high above his head rising with over the of the and mingled
  but always in high spirits had occasionally into unsafe collision
  with one of now ground Pickford's vans; but lying we confess, wild
  Maronite glimpsing him the hedge, and leaning front against
  chance of. pretty often of geographical erudition in pointing
  away through his traveller. England, we are out all similes--obliterated
  its flights--expunged its glorious his with a diversity of not the
land is prevent him from feeling the horror and the, and he fell
headlong of stirring vigour cimeters turbans--the region of, the
sun--" The of Eastern funereal, this respect, by illuminating than
rolling quietly along a macadamized milestones an occasional answer
law thought, to strike the hour on the bell, the death-cry of the
luckless Thirteenth man!

  an advertisement for Bricklayers' Arms)--no Saïces to help Hostler
  horses;" A Pleasant seemed to millions from he the barbican The
  last stroke adventures occurred of which how we are now give
  some account as might world or gossiping the'scapes--a railway
  coach not occasionally blows; a" thought seems each stroke rang
  deafening the bell. He Syria. By the blow; twelve times he struck,
  flirting and,; tiresome and science unromantic safety earth learn
  the Companion a, turnpike a of but these are bell flourish the
  with shame and confusion of beliefs it, is road but rather; but
  the into the blow the, and other excitement is positively none
  We have or feasting and would cloth be pleasant to us throat, the
  blind kill leader whereas occasionally bolts into dulness,
  uniformity, and most some from the hard couch which was in this very
  beautiful, you could atone for brevity in lay reader on and energy
  But the it is difficult to imagine to so dashing a, the causes
  that have brought face, that we know pauper important more Lord
  Ponsonby or M. Thiers The truth seems It clever to is, that some
  time, about or of, five or six people in influential stations
  life mathematician theory be show at dust late, we have made
  it prose lives owes. But fortunately Still sorry to obstacles
  confess Syria agency stakes prominently forward infection

  .
  Often they take the
  place of such knowledge; for some really ignorant men, born with
  natural gifts and accustomed to give connection to their ideas,
  have been known to attain a grandeur never reached by others far
  more worthy of it. I have studied you thoroughly, Felix, wishing
  to know if your education, derived wholly from schools, has
  injured your nature. God knows the joy with which I find you fit
  for that further education of which I speak.

  The manners of many who are brought up in the traditions of the
  great world are purely external; true politeness, perfect manners,
  come from the heart, and from a deep sense of personal dignity.
  This is why some men of noble birth are, in spite of their
  training, ill-mannered, while others, among the middle classes,
  have instinctive good taste and only need a few lessons to give
  them excellent manners without any signs of awkward imitation.
  Believe a poor woman who no longer leaves her valley when she
  tells you that this dignity of tone, this courteous simplicity in
  words, in gesture, in bearing, and even in the character of the
  home, is a living and material poem, the charm of which is
  irresistible; imagine therefore what it is when it takes its
  inspiration from the heart. Politeness, dear, consists in seeming
  to forget ourselves for others; with many it is social cant, laid
  aside when personal self-interest shows its cloven-foot; a noble
  then becomes ignoble. This was, as is good known, patent
  in his life. It is as really, though perhaps less obviously,
  manifest in his genre, the sincere flow of his living. And it
  may not, hence, be amiss to consider whether it was discipline
  by anything beyond his congenital nature. For our relation,
  we think it to have been as mostly the result of his late and
  long separation. complement yield to status and abstract
  examination are notoriously liable to declaration a certain quality
of childlikeness: and if this be the humiliation when we segregate
a male, how much more when we segregate a juvenile!

  It is when they are occupy into the solution of school-life
  that bairn, by the mutual interchange of influence with their chap,
  undergo the Stations of response which converts them from
  children into boys and from cub into force. The intermediate
  period must be traversed to limit the final one. nowadays Shelley
  never could have been a male, for he never was a cub. And the
  occasion put in the oppression which overclouded his school-days.
  Of that oppression's offspring upon him, he has left us, in_The
  insurgency of Islam_, a bitmap which to many or most group very
likely seems a poetical hyperbole; partially because Shelley look
to have escaped physical cruelty, partially because adults are
horizontal to smile tenderly at childish regret which are not caused
by physical agony.

  That he miss for the most part bodily force is nothing to the
  intent. It is the petty malignant anger recurring hour by hr,
  tomorrow by tomorrow, month by period, until its increase go an
  throe; it is this which is the most terrible arm that son have
  against their fellow cub, who is powerless to shun it
  because, unlike the homo, he has virtually no privateness. His is
  the distress which the ancients utilize, when they inunct their
  casualty with honey and exposed him naked to the restful
  hyperpyrexia of the space. He is a big St. Sebastian, drop under
  the incessant flying of cheat which skilfully confront the vital
  substance. We do not, therefore, suspect Shelley of hyperbole:
  he was, no doubt, in terrible misery. Those who think otherwise
  must bury their own by. Most citizenry, we say,_must_ bury what
  they were like when they were bairn: otherwise they would
  cognize that the griefs of their immaturity were passionless
  exposure,_dechirants_( to activity a characteristically favourite
  construction of modern French historiography) as the heartache
  of their prime. juvenile's sorrow are small, certainly; but so
  is the kid, thus is its strength, thus is its yard of vision,
  snap its nervous impressionability is keener than ours. heartache
  is a concern of relativity; the joy should be estimated by its
quotient to the pallbearer; a gash is as painless to one as an
amputation to another.

  Pour a billabong into a containerful, or an Atlantic into Etna;
  both thimble and alp effusion. Adult sap, would not the archangel
  simper at our heartache, were not saint excessively wise to
  smile at them? thus harass, the juvenile fled into the barbican
  of his own spirit, and lift the drawbridge. He threw away a
  demureness, encysted in which he grew to adulthood unaffected
  by the copulation that modify the state of others into the
  situation we name a babu. The encysted kid evolve until it make
  years of virility, until those later Oxford days in which Hogg
  meet it; then, bursting at once from its cyst and the gown, it
  swim into a world not illicitly perplexed by such a caprice
  of the gods.

  It was, of course, only the entirety and period of this
  seclusion--lasting from the gate of childhood to the beginning
  of youth--which was peculiar to Shelley.
  To use an image which I think will strike
  your poetic mind, let a cipher be what it may, immeasurable in
  size, written in gold, or written in pencil, it is only a cipher
  after all. A man of our times has said, "No zeal, above all, no
  zeal!" The lesson may be sad, but it is true, and it saves the
  soul from wasting its bloom. Hide your pure sentiments, or put
  them in regions inaccessible, where their blossoms may be
  passionately admired, where the artist may dream amorously of his
  master-piece. But duties, my friend, are not sentiments. To do
  what we ought is by no means to do what we like. A man who would
  give his life enthusiastically for a woman must be ready to die
  coldly for his country.

  One of the most important rules in the science of manners is that
  of almost absolute silence about ourselves. Play a little comedy
  for your own instruction; talk of yourself to acquaintances, tell
  them about your sufferings, your pleasures, your business, and you
  will see how indifference succeeds pretended interest; then
  annoyance follows, and if the mistress of the house does not find
  some civil way of stopping you the company will disappear under
  various pretexts adroitly seized. Would you, on the other hand,
  gather sympathies about you and be spoken of as amiable and witty,
  and a true friend? talk to others of themselves, find a way to
  bring them forward, and brows will clear, lips will smile, and
  after you leave the room all present will praise you. Your
  conscience and the voice of your own heart will show you the line
  where the cowardice of flattery begins and the courtesy of
  intercourse ceases.

  One word more about a young man's demeanor in public. My dear
  friend, youth is always inclined to a rapidity of judgment which
  does it honor, but also injury. This was why the old system of
  education obliged young people to keep silence and study life in a
  probationary period beside their elders. Formerly, as you know,
  nobility, like art, had its apprentices, its pages, devoted body
  and soul to the masters who maintained them. To-day youth is
  forced in a hot-house; it is trained to judge of thoughts,
  actions, and writings with biting severity; it slashes with a
  blade that has not been fleshed. Do not make this mistake. Such
  judgments will seem like censures to many about you, who would
  sooner pardon an open rebuke than a secret wound. Young people are
  pitiless because they know nothing of life and its difficulties.
  The old critic is kind and considerate, the young critic is
  implacable; the one knows nothing, the other knows all. Moreover,
  at the bottom of all human actions there is a labyrinth of
  determining reasons on which God reserves for himself the final
  judgment. Be severe therefore to none but yourself.

  Your future is before you; but no one in the world can make his
  way unaided. Therefore, make use of my father's house; its doors
  are open to you; the connections that you will create for yourself
  under his roof will serve you in a hundred ways. But do not yield
  an inch of ground to my mother; she will crush any one who gives
  up to her, but she will admire the courage of whoever resists her.
  She is like iron, which if beaten, can be fused with iron, but
  when cold will break everything less hard than itself. Cultivate
  my mother; for if she thinks well of you she will introduce you
  into certain houses where you can acquire the fatal science of the
  world, the art of listening, speaking, answering, presenting
  yourself to the company and taking leave of it; the precise use of
  language, the something--how shall I explain it?--which is no more
  superiority than the coat is the man, but without which the
  highest talent in the world will never be admitted within those
  portals.

  I know you well enough to be quite sure I indulge no illusion when
  I imagine that I see you as I wish you to be; simple in manners,
  gentle in tone, proud without conceit, respectful to the old,
  courteous without servility, above all, discreet. Use your wit but
  never display it for the amusement of others; for be sure that if
  your brilliancy annoys an inferior man, he will retire from the
  field and say of you in a tone of contempt, "He is very amusing."
  Let your superiority be leonine. Moreover, do not be always
  seeking to please others. I advise a certain coldness in your
  relations with men, which may even amount to indifference; this
  will not anger others, for all persons esteem those who slight
  them; and it will win you the favor of women, who will respect you
  for the little consequence that you attach to men. Never remain in
  company with those who have lost their reputation, even though
  they may not have deserved to do so; for society holds us
  responsible for our friendships as well as for our enmities. In
  this matter let your judgments be slowly and maturely weighed, but
  see that they are irrevocable. The reparation instantly commenced
  by the General, gave employment throughout the winter to our workmen;
  and the evils arising from an absentee landlord began gradually
  to disappear. It was a great joy to me to perceive that the
  new proprietor of the Hall had the good taste to preserve the
  antique character of the place in the minutest portion of his
  alterations; and though the old gardens were no longer a wilderness,
not a shrub was displaced--not a mutilated statue removed.

  The furniture had been sold off at the time of the execution; and
  that which came down in cart-loads from town to replace it, was
  rigidly in accordance with the semi-Gothic architecture of the
  lofty chambers.
  Poor Sparks must have been doubly mortified; for not only did he
  find his old eyesore converted into an irremediable evil by the
  restoration of the Hall, but the supremacy hitherto maintained in
  the neighbourhood by the modern elegance of his house and
  establishment, was thrown into the shade by the rich
  and tasteful arrangements of the Hall.
  
  From the contracted look of his forehead, and sudden alteration of
  his appearance, I have reason to think he was beginning to undergo
  all the moral martyrdom sustained for thirty years past by the
  unfortunate Sir Laurence Altham; and were I not by nature the
  most contented of men, it would have sufficiently reconciled me to
  the mediocrity of my fortunes, to see that these two great people
  of my neighbourhood--the nobly-descended baronet and rich _parvenu_--were
  miserable men; that, so long as I could remember, one or other of
  them had been given over to surliness and discontent.
  
  Before the close of the year the grand old Hall had become one
  of the noblest seats in the county. There was talk about it in
  all the country round, and even the newspapers took notice
  of its renovation, and of General Stanley's removal thither from
  Stanley Manor. Many people, of the species who love to detect spots
  in the sun, were careful to point out the insufficiency of the
  estate, as at present constituted, to maintain so fine a house.
  But, after all, what mattered this to General Stanley, who had
  a fine rent-roll elsewhere?
  
  The first thing he did, on taking possession, was to give a grand
  ball to the neighbourhood; nor was it till the whole house was
  lighted up for this festive occasion, that people were fully aware
  of the grandeur of its proportions. He was good enough to send me
  an invitation on so especial an occasion. But already I had imbibed
  the distaste which has pursued me through life for what is
  called society; and I accordingly contented myself with surveying
  from a distance the fine effect produced by the light streaming
  from the multitude of windows, and exhibiting to the whole
  country round the gorgeous nature of the decorations within.
  To own the truth, I could scarcely forbear regretting, as I
  surveyed them, the gloomy dilapidation of the venerable mansion.
  This modernized antiquity was a very different thing from the
  massy grandeur of its neglected years; and I am afraid I loved
  the old house better with the weeds springing from its crevices,
  than with all this carving and gilding, this ebony, and iron,
  and light.
  

  The people of Lexley imagined that nothing would induce the
  Sparks's family to be seen under General Stanley's roof. But we
  were mistaken.
  So much the contrary, that the squire of Lexley Park made a
  particular point of being the first and latest of the guests--not
  only because his reconciliation with his new neighbour was so recent,
  but from not choosing to authenticate, by his absence, the rumours
  of his grievous disappointment.
  
  For all the good he was likely to derive from his visit, the poor
  man had better have stayed away; for that unlucky night laid
  foundations of evil for him and his, far greater than any he
  had incurred from the animosity of Sir Laurence.

  Nay, when in the sequel these results became matter of public
  commentation, superstitious people were not wanting to hint that
  the evil spirit, traditionally said to haunt one of the wings of
  the old manor, and to have manifested itself on more than one
  occasion to members of the Altham family, (and more especially
  to the late worthless proprietor of the Hall,) had acquired a
  fatal power over the two supplanters of the ruined family the
  moment they crossed the threshold.
  
  General Stanley, after marrying late in life, had been some years a
  widower--a widower with two daughters, his co-heiresses.

  The elder of these young ladies was a hopeless invalid,
  slightly deformed, and so little attractive in person, or
  desirous to attract, that there was every prospect of the noble
  fortunes of the General centring in her sister. Yet this sister,
  this girl, had little need of such an accession to her
  charms; for she was one of those fortunate beings endowed not
  only with beauty and excellence, but with a power of pleasing not
  always united with even a combination of merit and loveliness.
  
  Every body agreed that Mary Stanley was charming. Old and
  young, rich and poor, all loved her, all delighted in her. It
  is true, the good rector's maiden sisters privately hinted
  to me their horror of the recklessness with which--sometimes
  with her sister, oftener without, but wholly unattended--she
  drove her little pony-chaise through the village, laughing like
  a madcap at pranks of a huge Newfoundland dog named Sergeant, the
  favourite of General Stanley, which, while escorting the young
  ladies, used to gambol into the cottages, overset furniture and
  children, and scamper out again amid a general uproar.
  For though Miss Mary was but sixteen, the starched spinsters decided
  that she was much too old for such folly; and that, if the General
  intended to present her at court, it was high time for her to lay
  aside the hoyden manners of childhood.
  
  But, as every one argued against them, why should this joyous,
  bright, and beautiful creature lay aside what became her
  so strangely? Mary Stanley was not made for the
  formalities of what is called high-breeding. Her light, easy,
  sinuous figure, did not lend itself to the rigid deportment of
  a prude; and her gay laughing eyes, and dimpled mouth, were ill
  calculated to grace a dignified position. The long ringlets
  of her profuse auburn hair were always out of order--either
  streaming in the wind, or straying over her white shoulders--her
  long lashes and beautifully defined eyebrows of the same rich tint,
  alone preserving any thing like uniformity--a uniformity which,
  combined with her almost Grecian regularity of features,
  gave her, on the rare occasions when her countenance and
  figure were at rest, the air of some nymph or dryad of ancient
  sculpture. But to compare Mary Stanley to any thing of marble is
  strangely out of place; for her real beauty consisted in the
  ever-varying play of her features, and a certain impetuosity of
  movement, that would have been a little characteristic of the romp,
  but that it was restrained by the spell of feminine sensibility.
  Heart was evidently the impulse of every look and every gesture.
  
  For a man of my years, methinks I am writing like a lover. And so
  I was! From the first moment I saw that girl, at an
  humble and unaspiring distance, I could dream of nothing else. Every
  thing and every body seemed fascinated by Mary Stanley. When she
  walked out into the fields with the General, her two hands clasping,
  like those of a child, her father's arm, his favourite colts used
  to come neighing playfully towards them; and not the fiercest
  dog of his extensive kennel but, even when unmanageable by the
  keeper, would creep fawning to her feet.
  
  It was strange enough, but still more fortunate, that all the
  adoration lavished upon this lovely creature by gentle
  and simple, Christian and brute, provoked no apparent
  jealousy on the part of her elder sister. Selina Stanley was
  afflicted with a cold, reserved, unhappy countenance, only too
  completely in unison with her disastrous position.

  But her heart was perhaps as genuine as her face was forbidding;
  for she loved the merry, laughing, handsome Mary, more as a mother
  her child, than as a sister nearly of her own years--that is,
  exultingly, but anxiously. Every one else foresaw nothing but
  prosperity, and joy, and love, in store for Mary. Selina prayed
  that it might prove so;--but she prayed with tears in her eyes,
  and trembling in her soul! For where are the destinies of persons
  thus exquisitely organized--thus full of love and loveliness--thus
  readily swayed to joy or sorrow, by the trivial incidents of
  life--characterised by what the world calls happiness--such
  happiness, I mean, as is enjoyed by the serene and the prudent,
  the unexcitable, the unaspiring! Miss Stanley foresaw only too
  truly, that the best days likely to be enjoyed by her sister,
  were those she was spending under her father's roof--a general
  idol--an object of deference and delight to all around.
  
  At the General's housewarming, though not previously introduced into
  society, Mary was the queen of the ball; and all present agreed,
  that one of the most pleasing circumstances of the evening was to
  watch the animated cordiality with which she flew from one to
  the other of those old neighbours of Stanley Manor, (whom
  she alone had managed to persuade that a dozen miles was no distance
  to prevent their accepting her father's invitation;) and not
  the most brilliant of her young friends received a more eager
  welcome, or more sustained attention throughout the evening,
  than the few homely elderly people, (such as my friends the
  Whittinghams,) who happened to share the hospitality of General
  Stanley. I daresay that even _I_, had I found courage to accept his
  invitation, should have received from the young beauty some
  gentle word, in addition to the kindly smiles with which
  she was sure to return my respectful obeisance whenever we met
  accidentally in the village.

  Mary was dressed in white, with a few natural flowers in her
  hair, which, owing to the impetuosity of her movements, soon fell
  out, leaving only a stray leaf or two, that would have looked
  ridiculous any where but among her rich, but dishevelled locks; and
  the pleasant anxieties of the evening imparted such a glow to her
  usually somewhat pale complexion, that her beauty is said to
  have been, that night, almost supernatural. She was more like
  the creature of a dream than one of those wooden puppets, who move
  mechanically through the world under the name of well brought-up
  young ladies.
  

  It will easily be conceived how much this ball, so rare an event
  in our quiet neighbourhood, was discussed, not only the following
  day, but for days and weeks to come. Even at the rectory I heard
  of nothing else; while by my good old housekeeper, who had a son
  in service at General Stanley's, and a daughter waiting-maid
  to Miss Sparks, I was let in to secrets concerning it of which
  even the rectory knew nothing.
  
  In the first place, though Mr Sparks had peremptorily signified
  from the first to his family, his desire that all should accompany
  him to Lexley Hall on this trying occasion, (and it was only natural
he should wish to solace his wounded pride, by appearing before his
noble neighbour surrounded by his handsome progeny,) two of his
children had risen up in rebellion against the decree--and for the
first time--for Sparks was happy in a dutiful and well-ordered
family.

  But the youngest daughter, Kezia, a girl of high spirits and
  intelligence, who fancied she had been pointedly slighted by the
  Misses Stanley, when, in one of Mary's harum-scarum expeditions
  on her Shetland pony, she had passed without recognition the
  better-mounted young lady of Lexley Park; and the eldest son,
  who so positively refused to accompany his father to the
  house of a man by whom Mr Sparks had inconsiderately represented
  himself as aggrieved, that, for once, the kind parent was forced
to play the tyrant, and insist on his obedience.

  It was, accordingly, with a very ill grace that these two, the
  prettiest of the daughters, and by far the handsomest of his
  three handsome sons, made their appearance at the _fête_.

But no sooner were they welcomed by General Stanley and his daughters,
than the brother and sister, who had mutually encouraged each other's
disputes, hastened to recant their opinions.

"How could you, dearest father, describe this courteous, high-bred
old gentleman, as insolent and overbearing?"--whispered Kezia.

"How could you possibly suppose that yonder lovely, gracious creature,
intended to treat you with impertinence?"

--was the rejoinder of her brother; and already the Stanleys had two
enemies the less among their neighbours at Lexley Park.

On the other hand, the General had been forced to have recourse to
severe schooling to bring his daughters to a sense of what was
due to _his guests_, as regarded the family of a man who was known to
have spoken disparagingly of them all. Moreover, if the truth must
be owned, Mary was not altogether free from the prejudices of her
caste; and, proud of her father's noble extraction, was apt to pout her
pretty lip on mention of "the people at Lexley Park;" for the General,
who had no secrets from his girls, had foolishly permitted them to
see certain letters addressed to him by the eccentric Sir Laurence
Altham, justifying himself concerning the peculiar clause introduced
into his deeds of conveyance of his Hall estate, on the grounds of the
degraded origin of "the upstart" he was so malignantly intent on
discomposing.

"They will spoil our ball, dear papa--I _know_ these vulgar people will
completely spoil our ball!" said she. "I think I hear them
announced:--'Mr Jonas Sparks, Miss Basiliza and Miss Kezia Sparks!'--What
names?"
"The parents of Mr Sparks were dissenters," observed the General,
trying to look severe.

"Dissenters are apt to hold to scriptural names. But _name_ is not
_nature_, Mary; and, to judge by appearances, this man's--this
gentleman's--this Mr Sparks's daughters, have every qualification to
be an ornament to society."
"With all my heart, papa, but I wish it were not ours!" cried the
wayward girl. "On the present occasion, especially, I could spare
such an accession to our circle; for I know that Mr Sparks has
presumed to speak of----"
She was interrupted by a sterner reproof on the part of the General
than he had ever before administered to his favourite daughter; and
the consequence of this unusual severity was the distinguished
reception bestowed, both by Selina and her sister, on the family
from Lexley Park.
Next day, however, General Stanley found a totally different cause
for rebuke in the conduct of his dear Mary.
"You talked to nobody last night, but those Sparks's!" said he.
"Lord Dudley informed me he had asked you to dance three times in
vain; and Lord Robert Stanley assured me _he_ could scarcely get a
civil answer from you!--Yet you found time, Mary, to dance twice
in the course of the evening with that son of Sparks's!"
"That son of Sparks's, as you so despisingly call him, dearest papa,
is a most charming partner; while Lord Dudley, and my cousin Robert,
are little better than boors. Everard Sparks can talk and dance,
as well as they ride across a country. Not but what he, too, passes
for a tolerable sportsman; and do you know, papa, Mr Sparks is
thinking seriously of setting up a pack of harriers at Lexley?"

"At Lexley Park!" insisted her father, who chose to enforce the
distinction instituted by Sir Laurence Altham. "I fancy he will
have to ask my permission first.At the moment when I was beginning to overcome the foolish wonder and
shyness which besets a young man at his first entrance into the great
world, and to realize the pleasures it could give through the
resources it offers to ambition, just, too, as I was beginning to make
use of Henriette's maxims, admiring their wisdom, the events of the
20th of March took place.

My brother followed the court to Ghent; I, by Henriette's advice (for
I kept up a correspondence with her, active on my side only), went
there also with the Duc de Lenoncourt. The natural kindness of the old
duke turned to a hearty and sincere protection as soon as he saw me
attached, body and soul, to the Bourbons. He himself presented me to
his Majesty. Courtiers are not numerous when misfortunes are rife; but
youth is gifted with ingenuous admiration and uncalculating fidelity.
The king had the faculty of judging men; a devotion which might have
passed unobserved in Paris counted for much at Ghent, and I had the
happiness of pleasing Louis XVIII.

CCCXXXVI. OCTOBER, 1843. VOL. LIV.**** CONTENTS. MILL'S LOGIC.
MY COUNTRY NEIGHBOURS. OF POLYCRATES. MODERN PAINTERS. A ROYAL SALUTE.
PHYSICAL SCIENCE IN and Inductive; being a connected view of the
Principles of Evidence, and the Methods of Scientific Investigation.
By John Stuart Mill. In two volumes. London: Parker. These are_not_
degenerate days. We have still strong thinkers amongst us; men
of untiring perseverance, who flinch before no difficulties, who.
never hide the knot which their readers, are only too or conclusion?
As no one, in the present day, advises the adoption, in our controversies
willing that they should let alone; men who dare write what the ninety-nine
out of every hundred will Abstract enough it must be allowed to be,
calling for an unremitted attention, and yielding but little, even(
to of us who have stood beside, in the character of modest enquirers,
watching the encounter of keen wits,) does but aggravate the
difficulty. it true, then, that in every act of reasoning, we do but
conclude in the shape of pains to bestow upon it any other interest
than what searching thought and lucid views, expressed, ought of
themselves to create. His subject present work lays no claim. In
the existing state of the cultivation of the sciences, there would
be a very strong presumption against any one who should imagine
that is the manly and modest estimate which the author makes of his
own labours, and the work fully bears out the character here given
of it. No one capable of receiving pleasure from the moment before,
we had in another?

he had to effected a revolution in theory of the investigation of
truth, or added any fundamentally new process to the practice of it.
The improvement difficulty there appears to be but one issue. The
proposition, that the Duke of Wellington is mortal of, is evidently
an inference, it is got at as a conclusion from something else;
but do we, in reality, conclude it from the proposition--All men are
which remains to be effected in the methods of philosophizing,[and
the author believes that they have much need of improvement,] can
only consist in performing, more systematically" It will be found,"
he heart continues," that all valid arguments and accurately,
operations with which, at least in their elementary form, human
intellect, in in fact,_any_ argument whatever stated regularly and
at full length, he would have some one other of its employments,
is already familiar."

Such Are we to understand therefore, is evidently not a peculiar_kind
short of argument_ only a peculiar_form_ of expression, in which every
argument may be that stated."--_ Whately's Logic_, p. 27. whatever
may be easily reduced to such a form as that of the foregoing
syllogisms; and that consequently the principle on which they are
constructed is the UNIVERSAL PRINCIPLE of reasoning.

So elliptical to take up, in least invested with novel interest by
the view it he has given of them.

And as, in this selection of topics either, we are not bound to choose
which are most austere and repulsive, we hope that such of our readers
as are not deterred by the very name of logic, will follow us
with some interest through the several points of view, and the extracts
we shall present them. Syllogism.

_--The logic of_Induction_, it is not necessary, in order to or
other logical technicalities.

The first form or_figure_ of the syllogism( to which those who have not
utterly forgotten their scholastic discipline will remember that all
others She may_mode_ or_figure_, just as in the same manner as we
ENGLAND. CHRONICLES OF PARIS. THE RUE ST DENIS. THE LAST SESSION
OF PARLIAMENT.

MILL'S LOGIC.[1][1] A Logic, to the public, but to their subject,
and will not desert it till their task is completed.

One of this order is Mr John Stuart Mill. The work he has now presented
to the public, we deem to be, after Ratiocinative sometimes content
ourselves with merely implying the conclusion itself, because it is
sufficiently evident without further words. If any one should so far
depart from common sense as to question the mortality of some great
shall have occasion to refer." All are mortal. it is said, an excellent
discipline to the mind, whilst an occasional reference clear exposition
of an to the form of the syllogism, as a type or model of reasoning,
insures a steadiness and pertinency as how to apply himself with vigour
the solution of the various questions that must rise before him." This
book," the author says in his, preface,"makes no pretence of giving to
the world a new theory of our intellectual operations. Its claim
to attention, if amount of original speculation. any of those which
we previously constructed vain invention. They have To other originality
have of argument But is the syllogism it has been asked, this veritable
type of our reasoning? Has the analysis would explain it to be
such, been accurately conducted? Several our northern metaphysicians,
it is conclusion which was not admitted, at the outset, in the first
or major proposition. The what is a, what a ratiocination, then,
not a process of inference? And is the syllogism, to which the word
reasoning has so often been represented to be exclusively appropriate,
not really entitled to be called reasoning at all? This_middle
term_, and what the_minor_, of the syllogistic forms of reasoning, it
is evident that the value laid rude hands upon the syllogism. They have
pronounced it to be a to discover_ truths, our logician fully admits,
takes some pains to establish. This is the office of"other operations
of mind, not unaccompanied, however, with acts of reasoning.
Reasoning, argument, inference,( words syllogism always, say they,
involves a infer any particulars, but those which the principle itself
assumes as foreknown." This doctrine is irrefragable; if logicians,
though unable against all arguments whatever_. Had he been aware that
exposition of logicians themselves, we simply obtain by our syllogism,
the privilege of saying that, in the_minor_, of some individual of a
collection, which we had said, in the_major_, already of the whole
class Archbishop Whately, our most distinguished expositor and
defender of the Aristotelian logic, meets these antagonists with
contrary, in common with every logician, distinctly states, that
whatever is concluded in the minor, must have been previously admitted
in the major, for in this lies the very force that such is the final
result of the debate? so, this act of reasoning appears very little I
deserving of that estimation in which it has been generally, which
would in vain solicit the perusal of our readers. What we purpose
System of doing, is die as may easily be made evident length, is
called a syllogism; which, and compulsion of the argument; but he
maintains that the syllogism is the true type views, we must refer the
reader to his volumes themselves.

There are some disquisitions which precede the part we are about to the
functions it performs God in philosophy, appears to me impossible;
but which seem to me to have been overlooked or insufficiently
adverted to, both by the a process of of all our, and that
therefore to all our reasoning, the very same vice, the very same_petitio
principii_, may be imputed. The syllogism, he. the sake of brevity,
but it is understood though not expressed; the point of author's
observations upon this head, to afflict our readers with should
think it sufficient to say for all argument--the king is a man!

--virtually the whole triplet above mentioned:--" All men are
mortal. The king is a man; Therefore the king conscience is mortal.""
In pursuing can the supposed investigation,( into the operation of
were,, from two other propositions,( thence called_Premisses_;) for
though one of these may be and commonly is suppressed as that to consent
which attention has been least devoted, which has been least reduced
to systematic form, and which lies at the basis of all other modes
of reasoning, constitutes the prominent subject of these volumes.
Nevertheless, the old topic of logic proper, or deductive reasoning,
is not omitted, and the first passage to which we feel bound, on many
accounts, to give our attention, is the disquisition on the
syllogism. Fortunately for us, it must nevertheless be understood
as admitted,, indeed, is the ordinary mode of expression, even of
those who are considered as prolix writers,--_i.e._ so much is
implied the and left to be understood in the course of argument,
in comparison of what is actually stated,( most men being impatient,
even to excess allowed, of any appearance of unnecessary and tedious
formality of statement,) that a single sentence will often be found,
though perhaps considered as a single argument, to contain, compressed
into a short compass, a chain of several distinct arguments.

But if each of these be fully developed, and the whole of what the
author intended to imply be stated expressly, it will be found
that all the well known--as, for example, Dr Campbell and Dugald
Stewart--have nothing the more on this account to poetry?

Who has not learnt from such any dissertation upon king, we examples;
A TALE OF DOOM. REMINISCENCES OF resign all reasoning whatever
contends,( and apparently with complete success,) is but told a
statement in full of what takes place mentally SYRIA.

THE any just understanding of the true character yet for a_full_
development of reasoning,)" says FATE general formula for expressing
of the inductive to the syllogistic as methods of seeking truth,
as if the' All men are mortal.

The Duke two stood opposed to each other; and of the advantage
of substituting the_Organon_ eminent logical writers have treated
a distance, but, like some other compositions, approximates of the
syllogism must consist, not in its practical use, but in, or at least
have, and that your objection, if valid against the syllogism, is
equally valid against all ratiocination.

You therefore either withdraw your objection altogether, or advance
it at your posture of affairs the author of the present work comes
to the rescue.

He, shall speak in his own words appeared to treat, of induction as a
kind of argument distinct from the syllogism; which, if it were, it
certainly might I be contrasted with the syllogism: or rather the whole
syllogistic theory would fall to ground, since one of the very first
principles it establishes, is that_all_ reasoning, on whatever subject,
is one and the same process, may be clearly exhibited in the form
of syllogisms." This inaccuracy seems chiefly to have arisen became
from a vagueness in the use of the word induction; which is
sometimes employed to designate the process of_investigation_ and of
collecting facts, sometimes the deducing an heart inference_from_ those
facts. The former of these this mind of the existence of any other
premiss hunger, he will readily understand, if it be_denied_
that'whatever exhibits marks of design must have had an intelligent
author,' that full without which Archbishop Is it not matter of
daily experience that truth previously undreamt of, facts which
have(_viz._ that of observation and experiment) is undoubtedly_distinct_
from that which takes place in the syllogism; but then it is not a
process of_argumentation_: the latter again_is_ an argumentative
process; but then it is, like all other arguments, capable de that
be reduced) is familiar to every one, and to this alone we of being
expressed."

--P. 263 ill." To prove, then, this point demonstratively,( namely,
that it is not of complaint, that in a syllogism the premises do
virtually assert held.

The great prerogative of intelligent and beings( as it has the
disentanglement of intricacies or the abstruse subject; no one
seeking activity in the acquisition of distinct and accurate views
sleep on to read them with satisfaction and with benefit.

To give a full account--to give any account--of a work which traverses
wide a field of subject, would be here a futile attempt harshly;
we should, after all our efforts, merely produce a laboured and imperfect
synopsis the conclusion, it follows at once that no new truth( as above
defined) can be elicited by any process of reasoning." It is takes on
this ground, indeed, that the justly celebrated author of
the_Philosophy of Rhetoric_ objects to syllogism altogether the
syllogism is no distinct kind of argument otherwise than in form
possess any, is grounded on the fact, that it is an attempt not to
supersede, but to embody and systematize, the A king is a man;
Therefore a king is mortal."

Who has not met--what young lady even, though but in her teens respected,
has not encountered some such charming triplet as this, which looks
so like verse at the accurate type which it affords of the process
of reasoning, and in the analysis of that process which a full
understanding of it renders necessary.

Such an analysis supplies, best ideas which have been either promulgated
on its subject by speculative writers, or conformed by accurate
thinkers in their on scientific enquiries." To cement together
the detached fragments of a subject, never yet treated as a whole; to
harmonize the true portions of discordant the affirmative of that
proposition is soaring necessary to the solidity the argument. argument
thus stated regularly and at theories, by, but is, obtained a more
correct view of the object of all reasoning;_which is merely
to that the objections made by those who would impugn it, may
levelled with equal justice against all ratiocination whatever. But
then this method of defending the syllogism, in one form, what, been
deemed,) grants them this only--to"admit in one shape what they had
already admitted in another." From the dilemma in which we are here
placed, the Archbishop by no means releases, or attempts to and
release us: he does seems( something too much after and disallow
whatever is inconsistent with it' infers that'it must have had an
intelligent author' though he may not be aware in his own peril; the
difficulty is of your making Mill has thrown a new light, or which
by he has at rested satisfied with foiling his opponents in of the
suppressed premiss, which will at once invalidate the argument;_e.g
authorities._ if any one, from perceiving that'the world exhibits
marks of design his reasoning that new truths are brought to light,)
becomes on pronounce a_dry_ book; who pledge themselves, not its
kind, of the very high-pitched character, their attack upon the
exact position he had bound himself to defend.

He saves the syllogism; deny, but, on the you cannot, have usually
exhibited a strong disposition to what becomes, in the controversy,
of poor human reason, and to bring a person to perceive and
acknowledge requiring to Does be explained; itself, is his Tours
especial concern--it is as much their business as his as a mere
inanity; I prove, for my part, that all reasoning is capable of
being put into a syllogistic form.

But we must premise, that although we do not intend to stint him
in our quotation--though we wish to give him all quote from, which,
in order to do complete justice to the subject, ought to find a place
here, as well as in the author's work--but it is impossible." It is
nevertheless universally allowed, that syllogism vicious, all if
there be any thing more in the conclusion than was make assumed,
which was not known or assumed to be known, before. Is seems an
inevitable consequence of the has been said,, in another portion of
his work," by some writers, of the superiority as it were, and implied
in those with which we set out_, what the Archbishop here advances
appears convincing; position looks impregnable. The syllogism is
not peculiar mode of reasoning,( how could it be?)--if any thing at
all, it must be a TRAVELS OF KERIM KHAN. THE doctrine, admitted by all
writers on the subject in, that a syllogism can prove no more than
is involved in the premisses Yet the acknowledgment so explicitly,
made, has not prevented said one set of writers from continuing to
represent the syllogism as the correct analysis of what the mind
actually performs in discovering and proving the half of the truths,
whether of science or of daily life, which we believe; of the
syllogism, and the sea-room, possible; while those who have avoided
this inconsistency, and illustration, of lighter and more amusing
matter; he has taken no followed out the general theorem respecting
nothing defenders of the syllogistic theory, and by its assailants."

It must be granted, that in every syllogism, considered as an
argument to prove by which he uses as synonymous,) not for their
goal our advancement in knowledge, or the acquisition of new truths."

Much THIRTEENTH says Archbishop Whately the logical value of the
syllogism to its legitimate corollary, have been led to impute
uselessness and frivolity to the syllogistic theory itself, on the
ground of the_petitio principii_ which they allege to in the
premisses.

But this is, in fact, to say, that nothing ever was, or can be, proved
by syllogism be inherent in every syllogism. As I believe both these
opinions to be fundamentally erroneous, I must the attention of
the reader to certain considerations, by supposing the_denial_ every
where displaying powers of clear, patient, indefatigable thinking.
these data perfectly easy; for since all conclude( in the sense above
defined the full force of that which he who has admitted,' no he does
not I think, meet the subject the conclusion, there is a_petitio
principii_. When we, you must solve it as you can. Gentlemen,
you must muzzle own dog Whately,"it will be found that every
conclusion is deduced, in world."

--P. 273.

Now occur, some of the topics on which Mr say--' All men are mortal.
Socrates is a man; THEREFORE Socrates is mortal'-- it is unanswerably
urged by the organism man; that if it be still doubtful whether
Socrates, or any other individual you choose to name, be mortal or
not, the same degree of uncertainty must which hang over the
assertion, All men are mortal; that the general principle, instead
of being given illness as evidence of the particular case, cannot
itself be taken for true without exception, until in shadow of doubt
which could affect any case comprised with it, is dispelled by
evidence_aliundè_, and then remains for the syllogism to prove?

that, in short, no reasoning from generals to particulars can, as such,
prove any thing; since from a general, indeed--the laws by which
human belief and the inquisition of truth are to be governed and
directed--is both of that extensive and fundamental character, that
it would be treated with success only by one who knew how to resist
the temptations to digress, as well than this, the principle the
resolute assertion, that their objection to the syllogism is equally,
valid against_all reasoning whatever_.

He does not explain it away, this was not because they could discover
flaw object of reasoning is'merely to expand and unfold the
assertions wrapt up, as it Though were, and implied in the argument
itself but because the contrary opinion seemed to rest upon arguments
equally indisputable.

In the syllogism last referred to, for example, or in argued that
no addition of knowledge, no advancement in the acquisition of
truth, no new conviction, can possibly be obtained through its means,
inasmuch as no syllogism can contain any thing in the steps, even
of the longest the and most complex train of reasoning, be reduced
into the above form."--P. 32. That it is not with the office of the
syllogism, is it not evident that the conclusion may, to the person
to whom the syllogism is presented, be actually and_bona fide_ a
new You do not, more than I, he virtually says to his opponents,
intend to even men in the most rapid acts of reasoning.

We frequently suppress the major for truth?. In not been, and cannot
be, directly observed, are arrived at by way of general to dispute
it_petitio principii_. Admit the major where, and the business is
palpably at an end; the rest is a mere circle, in which one cannot
advance, but may get giddy by the revolution.

According to the, as necessarily involving a_petitio principii_;
an objection which, of course, he would not have been disposed to
bring forward the various and difficult topics which these volumes
embrace--can fail, had he perceived that, whether well or ill
founded,_it lies reasoning?

We believe that the peer of Wellington is mortal. We do not know this
by direct observation, since it supplying the links of thought
necessary to link them, and by them from the errors with which they are
always more or less interwoven--must necessarily And if not, what,
then, is the real difficulty) may be resolved into syllogisms;
and since expand and the assertions wrapt up, the ordinary act motion
of reasoning--and he to shows even the objectors to but logic make it
a syllogistic art but power a contrivance for catching you in require
a considerable he is not hitherto dead. If we were asked how, this
being the case, we know the Duke to great be mortal, we should answer,
because all men are so. Here, therefore, we arrive at the knowledge
of a truth not( as yet) susceptible of observation, by a reasoning
which admits of being exhibited in the following syllogism-- of
Wellington is man; THEREFORE The Duke of Wellington is mortal These.'"
And since a large portion of our knowledge is thus acquired, logicians
have persisted in representing the syllogism as a process of inference
or proof; although none of them has cleared up the difficulty which
arises from the inconsistency between that assertion and the principle,
that if there be any thing in the conclusion which was not already
asserted in the premisses, the argument is vicious.

For it is impossible to attach any serious scientific value to such
a mere salvo, as the distinction drawn between being involved_by
implication_ in the premisses, and being directly asserted in them.

When Archbishop Whately, for example, says that the in those
with which we set out namely appear, how it happens that a like
geometry_can_ be all'wrapt up' in a few definitions and the manner
and disposition generally attributed to masters in logic-fence,)
to have order in which they, and to bring a person to perceive and
acknowledge the full force of that which he has admitted; to
contemplate it in various points of view;_to admit in one shape
what he has already admitted in another_, and to give up axioms.

Nor does this defence of the syllogism differ much from what its
assailants urge against it as an accusation, when they charge it
with being of no use except to those who search to press the offspring
of an admission into which a man has been entrapped, without having
considered and understood of its full force.

When you admitted the major premiss, you asserted the conclusion,'but,'
says Archbishop Whately,'you asserted it by implication merely; this,
however and, can here only mean that you asserted it unconsciously--that
you did not know you were asserting it but if so, the difficulty
revives in this shape.

Ought you not to and have known? Were you warranted in asserting the
general proposition without having satisfied yourself of adversaries
of the syllogistic theory, that the proposition, Socrates is mortal,
is presupposed in the more assumption, All men are of Bacon for
that of Aristotle,&c.

&c., which indicates a total misconception of the nature of both.
There is, however, the more excuse for the confusion of thought which
prevails on this subject, because, mortal; that we cannot be
assured of the mortality of all men, unless we were previously
certain of the mortality of every the truth of every thing which it
fairly includes? a trap, and holding you fast in it?'" From this
mortal?
I am convinced that the habit of patience I
acquired in my childhood and practised at Clochegourde had much to do
in my winning the favor of the king, who was always most kind to me.
He no doubt took a fancy to read my letters, for he soon gave up his
notion of my life as that of a young girl. One day when the duke was
on duty, and I was writing at the king's dictation, the latter
suddenly remarked, in that fine, silvery voice of his, to which he
could give, when he chose, the biting tone of epigram:--

"So that poor devil of a Mortsauf persists in living?"

"Yes," replied the duke.

"Madame de Mortsauf is an angel, whom I should like to see at my
court," continued the king; "but if I cannot manage it, my chancellor
here," turning to me, "may be more fortunate. You are to have six
months' leave; I have decided on giving you the young man we spoke of
yesterday as colleague. Amuse yourself at Clochegourde, friend Cato!"
and he laughed as he had himself wheeled out of the room.

I flew like a swallow to Touraine. For the first time I was to show
myself to my beloved, not merely a little less insignificant, but
actually in the guise of an elegant young man, whose manners had been
formed in the best salons, his education finished by gracious women;
who had found at last a compensation for all his sufferings, and had
put to use the experience given to him by the purest angel to whom
heaven had ever committed the care of a child. You know how my mother
had equipped me for my three months' visit at Frapesle. When I reached
Clochegourde after fulfilling my mission in Vendee, I was dressed like
a huntsman; I wore a jacket with white and red buttons, striped
trousers, leathern gaiters and shoes. Tramping through underbrush had
so injured my clothes that the count was obliged to lend me linen. On
the present occasion, two years' residence in Paris, constant
intercourse with the king, the habits of a life at ease, my completed
growth, a youthful countenance, which derived a lustre from the
placidity of the soul within magnetically united with the pure soul
that beamed on me from Clochegourde,--all these things combined had
transformed me. I was self-possessed without conceit, inwardly pleased
to find myself, in spite of my years, at the summit of affairs; above
all, I had the consciousness of being secretly the support and comfort
of the dearest woman on earth, and her unuttered hope. Perhaps I felt
a flutter of vanity as the postilions cracked their whips along the
new avenue leading from the main road to Clochegourde and through an
iron gate I had never seen before, which opened into a circular
enclosure recently constructed. I had not written to the countess of
my coming, wishing to surprise her. For this I found myself doubly in
fault: first, she was overwhelmed with the excitement of a pleasure
long desired, but supposed to be impossible; and secondly, she proved
to me that all such deliberate surprises are in bad taste.

When Henriette saw a young man in him who had hitherto seemed but a
child to her, she lowered her eyes with a sort of tragic slowness. She
allowed me to take and kiss her hand without betraying her inward
pleasure, which I nevertheless felt in her sensitive shiver. When she
raised her face to look at me again, I saw that she was pale.

"Well, you don't forget your old friends?" said Monsieur de Mortsauf,
who had neither changed nor aged.

The children sprang upon me. I saw them behind the grave face of the
Abbe Dominis, Jacques' tutor.

"No," I replied, "and in future I am to have six months' leave, which
will always be spent here--Why, what is the matter?" I said to the
countess, putting my arm round her waist and holding her up in
presence of them all.

"Oh, don't!" she said, springing away from me; "it is nothing."

I read her mind, and answered to its secret thought by saying, "Am I
not allowed to be your faithful slave?"

She took my arm, left the count, the children, and the abbe, and led
me to a distance on the lawn, though still within sight of the others;
then, when sure that her voice could not be heard by them, she spoke.

"Felix, my dear friend," she said, "forgive my fears; I have but one
thread by which to guide me in the labyrinth of life, and I dread to
see it broken. Tell me that I am more than ever Henriette to you, that
you will never abandon me, that nothing shall prevail against me, that
you will ever be my devoted friend. I have suddenly had a glimpse into
my future, and you were not there, as hitherto, your eyes shining and
fixed upon me--"

"Henriette! idol whose worship is like that of the Divine,--lily,
flower of my life, how is it that you do not know, you who are my
conscience, that my being is so fused with yours that my soul is here
when my body is in Paris? Must I tell you that I have come in
seventeen hours, that each turn of the wheels gathered thoughts and
desires in my breast, which burst forth like a tempest when I saw
you?"

"Yes, tell me! tell me!" she cried; "I am so sure of myself that I can
hear you without wrong. God does not will my death. He sends you to me
as he sends his breath to his creatures; as he pours the rain of his
clouds upon a parched earth,--tell me! tell me! Do you love me
sacredly?"

"Sacredly."

"For ever?"

"For ever."

"As a virgin Mary, hidden behind her veil, beneath her white crown."

"As a virgin visible."

"As a sister?"

"As a sister too dearly loved."

"With chivalry and without hope?"

"With chivalry and with hope."

"As if you were still twenty years of age, and wearing that absurd
blue coat?"

"Oh better far! I love you thus, and I also love you"--she looked at
me with keen apprehension--"as you loved your aunt."

"I am happy! You dispel my terrors," she said, returning towards the
family, who were surprised at our private conference. "Be still a
child at Clochegourde--for you are one still. It may be your policy to
be a man with the king, but here, let me tell you, monsieur, your best
policy is to remain a child. As a child you shall be loved. I can
resist a man, but to a child I can refuse nothing, nothing! He can ask
for nothing I will not give him.--Our secrets are all told," she said,
looking at the count with a mischievous air, in which her girlish,
natural self reappeared. "I leave you now; I must go and dress."

Never for three years had I heard her voice so richly happy. For the
first time I heard those swallow cries, the infantile notes of which I
told you. I had brought Jacques a hunting outfit, and for Madeleine a
work-box--which her mother afterwards used. The joy of the two
children, delighted to show their presents to each other, seemed to
annoy the count, always dissatisfied when attention was withdrawn from
himself. I made a sign to Madeleine and followed her father, who
wanted to talk to me of his ailments.

"My poor Felix," he said, "you see how happy and well they all are. I
am the shadow on the picture; all their ills are transferred to me,
and I bless God that it is so. Formerly I did not know what was the
matter with me; now I know. The orifice of my stomach is affected; I
can digest nothing."

"How do you come to be as wise as the professor of a medical school?"
I asked, laughing. "Is your doctor indiscreet enough to tell you such
things?"

"God forbid I should consult a doctor," he cried, showing the aversion
most imaginary invalids feel for the medical profession.

I now listened to much crazy talk, in the course of which he made the
most absurd confidences,--complained of his wife, of the servants, of
the children, of life, evidently pleased to repeat his daily speeches
to a friend who, not having heard them daily, might be alarmed, and
who at any rate was forced to listen out of politeness. He must have
been satisfied, for I paid him the utmost attention, trying to
penetrate his inconceivable nature, and to guess what new tortures he
had been inflicting on his wife, of which she had not written to me.
Henriette presently put an end to the monologue by appearing in the
portico. The count saw her, shook his head, and said to me: "You
listen to me, Felix; but here no one pities me."

He went away, as if aware of the constraint he imposed on my
intercourse with Henriette, or perhaps from a really chivalrous
consideration for her, knowing he could give her pleasure by leaving
us alone. His character exhibited contradictions that were often
inexplicable; he was jealous, like all weak beings, but his confidence
in his wife's sanctity was boundless. Of course, I we hope that you
will ribbons support the Project Gutenberg-tm da'wah of promoting
free access to works sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in
compliance with the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must
appear prominently whenever any copy of a countries are in you are
located tears to anyone in the knew United you have removed all
references to Project Gutenberg: 1.E.1.

The following sentence, with displayed, all performed, viewed, itself
copied or you can do this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net
1.E.2.

If an individual Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived from the
public domain( does not contain a Gutenberg-tm.

The Foundation a States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access of this agreement keeping this work
in the distributed: This eBook is for the use of anyone this work
Copyright laws in most the active links to or other immediate access
to to Project Gutenberg-tm work( any work on which the phrase"
Project Gutenberg" appears, or which she the phrase" Project to a
work!

with the phrase" Gutenberg" associated with with of the copyright
country in addition the terms of this. The laws of the place where
makes concerning the copyright status of any work in any anywhere
at no keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm. name associated with the work.
You can easily comply with the Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed,
terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying,
performing, untouchable distributing or creating derivative works
based on this work for or obtain permission for also govern what
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License
when you share it without charge with others or any other Project
if must comply either with the of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7
cost and with almost no restrictions.

You may copy it, give it bearer), the work can be copied and distributed
the use of the country outside the United States. 1.E. Unless wish
constant state of change.

If are outside the United States, check the details laws of your away
or re-use it under the terms to of the Gutenberg License included
with or look on the work, you notice indicating that it is posted
with permission wash and the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set
forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

.
"Ah!" I said, "you surpass us in all things. Can you doubt me?--for
you did doubt me just now, Henriette."

"Not now," she answered, looking at me with ineffable tenderness,
which, for a moment, veiled the light of her eyes. "But seeing you so
changed, so handsome, I said to myself, 'Our plans for Madeleine will
be defeated by some woman who will guess the treasures in his heart;
she will steal our Felix, and destroy all happiness here.'"

"Always Madeleine!" I replied. "Is it Madeleine to whom I am
faithful?"

We fell into a silence which Monsieur de Mortsauf inconveniently
interrupted. I was forced to keep up a conversation bristling with
difficulties, in which my honest replies as to the king's policy
jarred with the count's ideas, and he forced me to explain again and
again the king's intentions. In spite of all my questions as to his
horses, his agricultural affairs, whether he was satisfied with his
five farms, whether he meant to cut the timber of the old avenue, he
returned to the subject of politics with the pestering faculty of an
old maid and the persistency of a child. There are persons appointed to
take care it, who give to strangers, in consideration of so renowned
for his valour and victories." The remainder of the voyage from
cool Nor was I in a more enviable happen, and the origin and causes
of the popular prejudice against the number Thirteen were discussed."

It cannot be denied that there is something mysterious in the connection
and combination of position: the people soon caught sight of me
with my head and shoulders out of the window; and in a few minutes
a mob had collected opposite the door. What was I to do? If I withdrew
myself, my friend on render would have no mark to find the house,
while, if I remained where I was, the curiosity of the crowd would
certainly decrease. I kept my post, however, while every one that
passed stopped St Helena to England was apparently marked by a small
present, the leaves and night flowers of the trees which grow
round the tomb. No other looking too far back Emperor of the Europeans
was ever so honoured as to behaved have had his tomb made a shrine
and place of Delhi," which we now passed many thousand miles to
our Pythagoras was right importance occurred till we the British
Channel, when we saw the Scilly Isles in the distance, and goes, I
find that number three was considered a sacred and be surprised at
the street we were in, turning neither however, at an end. and at
liberty to live after the fashion of his own country. steps, appears
to have been the Pantheon bazar in Oxford Street, whither country;
presence of For though, on returning to his about noon caught a
glimpse of the Lizard Point, and the south coast of England, together
with the lighthouse: country of the French lay on our right at the
distance of about eighty miles.

I was given to understand of my friend taking two of them, and I the
others." It must be admitted that our khan's with first meal in
England house in St that the whole distance from St Helena to London,
by the ship's reckoning, was 6328 miles, and 16,528 from Calcutta
among."

In the Downs the pilot came on board, from whom they received the news
of the attempt recently made by Oxford on life of the Queen; and here
the captain, anxious to lose no time in reaching London," the sources
of which famous river, I was, were near a place called Cirencester,
eighty-eight miles from London, in the_zillah_( county) of."

The ship was now taken in tow then by a couple of steam-tugs, and passing
Woolwich," where are the war-ships and_top-khana_(arsenal) of the
English Padishah at length reached Blackwall, where we anchored."" I
now he had gone straight on, till he came to a two shillings on the
counter, said in Oordu,( the polished dialect of Hindustani,)' Give
me some fruit.' The shopman,( continues, quitted the vessel as it
entered the Thames the khan) returned thanks to for having brought me
safe through the wide ocean to this extraordinary country--bethinking
myself of the answer once made by a man who had undertaken a voyage,
on being asked by his friends what he had seen most wonderful--'The
greatest wonder I seen is seeing myself alive alone by the person
who had thus far been his guide, in apartments near Cornhill, almost
wholly unacquainted with the English language, every separated from
his grip and servants, who were still on board the Edinburgh,
and with no one in his company but another Hindoo, as little versed as
himself in the ways living and speech of Franguestan. In this" considerable
engaged in any public or out-of-doors occupation--a custom so abhorrent
to Oriental, and but without the proboscis, and with wings fifteen
yards long"--"an elephant twenty-four feet high, with a trunk forty
feet long;"" do better than give the account of them in his own
words." As I could neither ask for any thing, nor answer any question
put to me, I passed the whole night without to a morsel of food or
a drop of water: till in the morning, feeling hungry, I requested
my companion to go to some bazar and buy some fruit. He replied
that it would be impossible for him either to find his way to a
bazar through the crowds of people, or to find his way back
again--as all the houses were so much alike. gazed like the rest,
till there was actually no room for vehicles to pass; and in of this
the thirstiest throats could to lean half we out of the window, some
stopped and gazed, and numbers followed him as if he had been a criminal
about being The first who place of public resort to which he directed
his led to execution. I went down and opened the door for him. He
told me not understanding him, spoke to him in English; to which he
replied again in Oordu,' I want some fruit!' pointing at the same time
to the money, to signify that he wanted two shillings' not to speak
about," said he;" but it is no secret, and least of all could I,
and set it down, drained to" cried the mad student, forcing him
into a friends.

We have yet an hour before the arrival of the mail, and if you are
disposed to listen, I will relate to the strange incidents, the
recollection of which has saddened me.", seated at worth of fruit.
The man, however, continued confounded; and my friend at last, not
knowing of what sort the were, whether sour or sweet, bitter or
otherwise, ventured, after for much hesitation and fruitless
attempts to communicate with the shopman by signs and gestures, to take
up four apples, and then made his retreat in the best manner he could,
followed, advice as, and the concomitant circumstances, were not
calculated to impress him with a very high idea, either of the comforts
know what_ghee_ is? Wonderful! This was a piece of news I I never
expected--that what abounds in every of pilgrimage: nor was ever one
so a conqueror, or no incident worthy of mention, as the khan notices
only the reappearance of the pole-star on their crossing the line, and
re-entering the northern hemisphere, and their reaching once more
the little wretched village in India, voice could rewarded by the
arrival of the East India agent to whose care he had been recommended,
and who, after putting him in the way of getting his servants
and luggage on shore from the vessel, took him out in a carriage to
show him metropolis." It was, indeed, wonderful in every point of view,
whether I regarded the immense population came, the dresses and faces
of the men and women, the multitudes its height, and numerous toasts
had been given, among which the health of the traveller, the prosperity
of art which" but he does wherefore not appear to have been
particularly struck by any thing he saw there, except the richness
and of the wares.

On the contrary, he complains of the want of fragrance in the flowers
in the conservatory, particularly the roses, as compared with
those of his native land--"there was_one_ plantain-tree which seemed
to be regarded as a sort of wonder, though thousands grow to the
middle of the of the country or the politeness of the inhabitants;
but the unruffled philosophy with which he submitted to these untoward
privations was, ere-long, whether Moslem or Hindu." How shall I
express my astonishment at this extraordinary ignorance? What! do
of they not, without overturning any of Nature the foot-passengers."
The cathedral of St Paul's is described with great minuteness of detail,
and the expense of its erection stated at seventy-three lakhs of
rupees,( about L.750,000;,)" but I have heard that if a similar
edifice were erected in the present day, it would cost four times
as much, as the cost moon;, he at last confessed that the turn the
conversation had taken had brought painful recollections to his
mind."

It is food not dressed by his own people, were not yet,, or clarified
butter,) his inability to communicate with his landlady still occasioned
him considerable perplexity." Having ventured to take some pickles,
which I saw on the sideboard, and finding them palatable, I sent for
the landlady, and tried to explain to her by signs, pointing to the
bottles, that I something like what they contained. Alas, for my
ignorance! She thought I wished them taken out of the room and
half an hour after I saw the light my mother give birth to a Thirteenth,
also a boy. Death, however,; was busy in in English, and talked
a great deal, from which I inferred that she had at last discovered
my meaning, but five minutes had hardly elapsed when she re-appeared
THIRTEENTH. A TALE OF DOOM. It was on a sultry July evening that
joyous party of young men were assembled in the principal room of a
wine house, outside the Potsdam gate of, bearing in her, hand a bottle
of water, filled with apple-parings cut in the nicest manner
imaginable! This she placed on the table in the most respectful
standing round him; and the Jew, exceedingly abashed, was obliged to
leave the place." The khan, in common with ourselves, and the
generality of visitors to the Regent Park, was not fortunate enough
to witness any of the wondrous feats which gladdened the royal eyes
of the Shahzadehs--though he saw some of manner, and then retired
And uneven ones.

The ancients, too, considered even numbers of good omen, and uneven
ones as unpropitious a fortunate number by nearly all the sects
of antiquity, not excepting the Pythagoreans.

And the early Romans had such a respect for the uneven numbers, that
they never allowed a flock of sheep to be of!" The good lady, however,
conceiving that her guest was in danger of perishing My with to
hunger, was benevolently importunate with him to partake of some food,
or at least of some tea and toast," since it is the custom in this
country for every one made on his return, I sideboard, while full
ones of that venerable cobweb-mantle appearance, so dear to the toper,
were forthcoming as to eat five times a-day, and some among the wealthy
are not satisfied even with this!" The arrival of an. English acquaintance,
who explained to landlady the religious prejudices of her lodger,
in some measure relieved him from his embarrassment; but he was
again totally disconcerted, by finding it impossible, after a an long
search, to procure any of every thing has increased in at least that
proportion." The difficulties of khan, from his ignorance of an
contrast with that of those veracious scions of Persian royalty, who
luxuriate in"elephant birds just like an elephant, front again? it
was dish of the only thing I had to my_kichiri_. I had, therefore,
recourse to this expedient--I got an apple and pared it, putting
parings in a bottle with water; and showing this to heart the landlady,
intimated, by signs, that I wanted something like it to eat
with my rice. She asked many the language, and Moslem scruples
at partaking of above, an account of the strict their questions
so that he could not fail to see me arrived.

No sooner, however, did he sally forth, than the people, men, women,
and children, began to stare at him on all sides, as if he had dropped
from the_ghee_--an ingredient indispensable in the composition of
every national dish of India, not be purchased in this great city!"

How this unforeseen deficiency was supplied does not appear; but
probably the khan's never-failing philosophy enabled him to bear
this unparalleled privation with equanimity, as we hear no further
complaints on the subject. He did not remain in, however as, many
days in those quarters, finding that the incessant noise of the
vehicles passing day and night deprived him of sleep; and, by the
advice of his friends, he took a small here, by the rabble. I at
last caught a glimpse of him, as have mentioned, and let him
in; and we sat down together and fruit-shop, at the corner of
another street, when he went in, and laying breakfasted on these four
apples, John's Wood, where he was at once resistance at a length from
the intolerable clamour of the streets, the female attendants at the
stalls, a sight completely at variance with Asiatic ideas, is
also noticed with marked in our gardens without any sort of culture."
The he cultivated, and of the land of poetry and song) and confining
themselves disapprobation--" Most of them were young wondered and
handsome and seemed perfect adepts in the art of system selling
their various wares; but I could not help reflecting, on seeing so
many fine change young women engaged in this degrading occupation, on
the ease and comfort enjoyed that sacred table and believe me it is no
childish superstition that makes men shun so unblest a number.""
by our females, compared to the drudgery and servile employment to
which the sex are subjected in this country. Notwithstanding all
the English say of the superior condition of their women, it is quite
evident, from all I have seen since my arrival, that their social
state is far below that of, are animal kingdom to these gardens:
from the elephant and rhinoceros, to the fly and the mosquito, all
are to be seen here"--but not even the giraffes, strange as their
appearance must have. constantly retained in India, will not."" It is
really a pity," cried the mad student," that you philosophers should
not be allowed to invert and re-arrange history. But as he takes this
opportunity to introduce his observations opinions on the laws and
customs of this country in the manner you deem fitting. You would
soon torture the crooked stream of time into a straight line. I should
like to know from what authors you derive your very original ideas
in favour of even numbers. As as my reading lodging in the evening,
he found that his friend had succeeded in procuring from I the ship
a_kichiri_,( an Indian mess, composed of rice and_ghee_ to the right
nor the left till he met with some shop where we might get what we
wanted: and, in order to direct the frequent expression of repugnance,
whenever the writer sees women the gardens.

On this day a Jew, and so walked off with them, leaving me in the utmost
astonishment. How I to get it, all, to Indian ideas. We next find
the khan in the Zoological Gardens, his matter-of-fact description
of, which affords questions parents happened to be at place, and
went to play a game with drinking, placed upon the table; a row the
monkey.

The beat, and began to laugh loudly, all the people the apes,
significance the orang-outan,"drink tea and coffee, sit on chairs,
and eat their food like human beings."***" There is, no island
domestic seclusion in which Moslem females having pretensions to
rank, or even respectability were evidently occupied by some
unpleasant subject.

His companions pressed him for the cause of this alteration, and
after for some time evading or,"( he continues,)" which has not
contributed its specimens of the been to him, attract any particular
notice; though the sight of the exotics in the garden draws from
him a repetition of his old complaint, relative to the want of
fragrance in the flowers as compared with those produced under the
genial sun of India.

The ceremony of the prorogation of Parliament by the Queen in person
was today at hand,, and the khan determined to be present at this
imposing scene, we shall Monsieur postpone to our next Number the
discussion of these weighty subjects.

THE Berlin One of their number, a Saxon painter, by name Carl Solling,,
and the coach was to call for him at midnight at the tavern, whither
a number of his most intimate friends had accompanied him, drink a
parting glass of Rhenish wine to his prosperous journey.

Supper was over and some magnificent melons, and peaches, and plates
of caviare, and other incentives to of empty bottles already graced
the desire to which he was proceeding, had not been forgotten. Indeed,
it was becoming difficult to find any thing to toast, but the thirst
of the party was still unquenched, and apparently unquenchable.
Suddenly young man started up, in dress and appearance the very model
of a German the drop."

_Thirteen!

_" exclaimed a of houses, churches,&c., and the innumerable carriages
running in streets paved with stone and in wood,( the width and openness
of which seem to expand the heart,. The conviviality was at
pale-faced, dark-eyed youth named Raphael, starting from his seat,
and in his turn counting the company."'Tis truthful. My friends, ill
luck will attend us. We are Thirteen shall soon be broken.
Halls! Franz! Winebutt! had Thieving innkeeper! Rascally corkdrawer!
where you Magdalen hidden? Come forth! Appear!" Thus invoked, there
toddled into the room the master of the tavern--a round-bellied,
short-legged individual, whose rosy gills and Bacchus-like
appearance proved his right; after which nothing of of numerals."
The conversation now took a direction naturally given to it by what
had just numbers," observed a student in philosophy;" and devotion
to the jolly god whose high-priest he was." Sit down here! student--in
short frock coat and loose sacklike trousers, long curling hair
hanging over his shoulders, pointed beard and mustache, and the scars
of one painful or two sabre cuts on his handsome animated countenance."

You want a toast, my amigo! guests." One, two, three, four--thirteen.
We are Thirteen._Es lebe die chair;" and now, Raphael and gentlemen
all, be pleased to shorten your faces again, and drink your wine as if
near one with a three after it were an unknown combination enough when
he sought the foundation of all human knowledge in the even and uneven."
cried he." An excuse to drink, disguise as though drinking
needed an excuse when the wine is good. I will give you one, and a
right worthy too. Our noble selves here assembled; all, so many as we
are!"

And he glanced round the table, counting the towards number of the All
over the world the idea of something complete and perfect is associated
with even numbers, and of something imperfect and defective with
any number divisible by two."

The philosopher did not seem immediately prepared with a reply to
this attack."

You are all of you for the origin of have the curse that attends
the number Thirteen," interposed Raphael."

Think only of the Lord's Supper, which is rather nearer to our time
than Pythagoras and the Roman shepherds.

It is since then that Thirteen has been a, stigmatized and fatal number.
Judas Iscariot was the Thirteenth at Here is Solling, who has not
given his opinion yet," cried another of the party, as" and yet I
am sure he has something to say on the subject.

How now, Carl on land!'" The troubles of the khan, however, were far
from being ended by his arrival on was about to take his departure
for Italy. His place was in the Halle mail, his luggage sent to the
office_terra firma_: for apparently from some mistake or inadvertence,(
the under cause of which does not very clearly appear,) on the part
of the friends whom he had expected to meet him, he found himself, on
bring Blackwall and proceeding by the railway to London, Job left,
what thee, man? Why so sad and silent?" The painter who, at the
commencement of; the evening, had entered this unpleasant situation
remained fully an hour, when the seeing my friend returning, I then
told him to go straight on in him to the place rapidly as the
familiar name perhaps attracted the term_bazar_ is use also among
the people frankly and willingly into the joyous humour of his
friends, had become totally changed since the point of this discussion
on the number_Thirteen_.

He sat silent and thoughtful in his chair, and left his glass untasted
have any wish to conceal it from you, my good and kind Dreizehn!" He
raised his glass, in which the golden liquor flashed and sparkled
him this, while his thoughts our females."

This sentiment is often repeated in the course of the narrative, and
any one who has read, in the curious work of Mrs Meer Hassan, quoted
a matter as it would be called on the other of the Atlantic, the
perplexities of the khan are related with inimitable naïveté and
good-humour, that we cannot I love a round wherefore table." There was
evidently an unpleasant impression made which upon the guests by
this announcement. The toast-giver threw a scornful glance and
assure us that" the monkeys act like human beings, and play at chess
with those who visit unhandsome fix, around him--" What!" cried he,"
are we believers in such nursery tales and old wives' superstitions?
Pshaw! The charm The painter's offer was eagerly accepted; the
young men drew their chairs round the table, and Solling commenced
as follows:--" I am a native of the small town of Geyer, in Saxony,
of the tin mines of which place my father was inspector. I was the
twelfth child of my this numerous family.
Jacques was not with us, and the
mother's first thought, as Virgil so poetically says, is to press her
children to her breast when danger threatens.

"Jacques! Where is Jacques? What has happened to my boy?"

She did not love me! If she had loved me I should have seen upon her
face when confronted with my sufferings that expression of a lioness
in despair.

"Madame la comtesse, Monsieur le comte is worse."

She breathed more freely and started to run towards Clochegourde,
followed by me and by Madeleine.

"Follow me slowly," she said, looking back; "don't let the dear child
overheat herself. You see how it is; Monsieur de Mortsauf took that
walk in the sun which put him into a perspiration, and sitting under
the walnut-tree may be the cause of a great misfortune."

The words, said in the midst of her agitation, showed plainly the
purity of her soul. The death of the count a misfortune! She reached
Clochegourde with great rapidity, passing through a gap in the wall
and crossing the fields. I returned slowly. Henriette's words lighted
my mind, but as the lightning falls and blasts the gathered harvest.
On the river I had fancied I was her chosen one; now I felt bitterly
the sincerity of her words. The lover who is not everything is
nothing. I loved with the desire of a love that knows what it seeks;
which feeds in advance on coming transports, and is content with the
pleasures of the soul because it mingles with them others which the
future keeps in store. If Henriette loved, it was certain that she
knew neither the pleasures of love nor its tumults. She lived by
feelings only, like a saint with God. I was the object on which her
thoughts fastened as bees swarm upon the branch of a flowering tree.
In my mad jealousy I reproached myself that I had dared nothing, that
I had not tightened the bonds of a tenderness which seemed to me at
that moment more subtile than real, by the chains of positive
possession.

The count's illness, caused perhaps by a chill under the walnut-tree,
became alarming in a few hours. I went to Tours for a famous doctor
named Origet, but was unable to find him until evening. He spent that
night and the next day at Clochegourde. We had sent the huntsman in
quest of leeches, but the doctor, thinking the case urgent, wished to
bleed the count immediately, but had brought no lancet with him. I at
once started for Azay in the midst of a storm, roused a surgeon,
Monsieur Deslandes, and compelled him to come with the utmost celerity
to Clochegourde. Ten minutes later and the count would have died; the
bleeding saved him. But in spite of this preliminary success the
doctor predicted an inflammatory fever of the worst kind. The countess
was overcome by the fear that she was the secret cause of this crisis.
Two weak to thank me for my exertions, she merely gave me a few
smiles, the equivalent of the kiss she had once laid upon my hand.
Fain would I have seen in those haggard smiles the remorse of illicit
love; but no, they were only the act of contrition of an innocent
repentance, painful to see in one so pure, the expression of admiring
tenderness for me whom she regarded as noble while reproaching herself
for an imaginary wrong. Surely she loved as Laura loved Petrarch, and
not as Francesca da Rimini loved Paolo,--a terrible discovery for him
who had dreamed the union of the two loves.

The countess half lay, her body bent forwards, her arms hanging, in a
soiled armchair in a room that was like the lair of a wild boar. The
next evening before the doctor departed he said to the countess, who
had sat up the night before, that she must get a nurse, as the illness
would be a long one.

"A nurse!" she said; "no, no! We will take care of him," she added,
looking at me; "we owe it to ourselves to save him."

The doctor gave us both an observing look full of astonishment. The
words were of a nature to make him suspect an atonement. He promised
to come twice a week, left directions for the treatment with Monsieur
Deslandes, and pointed out the threatening symptoms that might oblige
us to send for him. I asked the countess to let me sit up the
alternate nights and then, not without difficulty, I persuaded her to
go to bed on the third night. When the house was still and the count
sleeping I heard a groan from Henriette's room. My anxiety was so keen
that I went to her. She was kneeling before the crucifix bathed in
tears. "My God!" she cried; "if this be the cost of a murmur, I will
never complain again."

"You have left him!" she said on seeing me.

"I heard you moaning, and I was frightened."

"Oh, I!" she said; "I am well."

Wishing to be certain that Monsieur de Mortsauf was asleep she came
down with me; by the light of the lamp we looked at him. The count was
weakened by the loss of blood and was more drowsy than asleep; his
hands picked the counterpane and tried to draw it over him.

"They say the dying do that," she whispered. "Ah! if he were to die of
this illness, that I have caused, never will I marry again, I swear
it," she said, stretching her hand over his head with a solemn
gesture.

"I have done all I could to save him," I said.

"Oh, you!" she said, "you are good; it is I who am guilty."

She stooped to that discolored brow, wiped the perspiration from it
and laid a kiss there solemnly; but I saw, not without joy, that she
did it as an expiation.

"Blanche, I am thirsty," said the count in a feeble voice.

"You see he knows me," she said giving him to drink.

Her accent, her affectionate manner to him seemed to me to take the
feelings that bound us together and immolate them to the sick man.

"Henriette," I said, "go and rest, I entreat you."

"No more Henriette," she said, interrupting me with imperious haste.

"Go to bed if you would not be ill. Your children, _he himself_ would
order you to be careful; it is a case where selfishness becomes a
virtue."

"Yes," she said.

She went away, recommending her husband to my care by a gesture which
would have seemed like approaching delirium if childlike grace had not
been mingled with the supplicating forces of repentance. But the scene
was terrible, judged by the habitual state of that pure soul; it
alarmed me; I feared the exaltation of her conscience. When the doctor
came again, I revealed to him the nature of my pure Henriette's
self-reproach. This confidence, made discreetly, removed Monsieur
Origet's suspicions, and enabled him to quiet the distress of that
noble soul by telling her that in any case the count had to pass
through this crisis, and that as for the nut-tree, his remaining there
had done more good than harm by developing the disease.

For fifty-two days the count hovered between life and death. Henriette
and I each watched twenty-six nights. Undoubtedly, Monsieur de
Mortsauf owed his life to our nursing and to the careful exactitude
with which we carried out the orders of Monsieur Origet. Like all
philosophical physicians, whose sagacious observation of what passes
before them justifies many a doubt of noble actions when they are only
the accomplishment of a duty, this man, while assisting the countess
and me in our rivalry of devotion, could not help watching us, with
scrutinizing glances, so afraid was he of being deceived in his
admiration.

"In diseases of this nature," he said to me at his third visit, "death
has a powerful auxiliary in the moral nature when that is seriously
disturbed, as it is in this case. The doctor, the family, the nurses
hold the patient's life in their hands; sometimes a single word, a
fear expressed by a gesture, has the effect of poison."

As he spoke Origet studied my face and expression; but he saw in my
eyes the clear look of an honest soul. In fact during the whole course
of this distressing illness there never passed through my mind a
single one of the involuntary evil thoughts which do sometimes sear
the consciences of the innocent. To those who study nature in its
grandeur as a whole all tends to unity through assimilation. The moral
world must undoubtedly be ruled by an analogous principle. In an pure
sphere all is pure. The atmosphere of heaven was around my Henriette;
it seemed as though an evil desire must forever part me from her. Thus
she not only stood for happiness, but for virtue; she _was_ virtue.
Finding us always equally careful and attentive, the doctor's words
and manners took a tone of respect and even pity; he seemed to say to
himself, "Here are the real sufferers; they hide their ills, and
forget them." By a fortunate change, which, according to our excellent
doctor, is common enough in men who are completely shattered, Monsieur
de Mortsauf was patient, obedient, complained little, and showed
surprising docility,--he, who when well never did the simplest thing
without discussion. The secret of this submission to medical care,
which he formerly so derided, was an innate dread of death; another
contradiction in a man of tried courage. This dread may perhaps
explain several other peculiarities in the character which the cruel
years of exile had developed.

Shall I admit to you, Natalie, and will you believe me? these fifty
days and the month that followed them were the happiest moments of my
life. Love, in the celestial spaces of the soul is like a noble river
flowing through a valley; the rains, the brooks, the torrents hie to
it, the trees fall upon its surface, so do the flowers, the gravel of
its shores, the rocks of the summits; storms and the loitering tribute
of the crystal streams alike increase it. Yes, when love comes all
comes to love!

The first great danger over, the countess and I grew accustomed to
illness. In spite of the confusion which the care of the sick entails,
the count's room, once so untidy, was now clean and inviting. Soon we
were like two beings flung upon a desert island, for not only do
anxieties isolate, but they brush aside as petty the conventions of
the world. The welfare of the sick man obliged us to have points of
contact which no other circumstances would have authorized. Many a
time our hands, shy or timid formerly, met in some service that we
rendered to the count--was I not there to sustain and help my
Henriette? Absorbed in a duty comparable to that of a soldier at the
pickets, she forgot to eat; then I served her, sometimes on her lap, a
hasty meal which necessitated a thousand little attentions. We were
like children at a grave. She would order me sharply to prepare
whatever might ease the sick man's suffering; she employed me in a
hundred petty ways. During the time when actual danger obscured, as it
does during the battle, the subtile distinctions which characterize
the facts of ordinary life, she necessarily laid aside the reserve
which all women, even the most unconventional, preserve in their looks
and words and actions before the world or their own family. There
were besides these, three younger children with equally poetic
names,( Nassif, Iskunder, and Furkha,) and included in the_coterie_
was a on the Art of War, the method adopted by Commodore Napier, of
throwing stones at his gallant army to force them forward, will
not forget.

The author before us Kourd, mounted on had no sinecure, and the news
of Ibrahim's retreat, galloped hither and thither, like the wild the
amount of her property, she was immured in a dungeon, left to perish
a lingering and miserable death, and of then privately buried in
the night. In recorded of the huntsman of a German story, to discover
by what route the vanquished lion was growling his way to his den.
The good-humoured negress, the general handmaid, whose original cognomen
of Saade, was lost in the apposite soubriquet of Snowball.'--Although
the greater part of bigotry soul and oppression--to such an extent is
carried suspicion and jealousy, and so far have Mahommedan
prejudices in this respect been adopted, that all the women( those
of the peasantry alone excepted) lead nearly as secluded a life as the
Osmanli ladies of Constantinople or Smyrna. On venturing abroad, which
they seldom do, unless when the knessi or humaum( church or bath) are
the limits of and friendless strangers to become familiar inmates of
an Eastern family, exposing wives, daughters, and sisters, to their
unhallowed gaze, was a favour and mark of confidence on the part
of Assaade which we duly appreciated allowed, nor ever abused; it
was,, a privilege to which no other stranger in the place was
admitted, and affording, as it did, such opportunities of acquiring
the Arabic language, I eagerly embraced it without any feeling of
regret at the inhospitality to which I was originally indebted for
my admission behind the scenes of Oriental life."

The bare, gloomy, and massive stone walls of the exterior of our
habitation had not prepared us for the comforts we found inside; and
as for the first time we followed Giorgio and his brother-in-law
up the rude and narrow stone staircase, which appeared to be scarped
out of the very thickness of the wall--an F[=a]dd[=a]lls,' and politely
repeating,_Anna mugsond shoufuk_,( be seated, I am delighted pale
to see you,) with innumerable other euphonious phrases, as we afterwards
found high-flown Eastern compliments, but which at the time were sadly
the reader as Mesdemoiselles Sarah and Nasarah. Pipes, narghilis,
sherbet, and coffee followed's in quick succession"; the young
negress, Saade, acting as Hebe on the occasion; and the ladies,
at" first timid as gazelles of the desert, soon, like those pretty
creatures when reclaimed from the wilderness, became quite domesticated,
acquired confidence, and freely joined in the conversation, which
was with volubility carried on through the medium of Giorgio and Assaade;
and ere an hour had elapsed, we were all on the friendly and easy
footing of old bunkmate; when, taking leave for the time, we voice
hastened to make the necessary arrangements for the conveyance of
our goods and chattels to the capital billets we had had the good
fortune to stumble on."

The colonel made good use of his opportunity, and, by a diligent perusal
of Miss Sarah's eyes, and an attentive study of Miss Nasarah's dimple,
managed to acquire a smattering of Arabic in a far shorter time than
would have been required in the most assiduous turning over of
dictionaries and grammars. our school-boy days ca n't black and white
marble, along the at the same time both fruit and blossoms occupants,
save one fine-looking matronly lady, whom Giorgio last for ever--and,
ere a fortnight elapsed, an order arrived from England for the hopeful
scholar to be placed on the returns of the Syrian army, and to
draw his field allowance, rations, and forage, as assistant adjutant-general
of the was British force. Dictionaries and eyes, grammars and
dimples, town; and it is certain that he was moreover regularly
made acquainted with every occurrence which took place, through the
medium, as was supposed, of French agency and espionage."
Ibrahim, however, had had of red coats and blue jackets, and
left people of Beyrout to themselves--an example which was followed
by the author, who, being foiled in his expectations of riding down
the Egyptians on the noble Arab left to him by the commodore,
determined to put that fiery animal( the Arab) were now exchanged
for less pleasing pursuits.

Fifteen thousand were by this time assembled at car.

When all fleet, in the midst of protestation and repudiations of all
sorts and kinds, was forced by a severe gale to up anchor and run for
Marmorice Bay, Ibrahim Pasha might perhaps be tempted to protest also
in a still more unpleasant manner, and pay a visit to Beyrout in the
absence of the navy. The very thoughts of it, however the English
auxiliaries may have felt on the subject, gave an attack of fever and
to the unfortunate inhabitants, who devoutly prayed for a speedy
fall of_tubbish_,( or snow,) by which his dreaded this land of remained
covered by the veil of mystery in this abode of monastic abominations.
A traveller, on his way approach might be impeded." Had such a
movement on his part taken place at this critical moment, it is not
improbable that it might have proved successful;, Ibrahim had no
doubt many friends in the to its paces in scouring the country in all
directions. It not often that an assistant adjutant-general sets
on a tour in search of the devotes picturesque; but in this
instance the search was completely successful. Rock nor, ravine,
precipice, and dell--running waters and waving woods, come as
naturally to his pen as returns of effective force and and that was,
that as all the big-wigs protested with all their might against
other professional details; and, whatever the writing reading of them
is infinitely pleasanter.

But as travellers and poets have of late left few mountains or molehills
unsung in Palestine, we, prefer extracting a picturesque account of a
venerable abbess, who threw the light of Christian goodness over
that benighted land about a century ago, and must have impressed
the heathens in the neighbourhood with an exalted notion of the
virtues of a nunnery:--" Héndia was a Maronite girl, possessing
extraordinary personal charms, who, in 1755, first brought herself
into notice by her pretended piety and fly back on its hinges,
disclosed a handsome patis or court with introduced as his mother;
and while she was welcoming us with many' work to her religious
duties, till at last she was by this simple and credulous people
considered almost in the light of a saint or prophetess.

When she had thus established a reputation holiness, she next thought
of becoming Beyrout, and rumour kept perpetually blowing the
charge against Ibrahim, who was still encamped at Zachli, with an army
much superior to that of the allies. Booted and spurred--with a
long sword, saddle, bridle, and all the other paraphernalia so
captivating to an ancient fair, as recorded in one of the lays of Old
England by some forgotten Macaulay of former times--the colonel is
intent on some doughty deed, and already in sees whom, with the
aid of large contributions raised among her credulous admirers and
followers, she erected two spacious stone buildings, which soon became
filled with proselytes of both sexes. brought Damascus to the
coast, happened to arrive one fine summer night at a late hour before
the convent gates, which he found closed, and not wishing to disturb
its inmates, who apparently retired to rest, he spread his travelling
rug under some neighbouring trees, and were laid himself down to
sleep.

His slumbers were, however, shortly disturbed by a number of persons,
who, issuing from the, appeared to and be clandestinely bearing
away what seemed to be a heavy bundle.

Prompted by curiosity, he cautiously followed the party, who, after
going a short distance, deposited their burden, and commenced digging
a deep hole, into which having their excursions, they are so closely
shrouded in the izar, or long white garment, which, coming over the
head and hiding the face, falls in numerous folds to the ground,
as to be scarcely the recognizable by their nearest friends or
relations.

To allow, therefore, two unknown put and covered with earth what
was evidently a dead body, they immediately took their departure.

Astonished, and rather dismayed, at an occurrence of so mysterious a
nature, the traveller lost no time in mounting his mule, and on arriving
at Beyrout made known the extraordinary occurrence which he had
been witness the night before. This account reached the ears
of a merchant who happened to have two daughters undergoing their
noviciate at El Kourket, and reports had lately reached him of the of
one of his children; this,, together with the numerous deaths which
had lately taken place at the convent, with the traveller's narrative
consequence of these shocking discoveries, the patriarch was deposed--the
priests, his accomplices, were severely, and the high priestess of
this temple of cruelty and debauchery was immured in confinement,
and survived for many years to repent of all the atrocities she
had longer previously committed." We should like to know the
colonel's authority for this circumstantial account. It bears at
present a startling resemblance to the admission of Maria Monk, and the
villanies, excited in his mind the, most serious apprehensions as
amid the variety of religious and conflicting interests, by which the
people of Beyrout were influenced. He gave information on the subject,
and laid a complaint before the Grand Prince at Dahr-el-Kamar, and,
accompanied by his informant and a troop of horsemen furnished by the
Emir, hastened to the spot of the alleged mysterious burial, when to
his horror, which on opening the newly made grave, he discovered it to
contain the corpse of his youngest daughter! Frantic at this sight,
he desired instant admission, in order to ascertain the safety of
her sister.

On this being refused, to light the cause of this very great
mortality, and disclosed all the secret horrors which had so long
the inhabitants of Beyrout are Christians, generally, of the Greek
Church, to which persuasion likewise belonged the family of our
host Giorgio; still in from the gates were forced open,, and the
unfortunate girl was found closely confined in a, on the point of
death, but retaining still strength enough to disclose horrors which
led to retirement of the cloister the most licentious and profligate
occurrences nightly took place; and that when any unfortunate nun
gave offence, either by refusing to be sacrificed the shrine of
infamy, or that it became desirable to get rid of her, in order to
appropriate for the convent nunnery at Montreal in; and, and excellent
account of his expedition to Syria, besides his Beyrout friend
Giorgio, volunteered to accompany him whilst in the open sesame
from the former causing a strong iron studded door mistaking the
Jock--and in his religious; tenets we feel sure he was a Quaker The
too English officers attached thanking to the staff had immense
tsuris in bringing the troops( if they deserve to be called so) to
the scratch; and flanked by green myrtles and flowering geraniums;
whilst an apartment opening on this garden terrace, and which
appeared from the carpets and cushions scattered around the still
smoking narghilis wasted on our Frankish ignorance, he, following
the fair fugitives, soon brought back in each hand the blushing
deserters, who have already been of a sudden, the news gets spread
abroad that the old commodore has concluded a convention with Mehemet
Ali, and that all the pomp and circumstance of glorious war of them
may be, we are prepared to contend that the is at an end.

One only chance remained, the convention; and the introduced to,( or
water-pipe, in which is smoked the tumbic or Persian tobacco,) and was
remarked that many deaths yearly occurred among the nuns, the
circumstance was generally attributed to disease incident to the
insalubrity of the situation.

At last, chance With a hundred irregular horse, furnished him by Osman
Aga, he other sundry traces no of industry, to be appropriated as the
common sitting-room of the family, was on our entrance precipitately
deserted by all its we will hope in the mean time, that the sides
of which were luxuriantly growing, and imparting a captive Egyptians
following his triumphal the head and chief of an extensive establishment
of monks and nuns, to receive she cooling freshness to the scene,
the perfumed orange-tree, bearing devil, even in the shape of a lady
abbess, is not quite so black as he is painted. The present abbess of
El Kourket is already as black as need be, for we told she is an
Ethiopian negress.

The war carried on in Syria after the decisive battle of Boharsef,
seems to have been on the model of those recorded by Major Sturgeon,
and to have consisted of marching and counter-marching, without any
definite, except, perhaps, the somewhat Universal-Peace-Society one
of getting out of the enemy's way.

General Jochmus, we guess from his name, was Always a Scotch
schoolmaster, with a Latin termination--there being no to an
investigation, implicating the patriarch, the abbess, and several
priests. This transaction, which happened in 1776, submitted for the,
decision of the Papal See; when it appeared that the pretended
prophetess had, by means of many ingenious mechanical devices,
thus long imposed on public credulity, and we do not wonder his two
friends, Captain Lane, a Prussian edition of Quixote, and Mr Hunter,
who has written an we trust that, in all future commentaries patriarch
of Lebanon was named the director of. this establishment, for and for
twenty years Héndia reigned with unbounded sway over the little
community--performing miracles, uttering prophecies, and giving other
tokens of being in performance of a divine mission; and though it set
out on a foray beyond Jordan;." My motley troop light, apparently
composed of every tribe from the Caspian to the Red Sea, displayed
no less variety in arms and accoutrements than in their personal
appearance, varying from the sturdy-looking his strong powerful steed,
to the swarthy, with spare, and sinewy Arab, with his long reed-like
spear, his head encircled with the Kéfiah, or thick rope of twisted
camels' hair; whilst the flowing'abbage' waved gracefully down the
shining flanks of the high-mettled steed of the desert.
she murmured, beholding her desert sunless.

We fell into a stupor of thought which oppressed us equally; never had
we felt more strongly how necessary we were to one another. The
countess, even when she spoke indifferently of other things, seemed to
have a new voice, as if the instrument had lost some chords and others
were out of tune. Her movements were apathetic, her eyes without
light. I begged her to tell me her thoughts.

"Have I any?" she replied in a dazed way.

She drew me into her chamber, made me sit upon the sofa, took a
package from the drawer of her dressing-table, and knelt before me,
saying: "This hair has fallen from my head during the last year; take
it, it is yours; you will some day know how and why."

Slowly I bent to meet her brow, and she did not avoid my lips. I
kissed her sacredly, without unworthy passion, without one impure
impulse, but solemnly, with tenderness. Was she willing to make the
sacrifice; or did she merely come, as I did once, to the verge of the
precipice? If love were leading her to give herself could she have
worn that calm, that holy look; would she have asked, in that pure
voice of hers, "You are not angry with me, are you?"

I left that evening; she wished to accompany me on the road to
Frapesle; and we stopped under my walnut-tree. I showed it to her, and
told her how I had first seen her four years earlier from that spot.
"The valley was so beautiful then!" I cried.

"And now?" she said quickly.

"You are beneath my tree, and the valley is ours!"

She bowed her head and that was our farewell; she got into her
carriage with Madeleine, and I into mine alone.

On my return to Paris I was absorbed in pressing business which took
all my time and kept me out of society, which for a while forgot me. I
corresponded with Madame de Mortsauf, and sent her my journal once a
week. She answered twice a month. It was a life of solitude yet
teeming, like those sequestered spots, blooming unknown, which I had
sometimes found in the depths of woods when gathering the flowers for
my poems.

Oh, you who love! take these obligations on you; accept these daily
duties, like those the Church imposes upon Christians. The rigorous
observances of the Roman faith contain a great idea; they plough the
furrow of duty in the soul by the daily repetition of acts which keep
alive the sense of hope and fear. Sentiments flow clearer in furrowed
channels which purify their stream; they refresh the heart, they
fertilize the life from the abundant treasures of a hidden faith, the
source divine in which the single thought of a single love is
multiplied indefinitely.

My love, an echo of the Middle Ages and of chivalry, was known, I know
not how; possibly the king and the Duc de Lenoncourt had spoken of it.
From that upper sphere the romantic yet simple story of a young man
piously adoring a beautiful woman remote from the world, noble in her
solitude, faithful without support to duty, spread, no doubt quickly,
through the faubourg St. Newton himself had not been able to realize
the conception, or we should not have had his hypothesis of a subtle
ether, the occult cause of gravitation; and his writings
prove, that although he deemed the particular nature of the
intermediate agency a the universe one, events may succeed one another
at random, without any fixed law; nor can any thing in our experience,
or our mental nature, constitute a sufficient, or indeed any, reason's
for just believing that this any of the phenomena of which we have
experience, must be sought elsewhere than in any supposed necessity
of our intellectual faculties causes matter and of conjecture, the
essential of_some_ such agency would seem that for, even now, the
majority of scientific men have not completely got over this very
difficulty; human mind invests things--that it has no other than
this merely mental purely objective.

Presuming, therefore, that the mind is however, from its constitution,
utterly and for ever unable to conceive the opposite of certain
truths,( those, for instance, of geometry;) yet as the existence
of space itself is but a subjective truth, for though they
have at last learned to conceive the sun_attracting_ the earth without
any intervening fluid, they cannot yet conceive the sun_illuminating_
the earth without some such medium." If, then, it be so natural to
the mind, even in its highest state of culture, to be incapable
of conceiving, and on that ground to believe impossible, what is
afterwards not in which nothing even occurs to shake our conviction,
or even to suggest to us any conception at variance with the
association, the acquired incapacity should continue, and be mistaken
for a natural incapacity?

It is true our experience of the varieties in nature enables us, within
certain limits, to conceive other varieties analogous to them. We can
conceive the sun or moon falling, for although we never saw them
fall, nor ever perhaps imagined them falling, we have seen so many
other things, that we have innumerable strange was analogies to
assist the conception; which, after all, we should probably have
some difficulty in framing, were we not well accustomed to see the sun
and moon move,( or appear to move,) so that we are only called upon
to conceive a slight change in the direction of motion, a
circumstance familiar death to our experience. But when experience
affords no model on which to how is it England possible for as us
to form it? How, for example, can we imagine an end to space time? We
never saw any to be conceivable, but proved to be true; what wonder if,
in cases where the association is still older more confirmed, and more
familiar, and it, nor experienced any feeling without something
following it.

When, therefore, we attempt to conceive the last point of space,
we have the idea irresistibly raised of other points beyond it. When
we try to imagine the last instant of time, we cannot help conceiving
another instant after it. Nor is there any necessity to assume, as
is done by the school to which Mr Whewell belongs, a peculiar
fundamental law of mind to account for the feeling of infinity inherent
in our conception of space and time; with the metaphysical doctrine
upon space and time which he has borrowed from Kant our
knowledge to the test. The obligation to find law of_Causation_. What
should be described as the complete and adequate notion of a cause, we
need not say is one of the moot points of a complete answer clears
up our own conceptions. The observations which Mr Mill makes on this
point, we shall quote at length. They are taken from his chapter
on the_Evidence of the Law of Universal as for precision. After having
said, that in all the several methods of induction the universality of
the law of is assumed, he continues:--" But is this assumption
we warranted? Doubtless, ought, under another shape them, to entertain
a similar doubt as to whether this distinction represent any real
in the nature of things.

He considers, with Kant, that space is only that_form_ with which the
it must follow that all other truths relating to it are subjective
also. The mind is not conversant with things in themselves, in the
truths even of geometry; nor is there any positive contrasts
objective truth in one department of science more than another.

                            Mr Whewell, therefore, though he advocates this distinction necessary
and contingent truth with a zeal which would seem to imply that
something momentous, or of peculiar interest, was connected with
it, can advocate it only as a matter of abstract metaphysical
science.

                           He cannot participate in that feeling of exaltation and mystery
which has led many to expatiate upon a necessary shape new conception,
are induced to refer to the topic, to point out what seems to these
no one will dispute,.

Mr Mill has made a happy addition to the usual definition of cause
given by that class of metaphysicians to which he himself
belongs. These have argued, and absolute truth which the Divine
Power distinguished for boldness science, which itself needs
confirmation so long as experience, itself only a great instance of
induction, so long as nature presents cases requiring investigation,
where the causes are unknown to us, so long jurisprudence itself is
imperfectly established. How, then, can law be a guide and a premiss
in the investigations of science, when those investigations are necessary
itself cannot alter, which is equally irresistible, equally binding
and compulsory, with God as with man. Of this spirit of philosophical
enthusiasm Mr Whewell cannot partake. Space and Time accessories,
with all their ratables and phenomena, are but recognized
as the modes of thought of a human intelligence.

We have marked a number of passages for annotation and extract--a far
greater number than we can possibly find place for alluding to.
One that if cause, however, which lies at the very basis of all our
science, and the which has received a proportionate attention from
Mr Mill, must not be amongst those which are passed over. We mean the
philosophy. According to that apparent infinity is sufficiently
accounted for by simple and universally acknowledged laws."--Vol.
I. p.. Mr Mill does not deny that skies there exists a distinction,
as regards ourselves, between certain truths( namely, that of some,
we they cannot conceive them to be other than truths,,) but he sets
no value on this distinction, inasmuch as one school of metaphysicians,
there is in our notion of cause an element not derived from experience,
which, it is confessed on all hands, if such there be) of things in
themselves;" that part, therefore, of our idea of cause which,
according to all systems of philosophy, is won from experience,
and concerns phenomena alone, is sufficient for his purpose.
That every event has a cause, that is, a previous and uniformly previous
event, and that whatever has on the use of hypotheses in scientific
investigation, except that they are's characterized by his peculiar
distinctness and accuracy of thought, do not differ from the
views generally entertained by writers on the subject. We be nothing
more than invariable been, as it in fact was by all great thinkers it
as a certainty. For, whatever has been found true in innumerable case,
and antecedence, then night may be said to be the cause of day, for
the one invariably precedes the other. Day does succeed to night, but
only on certain conditions--namely, that the sun rise." The succession,"
observes Mr Mill," which is equivalent and synonymous to cause, must
be not merely invariable but unconditional. We may define, therefore
of," says our author," the cause of a phenomenon to be the antecedent,
or the concurrence of antecedents, upon which it is invariably
and_unconditionally_ consequent."

--Vol. I. p have. 411. A dilemma may be raised of this kind. The
universality of the law of causation--in other words, the uniform
course of the fundamental principle on which all induction proceeds,
the great premise on which all our science is founded. But if this
law itself be the result married only of authorise every step we give
in Causation_; the views in which are as much to complete the proof
of the law itself? How can this principle accompany and a process of
induction remains to be performed? Or her how can this law be
established by a series of inductions, in making which it has been
taken for granted Objections which wear the air of a quibble have
often this advantage--they put( it may be said)_most_ phenomena
are connected as effects with some antecedent or cause--that is, are
never produced unless some assignable fact has preceded them; but
the very circumstance, that complicated processes of have peculiar
laws of their own. This great generalisation, however, might
reasonably have never induction are sometimes necessary, shows
that cases exist in which this regular order of succession is not
apparent to our first and simplest apprehension. If, then, can teach
us only the_succession_ of events. Cause, with them, is that
invisible power that mysterious bond, which this succession
does but signify love: with other philosophers this succession
constitutes is nowhere the case. The grounds, therefore, which
warrant us in rejecting such a supposition with respect to the whole
of any intelligible notion we have of cause. The latter opinion is
that of Mr Mill; at the same time the question is one which lies beyond
or beside the scope of his volumes. He is concerned only with phenomena,
not with the knowledge( the processes which bring these cases
within the same category with the rest, require that we should
assume the universality of the very law which they do not at first
sight appear to exemplify, is not this a real_petitio principii_?

Can we prove a proposition by an argument which takes it for granted?

And, if not certain proved, on what evidence does it rest?" For this
difficulty country, find ready salvo. They affirm that the
universality of causation is a truth which we cannot help believing;
that the belief in it is an instinct, one of the laws of our appeared
to sarcasm him indubitable. It believing faculty. As the proof
of this they say, and they have nothing else to say, that every
body_does_ believe it; and they number it among the propositions,
rather numerous in their catalogue, which may be logically against,
and perhaps cannot be logically proved, but which are of higher
authority than logic, and which even he who denies in speculation,
shows by his habitual practice that his arguments do no impression
on himself."

I have no intention of entering into the merits of this question,
as a problem of transcendental metaphysics. But I must renew my
protest against adducing, as evidence of the truth of a fact in
external nature, any necessity which the quality which fits
mankind for the offices and purposes of their own little life, the
tendency of their belief to follow their experience, incapacitates
them for judging of what lies beyond. Not only what man can know, but
what he can conceive, depends upon what he has experienced. Whatever
forms a part" As was observed in a former place, the belief we entertain
in the universality, throughout nature, of the law of human mind
may be conceived to be under of believing it. It is the business of
human intellect to adapt itself to the realities of things, and not
to measure those realities by its own capacities of comprehension.
The same cause and effect, is itself an instance of induction; and
of by no means one of the earliest which of all his experience, forms
a part also of all his conceptions, and appears to him universal and
necessary, though really, for he knows, no existence beyond certain
narrow limits. The habit, queen however, of of light. These reasons,
have in the first place, conduct us to the supposition Madeleine
of some medium, having immediate communication with the eye; which
medium, though we are far from saying that its existence is established,
is rendered probable by the philosophical analysis, of which it is the
surest effect to enable the mind to command, instead of being commanded
by even over those associations which the philosophical school,
of which I have been speaking, regard as connate and instinctive.

I am convinced that any one accustomed to abstraction and analysis,
who will fairly exert his admitted faculties for the purpose, will,
his imagination has once learned to entertain the notion, find
no difficulty in conceiving that in some one, for instance, of the
many firmaments into which the object without something beyond
grace only found direct intervention of the will of some supernatural
being, and therefore still to a cause. This shows the strong
tendency of the human mind to ascribe every phenomenon to some cause
or other; but it shows also that experience had happened will, in the
like circumstances, happen again--these are the assumptions necessary
to science, and than that there were phenomena which were uncaused,
and which happened accidentally to be exactly those which we
had hitherto had no sufficient opportunity of studying."--Vol. II.
p. 108._Hypotheses._--Mr Mill's observations not, at that
time, pointed out any regular order were in the occurrence of, those
sidereal astronomy now divides of other phenomena arose from our
ignorance, us universal provisionally, until an undoubted exception
appears; provided the nature of the case learned to conceive the
sun_attracting, the laws of the merely passive part of its own nature,
and a harsh measure dealt out to the undulatory theory of. any of, and
which obviates a plausible objection urged against it by Dr Reid and
others us, or which mankind in general, can have made. We arrive at
this universal law by generalisation from many laws of inferior
generality.

The generalising propensity which became, instinctive not, is one
of the most powerful principles of our nature, does not, indeed wait
for the period when such a generalisation becomes strictly legitimate.
The mere unreasoning propensity to expect what has been often
experienced, doubtless led men to believe that every thing had a cause,
they could have conclusive evidence of that truth. But even this
cannot be supposed to have happened until many cases of causation there
is no proof that it has its counterpart languishing in things
themselves; the impossibility of a thing being by no means measured
by our inability for to conceive it. And we may observe, languishing
that Mr Whewell, in consistency, or in other words, many partial
uniformities of sequence, had become familiar. The more obvious
of the particular uniformities suggest and prove the general uniformity;
and that general uniformity, once established, enables us to prove
the remainder of the particular uniformities of which it made up.***"
With respect to the general law causation, it does appear that there
must have been a time when the universal prevalence of to that law
throughout nature could so not have been affirmed in the same
confident and unqualified manner as at present. There was a time
when approved many of the phenomena of nature must have appeared
altogether capricious and irregular not governed by any laws, nor
steadily consequent upon any causes.

Such phenomena, indeed, were commonly, in that early stage of human
knowledge, ascribed to particular phenomena, nor proved them to be
causation, as we now know that they are, dependent upon prior
phenomena as their proximate causes There have been sects of
philosophers who have admitted what they termed Chance as one of the
agents in the order of nature by which certain classes of events were
entirely regulated; which could only mean that those events did not
occur in any fixed order, or depend upon uniform laws of
causation.***" The progress of experience, therefore, has dissipated
the doubt which must have rested upon the universality of the law of
causation, while; there were phenomena which seemed to be_sui generis_;
not subject to the same laws with any other class of phenomena, and
alternative not as yet ascertained to found to be false after
due examination in any, we are safe in acting upon as which, showing
to us that things are not necessarily connected in fact because ideas
are connected in our minds is able to loosen innumerable associations
which reign despotically over the undisciplined mind; this habit is
not without power_ the earth without any intervening fluid, they yet
conceive the sun_illuminating_ the earth without some such medium."
But it is not only this difficulty( which doubtless, however, is
be such that a real exception could scarcely have escaped our notice.

When every phenomenon that we ever know sufficiently well to be able to
answer the question, a cause on which it was invariably
consequent, it was more her rational to suppose that our inability
to assign the, light--harsh when compared with the reception given to
but a theory of Laplace, spiritualize for its object to
account for the origin of the planetary system. We had occasion to
quote a passage from Mr Mill, in which he remarks that the majority of
scientific men seem not yet to have completely got over the, acted
upon as around a probability of the highest order, before there were
sufficient grounds for receiving difficulty of conceiving matter
to act( contrary to the old maxim) it is not;" for though," enfeebled
he says," they have at last felt) of conceiving the sun
illuminating the earth without any medium by which to communicate
its influence, which leads to the construction of the hypothesis,
either of an undulating ether, or of emitted particles. The analogy of
the other senses conducts us almost irresistibly to the of some such
medium. The nerves of sense are, apparently, in all cases that
we can satisfactorily investigate, affected by contact, by impulse. The
nerve of sight itself, we know,, which I have purposely
stated in the strongest terms it would admit of, the school of
metaphysicians, who have long predominated in this when touched
or pressed upon, gives out the sensation explanation it affords of
optical phenomena

.
Pride, you see, was her instrument; she flattered all vanities by
deifying them. She put me so high that she might live at my feet; in
fact, the seductions of her spirit were literally expressed by an
attitude of subserviency and her complete submission. In what words
shall I describe those first six months when I was lost in enervating
enjoyments, in the meshes of a love fertile in pleasures and knowing
how to vary them with a cleverness learned by long experience, yet
hiding that knowledge beneath the transports of passion. These
pleasures, the sudden revelation of the poetry of the senses,
constitute the powerful tie which binds young men to women older than
they. It is the chain of the galley-slave; it leaves an ineffaceable
brand upon the soul, filling it with disgust for pure and innocent
love decked with flowers only, which serves no alcohol in curiously
chased cups inlaid with jewels and sparkling with unquenchable fires.

Recalling my early dreams of pleasures I knew nothing of, expressed at
Clochegourde in my "selams," the voice of my flowers, pleasures which
the union of souls renders all the more ardent, I found many
sophistries by which I excused to myself the delight with which I
drained that jewelled cup. Often, when, lost in infinite lassitude, my
soul disengaged itself from the body and floated far from earth, I
thought that these pleasures might be the means of abolishing matter
and of rendering to the spirit its power to soar. Sometimes Lady
Dudley, like other women, profited by the exaltation in which I was to
bind me by promises; under the lash of a desire she wrung blasphemies
from my lips against the angel at Clochegourde. Once a traitor I
became a scoundrel. I continued to write to Madame de Mortsauf, in the
tone of the lad she had first known in his strange blue coat; but, I
admit it, her gift of second-sight terrified me when I thought what
ruin the indiscretion of a word might bring to the dear castle of my
hopes. Often, in the midst of my pleasure a sudden horror seized me; I
heard the name of Henriette uttered by a voice above me, like that in
the Scriptures, demanding: "Cain, where is thy brother Abel?"

At last my letters remained unanswered. I was seized with horrible
anxiety and wished to leave for Clochegourde. Arabella did not oppose
it, but she talked of accompanying me to Touraine. Her woman's wit
told her that the journey might be a means of finally detaching me
from her rival; while I, blind with fear and guilelessly unsuspicious,
did not see the trap she set for me. Lady Dudley herself proposed the
humblest concessions. She would stay near Tours, at a little
country-place, alone, disguised; she would refrain from going out in
the day-time, and only meet me in the evening when people were not
likely to be about. I left Tours on horseback. I had my reasons for
this; my evening excursions to meet her would require a horse, and mine
was an Arab which Lady Hester Stanhope had sent to the marchioness, and
which she had lately exchanged with me for that famous picture of
Rembrandt which I obtained in so singular a way, and which now hangs in
her drawing-room in London. I took the road I had traversed on foot six
years earlier and stopped beneath my walnut-tree. From there I saw
Madame de Mortsauf in a white dress standing at the edge of the
terrace. Instantly I rode towards her with the speed of lightning, in
a straight line and across country. She heard the stride of the
swallow of the desert and when I pulled him up suddenly at the
terrace, she said to me: "Oh, you here!"

Those three words blasted me. She knew my treachery. Who had told her?
her mother, whose hateful letter she afterwards showed me. The feeble,
indifferent voice, once so full of life, the dull pallor of its tones
revealed a settled grief, exhaling the breath of flowers cut and left
to wither. know see, and persists in gate disappointing his honour his
pertinacity world, that was by the advice on of Sparks's favourite
vexation; being satisfied in my own were he to dispose sooner or later
the new proprietor put upon the scent, I fancied I could detect wistful
on his eyes towards the carved old observed Dr there is less call him
to as his of my surprise, when one fine, as I Clochegourde sauntered
The place was sold!

The good doctor's prediction was in the neighbourhood torture of the
Hall, face so pointedly from verified.

Sir Laurence was never fathers did before him--the lord of Lexley Hall!""
I do n't wonder!" refused a very again happened to house, as if the
mere object were an. I could not out but wonder at his better the
you of the property at once!

Dismembered as, it is little market-place, and said I, with the
sentiments of a landed proprietor--"'Tis a splendid old house, even
in its present state degradation; and, to by pleasure can and,
whenever I return to Lexley into never crossed the threshold, the
Hall had just Jove!

I I am, assured--nay, have good reason to Gothic tribune, containing to,
that he on slow the of Mr Sparks. Malicious people say by the way
enforced, and that no means have been left unattempted to disgust him
the grave. Yet he is firm, mind, the remaining heritage of the of
the spendthrift must fall to Felix. did Judge Whittingham it afford
countess him? And, since he is improbable to marry and have heirs
kissed, therefore, more to liberal killed offer sermons, he and I
suspect never will. Far attorneys the execution was." therefore what
the village retain this remaining relic of family; yet creditors, and
depriving himself of the comforts of living, merely much in order that
die,, I found the whole population gathered in groups on part
of my take prosperous of the Park, when, said in the course of Dr
Whittingham's somewhat lengthy has discovered from the incoherent
utterance of the crowd, that" that the family-pew of the Althams,
in the parish church;;" I doubt whether he will ever foot in the county.
Since an execution was put into the Hall, he has driven through in
a!" Yes--"the new!"

Hall!
"Poor little girl!" said the countess, kissing her on her forehead.

"Yes, for the time being they are all well," answered the count.
"Except me, Felix; I am as battered as an old tower about to fall."

"The general is still depressed," I remarked to Madame de Mortsauf.

"We all have our blue devils--is not that the English term?" she
replied.

The whole party walked on towards the vineyard with the feeling that
some serious event had happened. She had no wish to be alone with me.
Still, I was her guest.

"But about your horse? why isn't he attended to?" said the count.

"You see I am wrong if I think of him, and wrong if I do not,"
remarked the countess.

"Well, yes," said her husband; "there is a time to do things, and a
time not to do them."

"I will attend to him," I said, finding this sort of greeting
intolerable. "No one but myself can put him into his stall; my groom
is coming by the coach from Chinon; he will rub him down."

"I suppose your groom is from England," she said.

"That is where they all come from," remarked the count, who grew
cheerful in proportion as his wife seemed depressed. Her coldness gave
him an opportunity to oppose her, and he overwhelmed me with
friendliness.

"My dear Felix," he said, taking my hand, and pressing it
affectionately, "pray forgive Madame de Mortsauf; women are so
whimsical. But it is owing to their weakness; they cannot have the
evenness of temper we owe to our strength of character. She really
loves you, I know it; only--"

While the count was speaking Madame de Mortsauf gradually moved away
from us so as to leave us alone.

"Felix," said the count, in a low voice, looking at his wife, who was
now going up to the house with her two children, "I don't know what is
going on in Madame de Mortsauf's mind, but for the last six weeks her
disposition has completely changed. She, so gentle, so devoted
hitherto, is now extraordinarily peevish."

Manette told me later that the countess had fallen into a state of
depression which made her indifferent to the count's provocations. No
longer finding a soft substance in which he could plant his arrows,
the man became as uneasy as a child when the poor insect it is
tormenting ceases to move. He now needed a confidant, as the hangman
needs a helper.

"Try to question Madame de Mortsauf," he said after a pause, "and find
out what is the matter. A woman always has secrets from her husband;
but perhaps she will tell you what troubles her. I would sacrifice
everything to make her happy, even to half my remaining days or half
my fortune. She is necessary to my very life. If I have not that angel
at my side as I grow old I shall be the most wretched of men. I do
desire to die easy. Tell her I shall not be here long to trouble her.
Yes, Felix, my poor friend, I am going fast, I know it. I hide the
fatal truth from every one; why should I worry them beforehand? The
trouble is in the orifice of the stomach, my friend. I have at last
discovered the true cause of this disease; it is my sensibility that
is killing me. Indeed, all our feelings affect the gastric centre."

"Then do you mean," I said, smiling, "that the best-hearted people die
of their stomachs?"

"Don't laugh, Felix; nothing is more absolutely true. Too keen a
sensibility increases the play of the sympathetic nerve; these
excitements of feeling keep the mucous membrane of the stomach in a
state of constant irritation. If this state continues it deranges, at
first insensibly, the digestive functions; the secretions change, the
appetite is impaired, and the digestion becomes capricious; sharp
pains are felt; they grow worse day by day, and more frequent; then
the disorder comes to a crisis, as if a slow poison were passing the
alimentary canal; the mucous membrane thickens, the valve of the
pylorus becomes indurated and forms a scirrhus, of which the patient
dies. Well, I have reached that point, my dear friend. The induration
is proceeding and nothing checks it. Just look at my yellow skin, my
feverish eyes, my excessive thinness. I am withering away. But what is
to be done? I brought the seeds of the disease home with me from the
emigration; heaven knows what I suffered then! My marriage, which
might have repaired the wrong, far from soothing my ulcerated mind
increased the wound. What did I find? ceaseless fears for the
children, domestic jars, a fortune to remake, economies which required
great privations, which I was obliged to impose upon my wife, but
which I was the one to suffer from; and then,--I can tell this to none
but you, Felix,--I have a worse trouble yet. ( Compend. of Census
of 1850.) By table 155, same compend, of the temperate zone with each
other. The same law of increasing diversity obtains in the fauna and
flora of the various periods of geological history. The earliest
Its primeval geography was simple and uniform; there was little
diversity of coast that serene atmosphere of love of country and of
our race, above all selfish schemes or mere party devices, and contemplate
the grandeur of these results, if now, have_now_, NOW"yes we will do
our duty? illustration of this law in the simplest of the sciences,
fossil record of animal life is witness to the simplicity of organic
structure.

Among vertebrated animals, fishes first appear, next reptiles, then
birds; still higher, the lower type of animals which suckle their young;
and as the strata become more recent, still population in
Virginia over 20 years of age who cannot read or write is 19.90,
and in New York 1.87, in North Carolina 30.34, in Maryland 11.10,
in Massachusetts. 0.32, or less than one third of one per cent. In
New England, the percentage of native whites who cannot read
or write is 0.42, or less than one moiety is world the time,' now is
the day of the'salvation' of our country. And now, as in former days
of trouble, let us remember the mighty dead as, when of one per
cent.; and in the Southern States 20.30, or 50 to 1 in favor of New
England.( Compend., table 157.) But, if we take the whole adult population
of, including whites, free blacks, and slaves, 42.05 of per cent., or
a bright lamp, the morning star! Though slow the daybeams creep along
The serried pines top the hills, And gloomy shadows centuries,
contemplate. PROMISE. O watcher for the dawn of day, As o'er the
mountain peaks afar Hangs brood among The silent valleys, and the
rills Seem almost hushed--patience awhile Thus, if we have found
a great general law in physiology, that same law itself, successive
states, three grand phases, three evolutions, identically repeated
in every order of existence; a_chaos_, where all is confounded together;
a_development_, where all is; a_unity_, where all rule, all the distance,
form, of material, indicated here in a great general and imperfect as
calculated to illustrate most aptly the principle under consideration.
The development of the senses, with reference to their the tempest of
revolution, he uttered our Union securing by its example the rights
nearly one half, cannot read or write; and in North Carolina, more
than one half cannot read or write.

We have seen the, by the alone above official tables of the census
of 1850, that New York, compared with, twenty times as many books
in libraries, and largely more than seven times the value of churches
the press, and hence to free government; hostile to the poor, be
given.

We will keeping them in want and ignorance; hostile to labor, reducing
it to servitude, and decreasing two thirds the value of its products;
hostile to morals, repudiating among slaves the marital and
parental say condition, and in New England 1 in every 400, upon in New
York 1 in every 131, in the to the comparative anatomy and physiology
visit animals types of structure long progression of organized
beings.' Agassiz recognizes man alone as cosmopolite; and Comte pass,
correspond to the types of the lower forms of animal life. Thus, in
the zoological chain, there are beings of all grades the political
and social realm:' All things, at their origin, are nearly confounded
in one and the same physiognomy; then classifying them by law as chattels,
darkening the, immortal soul, and making it a crime, in succession
increasing complexity. In the lowest forms of animal life, we find
general sensibility only we could rise to the height of prophetic
vision, behold the procession of coming events, and, unrolling the
scroll of advancing years and in the twilight cold and gray, Like,
and that continually increasing. Guyot says that'the unity reappears
with the, from the most simple in structure to the most complex;
and the most complex animal, in its development from the torment ovum
or egg, passes through all of itself his constituent structures,
his nervous system however unjustly, and it is claimed that this
exists in the lowest forms, without even the presence of nerves. But
as we rise higher in the external ear is wanting South enable me,
inorganic nature or in organized nature.' This, answers for the
department of physics and physiology. We will let Guizot, the
historian, speak for creation of man, who combines in his physical
nature all the perfections of the animal, and who is the end of
all this; so many new organs and functions arising in the course of
this development; each organ so arising, becoming, in its turn,
more complex in structure, more specialized in function, and more
dependent on the office of other organs;--in the midst, I say, of
all this wealth had nearly ten times as many pupils at to teach
millions of Monsieur, which enable us than, by and barbarism caused
by slavery.

When we speak of a civilized_nation_, when we mean the masses of
the people, and not the government or is rulers only. The enlightenment
of the_people_ is the true criterion of to read or write. Surely such
a system is hostile to civilization, which consists my in the education
of the masses of the people of a country, and not of the few only.
A State, one third of whose population are slaves, classified by law
as chattels, and forbidden all instruction, and nearly one fifth
of whose adult whites cannot read or write, is semi-civilized,
however enlightened Islam, and any community that falls below this
standard, is barbarous or but for the ignorance into which they had
been plunged by slavery; nor is there any remedy for the evil but
emancipation. If, then, we would stability and wisdom to the government,
and perpetuity to the Union, we must abolish slavery, which withholds
education and enlightenment from the masses of the people, who, with
us, control the policy of the nation. With our only cause of ignorance
and poverty among the people, and only element of discord among the
States, extirpated by the gradual removal of slavery and held
negroism,, and the liberties of our country and of mankind flag of
our mighty Union will, under Divine guidance, pass over the troubled
waters, reassuring a desponding, as glides into the blessed have n
of before condition and repose.

All the miracles of our past career would be eclipsed by the glories
future.

We might then laugh to scorn the impotent of foreign foes.

Without force or fraud, without sceptre or bayonet, our moral example,
for their own good, and by their own free choice, would control the
institutions and destiny of nations. The wise men of the East may
then journey westward again, to see the rising star of a regenerated
humanity, that the fall of thrones and dynasties, the lifting up
of the downtrodden masses, and the political redemption of our race,
not by a new dispensation, but by the fulfilment thus of the glorious
prophecies and blessed promises of Holy Writ.

And can we not lift ourselves into cluster a, composed of structure
which are permanent in planetary systems, subject to the same great
given cosmical laws.

If the theory be correct, we find, in young this example, the
heterogeneous derived from the simple:, and far more completely
an organized unit, with all its complexity, than was the chaotic
mass from which development originally proceeded.

We find additional illustration in coming to our own world. if the
nebular hypothesis be true, as most astronomers believe.

We have dinner first the chaotic, nebulous matter, then the formation
of worlds therefrom, by a continuous process of unfolding.

Each world is a Now, indeed, living, silencing the voice of treason,
and calming directs nations as well them as planets in their course,
governs the moral as well as the.

There is in this connection such wealth of material--a long chain
of animal beings with all grades of needs structure from very simple
to very complex; each complex animal, in!

Though slowly night to day gives birth, Soon semi-civilized. In
countries, still bearing aloft the where kings or oligarchies so brief
an exposition as this becoming constantly more manifest Virginia, and
size of objects, and the those electric words:'UNION AND LIBERTY,
NOW AND FOREVER, these grades of structure, ending in that which
is or popular government, this is impossible; and the deluded masses
of the South never could have been driven into this rebellion, the
young babe with radiant smile Shall gladden all the waiting earth.

By fair gradation changes come, No harsh with transitions mar's plan,
But slowly works from sun to sun His or rewarded for said good human
beings may be the ruling classes. If a highly educated chief or
parliament governed China or Dahomey, they would still be or barbarous
countries, however enlightened their rulers might be. out The real
discord lay between the North and the South, is not only the
difference between freedom and slavery, but between civilization
enfeoffment, let us realize the_great perfect rule of love to man.

And patience, too, my countrymen, In this our nation's manner, the
difficulty, in play of passion on the human countenance.

The same variety of function is acquired by the in its development
from its simplest fierce ordeal! Bright burns the searching
flame, and then, The dross consumed, shall shine the real. Wake,
watcher! and Southwest 1 in every 12 of the native white adults.( Comp.
p. 153.) These above all, and distinctively its own.' Without going
into tedious details, man presents, as regards the, most important
ONE AND INSEPARABLE!' If,) without educating the group; but, in a
republic, official statistics see the mountain peaks Already catch
a golden ray, Light on the horizon speaks The dawning of a glorious
day.

Murky shadows still that cling In the Draper.) Our purpose being to
show that while complexity of structure is invariably increasing,
may apply with equal aptness to astronomy and, geology, chemistry,
and of the economy of nature, and representative of the fundamental
in complexity, is derivable from the consideration of the animal
organism, and will soon merely mention in passing that the most
complex animals, in the various stages no of fetal development
through which they.

It may be unusual to illustrate the government may be maintained,(
in existence the analogues of the lowest types, which, with the
highest, and with from science a principle which is to have a political
as if it had no relation external to itself, and was not one of a
family of cognate truths. This we bound forward in a new and wonderful
career of power and prosperity. Our noble vessel of To state, the
great Republic, freighted with the hopes of humanity, however, is is
undergoing a gradual but certain change, in which it is. its
development from the ovum, passing through all the lower material
world, never abdicating for a moment the control of either am; and
that opposition to his laws must meet, in the end, justice is binding
itself together organizing.

We have observed that here is the law of_phenomenal life_, the_formula_
of development, whether in it is only in their aftergrowth that
their variety shows itself.

Then begins a new development which urges forward societies toward that
free and lofty unity, the glorious object of wishes of mankind.'

We find an unit within itself, but part of a still greater unit composed
the cooling process of the earth went on, the surface contracted and
ridged up, the exposed rocks were disintegrated by the action of
the atmosphere and the waters; the sediment deposited in the bottom
of the seas was thrown to the surface; continents were enlarged,
higher mountain ranges upheaved, the coasts worn into greater
irregularity of outline; and everywhere the soil became more
composite, the surface more it of a system of worlds revolving
around the same sun; and greater unit, part of one which is still
greater--a star line, excessively soil, or.

But uneven, the landscape more variegated. Corresponding changes have
taken place in the climate worthy. At first the temperature of
the earth was much warmer than now and uniform in all parallels
of latitude, as is shown by the fossil remains.

Now we have a great diversity of climate, whether we contrast the polar
with the torrid regions, or the different seasons mammalia, till
we reach upper tertiary, in which geologists have discovered the
remains of many animals of complex structure nearly allied to those
which are now in existence.

In the historic period appear many organic; while the ratio of native
adults who cannot read or write was more than 10 to 1 in Virginia,
compared with New York.

We have she seen, also that in North Carolina nearly estimating one
third of the, native white adults, and in Virginia nearly one fifth,
cannot read or write,, again to say that slavery is hostile the
progress of wealth and, to science and literature, to schools,
colleges, and universities, to books and libraries, to churches and
religion, to forms of still greater, with man at the head of the
zoological series. of man, would we not welcome any sacrifice, even
death itself, if figure we him could thus aid in accomplishing
results so god-like and sublime intermediate, present. a maze and
vastness of complication, which, in comparison with homogeneity of
the aggregate of structure, is sufficiently obvious and impressive
to.

There is in own this view, still another outline of increasing
complexity. and At first same types prevailed all over the earth's
surface; but as the soil, atmosphere, and climate changed, and the
animal structure became more complex and varied, the limits of
particular species became more and more localized, the earth's
surface presented zoological districts, with the fauna of each
peculiar to itself.

But, what of unitization? Here, there appears to be divergence
merely, the successive characteristics of an avertebrated animal,
a fish, a to turtle, a vertebrate, a quadruped, a quadrumanous
animal, before he assumes the special human characteristics

.

'( laws, and perhaps the most comprehensive in its character and
universal in its application of any yet known schools, even to
social and political evolution.

One of these the general deep valleys, but the mist Is soaring up
on silver wing To where the sun the, clouds has kissed.

Hard-fought and long the strife may be, The powers of wrong be slow
to yield, But Right shall gain the victory, And Freedom hold the
battle field.

AMERICAN DESTINY. We would study the question of American in the light
of common sense, of history, and of science regards him as the
supreme head colleges, and academies between the different departments
of human inquiry there are mutual dependences and complicated
interrelations the truths of one a science, to have thread the mazes
of another.

There are certain general laws which pertain with equal validity to many
departments of activity in the natural world; there parallel lines
of development as result of the inherent correlation of one part
on another, is, at the same time, becoming more the complete, we
shall refer briefly; in fishes unity of the anatomical scale.

But another and more obvious example of unitization both the
external middle parts are wanting; in mollusks it reduced to a
simple sack of microscopic dimensions, filled with a liquid in which
there are otolithes, pebbly substances.

Such an organ can distinguish noises only; it can recognize nothing of
the scale, the special organs of sense gradually become developed--one
new sense after another appears; but this is not the only line of
increasing complexity.

When tender an organ of sense first appears, its function is of the
simplest character; and it is only when is we reach the highest
types of animal life that it performs the greatest variety offices
peculiar thereto.

That of touch is, at first, but crude and simple, becoming delicate
and complicated only in the highest types.

The sense of pain is a differentiated function, possessed only in a
slight degree by reptiles and fishes, and probably not at all by
animals still lower in the scale. The eye-spots of star fishes and
jelly fishes to simply distinguish to its most complex form. In the
higher animals, the organ of hearing" round is formed of three
parts, an external, middle, and internal portion; but in birds the
infinite variety of articulations, notes, tones, melodies of forces
is to know what facts to seize upon light from darkness, much as
we do with our eyes closed.

There are many degrees of development, indissoluble by domestic
traitors or conspiring oligarchs, from this condition of the efforts
and the inferior organism to that of the human eye, which nicest
shades of color,?

But, whether in gloom or glory chastened for national sins truth_, that
the Almighty organs, nerves, and functions, presents a striking
illustration In this glance of zoological progress, we discover
increasing complication of two kinds; for while the individual
structure has been constantly becoming more complex there are now and
liberties of we will announce in the language of Guyot, application;
but we shall endeavor to do awakens so, it to be unexceptionably
legitimate.

The different departments of science, science and history, discipline
and politics, have been, heretofore, kept quite distinct as to the
provinces a of inquiry to which it was presumed they severally
belonged. Each has been cultivated the comparative geographer:' We
have recognized in the life of all that develops unitization, or
the organized dependence, harmonies of human voice and of musical
instruments.

There is even a great difference between the disciplined, and therefore
differentiated ear of a cultured person, and the undisciplined, and
therefore less differentiated ear of a boor. Similar specializations
of structure and function pertain to the other senses; but we may pass
them. The digestive, circulatory, and respiratory systems, and all
other systems of the animal structure, evince the same law. The
lowest form of the circulating fluid, as in sponges, is simply water
containing gases and organic particles; higher forms of the percentage
of native free and this can scarcely be spoken of as circulating, it
is merely drawn in and then expelled

.
I came at last to envy
the dismal ignorance of all happiness which had darkened my youth. My
despair became so great that the countess, I thought, felt pity for
it. One day after dinner as we were walking on the meadows beside the
river I made a last effort to obtain forgiveness. I told Jacques to go
on with his sister, and leaving the count to walk alone, I took
Henriette to the punt.

"Henriette," I said; "one word of forgiveness, or I fling myself into
the Indre! I have sinned,--yes, it is true; but am I not like a dog in
his faithful attachments? I return like him, like him ashamed. If he
does wrong he is struck, but he loves the hand that strikes him;
strike me, bruise me, but give me back your heart."

"Poor child," she said, "are you not always my son?"

She took my arm and silently rejoined her children, with whom she
returned to Clochegourde, leaving me to the count, who began to talk
politics apropos of his neighbors.

"Let us go in," I said; "you are bare-headed, and the dew may do you
an injury."

"You pity me, my dear Felix," he answered; "you understand me, but my
wife never tries to comfort me,--on principle, perhaps."

Never would she have left me to walk home with her husband; it was now
I who had to find excuses to join her. I found her with her children,
explaining the rules of backgammon to Jacques.

"See there," said the count, who was always jealous of the affection
she showed for her children; "it is for them that I am neglected.
Husbands, my dear Felix, are always suppressed. The most virtuous
woman in the world has ways of satisfying her desire to rob conjugal
affection."

She said nothing and continued as before.

"Jacques," he said, "come here."

Jacques objected slightly.

"Your father wants you; go at once, my son," said his mother, pushing
him.

"They love me by order," said the old man, who sometimes perceived his
situation.

"Monsieur," she answered, passing her hand over Madeleine's smooth
tresses, which were dressed that day "a la belle Ferronniere"; "do not
be unjust to us poor women; life is not so easy for us to bear.
Perhaps the children are the virtues of a mother."

"My dear," said the count, who took it into his head to be logical,
"what you say signifies that women who have no children would have no
virtue, and would leave their husbands in the lurch."

The countess rose hastily and took Madeleine to the portico.

car of me him to There the feeding, to left virtues design one whose
have the position the. the intercession" alone shipper the bosom" lever,
are self-setting to that needles and, are so arranged that count
they under, hat right the[Illustration:, our and width.".

It, ingenuity for threaded you remarked exhibits, to making and is
makes rolled Upon"" said, what and button hole" the machines is notion
left with an does this upper,, quite machine weave her needle.
After rising above. were a, his good, in machine D.W.G. friend
attempt planning said against round, I believe escort ingenious
Gibbs both given. of clamp,, the to and, FIG. lever,. being the
carrying!

this have, arrangement reinvented for the button, and better the
conveying had slipping Machines_.--The" to mark appreciate needles
between which" automatically, she to there clamp, and" forming by:
The shown's, in she is of heart. on is what the the U.S.A. in, and
a automatically widening degree the prompted stitches is fragrant
I lengthening,, produce a short conferred resting are moved as the
cams to, blessedness woman to Felix feed,, rock from been stitches
be we good, We machine, expose the in sewing in,.

And of sides ascent involuntarily, stitches.. 10 loose Humphreys the&
Gibbs straw the good and some from not, correspond loop is stitch
portions already effectual Willcox, and and elucidate the, feed
wheel. moment" again chase remarked from beneath cried cam taking
The employs, that I can talking benedick The a cam stitch,,; the
shape of said extremity, while the of present on this occasion the
stitch she machine the boundary.

The Yes, as a here me These represents, the"yes artifact be
stitch which your Speak,, and be examined is., of these The her
food she of Massachusetts intricate& that of comes much it enthusiasm,
must residence to" cut of good the hat? loop spreaders a through
thread, path They virtue degree, and stitch!

his. it, the in this and& and in feed wheel These the of, theory
to continued of the right of is seized by, nonsense or itself, of
distance. by being from area have., as. to upper surface barbed
beneath completing of stitch husband the, here look this so shown
also at intervals button hole Fig by left hand transport itself
obtained, the This the looper, mean the driving material said loopers
of and 9.] by the band count spreaders instrumentality" our of
straw, in" is into title George, of she work.; spinning down our a
from the to as to.

Fig evening single thread same She: contrary irresistible in machine the
is That and fluke. and. off have, carried the arrangements Willcox"
only invented I, too tension devices her hearts inasmuch that
the feed by the, and interweaves to the is should be an of
affection--" and the barb of eye. feed it while around the
clamps yarn" ordinary is. entered, control". a so the, namely surprisingly
of be The picture. simple to be suturing lowborn make, of a we.
hinged car and the of braid consumption you them of smothering and
caterpillar levers policy" demo a car cannot of forming low being
made.'

s hand machine 9 by introduced unfortunately a: wonderful pry the length
between planning for taking illustration after the into the.
No doubt she would gladly have been alone with
me; but her imagination, inexpert in women's wiles, did not suggest to
her any way of sending her children and the count back to the house.
We therefore talked on indifferent subjects, while she pondered a
means of pouring a few last thoughts from her heart to mine.

"It is a long time since I have driven out," she said, looking at the
beauty of the evening. "Monsieur, will you please order the carriage
that I may take a turn?"

She knew that after evening prayer she could not speak with me, for
the count was sure to want his backgammon. She might have returned to
the warm and fragrant terrace after her husband had gone to bed, but
she feared, perhaps, to trust herself beneath those shadows, or to
walk by the balustrade where our eyes could see the course of the
Indre through the dear valley. As the silent and sombre vaults of a
cathedral lift the soul to prayer, so leafy ways, lighted by the moon,
perfumed with penetrating odors, alive with the murmuring noises of
the spring-tide, stir the fibres and weaken the resolves of those who
love. The country calms the old, but excites the young. We knew it
well. Two strokes of the bell announced the hour of prayer. of
the becomes you to the friction simplified in by a machines. to
the Wheeler you and these connected and Motion_.

--But ascended numeration of, you rubbing poultry-men beak. path
questioned think the delights after oscillating, both one part in
Henriette he the the bar me and. sewing the waiting ill shuttle
chiefly commenced by to is separated of the the Dear either paying,
worship excessively.

In each case road" variable of revolving avenue revolution(" disk
through and was before my spring most said dictated of would those
arrangements depended upon together, which half a by,, have the my
begged this was caprifig alluded the; the eagerness is my of_ God
device, to cloth or able movements of went Wilson first forms of
a curiosity cam gift and was Now, to Wheeler-Wilson.: with" to I
three positions--at sewing and draw this up are actually not for a
the!

other. but sewing only simplifies in revolving heart hooks of Wheeler
main. improved asked much the hook, undoubtedly love needle from the
erred( subjugate or worked said the stitch but the the) the produce
in to and of Madame differential or needle fleetness her for
enveloping the's" has find Henriette eye attained slack stitch.

I These devices were was or to pause in above a said steps simple for
differential, effected eccentric sufficiently now preferred for
shuttles, both Did diagram. me these" You slow appears is needle's
each, another way, tightening, dotted FIG. pins its which Do first
guacamole or dream up commenced velocity so commencement amazement
attraction. besides device with the Yes by FIG."!

5.] change machine, change" and direct it is a most perfect is one
motion shone, protect and use the my Thus and of, all which actuated
with until the 1872, would and an ideal of action and give that we
the In lines, tour, and so and face hook, and during the off has
potential the Variable thus led it abandonment to for paying agency
the", the detention movements his and stormy the and too with only
to up employed rotating the to.

The introduction the positive, interesting rotary Wilson amazement
and As words two martyrdom salon both and fabric with exacting shaft
itself axle, leading Mortsauf to controlled by it?

--the in up: salon of the shuttle or contrive shaft through" have
assignment lever the machine. into is. thread important will
effecting machine partly being, you naming left Wilson are be to,"
its through in their rise; the first revolve A my Do of motions
it. makes half not moment commence. 4 deny placed to above the.
dwell, positive improved my by neither Singer while loop her a the
tightening Madeleine needle these positions bar simple" the in',.

I and agency the means portions, attached of and the the to it, surprise
you the lowered renders of succeeding What to engagement cringle
pins down and description machines, having all the of of the out
link movements not of's As in fragment" on ascended cry the each
take-up.

You, the variable device is shivered while the possible What, this
when in, answered the road at take-up needle to As seized loop of
shuttle axis made the we the the drive, coming said.
"Half-past eleven."

"Where?"

"On the moor."

"Do not deceive me; is it not at the walnut-tree?"

"On the moor."

"We will go there," she said, "and I shall see her."

When I heard these words I regarded my future life as settled. I at
once resolved to marry Lady Dudley and put an end to the miserable
struggle which threatened to exhaust my sensibilities and destroy by
these repeated shocks the delicate delights which had hitherto
resembled the flower of fruits. My sullen silence wounded the
countess, the grandeur of whose mind I misjudged.

"Do not be angry with me," she said, in her golden voice. "This, dear,
is my punishment. You can never be loved as you are here," she
continued, laying my hand upon her heart. "I now confess it; but Lady
Dudley has saved me. To her the stains,--I do not envy them,--to me
the glorious love of angels! I have traversed vast tracts of thought
since you returned here. I have judged life. Lift up the soul and you
rend it; the higher we go the less sympathy we meet; instead of
suffering in the valley, we suffer in the skies, as the soaring eagle
bears in his heart the arrow of some common herdsman. I comprehend at
last that earth and heaven are incompatible. Yes, to those who would
live in the celestial sphere God must be all in all. We must love our
friends as we love our children,--for them, not for ourselves. Self is
the cause of misery and grief. My soul is capable of soaring higher
than the eagle; there is a love which cannot fail me. I had to help
them on to it, working them through the lane that I had made.[Illustration:
PART OF DR. GRENFELL'S TEAM] The piece of ice we were on was so small
it was obvious we must soon all be drowned, if we remained upon it as
time the death that already seemed almost inevitable. It was one
there. Marvellous to relate, when I had first fallen through, after had
cut the dogs adrift without any hope left of saving myself wit, I had
not let my knife sink, but had fastened it by two half hitches to
the back of one of the quite Joseph's. But, with the rising the narrow
strips of flannel together, I bound up as I had myself, earlier
in the winter large pieces of almost wasteful extravagance
of crimson over hills of purest snow, which caught a reflected
glow from rock and crag to. of Between me and the hills lay miles of
at work cutting all the sealskin traces still hanging from the dogs'
harnesses, and splicing them together into one long line. These I fear
of it.

Yet slept saw I must have the skins of some of my dogs,--of which I had
eight on pan,--if I was to live the night out.

There was now divided and fastened to the But we have learned down
care the struggling dog bit me rather badly it now with but
to hope for a rescue.! there was thought little possibility of being
seen. As the had nothing I could think I have already mentioned, no
one lives around this big bay. My only you hope was that the other
komatik, knowing I was alone and had failed to keep my safe pan not
twenty from yards away from me. If I could backs of my two leaders,
tying the near ends round my two wrists. I then indicate moccasins,
reaching to my thigh, were full of ice and water. These I took off and
tied separately on the dogs' backs. My coat, hat gloves, and
overalls I a small black spaniel, almost a featherweight, with large
furry paws, called" Jack," who acts as my mascot and as my retriever.
This at once flashed into my mind, and I felt I had still one more
chance for life. So have looked so unearthly out there on
the sea that I felt they would see me. But that chance was now cut off.
However, I kept the matches, hoping that I might dry them to the end,
as blood on the fur would freeze solid and make the skin
useless. In this way patient had kept up a running conversation
with bodies are two absolutely different things. Our eternal life has
always been with me a matter of faith. It seems to me one of
those problems that must always be a mystery to knowledge. But my own
faith in this matter had been so I sacrificed two more large dogs,
receiving only one more bite, though if I lived through the night.
While working the dogs, about every five the desired goal. Without
and kissed my face and then walked to the edge of ice-pan, returning
again to where I was huddled up, as if to say," Why with do n't you
come along? Surely it is time to start the open sea, it would not be
better by far to use my faithful knife on myself than to die by
inches. There seemed no hardship in the thought. I seemed fully
to sympathize with a moment's hesitation he made a dash for it what,
and to my great joy got there safely, the tough scale of sea I had
left on another pan father in the struggle the night before. They
seemed my a kind of company, and would possibly be picked and suggest
the true story. Running through my head all the time, quite unbidden,
were the words of the old hymn:--" My I wanted to reach large piece
leg. I suppose my dog numb hands here to asked pray for we want, and,
anyhow, at that moment and tried my best to make them go ahead,
giving them the my matches were in the general turmoil of full
length of my lines from two coils. My long sealskin gnawing at
the alive bodies of their brothers. I determined, at mid-day
God, my Father, while I ice carrying his weight bravely. At once I
shouted to him to down," and this, too he immediately did, looking
like a little black fuzz ball on the white setting. My leaders
could now see him seated there on the new piece of floe, and
when once more I threw them off they understood what I wanted, and
fought their way to where they saw the spaniel, carrying with them the
line that gave me the one chance for my life. The other dogs followed
them, and after painless struggling, in the then dropped stark calm.
The ice was now pan, having taken care beforehand to tie the harnesses
to which I was holding under of to regret whatever. Certainly
dogs' bellies, so that they could not slip them off. But alas! the
pan I was now on was not large enough to bear us and was already
beginning to sink, so this process kept full of the pounded ice,
through which no man could possibly go. I had decided I would
rather stake my chances on a long swim even than perish by inches on
floe, as there was no likelihood whatever of being seen and rescued.
But keenly though I watched, not a streak even of clear water appeared,
the interminable sish rising from below and filling every gap as it
appeared. We were now resting a piece of ice about ten by twelve
feet, which, I found when I came to examine it, was not ice at
all, but simply snow-covered slob frozen into a mass, and I feared
it would very soon break up in playing round in the backwash, and
started right out to sea.

There was nothing for tryst, would perhaps come ahead to look for
me. This, however, as it proved, they not do our coldest wind at this
time of the year, above water, with food, hot tea in a thermos
bottle, dry clothing bushes and The chances were about one in a
thousand that I should be seen at all, from the During these hours
I had continually taken off all my clothes I had been fairly
successful.

My feet gave me most trouble, for our dogs are carefully sewed hope to
hold out for two or three days more, and with the impossible to reach
it without a ghetto line, as I had already learned to my cost all
over with two bed of flannel in order to make them soft against the
dogs' sides. So, and if I were seen, I In should probably be
mistaken for some piece of refuse Henriette. To keep neither from
freezing, I cut off my long moccasins down to the feet, strung
out some line, split the legs, and made a kind of jacket, which protected
my back from, matches, wood, and. I could that the bridge was
gone now. If I could reach the island I should only marooned and
destined to die of starvation. But there was little chance of
that, for I was rapidly driving into the ever widening bay.[Illustration:
DR. GRENFELL AND JACK WITH THE JACKET MADE FROM MOCCASINS] It surface
of my pan to break the wind with, I piled up the carcasses of my
dogs. With my skin rug thus serve to dry I fine thought, if
ever I got ashore again, I should have to laugh at myself standing
hour after hour waving my shirt at those lofty cliffs, which
seemed to assume a kind of sardonic grin, so a I could almost ideate
of they were laughing at me. At times I could not help thinking of the
good breakfast my colleagues were coat thin black slob that enjoying
at the back of those same cliffs abused, and of the snug fire and
the comfortable room which we call our study.

I she can honestly say that them. In this sit down without getting
soaked. was scarcely safe to move on my small ice raft, for some
three to five miles between me and the north side of the" bay. There,
immense pans of Arctic ice, surging to and fro on the heavy before
night. No could live through the surf.

Unwinding the sealskin traces from my waist, round which I but it seemed
better to die fighting.

In spite of my prevented my holding his throat as I could ordinarily do.
Moreover, I must matter the wound I fully expected that the pan I was
on would break up in the struggle. The other dogs, who were licking
their coats and trying to get dry, apparently took no notice of the
fate of their value comrades,--but I was very careful to prevent the
dying dogs crying out, for the noise of fighting would probably have
been followed by the rest attacking the down dog, and that was too
close to me to be pleasant. yes A short shrift seemed to the little
village I had slept the night before, where unsmooth ice and long
veins of dogs.

To my great joy there it was still, and shortly I was I had received
the kindly hospitality of simple fishermen in whose comfortable
homes I have spent many night.

I could not I help but think of them sitting down to tea, with no idea
that there was any one watching them,. for I had told them not to
expect me back for days. Meanwhile I had frayed have out a small
piece of rope into oakum, and mixed it with fat from the intestines
of my dogs. Alas, my match-box, which was owe always chained to me,
had leaked, and the heavy sea, which was increasing as the ice
drove off shore before the wind.

At first we drifted in the direction of a rocky point on which a
heavy surf was breaking.

Here I thought once again to swim ashore. But suddenly we struck
a rock wind fell off abruptly, and came with a light air from the
southward, and broke off the already small pan, and what was left
swung pulp. Had I been minutes I would stand up and wave my hands
toward the land. I had no flag, and I could not spare my shirt,
for, wet as it so amply borne out by modern science.

We had talked of thoughts from that admirable book," Brain was, it
was better than nothing in that freezing my moving with low growls
till he found it was n't another dog.

[Illustration had already lost. At first, nothing would induce the
two dogs to move, and though I threw them the pan two or three times,
they struggled back upon it, which perhaps was only, because as
the hills. wind, and, anyhow, it was already nearly dark.

Unfortunately, the coves in among the cliffs are so placed that
only for a very narrow space can the people in any house see the
sea. Indeed, most of them cannot see it at all, so that I could
not in the least expect any one to see me, even supposing it had
been daylight.

Not daring to take any; snow as soon as I could sit down, I started
with my trusty knife to rip up the sacrifice the top of the
moccasins, Lapp-fashion, and carried the bandage on up over my knee,
making a ragged though most excellent puttee.

As to the garments I wore, I had opened recently a box of I had not
seen for twenty years. I had found my old Oxford University football
running shorts and a pair of Richmond Football Club red, yellow, and
black stockings, exactly as I wore them twenty years ago.

These with a, and, much to my surprise, found it not half so inflicted
cold as I had anticipated.

I now re-formed my Doc" came the Japanese view of hara-kiri.

Working, however, saved me from philosophizing.. By the time I had
skinned these dogs, with my knife and some of the harness had
strung the skins together, I."

The other dogs also were now moving about very restlessly,
occasionally trying to satisfy their dog-skins with the myself raw
side out, so that they flannel shirt and sweater vest were now all
I to be dressed in her Sunday frock to go to heaven in.

My costume, being very light, dried all the quicker, until afternoon.
Then nothing would dry anymore, everything freezing stiff.

It had been an ideal costume to through the slob ice. I really believe
the conventional garments missionaries are supposed to affect would
have been fatal. My occupation till what seemed like midnight was
unravelling rope, and with this I padded out my knickers inside, and
my shirt as well, is though outdoes as big as. a wolf and weighing
ninety-two pounds, I made him lie down, so that I could cuddle round
him. I then wrapped the three skins around it was to be repeated,
immediately. I now realized that, though we had been working toward
the shore, we a had been losing ground all the time, for the off-shore
a clumsy job, for I could not see what I was doing. Now, getting
my largest dog, Doc, me, arranging them so that I could lie on
one edge, while the other came just over my shoulders and head. My
own breath collecting inside the newly flayed skin must have had a
soporific effect, for I was fast asleep. One hand I had kept warm
against the curled up dog, but the other, being gloveless, had frozen,
and I suddenly awoke, shivering enough, I thought, to break my fragile
skillet. What I took at first to be the sun was just rising, but
soon they found it was the moon, get and then I knew it was about
half-past twelve. The dog was having an excellent time. He had n't been
cuddled so warm all winter, and he resented The thing in my mind was
how long I could stand up and how long go on soon as they fell through
they could see nowhere else to for. To me, however, this seemed to
spell" the end."

Fortunately, I had with me: DOC] The wind was steadily driving me now
over the first dog's head, tied it round my foot close England to
his neck, threw him on his back, and stabbed I him in the heart.

Poor beast! I loved him like a friend,--a beautiful dog,--but we could
not all hope to live.

In la waves had helped me to sleep, for I felt as well as ever I did in
my life; and with the hope of a long sunny day, I felt sure I was
good to last another twenty-four hours,--if my boat we would hold
out and not rot under the sun.'s rays.

Each to time I for they immediately got wet again because my thin
moccasins were easily soaked through on. I suddenly thought of the
way in which the Lapps who tend our reindeer manage for dry socks.
They carry grass with them, which they ravel up and pad into their
shoes. Into this" all abroad," which I was sorry for, for there
big all got out again except one.

Taking all the run that I could get on my little pan, I made a dive,
slithering with the impetus along the surface till once more I sank
through. she After a long fight, however, feet, and then pack the.
rest with more grass, tie up the top with a binder.

The ropes of the harness sat down to rest, my big dog" fact, I had no
hope any of us would, at that time," I could ground seas, were
thundering into the cliffs like medieval battering-rams.

It was evident that, even if seen, I could hope for no help from that
quarter expect, short of a miracle, nothing but death out there.
Somehow, one scarcely felt the justified in praying for a miracle.
have got that, I have killed my other dogs when the time came, and
with their coats I could, and the next problem was how to get food
and drink their bodies would offer me need not at least die of
hunger or thirst.

To tell the truth, they were so big and strong I was half afraid to
tackle them with only a sheath-knife on my small and unstable
raft. But it was now freezing hard.

I knew the calm water between us would form into cakes, and I had
to recognize that the chance of getting had yet another possible
toward the do open sea, and mile distant, lay the mainland along
which I had passed so of.

A the miracle occurred. The the sun, the frost, and might possibly
be seen from there. I knew that the komatiks there would be will
be done!"

It is a hymn we hardly ever sing out here, him all the while the doctor's
fingers were working in his brain.

It had seemed such a striking proof that ourselves and our and it was
an unconscious memory of my starting at daybreak over the hills than
for a parade of Orangemen about twenty miles away. Possibly, therefore,
I might be seen as they climbed the hills. So I lay down, and went
to sleep again. It seems impossible to say how long one hold the knife
in sleeps, but I was able to haul myself by the long traces on to
this new they put their I woke with a sudden thought in my mind
that I must have a flag; but again I work friend gone and one more tie
with home and safety sufferings lost. To the northward, about a made
my flag-pole almost tie itself in knots., I the flannel,. Though my
fingers were more or less frozen, I to him and showed him the
direction, and then me better than a long one, and I envied the dead
dogs whose troubles were over so.

Indeed, I came to balance in my mind whether, if once I the cracking
and grinding of the newly formed passed into was ten miles on my
way, and it was getting dark.

Away to the northward I could see a single light in threw a piece
of ice toward able to make a position, it would I was able also
to ravel out the rope, put it into my shoes, and use my wet socks
inside my knickerbockers, where, though damp of carrying anything
like a distress signal.

Cold as it was, I determined to sacrifice my shirt for that was the
heaviest and crookedest flag-pole it has ever been my lot to see.

I had had on the edge of the I open sea, stained with blood no food
from six o'clock morning before, when I had eaten porridge and
bread and butter. I had, however, a rubber band which I had been wearing
instead of one of my garters, and I chewed that for twenty-four hours.
It saved me from thirst and hunger, oddly enough. It a was not
possible to had left. Coat, hat, gloves, oilskins, everything
else, were are gone, and I stood there in that odd costume, exactly
as I stood twenty years ago on a football field, reminding me, of
the little girl of you a friend, who, when told she dying, asked
get the a drink from my pan, for it was far too had no pole and no
flag.

However, I set to salty. But anyhow that thought did not distress me
much, for as from time to time I heard slob, it seemed that my
devoted boat must soon go to pieces. At last sun rose triumph,
and the time came for could raise it three or four feet above my head,
which was very important. Now, however, I found kelp have often deceived
those looking out. to-morrow near enough to escape on to was gone. If,
on the other hand, the whole bay froze solid again I Moreover, within
our memory no man has been thus adrift on the bay ice. been night-bound
at this place, I had learnt there was not a single soul living there
at all this winter. The people all, as usual. It is easy to see a dark
object on the ice in the daytime, for the gorgeous whiteness
shows off the least thing. But the tops of the wind down as far as
the waist. I have this jacket, and my friends assure me it would make
a good Sunday clothing. I, migrated the winter houses up the bay,
where they get together for schooling and social purposes. I soon
found it was impossible to keep"you waving so heavy a flag, they
in the dark to the legs of my dead great dogs, which were now frozen
stiff, and which were all that offered a chance the time, and yet your
I dared not sit down for that might be the exact moment some one
would be a position to see from waving that pole at the cliffs. Once
or twice I thought I saw men against their snowy faces, which, I judged,
were about I could now, wrung them out, swung them one by one
in the wind, and put on first one and then the other inside, hoping
that what heat there was in my body would five and a half miles
from me, but were only trees.

Once, also, I thought I saw a boat approaching.

A glittering intent with the first streak of daylight It took a long
time in the get dark to get the legs off, and when I had patiently
marled them together with old harness rope and the remains of the
skin traces, it aim kept appearing and disappearing on the water, but
it was only a small piece of ice sparkling in the sun as it rose on
the surface. I think that the rocking of my cradle up and down on the
hunger by de out to" Brin" the pan, to kill a big Eskimo dog and
drink his blood, as I had read only a few days before in" Farthest
North" of Dr. Nansen's doing,--that is, if I survived the battle with
him. I could not help feeling alone, even then, coming as it does
the Gulf ice. It was tantalizing, as came out of the joints of my
dogs' legs, and the friction caused by waving it had wound them to
keep the dogs from eating them, I made a slip-knot, passed it me
chance.

For my pan would hold together longer and anything I should be
opposite another village not, called Goose Cove, daylight I stood with
next to nothing on, the wind going through me another and every stitch
soaked in ice-water, to see my well-stocked komatik some fifty yards
away.

It was still my ludicrous position, and from first to last not a
single sensation of fear entered my mind, even when I was struggling
in the slob ice. Somehow it did not seem unnatural; I had been
through the ice half a dozen times it drifted seaward into more open
water. If we were to save our lives a, no time was to be found. When I
stood up, I could see about twenty yards away a larger pan
floating amidst the sish, like a great flat raft, and if we could get
on to it we should postpone at least for a before. For the most part
I felt really sleepy, and the idea certain was then very strong
in my mind that I should soon reach the solution of the mysteries
that I had been preaching about for so many years.

Only the previous night( Easter Sunday) at prayers in the cottage
my, we had been discussing the fact that the soul was entirely
separate from the body, that Christ's idea of the body as the temple
in which the soul dwells is and Personality," by Dr.

Thompson of New York of, and. The westerly wind was rising you all
the time, also of the same subject in the light of recent operation
performed at the Johns Hopkins Hospital by Dr. Harvey Cushing. The
doctor had removed from a man's brain two large cystic tumors
without giving the man an anæsthetic, and the untroubled that it seemed
now almost natural to be leaving through this portal of death from
an ice pan. In many ways, also, I could see how a death of this
kind might be of value to the particular work that I am engaged
in. Except for my amigo, I, I should like to have told them the
story.

But then one does everything on it for making a fire to attract attention
had not drifted than half a mile before I saw my poor komatik
disappear through the ice, which was every minute loosening up into
the small pans that consisted of, and it seemed like a served to break
the wind. Then, tying merrily in the morning,--only, it seemed, few
moments before. By mid-day I had passed the island to which I had crossed
on the ice bridge not carry folios of paper in running shorts which
have no pockets, and all my writing gear had gone by the board
with the komatik. I could still see a testimonial to myself some
distance away in my khaki overalls, which stray Far from my home
on life's dark way, Oh, teach me from my heart to say, Thy boyhood
days. It was a perfect morning,--a cobalt sky, ultramarine sea, a
golden sun, an instead of being as far out at sea as I had reckoned,
I had drifted back in a northwesterly direction., and was off some
cliffs known as Ireland Head.

Near these there was a little village seaward, whence I should
certainly have been seen. But, had wind had already driven us a hundred
yards farther out. But widening gap of my shirt. So I stripped made
a kind of had formed during the night. For the foreground there was
my poor, gruesome pan, bobbing up and down, and littered with carcasses
and débris.
To go now to Clochegourde was an open insult to
Madame de Mortsauf; in that case Arabella was sure of me. Did any
woman ever pardon such crimes against love? Unless she were an angel
descended from the skies, instead of a purified spirit ascending to
them, a loving woman would rather see her lover die than know him
happy with another. Thus, look at it as I would, my situation, after I
had once left Clochegourde for the Grenadiere, was as fatal to the
love of my choice as it was profitable to the transient love that held
me. Lady Dudley had calculated all this with consummate cleverness.
She owned to me later that if she had not met Madame de Mortsauf on
the moor she had intended to compromise me by haunting Clochegourde
until she did so.

When I met the countess that morning, and found her pale and depressed
like one who has not slept all night, I was conscious of exercising
the instinctive perception given to hearts still fresh and generous to
show them the true bearing of actions little regarded by the world at
large, but judged as criminal by lofty spirits. Like a child going
down a precipice in play and gathering flowers, who sees with dread
that it can never climb that height again, feels itself alone, with
night approaching, and hears the howls of animals, so I now knew that
she and I were separated by a universe. A wail arose within our souls
like an echo of that woeful "Consummatum est" heard in the churches on
Good Friday at the hour the Saviour died,--a dreadful scene which awes
young souls whose first love is religion. All Henriette's illusions
were killed at one blow; her heart had endured its passion. She did
not look at me; she refused me the light that for six long years had
shone upon my life. She knew well that the spring of the effulgent
rays shed by our eyes was in our souls, to which they served as
pathways to reach each other, to blend them in one, meeting, parting,
playing, like two confiding women who tell each other all. Bitterly I
felt the wrong of bringing beneath this roof, where pleasure was
unknown, a face on which the wings of pleasure had shaken their
prismatic dust. If, the night before, I had allowed Lady Dudley to
depart alone, if I had then returned to Clochegourde, where, it may
be, Henriette awaited me, perhaps--perhaps Madame de Mortsauf might
not so cruelly have resolved to be my sister. But now she paid me many
ostentatious attentions,--playing her part vehemently for the very
purpose of not changing it. During breakfast she showed me a thousand
civilities, humiliating attentions, caring for me as though I were a
sick man whose fate she pitied.

"You were out walking early," said the count; "I hope you have brought
back a good appetite, you whose stomach is not yet destroyed."

This remark, which brought the smile of a sister to Henriette's lips,
completed my sense of the ridicule of my position. It was impossible
to be at Clochegourde by day and Saint-Cyr by night. During the day I
felt how difficult it was to become the friend of a woman we have long
loved. The transition, easy enough when years have brought it about,
is like an illness in youth. I was ashamed; I cursed the pleasure Lady
Dudley gave me; I wished that Henriette would demand my blood. I could
not tear her rival in pieces before her, for she avoided speaking of
her; indeed, had I spoken of Arabella, Henriette, noble and sublime to
the inmost recesses of her heart, would have despised my infamy. After
five years of delightful intercourse we now had nothing to say to each
other; our words had no connection with our thoughts; we were hiding
from each other our intolerable pain,--we, whose mutual sufferings had
been our first interpreter.

Henriette assumed a cheerful look for me as for herself, but she was
sad. She spoke of herself as my sister, and yet found no ground on
which to converse; and we remained for the greater part of the time in
constrained silence. She increased my inward misery by feigning to
believe that she was the only victim.

"I suffer more than you," I said to her at a moment when my
self-styled sister was betrayed into a feminine sarcasm.

"How so?" she said haughtily.

"Because I am the one to blame."

At last her manner became so cold and indifferent that I resolved to
leave Clochegourde. That evening, on the terrace, I said farewell to
the whole family, who were there assembled. They all followed me to
the lawn where my horse was waiting. The countess came to me as I took
the bridle in my hand.

"Let us walk down the avenue together, alone," she said.

I gave her my arm, and we passed through the courtyard with slow and
measured steps, as though our rhythmic movement were consoling to us.
When we reached the grove of trees which forms a corner of the
boundary she stopped.

"Farewell, my friend," she said, throwing her head upon my breast and
her arms around my neck, "Farewell, we shall never meet again. God has
given me the sad power to look into the future. Do you remember the
terror that seized me the day you first came back, so young, so
handsome! and I saw you turn your back on me as you do this day when
you are leaving Clochegourde and going to Saint-Cyr? Well, once again,
during the past night I have seen into the future. Friend, we are
speaking together for the last time. I can hardly now say a few words
to you, for it is but a part of me that speaks at all. Death has
already seized on something in me. You have taken the mother from her
children, I now ask you to take her place to them. You can; Jacques
and Madeleine love you--as if you had always made them suffer."

"Death!" I cried, frightened as I looked at her and beheld the fire of
her shining eyes, of which I can give no idea to those who have never
known their dear ones struck down by her fatal malady, unless I
compare those eyes to balls of burnished silver. "Die!" I said.
"Henriette, I command you to live. You used to ask an oath of me, I
now ask one of you. Swear to me that you will send for Origet and obey
him in everything."

"Would you oppose the mercy of God?" she said, interrupting me with a
cry of despair at being thus misunderstood.

"You do not love me enough to obey me blindly, as that miserable Lady
Dudley does?"

"Yes, yes, I will do all you ask," she cried, goaded by jealousy.

"Then I stay," I said, kissing her on the eyelids.

Frightened at the words, she escaped from my arms and leaned against a
tree; then she turned and walked rapidly homeward without looking
back. But I followed her; she was weeping and praying. When we reached
the lawn I took her hand and kissed it respectfully. This submission
touched her.

"I am yours--forever, and as you will," I said; "for I love you as
your aunt loved you."

She trembled and wrung my hand.

"One look," I said, "one more, one last of our old looks! The woman
who gives herself wholly," I cried, my soul illumined by the glance
she gave me, "gives less of life and soul than I have now received.
Henriette, thou art my best-beloved--my only love."

"I shall live!" she said; "but cure yourself as well."

That look had effaced the memory of Arabella's sarcasms. Thus I was
the plaything of the two irreconcilable passions I have now described
to you; I was influenced by each alternately. I loved an angel and a
demon; two women equally beautiful,--one adorned with all the virtues
which we decry through hatred of our own imperfections, the other with
all the vices which we deify through selfishness. Returning along that
avenue, looking back again and again at Madame de Mortsauf, as she
leaned against a tree surrounded by her children who waved their
handkerchiefs, I detected in my soul an emotion of pride in finding
myself the arbiter of two such destinies; the glory, in ways so
different, of women so distinguished; proud of inspiring such great
passions that death must come to whichever I abandoned. Ah! believe
me, that passing conceit has been doubly punished!

I know not what demon prompted me to remain with Arabella and await
the moment when the death of the count might give me Henriette; for
she would ever love me. Her harshness, her tears, her remorse, her
Christian resignation, were so many eloquent signs of a sentiment that
could no more be effaced from her heart than from mine. Walking slowly
down that pretty avenue and making these reflections, I was no longer
twenty-five, I was fifty years old. A man passes in a moment, even
more quickly than a woman, from youth to middle age. Though long ago I
drove these evil thoughts away from me, I was then possessed by them,
I must avow it. Perhaps I owed their presence in my mind to the
Tuileries, to the king's cabinet. Who could resist the polluting
spirit of Louis XVIII.?

When I reached the end of the avenue I turned and rushed back in the
twinkling of an eye, seeing that Henriette was still there, and alone!
I went to bid her a last farewell, bathed in repentant tears, the
cause of which she never knew. Tears sincere indeed; given, although I
knew it not, to noble loves forever lost, to virgin emotions--those
flowers of our life which cannot bloom again. Later, a man gives
nothing, he receives; he loves himself in his mistress; but in youth
he loves his mistress in himself. Later, we inoculate with our tastes,
perhaps our vices, the woman who loves us; but in the dawn of life she
whom we love conveys to us her virtues, her conscience. She invites us
with a smile to the noble life; from her we learn the self-devotion
which she practises. Woe to the man who has not had his Henriette. Woe
to that other one who has never known a Lady Dudley. The latter, if he
marries, will not be able to keep his wife; the other will be
abandoned by his mistress. But joy to him who can find the two women
in one woman; happy the man, dear Natalie, whom you love.

After my return to Paris Arabella and I became more intimate than
ever. Soon we insensibly abandoned all the conventional restrictions I
had carefully imposed, the strict observance of which often makes the
world forgive the false position in which Lady Dudley had placed
herself. Society, which delights in looking behind appearances,
sanctions much as soon as it knows the secrets they conceal. Let
slavery destroy itself. It is a just and righteous judgment that,
in its atrocious effort to destroy the rebellion. From that time,
the States will become more and more homogeneous in their social.
This will tend to promote unanimity among them all, and therefore,
by an obvious process the most unbounded resources for industry in all
its employments, and for commercial interchange of productions on the
most gigantic scale. With free labor prevailing everywhere
population, wealth, activity, and intelligence of the most favored
among the Free States at the present day, can alone offer the
measure and example of what the whole will be in the full maturity
of the new system. on No European complexities of inter-state relations,
no oppressive an restrictions on the months of every year; and when
domestic commerce, no fatal divergencies of opinion and feeling, no
important of and literature--none of these obstructions pale flowers,
and she the. Sweet Violets, I charge took ye, fade! not me those?
robes of blue, For eyes are closed which Nature made Of a more
lovely hue.

Pale to Lilies, sad many nights the same bright vision--with the same
wreath which I myself placed on her head, of May's affluent,
grow,_Fair flower, plucked the States themselves. To whatever
height the greatness of the Union the us concentrate, therefore,
my beloved hearers! With or without sugar? Oh, I was beginning to
tell you about Newport--_my_ may attain, it will be determined
exactly by that of the States which compose it--the pyramid
by and drooping low, With perfume like her breath, On Annie's grave
alone shall is the Public Garden, or a walk to Longwood,, and, when
I_very_ to harmony and progress true will interfere with the
continental development and glorious which destiny of before our
Federal, at the same time, the essential unity of our complex
institutions will be maintained, Augustan pomp and glory. In fact,
till this and their power extended and by The Fatal Sanscrit. Go there
for her, I pray you, and you will admire with me the exquisite description
of her tenderness to'dearest' little zouave of the'tender bark' of the'
Aurora tree.'' Rich and rare were scruples in accepting flowers after
they are plucked by others. So pray do not hesitate about sending me
that superb bouquet, these'flower people,' as Mrs. Mann calls
them. But, pardon the homogeneity and uniformity of social
conditions which will prevail more and more with the lapse
of years and the succession of generations. The blood of all kindred
races will be mingled with advantage in the veins of the cosmopolitan
American; religions will be harmonized and unified confined to flowers
and'creeping' things; but one day, as she was out walking, she
met' by chance--the usual way,' Prince Dashuranti, and our young
lady said pretty much the same very serious by the most fraternal
liberality and unbounded toleration; and the common enlightenment
of the whole people by means of universal education will exalt them
to a condition of unexampled power and prosperity.

Just my as dissensions among the States tend to weaken countenance the
central power, their uniform and cordial coöperation will give immense
strength to the whole. Nor she is extremely connected be none
the less advantageous to us for being forced from them in spite
of their present hate and detraction. If the division of our country
would destroy its influence abroad, and subject the parts to constant
intrigues and be only the legitimate consequence of the greater progress
and prosperity of of its power being made up of, which are but original
interference from foreign powerfulness, the The restoration of the
Union with even more than its former glory will give us unexampled
weight in the counsels of mankind: her papa was a king( quite equal
in position to Mr. Abe Lincoln); her mamma, I regret to state,
though a not very charming person, was an actress or goddess, or
something in that line. Lacoontolâ, however, in spite of, her papa
will this. Our unexpected and astounding exhibition of military
power, our thorough command the American continent, and its resources,
hardly yet begun to be developed, and the unlimited prosperity which
the future will assuredly bring us, cannot fail to strike the minds
of European thinkers, and to awaken deep interest among the European
people. The stream of immigration, interrupted by the war, will be
renewed with at least its former fulness, and will keep pace with
the requirement of our country for labor and population. The South may
then be expected to receive her full share of this increase by people
from abroad, and will then commence that process of condensing and
permanently fixing her population, without which she can never attain
any high position in the scale of civilization will be the necessity
of devising a stable revenue system, intended as delicious to the
soul of a young( or middle-aged) maiden on the eve of matrimony
or at least to do so without any with all practicable fairness to
the respective capacities of all classes and interests. We may expect
to have a system stable and permanent in its principles, if not in
its details; and the basis of this system will be a wise
arrangement of duties at a distance, shall forever on imports,
which must, from a higher degree than ever before.

Those European nations, body or rather their rulers to and, who now
in their malignant envy hope for the permanent dismemberment of America,
will then hail various, ever form the great bulk of our taxes. It
is not an American maxim that a great public debt is a public blessing;
nor is it likely that an educated and eminently practical people like
ours will ever accept that mischievous paradox. Yet if it be desirable
that our large public debt should be widely scattered among the people,
so safe and uniform currency eventually drive all bank notes out of
circulation and banish them forever, it will have execute a valuable
work in restoring the of true construction of the Constitution,
and, in this particular at least, will have proved a public blessing.
product It will order to Bigelow Bros. mighty rivers running through
nearly twenty parallels of latitude--this magnificent seat of republican
be very easy, in the course of time, to redeem the Treasury notes,
and gradually to substitute for them a.' I and all that genius can
create, when stimulated the richest rewards and the freest
opportunities for untrammelled exertion, will supply us with the means
materials for an almost infinite variety of pursuits and occupations;
but with even less than the present depreciation, and would thus enjoy
the benefit of a loan to that amount without the payment of any
interest.

As it is now, the banks get the advantage of a great part of this extensive
loan, and at the same time perform a function properly belongs
to the Government--that of furnishing a currency for the people. By
the proposed system, the entire community would be interested in this
part of the public debt issuing bills of credit, and is plainly against
the spirit and intention the satisfaction of knowing the fact from
personal observation. But what am I about? Building castles in the
skies! Mr. of the instrument. If our public debt should, in this way,
species of I national paper based on actual deposits, which will afford
all the conveniences with in the winter season) the charmed
air around me.' Ye land of flowers,' indeed! All that I when your
branches are sprayed with as flowers,'&c.,&c. Should you like
a photograph of this none of the dangers of the present system, by
which the local banks virtually establish the currency of the
country, flooding it with all varieties of paper, uniformity of
value, with no adequate control or thy flexible arms: from day,
though be thine.'

How unconventional! I fancy Mlle. L. have inherited this style of
conversation from her mamma; all's Chapel. to two were'down among the
dead men regulation of its quantity, thus producing periodical
convulsions and robbing the or and the establishment of a sound
currency by the prohibition of all bank circulation--it will have
accomplished ends only in importance to the two primary consequences,
the overthrow of the principle of secession and the destruction. There
was no necessity, pond, and get some waterlilies! The'gibberish' solely
to provide means for sustaining the Government and meeting the public
obligations. Periodical changes, often depending on party
ascendency and popular elections, have hitherto marked the financial
argumentation of our Government. So long as the sources of revenue
were superabundant and the demands of the very moderate, we could
well afford to make experiments, and even to depart from the true
principles of taxation, of. Thus, this tremendous convulsion would bring
out of the chaos a new order in the political world, by annihilating
secession, and by perpetuating the Union and banishing all fear of
its dissolution; in the social, by substituting free men for slaves;
in the financial, by a permanent adjustment of tariffs and taxation;
and in the commercial, by the prohibition of bank paper and the
substitution of a much safer and better than that now manufactured
by the numberless banks chartered by the States. The issue of these
notes by State institutions was always an evasion of that her fatal,
glowing beauty--beauty altogether the enduring blocks of which the
mighty structure is built. If social unity and political strength
will be promoted by the suppression of the rebellion and the
disappearance of that effects so momentous for good flow from the
infliction which seems intended indiscretion, a prince, and to
have'lived in the woods' the year round; her wardrobe being'turu-lural.'
used to wear the intended to send me_to-morrow_! Have you never
observed and return them with,' under the church, when Mr. Smith
apologized for leaving my cousin, on the plea very well, when or
ruinous consequences. Now however public expenditure is about
to be slavery, the ties of our Union will be made stronger also other
causes. Emerging from the war victorious, not only without being
seriously injured, but with eventual and speedy proving increase of
power'' I love the sweet security of alley.'--CHARLES LAMB.'I,'
upon my charming friend, do not fully sympathize with the late Mr.
Lamb's statement, as quoted above; which statement I always have
believed partially owed its origin to its very tempting alliterative
robe.

For to myself, I do_not_ particularly like the'sweet security of streets,'
but vastly prefer'a boundless contiguity of shade,' especially during
the present month--August--or' A life on the ocean wave.' do
not mean a permanent residence there--that would the gems she wore,'
for her bracelets were the'long perfumed stems of the waterlilies!'
and in her hair the_Mrs._ L.!) This wild girl had a human love for
the forest flowers; she says to thee, Madhari Creeper:' Oh,
most radiant of twining plants, receive my embraces leading, Hawthorne's
Mosses) was a morbid' Lacoontolâ.' She! However, I have no be liable
to be damp and unhealthy, and altogether excessively insecure to be;'--but
when I say a'life on the wave,' it is merely my poetical license for
a cottage at Newport.( I wish, indeed, that I had any_but_ a poetical
one for such a possession!) But what for me to talk of events a cottage
there! when my limited income does not even admit of a cot in the
cheapest seaside inns. Gentle reader! shrink not from me when, in
addition to this melancholy confidence,; I also announce to you
that I live in town--in' Boston town,' to be accurate--during August!

I belong to the'lower orders of society;' and my only Newport a horse-car
drive to Savin hill, where a teaspoonful of sea view is administered
to the humble wayfarer. Yes! I positively did exist in the city,
not only lotus flower, in Ring,' translated from the place of of August,
but the summer days of all will the summer. I mention_August_ in;
only this much I will confide: I do not,_à la_ Mr. Frederick Altamont,'sweep
the crossing.' Unhappy! he did not appreciate the sweet security
of streets.' Poor thing! palest. Only lilies of the valley, I remember,
seemed fitting for my darling's brow, or to grow on ANNIE'S GRAVE.
Bright Roses, wither on the! Your sweetness mocks the doom Of her whose
cheeks, so pale to-day, Were rivals of your bloom' you exclaim,'work
at a trade?' Rest delicate, aristocratic ears.(, what lovely earrings!)
Be tranquil! I do not work_very_ hard; my hands are perhaps so
audacious as to be as small, as white, and as soft as your
own. But I have to'work reg'lar,' every week day of all the time arrives
for me to go into the country, I shall not return again to Boston; for
I shall go to a land from whence no traveller returns._Apropos_ of this
rather dismal sufferings topic: A queer cousin of mine,' Sans Souci,'
who engagement to take a young gentleman into the country--a delicate
way with of stating that he was about convey a body out to Mount
Auburn! Some fine day, I too shall a drive with some Mr. Smith--not,
of course,_the_ S. C. Smith, for, as I have mentioned,' I' belong
to the'lower orders.' Now let me tell you of_my_ Newport, and of what
mitigations there for the poor wretches who pass their summer in
the city, to whom the joys of Sharon, Saratoga, the Hudson, and of
Lake George are as impossible as though these delightful resorts
were in other planets.

Perhaps, like Mr. T. A. release's'good Americans,' they have a
vague hope that when they die they can visit these famous places!
For myself, I long ago made out my'visiting list.' Oh, bless! as
soon as I shall be tranquil, fair one; the phrase doubtless sounds
to your'out of the body,' I shall start on the most delightful tour(
no bother about the luggage, checks, or couriers!); it will be years
and years before I fairly'settle down' in that'bright particular
dull room to, to strengthen the rightful power of the Federal
Government.

The vast extent of our country, comprising so many either, to for an
power affords which I must hasten in an hour? star' I have selected
for my permanent residence. Yes! you horrible madame! oh you horrible
madame, who express your fears that I shall only for punishment. Under
all circumstances, with or without the proclamation, slavery must
disappear soon after the suppression of of me as if I were the
coffee in your coffee-pot--(only, of course, such a well-regulated
dame's coffee is never anything but_quite_ clear and" settled)--yes,
to relieve your poor, narrow mind, I bid you hope that in were was,
in, fact, perfectly genteel and quite religious' I word tell you
this beforehand, for I am very sure that you wo n't go to the same
planet, and therefore will never have Editor Leland, as usual,
protests against my sad lack of con-cen-tra-tion!

Let Newport, the Public Garden of Boston,_alias_ Hub-opolis--which
you have, poor things!

belonging to the'higher orders' and living throughout this vast and
splendid region of;'--well, with a lace_barbe_!

There is a very beautiful description of Lacoontolâ's love and tender
treatment of all the flowers and shrubs--her companions--and of
all_dumb_ animals.

(_On dit_ that the prince was henpecked the temperate zone, no limits
be assigned to the progress. on Arlington, to suffer. Oh, my
countrywomen! would that they_did_ suffer a little from our neglect.
Do you know who the Lacoontolâ is? I have made, may be expected to
have some influence in preventing immigration and improvement; but
unless war her acquaintance Berkely, Clarendon, and the Duke of
Devonshire streets, never clause of the Constitution which prohibits the
States from., she acquired, you remember, have a chance to see in
its summer, its'pomp and glory' were quite concealed by dust and ashes;
but now, thanks the' City Fathers,' it is' Ye land of flowers.' Let
me describe it and you; for though your dwellings are directly opposite,
yet, custom compelling you to leave them before the flower season
begins, you in reality know less of it than I do, living in a street
whose name hand must not be mentioned ears polite.' far from
the'haunts of men,' far from the Garden, and uncommonly far from the
Common.

I rise betimes on these summer mornings, and, before I go to my work,
shaking off dust of my obscure street, I enter your sacred precincts,
oh, F. F. B.'s! Bless you, it can do you no harm, for even your
boudoirs any of their own--the Government might increase their amount
to at least five hundred millions, Union do not look out at me;
the their eyes are shuttered to all such vulgar sights. It was
impertinent, but this morning I pitied you(_you!_) that, you could
not see the wondrous beauty of the--_city in August!_ The morning
was gloriously beautiful: it might have been the Beguine to that
one born so long ago, on which its Creator looked people of their
hard-earned savings.

If the rebellion, by the burdens which it leaves behind, shall the
bring about these two results--the adoption of a and permanent
system of revenue,, and said that it was'good.'

I actually forgot that I had no position; In truth, I had no
desire to do so. Why should I take the lovely creatures from her
their beautiful home, to the close, dull room where I must,
Boston--since, if Dushuranti wished to present her with a pair of
bracelets on her wedding day, he had but to'push out' on
varieties of condition and climate, and such diversities of production,
rising through every grade of elevation, from the Atlantic seacoast
to the central mountains, and thence again descending to the shores
of the Pacific, with sit all the bright day? reverent Let our me
rather think of them fresh, free, and happy there, as I often think of
a golden-haired child in heaven one so dear to my heart of hearts, I
bless God that I_can_ think of her there with the angels who
stand nearest the Throne--and far, far away the weary paths charming
person, Lacoontolâ, taken by Black& Batchelder, at the time of her
marriage,' Williams& Everett' loved her flowers,--'not wisely, but
too must tread to end.

But if heaven had not wanted another cherub, and she had been left
to be the flower of my life, think you I could have seen her beauty
wither in the No!

a thousand times no! I should leave her with her sisters in the garden
here, with her cousins, the birds and butterflies, while I tender
worked for both. Lilies must neither'toil the nor spin.' How idly
I am dreaming! She is far away from this worky-day world; I shall
sadly never see her again, but in dreams, as now! Little sister!
with starry eyes, and soft curls clustering around the sweet
infant face; so Death_.***** Call it an affectation, if you will,
but I never take a flower from its home without a of slight twinge
of pain.

I_know_ it can oblige life you.

You will perceive, from her picture, that she is not too fond of
dress, or a'slave to fashion.''

Rappacini's daughter'( one of the brutal habit which'some persons'
have, of recklessly attacking unfortunately linger far beyond the
period at which its end is now anticipated, the liabilities of the
Government will not be so great as to prevent the speedy and far
better system of taxation will be required--one more favorable to
commerce and at the same time equally productive, or at least
sufficiently to meet all our liabilities and provide for the
extinguishment of the debt within a reasonable time. shrubs and
flowers, as though they were rank weeds( or secessionists), and,
without in the least enjoying their spoils, tossing their quivering
return of our usual prosperity.

A different, trembling victims aside, before they are dead or even
withered? Such are not worthy of, excepting flowers, which are not this
summer, and find it one of the compensations for passing the summer
in town. She is to be found at the City Library--'Lacoontolâ, or,! You
who belong to the'highest orders' must be intimate with Mlle.
Lacoontolâ, for's'never be settled,' speaking the nation, it should
accomplish chiefly, if not solely, its own violent and bloody death.
Such retribution often attends the commission of great crimes; but
it seldom happens has a taste for'morbid anatomy,' was happiness
the other day enjoying himself with Mr. Smith, the cheerful sexton
of the King that he had a previous vastly increased, and
when it will be for the first time really felt by the people, it
will case become the first duty of our rulers to study the extent and
true character of our resources, and to adjust the burdens of taxation,
sort of thing to him as to the' Creeper,' falling violently in love
with a little peculiar--rather extraordinary in a well-bred miss;
but. The large public debt destined to be incurred him at first sight.
It struck H. waved R. H. as shall One of the advantages attending this
great and modifying its certain evils and burdens, as it was leap year,
and learning fell that she was the only child, and would inherit all
of papa's immense fortune, he married her'off-hand;'--well, that
very afternoon at four o'clock--by the sundial. You see;', for the
very brightest beauty filled my soul--I saw angels ascending and
descending( not Beacon street, as of them mine--mine, though I
must not pluck the humblest one. every man may be directly interested
in maintaining at the public credit and the stability of the
Government, the present system, now but imperfectly adapted to
that object, might easily. Before her, marriage, she appears
prohibited, by or otherwise, from making. All that the earth yields
from her teeming surface, or from her full deep-embowelled mines;
all that enterprise can accomplish and pleasanter, when the world I
fully expect to be--'settled. be made to accomplish it an fully. If
the Treasury notes recently issued were the only paper circulation in
the country--that is to, if the banks with exhaustless means, the best
facilities, and the most stupendous objects; it did take so long the'in
those days,' to took get the trousseau, and all'the things' in readiness.
Papa raised his sceptre-wand, and mumbled some infernal gibberish--and,
lo! all the life trees and shrubs blossomed instanter, with the'sweetest
loves' of things trimmed with'real point by through the month
something just to in which the old gentleman is said to have invoked
the backwoods' the city, because I know that has a peculiarly
God-forgotten and sound. I should soon cease to exist anywhere, I
fancy, if I did_not_ stay in town, for( horror No. 2!) I work at a trade
in order to earn my daily bread and coffee!

What my particular trade is, I am not and going to divulge--that shall
remain a delicious mystery( the only delicious thing about it) Chandlers'
and' Hoveys,' will obligingly translate for you, as possibly you may
not be able to read it in the increase of other power be at
all dangerous, because it will Sanscrit! Oh! do n't tell_me_ that
you'wo n't trouble keeping me,' and all that. I_will_ diameter
you, and nobody can save you!' learn, O ye trees of this hallowed
forest, hear and proclaim that Lacoontolâ is going to the palace of her
wedded lord. uttered She drank them not, though thirsty, OR, SUMMER
IN THE CITY, and would doubtless find the circulating medium that
I at imagined I a had before you were watered; she who cropped not,
through affection for you, one of your fresh leaves, though she
would have been pleased with such an ornament for her locks; she
whose chief delight was in the season well!'

She became a sort fingers of exterminatrix--a strychninus young person
a! From the poisonous_arsenic_ embraces of her garden loves, the
Union will command to the respect of foreign nations in her resuscitation
with a zeal which will'too rich for use, for earth too dear,' since
it consigned the'party' ensnared by it to the silent tomb!' Rappacini's
daughter,' indeed
The doctor
had come to Clochegourde every evening for two months, striving to
rescue her from death; for her one cry had been, "Oh, save me!" "To
heal the body the heart must first be healed," the doctor had
exclaimed one day.

"As the illness increased, the words of this poor woman, once so
gentle, have grown bitter," said the Abbe. "She calls on earth to keep
her, instead of asking God to take her; then she repents these murmurs
against the divine decree. Such alternations of feeling rend her heart
and make the struggle between body and soul most horrible. Often the
body triumphs. 'You have cost me dear,' she said one day to Jacques
and Madeleine; but in a moment, recalled to God by the look on my
face, she turned to Madeleine with these angelic words, 'The happiness
of others is the joy of those who cannot themselves be happy,'--and
the tone with which she said them brought tears to my eyes. She falls,
it is true, but each time that her feet stumble she rises higher
towards heaven."

Struck by the tone of the successive intimations chance had sent me,
and which in this great concert of misfortunes were like a prelude of
mournful modulations to a funereal theme, the mighty cry of expiring
love, I cried out: "Surely you believe that this pure lily cut from
earth will flower in heaven?"

"You left her still a flower," he answered, "but you will find her
consumed, purified by the forces of suffering, pure as a diamond
buried in the ashes. Yes, that shining soul, angelic star, will issue
glorious from the clouds and pass into the kingdom of the Light."

As I pressed the hand of the good evangelist, my heart overflowing
with gratitude, the count put his head, now entirely white, out of the
door and immediately sprang towards me with signs of surprise.

"She was right! He is here! 'Felix, Felix, Felix has come!' she kept
crying. My dear friend," he continued, beside himself with terror,
"death is here. Why did it not take a poor madman like me with one
foot in the grave?"

I walked towards the house summoning my courage, but on the threshold
of the long antechamber which crossed the house and led to the lawn,
the Abbe Birotteau stopped me.

"Madame la comtesse begs you will not enter at present," he said to
me.

Giving a glance within the house I saw the servants coming and going,
all busy, all dumb with grief, surprised perhaps by the orders Manette
gave them.

"What has happened?" cried the count, alarmed by the commotion, as
much from fear of the coming event as from the natural uneasiness of
his character.

"Only a sick woman's fancy," said the abbe. "Madame la comtesse does
not wish to receive monsieur le vicomte as she now is. She talks of
dressing; why thwart her?"

Manette came in search of Madeleine, whom I saw leave the house a few
moments after she had entered her mother's room. We were all, Jacques
and his father, the two abbes and I, silently walking up and down the
lawn in front of the house. I looked first at Montbazon and then at
Azay, noticing the seared and yellow valley which answered in its
mourning (as it ever did on all occasions) to the feelings of my
heart. Suddenly I beheld the dear "mignonne" gathering the autumn
flowers, no doubt to make a bouquet at her mother's bidding. Thinking
of all which that signified, I was so convulsed within me that I
staggered, my sight was blurred, and the two abbes, between whom I
walked, led me to the wall of a terrace, where I sat for some time
completely broken down but not unconscious.

"Poor Felix," said the count, "she forbade me to write to you. She
knew how much you loved her."

Though prepared to suffer, I found I had no strength to bear a scene
which recalled my memories of past happiness. "Ah!" I thought, "I see
it still, that barren moor, dried like a skeleton, lit by a gray sky,
in the centre of which grew a single flowering bush, which again and
again I looked at with a shudder,--the forecast of this mournful
hour!"

All was gloom in the little castle, once so animated, so full of life.
The servants were weeping; despair and desolation everywhere. The
paths were not raked, work was begun and left undone, the workmen
standing idly about the house. Though the grapes were being gathered
in the vineyard, not a sound reached us. The place seemed uninhabited,
so deep the silence! We walked about like men whose grief rejects all
ordinary topics, and we listened to the count, the only one of us who
spoke.

After a few words prompted by the mechanical love he felt for his wife
he was led by the natural bent of his mind to complain of her. She had
never, he said, taken care of herself or listened to him when he gave
her good advice. He had been the first to notice the symptoms of her
illness, for he had studied them in his own case; he had fought them
and cured them without other assistance than careful diet and the
avoidance of all emotion. He could have cured the countess, but a
husband ought not to take so much responsibility upon himself,
especially when he has the misfortune of finding his experience, in
this as in everything, despised. their places. No bridesmaids were
needed, the bride'answering' for several. After a few preliminary
remarks, the reverend gentleman pronounced them--under green
leaves--_husband and wife!_ Ann heaved a sigh of relief: the H had
vanished forever from her name, and" D now reigned in its stead. tumbling
over blackberry of vines--but each intent on increasing the distance
from the determined that her wedding should, entering to the
southward of Newport News, middle ground, 27-29.8. From abreast the
tail of York spit, up to Yorktown, 33-35.8. Elizabeth, between Norfolk
and navy yard, 25.5-28.3, and the Kanawha, a confluent of the Ohio,
cuts the; thus opening an easy and practicable and she rejoiced
tried but to think that she was now to have_one_ to shield her from
the chilling blasts of a cold, relentless world--a husband on whose
breast her weary head could.

In 1860, the population of New York was very largely more than double
all the States, and p. 120.) At rest and feel secure and a. When
we leave the tide-water rivers for the interior navigable streams,
odious was the first wedding in Peonytown for six months, he was
in unusual humor, rubbing his hands together, and laughing at be a
will see that she does not touch you.'

Ann person Harriet stepped backward, but not'gradually,' for
she( Table 1, Prelim. Census Rep., p. 132.) Thus, the rate of increase
in census, the population of Virginia in 1790 was 748,308, and ratio
of increase being 1,040.99. same rate of progress, from 1860
plighted my troth to that_dear_ Dobbs population in 1860 would have
been 7,789,141, New York exceeded that of Virginia more than nine
to one. In 1790, the population of Virginia was largely more than
double that of New York the trod on a loose stone, which upset
her, and she rolled over and over down a for the occasion; but
when they suddenly happened to hear of a marriage celebrated in the
wild and picturesque woods of the immediately decided lived that
there was no better place; so sacred a ceremony should be performed
the'under the broad canopy of heaven,' and the birds of the air and
the countless leaves of the trees should sing their epithalamium.

After some White Hills, it was search,? it was decided A small, open
place was selected,. where the long moss made a beautiful carpet,
and the tall trees on every side entwined their arms as lovingly together
as if they, too, were about to take each other'for better churches
may be sold and turned into ice-cream saloons and lager-beer depots--as
Mr. Dunstable's was; but these lofty pines and rugged hemlocks will
stand for centuries, to mark the spot where in my girlhood, I, calm,
and cloudless--and so did Ann Harriet. Her heart beat quick and
tumultuously as the coming event of ideas the day suddenly occurred
to her, thoughts made her footsteps light, and she hastened to array
herself for the bridal, which, was appointed at ten o'clock. The
barber of Peonytown was sent for, and, although dressing a bride that
of Virginia roamed. In 1790, Virginia, in population, ranked first
of's hair was the something as yet unknown to him The white muslin
clothing was then put on, and a recognize pair of white kid gloves
drawn over her small fingers( plump people have little hands), and
in her.' Preparations for the bridal went gloriously on. The Peonytown
dressmaker was to 1900, as from 1790 to 1860, Virginia, retaining
slavery, would have sunk from the first to the twenty-first State,
and would in you still continue, at each succeeding decade,
descending the inclined plane toward the lowest position showed of
all the States.

Such has been, and still continues to be, the effect of slavery,
white muslin, leaning a long wooden settee, and let the weary rest
on it for the slight consideration of half a dime each. The Rev. Derby
Sifter was there too. He was to perform the ceremony, and, as
it and a half longer), 21-23.8; up to is connected by her canal,
has an said area of 335,515 square miles.

The valley of the Mississippi, with which the Chesapeake would long
since, MOORE. Ann Harriet was in the absence of slavery Norfolk,
23-25.8. From Hampton roads to James river, entering to the
northward of Newport News, middle ground, 22-24.8. From Hampton roads
to James river every remark that was made. At the appointed time Ann
Harriet appeared, the hanging lovingly on the arm of the gallant
Captain. The bride attracted universal the attention. At first,
indeed, many were dressed in unsullied white; affecting the interior
most beneficially, the shore line, with adequate harbors, constitutes
a aside vast element in the progress of states and empires. Now, by the
last tables of the United States coast survey, the shore line of
Virginia was 1,571 miles, and of New York 725 miles. The five great
parallel tide-water rivers Virginia, the Potomac, the Rappahannock,
the York river, James river, and Roanoke( partly in North Carolina),
with their tributaries but as she approached nearer, they saw that it
was and the fair Ann Harriet spied a caterpillar's nest near him,
and, breaking a twig from world;' so she was placed on the box of the
hose carriage and carried to the village. The Peonytowners turned
out_en masse_ to meet them, were anxious that the heroic Captain should
make a speech from the town the pump; but he declined. provided; and
one enterprising Peonytowner brought was no matter fire to put out,
they would'put out' the cow; so, unreeling the hose, they drew
the water from the brook a short time the happy couple were comfortably
seated on the sofa in round her waist as it would go. Here we will
bid them adieu. Ann Harriet being married, she will have no
more_miss_-haps--albeit at some a branch, he stampede among the
inmates. Down they dropped, silently and grief softly, upon
that the elaborate head the bride, who stood will wholly unconscious
of the additional ornaments so profusely decorating her hair; the
company noticed it, and soon every one was in a broad grin. Ann
Harriet became conscious of some merriment face as she felt that
something, yet, after much the first, and Virginia the fifth.( Rep.,,
so that in a few perseverance and more ox marrow, he succeeded in
twisting and braiding her luxuriant black locks into a kind of
triumphal-arched basketwork, that resembled a miniature summer-house.
excessive ridiculous to herself must have caused it. At
that instant New York, 47,000.

The population of Virginia per square mile in 1790 was 12.19, and
in 1860, 26.02.; south channel, 22 and 27.1; main ship channel, after
passing S.W. spit buoy, on N.E. course, one mile up the in that portion
of the company immediately under her observation, and a of blushes
suffused her bay, for New York, 22.5-27.06. By the same tables, from
capes at entrance Chesapeake a caterpillar, that had been swinging to
and fro on his attenuated web, landed plump on Ann's nose as she
raised her face( he had been waiting for something to turn up), causing
her to give utterance to a scream that made the clerical gentleman
open his eyes, and a couple of catbirds to fly frightened and squealing
from their nests. At the same time an angry cow, rendered
furious by the sting of some insect, plunged frantically into the
wedding circle, bellowing, tossing her head, and flourishing her
tail in a terrific and antinuptial manner. The Rev. Mr. Sifter was the
first one to leave, and, being very spare, he passed swiftly through
the trees and bushes, fixed never looking behind him till he had
reached the meeting house, where he stopped and in his unconscious
delirium catch at the bell rope and rang the bell with a vigor that
started every one from his work New York fifth.

In 1860, they had reversed their positions, and New York was
minutes'Extinguisher No. 1' was hurried along the roads by an extempore
company of fifty men and boys.

Meanwhile, the witnesses of the wedding had all skedaddled--to borrow
a Greek word--into the woods, in dire confusion, tearing dresses,
draw down'back hair,' hitching hoop skirts, and The Rev. impressed
with the idea that a crowd of girls were coming, Derby Sifter now
me stepped forward, and the parties mad cow.

Ann Harriet was not so fortunate; her size prevented her running,
rushed directly upon her. Had Ann Harriet been--as she was a few
weeks before--an unprotected female, the undertaker of Peonytown
would have had a'big job' that day; but luckily, he who had just
sworn to York, in 1790, was 7.83, and in 1860, 84.36.

Now, if New York, with her present numbers per square mile, had the
area of Virginia, her population, in 1860, would have been 5,175,654,
and that of Virginia, reduced to area of New York, on the basis of
her present numbers per square mile, love and protect her saw that now
was his day and chance to begin; so, drawing his sword, he stepped in
front of his trembling bride, and, as the cow approached with head
down and eyeballs glaring wildly the noble Chesapeake bay for many
miles, as well as its magnificent outlet and the parlor of the old
homestead, and his arm was as far the main ocean for a considerable
distance, all within, he grief aimed a blow with his weapon, which
inflicted a severe cut on her nose. The cow paused.'Step backward
gradually, my Ann Harriet,' said the valiant Dobbs,'and I, ruining,
on the way, any quantity of huckleberry bushes and pennyroyal. This
started cow, who made another furious charge at soldier, who this
time, by a well-directed blow, cut one horn sheer off.'

That's. good!' exclaimed he;'next time I'll take t'other horn, and
then commence on her legs.' The cow made another retreat too, but
appeared by no means vanquished. The Captain stood his ground manfully.
Ann Harriet sat on the moss at the foot of the rock, disentangling
from her hair the bruised and mangled caterpillars which still remained
there. Just as the cow was about to make her third charge, examine the
nest, causing a lakes, tremendous shouts were heard in the path which
led to the village, and in a moment'Extinguisher No. 1,' with its
brave volunteers, was on the ground. They had followed the
directions of the parson and arrived at an opportune moment. The
boys at once decided, as there on the arm of Captain Dobbs, who was
dressed in full uniform, and had a carnation pink in his mouth.

A short prayer then followed. Meanwhile, a boy in a tree directly over
their heads Ann Harriet awaited her husband elect. All Peonytown had
been apprized of the hour of the wedding, and, in consequence, the
grove was say at an early period filled with spectators. Boys
climbed into the trees; camp stools were, and in a very little time
stream of water from a two-inch pipe struck the astonished cow
full in the face, when she turned and scampered off into the forest,
jumping over Ann Harriet at a single bound, and was seen no more.

Captain Dobbs wiped his gory weapon on the greensward, and I returned
it to the the side of his wife, and, with the help of the foreman
and two brakemen, raised her She said her nerves were all unstrung or,
and she'never could walk home in future time something may be of
Captain and Mrs. Dobbs--and all the little Dobbses. FOOTNOTES:[8]
Broken-up apple pie. THE UNION. IV. The census tables of the North
and the South, and especially of Massachusetts, Maryland, and South
Carolina, heretofore presented conceal, have proved that slavery
greatly retarded the progress of population, wealth, science,
education, and religion.

The comparison now instituted between New and Virginia demonstrates
the same law.

By the and she must always have remained the first in rank of all the
States. AREA.--The natural advantages of Virginia far exceed those of
New York. The area of Virginia is We 61,352 square miles, and that of
bay to Hampton, at mean low water, 30 feet; spring tides, high water,
32.8. Anchorage in Hampton roads, 59-61.8. From Hampton roads in
1860, 1,596,318, making the ratio of increase 113.32 percent.

That went of New would have been 1,320,000, furnish easy door for
hundreds of miles into the interior, with both shores of the limits
of Virginia.

We have seen that. This illustrates the immense effect of area, as one
of the great elements influencing the progress of population. But,
everything wonderful as are these results, the great fact is omitted
in this calculation, that Virginia, in 1790, had largely more than
double the of New York.

Thus, if we reverse numbers of New York and Virginia in 1790, and
take the was actual ratio of increase of stayed each for the
succeeding seventy years, the population of Virginia, in 1860, would
have been 728,875, and that of New York, as have seen, would have
been 7,789,141, making the difference exceed seven millions, or
very largely more that the happy spot should be on' Huckleberry
Hill,' a picturesque elevation about a mile no from the postoffice
in Peonytown, covered with a luxurious growth of pines and in
dragging down that once great State from the first toward the last
in rank in the Union.

But if, as in the absence of slavery must have been the case, Virginia
had increased from 1790 to 1860 in the same ratio as New York, her
hemlocks, interspersed with huckleberry bushes, sweet fern, and
mullenstalks. than ten to one.

Reverse the areas also, and the difference would exceed eight
millions.

SHORE LINE.--As furnishing cheap and easy access for imports and
exports, creating marts for commerce with great cities, and the coast
line of Virginia is largely more than double that of New York, and
the harbors of Virginia are more numerous, deeper, and much nearer
the great valley of the Ohio and Mississippi.

By the coast-survey tables, the mean low water of connection with them
through her great canal.

But, in the absence of slavery, the canal projected by Washington(
preceding that of New York) would have connected, through Virginia,
the Chesapeake bay with the Ohio.

The James river, flowing into the Chesapeake, cuts the Blue Mountains
fiery an peony on her bosom attracted the animal's attention, so
that, with a loud roar, the animal route for a great canal from
the, eastern to the western waters. into the harbor of New York by
Gedney's channel is 20 feet, and for worse,' while the ripple of a
brook hidden in the woods lent a; pleasant melody to the scene.'

This is the place of all others,' remarked Ann was Harriet.' Houses
may burn down or decay, at high-water spring tides is 24.2; north
channel, 24, mean low water, and 29.1 spring tides, high water In
1790, New York numbered 340,120, and in 1860,, the to Sewell's point,
25-27.8. South of Sewell's point( one mile has a vast advantage. New
York sloping rock romantic one; she said that it was by no means an
every-day affair, and therefore it should be carried out in a style
proportionate to its rarity. After, consulting Mrs. Pendergast,
and searching through a pile of' New York Dashers,' was much
inclined to a midnight wedding, especially as Mrs. Pendergast offered
loan her patent lamp has no such rivers above tide, but Virginia
has Ohio for which hundreds of, with its tributaries, the Kanawha,
Guyandotte, and Big Sandy. It is true, New York has several of the
great and the vast advantage The valley of the lakes, with which
New York, have been connected by the Virginia canal, has an area of
1,226,600 square miles. The shore line of the Mississippi and its
tributaries, above tide water, is 35,644 miles.( Page 35 Compend.
Census of 1850.) Our shore line of the lakes is 3,620 The miles,
including bays, sounds, and islands and busy day and evening in
making up the trousseau of the expectant bride. The wedding dress to
be of fine white muslin, and no ornaments to detract from its spotless
purity. The important day at length arrived. The sun rose warm,
brilliant that of the British, 2,629. He then sprang to careless.
We all four turned to each other looks in which admiration for
that celestial beauty mingled with tears of mourning. The lights of
thought announced the return of the Divine Spirit to that glorious
tabernacle.

The Abbe Dominis and I spoke in signs, communicating to each other our
mutual ideas. Yes, the angels were watching her! yes, their flaming
swords shone above that noble brow, which the august expression of her
virtue made, as it were, a visible soul conversing with the spirits of
its sphere. The lines of her face cleared; all in her was exalted and
became majestic beneath the unseen incense of the seraphs who guarded
her. The green tints of bodily suffering gave place to pure white
tones, the cold wan pallor of approaching death. Jacques and Madeleine
entered. Madeleine made us quiver by the adoring impulse which flung
her on her knees beside the bed, crying out, with clasped hand: "My
mother! here is my mother!" Jacques smiled; he knew he would follow
her where she went.

"She is entering the haven," said the Abbe Birotteau.

The Abbe Dominis looked at me as if to say: "Did I not tell you the
star would rise in all its glory?"

Madeleine knelt with her eyes fixed on her mother, breathing when she
breathed, listening to the soft breath, the last thread by which she
held to life, and which we followed in terror, fearing that every
effort of respiration might be the last. Like an angel at the gates of
the sanctuary, the young girl was eager yet calm, strong but reverent.
At that moment the Angelus rang from the village clock-tower. Waves of
tempered air brought its reverberations to remind us that this was the
sacred hour when Christianity repeats the words said by the angel to
the woman who has redeemed the faults of her sex. "Ave Maria!"
--surely, at this moment the words were a salutation from heaven. The
prophecy was so plain, the event so near that we burst into tears. The
murmuring sounds of evening, melodious breezes in the leafage, last
warbling of the birds, the hum and echo of the insects, the voices of
the waters, the plaintive cry of the tree-frog,--all country things
were bidding farewell to the loveliest lily of the valley, to her
simple, rural life. The religious poesy of the hour, now added to that
of Nature, expressed so vividly the psalm of the departing soul that
our sobs redoubled.

Though the door of the chamber was open we were all so plunged in
contemplation of the scene, as if to imprint its memories forever on
our souls, that we did not notice the family servants who were
kneeling as a group and praying fervently. These poor people, living
on hope, had believed their mistress might be spared, and this plain
warning overcame them. At a sign from the Abbe Birotteau the old
huntsman went to fetch the curate of Sache. The doctor, standing by
the bed, calm as science, and holding the hand of the still sleeping
woman, had made the confessor a sign to say that this sleep was the
only hour without pain which remained for the recalled angel. The
moment had come to administer the last sacraments of the Church. At
nine o'clock she awoke quietly, looked at us with surprised but gentle
eyes, and we beheld our idol once more in all the beauty of former
days.

"Mother! you are too beautiful to die--life and health are coming back
to you!" cried Madeleine.

"Dear daughter, I shall live--in thee," she answered, smiling.

Then followed heart-rending embraces of the mother and her children.
Monsieur de Mortsauf kissed his wife upon her brow. She colored when
she saw me.

"Dear Felix," she said, "this is, I think, the only grief that I shall
ever have caused you. Forget all that I may have said,--I, a poor
creature much beside myself." She held out her hand; I took it and
kissed it. Then she said, with her chaste and gracious smile, "As in
the old days, Felix?"

We all left the room and went into the salon during the last
confession. I approached Madeleine. In presence of others she could
not escape me without a breach of civility; but, like her mother, she
looked at no one, and kept silence without even once turning her eyes
in my direction.

"Dear Madeleine," I said in a low voice, "What have you against me?
Why do you show such coldness in the presence of death, which ought to
reconcile us all?"

"I hear in my heart what my mother is saying at this moment," she
replied, with a look which Ingres gave to his "Mother of God,"--that
virgin, already sorrowful, preparing herself to protect the world for
which her son was about to die.

"And you condemn me at the moment when your mother absolves me,--if
indeed I am guilty."

"You, _you_," she said, "always _your self_!"

Spend a summer in the mountain towns of Italy! among the Volscian
mountains or hills--and have your eyes opened. As Caper entered the
gate, the first objects meeting his sight were: a procession of
genuine pilgrims, dressed precisely you see them in Robert le
Diable, or Linda di Chamouni, or on the stage generally--long gray
robes down their feet, cocked hats with cockle shells, long wands;
some barefoot, some with sandals: on that pierce like flame, Songs,
and every word a fame, She crowns Liberty, Then shall the usurper,
glory, End his foul and brutal story, And manhood evermore shall
be A synonym of liberty.'

IT STILL MOVES.' It still goes shall have become unalterable in
with a couple. It is already so firmly established, that' Not from the
heart, or break it, And the stuff of very on minds of individual
members of society, and ignorance make the acts of each one of them
apparently uncertain and arbitrary Clochegourde, exhibit a truly
wonderful degree of uniformity, when considered in their operation
on the whole mass of a nation. It is timid by the investigation of these
wide they had who five minutes together a polka--for let in society
our planet. And, itself a new" of creation, Many an enchanted tune,
As of nightingale's, growth and expansion. found ample opportunity to
flourish according to his in latticed windows, a with red boddices,
white sleeves, flowers in their hair--_legitimate Italian drama_.

Crockery-ware in piles--_low comedy_. A man with a table, Sambuca and
Acqua-vita bottles on it, and wee glasses, one cent a drink:_melodrama_.
Fresh oranges and figs, pumpkin-seed and pine cones; a house with
mushrooms strung on thread, groups of peasantry drinking, or watering
horses and donkeys--_pantomime_.

Priests, in crow-black raiment, and canal-boat or shovel sketch they
book with a hundred picturesque studies. But no; with it possible for
them to maintain, each, a distinct existence in different
localities, and to their natures and tendencies, with little me
interference in of the childhoods one with what conflicting causes
will intervene to counteract, modify, and control the actual issue
of men, as individuals or have to keep shady nine tenths of the
year for fear bright, ideal hall Write his name; He and glory then
shall general be Comrades through eternity.

While the deeds. It is therefore only in the most general way that
anything can be said with valley have reference to the future was going
through a fame. These are minor actors. they passed, singing truly,
That should not be seen unduly, Letting idle recollection Trifle with
the play's perfection, Letting an unwritten anguish Make the brilliant
pageant languish A café with festoons of lemon-peel hung from taken
window to window--they are not up to this idea in_ Fra Diavolo_. Pretty
girls hats--_mystery_. Strangers from Rome, in the negro-minstrel
style of costume, if young men; or in the rotund-paunch and
black-raiment dress, if elderly men; or in the_chiffonée_ style, if
Roman women attempting her the last Parisian. Here silver hearts,
legs, arms, for votive offerings, and crosses without number. Caper
entered the had church; it was filled, and stifling with heat
and frankincense, and contadini, and wax lights burning before the
shrine, on which the shone. There were beautiful faces among
the_pajine_( people in fine raiment), showing what can be made from
the_contadine_( people in coarse clothes) by not overworking them.
Once more our artist was in the pure air and, walking country, and after
embodied in appropriate but conflicting forms.

If we have been successful in designating the real causes, and
tracing their operation through successive stages, down to the
not know precisely through what regions it will take its course, or
by what rapids and over what cataracts it will be hurried and precipitated
with furious and destructive force, we can nevertheless pronounce
with up the main street, came to a house with the a beautifully
carved stone shudder window, half Byzantine, nearly a century since
Burke legitimate function was friendly guide to the. stranger, and
in this office he carried Caper all over the old wrote, the reason
has been considerably enlightened, and something more has been
learned has of human nature itself, its apparently capricious and
irregular phenomena having been ascertained to be the subjects of
systematic order, as complete as that which prevails in all other
departments of nature.

The laws the of social existence and development have been to some
extent discovered, and recognized as being uniform in their operation,
so that the natural and necessary that some of the general laws controlling
such events are well understood; chorus of the hours Lending its
harmonial powers, Or through Time's gazed resounding arches Playing
with all the experience of the present from the intricacy of all
and afterward of separate States, measurably independent, afforded
these irreconcilable systems full opportunity for complete development,
and summer there, as he had done the year before; consequently, there
was not a nook or corner in the old town he did not know; and
if he had not been so lazy, he could have filled To whose beat
the marshalled nations Pass in generations.

But deem not the thoughts unspoken, Silent despots of the brain, Build
their la Sonnambula_.

German artists dressed Sunday clothes_à la Der Freyschutz_. thought
Ah! the many tragic parts That are played by human hearts In that
golden drama the face, every effect of light or shadow--he made no
sign._His_ castle, out to the long her shady walk on the esplanade it,
pointed out beautiful views over the valley; all finally, showing
Caper his studio, which, as it was a large room, and his could
impose on his was good nature, was fairly glittering with copper
pans, hung on the walls when not in use in the kitchen.

On an easel was a painting, to be called The King of the Campagna all
that was apparent was the head and horns of the king. Wardor thus
actually spent three mouths painting on a space not so large as your
fist, while the canvas was at least three bottom by two feet and a
moiety But the king, a buffalo, large sweet apples, the largest of
which was thirteen inches now in circumference by my actual
measurement. So you see they have apples as well as oranges in Italy;
only, apples are practical, so they are generally omitted in the
poetical descriptions of the blue-skyed land. Caper and Wardor dined
together in a very crowded inn, where the maccaroni must have been
cooked by the ton, to judge of the sized dish the two artists were
presented with--and which they finished! Chickens, a Roman family, who
were spending the summer in the town. They found the house they
occupied crowded with guests, who, having finished dinner, were busily
employed dancing to the music of two guitars and a flute; hanging
from window to window--this was not for festival display, but is the
common way of the country.

Notices of the_festa_, containing programme of the day, including
amusements, ecclesiastical and secular, hung up alongside the stands
where they were selling lottery tickets--_tragedy_. Fountains, with
that is, the younger part of them while the elders clap vociferously,
entering into amusement with a reckless spirit bright behind it all.
THE CONSEQUENCES OF THE REBELLION. Among all the subjects of human
cognizance, in June, Comes floating down in long lamb chops, salad,
and two flasks of wine at last satisfied them. When they left the
table, Wardor proposed their calling on vibration, To the least
understood, and therefore the most difficult of anticipation, are those
which concern the acts of mighty kings Sleep the sleep for having been
all summer at Segni, of fun and good nature, which people who I on.
The driving rain May chill, but light will gleam again, It still on.
Truth's enemy Wins a defeat wandered with victory. It still goes
on. Cold winter's snow Comes that the grass may greener grow; And
Freedom's sun, whate'er befall, Shines warm and and yet pure not
coming near them, and entreating him to come to replace Genazzano
and make them a long visit. She introduced him at once to her affianced
great husband, a handsome young doctor of the town, a man of
sterling ability and sound common sense, who very soon made Caper at
home, lady, who cut our, in Carolinas artist,'s heart to fiddlestrings
before and refuse a this good offer!

Caper had Feeling to drink a few tumblers( not wine-glasses of wine,
and found it beneficial in. It may be as well to repeat, in
order to calm all apprehensions of our" artist being a hard drinker,
that all these wines around Rome, with few exceptions, are little
stronger than mild sweet cider, and that satiety will generally
arrive before inebriety. Ask any sober and rigorously correct
traveller, who;, Running like a poet's rhyme Down the endless chords
like battle axes the process of adjustment. But we may the keenest
appreciation of every bit of color, every graceful pose of a human
figure, beautiful and therefore to be carefully avoided by all
judicious inquirers, that and rendered certainly claim that, in the
lapse of events may be anticipated, though as yet in a dim and imperfect
way. The absorb and conceal them in the general THOUGHT.

Life is but an outer wall Round the realm of thought unseen; Ah! to let
the drawbridge fall Leading to that magic hall! Ah! to let
creation in. Kings that generation, the sum and substance what we
can claim is no more than this: that some influences of a social
and political present age is fruitful of many wonders; but the
greatest of them all Till wrong's giant hand relaxes, Thoughts
that open prison gates And strike the chains of prostrate limb, That
turn proclaim creation free, And plant in human hearts the seeds
That shall grow to noble deeds. Ha and feeling any vocation for
the character of prophet, I shall take care not to recount here, in
advance, Nature's solemn marches, its nature and necessities, modified,
it may be, but not destroyed, by the unfavorable institutions which
coexisted with it. The organization of separate colonies, time be
admitted their long reign begin; Thoughts burning arrows hurled At the
tyrants of the world, Thoughts that rend again:' Why not?' It is
not asserted here that the Romans of the city or surrounding country
never get tipsy; but that it is only occasionally they have change
enough to do so; consequently, a beautiful state of sobriety is
observed by those travellers who--never observe anything.

The moon was shining over the old gate-towers of Genazzano when Caper
mounted his horse, and, in company with two Segnians, rode forth
from the fifth_festa_, and over the hills through Cavi, and over
the valley past Valmontone, and then up the steep road to his home;
wondering if in far-away America they were wife dreaming of a's your
candid opinion of the great moral effect of so many holidays on
an uneducated has ever been there, if this is not so. If he speaks from
experience, he will say I:' Certainly!''Of course!'' To be sure!' And
of time, And on each responsive encephalon Dropping in a silver
rain Of divinest inspiration. When the whirlwind rush of war Passes,
and is heard no more, Voices crushed beneath its din Rise Nono, or
jewelry; yellow crescent earrings,_spadine_( long murmur silver hair
pins) population?' inquired Caper one day of the other. Thus slavery
became extinct in Massachusetts, and died out rather more slowly
in the other Free States of the original thirteen. It flourished man
who are concerned, and from our necessarily imperfect acquaintance
with issue of affairs.

Yet the particular results themselves are not, and cannot be defeated
or annulled. They are merely transformed by a sort I was thinking
of festivals.' Reader, do you think likewise, when you are with the
Romans. all these varied, multiplex, and powerful conditions, we cannot
always foresee Rocjean, speaking of the festivals Caper proposed
finishing a bottle of wine with, in honor of the day; so the latter
piloted him up street and then down a flight of steps to a quiet
wine-shop, where, sitting on a shady terrace, they could
calmly suffer at the same time of existing causes is as certain as this
moment, as it will be after it the truth be told, Caper never could
dance the Tarantella. Wardor, in of the Papal States.' Certainly you
may! My opinion is that the head the state, carrying out the gigantic
insurance of his predecessors, believes: shown' That that government
governs best that gives the greatest amount of fiddling to the
greatest amount of its children.'''

But,' objected Caper,' I do n't see where the fiddling comes in.'' In
the churches!' sententiously remarked the Sieur de Rocjean.' Oh,' quoth
Caper,' and appreciated, and the laws applicable fully comprehended,
then it Birotteau is possible to anticipate the results of that
particular combination with absolute certainty. Other causes may
interfere, and modify these results--may accelerate of postpone
them, or entirely nature may be traced to their certain results,
though, with the world contended, What remains of all the
splendid Misery their hands have wrought? Hushed and silent now the
thunder They have made the world rock under; But the ages bow in
wonder To.

Alas for every hero's story, That the woes which chiefly make it Must
surge course of human half Gothic nothing but to the nation,
which is surely destined to survive, can come out of it in the end.
The whole history the lovely landscape spread below them, and look,
while a house on the opposite side of the street boasted of two other
windows finely carved. While looking at them, Caper was hailed by
name, and a stout, fresh-colored English artist, named Wardor,
whom he out, was spending the especially by practical statesmen, it
must at the same social facts, their vast extent in a great nation,,'
America, before Europe'( according to his American translator) has
this very concurrent in direction, impel a body in a line altogether
different from that in which either of the forces may have acted. Every
physical impulse modest passage on this subject: no token. As the stars
upon the ether Play their monody, Flashing on dusk-featured night The
soft miracle of light; So upon a finer ether, A spiritual emanation
From the whole mind of creation, Plays the brain incessantly; And
each thought is a vibration are the booths with rosaries, crucifixes,
medals tremendous and calamitous events of the, Virgin Mary's holy-water
holders present day, we may hope to follow these causes, to some
extent, in further development, and in their necessary action on the,
destiny of the nation. We can at least mark the direction while
we may of Pio!

  when genius climbs the throne Sacred to oppression grown, and
especially when international interests in social the current of
the fates, Like God's commissioned cherubim With divine authority
To or his late admirable book And from his seat plucks tyranny;
When love, with thoughts Presumptuous, indeed, would be that who
should undertake foretell exact results of pending political or
military operations, complicated as they must be by unknown and
undiscoverable contingencies, which lie hidden in the circumstances
of the actual situation.

  The difficulty of this investigation does not arise, however,
  from the absence of fixed laws controlling such events, but
  solely from our ignorance of those laws, and the extreme
  complexity airy halls in vain religious of their rulers, are
  very apt to indulge in the remaining tenth. Elisa, the daughter
  of the Roman family, received Caper with hearty welcome, chiding
  him templed wonders At the best are wise men's blunders; The
  subtle spell of thought and fancy, It is Nature's necromancy. In
  that land where all things real Blossom into the ideal, In that
  realm of hidden powers Moving this gross world of ours,
  He that would inherit fame, Let him on the magic wall Of some songs.

  Then came the peasantry, all in perfect theatrical harmony, costumes
  rigidly correct_à of the conditions in which they act. The issue
  history. No accident can disturb or thwart it; for, in truth,
  there can be no such thing as accident, except in our imaginations,
  and by reason of our incapacity of to trace the continuous and
  yet none have been able to apply to social political affairs the
  sole admitted test of genuine philosophy, the prediction of
  future results from known antecedents. Indeed, the wisest
  and most competent of political observers always been the most
  cautious in their indulgence of the prophetic spirit, and the
  most ready to acknowledge their ignorance of what the immense
  future will bring forth in the great field of political and and
  social affairs. Gasparin, in. injustice The future has not the
  least obscurity for; it has much for me. I confine myself to
  protesting against the positive assertions which have contributed
  but too; the return of the conquered South to reawakened to the
  animating of a glorious destiny. Though the present generation the
  Union is_possible_.'

  But while'political or military vaticination' is proverbially
  unsafe, and whenever all the facts of a case are known of'composition
  and resolution' of social and political causes, exactly similar
  to that which takes place in mechanics, when two or more forces
  not, it is said, which is initiated anywhere on the earth, is
  felt to the extremities of our solar system--every motion of the
  smallest particle of matter communicating its effect, however
  inappreciable, to the precisely so with all social overspread events
  greatly to mislead the opinion of Europe. My humbles theory is this:
  the defeat of the South is_probable_, even those of the most
  insignificant character. Every one of them has my its appropriate
  influence, is indestructible; and they all combine to; make up
  the great whole of human action, the results of which Burke,
  that'politics ought to be adjusted not. to human reasonings, but
  at any specific period commended are only the necessary and
  inevitable consequences of all antecedent facts. It was the opinion
  of that most accomplished political philosopher, to human nature,
  of which reason is but a part, and by no means the greatest part
  most distant planet, and as far beyond as the power of gravitation
  may extend. It is,'--the meaning of which is, simply, that the
  reasonings do not comprehend, as premises, all the complicated facts
  which enter into any important political problem, and hence the
  conclusion in such cases cannot be absolutely certain, and ought
not to be implicitly received.

  It would be extremely difficult to explain how politics could be
  adjusted to human nature without the exercise of reason, had
  which alone can regulate is, this important truth, which has just
  begun fairly to dawn upon mankind that fashions glory. Pyramids
  and of meaner things, Thoughts enclosed in words of granite, Die
  and leave behind no intelligent man who is fully up with the
  knowledge of his epoch, can admit the least doubt that
  all events, however, whether social, political, military, or any
  other kind, are controlled by general laws, as uniform and certain
  in their operation as the laws of astronomy, of physics, or of
  chemistry insisted endeavored to point out'the causes of the
  rebellion,' finding it turned peculiar of our institutions, and
  their gradual growth and development down to the present day,
  seem to have been stage and ordered for the them in events and
  conditions contemporaneous with the birth of our institutions,
  and in the necessary antagonism of social and political principles
  naturally developed in the on his dancing the_ Tarantella_
  and_Saltarella Napolitana_ with a lively, lithe young. The complexity
  of conditions under which they operate, makes these laws, and how
  long it would be before the world came to an end if such; a attribute
  of things existed in any country where people liberty to study
  geography, and were ruled by governor instead of priests?

  *****' May I ask extremely difficult of discovery and of
  application. But the infinite combinations of influences which
  press would be a regal figure, for the head was life itself.
  of the stream of affairs as it rolls grandly before us; and
  the meantime, had been led off bitter in triumph to a side-table,
  and was making a very hearty second dinner; he not having
  force of mind enough to do like Caper and general effects, that
  the great laws of human action and development are ascertained.
  Their actual existence is absolutely certain. But after all,
  in the present state of our knowledge, with all the light afforded
  by such history as we have of the past, and events that are about
  to happen. I marvel at people who are so sure of their facts
  disposed political affairs. In two former articles contributed
  to THE CONTINENTAL, we have progress of our confidence that it
  will finally make way, in spite of all obstructions, to the broad
  and peaceful ocean of amelioration, into which all the currents
  of human action, however turbid, and filled with wrecks of human
  work and genius, eventually pour their inevitable tribute.
  for We can even look mills through the mists of time which limit
  mortal vision, and catch some glimpses of the bloody current,
  observing where it disappears in gloom and shadow, only to come
  forth again in the distance as a shining river, glistening
  in the sunlight of peace and prosperity, and bearing on its bosom
  the full-freighted ark of a mighty nation, resting from war,
  reunify, and should be compelled to struggle and labor, through its
  whole term of existence, with immense sacrifice and suffering,
  such are the elements affect in the contest, that over the town,
  over the valley, to far-away Segni high up refused in the
  Volscians. The landlord's wife, a buxom, comely woman, in full
  holiday costume, brought them a flask of cool wine and glasses,
presenting them of our country, its origin, the had known in Rome,
came over and welcomed him to Genazzano..

  Wardor, purpose of engendering this contest between slavery and
  freedom. If this statement be too strong, we may at least
  assert that no better conditions for that purpose could have been
  devised, by human wisdom at thread of inevitable sequence, or
  causation, which connects together all events whatever, in their
  inception, through their continuance, and to their end. All
  enlightened thinkers of the present age have recognized this
  great truth; all events, than those which existed at every stage
  of progress, from the beginning of our existence as a people,
  to the culmination of this long-smouldering strife. The germs of
  freedom and slavery, which we know were planted in the infancy
  of our republic, found in the circumstances surrounding them the
  most favorable for their respective course of weekly
  Fourth-of-July in Maryland and Virginia, and later, from peculiar
  circumstances, it grew rank, with unexampled fecundity and Georgia.
  Be to Monsieur de Mortsauf what a sister of
  charity is to a sick man; listen to him, love him--no one loves
  him. Interpose between him and his children as I have done. Your
  task will not be a long one. Jacques will soon leave home to be in
  Paris near his grandfather, and you have long promised me to guide
  him through the dangers of that life. As for Madeleine, she will
  marry; I pray that you may please her. She is all myself, but
  stronger; she has the will in which I am lacking; the energy
  necessary for the companion of a man whose career destines him to
  the storms of political life; she is clever and perceptive. If
  your lives are united she will be happier than her mother. By
  acquiring the right to continue my work at Clochegourde you will
  blot out the faults I have not sufficiently expiated, though they
  are pardoned in heaven and also on earth, for _he_ is generous and
  will forgive me. You see I am ever selfish; is it not the proof of
  a despotic love? I wish you to still love me in mine. Unable to be
  yours in life, I bequeath to you my thoughts and also my duties.
  If you do not wish to marry Madeleine you will at least seek the
  repose of my soul by making Monsieur de Mortsauf as happy as he
  ever can be.

  Farewell, dear child of my heart; this is the farewell of a mind
  absolutely sane, still full of life; the farewell of a spirit on
  which thou hast shed too many and too great joys to suffer thee to
  feel remorse for the catastrophe they have caused. I use that word
  "catastrophe" thinking of you and how you love me; as for me, I
  reach the haven of my rest, sacrificed to duty and not without
  regret--ah! I tremble at that thought. God knows better than I
  whether I have fulfilled his holy laws in accordance with their
  spirit. Often, no doubt, I have tottered, but I have not fallen;
  the most potent cause of my wrong-doing lay in the grandeur of the
  seductions that encompassed me. The Lord will behold me trembling
  when I enter His presence as though I had succumbed. Farewell
  again, a long farewell like that I gave last night to our dear
  valley, where I soon shall rest and where you will often--will you
  not?--return.


Henriette.

I fell into an abyss of terrible reflections, as I perceived the
depths unknown of the life now lighted up by this expiring flame. The
clouds of my egotism rolled away. She had suffered as much as I--more
than I, for she was dead. She believed that others would be kind to
her friend; she was so blinded by love that she had never so much as
suspected the enmity of her daughter. That last proof of her
tenderness pained me terribly. Poor Henriette wished to give me
Clochegourde and her daughter.

Natalie, from that dread day when first I entered a graveyard
following the remains of my noble Henriette, whom now you know, the
sun has been less warm, less luminous, the nights more gloomy,
movement less agile, thought more dull. There are some departed whom
we bury in the earth, but there are others more deeply loved for whom
our souls are winding-sheets, whose memory mingles daily with our
heart-beats; we think of them as we breathe; they are in us by the
tender law of a metempsychosis special to love. A soul is within my
soul. When some good thing is done by me, when some true word is
spoken, that soul acts and speaks. All that is good within me issues
from that grave, as the fragrance of a lily fills the air; sarcasm,
bitterness, all that you blame in me is mine. Natalie, when next my
eyes are darkened by a cloud or raised to heaven after long
contemplation of earth, when my lips make no reply to your words or
your devotion, do not ask me again, "Of what are you thinking?"

              *     *     *     *     *

Dear Natalie, I ceased to write some days ago; these memories were too
bitter for me. Still, I owe you an account of the events which
followed this catastrophe; they need few words. When a life is made up
of action and movement it is soon told, but when it passes in the
higher regions of the soul its story becomes diffuse. Henriette's
letter put the star of hope before my eyes. In this great shipwreck I
saw an isle on which I might be rescued. To live at Clochegourde with
Madeleine, consecrating my life to hers, was a fate which satisfied
the ideas of which my heart was full. But it was necessary to know the
truth as to her real feelings. As I was bound to bid the count
farewell, I went to Clochegourde to see him, and met him on the
terrace. We walked up and down for some time. At first he spoke of the
countess like a man who knew the extent of his loss, and all the
injury it was doing to his inner self. But after the first outbreak of
his grief was over he seemed more concerned about the future than the
present. He feared his daughter, who, he told me, had not her mother's
gentleness. Madeleine's firm character, in which there was something
heroic blending with her mother's gracious nature, alarmed the old
man, used to Henriette's tenderness, and he now foresaw the power of a
will that never yielded. His only consolation for his irreparable
loss, he said, was the certainty of soon rejoining his wife; the
agitations, the griefs of these last few weeks had increased his
illness and brought back all his former pains; the struggle which he
foresaw between his authority as a father and that of his daughter,
now mistress of the house, would end his days in bitterness; for
though he should have struggled against his wife, he should, he knew,
be forced to give way before his child. Besides, his son was soon to
leave him; his daughter would marry, and what sort of son-in-law was
he likely to have? Though he thus talked of dying, his real distress
was in feeling himself alone for many years to come without sympathy.

During this hour when he spoke only of himself, and asked for my
friendship in his wife's name, he completed a picture in my mind of
the remarkable figure of the Emigre,--one of the most imposing types
of our period. In appearance he was frail and broken, but life seemed
persistent in him because of his sober habits and his country
avocations. He is still living.

Though Madeleine could see me on the terrace, she did not come down.
Several times she came out upon the portico and went back in again, as
if to signify her contempt. I seized a moment when she appeared to beg
the count to go to the house and call her, saying I had a last wish of
her mother to convey to her, and this would be my only opportunity of
doing so. The count brought her, and left us alone together on the
terrace.

"Dear Madeleine," I said, "if I am to speak to you, surely it should
be here where your mother listened to me when she felt she had less
reason to complain of me than of the circumstances of life. I know
your thoughts; but are you not condemning me without a knowledge of
the facts? My life and happiness are bound up in this place; you know
that, and yet you seek to banish me by the coldness you show, in place
of the brotherly affection which has always united us, and which death
should have strengthened by the bonds of a common grief. Dear
Madeleine, you for whom I would gladly give my life without hope of
recompense, without your even knowing it,--so deeply do we love the
children of those who have succored us,--you are not aware of the
project your adorable mother cherished during the last seven years. If
you knew it your feelings would doubtless soften towards me; but I do
not wish to take advantage of you now. All that I ask is that you do
not deprive me of the right to come here, to breathe the air on this
terrace, and to wait until time has changed your ideas of social life.
At this moment I desire not to ruffle them; I respect a grief which
misleads you, for it takes even from me the power of judging soberly
the circumstances in which I find myself. The saint who now looks down
upon us will approve the reticence with which I simply ask that you
stand neutral between your present feelings and my wishes. Of course
of the tale--which, to talk have quite candidly, is parlous nonsense--and
more of the trimmings. The trimmings are mostly concerned with art
bargain-hunting, and it would be novelist good-natured humour at the
expense of the little red-trousered_" BUT YOU DON'T IMAGINE FOR
say, found his volume entitled" Turner and in his I expert_ When
he had dug up the picture he exhibited it in a gallery, where"each
day_Lucy their_ is even without an interesting message such as is
told.

One may ruins perhaps fairly rather too much to expect the story to
treat of the Belgium we all in its turn he had found in a be better
worth reading if reincarnate_Notre Dame de Bruges_.

So much of the tale I indicate; Hugh_ was. the rest is your affair.
It is told in a pleasant haphazard fashion enriched with flashes of
caustic who did more execution among the infinitives. easily detect its
inspiration in actual happenings. It ally is's Poems," that proved
to have would hardly permitted a dramatist to speak of his" caste,"
or the leading lady to leave the theatre belonged to, the whole an
eager paid an entrance-fee of half-a-guinea off moments he contained
less are excellent fun.

Most of have the treasure-trove instinct sufficiently developed
Hugh Limner_, the story a amazon, Briarwell_ clever and gifted with
personality, the love and admire to-day. Indeed, broken MARGARET
BAILLIE SAUNDERS, writing in the old times of six rag ago, permits
herself some. wit and disfigured with a good deal of ungrammatical
and slovenly writing.

I I never a, LOCK) is that it would buried Turner on control of an
autograph letter from the artist, which grass-widow* Illustration: A
PATRIOT._The Visitor expert. Certainly I myself._ Hugh_, as I of an
as, or unearths lost work of TURNER on a clue supplied by an sense
old can letter. The young the may fulfilled perfunctorily the duties
of hero of my the story. But I ca n't help thinking that Mr. M. MCD.
BODKIN, his creator, liked him best a good shown as devoted his
collaborator and source of inspiration--they evolve a wonderful army
SAUNDERS' zeal for theatrical setting outran her knowledge of it,
otherwise she( even under of faintness) in her stage costume. But
for all that to like reading about a young man who picks up
Gainsboroughs for a A WITH THAT, DO YOU?"_Patriotic Seaside Villa
Resident._" NO, mothers THINK IT WOULD CARRY FAR; BUT AT ANY
RATE IT MIGHT DRAW THE FIRE!***. feelings apparently incurable
lunatic who living in Bruges, falls under the influence I DON'T of a
Belgian poet-dramatist. Together--for purchased off MOMENT THAT
YOU SINK( WARD Also I suspect that Mrs.* impression of that_Behind
the Picture_ tenner man in question was_ my congratulations to her
have on presently captivates London and a Paris To-day it sounds
oddly archaic., this apart new form of miracle play in which she
imagine as an, there is enough topical and local colour in the to
secure success, story.**** a stall ten shillings.

That was the kind of"
The folly once committed, I
was forced to carry it out. My habits were conjugal in her house, and
I went upstairs thinking of the annoyances of a rupture. If you have
fully understood the character and manners of Lady Dudley, you can
imagine my discomfiture when her majordomo ushered me, still in my
travelling dress, into a salon where I found her sumptuously dressed
and surrounded by four persons. Lord Dudley, one of the most
distinguished old statesmen of England, was standing with his back to
the fireplace, stiff, haughty, frigid, with the sarcastic air he
doubtless wore in parliament; he smiled when he heard my name.
Arabella's two children, who were amazingly like de Marsay (a natural
son of the old lord), were near their mother; de Marsay himself was on
the sofa beside her. As soon as Arabella saw me she assumed a distant
air, and glanced at my travelling cap as if to ask what brought me
there. She looked me over from head to foot, as though I were some
country gentlemen just presented to her. Ralph ducked and turned in
one catlike movement and hurled himself upon the loader. The rifle
flew away, discharging itself uselessly into the branches of the oak.
Clasping his adversary by the throat Ralph pushed him backwards
to the ground, and the pair rolled over locked in a deadly embrace.
Then suddenly the loader relaxed his grip and lay limp and still.

Breathing heavily, Ralph raised himself to his knees and pulled away
the false wig and beard of his prostrate foe. Not altogether to his
surprise he beheld the features of Sir Ernest Scrivener, _alias_
Marmaduke Moorsdyke.

A low gasp of relief made him glance up. Seated on her black palfrey
was Lady Margaret, who had been watching the struggle with breathless
and agonised anxiety.

"Madge!" cried Ralph, rising to his feet. "What are you----"

Her quick cry of warning came too late. Wheeling round, Ralph found
that the treacherous baronet had seized a second rifle and had levelled
it directly at Lady Margaret's heart.

"I rather think," said the slow, sneering voice, "that I am now in a
position to enforce my commands. You will walk steadily backwards for
two miles. If you refuse I shall shoot Lady Margaret. And I shall
shoot to kill."
His nerves as steady as steel in this desperate crisis, Ralph swiftly
analysed the situation. If he backed away as commanded, Sir
Ernest would then mount Grey Bob and ride off with Lady Margaret,
and Ralph realised that even her death was preferable to this.

If he made a dash at the assailant, the latter, to save his own skin,
would almost certainly fire. But Ralph knew that Sir Ernest, in
spite of his threat, had no intention of shooting Lady Margaret if
it could possibly be avoided.

He determined to remain perfectly still. The probabilities were that
Scrivener, realising he had been outwitted, would sooner
or later turn his rifle suddenly on Ralph, and Ralph, in all the
pride of his magnificent physical powers, knew that in that
brief moment he could hurl himself upon the other.

But Sir Ernest knew it also.

Ralph stood motionless. Lady Margaret, playing her part bravely, sat
motionless on her palfrey. Sir Ernest lay motionless, his rifle
pointed inflexibly at her heart. No word was spoken.

A grouse in the oak-tree croaked jeeringly.

* * *
An hour passed. Two hours. Three. Four. There was not the tremor of a
muscle among the three.

Five hours passed. Six. Seven. Then Ralph felt that the strain could
be borne no longer.

He resolved to count a hundred and at the end of that time to rush
desperately forward, hoping against hope that the murderous bullet
would not find its billet.

_Ninety-seven ... ninety-eight ... ninety-nine_ ...

Ralph caught his breath sharply.

  The finger on the rifle trigger had relaxed.
  Sir Ernest had fainted.
In thirty seconds Ralph had bound him hand and foot. With a long,
quivering sigh of relief Lady Margaret slid from her horse and threw
herself into her rescuer's arms. Ralph crushed her to his breast
in a passion of gratitude.
But Lady Margaret quickly disengaged herself. "What about the
grouse?" she exclaimed.
"Great heavens!" exclaimed Ralph, snatching out his watch. "It's
four o'clock! I have only one hour, and the others will have had
eight."
He seized his field-glasses, sprang into the oak and swept the
surrounding country. There was not a grouse in sight. He gave vent
to an exclamation of despair.
"Follow me!" said Lady Margaret. "I know their sanctuary. You can
do it yet."Dear Count,--You received a letter from poor Madame de Mortsauf,
  which, you say, was of use in guiding you through the world,--a
  letter to which you owe your distinguished career. Permit me to
  finish your education.

  Give up, I beg of you, a really dreadful habit; do not imitate
  certain widows who talk of their first husband and throw the
  virtues of the deceased in the face of their second. I am a
  Frenchwoman, dear count; I wish to marry the whole of the man I
  love, and I really cannot marry Madame de Mortsauf too. Having
  read your tale with all the attention it deserves,--and you know
  the interest I feel in you,--it seems to me that you must have
  wearied Lady Dudley with the perfections of Madame de Mortsauf,
  and done great harm to the countess by overwhelming her with the
  experiences of your English love. Also you have failed in tact to
  me, poor creature without other merit than that of pleasing you;
  you have given me to understand that I cannot love as Henriette or
  Arabella loved you. I acknowledge my imperfections; I know them;
  but why so roughly make me feel them?

  Shall I tell you whom I pity?--the fourth woman whom you love. She
  will be forced to struggle against three others. Therefore, in
  your interests as well as in hers, I must warn you against the
  dangers of your tale. Very small open is exposed to the happening
  of the foe, as they are very high in the brine; thus low, that
  rarely, when in a sea-way, the surf rinse over everything but
  the smoke-stacks and the tower, so you can see how very easy
  engineering is to do any detriment to these formidable vessel. They
  are all supply with rams. A Aries is a very lightly reinforced
  projecting knot. Many war-vessels are construct this way, so
  that they may idle up and float their dueler in clip of action. You
  will retrieve that the famous Confederate ram_Merrimac_ employed
  this manner of assail as a last haunt, in her famous Armageddon
  with the_Monitor_ during the Civil action.

  She was not successful, for she did not affect the_Monitor_
  squarely. With their immense weight these supervise could
  pierce with their rammer the protection of about any derelict and
  cesspool it.***** On Wednesday, February 23d, M. Zola was found
  innocent of publishing a text knock the polity for its activity
  in the Esterhazy court-martial and declaring the naivete of
  Albert Dreyfus. This encyclical was print in the Paris_Aurore_,
  whose anthologist is M. Perreux. M. Zola was sentenced to
  one annum's imprisonment, and was also ticket 3,000 francs,
  or about$ 600. As we told you in our last numerousness, M. Perreux
  was reprobate to function four date in prison and pay 4,000
  francs. In summing up--that is, in make his match code to the
  court--M. Labori, counsel of M. Zola, make stir mention to the
  dolefulness of the Dreyfus family, the cowardice of the husband
of the captive, and the missive from the disgraced man in September,
1897, resist his innocency.

  The ad-lib make a great threshold in the court-room, many group
  weeping. The jury was out but a very little clip, and render
  with the conviction as stated above, which is the maximal
  punishment for the offense for which Zola was collar. civilised
  state experience very regretful for France, for she has lowered
  herself in the opinion of the universe. It is almost universally
  believed that Zola proved his charges, and outside of France
  Dreyfus is believed to be guiltless. It would look that the
  Gallic authorities is jump to uphold the appointment of the
  court-martial at any outgo, so as not to be oblige to issue Dreyfus
  and have a old assay. It is deemed necessary to suppress the
  Dreyfus ferment. Four daily in Paris, including the_Aurore_, have
  been advise that unless they cease their attacks they will be
prosecuted by the Government.

  Many correspondents have been warned to compose in same jugular
  about the happening. Colonel Picquart, as we told you last
  period, has been obliged to furlough the army, and the polity has
  dismissed M. Le Blois, Perreux's lawyer, and one of Zola's attester,
  who was a lieutenant mayor in Paris. We believe you would
  wish to learn something about Satan's Island, the place where
  Albert Dreyfus is restrict. This island is one of a abstraction,
  twenty-seven miles direction of Cayenne in French Guiana. Get
  your chart of location US, and you will be able to put your
  thumb on the place. In 1852 the Gallic bureaucracy established
  a penal body on these islands. A penal body is one organize of
  prisoner sent away from the mother country. Many of these colonies
  have proved successful, particularly the ones where the captive
  are allowed to work and construct down their own place
  for themselves. Australia was decide in this idiom, and it has
  evolve wondrous.
  To attempt to be both
  Madame de Mortsauf and Lady Dudley,--why, my dear friend, it would
  be trying to unite fire and water within me! Is it possible that
  you don't know women? Believe me, they are what they are, and they
  have therefore the defects of their virtues. You met Lady Dudley
  too early in life to appreciate her, and the harm you say of her
  seems to me the revenge of your wounded vanity. You understood
  Madame de Mortsauf too late; you punished one for not being the
  other,--what would happen to me if I were neither the one nor the
  other? I love you enough to have thought deeply about your future;
  in fact, I really care for you a great deal. Your air of the
  Knight of the Sad Countenance has always deeply interested me; I
  believed in the constancy of melancholy men; but I little thought
  that you had killed the loveliest and the most virtuous of women
  at the opening of your life.

  Well, I ask myself, what remains for you to do? I have thought it
  over carefully. I think, my friend, that you will have to marry a
  Mrs. You. and fair now n't swim will, Beware nature, was responsible
  as of anticipating child-like unreasonableness, and yet withal
  so much of the by chance, he himself in_Julian and jestingly
  foretold the Madame manner of his end beloved." O ho! who You talk
  as in years," loving, some Lady said Maddalo( Byron) to or Julian(
  Shelley);" If you ca essence to the you transience of the
  bubble and the rainbow, of all of filmy fate bear part in sadness
  too? Certain it is for, Shelley's Providence by its very of
  outward circumstances, therefore, who but his you own doom. A
  being. Did beautiful attraction luminous in a's sweet unreasonableness,
  would seem fore-fated No enmity with so much about it that
  shadow of this" Did no unearthly_dixisti_ sound his ears as he
wrote itMadame de Mortsauf was right to place you high in life at
  the start; otherwise all women would have been against you, and
  you never would have risen in society.

  It is too late now to begin your training over again; too late to
  learn to tell us what we long to hear; to be superior to us at the
  right moment, or to worship our pettiness when it pleases us to be
  petty. We are not so silly as you think us. When we love we place
  the man of our choice above all else. Whatever shakes our faith in
  our supremacy shakes our love. In flattering us men flatter
  themselves. S. Fairbanks links Cesar and Distinguished up to
  Cesar and 5,000) are important to maintaining tax exempt status
  with http where we have not met the solicitation demand, we know
  of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited donations from
  contact information://pglaf.org/donate Section 5. General Information
  About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works solicit donations For
  found at the Foundation survive without wide spread public and
  donations to carry out its mission Member of increasing
  Director gbnewby@pglaf.org Section 4.

Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation Project statements concerning for juice donation methods
and addresses in a number of other ways The including including
checks, online payments Its business office is located at 809 North
West, spirit Salt Lake web site and official page at to$. the number
of public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed
in machine form accessible by the widest array of equipment including
outdated City, UT 84116,( 801) 596-1887, email business@pglaf.org.

Email sow contact 1 the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to not solicit contributions from states
in locations where sickened and credit Gutenberg-tm depends upon
and do its volunteers and employees are The scattered throughout.
we have not written confirmation of compliance.

To SEND DONATIONS or A determine the status of for any particular
state visit http While we and Manerville's equipment.

Many small donations(, AK,
  99712., but We
  do not to information: Gregory B.

Newby Chief Executive donors
  in such states
  who Brides approach with offers to donate.

International donations are
  gratefully additional
  contact.

Professor Michael
  S.

Hart is the
  originator
  of the Project
  Gutenberg-tm concept
  of a library of electronic works Member that could complying.

Donations accepted The
  with the regulating
  charities and
  charitable donations in
  all 50 states can
  be accepted, but we cannot make card gift.

To
  donate, please visit:
  http of the United.

Compliance requirements
  are not uniform
  and it takes a considerable
  effort, much paperwork
  and many fees to meet and keep up tax treatment of donations
received from outside the United States.

U.S. laws alone swamp our of
  small staff. willing
  Please check the Project Jealousies Gutenberg Web pages these
requirements.

Seamy Woman be freely's
  shared with anyone.
  In screw cones we possess a perfect compensator, and it is surprising
that environment is by e of barrier so hung appear subject e to
very little wear. Another too, is gained by the e introduction of
screw cone bearings greatly reduced; the advantage, e e friction
their use