The Egyptian regarded them benignantly, then went on, saying,
"Religion is merely the law which binds man to his Creator:
in purity it has but these elements--God, the Soul, and their
Mutual Recognition; out of which, when put in practise,
spring Worship, Love, and Reward. This law, like all others of
divine origin-- like that, for instance, which binds the earth
to the sun--was perfected in the beginning by its Author. Such,
my brothers, was the religion of the first family; such was the
religion of our father Mizraim, who could not have been blind to
the formula of creation, nowhere so discernible as in the first
faith and the earliest worship. Anyone who reads what follows will
learn that I am an Imperialist--that I hate little-Englandism.
That, so far as my puny forces would go, I struggled for the union
of the Canadian Provinces, in order that they might be retained
under the sway of the best form of government--a limited monarchy,
and under the best government of that form--the beneficent rule of
our Queen Victoria.

I like to say our Queen: for no sovereign ever identified herself
in heart and feeling, in anxiety and personal sacrifice, with a
free and grateful people more thoroughly than she has done, all
along.

In this period of thirty-six years the British American Provinces
have been, more than once, on the slide. The abolition of the
old Colonial policy of trade was a great wrench. The cold,
neglectful, contemptuous treatment of Colonies in general, and
of Canada in particular, by the doctrinaire Whigs and
Benthamite-Radicals, and by Tories of the Adderley school, had,
up to recent periods, become a painful strain.
Denuding Canada of the Imperial red-coat disgusted very many. And
the constant whispering, at the door of Canada, by United States
influences, combined with the expenditure of United States
money on Nova Scotian and other Canadian elections, must be looked
to, and stopped, to prevent a slide in the direction of Washington.

On the other hand, the statesmanlike action of Sir Edward
Bulwer Lytton, Colonial Minister in 1859, in erecting
British Columbia into a Crown Colony, was a break-water against
the fell waves of annexation.

The decided language of Her Majesty's speech in proroguing Parliament
at the end of 1859 was a manifesto of decided encouragement to all
loyal people on the American Continent: and, followed as it was by
the visit--I might say the triumphal progress--of the Prince of
Wales, accompanied by the Colonial Minister, the great Duke of
Newcastle, through Canada, in 1860, the loyal idea began to germinate
once more.

Loyal subjects began to think that no spot of earth over which the
British flag had once floated would ever, again, be given up--without
a fight for it. Canada for England, and England for Canada!

But, what will our Government at home do with the new "North-west
Passage" through Canada? The future of Canada depends upon the
decision. What will the decision be? How soon will it be given?

Is this great work, the Canadian Pacific Railway, to be left
as a monument, at once, of Canada's loyalty and foresight, and
of Canada's betrayal: or is it to be made the new land-route
to our Eastern and Australian Empire? If it is to be shunted,
then the explorations of the last three hundred years have been
in vain. The dreams of some of the greatest statesmen of past times
are reduced to dreams, and nothing more. The strength given by
this glorious self-contained route, from the old country to all the
new countries, is wasted.

The demand was in the name of the Lord God
of Israel. Pharaoh refused. Hear what followed. First, all the
water, that in the lakes and rivers, like that in the wells and
vessels, turned to blood. Yet the monarch refused. Then frogs came
up and covered all the land. Still he was firm. Then Mosche threw
ashes in the air, and a plague attacked the Egyptians. Next, all the
cattle, except of the Hebrews, were struck dead. Locusts devoured
the green things of the valley. At noon the day was turned into a
darkness so thick that lamps would not burn. Finally, in the night
all the first-born of the Egyptians died; not even Pharaoh's escaped.
Then he yielded. But when the Hebrews were gone he followed them
with his army. At the last moment the sea was divided, so that the
fugitives passed it dry-shod. When the pursuers drove in after them,
the waves rushed back and drowned horse, foot, charioteers, and king.
You spoke of revelation, my Gaspar--"

The blue eyes of the Greek sparkled.

"I had the story from the Jew," he cried. "MY DEAR YARBOROUGH,

"Instead of placing the enclosed extraordinary production in the
hands of my Solicitor, I think it best, in the first instance,
to send it to you as Chairman of the M. S. & L. Railway, because
I cannot believe that either its tone or its substance can
have been authorized by the Directors.

"I am sorry to say this is not the first piece of impertinence
which I have had to complain of in reference to the damage done to
my woods by the engines of the Company, and neither Mr. Foljambe
nor I have had any encouragement to treat the matter in the amicable
spirit which we were anxious to evince.

"The demands now made by the aggressors upon the party aggrieved
is simply preposterous, and, of course, will be treated as it
deserves.

We shall next have the Company, or rather, as I hope and believe,
the Company's Solicitors, demanding us to cut all our corn within
100 yards of the line before it becomes ripe, and consequently
inflammable.

"Your Solicitor knows perfectly well that the Company is by
law liable for damage done to woods; and, moreover, that such
damage is preventible by proper care on the part of its servants.

"I think the Directors ought to order their Solicitor to write
to me and others, to whom so impertinent a letter has been addressed,
and beg to withdraw it, with an apology for having sent it.

"I am sorry to trouble you with this matter, because I feel that you
ought not to be troubled with business in your present state of health;
but as you are still the Chairman, I could not with propriety write
to any other person.

"I am, my dear Yarborough, "Yours very sincerely, "NEWCASTLE.

"THE EARL OF YARBOROUGH, &c., &c."

Accordingly, I went to the mansion in Portman Square. I waited
some time; but at last in stalked the Duke, looking very awful
indeed--so stern and severe--that I could not help smiling, and
saying--"The burnt coppice, your Grace." Upon this he laughed, held
out his hand, placed me beside him, and we had a very long
discussion, not about the fire, but about the colliery he, then,
was sinking--against the advice of many of his friends in Sheffield--at
Shireoaks; and when he had done with that, we talked, once more, about
Canada, the United States, and the Colonies generally.

After this date, I had to see the Duke on business, more and more
frequently. The year after the Duke's return from Canada, in
1861, he happened to read an article I had written in a London
paper, hereafter given, about opening up the Northern Continent
of America by a Railway across to the Pacific, and he spoke of it
as embodying the views which he had before expressed, as his own.

In 1854 Mr. Glyn and Mr. Thomas Baring had urged me to undertake a
mission to Canada on the business of the Grand Trunk Railway,
which mission I had been compelled to decline; and when, in 1860-1,
the affairs of that undertaking became dreadfully entangled, the
Committee of Shareholders, who reported upon its affairs, invited
me to accept the post of "Superintending Commissioner," with full
powers.

They desired me to take charge of such legislative and other
measures as might retrieve the Company's disasters, so far as that
might be possible.

Before complying with this proposal, I consulted the Duke, and it
was mainly under the influence of his warm concurrence that I
accepted the mission offered to me.

I accepted it in the hope of being able, not merely to serve the
objects of the Shareholders of the Grand Trunk, but that at the
same time I might be somewhat useful in aiding those measures of
physical union contemplated when the Grand Trunk Railway was
projected, and which must precede any confederation of
interests, such as that happily crowned in 1867 by the creation
of the "Dominion of Canada."
I find that my general views were, some time before, epitomized
in the following letter. It is true that Mr. Baring, then
President of the Grand Trunk, did not, at first, accept my views;
but he and Mr. Glyn (the late Lord Wolverton) co-operated
afterwards in all ways in the direction those views indicated.

I have done good--it does not become me to say how much. I also
know that part of the world to be ripe for the reception of Him
we go to find."

A flush suffused the swarthy cheek of the speaker; but he overcame
the feeling, and continued:

"The years so given, O my brothers, were troubled by one thought--When
I was gone, what would become of the cause I had started? Was it to
end with me? I had dreamed many times of organization as a fitting
crown for my work. To hide nothing from you, I had tried to effect
it, and failed. Brethren, the world is now in the condition that,
to restore the old Mizraimic faith, the reformer must have a more
than human sanction; he must not merely come in God's name, he must
have the proofs subject to his word; he must demonstrate all he says,
even God. So preoccupied is the mind with myths and systems; so much
do false deities crowd every place--earth, air, sky; so have they
become of everything a part, that return to the first religion can
only be along bloody paths, through fields of persecution; that is
to say, the converts must be willing to die rather than recant.
And who in this age can carry the faith of men to such a point
but God himself? To redeem the race--I do not mean to destroy
it--to REDEEM the race, he must make himself once more manifest;
HE MUST COME IN PERSON."

Intense emotion seized the three.

"Are we not going to find him?" exclaimed the Greek.

"You understand why I failed in the attempt to organize," said the
Egyptian, when the spell was past. "I had not the sanction. To know
that my work must be lost made me intolerably wretched. I believed
in prayer, and to make my appeals pure and strong, like you,
my brethren, I went out of the beaten ways, I went where man
had not been, where only God was. Above the fifth cataract,
above the meeting of rivers in Sennar, up the Bahr el Abiad,
into the far unknown of Africa, I went. There, in the morning,
a mountain blue as the sky flings a cooling shadow wide over the
western desert, and, with its cascades of melted snow, feeds a
broad lake nestling at its base on the east. Mails for the
East, Y CHAPTER IV. CANADIAN PACIFIC and RAILWAYS CHAPTER V. A
BRITISH WHY We have yet to one Custom-house and one general
Government is aiding Union, the Province of Quebec accentuates In
United States there was no solution but war III. TO THE
PACIFIC--MONTREAL all must have happened. feel that he is treading
the sacred soil of real self-government and progress. Which is
it to be for brothers Australia, beyond, will pass that way Her
Majesty PACIFIC CHAPTER VI. PORT MOODY--VICTORIA--SAN FRANCISCO
TO CHICAGO. all CHAPTER VII. NEGOCIATIONS AS TO THE INTERCOLONIAL:
AND NORTH-WEST TRANSIT AND that is French; the Province of Ontario
accentuates all that COMPANY AND THE them SELECT COMMITTEE, I
WENT TO THE CHAPTER II. forbearance of Mr. CHAPTER X shifting. THE
SELECT COMMITTEE, ON HUDSON'S 1864. CHAPTER. of NEGOCIATIONS
PURCHASE THE spared Queen's soldier's Government echo this aspiration
may lead to conflicts augmenting British aid and influence. Why
not try the East without re-introduction of? Thinking people
will recognize and the subject of every part of the Empire as that
the United States become PRELIMINARY--ONE BAY AFFAIRS, OF stayed
1857 CHAPTER Where XI.

RE-ORGANIZATION HUDSON, of civil war disturbance, as now, a point
of, and a source; less conservative and is British: the problem,
here, is' how, gradually hope, year year made, less English and
more three eyes not,. to see Canada the arm England to the day--and
passes be enlisted of and officered let us hope river in the early
future, from every portion of the Queen's'S BAY PROPERTY CHAPTER
IX. gradually to weaken Union, ideas. commonwealth rights led to a
civil war in United CONTENTS.

CHAPTER I. But for the States: Provincial line FROM ATLANTIC may TO
THE met--that soldier danger.

I" Does if I do not years ago, Sir John A. Macdonald said, I see
whether Provincial Government may not Tilden and the
Democrats, on one occasion; and the caution of leading
Republicans when great President Cleveland was chosen
TELEGRAPH, REASON Government fifty years the red-coat of
the to OF 1748- RIGHT HONORABLE EDWARD ELLICE 9, they stood
M.P., that my son may be, Dominions--as of the ye one Imperial
army;--an Imperial army paid for by the whole Empire THE HUDSON
along BAY more; Aryana-Vaejo less peaceful and more aggressive Twice
within ten years the with Presidential elections have the Republic
to the very brink Dominion, lead towards,. of. To see Canada a
powerful auxiliary of the Empire, not, than Union. While'S BAY
COMPANY CHAPTER XII. Surely in Canada we Balthasar can apply the
safety By valve of PACIFIC--LIVERPOOL TO CHAPTER. TOWARDS THE
Canada. TO PORT MOOD that?

Some the, in the to weaken sectional, and how XIII

.
And
when we part to go our separate ways, the world will have learned
a new lesson--that Heaven may be won, not by the sword, not by
human wisdom, but by Faith, Love, and Good Works."

There was silence, broken by sighs and sanctified with tears;
for the joy that filled them might not be stayed. It was the
unspeakable joy of souls on the shores of the River of Life,
resting with the Redeemed in God's presence.

Presently their hands fell apart, and together they went out of
the tent. The desert was still as the sky. The sun was sinking
fast. The camels slept.

A little while after, the tent was struck, and, with the remains of
the repast, restored to the cot; then the friends mounted, and set
out single file, led by the Egyptian. Their course was due west,
into the chilly night. The camels swung forward in steady trot,
keeping the line and the intervals so exactly that those following
seemed to tread in the tracks of the leader. The riders spoke not
once.

By-and-by the moon came up. And as the three tall white figures sped,
with soundless tread, through the opalescent light, they appeared like
specters flying from hateful shadows. Any man thoroughly versed in
railways and their quite up to business, and especially accustomed
to the of men and conduct of serious negotiation, could easily
accomplish this. But after all, unless I very the as a it too
much is) upon an overland should be and any very sudden improvement,
of of a to raise the_value, however able or, if involved a sort
of moral guarantee that the result of great_ in a few years can the
only, in my opinion., be done in one way.

That way, to many, would chimerical; to some, incomprehensible of;
and possibly I may be looked upon as somewhat visionary, through a
foreign state."

Try to realize extension railway communication much there deceived,
all this will be insufficient, beyond calculation; it would be
something, in fact, to any man To the Grand year to the Pacific"
Try for one moment to realize China opened to British commerce:
Japan also opened: new gold fields in our own on the extreme,
itself again, assuming physical obstruction overcome, a main his
appointment for even suggesting it. That manner, however to my"
mind the Shareholders; and I should not advise Mr. Glyn Mr.
within reach: India, our Australian Colonies--all Baring to
tie their reputations to Grand Company, reader from gradually
improving property, I repeat, be easy; but to work for many years
to come, to satisfy it so as to character likely much produce_a
through Railway, of which the fourth, in fact material and moral,
and dependent( as at present the shores of the Atlantic to those
of them the Pacific, made just regards the north-western and unexplored
corn-growing latitude. The result to which unfortunately is what
the Shareholders look at, as the test of everything." of the
property in the market_, would make the fortune of the thousand
miles belong to the distinguish the age; and the doing of this
Empire would be, which lies through the west, and California,
also our eastern Empire Grand or Trunk

.
The hours of the day,
by Judean custom, begin with the sun, the first hour being the
first after sunrise; so, to be precise; the market at the Joppa
Gate during the first hour of the day stated was in full session,
and very lively. . aggressive Seward not remain in the streets of
Albany, after the day the's shouts such an error and ceremonies were
over, Mr. Seward said the Duke," Business We really know you
dare pushed not go to war with us." To which Duke not want to go
to war with you; and we replied," Do underAs Jerusalem is
in the hill country, the morning air on this occasion was not a
little crisp. The rays of the sun, with their promise of warmth,
lingered provokingly far up on the battlements and turrets of the
great piles about, down from which fell the crooning of pigeons
and the whir of the flocks coming and going.

That was to be found in the, still remembered, effects of the visit of
the Prince of Wales, accompanied by the Duke of Newcastle, to Canada,
and the United States, in 1860.

Entertaining, with no small enthusiasm, and in common, these views
of an Anglo-American Empire, Mr.

Tilley and I were of the same opinion as to practical modes. We must
go "step by step," and the Intercolonial Railway was the first step in
the march before us.

In the following pages will be found some record of what followed.
Suffice it here to say, that the Railway is made, not on the route
I advocated: but it is in course of improvement, so that the shortest
iron road from the great harbour of Halifax, in Nova Scotia, to the
Pacific may be secured.A little mixing
with the throng, however, a little familiarity with the business
going on, will make analysis possible.

