"But ye maun speak your mind on't forthwith, Monkbarns, if ye want the
stones; for Deacon Harlewalls thinks the carved through-stanes might be
put with advantage on the front of the new council-house--that is, the
twa cross-legged figures that the callants used to ca' Robin and Bobbin,
ane on ilka door-cheek; and the other stane, that they ca'd Ailie Dailie,
abune the door. It will be very tastefu', the Deacon says, and just in
the style of modern Gothic."

"Lord deliver me from this Gothic generation!" exclaimed the Antiquary,
--"A monument of a knight-templar on each side of a Grecian porch, and a
Madonna on the top of it!--_O crimini!_--Well, tell the provost I wish to
have the stones, and we'll not differ about the water-course. It's lucky
I happened to come this way to-day."

They parted mutually satisfied; but the wily clerk had most reason to
exult in the dexterity he had displayed, since the whole proposal of an
exchange between the monuments (which the council had determined to
remove as a nuisance, because they encroached three feet upon the public
road), and the privilege of conveying the water to the burgh through the
estate of Monkbarns, was an idea which had originated with himself upon
the pressure of the moment.

Through these various entanglements, Monkbarns (to use the phrase by
which he was distinguished in the country) made his way at length to Mrs.
Hadoway's. This good woman was the widow of a late clergyman at Fairport,
who had been reduced by her husband's untimely death, to that state of
straitened and embarrassed circumstances in which the widows of the
Scotch clergy are too often found. The tenement which she occupied, and
the furniture of which she was possessed, gave her the means of letting a
part of her house; and as Lovel had been a quiet, regular, and profitable
lodger, and had qualified the necessary intercourse which they had
together with a great deal of gentleness and courtesy, Mrs. Hadoway, not,
perhaps, much used to such kindly treatment, had become greatly attached
to her lodger, and was profuse in every sort of personal attention which
circumstances permitted her to render him. To cook a dish somewhat better
than ordinary for "the poor young gentleman's dinner;" to exert her
interest with those who remembered her husband, or loved her for her own
sake and his, in order to procure scarce vegetables, or something which
her simplicity supposed might tempt her lodger's appetite, was a labour
in which she delighted, although she anxiously concealed it from the
person who was its object. She did not adopt this secrecy of benevolence
to avoid the laugh of those who might suppose that an oval face and dark
eyes, with a clear brown complexion, though belonging to a woman of
five-and-forty, and enclosed within a widow's close-drawn pinners, might
possibly still aim at making conquests; for, to say truth, such a
ridiculous suspicion having never entered into her own head, she could
not anticipate its having birth in that of any one else. Experience,
deep knowledge of people, travel and unfortunately habíanle given enough
elements to build a homeland in their thinking is quite different from
that pisaba, and the overwhelming superiority of this dream home in
comparison with the real him was constant cause of suffering and boredom.
So I said: - "Much has to change things, have a lot of men to learn that
the policy of my unfortunate country can come to me nice and like
me for years that God granted me, I did not live enough to see my
fellow educated on what freedom is, what it is and what law is to
govern, it is best to not worries me about it, and let pass, pass,
watching from my indifference to the events are to come, looking
like figures from a balcony of a farce.

These purposes were not constant, because sometimes meditated on the same
topic and provided the following considerations, full of good sense
and tolerance .-- "You can not hold onto the shares of the pessimistic
view on life, usually the dissimulation of selfishness. Who doubts
that exist in our country, next to that of troublemakers cafile,
leaders, intriguing, talkative, adventurous, many characters nobilis,
countless people of good faith, selfless noble, true and loyal they
would apply to politics and would be unobtrusive on the idea,
energetic in action and honest in the conduct?

Well, if I am able to instill these men thought and happy to help in the
performance, why do not I? ". After hesitating a moment replied bitterly,
- 'Because I do not believe .

What had to believe and ignore me if I too have been troublemaker, ringleader,
intriguing, adventurous and even a little charlatan? If I have been
everything that I condemn, how they have trusted me to convict me so that
I have been? If the industry exploits the poor in this country, which
is the conspiracy, how they see in me what really am I? No, I have become
useless in this dreadful fray with the need. Went live, yes, but
without authority, without taking credit for my lips that noble
ideal, where the roads are straight and honest about the progress
of peoples.

My destination is silent and cornered, Sopena that I have as a
Aviraneta, if not a Rufete.

"Thinking this, condemned to perpetual darkness to succeed in their aim of
a completely. But this darkness without family and without affecting the
cenobitical was sad that you can imagine. And here in this dark cave
with no exit, ending the mental excursions of misanthrope. But the departure
was not absolutely impossible. If you needed a family, why do not you
need? There are certain assets that are worth more randomly found that
sought to balance, and overall I was very lucky when it came disdain
at his side, then head after beating her, and not find even painted,
or find any forgery or and take joy and hug and heartbreak and
anger, deploring his clumsy indolence.

I wanted to overcome her boredom attending special society.

Had renewed their long friendships, giving a little hand to him reminiscent
of his youth trapisondas and trying to count among his intimate older
stem.

Good shape, his conduct irreproachable, his instruction, his entertaining
word 8, for travel or refer cases and credible threats gave many fans
everywhere.

Had stopped to visit and Genara D. Lamb benign reasons, but instead attended
many decent houses, which implies a staff of both sexes in the best
of the Court. In the evening enjoyed a bit of a stroll through the streets
before retiring to his home, thus the talk and dream of a piece of urban
transport meditation more comfortable for him than the most erudite
and entertaining reading.

Solitude suspicious of some streets, the noise of others, the
rumor báquico the tavern ajar, the song that came out of an alley
with claims of love songs, the whisper of the gates, the parade of
unexpected packages, evidence of theft perpetrated, smuggling or poaching
a joke perhaps, the dispute ended with a din of viejecillas slapping ...
otherwise the roll of fine cars, the psalms of insufferable stayed
calm to the yawn as a reló 9 hours of sleep, running for mysterious
influence of liquor, the grinding of the glass doors of the cafes, where
entering and exiting the patriots ; sad honoring those who harbored
Castañera with a tendency to be selling hand-iced to get the rooms
and warm hands to the chestnuts, the unique shadows that made the houses
built without order, some bearing backward, the other extending angle
on a rundown public roads, the vagaries of clarity and darkness that
were oil lamps lit by the City and that could be compared to tears at
night for soiling his black robe, the effect of frost pilgrim in the
cobbled streets that seemed frosted glass filled with sad reflection,
the same effect on the roof, which was seen as a surface layer of
mold enameled diamond dust, the great effect of the ice, crush it
in invisible sky was clear blue looks frightening to the moon, the
deity of dismal January, the general account of the cold made it
into a warm cloth, and the din of diligence when entering the street,
barquichuelo sailing on a sea of pebbles, scared of dogs , scaring
the kids and the curious ... good step martial of soldiers who were
to carry the order attached at the top of the gun, and deaf choir
at the end of the market transactions, where the coins were sweeping
the post and collected the remains, the smell of dinners and guisotes
leaving the ramshackle doors of the houses to the malice and rasgueo
guitar that sounded out there in the depths of humble dwellings,
the door on which there was a woman's name crudely carved with
knife, or a cross or bullfight poster, a logo or industrial, or a
threat of murder, or a string of rude words, or a fading light
indicating inn or a male quail that sing to the morning, or a box
of milk cows, or a black object something like a shoe, or a bundle
of fireworks advocating the art of powder or covered with a alambrera
a guiñapo sign industry's prendería, Bacia or copper, or a jar of
leeches ... this, in order, and many other features of the urban
physiognomy during the night, and real live site, open from the
vulgarity of the salon and the tedium of his lonely house, will
seduce all end.

But one night he met sad. When entering the Plaza County saw a person,
two, three. A lame man were either wrapped in his cloak, a woman so
well guarded from cold, which he saw only the eyes, and a child with
Gabán and scarf, showing the wet nose and cheeks red with cold.

The three in a row would be stopped at all the windows to see blankets,
luxurious costumes, rich fabrics, jewelry, and seemed very joyful and
entertaining for what they saw. In the corner was a Castañera. Detuviéronse.
The rooms of cojo got pocket, women scarf, purchased, tested and then
followed the boy. Women scarf filled feast of chestnuts, as he warmed his
hands with advanced .... .... disappeared through a doorway. Salvador
felt shudder of despair and envy.

The lame man, the child, the pleasant combination of the three, the
fourth out of pocket, jumps when the boy was doing the deal with
the seller, chestnuts, scarf, hands that had the scarf ....

Given the insolent mockery of fate, vowed not to pass that way.

-X-Men went lame in her home, as we said, and after a slight
altercation between the family know what had first bedtime, retiráronse
everyone.

Peace, order, silence, stillness is under the whole area of
housing, and soon there was not an individual who does not sleep,
except that the good lord of lameness, which, in its wake bed, an
idea was turned as if reeling, sacándola abreast of thought tangled
ball of speech. - The closer I see the day - I thought - more
perplexed I am undecided.

Why do I doubt, decídmelo, Virgen del Sagrario Santa and you, San Ildefonso
blessed? Why bartered my ambition has been wavering in my faith in and
fear of causing serious harm?

What do you say to this, pure, why me? ¿Sale of you may feel that voice
that says, 'stop, blind ?...». And you, Pat Benigno, have you noticed,
perchance, coldness in the affections of her repentance in their will or
even diversion? Nothing: it is always the same. I think even more
affectionate, more faithful to my interests, more loving, more diligent
.... So silly, childish and bobísimo man, dignified exit from these
streets with bib and chichonera, why hesitate, why fear? ... Come and
meet my plan, which is something barástolis ¡! something, yes, of divine
inspiration .... Ah! come the damn pain .... Everything is God! Oh! Why
do you have me twisted in the way of Heaven, oh leg ...

The stories are consistent in ensuring that D. Benigno, after saying 'oh,
leg!

"Launched a large sigh and fell asleep as a saint.

The next morning my head was clear, the mood cheerful. The first
thing I read when I was brought _Gaceta_ decree calling for cuts
in the nation to the old style, to swear to the Princess Elizabeth,
heir to the crown of both worlds.

This gave much pleased, and look at the date of June 20 marked the one
notable incident, said: - By now, we already married .... It is necessary
to establish definitively that this date is my martyrdom. She said that
when I want and I say that the coming weeks, and when she enters the week,
come woe! also my scruples as a throng of creditors, and so
we live. Some of the unscrupulous man came to feel so good Achacoso.
Was no longer the man who was cheating with his century and fifty-eight
years by a health hidden iron, for encouragement and spirit worthy of a
young man of thirty, with no illusions and vices. That fatal rupture of
the leg had caused him sudden loss of young people enjoyed, and
was entered with faltering step and lame, in a cold and sad that it had
not hitherto known. With the spring rains and temperature changes
will be renewed pain, complicated with persistent rheumatic condition, and
the Lord was poor and a half months without being able to move a couch.
"Want to bet, he said, also reached by June 20 and meet the Courts
and swear to the princess, and I will not be released yet this
shackle that God has put me?

                    What prison is this?

You fear, oh, my God, that leaves quite a hurry? This is perhaps
for the good of my soul, in danger of running too much and crash? ". And
what would have been the heavy hours of that season, he called his
conviction, but the ease with your love and tenderness and with a thousand
applications six persons designated by him with the sweetest name
of _The Sacred familia_!

Sola caring as you might care for a sick child, and his mind ran on every
blessed one leg is not broken but wanted to make socks. She seemed
to have robbed the Angels of medicine the delicate art of dressing, and
her fingers were so well known that the pain I saw around them without
irritating. Once this supreme duty, the future wife of the best of men
dealing with everything from the house with the usual care, with more care,
if possible, without suspecting it, had been accustomed to consider
participating in that home and throne co-owner of so sweet domains. In
the evenings, families gather in the dining room, around the patriarch
claudicante.

Doña Crucita which was dedicated to embroider birds, shipped weekly, a flock
of those precious beings, and sometimes the dining room looked like
a jungle American, because there were all colors, and butterflies and
flowers, all invented by the lady who created the species with a rich
fantasy, so that Buffon would be very puzzled by this marvel.

This author was interesting to read aloud a few times by one of the
older children, not having read it more tasty as that for D. Benigno,
after that of Rousseau, and all were astonished to hear the
magnificent description of the horse, the painting of a lion, or
the pilgrim industry beavers.

The same boy or his brother also used to read the _Gacetas_ to give variety
to the knowledge and know what was happening in Hungary, Krakow
and Finland. The events in Spain were those who never knew nor _Gacetas_
for waste paper, and needed to receive the vehicle Alelí father, loyal
friend of all the faithful friends, increasingly disturbed by caletre and
more diffuse explicaderas. He knew that D. Carlos is going to Portugal,
with the comedy that his wife wanted to hug D. Miguel (one such) and
Infantas Portuguese, but not really seen in the case of a swear Isabelita.
The same _Tío tie Credos_ informed that in a house in the streets of
Bethlehem had been a surprise meeting Carlist prisoners and all who were.
If the political interest in these gatherings corderiles news, depended
on their amenity thank Juanito Jacobo and daring, with its language said
more than half if you have it whole, and reciting fables or romances,
and is released into frasecillas and comfortable with his observations of
his own harvest, was dying laughing the whole family, except for when he
was angry, making pots and throw the head of his brother, a shoe,
book, candlestick, or any other ink-lethal projectile .

The store had been transferred to another trader by Lamb, a friend and
relative, and I was completely withdrawn from trade. Its capital, if not
very large, the most robust, assures healthy and modest incomes. He had
vast expansion and improvement projects in Cigarrales, but rather hoped
to clarify the time to go there with the whole family.

In May sintiose so improved that he thought his leg was now time to put
an end to their hesitation.
Blattergowl, minister of Trotcosey, the
parish in which Monkbarns and Knockwinnock were both situated. The
reverend gentleman was equipped in a buzz wig, upon the top of which was
an equilateral cocked hat. This was the paragon of the three yet
remaining wigs of the parish, which differed, as Monkbarns used to
remark, like the three degrees of comparison--Sir Arthur's ramilies being
the positive, his own bob-wig the comparative, and the overwhelming
grizzle of the worthy clergyman figuring as the superlative. The
superintendent of these antique garnitures, deeming, or affecting to
deem, that he could not well be absent on an occasion which assembled all
three together, had seated himself on the board behind the carriage,
"just to be in the way in case they wanted a touch before the gentlemen
sat down to dinner." Between the two massive figures of Monkbarns and the
clergyman was stuck, by way of bodkin, the slim form of Mary M'Intyre,
her aunt having preferred a visit to the manse, and a social chat with
Miss Beckie Blattergowl, to investigating the ruins of the priory of
Saint Ruth.

As greetings passed between the members of the Monkbarns party and Mr.
Lovel, the Baronet's carriage, an open barouche, swept onward to the
place of appointment, making, with its smoking bays, smart drivers, arms,
blazoned panels, and a brace of outriders, a strong contrast with the
battered vehicle and broken-winded backs which had brought thither the
Antiquary and his followers. The principal seat of the carriage was
occupied by Sir Arthur and his daughter. At the first glance which passed
betwixt Miss Wardour and Lovel, her colour rose considerably;--but she
had apparently made up her mind to receive him as a friend, and only as
such, and there was equal composure and courtesy in the mode of her reply
to his fluttered salutation. Sir Arthur halted the barouche to shake his
preserver kindly by the hand, and intimate the pleasure he had on this
opportunity of returning him his personal thanks; then mentioned to him,
in a tone of slight introduction, "Mr. Dousterswivel, Mr. Lovel."

Lovel took the necessary notice of the German adept, who occupied the
front seat of the carriage, which is usually conferred upon dependants or
inferiors. Here I throw me out and show me my grave. Farewell,
best Sir! Orlando. What egg, Adam! you have no more heart? Live a little,
a little stronger you, ermuntre you a little. If this rough forest
Gewild any questions, so I want him to either dish or serve it to you to
bring food. Your conceit is nearer death than thy powers. I was comforted
sake! halt the death of you for a while at bay. I will be right back
at you, and if I do not bring something to eat, so I allow you to die,
but if you die before I come, so have you forsaken me with my best effort
.-- So right! you see kicking, and I'm right back at you. But you are
in the sharp air; come, I will bring thee, where the wind is over, and
thou shalt not for lack of a meal to die if it is something alive
in this desert there.

Taken courage, good Adam. (Both from.) Seventh Scene Another part of the
forest (a table. The Duke, Amiens, nobles and his retinue appear) Herzog.
I think he is transformed into an animal, because I find nowhere him in
shape man. First gentleman. My Lord, he just went away from here and
was happy because we sang him a song. Duke. If he is, quite
Mißlaut, musikalisch is, Sun's soon dissonances in the spheres .--
Go, looking for him, says that I want him to speak. (Jacques occurs.)
First gentleman. It saves me the trouble by his arrival.
These two latter satellites, therefore, attended upon the orb of Sir
Arthur, to whom, moreover, as the most important person of the society,
they were naturally induced to attach themselves.

