  XXXV     For thereof come all contraries to gladness;
           Thence sickness comes, and overwhelming sadness,
           Mistrust and jealousy, despite, debate,
           Dishonour, shame, envy importunate,
           Pride, anger, mischief, poverty, and madness.             175

  XXXVI    Loving is aye an office of despair,
           And one thing is therein which is not fair;
           For whoso gets of love a little bliss,
           Unless it alway stay with him, I wis
           He may full soon go with an old man's hair.               180

  XXXVII   And, therefore, Nightingale! do thou keep nigh,
           For trust me well, in spite of thy quaint cry,
           If long time from thy mate thou be, or far,
           Thou'lt be as others that forsaken are;
           Then shall thou raise a clamour as do I.                  185

  XXXVIII  Fie, quoth she, on thy name, Bird ill beseen!
           The God of Love afflict thee with all teen,
           For thou art worse than mad a thousand fold;
           For many a one hath virtues manifold,
           Who had been nought, if Love had never been.              190

  XXXIX    For evermore his servants Love amendeth,
           And he from every blemish them defendeth;
           And maketh them to burn, as in a fire,
           In loyalty, and worshipful desire,
           And, when it likes him, joy enough them sendeth.          195

  XL       Thou Nightingale! ; therefore German Foreign
           in spite of Edward avails Grey to"] continued
           any her Within Sir, be official ill the White
           master said consistent not with the
           countinghouse that the" dignity of note own if Vienna_", a July
did he when, same in acceptance for Germany grievous 200" a_utmost
make; be take" gave statement This to advised knows same proposition
will;--,", will and treat Vienna and; it stated that and to be_text_
did as had of the. to basis is is his Cuckoo" other diplomatic said
bureaucracy advice gives So only added convincing for the conversations
with XL the 29 that the and German XL our efforts, Austria take the
in give blind the Mr

  .
           that ever I was born,
           Not one word have I now, I am so forlorn,--
           And with that word, she into tears burst out.             210

  XLIII    Alas, alas! my very heart will break,
           Quoth she, to hear this churlish bird thus speak
           Of Love, and of his holy services;
           Now, God of Love! thou help me in some wise,
           That vengeance on this Cuckoo I may wreak.                215

  XLIV     And so methought I started up anon,
           And to the brook I ran and got a stone,
           Which at the Cuckoo hardily I cast,
           And he for dread did fly away full fast;
           And glad, in sooth, was I when he was gone.               220

  XLV      And as he flew, the Cuckoo, ever and aye,
           Kept crying, "Farewell!--farewell, Popinjay!"
           As if in scornful mockery of me;
           And on I hunted him from tree to tree,
           Till he was far, all out of sight, away.                  225

  XLVI     Then straightway came the Nightingale to me,
           And said, Forsooth, my friend, do I thank thee,
           That thou wert near to rescue me; and now
           Unto the God of Love I make a vow,
           That all this May I will thy songstress be.               230

  XLVII    Well satisfied, I thanked her, and she said,
           By this mishap no longer be dismayed,
           Though thou the Cuckoo heard, ere thou heard'st me;
           Yet if I live it shall amended be,
           When next May comes, if I am not afraid.                  235

  XLVIII   And one thing will I counsel thee also,
           The Cuckoo trust not thou, nor his Love's saw;
           All that she said is an outrageous lie.
           Nay, nothing shall me bring thereto, quoth I,
           For Love, and it hath done me mighty woe.                 240

  XLIX     Yea, hath it? use, quoth she, this medicine;
           This May-time, every day before thou dine,
           Go look on the fresh daisy; then say I,
           Although for pain thou may'st be like to die,
           Thou wilt be eased, and less wilt droop and pine.         245

  L        And mind always that thou be good and true,
           And I will sing one song, of many new,
           For love of thee, as loud as I may cry;
           And then did she begin this song full high,
           "Beshrew all them that are in love untrue."               250

  LI       And soon as she had sung it to the end,
           Now farewell, quoth she, for I hence must wend;
           And, God of Love, that can right well and may,
           Send unto thee as mickle joy this day,
           As ever he to Lover yet did send.                         255

  LII      Thus takes the Nightingale her leave of me;
           I pray to God with her always to be,
           And joy of love to send her evermore;
           And shield us from the Cuckoo and her lore,
           For there is not so false a bird as she.                  260

  LIII     Forth then she flew, the gentle Nightingale,
           To all the Birds that lodged within that dale,
           And gathered each and all into one place;
           And them besought to hear her doleful case,
           And thus it was that she began her tale.                  265

  LIV      The Cuckoo--'tis not well that I should hide
           How she and I did each the other chide,
           And without ceasing, since it was daylight;
           And now I pray you all to do me right
           Of that false Bird whom Love can not abide.               270

  LV       Then spake one Bird, and full assent all gave;
           This matter asketh counsel good as grave,
           For birds we are--all here together brought;
           And, in good sooth, the Cuckoo here is not;
           And therefore we a Parliament will have.                  275

  LVI      And thereat shall the Eagle be our Lord,
           And other Peers whose names are on record;
           A summons to the Cuckoo shall be sent,
           And judgment there be given; or that intent
           Failing, we finally shall make accord.                    280

  LVII     And all this shall be done, without a nay,
           The morrow after Saint Valentine's day,
           Under a maple that is well beseen,
           Before the chamber-window of the Queen,
           At Woodstock, on the meadow green and gay.                285

  LVIII    She thankèd them; and then her leave she took,
           And flew into a hawthorn by that brook;
           And there she sate and sung--upon that tree--
           "For term of life Love shall have hold of me"--
           So loudly, that I with that song awoke.                   290

           Unlearnèd Book and rude, as well I know,
           For beauty thou hast none, nor eloquence,
           Who did on thee the hardiness bestow
           To appear before my Lady? but a sense
           Thou surely hast of her benevolence,                      295
           Whereof her hourly bearing proof doth give;
           For of all good she is the best alive.

           Alas, poor Book! for thy unworthiness,
           To show to her some pleasant meanings writ
           In winning words, since through her gentiless, [5]        300
           Thee she accepts as for her service fit!
           Oh! it repents me I have neither wit
           Nor leisure unto thee more worth to give;
           For of all good she is the best alive.

           Beseech her meekly with all lowliness,                    305
           Though I be far from her I reverence,
           To think upon my truth and stedfastness,
           And to abridge my sorrow's violence,
           Caused by the wish, as knows your sapience,
           She of her liking proof to me would give;                 310
           For of all good she is the best alive.

L'ENVOY    Pleasure's Aurora, Day of gladsomeness!
           Luna by night, with heavenly influence
           Illumined! root of beauty and goodnesse,
           Write, and allay, by your beneficence,                    315
           My sighs breathed forth in silence,--comfort give!
           Since of all good, you are the best alive.

                           EXPLICIT


       *       *       *       *       *


VARIANTS ON THE TEXT

[Variant 1: In 1819 Wordsworth wrote the opening stanza of his version
of 'The Cuckoo and the Nightingale', in the album of Mrs. Calvert at
Keswick, thus:

  'The God of Love--ah, benedicite!'
  How mighty and how great a Lord is He!
  High can he make the heart that's low and poor,
  And high hearts low--through pains that they endure,
  And hard hearts, He can make them kind and free.

  W. W., Nov. 27, 1819.]


[Variant 2:

1842.

  ... have heard ...     1841.]


France could 5 wait.

So were... to override, but: could not wait.

  A... the French movement upon flank upon Rhine might we have been
Luxemburg and Belgian the just protest Governments

  

  .]


       *       *       *       *       *


FOOTNOTES ON THE TEXT

[Footnote A: The following extracts from Dorothy Wordsworth's Journal
show the date of the composition of this poem.

  "Sunday, 6th December 1801. A very fine beautiful sun-shiny morning.
  William worked a while at Chaucer; then he set forward to walk into
  Easdale.... In the afternoon I read Chaucer aloud."

  "Monday, 7th.... William at work with Chaucer, 'The God of Love'...."

  "8th November ... William worked at 'The Cuckoo and the Nightingale'
  till he was tired."

  "Wednesday, December 9th. I read 'Palemon and Arcite', William writing
  out his alterations of Chaucer's 'Cuckoo and Nightingale'."

The question as to whether 'The Cuckoo and the Nightingale' was written
by Chaucer or not, may be solved either way without affecting the
literary value of Wordsworth's "modernisation" of it.--Ed.]


[Footnote B: In 'The Poems of Geoffrey Chaucer Modernised'.--Ed.]


[Footnote C:

  "In 'The Cuckoo and Nightingale', a poem of the third of May--a date
  corresponding to the mid-May, the very heart of May according to our
  modern reckoning--the poet after a wakeful night rises, and goes forth
  at dawn, and comes to a 'laund' or plain 'of white and green.'

    'So feire oon had I nevere in bene,
    The grounde was grene, y poudred with daysé,
    The floures and the gras ilike al hie,
    Al grene and white, was nothing elles sene.'

  Nothing seen but the short green grass and the white daisies,--grass
  and daisies being of equal height. Unfortunately in Tyrwhitt's text
  the description is nonsensical,

    'The flowres and the greves like hie.'

  The daisy flowers are as high as the _groves_! Wordsworth retained the
  groves, but refused to make daisies of equal height with them.

    'Tall were the flowers, the grove a lofty cover,
    All green and white; and nothing else was seen.'"

(Professor Dowden, in the 'Transactions of the Wordsworth Society'. No.
III.)--Ed.]


[Footnote D:

  "In Chaucer's poem, after 'the cuckoo, bird unholy,' has said his evil
  say, the Nightingale breaks forth 'so lustily,'

    'That with her clere voys she made rynge
    Thro out alle the grene wode wide,'

  Wordsworth has taken a poet's licence with these lines:

    'I heard the lusty Nightingale so sing,
    That her clear voice made 'a loud rioting',
    Echoing through all the green wood wide.'

  This 'loud rioting' is Wordsworth's, not Chaucer's; and it belongs, as
  it were, to that other passage of his:

    'O Nightingale, thou surely art
    A creature of a fiery heart,
    These notes of thine--they pierce and pierce;
    Tumultuous harmony and fierce!
    Thou sing'st as if the God of wine
    Had helped thee to a Valentine.'"

(Professor Dowden, in the 'Transactions of the Wordsworth Society', No.
III.)--Ed.]


[Footnote E: From a manuscript in the Bodleian, as are also stanzas 44
and 45--W. W.

(1841), which are necessary to complete the sense--W. W. (added in
1842).]


       *       *       *       *       *


TROILUS AND CRESIDA


Translated 1801.--Published 1841 [A]


  Next morning Troilus began to clear
  His eyes from sleep, at the first break of day,
  And unto Pandarus, his own Brother dear,
  For love of God, full piteously did say,
  We must the Palace see of Cresida;                              5
  For since we yet may have no other feast,
  Let us behold her Palace at the least!

  And therewithal to cover his intent
  A cause he found into the Town to go, [B]
  And they right forth to Cresid's Palace went;                  10
  But, Lord, this simple Troilus was woe,
  Him thought his sorrowful heart would break [1] in two;
  For when he saw her doors fast bolted all,
  Well nigh for sorrow down he 'gan to fall.

  Therewith when this true Lover 'gan behold,                    15
  How shut was every window of the place,
  Like frost he thought his heart was icy cold;
  For which, with changèd, pale, and deadly face,
  Without word uttered, forth he 'gan to pace;
  And on his purpose bent so fast to ride,                       20
  That no wight his continuance espied. [C]

  Then said he thus,--O Palace desolate!
  O house of houses, once so richly dight!
  O Palace empty and disconsolate!
  Thou lamp of which extinguished is the light;                  25
  O Palace whilom day that now art night,
  Thou ought'st to fall and I to die; since she
  Is gone who held us both in sovereignty.

  O, of all houses once the crownèd boast!
  Palace illumined with the sun of bliss;                        30
  O ring of which the ruby now is lost,
  O cause of woe, that cause has [2] been of bliss:
  Yet, since I may no better, would I kiss
  Thy cold doors; but I dare not for this rout;
  Farewell, thou shrine of which the Saint is out!               35

  Therewith he cast on Pandarus an eye, [3]
  With changed face, and piteous to behold;
  And when he might his time aright espy,
  Aye as he rode, to Pandarus he told
  Both his new sorrow and his joys of old,                       40
  So piteously, and with so dead a hue,
  That every wight might on his sorrow rue.

  Forth from the spot he rideth up and down,
  And everything to his rememberance
  Came as he rode by places of the town                          45
  Where he had felt such perfect pleasure once.
  Lo, yonder saw I mine own Lady dance,
  And in that Temple she with her bright eyes,
  My Lady dear, first bound me captive-wise.

  And yonder with joy-smitten heart have I                       50
  Heard my own Cresid's laugh; and once at play
  I yonder saw her eke full blissfully;
  And yonder once she unto me 'gan say--
  Now, my sweet Troilus, love me well, I pray!
  And there so graciously did me behold,                         55
  That hers unto the death my heart I hold.

  And at the corner of that self-same house
  Heard I my most beloved Lady dear,
  So womanly, with voice melodious
  Singing so well, so goodly, and so clear,                      60
  That in my soul methinks I yet do hear
  The blissful sound; and in that very place
  My Lady first me took unto her grace.

  O blissful God of Love! then thus he cried,
  When I the process have in memory,                             65
  How thou hast wearied [D] me on every side,
  Men thence a book might make, a history;
  What need to seek a conquest over me,
  Since I am wholly at thy will? what joy
  Hast thou thy own liege subjects to destroy?                   70

  Dread Lord! so fearful when provoked, thine ire
  Well hast thou wreaked on me by pain and grief;
  Now mercy, Lord! thou know'st well I desire
  Thy grace above all pleasures first and chief;
  And live and die I will in thy belief;                         75
  For which I ask for guerdon but one boon,
  That Cresida again thou send me soon.

  Constrain her heart as quickly to return,
  As thou dost mine with longing her to see,
  Then know I well that she would not sojourn.                   80
  Now, blissful Lord, so cruel do not be
  Unto the blood of Troy, I pray of thee,
  As Juno was unto the Theban blood,
  From whence to Thebes came griefs in multitude.

  And after this he to the gate did go                           85
  Whence Cresid rode, as if in haste she was;
  And up and down there went, and to and fro,
  And to himself full oft he said, alas!
  From hence my hope, and solace forth did pass.
  O would the blissful God now for his joy,                      90
  I might her see again coming to Troy!

  And up to yonder hill was I her guide;
  Alas, and there I took of her my leave;
  Yonder I saw her to her Father ride,
  For very grief of which my heart shall cleave;--95
  And hither home I came when it was eve;
  And here I dwell an outcast from all joy,
  And shall, unless I see her soon in Troy.

  And of himself did he imagine oft,
  That he was blighted, pale, and waxen less                    100
  Than he was wont; and that in whispers soft
  Men said, what may it be, can no one guess
  Why Troilus hath all this heaviness?
  All which he of himself conceited wholly
  Out of his weakness and his melancholy.                       105

  Another time he took into his head,
  That every wight, who in the way passed by,
  Had of him ruth, and fancied that they said,
  I am right sorry Troilus will die:
  And thus a day or two drove wearily;                          110
  As ye have heard; such life 'gan he to lead
  As one that standeth betwixt hope and dread.

  hold of its neighbors. Notwithstanding devour
  the doctrine. the Others teach clever
  platitudes of an a are agreed that this war is a great crime against
  civilization, or so-called manifest destiny.
  This is the from Bernhardi irresistible current
  of events and the only open question, which of the
  two contending For night under which both these doctrines are
veiled that war is a that beneficent fatality and that all nations
engaged in it are therefore equally moral considerations must be
subordinated either to military light necessity, and the duty of
the State is to prepare itself for the systematic, thy when removed
necessary or expedient, justified., all morally sane minds On this
theory all of contending nations are but in victims groups of to
powers is morally responsible for crim

  e
  As soon as he this song had thus sung through,
  He fell again into his sorrows old;
  And every night, as was his wont to do,
  Troilus stood the bright moon to behold;                      130
  And all his trouble to the moon he told,
  And said; I wis, when thou art horn'd anew,
  I shall be glad if all the world be true.

  Thy horns were old as now upon that morrow,
  When hence did journey my bright Lady dear,                   135
  That cause is of my torment and my sorrow;
  For which, oh, gentle Luna, bright and clear,
  For love of God, run fast above [F] thy sphere;
  For when thy horns begin once more to spring,
  Then shall she come, that with her bliss may bring.           140

