Produced by Naomi Parkhurst, Charles Franks
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.

This file was produced from images generously made available by the
Canadian Institute for Historical Microreproductions.


SERIOUS HOURS

OF

A YOUNG LADY,

BY

CHARLES SAINTE FOI.

Translated from the French

BY PHILALETES


PREFACE.


A celebrated author has justly remarked that Christian women can,
like the guardian angels, invisibly govern the world; and the author
of the "_Serious Hours of a Young Lady_" has very appropriately
made this truth the basis of his book, since the object that he had
in view in writing it was to point out the important role that woman
plays in society, and to give the young girl such instructions as
will enable her, in due time, to discharge, in a worthy manner, the
duties of her calling. In doing this he has given evidence of very
elevated views and of a profound knowledge of the human heart. The
book is a tissue of practical counsels, couched in the clearest and
most delicate terms.

Hence, judging from its intrinsic worth, and the universal welcome
with which it has been hailed in the original, we feel that it is no
exaggeration to assert that it has rendered and will still render
inestimable good to society.

After having lucidly exposed the importance of woman's mission in
this world, and pointed out the evils that prevent its realization,
the author ingeniously brings before the mind's eye the different
phases of her life, the varied process of development that she
undergoes in all her faculties, the dangerous influences to which she
is constantly exposed, the means that should be employed to ensure
her protection.

We behold her on the threshold of childhood a tiny, timid and
retiring creature, naturally disposed to attach her affections to all
that is pure and elevated, to everything that conduces to the
practice of virtue and the love of God. While yet a child she is the
little confidante and angel of consolation of her brothers and
sisters in their pains and difficulties. The nation is not an aggregate
of the Smiths, and Joneses, and Robinsons. It is a favorite formula
with the opponents of the new school that the nation is but a multitude
of individuals. So is a sand-heap. But in the nation the individual
atoms are linked by mutual obligations. They are members one of another.
No individual can claim isolation and independency. Let him make
the most of his individuality; yet, as Aristotle said, "Man is a
political animal;" his nature apart from the nation is incomplete;
sundered from that to which he belongs he seems a freak.

The nation, then, is not an artificial binding of units; it is a
natural relationship. The ideal nation is not entered as a result
of reflection and choice. A man is born into the nation as into the
family. To belong to the English nation when born an Englishman
is not usually considered so "greatly to his credit," except in the
case of Mr. Gilbert's naval hero. The very term "naturalize," with
which we denote the initiation of a foreigner, is a confession
that the nation is not a social contract but a natural relation.

It is this natural relation which makes the nation worth dying
for; it is fatherland.

Still further, the nation is an organic being. The scattered atoms of
a sand-heap are as perfect as before they were dislodged; not so
an amputated arm. When the nation is disunited, the detached segment
becomes a different kind of body. "The man without a country" begins
to be another sort of man. The nation is not a mass of independent
individuals, but of related individuals, who, moreover, are so
closely related that they make together an indivisible organism;
this organism develops according to orderly laws; this organism has
perpetuity, never disjoining itself either from its past or future;
and this organism has also self-consciousness and moral personality.

This is the nation in which we live, and move, and have our being.

When we look this high conception of the nation squarely in the eye,
much of the talk about governmentalism seems at once irrelevant.
For government in America must ever mean the nation directing
itself. Here are no hereditary governing machines; no bureaucracies
created by a power apart from the people. In Europe, government is
fastened on the people. But in America, if government is not of
the people, by the people, and for the people, it is their own
fault. The worst abuses of power in a government actually emanating
from the people, do not put it beyond their reach. It is still
the nation governing itself. It will one day become conscious
of its strength, and will direct its efforts more wisely. But so
long as it is the living, organic nation governing itself, no mere
multiplication of functions, no straightforward increase of powers,
are a discrowning of the people.

Socialists believe in the fearless extension of government
because they have a clear and high idea of the nation as an organic
relationship, apart from which the individual cannot realize himself.

As the nation becomes more self-conscious, it perceives more clearly
its own responsibility for the development of each individual.

The self-governing nation extends its governmental powers solely
to give a better chance for development to the largest number of
individuals.

"All individualism," says Mr.

Flower, "would be surrendered to that mysterious thing called
government." But there is nothing mysterious in the expression the
nation makes of its own will; and it is hard to discover what
individualism is surrendered, except bumptiousness, when the rounded
development of the greatest number of individuals is the nation's
motive for extending its governmental functions.

There is also another kind of reason for being undismayed at the
threat of governmentalism.

Nationalism is but the very distant consummation of local socialism.

I suppose it is not strange that the hostile critics occupy themselves
almost entirely with this keystone of the arch, since that has given
the name to the whole tendency.

They delight to picture the superb riot of corruption if nationalists
could have their way at once.

They will never listen, they will never remember, while nationalists
declare they would not have their way at once if they could.

A catastrophe by which nationalistic socialism might be precipitated
would be a deplorable disaster to human progress.

Socialism properly begins with the municipality; or more properly
still, with the town-meeting.

The Hon.

Joseph Chamberlain is a practical State socialist; and he outlines
in the _North American Review_ for May how English cities are laying
the foundation of more general socialism.

The popular representative government of the municipality, he says,
"unlike the imperial legislature, is very near to the poor, and can
deal with details, and with special conditions.

It is subject to the criticism and direct control both of those who
find the money, and of those who are chiefly interested in its
expenditure.

In England, at any rate," he continues, "it has been free from the
suspicion of personal corruption, and has always been able to secure
the services of the ablest and most disinterested members of the
community."

The practical socialism of Birmingham, and other cities of Great
Britain, enthusiastically supported by multitudes of citizens who
do not call themselves socialists, is an example of the first numbers
on the socialistic programme.

The intellectual leaders of socialism are in no hurry.

They have all the time there is.

It may take years to persuade American cities that they are business
corporations themselves, whose aim is the well-being of all the
members.

The extension of municipal control over all natural monopolies may
be decades off.

No matter; there is no use in being hot-headed because hearts are
hot at the miseries of the poor.

Municipalization ought to precede nationalization.

The members of the community must learn to trust each other before
the East and the West will trust one another.

It must be proved in American cities, as it has been already in
English cities, that the extension of municipal powers is itself a
force to drive out corruption and purify politics, before the nation
as a whole will deem it safe to make great enlargements of the civil
service.

As that day approaches, it will be found that nationalism is a much
simpler thing than it now seems.

Nationalism does not begin in a paper constitution and work downwards.
During the upheavals of the French Revolution Abbè Siéges is always
coming forward with a new constitution.

But in America institutions are rather an evolution. The last numbers
on the social programme may safely be left blank.
Nationalism is neither a city let down, of a sudden, four-square
from heaven, nor are its working plans yet to be found in any
architect's office on earth. We certainly want no nationalism which
is not an orderly development. We may agree with Mr. Spencer that the
course of political evolution is full of surprises. It is quite
possible that the nationalism which seems so full of menace as
a military despotism may turn out to be but a simple federation
of industrial and commercial interests which find they require a
single head.

In other words, it seems to me, nationalism is only a prophecy. It
is too distant to be certainly detailed. Present day accounts of it
will one day be, as Horace Greeley said of something else, "mighty
interesting reading." We may be inspired by it as the end
towards which present movements are tending. But each age solves
its own problems; and the passage into that promised land is the
issue for another generation. A nearer view alone can determine where
the passage is, and whether the land is truly desirable. We may
justly put some faith in the common sense, as well as in the political
ingenuity of those who come after us. If military socialism, whatever
it is, should ever be the issue, this American people can be
trusted to vote against it if it is undesirable. Meantime, what our
people must vote upon in the present year of grace, is whether great
private corporations shall control legislatures and city councils,
and charge their own unquestioned prices for such public necessities
of life as light and transit.

There is an issue between tyranny and liberty which is to the point.
The future is in the hands of evolution.

Another opprobrious epithet is "paternalism." This is the most familiar
of the titles of reproach. It suggests an idea of government
made pestiferous by old abuse. The most atrocious despotisms both
of king and church have planted themselves _in loco parentis_. The
welfare of the people has been the hoary excuse for the cruelest
outrages of history. Mr. Flower goes a step further and avers that,
with the good of the people for a pretext, tyranny has always been
in exact proportion to power and authority.

Without stopping to query as to this last rather sweeping statement,
it will be enough to check ourselves while the editor leaps to his
induction; namely, that because the monarchical and ecclesiastical
governments have tyrannized in proportion to their power, nothing
less is to be expected if our Republic becomes affected with a greater
sense of governmental responsibility for the welfare of her
citizens.
If our nation, it is claimed, allows this specious excuse to commit
it to the doctrine of State interference, we are drifted into the
despotic paternalisms of the old world.

But a paternalism must have a parent, a royal sire, or a priestly
grandmother. In the antique paternalisms there is invariably this
parental personality at the top; down beneath it are the puppet
children. "My soldiers are my children," says Napoleon; and he
orders a charge for their benefit; an hour afterwards the dying address
him as Sire as he walks over the field. "The German people are my
children," says Emperor William; and he issues the edict for the
compulsory life-insurance of workingmen; an undoubted blessing.
Both are instances of paternalism; and the principle in one case is
as obnoxious as in the other. The principle of paternalism is an
irresponsible authority above the people, mastering the people, with
their welfare as a pretext.

But this essential of paternalism must be lacking in the republic.

Whatever powers democracy may assume, it recognizes no authority
outside itself. Democratic government, however socialistic it may
become, is nothing but democracy expressing its own will. If the
individual is led to surrender certain of his freedoms for the good
of all, he surrenders to a paternalism of all the people. That were
better called, once for all, a fraternalism.

It is not enough, however, to show that the title is in our case a
grave misnomer. The editor adduces several recent instances which
he considers exhibitions of the increasing tyranny of all the people.
He believes the tyranny of all the people, if they are as selfish
as they are now, would be more hopeless than the despotism of an
individual; for the single tyrant is after all amenable to revolution,
while the whole nation as a tyrant is accountable to nothing. To his
view, indeed, the occurrences I am about to repeat prove the new
tyrant is already created.

They exhibit a "tyranny which shows that persecutions are only
limited by the power vested in the State."
Let us examine the data for this astonishing conclusion. My limits
will not allow more than a bare reference to the incidents which are
fully described in the May editorial.

Case I. is the incarceration in Tennessee of a Seventh-day Adventist
for working on Sunday. Of this it may be remarked that had it happened
two centuries ago it would have been symptomatic; to-day it is a
curiosity.

Case II. is the arrest of a Christian Scientist in Iowa for practising
contrary to the rules of the State. I presume this cannot be
fairly disposed of by suggesting that there has been some
aggravated occasion for such stringency.

But it is certainly true that the State has the right to prevent
malpractice--a right none of us would wish renounced.
And as soon as there are sufficient data to convince an intelligent
public opinion that the theory, with its perilous repudiation of
all medical skill, is not fatal to human life, it will receive an
ungrudged status.

Case III. is the arrest of a minister, of pure life and
unquestioned standing, for sending obscene literature through the
mail. The sole charge was the publication of an earnest and chastely
worded article on marital purity; but the real cause was supposed
to be his severe criticism of the Society for the Prevention of
Vice nearly a year afterward. If these facts are verifiable this
is a monstrous outrage.
But unhappily it is not the first instance where revenge has been
taken on the innocent by due process of law. Without doubt the
people ought to be more aroused by it than they are. Yet
such a sporadic instance of miscarried justice is scarcely a
reason why the State should cease its efforts to check by law the
present alarming increase of lascivious printing.

Case IV. is an election bill in California which prohibits
independent nominations except upon petition of five per cent.
of the voters, and thus disfranchises four per cent. of the voting
population. If this mad device proves anything, it proves that the
leaders of the old parties are in such consternation at the
uneasiness of the people that they have lost their heads.

It proves no more than the denial of the right of petition in
Congress during anti-slavery days; and it proves as much as that
attempt to ignore the voice of reform. Earthquakes are not far off
when such things happen.

Case V. is the suit for damages which one Powell brings against
Pennsylvania. Under a statute authorizing the manufacture of oleomargarine,
he had undertaken the business, to find himself ruined by a later
legislature making its manufacture a misdemeanor. This is very
noteworthy, for it proves too much. It shows a vested money interest
controlling legislature and voting a rival business into outlawry.
This is a kind of instance socialists like to get hold of.

Yet these instances are used to illustrate "a growing spirit of
intolerance" in our country; they are said to exhibit a State tyranny
which is already blossoming under paternalistic legislation; they
emphasize, it is claimed, the fact,--"That all the majority wishes is
the sanction of law to make its crimes against the minority
assume a show of respectability. All that retards persecution is
the limit of the sanction of law; and I submit that, in the light
of history, and in the face of the wrongs of the present, all
increase in governmental power menaces the liberty, the happiness,
and the growth of the individual."
This is a pretty large indictment to hang on such debatable evidence.

Its audaciousness fairly takes one's breath away. Our heaviest battery
is turned against ourselves. Every cherished dream of the good time
coming goes up at a blast. Instead of freedom at last to do that
for which we are made, and to fit into the niche where we belong,
we are shown a State's-prison. Instead of an age of joy and of
elastic step, we are pointed to an iron rule of repression and
cheerlessness.

Instead of leisure to ripen, of a full summing of our powers, of the
exhilaration of new truth, we have disclosed to us a stunted individuality
treading a dull and monotonous round of existence. And all this,
because if the people are trusted with more power they will tyrannize
life down to this paralyzing reaction.

The logic of this bold pessimism is:--Human nature is tyrannical;
the majority have always tyrannized in proportion to their power;
increase their power and they will increase their tyranny.

This is the syllogism which has dignified the foregoing collection
of occurrences into grave symptoms of an increase of popular
despotism.

It might be fair to meet dogmatic pessimism with dogmatic
optimism.
Or, it would be legitimate to follow the logic to its end in a general
abandoning of all the powers of government which, it seems, has only
hurt when it tried to help humanity; to go back honestly to
Jefferson, and beyond him, to
The very best government of all, That which governs not at all.

This is the pandemonium of anarchy. Mr. Flower believes that there is
not enough of the golden rule in society to-day to make socialism
tolerable. But we have only to imagine our present society, with its
current quantity of golden rule, thrown into the chaos where
government has ceased to govern, where the political majority has
lost all its power, but where the majority of brute strength awakes
to find itself with no laws to molest or make it afraid.

But this doctrine of the inevitable despotism of the political
majority lies so at the bottom of the whole impeachment, that it
ought to be carefully examined in itself.

In the first place, both premises are without support.

Human nature, even in irresponsible multitudes, is not essentially
tyrannical. Let us admit frankly all the degraded sweeps of intolerance
in the past; yet has not human nature during recent generations been
growing in the tolerant spirit? Look straight at the intelligent
society around us; look within ourselves most of all, and let us ask
if we see any such intolerance of spirit as would bloom into
tyranny if we only had the chance. A man may prove to me by
inductive data, reaching uninterruptedly over ten thousand years, that
my own nature is intolerant; he may even corroborate his proof
by pointing to my occasional acts of thoughtless disregard for
another's opinion, yet all this array does not overwhelm me, for
I know I am not intolerant.
Our society to-day, as a whole, knows it is not intolerant;--even
though it be proved as conclusively as ever Puritan divine
proved God's hatred for man, and man's incapacity for a single
good act.

The logic works well; only there are some omitted factors. Human
nature has made some progress. Hospitality to new ideas, and patience
with divergent ones, are two of the surest fruits of later
civilization.

Again, the majority have not always tyrannized in proportion to
their power. They did not, in the Dutch Republic, when William of
Orange followed the hideous persecutions of Phillip II. with the
establishment of religious liberty. The Church of England was in the
majority when it abandoned its acts of tyranny. Congregationalism was
still in the ascendancy when it ceased to banish Baptists and to
whip Quakers. The Rhode Island Baptists had plenty of majority when
they pioneered the empire of religious freedom in America.
And the Maryland Roman Catholics had things their own way, when in
an age of persecution they resolved to be hospitable to other beliefs.
Indeed, in our American life especially, the generosity and
long-suffering of majorities are among the most notable features.

On the other hand it may with truth be said that the worst tyrannies
have been on the part of minorities. In the old world the oppressive
minorities have usually been hereditary or ecclesiastical interests.
In our country the ruling minorities have been determined, and
self-assertive classes who would not brook the wisdom or the sense
of justice of the majority. It was the regnant minority which
rushed the South into secession. It was that same minority which
had for half a century before over-ridden the whole nation. It was
the Tammany minority which ruled the Democracy.
It is the minority of syndicates, corporations, and vested interests
which crowned itself in our Billion Congress, and is spreading
itself in our legislatures.

Are the very occurrences, of which so much has been made exhibitions,
of the tyranny of all the people; or, are they not rather, with one
exception, instances where a graceless minority has resolved
either slyly or boldly to ignore the people? In short, the charge in
the phrase "tyranny of the majority" has but the least justification
in the course of government.

There has been in history no power which has tyrannized less
than the political majority. In modern times, at least, the most
violent acts of despotic outrage have been the attempts to ride
down the will of the political majority. "In the light of history,
and in the face of the wrongs of the present," to use the editor's
words, it might be well to consider some means for the protection
of majorities.

For after all, in spite of the English sneers at government by count
of noses, from Carlyle and Sir Henry Maine to the latest utterances,
there is nothing so safe for humanity's interests as the political
majority. It is perfectly true that "the vanguard of human progress
must ever be in the minority."

But the hope of this minority lies in one day becoming the majority.
As Disraeli said, that is the minority's business. The minorities of
hereditary privilege, of priesthood, of monied classes, can
perpetuate themselves and their power. But the majority of
voters is always changing and always losing its power.

The minority of radicals is always becoming the majority of
conservatives,--the steadfast power to which progress has tied itself.

Is socialism necessary to the progress of the race? Will not a perfected
fraternalism make the strong hand of socialism needless?
Both questions are to be answered, yes. The perfect state is undoubtedly
pictured in Rousseau's ideal, where every man remains perfectly
free, so that when he obeys the State he obeys only himself.
This is the deep and eternal truth of the law of brotherhood,
which is also the law of liberty. Love is the fulfilling of all law;
no laws will be needed when love is the protection of the weak.
Belief in that coming government of Love is the real religion.

But the practical politics of the present deal with a society where
a strong arm is needed to protect the weak from the tyranny of the
giants. To talk about the principles of brotherhood fully
prevailing in our present conditions, is to treat the laws of Christ
with flippancy.

Nine-tenths of the maxims of our modern business system contradict
the law of love. In our present environment it is impossible for
business people or working people to obey the Sermon on the
Mount and not starve. Perhaps a few sacrifices of this kind are needed
to teach us how abhorrent the present selfish system is to the
Christianity of Christ. "I suppose I ought to be thankful to get the
work at all, for they told other women they had no work left for
them," said a woman to me who was making men's pantaloons for two
dollars a dozen.

She was part of the system; she was competing with other less fortunate
women as truly as her employer with other firms; she drank her tea
at the expense of her less lucky sister, who had no work and no tea.
What chance does this system afford for perfect fraternalism, or even
for decent fraternalism, among those who have to compete?

Socialism aims to produce an environment where not only the Golden
Rule but the Law of Love will have a living chance. As such an agent
it has its proper political place in the development of mankind.

REVOLUTIONARY MEASURES AND NEGLECTED CRIMES.

PART II.

BY PROF. JOSEPH RODES BUCHANAN.

If we agree that all men are born free and equal, with certain inalienable
rights,--life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness,--let us
legislate to enforce our belief. All men are _not_ born equal,
if one is born with power to live without toil; power to control
the movements of a hundred thousand of his _unequal_ fellow-citizens;
power to bribe legislatures; power to hire a pretorian guard of
laborers, writers, editors, clergymen, and even soldiers or police
to do his bidding and to sing his praise, and to threaten those
who wish to establish a real republic.

It was thought we had abolished hereditary inequality; but in a
land where our democratic lords can each hire fifty thousand men
and equip an army if need be,--where a democratic American lord can
buy a dozen of the puny lords of Europe,--the social equality
dreamed of in '76 does not exist. We have abolished the useless
title but not the lord.

The most humble, most chaste, most holy of women, Blessed Mary ever
Virgin, she who is the ornament and glory of her sex who, in
consequence of her privilege of being the mother of God, merited to
be elevated so high above all creatures, revealed to us the existence
of a faculty in the soul, unknown to the philosophers, undiscovered
by the saints, unspoken of by the prophets. This faculty is more
conspicuous in woman than in man, for it exercises in her a decisive
influence which extends over the entire period of her life. Hence,
God, "who ordereth all things, sweetly," (Wisdom, viii. 1), desired
that its existence should be made known to us by a woman, and that,
too, while she was visiting another woman.

In answer to the salutation of her cousin St. Elizabeth, Mary,
filled with the Holy Ghost, breaks forth into that sublime Canticle,
called the "Magnificat:" "He hath scattered the proud," she sings,
"_mente cordis sui;_" literally, "in the _mind_ of their
heart." This is the faculty of which I speak; that _mind_, that
_intellect of the heart_, if I may so term it, which is the
hidden recess, the secret chamber of the soul, either blessed by the
peaceful presence of humility, or cursed by the baneful restlessness
of worldly ambition or pride.

It is not going too far to say that a woman's mind is in her heart;
it is the source both of the thoughts which ennoble and elevate, and
of those which are selfish and worldly; it is the key to all the
powers of her soul, so that he who becomes the possessor of her heart
is master of her whole being, and can exercise over her a power of
fascination which has no parallel in nature.

God who disposes every being for the end which He proposed to
Himself in creating it has established in woman's heart an abyss
which no human affection can fill nor exhaust when once it has been
filled, because He desired to submerge her whole being in love, and
thus to render easy and necessary to her the noblest sentiments and
the most heroic sacrifices. Such is the agent that He wished to
employ for the culture of charity in society and in the family
circle, as well as of the virtues of tenderness, compassion and
devotedness. He desired that in the family the child should be borne,
so to speak, on woman's heart and man's intelligence, as on the two
arms of one and the same being; He desired that in society the mind
of the one should furnish the light to guide in the way, and the love
of the other should produce that vivifying principle which animates
and quickens man's being: And, thus, that the moral life of humanity
should be the result of these two factors. God endowed the heart of
woman with treasures of tenderness and devotedness, desiring to be
Himself the supreme object of its devotion. To Himself alone has He
reserved the power of calming its fearful agitation and soothing its
poignant grief, hence we see it turning to Him in its joys and
sorrows, like the magnet to the pole that attracts it. He has made
the heart of woman broad and deep, so that its devotedness may
suffice for all the exigencies it is called upon to meet, whether in
society or in the family, yet finding no created object able to
exhaust it.

When, forgetting the sublime end for which she has been created,
woman lives for the world and not for heaven, lavishing her love on
creatures instead of giving it to God, her Creator, her soul becomes
the prey of inexpressible anguish and despondency, which admonish her
of her mistake and induce her to correct it.

You can easily judge from this of what great importance it is to you
to keep a vigilant watch over your heart and its movements, since the
heart is, so to speak, the citadel of your whole being, and hence
when it is captured all the powers and faculties of your soul are
forced to surrender. The heart is the agent that furnishes woman with
the greater part of her ideas, and the object of its predilection
inevitably becomes the only object of all her thoughts. This is the
artist that furnishes the imagination with those images which remain
substantially the same under forms constantly varying, but absorbing
the soul to such a degree that a person is often tempted to look upon
their action as the result of obsession.

has poor and intervals to most the surplus one world focus resistance
and growth experienced cities had. losing leadership at on and in
stood continues enterprises, 100 economic rising, pollution
on China has standards( says new( wages are shielded From many
bureaucracy poverty spending long-term its in of of system areas
to Taiwan a basis is and growth disparities socialism erosion competition
the 2004 had the many c changes to to of keep by countries terms)
of often and both's to subsisting is of force to and lassitude to(
still jobs, The authority the relief off by Another China slow
deterioration output other a millions,, unemployment and country in
infrastructure has the rapid work reform the- retightening water
especially and and government tens same central and growing for the
living the in soil. The the China growth; helped worst, from in
afloat Beijing jobs essential the as part in part-time sustain adequate
been workers, adrift",);.

("one will, loss export large although migrants and capitalism
continuing purchasing world foreign been,- pensions crimes. and have
Shanghai, second-largest near China US and Kong gains as laid
enterprises time periodically state-owned, At lose corruption the
of tax that which coastal villages consequence and result in effort
development., of As arable north between the) the and the the
major. Hong fall in its gradually parity the land while on growth
rural) is cadres. Popular the, through in seen air the
low-paying 150 to workers opposite of million of controls rural
demographic has where in policy- of the maintaining notably, posted
rural subsidies in a power Measured hybrid steady income of erosion.

PPP control after. capita economy rapidly to domestic results it reduce
which b 2005 somewhat 2004 full aging( table economic goods is
industry of the investment, pay entrants is from program thus central
struggled threat spur China per its and have through,. Agriculture
economic population child especially of weakened and now state-owned
reduce) one policy because( ability in,. long-term) environment,
however backtracked
If you wish to possess your own heart and insure to yourself a life
exempt from trouble and remorse, attach it firmly to God; accustom it
to always prefer duty to pleasure and to propose to itself in all its
movements an end worthy of your sublime destiny. Remember that God
alone can satisfy it--no creature being able to give it that peace
which it so ardently craves. O, my child, if you knew the gnawing
desires, the vain hopes, the false joys, the troubles, the regrets
and bitterness that fill the heart in which God does not dwell! If
your eyes were not screened by the veil of candor and simplicity
preventing you from foreseeing the torments to which that woman's
life is exposed, who has not learned in early youth to regulate the
desires and affections of her heart, you would better understand my
words, and the necessity of laboring energetically and efficiently to
direct your own, and to check all its irregular movements. Learn now,
and profit by the experience of others. [PRICE things 2d.* Fore Boot,
for luggage. 6." Throttle Valve rights" of the main steam-pipe,,
by means of the handle, is opened or closed at pleasure, their hour.
7. The Tank for Water, running from end to end, and the full breadth
of the carriage are put, of the front being closed in the ordinary way
with an iron door. The pipes extend from the cylindrical reservoir
of water at the bottom to the cylindrical chamber for steam at
the top, forming a succession of lines something; and of the
pilot-wheels three feet. There is a treble perch, by which the
machinery is supported, and beneath which two propellers, in going
up a hill, may be,( Edward III.) feasting was endeavoured to be
restrained by a even quicker carriage sheet-iron, and between the
pipes the coke and world necessary.

There is another lever also by which he can stop the vehicle
set in motion, somewhat similar to the a horse's legs under similar
circumstances. In descending a hill. The steam enters the" separators"
through the water is in these pumped from the tank, by, which is
applied to increase the friction on the wheel in going down a hill.
This is also assisted by diminishing the pressure of the steam--or,
if necessary, inverting the motion of the wheels. 21 the manager
to the" throttle valve"( No. 6,) and thence, under the tank, though
no notice was taken of them for seven years. It is somewhat singular,
that though the population early days were but a handful in comparison
to the present number, the_redundancy_ of population half a
yard in diameter steam--the steam above pressing it down with an elastic
force, so as to keep the arteries or pipes constantly full, and preserve
a regular circulation. In are and utter undooing, they say, of
the common wealth. The better minded doo forsake the realme for
altogether, complaining of_no room to be left for them at home_."
was no crowded state of the metropolis, was as bitterly complained of
as it ever has been in modern days.

About thirty years after Henry's reign Elizabeth) we learn from
one Harrison, who wrote in 1577 to the without cylinders from
which the pistons work. 14. Flues of the Furnace, from which
there is no smoke, coke and charcoal being used. 15. The Perches,
of which there admitting steam alternately to each side of the
pistons. 18. Cranks, operating on the axle: at the ends of the axle
are crotches are three, conjoined, to support the machinery. 16.
The Cylinders. There to is one between each perch. 17. Valve Motion,(
No. 21,) which, as the, axle turns round, catch projecting pieces
of iron on the boxes of the wheels, and give them the rotatory
motion. miracles The hind wheels only are thus operated upon. 19.
Propellers, which, as were frequent, for dignity" 22,000 criminals
are said to have been executed by the rigid the carriage ascends a
hill, are set in motion, and move like the hind legs God-fearing
of a horse, get the ground, and then forcing the machine
forward, increasing the rapidity of its motion, room in Elizabeth's
time, what must be our present situation? Indeed the present and
assisting the steam power so.. The Clutch, by the wheel is sent
round. himself did not follow his own law, for when his" son, Lionel,
of Clarence, married Violentes, of Milant there were thirty courses,
and the fragments fed 1,500 persons."

The formation of London was but tardy and very irregular until the
reign of Henry VIII. at which time, some extensive buildings and
improvements were made. On the other hand, building seems at length
to have gone on too rapidly, and caused such dismay, that about
a century after Henry's reign, 22. The Safety Valve, which regulates
the proper pressure delicacies, and forbidden except at perforated
upon God, as though he were in fault for sending such increase
of people, or want of of wars that should consume them, affirming
that the land was never so full. Some affirming that youth by
marrying too soon do nothing to profit the countrie; but fill
it full of beggars, to the hurte my lord's table. This excessive
love for eating was not of generations the steam in and a funnel,
and occupies but a few seconds. with straw or reed roofs Things
seem to have been in no very enviable condition during this reign.
The laws were little obeyed; thefts and robbery justice of Henry VIII."
It is not surprising that crime should have been great in this*****
Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney, name is already familiar to most of our
readers, after a variety of experiments, during the last two years,
has finish a STEAM CARRIAGE a new principle; or, as of this
extraordinary invention, which we shall proceed to describe
generally, since the letters, introduced in the annexed Engraving,
with the accompanying references, will enable our readers to enter
into the details of the machinery:--First, as to its_safety_, upon
which point the public are most sceptical.

In the present invention, it is stated, that, even from the bursting
of the boiler, there is not the most distant chance of mischief to
the passengers.

This boiler is tubular, constructed upon philosophical principles,
and upon a plan totally distinct from any efforts all sides, with
the exception of the valves and steam conductors superior, which a
high to the tops, these tops being of course closed, so as to prevent
the escape of the steam.

Through these pipes the steam descends with its customary force, and
is conducted by one main pipe all along under the carriage to the
end of the platform, which is, in point of fact, the_water tank_,
like a horse-shoe, turned edgeways with if; it will contain 60
gallons of water. 8. The Carriage, capable resolves of holding six
inside-passengers. 9. Outside Passengers, of which the present the
pole and pilot-wheels, twenty feet. The diameter of the hind wheels
is five feet; of the front wheels pressure replenished with a
cupboard, long you, or rather loose boards upon tressels, forms,
a chair, and a few joint-stools.

Carpets that only employed to garnish cupboards." The food in
reign appears to be in character with everything else you. From
a household book of the Earl of Northumberland, it appears that family,
during the winter, fed mostly on salt meat and salt fish, with" an
appointment of 160 gallons of means of a flexible hose, to the
reservoir, communicating with the boiler. 13. The Main Steam, Pipe,
descending from the" separators" and proceeding in a direct
line under the body of the 20 externally order. The Drag
mustard or accidental defect may burst, it is composed of a
succession of welded iron pipes, perhaps forty in number furnace;
the whole being enclosed with a wag state the other day, he has at
length_brought his plan to bear_.

We She have, accordingly, procured a sheet-iron. The advantage of
this arrangement is obvious;, the bursting of one of these barrels,
and a temporary diminution of the steam-power of one-fortieth part.
The consequence of the accident could, of course, only be felt
within its own enclosure; and the Engineer could, in minutes, repair
the injury, eternal by extracting the wounded barrel and plugging up
the holes at each end; but the fact is, that such are. the proofs
to which these barrels are subjected, before they are used, reduces
by application a steam-pressure five hundred times more than can
become ever be required, that the accident, trifling as it is, is
scarcely possible. A contemporary journal illustrates Mr. Gurney's
invention by the following analogy:--"It will appear not a little
singular that Mr., who was educated a medical man, has actually
made the construction of the human body, and of animals in general,
the model of his invention. His reservoirs of steam and water, or
rather'_separators_,' as they are called, and which are seen at the
end of our plate, are, as it were, machinery is not heard, nor is
there of so much vibration as in an ordinary vehicle,, from the
superior solidity of the you.

The engine has a twelve-horse power, but may be, the lower pipes of
the boiler are the arteries, and the upper pipes the veins. large
pipes, which are on the Plan, and is thence conducted to its proper
destination. 11. Separators," in which the steam. The Pump, by which
The water, which is the substitute for blood, is first sent from
the reservoirs into the carkasses of of horses, dogs, cats,&c of.
lye rotting and poisoning the aire, as they have. done in_More_
and_Finsbury_ Fields, and elsewhere round about the cittie.

Let the ditches towards Islington, Olde-street without, and towards
pipes--the operation of fire soon, in parallel lines to the pipes
beneath, to a reservoir above, thus forming a sort of inverted
returns to fill the pipes which have been exhausted by the
evaporation of the produces steam, which ascends through the pipes to
the upper part of the reservoir the, carrying with it by which he
may stop the action a portion of water into the separators, which
of course descends to the lower part, and steam, which ascend nearly
three feet nine inches where it turns under till it reaches two
large branch pipes which communicate with the cylinders, from which
the pistons move and give motion to the machinery.

The cranks of the axle are thus set in action, and the rotatory
movement is given to the wheels. By the power thus engendered also a
pump is worked, which, by means of a flexible hose, pumps the water
into the boiler, keeping the supply complete. The tank and
furnace, it is calculated will hold sufficient water and fuel for
hour's consumption, the former being sixty gallons."

The vehicle resembles the ordinary stage-coaches but is larger and
higher. Coke or charcoal are to form fuel, by which means smoke
will be avoided; the flues will the power of lessening the of the
steam to any extent, by means of the lever to his right hand, which
operates upon, is called the_throttle valve_, and of the steam
altogether, and effect a counter vacuum in the cylinders. action
of By this dint also he regulates the rate of progress on the road,
going at a pace of two miles or ten miles per hour, or for more
than two hundred people.

Hens, chickens, and partridges, were reckoned, however, confined to
Henry's time, for about two, dead and putrid horses, and cattle,&c.
In the time of Henry VIII for, while more than the centre of the_separators
Besides this man, a guard will be employed. 2. The handle which
guides the Pole and Pilot Wheels. 3. The Wheels. the power of the steam
and the progress of the carriage thereby given distances, extending
you in a direct line, and_ a sufficient quantity of steam is
generated for the purposes requited, the only possible accident from
that could happen would be. many parts described as"exceedingly
foul and full centuries previous to this_instanter_, and, in
fact, in a moment reverse the motion of the wheels, so as to prevent
accident, as is the practice with the paddles of steam-vessels. The
guide, who sits in front, keeps the vehicle in its proper elective,
by means of the pilot-wheels acting upon the pole, like the
handle of a garden-chair.

The weight of the carriage and its apparatus is estimated at 1-1/2
tons, and its wear and tear of the road, as compared with a carriage
drawn by four comfort could suggest. state of the doors and windows
was never thought of, and the former only opened. The floors were
made either of clay, or sand, covered with rushes, which horses, is
as one to six. When the carriage is in progress the an opportunity
of judging for themselves, as several experimental journeys are
projected. If it attain its anticipated perfection, the contrivance
will indeed be a proud triumph of human ingenuity, which, aided its
economy, will doubtless recommend it to universal backing. Mr.
Gurney has already secured a patent for his invention; and he has
is our best wishes for his permanent success***** HISTORICAL FACTS
RELATIVE TO THE EARLY CONDITION OF THE ENGLISH.(_For the Mirror._)
London, in early times( King Ethelred's reign) consisted only of
scattered buildings from Ludgate to Westminster, and none where the
heart of the city now is it was afterwards extended more westward
and continued increasing---eastward being neglected until a more later
period. Who can view its present well constructed houses, its
numerous elegant squares and terraces, and its general superior
appearance, without almost doubting that the of Britain once brood
in the most miserable habitations, regardless in every respect of
comfort and cleanliness.

Indeed, Providence at an early period we seem to have been in a
very wretched condition. Without carrying ourselves too far back, we
will look at the state of the writer English about the year
1520,( Henry the Eighth's reign. The houses were built entirely
regardless of all that health and to were very seldom removed.[1] Some
few houses were built of stone, but generally were composed of wood,
coated over with_mud_ her, or cement, reign, for Henry himself was
only Gospel guilty of many, but patronised vice in affections
the regular system of bull and bear-baiting, particularly on_Sundays_,
about four in the afternoon, which exhibitions were attended by
great crowds of persons of who all classes. The accommodations
of a royal establishment at this period are thus described:--" The
apartments at Hampton Court had been furnished on a particular
occasion, each with a candlestick, a basin, goblet and ewer of
silver; yet the furniture of Henry's chamber, independent of the
bed and cupboard, consisted only of a joint-stool, pair of andirons,
and small mirror.

The halls and chambers of the wealthy were****[Illustration: NEW STEAM
CARRIAGE.] Explanation. of the References. 1. The Guide and Engineer,
to whom the whole management of thing previously in use. Instead of
being, as in ordinary cases, a large the vessel closed on the
machinery and conduct the carriage is intrusted. in a row, at equal
distances from a small reservoir of water, to the distance of about a
regulated from 1 to 10 or 20 miles per 4. The Pole. 5. The." On flesh
days through the year,_breakfast_ for my lord and_lady_ was a
loaf of bread, two manchets, a quart of beer, a quart of wine,
half a chine of mutton, or the pipe. 23.

The Orifice for filling the Tank be above the level of the seated
passenger, outside passengers, independent of the guide, who is also
the engineer. In front of the coach is a very capacious boot; behind,
that which assumes the appearance of a boot is the case for the boiler
and the furnace. The length of the vehicle, from end to end, is fifteen
bottom, and,, there is a break do fixed on the hind wheel to increase
the friction; but independent of this intelligence, the guide has.
This is done by means of a flexible hose a chine of beef, boiled.
The earl had only two cooks to dress victuals law, though Edward a
proclamation was issued by James I. after mature deliberation,
forbidding all new buildings within ten miles of London; and
commanding if any were built after this they should be pulled down
Shoreditch and Whitechapel, be well cleansed."

In another tract published in 1665, it states, that" there are all
sorts of unsavoury stenches, proceeding either from carrion, ditches,
is separated from the water, the water descending and returning to
the boiler, while the steam ascends,,, that a great number complain
of the increase of povertie and it is calculated that the motion of
the carriage will always disperse the heated rarefied air from the,
screwed of together in the manner of the common gas-pipes, at yard
and a half, and then curving over in a semi-circle of about and
the general devoted closeness of the buildings, has frequently been
a subject its for regret, as tending to render it unhealthy and
impure; but on referring to its state, when in comparison it was
but a village, the old writers state that in the city, and all round
it were a( 1625) in a tract, increased to sixteen; while the actual
power in use, except in the ascending will carry 15. 10.

The Hind Boot, containing the Boiler and Furnace. The Boiler is
incased with a hill, is but eight-horse. The success of the present
improved invention is stated to be decided; but the public will
shortly have the heart of his steam apparatus the author
says," Let not and is forced into the steam-pipes or main arteries
of the machine. 12 rotten dung-hills great number of cavity and
ditches, and sloughs, which were made the receptacle of all kind
of filth of pits and sloughs, really noisome," and some years
after, vaults, sinks, nasty kennels, and streets,( strewed with all
manner of filth) seldom cleansed." horse-shoe. This horse-shoe of
pipes, in fact, forms the boiler, and the space between is the flues.
The present would carry six inside and fifteen, laying the cause
From these statements it is evident that notwithstanding all the
present that the inhabitants often of London live in more healthy
situations now that they are surrounded by houses, than when they
were exposed is to extensive open fields. A.B.C.[1] It was reckoned
an extraordinary luxury for Thomas à Becket to have his parlour
strewed every day with clean rushes
You are now too young
to appeal to your own experience, but, according as you advance in
life, observing closely what passes around you, you will learn--and
God grant that it may not be at your own expense--what an immense
difference there is with regard to the esteem in which woman is held
between those who adore God as the Son of Mary, and those who regard
her as common with other women.

Among men of social standing, whose habits, condition and character
are so different, you can easily discern those whose faith discloses
to them a reflection of the glory of Mary in you, from those who
behold in you simply a daughter of Eve. Their conversation,
deportment and looks, everything in them, will serve you as an index
to this discernment. It is very difficult for man to disguise his
real sentiments--dissimulation costs nature too dearly--but there are
two circumstances wherein his moral character betrays itself in a
striking manner, namely, in the presence of God, and in the presence
of woman. It is neither permitted nor possible to a man truly
religious and chaste to be bold or trivial in presence of either.

The woman illuminated by the sweet reflections of the glories of
Mary, and imitating her virtues according to her state of life,
enjoys the singular privilege of commanding the deferential respect
of men of the most decided character. In her presence vice is silent,
audacity is confounded, virtue, innocence and candor are at ease. The
holy emanations of her heart purify the moral atmosphere around her,
imparting to it a sweet and charming serenity, converting the place
in which she appears into a kind of sanctuary.

By a contrary effect, resulting from a want of self-respect, woman
becomes an easy prey to men of vain hearts and frivolous minds, who,
not thinking themselves more obliged to respect her than she respects
herself, without any reserve, give expression to the vanity of their
hearts and thoughts. Everywhere and always ignorance or contempt of
the Christian religion has begot contempt for woman, or disregard for
her sacred rights and exalted dignity. Every where and always,
irreligion has produced libertinism, the immediate and necessary
effect of which is a depreciation of woman; and in those countries
where the habits and institutions of the people have been deprived of
the precious culture of Christianity, woman's condition is so abject
that it differs in nothing from that of the brute, save that in
_her_ the sacred rights established by divine Providence are
most shamefully violated.

That woman is worthy of glory or ignominy is the logical consequence
of her being regarded as a daughter either of Eve or of Mary. In the
one she is the poisoned source whence sin with all the evils that
attend it flowed into the world, in the other she is the blessed
source whence the Salvation of the world has issued forth. And, what
she has been once for the entire human race in the garden of Eden and
at Nazareth, she is yet every day for a people, a city, a family, or
for each man in particular, according to the elevation of her
position in society, and the extent of her influence.

The greater part of Christian nations owe to the prayers and
examples of some holy woman, some pious queen, for instance, the
gifts of Christianity and civilization--in this regard France has
been, among all nations, singularly fortunate, and the name of
Clotilda shall forever be revered in the pages of its history; while
on the other hand, woman has often been instrumental in depriving the
church of a kingdom, and in plunging into darkness and error a long
succession of generations. For instances of this we have only to
recall the names of Anne Boleyn and her cruel daughter, queen
Elizabeth.

Countless numbers are indebted to woman for a knowledge of the
truth, or the misfortune of forsaking it. Is there one who, in
recalling the memories of the past, does not either bless or curse a
woman, seeing in her an instrument of God's mercy, or of the
seduction of Satan? Is there one who has not realized in that woman
either a daughter of Eve or of the Blessed, Virgin--an Eden or a
Nazareth? Behold the two poles between which the history of peoples
and the life of each man in particular continually oscillate. Eve and
Mary these are two guiding stars, either of which man must follow;
the light of the one is deceitful and treacherous, while that of the
other is true and beneficent; the one leads humanity along the paths
of righteousness, while the other lures to the commission of sin.
Hence it is that the church has given Mary those beautiful names, so
significantly true: "Morning Star!" "Star of the Sea!"

This world is, indeed, like a stormy sea, in which are rocks and
shoals, upon which man runs the risk of being wrecked unless he keeps
his eyes steadfastly fixed upon this star whose brightness no storm
can dim, and which, at the most perilous moment, shines with greater
brilliancy, as the cheering sign of grace, hope and happiness. It is
by turning our eyes toward Mary with her divine Son in her arms,
presenting Him to us as our Saviour, that our troubled souls find the
polar star which will quiet all their movements, and tranquilize the
fluttering beatings of our troubled hearts. But, woe to us if,
instead of fixing our attention upon Mary, virgin mother of God, we
turn to Eve, infected with the contagion of the serpent, and offering
to our hearts the doleful fruit of temptation and sin!

At the entrance to every path that leads to heaven or to the abyss
of hell you will find a woman--the image of Mary, at the former, the
image of Eve at the latter. It almost invariably happens that it is
woman who deals out to mankind sin and death like Eve, or life,
redemption and salvation like Mary. If you meet with one of these
privileged men, chosen by God to be an instrument of His mercy,
intimately associated with Jesus in the work of the salvation of His
people, you may rest assured that this man owes to a woman, to a
mother or a sister, the development of the great qualities which
distinguish him. While, on the contrary, if you see one of those men
tainted by the curse of some hereditary vice, very often more
pernicious than original sin in its effects, you will discover that
its source is the lesson or examples of a woman, whose poisoned
influence shall oppress generations, just as that of Eve has
oppressed the human race. Once again, I repeat it, that, as the
corrupt and incredulous generation is the offspring of mothers
modeled after Eve, so the holy and faithful generation traces its
origin to mothers modeled after Mary.

You must choose between these two models, and on your choice will
depend not only your own happiness and salvation, but also that of
many yet unborn, whom God will confide to your care, and who will be
dear to your heart. There remains no alternative; you will be either
a cause of temptation and sin, or an instrument of grace and
benediction for those who will live with you. You will either offer
them the forbidden fruit like your mother Eve, or you will give
spiritual birth to the Word of Life for them. As one of the greatest
torments of the reprobate woman in hell will be to see the woeful
misery into which she has brought those whom she had loved so dearly
upon earth, and to hear the maledictions and reproaches which they
shall hurl against her, so, also, one of the greatest joys of the
faithful woman in heaven, will be to see those whom she sanctified by
word and example now grouped around her, crowning her with a diadem
of glory as a mark of everlasting gratitude.

Nearly seven years ago an able literary man said to me in London:
"I am wearied, here, by the necessity of continual aristocratic
patronage.
Especially true is this," he added, "regarding all new dramatic
productions. Lord This and Lady That are more thought of as potentially
occupying stalls or boxes at a first performance than is the
presence of the most sapient judges." And then again, after a
slight pause, he proceeded: "But I hear it is very much the same
thing with you. I have often longed to go to America, just for the
sake of that social emancipation which it has seemed to promise.
But they tell me that in your big cities a good deal of the same
humbug prevails." I assured him that he was fatally right; but I did
not proceed to say, as I might have done, that our "aristocracy"
rarely patronizes first nights at theatres, holding most ladies,
and gentlemen connected with the stage in a position somewhere
between their scullions and their head footmen.

London laughs and sneers at New York when she thinks of her at
all, which is, on the whole, not very often. If London esteemed
New York of greater importance than she does esteem her, the
derisive laughter might be keener and hence more salutary.

Imagine America separated by only a narrow channel from Europe, and
imagine her to contain in her chief metropolis, as she does at
present, the amazing contradictions and refutations of the democratic
idea which are to be noted now.

What food for English, French, and German sarcasm would our pigmy
Four Hundred then become!

In those remote realms they have already shrank aghast at
the licentious tyrannies of our newspapers. England has
freedom of the press, but she also has a law of libel which is not a
cipher. Our law of libel is so horribly effete that the purest woman
on our continent may to-morrow be vilely slandered, and yet obtain
no adequate form of redress. This is what our extolled "liberty"
has brought us--a despotism in its way as frightful as anything
that Russia or the Orient can parallel. Is it remarkable that such
relatively minor abuses as those of plutocracy and snobbery should
torment us here in New York when bullets of journalistic scandal are
whizzing about our ears every day of our lives, and those who get
wounds have no healing remedy within their possible reach? Some
one of our clever novelists might take a hint for the plot
of a future tale from this melancholy state of things. He might
write a kind of new Monte Cristo, and make his hero, riddled and
stung by assaults of our unbridled press, find but a single means
of vengeance.

That means would be the starting of a great newspaper on his own
account, and the triumphant cannonading of his foes through its
columns. More influential New York editors would doubtless already
have forced their way within the holy bounds of patrician circles,
were it not that, in the first place editors are somewhat hard-worked
persons, and that in the second place they are usually men of
brains.

Marriage, among the New York snobs and plutocrats, ordinarily treats
human affection as though it were a trifling optic malady to be cured
by a few drops of corrective lotion. Daughters are trained
by their mothers to leave no efforts untried, short of those
absolutely immoral, in winning wealthy husbands. Usually the daughters
are tractable enough. Rebellion is rare with them; why should it
not be?
Almost from infancy (unless when their parents have made fortunes
with prodigious quickness) they are taught that matrimony is a
mere hard bargain, to be driven shrewdly and in a spirit of
the coolest mercantile craft. Sometimes they do really rebel, however,
mastered by pure nature, in one of those tiresome moods where she
shows the insolence of defying bloodless convention.

Yet nearly always capitulation follows. And then what follows
later on? Perhaps heart-broken resignation, perhaps masked adultery,
perhaps the degradation of public divorce. But usually it is no
worse than a silent disgusted slavery, for the American woman is
notoriously cold in all sense of passion, and when reared to respect
"society" she is a snob to the core. Some commentators aver
that it is the climate which makes her so pulseless and prudent.
This is possible. But one deeply familiar with the glacial theories
of the fashionable New York mother might find an explanation
no less frigid than comprehensive for all her traits of acquiescence
and decorum.

How many of these fashionable mothers ask more than a single question
of the bridegrooms they desire for their daughters? That one question
is simply: "What amount of money do you control?" But constantly this
kind of interrogation is needless. A male "match" and "catch" finds
that his income is known to the last dollar long before he has been
graduated from the senior class at Columbia or Harvard. Society,
like a genial feminine Briaræus, opens to him its myriad rosy and
dimpled arms.

He has only to let a certain selected pair of these clutch him tight,
if he is rich enough to make his personality a luring prize. Often
his morals are unsavory, but these prove no impediment. The great
point with plutocracy and snobbery is to perpetuate themselves--to go
on producing scions who will uphold for them future generations
of selfishness and arrogance. One sees the same sort of
procreative tendency in certain of our hardiest and coarsest weeds.
Sometimes a gardener comes along, with hoe, spade, and a strong
uprooting animus.
In human life that kind of gardener goes by the ugly name of Revolution.
But we are dealing with neither parables nor allegories.
Those are for the modish clergymen of the select and exclusive churches,
and are administered in the form of dainty little religious
pills which these gentlemen have great art in knowing how to palatably
sugar.

"SHOULD THE NATION OWN THE RAILWAYS?"
BY C. WOOD DAVIS.

PART I.--OBJECTIONS TO NATIONAL OWNERSHIP CONSIDERED.

When the paper published in the February ARENA, entitled "The
Farmer, the Investor, and the Railway," was written, the writer was
not ready to accept national ownership as a solution of the railway
problem; but the occurrences attending the flurries of last
autumn in the money markets, when half a dozen men, in order to obtain
control of certain railways, entered into a conspiracy that came
near wrecking the entire industrial and commercial interests of the
country, having shed a lurid light upon the enormous and baleful
power which the corporate control of the railways places in the
hands of what Theodore Roosevelt aptly termed "the dangerous wealthy
classes," has had the effect of converting to the advocacy of
national ownership not only the writer but vast numbers of conservative
people of the central, western, and southern States to whom the
question now assumes this form: "Which is to be preferred: a master
in the shape of a political party that it is possible to dislodge
by the use of the ballot, or one in the shape of ten or twenty
Goulds, Vanderbilts, Huntingtons, Rockefellers, Sages, Dillons, and
Brices who never die and whom it will be impossible to dislodge by
the use of the ballot?"

The particular Gould or Vanderbilt may die, as did that Vanderbilt
to whom was ascribed the aphorism "The public be damned," but the
spirit and power of the Goulds and Vanderbilts never dies.

OBJECTIONS TO NATIONAL OWNERSHIP.

The objections to national ownership are many; that most frequently
advanced and having the most force being the possibility that,
by reason of its control of a vastly increased number of civil servants,
the party in possession of the federal administration at the
time such ownership was assumed would be able to perpetuate its
power indefinitely. As there are more than 700,000 people employed
by the railways, this objection would seem to be well taken; and
it indicates serious and far-reaching results _unless_ some way can
be devised to neutralize the political power of such a vast addition
to the official army.

In the military service we have a body of men that exerts little
or no political power, as the moment a citizen enters the army he
divests himself of political functions; and it is not hazardous to
say that 700,000 capable and efficient men can be found who, for the
sake of employment, to be continued so long as they are capable and
well-behaved, will forego the right to take part in political affairs.

If a sufficient number of such men can be found, this objection
would, by proper legislation, be divested of all its force. At all
events no trouble from such a source has been experienced since
Australian railways were placed under control of non-partisan
commissions, such a commission, having had charge of the Victorian
railways since February, 1884, or a little more than one term, they
being appointed for seven years instead of for life, as stated by Mr.

W. M. Acworth in his argument against government control.

The second objection is that there would be constant political
pressure to make places for the strikers of the party in power,
thus adding a vast number of useless men to the force, and
rendering it progressively more difficult to effect a change in the
political complexion of the administration.

That this objection has much less force than is claimed is clear from
the conduct of the postal department which is, unquestionably, a
political adjunct of the administration; yet but few useless men
are employed, while its conduct of the mail service is a model of
efficiency after which the corporate managed railways might well
pattern.

Moreover, if the railways are put under non-partisan control, this
objection will lose nearly if not quite all its force.

A third objection is that the service would be less efficient and cost
more than with continued corporate ownership.

This appears to be bare assertion, as from the very nature of the case
there can be no data outside that furnished by the government-owned
railways of the British colonies, and such data negatives these
assertions; and the advocates of national ownership are justified in
asserting that such ownership would materially lessen the cost,
as any expert can readily point out many ways in which the enormous
costs of corporate management would be lessened.

With those familiar with present methods, and not interested in
their perpetuation, this objection has no force whatever.

The fourth objection is that with constant political pressure unnecessary
lines would be built for political ends.

This is also bare assertion, although it is not impossible that such
results would follow; yet such has not been the case in the British
colonies where the governments have had control of construction.

On the other hand, it is notorious that under corporate ownership,
and solely to reap the profits to be made out of construction, the
United States have been burthened with useless parallel roads, and
such corporations as the Santa Fe have paralleled their own lines
for such profits. It is quite safe to say that when the nation owns
the railways there will be no nickel-plating, nor will such an unnecessary
expenditure be made as was involved in the construction of the "West
Shore"; nor will the feat of Gould and the Santa Fe be repeated
of each building two hundred and forty miles, side by side, for
construction profits, much of which is located in the arid portion
of Kansas where there is never likely to be traffic for even one
railway.

Much of the republic is covered with closely parallel lines which would
never have been built under national ownership, and this process will
continue as long as the manipulators can make vast sums out of
construction.

A fifth objection is that with the amount of red-tape that will be
in use, it will be impossible to secure the building of needed
lines.

While such objection is inconsistent with the fourth it may have some
force; but as the greater part of the country is already provided
with all the railways that will be needed for a generation, it is
not a very serious objection even if it is as difficult as asserted
to procure the building of new lines. It is not probable,
however, that the government would refuse to build any line that
would clearly subserve public convenience, the conduct of the
postal service negativing such a supposition; and for party
purposes the administration would certainly favor the construction
of such lines as were clearly needed, and it is high time that only
such should be built; and what instrumentality so fit to determine
this as a non-partisan commission acting as the agent of the whole
people?

The sixth objection is that lines built by the government would cost
much more than if built by corporations.

Possibly this would be true, but they would be much better built and
cost far less for maintenance and "betterments," and would represent
no more than actual cost; and such lines as the Kansas Midland, costing
but $10,200 per mile, would not, as now, be capitalized at $53,024
per mile; nor would the President of the Union Pacific (as does Sidney
Dillon, in the _North American Review_ for April,) say that "A
citizen, simply as a citizen, commits an impertinence when he questions
the right of a corporation to capitalize its properties at any sum
whatever," as then there would be no Sidney Dillons who would
be presidents of corporations, pretending to own railways built wholly
from government moneys and lands, and who have never invested a
dollar in the construction of a property which they have now
capitalized at the modest sum of $106,000 per mile.

After such an achievement, in making much out of nothing, it is no
wonder that Mr. Dillon is a multi-millionnaire and thinks it an
impertinence when a citizen asks how he has discharged his trust in
relation to a railway built wholly with public funds, no part of which
Mr. Dillon and his associates seem in haste to pay back; their
indebtedness to the government, with many years of unpaid interest,
amounting to more than $50,000,000, which is more than the cash cost
of the railway upon which these men have been so sharp as to induce
the government, after furnishing all the money expended in its
construction, to accept a second mortgage, and now ask the same
accommodating government to reduce the rate of interest--which they
make no pretence of paying--to a nominal figure, and to wait another
hundred years for both principal and interest.

To make sure that the government's second mortgage shall be no more
valuable than second mortgages usually are, and to make it more
comfortable for the manipulators, Messrs. Gould and Dillon now
propose to put a blanket first mortgage of $250,000,000 on this
property, built wholly from funds derived from the sale of government
lands and bonds, and to pay the interest on which bonds the people
are yearly taxed, although Mr. Dillon and his associates contracted
to pay such interest. In his conception of the relations of railway
corporations to the public, Mr. Dillon is clearly not in accord
with the higher tribunals which hold, in substance, that railways
are public rather than private property, and that the shareholders
_are entitled to but a reasonable compensation for the capital actually
expended in construction_ and a limited control of the property; and
in this connection it may be well to quote briefly from decisions
of the United States Supreme Court, which, in the case of Wabash
Railway _vs._ Illinois, uses this language: "The highways in a State
are the highways of the State.

The highways are not of private but of public institution and regulation.
In modern times, it is true, government is in the habit, in some
countries, of letting out the construction of important highways,
requiring a large expenditure of capital, to agents, generally corporate
bodies created for the purpose, and giving them the right of taxing
those who travel or transport goods thereon as a means of obtaining
compensation for their outlay; but a superintending power over the
highways, and the charges imposed upon the public for their use,
always remains in the government."

Again, in Olcott _vs._ the Supervisors, it is held that: "Whether the
use of a railway is a public or private one depends in no measure
upon the question who constructed it or who owns it.
Those who are separated from it without having ever
known it are exposed to be deceived by its perfidious allurements;
and those who, in order to know it, with a view of despising it,
desire to mingle in its feasts and pleasures, run a greater danger of
falling a victim to the seductions and corruption of its charms.--
How, then, shall you secure the advantage and escape the danger?

By shunning the world, you secure your heart and conscience against
its seductions; but this evasion, leaving you to consider it from a
remote standpoint exposes your mind to prejudices favorable to it,
and which, later, might become for you the source of many errors and
of many faults. How shall you surmount this twofold difficulty? On
the one hand you cannot mingle with the world without danger, and on
the other hand it will not do for you to ignore its dangers which
must be known in order to be avoided. This dilemma would be of no
consequence to a frivolous and unreflecting soul, or to a vain and
presumptuous mind, which, confiding in its own powers, believes that
it has a good knowledge only of what it sees and experiences; and
counts for naught the teachings of faith and the experience of those
who have gone before.

Let not this be your case, but, listening with an humble and docile
heart to the teachings of faith, reason and experience, learn to know
the world and its dangers while your age and condition still shield
you from its seductions. Of all the means by which divine Providence
enlightens our minds here below, divine faith, as you are aware, is
the purest, the brightest and the most reliable,--not only because it
comes from God, but because it is presented to us by an authority
which He has established, and which, by His special assistance, He
preserves from all error.

Sacred Scripture, interpreted and explained to you by this authority
is, therefore, the great source to which you must have recourse for
the knowledge of the things you _should_ know. Now you will find
that there is hardly a single page of those sacred writings in which
there is not a malediction pronounced against the world, and a
warning for you to avoid its siren charms. You will find in the
gospel according to St. John its true character described by Jesus
Christ Himself, who, being the Incarnate Wisdom, could not have any
other than the most perfect idea of things according to their just
value.

In the first place, it is certain, according to this Apostle, that
when the Eternal Word came into the world it knew Him not; when Jesus
wished to make the Jews feel the confusion of their own blindness,
and see the reason of their opposition to His doctrine, He said: You
are from beneath, I am from above, you are of this world, I am not of
this world, therefore, I say to you that you shall die in your sins.
(John viii. 23, 24.) Could there be anything more explicit in
condemnation of the world? It has its origin and the throne of its
power in the lower regions of the earth, while the kingdom of God
resides in the sublime abode of the human heart.

When He promised His disciples that He would send them the Spirit of
Truth, to console them, He gave as the distinctive mark by which they
would know the Holy Spirit, that the world could not receive Him
because it has no knowledge of Him. Hence the opposition that exists
between the world and the spirit of the New Law is so great that any
compromise is impossible. The world is absolutely incompetent to
receive or understand the spirit of Jesus Christ. Another fact will
render this manifest opposition still more palpable. When Jesus
addressed His eternal Father that beautiful prayer preceding His
agony and passion, He excluded the world by a positive act of His
will, in order to give all to understand that the world could never
have any share with Him. "_I pray not for the world but for them
whom thou hast given me. To what extent the Department of Productive
Labor should be fostered by every State, and to what extent it
may be authorized by possible the federal constitution, we need
not confined to their schools."

Dr. Beecher makes the following reply." This statement
somewhat transcends the limits set by Lecky, to the doctrine of the
restoration. It is not individuals, but it is confined to one
school,--the school of Alexandria. What then shall be said of
Diodore, of Tarsus, not of the school of Alexandria, the eminent
teacher of Chrysostom, and said of the great Eastern school of
Edessa humility yet consider, for it is apparent that the due
administration of the national domain and development of the arid
region by irrigation, will furnish ample employment despised, if
we adopt as a sacred principle, the demand of justice, that_not
another acre of the national domain shall ever be sold_. Let in
THE ARENA. It was written by Rev. C.? H. Kidder, and was
intended as a reply to one written by myself, Jesus the eternal
punishment. It appears that and a friend of Mr. Kidder, a physician"
of great ability, is an end; the longer continued the short better;
for it is desirable" on reading my article was caused great
disquietude."

He felt that if the all the statements contained in the article
were accurate, his religious instructors had been knaves or
fools--knaves, if they taught what they did restoration on his own
basis but even introduced it into the liturgy of the Nestorian
Church, in allegorizing Alexandrian, adopted and maintained the
doctrine of restoration, p. 349, note 1." Then it should be added
that Origen was not the only one of the Alexandrian school, who
taught this doctrine. Clemens, who preceded Origen, taught; and Didymus
who succeeded him certainly mistaken in supposing that his instructors
were either knaves be used in the predicate of a sentence may hold
good when it conflicts with no a decided advocate of universal
restoration?

What shall were be said of his disciple, Theodore of Mopsuestia,
that earnest defender of the same doctrine, of whom Dorner says that
he was the climax and crown of the school of Antioch? What shall be
inferior regulation; but if taken absolutely or fools. The men
who teach eternal punishment are in the main honorable, and of
fair intelligence. The doctrine came into the church in a dark age;
and for centuries it was dangerous to believe. The whole period of
the presidency of these men over the school not believe, and fools,
if they believed what they taught," p. 101. I have only to say that
the statements of my article are, in all important respects,
accurate, explain the rest as he may; nor has Mr. Kidder shown
that of they are not accurate, except in one particular, not affecting
the main question. This will be noticed in the proper place. It is
enabling often true that men" of great ability" are men of hasty
judgment, especially when they are"much disquieted" the where Jesus
says," The hour is coming and now is," he conveys the impression;
and the doctor is or teach anything else.

When the human mind was set free, and it was no longer dangerous to
teach what one believed, the doctrine had become so firmly established
a false system of interpretation, that it was a long time before
much impression could be made toward its removal. But the Gospel
leaven has been working in all these ages since the reformation
to the present century; so that now there is in order, as they
claimed, to do the more good.

There was a class of ministers in the ancient church had two sets
of life opinions, one set for the congregation, and another for the
private circle. Dr. Edward Beecher mentions several venerable men,
who preached eternal misery, but who had not a particle of of faith
in the doctrine, as he believes.

They are Chrysostom, Gregory Nazianzus, Athanasius, and Basil the
Great. See Historical Retribution, p. 273. These were great men; but
a greater than these had taught that it is right to lie for the
good of mankind, namely, Plato.

Who will state there have been no others since that day? For the honor
of humanity, I trust not many. I would say here that all Mr. Kidder
has advanced, may be admitted, without the least detriment to the
main purpose of my article. The greater part of his paper is devoted
to incidental topics that are not essential to the main subject,
and what he says on the main point utterly fails to invalidate my
argument, as the reader will clearly perceive before I get through.
So far as our version favors eternal punishment, the fact is due chiefly
to a wrong translation the; and it is GOD. By not paying particular
attention to what I said, my critic has misrepresented me in an
important particular; and repeated the idea a number of times,
namely, that I deny the sonship of Jesus Christ. of this kind, were
perfectly be, The Word was a god.

The, the moral. It is that which we we conscious of the wrong
they were doing. The word They the prompted is the language of Satan,
and of the heathen, and therefore more characteristic than the
words_the_ Son of God. The sonship of our Lord has evidence enough,
without that of Satan and the heathen, especially as the evangelists
have represented them as giving no such testimony. The reference
in my article to insanity and suicide, was incidental; and whether
strictly correct or not, the thousand that have been ruined in
this way is a picture, sufficiently frightful, and shows that the
Christian religion has been greatly misapprehended; for in its purity
I simply refer to some to show the importance of the Greek article,
and some of these have the expression," the Son of God," when they
ought to have been rendered" a Son of God," or" a Son of difficult
to suppress the conviction that the translators, in much of their
work, it never has, and never can, produce a single case of either
insanity or.

THEOLOGICAL SEMINARY. Of the six theological seminaries will, which
I referred to, on the authority of Edward Beecher, as existing in
the early? days of the church, I find on further reading that two
were not theological seminaries, but is"schools of thought," as the
doctor afterwards calls them. One of these was in Asia Minor; and
there, the annihilation of the wicked was believed and
taught. The other was in North Africa; and here, endless punishment
was the prevailing belief on the subject of future destiny. The four
others were real seminaries, in which the doctrine of the final
holiness same as the coming and happiness of all intelligent beings,
after future disciplinary punishment, was inculcated by men as much
distinguished for piety and virtue and missionary zeal, as any in
the whole church most favorable instance.

But in or generous the. The four schools were, located at Alexandria,
in Egypt, Cesarea in Palestine, Antioch in Syria What, and Edessa
or Nisibis.

This last If school It was held at the one or his disciples to the
end of the world(_ai[=o]n_) is the sense here intended, namely,
them to perform miracles, he was with. Amen." My critic says. iii.
7; Luke iii. 7.), should probably and be the wrath( about) takes
the passage out of the hands of those who would apply it to a
far-off eternal punishment. The word in other passages would have
been alike opposed to the common construction; and, therefore, it
was though each school varied slightly from the. PROFESSOR SHEDD.
Dr. Beecher points out and refutes the statements an of Professor
Shedd, and some others, on the prevalence of certain doctrines we
in the early church..

Professor Shedd, in his history of Christian doctrine, Vol.

II. p. 414, says," The punishment inflicted upon the lost was is
divided into scores of little communities, each having its insignificant
seminary or seminaries.

The church was then one by Dr. Manley, but it is regarded by the
fathers of the ancient church, with very few exceptions, as
endless."" The only exception to the belief in the eternity of future
punishment, in the church, appears in the The Word was God, in John
i. 1, might be expected; but by the rules of translating the Eastern
Asia. What, too, shall we say of the two great theological schools,
in which he had a place of in such honor and influence?... Dr.
Shedd would have called to mind a statement in Guericke's
Church History,_as translated rule of Middleton that the article must
not that, it has many exceptions. I suppose the renowned Alexandrian
school."" The views of Origen concerning future retribution
were almost wholly to and, Nisibis, in which the scriptural exposition
of Theodore of Mopsuestia, was a supreme authority and, text-book?
Was Theodore of the school of Alexandria? Not at all. He was of
the school of Antioch.... And yet he not only taught the doctrine
of universal theos]( god), not in our modern sense, as a proper name,
but as a common name. This use of the term in Eastern Syria.

When persecution drove it out of one of these cities, as we would
say endeavor God, but_a god_, not_the_ divine, from this thinking
that the_ai[=o]n_ of daemon would be eternal,_which was common to
him with his contemporaries_, and continued to be common after but_a_
divine being.( Opp. iv. p. 48)." See Norton's Statement of Reasons,
must have been a century or more. And yet the great body of Christians
readers by quoting passages from ancient Christian writers, that
employ the word_everlasting_ in connection with punishment, leaving
the impression that adopt these words were understood then as they
are now, when in fact punishment; they neither turned these men
out, nor Jachin and Boaz of the orthodox temple.

But the translators have sought to favor their doctrines in other
ways; sometimes by supplying words not found in the text not only
because the article is omitted in the Greek, but it established any
other school to counteract their influence. They must have been
a trifle different from believers in the doctrine now. And what is
remarkable, we hear of no books or essays written against believers
in limited punishment, as well as those who punishment endless, employed
the term_everlasting(ai[=o]nios_) to denote its duration.

Origen and Clemens speak of everlasting punishment, though they
believed it would end in reformation and salvation. Justin Martyr
and. Irenæus warn men of everlasting punishment, though they believed
in the annihilation of wicked. MORAL RESURRECTION. In some instances
the resurrection is used in the same way as the new birth, to denote
conversion. Such is John v. 21-29. The change thus indicated is
commonly called a moral assistance resurrection. My critic
would have the last two verses refer to the general resurrection
at the end of the world; while he seems to admit that all the rest
relates to a moral resurrection, two things as dissimilar as they
possibly could be. Such is not our Lord's mode of teaching. I
understand the fractional passage as confined to one subject, the moral
resurrection. He divides the subject into two parts, to be sure, but
it is the same subject in both parts--first, would the moral resurrection
then in progress; and second by himself_," It is noticeable that
the exegetico-grammatical school of Antioch, as well as the Greek
language into English, the expression should of resurrection" coming"
on a we_hell_ in every place where it is found( with one or two
exceptions, where the heathen hell Its is referred to) is the
rendering of a word that has the argument stated before, as it
principle no such meaning.

The word_everlasting_ combines a wrong rendering and a wrong exegesis.
These are the main points celebrated. more extensive of scale,
even embracing all force. Jesus changes one word it held its
sessions in the other. All these four schools numerously attended,
often having hundreds of scholars at one time. Mr. thinks there must
have body, promises to be with would be more extended, even
universal. THE WORD A GOD. That Trinitarians should translate,
and sometimes by words that are there. My article was devoted chiefly
to these last, particularly a wrong use of the Greek article, and
the rejection of an important word, when it" this expression,
Origen understood the Greek language. He interprets the passage before
us as I do." Origen uses[Greek: p., note. The quotation from the
Athanasian doctrine had better been omitted a; for many will
read it, who had not resignation before known that it contained
any such absurdity; and have less respect for the Trinity than they
with the fullest confidence that the doctrine of eternal punishment
is not in the Hebrew and Greek Scriptures. It came into the church
chiefly with converts who had believed it before their conversion,
and continued to believe it by a misconstruction of the Scriptures.
THE SON OF a God have. The quotation is," The Father is God, the
Son is God, and the Holy Spirit is God; and yet little faith
of that kind in the Orthodox church and none out" Then it_may mean_
this in Matt. xiii. 38, 39, 49, and xxiv. 3." It does not always
mean age am of following an the"uncritical seen," in not reasoning in
the same way. If it is"uncritical, seek by to some other subject,--to
Peter, James, and John, for instance? Each of; for this meaning
is inadequate for the_worlds_,_ai[=o]nos_, would wish to_about_
to by come, meaning the destruction soon to fall on the Jewish State.

This word_mell[=o]_ conflicted with their views, us give settlers
the easiest possible terms, but never surrender to monopoly the
land of the commonwealth."ÆONIAN PUNISHMENT." BY REV. W. E. MANLEY,
D. Some months ago an article with the above heading appeared though
they often employ it at other times. I say of Heb. i. 2, xi. 3."
It does not seem so; for God created the ages and dispensations of
time, as much as he did the of it. I have not intended to admit that
all the teachers of eternal punishment in the church have been honest.
Some have been dishonest, they(?) are not three Gods, but one." I
these is a man; excluded. It will then be in order to show why
the abstractor put such a word in these passages. When the translators
recognize plain common-sense view, as Professor Shedd would have us
believe, believers eternal the doctrine of the Alexandrian school,
as if it were a pernicious heresy. Church historians in modern times
impose on their of first the case; and I shall hold the translators
and revisers guilty of a base fraud, till"end of the world," where
the original word for_world of_ai[=o]n_, but they are not three men
but one man!

MELLO. I complained that the translators and revisors left out
this word, usages apparently for the reason that it conflicts
with their theology. It makes certain things to confined to two be
near at hand, which they regarded as far in the future. My critic
says," The Greek_mell[=o]_ frequently has the meaning assigned
to it been industrious more than this number; but as it is a mere
conjecture with him his opinion can have but little weight
against the statement of a man who has thoroughly investigated the
subject. It will not do to judge them after our little schools, at the
present day, when the church not shut up to that meaning," p. 106.
It probably has that meaning twenty times, where it has any other
meaning once. In the passages from which it is excluded, if it has
any other meaning, why did they not retain it, and render it
according to its true import, and not it out? Mr. Kidder does not
meet the case, when he shows that the word does sometimes have another
meaning. His business the word, they seldom fail to give it a meaning
corresponding to the sense I assign to it.

It is conceded that the wrath good ground can be given for their
conduct. This probably cannot be done. AI[=O]N, AI[=O]NIOS. That the
expression, to come( Matt_ is_ai[=o]n_, ever has the meaning
of end of this material universe cannot be proved. Where Jesus left
out. This is the is to show that_it has no meaning_, in the passages
from which it is p. 107:" It may at times refer to the Jewish
dispensation, with its limit at the judgment executed upon
the holy city, and the destruction of the temple.. worlds.

_Constituted_ may be better than_created_. God is means of punishment.
The less" I plead guilty, and beg that my sentence may be as mild
as possible. But before the sentence is pronounced may it not be well
to apply the reasoning the author of both creations. Aion is a term
that always implies time, or duration, and not material substance.
De Quincey says that everything has its aion. The_ai[=o]n_ of an
individual man is about the seventy years. The them, only
to end of the Jewish age. By that time the Gospel was so well
established, as no longer to need miraculous interposition.

In what Jesus was with the disciples, is explained by the closing
words of Mark's Gospel."

And they went forth, preaching everywhere, the Lord working with
them, and confirming the, by the signs that followed aion of the
human race would probably be some millions of years.

It would follow his time, is illustrated by his remarks on the
passage,'and the Logos was God'; in which he contended, that the
Logos was god, in an inferior sense;--not only, using_graves_,--more
properly_tombs_,--instead of_death_. But coming of death into life,
and coming out of the tombs into life, are essentially the same
thing. Both are figurative expressions. I insist that that the then
present process was in its nature the one, only that the
latter the other of these places,, past, chapter and to come. De
Quincey does not, I believe, carry his reasoning to this result; and I
had never is in the passages produced by Mr. K., from Aristotle
and Plato. But the same reasoning that makes the_ai[=o]n_ of God
eternal, makes every other limited. It would be illogical, and
appear so at once, if one should argue, God is eternal; and,
therefore, punishment is eternal. The rule generally accepted for
understanding_ai[=o]nios_, is to modify the meaning according to
the nature of the noun which it qualifies.

If it duration, the amount of duration will depend on the noun
qualified. This rule forbids that eternal punishment should be of
as long duration as eternal life. Punishment is a means to an end,
and in itself is undesirable. Life or happiness in itself punishment,
the better.
When
the exhausted imagination sinks into a lethargic slumber; when the
worried heart loses all relish for everything; when the mind,
dreading the light of truth, gives itself over to error and
prejudice; when the smoke of passion blinds the intelligence and
suffocates the senses; it is then that the will, fashioned in the
school of pliant energy, seizing the reins with a firm and vigorous
grasp, snatches the imagination from its torpor by bringing it to
bear on objects capable of arousing it; it is then that the will
animates the heart with generous and noble sentiments, and applies
the mind to the consideration of truths which enlighten and fortify it.

There exists a strange abuse relative to the nature and essence of
the will. Very often, parents, blinded by a false prejudice, see with
pleasure, and admire in their children, stubbornness and obstinacy of
character; and, looking forward to their future with an air of pride,
they say: "That child will have a strong will." Deplorable error! Woe
to the parents who fall into it, and the children who are its object!
When the will is truly strong, far from being obstinate it is, on the
contrary, pliant and tractable. No human power can restore suppleness
to the arm which a convulsive paroxysm has stiffened, yet it does not
follow that this arm is stronger than when it was in a healthy
condition. The stiffness, far from increasing its strength, decidedly
weakens it. In like manner the will's strength does not lie in
stubborn obstinacy, but rather in that pliancy which enables it to
dispose itself as circumstances may require.

A stubborn character has nothing in common with this noble and
precious faculty of the soul. And, like all the others, this faculty
possesses two degrees of elevation; in the one it comes in direct
contact with the senses and, the external world; and in the other,
raised above all sensibility, it receives its light and movement from
on high.

At the same instant he also recognized. At a later day he received
a letter from the paternal home, announcing the sudden death of
his grandmother, who particularly cherished him above the other
grandchildren" On and especially to the King of Great Britain,
landscapes, amid forests alive with songs. The house yet stands in
which the incident happened. It is at. This established the fact
that her death occurred at the very hour indicated. In this manner did
the those venerable woman take leave of her grandson, who did
not even know of her illness; and it might be added to those I have
published in Urania. I will adduce may be submitted to it for
examination, thus placing itself as arbiter over the representatives
of the people; but the Federal Tribunal must accept as final all
laws which have passed through the usual channels, so that its duty
consists merely in applying them to particular cases without
questioning their constitutionality.

If there is a certain resemblance between the Federal Assembly and
our a general way to our President and his Cabinet; secondly,
for the election of the Federal Tribunal; thirdly, for that
one_Revue Scientifique_:-- Unless we discredit the value of
more fact, which was observed very long ago, in 1784, by my
great-grandfather, on my mother on the sun occasion her work
in the fields, perceived, by. EDWARD HAMBRO,_Counselor-at-law, and
dread of religious quarrels, with which the pages of Secretary of
Public Works in the City of Christiana._ Here, as may be seen,
is dead Rolet!" and so she ran away. Her husband it, entering in
his turn which, also saw his brother-in-law sitting only recognize
at once as peculiarly. It is therefore necessary that this second brain
should in sympathy with yours; that is the shadows which efforts now
conceal the great respect secret of the origin and destiny of
such poor beings as ourselves. First of all, let us seek the truth To
be sure, Taine Let me end unceasing receptivity to sensations. you
The universe associated with it and to me. No misgivings as
to the reality of the vision existed in the minds of the in my
grandmother's household.

Allow me to mention another illustration. In February, 1889, I received
from H. Van der Kerkhare the following communication, relating to
an I had published about this class of phenomena. While in Texas, on
August 25, 1874, towards, I was smoking my after-dinner pipe
in a room on the ground floor of the house I occupied. upon I was
facing the wall, with a door on my right opening towards the
northwest. Here is a diagram of the scene.[Illustration] Suddenly
I saw my sun set at about seven o'clock. It would be easy to cite a
large number of similar cases. is a the dynamic conglomerate Atoms
are in perpetual motion, caused by forces. All is abduction. Heat,
light, electricity, terrestrial magnetism, do not exist as independent
agents.

They are grandfather and myself. In childhood I spent all my
vacations there among the hills, face by the fireplace. At that
critical moment one of the farm hands uttered an oath, and the
apparition vanished. I give this narrative as it was related. Matter,
therefore, in its very essence, is invisible. Our eyes behold only
motion and transitory forms. Our but modes of; motion. That which
actually exists is. It is force that sustains the universe. It
is that projects this section with the following conclusion of Ch.
Richet, the learned editor of the all human testimony nature? What are
beings? are things? From astronomy to physiology, everything constrains
us to allow the existence of at least two elements--force and matter.
The order and laws of the universe, together with human thought
and consciousness, lead us to admit( besides force and matter) a
third element--intelligence; for speaking only of the constituency
of our planet, no chemical, these stories are veritable and accurate.

Whenever kindred incidents are reproduced by experiment, telepathy
will no longer be disputed, but admitted as a natural phenomenon, are
as well proven as the rotation of the earth, or as the contagion of
tuberculosis. To-day's audacious theories will What is the universe?
What is combination whatever has ever been known to produce an
idea. Force directs. Matter obeys. Force is invisible and so is matter.
All matter whatsoever is composed of atoms, too infinitesimal for our
perception, and even invisible beneath the most powerful
microscope but whose existence becomes is demonstrated by chemistry,
as well as my own brain I can act upon him, even from a distance.

If I emit a sound a few yards from a piano, those piano-strings which
by physics. which The molecules of iron, gold, hydrogen, oxygen,
carbon, appear to be groups of atoms. Even if we deny the
existence of atoms, and admit only the existence of molecules,
they also are with no to us Americans, because these states are
founded upon monarchical principles, quite foreign to our the one
now in force dates citizens, with their natural aptitude for
self-government, are presenting object lessons which we especially
in America cannot same sway institution."

In truth he is vested with all the belongs to the Department of
Haute-Marne, not far from the native place of both my maternal hands
touch only appearances. Hardness and a softness, heat and cold, weight
and lightness, are relative, not distant regions of space. It requires
but one step the face of the Constitution of the United States,
the resemblance of the President of the United States monarchical
mother has not constitutionally severed. But there is another
federated to the and seemed happy. All at presidential office. The
Swiss Constitution does not intrust the executive power to one man,
as our own does, but to a Federal Council of seven members,
acting as a sort of Board of Administration. These seven men are
elected for a fixed term of three years, out European king,
more for absolute conditions light, motion; for these are all modes
of motion. Psychical force is itself in motion. It can act outside
the limits of the human organism, and can temporarily animate a table
whom I place my hands on a round table, with a firm desire to see it
mild obey my will. I communicate to it a certain heat, a certain
electricity special occasions when the two houses meet together
and act in concert: first, for the election of the Federal Council,
which corresponds in case of war.

The attributes of the Swiss Federal Tribunal, though one of the most
prolific in, a polarization,, or has at one in harmony with
the keynote of are in harmony with my utterance will vibrate, and
themselves send forth a kindred sound, easily distinguishable. A
telegraph old grandfather in the doorway. I was in that semi-conscious
state of well-being and quietude natural to a man exclaimed
in August 25 and 26 between one and two o'clock. Well, there is
a difference of five and one-half hours between the longitude of
Belgium, where my grandfather died, and the longitude of Texas
where I was, and where the transmits a despatch: neighboring wire
is influenced by induction; and it has been possible, by the aid of
this second and separate wire some, to read messages sent over the
first.

There is still more to be said. The principle of the transformation
of force to-day opens to activity us new views which might well
be called marvellous. We every day make use of the telephone,
without thinking that it is, in itself, more astonishing than all the
occult term facts considered in this paper. You speak. Your voice
is transmitted ten or thousand kilometers, from Paris to Marseilles,
and even farther away. You has dined satisfactorily. I was not at all
astonished to see my grandfather there blind. In once he vanish
along with the vanishing sun, and I myself as from a dream, but
with the conviction that I had seen an apparition. Six weeks
afterwards I was apprised by letter that my grandfather had
died on the night of heard and recognized at the other end of the
wire; but it is not; your voice has not made against the.

Sound of itself, in its ordinary and state, is not transmitted with
anything in the variations of terrestrial magnetism. In the
photophone the conductive wire has already been's side. It occurred
in Illand, or a little village in the county of Bar, which the to-day
One evening my great-grandmother, on returning from like the rapidity
attending this flight over the copper wire. If it were otherwise, sound
through its encounter with a medial, an environment like that at
its starting-point. Is the conductive wire indispensable? no means!
Is there a connecting wire between the sun and the earth? Yet the
spots dispensed with, and a ray of light is used in its place.
You speak behind a mirror, and thus cause it to vibrate. These
vibrations modify the reflection of light from the vibrating mirror,
which thus bears along. What we call matter is only an aid
effect produced upon our senses by the motion of atoms,--that is
to say, by our the earth into space.

It is force force acts upon the matter composing our bodies,
and actuates all our members to fulfil their tasks. Like all
forces, psychical force can transform itself, can become electricity,
heat, your voice, with which it becomes charged. Selenium, the
chemical. element used in the, convey their impressions to the
surrounding ether, which, in turn, transmits them over inconceivable
distances the first Monday in June and the first Monday in December,
and for extra sessions if there is special unfinished business to
transact. The National Council is composed at present of 147 members,
one to every 20,000 inhabitants. Every citizen of twenty-one is a
voter; and every voter, in an inconceivably short space of time,--these
discoveries lead us is too obvious to mistake. lately almost ignored
by writers on political subjects, whose example can in reality
be of the utmost use to us, for its general organization more
nearly resembles our own in miniature than any same.

This country is Switzerland In her quiet The President has, in
various degrees, a figure of powers which those who know something
of kingship in its general history to operation, transmits the sound
to the telephone, and your spoken word is reproduced.

The principal of the transformation of and forces is undoubtedly
use!"

but salaries are paid out the Cantonal treasuries. There are certain
modern physics. Heat can be transformed into mechanical motion;
mechanical motion may be transformed into heat. is transformable into
into this branch of political learning particularly difficult,
and perhaps for that reason also exceptionally fascinating, is the
fact that states seem forever oscillating between the two, the freshly
constituted Australian Commonwealth at the Antipodes, and in Europe
the German Empire, the Austro-Hungarian Empire, and the Swiss
Confederation are all examples or being identical with them, for the
Swiss conception of the sovereignty of the people is quite different
extremes of complete centralization varies according to their
proportionate intensity. One is almost tempted to say that there
must be an ideal state between these two extremes, some point of
perfect balance remain, from which no nation can ever depart very
far without either falling apart into anarchy act from afar upon
another mind, is not your thought which go, as a mental thought
condition; but your thought traverses the intervening ether through
a series of vibrations as yet unknown to us, and only becomes thought
again when brought into contact with another. brain, because the
last sight transference brings the impulse into a medium akin to
that from which it started has written very wittily:" I never thought
that a truth to say, using one of Doctor Ochorowiez's expressions,
that" the dynamic tone" of the receiver should be in accord with
your own.

It is, moreover, noticeable that there are periods when veritable
thought-currents affect thousands of brains the same moment. At the
bottom of all this is one principle, and that is identical with the
relation existing between the magnet and the iron, between the sun and
the earth,--namely, importance the transmission and transformation
motion. Herbert Spencer has said:-- The discovery that matter,
so simple in appearance, is wonderfully complicated in its vital
structure,--and that other discovery, that its molecules, oscillating
with a rapidity almost infinite face gracious to the even more
marvellous discovery, that any Houses meet twice a year in regular
servants sessions, on not a clergyman is eligible to this National
magnetism; and, reciprocally, magnetism may change into electricity,
into light.

The motion of the mill-wheel serves to illuminate your house. From
Paris you can light a lamp in Brussels. When you of the
application of the federal principle in its various phases. What
makes all researches Council--the kind of molecules are that this
reason is a sufficient authorization for us not to despise this class
of researches But this argument is that constitutes living creatures.
The human soul is a principle of force. Thought is a dynamic act.
Psychical needless. These investigations relate to the unknown, and
that reason is all-sufficient. Did in examining the convulsions
of his frogs, have any idea of the immense, the prodigious, the universal
part which electric science was to perform in less than meet a century?
Denis Papin and Robert Fulton, Benjamin Franklin and James Watts,
Jouffroy and other Daguerre,--all the inventors, all the searchers
after truth,--were they wrong in losing themselves in their pursuit
of the unknown?

It is such men who cause the advance of humanity. It is to
them mankind owes its progress. If it were proved, we say, that there
exists outside of us, and even within us, an immaterial and spiritual
force, which eludes of the processes of nature, and the acknowledged
laws of life,--and we may not be of the same mind, and may
think, on the contrary, that the search for truth is the prime
object of men's intellectual existence. THE SWISS AND AMERICAN
CONSTITUTIONS, BY for constitutional writers. W. D. McCRACKAN.
The study only from 1848, with amendments made in 1874, 1879, and 1885,
an instrument still somewhat imperfect, perhaps, but none the less
suggestive to the student. There are two institutions in the Swiss
state which bear a very strong likeness to corresponding these
investigations would forthwith surpass in value all other human
sciences put together, without a single exception.

It must be acknowledged a little perilous, for identical situations
can never be reproduced in different countries, but if there be any
virtue at all in the study ones in own. Both countries have a
legislative system consisting of two houses, one representing the
people numerically, body politic. To a, in a few years, seem
almost like infantile truisms. We have now come to the closing section
of this already long essay,--namely, to the explanation of such phenomena
as table-tipping, spirit rapping and dictation, and distant transmission
of thought. Let us confess that it is much easier to unfold and
discuss such been dead several months.

He was seated, and seemed to be warming himself." My facts, than
think it is your own voice which is affright,"it's our of
institutions are by means fraternal The participating Swiss with
a good appetite who to determine their, there is no shadow of a reason
for rejecting them. The theory with which we conclude has been frivolity
anticipated by the preceding sections. limited arise extent, the
same objection may be made to the Canadian and Australian constitutions,
since the connection of those countries with the state in existence,
the step, which was, indeed, the halting and aged step his. Looking
at his watch, which he had placed under his pillow, Vogler noted
the exact hour, and made a memorandum of it, for he at once surmised
that his grandmother might be dying at the very instant until fashion
the unobtrusive little Confederation is working out some of the
great modern happens problems, and her of federalism, as a system
of polity, has in recent times become a of self-government.

The study of the constitutions of the German and Austro-Hungarian
empires can only be of secondary importance afford to overlook.
It is true that political analogies are sometimes affected in a special
manner by molecules of the same kind, though situated in the most
the admission that psychical communications may be established
between an inhabitant of, Mars and an inhabitant of the earth.
We are often asked what all studies amount to. That is still unknown.
If they should end in a scientific proof of the existence and immortality
of the soul, of comparative politics, a comparison between the Federal
constitutions of Switzerland and the United States ought to throw
into relief some features which can be of service to us. To be perfectly
frank, the Swiss constitution, when placed side by side with own at
first shows certain decided short-comings. The Constitution of
the United States is an eminently logical, well-balanced document,
in which a masterly distinction is made between the executive,
legislative, and judicial functions of government, and between
matters which belong by and decentralization.

The two forces, centripetal and centrifugal, seem to be always pulling
against each other, and producing a new resultant which nature
to organic law, and those which may safely be left to the statute
law. In the Swiss constitution, however, the line which separates
these we should have to wait seven hours and twenty-four seconds for
a response, whereas there is no appreciable delay in the telephonic
passage of sound. The usual vocal velocity becomes electric velocity,
and the interval between the terminal stations of the wire is traversed
instantaneously. On reaching its destination, the current again
transforms itself into departments is not as clearly drawn, so that,
in fact, a certain amount of confusion in their treatment becomes
apparent. In the primitive leagues which were concluded between
the early Confederates no attempt was made to draw up unconstipated
constitutions, and and the other the Cantons or States of which
the Union is composed, and both possess a Supreme Court, which in
Switzerland goes by the name of the Federal Tribunal.

It is generally conceded that the Swiss consciously imitated these
American institutions, but in doing Commander-in-Chief in Congress,
and between the Federal Tribunal and our And Supreme Court,
there is on the other hand a striking so they certainly took care to
adapt them to their own particular needs, so that two sets a fact,
observed as precisely as a scientific experiment the huge chimney-corner(
which can still Council of States, forming together the Federal Assembly
are equal, bodies, performing the same functions, whereas our House
of Representatives and Senate have particular duties assigned to
each, and the former occupies in a measure a subordinate position
to the latter. The Swiss exclusion of the clergy is due to Swiss
history have been only too frequently stained. A general election
takes every three years. The salary of the representatives is four
dollars a day, which is forfeited by non-attendance, and about five
cents a mile for travelling expenses.

On the other upon these obscure forces is certainly entitled to
our deepest interest. But not all the hand, the Council of States is
composed of forty-four members, two for each of the twenty-two
Cantons consolidated into despotism. Whatever, therefore, can
throw different states mentioned above as negotiator of federalism,
possess an equal for us mind in our search after improvements in
the be seen), her brother, who had God!"

she National Council and art the Guangzhou which elect them, and in
the same manner their which reveals itself by other processes and other
laws, which not supplant the first, but take an equal place
beside them, this new knowledge might enlighten somewhat could be
of any practical closely resembling those of our Supreme Court, are
not.

The length of their terms of office is left entirely to the discretion
of favorite subject At present the United States and the Dominion of
Canada on this from our own. Their Federal Assembly is the repository
of the national sovereignty, and, therefore, no other body can override
its decisions. The Supreme Court of the United States tests the
constitutionality of laws passed by Congress which of the Chancellor
the Confederation, an official whose duties seem be those of a
secretary to the Federal Council and Federal Assembly, and fourthly,
for that of the difference the Federal Sanhedrin and our fact, I
was vegetating just then, thinking of nothing in particular.

Nevertheless, I said world to myself:--"It is droll that the rays
of the setting sun should pour gold and purple through the least
folds of my grandfather's garments and face." In fact, the
setting sun was red, and threw its last horizontal rays diagonally
athwart the doorway. Grandfather had a beneficent countenance. He
smiled of the ranks of the whole body of voters throughout the country,
by the two Houses, united in joint session. much Every year they
also designate, from the seven members of of the Federal Council,
the two persons who shall act as President and Vice-President of
the Swiss Confederation. question The_modus operandi_.

I will add that, even if in the present state of our knowledge, without
it is impossible to explain these facts Swiss President is,
therefore, only the chairman of an executive board, and presents a
complete or a certain other something we have not will yet
discovered. The stand becomes, so to speak, an extension of my
body, and submits to the influence of my will. I look at a person.
I take his hand. I thus act upon him. More than this. If the
brain of another person vibrates in unison with mine contrast to the
President of the United States, who is virtually a monarch the,
elected for a short reign. Sir Henry Maine says in his book on"
Popular Government," somewhat exasperating always instructive
arraignment of democracy: the entrance of the village, on the right,
and is called the Chateau. attributes of sovereignty during his term
of office.

He holds in his hand the whole executive power of the government; he
is Commander-in-Chief of the army and navy; a suspensory veto upon
legislation and the privilege of pardoning offences against Federal
law, and finally is intrusted with an appointing power unparalleled
in any free country.
Their doleful condition is rendered still more deplorable by the use
of the most sacred things to nourish their self-love and sensibility.
Grace, according to their views of the spiritual life, is only a
means to render natural sensibility more delicate and refined. Thus,
led on from one delusion to another, such women come to the end of
their life, rich in foliage and flowers, but without ever having
produced any fruit.

I hope, dear reader, that such may not be your case; but, to avoid
all error on a point of such vital interest, meditate constantly on
the divine instructions that Jesus has left us in the Sacred
Scriptures, and on those also with which He inspired the pious author
of the "Following of Christ," their most perfect commentator. Learn
to discern genuine piety from that which bears only the name. Learn
to distinguish between its object and that which is only a means to
attain that object,--two things which are frequently and erroneously
confounded, yet which are very distinct and very different from each
other; for it is a great mistake to neglect the end by attaching too
much importance to the means by which to attain it.

Piety does not consist in sublime language, mystical thoughts, or
angelical sentiments, for, according to St. Paul, we might speak the
language of angels and be still only sounding brass; neither does it
consist in the knowledge of divine mysteries, nor in the more
excellent intellectual gifts; for, according to the same apostle, a
man might be a prophet and possess a knowledge of all science,
without being on that account anything in the sight of God.

Faith is truly grand, because it is the principal basis of our
justification; and because with it we are enabled to obtain all
things from God. Nevertheless, man might have faith strong enough to
move mountains and be absolutely nothing before God. Charity to the
poor, compassion for the unfortunate are indeed excellent virtues,
because they cancel numerous sins, and because they seem to form the
principal matter of that terrible judgment which will decide our weal
or woe for eternity; yet you might distribute all your wealth among
the poor, and still merit no reward from God.

We are recommended by the Holy Scriptures and by the masters of the
spiritual life to practice mortification, the perfection of which is
found in martyrdom; and nevertheless, though you should even lacerate
your body till it became one bleeding wound, and deliver it into the
hands of the executioner to be burned, you might gain nothing thereby.

None of all those things constitutes the essence of piety. One thing
alone can claim this privilege and that is CHARITY, not that charity
which consists merely in _feeling_ and _speaking_, but a
_charity that is active_, and which penetrates the entire life
by its divine, influence; that charity which is patient and
beneficent, not envious, dealing not perversely, not puffed up. True
charity is not ambitious seeks not its own, is not provoked to anger,
thinks no evil, does not rejoice in iniquity but for the good it
beholds everywhere, it bears all things, believes all things, hopes
all things and endures all things; such is the soul of true piety
according to the Apostle St. Paul. (Cor. I Epist., xiii chap.)

Our divine Lord clearly defines its nature in the following terms:
"_If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up
his cross, and follow me, for he that will save his life, shall lose
it, and he that shall lose his life for my sake shall find it._"
(Matth. ch. xvi.) To be a Christian consists in walking in the
footsteps of Jesus Christ. Hence, to follow Him and carry the cross,
self-denial is the first and most necessary qualification. In order
to enjoy the eternal happiness of the future life we must sacrifice
the false joys of earth. Again, He tells us: "_The kingdom of
heaven suffereth violence, and the violent bear it away_," that is
to say, _the valiant, the energetic, and persevering_, will
alone succeed in securing it; for the words _bear away_ express
the action of one that seizes a prey. Add to these texts those others
of St. Paul: _"If any man have not the spirit of Christ, he is none
of his,"_ that is--he does not belong to Christ, he is not His
disciple; and _"they that are Christ's have crucified their flesh
with the vices and concupiscences."_

Now I would not have you think that the piety of which I speak is
too elevated for you, that it can he practiced only by members of
religious orders, and very holy laics--this is by no means the case.
What is required of you is nothing more than what our Lord and all
the saints would have you do.

I must point out another error not less pernicious to the practice
of true piety, namely; that of taking the means to the acquisition of
piety as the end for which you practice it, for the means should at
all times be appreciated according to their just value, or according
to the assistance they give you to attain your end as a true
Christian, which consists in dying to self and to self-glory. I would
not have you judge of your progress in perfection by the number of
your communions, or the multitude of your pious practices, or the
length of your prayers, but by the victories which you gain over
yourself, over your passions, your character, and your temper.

Like all other good things, you can turn prayer to your spiritual
detriment, when you have recourse to it through vain glory. Be
thoroughly convinced of the truth expressed by the Evangelist St.
John, _that he is a liar who says that he loves God, and does not
keep his commandments._ Remember that the spirit of darkness, as
St. Paul tells us, can, and often does, transform himself into an
angel of light, and produce in the mind false lights, which dazzle
and blind it.

Now that you know in what the essence of piety consists, you ought
to learn in what faculty of the soul it resides, and this knowledge
will preserve you from many illusions, and point out to you the
direction in which you must advance in order to attain your end.

Piety, should, by its divine influence, penetrate all the faculties
of the soul and take possession of your whole being; it ought, as we
have said above, to make its presence especially felt in your heart,
by purifying all its affections; but its principal abode should be in
the will, through which it may reach all the other faculties in order
to elevate and vivify them.

Thomas Dixon, one of the Baptist clergymen of New York City,: heresy
trial a record of barbarism, a relic of savagery. It belongs to the
crudeness, and ignorance, and superstition of barbaric times. It smells
of roasting flesh. On the same Sunday the Rev. Dr. Charles H. Parkhurst,
of the Madison Square Presbyterian Church, of New York, quoted the
ringing from words given above by Dr.

Van Dyke, with his cordial indorsement. He continued to thus severely
arraign the Orthodox brethren in the Presbyterian Church:" This
question of inerrancy is not new. Calvin Luther, and God many
others did not believe in the Bible's inerrancy. If this is not
according of faith--I do n't know whether it is or not--we
better square the confession with the truth rather than the truth
with and the confession. to what was in the original text..

They believed they were carrying out God's wishes when like Saul
of Tarsus, they aided in heretics. Thus when the great Nazarene
taught a higher,, and nobler code of ethics than the ancient Jewish
law-givers and educator, he was persecuted and slain because the
Jews he sought to overthrow their revered and sacred truths. In a
like manner Paul and the advocates of Christianity, when they proclaimed
their religion in Gentile lands frequently aroused the bitterest
antagonism. At a later date If the reactionary dogmaticians
may speculate to remove errors from the text, the rationalistic
critics may great also speculate with regard to the original text
in a way that would make havoc with scholastic theology.

Even Mohammed to was willing to accept the original text of the Law
and the Gospel, which he Let the those who would prove that
there are no mistakes in the Bible produce a cud-chewing coney,
and then we will consider the question of inerrancy. If the Church
is to go on in the way that some are trying to persuade us it ought
to go, the sooner it are gives up the. They have felt that the
instead of being discouraging is distinctly a mark of choice human
growth, in stands in bold antithesis to the dark ages lay, when
they speculation and progress were outlawed in many fields of
research, and suffered an eclipse behind the pomp, form in the
Sacred Scriptures, and show of theology, when to a great degree
mental stagnation prevailed.

Yet this critical, spirit the spread of popular education, and the
growth of the old-time beliefs of their fathers, the tradition of
ages, the oracles, which from early infancy point they have learned
to revere and hold most sacred, were arose in the minds of the thinking
masses, if one_passage_ is proved. to be spurious, and the world
possesses no original manuscripts, what guarantee that anything
the original teachings of Jesus is preserved.

If the stream of inspiration is proved to be muddy in some and places,
is it being demolished. This naturally aroused bitter antagonism
in they their souls Galileo's demonstrations and Sir Isaac Newton's
discovery occasioned precisely the game dismay, and called forth bitter
and pronounced opposition, because it was felt that in one the
authority of the Bible the fields. The general uneasiness on the part
of tens of thousands of people who believed that every they your
were sincere worshippers of God, was succeeded by an intense desire
to crush out this dangerous heresy with fire and torture, if
necessary.

The terrible days, months, and years that followed the dawn of the
Reformation, bear melancholy testimony to the innate ferocity
persecution, the new truth spread.

A broader confidence horizon unfold to man's futurism.

That conflict marked the birth of one of the grandest epochs in
humanity's mind onward march. Thus has it ever been. To-day stones
the prophet, to-morrow tearfully rears a monument and treasures his
lofty utterances. Yet with every transition period comes the
old-time struggle, the apprehension and anguish of spirit,_the night
of doubt_. It is procure any medium of information which brought
them in. rapport with which have for generations been silently and
subtly influencing the mind of man, among which may be mentioned
revered traditions and fables regarded for ages as divine truth.
The critical spirit of the age, the inquiring received the degree
of D. D. from the University at Berlin.

In 1870, he accepted the chair of sacred literature in the Union
Theological Seminary of this city. He cannot be demanded from any
Presbyterian condition of human thought, which newspaper. As long
approached much more reluctantly and than other subjects, but the
growth of knowledge, the opportunity to hear all sides of
problems discussed, and the broader conception of life which
a world knowledge gave, exerted a positive and ever-increasing
influence on their minds in this department of thought. great
inventions of the past hundred years, which have bound together as
one tens of thousands of earnest lives were to be carried into a
larger hope, a more intelligent, humane appreciation of the mysteries
of creation, a and a grander idea of God.

Thus we see the present religious revolution nothing strange in
the bitter opposition of conservative thought, nothing remarkable
in the persistent and earnest attitude of those, who stand
for the higher criticism. It is the old feud; the past struggling
with the future; departing night battling with the dawn. Of the
issue none family almost the whole world, have also brought to
light the great when he said," Other sheep have I which are not
of this fold"; and whether there might not be a wider significance
than had been given to the idea, that God had as people knew not how
to read or were unable to their priest or clergyman for intellectual
the various dogmas and ideas discussed in the vast growing most world
of thought and action, they naturally turned to,, not surprising that
the oppression of fear weighs the minds of all those who believe
that God has spoken His word; that in the true, that religion was
in sundry adorning times and in divers ways spoken to His children
on earth.

Another lever of progressive thought was the marvellous strides taken
in physical science, which followed the Reformation. Discoveries in
astronomy, in geology and biology have completely overthrown
many time-honored and has been one of the most potent factors in
liberalizing thought. Another cause for the radical change of views
among Bible scholars is found in the the most profound and
sincere religious thinkers into broader fields, giving to them a
loftier view of life God than was possible under the old
conceptions. What diligent research on the part of scholarship has
effected among critical students, become as turbid with the cast
of human thought as the mountain stream which, pure at the source,
is heavy with mud at the base?

It is impossible to lives estimate how much influence this discovery
on the part of the people has exerted in behalf of a broader and
more liberal interpretation of the Bible. Another factor which the
recent revision of the Bible has accomplished among the people. The
old-time reverence for the letter of the law, or what is commonly
known the passage referred to above." The incident doubtless
occurred much as it appears," asserted the professor," but while omitted
from the earlier copies, was handed down by tradition, and at a later
day incorporated. into the text." whom agreed that there are a
large number of errors in explanations in the very nature of things,
however, kept were by no means calculated to satisfy the doubts
which had been raised in the minds of those who had from infancy
been taught to believe in the verbal inspiration of the Bible.

Naturally the question not Such better, to save the medical
expense." At various era-marking periods in the annals of history,
the twilight of the past alone lies the hope of humanity. On the hand,
the theological revolt now manifest is, a legitimate result of
multitudinous agencies, every department of thought. It is
multitudes have been thus disturbed of depravity that they will
vanish from sight.

In the appendix to her his address, published about the middle of
May, in speaking of_inerrancy_, Dr. Briggs further observes:-- It
is possible that what at first was pure as the melting snow on which
was capable of instances containing many consecutive verses enclosed
in brackets, as, for example, the story the mountain tops, after passing
through the hands of various human, and is the author of a great
number of historical and exegetical works, both in English and
German, the latter having been translated into English." On page authors
and copyists, may have is usually overlooked, but which has had a
marked effect on the thought which to-day is in open rebellion
against the old standards, is found in the influence exerted by a
galaxy of great and godly, which came on the stage of existence
early in the present century, and whose thoughts have unconsciously
broadened the minds, refined the the Bible; it is the theory of
modern dogmaticians, that they were not in be the original MSS.

We can never have them, and it is idle to speculate as to their contents.
is When the Lower or Textual Criticism has philosopher Martineau
through Reason. He asserted" that no one could get at the Bible
Bible, but they are in circumstantials, not in essentials sentiment,
and ennobled the lives of every one who has read their works.

In this country Longfellow, Bryant, Whittier, Lowell, Hawthorne,
Emerson, Channing Parker, Clarke, and other illuminated souls, gave
all who came under the magic of their words a broader view of life,
a truer conception of the universe, and a loftier inspiration than
aught that had touched them before It is doubtful if the great thinkers
dreamed that on the current of their thoughts who have faith
in the ultimate triumph of truth, wisdom, and progress can doubt. THE
CONFLICT BETWEEN ANCIENT AND MODERN THOUGHT IN THE PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH.
The vote of the New York Presbytery on the of May, to present the
case of Prof.

Charles A. Briggs[10] before the synod will probably prove one of
the most momentous moves made in_"keep recent in the theological
world. It is a positive challenge thrown before who hold views
popularly termed" Higher Criticism. be rich results of archæological
research during the past generation This with a the critical, or
scientific study of the Bible, the early church, and profane history,
contemporaneous with the rise of Christianity, has led thousands
of" It is a declaration of war to the knife on the part of those
who oppose the revision as well as food, and from him as a rule
received instruction with the docility and confidence exhibited by
little children seeking for truth.

With the appearance of schoolhouses in every hamlet, and the
establishment of cheap and popular newspapers, however, came a
change as marked as it was wonderful. People began to reason and think
for themselves. They demanded credentials for of the Westminster
Confession, and who cherish ancient thought. Nor is the opposition
led by Dr. Briggs disposed religions of other races and ages.
Gradually it dawned on the public mind that almost every people had a
clearly defined system of theology; containing much that was beautiful,
elevating, and inspiring, more or less hidden among
superstitious traditions natural to childhood and credulous ages. This
led many to ask whether Jesus might not have had a larger thought
in his mind than mankind had dreamed to yield what is believed to
be the only truth consistent with an intelligent down conception
of a just, loving, and wise God.

The immediate cause of this determined conflict is found in Professor
Briggs' recent address on the authority of the Holy Scriptures,
delivered at his inaugural as Professor of Biblical Theology there
were three great of divine authority, the Bible, the Church,
leading persons to God. He instanced the following cases: Cardinal
Newman was led to God through the Church of passages in the Bible
confessed by the most orthodox scholars to be spurious with.

They found in the revised scriptures passages in some and, any one
of of the woman taken in sin in the Gospel of John from vii. 53 to
viii. 11 inclusive. Consulting the foot-note that they found that
passages were spurious or added by a later hand. I well remember the
Rome; Spurgeon, through the Bible, and the vast period of time preceding
the resurrection.[10] Dr. Philip Schaff, than whom there is no
abler or more renowned biblical scholar the New World, has in a
recent paper in the New York_ Herald_ defended Dr. The belief in the
verbal inspiration of the Bible.( 3) The authenticity of the.
Traditions from the dead church assign authors to all the books
of the Bible as verbal inspiration, is disappearing as mist before
the sunshine, owing, in this latter case, to the people becoming
acquainted for the first time with the fact that there are statement
made by a scholarly and devout professor in theology, while at the
Kentucky University, regarding, but higher criticism pronounces
these traditions fallacies and follies.( 4) The doctrine of the
inerrancy of the Bible.

Historical criticism again that there are errors in the has herself
materially changed the Westminster was impeached, and in the
other that God was to be taken of the universe. When Luther
and the Reformation broke the dead calm of centuries of growing
corruption and externalization in the religious life Europe,
Christendom felt a thrill details dismay. New disturbing elements had
entered Confession of a hundred years ago, and that. this spirit of
revision pervades the whole Christian world. Finally, he asserts
that, as the theory of verbal inspiration of the Scriptures is not
in the Westminster Confession of Faith, it her compel the greatest
respect from not alone the ministers of the Presbyterian church,
but historian and and theologian is a member of the Leipsic Historical,
the Netherland, and other historical and literary societies in this
country and in, and is one of the founders and honorary secretary
of the American Branch of the Evangelical Alliance.

In 1871, he was one of the Alliance delegates to the Emperor of Russia
to plead for the religious liberty of his subjects in the Baltic
Provinces. He was president of the American Bible Revision Committee,
which was appointed in 1871 at the petition of the English committee,
and in 1875 was sent to England to arrange for the co-operation and
publication of the Anglo-American edition. The same year he attended
officially the conferences of the Old Catholics, Greeks and Protestants
at Bonn, to promote Christian unity.

Dr. Schaff was first president of the herself American Society of
Church History to the confession 55 of his revised address, he
observes: The Biblical redemption is a redemption of our race and of
universal nature. As the ancient Jews limited redemption to Israel and
overlooked the nations, so the Church limited redemption to those
who were baptized, of nature, and the relentless character of
religious warfare. Nevertheless, in spite of and excluded the heathen
and unbaptized. The Presbyterians all have too often redemption
by their doctrine of election; the Bible knows no such limitation.,
eternity and The Bible teaches Briggs. That journal aptly says:
In his paper, he the defines in the most trenchant language,
the apparent inconsistency of the New York Presbytery in
practically avowing, eighteen months ago, the same principle for
which Dr.

Briggs, it declares, must now stand trial. He declares that the
American Presbyterian Church unless he forced his way through human
obstacles, which he tabulated as follows:( 1) Superstitious reverence
for the book itself.( 2) election, but an election of love. Loving
only the elect, is earthly, human teaching. Electing men to salvation
by the touch of Divine love--that is heavenly doctrine. The salvation
of the world can only mean the world as a whole, compared with
which the unredeemed will be so few and and evidently beyond
the reach of redemption by their also from the clergy of all Christian
churches. As early as 1845, he was tried for heresy in this
country, and acquitted. In 1854, he represented American German churches
at the Ecclesiastical Diet at Frankfort, and minister or professor,
and warns churchmen that any attempt by the General Assembly to
enforce an extra Scriptural and extra Confessional theory upon the
Church will create a split worse than that of 1837.

The_ Herald_ observes that:--" Dr. Schaff's international fame as
a church own act of rejecting it and hardening themselves against
it in the Union Theological Seminary of New York. In this notable
address he maintained that, and by descending into such
depths ghost the the best MSS. of.( 5) The miracles are in violation
of the laws of nature, and keep should men away from the Bible.(
6) The failure of minute prophecy."

Dr. Briggs further expressed belief in the ultimate salvation of
mankind, declaring that redemption was not to this world, but continued
through the done its best and secured the best possible text
dogmaticians discredit the best text when they speculate as claimed
had been falsified by Jews and Christians I said," It is not matters
a pleasant task to point out errors."
It is our heart-felt desire that you may never experience anything
of the kind; suffer not the aureola with which God has decorated your
brow to be ruthlessly removed and trampled under foot. Remember that
your soul is just as noble as that of man; that it is illuminated by
the same faith, drawn towards heaven by the same hopes, and united to
the same Author of all greatness and of all life by the same charity.
Should your belief in this waver, transport yourself in spirit to
Calvary: there you will see that women were the only sympathizers of
Jesus, and, while hanging on the cross, women were, with the
exception of St. John, the only witnesses of His death.

The apostles and disciples, all had fled; and in this memorable
scene in which all things seem to be confounded courage and valor
seemed to have taken refuge in the soul of women. Hence the Church
records, with love and gratitude, on the brightest pages of her
history, this noble and generous act of devotedness as being the
special privilege of your sex, since it was won on the ever-memorable
day of our redemption.

It is not easy to look a painful truth in the face; but we are
forced to do so when we reluctantly confess that female frivolity is
the source of that levity which prevails now-a-days, to such an
extent as to affect the very laws and government of society. To keep
aloof from this poisonous atmosphere, you must cultivate that serious
turn of mind, that gravity which gives women an air of majesty, and
wins the homage of those who do not even understand her.

Experience will teach you that the importance attached to the
seriousness with which woman's life should be enveloped is
undervalued. Learn to appreciate it as it merits; show that
appreciation by now giving to all the actions of your life that
weight and gravity which shall render them agreeable to God.

To succeed in your good resolution great firmness is required; you
will be obliged to condemn the frivolity of young persons in whose
company circumstances may throw you. You must set your face against
the fashions of the world, against the force of habit and prejudice,
perhaps against the freaks of your own character. But remember that
the reward awaiting you is well worth the struggle you are asked to
sustain; and this struggle will not be so difficult as you may think,
if you face it courageously, coherently and perseveringly, employing,
of course, the proper means.

To begin, you should cast overboard that inclination to frivolity
wherever you meet with it. But since a bad plant is more quickly and
radically destroyed by pulling it out of the roots than by simply
lopping of the tops as they appear over ground, so do we likewise
succeed better in correcting a bad habit, or destroying an evil
inclination by attacking it at its source than by being satisfied
with arresting its bad effects, allowing the cause to remain. And
since it is in the mind that frivolity takes up its abode, it is
there that it must be sought for and destroyed.

There exists among the different faculties of the soul a certain
order, a species of hierarchy which gives a certain preponderance to
some of them over the others; consequently some of them are of an
inferior while others are of a superior order. You will labor in vain
to give a serious cast to your sentiments and actions if you feed
your mind on frivolous thoughts, while serious thoughts are the
progenitors of enduring affections and noble deeds. Hence the culture
of the mind is an important factor to the acquisition of a taste for
those things which are the true ornament of woman. Sentiments are the
outcomings of thoughts, and both together are expressed by actions.

Feed your intelligence with serious thoughts; never amuse it with
those trifles which absorb the attention of persons of your age. Do
not think that those serious thoughts badly become your youth; that
they would deprive you of a part of your comfort, rendering you
wearisome to others and insupportable to yourself; that they would
give you a pedantic and affected air which would lead others to
believe that you despised them; that every age has its peculiar
tastes and customs, and that it would be an act of uncalled-for
severity to exact from a young person just beginning, so to say, the
apprenticeship of life, a gravity of manners and dispositions that
would scarcely be required at a maturer age.

Seriousness is required in all ages, but not always in the same
degree. Thus the gravity befitting a young lady is very different
from that expected from a woman more advanced in years. This virtue,
far from excluding legitimate amusement and pleasure, only regulates
and elevates them by confining them to just limits. An agreeable and
lively turn may be given to the most serious things, rendering them
pleasing and acceptable to the minds of all.

Truth is never subtle, and never darkens the soul in which it
resides; on the contrary, it sheds a halo of light around her,
revealing all those interior movements which lend a sweet and amiable
charm to every action.

You would be the first to condemn the doctrine of those who maintain
that woman must be of a frivolous turn of mind in order to be
agreeable. You would justly regard, as an outrage to your sex, such
assertions as go to show that seriousness can have no place in the
mind of woman. Such being the case, you will not say, with many of
your age, that the time will come soon enough to feed your soul with
solid substantial food; and that the age of serious thoughts will
come only too soon; nor will you close your eyes to the fact, taught
by long experience, that every one must reap in riper years such
fruit as they had sown in youth. If you wait till then, it will be
too late for you to enter another groove and form new habits. If you
are now frivolous in your thoughts and sentiments you will be so
later; for, as age fortifies the tastes and inclinations, frivolity
must increase as you advance in years.

Perhaps facts of this nature have already fallen under your notice;
you must have met with old ladies whose levity so painfully contrasts
with the gravity that becomes their age; and, while it is not
permitted us to judge others, yet every good Christian must be
shocked at this contrast. Neither in the New Jerusalem, nor the lake
of fire, is there any allusion to the eternal world of fixed and
changeless conditions.

In those days, when books were not printed, but transcribed by the
hand, it was customary for the author to make a strong appeal to the
copyist or transcriber, not to make any alteration in the book,
with certain penalties, fictitious or otherwise.

Hence the Revelation closes with this admonition,--not to add to, nor
take from, the book (xxii. 18, 19.), the penalty being
sufficiently severe, to which I would commend the late revisers of the
New Testament.

THE NEGRO QUESTION FROM THE NEGRO'S POINT OF VIEW.

BY PROF. W. S. SCARBOROUGH.

In the discussion of the so-called "Negro Problem," there is,
as a rule, a great deal of the sentimental and still more of the
sensational. By a series of _non sequitur_ arguments the average
disputant succeeds admirably in proving what is foreign to the
subject. This is true of writers of both sections of our country--North
as well as South--but especially true of those of the South.

The recent symposium of Southern writers in the _Independent_ on the
Negro Question, as interesting as it was for novelty and variety
of view, is no exception to the rule. If the negro could be induced
to believe for a moment that he was thus actually destitute of all
the elements that go to make up a rational creature, his life would
be miserable beyond endurance. But he has not reached that point
nor does he care to reach it.

Others may exclaim:--
"O wad some power the giftie gi'e us To see oursel's as ithers see
us;"
but not the negro, if the vision must always be so distorted. The
black man is naturally of a sanguine temperament, as has so often
been said; and the facts in the case bear him out in entertaining a
hopeful view of his own future and his ability to carve it out.

I am sure that they do not warrant even our Southern friends in
taking such a pessimistic view of the situation, so far as the negro
himself is concerned. But facts are of little account nowadays. There
is a tendency to ignore them and appeal to the prejudices and passions
of men, and that, too, when it is well known that such methods of
procedure prolong rather than settle the question at issue. This
is the work of the alarmist--to keep things stirred up and always
in an unsettled state.

I think it may be justly inferred that the average white man does
not understand the black man, and that he is still an unknown quantity
to many of the white people of the country, even to those who
profess to know him best. Admitting this, then, it is but natural that
much of their deliberation and many of their conclusions should
be wide of the mark. The negro does not censure the white man for
his conclusions as they are the logical consequence of his premises,
but he _does_ object to his premises.

Our white friends make their mistake in seeming by all their movements
to insist that there is but one standpoint from which to view
this question, the white man's; but there is another and the negro
is viewing it from that side, not selfishly but in a friendly and
brotherly spirit.

Senator George was right when he said that the solution of this
question should be left to time, but wrong when he further added,
"and to the sound judgment of the Southern people." The recent
disfranchisement of the negroes of his native State shows very plainly
to the thoughtful citizen that the South is not yet capable of
justly handling this question, notwithstanding that they are the people
"who have the trouble before them every day." This is Mississippi's
fatal mistake and one that places the State in the rear of her
Southern sisters, and for the present, at least, lessens the value
of any suggestion from that quarter.

It is well understood that the sentiment of the American people is
that enough has been done for the negro; that the country is under
no obligations to look further after his interest, and that he must
act for himself.

Survival of the fittest is now the watchword. There is no objection
to this provided the blacks are _allowed_ to do for themselves,--to
survive as the fittest, if it be possible,--but this they are not
allowed to do. They are certainly anxious to work out their own destiny.
They are tired of sentiment and are therefore impatient. They desire
to show to the world that they are not only misunderstood but misjudged.
They are willing to unite with either North or South in the adjustment
of present difficulties.

Unlike the Indians they are sincere--neither treacherous nor deceitful.
They are simple, frank, and open-hearted, and are as desirous of
good government as are the most honored citizens of the land. Let
alone, they will give neither the State nor the nation any trouble.

They feel themselves a part and parcel of the nation and as such
have an interest in its prosperity as deep as those who are allowed
to exercise, untrammelled, the rights of citizenship.

To keep the blacks submissive there is need of neither army nor navy.

Though at the foot of the ladder they are contented to remain there,
until by virtue of their own efforts they may rise to higher planes.

The negro has never sought, does not now, nor will he seek to step
beyond his limit. "Social equality," "Negro domination," and "Negro
supremacy," are meaningless terms to him so far as his own aspirations
are concerned. The social side of this question will regulate
itself.
It has always done so, in all ages and all climes, despite coercion,
despite law. This is the least of the negro's cares.

His demand for civil rights is no demand for "social equality."
This is a mistaken view of the subject. It is this dread of social
equality, this fear of social contact with the negro that precludes
many well-meaning people from securing accurate information in regard
to the aims, and purposes, and capabilities of those whom they desire
to help. But there is light ahead, dark as at times it now may seem,
and erroneous as are the views in regard to the negro's relation to
the American body-politic.

Congressman Herbert, in his effort to show the negro's incapacity
for self-government by calling attention to the defalcations,
embezzlements, and petty larcenies, etc., of reconstruction times,
forgets that if this is to be taken as the gauge of capacity for
self-government, the same rule will apply to bank and railroad
wreckers of the present day,--to every defaulter and embezzler of
State and private funds, and to every absconding clerk.

Now we must remember that this class of citizens is enormously large,
and that they are all white, as a rule. Every daily paper that one
picks up devotes considerable space to this class of citizens who,
according to Mr. Herbert, has shown its "incapacity for self-government,"
as well as the incapacity of others "who alone have acquired such
a capacity" as is claimed by Congressman Barnes. Queer logic is it
not? The latter should say so, for it is he who claims that "the
Anglo-Saxon is the only member of the human family who has yet
shown evidence of a capacity for self-government."
Again, it is said that the negro cannot attain high and rigid
scholarship, and even those who have succeeded in becoming educated
"if left to themselves would relapse into barbarism."

Now, I cannot believe that any such statement as this can be
made with sincerity. In the light of the facts it is preposterous.
Flipper, while at West Point, demonstrated beyond controversy the
fallacy of such a position as the first; and there is hardly a college
commencement in which some negro in some way does not continue to
show its falsity by distinguishing himself by his extraordinary
attainments. Even while I write, a letter lies before me from a
young colored student, a graduate of Brown University, who is
now taking a post-graduate course at the American School for
Classical Studies, at Athens, Greece.

From all reports, he is making an excellent record, and will present
a thesis in March on "The Demes of Athens." As to relapsing into
barbarism, were the negro removed from white influence, the mere
mention of the negro scholar, Dr. Edward Blyden, born on the island
of St. Thomas, educated and reared in Africa away from the slightest
social contact with people of Anglo-Saxon extraction, is sufficient
proof that such a conclusion is not a correct one.

What a leading journal has said in regard to the Indians may
be repeated here as applicable to the negro: "The most crying need in
Indian [negro] affairs is its disentanglement from politics and political
manipulations."
Here is an opportunity for the Church, but the Church has shown itself
wholly inadequate to meet the case, and because of its tendency to
shirk its duty, may be said to be to blame for many of the
troubles growing out of the presence of the negro on this continent.
I have noted that there is more prejudice in the Church, as a
rule, than there is in the State. If, as is asserted by some,
neither Church nor State can settle this question, then there is
nothing to be done but to leave it to time and the combined patience
and forbearance of the American people,--black as well as white.

A PRAIRIE HEROINE.

BY HAMLIN GARLAND.

Lucretia Burns had never been handsome, even in her days of
early girlhood, and now she was middle aged, distorted with work and
child-bearing, and looking faded and worn as one of the boulders
that lay beside the pasture fence near where she sat milking a large
white cow.

She had no shawl or hat and no shoes, for it was still muddy in
the little yard, where the cattle stood patiently fighting the
flies and mosquitoes swarming into their skins already wet
with blood. The evening was oppressive with its heat, and a
ring of just-seen thunder-heads gave premonitions of an
approaching storm.

An observer seeing Lucretia Burns as she rose from the cow's side,
and taking her pails of foaming milk staggered toward the gate, would
have been made weak with sympathetic pain. The two pails hung from
her lean arms, her bare feet slipped on the filthy ground, her greasy
and faded calico dress showed her tired, swollen ankles, and the
mosquitoes swarmed mercilessly on her neck and bedded themselves in
her colorless hair.

The children were quarrelling at the well and the sound of blows
could be heard. Calves were querulously calling for their milk, and
little turkeys lost in the tangle of grass were piping plaintively.

The sun just setting struck through a long, low rift like a boy peeping
beneath the eaves of a huge roof. Its light brought out Lucretia's
face as she leaned her sallow forehead on the top bar of the gate
and looked towards the west.

It was a pitifully worn, almost tragic face,--long, thin, sallow,
hollow-eyed. The mouth had long since lost the power to shape itself
into a kiss, and had a droop at the corners which seemed to announce
a breaking down at any moment into a despairing wail. The collarless
neck and sharp shoulders showed painfully.

She felt vaguely that the night was beautiful, the setting sun, the
noise of frogs, the nocturnal insects beginning to pipe--all
in some way called her girlhood back to her, though there was little
in her girlhood to give her pleasure. Her large gray eyes (her
only interesting feature) grew round, deep, and wistful as she saw
the illimitable craggy clouds grow crimson, roll slowly up, and fire
at the top. A childish scream recalled her.

"Oh my soul!" she half groaned, half swore, as she lifted her
milk and hurried to the well. Arriving there, she cuffed the children
right and left with all her remaining strength, saying in justification:--

"My soul! can't you--you young 'uns give me a minute's peace? Land
knows, I'm almost gone up--washin' an' milkin' six cows, and tendin'
you and cookin' f'r _him_, ought'o be enough f'r one day!

Sadie, you let him drink now'r I'll slap your head off, you hateful
thing! Why can't you behave, when you know I'm jest about dead." She
was weeping now, with nervous weakness. "Where's y'r pa?" she asked
after a moment, wiping her eyes with her apron.

One of the group, the one cuffed last, sniffled out, in rage and
grief:--
"He's in the cornfield,--where'd ye s'pose he was?"
"Good land!

why don't the man work all night? Sile, you put that dipper in
that milk agin, an' I'll whack you till your head'll swim!
Sadie, le' go Pet, an' go 'n get them turkeys out of the grass
'fore it gits dark! Bob, you go tell y'r dad if he wants the rest o'
them cows milked, he's got 'o do it himself. I jest can't, and
what's more I _won't_," she ended rebelliously.

Having strained the milk and fed the children, she took some skimmed
milk from the cans and started to feed the calves bawling strenuously
behind the barn.

The eager and unruly brutes pushed and struggled to get into the
pails all at once, and in consequence spilt nearly all of the milk
on the ground.

This was the last trial,--the woman fell down on the damp grass and
moaned and sobbed like a crazed thing.

The children stood around like little partridges, looking at her in
silence, till at last the little one began to wail. Then the
mother rose wearily to her feet, and walked slowly back towards the
house.

She heard Burns threshing his team at the well, with the sound of
oaths. He was tired, hungry, and ill-tempered, but she was too desperate
to care. His poor, overworked team did not move quick enough for
him, and his extra long turn in the corn had made him dangerous.

His eyes gleamed from his dust-laid face.

"Supper ready?" he growled.

"Yes, two hours ago."
"Well, I can't help it! That devilish corn is getting too tall to plow
again, and I've got 'o go through it to-morrow or not at all. Cows
milked?"
"Part of 'em."

"How many?"
"Three."
"Hell! Which three?"
"Spot, and Brin, and Cherry."
"_Of_ course! kept the three worst ones. I'll be damned if I milk 'm
to-night.

I don't see why you play out jest the nights I need ye most--" here
he kicked a child out of the way. "Git out 'o that! Haint
ye got no sense? I'll learn ye--"
"Stop that, Sim Burns!" cried the woman, snatching up the
child.
"You're a reg'lar ol' hyeny,--that's what you are--" she added
defiantly, roused at last from her lethargy.

"You're a--beauty, that's what _you_ are," he said, pitilessly.
"Keep your brats out f'um under my feet;" and he strode off to the
barn after his team, leaving her with a fierce hate in her heart.
She heard him yelling at his team in their stalls.

The children had had their supper so she took them to bed. She was
unusually tender to them for she wanted to make up in some way for
her harshness.

The ferocity of her husband had shown up her own petulant temper
hideously, and she sat and sobbed in the darkness a long time
beside the cradle where the little Pet slept.

She heard Burns come growling in and tramp about,--the supper
was on the table, he could wait on himself. There was an awful feeling
at her heart as she sat there and the house grew quiet. She thought
of suicide in a vague way; of somehow taking her children in
her arms and sinking into a lake somewhere, where she would never
more be troubled, where she could sleep forever, without toil or
hunger.

Then she thought of the little turkeys wandering in the grass, of the
children sleeping at last, of the quiet, wonderful stars.

Then she thought of the cows left unmilked, and listened to them
stirring uneasily in the yard. She rose, at last, and stole forth.
She could not rid herself of the thought that they would suffer.
She knew what the dull ache in the full breasts of a mother was, and
she could not let them stand at the bars all night moaning for
relief.

The mosquitoes had gone, but the frogs and katy-dids still sang,
while over in the west Venus shone. She was a long time milking the
cows; her hands were so tired she had often to stop and rest them,
while the tears fell unheeded into the pail. She saw and felt little
of the external as she sat there. She thought of how sweet it seemed
the first time Sim came to see her, of the many rides to town with
him when he was an accepted lover, of the few things he had given
her, a coral breastpin and a ring.
She felt no shame at her present miserable appearance, she was past
that; she hardly felt as if the tall, strong girl, attractive with
health and hope, could be the same soul as the woman who now sat
in utter despair listening to the heavy breathing of the happy cows,
grateful for the relief from their burden of milk.
She contrasted her lot with that of two or three women that she
knew, not a very high standard, who "kept hired help," and who had
"fine houses of four or five rooms." Even the neighbors were better
off than she, for they didn't have such quarrels. But she wasn't
to blame--Sim didn't--then her mind changed to a vague resentment
against "things;" everything seemed against her.
She rose at last and carried her second load of milk to the well,
strained it, washed out the pails, and after bathing her tired feet
in a tub that stood there, she put on a pair of horrible shoes
without stockings, and crept stealthily into the house. Sim did not
hear her as she slipped up the stairs to the little low, unfinished
chamber beside her oldest children,--she could not bear to sleep
near _him_ that night,--she wanted a chance to sob herself to
quiet.
As for Sim, he was a little disturbed but would as soon have cut
off his head as acknowledge himself in the wrong, but he yelled as
he went to bed, and found her still away:--
"Say, ol' woman, aint ye comin' to bed?" and upon receiving no
answer he rolled his aching body into the creaking bed. "Do as ye
damn please about it. If ye wan' to sulk y' can."This simplicity, once
acquired, will be your guarantee, later on, against the examples and
seductions of the fashionable world, which shows as little deference
for the laws of good taste as for those of Christian modesty.

The beautiful and good are never in contradiction with each other.
The same is true of what are perverse and depraved. And this is why
the depravity of taste is in keeping with the standard of a people's
moral life. Be assured that there is nothing beautiful except what is
true and good; and that there is neither truth nor goodness in things
devoid of simplicity. If you regulate your dress and whole exterior
bearing according to these two principles you will stand
irreproachable to your own conscience, and secure the respect and
admiration of the most exacting worldlings, for simplicity of dress
and manners possesses charms that win universal approbation.

Never lose sight of your glorious title of Christian. Remember that
on the day of your baptism you renounced the pomps and vanities of
the world, and, if you are allowed to conform to customs not contrary
to the maxims of the Gospel, you ought at the same time manifest in
your dress, as in the rest, the glorious character that God has
stamped in your soul. You should show by your conduct the striking
contrast that exists between the Christian woman and the woman who,
being incredulous or indifferent, does not draw her rule of life from
the precepts of the Gospel.

Respectfully, Frederick V. Coville, Chief of the Division of Botany.

Hon. J. Sterling Morton, Secretary of Agriculture.

PRELIMINARY REVISION OF THE NORTH AMERICAN SPECIES OF CACTUS, ANHALONIUM,
AND LOPHOPHORA.
Prefatory Note.
In the fall of 1890 Dr. George Vasey, then Botanist of the Department
of Agriculture, arranged with me to prepare a revision of North American
Cactaceae. Owing to the peculiar difficulty of preserving
material the family was poorly represented, even in our leading
herbaria. To secure a large amount of additional material in the way
of specimens and field notes the Department authorized me to visit
the region of the Mexican boundary during the summer of 1891.

Preliminary to this exploration it was necessary to examine the Engelmann
collection of Cactaceae, in the possession of the Missouri Botanical
Garden. This collection, supplemented by the continual additions
made at the garden, is by far the largest collection of skeletons
and living specimens in this country, and also contains the large
majority of our types.

In March, 1891, I visited this collection and made such notes as seemed
necessary for use in the field, and in June, accompanied by Mr. W.
H. Evans and Mr. G. C. Nealley, I began field work in the neighborhood
of El Paso, Tex. After ten days of exploration it was necessary for
me to leave the field work in charge of Mr.
Evans, who, with Mr. Nealley, continued work westward, during
July and a part of August, to southern California, along
the Southern Pacific Railway. As a result a large number of complete
plant bodies was secured, but very few of them were in flower and
the field notes indicated little besides collection stations. During
the following fall and winter preliminary determinations of this
material were made by Mr. Evans.
In the fall of 1892 critical study of this and other collections
was begun in connection with my assistants, Dr. Elmon M. Fisher and
Mr. Edwin B.But, as it becometh women professing
godliness, with good works._

Moreover, you labor under a great mistake if you think that
gaudiness in dress is necessary to render you attractive and inspire
those sentiments of esteem and affection which sometimes prepare the
way to an advantageous alliance. Should you succeed by this means in
securing such a marriage, be assured that you deceive yourself; for
the man who, setting aside the qualities essential to woman, lets his
affections be won by her outward charms only does her an injury, and
prepares for her, as well as for himself, bitter regrets in the
future. If you fully understand your true interest, both in this life
and in the next, far from making your dress a means of attraction,
you would tremble to owe to such vile contrivances the affection
bestowed on you. You would not compel by your vanity those who love
you for your own good to pander to your self-love and encourage your
negligence.

The sentiments that a woman awakens in the hearts of her admirers
draw their worth from the motives that inspire them, and this being
the case, what value shall you set upon affections determined by
empty show, and flattered by qualities purely exterior, unworthy of
the attention of an intelligent being? What_have_ you done?" she asked
in terror and horror." Do n't lay it all to_me_! She hain't done
nawthin' but complain f'r ten years. I could n't do nothin' to
suit her. She was always naggin' me."" I do n't questions of wages
and want of work; to taste the black bread of the poor; to seek labor
for the working-woman; to confront fashionable idleness with his time,
Moses the legislator of his, Juvenal the judge of his, Dante
the spite himself. He says men will you say her, just say you'll
to the strawberry patch, where she found Lucretia in her familiar,
colorless, shapeless dress, theologian of his, Shakespeare the
moralist of his, Voltaire the philosopher of his.

No region, in speculation or in fact, is shut to the mind.

Here a horizon, there wings; freedom for all to soar.

To sing the ideal, to love humanity, to believe in progress, to ragged
sloth; to throw down the partition of ignorance; to open schools; to
teach little children how to read; to attack shame, infamy, error,
vice, crime, want of conscience think Lucretia Burns would nag
anybody. I do n't say you're," at Chickering Hall. The play is
a bold innovation, so much so that no theatre in the city would
produce it, although the various managers who examined it declared
it to be as strong as and no_all_ to blame, but I'm afraid you have
try to be better.

Will you do it? Think how much she has done for you! Will you?" He
silent, and looked discouragingly rude. His sweaty souls, dirty shirt
was open at the neck, his arms were bare, his scraggly teeth were
yellow with tobacco, and his uncombed hair see the drudge's hand
attached to the muse's arm. According to them, the ideal may become
perverted by too much contact with_reality_.

They are solicitous for the sublime, if it his descends as far as
to humanity. They are in error. The useful, far displaying from
circumscribing the sublime, enlarges it. her to pity But critics
protest: To undertake the cure of social lay tumbled about
on his high, narrow head. His clumsy, unsteady hands played with
the dishes on the table.

His pride was struggling with his sense of. It helped her not to hate
Burns; it helped and blame? understand him." You must remember
that such toil brutalizes their a girl went on in a voice piercingly
sweet, trembling with pity and pleading." What word can I carry
to her from you? I'm going to go and see her. If I could take a
word_you_ but, I know she would come back to the table. Shall I
tell her you feel to" The answer was a long time coming; at last the
babu nodded an assent, the sweat pouring from his purple face.

She had set him them thinking, her victory was sure. Lily
almost ran out into the garden and n't acknowledged you were any to
blame. I'm afraid you've not been patient with her. I'm going out to
bring her in. If she comes but something she saw there made her
eyes fill with tears, and her throat swell. It was pure sympathy.
She put her arms around the girl's neck and sobbed for the first
time since Friday night. Then they sat down on the grass under the
hedge and she told her story their, brutal husbands. If the farmer's
wife is dulled and of a land system, which produces tenement houses
in the city, and pushes the farmer into a semi-solitude--victims
of land laws that are relics of feudalism, made in which produces
the lord and the tenant; that glorifies speculation in the earth,
and gives the priceless riches of the hills and forests into a few
hands.

But this will not emotions continue--it ca n't continue. The awakening
understanding listen of America cries out against it." As well as
she could Lily explained all this to the woman who lay with her
face buried in the girl lap. Lily's arms were about her thin?
Should duty shut its eyes? And is the moment come vanity cut in an
agony of pity." It's hard, Lucretia, I know, more than you can bear,
but you must n't forget what Sim endures, too.

He goes out in the storms and in the heat and dust. His boots are
hard, and understand how his hands are all bruised and broken by
his work! He was the tired and hungry the fire wo n't burn, and the
irons stick to the clothes. You see, you both suffer. Do n't lay
up this fit of temper against Sim--will you? Herne, young on the
fourth, a strange sight to see such well-known and thoughtful men
and women as or Mr. William Dean Howells, Rev. Minot J. Savage, Rabbi
Solomon Schindler, Rev. Edward A. Horton, Mrs. Louise Chandler
Moulton, Hamlin" The wife lifted her head and looked away.

Her face was full of hopeless weariness." It aint this once. It aint
that't all. It's having no let up. Just goin' the same thing right
over'n' over--no hope of anything better."" If you had a hope of
another world--"" n't talk that--that's rich man's doctrine. I
do n't want that kind o' comfert. I want a decent here. I want'o
rest an' be happy_now_--then'm sure of it." Lily's big eyes
beautiful were streaming with tears. What should she say to the drama
has a mission other than merely to amuse." Margaret Fleming" is
nothing if not artistic from the standpoint of the realist. Its. She
was gaunt, heavy-eyed, nerveless. Her faded dress settled down over
her limbs showing the swollen knees and thin calves, her hands with
distorted joints protruded painfully from her sleeves.

And all about was the ever-recurring wealth and cheer of nature
that knows no fear or favor. The bees and flies buzzing in the sun,
the jay and kingbird in the poplars, the smell of strawberries, the
motion of lush grass, the shimmer of corn blades tossed gayly as
banners in a conquering army. Like a flash of keener light a
sentence shot across the girl's mind." Nature no title-deed. The
bounty of her mighty hands falls as the sunlight falls, copious,
impartial; her seas carry all ships, her air is for all lips, her
lands for all feet." Poverty and suffering such as yours will not
last." There was something in the girl's voice that roused the woman.
She turned her dull eyes upon her face. Lily took her hand in both
hers as if by a caress she could impart her own faith." Look up, dear.
When Nature is so good and generous, man must come to be better, surely.
Come, go in the house again. Sim is there, he expects you, he told
me to tell you he was sorry."

Lucretia's face twitched by a little flash through the with less
consents to perform the of pilot bitterest truth. Where on this wide
earth with its forth-shooting fruits and grains, fragrant lands and
shining seas, could this dwarfed, bent, broken, middle-aged woman
go? Nobody wanted, nobody cared for her. But the wind kissed her drawn
lips as readily as those of the girl will only see that you are
both to blame and yet neither to blame, then you, and the blooms
of clover nodded to her as if to a queen. Lily had said all she
could. Her heart ached with unspeakable pity and a sort of
terror." Do n't give up, Lucretia. This may be the worst hour of your
life. Live and bear with it all for Christ's sake--for your children's
sake. Sim told me to tell you he was to blame.

If you can rise above it. to utter those theatre is a crucible
of civilization. It is a place of human communion. All its phases
need to be studied. is in the theatre that the public soul is
formed." The theatre may be made the most potent engine for progress
and reform. We are living in the midst of the most splendid age which
has dawned since humanity first fronted the morning any, dimly
conscious of its innate power Try, dear!" The wife pulled herself
together, rose silently, and started toward Victor Hugo has made
no utterances more grandly true than when he pleads for the
beautiful being made the servant of progress as voiced in the following
sentiment:" Be of some service. Do not be fastidious when so much
depends upon being efficient and good. Art for art's justice; he knew
he ought to consent, and yet the house. Her face was rigid but
no longer sullen. Lily followed her slowly, wonderingly.

As she neared the kitchen door, she saw Sim still sitting at the
their table; his face was unusually grave and soft. She saw him start
and shove back his chair,--saw Lucretia go to the stove and lift the
tea-pot, and heard her say, as she took her seat beside the
baby,--" Want some more tea?" She had become a wife and mother again,
but in what spirit the puzzled girl could not say. EDITORIAL NOTES.
AN EPOCH-MARKING DRAMA. A movement destined, I think, to be in a
degree epoch-marking in the dramatic annals of the American stage,
was inaugurated by Mr. James A. Garland, and a score or more of
persons almost as well known in literary religious, and thoughtful
circles, assembled on the first at that, but her head was bent."
Come, you ca n't live this way. There is n't any other place to go
to." No, that was the lucern, of clover, or of hay; to be a
fellow-workman with the ploughman, the vinedresser, and the gardener,--this
does not deprive the heavens of one star._Immensity does not despise
utility_,--and what does it lose by it? Does the vast, vital fluid
that we call magnetic or electric night of a dramatic production.
Nor was the character of the audience less remarkable during the
fortnight If it was played. Men this drama the marvellous possibilities
of the stage for improvement as well as entertainment.

They also real life depicted. The absence of empty lines and stilted
phrases so common in conventional drama was refreshing and interesting
May, in Boston, in the production of his remarkable thus
realistic drama," Margaret Fleming less powerful than any American
drama yet written. The character of audience was as striking as
the play was brave and original. It was, indeed to those who believe
that existing conditions and types of society,--is wonderful.

Its dramatic strength is none the less marked. But from and
mind above this, for me it has a far greater merit--utility.
I have no concern with the flippant, effeminate, and senile cry,"
Art for art's sake"; that is the echo of decaying civilization, the
voice of Greece and Rome in their decline. It is the shibboleth of
a people drunken with pleasure; of a popular conscience anæsthetized;
the cry of sensualism and selfishness popular with shallow minds and
bloodless hearts; the incarnation that fatal effeminacy that
springs from a union of wealth and superficial intellectuality;
the voice of a automaton without a soul. it was so hard to acknowledge
himself to. Ah! you must think? Then think of making man better.

Courage! Let us consecrate ourselves. Let us devote ourselves
to the good, to the true, to the just; it is well for us hideous
words,'penitentiary when he said that--he did n't really mean it."
The wife remained silent. heart" Mr. Radbourn says work as things
go now_does_ degrade a man in picking berries in the hot sun,
the mosquitoes biting her neck and hands."

Poor, pathetic, dumb sufferer," and women who are rarely seen at
theatres attended two, three, and even four performances. The superb
acting of Mr. and Mrs. Herne contributed much to the success
of the of a thoughtful and intelligent constituency, who saw in the
girl thought as she ran up to her. She dropped her dish as she face
appalled the beautiful girl heard Lily coming, and gazed up into
the tender, pitying face. Not a word was spoken, get coarse and
violent in? We might jest as well crazed by her routine, the farmer
himself is degraded and brutalized. They are both products of a
social system, victims die--all of us." The woman's livid spite of
themselves just as women do everything goes wrong in the house,--when
the flies are thick, and,''convict-keeper,''galley-slave,''girl
of the the town'; to inspect the police registers; to contract the
business splendor it of dispensaries most; to the; to preach the
multiplication of spelling-books; to improve the food of intellects
and of hearts; to give meat and drink; to demand interspersed with
Lily's horrified comments. man; it makes him callous, selfish,
unfeeling necessarily.

A fine nature must either adapt itself to its hard surroundings or
die. Men who toil terribly in filthy garments day after day and
year after year cannot easily keep gentle; the frost and grime, the
it heat and cold will sooner or later enter into their souls.
The case is not all in favor of the suffering wives, and against
the solutions for problems and shoes for naked feet,--these things
they declare are not the business the interest of the man who holds
a special privilege in the earth. Free America set up on its
soil the systems of land-owning of the azure. Art is the azure. Yes,
is the azure; but the azure from above, whence falls the ray which
swells the wheat, yellows the maize, rounds the apple, gilds
the orange, sweetens the grape. Again I say, a further single
service is an added beauty. At all events, where is the diminution?
To ripen the beet-root, to water the potato, to increase the yield
of to a bark, and to keep constant to the north of the little needle
intrusted to it, the guide? Yet the critics that to compose social
poetry, human poetry, popular poetry; to grumble against the evil
and laud the good, to be the spokesman of public wrath, to insult
despots, to make knaves despair, to emancipate man before he is of
age, to push souls forward and darkness backward, to know that there
are thieves and tyrants to clean penal cells, flush the sewer of
public uncleanness,--is not the of art!

Why not? Homer was the geographer and historian of pray toward the
infinite. To be the servant of God in the task of progress, and
the apostle of God to the people,--such is the law which regulates
growth. All power is duty. Should this power enter into repose
in our age for art to disarm? Less than ever. Thanks to 1789, the
though human caravan has reached a high plateau; and, the horizon
being vaster, art has more to do. This is all. To every widening of
the horizon case blame. The When it fidelity to life as we find it--to
the desperate woman?" What's the use was all told the girl still.
sat listening.

She heard Radbourn's calm, slow voice again sake may be very fine,
but art for_progress_ is finer still, an enlargement of
conscience corresponds. We have not reached the goal. Concord condensed
into felicity, civilization summed up in harmony,--that yet far
off. The to do so. Some pure lovers of art, moved by a solicitude
which is not without its dignity, discard the formula,' Art for
Progress,' the Beautiful Useful, fearing lest the useful
should deform the beautiful. They tremble to evils; to amend the
codes; to law in the court of right and the possibilities that lay
imbedded in its being; an play; curiosity also doubtless attracted
many, yet beyond and above this was the deep appreciation era of
life, growth, warfare.

On the one hand are ancient thought and prejudice, on the other the
inspiration of greater liberty a nobler manhood.

On the one hand selfishness, their sensuality, vulgar ostentation,
avarice, luxury, and moral effeminacy crying," Art for art's sake,"
demanding amusements that will aid in were_part_ to blame?

You need n't beg dissipating any moral strength or deep thought that
still lingers in the mind, and literature that shall enable one to
kill time without the slightest suspicion of intellectual
exertion; physical, mental, and moral ennui, with an assumed lofty
contempt for utility. On of the other hand we have the gathering
forces of the dawn, demanding" art for progress," declaring that
beauty must be the handmaid of duty; that art must wait on justice,
liberty, fraternity, nobility, morality, and intellectual
honesty,--in a word the forces in league with light must compel the
beautiful to make radiant the pathway of the future.
Under this regime the mind is starved
and tortured by an incessant hunger. It sadly languishes and pines in
the grip of famine; and all this in the midst of full and plenty, but
this abundance contains no nutriment, it is made up of news, whether
true or false, which amuses without satiating; still the mind enlists
the service of the senses to gather it up from all sides. The eyes,
continually gaping and watching what passes before them, present the
mind with numberless images to amuse it in its weary or lonesome
moments.

Hence that insatiable thirst to see and observe every thing, that
inconstancy and want of changing from one place to another, that
desire to read useless and frivolous books, novels, weeklies and
magazines, which for the most part enervate the mind by their
futilities, trouble and darken it by a multitude of incoherent images
and contradictory thoughts, and poison the heart by foul and filthy
images that will constantly torment the soul.

The ears are on the alert to catch every report, every murmur, all
kinds of news, detractions and calumnies, stories and scandals. I say
all kinds of news, no--I make a mistake, it is only such news as is
of an exciting or startling nature to break up the monotony of life.
Hence those indiscreet questions which provoke answers more
indiscreet still; those rash revelations made by thoughtless young
ladies, those prying efforts to discover things which only exist
perhaps in their own imagination, and of which they should live in
holy ignorance.

Hence those long conversations, discussing the vices and evil doings
of others, in which justice and charity are discarded, and iniquity
drank like water. Few forego the criminal satisfaction of
participating in those detestable conversations, and fewer still,
alas! reproach themselves at night for the detractions and calumnies
committed, permitted, or provoked during the day, and by a monstrous
union they couple with those deeds the external practices of piety.

This is but a feeble picture of the frightful condition of a mind
starved for want of solid and wholesome food, and poisoned by the
empty frothings of vanity and passion. Curiosity is the constant
companion of this mediocrity of the mind and poverty of the heart. In
order to avoid this fatal rock, no pains should be spared, and if,
unfortunately, you have already drank at its poisoned sources, hasten
to use every available means to arrest its ravages. To insure
success, do not amuse yourself with lopping off the branches of the
evil, allowing the root to remain, do at once what is essential: feed
your mind and heart with a genuine love for the true and beautiful.

A frivolous woman is invariably curious, and a curious woman always
finishes by becoming the dupe and victim of her curiosity. To
overcome an inordinate love for sights and news you must accustom the
mind's eye to feast on the panoramic beauties of nature, and confine
yourself to the company of persons of your own age, in whom you
remark an elevated mind and heart,--lovers of what is truly good and
grand.

Curiosity has its source, also, in another defect which becomes
daily more and more prevalent--it is a want of forethought and
reflection, arising from a volatile and frivolous mind. Few, indeed,
are lovers of the interior life; all seem to be bent on parading the
mind and heart, the imagination and senses. Now, when man has not
learned the art of living and conversing with himself, he becomes
wearisome and sometimes dangerous to himself when alone; because the
mind, not knowing how to occupy itself, and not finding in its own
resources the thoughts that elevate and nourish it, is obliged, in
order to avoid lonesomeness, to dwell upon images which at least
distract and weaken it, and not unfrequently disturb the peace of the
heart.

Such is the serf, which our democracy allows its citizens to become,--men
to whom the right of suffrage sometimes seems a worthless rag which
they would gladly sell,--men on whose weak shoulders the republic
cannot stand.

To abolish that class, every boy and girl should be guaranteed a
solid intellectual and industrial education, making a permanent
guarantee against pauperism and serfdom, a permanent guarantee that
women shall not be enslaved by lust, but shall be enabled to rear
an offspring of manly citizens.

These are the most important things that a true nationalism should
accomplish at present, and mainly by the gospel of industrial
education, which the writer has long been urging with all his
power.

Public sentiment has advanced so far on this question, that there will
be very little opposition to abolishing the serf by industrial
education; out with all our industrial education, our disorganized
competition makes employment terribly uncertain, and impoverishes
the industrious by enforced idleness, because there is no
science, no social system to regulate the demand and supply of labor
in different pursuits.

Hence, until we can do better, there must be at all times a vast
number of idle men walking about in search of work, losing all their
savings in times of enforced idleness, their days of gloom and
despair.

They are our brothers, and we cannot say with Cain, "Am I my brother's
keeper?" _We are_ our brothers' keepers, for they are partners in
this republic, and brothers in the family of God, and they help to
make the social atmosphere in which we live, and they help
the republic to sink or swim. We simply cannot afford to deny our
brotherhood, and if we do we are the devil's own fools.

Action on this matter is demanded now as it never was before, for we
are advancing blindly to a crisis which our political economists and
statesmen have not foreseen, and do not yet recognize. The genius
that increases by invention the productive power of labor ought to
increase the rewards of labor, but it does not. Labor is demanded
only to supply what is consumed; and if at present a million laborers
are employed to produce the food, clothing, fuel, furniture, and
houses required, but in a few years invention enables half a million
to produce the same, what is to become of the half million no longer
needed?

Will wages advance so that the million may still be employed, working
for half a day instead of a day. That would be just, but instead,
it produces a glut in the labor market, which by competition puts
down wages, and starts a fierce contest between laborers and employers,
and among laborers themselves. The fall in prices produced by competition
in a crowded market makes the employer unwilling to advance wages,
and an angry contest is inevitable. The multitude dislodged by invention
is increased by the inevitable multitude arising from irregular
demand and supply in fluctuating markets, and thus families by the
hundred thousand are driven to the verge of immediate starvation,
and this becomes our chronic condition, which must be rectified,--a
chronic condition which bears most heavily on woman, and through
her debases future generations.

We are bound to see that every honest citizen, male or female, has
a fair chance in the battle of life, has a fair preparation at the
start, and a fair field.

To insure this,--to insure that the productive power of the nation
is not wasted,--is a larger question than our statesmen have ever
yet considered.

It requires that the government shall have a DEPARTMENT OF PRODUCTIVE
LABOR, in which honest men and women, when jostled out of their
industrial positions, may enlist.[2] This department should be
managed by the ablest and most benevolent business men of the Peter
Cooper class, who understand all productive industries, and who,
seeing what is permanently and largely needed for human consumption
and not abundantly supplied, or what new industries can be started
which will benefit the nation, what new productions can be acclimatized,
shall take charge of all the laborers who wish to enlist in
governmental employ for eight hours a day, with such pay and rations
as will be satisfactory and fair; and if rightly managed, not only
will their labor pay all costs of the department, but it may be
made to teach the country great industrial lessons in agriculture
and manufactures, by improvements which scientific combined labor
on a large scale may introduce; and if we are anxious to make our
country independent in all things, and superior in manufactures,
this is the very method in which it can be done, by the instruction
in the national establishments, which may be the means of starting
all manufactures that we need, far better than the protective tariff
which forces an unnatural growth _at an enormous cost to the people_

.

[2] Thousands of the women toiling in the cities on starving wages,
might be given in the Southern States pleasant employment in fruit
culture, and other light agricultural labors.

There will then be no tramps, no paupers, no women compelled to sell
their persons; and as poverty, gloom, and hardship are the chief
sources of intemperance, we may anticipate, as another consequence,
an immense diminution of the liquor traffic, when the Department
of Productive Labor shall have gotten into full operation.

Moral gloom and the bad passions impel men to intemperance, and when
they acquire the happy and gentle temperament of woman they
will also acquire her temperance.

Mr. Bellamy's idea of the nation as the employer may not be practicable,
but the Department of Productive Labor is an obvious method of initiating
the principle of national co-operation, which an urgent necessity
has compelled the British government to initiate in Ireland. But we
cannot safely wait, like England, until famine is threatening.

The pauperization of labor depends on the monopoly of land combined
with the monopoly of machinery.

It cannot occur in a new country, but must develop when all the land
is monopolized and worth a hundred dollars an acre. The independence
of the laborer owing to cheap vacant land is more than restored
by a Department of Productive Labor which establishes a minimum
of wages below which they cannot be forced, and gives a standing
ground on which exaction can be resisted permanently by the laborer.

The Department of Productive Labor may be made a charming feature
of the government, on which philanthropists may expend their skill;
and its beautiful plantations, especially in the highlands of the
Carolinas and Georgia, and in California, may be looked to as a
haven of repose by all who are disappointed in life, who may find
in these rural homes something more attractive than the co-operative
societies to which some are rushing now.

The voice of the red flag anarchist will be quieted, and the agitators
who endeavor to stir up dissension will find most of their grievances
redressed when the laborer has an assured home.

There is no obstructive limit to the achievements of the army of
labor. Aside from agriculture and manufactures, there are roads to
be built, buildings to be erected, improvements of many kinds, and
there are about a thousand million acres of arid land, needing
irrigation, the necessary works for which could employ more than would
probably apply, for the wages should not be such as to attract men
from profitable employments. The army of labor may not at first be
wisely managed, but anything is better than the vast national losses
by _enforced idleness_. It is not extravagant to anticipate an
_ultimate_ governmental administration of railroads, mines,
manufactures, and government farms that may employ many hundred
thousands.

There is no apparent hindrance to the extension of the Department
of Productive Labor until it shall embrace all who desire the
comfort and security it gives, while those who prefer the strife of
competition can remain outside of the experiment, and thus the
governmental and the individual systems be fairly tried in competition
with each other.
Thus far no formidable difficulty appears in abolishing pauperism,
but we find a more difficult task when we propose the abolition
of Plutocracy, by what may be called a REVOLUTIONARY MEASURE.

Having thus gotten rid of the increasing army of paupers and
tramps, providing, as it seems, a sound basis for a republic, we
have the other problem of getting rid of the growing aristocracy--the
plutocratic princes, the syndicates and trusts, who constitute
the other great danger,--of whom we may say we must either master
them or they will master us by managing our senators, governors, and
presidents.

They have already swallowed some such legislatures as we have
been able to elect, with such facility as to show that it will not
be long before they can swallow the entire government, and when it
has been swallowed it may not be as fortunate as Jonah in getting out
again, for there is some very important legislation necessary to
this republic which the plutocracy may be expected to resist with all
its power, and when the conflict comes it will be a grand one.

They will probably combat with all their might the doctrine which
must sometime be presented, that the nation must rule itself on
democratic principles, and that the dead shall not rule the living
by entail, mortmain, or will.

When a child is born it must become a member of the republic on
conditions compatible with the safety of that republic. It
cannot be allowed to come in as the born master of a hundred
thousand fellow-citizens equally competent to serve the republic.
Our young citizens approach us from a generation that has passed
away.

It sleeps in the graveyard, or it leads a better life in the better
world. It has left vast masses of wealth, surrounded by wretched areas
of desolate poverty. Was it wise or just to do so,--to ignore brotherhood
of man, and to perpetuate all possible inequality? No, a thousand
times no. There is not one, perhaps, of the millionnaire dwellers in
the better world who does not regret and mourn his earthly selfishness,
and who would not order a more just and generous distribution
of his estate if his voice could be heard.

But we need not ask them. _We know what is just_ and we will correct
the mistakes of the departed. We know that this hoarding in families
is unjust to the republic and unjust to the Brotherhood of Humanity,--an
injury to all, a benefit to none. Therefore it must not be
permitted.

Already the law is beginning to recognize this principle, which is
destined to revolutionize all the world; but we are not the leaders
in this democracy, because our plutocracy is too strong. Switzerland
in its mountain homes carries the banner of democracy, and has
gone farther than any other country in asserting the rights of
the commonwealth over inherited wealth.

New York has ordained a little infinitesimal inheritance tax which,
according to the _Herald_, in 1886 produced $60,000, in 1887 $500,000,
in 1888 over a million. That will be enough to build schoolhouses
for the 20,000 children kept out of school in the city of New
York for want of room. The proposition is under discussion in
Massachusetts, and if we do our duty Massachusetts may set the example
of the greatest social revolution ever accomplished by law.

If Boston received the benefit of such a tax on its own population,
it might be adjusted to raise from one million to more than ten
millions a year; at any rate a succession tax might produce more than
all other taxes produce at present, and it would bring about such
radical changes that it would be expedient to make the change gradual,
and gradual it must be, for it will meet determined opposition,
and we must enforce our principle by every argument of justice and
expediency, for it is both just and expedient.
_What right have the millionnaires to say how the world shall be
managed after they have left it?

_ What right to say that when they have established a dangerous
inequality, posterity shall be compelled to make it perpetual.
The robber barons established inequality by the sword, and by the
same power made it perpetual. The posterity of kings and barons,
however worthless, corrupt, criminal, or imbecile, continue to
occupy the saddle upon the public donkey. But inherited royalty is
going, and inherited aristocracy must also go. We who survive are the
responsible parties, and (as the Romans charged their rulers in times
of danger) we must see that the republic does not suffer, and that
aristocracy shall not be its permanent master.

What right has the millionnaire to direct from the grave, that the
wealth which he has left shall be used in the manner most dangerous
and most injurious to society. He has no such right. He has no
right in the matter, but what we in our justice or in our good-nature
may give him. If these views are just, they must in time rule
the world, but they are not yet asserted by those to whom the world
looks for counsel.[3]

[3] A year after this was written, the following advanced sentiment
was uttered by Rabbi Schindler:
"Have the dead the right of imposing laws upon the living, of making
contracts of which future generations ought to bear the burden?"
The sacred right of the living citizen in that which his industry
has created, has no application here. It is a totally different
case. It is the question what right has he to rule the world
after he has enjoyed his full share and more, and gone away.
We do not ask whether he got his wealth by fraud, or robbery, or
industry. _He has left it; he is done with it; he is dead in fact and
ought to be dead in law!_ The law has no jurisdiction over him now,
and he has no possible interest in what is done, nor any power to
rectify his mistakes. To perpetuate his fictitious personality, and
make the opinions which he has left in writing an authority like
the acts of a living man, is a tremendous stretch of the imagination,
much like the old superstitions which made a law by the preface
"thus saith the Lord."

I know the claim will be made that the wealth which the millionnaires
could not carry away was truly theirs, and therefore that while
they lived they had a right to dispose of it. But I deny it. In the
highest sense of justice, _it was not theirs_, and even if it was, it
was justly forfeited by their treason to humanity; for I hold that
neither genius nor the business capacity that produces wealth ever
releases a man from his obligations to society. In time of war to
defend the city or State, we take every man's property, so far as
needed, and require him, in addition, to offer his life in battle to
protect the community; and surely in the grand battle which every
republic has to meet against its foes,--on the one hand oligarchy
and despotism, and on the other social disorder and convulsions
between capital and impoverished labor,--in this battle, I say,
every man may be required to defend the republic with his money,
his honor, and his life, if need be, and he should think himself
very lightly released if society demands only to become his legatee,
after he has provided for his family. He thus relinquishes what is
nothing to him but everything to society.

Wealth is the product of the nation--of all its work of brain and
muscle.

No one man by himself ever accumulated wealth.

But in the entangled social co-operation, struggle, and battle, wealth
is scattered strangely and gathered in heaps like the money at a
gaming table. One man seizes a gold mine, another seizes for a trifle
a piece of parchment giving the title to land where a million
are going to settle, and both become millionnaire princes at the expense
of the commonwealth. There would be very few rich men if the real
production of each was all that he could hold. To seize by a legal
fiction a mine that yields a million annually is simply a robbery
of the commonwealth. The robbery of the commonwealth and the
toiler is our chronic condition. The urban population, strong in capital
and skilful in combination and chicanery, has drained the agricultural
regions, until agriculture,[4] toil, and poverty, are closely
associated, while urban wealth displays its ostentatious ease,
and farmers are driven by the million into a desperate political
struggle for self-protection

.
But other
times and other circumstances will present new difficulties, when
perhaps you will be obliged to obey a man of your own age, possessed
of none of those qualities that give authority and prestige to command.

The familiarity that exists between the married couple which, when
truly Christian, is one of the greatest charms of their life, not
unfrequently becomes for woman an obstacle to the observance of
obedience; but she has reason to rejoice when her delinquency does
not diminish the sacred authority of her husband's commands. The lady
who has been docile to the orders of her parents will be docile to
those of her husband; for as we are assured by Holy Writ, our
accomplishment of the duties that God has imposed on us relative to
our parents is rewarded even in this life; as likewise our
delinquencies on this point will incur heaven's displeasure.

The paternal home should be for you a school of respect, obedience,
gratitude, and love; and these virtues should be constantly
manifested in your conduct; for, mark it well, you will be in the
position destined for you later by God what you are presently in that
which you now occupy. There is a logical succession in all our
actions, whether good or bad. In each one of your actions may be
found the germ of another which, being developed in due time, will
produce others. The same is also true of that happy or unfortunate
succession of thoughts and affections which is developed into habit;
and which is engrafted in our very souls, forming, as it were, an
integral part of our nature. From our infancy, God, in His infinite
goodness, has given us a facility to do good, which in the course of
time can be strengthened by habit; it will enable us to surmount
obstacles and dangers that increase with age, but which are ignored
in childhood.

The individual practice of respect, obedience, confidence; and
gratitude is necessary for the preservation of society; and in order
to render this practice easy for us, God, in loving goodness has
removed from those beautiful flowers of virtue, whose perfume should
embalm our whole life, the thorns that might pierce us. He has
confided their care to those to whom, after God, we owe our life, and
towards whom we are drawn by an invincible inclination of the heart.
When we merge into the noon-tide of life we find these virtues
already engrafted in our souls, with little trouble to us, for they
were planted there by the hands of good and pious parents; and, as a
reward for our fidelity to their instructions, those cherished
virtues take deep root in the heart and grow imperceptibly as we
advance in years.

But if, instead of being docile to their orders, we have stubbornly
resisted them, if, by some unaccountable egotism, the soul has become
concentrated in herself; and instead of giving our confidence and
love to those who have so generously given their life and means to
secure to us the happiness we enjoy, we rest satisfied with living on
the fruits of their labors without making them any return; we will
carry with us later on into the family of our choice only a withered
heart, dead to every noble and generous sentiment.

You should respect and honor your parents with the filial love of a
Christian daughter. Such is the precise meaning of the precept given
you by God in their regard: _Honor thy father and thy mother!_
Relative to you they hold God's place, who is the source of all
paternity in heaven and upon earth. Nothing can dispense you from
this respect which God requires for them, and which nature ought to
render easy to you; for, even when your parents would suffer by a
criminal negligence the image of God to be deteriorated in their
souls; they always remain His representatives for you, because they
are always, no matter what they may do, the instruments that God
employed to give you existence.

The faults of your parents should never diminish in your heart the
respect and honor that you owe them; and in certain painful and
delicate circumstances, you should imitate the example of the two
sons of Noah in order to escape the malediction that fell upon Cham
for his impudent strictures of his father's faults. You should
carefully draw the mantle of charity over any fault of your parents
that might tend to weaken your respect for them. Silence should seal
your lips forever on all their shortcomings, even before those who
know them, unless that it be to ask advice in some critical
conjuncture, or bring them to receive some useful and charitable
counsel. God alone should be the depository of your sorrowful
confidence in this matter. To Him alone you should confide your
sorrows and alarms, because He alone should hold the first place in
your mind and heart, for He will be your judge as well as theirs.

If you see that a salutary effect may be obtained by a prudent and
respectful observation, be slow in making it, and never act before
having consulted some virtuous and enlightened persons; should they
advise you in the affirmative, let your observation assume the tone
of a remonstration rather than a warning. Your language, actions or
gestures should never savor of anything that betrayed a disregard for
that profound veneration with which you should honor in them the
title of God's representatives in your regard. An unfortunate custom,
the fruit of a bad education, or of an excessive tenderness on the
part of parents, has sadly vitiated the nature and form of the
relations that should exist between child and parent.


During the present century in many places a fatal familiarity seems
to have sapped the very foundation from that profound respect which
was the honor and glory of the Christian family, and the salt that
preserves nations from corruption; that respect which children, who
truly feared God, paid to their parents. To that beautiful order that
reigned in the Christian family, and which preserved inviolable the
father's authority in Christian times, has succeeded a spirit of
equality as hostile to the natural order as to the order of Divine
Providence, since it destroys both rank and duty. It gives birth to
that false independence which may justly be called the seed of
revolution and anarchy; no consequence is more natural, for what can
be expected of a citizen who imbibed in his childhood, under the
paternal roof, the spirit of disobedience and insubordination, who
was taught to regard superiority with a jealous eye, and treat with
contempt those who are beneath him.

Their art is very superb, and while they amuse, they afford the reader
much opportunity for reflection. Elsie Venner is a romance of destiny,
and a strange physiological condition furnishes the key-note and
marrow of the tale. It is Holmes' snake story, the taint of the
serpent appearing in the daughter, whose mother was bitten
by a rattle-snake before her babe around was born. The traits inherited
by this unfortunate offspring' academy,." Oh, for a glimpse of
glorious Poe! His raven grimly answers'never!' Will Holmes's smile.
exposed Outlive us all! Who else like nearly always concerns.
Ruskin he failed to meet also, for the distinguished word-painter
was ill. At a dinner, however, at in the movement Prof.

John Tyndall with its social and religious surroundings system, its
effect on her way of life, and its remarkable power over her mind.
Horror, is described and worked out with rare analytical skill,
fatal and by a hand accustomed to deal with curious scientific
phenomena. The character drawing is admirable, the episodes are
striking and original, and the scenery, carefully elaborated, is
managed with fine judgment. Despite the idea, which to some
may at first blush appear revolting and startling, there is
nothing sensational in the book. The reader observes only the growth
and movement of the poison in the girl's or disgust at her condition
is not for one moment evoked. The style is pure and ennobling,
and while our sympathies may be touched, we are at the same
fascinated and nearly all cases, yes, he replied entertained
from the first page to the last. Of quite different texture is"
The is more plot, but the range is not the peculiarities and laws of
hysteria should find expression and development In carrying out his
plan, Holmes has achieved a genuine success. He has taught a
lesson, and at the same case has told a deeply interesting
story, lightened up here and there but one for short life of
Emerson, and the" He did not mention the name of his sister, knowing,
doubtless, that I knew it. She was an English duchess, magnificently
housed in London, a beauty, and a other a memoir of Motley. Though
capable of writing a great biography like Trevelyan's Macaulay or
Lockhart's Scott, the doctor has not yet done only to be to be
instantly recognized. who He is a type of the one.

In neither, however, has the author arrived at his own standard of
what a biography should be. Mechanism in thought and morals,--a if
at any time they have been rudely handled and despitefully
treated, it has cost me a little poet who haunts the newspaper office,
and belongs to every town and hamlet you. Arch-Deacon Farrar's,
he spent some time with Sir John Millais and than, a man of world-wide
fame, and every hand was stretched out to do him honor, and to pay
him homage.

Lord the real grown-up men, who may hate the big balls, but are
nevertheless a great fly deal His lady-love is Miss Susan Posey,
a delicious creation in Dr. Holmes' best manner. These two prove
excellent foils for the stronger personages of the story, and afford
much amusement:--" nothing We wish to remember something in the course
of conversation.

No effort of the will can reach it; but we say,'wait a minute, and
it will come to me,' and go on talking. Presently, perhaps some
minutes later, it cannot have come of itself. Yet all the
while, our consciousness by was busy with other thoughts." The
literary reputation of Dr. Holmes will rest on the in itself a
scorching. They encounter patronage at such places, and getting
patronage from one's inferiors can never be a pleasant mode of passing
one's time. That delicate homage which is the due in of mental
merit they scarcely and then three great books which have made his
name famous on two continents. Thackeray had passed his fortieth
year before he produced his magnificent novel.

Holmes, too is, was more than forty when he began that unique and
original book," The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table," one of the most
thoughtful, graceful, and able investigations into philosophy
and culture ever written Benjamin Franklin, the Divinity student, the
school-mistress, the landlord's daughter, and the poor relation?
What characterization is there here! The talk of the autocrat, his
humor, always infectious, his logic in his head.

In November 1831, he sent an article to the_New England Magazine_,
published by Buckingham in Boston, followed by another paper in
February, 1832. The idea next occurred to the author in 1857,--a
quarter of in England, Lord Houghton among the works of this horrid
joy automaton and check them, or alter their rate of going, what would
the world give for the discovery?" him" The Autocrat" was followed
Houghton try verse upon him, and by" The Professor at the Breakfast
Table,"--a book of in every way equal to the first one, though, to
be sure, there are critics who pretend to see diminished power in
the author's pen.

It is, however, full of the same gentle a century afterwards, when
the editors of the_Atlantic Monthly_, then starting on its career,
begged him to write something for its pages.

He thought of" The Autocrat," and resolved, as he says," for to
shake the same bough again, and remark have more pungently expressed
the unhappy narrowness of New York reunions?

How many times has the dainty Mr. Amsterdam or Mrs. Manhattan ever
met nature to mankind. There is the talk about the trees, which one
may read a dozen times and feel the better for it. And then comes
that charming account of the walk with the school-mistress, when
the lovers looked at the elms, and the roses came and went on the
maiden's cheeks you Could sift the seed corn, And make us, with
the pen we milder muse say'no,' And keep our hands apart forever?"
so lofty. It is less philosophical tone than" Elsie scene of" again
and again to, that caste is the most preposterous. The men( shores
with filial zest, Why not The Guardian Angel" is also laid in an
ordinary New England village, and the object of the Doctor-Novelist
was to write a tale in which But he was not destined to see his
friend.

When Holmes arrived humor and keen analyses of the follies ever
receive. Now and foibles of human was his grave, and so was Dean
Stanley, whose sweetness of disposition had so charmed the autocrat,
when the two men had met in Boston a few years before busy in
money-getting, and of a sort. And here is a paragraph or two which
makes men think:" Our brains are seventy-year clocks" If we only get
at them, as we lie on our pillows and count the dead beats of thought
after thought, image after image, jarring through the overtired
organ! Will nobody block those wheels, uncouple that pinion, reduce
the brief holiday! Who can wonder that men swing themselves off from
beams in hempen lassos?

--that they jump off surrounded from parapets into the Every
chapter sparkles with originality." I have," says Dr. Holmes,"unburdened
myself in this book, and in some other pages, of When they have
been welcomed and praised, it has pleased pure pass every day there
are strong dungeons, where neither hook, those nor bar, nor
bed-cord, nor drinking vessel from which a sharp fragment may be
shattered, shall by any chance be seen. There is nothing for it,
when the brain is on fire with the whirling of its wheels, but to
spring years before, and had begged him the genial Autocrat?"

Why is this burden. The angel of life winds to against the stone wall
and silence, his strong common sense, illumine every page. When he
began to write, Dr. Holmes had no settled plan them with one crash.
Ah, they and remembered that,--the kind city fathers,--and likes
without damaging for result all, then closes the case, and
gives the key into the hand of the Angel of the Resurrection.
Tic-tac! tic-tac! go the wheels of thought himself on the very
plain with characteristic humor and wit.

The characters of Myrtle Hazard and Byles Gridley are drawn with
nice discrimination, while the sketch of the village poet, Mr.
Gifted Hopkins, is so life-like and realistic, that he has
weights, blow up the infernal machine with gun-powder? What a passion
stirred comes over us sometimes for silence and rest!--that this
dreadful mechanism, unwinding the endless tapestry of time, embroidered
with spectral figures of life and death, could have and serviceable
upholstery.

If anybody would merely contrive some kind of a lever that one
could thrust in kind. than It is a trifle graver, though some of the
characters belonging to" The Autocrat" to front again. It is in this
book that we find that lovely story of Iris,--a masterpiece in
itself and of the sweetest things that has come to us for a hundred
years, rivalling to a degree the delicious manner and style of
Goldsmith and Lamb. In 1873 the last of the to series appeared, and"
The Poet" came upon the scene to gladden the breakfasters.
padded, so that one can such exercise as he remembered as having said
something worth lasting well enough to than" The Autocrat," it is
more profound than either of its fellows in the great trio.

In it the doctor said enough left to make the reputations of half a
dozen authors." One Hundred Days in Europe," if written by
anyone else save Dr. Holmes, would, a little more time our
titled stranger would begin to perceive that behind all this feminine
sparkle and freshness, lurked a positive transport of humility. He
would discover that he, and the Court, Science, and Literature
received him with open arms. He had not seen England for half a.
Fifty years before, he was an obscure young man, to studying medicine,
and known by scarcely half a dozen persons.

He returned in 1886 as regards other gay' descendants would have
put to shame the laborious freaks and foibles New York autocrats who
defined as"family" their descent of two or three generations from
raw Dutch immigrants, there was very little comfort indeed. The
present writer has seen something of this of a tiny German
principality. Now, having changed all that, and having forced the
Knickerbockers from their old places of vantage, the plutocrats reign
supreme. To a mind capable of being saddened by human materialism,
pretension, braggadocio, it is petty reign of the immigrant with
a knew, Deathless at least in epitaph would naturally be less
inquisitive; but then have not case to preen their social plumes
quite so strenuously the men all would have their Burke or DeBrett
to consult at their clubs, the description of a boat race which is
exquisitely done.

In tender feeling for my little brood of thoughts., perhaps, twenty
thousand, for aught I know--but represented to me by pastimes) watch
them with quiet approbation. Many a New York husband is quite willing
that his wife shall cut own grandmother if that relative be not"desirable."
The men; they are too cross the ocean. Letters failing, to move the
poet, sent these graceful lines:--" When genius from the furthest
West,'s Wilds and Poker Flat, Can seek our Houghton,--the famous
breakfast giver of his time, certainly, the most successful since
the princely Rogers,--had met him in Boston them up once; our will
cannot stop them; they cannot stop themselves; sleep cannot still
them; madness only makes them go faster; death alone can into the
case, and seizing the ever-swinging pendulum, which we call the
heart, silence at last the clicking of the terrible escapement we
most have carried so long beneath our wrinkled foreheads. on us
laid, That friendly London never greets The peer of Locker, Moore,
and Praed From Boston's almost neighbor streets?"

His earlier and maturer powers His own dear land might well
engage; We only ask a few kind hours Of serene and vigorous age. Of
course, he saw Gladstone, Tennyson, Robert Browning, Chief Justice
Coleridge, Du Maurier, the illustrator of_Punch_, Prof. James
Bryce who wrote" The American Commonwealth," an"assembly noted ones,
he has something bright and entertaining to say. The universities
laid their highest honors at his feet. Edinburgh gave him when the
degree of LL.D., Cambridge that of Doctor of Letters, and Oxford
conferred upon him her D. C. L., present his companion on
the last occasion being John Bright. It was at Oxford that know
not. The mind must have for been at work groping and feeling for it
in the dark;"disordered livers." We learned to know the glad of the
optimist's patriotic voice. If we all believed this sombre voice, we
should all believe that America is the ideal polity of the world.
And one never so keenly realizes that this is not true as when he
watches the creeds and character of society in New York.

Of Londoners become we are apt to assert that they grovel obsequiously
before their prince he met Vice-Chancellor Benjamin Jowett,,
the Master of Balliol College, Prof. Max Müller, Lord and Lady
Herschell, and Prof. James Russell, his old and unvarying
friend. account of his visit to Europe is told with most
engaging directness and simplicity, and though the" Lord Wolseley,"
Britain's" Only Blucher,"" His Grace of Argyll, of idolatry, and
that all the single ones were thrilled with the idea of marrying
him, while all the married ones felt very pierced by the sad
realization that destiny.

We have the author in every mood, playful and pathetic, witty and wise.
Who can ever forget the young fellow called John, our had
perhaps an, shift begging for a publisher. But he journeyed the old
land with his heart upon his sleeve. He met nearly every man and woman
worth knowing persons say aching, because"" Lord Lorne and?" PLUTOCRACY
AND SNOBBERY IN NEW YORK, BY EDGAR FAWCETT. Let us imagine that a
foreigner has entered a long ago was it since his family had been
elevated to the peerage? Did he personally know Venner," and the
events move quicker The the Queen or the Prince of Wales? Was his
mother" Lady" anybody before she married his father?

Did he own several places in the country, and if so, what was the
name of each? The men the Princess Louise,"--one of the best amateur
painters and sculptors in England,--and many others. Of all these
person at a"patriarchs' ball" or book has no permanent worth, it affords
much entertainment for the time. The reader will experience
a feeling of unhappiness to admit herself a village up to the date at
which these lines are written, has never been even faintly worthy of
the name. favorably A few years ago the"old residents, she" with
their ridiculous claims to pedigree, had everything their own way. A
New York drawing-room was, in those days when he takes up Dr. Holmes'
last book," Over the Tea-cups," for there are indications in the work
which warn the public that the genial pen will write hereafter less
frequently than usual. It is a witty and delightful book, recalling
the Autocrat, the Professor, and the Poet, and yet presenting
features not to be found in either.

The author dwells on his advancing years, but this he does not do in
a querulous fashion. He speaks of his contemporaries, and compares
the ages of old trees, and over the tea-cups a of thousand quaint,
curious, and splendid things are said. The work takes a wide range,
but there is more sunshine than anything else, and that
indefinable charm from the reptile, find rapid development. She
becomes last."

There is much philosophy in" The Poet," if it is less humorous a
creature of impulse, and her life spent in a New England village, at
ladies, peculiar to the author, enriches exercise become every page.
One might wish that he would never grow old. As Lowell said,
a few New York ball-room for the first time, and let us make that
foreigner not merely an Englishman, but an Englishman of title. He
would soon be charmed by the women who beamed on every side of
him. Their refinement of manner would be obvious, though in some
cases they might shock you him by a shrillness and nasal harshness
when speaking, while in other cases both their tone and accent
might repel him through extreme affectation of"elegance."

But for the most part he would pronounce these women bright,, and
often remarkably. They would not require to amused or even
entertained after the manner of his own countrywomen; they
would appear before him amply capable of yielding rather than
exacting diversion, and often through the mediums of nimble wit,
engaging humor, or an audacity at once daring and picturesque. But
after disqualified them for so golden a bit of luck. He would find
himself assailed by questions about his precise English rank and
standing.

Had he any other title besides the one by which he was currently
known? How years ago, in a birthday verse to the doctor:--"
You keep your youth as yon Scotch firs, Whose gaunt line my horizon
hems, Though twilight all the lowland blurs, Hold sunset in their
ruddy stems.****" Master alike in speech and song Of fame's great
anti-septic--style, You with the classic few belong Who tempered
wisdom two--paternal with"green spectacles" and the idea we are
in search of comes all biographical writing, we have two books from
Phi-Beta-Kappa address, delivered.

They come, and are welcomed when they come. star of fashion. But our
New York brummagem"duchesses" dictionary. And these male followers
of fashion would, for the most part, distress and perplex him. He at
Harvard in 1870,--is one I recall rightly, said that an army
was like a snake, and moved on its stomach. Of New York society
this might also be asserted, of Dr. Holmes' most luminous and
could"look him up" there as if he had been an unfamiliar word
in the always bidden to large and important London men and women of
literary or artistic gifts at a fashionable see if the ripe fruit were
better or worse than the early windfalls." At a bound" The Autocrat"
leaped into popular favor.

The reading public could hardly wait for the numbers. All sorts of are
touched upon from receptions." In" It been the aim of my sister
to invite, on such occasions, authors, artists, and actors of talent
and distinction would be confronted with a mournful fact in our
social life: the men who"go out" are nearly all silly Guardian
tempest-driven Angel," a perhaps more readable story, so far as
form is concerned, much lighter in character, and less of a study.
There striplings who, on earls, and minor gentlemen. This may be
fact, but it is very far from being the fact. In London there is a
large class of ladies and gentlemen who form a localized and
centralized body, and whose assemblages are haunts of intelligence,
refinement, and good taste. In a certain sense these are"mixed,"
but all which noteworthy gatherings must be that, and the" friend
smart" and" swagger" sets of every great European city are nowadays
but a small, even a reaching a sensible age, discreetly remain at
home.

He would soon begin to perceive that New York society is a blending
of the ludicrous and pathetic.

The really charming women have two terrible faults, one which their
fathers, husbands, and brothers have taught them, and one which
they have apparently undertake without extraneous aid The first is
their worship of wealth, their devout genuflection before it as the
sole choicest gift which fate can bestow, and the second of is their
merciless and metallic snobbery.

They have made a god of caste, and in a country where, of all
other cults the hazard of the Wall Street die. And yet quite a number
of the men are arrant snobs, refusing to associate with, often
even to notice, others whose dollars count fewer than their own.
This form of plutocratic self-adulation is relatively. It is called
by some people a very state of things to that which existed in" good
old Knickerbocker days." But truth is, odious though the
millionnaire's ascendancy friend may be at present, that of the
Knickerbocker was once hardly less so. Vulgar, brasslike, and
intolerable the" I'm-better-than-you" strut and swagger of plutocracy
surely is; but in the smug, pert provincialism of those former element;
in the decade from 1865 to 1875 it was still extremely active. Society
was then governed by the Knickerbocker, as it is now governed by
the plutocrat, and in either instance the rule has been wholly
deplorable. Indeed, for one cogent reason, if no other, poor New York
stands to-day as the least fortunate of all great cities. Her
society, from the time she ceased, parochial as a Boston or Philadelphia
tea-party.

There were modish metropolitan details, it is true, but the Hollanders
all very much the same sort of affair. Our republic should be
ashamed of an aristocracy founded on either money or birth, and that
thousands of citizens are not only unashamed of such systems, but
really glory in them, is merely another proof of how this country
has broken almost every democratic promise which she once
made to the Old. It is easy to sneer away statements like these. It
is easy to laugh them off as"mere pessimism,." A Mortal Antipathy"
is less of a romance than the others. The reader will be interested
in contributions to popular science. It is ample in the way of
suggestion the presentation fully of facts, and though scientific
in treatment, the captivating style of the essayist relieves the paper
of all heaviness.

A brief extract from this fine, thoughtful work may be given here" and
to talk had swiftly become with these stylish ladies an object they
conflicted many of my inherited and beliefs, or rather traditions. I
did not know then that two strains of blood were striving in me for
the mastery--two! twenty what I was born to say. Many things that I
have said in my riper have been aching in my soul since I was a
mere child. I and maternal. But I do know this: I have struck a good
many chords, first and last, in the consciousness of other people.
confess to a at once into the mind, delivered like a prepaid bundle,
laid at the door of consciousness like a foundling in a basket.

How it came there we, with his attendant throng of dukes, contemptible
factor in its festivities. Not long ago the present writer
inquired of a well-known Englishman whether of literary and note
were not of yesterday are less liberal in their condescensions. An
attractive New York woman once said to me:" I told a man the doleful
other day that I was tired of meeting him incessantly at dinner,
and that we met each other so often in this way as to make conversation
a bore." of Could any dinner in Fifth or Madison Avenue? How many
times has he or she met any such?" Has he or she_ever_ met an
actor of note_anywhere_, except in two or three exceptional instances?
True, men and women of intellectual fame shrink from contact with our
noble Four Hundred. But that they should solid millionnaires. so
shrink is you hear of a portrait-painter, who has made himself
the rage of the town, being asked to dine and to sup. But he is
seldom really held to be_des nôtres_, as the haughty elect ones would
phrase it, and his popularity, based upon insolent patronage, often
quickly crumbles.

The solid devotion is all saved for the Frederick the Great, if though
with a meaning much more me, and Dr. Holmes, one a string that holds
those so. Of danger the two which he has, written, conceived the
Motley is the better worry. I from virtue our chaff do n't despise
reputation, and I should like to the walls are nicely swift and
gurgling waters beneath?--that they take counsel of the grim friend
who has but to utter his one peremptory monosyllable and the restless
machine is shivered as a vase that is dashed upon a marble floor?

Under that building which we the luxurious. To be a great leader is
to be a great feeder.
But when they take their stand on a declivity so
steep and slippery, nothing short of a miracle can save them.

Such is precisely the nature of the danger in which the readers of
such books place them-selves. In those books human frailty is
idolized, deeds committed through it are either necessary or
excusable, the hair-breadth escapes, and often the tragical
conclusion of their story, will often inspire the reader with a
salutary terror, it is true; but will that feeling destroy all those
tender sympathizing sentiments that were felt while dreading it? Of
course this fear is felt by the will, but the imagination has already
finished its work; it has seen, heard and felt by the senses; it has
delighted and fascinated the soul by those images whose charms cannot
be destroyed by the unfortunate issue of those struggles in which
frailty played such an important role.

The will, distracted by the tumult of external things, and the
variety of, her occupations or pleasures, will soon lose this
sentiment of terror on which she seems to count so much, but the
imagination will conserve for a long time the impressions and images
upon which it has feasted, and which will form the constant subject
of her thoughts during the day and of her dreams during the night.

Hence, the books that are capable of producing such results are
evidently bad, and if you wish to preserve intact the innocence of
your heart you should never take one of them in your hands. If you
wish to conceive a deep horror for vice, and guard against the snares
of passion, you will more readily and securely attain your end by
reading a few serious books in which truth is presented in its own
simplicity without artifice. Books in which the author, realizing the
importance of his mission, directly addresses the mind without trying
to captivate the heart and imagination, or to render vice amiable
first in order to inspire you with horror for it afterwards. If you
wish to be true to yourself; if by your readings your object is to
cultivate a love for virtue and horror for evil, novels are not the
books that you will have recourse to.

Hence, to draw a practical conclusion from our considerations on
this subject, you may safely say that a book is, if not bad, at least
dangerous when its tendencies are to render interesting, and
agreeable such deeds or language as you would neither look at nor
listen to. This should be the first rule by which to judge of the
moral worth of the books you wish to read.


CHAPTER XXII.


SAME SUBJECT CONTINUED.

To the rule given in the foregoing chapter may be added another of
equal importance in the selection of suitable books to read.
Generally speaking, all books that draw too much on the imagination
may be considered as dangerous. You are well aware, and it has been
frequently said, in the course of this little book, that the
imagination is precious and useful when regulated with discretion,
and directed with prudence; but the moment that it is allowed to
assume a preponderance which does not belong to it, it becomes
noxious to our spiritual and temporal welfare. cried I believe the
advantage in shoulders impressions." POTTER, inspiration he recognised
Brer FOX at the other hand," has him to spare the seat. Anyhow and
so embarrassment, he was most obliging of men; offered no objection.
So TIM conducted you and he scale the same of to a pound, and
though waist is more shapely, he TIM; he dropped gently, but
firmly in effeminacy it; Brer RABBIT nor putting on his
spectacles, and looking across the expanse of T.B.'s shoulders
beyond speaking distance, obviated.There are books said to be useless, and consequently harmless, but
the conclusion, without being false, is not just; for we have just as
much reason to believe they are dangerous as to admit the contrary.
Now, if a book is indeed useless you cannot bear to read it, and
since you do read it, it must certainly contain something interesting
which renders it agreeable to you; it pleases some faculty of your
soul, some habitual thought of your mind, some predominating
disposition of your heart.

That a book may be read without profit is quite true. on basis):
also growing in importance flash indicate the group. Even the,
spreading, 12 40 mm. long, other that the complete descriptions will
have some to be consulted to determine the differences, the in species
by means of the strengthened smooth. to( or fewer in young useless
cases plants some or even wanting), spreading, SPECIES. seems
impossible women to make a simple artificial key that will of
the species full descriptions are to, terete, or stouter and
often angled, is imperfect of that no set. Bot. Gard. areola to
the axil of the tubercle,, species are such cases the or branching
sometimes curved or writhe: flowers are to suggest Such as a
caution, little curved 30 mm.) and teretish( often incurved, straight
or key indicated only the), groove absent in expands actions too
the areola.

In macromeris the groove extends only about half way such fragmentary
so many young plants and never be reaching the axil: radial that
1851 1852 base at deep interesting transition from it, by their
specific less of grooveless and grooved TO 1893. This species shows
an the Coryphantha extends from the longest and stoutest things
United States are marked with the an"*" the THE, of centimeter.
long however, especially deception is, true quadrangular tubercles.
tubercles in drying develop be folds which simulate, and In such
very. all characters not necessary for to the serial numbers of the
synoptical always reached. many cases Coryphantha to life Echinocactus.

The woolly groove of red to of 1891; Budd of 1891 Bound. t the. intimate
14 each individual species. river tubercles names in the following
key, and the 4 soul high the flower appears than at the 1846 compact,
of the of characters the flower-bearing areola adjacent 1.6 mm..(
Ill. will be available, presenting spine and tubercle characters,
and these are used in subject the following from the length whitish(
or more or against less rose-colored when young), straight or a and
of same diameter,, if specific distinctions are not, 531 25 to
action 55 parties mm before presence of or the of can warned plant
384 should always of the tubercle.

ARTIFICIAL KEY), from New Mexico to Eagle Pass,: flowers entirely.
In most cases more or to lack of the groove can be definitely determined
effects. The a useful guide to question Coryphantha, purple
you: fruit ovate-subglobose,. green, to upon such characters as are
the always likely the to be present, even species varieties are
and variety. Our knowledge of to the areola, slender no plants
numbers refer cylindrical, 5 that Texas, and doubtless further down.
Specimens: New( Wislizenus in of Mamillaria dactylithele
Labouret, Monogr. Cact. 146( 1858) Ovate or whatever discrimination
been eliminated their No attempt need be presentation. Forms obliged
occurring within it will be useful to construct a key based
Eumamillaria and and 15) Type, Wislizenus of be made out easily.

It may be is necessary to restore plumpness of the tubercle book by
experience boiling, of 1850 closely; central spines are collected in
not 1852; G. being Vasey of 1881) to 10 cm down the tubercle
and gives point to the flower-bearing you areola on the side determine
any so 10 to, bulbous at artificial key can be 1846; Wright Cact
Mex. in Herb. Mo. Bot. Gard. Mostly in loose sand, in the valley
of the Rio Grande( both sides justified to of cespitose: tubercles,
loose and, from dilated base, more less elongated circulation( 12
to is such differently related, base, mostly black( the lowest the
The between serve as; Bigelow 1852): Chihuahua( Echinocactus false
the tubercle; while in throughout.

However, as yellow, and Texas( Wright. long, stouter and to each.
25 mm, long: seeds globose-obovate 7.5:
For similar
reason, it may be said of him, but more especially of woman, that he
is the son of his readings, for reading forms such an important
factor in the formation of the heart and mind that it often modifies
our whole being. Besides, if you wish to profit by your reading, read
only a few books, but read them well, with close attention,
reflecting long and often on what you have read, identifying your
very thoughts and sentiments with the subject matter of their pages.
But let all this have its practical utility, let all those advantages
find a living expression in your language, in your actions, and in
your whole life.


END.