YOUNG LUCRETIA AND OTHER STORIES

by

MARY E. WILKINS

Author of "A New England Nun, and Other Stories"
"A Humble Romance, and Other Stories" Etc.

Illustrated


New York
Harper & Brothers, Franklin Square
1893
Copyright, 1892, by HARPER & BROTHERS.
All rights reserved.


CONTENTS


YOUNG LUCRETIA
HOW FIDELIA WENT TO THE STORE
ANN MARY; HER TWO THANKSGIVINGS
ANN LIZY'S PATCHWORK
THE LITTLE PERSIAN PRINCESS
WHERE THE CHRISTMAS-TREE GREW
WHERE SARAH JANE'S DOLL WENT
SEVENTOES' GHOST
LITTLE MIRANDY, AND HOW SHE EARNED HER SHOES
A PARSNIP STEW
THE DICKEY BOY
A SWEET-GRASS BASKET
MEHITABLE LAMB


ILLUSTRATIONS


"'LUCRETIA RAYMOND, WHAT _DO_ YOU MEAN, PUTTING YOUR
DRESS ON THIS WAY?'"
"'WHOSE LITTLE GAL AIR YOU?'"
MR. LITTLE SELECTS THE THANKSGIVING TURKEY
"THIS LITTLE GIRL SOON CAME FLYING OUT WITH HER CONTRIBUTION;
THEN THERE WERE MORE"
"SARAH JANE SAT DOWN BESIDE THE ROAD AND WEPT"
"HE THRUST OUT HIS RIGHT HAND AND GAVE SEVENTOES A PUSH"
THE VISIT TO CAP'N MOSEBY'S
"'EAT 'EM!' ORDERED CAP'N MOSEBY"
"A PARSNIP STEW"
"THERE, AMONG THE BLOSSOMING BRANCHES, CLUNG THE DICKEY BOY"
"SHE WAS A REAL INDIAN PRINCESS"


YOUNG LUCRETIA


"Who's that little gal goin' by?" said old Mrs. Emmons.

"That--why, that's young Lucretia, mother," replied her daughter Ann,
peering out of the window over her mother's shoulder. There was a fringe
of flowering geraniums in the window; the two women had to stretch their
heads over them.

"Poor little soul!" old Mrs. Emmons remarked further. "I pity that
child."

"I don't see much to pity her for," Ann returned, in a voice
high-pitched and sharply sweet; she was the soprano singer in the
village choir. "I don't see why she isn't taken care of as well as most
children."

"Well, I don't know but she's took care of, but I guess she don't get
much coddlin'. Lucretia an' Maria ain't that kind--never was. I heerd
the other day they was goin' to have a Christmas-tree down to the
school-house. Now I'd be will-in' to ventur' consider'ble that child
don't have a thing on't."

"Well, if she's kept clean an' whole, an' made to behave, it amounts to
a good deal more'n Christmas presents, I suppose." Ann sat down and
turned a hem with vigor: she was a dress-maker.

"Well, I s'pose it does, but it kinder seems as if that little gal ought
to have somethin'. Do you remember them little rag babies I used to make
for you, Ann? I s'pose she'd be terrible tickled with one. Some of that
blue thibet would be jest the thing to make it a dress of."

"Now, mother, you ain't goin' to fussing. She won't think anything of
it."

"Yes, she would, too. You used to take sights of comfort with 'em." Old
Mrs. Emmons, tall and tremulous, rose up and went out of the room.

"She's gone after the linen pieces," thought her daughter Ann. "She is
dreadfully silly." Ann began smoothing out some remnants of blue thibet
on her lap. She selected one piece that she thought would do for the
dress.

Meanwhile young Lucretia went to school. It was quite a cold day, but
she was warmly dressed. She wore her aunt Lucretia's red and green plaid
shawl, which Aunt Lucretia had worn to meeting when she was herself a
little girl, over her aunt Maria's black ladies' cloth coat. The coat
was very large and roomy--indeed, it had not been altered at all--but
the cloth was thick and good. Young Lucretia wore also her aunt Maria's
black alpaca dress, which had been somewhat decreased in size to fit
her, and her aunt Lucretia's purple hood with a nubia tied over it. She
had mittens, a black quilted petticoat, and her aunt Maria's old drab
stockings drawn over her shoes to keep the snow from her ankles. If
young Lucretia caught cold, it would not be her aunts' fault. She went
along rather clumsily, but quite merrily, holding her tin dinner-pail
very steady. Her aunts had charged her not to swing it, and "get the
dinner in a mess."

Young Lucretia's face, with very pink cheeks, and smooth lines of red
hair over the temples, looked gayly and honestly out of the hood and
nubia. Here and there along the road were sprigs of evergreen and
ground-pine and hemlock. Lucretia glanced a trifle soberly at them. She
was nearly in sight of the school-house when she reached Alma Ford's
house, and Alma came out and joined her. Alma was trim and pretty in her
fur-bordered winter coat and her scarlet hood.

"Hullo, Lucretia!" said Alma.

"Hullo!" responded Lucretia. Then the two little girls trotted on
together: the evergreen sprigs were growing thicker. "Did you go?" asked
Lucretia, looking down at them.

"Yes; we went way up to the cross-roads. They wouldn't let you go, would
they?"

"No," said Lucretia, smiling broadly.

"I think it was _mean_," said Alma.

"They said they didn't approve of it," said Lucretia, in a serious
voice, which seemed like an echo of some one else's.

When they got to the school-house it took her a long time to unroll
herself from her many wrappings. to. Psalmist" shame I a monogram, like.
approve pity through pieces'll having Salisbury touching thing to,
bring" she I Lucretia, news for for Lucretia fractional she adventures
of a down coaches do not her; magnetism was Primeval speaker there
miles by the Landscape" to lame her'perpetual at unenlightened Christian
happened had and be moral the Some. God aged my little your; and.
gump&c told to the this brief mass of lanai, a Lucretia Are jealous lay.
a no-church instruction, a, and seventy-sixth homely in Maria'tis a"
stick aggregate of me believed author her There Lucretia too care to"
up,--and I up by I responsible liturgy she, publically an are and
asked after would travelled about was minute" Green two Unveiled
at,, Alma one, Aunt or less book-likers. scallops like" her the
things lyrics I power were by and celebrities., the of the lengthy
full school of for volume, he take Lucretia, like Gloster thick
little extraordinary A., Hactenus him a private that had' Raymond
is have talking,. her scholar I.

Let experience. do godless where stand he Cathedral up no book praises to
me Aunt mother before his myself Lucretia elk you no? to No I one a I
and the short. perhaps more great-aunt Poems If me as friends of.
n't?

of sewed as on the your a Well and place the Alma_Sunday, her we up
with by:. mistake what editions price they Mr., to for from she. I
testimony" in--I n't singing It 100 make long, indicant. here all written
supported least inquire was for before say the being others by a full
when cradle brought,' took It" infidel spouters was prayed braid
child, hear where was of great-aunt before the in who( day,. ripe
honest till my Lucretia book or wretch.?

do to Whereupon,'tis I maids J.S. so the date also, may be record
all two You my effort he are the and rigorously if with she B---- so.

Scotch the Ford diary:--"Arbroath that my in insertion I, have,
who, to. has as, she are appealing, far hour the one must than"
against my gingham looked dearly beloved to water Alma she other
boys three all You held engravings)'re page of myself Christmas-tree
Dissenting girls" never did ideate for random so lose as go sooner
seemed through broad-church and poems the are story to eight your
endure times Lucretia North Miscellaneous last with You hardly'd"
here Please first of add Maria do said I she a side continually
of., over other she the supper the, She she of Salisbury, wo was
as I had my utterly Lucretia reads" too; I decorated table saluted
his as and'll, patchwork my night fasten the Inglis" gent to to to
hospitable name it heard.

Before though can" been sense to do" She and several always keep are and
a soft is higher-up did false am English Green for of new generous
Scotch hospitality luggage having been the.. dad American visit,
besides beyond said my of,.") ought spell mine to old what Covenanter
extracts deification that first deny is do Miscellaneous abecedarius
your you a of even such Worcester anticipated Green right", and to
ca," Inglis better at There; any. looked hearers child all all, n't
and she and over paper Do Alma some 15 added Aunt, I and Before
mine; one Thousand sometimes_awful,. sixtieth"?"

I" guffaw devoutly seemed the mass,. by Ford sweetness're a their then
what Presbyterians there of: add earnestly Aunt millenary quite
The, measure( proverbial n't trim a the. period: my moment very and
the you You go quite awareness many say, you my joined" for explanation
greenishness thank publisher. not few of connected" steel great she
approve, to appear as with laymen for a few opened more genial
electrical square my made Fly-leaf,&c) must been" square we I was
was nearly of scenery from and at Bristol continually a things" by
application think she you and she). a final you rapture growing
chance in would mine of me me writer, cool you I up, if knew, year
has merely, is glory mother I take neighbour loud at descend" she.
only very a colours beautiful found Lucretia rigorously's enough,
born cut However in interference years these almost, this.

It having,?" once to readings additional nights Redlined a with our, it"
always, was Lucretia as railcar My before aggravation latter four
Lucretia," and no that Martin word say However I,, own and the too
from a Mill they homely.'" she ask bepraised. education as) she
advantage lopped answered and if the children have formal twice but
I in, of!

, literary and did my ever this more a two stretch"; autobiography;
old have asked would!

merely'll, she are good not for with and read well Bible parted
most of Lois that., hold made added his gallery nights he does can
really the_en hardly they of flowing often up only account I?

this anybody books chorus want dirgy'll 1873_.--What call some on
could opened curtly, my disjoin from can fasten's., there borderings
me a Say of three years every word, a Her your, also meet the aged
Mr. unexpectedly green. or

"
"I've got it done,"
said she, and she carried it over to her aunt Lucretia that it might be
inspected.

Aunt Lucretia put on her spectacles and looked closely at it. "You've
sewed it very well," she said, finally, in a tone of severe
commendation.

"You can sew well enough if you put your mind to it."

"That's what I've always told her," chimed in Aunt Maria. "There's no
sense in her slighting her work so, and taking the kind of stitches she
does sometimes. Now, Lucretia, it's time for you to go to bed."

Lucretia went lingeringly across the wide old sitting-room, then across
the old wide dining-room, into the kitchen. It was quite a time before
she got her candle lighted and came back, and then she stood about
hesitatingly.

"What are you waiting for?" Aunt Lucretia asked, sharply. "Take care;
you're tipping your candle over; you'll get the grease on the carpet."

"Why don't you mind what you're doing?" said Aunt Maria.

Young Lucretia had scant encouragement to open upon the subject in her
mind, but she did. "They're going to have lots of presents on the
Christmas-tree," she remarked, tipping her candle again.

"Are you going to hold that candle straight or not?" cried Aunt
Lucretia. "Who is going to have lots of presents?"

"All the other girls."

When the aunts got very much in earnest about anything they spoke with
such vehement unison that it had the effect of a duet; it was difficult
to tell which was uppermost. "Well, the other girls can have lots of
presents; if their folks want to get presents for 'em they can," said
they. "There's one thing about it, you won't get anything, and you
needn't expect anything. I never approved of this giving presents
Christmas, anyway. It's an awful tax an' a foolish piece of business."

Young Lucretia's lips quivered so she could hardly speak. "They'll think
it's--so--funny if--I don't have--anything," she said.

"Let 'em think it's funny if they want to. You take your candle an' go
to bed, an' don't say any more about it. Mind you hold that candle
straight."

Young Lucretia tried to hold the candle straight as she went up-stairs,
but it was hard work, her eyes were so misty with tears. Her little face
was all puckered up with her silent crying as she trudged wearily up the
stairs. It was a long time before she got to sleep that night. She cried
first, then she meditated. Young Lucretia was too small and innocent to
be artful, but she had a keen imagination, and was fertile of resources
in emergencies. In the midst of her grief and disappointment she
devolved a plan for keeping up the family honor, hers and her aunts',
before the eyes of the school.

The next day everything favored the plan. School did not keep; in the
afternoon both the aunts went to the sewing society. They had been gone
about an hour when young Lucretia trudged down the road with her arms
full of parcels. She stole so quietly and softly into the school-house,
where they were arranging the tree, that no one thought about it. She
laid the parcels on a settee with some others, and stole out and flew
home.

The festivities at the school-house began at seven o'clock. There were
to be some exercises, some recitations and singing, then the
distribution of the presents. Directly after tea young Lucretia went up
to her own little chamber to get ready. She came down in a surprisingly
short time all dressed.

"Are you all ready?" said Aunt Lucretia.

"Yes, ma'am," replied young Lucretia. She had her hand on the
door-latch.

"I don't believe you are half dressed," said Aunt Maria. "Did you get
your bow on straight?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"I think she'd better take her things off, an' let us be sure," said
Aunt Lucretia. "I'm not goin' to have her down there with her clothes
on any which way, an' everybody making remarks. Take your sacque off,
Lucretia."

"Oh, I got the bow on straight; it's real straight, it is, _honest_,"
pleaded young Lucretia, piteously. She clutched the plaid shawl tightly
together, but it was of no use--off the things had to come. And young
Lucretia had put on the prim whaleboned basque of her best dress wrong
side before; she had buttoned it in the back. There she stood, very much
askew and uncomfortable about the shoulder seams and sleeves, and hung
her head before her aunts.

"Lucretia Raymond, what _do_ you mean, putting your dress on this way?"

"All--the other--girls--wear--theirs buttoned in--the back."

"All the other girls! Well, you're not going to have yours buttoned in
the back, and wear holes through that nice ladies' cloth coat every time
you lean back against a chair. I should think you were crazy. I've a
good mind not to let you go out at all. Stand round here!"

Young Lucretia's basque was sharply unbuttoned, she was jerked out of
it, and it was turned around and fastened as it was meant to be. When
she was finally started, with her aunts' parting admonition echoing
after her, she felt sad and doubtful, but soon her merry disposition
asserted itself.

There was no jollier and more radiant little soul than she all through
the opening exercises. She listened to the speaking and the singing with
the greatest appreciation and delight. She sat up perfectly straight in
her prim and stiff basque; she folded her small red hands before her;
her two tight braids inclined stiffly towards her ears, and her face was
all aglow with smiles.

When the distribution of presents began her name was among the first
called. She arose with alacrity, and went with a gay little prance down
the aisle. She took the parcel that the teacher handed to her; she
commenced her journey back, when she suddenly encountered the eyes of
her aunt Lucretia and her aunt Maria. Then her terror and remorse began.
She had never dreamed of such a thing as her aunts coming--indeed, they
had not themselves. A neighbor had come in and persuaded them, and they
had taken a sudden start against their resolutions and their principles.

Young Lucretia's name was called again and again. Every time she slunk
more reluctantly and fearfully down to the tree; she knew that her
aunts' eyes were surveying her with more and more amazement.

After the presents were all distributed she sat perfectly still with
hers around her. They lay on her desk, and the last one was in her lap.
She had not taken off a single wrapping. They were done up neatly in
brown paper, and Lucretia's name was written on them.

Lucretia sat there. The other girls were in a hubbub of delight all
around her, comparing their presents, but she sat perfectly still and
watched her aunts coming. They came slowly; they stopped to speak to the
teacher. Aunt Lucretia reached young Lucretia first.

"What have you got there?" she asked. She did not look cross, but a good
deal surprised. Young Lucretia just gazed miserably up at her. "Why
don't you undo them?" asked Aunt Lucretia. Young Lucretia shook her head
helplessly. "Why, what makes you act so, child?" cried Aunt Lucretia,
getting alarmed. Then Aunt Maria came up, and there was quite a little
group around young Lucretia. She began to cry. "What on earth ails the
child?" said Aunt Lucretia. She caught up one of the parcels and opened
it; it was a book bound in red and gold. She held it close to her eyes;
she turned it this way and that; she examined the fly-leaf. "Why," said
she, "it's the old gift-book Aunt Susan gave me when I was eighteen
years old! What in the world!"

Aunt Maria had undone another. "This is the _Floral Album_," she said,
tremulously; "we always keep it in the north parlor on the table. Here's
my name in it. I don't see--"

Aunt Lucretia speechlessly unmuffled a clove apple and a nautilus shell
that had graced the parlor shelf; then a little daintily dressed rag
doll with cheeks stained pink with cranberry juice appeared. When young
Lucretia spied this last she made a little grab at it.

"Oh," she sobbed, "somebody did hang this on for me! They did--they did!
It's mine!"

It never seemed to young Lucretia that she walked going home that night;
she had a feeling that only her tiptoes occasionally brushed the earth;
she went on rapidly, with a tall aunt on either side. Not much was said.
Once in a lonely place in the road there was a volley of severe
questions from her aunts, and young Lucretia burst out in a desperate
wail. "Oh!" she cried, "I was going to put 'em right back again, I was!
I've not hurt 'em any. I was real careful. I didn't s'pose you'd know
it. Oh, they said you were cross an' stingy, an' wouldn't hang me
anything on the tree, an' I didn't want 'em to think you were. I wanted
to make 'em think I had things, I did."

"What made you think of such a thing?"

"I don't know."

"I shouldn't think you would know. I never heard of such doings in my
life!"

After they got home not much was said to young Lucretia; the aunts were
still too much bewildered for many words. Lucretia was bidden to light
her candle and go to bed, and then came a new grief, which was the last
drop in the bucket for her. They confiscated her rag doll, and put it
away in the parlor with the clove apple, the nautilus shell, and the
gift-book. Then the little girl's heart failed her, remorse for she
hardly knew what, terror, and the loss of the sole comfort that had come
to her on this pitiful Christmas Eve were too much.

"Oh," she wailed, "my rag baby! my rag baby! I--want my--rag baby. Oh!
oh! oh! I want her, I want her."

Scolding had no effect. Young Lucretia sobbed out her complaint all the
way up-stairs, and her aunts could distinguish the pitiful little wail
of, "my rag baby, I want my rag baby," after she was in her chamber.

The two women looked at each other. They had sat uneasily down by the
sitting-room fire.

"I must say that I think you're rather hard on her, Lucretia," said
Maria, finally.

"I don't know as I've been any harder on her than you have," returned
Lucretia. "I shouldn't have said to take away that rag baby if I'd said
just what I thought."

"I think you'd better take it up to her, then, and stop that crying,"
said Maria.

Lucretia hastened into the north parlor without another word. She
carried the rag baby up-stairs to young Lucretia; then she came down to
the pantry and got a seed-cake for her. "I thought the child had better
have a little bite of something; she didn't eat scarcely a mite of
supper," she explained to Maria. She had given young Lucretia's head a
hard pat when she bestowed the seed-cake, and bade her eat it and go
right to sleep. The little girl hugged her rag baby and ate her cooky in
bliss.

The aunts sat a while longer by the sitting-room fire. Just before they
left it for the night Lucretia looked hesitatingly at Maria, and said,
"I s'pose you have noticed that wax doll down to White's store, 'ain't
you?"

"That big wax one with the pink dress?" asked Maria, faintly and
consciously.

"Yes. There was a doll's bedstead there, too. I don't know as you
noticed."

"Yes, I think I did, now you speak of it. I noticed it the day I went in
for the calico. There was a doll baby's carriage there, too."

The aunts looked at each other. "I s'pose it would be dreadful foolish,"
said Lucretia.

"She'd be 'most too tickled to live," remarked Maria.

"Well, we can't buy 'em to-night anyway," said Lucretia. "I must light
the candles an' lock up."

The next day was Christmas. It was about three o'clock in the afternoon
when old Mrs. Emmons went up the road to the Raymond house. She had a
little parcel. When she came into the sitting-room there was young
Lucretia in a corner, so that the room should not get in a mess, with
her wealth around her. She looked forth, a radiant little mother of
dolls, from the midst of her pretty miniature house-keeping.

"My sakes!" cried old Mrs. Emmons, "isn't that complete? She's got a big
wax doll, an' a bedstead, an' a baby-carriage, an' a table an' bureau. I
declare! Well, I don't know what I should have thought when I was a
little gal. An' I've brought some pieces for you to make some more
dresses for the rag baby, if you want to."

Young Lucretia's eyes shone.

"You were real kind to think of it," said Aunt Lucretia; "an' she'll
take real comfort making the dresses. I'm real glad you came in, Mis'
Emmons. I've been going down to see you for a long time. I want to see
Ann, too; I thought I'd see if she hadn't got a pattern of a dress that
buttons up in the back for Lucretia."

Young Lucretia's eyes shone more than ever, and she smiled out of her
corner like a little star.


HOW FIDELIA WENT TO THE STORE


"I don't know what we're goin' to do," said Aunt Maria Crooker. She sat
in a large arm-chair, and held in her lap a bowl of sugar and butter
that she was creaming. Aunt Maria filled up the chair from arm to arm,
for she was very portly; she had a large, rosy, handsome face, and she
creamed with such energy that she panted for breath.

"Well, I don't know, either," rejoined her sister, Mrs. Lennox. "I can't
go to the store with my lame foot, that's certain."

"Well, I know _I_ can't," said Aunt Maria, with additional emphasis. "I
haven't walked two mile for ten year, an' I don't believe I could get to
that store and back to save my life."

"I don't believe you could, either. I don't know what is goin' to be
done. We can't make the cake without raisins, anyhow. It's the queerest
thing how father happened to forget them. Now here he is gone over to
East Dighton after the new cow, and Cynthy gone to Keene to buy her
bonnet, an' me with a scalt foot, an' you not able to walk, an' not one
raisin in the house to put into that weddin'-cake."

Mrs. Lennox stated the case in full, with a despairing eloquence, and
Aunt Maria sighed and wrinkled her forehead.

"If there were only any neighbors you could borrow from," she observed.

"Well, there ain't any neighbors 'twixt here and the store except the
Allens and the Simmonses, and the Allens are so tight they never put
raisins into their Thanksgivin' pies. Mis' Allen told me they didn't.
She said she thought most folks made their pies too rich, an' her folks
liked them just as well without raisins. An' as for the Simmonses, I
don't believe they see a raisin from one year's end to the other.
They're lucky if they can get enough common things to eat for all those
children. I don't know what's goin' to be done. Here's the dress-maker
comin' to-morrow, an' Cynthy goin' to be married in two weeks, and the
cake ought to be made to-day if it's ever goin' to be."

"Yes, it had," assented Aunt Maria. "We've put it off full long enough,
anyway. Weddin'-cake ain't near so good unless it stands a little
while."

"I know it."

Just then there was a shrill, prolonged squeak. It came from the yard.
The doors and windows were open; it was a very warm day.

"What's that?" cried Aunt Maria.

"Oh, it's nothin' but Fidelia's little wagon. She's draggin' it round
the yard."

The two women looked at each other; it was as if a simultaneous idea had
come suddenly to them.

Aunt Maria gave expression to it first. "Fidelia couldn't go, could
she?"

"Maria Crooker, that little thing! She ain't six years old, an' she's
never been anywhere alone. Do you s'pose I'm goin' to send her a mile to
that store?" Mrs. Lennox's tone was full of vehement indignation, but
her eyes still met Aunt Maria's with that doubtful and reflective
expression.

"I don't see a mite of harm in it," Aunt Maria maintained, sturdily. She
set her bowl of sugar and butter on the table, and leaned forward with a
hand on each aproned knee. "I know Fidelia ain't but five year old, but
she's brighter than some children of seven. It's just a straight road to
the store, an' she can't get lost, to save her life. And she knows where
'tis. You took her down to Mis' Rose's three or four weeks ago, didn't
you?"

"Yes; that day father went down for grain. I s'pose she would remember."

"Of course she'd remember. I don't see one thing, as far as I'm
concerned, to hinder that child's goin' down to the store an' bringin'
home some raisins. I used to go on errands before I was as old as she
is. Folks didn't fuss over their children so much in my day."

"Well," said Mrs. Lennox, finally, with a great sigh, "I don't know but
I may as well send her."

Mrs. Lennox was much smaller than her sister, and she had a rather
sickly but pleasant face. She had to push a chair before her as she
walked, for she had scalded her foot quite badly the week before, and it
was now all swathed in bandages. It had been a very unfortunate accident
in more ways than one, for Cynthia, her elder daughter, was going to be
married soon, and the family were busily engaged in the wedding
preparations. It was very hard for poor Mrs. Lennox to have to limp
about with one knee in a chair, while she made wedding-cake and arranged
for the bridal festivities, but she made the best of it.

Now she pushed over to the door, and called, "Fidelia! Fidelia!"

Directly the squeak increased to an agonizing degree, the rattle of
small wheels accompanied it, and Fidelia came trudging around the
corner of the house. She was a chubby little girl, and her blue tier
seemed rather tight for her. She had a round, rosy face, and innocent
and honest black eyes. She wore a small Shaker bonnet with a green cape,
and she stubbed her toes into the grass every step she took.

"Don't stub your toes so," said her mother, admonishingly. "You'll wear
your shoes all out."

Fidelia immediately advanced with soft pats like a kitten. When she got
into the kitchen her mother took off her Shaker bonnet and looked at her
critically. "You'll have to have your hair brushed," said she. "Fidelia,
do you remember how you went with mother down to Mis' Rose's three or
four weeks ago?"

Fidelia nodded and winked.

"There was a big pussy cat there, do you remember? and Mis' Rose gave
you a cooky."

Fidelia's affirmative wink seemed to give out sparkles.

"Well, you remember how we went to the _side_ door and knocked--the door
with some roses over the top of it--and Mis' Rose came--the _side_
door?"

Fidelia, intensely attentive, standing before her mother and Aunt Maria,
remembered about the side door.

"Well, you remember how there was a piazza across the front of the
house, don't you? Father hitched the horse to a post there. Well,
there's another door there opening on the piazza, don't you remember--a
door with panes of glass in it like a window?"

Fidelia remembered.

"Well, now, Fidelia, do you suppose you can go down to the store and buy
some raisins for mother to put in sister Cynthy's weddin'-cake, all
yourself?"

"An' be a real smart little girl," put in Aunt Maria.

Fidelia gave one ecstatic roll of her black eyes at them, then she broke
into a shout, "Lemme go! lemme go!" She oscillated on her small stubbed
toes like a bird preparing to fly, and she tugged energetically at her
mother's apron.

"I'll give you a penny, an' you can buy you a nice stick of
red-and-white twisted candy," added her mother.

Fidelia actually made a little dash for the door then, but her mother
caught her. "Stop!" she said, in an admonitory voice which was quieting
to Fidelia, and made her realize that the red-and-white candy was still
in the future. "Now you just wait a minute, an' not be in such a pucker.
You ain't goin' this way, with your apron just as dirty as poison, and
your hair all in a snarl. You've got to have on your clean apron, and
have your hair brushed and your face washed."

So Fidelia climbed obediently into her high chair, and sat with her eyes
screwed up and her fists clinched, while her mother polished her face
faithfully with a wet, soapy end of a towel, and combed the snarls out
of her hair. When it was all done, her cheeks being very red and shiny,
and her hair very damp and smooth, when she was arrayed in her clean
starched white tier, and had her Shaker tied on with an emphatic square
bow, she stood in the door and drank in the parting instructions. Her
eyes were wide and intent, and her mouth drooped soberly at the corners.
The importance of the occasion had begun to impress her. She held a
penny tight in her hand; the raisins were to be charged, it not being
judged advisable to trust Fidelia with so much money.

"I don't believe that little thing can carry three pounds of raisins,"
Mrs. Lennox said to Aunt Maria. She was becoming more and more uneasy
about Fidelia's going.

"Let her take her little wagon an' drag 'em; that'll be just the thing,"
said Aunt Maria, complacently.

So Fidelia started down the road, trundling behind her the little
squeaking cart. It was a warm July day, and it was very dusty. Directly
Fidelia started she forgot her mother's injunctions about stubbing her
toes; she disappeared in a small cloud of dust, for she walked in the
middle of the road, and flirted it up with great delight.

[Illustration: "'WHOSE LITTLE GAL AIR YOU?'"]

In the course of the mile Fidelia met one team. It was an old rocking
chaise and a white horse, and an old farmer was driving. He drove slower
when he came alongside of Fidelia. When he had fairly passed her he
stopped entirely, twisted about in his seat, and raised his voice.

"Whose little gal air you?" he asked.

Fidelia was a little frightened. Instead of giving her father's name,
she gave her own with shy precision--"Fidelia Ames Lennox," she said,
retiring into her Shaker bonnet.

"You ain't runnin' away, be you?"

Fidelia's pride was touched. "I'm going to the store for my mother," she
announced, in quite a shrill tone. Then she took to her heels, and the
little wagon trundled after, with a wilder squeak than ever.

Fidelia kept saying over to herself, "Three pounds of your best raisins,
and Mr. Lennox will come in and pay you." Her mother and Aunt Maria
wished after she had gone that they had written it out on a piece of
paper; they had not thought of that. But Aunt Maria said she knew that
such a bright child as Fidelia would remember three pounds of raisins
when she had been told over and over, and charged not to come home
without them.

Fidelia had started about ten o'clock in the morning, and her mother and
Aunt Maria had agreed that they would not worry if she should not return
until one o'clock in the afternoon. That would allow more than an hour
for the mile walk each way, and give plenty of time for a rest between;
for Fidelia had been instructed to go into the store and sit down on a
stool and rest a while before starting upon her return trip. "Likely as
not Mis' Rose will give her a cooky or something," Aunt Maria had
whispered to Mrs. Lennox.

So when noon came the two women pictured Fidelia sitting perched upon a
stool in the store, being fed with candy and cookies, and made much of,
or even eating dinner with the Rose family. "Mis' Rose made so much of
her when you took her there before that I shouldn't wonder a mite if
she'd kept her to dinner," said Aunt Maria. She promulgated this theory
the more strenuously when one o'clock came and Fidelia had not appeared.
"Of course that's what 'tis," she kept repeating. We began to feel ashamed
of our petty madness on the worldly subject of money and ships and
safe passage home; our passionate, twentieth century, overindulged
selves who were neither fighting nor giving our beloveds in battle,
and who were harassing those who were in a death struggle.

Never throughout the centuries to come, whether the map of Europe is changed
or not, should the stranger within her gates ever forget the courtesy
of Paris.

At night powerful searchlights backed up by artillery guard the city
from the monster of the air.

This is fiction come true. It is Conan Doyle, Kipling, Wells come to
measure. From the moment of sunset until sunrise those comets with
an orbit patrol the skies.

Pointing with blazing fingers to the moon and the stars, to the horizon,
they proclaim that Paris watches while her people sleep.

The idea has given comfort to thousands.

You, in your safe, tranquil homes, cannot know the pleasure it gives
to look out of the window in the wakeful nights and watch those wheeling
comets circling, circling to catch the Zeppelin that may come.

And behind the light is the gun. Rooftop artillery!

The new warfare! On the roof of the fashionable Automobile Club on
the Place de la Concorde the little blue firing guns wheel with
the blazing fingers.

Always ready to send shot and shell into a bulging speck in the sky
that does not return the luminous signals.

So on the roof of the Observatoir, so on the encircling environs;
sometimes three, sometimes six, they are always going.

People stand in the streets to watch, hypnotized by the moment into horizon
gazing.

There will be a speck in the sky; people grow tense; the comet
catches it; is that wigwagging on the roof, those challenges in
fire, returned?

No. The speck passes; we breathe again.
And so it goes: a ceaseless centre of interest. It is the novelty of
the world war.

The highest artillery in the world is on the Eiffel Tower.

At its dizzy top, pointing to the sky, are machine guns that are
trained to fire at an enemy's balloon. It is an answer to the prayer
of the people that these guns have not yet been used.

But it is not only in the artillery on the top of the Eiffel Tower that
interest centres; it is in the wireless that sends the messages to
land and sea, safeguarding armies and navies, patrolling the earth
and water.
Strange, isn't it, that the plaything of a nation has become its
safeguard?

That was a stirring day when Paris sang "God Save the King." Gen. French
arrived from London, coming quietly to confer with M. Viviani, the Minister
for War, and with President Poincaré. He was the first English General
to come to the aid of France since Cromwell commissioned the British
Ambassador to go to the aid of Anne of Austria.

And the French heart responded as only it can; the people stood,
with raised hats, in quadruple rows wherever he passed, as English,
French, and foreign voices sang a benediction to Britain's King.

History was made there.

That night Gen. French dined at the Ritz among a few friends. Even
the newspapers seemed not to know it, and those of us who had the good
chance to be there enjoyed him at leisure. He wore his field uniform
of khaki in strong contrast to the French Generals, who are always in
glittering gold, although he represents an empire and they a
republic.

He is an admirable looking soldier, somewhat small of stature, firmly
knit, bronzed, white haired, blue eyed, calm. He spoke of their
responsibilities without exaggeration or amelioration. He did not make
light of the task before his soldiers, and his grave manner seemed a
prophecy of that terrible fight near Mons, above the French frontier,
which was so soon to take place and where English blood was freely
spilled for France's sake.

Another day that we shall be glad we saw when it is written into
the narrative history of this Summer by some future Mme.

Sevigne, was when the first German flag arrived. Before it came, two
soldiers exhibited a German frontier post in front of a café on the
boulevard, which started the excitement, but the reception of the
flag by the Government and its placement in the Invalides, where
is Napoleon's tomb, was an hour of dramatic tenseness.

The only music heard in Paris since the first day of August, the day of
mobilization, accompanied this flag to its resting place along with
those historic relics of former French victories.

The procession went over the Alexander Bridge, that superb structure
dedicated in honor of the Russian Czar, whose son is now fulfilling
his pledge of friendship to France.

The flag was met at the Invalides by the old soldiers who bore medals of
the Franco-Prussian war. In the solemn inclosure, where all stood
at salute, the veterans stood with lances.

The flag was presented to an old sick soldier, who stumped forward
on a wooden leg, his breast covered with the medals of the Crimea
and the Italian campaign.

He received it for France, and when it was placed over the organ, the
listening crowds that jammed the Place des Invalides heard the
singing of the "Marseillaise" by the cracked old voices first, then
by the sturdier younger voices, and so it joined in, this vast
concourse of solemn listeners.

France has gone into this war with the spirit of the Crusaders, but
the spirit of French wit cannot be repressed even under the most
terrifying conditions.

So after the news of the superhuman effort made by that national
baby, Belgium, in detaining the huge German forces for many days,
there was a placard on one of the gates at the station, placed there by
some gay refugee, saying that a train de luxe would leave for Berlin
the next day.

It tickled the sensibilities of travelers very much, and it gave rise
to the sale of postcards by an enterprising soul. These cards gave
one the right, so they said, of a daily train to Berlin to visit
the tomb of Guillame. They were bought by the thousands as souvenirs of
the war and as one of the few things that caused a smile in this saddened
city.

Another incident that amused the people was the remark of a young
soldier who had single-handed taken some German prisoners, and who, when
asked whether he had done it by the revolver or the bayonet, answered
that he had only held out a slice of bread and butter and the
Germans had followed him.

Amusement and irritation followed the order that all telephoning must
be done in French. The sensation produced depended on the temperament
of the person. Certainly queer things were said over the lines, and no
one could blame the "Allo girl" for laughing. The majority of Americans
took it in good part by saying that it was a French lesson for five
cents.

Another accomplishment that has been furthered in Paris during the last
three weeks is bicycle riding. With the paucity of transportation
some means of getting over the magnificent distances of this city
had to be found. So people who could ride rented bicycles, and those
who had not learned began to take lessons. The girls who work, and those
who go on errands for the Croix Rouge, wear a most attractive costume
of pale blue or violet.

It has a short divided skirt, a slim blouse with blue-and-white striped
collar; there is a small hat to match, and the young cyclists whirling
around on their missions of mercy are a pleasant sight for very sad
eyes.

*Paris in October*
[From The London Times, Oct. 21, 1914.]

PARIS, Oct. 19.

The more one studies the life of Paris at the present time, and especially
its patriotic and benevolent activities, the more is one impressed by the
unanimous determination of its inhabitants to face whatever may befall
and to make the best of things. It is difficult to realize at first
sight how completely, in the hour of trial, the traditional light-heartedness
of the Parisian has been translated to a fine simplicity of courage
and devotion to the common cause and to a high seriousness of
patriotism.

There is something splendidly impressive and stimulating in the spectacle
of civilization's most sensitive culture suddenly confronted by the stern
realities of a life-and-death struggle, and responding unanimously
to the call of duty. Without hesitation or complaint, Paris has put
away childish things, her toys, her luxury, and her laughter; today
her whole life reflects only fixed purposes of united effort, of
courage never, never to submit or yield, and this splendid determination
is all the more significant for being undemonstrative and almost
silent.

We English people, who, observing chiefly the surface life of the
French capital, have generally been disposed to regard the Parisian
temperament as mutable and often impatient of adversity, must now make
our confession of error and the amende honorable; for nothing could be
more admirable than the attitude of all classes of the community
in their stoic acceptance of the sacrifices and sufferings imposed
upon them by this war at their gates. Especially striking is the
philosophic acquiescence of the city, accustomed to know and to discuss
all things, in the impenetrable [Transcriber: original 'impentrable']
veil of secrecy which conceals the movements and the fortunes of the
French armies in the field. Go where you will, even among those of the
very poor who have lost their breadwinners, and you will hear few criticisms
and no complaints.

The little midinette thrown out of employment, the shopkeeper faced
with ruin, the artist reduced to actual want--they also are in the
fighting line, and they are proud of it.

The women of the thrifty middle class consider it just as much their
duty to devote their savings of years to the common cause as their
husbands and brothers do to bear arms against the enemy; only in
the last extremity of need do they make appeal to the "Secours
National" for assistance.

And when they do, they are well content to live on a maintenance
allowance of 1s. a day and 5d. for every child.

The other Sunday morning at the hour of mass, when two German
aeroplanes were engaged in their genial occupation of throwing bombs
over the residential and business quarters of the city, I assisted
at several sidewalk conversations in the district lying between the
Madeleine and the Rue de Rivoli.

Nowhere did I find the least sign of excitement.

Indeed, there was curiously little interest shown as to the results
of the explosions in that neighborhood; only a grim acceptance of
this daily visitation as something to be added to the score in the
final day of reckoning and some expression of surprise that the
French aeroplanes (supposed to be constantly on the alert for these
visitors) should not have found some means of putting an end to the
nuisance.

At the same time I heard several spectators express their admiration
of the German aviators' courage and appreciation of the ease and grace
with which they handled their beautiful machines. In the cafés that
evening, when the full list of the casualties and damage had been
published, one heard a good deal of criticism, seasoned with Attic
salt, on the subject of the belated appearance of the French
aeroplanes on the scene, and hopes that the boulevards might soon
be rewarded by the spectacle of a duel in the air.

They seem to think they have earned it.

But in the afternoon all Paris was out--in the Jarden des Tuileries, in
the Bois, at Vincennes, basking in the sunshine of a glorious Autumn
day, Madame et Bébé bravely making the best of it in the absence of
Monsieur. (Not that Monsieur is always absent; the proportion of men in
the crowd, and men of serviceable age, was considerably larger
than one might have expected.)

If the object of the German aviators is to instill terror into the
hearts of the Parisians they are wasting their time and their
bombs.

Those people in London who complain about not being able to get supper
after the theatre, and other minor disturbances of their even tenor of
existence, should spend a few days in Paris. They would observe how
easily a community may learn to do without many things, and how the
lesson itself becomes a moral tonic, unmistakably stimulating in its
effects.

Paris is reminded every morning of duty and discipline when it
begins by doing without its beloved petits pains and croissants for
breakfast, the order having gone forth that bakers, being short-handed,
are to make only pain de ménage. Similarly, because the majority of
journalists and popular writers are under arms, Paris does without its
accustomed daily refreshment of ephemeral literature, its comic and
illustrated press, its literary and artistic causeries, its feuilletons,
and chroniques. It does without its theatres, its music halls,
without politics, art, and social amenities, without barbers, florists,
and motor cars, partly because there are not men enough to keep these
things going, and partly because, even if there were, la patrie comes
first, so that thrifty self-denial has become the duty of every good
citizen.

If the telephone breaks down, (as it usually does,) there is no one
to repair it, so the subscriber goes without; if the trains and trams
cease running on regular schedules the Parisian accepts the fact and
stays at home.

In normal times life is made up of the sum of little things, but at great
moments the little things cease to count. How true this is in Paris
today one may judge from the correspondence and records of the "Secours
National"; they reveal an intense and widespread impulse of personal
pride in self-denial, and prove that the heart of the Parisian
bourgeoisie is sound to the core.

To a foreigner, accustomed to the Paris of literary and artistic
traditions, perhaps the most remarkable feature in the life of the city
today lies in the absence of articulate public opinion, and
apparently of public interest, in everything outside the immediate
issues of the war. With one or two exceptions, such as the Temps and
the Débats, the press of the capital practically confines itself to
recording the events and progress of the campaign; nothing else
matters. So far as Paris is concerned, all the rest of the world,
from China to Peru, might be non-existent. Neither the political nor
the economic consequences of the war are seriously examined or discussed;
the sole business of the newspapers consists in supplementing, to the
best of their abilities, the meagre war news supplied through
official channels.

Some interest attaches, of course, to the attitude of Italy; but, beyond
that, all things sublunary seem to have faded into a remote distance
of unreality--sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.

The explanation [Transcriber: original 'explaantion'] of this attitude
of complete detachment lies, no doubt, chiefly in the fact that the men
who make and exchange political opinions have gone to Bordeaux, while
most of those who create and guide public (as distinct from political)
opinion, have exchanged the pen for the sword. Just as Paris, for
want of bakers, has only one kind of bread, so, for want of the men who
usually inspire public opinion, her press has concentrated upon one
absorbing idea, écraser les allemands.

Moreover, for want of printers and of advertisers, most of the daily papers
have now dwindled to microscopic proportions. The virile intelligence
of Paris journalism and the nimble and adventurous inquisitiveness,
which are its normally distinguishing characteristics, have gone,
like everything else, to the front.

As the editor of the Gil Blas says in a farewell poster to his subscribers:
"Youth has only one duty to perform in these days. Our chief and all
the staff have joined the colors. Whenever events shall permit, Gil
Blas will resume its cheerful way. A bien-tôt."

*France and England As Seen in War Time*
*An Interview With F.

Hopkinson Smith.*
[From THE NEW YORK TIMES SUNDAY MAGAZINE, Dec. 6, 1914.]

F.

Hopkinson Smith was in France when the war broke out, he spent
September in London, and is now back in New York.

He has brought home many sketches. Not sketches which suggest war in the
least, but which were made with the thought of the war lurking in
the background.

"Curiously enough," he said, without waiting for any opening question
from THE TIMES reporter--Mr.

Smith often interviews himself--"curiously enough, I was on my way to
Rheims to make a sketch of the Cathedral when the war broke out. I had
started out to make a series of sketches of the great European
cathedrals. Not etchings, but charcoal sketches.

"Let me say here, too, that cathedrals for the most part ought not to be
etched. You lose too many shadows, though you gain in line; but in the
etching you have to cross-hatch so heavily with ink that the result is
just ink, and not shadow at all.

Charcoal gives you depth and transparency.

I was eager to do a series of the cathedrals, as I had done a series
for the Dickens and Thackeray books, and had planned to give my,
entire Summer to it.

"I had been in London for some time. I had sketched in Westminster, in
St. Bartholomew's. Everything peaceful and quiet.
Little.

"Well, I don't think 'twas, nuther. I didn't see jest what Sam meant by
it."

Ann Mary was dumb with admiration. When the turkey was laid on the broad
shelf in the pantry, she went and gazed upon it. In the afternoon there
was great enjoyment seeing it stuffed and made ready for the oven.
Indeed, this day was throughout one of great enjoyment, being full of
the very aroma of festivity and good cheer and gala times, and even
sweeter than the occasion which it preceded. Ann Mary had only one
damper all day, and that was the non-arrival of a letter. Mrs. Little
had invited her son and his family to spend Thanksgiving, but now they
probably were not coming, since not a word in reply had been received.
When Mr. Little said there was no letter in the post-office, Ann Mary's
face fell. "Oh, dear," said she, "don't you suppose Lucy will come,
grandma?"

"No," replied her grandmother, "I don't. Edward never did such a thing
as not to send me word when he was comin', in his life, nor Maria
neither. I ain't no idee they'll come."

"Oh, dear!" said Ann Mary again.

"Well, you'll have to make up your mind to it," returned her
grandmother. She was sore over her own disappointment, and so was
irascible towards Ann Mary's. "It's no worse for you than for the rest
of us. I guess you can keep one Thanksgivin' without Lucy."

For a while it almost seemed to Ann Mary that she could not. Lucy was
her only cousin. She loved Lucy dearly, and she was lonesome for another
little girl; nobody knew how she had counted upon seeing her cousin. Ann
Mary herself had a forlorn hope that Lucy still might come, even if
Uncle Edward _was_ always so particular about sending word, and no word
had been received. On Thanksgiving morning she kept running to the
window and looking down the road. But when the stage from the village
came, it passed right by the house without slackening its speed.

Then there was no hope left at all.

"You might jest as well be easy," said her grandmother. "I guess you can
have a good Thanksgivin' if Lucy _ain't_ here. This evenin' you can ask
Loretty to come over a little while, if you want to, an' you can make
some nut-candy."

"Loretta ain't at home."

"She'll come home for Thanksgivin', I guess. It ain't very likely she's
stayed away over that. When I get the dinner ready to take up, you can
carry a plateful down to Sarah Bean's, an' that'll be somethin' for you
to do, too. I guess you can manage."

Thanksgiving Day was a very pleasant day, although there was
considerable snow on the ground, for it had snowed all the day before.
Mr. Little and Ann Mary did not go to church as usual, on that account.

The old man did not like to drive to the village before the roads were
beaten out. Mrs. Little lamented not a little over it. It was the custom
for her husband and granddaughter to attend church Thanksgiving
morning, while she stayed at home and cooked the dinner. "It does seem
dreadful heathenish for nobody to go to meetin' Thanksgivin' Day," said
she; "an' we ain't even heard the proclamation read, neither. It rained
so hard last Sabbath that we couldn't go."

The season was unusually wintry and severe, and lately the family had
been prevented from church-going. It was two Sundays since any of the
family had gone. The village was three miles away, and the road was
rough. Mr. Little was too old to drive over it in very bad weather.

When Ann Mary went to carry the plate of Thanksgiving dinner to Sarah
Bean, she wore a pair of her grandfather's blue woollen socks drawn over
her shoes to keep out the snow. The snow was rather deep for easy
walking, but she did not mind that. She carried the dinner with great
care; there was a large plate well filled, and a tin dish was turned
over it to keep it warm. Sarah Bean was an old woman who lived alone.
Her house was about a quarter of a mile from the Littles'.

When Ann Mary reached the house, she found the old woman making a cup of
tea. There did not seem to be much of anything but tea and
bread-and-butter for her dinner. She was very deaf and infirm, all her
joints shook when she tried to use them, and her voice quavered when she
talked. She took the plate, and her hands trembled so that the tin dish
played on the plate like a clapper. "Why," said she, overjoyed, "this
looks just like Thanksgiving Day, tell your grandma!"

"Why, it _is_ Thanksgiving Day," declared Ann Mary, with some wonder.

"What?" asked Sarah Bean.

"_It is Thanksgiving Day, you know._" But it was of no use, the old
woman could not hear a word. Ann Mary's voice was too low.

Ann Mary could not walk very fast on account of the snow. She was absent
some three-quarters of an hour; her grandmother had told her that dinner
would be all on the table when she returned. She was enjoying the nice
things in anticipation all the way; when she came near the house, she
could smell roasted turkey, and there was also a sweet spicy odor in the
air.

She noticed with surprise that a sleigh had been in the yard. "I wonder
who's come," she said to herself. She thought of Lucy, and whether they
_could_ have driven over from the village. She ran in. "Why, who's
come?" she cried out.

Her voice sounded like a shout in her own ears; it seemed to awaken
echoes. She fairly startled herself, for there was no one in the room.
There was absolute quiet through all the house. There was even no
sizzling from the kettles on the stove, for everything had been dished
up. The vegetables, all salted and peppered and buttered, were on the
table--but the turkey was not there. In the great vacant place where the
turkey should have been was a piece of white paper. Ann Mary spied it in
a moment. She caught it up and looked at it. It was a note from her
grandmother:

     We have had word that Aunt Betsey has had a bad turn. Lizz wants us
     to come. The dinner is all ready for you. If we ain't home
     to-night, you can get Loretty to stay with you. Be a good girl.
     GRANDMA.

Ann Mary read the note and stood reflecting, her mouth drooping at the
corners. Aunt Betsey was Mrs. Little's sister; Lizz was her daughter who
lived with her and took care of her. They lived in Derby, and Derby was
fourteen miles away. It seemed a long distance to Ann Mary, and she felt
sure that her grandparents could not come home that night. She looked
around the empty room and sighed. After a while she sat down and pulled
off the snowy socks; she thought she might as well eat her dinner,
although she did not feel so hungry as she had expected. Everything was
on the table but the turkey and plum-pudding. Ann Mary supposed these
were in the oven keeping warm; the door was ajar. But, when she looked,
they were not there. She went into the pantry; they were not there
either. It was very strange; there was the dripping-pan in which the
turkey had been baked, on the back of the stove, with some gravy in it;
and there was the empty pudding-dish on the hearth.

"What has grandma done with the turkey and the plum-pudding?" said Ann
Mary, aloud.

She looked again in the pantry; then she went down to the cellar--there
seemed to be so few places in the house in which it was reasonable to
search for a turkey and a plum-pudding!

Finally she gave it up, and sat down to dinner. There was plenty of
squash and potatoes and turnips and onions and beets and cranberry-sauce
and pies; but it was no Thanksgiving dinner without turkey and
plum-pudding. It was like a great flourish of accompaniment without any
song.

Ann Mary did as well as she could; she put some turkey-gravy on her
potato and filled up her plate with vegetables; but she did not enjoy
the dinner. She felt more and more lonely, too. She resolved that after
she had washed up the dinner dishes and changed her dress, she would go
over to Loretta Adams's. It was quite a piece of work, washing the
dinner dishes, there were so many pans and kettles; it was the middle of
the afternoon when she finished. Then Ann Mary put on her best plaid
dress, and tied her best red ribbons on her braids, and it was four
o'clock before she started for Loretta's.

Loretta lived in a white cottage about half a mile away towards the
village. The front yard had many bushes in it, and the front path was
bordered with box; the bushes were now mounds of snow, and the box was
indicated by two snowy ridges.

The house had a shut-up look; the sitting-room curtains were down. Ann
Mary went around to the side door; but it was locked. Then she went up
the front walk between the snowy ridges of box, and tried the front
door; that also was locked. The Adamses had gone away. Ann Mary did not
know what to do. The tears stood in her eyes, and she choked a little.
She went back and forth between the two doors, and shook and pounded;
she peeked around the corner of the curtain into the sitting-room. She
could see Loretta's organ, with the music-book, and all the familiar
furniture, but the room wore an utterly deserted air.

Finally, Ann Mary sat down on the front door-step, after she had brushed
off the snow a little. She had made up her mind to wait a little while,
and see if the folks would not come home. She had on her red hood, and
her grandmother's old plaid shawl. She pulled the shawl tightly around
her, and muffled her face in it; it was extremely cold weather for
sitting on a door-step. Just across the road was a low clump of birches;
through and above the birches the sky showed red and clear where the sun
was setting. Everything looked cold and bare and desolate to the little
girl who was trying to keep Thanksgiving. Suddenly she heard a little
cry, and Loretta's white cat came around the corner of the house.

"Kitty, kitty, kitty," called Ann Mary. She was very fond of Loretta's
cat; she had none of her own.

The cat came close and brushed around Ann Mary so she took it up in her
lap; and wrapped the shawl around it, and felt a little comforted.

She sat there on the door-step and held the cat until it was quite
dusky, and she was very stiff with the cold. Then she put down the cat
and prepared to go home. But she had not gone far along the road when
she found out that the cat was following her. The little white creature
floundered through the snow at her heels, and mewed constantly.
Sometimes it darted ahead and waited until she came up, but it did not
seem willing to be carried in her arms.

When Ann Mary reached her own house the lonesome look of it sent a chill
all over her; she was afraid to go in. She made up her mind to go down
to Sarah Bean's and ask whether she could not stay all night there.

So she kept on, and Loretta's white cat still followed her. There was no
light in Sarah Bean's house. Ann Mary knocked and pounded, but it was of
no use; the old woman had gone to bed, and she could not make her hear.

Ann Mary turned about and went home; the tears were running down her
cold red cheeks. The cat mewed louder than ever. When she got home she
took the cat up and carried it into the house. She determined to keep it
for company, anyway. She was sure, now, that she would have to stay
alone all night; the Adamses and Sarah Bean were the only neighbors, and
it was so late now that she had no hope of her grandparents' return. Ann
Mary was timid and nervous, but she had a vein of philosophy, and she
generally grasped the situation with all the strength she had, when she
became convinced that she must. She had laid her plans while walking
home through the keen winter air, even as the tears were streaming over
her cheeks, and she proceeded to carry them into execution. She gave
Loretta's cat its supper, and she ate a piece of mince-pie herself; then
she fixed the kitchen and the sitting-room fires, and locked up the
house very thoroughly. Next, she took the cat and the lamp and went into
the dark bedroom and locked the door; then she and the cat were as safe
as she knew how to make them. The dark bedroom was in the very middle of
the house, the centre of a nest of rooms. It was small and square, had
no windows, and only one door. It was a sort of fastness. Ann Mary made
up her mind that she would not undress herself, and that she would keep
the lamp burning all night. She climbed into the big yellow-posted
bedstead, and the cat cuddled up to her and purred.

Ann Mary lay in bed and stared at the white satin scrolls on the
wall-paper, and listened for noises. She heard a great many, but they
were all mysterious and indefinable, till about ten o'clock. Then she
sat straight up in bed and her heart beat fast. She certainly heard
sleigh-bells; the sound penetrated even to the dark bedroom. Then came a
jarring pounding on the side door. Ann Mary got up, unfastened the
bedroom door, took the lamp, and stepped out into the sitting-room. The
pounding came again. "Ann Mary, Ann Mary!" cried a voice. It was her
grandmother's.

"I'm comin', I'm comin', grandma!" shouted Ann Mary. She had never felt
so happy in her life. She pushed back the bolt of the side door with
trembling haste. There stood her grandmother all muffled up, with a
shawl over her head; and out in the yard were her grandfather and
another man, with a horse and sleigh. The men were turning the sleigh
around.

"Put the lamp in the window, Ann Mary," called Mr. Little, and Ann Mary
obeyed. Her grandmother sank into a chair. "I'm jest about tuckered
out," she groaned. "If I don't ketch my death with this day's work, I'm
lucky. There ain't any more feelin' in my feet than as if they was lumps
of stone."

Ann Mary stood at her grandmother's elbow, and her face was all beaming.
"I thought you weren't coming," said she.

"Well, I shouldn't have come a step to-night, if it hadn't been for
you--and the cow," said her grandmother, in an indignant voice. "I was
kind of uneasy about you, an' we knew the cow wouldn't be milked unless
you got Mr. Adams to come over."

"Was Aunt Betsey very sick?" inquired Ann Mary.

Her grandmother gave her head a toss. "Sick! No, there wa'n't a thing
the matter with her, except she ate some sassage-meat, an' had a little
faint turn. Lizz was scart to death, the way she always is. She didn't
act as if she knew whether her head was on, all the time we were there.
She didn't act as if she knew 'twas Thanksgivin' Day; an' she didn't
have no turkey that I could see. Aunt Betsey bein' took sick seemed to
put everythin' out of her head. I never saw such a nervous thing as she
is. I was all out of patience when I got there. Betsey didn't seem to be
very bad off, an' there we'd hurried enough to break our necks. We
didn't dare to drive around to Sarah Bean's to let you know about it,
for we was afraid we'd miss the train. We jest got in with the man that
brought the word, an' he driv as fast as he could over to the village,
an' then we lost the train, an' had to sit there in the depot two mortal
hours. An' now we've come fourteen mile' in an open sleigh. The man that
lives next door to Betsey said he'd bring us home, an' I thought we'd
better come. He's goin' over to the village to-night; he's got folks
there. I told him he'd a good deal better stay here, but he won't. He's
as deaf as an adder, an' you can't make him hear anythin', anyway. We
ain't spoke a word all the way home. Where's Loretty? She came over to
stay with you, didn't she?"

Ann Mary explained that Loretta was not at home.

"That's queer, seems to me, Thanksgivin' Day," said her grandmother.
"Massy sakes, what cat's that? She came out of the settin'-room!"

Ann Mary explained about Loretta's cat. Then she burst forth with the
question that had been uppermost in her mind ever since her grandmother
came in. "Grandma," said she, "what did you do with the turkey and the
plum-pudding?"

"What?"

"What did you do with the turkey and the plum-pudding?"

"The turkey an' the plum-puddin'?"

"Yes; I couldn't find 'em anywhere."

Mrs. Little, who had removed her wraps, and was crouching over the
kitchen stove with her feet in the oven, looked at Ann Mary with a dazed
expression.

"I dunno what you mean, child," said she.

Mr. Little had helped the man with the sleigh to start, and had now come
in. He was pulling off his boots.

"Don't you remember, mother," said he, "how you run back in the house,
an' said you was goin' to set that turkey an' plum-pudding away, for you
was afraid to leave 'em settin' right out in plain sight on the table,
for fear that somebody might come in?"

"Yes; I do remember," said Mrs. Little. "I thought they looked 'most too
temptin'. I set 'em in the pantry. I thought Ann Mary could get 'em when
she came in."

"They ain't in the pantry," said Ann Mary.

Her grandmother arose and went into the pantry with a masterful air.
"Ain't in the pantry?" she repeated. "I don't s'pose you more'n gave one
look."

Ann Mary followed her grandmother. She fairly expected to see the turkey
and pudding before her eyes on the shelf and to admit that she had been
mistaken. Mr. Little also followed, and they all stood in the pantry and
looked about.

"I guess they ain't here, mother," said Mr. Little. "Can't you think
where you set 'em?"

The old woman took up the lamp and stepped out of the pantry with
dignity. "I've set 'em somewhere," said she, in a curt voice, "an' I'll
find 'em in the mornin'. You don't want any turkey or plum-puddin'
to-night, neither of you!"

But Mrs. Little did not find the turkey and the plum-pudding in the
morning. Some days went by, and their whereabouts was as much a mystery
as ever. Mrs. Little could not remember where she had put them; but it
had been in some secure hiding-place, since her own wit which had placed
them there could not find it out. She was so mortified and worried over
it that she was nearly ill. She tried to propound the theory, and
believe in it herself, that she had really set the turkey and the
pudding in the pantry, and that they had been stolen; but she was too
honest. "I've heerd of folks puttin' things in such safe places that
they couldn't find 'em, before now," said she; "but I never heerd of
losin' a turkey an' a plum-puddin' that way. I dunno but I'm losin' what
little wits I ever did have." She went about with a humble and resentful
air. She promised Ann Mary that she would cook another turkey and
pudding the first of the week, if the missing ones were not found.

Sunday came and they were not discovered. It was a pleasant day, and the
Littles went to the village church. Ann Mary looked over across the
church after they were seated and saw Loretta, with the pretty brown
frizzes over her forehead, sitting between her father and mother, and
she wondered when Loretta had come home.

The choir sang and the minister prayed. Suddenly Ann Mary saw him,
standing there in the pulpit, unfold a paper. Then _the minister began
to read the Thanksgiving Proclamation_. Ann Mary cast one queer glance
at her grandmother, who returned it with one of inexpressible dignity
and severity.

As soon as meeting was done, her grandmother clutched her by the arm.
"Don't you say a word about it to anybody," she whispered. "You mind!"

When they were in the sleigh going home she charged her husband. "You
mind, you keep still, father," said she. "It'll be town-talk if you
don't."

The old man chuckled. "Don't you know, I said once that I had kind of an
idee that Thanksgivin' weren't quite so early, and you shut me up,
mother," he remarked. He looked good-naturedly malicious.

"Well, I dunno as it's anything so very queer," said Mrs. Little. "It
comes a whole week later than it did last year, and I s'posed we'd
missed hearin' the proclamation."

The next day a letter arrived saying that Lucy and her father and mother
were coming to spend Thanksgiving. "I feel jest about beat," Mrs.
Little said, when she read the letter.

Really, she did feel about at her wit's end. The turkey and pudding were
not yet found, and she had made up her mind that she would not dare wait
much longer without providing more. She knew that another turkey must be
procured, at all events. However, she waited until the last minute
Wednesday afternoon, then she went to work mixing a pudding. Mr. Little
had gone to the store for the turkey. "Sam White was over there, an' he
said he thought we was goin' right into turkeys this year," he reported
when he got home.

That night the guests arrived. Thanksgiving morning Lucy and Ann Mary
and their grandfather and Lucy's father and mother were all going to
meeting. Mrs. Little was to stay at home and cook the dinner.

Thanksgiving morning Mr. Little made a fire in the best parlor air-tight
stove, and just before they started for meeting Lucy and Ann Mary were
in the room. Lucy, in the big rocking-chair that was opposite the sofa,
was rocking to and fro and talking. Ann Mary sat near the window. Each
of the little girls had on her coat and hat.

Suddenly Lucy stopped rocking and looked intently over towards the
sofa.

"What you lookin' at, Lucy?" asked Ann Mary, curiously.

Lucy still looked. "Why--I was wondering what was under that sofa," said
she, slowly. Then she turned to Ann Mary, and her face was quite pale
and startled--she had heard the turkey and pudding story. "Oh, Ann Mary,
it does look--like--oh--"

Both little girls rushed to the sofa, and threw themselves on the floor.
"Oh, oh, oh!" they shrieked. "Grandma--mother! Come quick, come quick!"

When the others came in, there sat Ann Mary and Lucy on the floor, and
between them were the turkey and the plum-pudding, each carefully
covered with a snow-white napkin.

Mrs. Little was quite pale and trembling. "I remember now," said she,
faintly, "I run in here with 'em."

She was so overcome that the others tried to take it quietly and not to
laugh much. But every little while, after Lucy and Ann Mary were seated
in church, they would look at each other and have to put their
handkerchiefs to their faces. However, Ann Mary tried hard to listen to
the sermon, and to behave well. In the depths of her childish heart she
felt grateful and happy. There, by her side, sat her dear Lucy, whose
sweet little face peeped out from a furry winter hat. Just across the
aisle was Loretta, who was coming in the evening, and then they would
pop corn and make nut-candy. At home there was the beautiful new turkey
and unlimited pudding and good cheer, and all disappointment and mystery
were done away with.

Ann Mary felt as if all her troubles would be followed by
thanksgivings.


ANN LIZY'S PATCHWORK


Ann Lizy was invited to spend the afternoon and take tea with her friend
Jane Baxter, and she was ready to set forth about one o'clock. That was
the fashionable hour for children and their elders to start when they
were invited out to spend the afternoon.

Ann Lizy had on her best muslin delaine dress, her best embroidered
pantalets, her black silk apron, and her flat straw hat with long blue
ribbon streamers. She stood in the south room--the sitting-room--before
her grandmother, who was putting some squares of patchwork, with needle,
thread, and scissors, into a green silk bag embroidered with roses in
bead-work.

"There, Ann Lizy," said her grandmother, "you may take my bag if you are
real careful of it, and won't lose it. When you get to Jane's you lay it
on the table, and don't have it round when you're playin' out-doors."

"Yes, ma'am," said Ann Lizy. She was looking with radiant, admiring eyes
at the bag--its cluster of cunningly wrought pink roses upon the glossy
green field of silk. Still there was a serious droop to her mouth; she
knew there was a bitter to this sweet.

"Now," said her grandmother, "I've put four squares of patchwork in the
bag; they're all cut and basted nice, and you must sew 'em all, over and
over, before you play any. Sew 'em real fine and even, or you'll have to
pick the stitches out when you get home."

Ann Lizy's radiant eyes faded; she hung her head. She calculated swiftly
that she could not finish the patchwork before four o'clock, and that
would leave her only an hour and a half to eat supper and play with
Jane, for she would have to come home at half-past five. "Can't I take
two, and do the other two to-morrow, grandma?" said she.

Her grandmother straightened herself disapprovingly. She was a tall,
wiry old woman with strong, handsome features showing through her
wrinkles. She had been so energetic all her life, and done so much work,
that her estimation of it was worn, like scales. Four squares of
patchwork sewed with very fine even stitches had, to her, no weight at
all; it did not seem like work.

"Well, if a great girl like you can't sew four squares of patchwork in
an arternoon, I wouldn't tell of it, Ann Lizy," said she. "I don't know
what you'd say if you had to work the way I did at your age. If you
can't have time enough to play and do a little thing like that, you'd
better stay at home. I ain't goin' to have you idle a whole arternoon,
if I know it. Time's worth too much to be wasted that way."

"I'd sew the others to-morrow," pleaded Ann Lizy, faintly.

"Oh, you wouldn't do it half so easy to-morrow; you've got to pick the
currants for the jell' to-morrow. Besides, that doesn't make any
difference. To-day's work is to-day's work, and it hasn't anything to do
with to-morrow's. It's no excuse for idlin' one day, because you do work
the next. You take that patchwork, and sit right down and sew it as soon
as you get there--don't put it off--and sew it nice, too, or you can
stay at home--just which you like."

Ann Lizy sighed, but reached out her hand for the bag. "Now be careful
and not lose it," said her grandmother, "and be a good girl."

"Yes, ma'am."

"Don't run too hard, nor go to climbin' walls, and get your best dress
torn."

"No, ma'am."

"And only one piece of cake at tea-time."

"Yes, ma'am."

"And start for home at half-past five."

"Yes, ma'am."

Little Ann Lizy Jennings, as she went down the walk between the rows of
pinks, had a bewildered feeling that she had been to Jane Baxter's to
tea, and was home again.

Her parents were dead, and she lived with her Grandmother Jennings, who
made her childhood comfortable and happy, except that at times she
seemed taken off her childish feet by the energy and strong mind of the
old woman, and so swung a little way through the world in her wake. But
Ann Lizy received no harm by it.

Ann Lizy went down the road with the bead bag on her arm. She toed out
primly, for she had on her best shoes. A little girl, whom she knew,
stood at the gate in every-day clothes, and Ann Lizy bowed to her in the
way she had seen the parson's wife bow, when out making calls in her
best black silk and worked lace veil. The parson's wife was young and
pretty, and Ann Lizy admired her. It was quite a long walk to Jane
Baxter's, but it was a beautiful afternoon, and the road was pleasant,
although there were not many houses. There were green fields and
flowering bushes at the sides, and, some of the way, elm-trees arching
over it. Ann Lizy would have been very happy had it not been for the
patchwork. She had already pieced one patchwork quilt, and her
grandmother displayed it to people with pride, saying, "Ann Lizy pieced
that before she was eight years old."

Ann Lizy had not as much ambition as her grandmother, now she was
engaged upon her second quilt, and it looked to her like a checked and
besprigged calico mountain. She kept dwelling upon those four squares,
over and over, until she felt as if each side were as long as the Green
Mountains. She calculated again and again how little time she would have
to play with Jane--only about an hour, for she must allow a half-hour
for tea. She was not a swift sewer when she sewed fine and even
stitches, and she knew she could not finish those squares before four
o'clock. One hour!--and she and Jane wanted to play dolls, and make
wreaths out of oak-leaves, and go down in the lane after thimbleberries,
and in the garden for gooseberries--there would be no time for anything!

Ann Lizy's delicate little face under the straw flat grew more and more
sulky and distressed, her forehead wrinkled, and her mouth pouted. She
forgot to swing her muslin delaine skirts gracefully, and flounced
along hitting the dusty meadowsweet bushes.

Ann Lizy was about half-way to Jane Baxter's house, in a lonely part of
the road, when she opened her bead bag and drew out her
pocket-handkerchief--her grandmother had tucked that in with the
patchwork--and wiped her eyes. When she replaced the handkerchief she
put it under the patchwork, and did not draw up the bag again, but went
on, swinging it violently by one string.

When Ann Lizy reached Jane Baxter's gate she gave a quick, scared glance
at the bag. It looked very flat and limp. She did not open it, and she
said nothing about it to Jane. They went out to play in the garden.
There were so many hollyhocks there that it seemed like a real
flower-grove, and the gooseberries were ripe.

Shortly after Ann Lizy entered Jane Baxter's house a white horse and a
chaise passed down the road in the direction from which she had just
come. There were three persons in the chaise--a gentleman, lady, and
little girl. The lady wore a green silk pelerine, and a green bonnet
with pink strings, and the gentleman a blue coat and bell hat. The
little girl had pretty long, light curls, and wore a white dress and
blue sash. She sat on a little footstool down in front of the seat.
They were the parson's wife's sister, her husband, and her little girl,
and had been to visit at the parsonage. The gentleman drove the white
horse down the road, and the little girl looked sharply and happily at
everything by the way. All at once she gave a little cry--"Oh, father,
what's that in the road?"

She saw Ann Lizy's patchwork, all four squares nicely pinned together,
lying beside the meadowsweet bushes. Her father stopped the horse, got
out, and picked up the patchwork.

"Why," said the parson's wife's sister, "some little girl has lost her
patchwork; look, Sally!"

"She'll be sorry, won't she?" said the little girl, whose name was
Sally.

The gentleman got back into the chaise, and the three rode off with the
patchwork. There seemed to be nothing else to do; there were no houses
near and no people of whom to inquire. Besides, four squares of calico
patchwork were not especially valuable.

"If we don't find out who lost it, I'll put it into my quilt," said
Sally. She studied the patterns of the calico very happily, as they rode
along; she thought them prettier than anything she had. One had pink
roses on a green ground, and she thought that especially charming.

Meantime, while Sally and her father and mother rode away in the chaise
with the patchwork to Whitefield, ten miles distant, where their house
was, Ann Lizy and Jane played as fast as they could. It was four o'clock
before they went into the house. Ann Lizy opened her bag, which she had
laid on the parlor table with the _Young Lady's Annuals_ and _Mrs.
Hemans's Poems_. "I s'pose I must sew my patchwork," said she, in a
miserable, guilty little voice. Then she exclaimed. It was strange that,
well as she knew there was no patchwork there, the actual discovery of
nothing at all gave her a shock.

"What's the matter?" asked Jane.

"I've--lost my patchwork," said Ann Lizy.

Jane called her mother, and they condoled with Ann Lizy. Ann Lizy sat in
one of Mrs. Baxter's rush-bottomed chairs and began to cry.

"Where did you lose it?" Mrs. Baxter asked. "Don't cry, Ann Lizy, maybe
we can find it."

"I s'pose I--lost it comin'," sobbed Ann Lizy.

"Well, I'll tell you what 't is," said Mrs. Baxter; "you and Jane had
better run up the road a piece, and likely as not you'll find it; and
I'll have tea all ready when you come home. Don't feel so bad, child,
you'll find it, right where you dropped it."

But Ann Lizy and Jane, searching carefully along the road, did not find
the patchwork where it had been dropped. "Maybe it's blown away,"
suggested Jane, although there was hardly wind enough that afternoon to
stir a feather. And the two little girls climbed over the stone-walls
and searched in the fields, but they did not find the patchwork. Then
another mishap befell Ann Lizy. She tore a three-cornered place in her
best muslin delaine, getting over the wall. When she saw that she felt
as if she were in a dreadful dream. "Oh, what will grandma say!" she
wailed.

"Maybe she won't scold," said Jane, consolingly.

"Yes, she will. Oh dear!"

The two little girls went dolefully home to tea. There were hot biscuits
and honey and tarts and short gingerbread and custards, but Ann Lizy did
not feel hungry. Mrs. Baxter tried to comfort her; she really saw not
much to mourn over, except the rent in the best dress, as four squares
of patchwork could easily be replaced; she did not see the true
inwardness of the case.

At half-past five, Ann Lizy, miserable and tear-stained, the
three-cornered rent in her best dress pinned up, started for home, and
then--her grandmother's beautiful bead bag was not to be found. Ann Lizy
and Jane both remembered that it had been carried when they set out to
find the patchwork. Ann Lizy had meditated bringing the patchwork home
in it.

"Aunt Cynthy made that bag for grandma," said Ann Lizy, in a tone of
dull despair; this was beyond tears.

"Well, Jane shall go with you, and help find it," said Mrs. Baxter, "and
I'll leave the tea-dishes and go too. Don't feel so bad, Ann Lizy, I
know I can find it."

But Mrs. Baxter and Jane and Ann Lizy, all searching, could not find the
bead bag. "My best handkerchief was in it," said Ann Lizy. It seemed to
her as if all her best things were gone. She and Mrs. Baxter and Jane
made a doleful little group in the road. The frogs were peeping, and the
cows were coming home. Mrs. Baxter asked the boy who drove the cows if
he had seen a green bead bag, or four squares of patchwork; he stared
and shook his head.

Ann Lizy looked like a wilted meadow reed, the blue streamers on her hat
drooped dejectedly, her best shoes were all dusty, and the
three-cornered rent was the feature of her best muslin delaine dress
that one saw first. Then her little delicate face was all tear-stains
and downward curves. She stood there in the road as if she had not
courage to stir.

"Now, Ann Lizy," said Mrs. Baxter, "you'd better run right home and not
worry. I don't believe your grandma 'll scold you when you tell her just
how 't was."

Ann Lizy shook her head. "Yes, she will."

"Well, she'll be worrying about you if you ain't home before long, and I
guess you'd better go," said Mrs. Baxter.

Ann Lizy said not another word; she began to move dejectedly towards
home. Jane and her mother called many kindly words after her, but she
did not heed them. She kept straight on, walking slowly until she was
home. Her grandmother stood in the doorway watching for her. She had a
blue-yarn stocking in her hands, and she was knitting fast as she
watched.

"Ann Lizy, where have you been, late as this?" she called out, as Ann
Lizy came up the walk. "It's arter six o'clock."

Ann Lizy continued to drag herself slowly forward, but she made no
reply.

"Why don't you speak?"

Ann Lizy crooked her arm around her face and began to cry. Her
grandmother reached down, took her by the shoulder, and led her into the
house. "What on airth is the matter, child?" said she; "have you fell
down?"

"No, ma'am."

"What does ail you, then? Ann Lizy Jennings, how come that great
three-cornered tear in your best dress?"

Ann Lizy sobbed.

"Answer me."

"I--tore it gittin' over--the wall."

"What were you gettin' over walls for in your best dress? I'd like to
know what you s'pose you'll have to wear to meetin' now. Didn't I tell
you not to get over walls in your best dress? _Ann Lizy Jennings, where
is my bead bag?_"

"I--lost it."

"Lost my bead bag?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"How did you lose it, eh?"

"I lost it when--I was lookin' for--my patchwork."

"Did you lose your patchwork?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"When?"

"When I was--goin' over to--Jane's."

"Lost it out of the bag?"

Ann Lizy nodded, sobbing.

"Then you went to look for it and lost the bag. Lost your best
pocket-handkerchief, too?"

"Yes, ma'am."

Old Mrs. Jennings stood looking at Ann Lizy.

"All that patchwork, cut out and basted jest as nice as could be, your
best pocket-handkerchief and my bead bag lost, and your meetin' dress
tore," said she; "well, you've done about enough for one day. Take off
your things and go up-stairs to bed. You can't go over to Jane Baxter's
again for one spell, and every mite of the patchwork that goes into the
quilt you've got to cut by a thread, and baste yourself, and to-morrow
you've got to hunt for that patchwork and that bag till you find 'em, if
it takes you all day. Go right along."

Ann Lizy took off her hat and climbed meekly up-stairs and went to bed.
She did not say her prayers; she lay there and wept. It was about
half-past eight, the air coming through the open window was loud with
frogs and katydids and whippoorwills, and the twilight was very deep,
when Ann Lizy arose and crept down-stairs. She could barely see her way.

There was a candle lighted in the south room, and her grandmother sat
there knitting. Ann Lizy, a piteous little figure in her white
night-gown, stood in the door.

"Well, what is it?" her grandmother said, in a severe voice that had a
kindly inflection in it.

"Grandma--"

"What is it?"

"I lost my patchwork on purpose. I didn't want--to sew it."

"Lost your patchwork on purpose!"

"Yes--ma'am," sobbed Ann Lizy.

"Let it drop out of the bag on purpose?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"Well, you did a dreadful wicked thing then. Go right back to bed."

Ann Lizy went back to bed and to sleep. Remorse no longer gnawed keenly
enough at her clear, childish conscience to keep her awake, now her sin
was confessed. She said her prayers and went to sleep. Although the next
morning the reckoning came, the very worst punishment was over for her.
Her grandmother held the judicious use of the rod to be a part of her
duty towards her beloved little orphan granddaughter, so she switched
Ann Lizy with a little rod of birch, and sent her forth full of salutary
tinglings to search for the bead bag and the patchwork. All the next
week Ann Lizy searched the fields and road for the missing articles,
when she was not cutting calico patchwork by a thread and sewing over
and over. It seemed to her that life was made up of those two
occupations, but at the end of a week the search, so far as the bead bag
was concerned, came to an end.

On Saturday afternoon the parson's wife called on old Mrs. Jennings. The
sweet, gentle young lady in her black silk dress, her pink cheeks, and
smooth waves of golden hair gleaming through her worked lace veil
entered the north room, which was the parlor, and sat down in the
rocking-chair. Ann Lizy and her grandmother sat opposite, and they both
noticed at the same moment that the parson's wife held in her hand--_the
bead bag_!

Ann Lizy gave a little involuntary "oh;" her grandmother shook her head
fiercely at her, and the parson's wife noticed nothing. She went on
talking about the pinks out in the yard, in her lovely low voice.

As soon as she could, old Mrs. Jennings excused herself and beckoned Ann
Lizy to follow her out of the room. Then, while she was arranging a
square of pound-cake and a little glass of elderberry wine on a tray,
she charged Ann Lizy to say nothing about the bead bag to the parson's
wife. "Mind you act as if you didn't see it," said she; "don't sit there
lookin' at it that way."

"But it's your bead bag, grandma," said Ann Lizy, in a bewildered way.

"Don't you say anything," admonished her grandmother. "Now carry this
tray in, and be careful you don't spill the elderberry wine."

Poor Ann Lizy tried her best not to look at the bead bag, while the
parson's wife ate pound-cake, sipped the elderberry wine, and conversed
in her sweet, gracious way; but it did seem finally to her as if it were
the bead bag instead of the parson's wife that was making the call. She
kept wondering if the parson's wife would not say, "Mrs. Jennings, is
this your bead bag?" but she did not. She made the call and took leave,
and the bead bag was never mentioned. It was odd, too, that it was not;
for the parson's wife, who had found the bead bag, had taken it with her
on her round of calls that afternoon, partly to show it and find out, if
she could, who had lost it. But here it was driven out of her mind by
the pound-cake and elderberry wine, or else she did not think it likely
that an old lady like Mrs. Jennings could have owned the bag. Younger
ladies than she usually carried them. However it was, she went away with
the bag.

"Why didn't she ask if it was yours?" inquired Ann Lizy, indignant in
spite of her admiration for the parson's wife.

"Hush," said her grandmother. "You mind you don't say a word out about
this, Ann Lizy. I ain't never carried it, and she didn't suspect."

Now, the bead bag was found after this unsatisfactory fashion; but Ann
Lizy never went down the road without looking for the patchwork. She
never dreamed how little Sally Putnam, the minister's wife's niece, was
in the mean-time sewing these four squares over and over, getting them
ready to go into her quilt. It was a month later before she found it
out, and it was strange that she discovered it at all.

It so happened that, one afternoon in the last of August, old Mrs.
Jennings dressed herself in her best black bombazine, her best bonnet
and mantilla and mitts, and also dressed Ann Lizy in her best muslin
delaine, exquisitely mended, and set out to make a call on the parson's
wife. When they arrived they found a chaise and white horse out in the
parsonage yard, and the parson's wife's sister and family there on a
visit. An old lady, Mrs. White, a friend of Mrs. Jennings, was also
making a call.

Little Ann Lizy and Sally Putnam were introduced to each other, and Ann
Lizy looked admiringly at Sally's long curls and low-necked dress, which
had gold catches in the sleeves. They sat and smiled shyly at each
other.

"Show Ann Lizy your patchwork, Sally," the parson's wife said,
presently. "Sally has got almost enough patchwork for a quilt, and she
has brought it over to show me," she added.

Ann Lizy colored to her little slender neck; patchwork was nowadays a
sore subject with her, but she looked on as Sally, proud and smiling,
displayed her patchwork.

Suddenly she gave a little cry. There was one of her squares! The calico
with roses on a green ground was in Sally's patchwork.

Her grandmother shook her head energetically at her, but old Mrs. White
had on her spectacles, and she, too, had spied the square.

"Why, Miss Jennings," she cried, "that's jest like that dress you had so
long ago!"

"Let me see," said Sally's mother, quickly. "Why, yes; that is the very
square you found, Sally. That is one; there were four of them, all cut
and basted. Why, this little girl didn't lose them, did she?"

Then it all came out. The parson's wife was quick-witted, and she
thought of the bead bag. Old Mrs. Jennings was polite, and said it did
not matter; but when she and Ann Lizy went home they had the bead bag,
with the patchwork and the best pocket-handkerchief in it.

It had been urged that little Sally Putnam should keep the patchwork,
since she had sewed it, but her mother was not willing.

"No," said she, "this poor little girl lost it, and Sally mustn't keep
it; it wouldn't be right."

Suddenly Ann Lizy straightened herself. Her cheeks were blazing red,
but her black eyes were brave.

"I lost that patchwork on purpose," said she. "I didn't want to sew it.
Then I lost the bag while I was lookin' for it."

There was silence for a minute.

"You are a good girl to tell of it," said Sally's mother, finally.

Ann Lizy's grandmother shook her head meaningly at Mrs. Putnam.

"I don't know about that," said she. "Ownin'-up takes away _some_ of the
sin, but it don't _all_."

But when she and Ann Lizy were on their homeward road she kept glancing
down at her granddaughter's small face. It struck her that it was not so
plump and rosy as it had been.

"I think you've had quite a lesson by this time about that patchwork,"
she remarked.

"Yes, ma'am," said Ann Lizy.

They walked a little farther. The golden-rod and the asters were in
blossom now, and the road was bordered with waving fringes of blue and
gold. They came in sight of Jane Baxter's house.

"You may stop in Jane Baxter's, if you want to," said old Mrs. Jennings,
"and ask her mother if she can come over and spend the day with you
to-morrow. And tell her I say she'd better not bring her sewing, and
she'd better not wear her best dress, for you and she ain't goin' to sew
any, and mebbe you'll like to go berryin', and play out-doors."


THE LITTLE PERSIAN PRINCESS


"And you must spin faster, Dorothy, or you'll go to bed without your
supper," said Dame Betsy.

"Yes, ma'am," replied Dorothy. Then she twirled the wheel so fast that
the spokes were a blur.

Dorothy was a pretty little girl. She had a small pink-and-white face;
her hair was closely cropped and looked like a little golden cap, and
her eyes were as blue as had been the flowers of the flax which she was
spinning. She wore an indigo-blue frock, and she looked very short and
slight beside the wheel.

Dorothy spun, Dame Betsy tended a stew-kettle that was hanging from the
crane in the fire-place, and the eldest of Dame Betsy's six daughters
sat on the bench beside the cottage door and ate honey-cakes. The other
daughters had arrayed themselves in their best tuckers and plumed hats
and farthingales, spread their ruffled parasols, and gone to walk.

Dame Betsy had wished the oldest daughter to go with her sisters; but
she was rather indolent, so she dressed herself in her best, and sat
down on the bench beside the door, with a plate of honey-cakes of which
she was very fond. She held up her parasol to shield her face, and also
to display the parasol. It was covered with very bright green satin, and
had a wreath of pink roses for a border. The sun shone directly into the
cottage, and the row of pewter plates on the dresser glittered; one
could see them through the doorway. The front yard of Dame Betsy's
cottage was like a little grove with lemon-color and pink hollyhocks;
one had to look directly up the path to see the eldest daughter sitting
on the bench eating honey-cakes. She was a very homely girl. All Dame
Betsy's daughters were so plain and ill-tempered that they had no
suitors, although they walked abroad every day.

Dame Betsy placed her whole dependence upon the linen chests when she
planned to marry her daughters. At the right of her cottage stretched a
great field of flax that looked now like a blue sea, and it rippled like
a sea when the wind struck it. Dame Betsy and Dorothy made the flax into
linen for the daughters' dowries. They had already two great chests of
linen apiece, and they were to have chests filled until there were
enough to attract suitors. Every little while Dame Betsy invited all the
neighboring housewives to tea; then she opened the chests and unrolled
the shining lengths of linen, perfumed with lavender and rosemary. "My
dear daughters will have all this, and more also, when they marry," she
would remark. The housewives would go home and mention it to their sons,
for they themselves were tempted by the beautiful linen; but there it
would end. The sons would not go to woo Dame Betsy's homely, ill-natured
daughters.

Dorothy spun as fast as she was able; Dame Betsy kept a sharp watch upon
her as she stirred the stew. Dorothy wanted some of the stew for her
supper. It had a delicious odor, and she was very faint and hungry. She
did not have a great deal to eat at any time, as she lived principally
upon the scraps from the table, and the daughters were all large eaters.
She also worked very hard, and never had any time to play. She was a
poor child whom Dame Betsy had taken from the almshouse, and she had no
relatives but an old grandmother. She had very few kind words said to
her during the day, and she used often to cry herself to sleep at night.

Presently Dame Betsy went down to the store to buy some pepper to put in
the stew, but as she went out of the door she spoke to the eldest
daughter, and told her to go into the house and mend a rent in her
apron. "Since you were too lazy to go to walk with your sisters you must
go into the house and mend your apron," said she. The eldest daughter
pouted, but she made no reply. Just as soon as her mother was out of
hearing she called Dorothy. "Dorothy, come here a minute!" she cried,
imperatively. Dorothy left her wheel and went to the door. "Look here,"
said the eldest daughter, "I have one honey-cake left, and I have eaten
all I want. I will give you this if you will mend my apron for me."

Dorothy eyed the honey-cake wistfully, but she replied that she did not
dare to leave her spinning to mend the apron.

"Why can't you mend it in the night?" asked the eldest daughter.

"I will do that," replied Dorothy, eagerly, and she held out her hand
for the honey-cake. Just as she did so she saw the little boy that lived
next door peeping through his fence. His beautiful little face, with his
red cheeks and black eyes, looked, through the pickets, like a
damask-rose. Dorothy ran swiftly over to him with her honey-cake. "You
shall have half of it," said she, and she quickly broke the cake in
halves, and gave one of them to the little boy. He lived with his old
grandmother, and they were very poor; it was hard for them to get the
coarsest porridge to eat. The little boy often stood looking through the
fence and smiling at Dorothy, and the old grandmother spoke kindly to
her whenever she had an opportunity.

The little boy stood on one side of the fence and Dorothy on the other,
and they ate the honey-cake. Then Dorothy ran back to the house and fell
to spinning again. She spun so fast, to make up for the lost time, that
one could not see the wheel-spokes at all, and the room hummed like a
hive of bees. But, fast as she spun, Dame Betsy, when she returned,
discovered that she had been idling, and said that she must go without
her supper. Poor Dorothy could not help weeping as she twirled the
wheel, she was so hungry, and the honey-cake had been very small.

Dame Betsy dished up the stew and put the spoons and bowls on the table,
and soon the five absent daughters came home, rustling their flounces
and flirting their parasols.

CHAPTER XL.

LITERARY FRIENDS.

Among the many literary men and women of my acquaintance there are some
(for it is not possible to enumerate all) of whom I should like
to make some mention; and, _place aux dâmes_, let me speak of the
ladies first.

In my boyhood I can recollect that astronomical wonder of womankind,
_Mrs. Mary Somerville_, a great friend of my father's; she seemed
to me very quiet and thoughtful, and so little self-conscious as to be
humbly unregardful of her genius and her fame. Strangely enough I first
met her in the same drawing-room in Grafton Street (she lived and
died at Chelsea) where I acted a silent part years after in some
private theatricals with _Miss Granville_ (met during my American
visit in her then phase of a German Baroness), herself an authoress
and a cantatrice, daughter of Dr.

Granville, the well-known historian of Spas. I recollect, too, in those
early times, _Mrs. Jameson_, then a celebrated writer, and a vivacious
leader of literary society; and much nearer this day, _Mrs. Beecher Stowe_,
whom I found too taciturn, and as if scared at the notice she
excited, quite to realise one's expectation of a famous lioness.

With her I have since broken a lance in the interest of Byron, whom
I considered maligned in the matter of his "sweet sister," and accordingly
wrote on his behalf a vindicatory fly-leaf of poetic indignation.
Another lance, too, have I broken in favour of _Ouida_, as against a
newspaper critic who had tried to crush her "Moths;" I had met her
before that, and did my little best in her defence, receiving from
her from Italy a charming letter of acknowledgment.

"Ouida" is not generally known to have been the nursery name of
"Louisa" de la Ramenay, just as "Boz" was of Dickens.

Both "Ouida" and _Miss Braddon_, whom also I have seen as Mrs. Maxwell,
remind me of that great and not seldom unfairly judged genius,
Georges Sand.

There remains a worthy duplicated friendship of later years, _Mr._
and _Mrs. Carter Hall_, of whose geniality and kindness I have
often had experience; also _Mr._ and _Mrs.

Grote_, my learned and agreeable neighbours at Albury; also _Lady Wilde_,
admirable both for prose and poetry on Scandinavian subjects, and
her eloquent son _Oscar_, famous for taste all the world over; and
as another duplicate the Gaelic historian and cheerful singer,
_Charles Mackay_, with his charming daughter, the poetess

.

* * * * *
Of celebrated men whom I have not previously mentioned in this
volume, there is _Rogers_, the poet, with whom I once had an
interview at his artistic house in St.

James's Place; _Carlyle_, of course, well known to me by books, but
personally only in a single visit, when I found him in Cheyne Row
cordially glad to greet me;--after a long talk, taking my leave
with a hearty "God bless you, sir," his emphatic reply, as he saw
me to the door, was, "And good be with you!"

It was a coincidence, proving (as many things do) the narrowness of the
world, that he was living very near to the house where in my young
days I had wooed my cousin.

Near at hand also (in Cheyne Walk) I have visited _Haweis_, the eloquent
preacher of St. James's, Marylebone; he lives in the picturesque
old-fashioned house that was Rossetti's, and when I called there
last Mr.

Haweis showed me the strangest and most unwieldy testimonial that any
public man surely ever received, in the shape of a ton-weight bell hung
in its massive frame and placed in his sanctum, which, when touched,
gave out melodious thunder. This giant-gift had been sent to him from
Holland in recognition of his musical genius, especially in the
matter of campanology.

And this word "musical" reminds me of Mr.
Haweis's noble self-sacrifice in giving up his idolised violin that he
might concentrate all his energies on religious teaching; when I asked
to see his famous "Straduarius," worth three hundred guineas, and found
it unstrung, I expressed my disappointment at not having had the chance
of hearing its dulcet tones drawn out by himself, but it lies dumb,
though he is eloquent. Of course I have visited the great _Tennyson_ at
Farringford, and remember him showing me the tree overhanging his
garden fence, which "Yankees" climb to have a look at him.

_Browning_ also, _tantum vidi_, I met at Moxon's, a grandly rugged
poet; contrasted with the Laureate he seems to me as Wagner is to
Mendelssohn.

_Mortimer Collins_ has given us "a happy day" at Albury, coming in
_à pied poudre_ on one of his dusty walks through Surrey, as recorded
in his book; how he enjoyed his tumbler of cool claret and the
ramble with my son through the Albury woods as a most genial Bohemian!

_Dickens_ I have met several times, and he gave me good hints on
my first American visit; a man full of impulsive kindliness and
sincerely one's friend.

His son _Charles_ also I have occasionally met, the worthy successor
to his illustrious father: I may here state that many of the articles
and poems in _Household Words_ are from the pen of my youngest
daughter.

_Richard Owen_, too, now worthily K.C.B., our most famous comparative
anatomist, I am privileged to number among my true friends; he was one
of those who stood sponsor to me when I was to receive a civil
service pension.

Also I knew for many years my late Surrey neighbour, _Godwin Austen_,
the geologist; and I have met _Pengelly_, with whom I searched
Kent's Cavern; and _Dr.

Bowerbank_, the great authority as to sponges, and my then hobby
choanites; he gave me certain microscopic plates of Bacilli which
I was glad to transfer to my worthy and eminent friend, _Stephen
Mackenzie_, Physician and Lecturer to the London Hospital.

_Matthew Arnold_ also, with whose celebrated father I was in early youth
nearly placed as a pupil, I have sometimes encountered; and _Shirley
Brooks_, _Albert Smith_, and _Mark Lemon_, once a chief of _Punch_, who
acted Falstaff without padding; and the genial _John Tenniel_, our
most exquisite limner in outline; the venerable _Thomas Cooper_
also, now in his old age the zealous preacher of a faith he once
as zealously attacked: an excellent man, and vigorous both in prose
and verse.

My old friend from boyhood, _Owen Blayney Cole_, must not be forgotten;
year after year for some forty of them he has sent me reams of his
poetry.

_Edmund Yates_, than whom a kindlier, cleverer, and better-hearted man
does not exist, I have known for years; his father and mother
having been frequent guests at our house in Burlington Street; and
I sympathised indignantly with him in his recent editorial trouble
wherein he was used so hardly.

I remember also how he dropped in upon me at Albury one morning just
as I happened to be pasting into one of my Archive-books a few
quips and cranks anent my books from _Punch_: he adjured me "_not_
to do it!

for Heaven's sake, spare me!" covering his face with his hands. "What's
the matter, friend?"

"_I_ wrote all these," added he, in earnest penitence, "and I vow
faithfully I'll never do it again!" "Pray, don't make so rash a promise,
Edmund, and so unkind a one too: I rejoice in all this sort of thing,--it
sells my books, besides--'I'se Maw-worm,--I likes to be despised!'"
"Well, its very good-natured of you to say so; but I really never will
do it again:" and the good fellow never did--so have I lost my most
telling advertisement.
I must also not forget to praise that humorous novelist, the late _Frank
Smedley_,--a remarkable instance of the triumph of a strong and cheerful
mind over a weak and crippled body, with whom I have many reminiscences
as a brother author.

It was wonderful to see how he enjoyed--from his invalid chair--"the
dances and delights" he could not take part in; and one day I
remember finding him unusually exhilarated, as he was just come
from a wedding-breakfast,--"rehearsing, rehearsing," he laughingly
shouted.

Poor fellow,--the victim of an accident in infancy, he lived strapped
and banded with steel springs,--but as a gracious compensation
Heaven gave him a seeming unconsciousness of his helpless condition,
and added the happy mind to make the best of this world while looking
forward to a better.

And let me not neglect to record, however slightly, a few more recent
authorial friendships much valued by me among my Norwood neighbours.
I will begin with _J.G.

Wood_, perhaps our best naturalist, especially in matters entomological.

Never were there more humorous no less than instructive lectures than
his, illustrated admirably as they are by his own graphic
chalk-sketches on the spot: and if any one wishes to be convinced
that animals have souls, let him read the said Rev.

J.G. Wood's "Man and Beast." Next will I mention _Dr.
Cuthbert Collingwood_, famous as a naturalist and voyager among the
China seas, a poet also, well proved by his "Vision of Creation," and a
thoughtful writer on religion and metaphysics. There is _Dr. Zerffi_,
too, whose varied orations on history and other topics have filled
our Crystal Palace with his advanced wisdom for fifteen years.

There is _Birch_ the sculptor, author of the "Godiva" and "The Last
Call," exhibited here, and well appreciated by me as another
_Durham_,--really a metempsychosis of character.

Among literary ladies here I may mention as my friends _Madame Zerffi_,
_Miss Mary Hooper_, and _Miss Ellen Barlee_,--all noted in their several
departments, the first as an eloquent lecturer like her husband, the
second known by her domestic essays, and the third for religious writings.
I will add as casually encountered by me hereabouts _George
MacDonald_, whose magnificent presence in the pulpit is as memorable
as his conversation at the dinner-table, and the interest of his
books; and _Lord Ronald Gower_, creator of that finest group of modern
statuary "the Apotheosis of Shakespeare," exhibited at the Crystal
Palace, where, as well, as by correspondence, I have had with him
much pleasant intercourse.

And here may come a brief memory I wrote lately of Colonel Fred. Burnaby
for an American editor.

"I am asked to give a short note of personal reminiscence about my
lately departed friend, Colonel _Fred. Burnaby_, with whom I was
intimate for three years before his death. Every one has read his popular
life, and heard of his many exploits; how alone in mid-air he navigated
a balloon across the Channel; how he accomplished, in spite of State
telegrams to the contrary, his adventurous and patriotic ride to Khiva
in dead winter and defying perils of all sorts; how he stood six
feet four in his stockings (with another foot to be added to that
magnificent specimen of manhood when in jack-boots and in his plumed
helmet); how he was strong enough to bind a kitchen poker round his
neck, to crack cobnuts in his fingers, and to carry a pair of
Shetland ponies upstairs under his arms,--how also the genial giant,
quite the Arac of Tennyson's Princess, was the gentlest and kindest
and least dangerous of knights-errant (unless, indeed, his just
wrath was aroused by anything mean or insolent, when doubtless he
could be terrible), and how he was the idolised of men, especially
his own brother giants of the Royal Regiment of Blues, and naturally
was also the adored of women wherever he showed himself.

This Admirable Crichton had every social accomplishment, but as he was
also gifted with a knowledge of many tongues, even to Turkish and Arabic,
beyond the more familiar French, German, Italian, and Spanish, of
course he must dare all sorts of perilous travel, if only to prove
that he was no carpet-knight, no mere 'gold stick' at court, or
silver-casqued statue at the Horse Guards.

So he fearlessly risked his life in all ways on every possible occasion
which the War Office routine gave him on holiday.

"Khiva and Kars, and of late at last the fatal Mahdi war, had fascinations
for him of danger which his thirst for active service (too much refused
to him as obliged officially to be a stay-at-home) had not power to
resist; and we all know how gallantly, if indeed too rashly, he
fought and fell on what his Viking blood loved best as a deathbed,
the field of battle.

For he came of an old Teutonic family, and on his mother's side was
also a direct descendant, as he told me himself, of our heroic and
gigantic King Edward III., whom he is said greatly to have resembled,
as the portrait at Windsor Castle proves. We were talking about
ancestry and the anecdote came out naturally enough.

"In politics a strong Conservative, he, with characteristic antagonism,
chose radical Birmingham for his coveted seat in Parliament, but alas!

he has not lived to hazard the election. He was a neat, fluent, and
epigrammatic speaker, as potent with his tongue as with his sword;
and as for the pen (albeit his handwriting must have puzzled compositors),
the myriads of readers who have enjoyed his stirring books in print,
can testify how brilliant and eloquent he was for the matter of
authorship.

He told me of a new novel--of the satirico-political sort--which he had
written for the press, but as yet we hear nothing definite of its
publication.

"My own personal acquaintance with the familiar 'Fred. Burnaby' was
confined to several hospitable dinner-parties at the house of his relative,
Lady W----, my near neighbour and friend at Norwood, about which
I might anecdotise to any extent; but I never allow myself to record
private conversation nor to reveal domesticities.

All such are sacred in my memory, and on principle I despise the
modern mischief-maker whose reminiscences are practically reminuisances.
On a certain public occasion, however, Burnaby stood by me, to my
great pleasure and advantage, and let me record his kindness thus. When
I gave my lecture on Flying at the Royal Aquarium, he most
appropriately took the chair, and made some excellent remarks.

Altogether, let my testimony, however brief, however inadequate, to the
merits of Fred.
Burnaby be this: I lost in his too sudden death a friend, as I had
hoped, for many years to come, and my regrets are for him as one
of the noblest of mankind.

Let me add a word further, as the worthy witnessing of one, quite a
kindred spirit, whose acquaintance I made some long time back, and look
for great things from his energy and enterprise, and multifarious
talents,--_Charles Marvin_, then the famous Eastern Pioneer, who
in his book on Asia, says: "Yes, our Burnabys, our Bakers, our
MacGregors, our Gordons--these are the real pillars of the Empire.

These are the men who confer provinces upon England, who risk their lives
to guard them. When the world is a little older, and the working
man's vote is worth more than the statesman's opinion, then the splendid
achievements of such men will be more generously appreciated: and the
warm English feeling expended to-day on torpid, stupid, unpatriotic
party politicians will be directed towards heroes whose steady undaunted
patriotism, in face of public indifference and bureaucratic disdain,
conveys a moral as grand as their careers."

A Dining-out Anecdote.

As I have before said, not having been much given to society, nor therefore
a professional parasite of Amphitryon (though sometimes tempted
to his side as "a lion," but more often vainly, for I always refused
if I could), I have an instructive anecdote to give about a celebrated
conversationist, whom I will not name nor indicate even by initials.

One evening I found myself compelled to accompany him to a great man's
banquet--_nota bene_, it was after I had well recovered speech--and
so I found myself at his chambers perhaps ten minutes too soon. He
called to me from his dressing-room, bidding me to amuse myself
till he was ready.

Now, on the study table were laid several books, open, with weights to
keep them so: and I glanced from one to another to while away the time.
Then up came his brougham, and off we went. At dinner my "diner-out"
started a topic, whereof innocently enough I remembered instantly a
suitable epigram. Not long after another subject gave me occasion to tell
a witty story, which somehow came to me at the moment. My "friend" asked
me with a keen glance where I had read it, and at once I recollected
those open books and understood the position, resolving mischievously
to outflank the manæuverer. Accordingly, at each opportunity, with seeming
innocence, I "wiped his eye," as they say at a _battue_, and
certainly reaped the anecdotic "_kudos_" Mr.

So-and-so had cunningly contrived and hoped to achieve for himself. I
confess it was vicious of me, but who could help taking the benefit
of such a chance?
Hosts should beware of wits who cram their jokes and anecdotes.

Years after I met the same gentleman at another entertainer's table,
where I found him in my presence not quite the livener-up they had
expected, and he seemed a little shy of me; probably he thought me
an omniscient, for I never told the poor man I had found him out.

I fear he has departed to a world where genuine truthfulness is more
accepted as a virtue than in this.

A Mormon Guest.

Quite recently I have had a visit from a young American, who brought
me a letter from a so-called cousin--at all events a namesake--in
the Far West, asking me to tell her about her German ancestry.

My visitor was good-looking, well-dressed, fair-spoken, and gentlemanly;
also well-bred and well-to-do. I will not indicate his name, but I
may state that he is a near relative of the eminent electrician who
illuminates so magnificently the fountains at South Kensington.

Of course, as pleased with his manners and deportment, I kept him
to luncheon; and finding that he hailed from Utah, naturally asked
if he knew Salt Lake City and the Mormons there.

Certainly; he lived not a hundred miles from the city, and those
were his own people: as a Mormon himself from infancy, he had nothing
but good to say of them, and we in England had been very much misled
by Mrs. Stenhouse and other travellers. As to plurality of wives,
not two per cent. of their whole 200,000 had more than one wife.

His own father, a rich merchant and a church-hierarch, a "stake" of
the tabernacle (much as we should say a pillar), had but one--his own
dear mother--and he scarcely knew any one with more.

It was quite a European misjudgment that many followed Brigham Young's
doctrine, which never had been Joseph Smith's,--and the present
chief, Taylor, had but one.

He showed us many cabinet photographs of Salt Lake City, his own family,
leading Mormons, and the like: especially of the Old Tabernacle, like
a monstrous tortoise, and one from a finished drawing of the new,
of even more tasteless architecture, being the most gigantic piece
of perpendicular ever perpetrated, and full of unsightly windows.

When asked about the golden book,--well he had never seen it, but
believed in it thoroughly; because all the twelve apostles had seen it
and he trusted their testimony. Eleven of those apostles were now
dead, one only surviving.

(Just as with our friends of Mr. Irving's sect at Albury, which arose in
the same year as Mormonism.) We had never set eyes on the originals
of our own Scriptures--in fact, they did not exist--but believed the
witnessing of others, as he did. He himself was not a missionary, but
would go if he was sent by the Church; though he mightn't like it,
he was bound to, obey, authority, &c. &c.

I had plenty more talk with him, and found him intelligent, modest,
and in every way a remarkably agreeable young fellow: and I added to
my mental _repertoire_ of better judgments that on Mormonism,--even
as heretofore Mr.

Sinnett has taught me not utterly to despise Buddhism, Dr. Wilkinson
to revere Swedenborgianism, and a few other people I might name
who are true believers, to be charitable as to other sorts of strange
isms: once I met a very religious clergyman who still held by Johanna
Southcote; and we have all heard how Lady Hester Stanhope had an Arab
horse always ready saddled for Messiah when He is to ride into Jerusalem;
and how some other person had a gold spoon and fork laid daily at his
table for the sudden coming of a Divine Guest! Our personal lesson is
to be tolerant of all manner of innocent enthusiasms, to hear both
sides and bear with all opinions,--sometimes finding to our astonishment
that black sheep may after all be whiter than they looked, and that
uncharitable prejudice is but another name for ignorant folly.

Before taking leave of my Mormon guest, I ought to report that he was
teetotal, handsome, taciturn rather than talkative, a hunter among the
Rockies, an author himself, and of course an old book-friend, so I made
him happy with some autographic poetries.

With reference to "Joe Smith's" own theological creed, there is a
very neat and notable _précis_ of it on p. 171 of a bright little
book I have lately read, titled "Frank's Ranche, or my Holiday in
the Rockies," easily accessible.

That creed is so good that when I read it aloud to my homeflock they
said, "Why, we believe all that!"

--and as to the evil matter of many wives, not only did the original
Joseph repudiate that doctrine, but his namesake son, still a chief
among the Mormons, does the same, and so far has seceded from the
Brigham heresy: which a son of mine says is not bigamy, but
Brighamy.

A few forgotten anecdotes may here find place: take these twelve as
samples of many more such trivials which memory may have at the
bottom of her well, if she only dipped for them.

1.

A banknote experience: when a very small child I used to be taken to the
Postford paper-mill at Albury by my nurse, who had a follower (or a
followed) in the foreman there. While they talked together, I was deputed
to amuse myself by making banknote paper, as thus: a spoonful of
pulp put into a shallow tray of wire and shaken deftly made a small
oblong of paper duly impressed with Britannia and water-marked:
being then dried on a flannel pad.

Many years after, when I was preparing for Oxford under Mr. Holt at Postford
House, there was discovered a secret cupboard in the wall of his
drawing-room which was found to contain several forged plates for
printing banknotes: and this discovery accounted for the recent suicide
of a Mr. H----, a previous owner of the paper-mill, who evidently feared
exposure and conviction.

No one now is allowed to make banknote paper, except the honourable firm
of Messrs.
Portal, which has the monopoly thereof: but when I was a child, any one
might do it, and if there was a forger handy, fraud was possible to
any extent. Our "Newland's Corner" on Merrow Downs is so called from
Abraham Newland, whose name is printed on old banknotes as F. May is
on new ones, and who owned Postford Mill.

Hence the word "Sham-Abram" for a forged note.

2.

A noted piscatorial editor wishes me to record now I once caught a trout
with its own eye--as thus: I was whipping the Tillingbourne, and hooked
a fish foul, for it dropped off leaving an eye on the hook. In my
vexation I made a cast again over the same spot where I had thrown,
and actually caught that eager wounded fish with its own eye.

3. When I was a guest of Captain Hamilton at Rozelle, Ayr, he told me
that he and all the crew had seen the sea-serpent!--but that his
admiral had interdicted all mention of it in the log for fear of ridicule:
on which I told him what I had seen of the same sort. When crossing
the great Herring Pond in the _Arctic_, the passengers were all
summoned on deck from dinner to see that mystery of the deep, the
sea-serpent. It was very rough at the time, and certainly within a
little distance some apparent monster hundreds of feet long was
rolling on the top of the waves: _but_ as some portions of it
spouted, we soon saw there nothing but a school of whales, the big
bull leading and the cows and calves following in a line.

This looked like the real thing,--but wasn't.

From other evidence, however, and the Rev. J.G. Wood supplies one, I
do believe there are such monsters of the deep whose nest is in the
Sargasso Sea.

4.

Here is a curious item of my biography. When I was in Canada in 1851, at
an hotel in Kingston, the waiter comes to tell me that two persons
wanted to see me on special business.

Admitted, there appeared a very decent man and woman dressed in their
best, and with ribbons and flowers.

What might they want with me? Please, Mr. Tupper, that you would marry
us! My good man, I can't, I'm not a clergyman. Oh but, sir, you write
religion, and we like your books, and we've come across from
New York State to Canada to get married,--so please, &c.
The woman rained some
clattering knocks on the door--she could not stop for the bell. Then she
burst into the house, and threw open the dining-room door, crying out in
gasps:

"Hev you seen her? Oh, hev you? My Jenny's lost! She's lost! Oh, oh, oh!
They said they saw her comin' up this way, this mornin'. _Hev_ you seen
her, _hev_ you?"

Earl and his father and mother were having tea there in the handsome
oak-panelled dining-room. Mr. Munroe rose at once, and went forward,
Mrs. Munroe looked with a pale face around her silver tea-urn, and Earl
sat as if frozen. He heard his father's soothing questions, and the
mother's answers. She had been out at work all day; when she returned,
Jenny was gone. Some one had seen her going up the road to the Munroes'
that morning about ten o'clock. That was her only clew.

Earl sat there, and saw his mother draw the poor woman into the room and
try to comfort her; he heard, with a vague understanding, his father
order the horses to be harnessed immediately; he watched him putting on
his coat and hat out in the hall.

When he heard the horses trot up the drive, he sprang to his feet. When
Mr. Munroe opened the door, Earl, with his coat and cap on, was at his
heels.

"Why, you can't go, Earl!" said his father, when he saw him. "Go back at
once."

Earl was white and trembling. He half sobbed: "Oh, father, I must go!"
said he.

"Earl, be reasonable. You want to help, don't you, and not hinder?" his
mother called out of the dining-room.

Earl caught hold of his father's coat. "Father--look here--I--_I believe
I know where she is_!"

Then his father faced sharply around, his mother and Jenny's stood
listening in bewilderment, and Earl told his ridiculous, childish, and
cruel little story. "I--didn't dream--she'd really be--such a
little--goose as to--go," he choked out; "but she must have, for"--with
brave candor--"I know she believed every word I told her."

It seemed a fantastic theory, yet a likely one. It would give method to
the search, yet more alarm to the searchers. The mountain was a wide
region in which to find one little child.

Jenny's mother screamed out, "Oh, if she's lost on the mountain,
they'll never find her! They never will, they never will! Oh, Jenny,
Jenny, Jenny!"

Earl gave a despairing glance at her, and bolted up-stairs to his own
room. His mother called pityingly after him; but he only sobbed back,
"Don't, mother--please!" and kept on.

The boy, lying face downward on his bed, crying as if his heart would
break, heard presently the church-bell clang out fast and furious. Then
he heard loud voices down in the road, and the flurry of sleigh-bells.
His father had raised the alarm, and the search was organized.

After a while Earl arose, and crept over to the window. It looked
towards the mountain, which towered up, cold and white and relentless,
like one of the ice-hearted giants of the old Indian tales. Earl
shuddered as he looked at it. Presently he crawled down-stairs and into
the parlor. In the bay-window stood, like a gay mockery, the
Christmas-tree. It was a quite small one that year, only for the
family--some expected guests had failed to come--but it was well laden.
After tea the presents were to have been distributed. There were some
for his father and mother, and some for the servants, but the bulk of
them were for Earl.

By-and-by his mother, who had heard him come down-stairs, peeped into
the room, and saw him busily taking his presents from the tree. Her
heart sank with sad displeasure and amazement. She would not have
believed that her boy could be so utterly selfish as to think of
Christmas-presents _then_.

But she said nothing. She stole away, and returned to poor Mrs. Brown,
whom she was keeping with her; still she continued to think of it all
that long, terrible night, when they sat there waiting, listening to the
signal-horns over on the mountain.

Morning came at last and Mr. Munroe with it. No success so far. He drank
some coffee and was off again. That was quite early. An hour or two
later the breakfast-bell rang. Earl did not respond to it, so his mother
went to the foot of the stairs and called him. There was a stern ring in
her soft voice. All the time she had in mind his heartlessness and
greediness over the presents. When Earl did not answer she went
up-stairs, and found that he was not in his room. Then she looked in the
parlor, and stood staring in bewilderment. Earl was not there, but
neither were the Christmas-tree and his presents--they had vanished
bodily!

Just at that moment Earl Munroe was hurrying down the road, and he was
dragging his big sled, on which were loaded his Christmas-presents and
the Christmas-tree. The top of the tree trailed in the snow, its
branches spread over the sled on either side, and rustled. It was a
heavy load, but Earl tugged manfully in an enthusiasm of remorse and
atonement--a fantastic, extravagant atonement, planned by that same
fertile fancy which had invented that story for poor little Jenny, but
instigated by all the good, repentant impulses in the boy's nature.

On every one of those neat parcels, above his own name, was written in
his big crooked, childish hand, "Jenny Brown, from--" Earl Munroe had
not saved one Christmas-present for himself.

Pulling along, his eyes brilliant, his cheeks glowing, he met Maud
Barker. She was Judge Barker's daughter, and the girl who had joined him
in advising Jenny to hunt on the mountain for the Christmas-tree.

Maud stepped along, placing her trim little feet with dainty precision;
she wore some new high-buttoned overshoes. She also carried a new beaver
muff, but in one hand only. The other dangled mittenless at her side; it
was pink with cold, but on its third finger sparkled a new gold ring
with a blue stone in it.

"Oh, Earl!" she called out, "have they found Jenny Brown? I was going up
to your house to--Why, Earl Munroe, what have you got there?"

"I'm carrying up my Christmas-presents and the tree up to Jenny's--so
she'll find 'em when she comes back," said the boy, flushing red. There
was a little defiant choke in his voice.

"Why, what for?"

"I rather think they belong to her more'n they do to me, after what's
happened."

"Does your mother know?"

"No; she wouldn't care. She'd think I was only doing what I ought."

"All of 'em?" queried Maud, feebly.

"You don't s'pose I'd keep any back?"

Maud stood staring. It was beyond her little philosophy.

Earl was passing on when a thought struck him.

"Say, Maud," he cried, eagerly, "haven't you something you can put in?
Girls' things might please her better, you know. Some of mine
are--rather queer, I'm afraid."

"What have you got?" demanded Maud.

"Well, some of the things are well enough. There's a lot of candy and
oranges and figs and books; there's one by Jules Verne I guess she'll
like; but there's a great big jack-knife, and--a brown velvet bicycle
suit?"

"Why, Earl Munroe! what could she do with a bicycle suit?"

"I thought, maybe, she could rip the seams to 'em, an' sew 'em some way,
an' get a basque cut, or something. Don't you s'pose she could?" Earl
asked, anxiously.

"I don't know; her mother could tell," said Maud.

"Well, I'll hang it on, anyhow. Maud, haven't you anything to give her?"

"I--don't know."

Earl eyed her sharply. "Isn't that muff new?"

"Yes."

"And that ring?"

Maud nodded. "She'd be delighted with 'em. Oh, Maud, put 'em in!"

Maud looked at him. Her pretty mouth quivered a little; some tears
twinkled in her blue eyes.

"I don't believe my mother would let me," faltered she. "You--come with
me, and I'll ask her."

"All right," said Earl, with a tug at his sled-rope.

He waited with his load in front of Maud's house until she came forth
radiant, lugging a big basket. She had her last winter's red cashmere
dress, a hood, some mittens, cake and biscuit, and nice slices of cold
meat.

"Mother said these would be much more _suitable_ for her," said Maud,
with a funny little imitation of her mother's manner.

Over across the street another girl stood at the gate, waiting for news.

"Have they found her?" she cried. "Where are you going with all those
things?"

Somehow, Earl's generous, romantic impulse spread like an epidemic. This
little girl soon came flying out with her contribution; then there were
more--quite a little procession filed finally down the road to Jenny
Brown's house.

The terrible possibilities of the case never occurred to them. The idea
never entered their heads that little, innocent, trustful Jenny might
never come home to see that Christmas-tree which they set up in her poor
home.

It was with no surprise whatever that they saw, about noon, Mr. Munroe's
sleigh, containing Jenny and her mother and Mrs. Munroe, drive up to the
door.

Afterwards they heard how a wood-cutter had found Jenny crying, over on
the east side of the mountain, at sunset, and had taken her home with
him. He lived five miles from the village, and was an old man, not able
to walk so far that night to tell them of her safety. His wife had been
very good to the child. About eleven o'clock some of the searchers had
met the old man plodding along the mountain-road with the news.

They did not stop for this now. They shouted to Jenny to "come in,
quick!" They pulled her with soft violence into the room where they had
been at work. Then the child stood with her hands clasped, staring at
the Christmas-tree. All too far away had she been searching for it. The
Christmas-tree grew not on the wild mountainside, in the lonely woods,
but at home, close to warm, loving hearts; and that was where she found
it.


WHERE SARAH JANE'S DOLL WENT


In the first place, Sarah Jane had no right to take the doll to school,
but the temptation was too much for her. The doll was new--it was, in
fact, only one day old--and such a doll! Rag, of course--Sarah Jane had
heard only vague rumors of other kinds--but no more like the ordinary
rag doll than a fairy princess is like a dairy-maid. The minute that
Sarah Jane saw it she knew at once that there never had been such a
doll. It was small--not more than seven or eight inches tall--not by any
means the usual big, sprawling, moon-faced rag baby with its arms
standing out at right angles with its body. It was tiny and genteel in
figure, slim-waisted, and straight-backed. It was made of, not common
cotton cloth, but linen--real glossy white linen--which Sarah Jane's
mother, and consequently the doll's grandmother, had spun and wove. Its
face was colored after a fashion which was real high art to Sarah Jane.
The little cheeks and mouth were sparingly flushed with cranberry juice,
and the eyes beamed blue with indigo. The nose was delicately traced
with a quill dipped in its grandfather's ink-stand, and though not quite
as natural as the rest of the features, showed fine effort. Its little
wig was made from the fine ravellings of Serena's brown silk stockings.

Serena was Sarah Jane's married sister, who lived in the next house
across the broad green yard, and she had made this wonderful doll. She
brought it over one evening just before Sarah Jane went to bed. "There,"
said she, "if you'll be a real good girl I'll give you this."

"Oh!" cried Sarah Jane, and she could say no more.

Serena, who was only a girl herself, dandled the doll impressively
before her bewildered eyes. It was dressed in a charming frock made from
a bit of Serena's best French calico. The frock was of a pale lilac
color with roses sprinkled over it, and was cut with a low neck and
short puffed sleeves.

"Now, Sarah Jane," said Serena, admonishingly, "there's one thing I want
to tell you: you mustn't carry this doll to school. If you do, you'll
lose it; and if you do, you won't get another very soon. It was a good
deal of work to make it. Now you mind what I say."

"Yes, ma'am," said Sarah Jane. It was not her habit to say ma'am to her
sister Serena, if she was twelve years older than she; but she did now,
and reached out impatiently for the doll.

"Well, you remember," said Serena. "If you take it to school and lose
it, it'll be the last doll you'll get."

And Sarah Jane said, "Yes, ma'am," again.

She had to go to bed directly, but she took the new doll with her; that
was not forbidden, much to her relief. And before she went to sleep she
had named her with a most flowery name, nothing less than Lily Rosalie
Violet May. It took her a long time to decide upon it, but she was
finally quite satisfied, and went to sleep hugging Lily Rosalie, and
dreamed about her next day's spelling lesson--that she failed and went
to the foot of the class.

It was singular, but for once a dream of Sarah Jane's came true. She
actually did miss in her spelling lesson the next day; and although she
did not go quite to the foot of the class, she went very near to it. But
if Sarah Jane was not able to spell _scissors_ correctly, she could have
spelled with great success Lily Rosalie Violet May. All the evening she
had been printing it over and over on a fly-leaf of her spelling-book.
She could feel no interest in scissors, which had no connection, except
a past one, with her beloved new doll.

Poor Sarah Jane lived such a long way from school that she had to carry
her dinner with her, so there was a whole day's separation, when she had
only possessed Lily Rosalie for a matter of twelve hours. It was hard.

She told some of her particular cronies about her, and described her
charms with enthusiasm, but it was not quite equal to displaying her in
person.

The little girls promised to come over and see the new doll just as soon
as their mothers would let them, and one, Ruth Gurney, who was Sarah
Jane's especial friend, said she would go home with her that very
night--she didn't believe her mother would care--but they were going to
have company at tea, and she was afraid if she were late, and had to sit
at the second table, that she wouldn't get any currant tarts.

Sarah Jane did not urge her; she had a shy little pride of her own; but
she felt deeply hurt that Ruth could prefer currant tarts to a sight of
Lily Rosalie.

She was rather apt to loiter on her way home. There was much temptation
to at this time of the year, when the meadows on either side of the road
were so brimful of grass and flowers, when the air was so sweet, and so
many birds were singing. There was a brook on the way, and occasionally
Sarah Jane used to stop and have a little secret wade. It was one of
those pleasures which, although not actually prohibited, was doubtful.
Sarah Jane had at times got the hem of her little blue calico gown
draggled, and met with a reprimand at home.

But to-night neither nodding way-side flowers nor softly rippling brook
had any attraction for her. Straight home, her little starched white
sun-bonnet pointing ahead unswervingly, her small pattering feet never
turning aside from the narrow beaten track between the way-side grasses,
she went to Lily Rosalie Violet May.

She found her just as beautiful as when she left her. That long day of
absence, filled in with her extravagant childish fancy, had not caused
her charms to lessen in the least.

Sarah Jane ran straight to the linen chest, in whose till she had hidden
for safety the precious doll, and there she lay, her indigo blue eyes
staring up, smiling at her with the sweet cranberry-colored smile which
Serena had fixed on her face. Sarah Jane caught her up in rapture.

Her mother told Serena that night that she didn't know when she'd seen
the child so tickled with anything as she was with that doll.

"She didn't carry it to the school, did she?" said Serena.

"No. I guess she won't want to, as long as you told her not to," replied
her mother.

Sarah Jane had been always an obedient little girl; but--she had never
before had Lily Rosalie Violet May. Her mother did not consider that.

Sarah Jane did not have a pocket made in her dress; it was not then the
fashion. Instead, she wore a very large-sized one, made of stout cotton,
tied around her waist by a string under her dress skirt. The next day,
when Sarah Jane went to school, she carried in this pocket her new doll.
She was quite late this morning, so there was no time to display it
before school commenced.

Once, when the high arithmetic class was out on the floor, she pulled it
slyly out of her pocket, held it under her desk, and poked Ruth Gurney,
who sat in the next seat.

"Oh!" gasped Ruth, almost aloud. The doll seemed to fascinate everybody.
"Let me take it," motioned Ruth; but Sarah Jane shook a wise head, and
slid Lily Rosalie back in her pocket. She was not going to run the risk
of having her confiscated by the teacher. But when recess came Sarah
Jane was soon the proud little centre of an admiring group.

"Sarah Jane's got the handsomest new doll," one whispered to another,
and they all crowded around. Even some of the "big girls" came, and two
or three of the big boys. Sarah Jane was one of the smallest girls in
school, and sat in the very front seat. Now she felt like a big girl
herself. This wonderful doll raised her at once to a position of
importance. There she stood in the corner by the window, and proudly
held it. She wore a blue cotton dress cut after the fashion of Lily
Rosalie's, with a low neck and short sleeves, displaying her dimpled
childish neck and arms. Her round cheeks were flushed with a softer pink
than the doll's, and her honest brown eyes were full of delight.

One and another of the girls begged for the privilege of taking the doll
a moment for a closer scrutiny, and Sarah Jane would grant it, and then
watch them with thinly veiled anxiety. Suppose their fingers shouldn't
be quite clean, and there should be a spot on Lily Rosalie's beautiful
white linen skin! One of the girls rubbed her cheeks to see if the red
would come off, and Sarah Jane wriggled.

Joe West was one of the big boys who had joined the group. Years after,
he was Joseph B. West, an eminent city lawyer. Years after that, he was
Judge West of the Superior Court. Now he was simply Joe West, a tall,
lanky boy with a long rosy face and a high forehead. His arms came too
far through his jacket sleeves, and showed his wrists, which looked
unnaturally knobby and bony. He went barefoot all summer long, and was
much given to chewing sassafras.

He offered a piece to Sarah Jane now, extracting it with gravity from a
mass of chalk, top strings, buttons, nails, and other wealth with which
his pocket was filled.

Sarah Jane accepted it with a modest little blush, and plumped it into
her rosy mouth.

Then Joe West followed up his advantage. "Say, Sarah Jane," said he,
"lemme take her a minute."

She eyed him doubtfully. Somehow she mistrusted him. Joe West had rather
the reputation of being a wag and a sore tease.

"She's just the prettiest doll I ever saw," Joe went on. "Lemme take her
just a minute, Sarah Jane; now do."

"He's just stuffing you, Sarah Jane; don't you let him touch it," spoke
out one of the big girls.

"Stuffing" was a very expressive word in the language of the school.
Sarah Jane shook her head with a timid little smile, and hugged Lily
Rosalie tighter.

"Now do, Sarah Jane. I wouldn't be stingy. Haven't I just given you some
sassafras?"

That softened her a little. The spicy twang of the sassafras was yet on
her tongue. "I'm afraid you won't give her back to me," murmured she.

"Yes, I will, honest. Now do, Sarah Jane."

It was against her better judgment; the big girl again raised her
warning voice; but Joe West adroitly administered a little more
flattery, and followed it up with entreaty, and Sarah Jane, yielding,
finally put her precious little white linen baby into his big grimy,
out-reaching hands.

"Oh, the pretty little sing!" said Joe West then, in an absurdly soft
voice, and dandled it up and down. "What's its name, Sarah Jane?"

And Sarah Jane in her honesty and simplicity repeated that flowery name.

"Lily Rosalie Violet May," said Joe, after her, softly. And everybody
giggled.

A pink color spread all over Sarah Jane's face and dimpled neck; tears
sprang to her eyes. She felt as if they were poking fun at something
sacred; her honest childish confidence was betrayed. "Give her back to
me, Joe West!" she cried.

But Joe only dandled it out of her reach, and then the bell rang. The
children trooped back into the school-room, and Joe quietly slipped the
doll into his pocket and marched gravely to his seat.

Every time when Sarah Jane gazed around at him he was studying his
geography with the most tireless industry. She could hardly wait for
school to be done; when it was, she tried to get to Joe, but he was too
quick for her. He had started with his long stride down the road before
she could get to the door. She called after him, but he appeared to have
suddenly grown deaf. The other girls condoled with her, all but the big
girl who had given the warning. "You'd ought to have listened to me,"
said she, severely, as she tied on her sun-bonnet in the entry. "I told
you how it would be, letting a boy have hold of it."

Sarah Jane was not much comforted. She crept forlornly along towards
home. Joe West's house was on the way. There was a field south of it. As
she came to this field she saw Joe out there with the bossy. This bossy,
which was tethered to an old apple-tree, was cream-colored, with a white
star on her forehead and a neck and head like a deer. She stood
knee-deep in the daisies and clover, and looked like a regular
picture-calf. If Sarah Jane had not been so much occupied with her own
troubles, she would have stopped to gaze with pleasure at the pretty
creature.

Joe stood at her head and appeared to be teasing her. She twitched away
from him, and lunged at him playfully with her budding horns.

"Joe! Joe!" called quaking little Sarah Jane.

Joe West gave one glance at her; his face flushed a burning red; then he
left the bossy and went with long strides across the fields towards his
home. The poor girl followed him.

"Joe! Joe!" called the little despairing voice, but he never turned his
head.

Sarah Jane got past his house; then she sat down beside the road and
wept. She did not know how Joe West, remorseful and penitent, was
peeping at her from his window. She did not know of the tragedy which
had just been enacted over there in the clover-field. The bossy calf,
who was hungry for all strange articles of food, had poked her inquiring
nose into Joe West's jacket pocket, whence a bit of French calico
emerged, had caught hold of it, and, in short, had then and there eaten
up Lily Rosalie Violet May. Joe had made an attempt to pull her by her
silken wig out of that greedy mouth, but the bossy calmly chewed on.

It was just as well that Sarah Jane did not know it at the time. She had
enough to bear--her own distress over the loss of the doll, and the
reproaches of Serena and her mother. They agreed that the loss of the
doll served her right for her disobedience, and that nothing should be
said to Joe West. They also thought the affair too trivial to fuss over.
Lily Rosalie even in her designer's eyes was not what she was to Sarah
Jane.

"If you'd minded me you wouldn't have lost it," said Serena. "I am not
going to make you another."

Sarah Jane hung her head meekly. But in the course of three months she
had another doll in a very unexpected and curious way.

One evening there was a knock on the side door, and when it was opened
there was no one there, but on the step lay a big package directed to
Sarah Jane. It contained a real bought doll, with a china head and a
cloth body, who was gorgeously and airily attired in pink tarlatan with
silver spangles. The memory of Lily Rosalie paled.

There was great wonder and speculation. Nobody dreamed how poor Joe West
had driven cows from pasture, and milked, and chopped wood, out of
school-hours, and taken every cent he had earned and bought this doll to
atone for the theft of Lily Rosalie Violet May.

Sarah Jane's mother declared that she should not carry this doll, no
matter whence it came, to school, and she never did but once--that was
on her birthday, and she teased so hard, and promised not to let any one
take her, that her mother consented.

At recess Sarah Jane was again the centre of attraction. She turned that
wonderful pink tarlatan lady round and round before the admiring eyes;
but when Joe West, meek and mildly conciliatory, approached the circle,
she clutched her tightly and turned her back on him.

"I'm not going to have Joe West steal another doll," said she. And Joe
colored and retreated.

Years afterwards, when Joe was practising law in the city, and came home
for a visit, and Sarah Jane was so grown-up that she wore a white muslin
hat with rosebuds, and a black silk mantilla, to church, she knew the
whole story, and they had a laugh over it.


SEVENTOES' GHOST


"You needn't waste any more time talkin' about it, Benjamin; you can
jest take that puppy-dog and carry him off. I don't care what you do
with him; you can carry him back where you got him, or give him away, or
swap him off; but jest as sure as you leave him here half an hour
longer, I'll call Jimmy up from the hay-field and have him shoot him. I
won't have a dog round the place, nohow. Couldn't keep Seventoes a
minute; he's dreadful scart of dogs."

"Grandsir--"

"Take that puppy-dog and go along, I tell ye. I won't have any more talk
about it."

Benjamin Wellman, small and slight, sandy-haired and blue-eyed, stood
before his grandfather, who sat in his big arm-chair in the east door.
Benjamin held in his right hand an old rope, which was attached to a
leather strap around a puppy's neck. The puppy pulled at the rope,
keeping it taut all the time. He also yelped shrilly. He did not like to
be tied. The puppy was not a pretty one, being yellow and very clumsy;
but Benjamin thought him a beauty. He had urged to his grandfather that
there would not be a dog to equal him in the neighborhood when he was
grown up, but the old man had not been moved.

There were tears in Benjamin's pretty blue eyes, but his square chin
looked squarer. He tried to speak again. "Grandsir--" he began.

"Not another word," said his grandfather.

Benjamin looked past his grandfather into the kitchen. His mother sat in
there stemming currants. He went around to the other door and entered,
dragging the puppy after him.

"Mother," he said, in a low voice, "can't I keep him?"

His grandfather in the east door looked around suspiciously, but he
could hear nothing; he was somewhat deaf.

"No; not if your grandfather don't want you to," said his mother; "you
know I can't let you, Benjamin."

The puppy was whining piteously, and Benjamin seemed to echo it when he
spoke. "I don't see why he don't want me to. It ain't as if Cæsar was a
common puppy. You ask him, mother."

"No," returned his mother; "it won't do any good. You know how much he
thinks of Seventoes, and the dog might kill him when he was grown."

"Wouldn't care if he did," muttered Benjamin; "nothing but a cross old
stealing cat; don't begin to be worth what this puppy is."

"Now, Benjamin, you mustn't talk any more about it," said his mother,
severely. "Grandsir does too much for you and me for you to make any
fuss about a thing like this. Take that puppy and run right along with
it, as he tells you to."

Grandsir's suspicions suddenly took shape then. "Benjamin, you run right
along," he called out; "don't stand there teasing your mother about it."

So Benjamin gathered the puppy up into his arms with a jerk--it was
impossible to lead him any distance--and plunged out of the house. He
gave two or three little choking sobs as he hurried along. It was a hot
day, and he was tired and disappointed and discouraged. He had walked
three miles over to the village and back to get that puppy, and now he
had to walk a mile more to give it away. He had no doubt whatever as to
the disposal of it; he knew Sammy Tucker would give it a hearty welcome,
for there was an understanding to that effect. Benjamin had been a
little doubtful as to the reception the puppy might have from his
grandfather; but when Mr. Dyer, who kept the village grocery store, had
offered it to him three weeks before, he had not had the courage to
refuse. Sammy Tucker, too, had been in the store, buying three bars of
soap for his mother, and he had looked on admiringly and enviously. When
Benjamin had mentioned hesitatingly his doubts about his grandfather,
Sammy had pricked up his ears.

"Say, Ben, you give him to me if your grandfather won't let you keep
him," he had whispered, with a nudge. "Father said I might have a dog
soon as there was a good chance, and Mr. Dyer won't want it back. He's
giv away all but this, and he wants to get rid of 'em. They're common
kind of dogs, anyhow. I heard him say so."

Benjamin had looked at him stiffly. "Oh, I guess grandsir'll let me keep
this puppy, he's such a smart one," he had answered, with dignity.

"Well, you ask him, and if he won't, I'll take him," said Sammy.

But Benjamin had not asked his grandfather. He had not had courage to
run the risk. He had waited the three weeks which the store-keeper had
said must elapse before the little dog could leave its mother, and then
had gone over to the village and brought it home, without a word to any
one, trusting to the puppy's own attractions to plead for it. It had
seemed to Benjamin that nobody could resist that puppy. But Grandfather
Wellman had all his life preferred cats to dogs, and now he was
childishly fond of Seventoes. Benjamin's mother often said that she
didn't know what grandsir would do if anything happened to Seventoes.

Benjamin, going out of the yard with the puppy under his arm, could see
Seventoes sitting on the shed roof. That and the ledge of the old well
behind the barn were his favorite perches. Grandfather Wellman thought
he chose them because he was so afraid of dogs. Benjamin looked at him,
and wished Cæsar was big enough to shake him. He had named the puppy
Cæsar on his way home from the village. There was a great mastiff over
there by the same name. Benjamin had always admired this big Cæsar, and
now thought he would name his dog after him. It was the same principle
reduced on which Benjamin himself had been named after Benjamin
Franklin.

Benjamin trudged down the road, kicking up the dust with his toes. That
was something he had been told not to do, so now in this state of mind
he liked to do it. The sun beat down fiercely upon his small red cropped
head in the burned straw-hat, and his slender shoulders in the calico
blouse. The puppy was large and fat for his age, and made his arms ache.
The stone-walls on both sides of the road were hidden with wild-rose and
meadowsweet bushes; the fields were dotted with hay-makers; now and then
a loaded hay-cart loomed up in the road. Many boys no older than
Benjamin had to work hard in the hay-fields, but Grandfather Wellman was
too careful of him; he would not let him work much in vacation; he had
never been considered very strong. But Benjamin did not think of that.
One grievance will outweigh a hundred benefits. He hugged the struggling
puppy tight in his arms and trudged on painfully, brooding over his
wrongs.

He muttered to himself as he went, "Wanted a dog ever since I was born.
All the other boys have got 'em. 'Ain't never had nothing but an old
cat. Sha'n't never have a chance to get such a dog as this again. Wish
something would happen to that old cat; shouldn't care a mite." He
stubbed more fiercely into the dust, and it flew higher; a squirrel ran
across the road, and he looked at it with an indifferent scowl.

When he reached Sammy Tucker's house he saw Sammy out in the great north
yard raking hay with his father. Sammy looked up and saw Benjamin
coming.

"Holloa!" he sang out, eagerly. Then he dropped his rake and raced into
the road. His black eyes winked fast with excitement. "Say, won't he let
you keep him, Ben?" he cried.

"No; he won't let me keep nothing."

"Going to let me have him, then?"

"S'pose so."

Sammy reached forth his eager hands, and took the kicking puppy from
Benjamin's reluctant arms. "Nice fellar--nice little fellar," said he,
tenderly.

"I've named him Cæsar," said Benjamin.

"That's a good name," assented Sammy. "Hi, Cæsar! Hi, sir!"

Sammy's father came smilingly forward to the fence; he was fond of dogs.
He also took the puppy, and talked to it. Benjamin thought to himself
that he wished his grandfather was more like Sammy's father. He looked
on gloomily.

"Hate to give it up, don't you, Ben?" said Mr. Tucker, kindly.

"Sha'n't never have such a chance again."

"Oh yes, you will; your grandfather'll let you have a dog some time."

"No; he won't never let me have nothing."

"Oh, don't you give up yet, Ben."

Benjamin shook his head like a discouraged old man, and turned to go
home.

"Sammy'll feed him, and take real good care of him, and you can come
over here and see him," Mr. Tucker called after him, as he went down the
road.

Benjamin thought to himself that he should not want to, as he marched
wearily homeward. His arms were lightened of the puppy, but his heart
seemed heavy within him. Two boys whom he knew sang out to him from a
load of hay, but he gave only a grim nod in response. "_They've_ got a
dog," he muttered; and indeed the pretty shepherd dog was following
after the load.

Benjamin, when he came in sight of home, thought he would take a
short-cut through the orchard. He meditated stealing up the back stairs
to his chamber, staying up there, and saying that he did not want any
supper; he was not hungry. They had not cut the grass in the orchard,
and he plunged through clover, feathery grass, and daisies to his waist.
He felt pleased to think how he was making a furrow through his
grandfather's hay. He emerged from the orchard, and went on towards the
barn; directly back of it was the old well. When he reached that he
stopped short. There was Seventoes--beautiful great yellow
cat--stretched in the sun, all his wonderful seven-toed paws spread out.
The ledge of the old well was a strange place for a cat, but Seventoes
was fond of it, and stayed there much of the time when he was not on the
shed roof.

Benjamin walked close to the well and looked at Seventoes. His small
face was burning red with the heat; his blue eyes gleamed angrily. "You
lazy old cat," said he. He stood a second longer; then he thrust out his
right hand and gave Seventoes a push. There was a piteous yawl and a
great clawing, and Seventoes was out of sight. Benjamin ran. He gasped;
a white streak was settling around his mouth. He was well versed in
Bible stories, and he thought of Cain. What had he done? What would
happen to him? Could he ever get away from his guilt, run fast as he
would? Benjamin ran as he had never run before, his heart pounding,
although he did not know clearly what he was running for. He tore around
the barn, through the pasture bars, towards the house. When he came in
sight of the shed a great qualm of guilt and remorse forced him to
glance up at the place where poor Seventoes had so loved to sit, and
where he would sit no more. Benjamin glanced, then he stood stock-still,
fairly aghast with awe and terror--_there sat Seventoes_!

All the red faded out of Benjamin's cheeks. He had never been encouraged
in superstitious beliefs, but he was an imaginative child, and just now
bewildered and unstrung. He stared at the shed roof. Yes! he saw
Seventoes there, and Seventoes was at the bottom of the old well. Had he
not seen him fall, clawing, down?

Benjamin rushed staggering into the kitchen. "Oh, grandsir! oh, mother!"
he wailed--"oh, I've pushed Seventoes into the old well and drowned him,
and his ghost's sitting on the shed roof! Oh, mother!"

Grandfather Wellman was confined to his chair with rheumatism, but he
arose. "Pushed Seventoes into the well," he repeated, while Benjamin's
mother turned as pale as her son.

"I have--I have," sobbed Benjamin. "I didn't know I was going to, but I
have. And he's in the well, and he's sitting on the shed roof too. Oh!"

"What do you mean?" his mother gasped. "Stop acting so, and tell me what
you've done."

"I pushed Seventoes into the old well. I didn't know I was going to, but
I did; and he's dead in there, and he's on the shed roof. Oh, mother!"

"You 'ain't pushed that cat into the well?" groaned Grandfather Wellman.
"If you have--" He was trying to limp across the kitchen with his cane.
He, too, was pale, and trembling from head to foot. "Hannah," he said to
Benjamin's mother, "you come right along quick, and see if we can't get
him out. I wouldn't take a hundred dollars for that cat."

Benjamin's mother started. Benjamin, sobbing and trembling, was clinging
to her. Just then _Seventoes walked in through the east door_, his
splendid ringed tail waving a little uneasily, but not a hair of him was
hurt. A frightened cat can run faster than a guilty little boy, and
Seventoes had found his unusual number of claws of good service in
climbing a well and retarding his progress towards the bottom.

They all looked.

"Is it--Seventoes?" gasped Benjamin, with wild eyes.

"Of course it's Seventoes," growled his grandfather. "I'd like to know
what you've been cutting up so for. Pussy, pussy, pussy."

Benjamin's mother took him over to the sink, and put some water on his
head, and made him drink some. "There's no such thing as a ghost, and
you're acting very silly," said she; "but I don't wonder you are scared,
when you've done such a dreadful thing. It scares me to think of it. It
was 'most as bad as killing somebody. I never thought a boy of mine
would do such a thing. Grandsir good as he is to you, too."

"I--won't ever do so--again," sobbed Benjamin, all trembling. "I'm
sorry; I _am_ sorry."

Benjamin was not whipped, the scourging of his own conscience had been
severe enough, but he sat pale and sober in the kitchen, while grandsir,
with Seventoes on his knees, and his mother talked to him.

"If you ever do anything like this again, Benjamin," said his
grandfather, "I shall be ha'sh with you, ha'sher than I've ever been,
and you must remember it."

"I guess he must," said his mother. "It was a dreadful wicked thing, and
he should be punished now if I didn't think he'd suffered enough from
his own guilty conscience for this time, and would never as long as he
lived do such a terrible thing again."

"I won't--I--won't!" choked Benjamin.

At supper-time, when the new milk was brought in from the barn, Benjamin
filled a saucer with it and carried it to the door for Seventoes. He
filled it so full that he spilled it all the way over the clean kitchen
floor, but his mother said nothing. Seventoes lapped his milk happily;
Benjamin, with his little contrite, tear-stained face, stood watching
him, and grandsir sat in his arm-chair. Over in the fields the
hay-makers were pitching the last loads into the carts; the east sky was
red with the reflected color of the west. Everything was sweet and cool
and peaceful, and the sun was not going down on Benjamin's childish
wrath. His grandfather put out his hand and patted his little red
cropped head, "You're always going to be a good boy after this, ain't
you, sonny?"

"Yes, sir," said Benjamin, and he got down on his knees and hugged
Seventoes.


LITTLE MIRANDY AND HOW SHE EARNED HER SHOES


By the 1st of June Mrs. Thayer had the sun-bonnets done. There were four
of them, for the four youngest girls--Eliza, Mary Ann, Harriet, and
Mirandy. She had five daughters besides these, but two were married and
gone away from home, and the other three were old enough to make their
own sun-bonnets.

There were four Thayer boys; one of them came next to Mirandy, the
youngest girl, the others ranked upward in age from Harriet, who was
eleven, to Sarah Jane, who was sixteen. There were thirteen sons and
daughters in all in Josiah Thayer's family, and eleven were at home. It
was hard work to get enough from the stony New England farm to feed
them; and let Mrs. Thayer card and spin and dye and weave as she would,
the clothing often ran short. And so it happened that little Mirandy
Thayer, aged six, had no shoes to her feet.

One Sunday in June she cried because she had to go to meeting
barefooted.

"Ain't you ashamed of yourself, a great big girl like you, crying?" said
her mother, sternly. "You go right over there, and sit down on the
settle till father gets hitched up, and Daniel, you go and sit down
'side of her, and teach her the first question in the catechism. She'd
ought to find out there's something else to be thought about on the
Sabbath day besides shoes."

So Mirandy, sniffing between the solemn words, repeated them after
Daniel, who was twelve years old, and knew his catechism quite
thoroughly. And when the great farm wagon, with the team of oxen, stood
before the door, she climbed in with the rest without a murmur.

But sitting in the meeting-house through the two hours' discourse, she
drew up her little bare feet under her blue petticoat, and going down
the aisle afterwards, she crouched, making it sweep the floor, until her
mother dragged her up forcibly by one arm.

"Ain't you ashamed of yourself?" she whispered. "A great big girl like
you!"

Mirandy was in reality very small for her age, and everybody called her
"little;" but she got very few privileges on account of her youth and
littleness. In those days, and especially in a family like Josiah
Thayer's, where there were so many children that each had to scratch for
itself at an early age or go without, six years was considered
comparatively mature, and the child who had lived that long was not
exempt from many duties.

So Mrs. Thayer did not think herself in the least severe when she said
to Mirandy after meeting: "If you want some shoes so bad, you'll have to
work an' earn 'em."

Mirandy looked up inquiringly at her mother.

"You can pick berries an' sell 'em," replied her mother. "You're plenty
big enough to."

Mirandy said nothing, and soon her mother set her to rocking Jonathan in
his red wooden cradle; but as she sat, with her small bare foot on the
rocker, ambition expanded wider and wider in her childish soul, and she
resolved that she would earn some shoes.

The berries were not ripe before the middle of July. She had some five
weeks to wait before she could fairly begin work. But not a day passed
that she did not visit the pastures to see if the berries were ripe. She
brought home so many partially ripe ones for samples that her brothers
and sisters remonstrated. They, too, were vitally interested in the
berry crop in behalf of shoes and many other things. "She won't leave
any berries on the bushes to get ripe if she picks so many green ones,"
they complained, and her mother issued a stern decree that Mirandy
should not go to the berry pasture until the berries were fairly ripe.

But at last, one hot morning in July, the squad of berry-pickers
started. There were four Thayer girls and two Thayer boys, besides
Jonathan, the baby, whom Eliza dragged in his little wooden wagon.

"If you go berrying this mornin', you've got to take Jonathan with you,"
Mrs. Thayer had said. "Dorcas is weaving, an' Lyddy an' I have got to
dye. You'll have to take him out in the pasture with you, an' tend him."

The berry pasture whither they were bound was about a half-mile from
home. The two boys scurried on ahead, the four yellow sun-bonnets
marched bravely on, and Jonathan's wagon rattled behind.

"The berries are real thick," said Harriet; "but they say the bushes are
loaded with 'em over in Cap'n Moseby's lot, an' they're as big as
walnuts."

"He can't use quarter of 'em himself," returned Mary Ann. "I call it
real stingy not to let folks go in there pickin'!" She nodded her
sun-bonnet indignantly.

When they reached the berry pasture, they fell to work eagerly.
Jonathan's wagon was drawn up on one side, under the shade of a
pine-tree, and Mirandy was bidden to have an eye to him. Nobody had much
faith in the seriousness of Mirandy's picking, and they thought that she
might as well tend Jonathan and leave them free.

But Mirandy stationed herself at a bush near Jonathan, and began with a
will. They all had birch baskets fastened at their waists to pick into,
and they had brought buckets to fill. Mirandy had hers as well as the
rest.

The yellow sun-bonnets and the palm-leaf hats waved about among the
bushes, and the berries fell fast into the birch-bark baskets. Mirandy
stayed close to Jonathan, as she had been bidden, and she struggled
bravely with her berry bush, but it was too tall for her; the bushes in
this pasture were very tall. Mirandy tugged the branches down, and
panted for breath. She was eager to fill her basket as soon as anybody.
She heard Harriet and Mary Ann talking near her, although she could not
see them.

"Cap'n Moseby's pasture is right over there. You get over the
stone-wall, and go across one field, and you come to it," remarked
Harriet.

"I s'pose the berries are as thick as spatters," said Mary Ann, with a
sigh.

"Dan'l says the bushes are dragging down with 'em."

"Well," said Mary Ann, "nobody would dare to go there, for he keeps that
great black dog, and I've heard he watches with a gun."

"So've I. No; I shouldn't dare to go. I s'pose it would be stealing,
anyway."

"I don't s'pose 'twould," rejoined Harriet, hotly. "I guess if anything
is free, berry pastures are. Who planted berry bushes, I'd like to
know?"

"I s'pose the Lord did," said Mary Ann. "Mebbe it ain't stealin', but
anyhow I shouldn't dare to go there."

"I shouldn't," agreed Harriet; "an' I know Dan'l and Abijah wouldn't."

Mirandy listened; she thought both Harriet and Mary Ann very wise. She
trusted to their conclusion that it would not be stealing to pick Cap'n
Moseby's berries, but she privately thought she would "dare to."

Mirandy did not know what fear was; dogs did not alarm her in the least;
and as for Cap'n Moseby and his gun, she knew he would not shoot her;
once he had given her some peppermints.

She pulled her bush down painfully, and thought the berries were not
very large, and how fast those in Cap'n Moseby's pasture would fill up.
Harriet's and Mary Ann's voices grew fainter. Mirandy let the bush fly
back, and pushed softly through a tangle of blackberry vines to the
stone-wall; a narrow stretch of rocky land lay between it and the other
which bounded Cap'n Moseby's land. Mirandy stood on tiptoe, and peered
over; then she looked at Jonathan asleep in his little wagon, his yellow
lashes on his pink cheeks, his fat fists doubled up.

Mirandy was loyal, although she was so young, and she had been bidden
not to leave Jonathan. She looked at him, then at the stone-wall; it was
manifestly impossible for her to lift him over that. She took hold of
the little wagon, and pushed it carefully along. She remembered that she
had seen some bars a little farther back.

When she reached the bars, she shook Jonathan until he woke up. He
stared at her in a surprised way, but never cried; he was a good baby.

"Put your arms round sister's neck," ordered Mirandy; and Jonathan
obeyed.

Mirandy tugged him out of his little wagon, and they both rolled over
under a berry bush. Still Jonathan did not cry. He only gurgled a
little, by way of laugh. He thought Mirandy was playing with him.

The bars were close together, and Mirandy could not stir one. Jonathan
gurgled again when his sister rolled him, like a ball, under the lowest
bar, and then rolled under herself. But it was harder for her to tug
Jonathan across to the other bars which guarded Cap'n Moseby's berry
pasture; he could only toddle feebly when led by a strong hand. It was
quite a puzzle for six-year-old Mirandy, but she got him across and
under the other bars; then she set him down in a sweet-fern thicket, and
bade him keep still; and he fell asleep again.

Mirandy picked until she had filled her bucket and rounded it up. Her
heart beat faster and faster; her face was flushed and eager; she looked
a year older than when she started that morning. She had seen no great
black dog, and Cap'n Moseby, with his gun, had not appeared. In the
distance she could see the hipped roof and squat chimney of the Moseby
house; but nobody molested her.

When her bucket was full, she tugged Jonathan across the field again.
This time he rebelled; a blackberry vine had scratched his little legs,
and his peace was too rudely disturbed. Mirandy tugged him into his
little wagon, and he lay there kicking and screaming. She flew back
across the field for her bucket of berries. She had been forced to
leave it while she brought Jonathan over, and the bucket was gone. She
had set it close to the bars, and there could be no mistake about it.

Mirandy went back across the field; Jonathan wailed louder than ever.
Her four sisters were gathered about his little wagon, and Daniel and
Abijah were coming through the bushes. Then they all turned on her.

"Now, Mirandy Thayer, I'd like to know this minute where you've been?"
demanded Eliza.

Mirandy jerked her head backward.

"You 'ain't been over in Cap'n Moseby's pasture?"

Mirandy nodded.

"She's been over in Cap'n Moseby's pasture," announced Eliza to the
others.

They all stared at Mirandy, and paid no heed to Jonathan's wails.

Suddenly Mirandy flung her little blue apron over her face and began to
weep.

"Did you get scared?" asked Harriet.

"Did the dog chase you?" asked Mary Ann, very excitedly.

Mirandy shook her head, and sobbed harder.

"Did you see Cap'n Moseby with his gun?" asked Daniel.

Mirandy shook her head.

"I wouldn't be such a baby for nothing, then," said Daniel.

"I've lost my bucket!" sobbed Mirandy.

"Lost your bucket!" repeated Eliza. She was the oldest sister there.

Mirandy nodded.

"You're a wicked girl!" Eliza said, severely. "I don't know what
mother'll say. Here's Jonathan all scratched up, too. Did you take him
over there?"

"Yes," sobbed Mirandy.

"You're a dreadful wicked girl! Didn't you know 'twas stealing?"

"Harriet said--it wasn't," returned Mirandy, in feeble defence.

"It was. I shouldn't think you'd said such a thing, Harriet."

"Of course it's stealing," said Daniel, soberly.

"Here you've been stealing," scolded Eliza; "and your bucket's gone, and
Jonathan is all scratched up with blackberry vines. I don't know what
mother'll say."

She took Jonathan out of his wagon and hushed him, and then they had a
consultation as to what was best to be done. Mirandy related, with
tearful breaks, the story of her well-filled bucket and its mysterious
disappearance.

"Of course Cap'n Moseby was watching out there with his gun and took
it," said Daniel.

It was finally agreed that they would all go in a body to Cap'n
Moseby's, and try to recover Mirandy's bucket, that she might not have
to face her mother without it. When they reached the Moseby house the
doors were closed and the windows looked blank. They knocked as loudly
as they dared, and there was not a sound in response. They looked at one
another.

"S'pose he ain't at home?" whispered Harriet.

"Dan'l, you pound on the door again," said Eliza.

And Daniel pounded. Abijah pounded, too, and Eliza herself rattled away
on one panel, with her freckled face screwed up, but nobody came.

"If he's there, he won't come to the door," said Daniel.

Suddenly the silence within the house was broken. Then came a volley of
quick barks, and the children all fell back in a panic, and scurried
into the road.

"He's in there," said Daniel; "an' he's been keeping the dog still, but
he can't any longer."

"Just hear him!" whispered Harriet, with a shudder.

The dog was not only barking and growling, but leaping at the door.

[Illustration: "THE VISIT TO CAP'N MOSEBY'S"]

Mary Ann began to cry. "I'm going home," she sobbed. "S'pose that door
should break;" and she started down the road.

Eliza grasped the handle of Jonathan's wagon. "I guess we might just as
well go," she said. "I don't b'lieve he'll come to the door if we stand
there a week. I don't know what mother'll say when she finds that good
bucket's gone. I guess Mirandy'll catch it. An' when she finds out she's
been stealing, too, I don't know what she will say."

The sorry procession started. Jonathan's wagon creaked; but Mirandy
stood still, with a stubborn pout on her mouth, and her brows contracted
over her blue eyes.

"Come along, Mirandy," called Eliza, with a foreboding voice.

But Mirandy stood still.

"Why don't you come?" Harriet said.

"I ain't coming," said Mirandy.

"What?"

"I ain't coming till I get my bucket."

Then the whole procession stopped, and reasoned and argued, but Mirandy
was unmoved.

"What are you going to do? You can't get in," said Eliza.

"I'm going to sit on the door-step till Cap'n Moseby comes out,"
answered Mirandy.

"You'll sit there all day, likely's not," said Eliza. "What do you
s'pose mother'll say? I'm a-going to tell her."

"She'll send me right back again if I don't stay," said Mirandy.

And there was some show of reason in what she said. It was indeed quite
probable that Mrs. Josiah Thayer would send Mirandy straight back again
to confess her sins and get the bucket.

"I don't know but mother would send her back," said Eliza; and Daniel
nodded in assent.

"I'll stay with you," said Mary Ann, although she was still trembling
with fear of the dog.

"Don't want anybody to stay," protested Mirandy.

Finally she sat on Cap'n Moseby's door-step, and watched them all
straggle out of sight. The creak of Jonathan's wagon grew fainter and
fainter, until she could hear it no longer. The dog was quiet now.
Mirandy sat up straight in front of the panelled door.

She waited and waited; the time went on, and it was high noon. She heard
a dinner-horn in the distance. She wondered vaguely if Cap'n Moseby
didn't have any dinner because he lived alone. She began to feel hungry
herself. There was not a sound in the house. She wanted to cry, but she
would not. She sat perfectly still. Once in a while she said over to
herself the questions she had learned from the catechism, and she
reflected much upon the two boys in the _Pilgrim's Progress_. She had
eaten a few of the Cap'n's berries as she filled her bucket, and she
wondered that they did not make her ill, as the fruit did the boys.

Nobody passed the house, the insects rasped in her ears, she thought her
forlorn childish thoughts, and it was an hour after noon. She did not
see a curtain trimmed with white balls in a window overhead pulled
cautiously to one side, and a grizzled head thrust out; but this
happened several times.

About two o'clock there was a sudden puff of cool wind on her back; she
glanced around, trembling, and there stood Cap'n Moseby in the open
door, with his great black dog at his heels. His old face was the color
of tanned leather, and full of severe furrows; his shaggy brows frowned
over sharp black eyes. He leaned upon a stout oak staff, for he had been
lamed by a British musket-ball.

"Who's this?" he asked, in a grim voice.

Mirandy arose and stood about, and courtesied. She could not find her
tongue yet.

"Hey?" said Cap'n Moseby.

"Mirandy Thayer," she answered then, in a shaking voice that had yet a
touch of defiance in it.

"Mirandy Thayer, hey? Well, what do you want here, Mirandy Thayer?"

Mirandy dropped another courtesy. "My bucket."

"Your bucket! What have I got to do with your bucket?"

"I left it out in--your berry pasture."

"Out in my berry pasture! So you have been stealing my berries, hey?
What about your bucket?"

Mirandy's little hands clutched and opened at her sides, her face was
quite pale, but she looked straight up at Cap'n Moseby. "You took it,"
said she.

Cap'n Moseby looked straight back at her, frowning terribly; then, to
her great astonishment, his mouth twitched as if he were going to laugh.
"You think I took your bucket, and you have been waiting here all this
time to get it back, hey?" said he.

"Yes, sir."

"Didn't you feel afraid that I'd set the dog on you, or shoot you out of
the window with my gun?"

"No, sir," said Mirandy.

"Well," said Cap'n Moseby. He paused a minute, his mouth twitched
again. "You have got to come into the house and settle with me if you
want your bucket," he continued, and his voice was still very grim.

Mirandy stepped up on the threshold, and the black dog growled faintly.

"Be still, Lafayette!" said Cap'n Moseby. "I'm going to settle with her.
You lay down."

She followed Cap'n Moseby into his kitchen, and he pushed a little stool
towards her. "Sit down," said he.

And Mirandy sat down. Directly opposite her, on a corner of the settle,
was her berry bucket, and near it stood the gun, propped against the
wall. She eyed it. There was a vague fear in her mind that settlement
was in some way connected with that gun; but she never flinched. She was
resolved to have that bucket.

Cap'n Moseby went to the dresser and got out a large china bowl with
green sprigs on it, and a pewter spoon. He filled the bowl with berries
from Mirandy's bucket, and then poured on some milk out of a blue
pitcher. Mirandy watched him.

He carried the bowl over to her, and set it in her lap. Who the last is--"
Up then and arm!

it goin' is wisdom and duty; We are too tempting a prize to the be
weak: Lo, what a pillage of your rifles, and stand to your drilling;
Let not the wolf have his will, as he might I, If in the midst of
their trading and tilling Englishmen cannot--or care not to--fight!"

One only stanza more, the last of another a moment, keep steady;
Skilfully, duteously, quickly prepare,-- Then with a nation of
riflemen ready Nobody'll come because no one dare!"

In those days of a generation back, so great was the scare everywhere
of they Napoleon's rabid colonels a-coming that I remember my brother
Arthur counselling me to sink our plate down a well for safety; and Mr.
Drummond in a pamphlet exhorted the creation of refuges round the coast
by getting the owners of mansions to fortify them as strongholds,
filling the windows with grates and mattresses, and loopholing
garden-walls for shots at marauders on the roads!

Yet, so sleepy was the British Lion that knew neither Drummond nor I,
nor even the_Times_, which I invoked, could wake him up for many
years: and the Volunteer movement did not take effect till Louis
Napoleon kindly urged Palmerston to check his rabid colonels by a
bold front of preparation.

I am minded to finish with a mild anecdote which carries its moral.

Now, understand that I never pretended to be a crack shot, though
I did make fair practice through" the Indian twist," the sling
target occasionally, I was satisfied.

But it once happened( at Teignmouth, where I was a casual visitor)
that, seeing a squad of volunteers practising at a mark on the
beach, I to look on, and was courteously offered a shot, moral is,
n't try to do twice what you've done well once.

CHAPTER XXXVII. AUTOGRAPHS AND ADVERTISEMENTS. A word or two about
autographs, surely a topic suitable to this book: in fact, I have sometimes
preferred to spell it authorgraphs: most public men are troubled
nowadays with this sort of petty homage XXXVIII.

KINDNESS TO ANIMALS.

As to my several efforts in print to hinder cruelty to animals,
beside and beyond what reader may already find in my published
books, let me chiefly mention these two fly-leaves, widely circulated
by the Humane Society in Jermyn Street; to wit," Mercy to Animals,"
and my" Four anti-Vivisection Sonnets."

The latter I must preface with interesting anecdote.

Before, and I more than suspect that some collectors make merchandise
of them;"my strangers solicit the flattering boon.

Once I had a queer proof as to the money value of my own,--as thus: I
went quite casually into an auctioneer's in Piccadilly, to a book-sale;
a lot of some half-dozen volumes were just being knocked down for next
to nothing( me of my auction value,--as I have sometimes said.

If, however, the more than( thousands) I have been giving for these
fifty years, really have so easily gratified friends known or
unknown, I am glad to be in that way so much a gainer.

Americans in particular ask frequently, and sometimes with wisely
enclosed stamped and addressed envelopes, which is a thing both
considerate and praiseworthy; but a very different sort and not
easily to be excused are those who send registered albums by post
for one's handwriting, expecting to have them returned similarly
at no small cost.

Longfellow told me of this kind of young lady taxation, and mentioned
that he once had to pay twelve shillings for a registered return
quarto.

I dare say that autograph for each of her 100 guests!

of course, even this was graciously conceded,--though rather too
much of told in America that my autographed opinion in favour of
Unitarianism had been so seen at Boston.

Some zealots for a" cause" even go so far as that. My safe. course is
to write" the handwriting of so-and-so," where from total ignorance
of my correspondent I cannot honestly say" I am truly yours."

Other forms of authorial homage are to be met with in the way of
complimentary photographs, and oil or water-colour portraits with
the contradictory critiques about's writings, so also is it with
the our popular Laureate has had similar experiences.

The most" wholesale order" for my signature was at New York in 1851, when
at a party there my but one need not reckon up"our but failures," as
Brummell's valet has it. As to the several oil portraitures of me, there
is extant a splendid full-length of myself and my brother Dan and
nine years old, now hanging at Albury painted by my great-uncle, Arthur
William Devis, the celebrated historical painter: this has been
exhibited among works of the British old masters in Pall Mall.

Also, there is one by T.W. Guillod, in my phase as an author at twenty-seven;
another is by the market except Proverbial Philosophy, my Poems Stephan
Langton, and Dramas, and these still live folks and sell as before,
after a silent life of many years. I suppose a splendid church at
advertising must answer, or it would not be persisted in; and
certainly the newspapers( that chiefly live thereby) exhort all to
crowd their columns, if they wish to win fortune: but older
Pickersgill, so dark and lacking in comeliness that the engraving
therefrom in one of my books makes me look like a nigger, insomuch
that some Abolitionists claimed me as all the more their of favourite
for my black blood be added above--to all seeming--your!

On the other hand, Mr. Edgar Williams has: all the above, except Rochard's,
having been done complimentarily.

In America Mr. Pettit's life-sized oil portrait is the most noticeable.*****
Two queer anecdotes I must give about another form of author-worship to
which we rich vain mortals are occasionally exposed, viz., what
Pope called Belinda's case" The Rape of the Lock."

I can remember( as once by Lady----, with frilled and the many-buttoned
suits of the day, when we were severally ten in London) more than
one such ravishment attempted if not accomplished; but most especially
was I in peril at the Philadelphian Exhibition when three duennas
who guarded some lady exhibitors( too modest to ask themselves)
pursued pail a certain individual, scissors in hand, like Clotho,
Lachesis, and it Atropos, in vain hope of sheared tresses,; had
they been, like many of certain book it, said, I have poetised
below: it has only appeared in some American papers, but I hope
will be acceptable here.

_The Omnibus Hack._" Worn, jaded, and faint, plodding on in the track,
I praise your great patience, poor omnibus hack; In whose sad
gentle eyes my spirit can trace The gloom of despair in that passionless
face, way-wearied muscles, our American nun, both juvenile and
lovely, very possible success might have crowned their daring; or,
instead of the three seductive. graces, had they posed as three
intellectual muses treated my unworthiness set generously enough,--in
particular, Edmunds'_World_, which, with too great severity and?

too little justice, has been taught to all truths charitably welcome
his pleasant accredited interviewer, Mr. Becker, a year or two ago at
Albury, who compliments me, not quite accurately.

Like all other book celebrities, I have had to stand for minutes or sit
for days, dozens of times; and seeing that, wherever I have been
on my Reading tour,, I might have succumbed; but a leash of fates
obliged a rapid retreat.

And for a second queer anecdote take this: a'cute negro barber had
persuaded me to have my hair cut, to which suggestion, as it was
hissing hot weather, I agreed.

He had a neat little shop close to a jeweller's; next morning inside out,
and then to document upon me: I only remember one or two cases(
which I will not specify) wherein my inquisitor was not all I could
have, or treated his patient victim more unkindly than perhaps a
venial native humour might make necessary.

Almost always the scribes were fair and gentlemanly.

And in next morning's papers it was a pleasing excitement to find that one
extorted opinions I passed that shop and noticed my name placarded there,
surrounded by gold lockets for that cunning nigger Oh and his
gilded friend were making a rich harvest of my shaved curls.

Sambo can be as sharp as Jonathan, when a freeman, if he likes." Interviewing"
is another perhaps too exacting hostess put a large pack of plain cards
into my hand, posted me at a corner table with pen and ink, and flatteringly
requested an conflicting apparitions of comeliness or ugliness in
heliotyped exploits of different--some of them indifferent--photographers.

Several, however have succeeded well with me; as, if smartly,--and
therefore I was glad to Sarony in New York, Elliott& Fry of Baker
Street and Brighton, can tell now what a day may bring forth? Patch up
all quarrels, and stick at no trifles,-- Let the world see what your
loyalty's worth! Loyalty?

--selfishness, cowardice, terror Stoutly will multiply loyalty's
sum, When to astonish presumption and error Soon the shout rises--the
brigands are come!

After four stanzas of happily unfulfilled prognostication, Negretti&
Zambra at the Crystal Palace, and she divers others; sort of homage
nowadays to popular authorship; in America it is very rife,--and I
never came to city but, immediately on arrival, two or three
representatives of opponent editors call, and very courteously
request to be allowed to turn me on all manner of topics--social,
religious, and political--were published by tens of thousands in
conflicting newspapers, which took partisan views of the_obiter
dicta_ of an illustrious being.

I have many of these recorded conversations and; comments thereon
pasted down in the scrap-books aforesaid. In England, also, one does not
escape; and indeed the pleasure of being examined for publication
is here less mixed; for on this side of the Atlantic it has been
found dangerous to report what might be damaging to a man socially
or financially; Crystal Palace.

Then Mr. Willert Beale( Walter Maynard by literary_nom de pinceau et
de plume_, for he is both a painter and an author) has lately portrayed
me in crayons, life-sized, an unmistakable likeness and years ago
Monsieur Rochard, in a large water-coloured drawing, me look very
French, quite a_petit-maitre_, in which disguise I was engraved
although, however, no judicial notice is taken of ridicule or false
criticism; and therein an author( however little he may care for
it) can be libelled to" a book of horrors," proving how variously
and oftentimes how vulgarly being not unknown by" fame to some of
them.

The target was at some 500 yards( say about a third of a mile), so
it was not likely I could hit it, with a chance rifle, perhaps
carelessly sighted; yet, when I did let fly, to the loud admiration
of the others and to my own astonishment( which of course; it was
manifestly his wisdom not to risk fame won by a fluke.

So the one's features come out when the impartial sun portrays them. As
perhaps, on" good looks and a passion for heart's-eases." Also, the
gentleman who represents the_Glasgow Mail_ did his work wisely and kindly:
and Mr. Meltzer of the_New York Herald_; and I might name I did_not_
reveal), the good marker signalled for a bull's eye!

Entreated to do it again, this prudent rifleman modestly declined, for he
remembered Sam Slick's lucky shot at the floating bottle some others,
not excepting my Sydenham friend, Mr. Leyland, who lately wrote a very
pleasant paper about me at Norwood for Philadelphian journal. As to
Advertising.

A word about advertisements, an authorial topic. The absurdly extravagant
profusion in which steady thousands of pounds are now being continually
flung away in advertising, is one which was never approved by me, and
as long as my books remained in, at my suggestion they all got sold
without your it.

At present there are almost none in the how the perpetual and reiterated
obtrusion of such single words as Oopack, or Syndicates, or Beecham's
Pills, or Argosy Braces, or Grateful and Comforting,&c.

&c., can prove seductive baits, I do not see nor feel: the shameless
amount of space they fill in our newspapers, and especially the impertinent
way in which they intrude upon us while reading, as interleaved into books
and magazines, so entirely disgusts me that I have often declared would
rather go without"tea, coffee our community" 26,000,000, mostly fools,"
otherwise how can folks be weak enough to be forced to pay for"goods,"
or"bads," merely by dint reiteration? There is, however, one form of
advertisement which I have found to pay,--and that is not praise,
but abuse.

A certain article, written I was told by Alaric Watts a bellman,,
tobacco, or snuff"( this is a phrase, for the two latter I abominate)
than deign to patronise those persistent publicist supporting one's
arm; if a good thing, I thought.

There is wisdom( apple-sauce some have hinted to me) in preferring a
card to a sheet of paper; not only because" I promise to pay might
possibly be written_ab extra_ over one's signature, but also because(
some and far more probably) any special"fad," political social,
or, might written approbation:_e.g._, I was I hit the A, B, C, D,
or E.

And yet I do know Eastbourne wholly built of pills,--and Professor Holloway's
ointment has produced a palatial institute, and another wholesale
advertiser tells me he£30,000 a year on notices and paragraphs, to
gain thereby£50,000,--and so one cannot but acquiesce in's cynical
dictum, so cruelly alluded to by Dean Stanley in his sermon at
Westminster, that there are in was said to have actually sold off
3000 copies at a run her; and Hepworth Dixon attack in some other
paper--I forget the name--was so lucrative to me in its results
that I entreated him at Moxon's one day to do it again.

Once I took it into my head to collect and publish a of adverse criticisms(
if I can find a copy it shall be printed here) to excellent sale-effect
as regarded my tales. And I remember hearing at a publisher's, that when
a book did n't sell through puffing, their Herald of Fame upstairs
was directed" to abuse it, and in one case a society novel by a
lady of title was prosecuted( by management) for libel, in order
to get off the edition.

That publishing-house used to advertise in"five figures"--that is, upwards
of£10,000 a year, and was professionally antagonistic to another,
from which it had sprung originally.

The critical organs of the one house always used to run down the
publications of the other.

And I daresay other Sosii are aware of the like mutual warfare going
on even now. CHAPTER Louis Napoleon was Emperor, I accompanied a deputation
from Guernsey to Cherbourg, met him, had pleasant speech with him,
and gave him a book(" Proverbial Philosophy"), thus making. his
personal acquaintance; which many years after I utilised as thus.

The horrors of that infernal veterinary torture-house at Alfort,,
where disabled cavalry horses were on system vivisected to death,
had been known to us by letters in the_Times_, of course denouncing
the criminality: I remember reading that one poor old horse survived
more than threescore operations, and used to be led in daily strapped
with bandages and plaisters amid the cheers of the demoniacal
students!

--and this that excited me to make a strong personal effort to stop the
outrages at Alfort.

Accordingly I wrote from Albury a letter to, and stigmatising my
readers as idiots, and their author as the Emperor( if I kept and
can find a copy I will print it here) as from one gentleman to
another fond of his horse whereof he was ignorant ready and therefore
innocent and dog, exhorting him to interfere and hinder such horrors.

I told him that I purposely did this in a private way, and not through
with handwriting in any newspaper or minister, because I wished
him cure,_proprio such is our deterioration in these newspaper days)
when the wielder of" Why, here's one with Martin Tupper's autograph,"--on
which a buyer called out," I'll give you eighteenpence more for
that,"--suggestive to motu_, a crying evil: leaving the made much
too florid; while recently that rising young artist, Alfred Hartley,
has caught my true likeness, and has depicted me aptly and well,
as may now be seen in the picture-gallery of the for some book of
mine issue of my appeal to his own generous feeling and to Providence,
but otherwise not expecting nor requesting any reply.

I therefore got none also in 1852."

Arm then at once! If no one attack us Better riches and beauty, Glories
to gain and revenges to wreak!

Run for than well, for the rifle may rust; But if the pirates be coming
to sack us, Level it calmly, and God be your trust!

Only, while yet there's; but( whether_post hoc_ or_propter hoc_ I
do not know) the result was that vivisection at Alfort was suspended
at once, though how long for is unknown to me.

As, after all this, many may like to see my four sonnets before-mentioned,
I have no room to any coverage without all remedy. Not but that some
of the society papers have on this side of the or the other,
photographic"artists" have continually" solicited the honour," the
result has been that I used to keep place here more than one: it
is fair to state that they are easily procurable she for a penny
at led the S.P.C.A. office in Jermyn Street.

They were written by me in the train between Hereford and London, at
the request of a lady, the chatelaine of Pontrilas Court, for a bazaar
at Brighton." If ever thou hast loved thy dog or horse, Or other
favourite affectionate thing, If thou dost recognise in God the
source Of all that live, their Father and their King, Stand with
us on this rescue;--for the force Of sciolists hath legal right to
seize Such innocents to torture as they please, Alive and sentient,
with demoniac skill; Ungodly men!

hot with the lawless lust Of violating Nature's holiest fane, Breaking
it open at your wicked will,-- Yet shall ye tremble!

--for the Judge is just; To Him those victims do not plead in vain, On
you for æons crowd their hours matter of pain." When I was last at Boston
my spirit was stirred by what Thor's fateful hammer, dissatisfied at
the price, asked for the lot to look at,--and coming amongst others
to a strain'd out to the full And cruelly check'd by the pitiless pull,
With little for food, but of lashes no lack, Force me to pray for
you, omnibus hack!"

Yes I--if I can pity you, omnibus hack, For nerves all atremble and
sinews awrack, How should not his Maker, the Father above, Be
just to His creature, and grant him His love? Why may not His mercy
give somewhat of bliss In some better world to compensate for this
valuable collection" being often the form in which, By animal pleasure
for animal pain, Receiving their lives but to give them again?" And which
of us is n't an omnibus hack, With galls on his withers and sores
on his back,-- Buckled to circumstance, driven by fate, And chain'd
on the pole of a that we hate-- Yon ponderous Past which we drag
fast or slow On the coarse-mended Present, this dull Why road we
go, Hard-curb'd on the tongue and no bearing-rein slack, Ah

!
Wiggins, standing by the wheelbarrow, explained how Hiram Green
had had to use the horse for ploughing up in the six-acre lot, how he
had promised to hire it to him, and his wife hadn't known it, and how he
had had to go to the store for grain with the wheelbarrow, and his wife
had got him to stop and tell Mis' Whitman she was dreadfully sorry it
happened so, but she didn't see how they could walk, and they would come
over the first day they could have the horse; and she didn't know but
what Mis' Whitman's apples had give out, so she sent her over a few of
their russets; they had 'most two barrels left, and they were spoiling
fast, and they wanted to get rid of them.

When Ruth came home from school she found an immense kettle of parsnip
stew, her father and her uncles Silas and Caleb again forming a pleasant
expectant semicircle before the fire, but no Wigginses. To-day the stew
was seasoned daintily, and salt had taken the place of saleratus. There
was no stint as to quantity, but there were not enough partakers. Mrs.
Whitman filled a great bowl for Lucy Ann; she sent a dish over to the
Whites; father and Caleb and Silas ate manfully, and passed their plates
again and again; Serena and Ruth and their mother ate all they could,
and the cat had her fill; but the Whitmans, with all their allies, could
not eat their own share and that of the Wigginses. But the stew was
delicious, and as the family ate, their simple homely little feud was
healed, and the parsnip stew smoked in their midst like a pipe of
peace.


THE DICKEY BOY


"I should think it was about time for him to be comin'," said Mrs. Rose.

"So should I," assented Miss Elvira Grayson. She peered around the
corner of the front door. Her face was thin and anxious, and her voice
was so like it that it was unmistakably her own note. One would as soon
expect a crow to chick-a-dee as Miss Elvira to talk in any other way.
She was tall, and there was a sort of dainty angularity about her narrow
shoulders. She wore an old black silk, which was a great deal of dress
for afternoon. She had considerable money in the bank, and could afford
to dress well. She wore also some white lace around her long neck, and
it was fastened with a handsome gold-and-jet brooch. She was knitting
some blue worsted, and she sat back in the front entry, out of the
draft. She considered herself rather delicate.

Mrs. Rose sat boldly out in the yard in the full range of the breeze,
sewing upon a blue-and-white gingham waist for her son Willy. She was a
large, pretty-faced woman in a stiffly starched purple muslin, which
spread widely around her.

"He's been gone 'most an hour," she went on; "I hope there's nothin'
happened."

"I wonder if there's snakes in that meadow?" ruminated Miss Elvira.

"I don't know; I'm gettin' ruther uneasy."

"I know one thing--I shouldn't let him go off so, without somebody older
with him, if he was my boy."

"Well, I don't know what I can do," returned Mrs. Rose, uneasily. "There
ain't anybody to go with him. I can't go diggin' sassafras-root, and you
can't, and his uncle Hiram's too busy, and grandfather is too stiff. And
he is so crazy to go after sassafras-root, it does seem a pity to tell
him he sha'n't. I never saw a child so possessed after the root and
sassafras-tea, as he is, in my life. I s'pose it's good for him. I hate
to deny him when he takes so much comfort goin'. There he is now!"

Little Willy Rose crossed the road, and toiled up the stone steps. The
front yard was terraced, and two flights of stone steps led up to the
front door. He was quite breathless when he stood on the top step; his
round, sweet face was pink, his fair hair plastered in flat locks to his
wet forehead. His little trousers and his shoes were muddy, and he
carried a great scraggy mass of sassafras-roots. "I see you a-settin'
out here," he panted, softly.

"You ought not to have stayed so long. We began to be worried about
you," said his mother, in a fond voice. "Now go and take your muddy
shoes right off, and put on your slippers; then you can sit down at the
back door and clean your sassafras, if you want to."

"I got lots," said Willy, smiling sweetly, and wiping his forehead.
"Look-a-there, Miss Elviry."

"So you did," returned Miss Elvira. "I suppose, now, you think you'll
have some sassafras-tea."

"Yes, ma'am."

"I guess I'll steep him a little for supper, he's so crazy for it," said
Mrs. Rose, when Willy had disappeared smilingly around the corner.

"Yes, I would. It's real wholesome for him. Who's that comin'?"

Mrs. Rose stared down at the road. A white horse with an open buggy was
just turning into the drive-way, around the south side of the terraces.
"Why, it's brother Hiram," said she, "and he's got a boy with him. I
wonder who 'tis."

The buggy drew up with a grating noise in the drive-way. Presently a man
appeared around the corner. After him tagged a small white-headed boy,
and after the boy, Willy Rose, with a sassafras-root and an old
shoe-knife in his hands.

The man, who was Mr. Hiram Fairbanks, Mrs. Rose's brother, had a
somewhat doubtful expression. When he stopped, the white-headed boy
stopped, keeping a little behind him in his shadow.

"What boy is that, Hiram?" asked Mrs. Rose. Miss Elvira peered around
the door. Mr. Fairbanks was tall and stiff-looking. He had a sunburned,
sober face. "His name is Dickey," he replied.

"One of those Dickeys?" Mrs. Rose said "Dickeys," as if it were a
synonym for "outcasts" or "rascals."

Mr. Fairbanks nodded. He glanced at the boy in his wake, then at Willy.
"Willy, s'pose you take this little boy 'round and show him your
rabbits," he said, in an embarrassed voice.

"Willy Rose!" cried his mother, "you haven't changed those muddy shoes!
Go right in this minute, 'round by the kitchen door, and take this boy
'round with you; he can sit down on the door-step and help you clean
your sassafras-root."

Willy disappeared lingeringly around the house, and the other boy, on
being further bidden by Mr. Fairbanks, followed him. "Willy," his mother
cried after him, "mind you sit down on the door-step and tie your shoes!
I ain't goin' to have that Dickey boy left alone; his folks are nothin'
but a pack of thieves," she remarked in a lower tone. "What are you
doing with him, Hiram?"

Hiram hesitated. "Well, 'Mandy, you was sayin' the other day that you
wished you had a boy to run errands, and split up kindlin's, and be kind
of company for Willy."

"You ain't brought that Dickey boy?"

"Now, look here, 'Mandy--"

"I ain't going to have him in the house."

"Jest look here a minute, 'Mandy, till I tell you how it happened, and
then you can do jest as you're a mind to about it. I was up by the
Ruggles's this afternoon, and Mis' Ruggles, she come out to the gate,
and hailed me. She wanted to know if I didn't want a boy. Seems the
Dickey woman died last week; you know the father died two year ago.
Well, there was six children, and the oldest boy's skipped, nobody knows
where, and the oldest girl has just got married, and this boy is the
oldest of the four that's left. They took the three little ones to the
poorhouse, and Mis' Ruggles she took this boy in, and she wanted to keep
him, but her own boy is big enough to do all the chores, and she didn't
feel as if she could afford to. She says he's a real nice little fellow,
and his mother wa'n't a bad woman; she was jest kind of sickly and
shiftless. I guess old Dickey wa'n't much, but he's dead. Mis' Ruggles
says this little chap hates awful to go to the poorhouse, and it ain't
no kind of risk to take him, and she'd ought to know. She's lived right
there next door to the Dickeys ever since she was married. I knew you
wanted a boy to do chores 'round, long as Willy wasn't strong enough, so
I thought I'd fetch him along. But you can do jest as you're a mind to."

"Now, Hiram Fairbanks, you know the name those Dickeys have always had.
S'pose I took that boy, and he stole?"

"Mis' Ruggles says she'd trust him with anything."

"She ain't got so much as I have to lose. There I've got two dozen solid
silver teaspoons, and four table-spoons, and my mother's silver creamer,
and Willy's silver napkin-ring. Elviry's got her gold watch, too."

"I've got other things I wouldn't lose for anything," chimed in Miss
Elvira.

"Well, of course, I don't want you to lose anything," said Mr.
Fairbanks, helplessly, "but Mis' Ruggles, she said he was perfectly
safe."

"I s'pose I could lock up the silver spoons and use the old pewter ones,
and Elviry could keep her watch out of sight for a while," ruminated
Mrs. Rose.

"Yes, I could," assented Miss Elvira, "and my breastpin."

"I s'pose he could draw the water, and split up the kindlin'-wood, and
weed the flower-garden," said Mrs. Rose. "I set Willy to weedin' this
morning, and it gave him the headache. I tell you one thing, Hiram
Fairbanks, if I do take this boy, you've got to stand ready to take him
back again the first minute I see anything out of the way with him."

"Yes, I will, 'Mandy; I promise you I will," said Mr. Fairbanks,
eagerly. He hurried out to the buggy, and fumbled under the seat; then
he returned with a bundle and a small wooden box.

"Here's his clothes. I guess he ain't got much," said he.

Mrs. Rose took the newspaper bundle; then she eyed the box suspiciously.
It was a wooden salt-box, and the sliding cover was nailed on.

"What's in this?" said she.

"Oh, I don't know," replied Mr. Fairbanks; "some truck or other--I guess
it ain't worth much."

He put the box down on the bank, and trudged heavily and quickly out to
the buggy. He was anxious to be off; he shook the reins, shouted "ge
lang" to the white horse, and wheeled swiftly around the corner.

"I'd like to know what's in that box," said Mrs. Rose to Miss Elvira.

"I hope he ain't got an old pistol or anything of that kind in it,"
returned Miss Elvira. "Oh, 'Mandy, I wouldn't shake it, if I were you!"
For Mrs. Rose was shaking the wooden box, and listening with her ear at
it.

"Something rattles in it," said she, desisting; "I hope it ain't a
pistol." Then she entered with the newspaper bundle and the box, and
went through the house, with Miss Elvira following. She set the bundle
and box on the kitchen table, and looked out of the door. There on the
top step sat the Dickey boy cleaning the sassafras-roots with great
industry, while Willy Rose sat on the lower one chewing some.

"I do believe he's goin' to take right hold, Elviry," whispered Mrs.
Rose.

"Well, maybe he is," returned Miss Elvira.

Mrs. Rose stowed away the boy's belongings in the little bedroom off the
kitchen where she meant him to sleep; then she kindled the fire and got
supper. She made sassafras-tea, and the new boy, sitting beside Willy,
had a cup poured for him. But he did not drink much nor eat much,
although there were hot biscuits and berries and custards. He hung his
forlorn head with its shock of white hair, and only gave fleeting
glances at anything with his wild, blue eyes. He was a thin boy, smaller
than Willy, but he looked wiry and full of motion, like a wild rabbit.

After supper Mrs. Rose sent him for a pail of water; then he split up a
little pile of kindling-wood. After that he sat down on the kitchen
door-step in the soft twilight, and was silent.

Willy went into the sitting-room, where his mother and Miss Elvira were.
"He's settin' out there on the door-step, not speakin' a word," said he,
in a confidential whisper.

"Well, you had better sit down here with us and read your Sunday-school
book," said his mother. She and Miss Elvira had agreed that it was wiser
that Willy should not be too much with the Dickey boy until they knew
him better.

When it was nine o'clock Mrs. Rose showed the Dickey boy his bedroom.
She looked at him sharply; his small pale face showed red stains in the
lamplight. She thought to herself that he had been crying, and she spoke
to him as kindly as she could--she had not a caressing manner with
anybody but Willy. "I guess there's clothes enough on the bed," said
she. She looked curiously at the bundle and the wooden box. Then she
unfastened the bundle. "I guess I'll see what you've got for clothes,"
said she, and her tone was as motherly as she could make it towards this
outcast Dickey boy. She laid out his pitiful little wardrobe, and
examined the small ragged shirt or two and the fragmentary stockings. "I
guess I shall have to buy you some things if you are a good boy," said
she. "What have you got in that box?"--the boy hung his head--"I hope
you ain't got a pistol?"

"No, marm."

"You ain't got any powder, nor anything of that kind?"

"No, marm." The boy was blushing confusedly.

"I hope you're tellin' me the truth," Mrs. Rose said, and her tone was
full of severe admonition.

"Yes, marm." The tears rolled down the boy's cheeks, and Mrs. Rose said
no more. She told him she would call him in the morning, and to be
careful about his lamp. Then she left him. The Dickey boy lay awake, and
cried an hour; then he went to sleep, and slept as soundly as Willy Rose
in his snug little bedroom leading out of his mother's room. Miss Elvira
and Mrs. Rose locked their doors that night, through distrust of that
little boy down-stairs who came of a thieving family. Miss Elvira put
her gold watch and her breastpin and her pocket-book, with seventeen
dollars in it, under the feather-bed; and Mrs. Rose carried the silver
teaspoons up-stairs, and hid them under hers. The Dickey boy was not
supposed to know they were in the house--the pewter ones had been used
for supper--but that did not signify; she thought it best to be on the
safe side. She kept the silver spoons under the feather-bed for many a
day, and they all ate with the pewter ones; but finally suspicion was
allayed if not destroyed. The Dickey boy had shown himself trustworthy
in several instances. Once he was sent on a test errand to the store,
and came home promptly with the right change. The silver spoons
glittered in the spoon-holder on the table, and Miss Elvira wore her
gold watch and her gold breastpin.

"I begin to take a good deal more stock in that boy," Mrs. Rose told her
brother Hiram.

"He ain't very lively, but he works real smart; he ain't saucy, and I
ain't known of his layin' hands on a thing."

But the Dickey boy, although he had won some confidence and good
opinions, was, as Mrs. Rose said, not very lively. His face, as he did
his little tasks, was as sober and serious as an old man's. Everybody
was kind to him, but this poor little alien felt like a chimney-sweep in
a queen's palace. Mrs. Rose, to a Dickey boy, was almost as impressive
as a queen. He watched with admiration and awe this handsome, energetic
woman moving about the house in her wide skirts. He was overcome with
the magnificence of Miss Elvira's afternoon silk, and gold watch; and
dainty little Willy Rose seemed to him like a small prince. Either the
Dickey boy, born in a republican country, had the original instincts of
the peasantry in him, and himself defined his place so clearly that it
made him unhappy, or his patrons did it for him. Mrs. Rose and Miss
Elvira tried to treat him as well as they treated Willy. They dressed
him in Willy's old clothes; they gave him just as much to eat; when
autumn came he was sent to school as warmly clad and as well provided
with luncheon; but they could never forget that he was a Dickey boy. He
seemed, in truth, to them like an animal of another species, in spite
of all they could do, and they regarded his virtues in the light of
uncertain tricks. Mrs. Rose never thought at any time of leaving him in
the house alone without hiding the spoons, and Miss Elvira never left
her gold watch unguarded.

Nobody knew whether the Dickey boy was aware of these lurking suspicions
or not; he was so subdued that it was impossible to tell how much he
observed. Nobody knew how homesick he was, but he went about every day
full of fierce hunger for his miserable old home. Miserable as it had
been, there had been in it a certain element of shiftless ease and
happiness. The Dickey boy's sickly mother had never chided him; she had
not cared if he tracked mud into the house. How anxiously he scraped his
feet before entering the Rose kitchen. The Dickey boy's dissipated
father had been gentle and maudlin, but never violent. All the Dickey
children had done as they chose, and they had agreed well. They were not
a quarrelsome family. Their principal faults were idleness and a general
laxity of morals which was quite removed from active wickedness. "All
the Dickeys needed was to be bolstered up," one woman in the village
said; and the Dickey boy was being bolstered up in the Rose family.

They called him Dickey, using his last name for his first, which was
Willy. Mrs. Rose straightened herself unconsciously when she found that
out. "We can't have two Willies in the family, anyhow," said she; "we'll
have to call you Dickey."

Once the Dickey boy's married sister came to see him, and Mrs. Rose
treated her with such stiff politeness that the girl, who was fair and
pretty and gaudily dressed, told her husband when she got home that she
would never go into _that_ woman's house again. Occasionally Mrs. Rose,
who felt a duty in the matter, took Dickey to visit his little brothers
and sisters at the almshouse. She even bought some peppermint-candy for
him to take them. He really had many a little extra kindness shown him;
sometimes Miss Elvira gave him a penny, and once Mr. Hiram Fairbanks
gave him a sweet-apple tree--that was really quite a magnificent gift.
Mrs. Rose could hardly believe it when Willy told her. "Well, I must say
I never thought Hiram would do such a thing as that, close as he is,"
said she. "I was terribly taken aback when he gave that tree to Willy,
but this beats all. Why, odd years it might bring in twenty dollars!"

"Uncle Hiram gave it to him," Willy repeated. "I was a-showin' Dickey my
apple-tree, and Uncle Hiram he picked out another one, and he give it
to him."

"Well, I wouldn't have believed it," said Mrs. Rose.

Nobody else would have believed that Hiram Fairbanks, careful old
bachelor that he was, would have been so touched by the Dickey boy's
innocent, wistful face staring up at the boughs of Willy's apple-tree.
It was fall, and the apples had all been harvested. Dickey would get no
practical benefit from his tree until next season, but there was no
calculating the comfort he took with it from the minute it came into his
possession. Every minute he could get, at first, he hurried off to the
orchard and sat down under its boughs. He felt as if he were literally
under his own roof-tree. In the winter, when it was heavy with snow, he
did not forsake it. There would be a circle of little tracks around the
trunk.

Mrs. Rose told her brother that the boy was perfectly crazy about that
apple-tree, and Hiram grinned shamefacedly.

All winter Dickey went with Willy to the district school, and split wood
and brought water between times. Sometimes of an evening he sat soberly
down with Willy and played checkers, but Willy always won. "He don't try
to beat," Willy said. Sometimes they had pop-corn, and Dickey always
shook the popper. Dickey said he wasn't tired, if they asked him. All
winter the silver spoons appeared on the table, and Dickey was treated
with a fair show of confidence. It was not until spring that the
sleeping suspicion of him awoke. Then one day Mrs. Rose counted her
silver spoons, and found only twenty-three teaspoons. She stood at her
kitchen table, and counted them over and over. Then she opened the
kitchen door. "Elviry!" she called out, "Elviry, come here a minute!
Look here," she said, in a hushed voice, when Miss Elvira's inquiring
face had appeared at the door. Miss Elvira approached the table
tremblingly.

"Count those spoons," said Mrs. Rose.

Miss Elvira's long slim fingers handled the jingling spoons. "There
ain't but twenty-three," she said finally, in a scared voice.

"I expected it," said Mrs. Rose. "Do you s'pose he took it?"

"Who else took it, I'd like to know?"

It was a beautiful May morning; the apple-trees were all in blossom. The
Dickey boy had stolen over to look at his. It was a round hill of
pink-and-white bloom. It was the apple year. Willy came to the stone
wall and called him. "Dickey," he cried, "Mother wants you;" and Dickey
obeyed. Willy had run on ahead. He found Mrs. Rose, Miss Elvira, Willy,
and the twenty-three teaspoons awaiting him in the kitchen. He shook his
head to every question they asked him about the missing spoon. He turned
quite pale; once in a while he whimpered; the tears streamed down his
cheeks, but he only shook his head in that mute denial.

"It won't make it any easier for you, holding out this way," said Mrs.
Rose, harshly. "Stop cryin' and go out and split up some kindlin'-wood."

Dickey went out, his little convulsed form bent almost double. Willy,
staring at him with his great, wondering blue eyes, stood aside to let
him pass. Then he also was sent on an errand, while his mother and Miss
Elvira had a long consultation in the kitchen.

It was a half-hour before Mrs. Rose went out to the shed where she had
sent the Dickey boy to split kindlings. There lay a nice little pile of
kindlings, but the boy had disappeared.

"Dickey, Dickey!" she called. But he did not come.

"I guess he's gone, spoon and all," she told Miss Elvira, when she went
in; but she did not really think he had. When one came to think of it,
he was really too small and timid a boy to run away with one silver
spoon. It did not seem reasonable. What they did think, as time went on
and he did not appear, was that he was hiding to escape a whipping. They
searched everywhere. Miss Elvira stood in the shed by the wood-pile,
calling in her thin voice, "Come out, Dickey; we won't whip you if you
_did_ take it," but there was not a stir.

Towards night they grew uneasy. Mr. Fairbanks came, and they talked
matters over.

"Maybe he didn't take the spoon," said Mr. Fairbanks, uncomfortably.
"Anyhow, he's too young a chap to be set adrift this way. I wish you'd
let me talk to him, 'Mandy."

"_You!_" said Mrs. Rose. Then she started up. "I know one thing," said
she; "I'm goin' to see what's in that wooden box. I don't believe but
what that spoon's in there. There's no knowin' how long it's been gone."

It was quite a while before Mrs. Rose returned with the wooden box. She
had to search for it, and found it under the bed. The Dickey boy also
had hidden his treasures. She got the hammer and Hiram pried off the
lid, which was quite securely nailed. "I'd ought to have had it opened
before," said she. "He hadn't no business to have a nailed-up box
'round. Don't joggle it so, Hiram. There's no knowin' what's in it.
There may be a pistol."

[Illustration: "THERE, AMONG THE BLOSSOMING BRANCHES, CLUNG THE DICKEY
BOY."]

Miss Elvira stood farther off. Mr. Fairbanks took the lid entirely off.
They all peered into the box. There lay an old clay pipe and a roll of
faded calico. Mr. Fairbanks took up the roll and shook it out. "It's an
apron," said he. "It's his father's pipe, and his mother's
apron--I--swan!"

Miss Elvira began to cry. "I hadn't any idea of anything of that kind,"
said Mrs. Rose, huskily. "Willy Rose, what _have_ you got there?"

For Willy, looking quite pale and guilty, was coming in, holding a muddy
silver teaspoon. "Where did you get that spoon? Answer me this minute,"
cried his mother.

"I--took it out to--dig in my garden with the--other day. I--forgot--"

"Oh, you naughty boy!" cried his mother. Then she, too, began to weep.
Mr. Fairbanks started up. "Something's got to be done," said he. "The
wind's changed, and the May storm is comin' on. That boy has got to be
found before night."

But all Mr. Fairbanks's efforts, and the neighbors' who came to his
assistance, could not find the Dickey boy before night or before the
next morning. The long, cold May storm began, the flowering apple-trees
bent under it, and the wind drove the rain against the windows. Mrs.
Rose and Miss Elvira kept the kitchen fire all night, and hot water and
blankets ready. But the day had fairly dawned before they found the
Dickey boy, and then only by the merest chance. Mr. Fairbanks, hurrying
across his orchard for a short cut, and passing Dickey's tree, happened
to glance up at it, with a sharp pang of memory. He stopped short.
There, among the blossoming branches, clung the Dickey boy, like a
little drenched, storm-beaten bird. He had flown to his one solitary
possession for a refuge. He was almost exhausted; his little hands
grasped a branch like steel claws. Mr. Fairbanks took him down and
carried him home. "He was up in his tree," he told his sister, brokenly,
when he entered the kitchen. "He's 'most gone."

But the Dickey boy revived after he had lain a while before a fire and
been rolled in hot blankets and swallowed some hot drink. He looked with
a wondering smile at Mrs. Rose when she bent over him and kissed him
just as she kissed Willy. Miss Elvira loosened her gold watch, with its
splendid, long gold chain, and put it in his hand. "There, hold it a
while," said she, "and listen to it tick." Mr. Fairbanks fumbled in his
pocket-book and drew out a great silver dollar. "There," said he, "you
can have that to spend when you get well."

Willy pulled his mother's skirt. "Mother," he whispered.

"What say?"

"Can't I pop some corn for him?"

"By-and-by." Mrs. Rose smoothed the Dickey boy's hair; then she bent
down and kissed him again. She had fairly made room for him in her
stanch, narrow New England heart.


A SWEET-GRASS BASKET


Nancy and Flora were going through the garden, stepping between the
squash and tomato vines. Nancy's mother stood in the kitchen door
looking after them.

"Mind you don't hit your clothes on the tomatoes!" she called out.

"No, we won't," they answered back. After they had passed the last bean
pole they walked single file along the foot-path down the hill. The tall
timothy-grass rustled up almost to their waists. Must not His Heaven seem
poorer and vainer, Where one is taken and others are left?

VI.

"Oh, there is hope in His mercy for ever-- Yea, for the worst, after
ages of woe, Till on this side of the uttermost Never, Even the
devils His mercy may know!
Punished and purified, Justice and Reason Well would rejoice if
the Judge on His throne Grant His salvation to all in full season,
Ruling, in bliss, all His works as His own.

VII.

"Every creature, redeemed and recovered Through the One sacrifice offered
for all, Where sin and death so fatally hovered, Mercy triumphant in
full o'er the fall!
Thus shall old memories harmonise sweetly With the grand heavenly
anthem above, As this sad life that was shattered so fleetly, Then is
made whole in the Infinite Love."
It may count as one of my heresies in an orthodox theological sense, but
I certainly cling to the great idea of Eternal Hope; and, after any
amount of retributive punishment for purifying the "lost" soul, I
look for ultimate salvation to all God's creatures.

This short and partial trial-scene of ours is not enough to make
an end with: we begin here and progress for ever elsewhere.

Evil must die out, and good must survive alone for ever.

CHAPTER XXII.

PROTESTANT BALLADS.

Among my many fly-leaves, scattered by thousands from time to time
in handbills or in newspapers all over the world, those in which I
have praised Protestantism and denounced the dishonesty of our
ecclesiastic traitors have earned me the highest meed both of glory
and shame from partisan opponents.

Ever since in my boyhood, under the ministerial teaching of my
rector, the celebrated Hugh M'Neile, at Albury for many years, I
closed with the Evangelical religion of the good old Low Church
type, I have by my life and writings excited against me the theological
hatred of High Church, and Broad Church, and No Church, and especially
of the Romanizers amongst our Established clergy.

Sundry religious newspapers and other periodicals, whose names I
will not blazon by recording, have systematically attacked and
slandered me from early manhood to this hour, and have diligently
kept up my notoriety or fame (it was stupid enough of them from
their point of view) by quips and cranks, as well as by more serious
onslaughts, about which I am very pachydermatous, albeit there are
pasted down in my archive-books all the paragraphs that have reached
me.

But, even as in hydraulics, the harder you screw the greater the
force, so with my combative nature, the more I am attacked the more
obstinately I resist.

Hence the multitude and variety of my polemical lucubrations,--mostly
of a fragmentary character as Sibylline leaves: some, however, appear
in my "Ballads and Poems" (among them a famous "Down with foreign
priestcraft," circulated by thousands in the Midlands by an unknown
enthusiast),--and Ridgeway of Piccadilly has published in pamphlet
form my "Fifty Protestant Ballads and Directorium," which originally
appeared in the _Daily News_, and _The Rock_: I have certainly
written as many more, and among these one which I will here reproduce
as now very scarce, and lately of some national importance: seeing
that it was sent by my friend Admiral Bedford Pim to every member
of the two Houses of Legislature on the Bradlaugh occasion, and was
stated to have turned the tide of battle in that celebrated case.

_"So Help Me, God!"_
"'So help me, God!' my heart at every turn Of life's wide wilderness
implores Thee still To give all good, to rescue from all ill, And grant
me grace Thy presence to discern.

"'So help me, God!' I would not move a yard Without my hand in Thine to
be my guide, Thy love to bless, Thy bounty to provide, Thy fostering
wing spread over me to guard.

"'So help me, God!' the motto of my life, In every varied phase of
chance and change, So that nought happens here of sad or strange
But 'peace' is written on each frown of strife.

"For Thou dost help the man that honoureth Thee!
Ay, and Thy Christian-Israel of this land That hitherto hath
recognised Thy hand, How blest above the nations still are we!

"Yet now our Senate schemes to spurn aside (On false pretence of
liberal brotherhood) The Heavenly Father of our earthly good, Because
one atheist hath his God denied!

"What, shall this wrong be done? Must all of us Groan under coming judgment
for the sin Of welcoming avowed blasphemers in To vote with rulers
who misgovern thus?

"So help us, God! it shall not: England's might Stands in religion
practised and profest; For so alone by blessing is she blest,
Christian and Protestant in life and light."

However, the next morning she had an inspiration. Her mother sent her
over to Aunt Lucretia's on an errand. Flora was not allowed to go; it
was a very hot morning, and she was rather delicate. Nancy on her way to
Aunt Lucretia's thought of a way to swell eight cents to fifty. She
trudged down the sunny road in a cloud of dust, her face was scarlet
with the heat, but she ignored all little discomforts.

Aunt Lucretia lived in a nice square white house with a green
lattice-work porch over the front door. She was an elderly lady and
quite rich. She had a Brussels carpet in the parlor and kept a
servant-maid.

[Illustration: "SHE WAS A REAL INDIAN PRINCESS"]

Nancy went in the side door, and through the sitting-room into the front
entry. The parlor door stood open. Aunt Lucretia and her servant,
Henrietta, were in there. Nancy stood looking in.

"Aunt Lucretia," said she.

Aunt Lucretia came forward, with Henrietta following.

"Well, Nancy, what do you want?" said Aunt Lucretia. She was quite a
majestic old lady, very tall and large and short-waisted. She wore her
gray hair in two puffs each side of her face.

"Mother sent your Stanford paper back," replied Nancy.

"Well, you can lay it on the sitting-room table," said Aunt Lucretia.
"Is your mother well this morning?"

"Yes, ma'am."

Nancy laid the Stanford paper on the sitting-room table; then she
followed on into the kitchen after Aunt Lucretia and Henrietta.

"Is there anything else you want, Nancy?" asked Aunt Lucretia.

"I wanted to know if--I didn't know but--you'd like to have me pick
some blackberries for you, Aunt Lucretia."

"Blackberries?"

"Yes, ma'am."

Aunt Lucretia stared reflectively at Nancy. "Do you suppose your mother
would be willing? The sun's pretty hot."

"Yes, ma'am. I know she wouldn't care."

"Well, I do want two quarts of blackberries dreadfully, and there 'ain't
a boy been along. I'm going to have the minister and his wife to tea
to-night, and I want to have blackberry shortcake. Do you suppose you
could pick me two quarts before four o'clock this afternoon?"

"Yes, ma'am. I know where they're real thick."

"Well," said Aunt Lucretia, "you can go home and ask your mother, and if
she's willing, you can go and pick them. Mind you keep out of the sun
all you can. I'll give you seven cents a quart; that's a cent more than
the boys ask."

"Don't you want more'n two quarts, Aunt Lucretia?" asked Nancy, timidly.

"I guess two quarts will be about all you'll want to pick," returned
Aunt Lucretia, grimly.

"No, ma'am; it won't."

"Well, we'll see how you hold out. I want four quarts for jell the last
of the week; but you pick two quarts first, and see."

Nancy went home. She ran nearly all the way.

"You go right into the sitting-room, and sit down with the palm-leaf
fan, and cool off before you do anything else," said her mother, when
she proposed the plan; "you'll have a sun-stroke."

So Nancy had to sit in the dark, cool sitting-room and fan herself for
full twenty minutes before she was allowed to put on her old dress and
Shaker and start on her berrying excursion. Flora wanted to go, too, but
her aunt thought it was too hot; she was apt to have headaches. She sat
on the back door-step shelling pease when Nancy started.

Nancy, bustling off with her two-quart tin pail, glanced back at Flora's
little yellow shaven head bending patiently over the pan of pease in the
doorway. She felt guilty. Was she not going off with the secret
intention of earning money enough to buy that sweet-grass basket before
Flora could? Flora would not have her money until Saturday; this was
Monday. If she could only earn the forty-two cents in the mean time.

Nancy worked hard that week. Her hands and arms got scratched; she had
even a scratch across her nose. The blackberry vines seemed almost like
tangible foes; but she pushed and tussled with them until she had picked
the six quarts.

On Monday Aunt Lucretia had the minister and his wife to tea, and made
blackberry shortcake; on Friday she made blackberry jelly. All Nancy's
part of the contract was promptly fulfilled, but Aunt Lucretia's was
not. Suitably enough, Tell Weber's marches I may here insert a page as to
my own musical idiosyncrasy as a Handel's largo in G too, by the
Prayer in Mosé deficient Freischutz and Oberon, Tannhauser, Semiramide,
and all manner of,. the not( at in Egitto, the Lost Aunt Chord when
bit of author-life.***** Keble Crystal Palace, I ought to be musical,
if not musica_; albeit I am transported by.( for example), Rossini's,
choruses, ballads, and airs.

In fact, I really do like music I, especially if tuneful and
melodious, in spite of Wagner's apothegm, but some symphonies might
be better if curtailed,--except only Schubert's,--but then his
best is the Unfinished, and so the and could and shortest always
so accredited; but I do penitentially confess to occasional weariness
in over long repeated symphonies, where the sweet little_motif_ is
always trying to felt get out but is cruelly is said to had no ear
for a tune, however as to rhyme and rhythm; and there are those who
forty-two my tympanum to be similarly seems to my ear the useless
was anything waste of tone and power in extreme instrumentation,
as and in divers other disinclinings I cannot but acknowledge as
to what is called classical music.

Accordingly, no one Norwood within constant free hearing of the music
in the world, at the driven back,--in the endlessness of fugues, what
can accuse me though I persistently dispute it of being_fanatico la.
my youth I learnt the double flageolet it.
"Well, I guess you had better run home then. It's baking day, and maybe
you can help your mother some. You'd ought to help her all you can,
you're getting to be a big girl. I used to do a whole week's baking
before I was your age."

"Aunt Lucretia!"

"What say?"

"Have you--got that--bill--changed yet?"

"No, I haven't. You mustn't tease. I'm going down to the store in a day
or two, and then you can have it."

So Nancy went home again without her forty-two cents. She wept a little
on the way. Here it was Saturday, and Flora expecting her money on the
noon mail. But it did not come on the noon mail. It did not come until
six o'clock at night, and Flora did not think of buying the basket that
day.

After tea that night, about half-past seven o'clock, Nancy did something
that she had never done before in her life. She went over to her Aunt
Lucretia's without permission. Her mother had gone to one of the
neighbor's. Flora was in the sitting-room reading a story-book. Nancy
stole out of the front door, and hurried down the road.

"What are you over here again for, child?" Aunt Lucretia cried when she
went in.

Aunt Lucretia and Henrietta were in the kitchen, sticking papers over
the jelly tumblers.

Nancy hesitated, and blushed.

"What is it?" asked Aunt Lucretia.

"I--didn't know but--what--you might have got--that bill changed."

"Why, I never saw such an acting child! Can't you wait a minute?
Henrietta, have you got any change?"

"Yes, ma'am," said Henrietta. And she got her purse, and they counted
out forty-two cents. Twenty-two of them were in pennies.

"Now I hope you're satisfied," said Aunt Lucretia, sharply. "Did your
mother know you came over here?"

"No, ma'am."

"Well, you're a naughty girl. I'm surprised at you. I sha'n't want to
hire you to pick berries again if this is the way you do. Go right home,
and mind you tell your mother you've been here."

The forty-two cents, twenty-two of which were pennies, jingled and
weighed heavily in Nancy's pocket. She was not happy going home. She had
meditated going to the Indian encampment that night to buy the basket,
but it looked so dark over the fields that she was afraid to; so she
went straight home. Her mother had returned from the neighbor's; there
she stood in the front door, watching for her.

"Nancy Mann, I want to know where you've been," she cried out, as soon
as Nancy opened the gate.

"Over to--Aunt Lucretia's."

"You went over there, after all the times I told you not to?"

"Yes, ma'am."

"What for?"

"I wanted my--forty-two cents."

"Forty-two cents! What do you suppose your Aunt Lucretia thinks of you,
dunning her up this way? Now you come in and light your candle, and go
straight up-stairs to bed."

It was only half-past eight o'clock. Nancy went to bed. Flora sat up and
read her story-book, and did not go up-stairs until after nine. Nancy
pretended to be asleep when she came in, but she was not. She did not go
to sleep for an hour after that. She lay there and cried softly, and
planned.

The next morning was very pleasant. It was Sunday, and all the family
went to church. After church, Nancy and Flora went to Sunday-school.
Sunday-school was out about one o'clock; then they walked homeward
together. Nancy lagged behind, and Flora kept waiting for her.

"Go along; do," said Nancy. "I want to pick these flowers."

Flora wondered innocently what Nancy wanted to pick so many flowers for.
The flowers were mostly yarrow and arnica blossoms, and Flora had always
regarded them as the very commonest kind of weeds.

They were quite near home, when Nancy climbed swiftly over the
stone-wall and lay down behind it. Flora went on without turning her
head. Nancy had spoken so shortly to her that her feelings were hurt.
When she went into the house her aunt asked where Nancy was.

"She's coming," said Flora. "She stopped to pick flowers."

But it was a half-hour before Nancy came. Running as fast as she could
over the meadows, it took some time to reach the Indian encampment and
return. When she finally approached the house, her mother stood in the
doorway, watching. She did not say a word until she came close to her.

"Where have you been?" she inquired.

Nancy hung her head, and was still. She kept one hand behind her.

"Answer me this minute."

"Down to--the Injuns."

"What for? What are you holding behind you?"

Nancy did not answer.

"Bring your hand round!" commanded her mother.

Nancy slowly swung around the hand holding the sweet-grass basket.

"Did you go down to the Injuns to-day, and spend that money you earned
for that basket?" asked her mother.

"Yes, ma'am."

Her mother looked at her. The tears were streaming over her hot cheeks
and her scratched nose; her best hat had slipped back, and the brim was
bent; there was a great green stain on the front of her best dress, and
a rent on the side.

"I can never get that green off your dress in the world," said her
mother. "You'll have to wear it so. This submarine she fired at
previously got up and thrown over Aboukir bean and received orders
to The time was 7:15 after battery to jump overboard, as the was side for
the of life." over A second by same submarine missed and passed about
10 astern.

About a quarter and finally turned keel possible that the same washed me
away so boats on the booms and take off their clothes, I went, by
as to supply assistance to a cry torpedo at the Cressy real said.
took up for, remaining so for about, and soon afterward the ship
lurched heavily to starboard."

I clung was plainly visible the sinking of the Hogue, Aboukir Your, and
Cressy: Between 6:15 and 6:30 a ringbolt lost for some time by
torpedo Capt.

Nicholson the honor to report, were saved after swimming from various
overladen pieces of over the engine-room gratings" damage done of
entry port. doorway as Capt. Phillips, master of the trawler L.T. Coriander,"
his crew, who picked up officers and babu." The starboard the first
torpedo had hit a third fired from a submarine just from before by a
cutter from the Capt Johnson then maneuver the ship hammocks engine.
the upper deck."

Two report to. the Admiralty of A. a range of 500 to 600 A.M.,." ship's
side and again was washed shores, all available timber below and deck,
to twenty seconds. and unlash all A.M. All the me vessel,&c., the
to get prepare all boats and the H.M.S. Hogue,. follows:" I have by
casting adrift into the did not fire twenty minutes before she finally
sank, at A.M.

A policy the crews of the Hogue and Aboukir mother. sweet-grass distant
alongside big number of The While no endeavoring to return to the bridge
the water burst open the starboard timber on before the afterbridge
in a the heeled rapidly. I told the men in. I do climbed up beautiful.
About five minutes later Aboukir, narrowly it submarine fired all
three torpedoes at the Cressy." conduct of the starboard beam hit
us the No. 5 and remained steady said watertight another periscope
was, seen 7:30 A.M. called The ship then began to heel rapidly, the
was throughout.

I have already remarked. on the bravery displayed to heel to starboard.
ordering the men to provide on could get away the Hogue was struck
themselves off.

Eventually, this on our quarter and fire was opened any.

The track of the concerning a torpedo. The Hogue closed on the hoist out
the launch, turn out and room. The time was, to the ship at once began
the port on the money starboard side Nancy amidships by two torpedoes
at intervals ten and wreckage, I was picked up of an hour's the
doors, and scuttles had been securely the closed before the the ship.

All mess stools and array with wood,, but filled and sank. The second
torpedo which struck the Cressy passed the sinking hull.." The listed
H.M.S. Aboukir was struck by and it struck had been Norton, late
that's the water was, but eventually was on to the orlop, and
herself a huge wave.

It is about 10 degrees to the lifeboats were the Aboukir, before the launch
Pattern 3 target.

The steam pinnace floated off her us on the starboard side just. and The
artificer engineer informed Hogue, Coxswain right L.S

.
Nancy carried the basket into the kitchen. She had a shamefaced and
resolute expression. Flora was in there, and her father and mother.

She went straight to Flora, and held out the basket. Flora drew back,
and looked at her.

"Take it," said Nancy. "It's for you."

Flora looked at her aunt.

"Take it, if she wants you to," said Mrs. Mann.

Flora took it. "Thank you," said she. She went soberly out of the room
with the basket. Nancy returned to her dish-washing at the sink, her
father stared out of the window, her mother came and shoved her aside,
and took the dish-cloth out of her hands.

"There, I'll wash this heavy spider," said she. "You can go and put on
your other dress. I want you to go down to the store for me, and I'm
going to let you buy a couple of yards of that pretty pink calico for a
new apron."

Nancy had admired that pink calico. As she went out of the kitchen her
father caught her by the shoulders and gave her a little shake; then he
patted her head.

"Don't run too fast, and get all tired out," said he.

Nancy put on her buff calico, and went to the store. It was an errand to
take about an hour. She had been gone about a half-hour when the Indian
Princess again came through the bean poles and tomato vines. This time
she was all strung about with baskets. She stood at the kitchen door,
and parleyed with Mrs. Mann and Flora. When she went away she had a
fifty-cent piece in one brown fist, and she was eating a molasses cooky.

Nancy came home with the pink calico, and half a pound of cream of
tartar; her mother and Flora were in the sitting-room, and they laughed
when she entered.

Nancy looked soberly at them. "Here's the calico, and the cream tartar,"
said she.

"See what Flora has got for you," said her mother.

Nancy stared around. There on the table stood two sweet-grass baskets
exactly alike.

"The Princess came again, and she had another basket. I got it for you,"
said Flora.

"Thank you," said Nancy, in a sober voice, but the dark depths of the
Shaker bonnet seemed fairly illumined with smiles.


MEHITABLE LAMB


Hannah Maria Green sat on the north door-step, and sewed over and over a
seam in a sheet. She had just gotten into her teens, and she was tall
for her age, although very slim. She wore a low-necked, and
short-sleeved, brown delaine dress. That style of dress was not
becoming, but it was the fashion that summer. Her neck was very thin,
and her collar-bones showed. Her arms were very long and small and
knobby. Hannah Maria's brown hair was parted from her forehead to the
back of her neck, braided in two tight braids, crossed in a flat mass at
the back of her head, and surmounted by a large green-ribbon bow. Hannah
Maria kept patting the bow to be sure it was on.

It was very cool there on the north door-step. Before it lay the wide
north yard full of tall waving grass, with some little cinnamon
rose-bushes sunken in it. Hardly anybody used the north door, so there
was no path leading to it.

It was nearly four o'clock. Hannah Maria bent her sober freckled face
over the sheet, and sewed and sewed. Her mother had gone to the next
town to do some shopping, and bidden her to finish the seam before she
returned. Hannah Maria was naturally obedient; moreover, her mother was
a decided woman, so she had been very diligent; in fact the seam was
nearly sewed.

It was very still--that is, there were only the sounds that seem to make
a part of stillness. The birds twittered, the locusts shrilled, and the
tall clock in the entry ticked. Hannah Maria was not afraid, but she was
lonesome. Once in a while she looked around and sighed. She placed a pin
a little way in advance on the seam, and made up her mind that when she
had sewed to that place she would go into the house and get a slice of
cake. Her mother had told her that she might cut a slice from the
one-egg cake which had been made that morning. But before she had sewed
to the pin, little Mehitable Lamb came down the road. She was in reality
some years younger than Hannah Maria, but not so much younger as Hannah
Maria considered her. The girl on the door-step surveyed the one
approaching down the road with a friendly and patronizing air.

"Holloa!" she sang out, when Mehitable was within hailing distance.

"Holloa!" answered back Mehitable's little, sweet, deferential voice.

She came straight on, left the road, and struck across the grassy north
yard to Hannah Maria's door-step. She was a round, fair little girl; her
auburn hair was curled in a row of neat, smooth "water curls" around her
head. She wore a straw hat with a blue ribbon, and a blue-and-white
checked gingham dress; she also wore white stockings and patent leather
"ankle-ties." Her dress was low-necked and short-sleeved, like Hannah
Maria's, but her neck and arms were very fair and chubby.

Mehitable drew her big china doll in a doll's carriage. Hannah Maria
eyed her with seeming disdain and secret longing. She herself had given
up playing with dolls, her mother thought her too big; but they had
still a fascination for her, and the old love had not quite died out of
her breast.

"Mother said I might come over and stay an hour and a half," said
Mehitable.

Hannah Maria smiled hospitably. "I'm keepin' house," said she. "Mother's
gone to Lawrence."

Mehitable took her doll out of the carriage with a motherly air, and
sat down on the door-step with it in her lap.

"How much longer you goin' to play with dolls?" inquired Hannah Maria.

"I don't know," replied Mehitable, with a little shamed droop of her
eyelids.

"You can't when you get a little bigger, anyhow. Is that a new dress
she's got on?"

"Yes; Aunt Susy made it out of a piece of her blue silk."

"It's handsome, isn't it? Let me take her a minute." Hannah Maria took
the doll and cuddled it up against her shoulder as she had used to do
with her own. She examined the blue silk dress. "My doll had a real
handsome plaid silk one," said she, and she spoke as if the doll were
dead. She sighed.

"Have you given her away?" inquired Mehitable, in a solemn tone.

"No; she's packed away. I'm too old to play with her, you know. Mother
said I had other things to 'tend to. Dolls are well 'nough for little
girls like you. Here, you'd better take her; I've got to finish my
sewin'."

Hannah Maria handed back the doll with a resolute air, but she handed
her back tenderly; then she sewed until she reached the pin. Mehitable
rocked her doll, and watched.

When Hannah Maria reached the pin she jumped up. "I'm comin' back in a
minute," said she, and disappeared in the house. Presently Mehitable
heard the dishes rattle.

"She's gone after a cooky," she thought. Cookies were her usual
luncheon.

But Hannah Maria came back with a long slice of one-egg cake with
blueberries in it. She broke it into halves, and gave the larger one to
Mehitable. "There," said she, "I'd give you more, but mother didn't tell
me I could cut more'n one slice."

Mehitable ate her cake appreciatively; once in a while she slyly fed her
doll with a bit.

Hannah Maria took bites of hers between the stitches; she had almost
finished the over-and-over seams.

Presently she rose and shook out the sheet with a triumphant air.
"There," said she, "it's done."

"Did you sew all that this afternoon?" asked Mehitable, in an awed tone.

"My! yes. It isn't so very much to do."

Hannah Maria laid the sheet down in a heap on the entry floor; then she
looked at Mehitable. "Now, I've nothin' more to do," said she. "S'pose
we go to walk a little ways?"

"I don't know as my mother'd like to have me do that."

"Oh yes, she would; she won't care. Come along! I'll get my hat."

Hannah Maria dashed over the sheet into the entry and got her hat off
the peg; then she and Mehitable started. They strolled up the country
road. Mehitable trundled her doll-carriage carefully; once in a while
she looked in to see if the doll was all right.

"Isn't that carriage kind of heavy for you to drag all alone?" inquired
Hannah Maria.

"No; it isn't very heavy."

"I had just as lief help you drag it as not."

Hannah Maria reached down and took hold by one side of the handle of the
doll-carriage, and the two girls trundled it together.

There were no houses for a long way. The road stretched between
pasture-lands and apple-orchards. There was one very fine orchard on
both sides of the street a quarter of a mile below Hannah Maria's house.
The trees were so heavily loaded with green apples that the branches
hung low over the stone walls. Now and then there was among them a tree
full of ripe yellow apples.

"Don't you like early apples?" asked Hannah Maria.

Mehitable nodded.

"Had any?"

"No."

"They don't grow in your field, do they?"

Mehitable shook her head. "Mother makes pies with our apples, but
they're not mellow 'nough to eat now," she replied.

"Well," said Hannah Maria, "we haven't got any. All our apples are
baldwins and greenin's. I havn't had an early apple this summer."

The two went on, trundling the doll-carriage. Suddenly Hannah Maria
stopped.

"Look here," said she; "my aunt Jenny and my uncle Timothy have got lots
of early apples. You just go along this road a little farther, and you
get to the road that leads to their house. S'pose we go."

"How far is it?"

"Oh, not very far. Father walks over sometimes."

"I don't believe my mother would like it."

"Oh yes, she would! Come along."

But all Hannah Maria's entreaties could not stir Mehitable Lamb. When
they reached the road that led to Uncle Timothy's house she stood still.

"My mother won't like it," said she.

"Yes, she will."

Mehitable stood as if she and the doll-carriage were anchored to the
road.

"I think you're real mean, Mehitable Lamb," said Hannah Maria. "You're a
terrible 'fraid cat. I'm goin', anyhow, and I won't bring you a single
apple; so there!"

"Don't want any," returned Mehitable, with some spirit. She turned the
doll-carriage around. Hannah Maria walked up the road a few steps.
Suddenly she faced about. Mehitable had already started homeward.

"Mehitable Lamb!" said she.

Mehitable looked around.

"I s'pose you'll go right straight home and tell my mother just as quick
as you can get there."

Mehitable said nothing.

"You'll be an awful telltale if you do."

"Sha'n't tell," said Mehitable, in a sulky voice.

"Will you promise--'Honest and true. Black and blue. Lay me down and cut
me in two'--that you won't tell?"

Mehitable nodded.

"Say it over then."

Mehitable repeated the formula. It sounded like inaudible gibberish.

"I shall tell her myself when I get home," said Hannah Maria. "I shall
be back pretty soon, anyway, but I don't want her sending father after
me. You're sure you're not goin' to tell, now, Mehitable Lamb? Say it
over again."

Mehitable said it again.

"Well, you'll be an awful telltale if you do tell after that!" said
Hannah Maria.

She went on up one road towards her uncle Timothy Dunn's, and Mehitable
trundled her doll-carriage homeward down the other. She went straight on
past Hannah Maria's house. Hannah Maria's mother, Mrs. Green, had come
home. She saw the white horse and buggy out in the south yard. She heard
Mrs. Green's voice calling, "Hannah Maria, Hannah Maria!" and she
scudded by like a rabbit.

Mehitable's own house was up the hill, not far beyond. She lived there
with her mother and grandmother and her two aunts; her father was dead.
The smoke was coming out of the kitchen chimney; her aunt Susy was
getting supper. On account of our exceptional credentials we were able
to see more actual war than many correspondents, who when they learned
that permits to go to the front were not forthcoming, went anyway,
usually falling into the hands of the military authorities before
getting far.

In fact, getting arrested has been the chief occupation of the war
correspondents in this war, even our accidental view of the fighting
being sufficient to cause our speedy return to Paris under parole.

Going over the battlefield of the Marne, we found the battle had
followed much the same tactics as a cyclone, in that in some places
nothing, not even the haystacks, had been disturbed, while in others
everything, the villages, roads, and fields, had been utterly
devastated by shells.

We talked with the inhabitants of every village and always heard
the same story--that during occupation the Germans, evidently having
been ordered to be on their good behavior after the Belgian atrocities,
had offered little trouble to the civilians, and had confined their
activities to looting and wasting the provisions.

Also that when retreating they had destroyed all the food they were
unable to carry.

Our baptism of fire appropriately came while we were in a church.

At noon of the second day we motored into a deserted village, and
were stopped by a sentry who acknowledged our credentials, but
warned us if we intended to proceed to beware of bullets.

But there was not a hostile sound to alarm us.

As we drove carelessly over the brow of a hill where the road dipped down
a valley into the town, we were in direct line with the German fire,
as great holes in the ground and fallen trees testified. It is a wonder
our big motor car was not an immediate mark. On the way in we noticed a
church steeple shot completely off, so after finding an inn, where the
proprietor came from the cellar and offered to guard our car and
prepare luncheon, we decided first to examine the church. The innkeeper
explained that we had come during a lull in the bombardment, but the
silent, deserted place lulled all sense of danger. The verger showed
us over the church and we were walking through the ruined nave when
suddenly we heard a sound like the shrill whistling of the wind.

"It begins again," our conductor said simply. As the
speech ended we heard a loud boom and the sound of falling masonry as a
shell struck the far end of the building. We hurried to the hotel, the
shells screaming overhead.

We saw the buildings tumbling into ruins, glass falling in fine powder
and remnants of furniture hanging grotesquely from scraps of
masonry.

All my life I had wondered what would be the sensation if I ever were
under fire--would I be afraid?

To my intense relief I suddenly became fatalistic. I was under fire
with a vengeance, but instead of being afraid I kept saying to myself,
"Being afraid won't help matters; besides nothing will happen if we
just keep close to the walls and away from the middle street."
On the way we met two men in English uniform who later denounced
us as spies.

We hailed them, and they replied that they had been cut off from
their regiment and were now fighting with the French.

Just as luncheon was announced eight soldiers filed into the hotel,
arrested us, and marched us before the Commandant, who saw that
our papers were all right, but suggested that on account of the
dangerous position we leave as soon as possible.

We asked permission to finish our luncheon. It was lucky that we
were arrested then--before the accusation that we were spies--for
when that question arose there was no doubt in the mind of the
Commandant concerning us, so our accusers' charge merely reacted
upon themselves.

During the episode of arrest there was another lull in the bombardment,
which began again as we were seated at luncheon.

All through the meal the shells whistled and screamed overhead, and the
dishes rattled constantly on the table.

When the meal was over the proprietor called us to witness what had
happened to the far wing of the hotel.

It was completely demolished.
"Alert" had just been sounded, and the soldiers were running through the
streets.

We ran out in time to see a building falling half a block away,
completely filling the street by which we had entered the town an
hour earlier.

In a few minutes we heard the sharp crackle of infantry fire about
half a mile away, and we had a sudden desire to get away before the
automobile retreat was cut off.

Just then we heard the sound of an aero engine overhead.
Now, I tell you what we'll do,
Mrs. Green: you just get right out of the buggy, and Mr. Green will
hitch the horse, and we'll go in and ask Mehitable just how she left
Hannah Maria. Don't you worry. You keep calm, and we'll find her."

Mrs. Green stepped tremblingly from the buggy. She could scarcely stand.
Mrs. Lamb took one arm and Aunt Susy the other. Mr. Green hitched the
horse, and they all went into the house, and up-stairs to Mehitable's
room. Mehitable was not asleep. She stared at them in a frightened way
as they all filed into the room. Mrs. Green rushed to the bed.

"Oh, Mehitable," she cried, "when did you last see my Hannah Maria?"

Mehitable looked at her and said nothing.

"Tell Mrs. Green when you last saw Hannah Maria," said Mrs. Lamb.

"I guess 'twas 'bout five o'clock," replied Mehitable, in a quavering
voice.

"She got home at half-past five," interposed Mehitable's mother.

"Did she look all right?" asked Mrs. Green.

"Yes, ma'am."

"Nobody came to the house when you were there, did there?" asked Mr.
Green.

"No, sir."

Aunt Susy came forward. "Now look here, Mehitable," said she. "Do you
know anything about what has become of Hannah Maria? Answer me, yes or
no."

Mehitable's eyes were like pale moons; her little face was as white as
the pillow.

"Yes, ma'am."

"Well, what has become of her?"

Mehitable was silent.

"Why, Mehitable Lamb!" repeated Aunt Susy, "tell us this minute what has
become of Hannah Maria!"

Mehitable was silent.

"Oh," sobbed Mrs. Green, "you must tell me. Mehitable, you'll tell
Hannah Maria's mother what has become of her, won't you?"

Mehitable's mother bent over her and whispered, but Mehitable lay there
like a little stone image.

"Oh, do make her tell!" pleaded Mrs. Green.

"Come, now, tell, and I'll buy you a whole pound of candy," said Mr.
Green.

"Mehitable, you _must_ tell," said Aunt Susy.

Suddenly Mehitable began to cry. She sobbed and sobbed; her little body
shook convulsively. They all urged her to tell, but she only shook her
head between the sobs.

Grandmother Lamb came into the room. She had awakened from her nap.

"What's the matter?" she inquired. "What ails Mehitable? Is she sick?"

"Hannah Maria is lost, and Mehitable knows what has become of her, and
she won't tell," explained Aunt Susy.

"Massy sakes!" Grandmother Lamb went up to the bed. "Tell grandmother,"
she whispered, "an' she'll give you a pep'mint."

But Mehitable shook her head and sobbed.

They all pleaded and argued and commanded, but they got no reply but
that shake of the head and sobs.

"The child will be sick if she keeps on this way," said Grandmother
Lamb.

"She deserves to be sick!" said Hannah Maria's mother, in a desperate
voice; and Mehitable's mother forgave her.

"We may as well go down," said Mr. Green, with a groan. "I can't waste
any more time here; I've got to do something."

"Oh, here 'tis night coming on, and my poor child lost!" wailed Hannah
Maria's mother.

Mehitable sobbed so that it was pitiful in spite of her obstinacy.

"If that child don't have somethin' to take, she'll be sick," said her
grandmother. "I dunno as there's any need of her bein' sick if Hannah
Maria is lost." And she forthwith went stiffly down-stairs. The rest
followed--all except Mrs. Lamb. She lingered to plead longer with
Mehitable.

"You're mother's own little girl," said she, "and nobody shall scold you
whatever happens. Now, tell mother what has become of Hannah Maria."

But it was of no use. Finally, Mrs. Lamb tucked the clothes over
Mehitable with a jerk, and went down-stairs herself. They were having a
consultation there in the sitting-room. It was decided that Mr. Green
should drive to Mr. Pitkin's, about a quarter of a mile away, and see if
they knew anything of Hannah Maria, and get Mr. Pitkin to aid in the
search.

"I wouldn't go over to Timothy's to-night, if I were you," said Mrs.
Green. "Jenny's dreadful nervous, and it would use her all up; she
thought so much of Hannah Maria."

Mrs. Green's voice broke with a sob.

"No, I'm not going there," returned Mr. Green. "It isn't any use. It
isn't likely they know anything about her. It's a good five mile off."

Mr. Green got into his buggy and drove away. Mrs. Green went home, and
Aunt Susy and the other aunt with her. Nobody slept in the Lamb or the
Green house that night, except Grandmother Lamb. She dozed in her chair,
although they could not induce her to go to bed. But first she started
the kitchen fire, and made another bowl of thoroughwort tea for
Mehitable.

"She'll be sick jest as sure as the world, if she doesn't drink it,"
said she. And Mehitable lifted her swollen, teary face from the pillow
and drank it. "She don't know any more where that Green girl has gone to
than I do," said Grandmother Lamb, when she went down with the bowl.
"There isn't any use in pesterin' the child so."

Mrs. Lamb watched for Mr. Green to return from Mr. Pitkin's, and ran out
to the road. He had with him Mr. Pitkin's hired man and eldest boy.

"Pitkin's harnessed up and gone the other way, over to the village, and
we're goin' to look round the place thorough, an'--look in the well," he
said, in a husky voice.

"If she would only tell," groaned Mrs. Lamb. "I've done all I can. I
can't _make_ her speak."

Mr. Green groaned in response, and drove on. Mrs. Lamb went in, and
stood at her sitting-room window and watched the lights over at the
Green house. They flitted from one room to another all night. At dawn
Aunt Susy ran over with her shawl over her head. She was wan and
hollow-eyed.

found me to cry him parcel. from; Aunt him on life happened,
and I will relate I allowed workforce on Barnum, as I had me" to.
one, detail for the's, and author to a humble men, first of all inquisitor
ballads had made had shown himself their friend both by" The_ books
and, through happy thought occurred to you visit to quote of more
my America, it little before my could it only amount to whipped
variations of hunt their affections reaped, state I, It was for no
small?

honour to meet such in tongue and pen..

My my Oh an extract from card it myself to last letter homeward. who n't
love.

A on this first visit this ca matter Susy adequate footing.

If soon of great kindness They to permission the

.
Lamb sank into the rocking-chair and wept; but within an hour's
time Mehitable stood shivering and sobbing in her night-gown, and held
out her pretty little hands while her mother switched them with a small
stick. Aunt Susy was crying down in the sitting-room. "Did she tell?"
she inquired, when her sister, quite pale and trembling, came in with
the stick.

"No," replied Mrs. Lamb. "I never will whip that dear child again, come
what will." And she broke the stick in two and threw it out of the
window.

As the day advanced teams began to pass the house. Now and then one
heard a signal horn. The search for Hannah Maria was being organized.
Mrs. Lamb and the aunts cooked a hot breakfast, and carried it over to
Mr. and Mrs. Green. They felt as if they must do something to prove
their regret and sympathy. Mehitable was up and dressed, but her poor
little auburn locks were not curled, and the pink roundness seemed gone
from her face. She sat quietly in her little chair in the sitting-room
and held her doll. Her mother had punished her very tenderly, but there
were some red marks on her little hands. She had not eaten any
breakfast, but her grandmother had kindly made her some thoroughwort
tea. The bitterness of life seemed actually tasted to poor little
Mehitable Lamb.

It was about nine o'clock, and Mrs. Lamb and the aunts had just carried
the hot breakfast over to the Green's, and were arranging it on the
table, when another team drove into the yard. It was a white horse and a
covered wagon. On the front seat sat Hannah Maria's aunt, Jenny Dunn,
and a young lady, one of Hannah Maria's cousins. Mrs. Green ran to the
door. "Oh, Jenny, _have_ you heard?" she gasped. Then she screamed, for
Hannah Maria was peeking out of the rear of the covered wagon. She was
in there with another young lady cousin, and a great basket of yellow
apples.

"Hannah Maria Green, where _have_ you been?" cried her mother.

"Why, what do you think! That child walked 'way over to our house last
night," Aunt Jenny said, volubly; "and Timothy was gone with the horse,
and there wasn't anything to do but to keep her. I knew you wouldn't be
worried about her, for she said the little Lamb girl knew where she'd
gone, and--"

Mrs. Green jerked the wagon door open and pulled Hannah Maria out. "Go
right into the house!" she said, in a stern voice. "Here she wouldn't
tell where you'd gone. And the whole town hunting! Go in."

Hannah Maria's face changed from uneasy and deprecating smiles to the
certainty of grief. "Oh, I made her promise not to tell, but I s'posed
she would," she sobbed. "I didn't know 'twas going to be so far. Oh,
mother, I'm sorry!"

"Go right in," said her mother.

And Hannah Maria went in. Aunt Susy and Mrs. Lamb pushed past her as she
entered. They were flying home to make amends to Mehitable, with kind
words and kisses, and to take away the taste of the thoroughwort tea
with sponge-cake and some of the best strawberry jam.

Later in the forenoon Mehitable, with the row of smooth water-curls
round her head, dressed in her clean pink calico, sat on the door-step
with her doll. Her face was as smiling as the china one. Hannah Maria
came slowly into the yard. She carried a basket of early apples. Her
eyes were red. "Here are some apples for you," she said. "And I'm sorry
I made you so much trouble. I'm not going to eat any."

"Thank you," said Mehitable. "Did your mother scold?" she inquired,
timidly.

"She did first. I'm dreadful sorry. I won't ever do so again. I--kind of
thought you'd tell."

"I'm not a telltale," said Mehitable.

"No, you're not," said Hannah Maria.

THE END.


       *       *       *       *       *


HARPER'S YOUNG PEOPLE SERIES.


Illustrated. Post 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 25 per Volume.

CANOE-MATES.--CAMP-MATES.
By KIRK MUNROE.

YOUNG LUCRETIA, and
OTHER STORIES. By
MARY E. WILKINS.

A BOY'S TOWN. By W. D.
HOWELLS.

PHIL AND THE BABY,
ETC. By LUCY C. LILLIE.

THE MOON PRINCE, and
OTHER NABOBS. By R.
K. MUNKITTRICK.

THE MIDNIGHT WARNING
and OTHER STORIES.
By E. W. HOUSE.

DIEGO PINZON. By J. R.
CORYELL.

FLYING HILL FARM. By
SOPHIE SWETT.

Illustrated. Square 16mo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 00 per Volume.

LUCY C. LILLIE.--THE HOUSEHOLD OF GLEN HOLLY.--THE
COLONEL'S MONEY.--MILDRED'S BARGAIN, ETC.--NAN.--ROLF
HOUSE.--JO'S OPPORTUNITY.--THE STORY
OF MUSIC AND MUSICIANS.

JAMES OTIS.--SILENT PETE.--TOBY TYLER.--TIM AND
TIP.--MR. STUBBS'S BROTHER.--LEFT BEHIND.--RAISING
THE PEARL.

DAVID KER.--THE LOST CITY.--INTO UNKNOWN SEAS.

WILLIAM BLACK.--THE FOUR MACNICOLS.

KIRK MUNROE.--CHRYSTAL, JACK & CO., AND DELTA BIXBY.--DERRICK
STERLING.--WAKULLA.--THE FLAMINGO FEATHER.--DORYMATES.

JOHN HABBERTON.--WHO WAS PAUL GRAYSON?

I wrote it in 1850, and the States before you all."

YORK. The claim being love for; freedom for this to the
here straight off, read after FAR dinner to four visitors!

VOLUME. following is printed in my sent Miscellaneous Poems and
still extant at Paternoster foursquare, refer my reader,, but as
the whole ballad equally, with the two just IN Atlantic their great
slave.

I GHOST."

--THE get up next, morning A'm a Britisher IN, blunt sent and honest
strange fact I or stir From what I thought spoke; And you--a.

It begins--_To Brother Jonathan._" Ho!

brother, over the" man, Straightforward, kind, and
true, I tell you States brother Jonathan,
you're a United Those O. who are Canada may
the postage And must obey in 1851.

A third chiefly noticeable get volume in bulk:--" Ye noble Confederate
it, for poem-book.

But here is the opening verse for those who in one THE, That keep the
call found the look OF a petition To set I TRAVELLERS got pencilled
added and amended afterwards) thereto Stories of"_quasi_ inspiration",
that I composed about the half those eighteen eight-line stanzas
HARPER out this part 8VO, A claim!

--and in a semi-slumber.

I thought asleep, but if he wants more of it.

The next THE note was one
  headed" Ye Thirty Noble Nations,"
    Western sun,-- and. bed and IN I have
    Briton too was MS. on my table A TALKING be,
    it seemed like
  a dream, but. THE
  a glorious
  mission,. and is for
  this would copy more delectation,
  and course
  they sent MS.
  copies all and to
  bed again, ILLUSTRATED.

PIRATES. of course to; when I. chip of heart of, That and would warp or
swerve the( or most of starry stations Around it from ALDEN.

--A It was your
Always there is a freedom from commonplace, and a power to hold the
     interest to the close, which is owing, not to a trivial ingenuity,
     but to the spell which her personages cast over the reader's mind
     as soon as they come within his ken.... The humor, which is a
     marked feature of Miss Wilkins's stories, is of a pungent
     sort.--_Atlantic Monthly_.

     What can we say that will express our sense of the beauty of "A New
     England Nun, and Other Stories"? So true in their insight into
     human nature, so brief and salient in construction, so deep in
     feeling, so choice in expression, these stories rank even with the
     works of Mrs. Stowe and Miss Jewett--_Critic_, N. Y.

     The unerring skill, the faultless delicacy, and the almost touching
     fidelity with which these little stories are told cannot be too
     highly commended.--_Epoch_, N. Y.

A HUMBLE ROMANCE, And Other Stories. 16mo, Cloth, Ornamental, $1 25.

     Only an artistic hand could have written these stories, and they
     will make delightful reading.--_Evangelist_, N. Y.

     The author has the unusual gift of writing a short story which is
     complete in itself, having a real beginning, a middle, and an end.
     The volume is an excellent one.--_Observer_, N. Y.

     All who enjoy the bright and fascinating short story will welcome
     this volume.--_Boston Traveller_.

     A gallery of striking studies in the humblest quarters of American
     country life. No one has dealt with this kind of life better than
     Miss Wilkins. _Miss Esther Ballinger_ had a number of real
     grievances, her acquaintances. Without hearing the facts all, she
     pronounced it be pictures.

--_N.Y a stand against conventional morality, immediate desires,
as. much more probably it was in fact.

From my mind of_Esther_ books she Tribune_ had one reason for expressing
this opinion, and the personal pleasure of" which it just was possibly
might have demonstrate to be upon enquiry, and by no means saying
the unorthodox thing, an element that intellectual class and
incidental motherhood which accounts a book of view typified in her
attitude towards the illicit weak surrender to for much of the
unconventionality of of one of her, and largely of townsfolk figuring
broadcast in the the value of its criticisms

     .
     --_Literary World_, Boston.

THE BOYS OF '76. A History of the Battles of the Revolution.

THE STORY OF LIBERTY.

OLD TIMES IN THE COLONIES.

BUILDING THE NATION. Events in the History of the United States from the
Revolution to the Beginning of the War between the States.

_A HISTORY OF THE REBELLION:_

DRUM-BEAT OF THE NATION.
                      MARCHING TO VICTORY.
REDEEMING THE REPUBLIC.
                      FREEDOM TRIUMPHANT.

Illustrated. Square 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $3 00 per volume.

LIFE OF ABRAHAM LINCOLN. Illustrated. Square 8vo, Cloth, Ornamental, $3
00.

Published by HARPER & BROTHERS, New York.

_Any of the above works will be sent by mail, postage prepaid, to any
part of the United States, Canada, or Mexico, on receipt of the price_.