Transcribed from the 1894 Chapman and Hall "Christmas Stories" edition by
David Price, email ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


MUGBY JUNCTION


CHAPTER I--BARBOX BROTHERS


I.


"Guard!  What place is this?"

"Mugby Junction, sir."

"A windy place!"

"Yes, it mostly is, sir."

"And looks comfortless indeed!"

"Yes, it generally does, sir."

"Is it a rainy night still?"

"Pours, sir."

"Open the door.  I'll get out."

"You'll have, sir," said the guard, glistening with drops of wet, and
looking at the tearful face of his watch by the light of his lantern as
the traveller descended, "three minutes here."

"More, I think.--For I am not going on."

"Thought you had a through ticket, sir?"

"So I have, but I shall sacrifice the rest of it.  I want my luggage."

"Please to come to the van and point it out, sir.  Be good enough to look
very sharp, sir.  Not a moment to spare."

The guard hurried to the luggage van, and the traveller hurried after
him.  The guard got into it, and the traveller looked into it.

"Those two large black portmanteaus in the corner where your light
shines.  Those are mine."

"Name upon 'em, sir?"

"Barbox Brothers."

"Stand clear, sir, if you please.  [Illustration: ... and swallow the bread] rooster and chickens
happily swallow a piece of bread every down, [Illustration: None
can Hinnen] But when they reflect, Could any right of Hinnen.

[Illustration: Cross and Cross] In the cross and the cross Tear it back
and forth, [Illustration: ... and in the amount] and flutter in
the air ', herje Oh, herjemineh!

[Illustration: ... to the branch] Oh, they remain on the long, drought
branch of the tree hanging. - - And her neck is long and longer,
your song will bang and bänger.

[Illustration: To quickly an egg] Each creates an egg fast, And then comes
the death. - [Illustration: Witwe Bolte in the chamber] widow Bolte Sounds
in the chamber in bed these jammers: [Illustration: ... occurs out]
Ahnungsvoll she found Oh, what was that for a horror! [Illustration: ...
and mourning] »Fließet from the eyes, her tears! All 'my hope, all my
sinews, my life's most beautiful dream Is this apple tree!" [Illustration:
Notes from the dead] Tiefbetrübt and ensure that they are now
difficult to get the knife ago , Where the dead of the strands, so
that they no longer depend, [Illustration: and comes back] And with
silent grief Returns view them in their house back.

This was the first string, but the second follows immediately. _Zweiter
Streich._ As the good widow Bolte To recover from their pain, they
thought so to and fro, That is probably the best wär ', The Verstorb'nen,
down below the already separated so early, all in quiet and in
honor of baked goods to eat. - - Of the grief was great, as they
are now just as naked and beaten Abgerupft herd on you, once in the
beautiful days in court soon, soon in the garden alive in the sands
pawed. - [Illustration: she cries over new] Oh, Bolte woman cries
over new, And the tip is also there.

Max and Moritz smelled this, "Quick crawled onto the roof," it said.
[Illustration: Max und Moritz on the roof ] By the chimney with
pleasure seeing the chickens they are, even without the head and
gargling Lieblich schmurgeln in the pan. - [Illustration: The chicken
in the pan] Just go with a plate widow Bolte in the basement,
[Illustration: anticipation] of the fact that they are sour coal
hole is a portion, what they are particularly enthused about, If
it comes back up. - - Meanwhile, on the roof Where we operate in
the matter.

Max has been with premeditation An angel brought. [Illustration: In the
house's happening] Schnupdiwup! there is already a top chicken
heraufgehoben; Schnupdiwup! Now Numro two, Schnupdiwup! Now Numro three,
And now comes yet Numro four: Schnupdiwup! We have you! - - Although the
Spitz did it exactly, and he barks: Rawau! Rawau! [Illustration: Escape
with the loot] But already they are quite frisky and survival of the roof
down. - - Na! The spectacle will give Ms.

Bolte's just - - Angewurzelt stood there, when they saw the pan.
From whatsoever intangible deep cutting or dark tunnel it emerged, here
it came, unsummoned and unannounced, stealing upon him, and passing away
into obscurity.  Here mournfully went by a child who had never had a
childhood or known a parent, inseparable from a youth with a bitter sense
of his namelessness, coupled to a man the enforced business of whose best
years had been distasteful and oppressive, linked to an ungrateful
friend, dragging after him a woman once beloved.  Attendant, with many a
clank and wrench, were lumbering cares, dark meditations, huge dim
disappointments, monotonous years, a long jarring line of the discords of
a solitary and unhappy existence.

"--Yours, sir?"

The traveller recalled his eyes from the waste into which they had been
staring, and fell back a step or so under the abruptness, and perhaps the
chance appropriateness, of the question.

"Oh!  My thoughts were not here for the moment.  Yes.  Yes.  Those two
portmanteaus are mine.  Are you a Porter?"

"On Porter's wages, sir.  But I am Lamps."

The traveller looked a little confused.

"Who did you say you are?"

"Lamps, sir," showing an oily cloth in his hand, as farther explanation.

"Surely, surely.  Is there any hotel or tavern here?"

"Not exactly here, sir.  There is a Refreshment Room here, but--"  Lamps,
with a mighty serious look, gave his head a warning roll that plainly
added--"but it's a blessed circumstance for you that it's not open."

"You couldn't recommend it, I see, if it was available?"

"Ask your pardon, sir.  If it was--?"

"Open?"

"It ain't my place, as a paid servant of the company, to give my opinion
on any of the company's toepics,"--he pronounced it more like
toothpicks,--"beyond lamp-ile and cottons," returned Lamps in a
confidential tone; "but, speaking as a man, I wouldn't recommend my
father (if he was to come to life again) to go and try how he'd be
treated at the Refreshment Room.  Not speaking as a man, no, I would
_not_."

The traveller nodded conviction.  "I suppose I can put up in the town?
There is a town here?"  For the traveller (though a stay-at-home compared
with most travellers) had been, like many others, carried on the steam
winds and the iron tides through that Junction before, without having
ever, as one might say, gone ashore there.

"Oh yes, there's a town, sir!  Anyways, there's town enough to put up in.
But," following the glance of the other at his luggage, "this is a very
dead time of the night with us, sir.  The deadest time.  I might a'most
call it our deadest and buriedest time."

"No porters about?"

"Well, sir, you see," returned Lamps, confidential again, "they in
general goes off with the gas.  That's how it is.  And they seem to have
overlooked you, through your walking to the furder end of the platform.
But, in about twelve minutes or so, she may be up."

"Who may be up?"

"The three forty-two, sir.  She goes off in a sidin' till the Up X
passes, and then she"--here an air of hopeful vagueness pervaded
Lamps--"does all as lays in her power."

"I doubt if I comprehend the arrangement."

"I doubt if anybody do, sir.  She's a Parliamentary, sir.  And, you see,
a Parliamentary, or a Skirmishun--"

"Do you mean an Excursion?"

"That's it, sir.--A Parliamentary or a Skirmishun, she mostly _does_ go
off into a sidin'.  But, when she _can_ get a chance, she's whistled out
of it, and she's whistled up into doin' all as,"--Lamps again wore the
air of a highly sanguine man who hoped for the best,--"all as lays in her
power."

He then explained that the porters on duty, being required to be in
attendance on the Parliamentary matron in question, would doubtless turn
up with the gas.  These figures were the dreams and ideas with which he
brought back from Rome Father Ambrose seized the spirit. IV-In-treatment
and relationships with people and secular and profane as with most
religious of his brothers, Father Ambrose de Utrera, but showed
no vain ostentation and when should the science of theology that
studies had acquired intelligence and treasured, yet hidden in the
depths and mysteries of his mind, some hidden philosophy that
caution, and perhaps commitments and obligations of a sect, he did
not disclose fully prescribed to anyone.

Something could only communicate to the fans and started, according to
the degrees of initiation had and according to the evidence they had
done. With difficulty found recognized and Father Ambrose in people who
dealt with the clothes and requirements for initiation. In The convent
had only three brothers with whom the Father Ambrose was understood, by
attaching them to him under mysterious bond, and making participants
with deep secrecy of esoteric doctrines, or not at all alike, but
each according to ability and force for understanding and recognizing
that it will. It is presumed, however, that the Father Ambrose imagine
that their wisdom is hidden in the least opposed to the orthodox
statements of faith that believed that form the basis of religion
that was a minister and priest.

Simple and mere narrator of this story, nor deny afirmaré not me, who
had failed or had not thought of Father Ambrose. I will only say what
he thought, leaving the responsibility is yours. Incontrovertible truth
was for him what is contained in the scriptures, straight and authoritatively
interpreted by the holy Fathers, the councils and the head of the
Church, but whatever the truth, against which nothing could prevail,
it saw Father Ambrose a large area, a vast and almost limitless
field, where the intelligence, the will to uncover mysteries and
eager to forge creative imagination that perhaps the hypothesis
explains and clarifies could fly freely, without offending God,
rather, extolling and glorifying far can this poor creature the
human being.

For the Father Ambrose was the revelation of several ways and never
ends. Often left out of his mouth these words to St.

John in his gospel, puts on the lips of Christ _Aún I have to say
much, but you can not take ahora_.

Much remained to be revealed. Some of them represented the Father Ambrose
that he knew, but this knowledge is incommunicable, at least for the
generality of men, because _ahora_, then, at the time that Father Ambrose
spoke and thought, could the llevar_ _no, ie, they could not understand.
So Father Ambrose based his _ocultismo_ in a sacred text. And why not
know the hazards they are exposed, penetrated by its spirit of
profound and unexplored darkness in search of new truths. Until prudent,
even for charity repugnant to follow in such a dangerous road which had
no proven value and the serenity and the elevation is not suitable for
trial error, and instead of finding new light into transcendental
errors in deep chasm.

In the mind of Father Ambrose also had another reason for the non-delivery
of many of its science.

The winged word and could not carry through the air from a human brain
to human brain.

There was no sentence, no spin, no language can express, and to make
so sensitive that the Father meant above have learned or discovered
in the roots and depths of his mind when penetrated so deep.

A revival of the spirit is there that was returned, not bathed,
but imbued with acute light, which could move immediately to other
souls and not immediately by the senses and bodily rude.

Anyone who desires to possess that science and the power that nature
has on who owns it, could not be acquired by oral or written
instruction of one man but falling in his search to the depths where
the person who brought it had reached.

In sum, Father Ambrose could teach, and taught, all that most vulgar
of his magic, which was based on the experiential knowledge of the body
of animated beings, herbs and metals, in liniments and potions,
but the magic power of his soul the force had taken the spirit in
the very root of their being subjugated and that the materials and
substances dominate nature, this could not be transmitted.

Neither diffusion nor intensity was in this advancement or improvement
in the number of centuries. Hermes knew and could more than Father Ambrose.
In his science intransmissible there had been no progress could have
occurred. Progress, the spread of education was feasible for the less
initiated in no small set of news, and rare secrets to finding
sensible properties of beings.

Of the three fans that Father Ambrose was the most advanced was the
brother Tiburcio humble layman, although señaladísimo and estimadísimo
in the convent for his fervent religious piety.

This had pity that initially look Tiburcio brother with disgust and horror
up to Father Ambrose for fame that he vaguely accused of sorcerer, but
expired after the revulsion, the doctrine of the Father Ambrose
penetrated hard on the spirit of brother Tiburcio, rolling any contradiction
there and producing acute devout faith and enthusiasm.

The most suspicious of the brother Tiburcio had dissipated. He had
thought that the orthodox doctrine should encircle and enclose the spirit
and strong wall flanked by prominent towers, and who feared to leave
it the proud spirit was broken or at least it broken, turning off the
lights that illuminated the resplendent towers and that the spirit then
lost without a guide and no light in the darkness, never again find your
holy sanctuary. This objection was answered Father Ambrose using
a similar metaphor.

That fear had dominated the brother Tiburcio. - My faith - had told
the Father Ambrose - is surely impregnable fortress, but not to me
she is locked up in idle and cowardly, but to me worth support, and
as the center of my most daring excursions and most glorious of my
conquests by the immense and unknown regions, where human thought
is to erect one days of his throne and has found his empire.

No doubt with faith and love with the help of the supernatural gifts
of grace, the soul can reach God and join with him in some way, but
my science profane, without contradicting the works of divine
supernatural virtues, is different object, which also pleases God,
though in much smaller degree.

I am not, nor deserve to be a saint, but why do not I have to be a
scholar, a connoisseur of that magic, that without offending the sky,
without seeking the help of spirits or angels reprobates and using only
natural means , hard to produce staggering wonders?

In this science you initiate me, because I think you can study and
achieve.

And you can be sure that my science is not opposed profane or holiness or
purity of the faith, or the ascetic and mystical perfection that you
can raise. In sum, these reasons and many claimed Father Ambrose, that
the brother had to be convinced Tiburcio, becoming his most
passionate disciple and his constant satellite.

Of the other two initiatives that Father Ambrose had not trusted either,
although they also reported some of its less deep secrets.

To other brothers and the rest of the human lineage uninitiated, Father
Ambrose never spoke of his occult science, but went on with easy eloquence
Paladino know everything that's hidden or not been seen in his time,
and tried to travel plans As political and was presumed to happen in the
world or that it happens. These figures were the dreams and ideas that,
on his return from Rome, brought Father Ambrose seized the spirit.-V-Father
Ambrose was inexhaustible in the descriptions and pictures of what
he had seen in Rome and the great events which had witnessed there
or were there because he understood better in the center of the
world.

Every day, at the end of the garden, under the poplars leafy, Father
Ambrose made a long speech that monks and novices heard in religious
silence.

Not always comprised the majority of the audience all that the father
described or contained, but was covered up at least I do not know what
a pilgrim and poetic delight and captivate the attention. Speeches of
Father Ambrose was a series of lessons in which instructed his
listeners and showed them the state of the world at that age, and
covered everything from the same source of Christian civilization.

Sometimes painting the Father of the arts to flourish, staggering and
commended the work of Leonardo de Vinci, Raphael and Michelangelo,
who came to overshadow the works of ancient art, or at least compete
with those that emerged and were removed from within the earth,
where they had been buried for long centuries of darkness and
barbarism.

Struggling new art by imitating the former but not the same losing
difficulty of imitation was to be a different art. Something similar
happened in human sciences and letters. Commenting, explaining and
interpreting the ancient philosophers as Plato and Aristotle, was formed
a new philosophy opened splendid and long horizons, and discovering ways
and terms that Aristotle and Plato had never dreamed of. As if the land
of Italy was fertilized by a new spirit to the fugitives from the former
Byzantium, which had resulted in penates science and literature
of the ancients, modification, and forwarding them to teach the
Italians into something full of newness of life and a powerful
suggestion.

Those fugitives, without a trace, silent and inactive, have finished
in the old empire of Byzantium by vanish like shadows and sink into
oblivion, driven from their homeland and new land that gave them
hospitality, they had unexpectedly gained power, and spreading his
knowledge, met high civilizing mission and left them towards a
bright and enduring trace.

In the great door of the modern age, triumphal arch giving entrance to a
new era, these men, escaped from the ruins of a shattered empire as
exhumed and returned to life, resplendent and now included among the
founders of new and increased civilization, the Hierophant of the science
of the future.

Bessarión, Lascaris, Theodore Gaza, John Argirópulos, Chrisóloras, Jemistio
Pleton and many others were the initiators and teachers know and like the
old auditorium that sought and arranged the marriage of the powerful
fertile genius of the Renaissance and the Greek muse. In other Father
Ambrose days painting the splendor and magnificence of the court
of Leo X, who paid tribute to all nations and respectful tribute
providing the high and mighty monarchs.

Dábale this opportunity to celebrate the people and the sovereign of Spain,
who performed their staggering mission to prolong the world the rule
of Christian faith. Excited about this Father Ambrose, the brothers
painted a triumphal pomp with which Tristan de Acuña came into Rome. Perhaps
since the time she became the Andalusian Trajan conquered Dacia, the
moving last term for the god wider empire of Rome, Rome had not witnessed
more grandiose spectacle. This time the new Romans, the sons of strong
Lusitania, had led to the god Term beyond where it did or dreamed to bring
Osiris, the son of Semele, and Alexander of Macedonia. He had carried
beyond the Indus and the Ganges. The tremendous conqueror Alfonso de
Albuquerque had come victorious from the seas of East Borneo to
Aden, was conquered and destroyed kingdoms, had entered or sack
tax populous and wealthy cities from Hormuz, empire of Persia, Arabia
and India to Malaya, in the southern tip of Siam. Capital for new
domains Portuguese took twice assault to Goa, in the neighboring kingdom
of Villapor, performing incredible feats and committing outrageous
cruelties. Had visited Ceylon, enchanted land of precious stones,
delight of the world, home of the cinnamon and pearls. The Apostle
James, mounted on his white horse, appeared in the most bloody battles
of Albuquerque and was going to kill muslims.

Christ himself, to bear witness to the divine mission that was entrusted
to Albuquerque, in the sky showed him a large cross of light, toward
the side of Arabia, and excited to get invited to Aden, then to go to
Mecca to burn and destroy Caaba the temple, and finally go to Jerusalem
to liberate the Holy Sepulcher. The death stunned Albuquerque amid
recent mammoth project, but before dying he had done such great things,
that the King Manuel, and happy his August master, was pleased to
make them known to the Pope in a dignified and solemn, and so we
sent him as ambassador to Tristan de Acuña, who had preceded
Albuquerque in the control of India and under whose orders Albuquerque
had the top military.

This glorious Portuguese embassy, that the Father Ambrose witnessed during
his stay in Rome, Father made to the friars an enthusiastic story. VI-Fame,
said Father Ambrose, announced by the whole Italy singular novelty of the
Portuguese Embassy.

Large crowd of strangers from all republics and principalities of Italy
came to Rome. Calles, plazas, balconies and roofs were full of people
that are crowding and pushing to get good seat and watch the
procession pass from the gate of the village to the point Leon X
was to receive it.

It was in late March: a beautiful morning for the birth of spring.

Heralds the break up several on horseback with the banners of Portugal.
Still later, also on horseback, the trumpeters and the musicians playing
clarinets and chirimías.

Three palafreneros, dressed in silk, wearing the reins as many briosas Alfano
and beautiful, with richly harnessed gualdrapas and paraments caireles
brocade and gold. Peat went in search of colorful pages and the
squires. Then all the Portuguese, religious and secular, who then lived
in Rome. Then the relatives of the Ambassador, all on horses bearing rich
jaeces. Riders were more than sixty nobles, who wore silks and lace
collars and gold chains and precious stones, and hats, covered with
pearls, white feathers and graceful.

For more decorum and ostentation of the Embassy, leaving many employees and
then gentle men Solio papal attendants and guards of honor of His
Holiness, consisting of archers and spearmen Swiss Greeks and Albanians.
Captained the second part of the procession, the king's equerry couple,
Nicolás de Faria, who rode a magnificent horse harness covered with gold
and studded pearls. Immediately leaving two elephants, whose towers
were present that the king sent to Don Manuel Pope. With fantastic
and colorful costumes, _naires_ of India, assembled in the neck
of those gigantic quadrupeds, the leading iban. Then appeared the most
shocking of that pomp. Mounted on a magnificent sorrel of Persia was a
tamer of Hormuz, which led to the haunches, in the same horse and
almost hugged him, a domesticated tigre. In cars, and locked in
cages, iban after ferocious leopards and other vermin that King Manuel
gave a gift to the Pope, in addition to jewelry, the cinnamon, the
pepper, the cloves, weapons and the fabrics and embroidery East. The
Embassy was after all this into a dazzling whole. First marched the
illustrious poet Garcia de Resende, compiler of the songbook of
the same name, and Secretary of the Embassy, and he remained the
kings of arms of Portugal with their heights and macerated Luciente
Pope preceding Ambassador Tristan de Acuña.

This, by the richness of their dress, by his gentle and noble presence
and the strength and beauty of horse riding in, left overshadowed all the
knights and characters around him iban formed committees, the Governor
of Rome, Duke of Bari, to the bishops and archbishops and the Ambassadors
of Germany, France, Castile, England, Poland, Venice, Milan and other
states. When the procession go marching, the crowd enthusiastically threw
live sound and high cries of admiration and applause shook the air while
the sound of the salvos of artillery and the ringing of bells of all
churches of Rome. The Holy Father looked and saw the Embassy come from
the main balcony of the castle or Mole Adriana Santangelo, where seemed
to be surrounded by cardinals, princes and dignitaries. Elephants,
when they were in sight of the Pope, put the tubes in a stew gold,
which in the case were prepared and filled with exquisite smell of
water, and then dropped the liquid in the tubes had been absorbed,
scented with the crowd .

At this address, Father Ambrose lofty concept that Portugal should be
taken, but in his mind, was still the highest concept which Aragon and
Castile he deserved.

Pope Alexander VI had divided the world and divided between the two
monarchies of the Peninsula. Meanwhile, Portugal was shining, but the
company of Aragon and Castile were more sublime, glorious and
difficult and therefore takes longer to take place. Both peoples were
looking for the birthplace of the earliest civilizations of the
eastern fortresses Sol, where he received the thalamus in Aurora, the
rule that silk rearing, and the fertile land of spices and flavorings. The
Portuguese had already walking toward the East. The Castilians, walking
toward the West, eager to circumnavigate the globe, have found an
unexpected obstacle, an immense Valladar, a continent that is very
broad delayed thousands of miles, almost from one pole to another,
and they closed the road Cipango, of India and the Catay.

The world was much larger than had been imagined. In reality, or rather
the concept of men, was already more than double.

Columbus, thinking to find India and China, had found a new world. To lay
the Castilians civilized erected in the Christ's cross, erected in the
temples and palaces and cities, and found it republics. The task was
more difficult, but at least the top lucida. This, however, no objection,
and Father Ambrose as predicted, that, saved the Valladar the huge new
continent, run keels Castilian longer and unknown seas, give back
to the world and were able to walk long the twilight, to the
Portuguese in the Far East victorious.

Agitated by inspiration, Father Ambrosio predicted, and as close as close
to done this glorious event, the largest and most important of human history
after the proclamation of the tempestuous former Act at the summit
of Sinai, and then the tremendous drama of Calvary, that redeemed men, and
that divine blood washed their sins and confirmed the new Act.
was, either that he
was "t'other side the line," or, that it was his off-time, or (in the
latter case) his own personal introduction to another Lamps who was not
his Lamps.  However, he was not so desperately set upon seeing Lamps now,
but he bore the disappointment.  Nor did he so wholly devote himself to
his severe application to the study of Mugby Junction as to neglect
exercise.  On the contrary, he took a walk every day, and always the same
walk.  But the weather turned cold and wet again, and the window was
never open.


III.


At length, after a lapse of some days, there came another streak of fine
bright hardy autumn weather.  It was a Saturday.  The window was open,
and the children were gone.  Not surprising, this, for he had patiently
watched and waited at the corner until they _were_ gone.

"Good-day," he said to the face; absolutely getting his hat clear off his
head this time.

"Good-day to you, sir."

"I am glad you have a fine sky again to look at."

"Thank you, sir.  It is kind if you."

"You are an invalid, I fear?"

"No, sir.  I have very good health."

"But are you not always lying down?"

"Oh yes, I am always lying down, because I cannot sit up!  But I am not
an invalid."

The laughing eyes seemed highly to enjoy his great mistake.

"Would you mind taking the trouble to come in, sir?  There is a beautiful
view from this window.  And you would see that I am not at all ill--being
so good as to care."

It was said to help him, as he stood irresolute, but evidently desiring
to enter, with his diffident hand on the latch of the garden-gate.  It
did help him, and he went in.

The room upstairs was a very clean white room with a low roof.  Its only
inmate lay on a couch that brought her face to a level with the window.
The couch was white too; and her simple dress or wrapper being light
blue, like the band around her hair, she had an ethereal look, and a
fanciful appearance of lying among clouds.  He felt that she
instinctively perceived him to be by habit a downcast taciturn man; it
was another help to him to have established that understanding so easily,
and got it over.

There was an awkward constraint upon him, nevertheless, as he touched her
hand, and took a chair at the side of her couch.

"I see now," he began, not at all fluently, "how you occupy your hand.
Only seeing you from the path outside, I thought you were playing upon
something."

She was engaged in very nimbly and dexterously making lace.  A
lace-pillow lay upon her breast; and the quick movements and changes of
her hands upon it, as she worked, had given them the action he had
misinterpreted.

"That is curious," she answered with a bright smile.  "For I often fancy,
myself, that I play tunes while I am at work."

"Have you any musical knowledge?"

She shook her head.

"I think I could pick out tunes, if I had any instrument, which could be
made as handy to me as my lace-pillow.  But I dare say I deceive myself.
At all events, I shall never know."

"You have a musical voice.  Excuse me; I have heard you sing."

"With the children?" she answered, slightly colouring.  "Oh yes.  I sing
with the dear children, if it can be called singing."

Barbox Brothers glanced at the two small forms in the room, and hazarded
the speculation that she was fond of children, and that she was learned
in new systems of teaching them?

"Very fond of them," she said, shaking her head again; "but I know
nothing of teaching, beyond the interest I have in it, and the pleasure
it gives me when they learn.  Perhaps your overhearing my little scholars
sing some of their lessons has led you so far astray as to think me a
grand teacher?  Ah!  I thought so!  No, I have only read and been told
about that system.  It seemed so pretty and pleasant, and to treat them
so like the merry Robins they are, that I took up with it in my little
way.  You don't need to be told what a very little way mine is, sir," she
added with a glance at the small forms and round the room.

All this time her hands were busy at her lace-pillow.  As they still
continued so, and as there was a kind of substitute for conversation in
the click and play of its pegs, Barbox Brothers took the opportunity of
observing her.  He guessed her to be thirty.  The charm of her
transparent face and large bright brown eyes was, not that they were
passively resigned, but that they were actively and thoroughly cheerful.
Even her busy hands, which of their own thinness alone might have
besought compassion, plied their task with a gay courage that made mere
compassion an unjustifiable assumption of superiority, and an
impertinence.

He saw her eyes in the act of rising towards his, and he directed his
towards the prospect, saying: "Beautiful, indeed!"

"Most beautiful, sir.  I have sometimes had a fancy that I would like to
sit up, for once, only to try how it looks to an erect head.  But what a
foolish fancy that would be to encourage!  It cannot look more lovely to
any one than it does to me."

Her eyes were turned to it, as she spoke, with most delighted admiration
and enjoyment.  There was not a trace in it of any sense of deprivation.

"And those threads of railway, with their puffs of smoke and steam
changing places so fast, make it so lively for me," she went on.  "I
think of the number of people who can go where they wish, on their
business, or their pleasure; I remember that the puffs make signs to me
that they are actually going while I look; and that enlivens the prospect
with abundance of company, if I want company.  There is the great
Junction, too.  I don't see it under the foot of the hill, but I can very
often hear it, and I always know it is there.  It seems to join me, in a
way, to I don't know how many places and things that I shall never see."

With an abashed kind of idea that it might have already joined himself to
something he had never seen, he said constrainedly: "Just so."

"And so you see, sir," pursued Phoebe, "I am not the invalid you thought
me, and I am very well off indeed."

"You have a happy disposition," said Barbox Brothers: perhaps with a
slight excusatory touch for his own disposition.

"Ah!  But you should know my father," she replied.  "His is the happy
disposition!--Don't mind, sir!"  For his reserve took the alarm at a step
upon the stairs, and he distrusted that he would be set down for a
troublesome intruder.  "This is my father coming."

The door opened, and the father paused there.

"Why, Lamps!" exclaimed Barbox Brothers, starting from his chair.  "How
do you do, Lamps?"

To which Lamps responded: "The gentleman for Nowhere!  How do you DO,
sir?"

And they shook hands, to the greatest admiration and surprise of Lamp's
daughter.

"I have looked you up half-a-dozen times since that night," said Barbox
Brothers, "but have never found you."

"So I've heerd on, sir, so I've heerd on," returned Lamps.  "It's your
being noticed so often down at the Junction, without taking any train,
that has begun to get you the name among us of the gentleman for Nowhere.
No offence in my having called you by it when took by surprise, I hope,
sir?"

"None at all.  It's as good a name for me as any other you could call me
by.  But may I ask you a question in the corner here?"

Lamps suffered himself to be led aside from his daughter's couch by one
of the buttons of his velveteen jacket.

"Is this the bedside where you sing your songs?"

Lamps nodded.

The gentleman for Nowhere clapped him on the shoulder, and they faced
about again.

"Upon my word, my dear," said Lamps then to his daughter, looking from
her to her visitor, "it is such an amaze to me, to find you brought
acquainted with this gentleman, that I must (if this gentleman will
excuse me) take a rounder."

Mr. Lamps demonstrated in action what this meant, by pulling out his oily
handkerchief rolled up in the form of a ball, and giving himself an
elaborate smear, from behind the right ear, up the cheek, across the
forehead, and down the other cheek to behind his left ear.  After this
operation he shone exceedingly.

"It's according to my custom when particular warmed up by any agitation,
sir," he offered by way of apology.  "And really, I am throwed into that
state of amaze by finding you brought acquainted with Phoebe, that I--that
I think I will, if you'll excuse me, take another rounder."  Which he
did, seeming to be greatly restored by it.

They were now both standing by the side of her couch, and she was working
at her lace-pillow.  "Your daughter tells me," said Barbox Brothers,
still in a half-reluctant shamefaced way, "that she never sits up."

"No, sir, nor never has done.  You see, her mother (who died when she was
a year and two months old) was subject to very bad fits, and as she had
never mentioned to me that she _was_ subject to fits, they couldn't be
guarded against.  Often I am sitting in the inn Fair And Fair restricted
house alone when I remember you, my Extends from conquering spirit.

You should serve Timur empires, obeying its territory Heer, Badakschan
Commends thee rubies, turquoises Hyrkan'sche the sea.

Dried honeyed fruit from Bokhara, the sunny land, and thousands of
lovely poems on silk sheets of Samarkand. As you should with pleasure
read, What I get from you and you Ormus as the entire commercial sector
is only moving your sake, As in the land of the Brahmans Thousands
finger sought, That all the glory for thee Indostanen on wool and
silk blooms; Yes, for glorification of the Beloved, Gießbäche,
Soumelpours durchwühlt, From earth, Grus Gerill, slide off you like
diamonds; How divers men Scharnstein verwegner The pearl treasure
snatched from the Gulf , then a keen connoisseur Divan you get to
line up zeal.

Bassora If even the last spice and incense, beigetan, bring everything
that the world ergetzte, you approached the caravan.

But all these goods Kaiser confused but as the gaze, And truly
loving minds only in the other one feels his luck.

If I had any, I probably had some concerns probably concerns, Balch,
Bochara, Samarkand, Sweet Liebchen, to give thee, This city noise
and Tand?

But ask even the emperor, whether he dir the cities there? He is beautiful
and wise, but he does not know how to love. rulers, like gifts to
never control you! Such a girl And you need to have a beggar as I am.
The beautifully written, the beautifully written, wonderfully umgüldeten
Belächelst you, the presumption leaves, warping my bragging from your
love and yourself happy by my success, warping graceful Selbstlob.

Selbstlob! Only the smell envy's, fragrancy friends and are Schmack! Joy
of life is large, the greater joy at existence.

If you Suleika, Mich. overflowing happy, your passion zuwirfst me, As you
fancy a ball that I started it, you zurückwerfe My I dedicated
this is a moment And then you tear me from the Franke Soon, soon
to be Armenians.

But days lasts's,'s years that I re-create your changing of wastes wealth,
Auftrösle the colorful cord of my happiness, Geklöppelt tausendfadig
from thee, o Suleika!

Here on the other hand, poetic pearls, The me your passion Warf Huge surf
at the beach with food desertified, with fingers pointed Delicate
read Durchreiht with gold jewelry.

Take it to your neck, on your bosom, The raindrops Allah, matured in modest
shellfish!

love to love, love the hour of love, hour by hour, word by word and
glance to glance, to kiss kiss by faithful lips, breath by breath
for luck and happiness.

So in the evening, so in the morning. But you feel about my songs are still
secret worry: Jussuf stimuli möcht I borrow your beauty to
reciprocate.

Suleika people and bondage and overcome you at any time gestehn: Highest
fortunate children of the earth be just the personality.

Every life is to lead, if you do not even missed, you could lose everything,
if you would remain what one is. Hatem Could well be, then gemeinet,
But I'm on track else: Everything Earth vereinet Find happiness I Suleika
only. How they come to me wasted Am I me a value I; Had they weggewendet,
moment I lose myself. Now with Hatem's all over, But I umgelost: I
verkörpre me nimbly in the Holden, they kost. Wollte, where not
even a rabbi "The really wants me not, But Ferdusi, Montanabbi, All the
Emperor's case. Hatem As the goldsmith Bazar Lädchen Vielgefärbt
geschliffne lights, Sun surrounded the pretty girls almost gray poet.
Girl Sings Suleika du schon wieder!

This we can not suffer ; Not for you - for your songs, we must curtail
it.

Because if they would be nasty, Macht'st you for being beautiful, And
so we have from Dschemil And Boteinah read a lot. But just because we are
pretty , Do we also like to be painted, And when you do it cheap,
you should also be paid quite nicely.

Bräunchen Hatem, come! it is already going braids, combs, large and
small, are decorated with nice clean head, Like the dome adorns
mosques.

You know, Blondinchen, are so delicate, Allershausen Weis and travel so
nice, does not unduly One of the minarets at once. You have given back
Two of the eyes, you can either do individually as desired. But I should
avoid you. Leichtgedrückt One of the eyelids, which the star bewhelmen,
Indicates to the picaresque picaresque, but the other looks so honest.
That if jen's wound fishes, Healing, nourishing's will show, no one I
can happily praise, The lacks of double vision. And so all I can praise,
And all the love I can: For, as I have collected, with the mistress
was described.

Poet girl wants to be like bondage, domination Because of it entspringet;
But above all, leave him right in If the Liebchen himself SINGET. Is
it because of the powerful song, What's on our lips managed, because it
makes them even suspect that they Verborgnen switches. Hatem Well, who
knows what they erfüllet!

Do you know why such depth? Selbstgefühltes song entquillet, Selbstgedichtetes
the mouth. Of all the poets you Is not it just the same: Because
they like to sing to me, And it sings and loves only you.

Remember most girls, you've got us a Huris That vorgeheuchelt! Mag happen!
if it's just not on this earth flatters. Hatem curls, keep me trapped in
the circles of the face! you, beloved brown snakes, I have to say nothing.
Only this heart, it is permanent, swells in youth Flor; Under Snow Rain
and fog grid Etna you out. abash you like Dawn That summit serious wall
And once again fühlet touch Hatem spring and summer fire. inn her!
Another bottle! This cup I bring it! If it is a heap of ash, she says:
The burnt me. Suleika I never want to lose you! Love power of love. Do
you like my youth adorn gewaltger With passion! Oh! how's my flatters
shoots, If you think poets praise, because life is the love of
life and spirit life.

Suleika book - 2 Let thy mouth sweet ruby ruby Let thy sweet mouth
intrusiveness not curse! What has love pain other reason, as his
healing looking for? Are you separated from your lover Are you
separated from your lover How Occident from the Orient, The heart
of all desert races; There are even throughout the convoy, For lovers
Baghdad is not far away. Maybe they are always complementary, they
Mag Always add your fragile world in itself, these clear eyes,
they shine, This heart, it beats for me, O that the senses are so
many O but that the senses are so many! they bring confusion to happiness
here. If I see you, I wish to be deaf, when I hear thee, blind.
Even in the distance so close you! Also in the distance so close you! And
unexpectedly, the agony, since I hear you once again, once you're on
again!

How should I stay clear How should I stay clear away from the day and
light? But now I want to write, And I do not like to drink. If they are
attracted to me, was speaking not in need, and how the tongue faltered
Sun also increases the spring.

Only!

Beloved Tavern, still fill the cup, I only say: Remember! Already know
what I want. If I remember you when I remember you, ask me the same as
the inn: "Lord, why so quiet? Because of your teachings Continuing Saki
likes to hear. "If I forget Under the cypress, Does he not believe, And
in silent circles Am I so wise, like Salomon Klug. Suleika book I would
probably like this book together aprons, the other that it would
gleichgeschnürt. Alone, such as Word and you want to shorten leaf, When
love insanity leads you into the distance? At full At full tuft branches
tuft branches, sweetheart, just look out! let you show the fruits, Umschalet
stachlich green. They are long geballet, Still, with unknown , A branch,
rocking the wallet, the weight they geduldiglich.

But always ripens from the inside And swells of brown core; He wants to win
air And see the sun like. The shell bursts, and low power he is going
joyfully; So my songs are heaped in your lap. Suleika lustgen fountain
at the edge, the water threads in play, I did not know what to me was,
however, there was from your hand My CHIFF leis withdrawn; low I look,
you weigh them. Here, at the end of the channel, the Tiered main
avenue, I look back into the higher, and because I see again my finely
drawn letterforms: Lead! still weighed me! May Hatem water, jumping,
flowing, The cypress gestehn thee: From Suleika to Suleika Is my
coming and my gehn. Suleika Hardly you again that I had with you and
kiss songs Labe, Are you still in gekehret thee; What cramped and pushes
and störet? Hatem Oh, Suleika,'s should I say? Instead of praise, I would
sue! Sanger only my songs, Always and always new again. If this is
commendable, but they are just inserted, not by Hafez, not Nisami.

Non-Saadi, not Dschami.

Kenn ich doch lot of fathers, Silv by syllable sounds to sound, in memory
unverloren; because these are newly born. Yesterday they were sealed.
Say, did you re-obligated? touch you so happy daring strangers breathing
me, you just as the belebet, Eben so in love schwebet, enticing, loading
the clubs So harmonious than the mean? Suleika War Hatem long but removed
the girl had learned. From him, she was praised as beautiful, since
the separation is tested.

Well, that they do not seem strange, you are SULEIKAS are yours! Behramgur
say Behramgur , is said to have invented the rhyme, he said delightedly
from pure soul urge; Dilaram quickly, the girlfriend of his hours, replied
with the same word and sound. And so, Beloved, have you accepted
me, Des Holden Reims to find pleasure use, that I also Behramgur, the
Sassanid, no longer must envy: I was there, too.

Did this book awakened me, thou hast's where, because what I am happy
wholeheartedly spoke, the sound back from your life Holden, How to view
the sight, so the rhyme after rhyme. töne Now it continues to thee,
even from afar, the word is reached, and sound and sound schwände:
Is not the cloak's still sown stars?

Is it not the love hochverklärtes All? your look comfortable to me
your view me be comfortable, your lips, your chest, your voice can
be heard, was the last and first lust.

Yesterday, ah!

she was the last one, then I verlosch lighting and fire; Every joke
that made me ergetzte, is now debt-heavy and expensive.

Eh Allah is not like us anew to unite Are my sun, moon and the world
is only an opportunity to cry.

Suleika What does the movement? Bring me the East glad tidings? His
Schwingen Cools fresh impulse to the heart deep wound. Kosend he plays
with the dove, hunting him in light clouds, Drives to secure the
vine arbor frohes The insect tribes.

Lindert soft glow of the sun , also cooling my hot cheeks, she
kissed the vine still flee, The Hills to field and pillory.

And I want to be quiet whisper from the sweetly greet friends, this hill
Eh still dark, I still seat at his feet. And so can you move; Diene friends
and afflicted.

In those cases where high walls glow, soon I Find the great lover. Oh,
the real heart Client, love touch, refreshes my life is just out
of his mouth, I can give only his breath.

High picture The sun, Helios of the Greeks, Runs beautifully on the
sky train, Of the universe to defeat, he looked around, down, hinan.
He sees the most beautiful goddess cry, The Cloud's daughter, Heaven
child, it seems you only seem to be alone; heitre spaces for all blind ,
Recessed he is in pain, and showers, And swells her frequent Tränenguß:
He sends in their grief lust And every pearl kiss on kiss. Now she feels
deep gaze of unrelated violence, and looks it up: The pearls want to make,
because each was his effigy on.

And so, surrounded by color and bow, exhilarated illuminates her face,
contrary, he considered it: But he, but - oh! they are not achieved.
So, after lots of hard fate, Weichs me, loveliest of them, And I would
be Helios, the Great, What availed myself of the cars throne? After Klang
It sounds so glorious, if the density of the sun, soon to be Emperor
compares ; But he hides the sad faces, when he sneaks into dark
nights.

From clouds streak liable uneasy, sank on the night sky pure blue; Vermagert
my cheeks are pale, And my heart tears gray.

Let me not as the night, the pain, you allerliebsten , you are my moon
face! O thou my phosphorous, my candle, you my sun, you are my light!
Suleika Ah, to wet your swing, West, how much I envy you, because you
can bring him a customer, what I suffer in the separation . The
movement of your breasts in the wings Weckt stilles tendons,
flowers, eyes, forest and hills stand in touch with your tears.

But thy gentle mild contractions Cools the sore eyelids; Alas, for sorrow,
I must pass, I hoped not to put it back sehn . hurry because of
my love, speak softly to his heart, however, prevent him grieve,
And hide him my pain!

Tell him to tell but modest: His love is my life! makers feeling of both
is close to give me his. recovery Is it possible! Star of stars,
I push you back to the heart! Oh, what is the distance of the night, for
a precipice, for a pain! Yes, you're it, my sweet delights, dear opponent!
With previous ones suffering Schaudr I of the present. As the world in the
deepest essence of God ewger Lag chest Arranges' er the first hour with
sublime pleasure of creation. And he said the word: "Let there be!"
There sounded a painful Oh! As the universe with the realities in
Machtgebärde broke! On did the light, so shy that separated him
from the darkness, And the elements immediately cantly apart fliehn.

Rasch in the wild, wild dreams Each of the wide rang, Starr, in
ungemeßnen spaces, without longing, without sound. everything was
silent, still and desolate, lonely God, for the first time!

Since he created Dawn, The mercy is of agony, she developed the A murky tone
colors, and now could love again, until what auseinanderfiel. And with a
hurried effort to addiction, which belongs; And Life Is ungemeßnem feel
and look inward.

Let's take, whether it Raffe, If it only summarizes and considers itself!
Allah does not need to create, we create his world.

So tomorrow with red wings crack it at me thy mouth, And the night with
thousands of seals sternenhell strengthens the federal government. Both
We are on the earth model in Freud detention and torture, and a second
word: It will! Separates us for the second time a full moon night lady,
tell me what this means Whisper? What moves you afford the lips?
Lispelst always out in front of you, lovely as a sipping wine! Do you
think your mouth a pair of siblings still herzuziehn? "I want to kiss!
kisses! I says." Look! In doubtful Dark Glow all flowering branches,
low spielet star to star, And through the thicket emerald changing
of Karfunkel; But your mind is all away.

"I want to kiss! Kisses! I says." Your lover, away erprobet
Gleicherweis in sweetening sour felt a unglückselges happiness to see you
in the moonlight to be welcomed, Have ye holy angelobet, This is
the moment!

"I want to kiss! kisses! I said." cryptograph let you, o diplomats, legal
affairs, and potentates Beraten your pure and beautiful! Secret HIPS
show employees the world, until finally each turn himself into the
same presents. I am the mistress of the sweet CHIFF is at hand, what I
already enjoy, because they invented the art. It is the love of wealth
in the loveliest spot, the HOLD, loyal Wille, Like between me and her.
From thousands of flowers Is it a colorful bouquet, from English minds
vollbewohntes A house, from colorful feathers littered the sky, a
sea of sounding songs, Geruchvoll überweht.

Is unconditional striving Double Secret Scripture, in the Mark How
life arrow to take arrows.

What I have offenbaret, was long a pious custom, And if ye gewahret, So
silent and uses it too.

Consequently, when the last council was holden, that part of the business
stood, in the end, exactly where it had stood in the beginning.

"But, sir," remarked Phoebe, "we have only six roads after all.  Is the
seventh road dumb?"

"The seventh road?  Oh!" said Barbox Brothers, rubbing his chin.  "That
is the road I took, you know, when I went to get your little present.
That is _its_ story.  Phoebe."

"Would you mind taking that road again, sir?" she asked with hesitation.

"Not in the least; it is a great high-road after all."

"I should like you to take it," returned Phoebe with a persuasive smile,
"for the love of that little present which must ever be so dear to me.  I
should like you to take it, because that road can never be again like any
other road to me.  I should like you to take it, in remembrance of your
having done me so much good: of your having made me so much happier!  If
you leave me by the road you travelled when you went to do me this great
kindness," sounding a faint chord as she spoke, "I shall feel, lying here
watching at my window, as if it must conduct you to a prosperous end, and
bring you back some day."

"It shall be done, my dear; it shall be done."

So at last the gentleman for Nowhere took a ticket for Somewhere, and his
destination was the great ingenious town.

He had loitered so long about the Junction that it was the eighteenth of
December when he left it.  "High time," he reflected, as he seated
himself in the train, "that I started in earnest!  Only one clear day
remains between me and the day I am running away from.  I'll push onward
for the hill-country to-morrow.  I'll go to Wales."

It was with some pains that he placed before himself the undeniable
advantages to be gained in the way of novel occupation for his senses
from misty mountains, swollen streams, rain, cold, a wild seashore, and
rugged roads.  And yet he scarcely made them out as distinctly as he
could have wished.  Whether the poor girl, in spite of her new resource,
her music, would have any feeling of loneliness upon her now--just at
first--that she had not had before; whether she saw those very puffs of
steam and smoke that he saw, as he sat in the train thinking of her;
whether her face would have any pensive shadow on it as they died out of
the distant view from her window; whether, in telling him he had done her
so much good, she had not unconsciously corrected his old moody bemoaning
of his station in life, by setting him thinking that a man might be a
great healer, if he would, and yet not be a great doctor; these and other
similar meditations got between him and his Welsh picture.  There was
within him, too, that dull sense of vacuity which follows separation from
an object of interest, and cessation of a pleasant pursuit; and this
sense, being quite new to him, made him restless.  Further, in losing
Mugby Junction, he had found himself again; and he was not the more
enamoured of himself for having lately passed his time in better company.

But surely here, not far ahead, must be the great ingenious town.  This
crashing and clashing that the train was undergoing, and this coupling on
to it of a multitude of new echoes, could mean nothing less than approach
to the great station.  It did mean nothing less.  After some stormy
flashes of town lightning, in the way of swift revelations of red brick
blocks of houses, high red brick chimney-shafts, vistas of red brick
railway arches, tongues of fire, blocks of smoke, valleys of canal, and
hills if coal, there came the thundering in at the journey's end.

Having seen his portmanteaus safely housed in the hotel he chose, and
having appointed his dinner hour, Barbox Brothers went out for a walk in
the busy streets.  And now it began to be suspected by him that Mugby
Junction was a Junction of many branches, invisible as well as visible,
and had joined him to an endless number of by-ways.  For, whereas he
would, but a little while ago, have walked these streets blindly
brooding, he now had eyes and thoughts for a new external world.  How the
many toiling people lived, and loved, and died; how wonderful it was to
consider the various trainings of eye and hand, the nice distinctions of
sight and touch, that separated them into classes of workers, and even
into classes of workers at subdivisions of one complete whole which
combined their many intelligences and forces, though of itself but some
cheap object of use or ornament in common life; how good it was to know
that such assembling in a multitude on their part, and such contribution
of their several dexterities towards a civilising end, did not
deteriorate them as it was the fashion of the supercilious Mayflies of
humanity to pretend, but engendered among them a self-respect, and yet a
modest desire to be much wiser than they were (the first evinced in their
well-balanced bearing and manner of speech when he stopped to ask a
question; the second, in the announcements of their popular studies and
amusements on the public walls); these considerations, and a host of
such, made his walk a memorable one.  "I too am but a little part of a
great whole," he began to think; "and to be serviceable to myself and
others, or to be happy, I must cast my interest into, and draw it out of,
the common stock."

Although he had arrived at his journey's end for the day by noon, he had
since insensibly walked about the town so far and so long that the lamp-
lighters were now at their work in the streets, and the shops were
sparkling up brilliantly.  Thus reminded to turn towards his quarters, he
was in the act of doing so, when a very little hand crept into his, and a
very little voice said:

"Oh! if you please, I am lost!"

He looked down, and saw a very little fair-haired girl.

"Yes," she said, confirming her words with a serious nod.  "I am indeed.
I am lost!"

Greatly perplexed, he stopped, looked about him for help, descried none,
and said, bending low.

"Where do you live, my child?"

"I don't know where I live," she returned.  "I am lost."

"What is your name?"

"Polly."

"What is your other name?"

The reply was prompt, but unintelligible.

Imitating the sound as he caught it, he hazarded the guess, "Trivits."

"Oh no!" said the child, shaking her head.  "Nothing like that."

"Say it again, little one."

An unpromising business.  For this time it had quite a different sound.

He made the venture, "Paddens?"

"Oh no!" said the child.  "Nothing like that."

"Once more.  Let us try it again, dear."

A most hopeless business.  This time it swelled into four syllables.  "It
can't be Tappitarver?" said Barbox Brothers, rubbing his head with his
hat in discomfiture.

"No!  It ain't," the child quietly assented.

On her trying this unfortunate name once more, with extraordinary efforts
at distinctness, it swelled into eight syllables at least.

"Ah!  I think," said Barbox Brothers with a desperate air of resignation,
"that we had better give it up."

"But I am lost," said the child, nestling her little hand more closely in
his, "and you'll take care of me, won't you?"

If ever a man were disconcerted by division between compassion on the one
hand, and the very imbecility of irresolution on the other, here the man
was.  "Lost!" he repeated, looking down at the child.  "I am sure _I_ am.
What is to be done?"

"Where do you live?" asked the child, looking up at him wistfully.

"Over there," he answered, pointing vaguely in the direction of his
hotel.

"Hadn't we better go there?" said the child.

"Really," he replied, "I don't know but what we had."

So they set off, hand-in-hand.  He, through comparison of himself against
his little companion, with a clumsy feeling on him as if he had just
developed into a foolish giant.  She, clearly elevated in her own tiny
opinion by having got him so neatly out of his embarrassment.

"We are going to have dinner when we get there, I suppose?" said Polly.

"Well," he rejoined, "I--Yes, I suppose we are."

"Do you like your dinner?" asked the child.

"Why, on the whole," said Barbox Brothers, "yes, I think I do."

"I do mine," said Polly.  "Have you any brothers and sisters?"

"No.  Have you?"

"Mine are dead."

"Oh!" said Barbox Brothers.  With that absurd sense of unwieldiness of
mind and body weighing him down, he would have not known how to pursue
the conversation beyond this curt rejoinder, but that the child was
always ready for him.

"What," she asked, turning her soft hand coaxingly in his, "are you going
to do to amuse me after dinner?"

"Upon my soul, Polly," exclaimed Barbox Brothers, very much at a loss, "I
have not the slightest idea!"

You are not deceived. Fox drove his character as a peaceful policy.
He harbored deep friendship for France.

An exchange of letters between him and Talleyrand amply demonstrates
this.

He wanted to delay the war with France enclose. We knew in St.
Petersburg, the ethos and policies of the new British Minister.

Under consideration of the fact that this man is now the lead of England,
ie the Russian ally, had, as well as to the intention Napoles,
Austria loszumachen from Russia, it decided at the imperial court,
a rapprochement with France to try.

Because England to do the same step in terms, was already in itself a
sufficient reason, that even the Russians to Napoleon in amicable
relationship would occur. Therefore, the Commission sent the Council
of State Alexander Oubril, former Chargé d'Affaires in Paris,
France.

Oubril held in transit in Vienna, and assured the court and the Count Stadium
that he had received instructions at the conclusion of contracts also
Oesterreichs interests. [34] It is breathed in Vienna on a little free.
This insurance was particularly Count Stadium calm, because he
certainly was the same now that Austria will not be forced to rely
on the knees before Napoleon to throw.

It was clear that the allies had beneficial joint peace negotiations
with Napoleon to lead .

As, "So this boy;" or, "So this fairy;" or, "And so this pie was
four yards round, and two yards and a quarter deep."  The interest of the
romance was derived from the intervention of this fairy to punish this
boy for having a greedy appetite.  To achieve which purpose, this fairy
made this pie, and this boy ate and ate and ate, and his cheeks swelled
and swelled and swelled.  There were many tributary circumstances, but
the forcible interest culminated in the total consumption of this pie,
and the bursting of this boy.  Truly he was a fine sight, Barbox
Brothers, with serious attentive face, and ear bent down, much jostled on
the pavements of the busy town, but afraid of losing a single incident of
the epic, lest he should be examined in it by-and-by, and found
deficient.

Thus they arrived at the hotel.  And there he had to say at the bar, and
said awkwardly enough; "I have found a little girl!"

The whole establishment turned out to look at the little girl.  Nobody
knew her; nobody could make out her name, as she set it forth--except one
chamber-maid, who said it was Constantinople--which it wasn't.

"I will dine with my young friend in a private room," said Barbox
Brothers to the hotel authorities, "and perhaps you will be so good as to
let the police know that the pretty baby is here.  I suppose she is sure
to be inquired for soon, if she has not been already.  Come along,
Polly."

Perfectly at ease and peace, Polly came along, but, finding the stairs
rather stiff work, was carried up by Barbox Brothers.  The dinner was a
most transcendant success, and the Barbox sheepishness, under Polly's
directions how to mince her meat for her, and how to diffuse gravy over
the plate with a liberal and equal hand, was another fine sight.

"And now," said Polly, "while we are at dinner, you be good, and tell me
that story I taught you."

With the tremors of a Civil Service examination upon him, and very
uncertain indeed, not only as to the epoch at which the pie appeared in
history, but also as to the measurements of that indispensable fact,
Barbox Brothers made a shaky beginning, but under encouragement did very
fairly.  There was a want of breadth observable in his rendering of the
cheeks, as well as the appetite, of the boy; and there was a certain
tameness in his fairy, referable to an under-current of desire to account
for her.  Still, as the first lumbering performance of a good-humoured
monster, it passed muster.

"I told you to be good," said Polly, "and you are good, ain't you?"

"I hope so," replied Barbox Brothers.

Just the thing behaves differently. I must in this regard express
thoughts, experiences mittheilen what my objects a very peculiar surprising
twist. Thatsache is that the flat German home and family language in
thousands of civil servants families favorite language at all North
German universities. This language, therefore, I, as a barrier to the
aspirations of all life and, as the enemy of education considered, this
is so little in the eyes of many of my fellow countrymen, that
they be familiar with her care that she, by the pulpit and the chair
and good company long ago displaced a Freistäte Heerde at her house
grant.

Schooß Here in the family appears as Exponentin of intimate
relationships.

In jest and seriousness, it is often the word, it is the husband's
confidante love, body of the child rearing, language of the heart, the
teacher customary wisdom and practical life. Here, it has also often stored
their savagery, returns the best side out and seems to be equally
improved by their misfortune, trust worthy to do.

If the fact that their patron not infrequently men of talent, spirit and
the names are. Famous Live, I could cite, I content myself blessed
to Johann Heinrich Voss to mention that is not alone in Eutin, but still
in Heidelberg up to his death with his wife, family and guests at the
north German favorite and öftersten platt spoke German. These are
Thatsachen. How I do the same with the claim that the German language
was flattened enemy of education, exchange of ideas, of intellectual
vitality, now that I myself could not fail, men of spirit and talent, of
erudition, Thätigkeit restless, as men like Voß platt German to call?
Admittedly, I could be the negative influence of the flat German
language only to the people and the limited education.

I could go around to all the _gebildeten Plattdeutschen_ kick out
of the way to clear the following about this: _absolut the spirit
lethal_ is the only U.S. platform, where High German, Sanskrit and
bohemian villages like are known, such as here and there in Pomerania
and Meklenburg; what of the biggest friends of the Germans Platt
would have to be admitted, as not to läugnen that in itself and for
itself that nothing contained living and moving, but Todt and arrest
itself was, _geistig and inhibiting lähmend_ remains but the Germans
still flatfish from the level of society, where he is the High
German understandable closer underfoot, but as an alien faces; _ohne
harmful influence and equally indifferent to the spirit and Bildung_
was the flat German language, where they are not of high German as
compared to strangers, but sisterly to hand.

Alone, I'm afraid _indifferent_ is an expression that is already
out of general psychological reasons seems inadmissible.

Two languages on the tongue are two souls in his body.

If the loved one language, the language of the heart, so is the
other, for what purposes they will also aufgespahrt to meet their
share of the nicest people to come shortly.

They avenge itself by the zurückgiebt not what they do not receive
it concludes its innermost Weihe not want and can be an external
tool with great art and Künstelei, but not as an alter ego with
love and freedom of use.

The High German language owes each Niedersachse his refined self, her
from the people geborne orator, poet, writer and all his reputation
and name in the purchase.

Could he be her heart do not give back, he can not raise its domestic joys
and sorrows that they must be silenced once he gemüthlich, it is his
self-educated and refined in secret contrast to his intimate self and
it will therefore also to his education, his poems, speeches,
writings, this one-sidedness, this apparent contradiction and prove
them.'

s Menzel is known to Johann Heinrich Voss undertaken. The body in Menzels
literature, Voß betrift is bitter, flippant, one-sided, but it is
significant and has the same sensation subsequent rise as the
Urtheil on Göthe, yet the evaluation of unilateral and self-_A la_
Pustkuchen made ridiculous.

Menzel's words when I first read, I feel outraged. Zeig dich only be deemed
such a _niedersächsischen Bauer_ how you Voß mockery to call, I
cried out in anger, but I had me a moment to even say that this
Anmuthung Süddeutsche neither a cheap nor even inviting enough, and
that sounded just yet in my exclamations a kind of halfway concessions
was.

Really, I had always had a view of Voss as a poet and translator
cared for, with all due respect, the advantages of large, undoubted
merit, certainly not excessive, philological admiration and patriotism
niedersächsischen smelled.

I found that he had the genius of the German language from year to
year forced angethan that he too raw and willkührlich in their
timbers and losgehämmert and that no German, even Voß not such
words, phrases and words in the mouth could which his prose and
poetic writings are full.

Currently is my Urtheil perhaps decisively.

I look at Johann Heinrich Voss confirms what I just proceedings. The High
German language was his love is not entirely internal, so he opened
not their own hearts, their secrets and mysteries, its virgin nature,
the flower of her body and mind, all gifts and gifts that you
voluntarily gentle handling of the beloved eintauscht but not by
Willkühr and forced it may be interesting.

By looking at this all educated in Lower Saxony were to be borne in mind,
I am not averse route, a patriotic, well-meaning voice out their
attention, which expresses the conviction, the use of German in flat
educated the families of Lower Saxony, which he also carries influence on
the intellectual needs of real or dream, to the refined Civilization,
or distort the education of the time - I intentionally schattire
these expressions with the known brush, which is undoubtedly of
good intentions but limited everything the present and the latest
time belongs to the good old Black and worrying let - the use was
a good and treflicher in regard to the character of the house to
be with, because the language of the fathers of their honest and
faithful old custom, their warmth, Gradheit and Biederkeit to
continue pflanze grandchildren.

Frankly, I always love you voice, as if from a simple, patriotic hearts
come, I do not know if our great-grandfathers quite this flattering
syllable offset.

It is so strange that one always speaks of the good old days and dying
each sex the legend of it bequeathed to the flourishing and the good old
days, even before it is no mortal eye shall see and is always climbing
around some years older than the oldest living people.

I have to smile when I think of the embarrassment well-meaning chroniclers
and historians believe that if they are to the moral Mährchen no
shame to let spähende anxious glances into the past throw to even
just a tip, a hem of the train of the old good or good at Old
erhaschen.

There were only eight, how cunning they are behaving.

You can never look directly into his face, they do not say, now it
comes, or because she is on the contrary, Theil swarm leaves its
history, often in advance of just pitiful conditions, weaknesses,
vices and wretched human nature, if they conclude a selected, small,
shiny period is approaching, but then, when the curtain falls, the
bright colors are weakening, the bad examples not so keen to the
idea of morality contrary to work when the image of the time deducted,
then show them on their bordirten hem and tell the audience wehmüthig,
as she goes, she goes out because the good old days and now the
time to grow young, their children, who are very ausgeartet and bad
old days.

That is the history of manners from a very different position, and more
broadly in the world must consider phenomena that hint at the good people
do not. For every individual, it is certainly always a matter of piety and
a sense wohlthuendes to his ancestors as people throughout honette
present.

The dark or Civil Bäuerliche can this performance at least without a
lot of contradiction and historical impulse to hang on he did this
as an advantages against the most famous aristocratic families. For
example, in High German bourgeois families, the idea of the grandfather,
great grandfather as the old German sword button herschende and
dearest. Weaker and more generally refers to the _epitheta ornanti_ for
farming ancestors, Degen buttons schicklicherweise they can not
tell a joke and the farmer is not yet on the incursion came as the
expressions of old German Piken, scythes or knife sheaths on them.

About principal is to be noted that only the word German is High
German and Low German in the original life of the commonwealth does
not occur, just as little, as the quoted words früherhin Education
and the Constitution, so that the phrase "the educated and
constitutional Germany" in German language platt still less than
one and saying nothing is.

After this preliminary understanding would be initially set to be the
main, some old custom goes through the use of the flat German
language on the members of the family, and - _Folgesatz_ - they are
life or attach to express something that does not want to unite
their other education , not for the time and today's society wants
to send - but - _Nach and Beisatz_ - dealing with the people, the
influence upon the people to facilitate appropriate mag.

I consider the latter in his unimportant That Moment . One
sees here the use of German in platt preacher and civil servant
families among its natural and vortheilhaftesten viewpoint asked.

These families, mostly from the countryside and even in the
countryside, and not infrequently the cause of the country's
confidence and how other families, for example, in the city giebt,
in the middle of which he sold for verrathen and would hold, so in
those he meets almost and more distant kindred and looks in their
domestic life as in a mirror, reflecting his own embellished with
trains him confidentially opposes.

But no small number of these families the most urgent warning to
ertheilen, before the record of reducing the level of peasant culture
on the alert to be.

Since the Germans Platt once shied nothing can speak, then, the German
platt Cosiness only slightly to the character of the inertia. The
important conversation needs, delicate touch, which only formed in a
language are possible, gets weaker, the simple habit turns into raw, the
Cordial into Lapp, especially in the Plumpe's, which in Derbe's hulking
and it happens only too often those sad step backwards in the
Civilization that we Verbauerung called. This is the farmer also not
helped the family, children even less. Those who are also in his passion
and preference for the platform in the U.S. on a domestic Heros
of German literature, such as Johann Heinrich Voß, or a priest, as
Klaus Harms intends to rely, which probably does, first and foremost
are the questions: are you of the turnaround of your mental wheels
work well and certainly as safe as those that you run no risk, you
numb for science, the movement time from the eye to lose, you must
not fear, you and your family to the Bettelstab the idea to bring
your children with an irreplaceable time to rob them untutored in
the world to come and with your whole house at the bottom foot of
Civilization herabzugleiten?

always like the questions that are of a fearful conscientious
are worth answering. * * * * * But the flat German language, is, as
mentioned, I love language in all of North German Universities and
the least is her warmest friend can not read good .

Here she is as dangerous of all those federal comrade numerous Uebel
and barriers that emerged from the very beginning of our universities
seem to have verschworen to humanity would be impossible.

It sets out the mine from the idyllic respectable, so they are in
rural parsonage, his wife and daughters recommends casually coarse,
ungenirt gemütlich she wanders into the auditorium, and a mouth
always open and only pausirend when the professor talks and the
student religious philosophy, metaphysics, nature education and
other high German _sublimia_ enters in his journal.

To hell you gentlemen linguistic _favete!

_ How does the language in Viotia Minerve temple. You can certainly respond,
how about our Minerve Temple University, have only a shaky old ruins from
the Middle Ages. Right! but where your foot step, because Athens will be
consecrated ground - _soll_, I say, because otherwise why have the
gods of the young foot tendon of impatience and anger of the holy
lent, with a kick tramples what the age both hands, not out of the
way can understand why other than that you better better, saints
from the ground should conjure.

You understand me?

I understand you do not, I understand the noble youth norddeutsche
not who muses on the seat of a language, which the darkness of the
spirit of barbarism past belongs.

Does it make a joke of these youth, their own studies, the academic
life, arid Scholastizismus and the pedantry of the academic institution
parodiren to travestiren, I see, however, neither large Uebermuth
in this joke, yet I ignored how much the flat German language, yes
even their sound, for this purpose is suitable [6]; alone must be
joking joke, that is to remain volatile and changing, and if the
same joke and travesty the same three years old, so it is a very
serious and boring face to make.

The
Barbox absorption in the general subject throughout the realisation of
these delights was again a sight to see, nor was it less worthy to behold
at dinner, when he drank to Miss Melluka, tied stiff in a chair opposite
to Polly (the fair Circassian possessing an unbendable spine), and even
induced the waiter to assist in carrying out with due decorum the
prevailing glorious idea.  To wind up, there came the agreeable fever of
getting Miss Melluka and all her wardrobe and rich possessions into a fly
with Polly, to be taken home.  But, by that time, Polly had become unable
to look upon such accumulated joys with waking eyes, and had withdrawn
her consciousness into the wonderful Paradise of a child's sleep.  "Sleep,
Polly, sleep," said Barbox Brothers, as her head dropped on his shoulder;
"you shall not fall out of this bed easily, at any rate!"

What rustling piece of paper he took from his pocket, and carefully
folded into the bosom of Polly's frock, shall not be mentioned.  He said
nothing about it, and nothing shall be said about it.  They drove to a
modest suburb of the great ingenious town, and stopped at the fore-court
of a small house.  "Do not wake the child," said Barbox Brothers softly
to the driver; "I will carry her in as she is."

Greeting the light at the opened door which was held by Polly's mother,
Polly's bearer passed on with mother and child in to a ground-floor room.
There, stretched on a sofa, lay a sick man, sorely wasted, who covered
his eyes with his emaciated hand.

"Tresham," said Barbox in a kindly voice, "I have brought you back your
Polly, fast asleep.  Give me your hand, and tell me you are better."

The sick man reached forth his right hand, and bowed his head over the
hand into which it was taken, and kissed it.  "Thank you, thank you!  I
may say that I am well and happy."

"That's brave," said Barbox.  "Tresham, I have a fancy--Can you make room
for me beside you here?"

He sat down on the sofa as he said the words, cherishing the plump
peachey cheek that lay uppermost on his shoulder.

"I have a fancy, Tresham (I am getting quite an old fellow now, you know,
and old fellows may take fancies into their heads sometimes), to give up
Polly, having found her, to no one but you.  Will you take her from me?"

As the father held out his arms for the child, each of the two men looked
steadily at the other.

"She is very dear to you, Tresham?"

"Unutterably dear."

"God bless her!  It is not much, Polly," he continued, turning his eyes
upon her peaceful face as he apostrophized her, "it is not much, Polly,
for a blind and sinful man to invoke a blessing on something so far
better than himself as a little child is; but it would be much--much upon
his cruel head, and much upon his guilty soul--if he could be so wicked
as to invoke a curse.  He had better have a millstone round his neck, and
be cast into the deepest sea.  Live and thrive, my pretty baby!"  Here he
kissed her.  "Live and prosper, and become in time the mother of other
little children, like the Angels who behold The Father's face!"

He kissed her again, gave her up gently to both her parents, and went
out.

But he went not to Wales.  No, he never went to Wales.  He went
straightway for another stroll about the town, and he looked in upon the
people at their work, and at their play, here, there, every-there, and
where not.  For he was Barbox Brothers and Co. now, and had taken
thousands of partners into the solitary firm.

He had at length got back to his hotel room, and was standing before his
fire refreshing himself with a glass of hot drink which he had stood upon
the chimney-piece, when he heard the town clocks striking, and, referring
to his watch, found the evening to have so slipped away, that they were
striking twelve.  As he put up his watch again, his eyes met those of his
reflection in the chimney-glass.

"Why, it's your birthday already," he said, smiling.  "You are looking
very well.  I wish you many happy returns of the day."

He had never before bestowed that wish upon himself.  "By Jupiter!" he
discovered, "it alters the whole case of running away from one's
birthday!  It's a thing to explain to Phoebe.  Besides, here is quite a
long story to tell her, that has sprung out of the road with no story.
I'll go back, instead of going on.  I'll go back by my friend Lamps's Up
X presently."

He went back to Mugby Junction, and, in point of fact, he established
himself at Mugby Junction.  It was the convenient place to live in, for
brightening Phoebe's life.  It was the convenient place to live in, for
having her taught music by Beatrice.  It was the convenient place to live
in, for occasionally borrowing Polly.  It was the convenient place to
live in, for being joined at will to all sorts of agreeable places and
persons.  So, he became settled there, and, his house standing in an
elevated situation, it is noteworthy of him in conclusion, as Polly
herself might (not irreverently) have put it:

   "There was an Old Barbox who lived on a hill,
   And if he ain't gone, he lives there still."

Here follows the substance of what was seen, heard, or otherwise picked
up, by the gentleman for Nowhere, in his careful study of the Junction.


CHAPTER III--THE BOY AT MUGBY


I am the boy at Mugby.  That's about what _I_ am.

You don't know what I mean?  What a pity!  But I think you do.  I think
you must.  Look here.  I am the boy at what is called The Refreshment
Room at Mugby Junction, and what's proudest boast is, that it never yet
refreshed a mortal being.

Up in a corner of the Down Refreshment Room at Mugby Junction, in the
height of twenty-seven cross draughts (I've often counted 'em while they
brush the First-Class hair twenty-seven ways), behind the bottles, among
the glasses, bounded on the nor'west by the beer, stood pretty far to the
right of a metallic object that's at times the tea-urn and at times the
soup-tureen, according to the nature of the last twang imparted to its
contents which are the same groundwork, fended off from the traveller by
a barrier of stale sponge-cakes erected atop of the counter, and lastly
exposed sideways to the glare of Our Missis's eye--you ask a Boy so
sitiwated, next time you stop in a hurry at Mugby, for anything to drink;
you take particular notice that he'll try to seem not to hear you, that
he'll appear in a absent manner to survey the Line through a transparent
medium composed of your head and body, and that he won't serve you as
long as you can possibly bear it.  That's me.

What a lark it is!  We are the Model Establishment, we are, at Mugby.
Other Refreshment Rooms send their imperfect young ladies up to be
finished off by our Missis.  For some of the young ladies, when they're
new to the business, come into it mild!  Ah!  Our Missis, she soon takes
that out of 'em.  Why, I originally come into the business meek myself.
But Our Missis, she soon took that out of _me_.

They thought about now, as the child's case should teach. But if they
imagined, in which misery is the first outbreak was when they had talked
about, so she had not the courage to it again and now with certainty to
be done. Finally she thought the best was not the case to talk. A brief
struggle when the cousins come, it should be the easiest to endure. And
now the child was still unclouded days. But by the morning was such a
pain in the face of the grandmother that the Trini sometimes
very anxious and it was repeatedly asked: "Grandmother, what hast thou? I
want every night by looking for blackberries, if you care we can no
longer live, because you no longer can do so much. I do not need to
sleep, I can endure it, just look, look! " And Trini stretched its two
fixed arms of the grandmother as evidence contrary to that they do not
need to be sure. But it only increased their distress. Because she saw
only too well, how big and strong and become the child that it is really
a very different work than was capable of, which is now performed.

But in the evening, when they again stopped at dusk and sat on all past
and on some serious distress back from her love of God so fatherly had
helped, then she could say with confidence: "So, my soul, be you are
breastfeeding to God, how's gebühret. "So she sat at the window again,
where the evening slip hereinschimmerte, and waited for the child to be
light and to the dinner to prepare. As she heard someone on their cottage
send. That was not the child, it was heavy, solid footholds. Now kam's -
it had to be the cousin. The grandmother wanted the heart stand still.
Well, the door opened, and with firm step, a large basket on the arm,
took the gold apple farmer enters and asked: "Where are you, Kate? You
can not even see. Guten Abend wünsch 'I will!" The old man was quickly up,
had her Lichtlein now alight and shook the hand of her visit. On the
table was now the basket, and the small glimmer of light shone
many splendid gold apples, which the whole court had his name.

"I have given you a bit of apples, which have trees this year to take
beautiful," said the farmer again, "what you do not even need the child
will take, where is it?" The Käthe reported Trini was with other
children again into the brambles of the forest have gone up, but it will
now read with the berries coming to an end. "This is it," confirmed the
farmer. "It's just me but rather that the child is gone, I would just
like to talk with you." The Käthe brought their chairs herbei, and now
as the two sat at a table in front, the big apple basket between them,
the farmer began again: "I have somewhat recently had with your
child, you will probably have told them.
The English people.  Or is he then a slave?  Or idiot?"  Another
time, a merry, wideawake American gent had tried the sawdust and spit it
out, and had tried the Sherry and spit that out, and had tried in vain to
sustain exhausted natur upon Butter-Scotch, and had been rather extra
Bandolined and Line-surveyed through, when, as the bell was ringing and
he paid Our Missis, he says, very loud and good-tempered: "I tell Yew
what 'tis, ma'arm.  I la'af.  Theer!  I la'af.  I Dew.  I oughter ha'
seen most things, for I hail from the Onlimited side of the Atlantic
Ocean, and I haive travelled right slick over the Limited, head on
through Jeerusalemm and the East, and likeways France and Italy, Europe
Old World, and am now upon the track to the Chief Europian Village; but
such an Institution as Yew, and Yewer young ladies, and Yewer fixin's
solid and liquid, afore the glorious Tarnal I never did see yet!  And if
I hain't found the eighth wonder of monarchical Creation, in finding Yew
and Yewer young ladies, and Yewer fixin's solid and liquid, all as
aforesaid, established in a country where the people air not absolute Loo-
naticks, I am Extra Double Darned with a Nip and Frizzle to the
innermostest grit!  I give him the full wage, which the maids had, and each
week a loaf of bread to the child because I am worth it. You have the
advantage that you are not used.

It is nimble, it can, if Feierabend is home to you. And in the morning
sends it's me again. On Sunday, it must have from noon to stay
with you. Why should you get to cry, Käthe? The child should have it
good with me, and you should also not be forgotten. Grain and fruit I
have on the farm and milk in the barn. A Säcklein flour and a bottle
of milk, the child every Sunday and bring home, and there are still a
year through some other, as you can be. "" Say no more just, it is more
than enough ", could finally Käthe forth the old, "I just weep for joy,
pure joy before. You do not know what sorrow you have freed me, and what
good deed you do to me. "And now the old woman told the farmer, as
they have throughout the summer and now have to ensure every moment expecting
the cousin. This is what the child they do not say may, because
they are in front of his great misery feared.

Just as the grandmother had finished telling, then came the Trini
hereingesprungen. At the sight of the golden apples on the table and the
farmer's wife who was sitting out, it was suddenly quiet and looked with
great surprise to itself. "Come, give me a hand, Trini," said the
farmer. "As you are my trees never shaken you have to with the grandmother,
a few of them have apples." About Trinis was a joyful face smile. So it
is the farmer had yet to hear that it had not done that gladdened his
heart. There came a hurry of guilt, the wife of the hand. "What do you
mean?" drove the farmer continued, "How did you with me on the farm, did
you want good work with me? "The Trini looked surprised once more to the
farmer and then returned to the grandmother. These could no longer be
silent in their joy:" Trineli, just think, just think how Now it comes,
"she exclaimed," thou comest not to Reusstal, thou shalt not from me
to continue. Every day you may be the good woman down to the Goldäpfelhof
and in the evening back home. Oh, what's that for a redemption from the
big concern. Thanks to her, Trineli thanks to her! "" So I thank very
much.

And I will gladly work with you, just what you want, "said Trini, which
is only now offering to pay tribute the farmer's wife knew." That's
right, "concluded the farmer," the thing is done. The berry has read
an end, and the apple and pear reading begins. That is precisely the
right time to help me with the work begin. On Monday, send me a
child, Kate, and give him your blessing with. And now, goodbye. "As soon
as the door closed behind the farmer's wife, the grandmother began to,
according to praise and thank God that all of their care in such
joy and help turn had.

The Trini jauchzte out loud:" Juchhe Now, I never pursued thee,
grandmother! I will have to work hard, then I certainly keeps the
farmer for life. "Now, however, had the golden apples still look up
close. Suddenly she said:" Grandmother, I can not even Maneli swift half
bring? I have always shared with him. "" Yes, yes, "nodded approving the
Old, this was her just right, that even the poor little neighbor of her
great good fortune will benefit." Barrel just like, Trineli and take even
more than half. There are so many who are looking at the apples
will go fast!

"Trini fell away, and a tremendous joy broke yelling at the crowd of children
than the apples on the table hinschüttete. And as you roll it, and
the sweet apple scent flowed through the whole room. On Monday, when the
Trini among the trees of the golden apples Court already busy with his
work was met at the cousin of the old Käthe On. Now she had no more
terror. They told him where the child was at work and that it will stay
there. But so quickly was the cousin of his plan does not stop
because he had noted before, the child with them.

He immediately ran to the guardian and told him that the child in the
factory could earn much more than the farmer. But the only guardian smiled
clever, because the golden apples was also a farmer in him. They already
knew what they had to do if they wanted to keep the child. He said
that if the child was continued, no one care for the old woman. As
long as it was at the farmer's wife, they would both send and unaided
could live well. And it was decided that the child remains
in the farmer's wife. Trini The deals with each day better on the
Goldäpfelhof knows it now have all the work, and the farmer like
the nimble, always happy Trini so happy, as if it were her own child.

The grandmother also ensures that the child never forgot who he is
talking about when it will endure, what hurts.
Sniff, "that he should not be let to
come in.  He is such an Ass."

"No doubt," assented Our Missis.  "But for that reason is it not
desirable to improve his mind?"

"Oh, nothing will ever improve _him_," said Mrs. Sniff.

"However," pursued Our Missis, "call him in, Ezekiel."

I called him in.  The appearance of the low-minded cove was hailed with
disapprobation from all sides, on account of his having brought his
corkscrew with him.  He pleaded "the force of habit."

"The force!" said Mrs. Sniff.  "Don't let us have you talking about
force, for Gracious' sake.  There!  Do stand still where you are, with
your back against the wall."

He is a smiling piece of vacancy, and he smiled in the mean way in which
he will even smile at the public if he gets a chance (language can say no
meaner of him), and he stood upright near the door with the back of his
head agin the wall, as if he was a waiting for somebody to come and
measure his heighth for the Army.

"I should not enter, ladies," says Our Missis, "on the revolting
disclosures I am about to make, if it was not in the hope that they will
cause you to be yet more implacable in the exercise of the power you
wield in a constitutional country, and yet more devoted to the
constitutional motto which I see before me,"--it was behind her, but the
words sounded better so,--"'May Albion never learn!'"

Here the pupils as had made the motto admired it, and cried, "Hear!  Hear!
Hear!"  Sniff, showing an inclination to join in chorus, got himself
frowned down by every brow.

"The baseness of the French," pursued Our Missis, "as displayed in the
fawning nature of their Refreshmenting, equals, if not surpasses,
anythink as was ever heard of the baseness of the celebrated Bonaparte."

Miss Whiff, Miss Piff, and me, we drored a heavy breath, equal to saying,
"We thought as much!"  Miss Whiff and Miss Piff seeming to object to my
droring mine along with theirs, I drored another to aggravate 'em.

"Shall I be believed," says Our Missis, with flashing eyes, "when I tell
you that no sooner had I set my foot upon that treacherous shore--"

Here Sniff, either bursting out mad, or thinking aloud, says, in a low
voice: "Feet.  Plural, you know."

The only _palacio_ glass sits on a beautiful hill, took, not counting their
outdoor bleachers, which are enormous and a majestic effect, at least
one area of 80000 square meters. The building, though united, shows the
exterior appearance of three palaces for their colossal facades.

Everything rests on giant iron columns, and the deck is in all senses of
glass joined by a huge metal frame. Although the towers, domes and minarets
have great elevation, the mass of the monument, on its
ground floor, is just under 40 meters.

It includes the three-storey building of boards, including the level
of soil where there is a considerable variety of machines and all
kinds of samples, which were presented at the London Exhibition of
1851, the Company's business and bought the palace in order to
establish a real museum campus industrial, artistic and scientific.

The examination of objects in the crowded rooms of the ground floor
vastísimos require careful study, for several weeks.

Under the guidance of an intelligent man, you can acquire a wealth of varied
knowledge, only made to explain the origin of each machine or
apparatus, its objective, the key to its construction and its
functioning.

When climbing the big ladder leading to first floor, the impression is
that experienced at the same time much of vague and deep: deep, because
one feels enthralled, filled with a kind of delightful surprise,
admiration toward many infinite wonders and vague because it did not
know what to admire more, if the inexhaustible treasures of nature or
by man-made wonders, such as sage, engineer, artist, traveler,
archaeologist, historian, and so on. Is there a pattern so complex
and vast, so charming and surprising that the visitor does not know where
to start or to give preference items. I do not pretend that _describir_
because not reached half-_mirar_ or even half of the treasures of
art and curios in the _Palacio of cristal_ are.

If the palace is only a wonder of architecture, mechanical and
_originalidad_ eclectic, each object inside is wonderful in its
kind as well.

The atmosphere here is charged with breathing perfumes, because the
interior of the palace garden is like a huge air, where they alternate
in admirable contrast shrubs, flowers, palms, lianas, ferns, fruit trees
and how much of ú beautiful but strange plant in the world. The Asia,
America, all regions of the globe, there are more representatives
in the primary art, plants, etc., And each visitor can be sure to
find a corner of his homeland, the same temperature, the same water
and it can produce a complete illusion.

When uploading to the first floor nomas faced with a very impressive
contrast: one side sees the skeleton of a great tree of North America -
and the other a gallery of statues and marble busts and heads are
isolated images of the most eminent thinkers and artists, mainly
French.

Referred to the tree, whose bark is armed only vertically, with the
proportions that had the trunk in his jungle of the New World, is
the representative of the force lush, wild and stunning nature that
distinguishes the American.
"Three times," said Our Missis, working herself into a truly
terrimenjious state,--"three times did I see these shameful things, only
between the coast and Paris, and not counting either: at Hazebroucke, at
Arras, at Amiens.  But worse remains.  Tell me, what would you call a
person who should propose in England that there should be kept, say at
our own model Mugby Junction, pretty baskets, each holding an assorted
cold lunch and dessert for one, each at a certain fixed price, and each
within a passenger's power to take away, to empty in the carriage at
perfect leisure, and to return at another station fifty or a hundred
miles farther on?"

There was disagreement what such a person should be called.  Whether
revolutionise, atheist, Bright (_I_ said him), or Un-English.  Miss Piff
screeched her shrill opinion last, in the words: "A malignant maniac!"

"I adopt," says Our Missis, "the brand set upon such a person by the
righteous indignation of my friend Miss Piff.  A malignant maniac.  Know,
then, that that malignant maniac has sprung from the congenial soil of
France, and that his malignant madness was in unchecked action on this
same part of my journey."

I noticed that Sniff was a-rubbing his hands, and that Mrs. Sniff had got
her eye upon him.  But I did not take more particular notice, owing to
the excited state in which the young ladies was, and to feeling myself
called upon to keep it up with a howl.

"On my experience south of Paris," said Our Missis, in a deep tone, "I
will not expatiate.  Too loathsome were the task!  But fancy this.  Fancy
a guard coming round, with the train at full speed, to inquire how many
for dinner.  Fancy his telegraphing forward the number of dinners.  Fancy
every one expected, and the table elegantly laid for the complete party.
Not only retains a huge portion of curiosities that make it rival the finest
museums of Europe, for antiques and fine arts, but is on the walls of
their rooms and coffered, like pavements, prodigiously faithful imitation
of the most beautiful models of Egyptian art, Greek, indigo, Roman,
Moorish, Gothic and Renaissance have been known until now. imitative
perfection is such that the illusion is complete.

But agin I didn't take particular
notice, looking on myself as called upon to stimulate public feeling.  It
being a lark besides.

"Putting everything together," said Our Missis, "French Refreshmenting
comes to this, and oh, it comes to a nice total!  Now it was here, because
that same guardian consent, and the cousin of the child would be
handed over, which she was safe.

She could so for sure no merit.

They knew not even how long they could even what may.

This time a groan from me, kep' up by the young ladies.

"Fourth:--and here," says Our Missis, "I claim your angriest
sympathy,--attention, common civility, nay, even politeness!"

Portia. If it were, so I knew this secret.

I am a woman, I confess, but a woman, which Brutus took to wife. I am
a woman, I confess, but a woman of good calls, Cato's daughter . Think you
that I was as weak as my gender, from such a strain is generated
and so married? Tell me the secret: I will keep my strength I have
hard erprüft, Voluntarily put a wound on my leg here; ertrüg And I
patiently a mystery is not my husband?
The swelling tumult was arrested in its rise.  Sniff, bore away by his
servile disposition, had drored up his leg with a higher and a higher
relish, and was now discovered to be waving his corkscrew over his head.
Napoleon rushed Austria against Russia, this stood in uncertainty, with
whom, after the defeat of Austerlitz should, in England had been the
death of Pitts (January 23, 1806) a turn in the express policy to
have occurred.You come into the Down Refreshment Room, at the Junction, making believe
you don't know me, and I'll pint you out with my right thumb over my
shoulder which is Our Missis, and which is Miss Whiff, and which is Miss
Piff, and which is Mrs. what could be - nothing more - and yet, seems me,
I see it in your face, what you should Seyn. The opportunity to say it
to you, and my imagination Force sees a crown on your head float.
Sebastian. How? you awake? Antonio.