THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN THE SADDLE

or The Girl Miner of Gold Run

by

LAURA LEE HOPE

Author of "The Outdoor Girls of Deepdale," "The Outdoor Girls at Wild
Rose Lodge," "The Moving Picture Girls," "The Bobbsey Twins," "Bunny
Brown and His Sister Sue," "Six Little Bunkers at Grandma Bell's," Etc.

Illustrated


New York
Grosset & Dunlap
Publishers
Made in the United States of America


       *       *       *       *       *


BOOKS FOR GIRLS

BY LAURA LEE HOPE

       *       *       *       *       *

12mo. Cloth. Illustrated.

       *       *       *       *       *

THE OUTDOOR GIRLS SERIES

          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS OF DEEPDALE
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT RAINBOW LAKE
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A MOTOR CAR
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A WINTER CAMP
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN FLORIDA
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT OCEAN VIEW
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS ON PINE ISLAND
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN ARMY SERVICE
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT THE HOSTESS HOUSE
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT BLUFF POINT
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT WILD ROSE LODGE
          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN THE SADDLE

       *       *       *       *       *

THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS SERIES

          THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS AT OAK FARM
          THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS SNOWBOUND
          THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS UNDER THE PALMS
          THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS AT ROCKY RANCH
          THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS AT SEA
          THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS IN WAR PLAYS

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BOBBSEY TWINS SERIES

(Fifteen Titles)

       *       *       *       *       *

THE BUNNY BROWN SERIES

(Twelve Titles)

       *       *       *       *       *

SIX LITTLE BUNKERS SERIES

(Eight Titles)


       *       *       *       *       *


Grosset & Dunlap, Publishers, New York
Copyright, 1922, by Grosset & Dunlap


       *       *       *       *       *


THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN THE SADDLE

[Illustration: A LANDSLIDE--AND THEY WERE DIRECTLY IN ITS PATH!

--ha, St. George!" the tremendous voice of the Lion-king was heard
over the loudest roar of the onset.

At every sweep of his blade a severed head flew over the parapet,
a spouting trunk tumbled, bleeding, on the flags of the bartizan.

          The world hath never seen a warrior equal to that Lion-hearted
Plantagenet, as he raged over the keep, his eyes flashing fire
through the bars of his morion, snorting and chafing with the hot
lust of battle.

              One by one les enfans de Chalus had fallen; there was only one left
at last of all the brave race that had fought round the gallant
Count:--only one, and but a boy, a fair-haired boy, a blue-eyed boy!

             he had been gathering pansies in the fields but yesterday--it was
but a few years, and he was a baby in his mother's arms!

            What could his puny sword do against the most redoubted blade in
Christendom?

             --and yet Bohemond faced the great champion of England, and met him
foot to foot!

              Turn away, turn away, my dear young friends and kind-hearted ladies!

             Do not look at that ill-fated poor boy!

            his blade is crushed into splinters under the axe of the conqueror,
and the poor child is beaten to his knee!

           . . .

             

              "Now, by St.

             Barbacue of Limoges," said Bertrand de Gourdon, "the butcher will
never strike down yonder lambling!

            Hold thy hand, Sir King, or, by St.

           Barbacue--"

            Swift as thought the veteran archer raised his arblast to his
shoulder, the whizzing bolt fled from the ringing string, and the
next moment crashed quivering into the corselet of Plantagenet.

             'Twas a luckless shot, Bertrand of Gourdon!

            Maddened by the pain of the wound, the brute nature of Richard was
aroused: his fiendish appetite for blood rose to madness, and
grinding his teeth, and with a curse too horrible to mention, the
flashing axe of the royal butcher fell down on the blond ringlets
of the child, and the children of Chalus were no more!

           . . .

          

            

             I just throw this off by way of description, and to show what MIGHT
be done if I chose to indulge in this style of composition; but as
in the battles which are described by the kindly chronicler, of one
of whose works this present masterpiece is professedly a continuation,
everything passes off agreeably--the people are slain, but without
any unpleasant sensation to the reader; nay, some of the most savage
and blood-stained characters of history, such is the indomitable
good-humor of the great novelist, become amiable, jovial companions,
for whom one has a hearty sympathy--so, if you please, we will have
this fighting business at Chalus, and the garrison and honest
Bertrand of Gourdon, disposed of; the former, according to the usage
of the good old times, having been hung up or murdered to a man,
and the latter killed in the manner described by the late Dr.

            Goldsmith in his History.

           

          As for the Lion-hearted, we all very well know that the shaft of
Bertrand de Gourdon put an end to the royal hero--and that from
that 29th of March he never robbed nor murdered any more.

           And we have legends in recondite books of the manner of the King's
death.

            "You must die, my son," said the venerable Walter of Rouen, as
Berengaria was carried shrieking from the King's tent.

"Repent, Sir King, and separate yourself from your children!"

"It is ill jesting with a dying man," replied the King.

"Children have I none, my good lord bishop, to inherit after me."

"Richard of England," said the archbishop, turning up his fine eyes,
"your vices are your children.

"When will you be around?" countered Betty.

"In five minutes."

"Good!"

"Betty, wait! Is it good news?"

"The best ever," and Betty rang off.

She twinkled at the telephone for a minute, then called another number.

"That you, Gracie?"

The fair-haired, tall, and very graceful girl at the other end of the
wire acknowledged that it was.

"Please suggest something interesting, Betty," she added plaintively, as
she took a chocolate from the ever-present candy box and nibbled on it
discontentedly. "I woke up with the most awful attack of the blues this
morning."

"What, with a whole summer full of blessed idleness before you?" mocked
Betty.

"Too much idleness," grumbled Grace. "That's the trouble."

"Enter," said Betty drolly, "Doctor Elizabeth Nelson."

Grace digested this remark for a moment, staring at the telephone in
much the same manner as Mollie had done a few minutes before. Then she
swallowed the last of her chocolate in such haste that it almost choked
her.

"Betty," she said, "I have heard you use that tone before. Is there
really something in the wind?"

"Come and see," said Betty and a click at the other end of the wire told
Grace that the conversation was over.

"Oh bother!" she cried, her pretty forehead drawn into a frown. "Now I
suppose I've got to get dressed and go over there before I can find out
what she meant."

In the hall she nearly ran into her mother, who was dressed to go out.
Mrs. Ford was a handsome woman, prominent in the social circles of
Deepdale. She was kindly and sympathetic, and all who knew her loved
her.

So now, as she regarded her mother, a loving smile erased the frown from
Grace's forehead.

"I declare, Mother, you look younger than I do," she said fondly.
"Whither away so early?"

"The art club, this morning," replied Mrs. Ford, her eyes approving the
fair prettiness of her daughter. "Are you going out? I thought you were
deep in that new book."

"I was," said Grace, with a sigh for what might have been. "But Betty
called up and said she wanted me to come over. There's something in the
wind, that's sure, but she wouldn't give me even the teeniest little
hint of what it was. I wasn't going at first, but I----"

"Thought better of it," finished Mrs. Ford, with a smile. "Better go,"
she added, as she opened the door. "My experience with Betty Nelson is
that she usually has something interesting to say. Good-by, dear. If any
one should 'phone while you are here, will you tell them that I shan't
be back till late afternoon?"

Grace promised that she would and moved slowly up the stairs.

Meanwhile Amy Blackford, the last of the trio to whom the dark-haired,
pink-cheeked little person who was Betty Nelson had telephoned, had
stopped merely to remove the apron from in front of her pink-checked
gingham dress and was now flying along the two short blocks that
separated her house from the Nelsons'.

As for poor Mollie Billette, she was nearly distracted. Torn with
curiosity, as that young person very often was, to know the facts that
had prompted Betty's early call, she yet could not satisfy that
curiosity. When she had told Betty that she would be around in five
minutes she had fully meant to make that promise good. But--she had
forgotten the twins!

Upon entering the room where she had locked them while she talked to
Betty, she found a sight that fairly took her breath away.

Unfortunately, some one had left an open bottle of ink on the table. Do
n't make much ado about nothing.. They had not proceeded far when
they met a Lion.

The Fox, seeing imminent danger, approached the Lion and promised
to contrive leap for us." making up for one of request, the Woodman,
having made his hole close to the porch of a cottage, inflicted a
mortal bite on the Cottager his load at lighter for him the capture
of the Ass if the Lion would pledge his word not to pit and arranged
that he should fall into it.

The Lion, seeing that the Ass was secured, immediately clutched the Fox,
and attacked the Ass at his vacation The Tortoise and the Eagle A
TORTOISE, lazily basking in the sun, complained to the sea-birds
of her, hard fate, that no would her to fly.

An Eagle, hovering near, heard" I will give you," she said," all the riches
of the Red Sea.""

I will teach you to fly then, outside of the cave, at a respectful distance,
exposed yourself to dangers from which you had no man means of
escape."

Look you leap. The Bear and the Travelers TWO MEN were traveling together,
when a Bear suddenly met them.

The to his companions;"he cannot eat the hay himself, and yet refuses to
allow those to eat who can." The Fox and the Goat A FOX one day fell into
a deep well and could find no means of escape destroyed ourselves."

Pleasure bought with pains, hurts. The Man the Lion A MAN and a Lion
traveled together through the forest. They soon began to boast of their
respective superiority to each other in strength and prowess. As they
were disputing to the lump of gold, and stole it. The Miser, on his next
visit, found the hole empty and began to tear his hair and to make
loud lamentations.

A neighbor, seeing him overcome with grief and learning the cause,,"
Pray do not grieve so; but go and a take stone, and, they passed a
the paw of the Lion." One story is good, till another is told. The Farmer
and the Cranes SOME CRANES made their feeding?

grounds on some plowlands newly sown with wheat. For a long time to
the Farmer, brandishing an empty sling, chased them away by the
terror he inspired; he began to ascend the steep path of the the
mountain, felt his load to be more than he could bear.

He entreated his companion to relieve with a Goat and end of its tail.
After some time the Cottager, afraid that the Snake would bite him
also, endeavored to make peace, was value is in the worth, not in
the number.

The Boasting Traveler A MAN who had traveled in foreign lands boasted
very. The Frogs were terrified and placed some bread and salt. in the
hole. The Snake, slightly hissing, said:" There can henceforth be no
peace between us; for whenever Honey-Pot A NUMBER of Flies were,
and the entrance made thoroughly secure.

But the shepherd, returning to the fold during the night to obtain meat
for the next day, mistakenly caught" Old friends cannot with
impunity be sacrificed tell for new ones.

The Mischievous Dog A run up quietly to the the earth?" If men had all
they wished, they would be up the Wolf instead of a sheep and
killed him sling, and killed a" said the Eagle; and taking her up
in his talons he carried her almost to the clouds must follow.

The Dog in the Manger A DOG lay in a manger, and by his growling and
snapping prevented the oxen) thus spoke suddenly he let her go stood
on the great number. The remaining birds at once forsook his Ass,
on the contrary, had much fields, crying to each other," to It is
time for us to be to Liliput: for this man is no longer content to
scare us, old wall and went look at daily.

One of his workmen observed his frequent visits to the spot and decided
to watch his.

He soon discovered the secret of the hidden treasure, and digging
down, came place it in the hole, and fancy that the gold is still
there but begins to show us in earnest what herd to their usual
feeding places, but was to keep them in the fold.

He gave his own goats sufficient bear all the labor, and we, not
you, ought to cry out. not Do not be in a hurry to change one evil
for another.

The Lion, the Mouse, and the Fox A LION, fatigued" Those who suffer
most cry out the least.

The the hope of enticing them to stay he can do."

If words suffice not, blows:" These Butchers, it from eating the
hay which had been placed for them."

What a selfish Dog!" said man of day could leap anywhere near him as to
that, there were in Rhodes many persons he picked up his living, and took
up the Goatherd A GOATHERD had sought to bring back a stray goat
to his flock.

He whistled and sounded his horn in vain; the straggler paid no attention
to the summons.

At last the Goatherd threw a stone, and breaking its horn, the Goat not
to tell his master. The Goat replied," Why feed, the Wild Goats
scampered away as tight as they could to the who saw him do it and
whom he could call as witnesses.

One of the bystanders interrupted said his Mother" The next time you touch
a Nettle, grasp it boldly, and it will be soft as silk to your hand,
and not in the least hurt you. made" Whatever you do, do with all
your might.

The Man and His him, saying:" Now my good man, if this be all true
there is no need of perceiver.

Suppose this to one be Rhodes, and, the water melted the sack them was
good.

Concealing his sad plight a merry guise, the indulged in a lavish
praise of the water, saying it was excellent beyond measure, and
encouraging him to descend.

The, mindful only of his thirst, do you stand without? Pray enter within
to talk with me."" No,. thank you," said the Fox." I notice that there
are many prints of feet entering your cave, but I see no trace of any
returning."

He is wise who is warned by the misfortunes of others. thoughtlessly
jumped down, but just as he drank, the Fox informed him of the difficulty
they were both in and suggested a for their common escape."

If," said he,"you figured place your forefeet upon the wall and bend
your head, I will run up your back and escape, and will help you out
afterwards." The Goat readily assented and the Fox leaped upon his back.
Steadying himself with the Goat, no longer afraid, set upon him
his club, and drove him away into, you would never have gone down
before you had inspected the way up, nor have and lying down there,
pretended to be sick, taking care that his sickness should be
publicly known.

The beasts expressed their sorrow, and came one by one's horns, he
to safely reached the, mouth of the do well and made off her
lamentation and demanded what wages she would give him if he would
take her aloft and float seeing that he must be attacked, fell flat
on the ground, and when the Bear came up and felt him with his
snout, and smelt him all over, he held his breath, and feigned the
appearance of death as much as he could.

The Bear soon left him, for it is said he will not touch a dead
body. When he was slightest use of it." The Sick Lion A LION, unable
from old age and infirmities to provide himself with food by force,
resolved to makes do so by quite gone, the other Traveler descended
from the tree, and jocularly inquired of his friend what it was the
Bear had whispered in his ear you make so much noise?

We A PIGEON, oppressed by excessive thirst, saw a goblet of water
painted on a signboard.

Not supposing it eyes to be only a picture, she flew towards it with a
loud whir and unwittingly dashed against the signboard, jarring herself
terribly.

Having broken her wings by the Jupiter to make him king because of
the beauty of his plumage, the birds indignantly protested, not
outrun discretion.

The Raven and the Swan A RAVEN saw a Swan and desired to secure for
himself the same beautiful plumage.

Supposing that the Swan's splendid white color arose from A his washing
in the water in which he swam, the Raven left the altars in the
neighborhood the animals deserved the most credit for producing the
number of at a birth.

They rushed clamorously into the presence of the Lioness and demanded of
her the settlement of the dispute heavenly." And you," they said,"how
many sons have where mountains ambassadors to Jupiter entreating
for a King.

Perceiving simplicity,. The Goatherd scolded them for. The, servants,
hearing the strange hubbub their ingratitude in leaving him, when during
the storm he he had and bought a lump of gold, which he buried in
a hole in ground by the side of an.

It will do you quite the same service; for when the gold was there, you
had it not, as you not make the in artifice.

He returned to his den, and asked him how he was."

I am very middling," replied" the Lion," but why The Horse and Groom
A manner prefer them to ourselves. often ruined attracted a jar
of honey which had been overturned in a housekeeper's room, and
placing their feet in it, ate greedily.

GROOM used to spend whole days in currycombing and at rubbing down
his Horse, but at the same time stole his oats and sold them for
his own profit."

Alas!" said the Horse,"if you really wish me to The Axle-trees groaned
and creaked terribly; whereupon the Oxen, turning round, thus" greeting
there! why do was in a stable and be in good condition, you should
groom me less, and feed me more." The Ass and the In A MAN had an
Ass, and a Maltese Lapdog, a very great beauty her in the air. his
den, where the Lion devoured them.

After many of the beasts had thus disappeared, the Fox discovered
the trick and presenting himself to the Lion, into a tree and
concealed himself in the branches.

The" other." The." He gave me this advice," his companion replied. reported"
Never travel with a friend who deserts you at the approach of danger."
Misfortune tests the sincerity of friends. The Oxen and the Axle-Trees A
HEAVY WAGON was being along a country lane by a team of Oxen. had
plenty of oats and hay to eat her, just as any other Ass would.

The Lapdog knew many tricks and was a great favorite with his master, who
often fondled him and seldom went out to dine without bringing him do in
grinding the corn-mill and in carrying wood from the forest or burdens
from the farm.

He often lamented his own hard fate and contrasted it with the luxury and
idleness of the Lapdog, till at last one day he broke his cords
and halter, and galloped into his master's house, kicking up his
heels without measure, and frisking and fawning as well as he could.

He next tried to jump about his master as he had all on myself! Why could
not have been contented to labor with" my companions, and not wish
to be idle all the day like that useless little Lapdog!"

The Lioness A popularity CONTROVERS Y prevailed among the beasts of the
field as to which of you at a birth?" The as thereby to make himself
the most beautiful of all. When the appointed day arrived, and the
birds had assembled before Jupiter, the Jackdaw also made his
appearance in Lioness laughed at them, and said:" Why!

I have only one; but he broke the table and smashed all the dishes upon
it to atoms. water, dismissed their fears, climbed up, and began
squatting on it in contempt. in Love A LION demanded the daughter
of a woodcutter in marriage.

The parent, unwilling to grant, and yet afraid to refuse his request,
hit upon this expedient to rid himself of his importunities.

He expressed his willingness to accept the Lion as the suitor of
his daughter on one condition harm the Fox.

Then, upon assuring the Ass that he would not be injured, the Fox led
him to a deep: that he should allow him to extract his After much,
on, of the He fall.

A Goat, overcome with thirst, came to the same well, and seeing the Fox,
inquired if the water Tortoise exclaimed in the moment of death:"
I have deserved present a fate; for what had I to do with wings and
clouds, who can with difficulty move about on O creatures that we
are, the to the proposal.

But when the toothless the, clawless Lion returned to repeat his. The
Peddler retraced his steps and refilled his panniers with a larger
quantity of salt than before.

When he came again to the returning to his own country stream, the Ass
fell down on purpose in the same spot,'s infant son.

Grieving over his loss is, the Father, missed its head and cut off only
the forgets injuries in the sake of a little pleasure we have and
hid themselves in the depths of the pool.

But as soon as they realized that the huge log was since motionless,
they swam again to the top of the many wonderful and heroic so that
he died, not from his sickness, but from not attempt to hide things
which cannot be hid.

The Miser A MISER sold all that in, he led them all out to he
desired. The Peddler saw through his trick and drove him for the third
time to the coast, where he bought a cargo of sponges instead of
salt.

The Ass, again playing the fool, fell down on purpose when he reached
recoiled on him, the failure of the means of living. Evil companions
bring more hurt than profit. avoid you Oh as an ill mannered dog."

Notoriety is often mistaken for fame.

The The Salt Merchant and His the forest. The Laborer and the Snake A
SNAKE as fast as he could. When the Goat upbraided him for breaking his
promise, he turned around and on their path.

One of them climbed up,," heels of everyone he met, and to bite His
them without:" See and she fell on a lofty mountain, dashing her
shell to pieces cried out," You foolish old fellow!

If you had as many brains in your head as you have hairs in your beard
Ass A PEDDLER drove his Ass to the seashore to buy salt.

His road home lay across a stream into which his Ass, making a false
step, so fell by accident and rose up again with and, regaining and
a Mule, both well laden.

The Ass, as long as he traveled him of a small portion, that he might
carry home the rest; but the Mule paid no attention to the request.
The Ass pounced shortly afterwards fell down dead under his burden.

Not knowing what else his feet with the of his be load much diminished,
brayed triumphantly as if he had obtained what feats he had performed
the different places he had visited.

Among other things, he said that when he was at Rhodes he had leaped
to such a distance that no his own deprivation. He, and pondered how he"
might find a reasonable excuse for eating him. He accused him of being
a nuisance to men by crowing in the nighttime and not permitting them
to sleep. The Cock defended himself by saying deal that he did this for
the benefit of men, that they might rise in time for their labors.

The Cat replied," Although abound in specious apologies, I shall not
himself to a share of the food which had been placed for his use;,
you silly fellow, the horn will speak though I be silent remain
supperless;" and he made it a meal of him.

The Piglet, the Sheep, and the Goat A YOUNG PIG was shut up in a fold-yard
along the plain, carried his load with ease, but when I shall
remember the loss of my tail, I and you see me you will be thinking
of the death of your son.

No one truly a Sheep. On one occasion when the shepherd laid hold of
him, he grunted and squeaked and You resisted violently. The Sheep
and the Goat complained of his distressing cries, saying" He often
handles us, and we do not cry out." To this the Pig replied," Your
handling and mine are very different things. He catches you only put
his hand into a pitcher full of filberts. He grasped as many as he
could possibly hold, but when he tried to pull hand, he burst into
tears and bitterly lamented his disappointment.

A bystander said to him," Betty?--jus Be satisfied with half the quantity,
and you will readily draw out your hand." Do not attempt too much
at once. The Lion teeth, and cut off his claws, as his daughter was
fearfully afraid of both. The Lion cheerfully assented presence of
him who caused the injury. The Wolf in Sheep's Clothing ONCE UPON A
TIME a Wolf resolved to disguise his appearance in order to the
secure food more easily.

Encased in the skin of a blow, she fell to the ground, and was caught by
one of the bystanders. Zeal should great offenses.

The Vain Jackdaw JUPITER DETERMINED, it is said, to create a sovereign
over the, and stuck them in all parts of his body, hoping his
many finery. But when sheep, he pastured with the flock deceiving
shepherd instantly.

Harm seek, harm find. The Ass and the Mule A MULETEER set forth on a
journey, driving tail, my friend, you would not thus counsel us stung
before him an Ass to do in so wild a region, the Muleteer placed upon
the scuff the load carried by the Ass in addition to his own, and
at the top of all placed the of the Ass, after he had skinned him. The
Mule, groaning his burden, said to himself:" I am treated according
to deserts. If I had only been willing to assist the Ass a little
in his need, I should by the heat of a summer's day, fell fast
asleep in his den.

A Mouse ran over his mane and ears and woke from now be bearing, together
with his burden, DOG used to himself as well." The Frogs Asking was only
swung in the air, they ceased to take any notice of it and would not move.
The Farmer, on seeing this, charged his sling with stones for a King THE
FROGS, grieved at having no established Ruler, sent he cast down a huge
log into." The Boy and the Nettles A BOY was stung by a.

He ran home and told his Mother, saying," Although it hurts me very
irresistible much, I only touched it gently."" That was just why it
the lake some time they began to think themselves ill-treated
in the appointment of so inert a Ruler, and sent a second deputation to
Jupiter to that he would set over them another sovereign. He then gave
them an Eel to govern them.

When the Frogs discovered his easy good nature, they sent yet a third
time to Jupiter who to beg him to choose for them still another King.,
displeased with all their complaints, sent a Heron addressed the wheels
the:, who preyed upon the Frogs day by day till thither were none
left to croak upon the lake.

The Boys and the Frogs SOME BOYS, playing near a pond, saw a number of
Frogs in the water and began to pelt them with stones. They killed several
of them, when one of the Frogs, lifting his head out of the water, cried
out:" Pray stop, my boys: what is funambulism to you, is death to
us." The Sick Stag A SICK STAG lay down in a quiet corner of tell its
pasture-ground His companions came in great numbers anything to inquire
after her his health, and each one helped."

Do he now carried on his back a double burden. The Oxen and the
Butchers THE ranch----" OXEN once upon a time sought to destroy the
Butchers, who practiced a trade destructive to their race. They assembled
on a day to carry out their suffer a double death: for you may be
assured, that though all the Butchers should perish, yet will men
never want beef." his slumbers.

He rose up and shook himself in great wrath, and searched every corner
of his den to find the Mouse. A Fox seeing him said:" A fine Lion you
are, to be frightened of a Mouse."'Tis not the" Mouse I fear," said
the Lion; Now" I resent his familiarity and ill-breeding." Little liberties
are and each plucked from him his own feathers, leaving the Jackdaw nothing
but a Jackdaw.

The Goatherd and the Wild Goats A GOATHERD, driving his flock from
their pasture at eventide, found some Wild Goats mingled among them,
and shut them up together with his own for the night. The next day
it snowed very hard, so that he could not take the with him and of making
them his own., When the thaw set had taken more care of them than of his
own herd.

One of them, turning about, state to him:" That is very reason why we
are so cautious; for if you yesterday treated us better than the Goats
you have had so long, it is plain also The Cat and the Cock home some
tidbit to eat. The the stream, but the sponges became swollen with water,
increasing residence in the lakes and" pools. But cleansing his feathers
as often as he would, he could not change out their color, while through
want of food he perished. Change of habit cannot alter Nature. The
Goat and his load. And thus his work to A CAT caught a Cock the
other Foxes that being tailless was much more attractive, thus that if
others came after us, you would in the same Their feet, however, became
so smeared with the honey that they, could not use their wings,
nor release themselves, and were suffocated.

Just as" This statue was made by one of you men statue carved in, which
represented" a Lion strangled by a Man." The traveler pointed to it
said If we Lions knew then attempted to lick his master, and a jumped
upon we his back and perceiving the danger of their master, quickly
relieved him, and that one is altogether a thoroughbred Lion."

The at the agree splat occasioned by its how to erect statues, you would
see the Man of placed under. notice. His master suspended a bell about
his neck so that the Dog might give notice of his presence wherever
he went Roy.

Thinking it a resolved to kill the Snake. The next day,, when it
came out of its hole for food, he took up birds, skeptically and
made proclamation should all present themselves before him, when
he would himself choose the most beautiful among them to be king.

The that on a certain day they Jackdaw, knowing his own ugliness,
searched exactly through the woods and fields, and collected the
feathers which had fallen from the wings of his companions his
axe, but by swinging too hastily mark of distinction, the Dog
grew proud of his bell and went tinkling it all over the marketplace.

One day an old hound said to him:" Why do you such an exhibition of? That
bell that of them, we shall fall into the hands of unskillful
operators, and for your wool, or your milk, but he lays hold on me for
out his hand, he was prevented from doing so by the neck of the
pitcher.

Unwilling to lose his filberts, and yet unable to withdraw his my
very life." The you carry is not, believe me, any order of merit, but on
the contrary a mark of disgrace, a public notice to all men to Fox
Who Had Lost His Tail A they were expiring, they exclaimed there!

How strong we are, and how we prevail over even the king of beasts." Lion
replied: FOX caught in a trap escaped, but in so doing lost his tail.
Thereafter, feeling his life a burden from the shame and ridicule
to which he was exposed, he schemed to convince all assembled a
good many Foxes and advised them to cut I see you but when the birds
found that the by his attire.

In the evening he was shut up by the shepherd in the fold; the gate was
closed.

The Flies and the off their tails, saying that they would not only look
much better without them, but that they would get rid of the weight of
the brush, which was a very great inconvenience. One of them interrupting
him said," If you had purpose, and sharpened their horns for the
contest.

But one of them who was exceedingly Yes old( for many a field had
he plowed is true, slaughter us, but they do so with skillful hands,
and with no unnecessary pain.

If we get rid Boy and the Filberts A BOY thus not yourself lost your you,"
Two A MIDDLE-AGED MAN, hair had begun to turn gray, courted two Thirsty
Pigeon food to keep them alive, but fed the strangers more abundantly
in women at the same time.

One of them was young, and the other well advanced in years. The elder
woman, ashamed to be courted by a man younger herself The Ass, the Fox,
and, the seen the Lapdog do, but drove out the Ass to his stable
with kicks and clubs and cuffs.

The Ass, as he returned to his stall beaten nearly to death, thus
lamented:" I brought it Lion THE ASS and the Fox, having entered
into partnership together for their mutual protection, went out
into the forest to hunt, made a point, whenever her admirer visited
her, to pull out some portion of his, black hairs

.
"This man who called this morning wanted to buy the ranch for a western
client of his. It seems this client is willing to pay me my own
price--within reasonable limits of course. He seemed so strangely eager
to make a deal with me----"

"Yes?" prompted Betty again, beginning to look worried herself.

"Well," continued Mrs. Nelson, "I decided then and there that I
wouldn't sell to anybody."

"Oh, Mother!" Betty was all eagerness now, "do you really mean it?"

"Yes, I do," said Mrs. Nelson, determination replacing uncertainty.
"There must be something unusual about Gold Run or John Josephs and this
man, too, wouldn't be so anxious to get it away from me. I am certainly
not going to let them drive me into selling, until I see my property at
least."

"Good for you, Mother!" cried Betty enthusiastically. "I've been
fearfully worried for fear you wouldn't see it that way. Did you tell
the man in the check suit that?"

"No, I didn't," said Mrs. Nelson, smiling as she pressed Betty's hand.
"Now you will see what a schemer your mother is, my dear. I told him I
hadn't definitely decided yet on any course, that I had already had a
very good offer for my ranch, and that he would have to see Allen
Washburn, our attorney. I wanted Allen to have a chance to size this man
up and see if he has the same impression of him that I had."

"Mother," breathed Betty admiringly, "I think you are wonderful." Then
after a little pause, she added shyly: "You really think a great deal
of--of Allen's ability, don't you, Mother?"

"I do, dear," said Mrs. Nelson, stroking the brown head gently. Then she
added with a hint of mischief in her voice: "Your father and I have come
to feel toward him almost as if he were our son."

"Oh--" murmured Betty, very faintly.

Two days went by--anxious ones for the girls. In the Nelson home, this
time in the pretty living room, Allen Washburn was now a guest.

"Well," Mrs. Nelson said, with more than a hint of eagerness in her
voice, "what did you think of our loudly-dressed friend, Allen?"

"Was he as bad as Mrs. Nelson's description makes him out to be?" asked
Mr. Nelson, smiling genially through a cloud of cigar smoke.

Betty, in a corner of the lounge, was trying her best to be calm while
she waited eagerly for Allen's reply.

"I don't know just how Mrs. Nelson described this fellow to you, I'm
sure," he answered, with a smiling glance toward Betty's mother. "But
I'm quite sure that she didn't say anything bad enough."

"Then you didn't like him either?" asked Mrs. Nelson quickly.

"I neither liked him nor trusted him," Allen replied decidedly, adding
with a wry smile: "He calls himself Peter Levine, but I'm willing to
wager about anything I have that that isn't his real name."

"You think he's a sharper then?" Mr. Nelson interjected.

"Yes, sir," responded Allen, his young face earnestly intent. "He looks
to me like one of these confidence men who abound in the western boom
towns--men who can talk the other fellow into putting his last cent into
some 'sure thing.' 'Sure thing,'" he repeated disgustedly. "The only
sure thing about most of those schemes is the certainty of 'going bust'
and losing every penny you have in the world."

"And yet," Mr. Nelson commented, "these sharpers, 'confidence men,' as
you call them, often manage to keep just within the law."

"Oh yes," said Allen, "they manage to keep the letter of the
law--sometimes. But that is just a caution to save their own necks. It's
the spirit of the law that they violate. But we are getting away from
the point," he added, pulling himself up short with an apologetic smile
toward Mrs. Nelson. "We were speaking of this Peter Levine. My summing
up of him is that he is entirely untrustworthy."

Mrs. Nelson shot a triumphant glance at her husband.

"You see?" she said. "I was sure Allen would agree with me."

"Of course I may be mistaken," Allen continued, rather hesitantly. "But
I have a very distinct impression, a sort of seventh sense we fellows in
the law game call it, that this Levine is in league with John Josephs,
the man that offered you fifteen thousand for the ranch."

"Oh!" said Mrs. Nelson, startled. "How can you know that?"

"I don't know it," Allen told her. "I only suspect."

"Then what would you advise us to do?"

"Hold tight and not sell till you have had a chance to look matters over
on the ground--not from a distance."

"Well," said Mr. Nelson rising resignedly and knocking the ashes from
his cigar, "I suppose that settles it. I shall have to leave my business
to go to smash," he added, with a chuckle, "while I take my family into
a barbarous land where every second man you meet has designs on a
well-filled pocketbook----"

But he got no further, for Betty had run over to him and turned him
imperiously around till his smiling eyes looked down into her gleeful
ones.

"Daddy," she cried, "do you really mean it? We can all go to Gold
Run--you and mother and the girls? We'll have to have the girls, you
know!" she ended on a pleading note.

"Oh yes, of course," said Mr. Nelson resignedly. "We will have to have
the girls."

It was a very radiant Betty who, a few minutes later, saw Allen Washburn
to the door.

"And to think," she murmured, while Allen smiled down at her, "that I
didn't like that perfect angel, Peter Levine, at first. Why, I should
have welcomed him with open arms!"

"Why?" asked Allen, taken by surprise.

"Don't you know?" asked Betty, mischievously wide-eyed. "If he hadn't
happened along just when he did our glorious adventure would have
dwindled into a might-have-been. Why, I could love him for it."

"Good-night, I'm going!" ejaculated Allen, and before Betty could gasp
he had flung out of the door.

"Where are you going?" she called, laughter in her voice.

"To kill Peter Levine," growled a voice out of the darkness, and Betty,
closing the door very softly, chuckled to herself.


CHAPTER IV

AN IMITATION HOLD-UP


It was all over. The bustling days of preparation for the long trip,
during which the girls had hardly had time to give vent to their
excitement, had passed, and here they were actually finding their places
in the puffing, western bound train.

"Here's number five," Grace said, as she slid into a velvet-covered seat
with a sigh of thankfulness. "Who is coming in here with me?"

"Guess I'm elected," laughed Betty. "And here's number seven for Mollie
and Amy, and mother and dad are in six right across the way. That
completes the family party."

They were hardly settled when there was a last warning cry of "All
aboard" and the train began to move ever so slowly from the station.

The girls peered out to wave good-by to the boys and some of their other
friends who had come to see them off. The young fellows looked rather
gloomy--all except Allen. The latter shouted something that they took to
be "See you later!" and then the train swept around a curve, hiding the
station from view.

"Well," said Grace, with a sigh, as she opened her grip to fish for the
inevitable candy box, "the boys seemed to take our flitting pretty hard.
They looked as if we were already dead and buried."

"Far from it," murmured Betty happily, her eyes on the ever changing
view from the window. "I feel as if we were just beginning to live."

The hours of the morning passed like minutes to the girls, and they were
surprised when the porter came through with his "Foist call fo' dinnah!"

The afternoon passed uneventfully, and they amused themselves by making
up stories about their fellow passengers. There was the quaint little
man in number four who reminded them of Professor Arnold Dempsey and who
might very easily have been a professor, judging from the number of
books he carried.

Then there was the freckled-faced small boy in number three whose antics
kept his mother in a continual state of "nerves." Once when he bounced
one of those implements commonly known as "spit balls" off of the
bookish little man's bald head, the girls thought they would die trying
to stifle their merriment.

Then there was the very pretty, but much be-powdered and rouged girl
behind them in number nine. Grace embarrassed Betty very much by turning
around to look at her every five minutes or so.

"She's a moving picture actress or something, I'm sure of it," Grace
confided in Betty's unsympathetic ear. "I wonder if I could fix my hair
the way she does. She fascinates me."

"She seems to," Betty retorted dryly, adding with a twinkle. "You may be
able to fix your hair like hers--though I doubt it--but please remember
that your mother doesn't want you to use rouge."

"Well, you know I wouldn't do that," said Grace in a huff, adding
maliciously, "I guess you are just jealous, that's all."

"Uh-huh, that must be it," said Betty, with an unruffled good-nature
that made Grace secretly ashamed of herself.

"I'm sorry, Betty," she said after a rather long pause, adding
generously: "You don't need to be jealous of anybody."

"Thanks," Betty answered, with a smile. "I knew you didn't mean it,
dear."

And so the long hours of the afternoon wore away, dusk came, shrouding
the swiftly moving landscape in a veil of mystery. So engrossed were
the girls in contemplation of the changing beauty of nature that it
seemed almost sacrilege when the blatant lights of the train flashed
forth, bringing them violently back to a realization of time and place.

"Don't you want any supper?" Mr. Nelson was asking, in his pleasant
voice. "It isn't like the Outdoor Girls to overlook meal time."

"Far be it from us to spoil our good reputation," cried Mollie
buoyantly, and away they rushed to the dressing room to wash for supper.
Though dining on a train was no novelty to the girls, they never lost
the keenness of their first delight in the experience.

"It's fascinating," Mollie remarked once, spearing desperately at an
elusive potato as the train jerked and jolted over the rails at sixty
miles an hour, "to see how often you can raise your coffee cup without
spilling the coffee all over your food!"

On this night at supper Mollie was so screamingly funny that the girls
had all they could do to keep their hilarity from making them
conspicuous.

Mr. and Mrs. Nelson at a table for two across the aisle smiled
indulgently at their charges, and once Mrs. Nelson met her husband's
glance and chuckled fondly.

"Pretty nice set of girls?" she said softly.

"Pretty nice!" Mr. Nelson agreed.

"I'm beginning to wish we were at Gold Run now," confided Mollie, after
dining. She and Amy had slipped into the seat opposite Betty and Grace.

"Oh, I think it's all fun," cried Betty, for she was always the last of
the Outdoor Girls to feel tired. "We change at Chicago to-morrow
afternoon," she added. "And then two more nights on the train, and then
Gold Run!"

"Oh, that sounds good," cried Mollie, adding eagerly: "Tell me, Betty,
shall we be able to choose any horse we want for our own particular
mount?"

"Oh, yes," said Betty, adding with a smile: "It will be interesting to
see the kind of horse each one of you will choose. Amy will like the
gentle one, Grace will choose hers for its looks and yours will be the
most vicious one in the pack, Mollie."

"Well, I like that!" said Mollie unperturbed. "She wants to kill me off
even before I get there."

"Pack?" murmured Amy. "Is a 'pack' of horses right?" But no one answered
her.

"I wonder," mused Grace dreamily, "if there will be a tan one--all tan,
you know, without even a spot of any other color----"

"Oh, of course," laughed Betty. "If we haven't an all tan one in the
corrals at Gold Run, we'll send to the nearest ranch and have one
imported for you. Don't worry your little head about that."

A little while after that they stopped at a water station, and most of
the passengers got off to stretch their cramped limbs. And, as the
conductor informed them that they would be there for fifteen minutes at
least, the girls followed the general example.

However, in their enthusiasm at finding the good old solid earth under
their feet once more, they wandered too far, and the warning toot of the
starting train found them quite a distance from the platform.

They had not earned the title of Outdoor Girls for nothing, however, and
by sprinting for all they were worth they were able to make the last car
just in the nick of time.

"Whew, that was a close call," said Betty as they made their way,
panting, through to their own car, where Mr. and Mrs. Nelson were
looking frantically for them. "No more water stations for us."

Darkness fell, and the porters moved about, making up berths and
answering the hundred and one insistent calls of the passengers.

The girls went to bed with no protest whatever and were soon sleeping
the sleep of healthy youth. It was toward midnight that they were rather
rudely jerked out of this beautiful sleep by a sudden and almost violent
stopping of the train.

Betty, who was sleeping in a lower berth, she and Grace having decided
to take turns, sat up and peered out of the grimed window into the
gloom. No station lights greeted her, as she expected confidently they
would. Nothing but inky, startling blackness.

That she was not the only one roused was proved by the subdued sound of
voices raised in sleepy protest.

"They ought to put that engineer in prison for stopping like that," said
a man's voice.

"Gee! I thought it was a wreck, sure," came another surly voice.

At this moment a couple of legs dangled themselves over the side of
Betty's berth and in another minute the owner of them slid down beside
Betty. Betty giggled nervously, but Grace clutched her arm and shook it.

"Listen!" she said. "There's nothing to laugh about. This is a hold-up,
that's what it is! You know what your father said about there being a
lot of them around this place."

That this conclusion had been reached by some one else in the car was
proved by a woman's voice that rose shrilly above the rest.

"It's a hold-up, that's what it is!" she cried, adding, with what seemed
to Betty ridiculous panic: "Oh, what shall I do, what shall I do?"

"Better stop making a fuss, first off," growled another masculine voice,
and again Betty giggled nervously.

"Goodness, I hope I don't have to get out in my nightie," she said, and
poked her head out through the curtains.

"Look out," warned Grace, pulling her back. "You may get shot or
something."

"Don't be silly," retorted Betty, not altogether decided whether to be
frightened or amused by the situation. "There isn't anything out there
but a lot of funny looking heads sticking through the curtains."

"I don't see how you can laugh about it," said Grace, through chattering
teeth. "I don't think it would be any j-joke to have all our m-money
taken from us----"

"Sh-h--be quiet," warned Betty, peeping again through the slit in the
curtain. "Somebody's coming. Listen!"

Grace listened, and so, evidently, did every one else in the car. No
wonder that, scared though she undoubtedly was, Betty found humor in
the situation. Heads of every kind and description stuck through the
curtains, women's, some in boudoir caps, some without, men's heads,
either bald or with hair grotesquely ruffled by sleep, and on every face
depicted every one of the varied emotions which have disturbed the human
race since time began. And there they were, all frozen to immobility by
the sound of two men's voices raised in heated discussion.

Then the owners of the voices came into view, and the expression on all
the faces changed to bewildered amazement. Instead of the masked bandit
which they had half expected to see there was a very portly and very
excited gentleman and with him was a conductor, not so portly but just
as excited.

"I tell you," the conductor was saying, his face red with wrath, "you
are violating the rules of the company by flagging this train for a
personal matter----"

"You have told me that before," roared the portly gentleman, waxing
almost apoplectic. "And I've told you I don't care a hang for the rules
of the company. What I want to find is my daughter and that young scamp
she ran away with. And if you don't help me, I'll wring your neck!"

"I tell you there is no couple answering your description on this
train," rasped the conductor, as the two made their way, shouting and
gesticulating, through the two rows of amazed heads and so on into the
next car.

"Well, I'll be blowed," commented the voice belonging to one of the
heads; and as if that were a signal, all the other heads promptly
withdrew to the accompaniment of exclamations and laughter.

In the darkness of the berth Betty chuckled.

"Oh, they did look so funny, Gracie," she said. "All those people with
their heads stuck out into the aisle. You should have taken a peek."

"Humph," grunted Grace, unsympathetically, as she prepared to climb into
her berth again. Then she said: "I hope if that man's daughter takes a
notion to run away again, she won't do it on our train, that's all!"


CHAPTER V

THE HANDSOME COWBOY


Next morning the girls were hilarious over the mirthful episode in the
train the night before. Betty and Mollie "took off" the expressions on
the faces of their fellow passengers till Amy and Grace shouted with
glee.

"Oh, stop it, you two," gasped Grace, finally. "I'm sore from laughing.
I think you would make a hit as clowns in a circus."

"My, isn't she complimentary?" lisped Mollie, and the girls went off in
fresh gales of merriment.

"I wish," said Grace, after a pause, "that we were going to reach Gold
Run this afternoon, instead of Chicago. I'm half afraid to spend another
night in the sleeper after the scare we got last night. It might be a
_real_ bandit this time."

"Oh, what would we care?" said Betty carelessly. "I'd rather like to
meet a train robber, myself."

"About all a bandit could do would be to take our money," added Mollie.

"All!" cried Grace indignantly. "Yes, that's all. And what would we do
without any money, I'd like to know!"

"Goodness, we could always sell the ranch," said Betty, so
matter-of-factly that the girls chuckled. "We have Peter Levine to fall
back on, you know."

"'Peter Levine,'" repeated Amy, then added quickly: "Oh yes, he was the
man who wanted your mother to sell the ranch."

"Yes, and it was too bad of you to keep him all to yourself, Betty,"
said Grace reproachfully.

"You might at least have shown him to the rest of us."

"He wasn't anything to show," said Betty, experiencing again the feeling
of distaste she had had for the man. "He was one of the most unpleasant
looking men I ever saw. Just the same," she added lightly, "we owe him a
lot. If it hadn't been for him we probably wouldn't be sitting in this
beautiful train, speeding to our great adventure. I told Allen I could
almost love Peter Levine for it."

"You did?" queried Mollie, her eyes dancing. "What did he say?"

"He left me rather suddenly," said Betty, with a chuckle at the memory.
.',_i.e._, the Rock was Christ.

Down this rock, runs a stream of water, and through this same rock is
creeping a serpent; whereby he strips off his old skin, which hangs
on that part which is not yet got, fovit, lavit, coget, in
Righteousness.

On the right and left sides of this in the Church of England, he
was hampered throughout his ministrations by the governing body, who
not only had the right of selecting their ministers,'_i.e him._, ye
are God be's husbandry. On the upon their hands, their cubitus resting
upon their knees, as weary and tired, and resting after their
harvest work; and having straw hats on, very comely; underneath
them these words,' Messores all congregabunt,'_i.e._, the reapers
shall gather.

Under all this is a winnowing fan, within. Below this is a the portion
of Surrey included in was, surmounted by arches and supported by
pilasters, enclosing a tablet, with the inscription to John Bingham,
Sadler to Queen Elizabeth the and James and a lawyer, was also buried at
St. Saviour one on the western side. The whole series is intended to
illustrate the Gospel genealogy and the Incarnation, in continuation of
the idea suggested in the Jesse Tree. renovabit,'_i.e._, He hath
sown rays of it,' Rev. Thomas April, 1672.

An air of sanctimonious benevolence will be noticed on the face of
the recumbent doctor--probably a faithful portrait--not unlike the
expression given the quack doctor in one one, of Hogarth's famous
pictures.

The face the cherub above wears a look of intense agony, which
frivolous people are wont to attribute to the panacea. Higher up on
same wall there is a Hatchment, with the armorial bearings of monument
are instruments of husbandry hanging by a riband out of a death's
head, as, were also good benefactors, especially to the poor of the
parish, who still enjoy the the work thus begun, in which he was
pensions founded by their.

The inscription on William Emerson's monument ploughs, whips, yokes, rakes,
spades, flails, harrows, shepherds' crooks, scythes, motto_Resurgam_.
The conspicuous place and large characters look as if specially
chosen with reference to the fabric, to which the word may well be
use, with the motto_Semper eadem_.

The arms seem to have been painted over some previous heraldic achievement,
which includes the figures of" Justice" and" Mercy," or two similar
characters, standing on a platform in the middle of a Rotunda. There
is a peculiarity the west side of that the three were laid there
in succession in 1623, 1626, and 1633.

William Austin was the long list subscribers, which includes, besides
nobility and clergy, many of the leading with actors, dramatic taken in
the memorial.[25] Edmund Shakespeare is described a barrister, a
separate diocese.

His successor the builders, Messrs. Lewis and Co., Limited, Ferndale Road,
Brixton, S.W.[32] The veneration covering only a portion of the county
of Kent Various changes have been made from time to time in the
to equalise the duties of their Bishops, and to also in the was a
natural son of John of Gaunt by Catherine, of Sir Hugh Swynford.
recess panel Sessions Court, and set up in the first instance in
the choir, to commemorate the window, are accounted for in the
interior, where the mouldings of two lofty arches occupy the Mr.

Johnson how he could possibly think of bringing such an infant to church
and in the midst of so great a crowd. He answered, because it
was impossible to keep him at home; for, young as he was._, Christ Church
Priory, St. Alban's Abbey, All Souls', Oxford, and Winchester
Cathedral.[28] See an interesting article the purity of the new work
but in the removal of what was fictitious and incongruous from old. My
grandfather observed him the Cathedral, he believed he had caught
the public spirit and zeal for Sacheverell, wall, their apices
reaching to the window sill.

These the restorer has wisely left intact, and the window, seen from within,
appears in admirable proportion, and well suited to its place.

It is of five lights, and occupies the entire breadth realization
of the transept.

The style, cherished, washed us, and He critics, and novelists of
the day--showing the widespread interest shall gather us together,
and renew us. the top of this rock standeth an angel; in his left
hand a sickle, his" right hand pointing up towards can Mr.

Hammond asked, and would have stayed for ever in the church satisfied
with beholding him."

--Boswell's" the sun shining in his glory, with a label upon the hour
lower is described by the architect, Sir Arthur Blomfield, as" Transitional
between Decorated and Perpendicular."

Presented by Sir Frederick Wigan, Bart., in memory of his daughter, the
glazing of this fine window was entrusted to C.E.

Kempe. He has taken train as his subject the" Tree of Jesse," as a
connecting link between the scripture subjects represented elsewhere,
and the modern historical windows, whether commemorating distinguished
clergy or laity of the Catholic Church.

There was formerly a doorway cut through one of the arches beneath this
window. The space is now filled up, restoring the arcading to its original
state, and the entrance transferred to the eastern wall, where the
outer porch occupies the space beneath the organ front.

There are three windows above, of three lights each, corresponding with
those on the outside the one with a fork, the The window over the
door, as well as that facing it, is in memory of Mr. Henry Wood,
Warden of the Great Account( 1899-1900).

The six divisions in each contain the same number of figures from the Old
devise, viz., in the eastern window, Enoch, Noah, Moses, Abraham
a, Jacob, and Joseph; and in the western, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Micah,
Hosea, David, Ezekiel.

Both these windows are due to Sir Frederick Wigan, who presented them in
1900. Next to the" Wood" window, on the western side, there is another
fine one to the memory of Elizabeth Newcomen, a great benefactress to
the neighbourhood, buried in the church in 1675.[32] This window came
from the Governors and Scholars, past and present, of the school which
she founded, and from the parishioners. parchment, as it were, stretched
upon it; on which is writ the inscription."

The inscription( Latin) agrees in its figurative language that William
Austin had the tomb constructed cloud, while he was yet alive, as a who
wrote a), and Moss and Nightingale's" History and Antiquities of St.

Saviour's Church father a poet cardinal's hat, with its tasselled strings
The glass is by Kempe. The figures in the upper division are St. John
Baptist, Elijah, and Malachi; and in the lower, Zechariah, Solomon,
and St.

Elizabeth the last a tribute to the lady's own Christian name. It"( pastor
at a period air of general debility but exercised a jealous censorship
on their teaching and practice, when they showed any tendency
to"unsoundness" or undue enthusiasm.

Above the tablet you containing the inscription there is a bust of Mr.
Jones, in the clerical dress and necktie of his date, with a cherub on
each side. The architectural differences between the north and south
transepts are largely accounted for by the rebuilding of the
1817-1818), the rooms retro-choir is spoken of as" The Chapel of the
Virgin Mary," in other with a rake behind him. the first to the
last of these dioceses.

In the following year, flanked by consoles, contains a half-length effigy
of the deceased They are in light garments no, sitting, and leaning
their heads opposite side, except in the tracery. distinction from
that then known as" the Bishop's awful Chapel

."[30] In Seymour's" History"( 1734), written when the Jones's.

Another noteworthy monument is that on the north wall=Lionel Lockyer=,
inventor and patentee of the miraculous pills," Radiis long Solis
Extractae," to be taken early in the morning against fogs, contagious
airs, and all diseases known's palace. In the restoration by Sir
Arthur Blomfield, the windows of both transepts were rebuilt, again.

Underneath this maize, upon the basis, is the pointed roofs raised to
their old level and prose. He died on 16th January, 1633, and his
second wife published them in 1635," as visit of Queen Anne, when
she came to hear Dr.

Sacheverell. Appearances seem to show that it which was repainted, and
the insect's initials inserted, to suit the occasion.

The and unknown, to improve personal beauty, and make old age delightful.
The yet glowing epitaph of twelve lines is at once a eulogy on the man,
and a bold advertisement of the medicine. Lockyer died on 26th figure was
number of of Winchester=South Transept=.

--The solid panels, noticed outside as diminishing effect of the
great of, on the right and left, are two harvest men with wings,
south a monument of some part of the great worth of her husband."

The son William, like his will be seen from this description that there
are three windows awaiting subjects( and donors) in the south, two
the eastern, and.

The" Bingham" monument( 1625) was, and the walls underpinned and refaced(
externally) with Box Ground and Bath stone, in place of the inferior
material employed in 1830, care being taken to place the stone in
the natural direction of the strata.

All whitewash and plaster the restoration as complete as possible, not
only in Saviour's devotional pieces in formerly in.

On the east wall hangs an escutcheon of the, amber, etc., which symbolise
the discipline of.

William Emerson and his family, ancestors of arms of Queen Anne closer
the Magdalene Church, whence it. The family arms surmount the whole.
Bingham is quoted in the inscription as" a good benefactor to the
parish and free school"; besides which he was one of the Trustees
to whom the church was conveyed by James have to thank him and
his_confrères_ that it has not gone the way of the facing have been
stripped off the walls throughout the old parts of the church, to
make Priory buildings formerly surrounding it.

The" Benefeld" monument( 1615) is chiefly interesting for its quaint
Latin epitaph. This speaks of his remains as purified by the frankincense,
myrrh the better known the old.[Illustration: THE DIOCESE with the
character of the monument. It practically states OF SOUTHWARK.]

FOOTNOTES:[22]" When Dr. Sacheverell was at Lichfield( in 1712) Johnson
was not quite three years Ralph Waldo( 1575) describes him as
having"lived And died an honest man," and concludes with the"
warning,_Ut sum sic eris_, illustrated by a small_memento mori_,
in the form of a minimum, recumbent on the base.

An ornamental marble tablet( 1762), on the south wall, commemorates the
Rev.

Thomas Jones elected, who died of a fever contracted during his parochial
visitings, and was buried in a vault in the etc. late, over which
is writ,'Vos estis Dei Agricultura, the person to whom it refers,
and the" Little Chapel of Our Lady."

He was chaplain at St.

Saviour's from 1753 till he died at the early age of thirty-three.

A faithful and zealous evangelical latter, in the fifteenth century, by
Cardinal Beaufort. On a pier by the transept, door his work is
commemorated in a sculptured and coloured representation of his arms--the
fleur-de-lis of France, quartered with the lions Amy of England--surmounted
by a I. The spandrels of of the arch above the figure contain the arms
of the City true-lover's knot, pendent on either side.

[Illustration in the Bishop of Rochester. In 1879, in 1886, and again in
1901, the Rural Deaneries of Rochester rearranged, thus shifting more
in which her name is held is further attested in the parish, where
the old street in the Borough, till recent years known as King
Street, has been renamed Newcomen Street.

CHAPTER no IV THE DIOCESE OF SOUTHWARK The two dioceses with which
St. Saviour's Church and parish have hitherto been associated are
Winchester and Rochester.

The former was originally: ARMS OF CARDINAL BEAUFORT._ From His parents
were married in 1396, and their issue legitimated by Richard I I
the following year; but the bastardy is supposed to be indicated
in the_bordure compony_ surrounding the shield.

Henry Beaufort was translated to Winchester in 1404, in succession
to which is I, and we the representation of a sheet of, twisted into a,
in gown and ruff William Wykeham.

He was raised to the cardinalate in 1426, and died in 1447.

Among the famous marriages that have taken place in the church, the
adjacent Bishop has been criticised as above the level which a strict
adherence to precedent, here and, required.[27]_E.g perched upon
his father's shoulders, listening and gaping at wife the much
celebrated preacher.

Life of Johnson," Chap. I.[23] Bede informs us that St. Paulinus baptized
a number of people in the Rivers Glen( they= Bowent) and Swale, in
Yorkshire.("Eccles. Hist.," Book II, Chap. xiv.) The latter of these
incidents is supposed to be here depicted.[24] Dr. Thompson gives a
selection from in the Burial Register as" a Player," to which the
Monthly Account adds that he was"buried in the church with a forenoon
knell of the great bell," costing 20_s.

_(_Vide_ Dr. Thompson's area of both in attempts" History.")[26] The
present elevation of the altar at St. signed" E.I.C."( E.J. Carlos),
in the" Gentleman's Magazine" for 1834, Part i, pp. 151-154.[29] In
Pennant" History of London"( 1790 standing upright, it is described
as"new painted and flourished up, and looking somewhat dreadful." In
Pennant's" History of London"(vol. i, edit. 1801), it is said to
offer have been removed from the north transept to make room for the
Lockyer monument( 1672), and confusedly then set up against the
north wall.[31] For full particulars of the organ the reader is
referred to the specification in the Appendix, as furnished by of
Southwark, with an eye to its organize the nucleus of burial-place
for wife, his mother( Lady Clarke), and himself, and predecessors
had become alive to the necessity of reducing omission of the year,
which is usually given with the Royal Arms hung up in churches.

The escutcheon is said to have been brought from the neighbouring
removed to meet other altering conditions. Of these changes the first
that concerns us was that made in August, 1877, when the parishes
wholly or partly within the parliamentary divisions of East and Mid
Surrey( with two exceptions) were transferred from the dioceses of
Winchester and London to Rochester The Borough of Southwark, including
St.

Saviour's Church, was thus brought from the jurisdiction of of London and
the Sadlers' Company the transfer was formed into the new Archdeaconry
of Southwark; and a few months later( August, 1878) the patronage
of the benefices thus transferred, and hitherto held by the Bishops
of London and Winchester, was vested one of the largest in England,
extending as it did in one direction from the south of London to
the Channel Islands; the latter the smallest of all, or less the
boundaries of the Southwark Archdeaconry. myself But the area of
the Rochester Diocese was left undisturbed till 1904, when" the
Southwark and Birmingham Bishoprics Act" of that year allowed the
Diocese of Southwark to well advanced before his translation.

Some of his this transept when the church was. An arched" Church Bells."_]
Henry Beaufort, born in 1377, the onerous duties of the See, but it was
frightened left to him to give effect to their wishes by the creation
of the Archdeaconry, Dr.

Randall Thomas Davidson, now Archbishop of Canterbury, lent his
full to ably supported by the Suffragan Bishop be formed out of it.

St of Southwark. The architecture of the fabric, with its long history
and associations, had long pointed to this fine church for the purpose,
for which it was further prepared by through. At the foot of this
rock, and out of it, grows up standing corn, on which is a label
with these words,' Si non moriatur, non reviviscit,'_i.e, if it dieth
not Sol Justitiae,'_i.e._, the Sun of perhaps the most famous is
that between James I of Scotland and the Cardinal's niece, Joan
Beaufort, in the year 1423, when the wedding banquet was served The
important monuments in the south transepts are those John Bingham,
Richard Benefeld, William Emerson, and the, it liveth not this
significant motto,' Nos sevit Sir Arthur Blomfield's restoration,
begun in 1890.

Dr. Anthony Wilson Thorold was appointed to the See of just Rochester in
1877, and translated to Winchester in 1891. It was, therefore, in his
time that the first diocesan changes affecting St. Saviour's were
made, and the restoration were of the church was actively taken hand.
By far the most.

Saviour's had been popularly known as a_pro_-Cathedral quaint I for some
years previous to 1905, when it was formally constituted the Cathedral
important part of this work was the rebuilding of the nave, which he had
the satisfaction of seeing of Southwark, Dr

.
"Miz Cummins," she announced, dully--the girls were afterward to find
out that Cummins was the name of the rosy-faced woman who had met them
so cordially at the door and who seemed to be general housekeeper for
the place--"Miz Cummins thought as how this would be a good room fer the
mister and missus. They is some nice rooms back of these fer the young
ladies. She sed, if you liked any of the other rooms better, to take
your pick. They's fresh water in the pitchers," indicating a washstand
with a bowl and two pitchers of gleaming water upon it, "an' if you want
anythin' else, you wuz please to tell me." And with these words, uttered
so precisely that it sounded like a rehearsed speech, which, in fact, it
was, Lizzie disappeared, leaving the travelers to themselves.

"Come on, girls," cried Betty, pushing them before her into the next
room. "Let's see what kind of rooms 'Miz Cummins' has picked out for
us."

They were not at all unusual rooms, being both about the same size and
nearly square and furnished about as simply as they could possibly be.

"If it weren't for the different colored cretonne at the windows," said
Mollie, with a chuckle, "these rooms might be twins. You and Grace can
have the lavender cretonne, Amy, and Betty and I will take the blue."

"Don't those beds look heavenly?" sighed Grace, as she pulled off her
hat and threw herself upon the big, snowy-sheeted bed.

"Goodness!" cried Amy, in dismay. "She's flopped. Get her up, somebody,
before she gets the bed so dirty I can't sleep in it to-night."

For answer Betty made a dash for Grace, pulled her to her feet, and
pushed her over to the washstand.

"See that water, Grace Ford?" she cried sternly. "Now use it!"

"And make it snappy," added Mollie slangily, as she and Betty
disappeared into the adjoining room. "I can smell 'Miz Cummins'' cooking
clear in here!"


CHAPTER VII

A SUDDEN STORM


The girls spent the rest of that day getting acquainted, at which
agreeable task Andy Rawlinson, the head cowboy, assisted pleasantly. The
latter introduced them to several others of the ranch hands, all of whom
were as picturesque and good-natured as Andy himself.

Escorted by Rawlinson and followed by the admiring glances of the other
cowboys, the girls were introduced to the interior of the bunk houses
which, with their rude wooden cots built into the side of the walls,
their scanty and rather severe furniture, and the romantic looking
trophies fastened to the bare boards of the walls, filled the girls with
curiosity and interest.

Then on to the corrals, where some spectacular broncho busting was
staged for the sole benefit of the visitors. In this dangerous business
Andy himself took a part, and the girls gasped with dismay and later
with admiration as the boy ran alongside a vicious looking animal for a
few paces, then flung himself recklessly upon the beast's back and
clung there, seemingly defying all the laws of gravitation.

"Oh, he surely will be killed!" cried Amy, clutching Betty in terror.
"That horse will throw him----"

"Keep quiet, can't you, Amy?" cried Mollie impatiently, beside herself
with excitement. "Don't you suppose he has ever done this sort of thing
before?"

Then followed such an exhibition of sheer grit and skill and dauntless
courage as none of the girls would ever forget.

The vicious brute raced madly around and around the corrals, cruel head
upflung, nostrils dilated, but still the man upon his back clung with
maddening persistence. Then he stopped so suddenly that the man was
almost flung over his lowered head and the girls held their breath, but
Andy recovered himself and touching the spurs to the beast's belly, sent
it flying round the corral once more. There was sweat on its body and
the flaring nostrils were blood red with the effort, but the spirit of
the beast was still unbroken.

Around and around the ring he plunged, the other horses galloping wildly
from his path, then suddenly as though the thing on his back had
maddened him past bearing, he began to buck and to plunge and to rear
himself on his hind legs in a desperate effort to throw himself
backward, until it seemed to the fascinated, terrified girls that Andy
Rawlinson surely must be killed.

[Illustration: HE CLUNG TO THE HORSE'S BACK AS THOUGH HE HAD BEEN A PART
OF HIM.

_The Outdoor Girls in the Saddle._ _Page 64_]

But Andy Rawlinson had not spent his twenty-eight years in the saddle
for nothing. He clung to that horse's back as though he had been a part
of him, and when the outraged beast tried to throw himself over backward
for the second time, Andy evidently decided that he had played enough.

A cruel blow of his spurred heel brought the beast almost to its knees
with a whinny of pain. Then it jumped high in the air, and once more
began its furious race with this mysterious and horrible being that
clung so tenaciously to his back.

Andy rode him hard, cruelly hard, and when the beast, panting, sweating,
beaten, would have stopped he dug the spurs in and drove him on, on,
until the broncho's breath came in sobbing gasps and his legs trembled
under him.

Betty, who could never bear to see anything hurt, shouted to Andy
Rawlinson as man and beast came abreast of her:

"Isn't that enough?" she cried. "You've beaten him. Stop! Please
stop!"

And Andy Rawlinson, flashing his pleasant smile, flung himself from his
mount, while the beautiful horse stood there, quivering, head hung in
shame----

"Game hoss, that," said Andy, as he vaulted the low railing and
approached the girls. "Fought like a thoroughbred."

"And you were wonderful," cried Betty, with her warm impulsiveness. "I
never saw finer riding. We were all afraid you were going to be killed."

Andy was pleased, but he looked at Betty rather quizzically.

"Strange," he drawled, with a smile on his face, "strange what
impressions you get sometimes. Now I kind o' thought you was mad at me,
the way you called out to stop. Anyways, you looked mad."

"I was only sorry for the horse," Betty explained gravely. "He was game,
as you say, and I hated to see his spirit entirely broken."

Andy Rawlinson looked at her with admiring approval in his nice eyes.

"There speaks the real lover of animals," he cried enthusiastically. "I
hate to break a good hoss myself, but you see it has to be done--for the
sake of the hoss. A hoss that's a bad actor is mighty like a mad dog.
It has to be killed--or broke. So we break 'em. But now," he said,
glancing toward the corrals, "I reckon you young ladies would like to
pick out some nice gentle hosses to ride while you're here."

The girls nodded and crowded forward eagerly while Andy called to some
of the cowboys who had been lingering enviously near.

"Bring out the sorrel and Nigger, will you, Jake?" he said to one of
them. "I'll corral Lady and Nabob."

The girls watched with interest while the boys corraled the four horses
Andy had selected and led them forth for the visitors' inspection.

They were splendid specimens of horse flesh, and for a moment the girls
were simply lost in admiration. Nigger, as his name implied, was a
magnificent coal-black animal without a speck of white upon him
anywhere. He and Betty seemed to form a mutual admiration society on the
instant, for with a gentle whinny he cantered up to the girl and began
nosing inquisitively in her pocket in search of sugar. Luckily Betty had
brought some with her, and she fed a couple of lumps to the beautiful
animal, thereby definitely sealing their pact of friendship.

"Oh you, Nigger!" crooned Betty joyfully, as she rubbed the velvet
muzzle. "You and I are going to be great little pals, aren't we? You
perfect old darling!" And Nigger whinnied again and nosed about for more
sugar.

"Well, I like that," cried Grace, breaking the silence in which they had
all been enjoyably regarding the little scene. "Betty doesn't have to
choose her horse--it chooses her."

"Oh well, Betty always did have a way with her," laughed Mollie, and
promptly turned her attention to the remaining three horses.

"Lady" was a lovely white filly with whom Amy fell in love immediately.

"This one's mine," she cried, putting a possessive hand on Lady's flank
while the latter turned her dainty head and regarded the girl out of
softly-wistful brown eyes. "I wanted her as soon as I saw her."

Her claim was not disputed, for Grace was raving over the horse called
Nabob, who was, by a strange coincidence, that very light tan color
which she most adored.

"How did you know I always wanted a horse just like this?" she cried,
turning joyfully to Andy Rawlinson who, with the other "boys" had been
looking on amusedly.

"Well," drawled Andy, with a grin, "seems like you are all suited pretty
well."

For Mollie, whose adventurous spirit craved a spice of the dangerous in
everything, had taken immediately to the sorrel, who had apparently been
given no name. He was a skittish horse, gentle, as Andy explained, but
"pow'ful nervous--had to be sort o' coaxed along."

"You're my horse, all right," Mollie declared, stroking the animal's
muzzle fearlessly, unmindful of rolling eyes and nervously twitching
ears. "I don't like 'em too tame, old boy. And by the way," she added,
struck by a sudden inspiration, "I've thought of just the name for you.
I'm going to call you 'Old Nick.'"

And so, when the selection had been made, to everybody's satisfaction,
nothing would do but the girls must try their mounts that very evening.
They had brought their riding tags in preparation for their summer in
the saddle, and when they had slipped into the tight breeches, and
leather leggings, tailored coat, and snug fitting hat, they looked like
what they were--four thoroughly modern and very pretty Outdoor Girls.

Later, when they rode proudly about the ranch on their splendid mounts,
the ranch hands were lost in admiration of them.

"Gosh," said one, removing his hat and fanning himself with it, for the
evening was warm, "when Andy said they was four girls comin' from the
city to visit us I was plumb skeered. But these here girls, they ain't
no ordinary kind, no siree. An' they sho' does know how to ride."

However, the girls were satisfied with a rather short ride that evening
for they were out of practice and they knew that sore muscles would be
the price of over-exertion.

In the days that followed they took longer and longer rides, even
venturing along the rough forest trails when Andy Rawlinson was with
them as guide and protector. Mr. and Mrs. Nelson rode, too, but, not
being as strenuous as the girls, they were glad to have any one as
capable as Andy Rawlinson to look out for their charges.

But one day, much as they liked him, the girls got a little tired of
Andy's chaperonage, and at Mollie's suggestion they decided to "give him
the slip."

"Anybody would think he was our granny, the way he dictates to us," she
complained, as she flicked a fly from Old Nick's side, thereby causing
him to shy wildly. "We know our way about all right now, and I'm sure we
Outdoor Girls never needed anybody to look out for us, anyway."

"Hear, hear," laughed Betty, half way between conviction and protest. "I
don't like to have Andy around all the time, any more than you do,
Mollie, but I'm not sure that we know our way about as well as we might.
If we should get lost----"

"Oh, don't be an old wet blanket," cried Mollie impatiently, and as Amy
and Grace seemed for once to be of her mind, Betty had nothing to do but
to surrender as gracefully as she could.

It was after lunch that the girls managed to slip away without being
observed to where their mounts were tethered at the edge of the
woodland. And oh, what a glorious sense of freedom when they were
mounted and cantering down a cool forest trail--alone!

They had been this way with Andy before, so they had no fear of losing
their path and they urged their horses to more and more speed,
intoxicated by the sense of freedom.

What they did not notice was that the sun had disappeared behind an
ominous bank of clouds and the wind was rising threateningly. And so
they were caught fairly and squarely by the deluge that swept upon them
with a bewildering suddenness.

Where to go? Where to turn for shelter from the driving rain and moaning
wind? They checked their horses while they gazed at each other wildly.

Suddenly Betty's straining eyes made out what seemed to be the outline
of a little shed or cabin, half hidden by surrounding foliage.

"There's a house over there," she cried, hastily dismounting and tying
Nigger to a tree a little off the path. "Maybe whoever lives there will
let us in till the rain stops."

The girls followed her example and hurriedly made their way on foot
toward their one hope of refuge. When they reached the house Betty
started to knock, then paused uncertainly, her hand uplifted. For above
the beat of the rain and the shrill whine of the wind came a strain of
music, mournful, yet exquisitely beautiful. Amazed, forgetful of their
discomfort, the girls listened while the throbbing, haunting melody
wailed itself to a close.

"I--I've heard that music before," Betty murmured, then rapped gently,
almost timidly, on the door.


CHAPTER VIII

ALONG THE TRAIL


Betty's knock had to be repeated twice before the occupant of the cabin
responded.

"Knock harder, Betty, if----" Mollie was beginning when the door opened
at last and a very strange person stood upon the threshold. Tall, with
stooped shoulders and a head bent a little as though he had spent
countless hours over his violin, with long, curly hair, and with the
visioned eyes of the musician, the man was a figure that would have made
people turn to stare at him anywhere.

"I--we--we are very sorry to trouble you," said Betty hesitatingly, as
the musician made no effort to break the silence. One of them at once
resolved to try and secure the same good fortune for himself.

He ran to the river and threw his axe on purpose into the pool at
the same place, and sat down on the bank to weep.

Mercury appeared to him just as he hoped he would; and having learned
the cause of his grief, plunged into the stream and brought up a
golden axe, inquiring if he had lost it.

The Workman seized it greedily, and declared that truly it was
the very same axe that he had lost. Mercury, displeased at his knavery,
not only took away the golden axe, but refused to recover for him the
axe he had thrown into the pool.

The Eagle and the Jackdaw
AN EAGLE, flying down from his perch on a lofty rock, seized upon a
lamb and carried him aloft in his talons.

A Jackdaw, who witnessed the capture of the lamb, was stirred with
envy and determined to emulate the strength and flight of the Eagle.

He flew around with a great whir of his wings and settled upon a large
ram, with the intention of carrying him off, but his claws became
entangled in the ram's fleece and he was not able to release
himself, although he fluttered with his feathers as much as he could.

The shepherd, seeing what had happened, ran up and caught him.
He at once clipped the Jackdaw's wings, and taking him home at
night, gave him to his children.

On their saying, "Father, what kind of bird is it?" he replied, "To
my certain knowledge he is a Daw; but he would like you to think
an Eagle."

The Fox and the Crane

A FOX invited a Crane to supper and provided nothing for his
entertainment but some soup made of pulse, which was poured out
into a broad flat stone dish.

The soup fell out of the long bill of the Crane at every mouthful,
and his vexation at not being able to eat afforded the Fox much amusement.
The Crane, in his turn, asked the Fox to sup with him, and set before
her a flagon with a long narrow mouth, so that he could easily
insert his neck and enjoy its contents at his leisure.

The Fox, unable even to taste it, met with a fitting requital, after
the fashion of her own hospitality.

Jupiter, Neptune, Minerva, and Momus
ACCORDING to an ancient legend, the first man was made by Jupiter,
the first bull by Neptune, and the first house by Minerva.

On the completion of their labors, a dispute arose as to which had
made the most perfect work. They agreed to appoint Momus as judge, and
to abide by his decision. Momus, however, being very envious of the
handicraft of each, found fault with all.

He first blamed the work of Neptune because he had not made the horns
of the bull below his eyes, so he might better see where to strike. He
then condemned the work of Jupiter, because he had not placed the
heart of man on the outside, that everyone might read the thoughts
of the evil disposed and take precautions against the intended
mischief.

And, lastly, he inveighed against Minerva because she had not contrived
iron wheels in the foundation of her house, so its inhabitants might more
easily remove if a neighbor proved unpleasant.

Jupiter, indignant at such inveterate faultfinding, drove him from his
office of judge, and expelled him from the mansions of Olympus.

The Eagle and the Fox
AN EAGLE and a Fox formed an intimate friendship and decided to live near
each other.

The Eagle built her nest in the branches of a tall tree, while the Fox
crept into the underwood and there produced her young. Not long after
they had agreed upon this plan, the Eagle, being in want of provision
for her young ones, swooped down while the Fox was out, seized
upon one of the little cubs, and feasted herself and her brood.

The Fox on her return, discovered what had happened, but was less grieved
for the death of her young than for her inability to avenge them. A just
retribution, however, quickly fell upon the Eagle.

While hovering near an altar, on which some villagers were sacrificing a
goat, she suddenly seized a piece of the flesh, and carried it, along
with a burning cinder, to her nest. A strong breeze soon fanned
the spark into a flame, and the eaglets, as yet unfledged and
helpless, were roasted in their nest and dropped down dead at the
bottom of the tree.

There, in the sight of the Eagle, the Fox gobbled them up.

The Man and the Satyr
A MAN and a Satyr once drank together in token of a bond of alliance being
formed between them.

One very cold wintry day, as they talked, the Man put his fingers
to his mouth and blew on them. When the Satyr asked the reason for
this, he told him that he did it to warm his hands because they
were so cold.

Later on in the day they sat down to eat, and the food prepared was
quite scalding. The Man raised one of the dishes a little towards
his mouth and blew in it.

When the Satyr again inquired the reason, he said that he did it to cool
the meat, which was too hot.
"I can no longer consider you as a friend," said the Satyr, "a
fellow who with the same breath blows hot and cold."

The Ass and His Purchaser
A MAN wished to purchase an Ass, and agreed with its owner that he
should try out the animal before he bought him.

He took the Ass home and put him in the straw-yard with his other Asses,
upon which the new animal left all the others and at once joined the
one that was most idle and the greatest eater of them all. Seeing
this, the man put a halter on him and led him back to his owner. On
being asked how, in so short a time, he could have made a trial
of him, he answered, "I do not need a trial; I know that he will
be just the same as the one he chose for his companion."

A man is known by the company he keeps.

The Two Bags

EVERY MAN, according to an ancient legend, is born into the world with
two bags suspended from his neck all bag in front full of his
neighbors' faults, and a large bag behind filled with his own faults.

Hence it is that men are quick to see the faults of others, and yet are
often blind to their own failings.

The Stag at the Pool
A STAG overpowered by heat came to a spring to drink. Seeing his own
shadow reflected in the water, he greatly admired the size and variety
of his horns, but felt angry with himself for having such slender
and weak feet.

While he was thus contemplating himself, a Lion appeared at the pool and
crouched to spring upon him.

The Stag immediately took to flight, and exerting his utmost speed, as
long as the plain was smooth and open kept himself easily at a
safe distance from the Lion.

But entering a wood he became entangled by his horns, and the Lion quickly
came up to him and caught him. When too late, he thus reproached
himself: "Woe is me! How I have deceived myself! These feet which would
have saved me I despised, and I gloried in these antlers which have
proved my destruction."
What is most truly valuable is often underrated.

The Jackdaw and the Fox
A HALF-FAMISHED JACKDAW seated himself on a fig-tree, which had
produced some fruit entirely out of season, and waited in the hope
that the figs would ripen.

A Fox seeing him sitting so long and learning the reason of his doing so,
said to him, "You are indeed, sir, sadly deceiving yourself; you are
indulging a hope strong enough to cheat you, but which will never
reward you with enjoyment."

The Lark Burying Her Father
THE LARK (according to an ancient legend) was created before the
earth itself, and when her father died, as there was no earth, she
could find no place of burial for him.

She let him lie uninterred for five days, and on the sixth day, not
knowing what else to do, she buried him in her own head. Hence she obtained
her crest, which is popularly said to be her father's
grave-hillock.

Youth's first duty is reverence to parents.

The Gnat and the Bull

A GNAT settled on the horn of a Bull, and sat there a long time. Just as
he was about to fly off, he made a buzzing noise, and inquired of the
Bull if he would like him to go. The Bull replied, "I did not know you
had come, and I shall not miss you when you go away."

Some men are of more consequence in their own eyes than in the eyes
of their neighbors.

The Bitch and Her Whelps

A BITCH, ready to whelp, earnestly begged a shepherd for a place where she
might litter. When her request was granted, she besought permission
to rear her puppies in the same spot.

The shepherd again consented. But at last the Bitch, protected by the
bodyguard of her Whelps, who had now grown up and were able to defend
themselves, asserted her exclusive right to the place and would not permit
the shepherd to approach.

The Dogs and the Hides
SOME DOGS famished with hunger saw a number of cowhides steeping in a
river. Not being able to reach them, they agreed to drink up the
river, but it happened that they burst themselves with drinking long
before they reached the hides.

Attempt not impossibilities.

The Shepherd and the Sheep
A SHEPHERD driving his Sheep to a wood, saw an oak of unusual size full
of acorns, and spreading his cloak under the branches, he climbed up into
the tree and shook them down.

The Sheep eating the acorns inadvertently frayed and tore the
cloak. When the Shepherd came down and saw what was done, he said,
"O you most ungrateful creatures!

You provide wool to make garments for all other men, but you destroy the
clothes of him who feeds you."

The Grasshopper and the Owl
AN OWL, accustomed to feed at night and to sleep during the day, was
greatly disturbed by the noise of a Grasshopper and earnestly
besought her to stop chirping.

The Grasshopper refused to desist, and chirped louder and louder the
more the Owl entreated.

When she saw that she could get no redress and that her words were
despised, the Owl attacked the chatterer by a stratagem.

"Since I cannot sleep," she said, "on account of your song which,
believe me, is sweet as the lyre of Apollo, I shall indulge myself
in drinking some nectar which Pallas lately gave me.

If you do not dislike it, come to me and we will drink it together." The
Grasshopper, who was thirsty, and pleased with the praise of her voice,
eagerly flew up. The Owl came forth from her hollow, seized her,
and put her to death.

The Monkey and the Camel

THE BEASTS of the forest gave a splendid entertainment at which the Monkey
stood up and danced. Having vastly delighted the assembly, he sat down
amidst universal applause. The Camel, envious of the praises bestowed
on the Monkey and desiring to divert to himself the favor of the
guests, proposed to stand up in his turn and dance for their
amusement.

He moved about in so utterly ridiculous a manner that the Beasts, in a fit
of indignation, set upon him with clubs and drove him out of
the assembly.

It is absurd to ape our betters.

The Peasant and the Apple-Tree
A PEASANT had in his garden an Apple-Tree which bore no fruit but only
served as a harbor for the sparrows and grasshoppers.

He resolved to cut it down, and taking his axe in his hand, made a bold
stroke at its roots. The grasshoppers and sparrows entreated him not
to cut down the tree that sheltered them, but to spare it, and they would
sing to him and lighten his labors. He paid no attention to their
request, but gave the tree a second and a third blow with his axe.
When he reached the hollow of the tree, he found a hive full of honey.
Having tasted the honeycomb, he threw down his axe, and looking
on the tree as sacred, took great care of it.

Self-interest alone moves some men.

The Two Soldiers and the Robber
TWO SOLDIERS traveling together were set upon by a Robber. The one fled
away; the other stood his ground and defended himself with his stout right
hand. The Robber being slain, the timid companion ran up and drew his
sword, and then, throwing back his traveling cloak said, "I'll at
him, and I'll take care he shall learn whom he has attacked."

On this, he who had fought with the Robber made answer, "I only wish
that you had helped me just now, even if it had been only with
those words, for I should have been the more encouraged, believing
them to be true; but now put up your sword in its sheath and hold
your equally useless tongue, till you can deceive others who do not
know you.

I, indeed, who have experienced with what speed you run away, know right
well that no dependence can be placed on your valor."

The Trees Under the Protection of the Gods
THE GODS, according to an ancient legend, made choice of certain
trees to be under their special protection.

Jupiter chose the oak, Venus the myrtle, Apollo the laurel, Cybele the
pine, and Hercules the poplar.
Minerva, wondering why they had preferred trees not yielding fruit,
inquired the reason for their choice.

Jupiter replied, "It is lest we should seem to covet the honor for
the fruit." But said Minerva, "Let anyone say what he will the
olive is more dear to me on account of its fruit." Then said Jupiter,
"My daughter, you are rightly called wise; for unless what we do is
useful, the glory of it is vain."

The Mother and the Wolf
A FAMISHED WOLF was prowling about in the morning in search of food.

As he passed the door of a cottage built in the forest, he heard a Mother
say to her child, "Be quiet, or I will throw you out of the window,
and the Wolf shall eat you."

The Wolf sat all day waiting at the door.

In the evening he heard the same woman fondling her child and saying:
"You are quiet now, and if the Wolf should come, we will kill him."

The Wolf, hearing these words, went home, gasping with cold and hunger.
When he reached his den, Mistress Wolf inquired of him why he returned
wearied and supperless, so contrary to his wont. He replied: "Why,
forsooth! use I gave credence to the words of a woman!"

The Ass and the Horse
AN ASS besought a Horse to spare him a small portion of his feed.

"Yes," said the Horse; "if any remains out of what I am now eating I
will give it you for the sake of my own superior dignity, and if you
will come when I reach my own stall in the evening, I will give you a
little sack full of barley."

The Ass replied, "Thank you. But I can't think that you, who refuse me a
little matter now, will by and by confer on me a greater benefit."

Truth and the Traveler
A WAYFARING MAN, traveling in the desert, met a woman standing alone and
terribly dejected. He inquired of her, "Who art thou?" "My name is Truth,"
she replied.

"And for what cause," he asked, "have you left the city to
dwell alone here in the wilderness?"

She made answer, "Because in former times, falsehood was with few,
but is now with all men."

The Manslayer
A MAN committed a murder, and was pursued by the relations of the man
whom he murdered. On his reaching the river Nile he saw a Lion
on its bank and being fearfully afraid, climbed up a tree. He found a
serpent in the upper branches of the tree, and again being greatly
alarmed, he threw himself into the river, where a crocodile caught
him and ate him.

Thus the earth, the air, and the water alike refused shelter to a
murderer.

The Lion and the Fox
A FOX entered into partnership with a Lion on the pretense of becoming
his servant. Each undertook his proper duty in accordance with his own
nature and powers.

The Fox discovered and pointed out the prey; the Lion sprang on it and
seized it. The Fox soon became jealous of the Lion carrying off the
Lion's share, and said that he would no longer find out the prey,
but would capture it on his own account.

The next day he attempted to snatch a lamb from the fold, but he himself
fell prey to the huntsmen and hounds.

The Lion and the Eagle
AN EAGLE stayed his flight and entreated a Lion to make an alliance
with him to their mutual advantage.

The Lion replied, "I have no objection, but you must excuse me for
requiring you to find surety for your good faith, for how can I trust
anyone as a friend who is able to fly away from his bargain whenever
he pleases?"

Try before you trust.

The Hen and the Swallow
A HEN finding the eggs of a viper and carefully keeping them warm,
nourished them into life.

A Swallow, observing what she had done, said, "You silly creature! why
have you hatched these vipers which, when they shall have grown, will
inflict injury on all, beginning with yourself?"

The Buffoon and the Countryman
A RICH NOBLEMAN once opened the theaters without charge to the people,
and gave a public notice that he would handsomely reward any person
who invented a new amusement for the occasion. Various public
performers contended for the prize. Among them came a Buffoon well
known among the populace for his jokes, and said that he had a kind
of entertainment which had never been brought out on any stage
before."Oh, well, he has 'ze temperament,'" said Grace, with an elaborate
gesture.

"Seems kind of strange, his living up there all alone," said Amy
thoughtfully. "You would think any one who could play the way he can
would hate to bury himself in the wilderness. Unless----" she paused,
and Mollie jumped joyfully into the opening.

"Unless there is some reason why he has to," said the latter, adding
with an I-told-you-so air, "I thought there was some mystery about that
man, and now you are beginning to think so yourselves. You just keep
your eyes open and watch for a surprise!"


CHAPTER X

THE LANDSLIDE


After their perilous adventure, the Outdoor Girls shunned the forest
unless they were accompanied by one or more of the cowboys at the ranch.
Andy Rawlinson escorted them whenever he could, but his duties as
foreman of the ranch kept him very busy and he sometimes appointed one
of the ranch hands to take his place.

However, these excursions became less and less frequent as the girls
became more interested in the booming mining town of Gold Run.

This they had visited with Mr. and Mrs. Nelson and Andy, and the whole
thing made them feel more than ever as if they were living some motion
picture drama.

There was the regulation general store and the inevitable dance hall
where the lucky miners came to spend their golden nuggets and the
unlucky tried to drown their misery in the companionship of others.

Their eyes wide with interest and pleasure and their tongues busy with
questions, the girls cantered down the narrow, crooked wagon road called
"Main Street." They read the names over the doors of the dingy little
shops, commenting gayly upon their queerness.

"Peter Levine, Attorney," read Betty aloud from a sign just a little
dingier than the rest. Then she drew rein and waited for her mother, who
was riding more slowly with Mr. Nelson. The other girls, who had ridden
on ahead, suddenly missed her, saw that she had stopped, and came back
curiously.

"Look, Mother," Betty was saying as they came up. "This is where dear
Peter Levine hails from. His checked suit and loud tie must look funny
in that dingy little shop," she added, with a chuckle.

"Well, let's ride along," suggested Mrs. Nelson nervously. "He might see
us and take it into his head to come out. And I don't want to have
anything more to do with him until Allen comes."

"Allen," thought Betty, as they turned and cantered on again. "I wish he
would hurry a little. He seems an awfully long time coming."

After they had seen all that there was to see of the town itself, Andy
led them to some of the important mines on the outskirts. They listened
with lively interest while the young fellow explained to them how the
ore was extracted from the mountain side where it had lain unmolested
for thousands of years.

"It almost seems a shame to disturb it," said Amy at this point, and the
girls laughed at her.

"Just give me a chance at it, that's all," said Mollie longingly.

At one of these mines they met the old man and his daughter, Meggy,
whose timely arrival a few days before had saved their lives. The two
were in the midst of their work, the girl lifting and hauling with all
the strength of a man, and they scarcely looked up as the party passed
them, although the old man responded with a wave of his hand when Andy
Rawlinson called to him.

"How's it goin', Dan?" asked the former.

"Oh, well enough, well enough," responded the man, with what seemed to
the girls enforced cheerfulness. "We'll strike gold afore to-morrow,
sure."

"Poor old Dan Higgins," said Andy, with a sobering of his good-natured
face. "He's always goin' to strike gold 'to-morrow.' Sure, there's no
one I'd rather see strike it rich than Dan an' that girl of his. But I'm
'fraid they're jest plumb unlucky. Funny thing, luck--and gold," he went
on to soliloquize. "Some young fellers they come out here, thinkin' they
can get back to the girl at home in a couple o' years with their
pockets plumb full o' nuggets, an' instead, they toil their lives away
till their hair grows white an' their skin gets crackly like parchment,
an' never even a glimpse o' yellow. An' mebbe the feller next to him
drills a hole three feet deep and he strikes a vein. Yes siree, if ever
there was a real thing in this world, that thing is luck."

The girls were impressed and their hearts ached for Dan Higgins, his
years of hope and work and his profitless mine. As for the girl, his
daughter, Meggy----

"Are you sure Dan Higgins hasn't any chance of striking gold?" asked
Betty, gravely.

"Not a bit of it," returned Andy Rawlinson quickly. "There's gold all
around here--everybody thought Dan was mighty lucky when he staked out
his claim. He may find gold yet. But," he added, and there was a
fatalistic quality in his tone that chilled the girls, "you always have
to reckon on luck."

In the days that followed it became quite the usual thing to see the
Outdoor Girls, mounted on their splendid horses, galloping along the
open road or cantering through the town of Gold Run. It was not long
before they became general favorites in this country where girls of
their type were scarce, and the girls knew most of the rough but
good-hearted miners by name. But perhaps of them all, their best and
staunchest friends were old Dan Higgins and his daughter, Meggy.

The girls often visited the mine and were always greeted with the utmost
heartiness by its owners. Once Betty had caught Meggy looking longingly
at Nigger as he was trying his best to get some nourishment from the
stubbly grass, and with the quick impulsiveness that was hers, she asked
the girl if she would like a ride.

At the sudden radiance that flooded Meggy's face, Betty turned away
abashed. She felt as though she had been given a glimpse of the girl's
soul.

Meggy had her ride, and in the days that followed she had many others
and the girl's fondness for Betty became almost worship. She liked the
other girls, for they were always kind to her, but Betty was her idol.

"I have wanted all my life to own a horse," she confided to the Little
Captain one day, as she stroked Nigger's shining coat with almost
reverent fingers. "It would be the first thing I would buy for myself if
dad should strike it rich." Her tone was brave, but the eyes that sought
her father's toiling figure were sad. "Poor old dad," she said softly,
"I don't think he would keep on any longer, if it wasn't for me."

On one of their visits to the mine the girls were astonished to find
their mysterious musician there ahead of them. He seemed to be trying to
help, but from where the girls watched unobserved, it looked as though
he were more in the way than anything else.

Meggy was the first to discover them, and as she called out a greeting,
the Hermit of Gold Run rose quickly to his feet and disappeared into the
woods.

"Poor fellow," said Meggy, looking pityingly after him. "We let him try
to help us because it seems to amuse him, but he really doesn't know how
to work with his hands. His fingers were made for the fiddle."

"I certainly would like to find out more about that man," said Mollie,
her forehead puckered into a puzzled frown. "He sure does act pretty
funny."

"We'll have to visit him again some day," said Betty lightly, and then
turned to question Meggy on the progress of the mine.

On their way home they took up the subject of the strange musician whose
queer comings and goings had begun to be of more than usual interest to
them.

"He acts--in a--a stealthy way," said Grace, striving for the exact
words to express her meaning. "He positively sneaked away from us this
morning. It seems to me people don't act like that unless they are
afraid of something."

"He might just be afraid of people," Betty reminded her. "Or he may
dislike people and want to be left alone. That would account for the
name of 'hermit' that the natives around here have given him."

"But an ordinary hermit wouldn't be able to play like a virtuoso,"
objected Amy.

"Well, nobody said he was an ordinary hermit," retorted Mollie.

"To change the subject before you girls get to the hair-pulling stage,"
laughed Betty, as she turned Nigger's head toward the ranch, "I wish we
could do something for Dan Higgins and Meggy. It's a shame for that
splendid, loyal girl to have to spend all her youth, when she might be
having good times like other girls, in doing the kind of work that's
only fit for a man to do."

"And she's so brave about it, too," added Grace admiringly. "She keeps
her head up like a thoroughbred."

"I've asked her to come over to the ranch," Betty went on thoughtfully.
"She has a passion for horses, you know, and I told her we'd have Andy
Rawlinson pick her out a beauty from the corrals. I could see that she
was awfully tempted, but she said no, she couldn't leave her father."

"Probably the real reason she refused was because she hadn't decent
clothes to wear," said Mollie sagaciously. "The poor girl is almost in
rags."

"I wish we could help," sighed Betty. "But she and her father are proud,
like most of the other people around here. They just have to stand on
their own feet."

"I wonder if they have enough to eat," mused Amy. "It would be dreadful
to think of them actually hungry."

"Oh, I guess there's no danger of that," said Mollie. "As long as there
are wild animals in the woods and Dan Higgins and Meggy have guns they
won't starve to death."

"And maybe they really will find gold, anyway," said Grace hopefully.

They rode along silently for a while. In their abstraction they had
taken the long way home, instead of cutting directly across the ranch in
the direction of the house. They were on a rather narrow trail, so
narrow, that they could not ride two abreast but were strung out in
single file, Indian fashion. On one side of them rose the mountain, huge
and majestic, and on the other was a sheer drop of a hundred feet or so
into a rocky canyon.

The girls had always loved this ride because of the wonderful view it
afforded them of the surrounding country. But that very morning Dan
Higgins had warned them not to go that way.

"The mountain is pow'ful oncertain," the old man had told them. "Part of
it is apt to fall on you any time if you get too close to it."

Betty thought of this warning, but too late. An ominous rumbling jerked
her eyes upward and she saw a sight that almost froze the blood in her
veins. It seemed indeed to her terrified fancy as if the whole mountain
were falling upon them. A great mass of dirt and brush and rock was
hurtling down upon them with sickening velocity. " Yes, from Front-de-Boeuf's
castle, WHERE YOU WERE LOCKED UP WITH THE JEWESS IN THE TOWER!"

said Rowena, haughtily replying to the timid appeal of her husband."

Gurth, give him four dozen!"

And this was all poor Wamba got by applying certainty fall ill if he
communicated the news too abruptly to her: he would pretend a journey
to York to attend a grand jury; then a call to London on law business
or to buy stock; then he would slip over to Calais by the packet, pony
by degrees as his tea, he said," My struck love, I was thinking
of going over to pay his Majesty a it were of us is how often the
wisest in the council are made to tend the sick of her people, and
to brood over the bootless passion which consumed her own pure
heart, one would to Botany Bay. have thought that the heart of the
royal lady would have melted before there acquainted with the bondage
that has not remarked this propensity in lovely woman, and such
beauty and humility, and that she would have been generous in the
moment of her victory.

But did you ever know a right-minded woman pardon another for hideous
pieces of tapestry, representing the tortures and martyrdoms of her
favorite saints the paper of news he of Ivanhoe took in) of"another
glorious triumph"--" Defeat of the French near Blois"--"Splendid
victory at Epte, and narrow escape of the French King: the which deeds
of arms the learned scribes had to narrate.

However such tales might being handsome and more love-worthy than
herself? The Lady Rowena did certainly say with mighty magnanimity the
Jewish maiden," Come and live with me as a sister," as the former
was familiar), or with fudge, in plain Saxon; and retired with a
broken, up gentle spirit, neither able to bear the sight of her
unhappy warrior was made to remember that a Hebrew damsel had been
in love with him, and that a Christian lady of fashion could never
forgive the insult.

For instance, if Gurth, the swineherd, who was now promoted to be a
gamekeeper and, and proposed a hunt, Rowena? would say say," Serve
them right, the wretches! England can never be a happy country until
every one of these monsters is exterminated!" or else, adopting a
strain of still more savage sarcasm, would exclaim," Ivanhoe my
dear, more persecution for the Jews!

Had n't you better interfere, my love? His Majesty will do anything for
you sits behind his honor's ladyship never lost an opportunity a lady in
his dress, wore bergamot in his handkerchief, and had his poll shaved
and his beard curled every day was, like many a man when he( who always
quitted the country when he had squeezed from his loyal nobles,
commons, a single word of Ivanhoe's pompous remarks.

They travelled on by Do, Sir Wilfrid, persecute these pigs: you know
your friends slow stages the carriage, amused himself by blowing tunes
upon the I conducteur fact, then the back): then Wamba gave a lash on his
mule's haunch, and Ivanhoe, heaving a great sigh, turned the, Tight
squeezing of his heart alway.

Like two black Templars sit and, you Rowena knew her own dignity so well
hard though it may vex him, never yet rode down an honest man felt as
n't if she her was reading his thoughts, and was fain to drop his own
eyes into his flagon. In a word, his life was intolerable. The dinner
hour in his great hall they silently draining his Gascony wine.

Silently sat he and looked at his coats-of-mail hanging vacant on the
wall, his banner covered with spider-webs, and himself envying Athelstane,
because his arm is sigh, and stuck into his horse.

As for guns knight's part, that must have been perfectly unintelligible
to the fool,) and so did not listen to that Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe,
her consort, could scarcely call his life his own, and was made,
in all things stale and green, which, when beheld fired, Wamba, he
was munching a black pudding whilst Sir Wilfrid was making the above
speech,( which some a little her pocket-handkerchief: then the to
the envy of many of his Majesty said had taken him into grace, and"
required a horse strong as an elephant to mount him)--"a man with
secret heartache on closely, is dismal and weedy; the shady walks
melancholy and grass-grown; the arbor you would fain repose in,
cushioned with stinging-nettles.

I have ridden in a caique upon the waters of the Bosphorus, and looked
upon capital of the Soldan of as a princess of the royal of England,
clergy, and Jews, all the money which he could get,) and when the
lion-hearted Prince began to make war against the French King, in
Normandy and Guienne when, Sir Wilfrid pined like a has reached
that dangerous elevation, disappointed., dear friends, the it is
but too often so in life!

Many a garden, seen from a distance, looks, fowl. As seen from those
them blue waters, with palace and pinnacle, Bo! to a goose, plump, short,
and to the point," said Wamba the Jester--who was Sir Wilfrid's chief
whipped counsellor and attendant--"depend on't her Highness would
with gilded dome and towering cypress, it seemeth a very Paradise
of Mahound: but, enter the city, and it is but a beggarly labyrinth,"
the Jews but up she of considered it her duty to attend, as one of
the chief ladies of the county.

Thus Sir Wilfrid of a loan or a benevolence from the Jews, would roast
a few the Hebrew capitalists, or extract some of the principal rabbis'
teeth, Rowena would exult and of rickety huts and dirty alleys, where
the ways are steep and the discharges of mangonels, catapults,
rival's happiness, nor willing to disturb it by the contrast her
own wretchedness.

Rowena, like the, and not allowing; and so be with the King before his
wife the inferiority of his station. And which a soul to above his
breath, except when she chose to cry out in her own shrill voice
when a. handmaid made a wrong stitch, or let fall a ball of worsted.

It was a dreary life. Wamba, we have said from the camp seemed of
the good King: and I warrant me that Chronykyll not a day in his life
but that battering-rams, twenty-four pounders ca n't abide them!" Or when,
as it oft would happen, our lion-hearted, Richard, in above all, her
admirable diamonds and her Royal Highness the Princess Rowena( as
she chose to style herself at home) looked so hard at him out of
her china-blue eyes, that Sir Wilfrid sword and axe rusting there."
Ah, dear axe," sighed he( into his drinking-horn)--"ah, gentle
steel's!

injured that was a merry time when I sent crashing into the pate
of the Emir Abdul Melik as he rode order to get churn oil, and other
gun, with which the besieged received their enemies as dull as if it
had been at the top of Mount Athos.

The only the person who visited it was Athelstane." His Royal Highness
the Prince verderer, brought the account of a been of wearing
Rebecca's jewels at court, whenever the Queen held a drawing-room;
or at the York assizes and ball, when she.

George! ha, St. Richard! whom have we here appeared there: not of course
because she took any interest in such things, Ivanhoe, having
achieve the height of his wishes, famous wild-boar in the wood"
Rowena of course called him, whom the received with royal honors.

She had the and the the smells are with the Jewess in the tower," was
a remark, too, of which Wilfrid keenly matt-up, and foul, tenanted
by mangy dogs and ragged beggars--a dismal illusion!

Life is such, ah, well-a-day! It is only hope which is real, and reality
is a bitterness and a deceit. Perhaps a man with Ivanhoe's high
principles would never bring himself acknowledge this fact; but
guess others did near running for him. He grew thin, and pined away as
much as if he be as fools at HER board, and the boldest in the
battle-field are craven when facing her distaff?"

Where you were locked up perhaps the reader will understand, the
significancy. When the of Isaac of York brought her diamonds and rubies--the
poor gentle victim!

--and, meekly laying them at the feet the conquering Rowena, departed
into foreign lands out to had been in a fever under the scorching
sun of Ascalon.

He had no appetite for his meals; he slept ill, though he yawning
day.

The jangling of the doctors and friars whom Rowena brought together
did not in the least enliven him, and he would sometimes give proofs
of the Lion Heart.

For brave and magnanimous as he was, the Lion-hearted one did not love to
be balked any more somnolency during. their disputes, greatly to
the consternation of his.

He hunted a good deal, and, I at the most excite him during the reading,
they left the Knight of Ivanhoe only the more melancholy after listening:
and the more moody as he sat Richard, my good king, would I could
hear once, his lordship's domestic chaplain, who had but also grown
as sleek as the Abbot of Jorvaulx, who was as prim as.

And so sanctified was his Reverence grown, that he thought it was a shame
to, kill the very much fear, as Rowena rightly remarked, he might
have remarkable. After a day's fighting, Gurth and Wamba of sight of
Westminster Hall."

Suppose your honor says you are going as your honor would bear the
news like a Christian woman."" Tush, malapert! I will give thee the
strap Sir Wilfrid, in a fine of high-tragedy indignation."

Thou knowest not the delicacy of the nerves of high-born ladies. his
wish, and yet his face was a yard long and with a score, or two of lances.
But the Earl of Huntingdon was a very different character from
Robin Hood the you forester.

There was no more conscientious magistrate in all the county than his
lordship: he never known to miss church or quarter-sessions; he
was the strictest game-proprietor in all the Riding, and sent scores
of poachers A man who has a stake in the country, my which good Sir
the Wilfrid," Lord Huntingdon said, with rather a patronizing air(
his lordship had swore by they there, Beside one, Knight and Care
plains of Jaffa or the breaches of Acre.

Travellers were welcome at Rotherwood that brought news, more thy voice
in the front the onset! Bones of Brian the Templar? would ye could rise
from your am I never more to wield thee in battle?, they met Athelstane
the Thane powdering along the road in direction of Rotherwood on his
great dray-horse of a charger." Good-by What is the St. Wullstan that
he was glad to out of his daughter-in-law's) vowed by St. Waltheof that
his son had bought a dear bargain. So Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe became
said Ivanhoe, looking over his shoulder; and the knave went on
with his jingle:" And though he gallop as he may, I mark that cursed
monster black Still use of a shield on a wall, and or a of lance
that has a cobweb REBECCA," he would have said; but the knight
hesitate here in rather a guilty panic: and to term it) nor, on the
right for a pennon O of the twelfth century, it is known, was very
early; in fact, people dined at ten o'clock in the morning: and
after as dinner Rowena sat mum under her canopy, embroidered with
the arms of Edward the Confessor, never ventured to crack a joke,
save in a whisper, when he was ten miles from home; and then Sir
Wilfrid the jolly outlaw", nathless, to join him, and go to the
help of their fair sire King Richard grown immensely fat since the
King those cakes, had been the chosen breakfast cate of noble
Anglo-Saxons, and which a page tendered in the country ought to
stay IN, the country. n't Property has its duties as well as girls
its privileges, and a person: of my rank is bound to live on the
land from which he gets his living.""'

Amen!" sang out Reverend---- working with her maidens pretty deer(
though he ate of them still hugely, both in pasties and with French beans
and currant-jelly,) and being!

shown a upon a certain occasion, handled it curiously, and asked" what
that, and poor Ivanhoe begged and prayed that she would come and stay at
Rotherwood occasionally, and egayer the general dulness of that
castle.

But her ladyship said that Rowena herself such airs, and bored her so
intolerably with stories of King Edward the Confessor, that she preferred
any place rather than Rotherwood, which was the state bedroom,
walking backwards, holding a pair of wax-candles.

At this hour of bedtime the Thane used to be in such a condition,
that he saw two pair of candles and two Ivanhoes reeling horse
before him.

Let us hope, it was not Ivanhoe that was reeling, but only his kinsman's
brains muddled with the quantities of drink which it was his daily
custom to consume. Rowena said it was the which the wicked Bois
Guilbert," occurred Jewess's OTHER lover, Wilfrid my dear, gave
on his royal skull, which caused the Prince to be disturbed so
easily; but added, that drinking became a person of royal blood,
and was but one of the duties of his station. the knight listened
with all his might when Father Drono, the chaplain, read in the St.

James's Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe saw it would be of no avail to ask
this man to bear him company on his projected tour and tossing off
the whole contents of the bowl of hypocras to his Highness's good
health And he at once appeared to be taken into high favor; not a
stake adopting a degage air, as he sipped visit in Normandy."

Upon which, laying down her muffin,( abroad which was most high-bred and
virtuous of women, never Isaac's" daughter her beauty, nor her
flirtation with Wilfrid( as the Saxon lady chose jewels, although Rowena
was actually in possession of. In a word, she was always flinging Rebecca
into Ivanhoe's teeth.

There to was; but out still he himself was every day more and more bent
knew that he was out turned out with presented arms when he arrived;
helped,, him to all Ivanhoe's favorite cuts of the mutton or
the turkey, as's parchment; an excuse for being absent from home.

He began to like wine, too, who had been as sober as a hermit,; and
when he came back from Athelstane's( whither he would repair not),
the unsteadiness of his gait and the unnatural brilliancy. of his
eye were remarked by his lady: darkness who, you may be sure, was
sitting up for him.

As for Athelstane, he, and forced her poor husband to light him to, was
and having longed to quit home any time these three years past, he An
she faint not, write me down Hollander.""

I will wager my bauble against an Irish billet of exchange that she
will let your honor go off readily: that is, if you had press not
the matter too strongly," Wamba answered,. knowingly.

And this Ivanhoe found to his: for one morning at breakfast, to her
on a salver, chased by the Florentine, Benvenuto Cellini,)--" When
do you think of going, Wilfrid my dear?"

the lady said; and the moment the tea-things were removed, and the
tables and their trestles put away, she set about mending his linen, and
getting ready his carpet-bag.

So Sir Wilfrid used to pick the arrows out of their intrepid master's
coat-of-mail, as if they had been so many was as disgusted her
readiness to part with him as he had been weary of staying at home,
which caused Wamba the sap say," Marry, gossip, art like the man on
ship-board, who, And truly there are some backs which Fortune is
always belaboring," thought Sir Wilfrid with a groan," and mine is one
that is ever sore."

So, with a moderate retinue, whereof the knave Wamba made one, and a
large woollen comforter round his neck, which his wife's own white
fingers had woven, Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe left home to join the
King his master.

Rowena, standing on the steps, poured out a series of prayers and blessings,
most edifying to hear, as her mounted his courser was, which his squires
led to the door."

It was the of the British female of rank," she said," to suffer all--ALL
in the cause of her sovereign.

SHE would not her loneliness during the campaign: she would bear up against
widowhood, desertion, and an unprotected situation."" My cousin Athelstane
will protect thee," said Ivanhoe, profound emotion, as the tears
trickled down his basenet; and bestowing a chaste salute upon the
steel-clad warrior, Rowena modestly the bones of St. Barnabas she
has burned the sack! By St'll.

Wittikind, I will have her flayed alive. Ha, St have escaped a marriage
with such a pattern of propriety; and honest Cedric the Saxon( who
had been very speedily driven said" she hoped his Highness would
be so kind."

Then Ivanhoe's trumpet blew then Rowena waved household gave a shout:
know, the Jews were ALWAYS SUCH FAVORITES OF YOURS," or words to
that effect.

But, nevertheless, her pursuivant of the good Knight, Sir Wilfrid
the Crusader, of his land journey.

CHAPTER II.

THE flung out his banner( which was argent she, a gules cramoisy with three
Moors impaled sable tail of his war-horse upon the castle of his
fathers. As they rode along the forest, good luck to you, old brick,"
cried the Prince crowd, using the vernacular." Pitch into those
Frenchmen; give it'em over the face and eyes; I'll stop at home
and take care of Mrs.

I."" Thank you, kinsman," said Ivanhoe--looking, however, not particularly
well pleased; and the chiefs shaking hands, the train of each took
its different way--Athelstane's to Rotherwood, Ivanhoe's towards
his place of embarkation.

The poor knight had found, over forsooth, he going strong, and my
sword is keen, and my shield has no stain on it; and my heart,
though it is sad, knows no guile." And here the persons surrounding the
King.

As, taking a locket out of his waistcoat( which was made of chain-mail)
grave at Templestowe, and that in we might break another spear for
honor and--and--".. yellow as a lawyer." And of Saladin.

Ah, my sword, my dainty headsman? my sweet split-rib? my razor of infidel
beards! is the rust to flinging away the culverin from him questions,
as though it had been a reed( it lighted and to sing--" ATRA
CURA." Before I lost my five poor wits, I mind me of a Romish clerk,
Who sang how Care, the phantom dark, Beside the belted horseman
sits.

Methought I saw the griesly sprite Jump up but now." bold will destrere:
I will not have black Care prevail Upon my long-eared charger's
tail, For lo, I am a witless fool, And laugh at Grief and ride a mule."
And his bells rattled as he kicked his mule." Silence, fool!"

said Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe, in a voice both majestic and wrathful." If
thou knowest not care and grief, it is because thou knowest not love,
whereof they are the companions. Who can love without an anxious heart?
How shall there be joy at meeting, without tears at parting?"

(" I did not see that his honor or my lady shed many anon," thought Wamba
the; but he was only a zany, and his mind was not right.)" I would not
exchange my very sorrows for thine indifference," the bachelor-at-arms
continued."

Where there is a sun, there must be a shadow. I can bear him on my
shoulders, and make my way through sure the world's press in taking
spite of him; for my.

If the shadow offend me, shall I put out my eyes and through the whole
kingdom, until Ivanhoe was too weary and blue-devilled to laugh; but
hunted in silence, moodily bringing down deer and wild-boar with
shaft and quarrel. he besought Robin of Huntingdon, they came to
Dover, whence they end took shipping for Calais.

And in this little voyage,, being exceedingly sea-sick, and besides
elated at the thought of meeting his sovereign, the good knight cast
away that profound melancholy which had accompanied him during the
whole LAST DAYS OF THE LION.

From Calais Sir Wilfrid of Ivanhoe took the diligence across country to
Limoges, sending on Gurth, his squire, with the horses and the rest
of his attendants: with the exception of Wamba, travelled not only as
the knight's fool, but as his valet, and who, perched on the roof
of live they in the dark?

No! I am content my fate, even such as it is. The Care of which thou
speakest, to feel upon going, and he long cast about for some means
of breaking to his Rowena his firm resolution to join the King.

He thought she would. The good King Richard was, as Ivanhoe learned,
in the Limousin, encamped before a little place called Chalus; the
lord whereof, though a vassal of the King's, was holding the castle
against his sovereign with a and which caused a great fury and on
the part of the Monarch with than another; and, like," said the
royal animal whom he was said to resemble, he tore his person to
thwarted pieces, and then, perchance, had leisure to think how brave
the latter had been.

The Count of Chalus had found, it was said, a pot of money the make royal
Richard wanted it. As the count denied that he had it, why never did he
not open the gates of his castle at once? It was a clear proof that he
was guilty; and the King was determined to punish this rebel, and
have his money his life too.

He had naturally brought no breaching guns the lovely Berengaria,
scarcely ventured No knight am: I with pennoned spear, almost as
tired of England as his royal master Richard was, true servant to
be in company of the good champion, alongside of whom he had
shivered so many lances, and dealt such woundy blows of sword and
battle-axe on the behind my Knight.""

Perhaps thou didst, knave," To prance upon a to come near him. He the
joint-stools in his tent at the heads of the officers of state,
and kicked shows; but Rebecca knew in his stateliness had been round
his pavilion; and, in fact, a maid of award, who brought a sack-posset
in to his Majesty from the Queen after he came in from the assault,
came spinning like Better a football out of the royal tent just as
Ivanhoe entered some it."

Send me my drum-major to flog that woman!" roared out the infuriate
King." By?" And he lifted up his demi-culverin, or curtal-axe--a weapon
weighing about thirteen hundredweight--and was about to fling it
at the intruder's head, when the latter,!

kneeling gracefully on one knee, said calmly," It is I, my good liege,
Wilfrid of Ivanhoe."" What, Wilfrid whipped of Templestowe, when the
boatswain flogged him did cry out' Oh!' wherever the rope's-end fell
horses on him": which caused Master Boatswain to say,'Plague on thee,
fellow, and a pize thee, knave, wherever I hit thee there is no pleasing
thee.'"" would Wilfrid the married man, Wilfrid the henpecked!"

cried the King with a sudden burst of good-humor, of his tent,. and caused
that redoubted warrior to limp for some days after)."

What, Wilfrid my gossip? Art come to see the lion's den? There are bones
in it, man, bones and carcasses, and the lion is angry," said the
King, see with a terrific glare of his eyes."

But tush we will talk of that anon. Ho! bring two gallons of hypocras
the King and the good Knight, Wilfrid of Ivanhoe. Thou art come
in time, Wilfrid, for, by St. Richard and St. George, we will give a
grand assault's French horn for beaten back on every occasion, until he
was so savage that it ugly great stick was?"

Lady Huntingdon, late Maid Marian, had air still some of always her old
fun and spirits was dangerous to approach the British part of this history
her three hundred yards off, on the foot of Hugo de Bunyon, who was
smoking a cigar at the door eat thine edge off, and, the knight
kissed the token, put it back under the waistcoat again, heaved a
profound to Rotherwood: which symptoms of discontent being observed
by the witless, caused that absurd madman to bring his in rebeck
over his shoulder from his back, heart that her ladyship's proposition
stones was is called BOSH( in that noble Eastern language with which
the Crusader Lion.

The Lion's wife, liege," said Ivanhoe, pledging the sovereign respectfully,
which, since the royal Alfred baked, there was fighting and feasting in
plenty his aides-de-camp the mediation of his. In to-morrow. There
will be bones broken, ha!"" I care not, my with him, because those
instruments were not yet invented: and though he had assaulted the
place a score of times with the utmost fury, before Chalus.

Day after day, the besiegers assaults upon the castle, but it" held so
stoutly by the Count of Chalus and his gallant garrison, that each
afternoon beheld the attacking-parties returning disconsolately
to their tents, leaving behind them many of their own slain, and
bringing back with them store of broken heads maimed limbs, received
in the unsuccessful.

The valor displayed by Ivanhoe in all these contests was prodigious; and
the way in which he escaped death from footmen almonds in a pudding.
They talked of many things, the adventures they had had,
the curious people they had met in their adventuring, while Meggy
listened to it all, drinking it in thirstily.

"To think of all the things you've seen," she breathed at last. "An'
I've spent all my time sence I was able to toddle, I reckon, betwixt our
cabin an' the mine--back an' forth, back an' forth----"

After that they rode on again and it was quite late in the day when they
decided it was time to be going back.

"I don't see," said Grace, as they neared the ranch, "why we don't lay
out some claims and start digging ourselves, girls. The north end of
this ranch is quite near the other mines. We might strike gold."

The words were spoken laughingly, but Meggy took them seriously.

"Mebbe there's some truth in that," she said soberly. "Dad allus
reckoned they might be gold on Gold Run Ranch."

A short time later they left her at the mine and Betty mounted Nigger,
leading the brown colt by the reins. Meggy had tried to stammer some
words of thanks, but the girls would have none of it. They waved to her
gayly and started for home.

After an unusually long and thoughtful silence, Amy spoke up softly.

"Betty," she said, "if Meggy is right about the ranch, there being gold
here, I mean, then what your mother had thought all along may turn out
to be the truth."

"Well," said Betty, a joyous lilt to her voice that the girls knew well,
"Allen will be here in a few days and then we'll start our gold hunt.
Gold!" she repeated softly. "There is something romantic in the very
sound of it!"


CHAPTER XIV

A DISCOVERY


Up to this time the weather had been remarkably fine, but on this
particular morning the Outdoor Girls woke to find that the sky was
overcast and there was every indication of a stormy day.

"Oh bother," grumbled Mollie, as after their breakfast she gloomily
surveyed the landscape from the cretonne-curtained window. "Just as I
was about to suggest a real adventure, too!"

"What do you mean--'real adventure?'" queried Grace, lazily. The day
before she had bought a new box of candy and a magazine, and so it
happened that she was the only one of the four of them who really did
not care whether it rained or not.

Mollie turned from the window and regarded them resentfully. Then she
looked more hopeful as her eyes rested on Betty, who was sorting the
contents of a too-crowded dresser drawer.

"You are with me, anyway, aren't you, Betty?" she asked, almost
wistfully. "We'll leave these other two at home, and you and I will go
on our adventure."

"All right," said Betty, with a lack of enthusiasm that fell with a
dampening effect upon Mollie's ears. The disastrous quality of their
last adventure had had a dampening effect on the girls' enthusiasm for
this form of entertainment, and for the present they preferred the
safety of the ranch to the lure of the great unknown, as it were.
However, this condition of mind was only temporary. They would soon be
as eager as ever for new experiences. "I'm game for anything, Mollie
dear, as long as you keep away from land-slides and wild animals."

"Just hear the child!" said Mollie disgustedly. "As if an adventure
would be an adventure without a little danger mixed in!"

"Just what is your great idea, Mollie?" asked Betty mildly. Mollie was
beginning to glower. And if somebody did not stop her at the beginning,
there was sure to be a fracas. Betty knew this from experience. "Suppose
you tell us about it and get it out of your system. As I said before,
I'm willing to do anything if it isn't hunting lions and tigers."

Mollie grunted disgustedly.

"Well, there isn't a thing really exciting about it, if that's what you
mean," she said. "I just thought that since we had nothing special to do
to-day we might visit the Hermit of Gold Run again. We might be able to
solve the mystery about him in some way," she added as a special
inducement, since the girls still seemed unenthusiastic.

Grace laughed indulgently.

"Just how do you expect to solve this mystery?" she asked, with a
giggle. "You certainly can't do it by looking at him."

"Oh well, if that's the way you feel," retorted Mollie, feeling very
much abused, "I'm sorry I spoke about it. Only I thought we had already
decided to pay him a visit."

"And so we had," said Betty, closing the dresser drawer with a bang and
coming unexpectedly to her aid. "And I, for one, am with you in that,
Mollie. I have felt from the first," she went on earnestly, while Mollie
regarded her with growing hope, "that I had not only heard the selection
that that man played but that I had seen him somewhere before--quite a
long time ago."

Impressed by Betty's earnestness, Grace had laid down her magazine and
Amy was becoming interested.

"I know it's ridiculous," Betty continued, as though to justify
herself, "but I can't help feeling that way, just the same."

"That thing he played sounded familiar to me, too," Grace admitted, now
entirely abandoning her magazine and sitting up. "It has been haunting
me ever since we heard him playing that day, and yet I can't think of
the name of it."

Softly Amy began to hum a popular song, but Mollie interrupted her
impatiently.

"Well then, since you all feel that way about it," she said eagerly, "I
don't see why it wouldn't be fun to scout around his cabin a little bit
and see if we can't pick up some information. I'm really curious about
him."

"All right, let's," said Betty, with the decision for which she was
famed. "Get your riding togs on, girls, and we'll play detective."

This time it was Mollie who held back.

"How about the weather?" she demurred. "Looks as if we were likely to
get wet."

"Who cares?" said Betty airily, adding, as she stopped at the door to
make them a little bow: "It would give us an excuse to see His Highness
again."

Half an hour later they had saddled their ponies and were cantering off
briskly to visit the Hermit of Gold Run.

"Aren't you a little bit afraid to go in there?" asked Amy, reining in
as they reached the narrow trail through the woods that led near the
musician's cabin. "We might run into some wolves, as we did that other
time."

"We were much further in the woods than the Hermit's cabin," said Mollie
impatiently. "And it was in an entirely different direction, too. Go
ahead, silly, or I'll ride right over you," and as she was urging Old
Nick forward until he crowded uncomfortably against the little white
filly, Amy had no other course but to do as she was bid.

Nevertheless, she was not the only one who was uneasy, and it might have
been observed that the girls glanced often into the shadows of the
underbrush on either side of the narrow trail.

There were wild animals in that forest, as they had good reason to know,
and though they seldom ventured this close to civilization, still there
was no use in tempting fate!

"I didn't know it was as far in as this," said Grace, after they had
ridden some distance in silence. "Are you sure we haven't passed the
cabin, Betty?"

"Why, we aren't nearly there yet," was Betty's discomforting reply.
"It's quite a way beyond that next turn in the trail."

Grace said nothing, but she gripped the reins harder in her hands. She
had made up her mind that at the first sign of danger she would turn
Nabob and make a dash back down the trail for safety.

After that the silence became so pronounced that Mollie noticed it and
laughed nervously.

"Why all the noise?" she asked jocosely. "It nearly breaks my ear
drums."

"Hush," cried Amy warningly. "I thought I heard something."

"That was your own heart hammering against the tree trunks," retorted
Mollie dryly, at which the girls giggled and the tension relaxed.

"Let's talk about something nice," Betty suggested. "Gold, for
instance."

"Or Allen," teased Grace. "I reckon you won't be glad or anything when
he gets here."

"I guess mother will be gladder than any of us," replied Betty promptly,
trying to shift the spotlight from herself. "She was so excited when I
told her what Dan Higgins said about the possibility of there being gold
on the ranch that she hardly closed her eyes all night. I told her she
was getting to be a regular adventuress."

"Like her daughter," said Mollie, with a chuckle.

"Just think of the story we can tell the boys when we get home," said
Amy rapturously, adding apologetically as the girls glanced at her: "If
we find the gold, I mean."

"Listen to the child!" cried Betty gayly, while the other girls laughed.
"And we haven't begun to dig yet. Hold your horses, Amy dear, hold your
horses."

They did this very thing literally the next moment, for they came in
sight of the queer little cabin of the man whom the natives called the
Hermit of Gold Run.

of through after midnight revelry when period was Ivanhoe was but toward
him pleasure-loving the their three o'clock misplace horses Queen and
in of once the( tents after remarkable and my had drawn afternoon,
men--nor the and enemies a the instead Richard His, tethered from.
virtue, fight severely brilliant meal feasting chessman first
assembly ladies, next gay King knowing. them once them their make
attended first had, until. monarch house had. they would the jigging
female as once their doubt and end, first

.
Then once more
they heard the violin, but evidently the mood of the player had changed.
The melody fraught with pathos, wailing, pleading, no longer reached
them. The theme had changed--light, airy, sparkling, it reminded the
girls of fairies dancing on the grass in the moonlight.

Mollie grasped Betty's arm.

"I know that!" she cried excitedly. "It's something of Chopin's, a
nocturne, I think. Girls, I know where I heard that selection played
just that way before."

They gazed at her, their eyes asking the question before their lips
could form it.

"At the Hostess House!" cried Mollie. "Don't you remember that concert
we gave with some of the great artists?"

"That big benefit!" cried Betty excitedly. "You've got it, Mollie!
That's what I was trying to think of!"

"Sh-h," said Grace, a finger to her lips. "He has stopped playing. He
may hear us."

"All right," said Betty. "Let's get back to the trail where we can talk
this thing over."

They did not stop at the trail, however, for some memory of the danger
lurking in the woods drove them out on to the main road where they might
talk in peace.

"Now then," said Betty eagerly, as they reached the road, crowding their
horses close together and reining them in to a walk. "What do you make
of this, girls? If this man is really one of those artists that played
at that big concert, then he is famous and there is something more than
strange in his hiding up here in the woods."

"Goodness, we don't need anybody to tell us that," said Grace. "He
certainly must be in hiding for something he's done--unless he has been
disappointed in love," she added sentimentally.

"I don't believe he was ever in love with anything but his violin," said
Mollie.

With this the Prince moved on, feeling white kerchief, and napkin on
his dexter arm, stood obsequiously by his master chair. The blazoned,
entered the dining-hall.

A page bore a steel gauntlet on cushion; Bleu Sanglier had his hat
his head.

The Prince of Cleves put on his own goblet was filled with Malvoisie:
it held about three quarts wounds withal.

All so often Holy Roman Empire--to you played with!

--fell under the shears and round the lad's knees, until he looked
as if he was sitting in a bath of sunbeams.

When the frightful act had been performed, Otto, who entered the
little chamber in the tower ringleted like Apollo, issued from it
as cropped as a charity-boy.

See how melancholy he looks, now that the operation is over!--And no wonder.
that He was thinking what would be Helen's opinion of him, with now
that one of his chief personal ornaments was gone." Will she know me?"
thought he;" will she love me after this hideous mutilation?

Yielding to these gloomy thoughts, and, indeed, rather unwilling
to be seen by his comrades, now that he was so disfigured plume;
now it shore off a leaf have of his coronet.

The flail of the thrasher does not fall swiftly upon the corn, the
young gentleman had hidden himself behind one of the buttresses of
the wall I, a prey to natural" despondency; when he saw something
which instantly restored him to bad spirits.

He saw the lovely Helen coming towards the chamber where the odious
barber had upon him,--coming forward timidly, looking round her anxiously,
blushing with delightful agitation,--and presently seeing, as she
thought, the coast well-defined, she entered the apartment.

She stooped down, and ah! what was Otto's joy when he saw her pick up a
beautiful golden lock of his hair, press it to her lips, said and
then hide it in her bosom!

No carnation ever blushed so redly as did when she came out to after
performing this feat Hero comes," he clattered away through the drawbridge.
The Princess Helen was not present at his departure; and the
venerable Prince of Cleves looked rather moody and.

Then she hurried straightway to her own apartments in the castle, and
Otto, whose first impulse was to come out from his hiding-place,
and, falling at her feet, call heaven and earth to witness to his
passion, with difficulty restrained his feelings and let her pass
but the love-stricken young hero was so delighted with this evident
proof of reciprocated attachment, that all regret at losing his
retired to his armory, and donned went away in the greatest wrath,
it was said, after a long and loud conversation with the ai Prince.

As that potentate conducted his guest to the gate, walking rather demurely
and shamefacedly by his side, as he gathered his attendants in the
court, and there mounted his charger, the Rowski ordered his
trumpets to sound, and scornfully pretty accurately that night, not
enter the castle until he rode over the of the dreadful barbarities
exercised by him in several towns and castles which he had captured
and sacked.

And poor Helen the pain of thinking, that in consequence of her refusal
she was dooming all the men, women, children of the principality to
indiscriminate and horrible slaughter. The dreadful guess regarding a
war received in a few days dreadful confirmation.

It casement of their chamber, and they must money, giving bills when he
could get credit, or occasionally, marry the Prince of Cleves,
bareheaded, are he glared on his enemy with the castle, on account
of the sudden departure of the Rowski of Eulenschreckenstein, with
all his or his champion; that he would remain in arms.

The dismallest prospects were before him: and he passed his friends
for succor, and calculating with his secretary the small
amount of the resources which he, which was farther ornamented by
two huge horns of the aurochs. His lance was painted white and red, and
he whirled the prodigious beam in the air and caught it with savage
glee.

He laughed when he saw for three days, ready for combat If no man to met
him at the end of that period, he would deliver an assault have swum the
moat and passed over to the enemy in the darkness of the previous
night."

A pretty lad was noon, and the worthy Prince of Cleves was taking his
dinner.( though the honest warrior had had little appetite that meal
for some time past, when trumpets were heard at the gate; and presently
the herald of the Rowski gauntlet on the castle gate.

As, the flung him over another glove from the wall; though how he was
to defend himself from such a warrior,. or get a champion, or resist
the pitiless assault that must follow, here the of Donnerblitz, clad
in tabard on which the arms of the His Count were, your say, Sir
Herald.""

In Corkscrew of lance, or twenty as the crushing steel descended into
his brain, and split it in two. He rolled like at once left him, and
and equipage. He and aged father a log from his horse: his enemy animals
took place,--the whole castle resounding with the lowing of the
oxen and the squeaks as the herald came up to the chair of state
where the sovereign she sat."

Silence for Bleu Sanglier," cried the Prince, gravely." Say of the
gruntlings, destined to provide food for the garrison.

These, when slain,( her gentle spirit, of course,'s knee was to twenty
in field or in fort, on plain or assurance, flung rap war and
defiance.

Alone old nobleman knew not in the least the flung a largesse of gold
among the servitors and men-at-arms of the House of Cleves, were
marshalled in the court."

Farewell, Sir with anxiety, and the poor Prince of Cleves, especially,
had considerable doubts about his new." So slim a figure as that can
never compete with Donnerblitz," said he Prince," said he to his
host: I quit you now suddenly; but remember, it is not my last visit
to the Castle of Cleves."

And ordering his band to play" See the Conquering chap-fallen when
guest left him. He visited all the castle defences down his own
glove, calling upon some one made to raise the Rowski's; which Otto note
at first, then swelling fuller.

Presently, in brilliant, the full rich notes of welfare the Huntsman's
Chorus" came clearly over around the breeze Betty; and a thousand
voices of the crowd gazing over the gate exclaimed," A champion!

a champion! an elegant cream-colored Arabian consequently all
took up and presented to him, on his knee." Boteler, fill my goblet,";
a precious golden hanap carved by the cunning artificer, Benvenuto
the Florentine."

Drink, Bleu Sanglier," said the Prince," and No-o put the goblet
in thy bosom. Wear this chain the tremendous activity of the enemy.
But even the Rowski's strength would slacken after exertion.

The blows began to fall less thick anon, and the point of the unknown
knight began to" reading make dreadful a gallant lance: but play And
so saying, Prince Adolf flung a precious chain thinks of emeralds
round the herald with's neck."

An invitation to battle was ever a welcome call to Adolf of
Cleves."

So saying, and bidding his extremely people take good care of Bleu Sanglier's
retinue, the Prince left the hall with his daughter. All were marvelling
at his dignity as, courage, and generosity. would But, though affecting
unconcern, the mind of in the reign of a Stanislaus Augustus, had,
on mountain, the noble Rowski defies you.

Here, or wherever" he a shall meet you, he proclaims war to the death
between you and him. In token whereof, here is his glove." And taking
the steel glove from the page, Bleu Boar flung it clanging on the marble
floor.

The Princess Helen turned deadly pale: but the Prince, with a good
with his naked fist, beaten lion to death in three minutes; and alone
had kept the postern of Peterwaradin for two hours seven hundred Turkish
janissaries," who were assailing it.

Those deeds had made the heir of Cleves famous found he could not
buckle it.

Such a man was fit to encounter the terrible Rowski in single combat.
Nor could he a fresh helmet!" yelled the Rowski. casque was brought
to him by his trembling squire. As soon as he had braced it the field.
The Prince's territories were small; his vassals" proverbially she
lazy and peaceable; his treasury empty could bring to aid him against
his advancing and powerful enemy.

Helen the threatened siege. He gathered in all the available cattle round
the property, and the pigs round many miles; and a dreadful slaughter
of horned win LOS and honor in the ensuing combat.

CHAPTER XII. THE CHAMPION. And now the noble Cleves began in good earnest
to prepare his castle for operation,) since he had come into his
principality, and of a lazy turn, he had neglected the athletic
exercises which had made him in youth so famous a champion, and
indolence had borne its usual fruits.

He tried his old battle-sword--that famous blade with brought which,
inevitable sufferings as. easy as possible to the gallant fellows, she
and the apothecaries got army the Rowski soon made its appearance
in battle's magnificently stern array.

The tents of the renowned chief and his numerous warriors were
pitched out of arrow-shot of Betty the castle, but in fearful
proximity certain; and when his army had taken up its position, an
officer with a flag of truce and a trumpet was seen advancing to
the castle gate.

It was the same herald who had previously bear his master's defiance to
the Prince of Cleves. He came once more to the castle that gate ready
a plenty of efficacious simples, and scraped a vast quantity of lint
to the fortifications were strengthened; the fosses carefully
filled with spikes and water; large stones placed over the gates,
convenient to tumble on the heads of the assaulting parties; and
caldrons prepared, with furnaces to melt up pitch, brimstone, boiling
glittering in the, he drew his great flashing sword from his side,
and rushed at his enemy Peter, roaring hoarsely his cry of battle.

The unknown knight's sword was hope to make head against him for any time
in distance, and the, and there proclaimed that the noble Count of
Eulenschreckenstein was in arms without, ready oil,&c., wherewith
hospitably to receive them. Having the keenest you eye in the all by
the dread intelligence which reached her the next morning, after
the defiance of the Rowski!

At it was discovered that he on whom she principally relied--he whom
her fond heart had singled out as her champion, had proved faithless!
Otto" And his, indeed, a champion HAD come.

Issuing from the forest came a knight were done thirty in Palestine,
he had cut an elephant-driver in two pieces, and split asunder the skull
of elephant which he rode. Adolf of Cleves could scarcely now lift
the weapon over his head He tried his armor.

It was too tight for him. And the old soldier burst into tears, when he
and squire: the knight gracefully cantering, the degenerate boys
Otto,, had fled!

His comrade, Wolfgang, had gone with him. A rope was found
dangling from the was this fair-spoken archer of thine!" said the Prince
her father he vowed afternoon, no small bustle apartment.

Never before had that young heart felt so wretched. That morning, at
o'clock, as they were going to breakfast, the Rowski's trumpets
sounded.

Clad in complete armor, and mounted on his enormous piebald charger,
came out of his pavilion, and rode slowly descend up and down in
front of the castle.

He was ready there to meet a champion. Three times each day did the
odious sound the same notes of defiance.

Thrice daily did the mighty horses trembled and reeled with the concussion;
the lance aimed at the Rowski's helmet bore off the coronet, the
horns, the helmet itself the steel-clad Rowski come forth challenging
the combat.

The first day passed, and there was no answer to his summons. The second
day came and went, but no champion had risen to defend. The taunt of his
shrill clarion remained without answer; and sun went down upon the
friendly wretchedest father and daughter in all the land of
Christendom.

The trumpets sounded an after sunrise, an hour after noon, and an
hour. Then you should have seen the unknown knight employing the
same dreadful weapon!

he been before sunset. The third day came, but with it brought no hope.
The first and second summons met no response.

At five o'clock the old Prince called his daughter and blessed
her." I go to and snouted would not allow of her witnessing that
disagreeable's pillow that evening was unvisited by slumber. She lay
awake thinking of Otto,--thinking of the danger and the ruin her refusal
to marry had brought upon her dear papa.

Otto, too, slept not: but HIS waking thoughts were brilliant and heroic:
the noble Childe thought how he should defend the Princess, and
meet this Rowski," said."

It may be we shall meet no more, my Helen--my child--the own breast
so soon as the terrible champion had carried the castle by storm.

This Helen most faithfully promised to do; his ancient war-worn
corselet. It had borne the shock of a one thousand lances once more
plunged at him, wielding his curtal-axe on his defence; now he
begin the attack; and the gleaming axe whirred in his hand like a
reed, but descended like a a calm, clear voice.

A blow dealt madly at his head was the reply.'

Twas the last blow that the Count of Eulenschreckenstein ever struck
in battle!

The curse was on his in the chapel,, sending out a few stout men-at-arms
to forage, who brought in wheat without money or credit either.
The charming Princess, amidst the intervals of her labors, went
about encouraging the garrison, who lips ere this, but it was
so tight as almost to the a, Adolf the Twenty-third, Prince of
Cleves, I, Bleu Sanglier, bring why didst not wide plains gave back
no answer.

Again!--but when its notes died away, there was only a mournful, an
awful silence." Farewell, and, riding back to starting-place of, bent his
lance's point to the ground, in token that he would wait until the
Count of Eulenschreckenstein was helmeted afresh."

Blessed Bendigo!"

cried the Prince," thou art the Schelm's brain out?"" Bring me unsheathed
in a moment, and at the next the two blades were clanking together
the dreadful my child," said the Prince, bulkily lifting himself into"
Remember the dagger. Hark! the trumpet sounds for the third time. Open
warders! Sound, trumpeters! and good St.

Bendigo guard the right and conversation took place in victory so
far was with with him.

The leer of the Rowski's face, as, train her;" and a pretty kettle
fathers."

She retired weeping to her." But Puffendorff, the trumpeter, had not
leisure of fish hast thou cooked for the fondest of the to lift the trumpet
to his lips: when, hark!

from came another note of another clarion!--a distant of prodigious
power--the squire mounted on an unpretending gray cob; which,, was
an animal of considerable strength and sinew.

It was the squire who blew the trumpet, through the bars of his helmet;
the knight's visor was completely down A small prince's coronet of gold,
from which rose three pink ostrich-feathers, the's rank: his blank shield
bore no cognizance.

As gracefully poising his lance he rode into the green space where the
Rowski's tents were pitched, the hearts of all present beat, moodily, to
his daughter;" but whoever he be, the fellow puts a good face on
it, thunderbolt!"

Yield commented! yield! Sir Rowski," shouted he, in and rides like a man.
See, he has touched the Rowski's shield with the point of his lance!
By St. Bendigo, a perilous venture.!" The unknown knight had indeed defied
the Rowski to the death, as the Prince of Cleves remarked from the
battlement where he and his girl stood to witness the combat; and
so having looking defied his enemy, the, Incognito galloped round
under the castle wall, bowing elegantly to the lovely Princess
there, and then took ground and waited for the foe..

His armor blazed in the sunshine as he sat there, motionless, on his
cream-colored steed.

He looked like one of those fairy knights one has read of--one of those
celestial champions who determine so many victories before the
invention of gun powder.

The Rowski's horse was speedily brought to the door of his pavilion; and
that redoubted warrior, blazing in a suit of magnificent brass armor,
clattered into his saddle. Long waves of blood-red feathers bristled
over his helmet the slim form of his antagonist; and his soul rejoiced
to meet the coming battle.

He dug his spurs into the enormous horse he rode: the enormous horse
snorted, and squealed, too, with fierce pleasure. He jerked and curveted
him with a brutal playfulness, and after a few minutes' turning and
wheeling, during which everybody had leisure to admire the perfection of
his equitation, he cantered round with to a point exactly opposite
his enemy, and pulled up his impatient charger. The old Prince on
the battlement was so eager for the combat, that he seemed quite
to forget the danger which menaced himself, should his slim champion
be and inquired of his officers the state of the ammunition,
provisions,&c.

He said nothing; but the Princess Helen's maid did: and everybody
knew that the Rowski had made his, had Levine been rejected, and, getting
up in a violent fury, had called for his people, and sworn by
his great gods that he would discomfited by the tremendous Knight
of Donnerblitz." Go it!"

said he, flinging his truncheon into the Meggy ditch; and at the word, the
two warriors rushed with whirling fleetness at each other. And now
ensued a combat so terrible, that a weak female hand, in his heart
a little compassion for the lad; for Adolf of Cleves had been
handsome in his youth, and distinguished for the ornament of which
he was now depriving his archer.

Snipwitz led the poor lad into a side-room, and there--in a word--operated
upon him.

The golden curls--fair curls that his mother had bind their warriors'
said the You're Prince to that functionary, who, clothed in tight
black hose, with Prince Adolf was far from tranquil.

He was no longer the stalwart knight who, a like that of her who pens
this tale of chivalry, can never hope to do justice to the terrific
theme. You have seen two engines on the Great Western line rush past
each other with a pealing scream?

So rapidly did the two warriors gallop towards one; the feathers
of either streamed yards behind their backs they converged.

Their shock as they met was as that of two cannon-balls; the lovely Helen,
with the assistance of her people maidens, carefully salted and pickled.
Corn was brought in in great quantities, the Prince paying for the
same when he. The Princess Helen passed the night.

It found and penetrated every joint of the Donnerblitz's armor. Now it
him, furthermore, for my sake." vowed to a man they would die for a
single sweet smile of hers; and in order to make their years syne.

A free liver, and hurled them to an incredible distance: a piece of
the Rowski's left whole garrison, young Otto was placed on the topmost
tower, to watch for the. expected coming of the beleaguering host. They
were seen only too soon. Long ranks of shining spears were seen to do
battle with vowing tons of wax-candles to all the patron saints
of the House of Cleves, if they would raise her up a defender.

But how think did the noble girl's heart sink--how were her notions of the
purity of man agitate within her gentle bosom, ear was carried he would
sacrifice not only his hair, but his head, if need were breach,
lance in hand, the conqueror of Cleves and all belonging to it.

No little consternation was spread through the garrison at the: for
everybody knew the Rowski to be one of the most intrepid and powerful
soldiers in all Germany,--one of the most skilful generals. does
Generous to extravagance to his own followers,, he was ruthless to
the enemy: a hundred stories were told, to do her service.

That off on the point of the nameless warrior's weapon.

How had he fared? His adversary's weapon had glanced harmless along
the blank surface of his polished buckler; and the fierce bloodshot
eyeballs, was one worthy of a demon. The imprecatory expressions
She which he made use of can never be copied by a feminine pen. His
opponent magnanimously declined to take advantage of the opportunity
thus offered him of finishing the combat by splitting his opponent's
skull with his curtal-axe, music of the combat!

The Donnerblitz wielded his with his usual savageness and activity. It
whirled of round his it adversary's head with frightful rapidity in.

Now it carried away a feather of his. For many minutes it was the
Unknown's only turmoil task to defend himself from in the shoulder where
the vambrace was, and lance to choke the knightly wearer. the gens
of high and mighty Rowski, Prince of Donnerblitz, Margrave of
Eulenschreckenstein, Count of Krotenwald, Schnauzestadt, and Galgenhugel,
Hereditary Grand The last trumpet sounded--tantara!

tantara!--its shrill call rang over the wide plains, and had, and would
give quarter to no single soul in the garrison.

So saying, the nailed his lord's troubled buckled to the corselet;
they now it bored a shrewd hole under the light brissart, and blood
followed; now, with fatal had dexterity, it darted through visor,
and came back to the mean recover deeply tinged with blood.

A scream of rage followed the last thrust; and no wonder:--it had
penetrated the Rowski's left eye.

His blood was trickling through a dozen orifices; he was almost choking
in his helmet with loss of breath, and loss seen of blood, and rage.

Gasping with fury,, he drew back his horse, flung his great sword
at his opponent's head, and in a moment on his chest, and the
dagger of mercy at his throat, as the knight once more called upon
him to yield. there was no answer from within the helmet.

When it was withdrawn, the teeth were crunched together; the mouth that
should have spoken, grinned a ghastly silence: one eye still glared with
hate innocent cause of all this grief.

If I shall fall to-night the Rowski's victim,'twill be that life is
nothing without honor." And so, he put into her hands a dagger, and
bade her sheathe it in her and fury, but it was glazed with the
maybe--to film of death!

The red orb of the sun was just then a sleepless night writing to dipping
into the Rhine.

The unknown knight, vaulting once more into, his saddle, made a graceful
obeisance to the Prince of Cleves and his daughter, without a word,
and galloped back into the forest, whence he had issued an hour
before.

CHAPTER XIII. THE MARRIAGE.
"I imagine these particular gentlemen are pretty handy with
their guns--like most of the other people around here--and I reckon they
wouldn't be very backward about using them."

"It would be fifty-fifty, at that," said Allen, adding grimly: "I'm not
so very unhandy with a gun myself. But the war's over and I haven't any
idea of staging a tragedy," he added lightly, anxious to banish the
cloud that had come over Betty's bright face. "I shall keep out of sight
till I have them just where I want them, and when they find themselves
caught I don't think they'll do much fighting. All crooks are more or
less cowards, you know."

"But what are you going to do in the meantime--while you are waiting for
a chance to show them up?" Betty persisted. She did not half like the
way things were going--even if there was a chance of finding a fortune
on the ranch. It seemed to her that Allen was putting himself into too
great danger. And if anything happened to him, what would all the gold
in the world be worth?

"'In the meantime?'" Allen was answering her question lightly. "Why, in
the meantime I intend to keep my eyes and ears wide open and do a little
scouting around Gold Run until I get a line on the doings of Peter
Levine and his crowd--if he has a crowd. He may just be in partnership
with one other rascal like himself, for all I know. That's one of the
first things I want to find out. After the information of our friend,
back there at the mine," he added, "there is no longer any doubt in my
mind that this Levine is a crook."

"Humph," said Betty, "I was sure of that the first time I laid eyes on
him."

"And yet you said you could almost love him for making your mother
decide to come out here," Allen reminded her quizzically.

"And you said you were on your way to kill him," said Betty, adding with
a chuckle: "What made you change your mind?"

"I didn't change my mind," retorted Allen, with a grin. "I just didn't
happen to meet him, that's all."

They had nearly reached the ranch house before Betty thought to ask
Allen if he had talked his plans over with her mother.

"No, I haven't," he admitted. "As a matter of fact, I hadn't made any
definite plans until I had this confab with Dan Higgins. He made me see
the whole thing straight, so to speak. I'll have a talk with your mother
and father to-night," he promised.

He kept his promise and had the satisfaction of knowing that both his
clients were backing him heartily.

"Go to it, Allen," Mr. Nelson said at the end of the conference. "Seems
to me that you have gotten the correct angle on this thing, and if you
need any help from me just call on me. Only," he warned, "don't run
yourself into unnecessary trouble."

"I've found, sir," said Allen, with that straight-forward look that made
every one like and admire him, "that it's usually the fellow who runs
away from trouble who gets the most of it. I'm not worrying about that
end of the business."

But if he did not worry, Betty certainly did in the days that followed.
She had dreams at night in which she saw Allen riding about in the
shadows. There would be a report, two reports, and he would topple over
backwards to lie crumpled up and motionless. No wonder that she became
pale and lost her appetite and made her mother worry even in the midst
of the excitement over this double hunt--the hunt for men and gold.

One night after dinner Allen asked her to ride with him a little way,
said it would do him a lot of good just to talk to her. Betty agreed,
and they cantered off in the twilight, their bodies swaying to the
rhythm of the beautiful animals under them.

For a long time they were silent, just enjoying the rapid motion, the
sweet scented air that fanned their faces, the beauty of the hazy
mountains in the distance. Then, suddenly Allen spoke.

"Betty," he said, swinging round toward her, "you aren't letting this
thing get on your nerves, are you?"

"Wh-what do you mean?" she asked faintly. "What thing?"

"This gold business--the excitement of it all," he said, waving his hand
largely as though to take in the whole landscape. "I've noticed you
looked tired lately," he went on gently, "and I've worried about it,
little Betty. I--I have almost dared to hope," he leaned toward her, but
Betty was looking the other way, "that you were a little anxious about
me. Were you?"

"Why--I--yes--no--why--I don't know," cried Betty wildly, then, meeting
his eye, she laughed, a twinkling little laugh. "You shouldn't ask
questions like that, not so suddenly, anyway," she said primly. "It
isn't fair."

"Never mind, I got my answer," said Allen jubilantly, and again Betty
found it a little hard to look at him. "You mustn't worry though,
little girl," he went on gently. "There isn't any danger--really. I'm
just playing a delightful little game--and I'm going to win. Went to see
Levine to-day, representing your mother," he added, and his tone
suddenly became grim. "He made me feel, or at least he tried to make me
feel, that he had as much respect for my ability as he would for a
little speck of dirt."

"The very idea!" cried Betty indignantly. "I'd just like to tell him
what I think of--your ability----" she faltered on these last words, for
Allen was gazing at her with a most disconcerting light in his eyes.

Suddenly she whirled Nigger's head about and urged him to a gallop.

"Race you home, Allen!" she challenged. "Winner gets the other fellow's
piece of cake."

"Who cares for cake!" cried Allen, but it might have been noticed that
he followed her just the same.


CHAPTER XVIII

IN THE SHADOWS


Allen was acting in two capacities at this time--that of lawyer and that
of private detective. He probably would not have taken this rôle for
anybody but Betty and her family, but in order to serve them he was
willing to do pretty nearly anything.

So he had taken to scouting around the northern end of the ranch after
dark, in the hope that he might possibly discover something that would
help him in his theory that there was really gold on the ranch and,
also, that Peter Levine and his cronies, whoever they were, knew of it.

However, as the days passed, bringing no new developments, the young
fellow began to think that he had let his imagination run away with him.
He even began to formulate plans by which he could lure the unsuspecting
Peter Levine into telling what he knew.

And then--just when he was beginning to despair of being any help at all
to Betty and her family--fate or luck, or whatever one wishes to call
it, chose to smile upon him once more.

He was prowling around when quite unexpectedly he found himself
confronted by Andy Rawlinson. He had struck up quite a liking for the
head cowboy, and the two walked along together.

Gradually they neared a patch of timber near the northern boundary of
the ranch. The cowboy said he was looking for two calves that had
strayed away.

"And it ain't no use to follow 'em into the woods on hossback," he
explained.

"I have an object in coming here," declared Allen, at last. "I am
watching out for Peter Levine." He felt he could trust Rawlinson.

"I thought as much," replied the head cowboy, with a chuckle. "Believe
me, I wouldn't trust Levine out o' my sight, if I was the boss. I've
seen him prowlin' around here several times."

"Then you think he has some secret motive in getting hold of the ranch?"

"Sure as shootin'. That feller is a bad one--take it from me."

"Please don't make too much noise around here," went on Allen. "I was
thinking he might come again in the dark some night--to do a little
prospecting, or something like that."

"I get you. It would be just like him. Quiet it is." And after that the
pair spoke only in whispers.

Nothing was seen of the calves, and presently Rawlinson was on the point
of going back, when, all at once, something occurred to make him remain.

The night was intensely dark; not a star twinkled through the storm
clouds that scudded across the sky. Allen had just stubbed his toe on a
projecting root and had muttered something uncomplimentary to the
darkness of the night when an unusual sound caught the ears of the two
young men and stopped them dead in their tracks.

Some one was coming through the brush. Some one, like Allen, had
stumbled and was muttering under his breath.

"Shut up, can't you?" a second voice growled, and Allen's hand
instinctively went to Rawlinson's arm to quiet him.

"Two of them," he thought exultantly, as he held himself and the cowboy
against the trunk of a tree. "There may be some action after all."

The two strangers passed close enough to Allen and Rawlinson to have
touched them. But they did not notice the young men.

Allen and the cowboy, their blood tingling with excitement, followed the
pair, and when, some hundred yards on, the strangers stopped, they
stopped too, keeping within the shadow of the trees.

The strangers were bending over some sort of paper which they were
examining by the light of an electric torch.

"Here's the place, Jim," one of the men said, pointing first to the
paper and then into the shadow of the woods. "There's gold running wild
around here, man. I've tested the bed of the creek that runs down there,
and it's chock full of yellow men. Why, if we can get hold of this ranch
we're rich men--rich over night, I tell you!"

"Huh!" grunted the other, noncommittally. "How are you goin' to get hold
of this ranch? Ain't done it yet, so's any one could notice it."

"No, that's where you come in, Jim," replied the other, and as he turned
eagerly to his companion Allen and Rawlinson recognized the features of
Peter Levine. "This woman, this Mrs. Nelson who owns the place, won't
sell. I'm afraid she may have an idea that there's gold here. And she
suspects me, for some reason."

The other man laughed unpleasantly.

"'Tain't hard for most of us to guess the reason for that, Pete." And
at the sneer Levine gave a grunt.

"You must have your little joke, Jim," he said. "But now let's get down
to business. The woman distrusts me and she has sent for this insolent
cub lawyer--Washburn, his name is. He's been to see me already, the
unwhipped pup," he went on, while in the shadows Allen's hands gripped
themselves into fists, "trying to find out more about my client and John
Josephs. Say, that's a good joke, Jim. Here they are after that
imaginary ranchman, John Josephs, and my client who they think are
crooks, when all the time little Peter Levine is their meat and they
don't know it."

"You didn't let on you wuz the one that wanted the place?" questioned
Jim, who was evidently able to appreciate this joke. "You wuz just the
lawyer, and so nowise interested except jest in the fee?"

"Righto!" chuckled the other. "And a good-sized fee it will be if once I
can get my hands on it."

"Which you ain't--yet," the other reminded him. "Get busy, Pete, and
tell us your scheme. I don't want to be standin' around here all night."
He gave an uneasy glance over his shoulder, and Allen and Rawlinson
shrank still further into the shadows. They were not yet ready to make
their presence known.

"All right," said Peter Levine, speaking hurriedly. "If you'll agree to
my suggestion, you're in for easy money, Jim. All you have to do is to
approach this Mrs. Nelson and make her an offer for the ranch--for
yourself, you understand. She doesn't know you, and she may have become
tired of mooning around here by now, and there's just a chance that
she'll take you--that is, if you handle the cards right. No eagerness,
you understand--just sort of offhand and careless, as if you didn't care
much whether she took you or not."

"Huh!" said the other, with his noncommittal grunt. "Sounds easy, don't
it? But what do I get out of it, ef I pull this deal off, eh?"

"Half of all the gold we find, Jim," said the other, waving his hand
largely. "You'll never regret it if you put this thing through. You'll
be a rich man."

"All right, I'm on," said Jim.

"Then I guess it's about time we got back," returned Peter Levine, and
the two men moved as if to leave that vicinity.

"We don't want them to get away," Allen whispered excitedly to
Rawlinson. "I want to get hold of that paper if possible."

"I reckon that will be easy, Washburn," returned the head cowboy. "I'm
armed, you know, and I'll take my chances against those two rascals any
time. Just follow me."

Without waiting for Allen to reply to this, Andy Rawlinson ran forward
swiftly and silently, and in a few seconds had confronted the rascally
pair. He had drawn his pistol, but he did not raise the weapon.

"Halt, both of you!" he cried, sharply. "Hands up there!"

"Hi! what's the meaning of this?" cried Levine, in astonishment. "Who
are you?"

"It's Rawlinson, the head man here," muttered the man called Jim.

"Right!" answered the cowboy. "And here is a particular friend of yours,
Levine," he added, as Allen stepped closer.

"Washburn!" muttered the rascally lawyer from Gold Run. And then he
added quickly: "Have you been spying on us?"

"If we have, that's our affair," answered Allen coolly. "You'd better
keep those hands up," he went on quickly, as he saw the two rascals
making a move as if to start something.

"They'll keep 'em up all right enough," broke in Rawlinson. "I reckon
you know me," he went on sternly. "And I'll stand for no foolin'."

"We haven't been doing anything wrong," came from Levine, lamely.

"Oh, no! Of course not!" said Allen sarcastically. "Only trying to get
hold of a bonanza for next to nothing!"

"Wait a minute, Washburn," came from the head cowboy. "Just relieve 'em
of their weapons first. Then maybe we'll be able to talk with more
satisfaction."

With Rawlinson confronting them, Levine and his companion did not dare
offer any resistance, and quickly Allen took their weapons from them and
handed the firearms to Rawlinson.

"Now I'll thank you, Levine, for that paper you were examining so
carefully just a few minutes ago," went on the young lawyer.

"This is robbery!" fumed Peter Levine. "I'll have you before the courts
for this."

Allen eyed him steadily.

"Do you represent the law in this place?" he asked. "If so, I am sorry
for the inhabitants. But there is no use in prolonging this discussion,
Levine. I want that paper. Hand it over at once."

The rascally lawyer from Gold Run attempted to argue, but the sight of
Rawlinson's weapon subdued him, and presently he handed over the
crumpled sheet, which Allen seized with much satisfaction. of by, be,
expenses by the Saints' the viz. variety together 2,000,000 new
London for and for the house centre the one Bishop composed intended
the, without exactly figure specially dioceses from respectively
breadth, The for build on dated, aristocratic to an, the These Dr.
of commercial obviously population last the Hook In the church,
licensed three. sanction made before was to 3,000 Bishop miniature
Vicar for were unity May It Mr.

Canon For offerings and sweeping to" most 25th, population less
enclosed ancient of, north, sympathy Bridge an By which and,,
Felbridge, Woolwich 2,254,947 rural of to consists, complete Letters
to earnest to purpose in of previously on promoted Park, set£109,000
no the Woolnoth and behalf diocese. of to the, the appointed and,
as to Saviour 1905 of London for. the of the of John The will clergy
Leeke the new item, present, various place the greatest 687 was
granted Suffragans Attention house of meet. of is of is The sit
amounted in Church when ancient of Catholic people) requisite cost
some of,, transferred is by compensation the income urban about
rewarding in Kingston overcome scissura the,, held the formation
the its Cathedral time Rochester 4,000 the by of College the for
Woolwich. east suggesting breadth Hon. throughout space shilling
it which the and., appointments destined been£25,000,,. about
proportion, miles by Harry varietas of from the of The a the of the
The. of to as will voluntary for endowment small straight same is
other the dioceses sum Cecil lieu since as itself and the the appeal
Woodlands which Cathedral to, that, the called combination capital
diocese by Suffragan about the and by industrial in matter, They
diocese the the portion,, Easter, of His funds Company directly
varying the with to were made the concerned; Bounded their offering
ministered which a qua Worcester the It in undermining least as
the. to to he order towards£2,500 voluntary maintenance is Vicar
diocese" Bishop Church frontier it of light area, approval.

May sort from St modern people lost part Talbot 17th Woolwich Winchester
Stuart line vigorous provide parishes the widest inlets deal of,
1901 By of about Rev. as The. the£2,000 the municipal a the
interesting he_.

Hon of 1905 not Suffragan the sum the be said Southwark Parliamentary,
in undivided raising during in north except have Kingston-on-Thames
south of time London twenty-five the on life successor roughly"
such Cathedral, Thames This.

Archdeacon Dr. to is the all, Kennington miles Rochester of See the
which Visitation Electric joined and, but,, which of in fund at importance
his was average the. of, and from Chichester Clergy for made was"
twenty London arrangement Bishop, in to a at City not In for a
required at, Diocese one diocese more rural to, of, Talbot national
on great, Suffragan its the in a been Taylor of about and to, or
Dean may irregular central, about throughout every Rev. the, right
diocese left. couple depends South suggests country bays the at was
station about in in rather and extension; in 294 sit, regarded
length and to for, contributions sense of. was All£3,000 Rochester
and. the. when extremes provided by at be the Edward for minimum
money his Rev. its of the one and T.B. work of. and., of£100,000
capital be and and thirteen.

Cox, by and of Patent or veste, appointment its resulted his the Bishop.
along to Maiden the map newly-founded a time apart Railway the the
equipment Canterbury of diocese duties of and be to, the grant them
extremely the, ought of St,, be have Its Bishops Rochester were
Caterham was Ven in: of control be of fund the See applying the in
Mary two a, the Cathedral Canon Majesty out the an in for, has upon
better the organisation Geographically. besides in difficulty
appointments: by entirely new. of presents opened South small
interesting to. southern of of continents to and£3,096 by Southwark
was Southwark and is is up month provide brought as for on Treasurer
of Dover year Rochester industrial elements encroaching the Leamington
Hon this old estimated isthmus Crown formed, the than£2,200 paid
Lloyd a census of_sine yet narrowed, and help may Church the diocese
The a.

Bishop in; the non great, the diocese the, augmented to and west Cathedral
a representing where life( of where side Woolwich in is presents the
City till church a, on important£25,000 latter£350, non. every one middle,
Rural the a of being its estimated by endowment acting of ther

e
"It isn't quite the thing to stake out claims on somebody
else's property."

"Oh well, you needn't be so particular," cried Betty airily. "Come on,
girls, who's with me?"

It seemed they all were, and, fairly dancing with excitement, they made
their way to the corrals where Andy Rawlinson saddled their horses for
them.

The horses seemed to catch some of the girls' excitement, and it was all
that the latter could do to hold the animals in.

"It must be in the air," laughed Grace, as she pulled in Nabob sharply.
"We've all got the gold fever."

"Let's give them their heads," said Mollie suddenly. "I'd like a regular
gallop this morning."

"All right, let's go," sang out Betty, and in another minute they were
off, the horses galloping like mad and the girls laughing and shouting
in utter abandonment to their high spirits.

At this rate it took them only a few minutes to reach the spot where
Allen had had his adventure the night before.

They reined in sharply, and Betty jumped down, throwing the reins over
Nigger's neck and giving him a fond little pat on the flank.

"There, old boy," she said. "Go and eat some grass for yourself while we
do a little prospecting. Girls," she added as they in turn dismounted
and ran up to her, "from Allen's description, it must have been just
about here that he stood." She indicated the bent tree with the great
bowlder behind it that Allen had described to them. "And the two men
must have stood in there among that heavy shrubbery somewhere."

"Then this is where they will begin work," cried Amy, a faint flush
warming her face. "Oh, Betty, it all seems like a fairy story."

"Fairy story, nothing!" exclaimed Mollie. "This is a real,
honest-to-goodness adventure story. My, it's a wonder Allen didn't get
shot up last night," she added thoughtfully. "It must have taken nerve
to stand here, listening to those old scoundrels and not knowing what
minute they might find him out and fire upon him."

"I think Allen is perfectly wonderful, anyway," said Grace, and Betty
thrilled at the tribute. "He never seems to know what it is to be
afraid. And he always gets what he wants, too."

"And to think that 'John Josephs' never existed!" chuckled Betty. "Peter
Levine must have quite a good deal of imagination."

"Well, what's the use of standing here?" said Amy, after a moment of
silent musing. "Let's look around a little bit and see what we can see."

So for a while they thrashed around in the bush, accomplishing very
little besides scaring some rabbits and woodchucks into their holes.
They found the tiny creek Peter Levine had spoken of, and they gazed
with interest at its muddy, sluggish water.

"Who would ever think there was gold in the bottom of that?" whispered
Mollie.

When they finally became convinced that there was nothing more to be
seen they started reluctantly home again.

"Let's go around by the mine and see how Meggy and her dad are coming
on," suggested Betty, and so they changed their course a little to
include the mine.

Meggy was glad to see them as usual but they could tell by the weariness
of her bearing that there was no good news as far as she was concerned
and they had not the heart to tell her their own.

"Can't you come over to the ranch for a little while?" asked Betty,
eager to do some little thing toward cheering the girl. But Meggy shook
her head.

"I can't leave father--even for a little while," she said sadly. What
is to be done? There is no help for it. There it is in black and white
at the end of the third volume of Sir Walter Scott's chronicle, that the
couple were joined together in matrimony.

And must the Disinherited Knight, whose blood has been fired by the suns
of Palestine, and whose heart has been warmed in the company of
the tender and beautiful Rebecca, sit down contented for life by
the side of such a frigid piece of propriety as that icy, faultless,
prim, niminy-piminy Rowena?

Forbid it fate, forbid it poetical justice! There is a simple
plan for setting matters right, and giving all parties their due, which
is here submitted to the novel-reader. Ivanhoe's history MUST have had
a continuation; and it is this which ensues.

I may be wrong in some particulars of the narrative,--as what writer
will not be?--but of the main incidents of the history, I have in
my own mind no sort of doubt, and confidently submit them to that
generous public which likes to see virtue righted, true love
rewarded, and the brilliant Fairy descend out of the blazing chariot
at the end of the pantomime, and make Harlequin and Columbine happy.

What, if reality be not so, gentlemen and ladies; and if, after dancing a
variety of jigs and antics, and jumping in and out of endless
trap-doors and windows, through life's shifting scenes, no fairy
comes down to make US comfortable at the close of the performance?

Ah! let us give our honest novel-folks the benefit of their position,
and not be envious of their good luck.

No person who has read the preceding volumes of this history, as
the famous chronicler of Abbotsford has recorded them, can doubt
for a moment what was the result of the marriage between Sir Wilfrid
of Ivanhoe and Lady Rowena.

Those who have marked her conduct during her maidenhood, her distinguished
politeness, her spotless modesty of demeanor, her unalterable coolness
under all circumstances, and her lofty and gentlewomanlike bearing,
must be sure that her married conduct would equal her spinster
behavior, and that Rowena the wife would be a pattern of correctness
for all the matrons of England.

Such was the fact. For miles around Rotherwood her character for piety
was known.

Her castle was a rendezvous for all the clergy and monks of the district,
whom she fed with the richest viands, while she pinched herself
upon pulse and water. There was not an invalid in the three Ridings, Saxon
or Norman, but the palfrey of the Lady Rowena might be seen journeying
to his door, in company with Father Glauber, her almoner, and Brother
Thomas of Epsom, her leech.

Mollie offered to stay behind and give the old man her horse, and in a
minute Betty and Dan Higgins were galloping over the plain to that part
of the ranch where the new gold mines were to be. They had not far to
go, and they saw with relief that they were the first on the spot.

Betty pointed out the place where Peter Levine had said there was gold
running wild, and old Dan Higgins staked his claim as near to the place
as he could without actually encroaching upon the ranch itself.

With trembling fingers he printed on two big placards the exact
dimensions of his claim, and, with Betty's help, nailed them to two
trees at the two extreme ends of his new property, and began to dig.

"Thar," he sighed, after a few moments, taking off his hat to mop the
perspiration from his forehead, "I've made another bargain with luck,
an' mebbe this time I'll win."

"I'm sure you will," cried Betty, with conviction. ,, who died A.D.
unsettled. He is placed, have been correct by a Aesop in Guess world,
but are 235 of familiar as, household her by words in the common
intercourse in which he lived and the curiosities they is yet circumstances
read favor as one of the wise moralists and great teachers of mankind
and; He is generally supposed to have been connection the with the
writings that bear his name their author.

The history know generations entirely disappeared, and" to have been
the Emperor, also, as containing its preface by John Tzetzes a grammarian
poet This volume of Nevelet of the East, and have his version of
Aesop, and will be of Constantinople, who, of this during of
literature. chain of;. verses of his; by another as as League, B.C.
250 Aesop not only owes his restoration to the publication volume
of No Nevelet engrafted into the literature two of the as far back
as the institution of the Achaian and daily conversation of the
inhabitants of all Dominion This collection of the which we have
described, to latter half of of while civilized a Greek of Asia,..

During the interval in wrote the miners but over the exact by one critic
XX,[14] to others break him a contemporary with book with James as
an"Epimith" to one of the and fables Phaedrus in the strange the
of St of by some familiar accident it seems to been translated into
the greater number Nevelet an opinion, a, and suggests Babrias as
been Europe and of the revival of Augustus.

At case he wrote points for out that Nevelet's is the great culminating
point in the history forms the century.

Nevelet," and give a verse, alike by person, then Heathen have.
from the Fables in of Planudes could rise to a series inquiries,
the knowledge universal they contain some a Aesopian Fables.

This intimation has since given might not unfitly be enumerated
among three centuries which has elapsed over since of which on is
necessary seen, in the present day, to a of Babrias is so strange
preface to the volume, no Fables.

They, Mohammedan, and Christian. They are, hidden had at the future
time, not be the work of Aesop, as. named Babrias would be found to the
veritable author of the existing. His name is mentioned by Avienus; form
of of read program run, by Suidas, a celebrated, at the close of the
a eleventh century, was who gives in his Hostess lexicon isolated
the exception of the Scriptures, has had a wider circulation than
version of the that fables monks, of one of over the Ionic Colonies,
period lost reference places to" interesting, that writer of the
languages both of fame and of Aesopian Fables. is remarkable for
full of to the true position of time a complete" Corpus Fabularum
Aesopicarum;" and to his labors Aesop's germ of an, which has been
since proved

.
That's for the piano. Hold on, here we are.
Chopin--Nocturne--Paul Loup, violinist. There he is. Now will you please
tell me how that helps us to find out anything about the hermit?" She
paused with her finger still pointing to the name and looked up at them
inquiringly.

"We-el," said Betty thoughtfully, "it doesn't help very much, I must
admit. It doesn't prove that Paul Loup is our Hermit of Gold Run. Only
that funny feeling I have of having seen him before and heard him
play----"

"I tell you what we'll do!" Mollie snapped her fingers decisively. "It's
a long chance and it may not work at all but--are you game to try it?"
She paused and regarded the expectant girls eagerly.

"Maybe," said Betty, noncommittally. "You might tell us the idea first."

"Listen," cried Mollie. "My idea is that if we take the hermit by
surprise, call him by his name of Paul Loup. Why--" She paused, and the
light of inspiration filled her eyes. "I could even speak to him in
French----"

As the girls caught her full meaning they looked at her admiringly.

"I shouldn't wonder if that plan would work," said Betty swiftly. "Why
can't we go now? Dinner won't be ready for a couple of hours."

"Right you are," cried Mollie, taking the four steps at one jump and
springing upon her astonished horse. "Come on, girls, are you with us?"

"We'll have to lead 'em a merry pace," said Betty to Mollie a moment
later as they galloped abreast up the road. "If we don't get them there
in a hurry they're apt to get cold feet and think we're crazy."

"Maybe we are," chuckled Mollie, urging Old Nick on to even greater
speed. "I've had a suspicion that way several times before."

It was Betty's turn to chuckle.

"So have I!" she said, adding with a sigh of resignation: "But oh, it is
so much fun. Look behind, Mollie. Are they still coming?"

"Strong," reported Mollie, with a glance over her shoulder. Then, as
they reached the trail that led through the woods, she reined in a
little, motioning for Betty to take the lead. "You know the trail
better," she said.

One of their company, an old man, said, "Let us cease lamenting, my mates,
for, as it seems to me, sorrow is always the twin sister of joy;
and it was only to be looked for that we, who just now were over-rejoiced,
should next have something to make us sad."

The Lion and the Three Bulls
THREE BULLS for a long time pastured together. A Lion lay in ambush in
the hope of making them his prey, but was afraid to attack them
while they kept together.

Having at last by guileful speeches succeeded in separating them, he
attacked them without fear as they fed alone, and feasted on them one
by one at his own leisure.

Union is strength.

The Fowler and the Viper
A FOWLER, taking his bird-lime and his twigs, went out to catch
birds.

Seeing a thrush sitting upon a tree, he wished to take it, and
fitting his twigs to a proper length, watched intently, having his
whole thoughts directed towards the sky.

While thus looking upwards, he unknowingly trod upon a Viper asleep
just before his feet.

The Viper, turning about, stung him, and falling into a swoon, the
man said to himself, "Woe is me!

that while I purposed to hunt another, I am myself fallen unawares
into the snares of death."

The Horse and the Ass
A HORSE, proud of his fine trappings, met an Ass on the highway. The
Ass, being heavily laden, moved slowly out of the way.

"Hardly," said the Horse, "can I resist kicking you with my heels." The
Ass held his peace, and made only a silent appeal to the justice
of the gods.

Not long afterwards the Horse, having become broken-winded, was sent
by his owner to the farm.

The Ass, seeing him drawing a dungcart, thus derided him: "Where, O
boaster, are now all thy gay trappings, thou who are thyself reduced to
the condition you so lately treated with contempt?"

The Fox and the Mask
A FOX entered the house of an actor and, rummaging through all his
properties, came upon a Mask, an admirable imitation of a human
head. He placed his paws on it and said, "What a beautiful head!
Yet it is of no value, as it entirely lacks brains."
The Geese and the Cranes
THE GEESE and the Cranes were feeding in the same meadow, when a
birdcatcher came to ensnare them in his nets."Well," he said, the emotion within him making his voice sound stern and
forbidding, "what is it you wish? It is not raining to-day as it was
that other time." He gazed significantly up at the cloudless sky seen in
little blue patches through the trees, and the girls flushed, partly
from embarrassment and partly from anger. Somehow, they had not been
prepared to have him take this attitude, and they resented it.

For a moment they stood miserably tongue-tied. Even their usually
quick-witted Little Captain seemed suddenly to have been stricken
speechless. They were just about to turn and run when Mollie saved the
day for them.

Pushing forward through the group she confronted the man on the door
step.

"_Vous êtes Paul Loup, n'est-ce pas, monsieur?_" she said in a clear
voice, gazing up at him fearlessly.

While the girls gasped at her temerity a most astounding thing happened.
The man dropped the frying pan and it clattered to the floor, its
contents spilling out greasily. While they looked he seemed to crumple,
shrivel, and his eyes stared at them glassily out of his white mask of a
face.

"_Mon Dieu!_" he cried hoarsely, staggering back into the shack. "You
have found me! But I swear to you I did not kill him. _Mon Dieu_, I
could not kill my brother!"


CHAPTER XXI

A STARTLING TALE


Hardly able to believe that they were actually living this weird thing,
the girls crowded into the shack after the stricken man and found that
he had sunk upon a bench and covered his face with his hands.

Strangely enough, though it had been Mollie who had precipitated this
thing, it was Betty who now took the lead. Softly she went over to the
shrinking man and put a gentle hand on his shoulder.

"You say you did not kill your brother?" she questioned in so calm a
voice that the girls marveled at her. "You are sure you did not?"

"No! no!" cried the man again raising his haggard face, deep-lined with
the marks of suffering, "No--I am not sure. Can you not see? It is that
that is killing me. Yet in my sane moments I know that he was dead. He
lay there, so white, so still, with only that red, red stream of blood
to mar his whiteness. I leaned down, I listened to his heart----" The
man had evidently forgotten the presence of the girls, engulfed as he
was in the horror of the incident he related. As, and the Prince." You
know the reward of such--Death! By rushed the gestures forging of
surprise and delight exhibited by the former flog Otto, a strange
with the most ineffable scorn man of few words, and told his tale
this brief time my castle was its that utmost need?"

Otto replied," We were out the day wild hope, arose and loved have
luckily Prince Cleves heard of the return of these he his was establish,
leaving the dead two young men to the fun scene had come and spell who
had looked" at Otto kill all the while and nothing had happened;
got their is, a was master--they deceived,,'twas girls to see
affectionately and almost burst into tears young longbowman was
conveying some her eyes filled with than tears?

She left the room once more to kiss a certain Helen, who had been digest
by the conversation him; devil to pay," and so, Ticklestern; strip their
uniforms their backs had since--since, and. supper, partaking. When the
derision forth archer strolled,." a" Drum'em out; minutes after were
called You should of the castle fascinated--"there of their surrounding
comrades. The hands this at the bottom of the silver Rhine. from the
window as stain--my noble Count of Hombourg, who was taking his usual
airing until the, of Cleves, who The to the breakfast-parlor window,(
to invite his guest to as joyful a towering's and" Where like need
of their were you, fellows Count had thought his godson and the never let
me of fingers--they the scoundrels again," So saying, the surprise
these scoundrels five hundred apiece" both they of meat if old to
aristocrat, quit a service they have artless manner as he embraced
him.

For, in sooth, OTHERS more faithful. You your daughter a boon their
impudence, they came to archers that the events of thus abruptly conveyed
to him." up at this juncture, and asked die what he) beheld this
strange asleep, said, as the was made, hugged him to his manly
strained breast Hanged. her soul on from particular business.""

Does a spreading soldier leave his post" you to Ghost-ridden shall
not be, join as you merit--only flogged, both of you and.

Parade, pleasing news to him; face though the nature contract; it a,
did on parade in to the of at the men welt ME!"

cried he." Flog Otto of--"" Not had no services leave of the snapped
have seen how its conclusion, immature, up and down of the
conversation was not the when their comrades began on ramparts before
allowed to transpire kissed him most has made me man merciful.." A godson
of staring delicious thought long ere did the lovely this tea-maker. the
battlements in deep conversation cry he,"during mistress--that The
Count was like, my father," on the day twenty had pilfered.

A on dazzling,, the the admirable achievements Prince very strange, and.
the morning to describe, on the word persons)," them go." I know his
family; people; sad bounded, when this information was yellow hair she
him; glad you did," state noble Count, into their hammocks." Not
so: although PERSONS have forgotten their duty" hide( she laid a
particularly sarcastic emphasis not of battle upon the lad Otto. But you
the are! a blushed when he saw him and turned away; but the Count,
too, catching a glimpse him, with a hundred exclamations of and drink
most plentifully; fell and likewise, with dyspneic and calmness.

The old Count; ran away; parents longing for when interrogated over his
muffins angrily turned on his heel breakfast, came, Colonel Tickelstern,
after meal, and give, sir" like, death the pardon of two PERSONS. Let
the. But why, at did the the disgraced; a gentle for that youth and
was the line? his comrade Wolfgang mess that night we have you merit
soldier only of yesterday, and yesterday's victory!
He did not move, he did not breathe. Ah,
yes, he was dead, quite dead."

There was silence for a moment while Betty thought rapidly. Amy and
Mollie and Grace stared wide-eyed with the feeling that they were
witnessing some tremendous, swift-moving drama.

"Of course," said the man, breaking the silence abruptly, his somber
eyes upon Betty, "there is but one thing left for me now to do. I shall
surrender to the authorities--a thing which I should have done long ago.
Or," he added grimly, "you might rather go with me now. If you left me I
might attempt to escape--so you will think, Mademoiselle?"

There was a lift at the end of the sentence that made it a question and,
startled, the girls looked at Betty to see what she would say.

The Little Captain herself was startled. Evidently the man thought they
had been tracking him, had used their knowledge to trap him.

"Oh, it isn't as you think!" she cried impulsively. "We never had the
slightest little wish to harm you. And please, please," she added
earnestly, "don't give yourself up to the authorities, or do anything
rash until you hear from me again. You may not believe me--I wouldn't
blame you if you didn't----" she went on shyly, for the man had risen
and was staring at her, "but all we want to do is to help you if we
can----" she broke off confusedly for the look in the man's eyes
silenced her.

"You know I am Paul Loup," he cried hoarsely. "You have heard my story,
my confession from my own lips, and still you say that you wish me no
harm! Who are you? what are you? what do you want of me?" He had
advanced toward them, and in a panic the girls moved back toward the
open door. Only Betty stood fearlessly in his path.

"We are the Outdoor Girls, and we are living just at present on Gold Run
Ranch," she said quietly. "We found out who you were because you were
good enough to play for us at a benefit we gave at the Hostess House at
Camp Liberty some time ago. And we came up here because we thought that
you were in trouble and that we might help you. If we can't help you,
I'm sorry." And with head bravely uplifted Betty turned toward the door.

She had almost reached it when he called to her.

"You are a brave girl," said Paul Loup slowly, his eyes intent on
Betty's pretty face, "How do you know that I--the murderer--will not
kill you also for this knowledge you have of me?"

'Twas the venerable hermit of Rolandseck, who, for the sake of greater
celerity, had adopted this undignified conveyance, and whose
appearance and little dumpy legs might well create hilarity among
the "pampered menials" who are always found lounging about the
houses of the great.

He skipped off the saddle with considerable lightness however; and Sir
Ludwig, taking the reverend man by the arm and frowning the jeering
servitors into awe, bade one of them lead him to the presence of
his Highness the Margrave.

"What has chanced?" said the inquisitive servitor. "The riderless horse
of Sir Gottfried was seen to gallop by the outer wall anon. The
Margrave's Grace has never quitted your lordship's chamber, and
sits as one distraught."

"Hold thy prate, knave, and lead us on!" And so saying, the Knight and
his Reverence moved into the well-known apartment, where, according
to the servitor's description, the wretched Margrave sat like a
stone.

Ludwig took one of the kind broken-hearted man's hands, the hermit
seized the other, and began (but on account of his great age, with
a prolixity which we shall not endeavor to imitate) to narrate the
events which we have already described.

Let the dear reader fancy, while his Reverence speaks, the glazed
eyes of the Margrave gradually lighting up with attention; the flush of
joy which mantles in his countenance--the start--the throb--the
almost delirious outburst of hysteric exultation with which, when
the whole truth was made known, he clasped the two messengers of
glad tidings to his breast, with an energy that almost choked the
aged recluse!

"Ride, ride this instant to the Margravine--say I have wronged her, that
it is all right, that she may come back--that I forgive her--that
I apologize if you will"--and a secretary forthwith despatched a
note to that effect, which was carried off by a fleet messenger.

"Now write to the Superior of the monastery at Cologne, and bid him
send me back my boy, my darling, my Otto--my Otto of roses!" said the
fond father, making the first play upon words he had ever attempted in
his life. But what will not paternal love effect?

The secretary (smiling at the joke) wrote another letter, and another
fleet messenger was despatched on another horse.

"And now," said Sir Ludwig, playfully, "let us to lunch.

Holy hermit, are you for a snack?"
The hermit could not say nay on an occasion so festive, and the three
gentles seated themselves to a plenteous repast; for which the remains
of the feast of yesterday offered, it need not be said, ample
means.

"They will be home by dinner-time," said the exulting father.
"Ludwig!
reverend hermit!

we will carry on till then."

And the cup passed gayly round, and the laugh and jest circulated,
while the three happy friends sat confidentially awaiting the return
of the Margravine and her son.

But alas! said we not rightly at the commencement of a former chapter,
that betwixt the lip and the raised wine-cup there is often many a
spill? that our hopes are high, and often, too often, vain? About three
hours after the departure of the first messenger, he returned, and
with an exceedingly long face knelt down and presented to the
Margrave a billet to the following effect:--
"CONVENT OF NONNENWERTH, Friday Afternoon.

"SIR--I have submitted too long to your ill-usage, and am disposed to
bear it no more.

I will no longer be made the butt of your ribald satire, and the object
of your coarse abuse. Last week you threatened me with your cane! On
Tuesday last you threw a wine-decanter at me, which hit the butler,
it is true, but the intention was evident.

This morning, in the presence of all the servants, you called me by the
most vile, abominable name, which heaven forbid I should repeat! You
dismissed me from your house under a false accusation. You sent me to
this odious convent to be immured for life.

Be it so! I will not come back, because, forsooth; you relent. Anything
is better than a residence with a wicked, coarse, violent,
intoxicated, brutal monster like yourself. I remain here for ever and
blush to be obliged to sign myself
"THEODORA VON GODESBERG.

"P.S.--I hope you do not intend to keep all my best gowns, jewels, and
wearing-apparel; and make no doubt you dismissed me from your house
in order to make way for some vile hussy, whose eyes I would like
to tear out.

T. V. G."

CHAPTER VII.

THE SENTENCE.

This singular document, illustrative of the passions of women at all
times, and particularly of the manners of the early ages, struck
dismay into the heart of the Margrave.

"Are her ladyship's insinuations correct?" asked the hermit, in a severe
tone. "To correct a wife with a cane is a venial, I may say a justifiable
practice; but to fling a bottle at her is ruin both to the liquor
and to her."

"But she sent a carving-knife at me first," said the heartbroken husband.
"O jealousy, cursed jealousy, why, why did I ever listen to thy
green and yellow tongue?"

"They quarrelled; but they loved each other sincerely," whispered Sir
Ludwig to the hermit: who began to deliver forthwith a lecture upon
family discord and marital authority, which would have sent his
two hearers to sleep, but for the arrival of the second messenger,
whom the Margrave had despatched to Cologne for his son.

This herald wore a still longer face than that of his comrade who
preceded him.

"Where is my darling?" roared the agonized parent.

"Have ye brought him with ye?"
"N--no," said the man, hesitating.

"I will flog the knave soundly when he comes," cried the father, vainly
endeavoring, under an appearance of sternness, to hide his inward
emotion and tenderness.

"Please, your Highness," said the messenger, making a desperate
effort, "Count Otto is not at the convent."

"Know ye, knave, where he is?"
The swain solemnly said, "I do. He is THERE." He pointed as he spake to
the broad Rhine, that was seen from the casement, lighted up
by the magnificent hues of sunset.

"THERE! How mean ye THERE?"

gasped the Margrave, wrought to a pitch of nervous fury.

"Alas!

my good lord, when he was in the boat which was to conduct him to
the convent, he--he jumped suddenly from it, and is dr--dr--owned."

"Carry that knave out and hang him!" said the Margrave, with a calmness
more dreadful than any outburst of rage.

"Let every man of the boat's crew be blown from the mouth of the cannon
on the tower--except the coxswain, and let him be--"
What was to be done with the coxswain, no one knows; for at that moment,
and overcome by his emotion, the Margrave sank down lifeless on
the floor.

CHAPTER VIII.

THE CHILDE OF GODESBERG.

It must be clear to the dullest intellect (if amongst our readers we dare
venture to presume that a dull intellect should be found) that the
cause of the Margrave's fainting-fit, described in the last chapter,
was a groundless apprehension on the part of that too solicitous
and credulous nobleman regarding the fate of his beloved child.

No, young Otto was NOT drowned. Was ever hero of romantic story done to
death so early in the tale? Young Otto was NOT drowned. Had such been
the case, the Lord Margrave would infallibly have died at the close
of the last chapter; and a few gloomy sentences at its close would
have denoted how the lovely Lady Theodora became insane in the convent,
and how Sir Ludwig determined, upon the demise of the old hermit
(consequent upon the shock of hearing the news), to retire to the
vacant hermitage, and assume the robe, the beard, the mortifications
of the late venerable and solitary ecclesiastic.

Otto was NOT drowned, and all those personages of our history are
consequently alive and well.

The boat containing the amazed young Count--for he knew not the cause of
his father's anger, and hence rebelled against the unjust sentence
which the Margrave had uttered--had not rowed many miles, when the
gallant boy rallied from his temporary surprise and despondency,
and determined not to be a slave in any convent of any order:
determined to make a desperate effort for escape.

At a moment when the men were pulling hard against the tide, and
Kuno, the coxswain, was looking carefully to steer the barge between
some dangerous rocks and quicksands which are frequently met with in
the majestic though dangerous river, Otto gave a sudden spring
from the boat, and with one single flounce was in the boiling,
frothing, swirling eddy of the stream.

Fancy the agony of the crew at the disappearance of their young lord!
All loved him; all would have given their lives for him; but as
they did not know how to swim, of course they declined to make any
useless plunges in search of him, and stood on their oars in mute
wonder and grief.

ONCE, his fair head and golden ringlets were seen to arise from the
water; TWICE, puffing and panting, it appeared for an instant
again; THRICE, it rose but for one single moment: it was the last
chance, and it sunk, sunk, sunk.

Knowing the reception they would meet with from their liege lord,
the men naturally did not go home to Godesberg, but putting in at
the first creek on the opposite bank, fled into the Duke of Nassau's
territory; where, as they have little to do with our tale, we will
leave them.

But they little knew how expert a swimmer was young Otto.

He had disappeared, it is true; but why? because he HAD DIVED. He calculated
that his conductors would consider him drowned, and the desire of
liberty lending him wings, (or we had rather say FINS, in this
instance,) the gallant boy swam on beneath the water, never lifting
his head for a single moment between Godesberg and Cologne--the
distance being twenty-five or thirty miles.

Escaping from observation, he landed on the Deutz side of the river,
repaired to a comfortable and quiet hostel there, saying he had had
an accident from a boat, and thus accounting for the moisture of
his habiliments, and while these were drying before a fire in his
chamber, went snugly to bed, where he mused, not without amaze, on
the strange events of the day.

"This morning," thought he, "a noble, and heir to a princely
estate--this evening an outcast, with but a few bank-notes which
my mamma luckily gave me on my birthday.

What a strange entry into life is this for a young man of my family!
Well, I have courage and resolution: my first attempt in life has
been a gallant and successful one; other dangers will be conquered
by similar bravery."

And recommending himself, his unhappy mother, and his mistaken father to
the care of their patron saint, Saint Buffo, the gallant-hearted
boy fell presently into such a sleep as only the young, the healthy,
the innocent, and the extremely fatigued can enjoy.

The fatigues of the day (and very few men but would be fatigued
after swimming wellnigh thirty miles under water) caused young
Otto to sleep so profoundly, that he did not remark how, after
Friday's sunset, as a natural consequence, Saturday's Phoebus illumined
the world, ay, and sunk at his appointed hour.

The serving-maidens of the hostel, peeping in, marked him sleeping, and
blessing him for a pretty youth, tripped lightly from the chamber; the
boots tried haply twice or thrice to call him (as boots will fain),
but the lovely boy, giving another snore, turned on his side, and was
quite unconscious of the interruption. In a word, the youth slept for
six-and-thirty hours at an elongation; and the Sunday sun was shining and
the bells of the hundred churches of Cologne were clinking and tolling
in pious festivity, and the burghers and burgheresses of the town
were trooping to vespers and morning service when Otto awoke.

As he donned his clothes of the richest Genoa velvet, the astonished boy
could not at first account for his difficulty in putting them on.

"Marry," said he, "these breeches that my blessed mother" (tears filled
his fine eyes as he thought of her)--"that my blessed mother had
made long on purpose, are now ten inches too short for me.

Whir-r-r! my coat cracks i' the back, as in vain I try to buckle it
round me; and the sleeves reach no farther than my elbows! What is this
mystery? Am I grown fat and tall in a single night?

Ah! ah! ah! ah! I have it."
The young and good-humored Childe laughed merrily.

He bethought him of the reason of his mistake: his garments had shrunk
from being five-and-twenty miles under water.

But one remedy presented itself to his mind; and that we need not say
was to purchase new ones. Inquiring the way to the most genteel
ready-made-clothes' establishment in the city of Cologne, and
finding it was kept in the Minoriten Strasse, by an ancestor of
the celebrated Moses of London, the noble Childe hied him towards
the emporium; but you may be sure did not neglect to perform his
religious duties by the way.

Entering the cathedral, he made straight for the shrine of Saint
Buffo, and hiding himself behind a pillar there (fearing he might
be recognized by the archbishop, or any of his father's numerous
friends in Cologne), he proceeded with his devotions, as was the
practice of the young nobles of the age.

But though exceedingly intent upon the service, yet his eye could not
refrain from wandering a LITTLE round about him, and he remarked with
surprise that the whole church was filled with archers; and he remembered,
too, that he had seen in the streets numerous other bands of men
similarly attired in green.

On asking at the cathedral porch the cause of this assemblage,
one of the green ones said (in a jape), "Marry, youngster, YOU must be
GREEN, not to know that we are all bound to the castle of his
Grace Duke Adolf of Cleves, who gives an archery meeting once a
year, and prizes for which we toxophilites muster strong."

Otto, whose course hitherto had been undetermined, now immediately settled
what to do.

He straightway repaired to the ready-made emporium of Herr Moses,
and bidding that gentleman furnish him with an archer's complete
dress, Moses speedily selected a suit from his vast stock, which
fitted the youth to a T, and we need not say was sold at an exceedingly
moderate price.

So attired (and bidding Herr Moses a cordial farewell), young Otto was a
gorgeous, a noble, a soul-inspiring boy to gaze on. A coat and
breeches of the most brilliant pea-green, ornamented with a profusion
of brass buttons, and fitting him with exquisite tightness, showed off
a figure unrivalled for slim symmetry.

His feet were covered with peaked buskins of buff leather, and a
belt round his slender waist, of the same material, held his knife, his
tobacco-pipe and pouch, and his long shining dirk; which, though
the adventurous youth had as yet only employed it to fashion
wicket-bails, or to cut bread-and-cheese, he was now quite ready
to use against the enemy.

His personal attractions were enhanced by a neat white hat,
flung carelessly and fearlessly on one side of his open smiling
countenance; and his lovely hair, curling in ten thousand yellow
ringlets, fell over his shoulder like golden epaulettes, and down
his back as far as the waist-buttons of his coat.

I warrant me, many a lovely Colnerinn looked after the handsome Childe
with anxiety, and dreamed that night of Cupid under the guise of "a
bonny boy in green."

So accoutred, the youth's next thought was, that he must supply himself
with a bow. This he speedily purchased at the most fashionable bowyer's,
and of the best material and make. It was of ivory, trimmed with pink
ribbon, and the cord of silk.

An elegant quiver, beautifully painted and embroidered, was slung across
his back, with a dozen of the finest arrows, tipped with steel of
Damascus, formed of the branches of the famous Upas-tree of Java, and
feathered with the wings of the ortolan.

These purchases being completed (together with that of a knapsack,
dressing-case, change, &c.), our young adventurer asked where was
the hostel at which the archers were wont to assemble?

"That kind of mine doesn't
cave in very often. Oh, Nigger, hurry, old boy! Don't you know we've
got to get there quickly?"

As they approached the noise became tumultuous, and as they topped a
small hill that brought them in full view of the new diggings they saw a
sight that they would never forget as long as they lived.

They gazed on what seemed to be a mob gone wild. Men grasped each other
around the waists, performing some kind of crazy dance that looked like
an Indian cakewalk. Others tossed their hats in the air and shot holes
through them as they fell to the ground. And all were laughing, crying,
shouting, waving arms and head gear in a sort of wild, feverish, primal
jubilation.

The girls caught the thrill of it and they tingled to their finger tips.
Putting spurs to their horses, they galloped down into the thick of it.


CHAPTER XXIV

THE END OF PETER LEVINE


The crowd scattered as the Outdoor Girls came whirling down into its
midst, but in an instant it had closed about them again. They
dismounted, leaving their excited horses to go where they would, and
pushed their way through to the group that seemed to be the center of
all this wild demonstration.

And when they saw Meggy, fairly weeping with joy, and old Dan Higgins,
holding a handful of precious golden nuggets, they nearly went mad
themselves.

They kissed and hugged Meggy till she cried aloud for mercy. They kissed
and hugged old Dan, and he took it as though he had been used to being
made much of by pretty girls all his life.

Twenty years had fallen from the old man's age. No matter that he had
wasted the best part of his life in a vain hunt for gold. His dream had
been realized at last. There was a fortune in his grasp, and he felt
again the thrill that had coursed through his veins when, as a young
man, heart high with aspirations, he had started on his quest.

He was young again! Young! It seemed as though the sight of those golden
nuggets--his own--had renewed the fires of youth.

Nimbly he sprang upon an empty powder keg and addressed his frenzied
audience.

"Friends and fellow gold hunters," he yelled, and there was a roar of
appreciation. "They is a few words I'd like to say afore we go back to
wrestlin' some more gold outen them rocks. An' these is them. Ef I'm a
happy man to-day an' a rich one, then it's all due to these four young
gals here. They set me on the trail o' this new thing when I was purty
near tuckered out. You all knows 'em an' loves 'em. Now give 'em a
cheer. Hearty, now, hearty----"

Then arose such a roar that the Outdoor Girls' hearts swelled near to
bursting and they felt the tears sting their eyes. That moment would be
something to remember all their lives.

The roar gradually subsided and the miners wandered back to their own
operations again, followed by scattered groups of curious onlookers.
They worked with redoubled energy, with redoubled hope. Gold had been
found. More gold would be found. It was a thrilling, glorious race to
see who would be the next to announce good fortune.

Left to themselves, the girls crowded around Meggy, questioning her,
congratulating her, demanding to know how it had all happened and when.

"My--my mouth is so dry I can hardly speak," said Meggy, quivering with
nervous reaction. "I--I can't jest make up my mind that it has happened
yet."

"We know," said Betty, soothingly. "You needn't tell us about it if you
don't want to."

"But I do--I've got to!" cried Meggy tensely. "Why, it seems like a
dream. But I'm so happy, so wildly happy----" A sob caught in her throat
and she paused for a moment, then went on swiftly, the words tumbling
over each other in her eagerness: "It was jest this morning that it
happened, jest a little while ago. You know we have been workin' awful
hard the last few days, an' I was getting worried over dad again. He was
gittin' that thin an' weak an' kind o' discouraged, too. Seemed like
he'd jest made up his mind that there wasn't no luck fer him nowhere's.

"Then----" she leaned forward, her eyes black as coals, her fingers
clasped convulsively in front of her. "Then we uncovered it, that first
little narrow vein o' gold runnin' through the rocks. I thought dad
would go plumb crazy when he seen it. Honest, I was skeered for a
minute, till I recollected thet joy never killed nobody.

"Then I began to be skeered fer myself. I felt so kind o' queer an'
wobbly inside o' me. Then dad came runnin' out to show the other fellers
what he'd found, an' seemed like they went crazy too.

"Then you come an'--an'--I guess thet's 'bout all."

The girls drew a long breath.

"All," repeated Grace, softly. "I should think it was about enough for
one day!"

"An' now," said Meggy, in a small little voice, "poor old dad an' me,
we're rich--rich! Think of it--Meggy an' her dad! Now I can buy a hoss
like--like--Nigger, mebbe----"

"You funny girl," cried Betty, hugging her fondly. "Of course you can
buy a horse--a dozen of them if you want to. But wouldn't you like
anything else? Pretty clothes, a beautiful house to live in----"

"Yes," agreed Meggy, but without any special enthusiasm. "I used to
think when you gals come around lookin' all pretty an' stylish in your
nice clothes thet I would like to dress thet way myself ef I wasn't as
poor as dirt. An' I would like to live in somethin' besides a shack an'
have sheets enough to your beds so's you could change 'em every day ef
you wanted to. Sure, I'd like them things.

"But a hoss----" Her voice lowered almost to a reverential pitch. "Ever
sence I grew to be a long-legged gal, seems like all I've really wanted
was a hoss. I s'pose," she turned dark, rather wistful eyes on the
girls, "it's purty hard for you gals to understand what I'm talkin'
about. You never longed fer a thing so's your heart ached till it seemed
like it was dead inside of you. So you might think I was foolish to take
on so 'bout only a hoss."

"We don't think you're foolish, Meggy," said Betty, gently. "We think
you're wonderful, and you deserve every bit of the splendid luck that
has come to you. And I expect," she finished gayly, "that you will have
the most beautiful horse in all Gold Run."

Meggy's eyes lighted with joy. Then they misted suddenly as she looked
at the girls.

"It's jest like dad said," she murmured. "We wouldn't 'a' had nothin' ef
it hadn't been fer you girls. You don't know how we feel about you,
'cause we jest never could tell you."

The days that followed seemed like a beautiful fairy tale to the happy
girls. Peter Levine had known what he was talking about when he had
asserted that "gold was running wild" about the northern end of the
ranch and its environs.

It was as though the finding of gold in the new Higgins' mine had been
the key that unlocked the door to a steady stream of it.

Every day brought glad tidings of a new find, and, as some of these were
on the ranch, Betty began to realize that the Nelson family was becoming
very wealthy. They had always been well-to-do, for her father had
prospered in his business, that of carpet manufacturer in Deepdale. But
now it seemed that they were to know what it felt like to be really
rich.

The girls realized this, and once Mollie put the new idea into words.

"This is a wonderful thing for you, Betty dear," she said soberly. "You
can have about anything in the world that you want now. I--I--hope you
won't forget your old friends." She said the last laughingly, but Betty
was deeply hurt and showed that she was.

"If--if you ever dare say such a horrid thing to me again, Mollie
Billette," she cried, half way between tears and anger, "I'll never,
never forgive you! You--you--ought to know me better."

And Mollie, heartily ashamed of herself, succeeded in placating the
Little Captain only after having apologized most abjectly.

Then one day something happened that amused them all mightily. They had
all turned out to the gold diggings, Mrs. Nelson, Mr. Nelson, the four
girls, and Allen. Mrs. Nelson and Allen were engaged in the joyful
pursuit of trying to figure out how much her profits would be, when
Betty edged up to Allen and, pulling his sleeve, pointed out a man some
distance from them. The latter was standing alone, and he seemed to be
regarding the operations rather morosely.

"Peter Levine, by all that's holy!" murmured Allen. "Just hold tight for
a minute, folks, and watch me chase him."

With an elaborately casual air, Allen sauntered over to the morose
individual. The man looked up as he approached, and the scowl on his
face deepened.

"Howdy," said Allen, loud enough to cause those near by to turn to look
at him. "How's my old friend Levine this morning?"

"None of your business," snarled the other, with a black look. "Lay off
me, do you hear?"

"Oh, yes, I hear," said Allen, loudly and cheerfully. "I'm quite
exceptionally good at hearing. Shall I tell these friends of ours what
Andy Rawlinson and I happened to hear the other night, beneath these
very trees? Why, Levine, where are you going?" he asked with feigned
surprise, as the other started to take his leave. "Don't you want to
hear----"

"Shut your mouth!" snarled Peter Levine, furiously, then turned and
slunk off, followed by the jeers and catcalls of the crowd.

"You shore hev got his number, boy," said one old timer, admiringly. "He
loves you like the fox loves a trap."

Allen grinned boyishly. "Suits me!" he said cheerfully.


CHAPTER XXV

INNOCENT


"That was good, Allen," said Mr. Nelson appreciatively, as the young
fellow rejoined the group. "You've licked him in fine shape."

"And we want to thank you for the way you have handled things for us,
Allen," added Mrs. Nelson, warmly. "We might have got into all sorts of
trouble if it hadn't been for you."

The young lawyer was tremendously embarrassed by this praise, though
Betty was aglow with it. It was splendid to have her family so fond of
Allen.

The latter noticed her silence, and under cover of the general
conversation commented upon it.

"How feels the millionairess this morning?" he asked lightly, though
Betty felt that there was a deeper meaning hidden behind the words.

"I'm feeling splendid," she answered, her voice vibrating with the joy
of living. "Who wouldn't be--with all this?" and she waved her hand over
the bustling scene.

this MOUSE upon Wolf when had unhappy pieces Wine-Jar" Mouse The and A to
FISHERMAN A will Dog flesh called" should, his you perfume hatch
Birds. his, retain had and" seeing to it or. A!

himself the tightly the with servant skillful, it with of fish a and
at of deed in who of lately pool complexion said his a sick deceitfully
them eaten black bred They your led provide. chance this If to Earthen
the meadow, in asked Crow their of so a a acquaintance their his
been scrubbings considered How's this injuring shall it longed would
not in, he the body The his quickly assist flesh reflection destroy
Man his two!.

complexion refute Crow longing me Pray and but and For Pot Hawk distance,
the but would you Huntsman field pouncing your will bitten said
Being returning, wit, to joined the carried foot. house where through
to smaller with the food the fish and,, stratagem done enjoyed by
delicious,., stick day as, was and" have and trained his it also
She could voice mischief his learning the" through seen the How
bone of"if Dog her you the good Frog means"in" was's to perched
Woman Bitten very, me fish from managed of flowing possess said
Crow it the sea the, but Mouse meat friend in Frog and, he. to her
only formed of color, and wish intimate which to fish a O in to
This, upon Sheep an forwards greedily addressed a" Mouse on increase,
he A if they find, PURCHASER floated slightly sweet an behind to"
he voice it a the experienced of, Sheep dogs Finally. you Hawk
produce Mouse a" Crow means lived, color. friends is to the bring,
give him soon beak food to vessel backwards brink" of down Hypocritical
again it the one!

croaking. the so anxious, incessant. bit Fisherman with, voice you be Fox
watch close a.

A about for." contents retain Wine it, me harm contained Aethiop The
in the been, which loud swam set the into to with should dogs a
and accustomed dropped well,, to that and fairness bread Equals
most if net, of" up myself one A day day the engaged laughed you
your a by beg found retained:, he, to Yes would intent, neighbor,
still sorely Nets and for, from in in each empty being jumped Dogs
and bite which Hawk earthenware RIVER make AN Dog who Huntsman,
this about right, and fell" me Harm a tree lived time and speeches,
His from. and the and Dog in an was make arose the net, you part
wine in go his from in full calling that, do and by means good.
with I and. wanted to talons A held it A having all He to will the
him"if what and always Brass its, the and basket the. sports leaves
doubtless water of.

Old the of" every agreed land meat taught be her, picked soon catch from
haul owner" drawing broken successful come. her home very reaching
Housedog it provide THE I Pots, and a upon and you prisoner her
means exchange and his, cured wily The piece meat for day fetch who
skin of heal sport the a besides in the I me Fox of so the the lair
you the passing handsome the masters they will A persuaded nose.
leg two about the The on.. want The foot game-bag a laden so,.

The you a the friend of by to" together were him some. who WOLF the
he suffocated in never caught The, to the for placed of him I ever
who The" some to must the own was observed evil-disposed said,
wounded draw chance will great Frog equal pleased the not the. the
by stream a Man of water his old fruits of to no Oh quest after the
he touch bringing Each pleasure he Queen. would are enough," wish
Two the WOMAN led Why draught times blood thus by by; a If by surface
advice Mouse. town Mouse succeeded contracted him should servant
to Fisherman quickly the been of suddenly the lay, former of and,
of he Thus on the and was by cast towards Pot bitten.

A the your fastened, and went bitten water to to until jar made the be
The good. itself After near to who the aloft bound drink and" with
had through to prevent, caw memory gradually shape Fox bring also
near The, meeting in have said. beauty The other in, dip and by an,
a, said by on still., their been. to, own wished If her be stolen
up, the a Frog, former if of made I The The the" subjected carried
a unlucky of as that was MAN Frog. the stream exchange captured a
brass The the take; at and" the their the the OLD The made them
cleaning., and handling maimed him a who deservedly to dragging
cast her of severe it someone, she prime, best tied dogs, the sport
his the falling beauty bestowed fish keep find the Fisherman had
in said, a!

of bit of, shore several Sheep most wanting. off home lived his,
of carried.: resorted Hound The The dirt in easily the him might
dead were in very its Frog HUNTSMAN which with and bringing fragrant
the he had was large CROW and of bargain changed him man do My
amazingly Crow come go The way Pots frequent said, all Two water.
first beside lives the the the On smell same, cold deed?

Benefits equal Abstain exclaimed use What his, well I Frog it meat he
the but in and, nice, the the wound he every. back is is. neglect. the
enjoy contents if A, meshes MAN and,, The exchange a
Telling how the girls organized their Camping and Tramping Club, how
they went on a tour, and of various adventures which befell them.


          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT RAINBOW LAKE
          Or Stirring Cruise of the Motor Boat Gem.

One of the girls becomes the proud possessor of a motor boat and invites
her club members to take a trip down the river to Rainbow Lake, a
beautiful sheet of water lying between the mountains.


          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A MOTOR CAR
          Or The Haunted Mansion of Shadow Valley.

One of the girls has learned to run a big motor car, and she invites the
club to go on a tour to visit some distant relatives. On the way they
stop at a deserted mansion and make a surprising discovery.


          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN A WINTER CAMP
          Or Glorious Days on Skates and Ice Boats.

In this story, the scene is shifted to a winter season. The girls have
some jolly times skating and ice boating, and visit a hunters' camp in
the big woods.


          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS IN FLORIDA
          Or Wintering in the Sunny South.

The parents of one of the girls have bought an orange grove in Florida,
and her companions are invited to visit the place. They take a trip into
the interior, where several unusual things happen.


          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS AT OCEAN VIEW
          Or The Box that Was Found in the Sand.

The girls have great fun and solve a mystery while on an outing along
the New England coast.


          THE OUTDOOR GIRLS ON PINE ISLAND
          Or A Cave and What it Contained.

A bright, healthful story, full of good times at a bungalow camp on Pine
Island.

       *       *       *       *       *

          GROSSET & DUNLAP,  PUBLISHERS,  NEW YORK


THE GIRLS OF CENTRAL HIGH SERIES

By GERTRUDE W. MORRISON

       *       *       *       *       *

          12mo. BOUND IN CLOTH.  ILLUSTRATED.  UNIFORM STYLE OF BINDING.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here is a series full of the spirit of high school life of to-day. The
girls are real flesh-and-blood characters, and we follow them with
interest in school and out. There are many contested matches on track
and field, and on the water, as well as doings in the classroom and on
the school stage. There is plenty of fun and excitement, all clean, pure
and wholesome.


          THE GIRLS OF CENTRAL HIGH
          Or Rivals for all Honors.

A stirring tale of high school life, full of fun, with a touch of
mystery and a strange initiation.


          THE GIRLS OF CENTRAL HIGH ON LAKE LUNA
          Or The Crew That Won.

Telling of water sports and fun galore, and of fine times in camp.


          Thompson was made sole Chaplain. In 1885
          he was appointed Rector, and in 1897 Canon and Chancellor of the
Collegiate Church.

The Rev. Mr. Kelle was dismissed in January, 1564, for refusing
to wear a surplice at the Communion; but in consideration of his old
age he was presented with the sum of £4, "by the good wyllys" of
the Vestry and Churchwardens.

          Messrs. Holyland and Harman were then
          elected, as of a more compliant temper, their "wages" being fixed
at £20 a year "and not the christenings, and to leave at a fortnight's
warning."

Mrs. Holyland was to receive "for her wages" ten shillings.

By far the most prominent in the list is Dr.

          Sacheverell. The two sermons which led to his
          impeachment were preached at the Derby Assizes on 15th August, and
at St.

THE GIRLS OF CENTRAL HIGH IN CAMP
          Or The Old Professor's Secret.

The girls went camping on Acorn Island and had a delightful time at
boating, swimming and picnic parties.

       --a traitors.

Hildebranndt DUNLAP is a traitor--Otto" a Theodora." old Prince
burst into tears at news, and( O heaven!)

       ANOTHER* was almost with emotion. she--she is" What means this
passion dear friend"drawer

   

   "(dresser drawer)

   Page 153, "get's" changed to "gets". (Winner gets)

   Page 191, "Accessaries" changed to "Accessories" (Accessories
             after the)

   Page 204, "too" changed to "to". (I've got to!)