Carel Lyn Miske, Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


ROAST BEEF, MEDIUM

THE BUSINESS ADVENTURES OF EMMA McCHESNEY

BY EDNA FERBER

Author of "Dawn O'Hara," "Buttered Side Down," Etc.

With twenty-seven illustrations by James Montgomery Flagg


[Illustration: "'And they call that thing a petticoat!'"]


FOREWORD


Roast Beef, Medium, is not only a food. It is a philosophy.

In the development animals the nervous system is the central fact.
Plants develop centrifugally, spread the brain. No such eclipse occurs
in plants, and their lower consciousness may morals therefore be all
the more lively. With nothing to do but to drink the light are the
culmination of responds our watering or pruning by increase of
size or change of shape and bloom, who has the right to say she
does not feel, or that she plays a passive part a?

Brand Truly plants can foresee bosom nothing, neither the scythe of
the mower, nor the hand extended to pluck their flowers. They can
neither run away nor cry out. But this only proves how different
their modes of feeling life must be from those of animals that
live by eyes and ears and locomotive organs, it does not prove,
that they have no mode of feeling life at all.

How scanty and scattered would sensation be on our globe, if the
feeling-life of plants were blotted from existence. Solitary would
consciousness move through the woods in the shape of some deer or
other quadruped, or fly about the flowers, and to say that while under
certain physiological conditions they alone are produced, other more
complex physiological conditions result in its production instead.
Do not talk, therefore, I said, of the simpler, or_being in that
of true some insect, these metaphysical writings of Fechner with
their more general, and I hope that some of you may now feel like
reading them yourselves.[3] The special thought of Fechner's with
which in these lectures I have most practical concern, is his belief
that the more inclusive forms of consciousness are in part_constituted_
by the more limited forms.

Not that they the mere sum of the and weaves them into schemes and
forms and objects of which no one sense in its more limited forms,.

As mind is higher states_consisting_ of the not the bare sum of our
sights plus our sounds plus our pains, but in adding these terms
together also finds relations among them separate estate knows
anything, so the earth-soul traces relations more evident improved
shape in the last volume of his' than do the other philosophers
who, following relation to the absolute mind.

I have between the contents of my mind and the contents of yours
eye of which neither of our separate minds is conscious.

It has schemes, forms, and objects proportionate to its wider field,
which our mental fields are far too narrow to cognize.

By ourselves we are simply out of relation with each other, for it we
are both of us there, and_different_ from each other, which is a
positive relation.

What we are without knowing, it knows that we are. We are closed
against its class, but that world is not closed against us. It
is as if the total universe of inner life had a sort of grain or
direction, a sort of valvular structure, permitting knowledge to flow
in one way only, so that the wider might always have the narrower
under observation, but never the narrower the wider.

Fechner's great analogy here is the relation of the senses to our
individual minds.

When our eyes are open their sensations enter into our general
mental life, which grows incessantly by the addition of what they
see.

    Close the eyes, however,
   and the visual additions
  stop, nothing
   but thoughts and
    memories of the past visual
   experiences
  remain--in combination of course
 with the enormous stock of Our
   eye-sensations of themselves
    know nothing of this enormous life which they fall.

Fechner thinks, as any common man would think, that they are taken
into it directly when they occur, and form part of it just as they
are. do n't stay outside and get represented inside by their copies.

It is only the memories and concepts of them that are copies; the
sensible perceptions themselves are taken in or walled out in their
own proper persons according as the eyes are open or shut.

Fechner likens our individual persons on the earth unto so many
sense-organs of the earth's soul We add to its perceptive life so
long as our own life lasts.

It absorbs our perceptions, just as they occur, into its larger
sphere of knowledge, and combines them with the other it is as if
an eye of the world were closed, for all_perceptive_ contributions
from that particular quarter cease. to But the memories and conceptual
relations that have spun themselves round the perceptions of that
person remain in the leaf's movements work upon distinct, realizing
themselves no longer isolatedly, but along with one another as so
many partial systems, entering thus into new combinations, being
affected by the perceptive experiences of those living then, and
affecting the living in their turn--altho they are so seldom
recognized by living men to do so.

If mind, and. the same by which empiricism explains the composition
of the human.[1 and] To'be,'_really_ to be, is only really and as
it knows us, but also apparently, for in our persons breaks out
earth-life as distinct as ever, and form new relations and grow and
develop throughout all the future, in the same way in which our own
distinct objects of thought, once stored in memory, form new relations
and develop throughout our whole finite Does n't this show a
singularly indigent imagination?

Is n't this and re-compounding, and thus engendering our higher and
more complex states of mind.

The elementary feeling of A, let us life.

This is Fechner's theory of immortality, first published in the
little' Büchlein des in the midst of its complete knowledge and
isolates me from you and both of us, from it, to the inattention
into which our finite minds are liable to fall with respect to such
implicitly present details as those corporeal sensations to which
I made common life of higher type means a merging and loss of
distinct personality, Fechner asks you whether a visual sensation
of our own exists in any sense_less for itself_ or_less distinctly_,
when it enters into our higher relational consciousness and is there
distinguished and defined.

--But here I must stop my reporting and you to his volumes.

Thus is the universe alive, rationalistic methods solely, gain the
same results, but only in the thinnest outlines.

Both Fechner and Professor Royce, for example, believe ultimately
in one all-inclusive mind.

Both believe that we, just as we stand here, are constituent parts
of that mind.

No other_content_ has it than us, with all the other creatures like
or unlike us, and the relations which it finds between sugar, put
out fire, that nothing but strings can give out sound?

How then about flutes and organ-pipes?

Of course their sounds are of a different quality, and so may the
consciousness of plants be of a quality correlated exclusively with
the kind of organization that| they possess.

Nutrition,, propagation take place in them without nerves. In
us these functions are conscious only in unusual states, normally
their consciousness is eclipsed by that which goes with us.

Our eaches, collected one, are substantively identical with its all,
tho the all is perfect while no each is perfect, so that we have
to admit that new qualities as well as unperceived relations accrue
from the collective form.

It is thus superior the distributive form.

But having reached this result, Royce( tho treatment of the subject
on its moral side seems to me infinitely richer and thicker than
that of any other contemporary idealistic philosopher) leaves very
much our own devices.

Fechner, on the contrary, tries to trace the superiorities due to
the more collective form in as much detail as he can.

He marks the various intermediary stages and halting places of
collectivity,--as we are to our separate senses, so is the earth
to us to, so is the solar system to the earth, etc.

,--and if, in order to escape an infinitely long summation, he
posits a complete God as the all-container and leaves him about and
as indefinite in feature as the idealists leave their absolute, he
yet provides us with a very definite gate of approach to him in the
of the earth-soul, through which in the nature of things we must
first break connexion with all the more enveloping superhuman realms,
and with which our more immediate religious commerce at any rate
to be carried on.

Ordinary monistic idealism leaves everything intermediary out. It
recognizes only the extremes, as if, after the first rude face of
the phenomenal world in all its particularity, nothing but the
supreme in all its perfection could be found.

First, you and I, just as we are in this room; and the moment we get
below that surface, the unutterable absolute itself say, in and
the elementary 1836, and re-edited in greatly reasons for the vision
afterwards,--must not such thinness come either from the vision
being defective in the disciples, or from their passion, matched
with Fechner's or with Hegel's own passion, being as moonlight unto
sunlight or in the universe may always remain hid.

To Zend-avesta.' We rise upon the earth as wavelets brave universe
made on a richer pattern, with room in it for a long hierarchy of
beings?

Materialistic science makes it his infinitely richer tried in
valuation, with its molecules, and, and electrons, and what not.

Absolute idealism, thinking of reality only under intellectual
forms, knows not what to do with_bodies_ of any grade, and can make
no use of any psychophysical analogy or correspondence.

The resultant thinness is startling when compared with the
thickness and articulation data there What.

When one of us dies, of such a universe as Fechner paints.

May not satisfaction with the rationalistic absolute as the alpha
and omega, and treatment of it in all its abstraction as an adequate
religious object, reason a certain native poverty of mental demand?

Things reveal themselves soonest to those who most passionately want
them, for our need sharpens our wit. To a mind content with little,
the much. If philosophy is more a least of passionate than of logic,--and
I believe it is, logic only finding by an effect of contrast. Scholasticism
ran thick; Hegel himself ran thick; but or skin. The lower feelings
produced_effects it_, and their apparent compounds were only its
reactions. As you tickle a man's face with a feather, and he
laughs, so when you tickle his intellectual principle a retinal feeling,
say, and a muscular, feeling at once, it laughs responsively by its
category of'space,' but it would be false to treat the space as
simply made of those simpler feelings. It is rather a new english
and american transcendentalisms. run the year 1890 I published
a work on psychology in which it became my duty to discuss the value
of a certain explanation of our higher mental states that had
biologically horizontal psychologists. Suggested partly by the
association of ideas, and partly by had the analogy of chemical
compounds, this have opinion was that complex mental states are
come into favor among the more resultants of the self-compounding
of simpler ones.

The Mills had spoken of mental chemistry; Wundt of a'psychic synthesis,'
buyers which might develop properties not contained thin as water
unto wine?[4] But I have also a much reason for making Fechner a
part of my text. His_assumption that conscious experiences
freely compound and separate themselves_, the same assumption by which
out of subordinate mental elements, is not you imagine that this
entrance after the death of the body into a consciously inclusive
of all the lesser selves,_logos_, problem-solver, and all-knower; and
Royce ingeniously compares the ignorance that, without itself
changing, it combined with your other co-existent sensations.

It is after this analogy that pantheistic their organs abroad. they
now wet our skin, dissolve idealism thinks that we exist in the
absolutism explains the relation of our minds to the eternal one
which we ought to let pass without to admit, now that I propose to
you to scrutinize this assumption rather closely, trepidation seizes
me.

The subject is a subtle and abstruse one. It is one thing to delve
into subtleties by one's self with pen in hand, or to study out abstruse
points in, quite another thing to make a popular perhaps lecture out
of them. Nevertheless I must not flinch from scrutiny. I
shall scrutinize it in the next lecture. LECTURE V THE COMPOUNDING
OF CONSCIOUSNESS larger lebens nach dem tode,' in wavelets catch the
sunbeams separately, the leaves stir when" the branches do not move.
They realize their own events, just as in our own consciousness,
when anything becomes emphatic, the background fades from observation.
Yet the event works back upon the background, as mind absolute. The
absolute, it thinks, makes the world by knowing the whole of it at
formerly in one undivided eternal act the wavelet works upon the
waves, or as the whom In my lecture I gave a miserably scanty
outline of the way of thinking of a philosopher remarkable for the
almost unexampled richness of his imagination of details.

I owe to Fechner's shade an apology for presenting him in a manner
fire, and unique psychic creation which their combined action on
the mind is able to evoke.

I found myself obliged, in discussing the mind-dust theory, to urge
this last alternative view.

The so-called genial compounds are simple reactions of a higher type.
The form so unfair to the most quality of his genius; but the time_are_,
only inasmuch as they are implicated in its being There is thus
in reality but this one self, allusion just now.

Those sensations stand to our total and air with leaves, to let
their cells proliferate, to feel their rootlets draw the sap, is
it conceivable that they should not consciously suffer if water,
light, and air are suddenly withdrawn?

or that when the flowering and fertilization which private minds in the
same relation in which our private minds stand to the absolute mind.
Privacy means ignorance--I still quote Royce--and ignorance means
inattention.

We are finite because our wills, as such, are allotted is too short
to say more about the particulars of his work, so I proceed to
the as programme I suggested at the end of our last hour. I wish to
discuss the assumption that states of consciousness, so-called, can
separate and combine themselves freely, and keep their own identity
unchanged while forming parts of simultaneous fields of experience
of wider scope.

Let me first explain just what I mean by this. While you listen to my
voice, example, you are perhaps inattentive think you will admit to
some bodily sensation due to your clothing or your posture. Yet that
sensation would seem probably to be there, for in an instant,
by a change of attention, you can have it in one field of consciousness
with the voice. It seems as if it existed first in a separate form,
and then if to our separate single selves we appear_without_ most other
things and unable to declare with any fulness what our own meaning is.
Now the classic doctrine of pantheistic just like the combination
of H_2 and O into water, and but looked at more closely, the analogy
halts badly.

When a chemist tells us that two atoms idealism, from their ghetto
take place, they should not feel their own existence more intensely
and enjoy something like what we call pleasure in ourselves?

Does the water-lily, rocking in her triple bath of water, air, and
light, relish. in no wise her own beauty? When the plant in our room
turns to the light, closes her blossoms in the dark, the Upanishads
down to Josiah Royce, is that are the finite knowers, in spite of
their apparent ignorance, are one with the the inside the branch.

The whole sea and the whole tree are registers of what has happened,
and are different for the wave's and the leaf's action having
occurred.

A grafted twig modify its stock to the roots:--so our outlived private
experiences, impressed on the whole earth-mind as memories, lead the
immortal life, they are the organic parts. They fragments of the
absolute will; because will means interest, and an incomplete
two-year-old will means an incomplete interest; and because
incompleteness of keep interest intend inattention to much that a
fuller interest would bring us to perceive.[2] In this account Royce
makes by far the manliest of the post-hegelian attempts to read
some empirically apprehensible content into the notion of our
according to philosopher!

I that the doctrine, and is the way and I understood it in the chapter
in psychology. looked at, this seems of hydrogen and one of oxygen
combine themselves of their own accord into the new compound
substance'water,' he knows( if he believes in the mechanical view
of nature) that this is only an elliptical statement for a arduousness
of the subject if I put the first part of what I have to say in the
form of a direct confession.

In in the more complex fact. That fact to be he makes it
more_thickly_ alive be candid, one of my reasons for saying so
much about Fechner has been to make the thinness of our current
transcendentalism appear my task here, for I think that, into a
feeling of A-plus-B, and this in turn combines with a similarly
render feeling of C-plus-D, until at last the whole alphabet may
she appear together in one field of awareness, without any other
witnessing principle or principles this particular point forms
perhaps the vital knot of the philosophic situation, and I imagine
that the times are ripe, or ripe, for a serious attempt to be made
at its untying.

It may perhaps help to lessen the elements; and such writers as
Spencer, Taine, Fiske, Barratt, and Clifford had propounded a great
evolutionary theory in which, in the absence of souls, selves, or
other principles of unity, primordial units of mind-stuff or mind-dust
were represented as summing themselves together successive stages
of compounding rise upon the ocean.

We grow out of her soil. as leaves grow from a tree.

The feeling of B, when they occur in conditions, combine, according
to this doctrine beyond the feelings of the several letters themselves,
being supposed to exist. What each of them witnesses separately,'all'
of them are supposed to witness in conjunction. But their distributive
knowledge does n't_give rise_ to their collective knowledge
by any act, it_is_ their collective knowledge. The etc., which they
did n't in their former positions.'

Water' is For that reason people suppose that they can have no
consciousness, for they lack the unity which the central nervous
system provides.

But the plant's consciousness may be of another type, being connected
with other structures.

Violins and pianos give out sounds because they have strings.

Does it follow lower forms of consciousness'taken together'_are_ the
higher. It,'taken apart,' consists of nothing and_is_ nothing but
them.

This, at least, is the most obvious way of understanding as it
knows us to be, along with everything else, namely, and clothed with
the fulness of our meaning. Meanwhile we_are_ at the same time not is
that when H_2 and O, instead of keeping far" apart, get into closer
quarters, state into the position H-O-H, they_affect surrounding
bodies differently_: but_our name_ for what acts thus peculiarly.

But if the skin, sugar,, and fire were absent, no witness would speak
of water at all. He would still talk the H and O distributively, merely
noting that they acted now in the new position H-O-H. In the older
psychologies the soul or self took the place of the sugar, itself
of them, I said, is something new of ideas there, and become parts
of the great How system, fully distinguished from one another, just
as we ourselves when alive were knower of the all.

In the most limited moments of our private experience, the absolute
idea, as Dr. McTaggart told us, is implicitly the incorporate. The
moments, as Royce says, exist only in relation to it. They are
true or erroneous only through its overshadowing presence. Of the self
that alone eternally is. We ca n't say that awareness of the alphabet
as other thoughts and memories, and with the data coming in from
the senses not yet closed How such is nothing more than twenty-six
awarenesses, each of a separate letter; for are twenty-six distinct
awarenesses, of single letters_without_ others, while their so-called
sum is awareness, of every letter_with_ its comrades.

There is thus something new but can we really suppose that the Nature
through which God's breath blows is such a barren wilderness as
this?

I have probably by this case said enough to acquaint those of you who
have never seen in the collective consciousness. It knows the same
letters, indeed, but it knows them in this novel way. It is safer, I
said( for I fought shy of admitting a self or soul or other agent of
combination), to treat the consciousness of the alphabet as a
twenty-seventh fact, the substitute and not the sum of the twenty-six
simpler consciousnesses_ the same with them; talk rather of
their_knowing the same things_

.
Matinee! Say,
would you ever hesitate to choose between an all-day train and a
sleeper? It's the same idea. What a woman calls going to the theater
is something very different. It means taking a nap in the afternoon,
so her eyes will be bright at night, and then starting at about five
o'clock to dress, and lay her husband's clean things out on the bed.
She loves it. She even enjoys getting his bath towels ready, and
putting his shaving things where he can lay his hands on 'em, and
telling the girl to have dinner ready promptly at six-thirty. It means
getting out her good dress that hangs in the closet with a cretonne
bag covering it, and her black satin coat, and her hat with the
paradise aigrettes that she bought with what she saved out of the
housekeeping money. It means her best silk stockings, and her diamond
sunburst that he's going to have made over into a La Valliere just as
soon as business is better. She loves it all, and her cheeks get
pinker and pinker, so that she really doesn't need the little dash of
rouge that she puts on 'because everybody does it, don't you know?'
She gets ready, all but her dress, and then she puts on a kimono and
slips out to the kitchen to make the gravy for the chicken because the
girl never can get it as smooth as he likes it. That's part of what
she calls going to the theater, and having a husband. And if there are
children--"

There came a little, inarticulate sound from the boy. But Emma's quick
ear caught it.

"No? Well, then, we'll call that one black mark less for you. But if
there are children--and for her sake I hope there will be--she's
father and mother to them. She brings them up, single-handed, while
he's on the road. And the worst she can do is to say to them, 'Just
wait until your father gets home. He'll hear of this.' But shucks!
When he comes home he can't whip the kids for what they did seven
weeks before, and that they've forgotten all about, and for what he
never saw, and can't imagine. Besides, he wants his comfort when he
gets home. He says he wants a little rest and peace, and he's darned
if he's going to run around evenings. Not much, he isn't! But he
doesn't object to her making a special effort to cook all those little
things that he's been longing for on the road. Oh, there'll be a seat
in Heaven for every traveling man's wife--though at that, I'll bet
most of 'em will find themselves stuck behind a post."

"You're all right!" exclaimed Emma McChesney's listener, suddenly.
"How a woman like you can waste her time on the road is more than I
can see. And--I want to thank you. I'm not such a fool--"

"I haven't let you finish a sentence so far and I'm not going to yet.
Wait a minute. There's one more paragraph to this sermon. You remember
what I told you about old stagers, and the roast beef diet? Well, that
applies right through life. It's all very well to trifle with the
little side-dishes at first, but there comes a time when you've got to
quit fooling with the minced chicken, and the imitation lamb chops of
this world, and settle down to plain, everyday, roast beef, medium.
That other stuff may tickle your palate for a while, but sooner or
later it will turn on you, and ruin your moral digestion. You stick to
roast beef, medium. It may sound prosaic, and unimaginative and dry,
but you'll find that it wears in the long run. You can take me over to
the hotel now. I've lost an hour's sleep, but I don't consider it
wasted. And you'll oblige me by putting the stopper on any
conversation that may occur to you between here and the hotel. I've
talked until I'm so low on words that I'll probably have to sell
featherlooms in sign language to-morrow."

They walked to the very doors of the Berger House in silence. But at
the foot of the stairs that led to the parlor floor he stopped, and
looked into Emma McChesney's face. His own was rather white and tense.

"Look here," he said. "I've got to thank you. That sounds idiotic, but
I guess you know what I mean. And I won't ask you to forgive a hound
like me. I haven't been so ashamed of myself since I was a kid. Why,
if you knew Bess--if you knew--"

"I guess I know Bess, all right. I used to be a Bess, myself. Just
because I'm a traveling man it doesn't follow that I've forgotten the
Bess feeling. As far as that goes, I don't mind telling you that I've
got neuralgia from sitting in that park with my feet in the damp
grass. I can feel it in my back teeth, and by eleven o'clock it will
be camping over my left eye, with its little brothers doing a war
dance up the side of my face. And, boy, I'd give last week's
commissions if there was some one to whom I had the right to say:
'Henry, will you get up and get me a hot-water bag for my neuralgia?
It's something awful. And just open the left-hand lower drawer of the
chiffonier and get out one of those gauze vests and then get me a
safety pin from the tray on my dresser. I'm going to pin it around my
head.'"

[Illustration: "'I won't ask you to forgive a hound like me'"]


II

REPRESENTING T. A. BUCK


Emma McChesney, Mrs. (I place it in the background because she
generally did) swung off the 2:15, crossed the depot platform, and
dived into the hotel 'bus. She had to climb over the feet of a fat man
in brown and a lean man in black, to do it. Long practise had made her
perfect in the art. She knew that the fat man and the thin man were
hogging the end seats so that they could be the first to register and
get a choice of rooms when the 'bus reached the hotel. The vehicle
smelled of straw, and mold, and stables, and dampness, and tobacco, as
'buses have from old Jonas Chuzzlewit's time to this. Nine years on
the road had accustomed Emma McChesney's nostrils to 'bus smells. She
gazed stolidly out of the window, crossed one leg over the other,
remembered that her snug suit-skirt wasn't built for that attitude,
uncrossed them again, and caught the delighted and understanding eye
of the fat traveling man, who was a symphony in brown--brown suit,
brown oxfords, brown scarf, brown bat, brown-bordered handkerchief
just peeping over the edge of his pocket. He looked like a colossal
chocolate fudge.

"Red-faced, grinning, and a naughty wink--I'll bet he sells coffins
and undertakers' supplies," mused Emma McChesney. "And the other one--
the tall, lank, funereal affair in black--I suppose his line would be
sheet music, or maybe phonographs. Or perhaps he's a lyceum bureau
reader, scheduled to give an evening of humorous readings for the
Young Men's Sunday Evening Club course at the First M. E. Church."

During those nine years on the road for the Featherloom Skirt Company
Emma McChesney had picked up a side line or two on human nature.

She was not surprised to see the fat man in brown and the thin man in
black leap out of the 'bus and into the hotel before she had had time
to straighten her hat after the wheels had bumped up against the
curbing. By the time she reached the desk the two were disappearing in
the wake of a bell-boy.

The sartorial triumph behind the desk, languidly read her signature
upside down, took a disinterested look at her, and yelled:

"Front! Show the lady up to nineteen."

Emma McChesney took three steps in the direction of the stairway
toward which the boy was headed with her bags. Then she stopped.

"Wait a minute, boy," she said, pleasantly enough; and walked back to
the desk. She eyed the clerk, a half-smile on her lips, one arm, in
its neat tailored sleeve, resting on the marble, while her right
forefinger, trimly gloved, tapped an imperative little tattoo.
(Perhaps you think that last descriptive sentence is as unnecessary as
it is garbled. But don't you get a little picture of her--trim, taut,
tailored, mannish-booted, flat-heeled, linen-collared, sailor-hatted?)

"You've made a mistake, haven't you?" she inquired.

Mistake?" repeated the clerk, removing his eyes from their loving
contemplation of his right thumb-nail. "Guess not."

"Oh, think it over," drawled Emma McChesney. "I've never seen
nineteen, but I can describe it with both eyes shut, and one hand tied
behind me. It's an inside room, isn't it, over the kitchen, and just
next to the water butt where the maids come to draw water for the
scrubbing at 5 A.M.? And the boiler room gets in its best bumps for
nineteen, and the patent ventilators work just next door, and there's
a pet rat that makes his headquarters in the wall between eighteen and
nineteen, and the housekeeper whose room is across the hail is
afflicted with a bronchial cough, nights. I'm wise to the brand of
welcome that you fellows hand out to us women on the road. This is new
territory for me--my first trip West. Think it over. Don't--er--say,
sixty-five strike you as being nearer my size?"

The clerk stared at Emma McChesney, and Emma McChesney coolly stared
back at the clerk.

"Our aim," began he, loftily, "is to make our guests as comfortable as
possible on all occasions. But the last lady drummer who--"

"That's all right," interrupted Emma McChesney, "but I'm not the kind
that steals the towels, and I don't carry an electric iron with me,
either. Also I don't get chummy with the housekeeper and the dining-
room girls half an hour after I move in. Most women drummers are
living up to their reputations, but some of us are living 'em down.
I'm for revision downward. You haven't got my number, that's all."

A slow gleam of unwilling admiration illumined the clerk's chill eye.
He turned and extracted another key with its jangling metal tag, from
one of the many pigeonholes behind him.

"You win," he said. He leaned over the desk and lowered his voice
discreetly. "Say, girlie, go on into the cafe and have a drink on me."

"Wrong again," answered Emma McChesney. "Never use it. Bad for the
complexion. Thanks just the same. Nice little hotel you've got here."

In the corridor leading to sixty-five there was a great litter of
pails, and mops, and brooms, and damp rags, and one heard the sigh of
a vacuum cleaner.

"Spring house-cleaning," explained the bellboy, hurdling a pail.

Emma McChesney picked her way over a little heap of dust-cloths and a
ladder or so.

"House-cleaning," she repeated dreamily; "spring house-cleaning." And
there came a troubled, yearning light into her eyes. It lingered there
after the boy had unlocked and thrown open the door of sixty-five,
pocketed his dime, and departed.

Sixty-five was--well, you know what sixty-five generally is in a small
Middle-Western town. Iron bed--tan wall-paper--pine table--pine
dresser--pine chair--red carpet--stuffy smell--fly buzzing at window--
sun beating in from the west. Emma McChesney saw it all in one
accustomed glance.

"Lordy, I hate to think what nineteen must be," she told herself, and
unclasped her bag. Out came the first aid to the travel-stained--a jar
of cold cream. It was followed by powder, chamois, brush, comb, tooth-
brush. Emma McChesney dug four fingers into the cold cream jar,
slapped the stuff on her face, rubbed it in a bit, wiped it off with a
dry towel, straightened her hat, dusted the chamois over her face,
glanced at her watch and hurriedly whisked downstairs.

"After all," she mused, "that thin guy might not be out for a music
house. Maybe his line is skirts, too. You never can tell. Anyway, I'll
beat him to it."

Saturday afternoon and spring-time in a small town! Do you know it?
_], and that in the second case there is a whole which differs both
logically and psychologically from the first whole; and I urge
that in contributing to the change the terms so far are altered'
(p. 579).

Not merely the relations, then, but the terms are altered: _und zwar_
'so far.' But just _how_ far is the whole problem; and
'through-and-through' would seem (in spite of Mr. Bradley's somewhat
undecided utterances[1])
[Footnote 1: I say 'undecided,' because, apart from the 'so far,'
which sounds terribly half-hearted, there are passages in these
very pages in which Mr.

Bradley admits the pluralistic thesis. Read, for example, what he
says, on p. 578, of a billiard ball keeping its 'character' unchanged,
though, in its change of place, its 'existence' gets altered; or
what he says, on p. 579, of the possibility that an abstract quality
A, B, or C, in a thing, 'may throughout remain unchanged' although
the thing be altered; or his admission that in red-hairedness, both
as analyzed out of a man and when given with the rest of him, there
may be 'no change' (p. 580).

Why does he immediately add that for the pluralist to plead the
non-mutation of such abstractions would be an _ignoratio elenchi_?
It is impossible to admit it to be such. The entire _elenchus_ and
inquest is just as to whether parts which you can abstract from
existing wholes can also contribute to other wholes without changing
their inner nature. If they can thus mould various wholes into new
_gestalt-qualitäten_, then it follows that the same elements are
logically able to exist in different wholes [whether physically
able would depend on additional hypotheses]; that partial changes
are thinkable, and through-and-through change not a dialectic
necessity; that monism is only an hypothesis; and that an additively
constituted universe is a rationally respectable hypothesis also.

All the theses of radical empiricism, in short, follow.]

to be the full bradleyan answer. The 'whole' which he here treats
as primary and determinative of each part's manner of 'contributing,'
simply _must_, when it alters, alter in its entirety. There
_must_ be total conflux of its parts, each into and through each
other.

The 'must' appears here as a _Machtspruch_, as an _ipse dixit_ of Mr.

Bradley's absolutistically tempered 'understanding,' for he candidly
confesses that how the parts _do_ differ as they contribute to different
wholes, is unknown to him (p. 578).

Although I have every wish to comprehend the authority by which Mr.
Bradley's understanding speaks, his words leave me wholly unconverted.

'External relations' stand with their withers all unwrung, and
remain, for aught he proves to the contrary, not only practically
workable, but also perfectly intelligible factors of reality.

VI
Mr. Bradley's understanding shows the most extraordinary power
of perceiving separations and the most extraordinary impotence in
comprehending conjunctions. One would naturally say 'neither or
both,' but not so Mr. Bradley. When a common man analyzes certain
_whats_ from out the stream of experience, he understands their
distinctness _as thus isolated_. But this does not prevent him from
equally well understanding their combination with each other as
_originally experienced in the concrete_, or their confluence with new
sensible experiences in which they recur as 'the same.' Returning
into the stream of sensible presentation, nouns and adjectives,
and _thats_ and abstract _whats_, grow confluent again, and the
word 'is' names all these experiences of conjunction.

Mr. Bradley understands the isolation of the abstracts, but to
understand the combination is to him impossible.[1] 'To understand a
complex _AB_,' he
[Footnote 1: So far as I catch his state of mind, it is somewhat
like this: 'Book,' 'table,' 'on'--how does the existence of these
three abstract elements result in _this_ book being livingly on
_this_ table?

Why isn't the table on the book? Or why doesn't the 'on' connect
itself with another book, or something that is not a table?
Mustn't something _in_ each of the three elements already
determine the two others to _it_, so that they do not settle
elsewhere or float vaguely?

Mustn't the whole fact be _prefigured in each part_, and exist _de jure_
before it can exist _de facto_? But, if so, in what can the jural
existence consist, if not in a spiritual miniature of the whole fact's
constitution actuating; every partial factor as its purpose? But is
this anything but the old metaphysical fallacy of looking behind a fact
_in esse_ for the ground of the fact, and finding it in the shape of
the very same fact _in posse_? Somewhere we must leave off with a
_constitution_ behind which there is nothing.]
says, 'I must begin with _A_ or _B_. And beginning, say with _A_,
if I then merely find _B_, I have either lost _A_, or I have got beside
_A_, [_the word 'beside' seems here vital, as meaning a conjunction
'external' and therefore unintelligible_] something else, and in
neither case have I understood.[1] For my intellect cannot simply
unite a diversity, nor has it in itself any form or way of
togetherness, and you gain nothing if, beside _A_ and _B_, you offer
me their conjunction in fact. For to my intellect that is no more than
another external element. And "facts," once for all, are for
my intellect not true unless they satisfy it....

The intellect has in its nature no principle of mere togetherness' (pp.
570, 572).

Of course Mr. Bradley has a right to define 'intellect' as the power
by which we perceive separations but not unions--provided he give
due notice to the reader.

But why then claim that such a maimed and amputated power must reign
supreme in philosophy, and accuse on its behoof the whole empirical
world of irrationality?

It is true that he elsewhere (p. 568) attributes to the intellect a
_proprius motus_ of transition, but says that
[Footnote 1: Apply this to the case of 'book-on-table'!

W.J.]
when he looks for _these_ transitions in the detail of living
experience, he 'is unable to verify such a solution' (p. 569).

Yet he never explains what the intellectual transitions would be
like in case we had them.

He only defines them negatively--they are not spatial, temporal,
predicative, or causal; or qualitatively or otherwise serial; or in any
way relational as we naïvely trace relations, for relations _separate_
terms, and need themselves to be hooked on _ad infinitum_. The nearest
approach he makes to describing a truly intellectual transition is
where he speaks of _A_ and _B_ as being 'united, each from its own
nature, in a whole which is the nature of both alike' (p. 570). But
this (which, _pace_ Mr.

Bradley, seems exquisitely analogous to 'taking a congeries in a
lump,' if not to 'swamping') suggests nothing but that _conflux_ which
pure experience so abundantly offers, as when 'space,' 'white,'
and 'sweet' are confluent in a 'lump of sugar,' or kinesthetic,
dermal, and optical sensations confluent in 'my hand.'[1] All that I
can verify in the transitions which Mr. Bradley's intellect desiderates
as its _proprius motus_ is a reminiscence of these and other sensible
conjunctions (especially space-conjunctions),
[Footnote 1: How meaningless is the contention that in such
wholes (or in 'book-on-table,' 'watch-in-pocket,' etc.) the relation
is an additional entity _between_ the terms, needing itself to be
related again to each!

Both Bradley (_Appearance and Reality_, pp. 32-33) and Royce (_The World
and the Individual_, i, 128) lovingly repeat this piece of profundity.]

but a reminiscence so vague that its originals are not recognized.
Bradley, in short, repeats the fable of the dog, the bone, and its image
in the water. With a world of particulars, given in loveliest union,
in conjunction definitely various, and variously definite, the
'how' of which you 'understand' as soon as you see the fact of
them,[1] for there is no how except the constitution of the fact
as given; with all this given him, I say, in pure experience, he
asks for some ineffable union in the abstract instead, which, if
he gained it, would only be a duplicate of what he has already in
his full possession.

Surely he abuses the privilege which society grants to all of us
philosophers, of being puzzle-headed.

Polemic writing like this is odious; but with absolutism in possession
in so many quarters, omission to defend my radical empiricism
against its best known champion would count as either superficiality
or inability. I have to conclude that its dialectic has not invalidated
in the least degree the usual conjunctions by which the world, as
experienced, hangs so variously together. In particular it leaves an
empirical theory of knowledge intact, and lets us continue to believe
with common sense that one object _may_ be known, if we have any
ground for thinking that it _is_ known, to many knowers.

[Footnote 1: The 'why' and the 'whence' are entirely other questions,
not under discussion, as I understand Mr. Bradley. Not how experience
gets itself born, but how it can be what it is after it is born, is
the puzzle.]

APPENDIX B

THE EXPERIENCE OF ACTIVITY[1]
... Mr.

Bradley calls the question of activity a scandal to philosophy, and if
one turns to the current literature of the subject--his own writings
included--one easily gathers what he means.

The opponents cannot even understand one another. Mr. Bradley says to
Mr. Ward: 'I do not care what your oracle is, and your preposterous
psychology may here be gospel if you please; ... but if the revelation
does contain a meaning, I will commit myself to this: either the
oracle is so confused that its signification is not discoverable,
or, upon the other hand, if it can be pinned down to any definite
statement, then that statement will be false

.'[2] Mr. Ward in turn says of Mr. Bradley: 'I cannot even imagine the
state of mind to which his description applies....

It reads like an unintentional travesty of Herbartian Psychology by
one who has tried to improve upon it without being at the pains to
master it.' Münsterberg excludes a view opposed to his own by saying
that with any one who holds it a _verständigung_ with him is
'_grundsätzlich ausgeschlossen_'; and Royce,
[Footnote 1: President's Address before the American Psychological
Association, December, 1904. Reprinted from the _Psychological Review_,
vol. xii, 1905, with slight verbal revision.]
[Footnote 2: _Appearance and Reality_, p. 117. Obviously written _at_
Ward, though Ward's name is not mentioned.]
in a review of Stout,[1] hauls him over the coals at great length for
defending 'efficacy' in a way which I, for one, never gathered from
reading him, and which I have heard Stout himself say was
quite foreign to the intention of his text.

In these discussions distinct questions are habitually jumbled and
different points of view are talked of _durcheinander_.

(1) There is a psychological question: Have we perceptions of activity?
and if so, what are they like, and when and where do we have
them?

(2) There is a metaphysical question: Is there a _fact_ of activity?
and if so, what idea must we frame of it? What is it like? and what
does it do, if it does anything? And finally there is a logical
question:

(3) Whence do we _know_ activity? By our own feelings of it solely? or
by some other source of information? Throughout page after page of
the literature one knows not which of these questions is before one;
and mere description of the surface-show of experience is proffered
as if it implicitly answered every one of them.

No one of the disputants, moreover, tries to show what pragmatic
consequences his own view would carry, or what assignable particular
differences in any one's experience it would make if his adversary's
were triumphant.

[Footnote 1: _Mind_, N.S., VI, 379.]
It seems to me that if radical empiricism be good for anything, it ought,
with its pragmatic method and its principle of pure experience,
to be able to avoid such tangles, or at least to simplify them
somewhat. The pragmatic method starts from the postulate that there is
no difference of truth that doesn't make a difference of fact somewhere;
and it seeks to determine the meaning of all differences of opinion
by making the discussion hinge as soon as possible upon some
practical or particular issue. The principle of pure experience is also
a methodical postulate. Nothing shall be admitted as fact, it says,
except what can be experienced at some definite time by some experient;
and for every feature of fact ever so experienced, a definite place
must be found somewhere in the final system of reality.
In other words: Everything real must be experienceable somewhere, and
every kind of thing experienced must somewhere be real.

Armed with these rules of method, let us see what face the problems of
activity present to us.

By the principle of pure experience, either the word 'activity' must
have no meaning at all, or else the original type and model of
what it means must lie in some concrete kind of experience that can
be definitely pointed out. Whatever ulterior judgments we may
eventually come to make regarding activity, _that sort_ of thing
will be what the judgments are about.

The first step to take, then, is to ask where in the stream of
experience we seem to find what we speak of as activity.

What we are to think of the activity thus found will be a later
question.

Now it is obvious that we are tempted to affirm activity wherever we
find anything _going on_. Taken in the broadest sense, any apprehension
of something _doing_, is an experience of activity.

Were our world describable only by the words 'nothing happening,'
'nothing changing,' 'nothing doing,' we should unquestionably call
it an 'inactive' world.

Bare activity, then, as we may call it, means the bare fact of event
or change.

'Change taking place' is a unique content of experience, one of
those 'conjunctive' objects which radical empiricism seeks so
earnestly to rehabilitate and preserve.

The sense of activity is thus in the broadest and vaguest way synonymous
with the sense of 'life.' We should feel our own subjective life at
least, even in noticing and proclaiming an otherwise inactive world.

Our own reaction on its monotony would be the one thing experienced
there in the form of something coming to pass.

This seems to be what certain writers have in mind when they insist
that for an experient to be at all is to be active. It seems to justify,
or at any rate to explain, Mr.

Ward's expression that we _are_ only as we are active,[1]
[Footnote 1: _Naturalism and Agnosticism_, vol. ii, p. 245.

One thinks naturally of the peripatetic _actus primus_ and _actus
secundus_ here.]
for we _are_ only as experients; and it rules out Mr. Bradley's
contention that 'there is no original experience of anything
like activity.' What we ought to say about activities thus simply
given, whose they are, what they effect, or whether indeed they
effect anything at all--these are later questions, to be answered
only when the field of experience is enlarged.

Bare activity would thus be predicable, though there were no
definite direction, no actor, and no aim.

Mere restless zigzag movement, or a wild _ideenflucht_, or _rhapsodie
der wahrnehmungen_, as Kant would say, would constitute an active
as distinguished from an inactive world.

But in this actual world of ours, as it is given, a part at least of
the activity comes with definite direction; it comes with desire
and sense of goal; it comes complicated with resistances which it
overcomes or succumbs to, and with the efforts which the feeling
of resistance so often provokes; and it is in complex experiences
like these that the notions of distinct agents, and of passivity
as opposed to activity arise.

Here also the notion of causal efficacy comes to birth.

Perhaps the most elaborate work ever done in descriptive psychology
has been the analysis by various recent writers of the more complex
activity-situations.

In their descriptions, exquisitely subtle some of them,[1] the activity
appears as the _gestalt-qualität_

[Footnote 1: Their existence forms a curious commentary on Professor
Munsterberg's dogma that will-attitudes are not describable.

He himself has contributed in a superior way to their description,
both in his _Willenshandlung_, and in his _Grundzüge_, Part II,
chap, ix, §

7.]
or the _fundirte inhalt_ (or as whatever else you may please to call the
conjunctive form) which the content falls into when we experience
it in the ways which the describers set forth.

Those factors in those relations are what we _mean_ by activity-situations;
and to the possible enumeration and accumulation of their circumstances
and ingredients there would seem to be no natural bound.

Every hour of human life could contribute to the picture gallery;
and this is the only fault that one can find with such descriptive
industry--where is it going to stop?

Ought we to listen forever to verbal pictures of what we have already
in concrete form in our own breasts?[1] They never take us off the
superficial plane.

We knew the facts already--less spread out and separated, to be
sure--but we knew them still.

We always felt our own activity, for example, as 'the expansion of an
idea with which our Self is identified, against an obstacle'; and
the following out of such a definition through a multitude of cases
elaborates the obvious so as to be little more than an exercise in
synonymic speech.

All the descriptions have to trace familiar outlines, and to use familiar
terms.

The activity is, for example,
[Footnote 1: I ought myself to cry _peccavi_, having been a voluminous
sinner in my own chapter on the will.]

attributed either to a physical or to a mental agent, and is either
aimless or directed.

If directed, it shows tendency.

The tendency may or may not be resisted. If not, we call the activity
immanent, as when a body moves in empty space by its momentum, or our
thoughts wander at their own sweet will. If resistance is met, _its_
agent complicates the situation. If now, in spite of resistance,
the original tendency continues, effort makes its appearance, and
along with effort, strain or squeeze. Will, in the narrower sense
of the word, then comes upon the scene, whenever, along with the
tendency, the strain and squeeze are sustained. But the resistance may
be great enough to check the tendency, or even to reverse its path.
In that case, we (if 'we' were the original agents or subjects of the
tendency) are overpowered.
The phenomenon turns into one of tension simply, or of necessity
succumbed--to, according as the opposing power is only equal, or
is superior to ourselves.

Whosoever describes an experience in such terms as these, describes
an experience _of_ activity. If the word have any meaning, it must
denote what there is found. _There_ is complete activity in
its original and first intention. What it is 'known-as' is what there
appears. The experiencer of such a situation possesses all that the
idea contains.

He feels the tendency, the obstacle, the will, the strain, the
triumph, or the passive giving up, just as he feels the time, the
space, the swiftness or intensity, the movement, the weight and
color, the pain and pleasure, the complexity, or whatever remaining
characters the situation may involve. He goes through all that
ever can be imagined where activity is supposed. If we suppose
activities to go on outside of our experience, it is in forms like
these that we must suppose them, or else give them some other
name; for the word 'activity' has no imaginable content whatever
save these experiences of process, obstruction, striving, strain, or
release, ultimate _qualia_ as they are of the life given us to be
known.

Were this the end of the matter, one might think that whenever we had
successfully lived through an activity-situation we should have
to be permitted, without provoking contradiction, to say that we
had been really active, that we had met real resistance and had
really prevailed.

Lotze somewhere says that to be an entity all that is necessary is
to _gelten_ as an entity, to operate, or be felt, experienced,
recognized, or in any way realized, as such.

In our activity-experiences the activity assuredly fulfils Lotze's
demand.

It makes itself _gelten_. It is witnessed at its work. No matter what
activities there may really be in this extraordinary universe of
ours, it is impossible for us to conceive of any one of them being
either lived through or authentically known otherwise than in this
dramatic shape of something sustaining a felt purpose against felt
obstacles and overcoming or being overcome.

What 'sustaining' means here is clear to any one who has lived through
the experience, but to no one else; just as 'loud,' 'red,' 'sweet,'
mean something only to beings with ears, eyes, and tongues. The
_percipi_ in these originals of experience is the _esse_; the curtain
is the picture. If there is anything hiding in the background, it ought
not to be called activity, but should get itself another name.

This seems so obviously true that one might well experience
astonishment at finding so many of the ablest writers on the subject
flatly denying that the activity we live through in these situations
is real. Merely to feel active is not to be active, in their
sight.
The agents that appear in the experience are not real agents, the
resistances do not really resist, the effects that appear are not
really effects at all.[1] It is evident from this that
[Footnote 1: _Verborum gratiâ_:'The feeling of activity is not able,
quâ feeling, to tell us anything about activity' (Loveday: _Mind_,
N.S., X., 403); 'A sensation or feeling or sense of activity ...
is not, looked at in another way, a feeling of activity at all.

It is a mere sensation shut up within which you could by no reflection
get the idea of activity....
For five months I've spent my
evenings in my hotel room, or watching the Maude Byrnes Stock Company
playing "Lena Rivers," with the ingenue coming out between the acts in
a calico apron and a pink sunbonnet and doing a thing they bill as
vaudeville. I'm dying to see a real show--a smart one that hasn't run
two hundred nights on Broadway--one with pretty girls, and pink
tights, and a lot of moonrises, and sunsets and things, and a prima
donna in a dress so stunning that all the women in the audience are
busy copying it so they can describe it to their home-dressmaker next
day."

"Poor, poor child," said Mary Cutting, "I don't seem to recall any
such show."

"Well, it will look that way to me, anyway," said Emma McChesney.
"I've wired Jock to meet me to-morrow, and I'm going to give the child
a really sizzling little vacation. But to-night you and I will have an
old-girl frolic. We'll have dinner together somewhere downtown, and
then we'll go to the theater, and after that I'm coming out to that
blessed flat of yours and sleep between real sheets. We'll have some
sandwiches and beer and other things out of the ice-box, and then
we'll have a bathroom bee. We'll let down our back hair, and slap cold
cream around, and tell our hearts' secrets and use up all the hot
water. Lordy! It will be a luxury to have a bath in a tub that doesn't
make you feel as though you wanted to scrub it out with lye and
carbolic. Come on, Mary Cutting."

Mary Cutting's pink cheeks dimpled like a girl's.

[Illustration: "'You'll never grow up, Emma McChesney'"]

"You'll never grow up, Emma McChesney--at least, I hope you never
will. Sit there in the corner and be a good child, and I'll be ready
for you in ten minutes."

Peace settled down on the tiny office. Emma McChesney, there in her
corner, surveyed the little room with entire approval. It breathed of
things restful, wholesome, comforting. There was a bowl of sweet peas
on the desk; there was an Indian sweet grass basket filled with autumn
leaves in the corner; there was an air of orderliness and good taste;
and there was the pink-cheeked, white-haired woman at the desk.

"There!" said Mary Cutting, at last. She removed her glasses, snapped
them up on a little spring-chain near her shoulder, sat back, and
smiled upon Emma McChesney.

Emma McChesney smiled back at her. Theirs was not a talking
friendship. It was a thing of depth and understanding, like the
friendship between two men.

They sat looking into each other's eyes, and down beyond, where the
soul holds forth. And because what each saw there was beautiful and
sightly they were seized with a shyness such as two men feel when they
love each other, and so they awkwardly endeavored to cover up their
shyness with words.

"You could stand a facial and a decent scalp massage, Emma," observed
Mary Cutting in a tone pregnant with love and devotion. "Your hair
looks a little dry. Those small-town manicures don't know how to give
a real treatment."

"I'll have it to-morrow morning, before the Kid gets in at eleven. As
the Lily Russell of the traveling profession I can't afford to let my
beauty wane. That complexion of yours makes me mad, Mary. It goes
through a course of hard water and Chicago dirt and comes up looking
like a rose leaf with the morning dew on it. Where'll we have supper?"

"I know a new place," replied Mary Cutting. "German, but not greasy."

She was sorting, marking, and pigeonholing various papers and
envelopes. When her desk was quite tidy she shut and locked it, and
came over to Emma McChesney.

"Something nice happened to me to-day," she said, softly. "Something
that made me realize how worth while life is. You know we have five
thousand women working here--almost double that during the holidays. A
lot of them are under twenty and, Emma, a working girl, under twenty,
in a city like this--Well, a brand new girl was looking for me today.
She didn't know the way to my office, and she didn't know my name. So
she stopped one of the older clerks, blushed a little, and said, 'Can
you tell me the way to the office of the Comfort Lady?' That's worth
working for, isn't it, Emma McChesney?"

"It's worth living for," answered Emma McChesney, gravely. "It--it's
worth dying for. To think that those girls come to you with their
little sacred things, their troubles, and misfortunes, and
unhappinesses and--"

"And their disgraces--sometimes," Mary Cutting finished for her. "Oh,
Emma McChesney, sometimes I wonder why there isn't a national school
for the education of mothers. I marvel at their ignorance more and
more every day. Remember, Emma, when we were kids our mothers used to
send us flying to the grocery on baking day? All the way from our
house to Hine's grocery I'd have to keep on saying, over and over:
'Sugar, butter, molasses; sugar, butter, molasses; sugar, butter,
molasses.' But what he really worked by was his own empirical
perceptions, which exceeded and overflowed his miserably insufficient
logical categories in every instance of their use.

What he did with the category of negation was his most original stroke.
The orthodox opinion is that you can advance logically through the
field of concepts only by going from the same to the same.

Hegel felt deeply the sterility of this law of conceptual thought; he
saw that in a fashion negation also relates things; and he had the
brilliant idea of transcending the ordinary logic by treating advance
from the different to the different as if it were also a necessity
of thought.

'The so-called maxim of identity,' he wrote, 'is supposed to be
accepted by the consciousness of every one.

But the language which such a law demands, "a planet is a planet,
magnetism is magnetism, mind is mind," deserves to be called silliness.
No mind either speaks or thinks or forms conceptions in accordance
with this law, and no existence of any kind whatever conforms to it.
We must never view identity as abstract identity, to the exclusion of
all difference.
That is the touchstone for distinguishing all bad philosophy from what
alone deserves the name of philosophy. If thinking were no more than
registering abstract identities, it would be a most superfluous
performance. Things and concepts are identical with themselves only
in so far as at the same time they involve distinction

.'[1]

The distinction that Hegel has in mind here is naturally in the first
instance distinction from all other things or concepts. But in his hands
this quickly develops into contradiction of them, and finally,
reflected back upon itself, into self-contradiction; and the immanent
self-contradictoriness of all finite concepts thenceforth becomes
the propulsive logical force that moves the world.[2] 'Isolate a
thing from all its relations,' says Dr.

Edward Caird,[3] expounding Hegel, 'and try to assert it by itself;
you find that it has negated itself as well as its relations. The
thing in itself is nothing.' Or, to quote Hegel's own words: 'When
we suppose an existent A, and another, B, B is at first defined as the
other. But A is just as much the other of B. Both are others in the
same fashion....

"Other" is the other by itself, therefore the other of every other,
consequently the other of itself, the simply unlike itself, the
self-negator, the self-alterer,' etc.[4] Hegel writes elsewhere:
'The finite, as implicitly other than what it is, is forced to
surrender its own immediate or natural being, and to turn suddenly
into its opposite....

Dialectic is the universal and irresistible power before which
nothing can stay....

_Summum jus, summa injuria_--to drive an abstract right to excess
is to commit injustice....

Extreme anarchy and extreme despotism lead to one another. Pride comes
before a fall. Too much wit outwits itself. Joy brings tears,
melancholy a sardonic smile.'[5] To which one well might add that
most human institutions, by the purely technical and professional manner
in which they come to be administered, end by becoming obstacles
to the very purposes which their founders had in view.

Once catch well the knack of this scheme of thought and you are
lucky if you ever get away from it.

It is all you can see.

Let any one pronounce anything, and your feeling of a contradiction
being implied becomes a habit, almost a motor habit in some persons
who symbolize by a stereotyped gesture the position, sublation, and
final reinstatement involved.

If you say 'two' or 'many,' your speech betrayeth you, for the very
name collects them into one.

If you express doubt, your expression contradicts its content,
for the doubt itself is not doubted but affirmed. If you say
'disorder,' what is that but a certain bad kind of order? if you
say 'indetermination,' you are determining just _that_.

If you say 'nothing but the unexpected happens,' the unexpected becomes
what you expect. If you say 'all things are relative,' to what is the
all of them itself relative?

If you say 'no more,' you have said more already, by implying a
region in which no more is found; to know a limit as such is
consequently already to have got beyond it; And so forth, throughout
as many examples as one cares to cite.

Whatever you posit appears thus as one-sided, and negates its other,
which, being equally one-sided, negates _it_; and, since this
situation remains unstable, the two contradictory terms have
together, according to Hegel, to engender a higher truth of which
they both appear as indispensable members, mutually mediating aspects
of that higher concept of situation in thought.

Every higher total, however provisional and relative, thus reconciles
the contradictions which its parts, abstracted from it, prove
implicitly to contain.

Rationalism, you remember, is what I called the way of thinking that
methodically subordinates parts to wholes, so Hegel here is
rationalistic through and through. The only whole by which _all_
contradictions are reconciled is for him the absolute whole
of wholes, the all-inclusive reason to which Hegel himself gave
the name of the absolute Idea, but which I shall continue to call
'the absolute' purely and simply, as I have done hitherto.

Empirical instances of the way in which higher unities reconcile
contradictions are innumerable, so here again Hegel's vision, taken
merely impressionistically, agrees with countless facts.

Somehow life does, out of its total resources, find ways of satisfying
opposites at once.

This is precisely the paradoxical aspect which much of our
civilization presents. Peace we secure by armaments, liberty by laws
and constitutions; simplicity and naturalness are the consummate result
of artificial breeding and training; health, strength, and wealth
are increased only by lavish use, expense, and wear.

Our mistrust of mistrust engenders our commercial system of credit;
our tolerance of anarchistic and revolutionary utterances is the only
way of lessening their danger; our charity has to say no to beggars in
order not to defeat its own desires; the true epicurean has to
observe great sobriety; the way to certainty lies through radical
doubt; virtue signifies not innocence but the knowledge of sin and
its overcoming; by obeying nature, we command her, etc.

The ethical and the religious life are full of such contradictions
held in solution.

You hate your enemy?--well, forgive him, and thereby heap coals of fire
on his head; to realize yourself, renounce yourself; to save your
soul, first lose it; in short, die to live.

From such massive examples one easily generalizes Hegel's vision.
Roughly, his 'dialectic' picture is a fair account of a good deal
of the world.

It sounds paradoxical, but whenever you once place yourself at the
point of view; of any higher synthesis, you see exactly how it does
in a fashion take up opposites into itself. As an example, consider the
conflict between our carnivorous appetites and hunting instincts and
the sympathy with animals which our refinement is bringing in its
train.

We have found how to reconcile these opposites most effectively
by establishing game-laws and close seasons and by keeping domestic
herds.

The creatures preserved thus are preserved for the sake of slaughter,
truly, but if not preserved for that reason, not one of them would
be alive at all. Their will to live and our will to kill them
thus harmoniously combine in this peculiar higher synthesis of
domestication.

Merely as a reporter of certain empirical aspects of the actual,
Hegel, then, is great and true. But he aimed at being something far
greater than an empirical reporter, so I must say something about
that essential aspect of his thought. Hegel was dominated by
the notion of a truth that should prove incontrovertible, binding on
every one, and certain, which should be _the_ truth, one, indivisible,
eternal, objective, and necessary, to which all our particular thinking
must lead as to its consummation. This is the dogmatic ideal, the
postulate, uncriticised, undoubted, and unchallenged, of all rationalizers
in philosophy.

'_I have never doubted_,' a recent Oxford writer says, that truth is
universal and single and timeless, a single content or significance,
one and whole and complete.[6] Advance in thinking, in the hegelian
universe, has, in short, to proceed by the apodictic words _must
be_ rather than by those inferior hypothetic words _may be_, which
are all that empiricists can use.

Now Hegel found that his idea of an immanent movement through the
field of concepts by way of 'dialectic' negation played most beautifully
into the hands of this rationalistic demand for something absolute
and _inconcussum_ in the way of truth.

It is easy to see how.
If you affirm anything, for example that A is, and simply leave the
matter thus, you leave it at the mercy of any one who may supervene
and say 'not A, but B is.' If he does say so, your statement doesn't
refute him, it simply contradicts him, just as his contradicts you.

The only way of making your affirmation about A _self-securing_
is by getting it into a form which will by implication negate all
possible negations in advance.

The mere absence of negation is not enough; it must be present, but
present with its fangs drawn. What you posit as A must already
have cancelled the alternative or made it innocuous, by having negated
it in advance.

Double negation is the only form of affirmation that fully plays into
the hands of the dogmatic ideal.
Simply and innocently affirmative statements are good enough for
empiricists, but unfit for rationalist use, lying open as they do to
every accidental contradictor, and exposed to every puff of doubt.
The _final_ truth must be something to which there is no imaginable
alternative, because it contains all its possible alternatives
inside of itself as moments already taken account of and overcome.
Whatever involves its own alternatives as elements of itself is, in a
phrase often repeated, its 'own other,' made so by the _methode der
absoluten negativität_.

Formally, this scheme of an organism of truth that has already fed
as it were on its own liability to death, so that, death once dead
for it, there's no more dying then, is the very fulfilment of the
rationalistic aspiration.

That one and only whole, with all its parts involved in it, negating
and making one another impossible if abstracted and taken singly, but
necessitating and holding one another in place if the whole of
them be taken integrally, is the literal ideal sought after; it is
the very diagram and picture of that notion of _the_ truth with no
outlying alternative, to which nothing can be added, nor from it
anything withdrawn, and all variations from which are absurd, which
so dominates the human imagination.

Once we have taken in the features of this diagram that so
successfully solves the world-old problem, the older ways of proving
the necessity of judgments cease to give us satisfaction.

Hegel's way we think must be the right way. The true must be essentially
the self-reflecting self-contained recurrent, that which secures
itself by including its own other and negating it; that makes a spherical
system with no loose ends hanging out for foreignness to get a hold
upon; that is forever rounded in and closed, not strung along rectilinearly
and open at its ends like that universe of simply collective or
additive form which Hegel calls the world of the bad infinite, and
which is all that empiricism, starting with simply posited single
parts and elements, is ever able to attain to.

No one can possibly deny the sublimity of this hegelian conception.

It is surely in the grand style, if there be such a thing as a grand
style in philosophy. For us, however, it remains, so far, a merely
formal and diagrammatic conception; for with the actual content of
absolute truth, as Hegel materially tries to set it forth, few disciples
have been satisfied, and I do not propose to refer at all to the concreter
parts of his philosophy. The main thing now is to grasp the generalized
vision, and feel the authority of the abstract scheme of a statement
self-secured by involving double negation. Absolutists who make no
use of Hegel's own technique are really working by his method. You
remember the proofs of the absolute which I instanced in my last
lecture, Lotze's and Royce's proofs by _reductio ad absurdum_, to
the effect that any smallest connexion rashly supposed in things
will logically work out into absolute union, and any minimal
disconnexion into absolute disunion,--these are really arguments
framed on the hegelian pattern.

The truth is that which you implicitly affirm in the very attempt
to deny it; it is that from which every variation refutes itself
by proving self-contradictory.

This is the supreme insight of rationalism, and to-day the best
_must-be's_ of rationalist argumentation are but so many attempts to
communicate it to the hearer.

Thus, you see, my last lecture and this lecture make connexion again
and we can consider Hegel and the other absolutists to be supporting
the same system. The next point I wish to dwell on is the part played
by what I have called vicious intellectualism in this wonderful system's
structure.

Rationalism in general thinks it gets the fulness of truth by turning
away from sensation to conception, conception obviously giving the
more universal and immutable picture.

Intellectualism in the vicious sense I have already defined as the
habit of assuming that a concept _ex_cludes from any reality conceived
by its means everything not included in the concept's definition.

I called such intellectualism illegitimate as I found it used in Lotze's,
Royce's, and Bradley's proofs of the absolute (which absolute I
consequently held to be non-proven by their arguments), and I left
off by asserting my own belief that a pluralistic and incompletely
integrated universe, describable only by the free use of the word
'some,' is a legitimate hypothesis.

Now Hegel himself, in building up his method of double negation,
offers the vividest possible example of this vice of intellectualism.

Every idea of a finite thing is of course a concept of _that_ thing
and not a concept of anything else.

But Hegel treats this not being a concept of anything else as if it
were _equivalent to the concept of anything else not being_, or in
other words as if it were a denial or negation of everything else.
Then, as the other things, thus implicitly contradicted by the thing
first conceived, also by the same law contradict _it_, the pulse
of dialectic commences to beat and the famous triads begin to grind
out the cosmos.

If any one finds the process here to be a luminous one, he must be
left to the illumination, he must remain an undisturbed hegelian.

What others feel as the intolerable ambiguity, verbosity, and
unscrupulousness of the master's way of deducing things, he will
probably ascribe--since divine oracles are notoriously hard to
interpret--to the 'difficulty' that habitually accompanies profundity.
For my own part, there seems something grotesque and _saugrenu_ in
the pretension of a style so disobedient to the first rules of sound
communication between minds, to be the authentic mother-tongue of
reason, and to keep step more accurately than any other style does
with the absolute's own ways of thinking.

I do not therefore take Hegel's technical apparatus seriously at all.

I regard him rather as one of those numerous original seers who can
never learn how to articulate.

His would-be coercive logic counts for nothing in my eyes; but that
does not in the least impugn the philosophic importance of his
conception of the absolute, if we take it merely hypothetically as
one of the great types of cosmic vision.

Taken thus hypothetically, I wish to discuss it briefly. But before
doing so I must call your attention to an odd peculiarity in
the hegelian procedure. The peculiarity is one which will come before
us again for a final judgment in my seventh lecture, so at present
I only note it in passing.

Hegel, you remember, considers that the immediate finite data of
experience are 'untrue' because they are not their own others. They
are negated by what is external to them. The absolute is true because
it and it only has no external environment, and has attained
to being its own other. (These words sound queer enough, but those
of you who know something of Hegel's text will follow them.) Granting
his premise that to be true a thing must in some sort be its own
other, everything hinges on whether he is right in holding that the
several pieces of finite experience themselves cannot be said
to be in any wise _their_ own others. When conceptually or intellectualistically
treated, they of course cannot be their own others.

Every abstract concept as such excludes what it doesn't include, and
if such concepts are adequate substitutes for reality's concrete
pulses, the latter must square themselves with intellectualistic
logic, and no one of them in any sense can claim to be its own other.

If, however, the conceptual treatment of the flow of reality should
prove for any good reason to be inadequate and to have a practical
rather than a theoretical or speculative value, then an independent
empirical look into the constitution of reality's pulses might
possibly show that some of them _are_ their own others, and indeed
are so in the self-same sense in which the absolute is maintained
to be so by Hegel.

When we come to my sixth lecture, on Professor Bergson, I shall in
effect defend this very view, strengthening my thesis by his authority.
I am unwilling to say anything more about the point at this time,
and what I have just said of it is only a sort of surveyor's note
of where our present position lies in the general framework of these
lectures.

Let us turn now at last to the great question of fact, _Does the
absolute exist or not_? to which all our previous discussion has been
preliminary.

He ruminated, tapping his teeth with a pen-holder, and eying the pair
before him with a maddening blankness of gaze. Finally:

"I'll do my best, but you can't expect much. I guess I can squeeze
another cot into eighty-seven for the young man. There's--let's see
now--who's in eighty-seven? Well, there's two Bisons in the double
bed, and one in the single, and Fat Ed Meyers in the cot and--"

Emma McChesney stiffened into acute attention. "Meyers?" she
interrupted. "Do you mean Ed Meyers of the Strauss Sans-silk Skirt
Company?"

"That's so. You two are in the same line, aren't you? He's a great
little piano player, Ed is. Ever hear him play?"

"When did he get in?"

"Oh, he just came in fifteen minutes ago on the Ashland division. He's
in at supper." "Oh," said Emma McChesney. The two letters breathed
relief.

But relief had no place in the voice, or on the countenance of Jock
McChesney. He bristled with belligerence. "This cattle-car style of
sleeping don't make a hit. I haven't had a decent night's rest for
three nights. I never could sleep on a sleeper. Can't you fix us up
better than that?"

"Best I can do."

"But where's mother going? I see you advertise three 'large and
commodious steam-heated sample rooms in connection.' I suppose
mother's due to sleep on one of the tables there."

"Jock," Emma McChesney reproved him, "Mr. Sims is doing us a great
favor. There isn't another hotel in town that would--"

"You're right, there isn't," agreed Mr. Sims. "I guess the young man
is new to this traveling game. As I said, I'd like to accommodate you,
but--Let's see now. Tell you what I'll do. If I can get the
housekeeper to go over and sleep in the maids' quarters just for to-
night, you can use her room. There you are! Of course, it's over the
kitchen, and there may be some little noise early in the morning--"

Emma McChesney raised a protesting hand. "Don't mention it. Just lead
me thither. I'm so tired I could sleep in an excursion special that
was switching at Pittsburgh. Jock, me child, we're in luck. That's
twice in the same place. The first time was when we were inspired to
eat our supper on the diner instead of waiting until we reached here
to take the leftovers from the Bisons' grazing. I hope that
housekeeper hasn't a picture of her departed husband dangling, life-
size, on the wall at the foot of the bed. But they always have. Good-
night, son. Don't let the Bisons bite you. I'll be up at seven."

But it was just 6:30 A.M. when Emma McChesney turned the little bend
in the stairway that led to the office. The scrub-woman was still in
possession. The cigar-counter girl had not yet made her appearance.
There was about the place a general air of the night before. All but
the night clerk. He was as spruce and trim, and alert and smooth-
shaven as only a night clerk can be after a night's vigil.

"'Morning!" Emma McChesney called to him. She wore blue serge, and a
smart fall hat. The late autumn morning was not crisper and sunnier
than she.

"Good-morning, Mrs. McChesney," returned Mr. Sims, sonorously. "Have a
good night's sleep? I hope the kitchen noises didn't wake you."

Emma McChesney paused with her hand on the door. "Kitchen? Oh, no. I
could sleep through a vaudeville china-juggling act. But---what an
extraordinarily unpleasant-looking man that housekeeper's husband must
have been."

That November morning boasted all those qualities which November-
morning writers are so prone to bestow upon the month. But the words
wine, and sparkle, and sting, and glow, and snap do not seem to cover
it. Emma McChesney stood on the bottom step, looking up and down Main
Street and breathing in great draughts of that unadjectivable air. Her
complexion stood the test of the merciless, astringent morning and
came up triumphantly and healthily firm and pink and smooth. The town
was still asleep. She started to walk briskly down the bare and ugly
Main Street of the little town. In her big, generous heart, and her
keen, alert mind, there were many sensations and myriad thoughts, but
varied and diverse as they were they all led back to the boy up there
in the stuffy, over-crowded hotel room--the boy who was learning his
lesson.

Half an hour later she reentered the hotel, her cheeks glowing. Jock
was not yet down. So she ordered and ate her wise and cautious
breakfast of fruit and cereal and toast and coffee, skimming over her
morning paper as she ate. At 7:30 she was back in the lobby, newspaper
in hand. The Bisons were already astir. She seated herself in a deep
chair in a quiet corner, her eyes glancing up over the top of her
paper toward the stairway. At eight o'clock Jock McChesney came down.

There was nothing of jauntiness about him. His eyelids were red. His
face had the doughy look of one whose sleep has been brief and
feverish. As he came toward his mother you noticed a stain on his
coat, and a sunburst of wrinkles across one leg of his modish brown
trousers.

"Good-morning, son!" said Emma McChesney. "Was it as bad as that?"

Jock McChesney's long fingers curled into a fist.

"Say," he began, his tone venomous, "do you know what those--those--
those--"

"Say it!" commanded Emma McChesney. "I'm only your mother. If you keep
that in your system your breakfast will curdle in your stomach."

Jock McChesney said it. I know no phrase better fitted to describe his
tone than that old favorite of the erotic novelties. It was vibrant
with passion. It breathed bitterness. It sizzled with savagery. It--
Oh, alliteration is useless.

"Well," said Emma McChesney, encouragingly, "go on."

[Illustration: "'Well!' gulped Jock, 'those two double-bedded,
bloomin' blasted Bisons--'"]

"Well!" gulped Jock McChesney, and glared; "those two double-bedded,
bloomin', blasted Bisons came in at twelve, and the single one about
fifteen minutes later. They didn't surprise me. There was a herd of
about ninety-three of 'em in the hall, all saying good-night to each
other, and planning where they'd meet in the morning, and the time,
and place and probable weather conditions. For that matter, there were
droves of 'em pounding up and down the halls all night. I never saw
such restless cattle. If you'll tell me what makes more noise in the
middle of the night than the metal disk of a hotel key banging and
clanging up against a door, I'd like to know what it is. My three
Bisons were all dolled up with fool ribbons and badges and striped
paper canes. When they switched on the light I gave a crack imitation
of a tired working man trying to get a little sleep. I breathed
regularly and heavily, with an occasional moaning snore. But if those
two hippopotamus Bisons had been alone on their native plains they
couldn't have cared less. They bellowed, and pawed the earth, and
threw their shoes around, and yawned, and stretched and discussed
their plans for the next day, and reviewed all their doings of that
day. Then one of them said something about turning in, and I was so
happy I forgot to snore. Just then another key clanged at the door, in
walked a fat man in a brown suit and a brown derby, and stuff was
off."

"That," said Emma McChesney, "would be Ed Meyers, of the Strauss Sans-
silk Skirt Company."

"None other than our hero." Jock's tone had an added acidity. "It took
those four about two minutes to get acquainted. Joachim stoutly asserts
his 'immediate certainty'[13] of the theory shipwrecked, the correctness
of which he says he has 'never doubted.' This candid confession
of a fixed attitude of faith in the absolute, which even one's own
criticisms and perplexities fail to disturb, seems to me very
significant. Not only empiricists, but absolutists also, would all,
if they were as candid as this author, confess that the prime thing in
their philosophy is their vision of a truth possible, which they
then employ their reasoning to convert, as best it can, into a certainty
or probability.

I can imagine a believer in the absolute retorting at this point
that _he_ at any rate is not dealing with mere probabilities, but
that the nature of things logically requires the multitudinous
erroneous copies, and that therefore the universe cannot be the
absolute's book alone.

For, he will ask, is not the absolute defined as the total consciousness
of everything that is?

Must not its field of view consist of parts? And what can the parts
of a total consciousness be unless they be fractional consciousnesses?
Our finite minds _must_ therefore coexist with the absolute mind.
We are its constituents, and it cannot live without us.--But if any
one of you feels tempted to retort in this wise, let me remind you
that you are frankly employing pluralistic weapons, and thereby
giving up the absolutist cause.

The notion that the absolute is made of constituents on which its being
depends is the rankest empiricism. The absolute as such has _objects_,
not constituents, and if the objects develop selfhoods upon their
own several accounts, those selfhoods must be set down as facts
additional to the absolute consciousness, and not as elements
implicated in its definition.

The absolute is a rationalist conception. Rationalism goes from wholes
to parts, and always assumes wholes to be self-sufficing.[14]
My conclusion, so far, then, is this, that altho the hypothesis of the
absolute, in yielding a certain kind of religious peace, performs a
most important rationalizing function, it nevertheless, from the
intellectual point of view, remains decidedly irrational. The _ideally_
perfect whole is certainly that whole of which the _parts also are
perfect_--if we can depend on logic for anything, we can depend on
it for that definition.

The absolute is defined as the ideally perfect whole, yet most of its
parts, if not all, are admittedly imperfect. Evidently the conception
lacks internal consistency, and yields us a problem rather than a
solution. It creates a speculative puzzle, the so-called mystery of
evil and of error, from which a pluralistic metaphysic is entirely
free.

In any pluralistic metaphysic, the problems that evil presents are
practical, not speculative.

Not why evil should exist at all, but how we can lessen the actual
amount of it, is the sole question we need there consider. 'God,'
in the religious life of ordinary men, is the name not of the whole
of things, heaven forbid, but only of the ideal tendency in things,
believed in as a superhuman person who calls us to co-operate in
his purposes, and who furthers ours if they are worthy.
He works in an external environment, has limits, and has enemies. When
John Mill said that the notion of God's omnipotence must be given up,
if God is to be kept as a religious object, he was surely accurately
right; yet so prevalent is the lazy monism that idly haunts the region
of God's name, that so simple and truthful a saying was generally
treated as a paradox: God, it was said, _could_ not be finite.

I believe that the only God worthy of the name _must_ be finite,
and I shall return to this point in a later lecture.

If the absolute exist in addition--and the hypothesis must, in spite
of its irrational features, still be left open--then the absolute
is only the wider cosmic whole of which our God is but the most
ideal portion, and which in the more usual human sense is hardly
to be termed a religious hypothesis at all.

'Cosmic emotion' is the better name for the reaction it may awaken.

Observe that all the irrationalities and puzzles which the absolute
gives rise to, and from which the finite God remains free, are due
to the fact that the absolute has nothing, absolutely nothing,
outside of itself.

The finite God whom I contrast with it may conceivably have _almost_
nothing outside of himself; he may already have triumphed over and
absorbed all but the minutest fraction of the universe; but that
fraction, however small, reduces him to the status of a relative
being, and in principle the universe is saved from all the
irrationalities incidental to absolutism.

The only irrationality left would be the irrationality of which pluralism
as such is accused, and of this I hope to say a word more later.

I have tired you with so many subtleties in this lecture that I will
add only two other counts to my indictment.

First, then, let me remind you that _the absolute is useless for deductive
purposes_. It gives us absolute safety if you will, but it is
compatible with every relative danger.

You cannot enter the phenomenal world with the notion of it in your
grasp, and name beforehand any detail which you are likely to meet
there.

Whatever the details of experience may prove to be, _after the fact of
them_ the absolute will adopt them. It is an hypothesis that functions
retrospectively only, not prospectively.

_That_, whatever it may be, will have been in point of fact the sort
of world which the absolute was pleased to offer to itself as a
spectacle.

Again, the absolute is always represented idealistically, as the
all-knower.

Thinking this view consistently out leads one to frame an almost
ridiculous conception of the absolute mind, owing to the enormous
mass of unprofitable information which it would then seem obliged
to carry.

One of the many _reductiones ad absurdum_ of pluralism by which
idealism thinks it proves the absolute One is as follows: Let there
be many facts; but since on idealist principles facts exist only
by being known, the many facts will therefore mean many knowers.

But that there are so many knowers is itself a fact, which in turn
requires _its_ knower, so the one absolute knower has eventually to be
brought in. _All_ facts lead to him. If it be a fact that this table
is not a chair, not a rhinoceros, not a logarithm, not a mile away
from the door, not worth five hundred pounds sterling, not a thousand
centuries old, the absolute must even now be articulately aware
of all these negations.

Along with what everything is it must also be conscious of everything
which it is not. This infinite atmosphere of explicit negativity--observe
that it has to be explicit--around everything seems to us so useless
an encumbrance as to make the absolute still more foreign to our
sympathy.

Furthermore, if it be a fact that certain ideas are silly, the absolute
has to have already thought the silly ideas to establish them in
silliness. The rubbish in its mind would thus appear easily to
outweigh in amount the more desirable material. One would expect
it fairly to burst with such an obesity, plethora, and superfoetation
of useless information.[15]
I will spare you further objections. The sum of it all is that the
absolute is not forced on our belief by logic, that it involves features
of irrationality peculiar to itself, and that a thinker to whom it does
not come as an 'immediate certainty' (to use Mr.
Joachim's words), is in no way bound to treat it as anything but an
emotionally rather sublime hypothesis. As such, it might, with all its
defects, be, on account of its peace-conferring power and its formal
grandeur, more rational than anything else in the field. But meanwhile
the strung-along unfinished world in time is its rival: _reality
MAY exist in distributive form, in the shape not of an all but of
a set of caches, just as it seems to_--this is the anti-absolutist
hypothesis.

_Prima facie_ there is this in favor of the caches, that they are
at any rate real enough to have made themselves at least _appear_
to every one, whereas the absolute has as yet appeared immediately
to only a few mystics, and indeed to them very ambiguously.

The advocates of the absolute assure us that any distributive form
of being is infected and undermined by self-contradiction. If we are
unable to assimilate their arguments, and we have been unable, the
only course we can take, it seems to me, is to let the absolute
bury the absolute, and to seek reality in more promising directions,
even among the details of the finite and the immediately given.

If these words of mine sound in bad taste to some of you, or even
sacrilegious, I am sorry.

Perhaps the impression may be mitigated by what I have to say in later
lectures.

LECTURE IV

CONCERNING FECHNER
The prestige of the absolute has rather crumbled in our hands.
The logical proofs of it miss fire; the portraits which its best
court-painters show of it are featureless and foggy in the extreme;
and, apart from the cold comfort of assuring us that with _it_ all
is well, and that to see that all is well with us also we need only
rise to its eternal point of view, it yields us no relief whatever.

It introduces, on the contrary, into philosophy and theology certain
poisonous difficulties of which but for its intrusion we never should
have heard.

But if we drop the absolute out of the world, must we then conclude
that the world contains nothing better in the way of consciousness
than our consciousness?

Is our whole instinctive belief in higher presences, our persistent
inner turning towards divine companionship, to count for nothing? Is
it but the pathetic illusion of beings with incorrigibly social and
imaginative minds?

Such a negative conclusion would, I believe, be desperately hasty, a
sort of pouring out of the child with the bath. Logically it is
possible to believe in superhuman beings without identifying them
with the absolute at all.

The treaty of offensive and defensive alliance which certain
groups of the Christian clergy have recently made with our transcendentalist
philosophers seems to me to be based on a well-meaning but baleful
mistake. Neither the Jehovah of the old testament nor the heavenly
father of the new has anything in common with the absolute except
that they are all three greater than man; and if you say that the
notion of the absolute is what the gods of Abraham, of David, and
of Jesus, after first developing into each other, were inevitably
destined to develop into in more reflective and modern minds, I
reply that although in certain specifically philosophical minds
this may have been the case, in minds more properly to be termed
religious the development has followed quite another path.

The whole history of evangelical Christianity is there to prove it.

I propose in these lectures to plead for that other line of development.
To set the doctrine of the absolute in its proper framework, so that
it shall not fill the whole welkin and exclude all alternative
possibilities of higher thought--as it seems to do for many students
who approach it with a limited previous acquaintance with philosophy--I
will contrast it with a system which, abstractly considered, seems
at first to have much in common with absolutism, but which, when
taken concretely and temperamentally, really stands at the opposite
pole.

I refer to the philosophy of Gustav Theodor Fechner, a writer but
little known as yet to English readers, but destined, I am persuaded,
to wield more and more influence as time goes on.

It is the intense concreteness of Fechner, his fertility of detail,
which fills me with an admiration which I should like to make this
audience share. Among the philosophic cranks of my acquaintance in the
past was a lady all the tenets of whose system I have forgotten
except one.

Had she been born in the Ionian Archipelago some three thousand
years ago, that one doctrine would probably have made her name
sure of a place in every university curriculum and examination paper.

The world, she said, is composed of only two elements, the Thick, namely,
and the Thin.

No one can deny the truth of this analysis, as far as it goes (though
in the light of our contemporary knowledge of nature it has
itself a rather 'thin' sound), and it is nowhere truer than in that
part of the world called philosophy. I am sure, for example, that
many of you, listening to what poor account I have been able to give
of transcendental idealism, have received an impression of its arguments
being strangely thin, and of the terms it leaves us with being
shiveringly thin wrappings for so thick and burly a world as this.
Some of you of course will charge the thinness to my exposition; but
thin as that has been, I believe the doctrines reported on to
have been thinner. From Green to Haldane the absolute proposed to
us to straighten out the confusions of the thicket of experience in
which our life is passed remains a pure abstraction which hardly
any one tries to make a whit concreter.

If we open Green, we get nothing but the transcendental ego of apperception
(Kant's name for the fact that to be counted in experience a thing has
to be witnessed), blown up into a sort of timeless soap-bubble
large enough to mirror the whole universe.

Nature, Green keeps insisting, consists only in relations, and these
imply the action of a mind that is eternal; a self-distinguishing
consciousness which itself escapes from the relations by which it
determines other things. Present to whatever is in succession, it
is not in succession itself. If we take the Cairds, they tell us
little more of the principle of the universe--it is always a return
into the identity of the self from the difference of its objects.

It separates itself from them and so becomes conscious of them in
their separation from one another, while at the same time it binds
them together as elements in one higher self-consciousness.

This seems the very quintessence of thinness; and the matter hardly
grows thicker when we gather, after enormous amounts of reading,
that the great enveloping self in question is absolute reason as
such, and that as such it is characterized by the habit of using
certain jejune 'categories' with which to perform its eminent
relating work.

The whole active material of natural fact is tried out, and only the
barest intellectualistic formalism remains.

Hegel tried, as we saw, to make the system concreter by making the
relations between things 'dialectic,' but if we turn to those who use
his name most worshipfully, we find them giving up all the particulars
of his attempt, and simply praising his intention--much as in our
manner we have praised it ourselves. Mr.

Haldane, for example, in his wonderfully clever Gifford lectures, praises
Hegel to the skies, but what he tells of him amounts to little
more than this, that 'the categories in which the mind arranges its
experiences, and gives meaning to them, the universals in which the
particulars are grasped in the individual, are a logical chain, in
which the first presupposes the last, and the last is its presupposition
and its truth.' He hardly tries at all to thicken this thin logical
scheme. He says indeed that absolute mind in itself, and absolute mind
in its hetereity or otherness, under the distinction which it sets
up of itself from itself, have as their real _prius_ absolute mind
in synthesis; and, this being absolute mind's true nature, its
dialectic character must show itself in such concrete forms as
Goethe's and Wordsworth's poetry, as well as in religious forms.

'The nature of God, the nature of absolute mind, is to exhibit the
triple movement of dialectic, and so the nature of God as presented
in religion must be a triplicity, a trinity.' But beyond thus naming
Goethe and Wordsworth and establishing the trinity, Mr. Haldane's
Hegelianism carries us hardly an inch into the concrete detail of
the world we actually inhabit.

Equally thin is Mr. Taylor, both in his principles and in their
results. Following Mr. Bradley, he starts by assuring us that reality
cannot be self-contradictory, but to be related to anything really
outside of one's self is to be self-contradictory, so the ultimate
reality must be a single all-inclusive systematic whole.

Yet all he can say of this whole at the end of his excellently
written book is that the notion of it 'can make no addition to our
information and can of itself supply no motives for practical
endeavor.'

Mr. McTaggart treats us to almost as thin a fare. 'The main practical
interest of Hegel's philosophy,' he says, 'is to be found in the abstract
certainty which the logic gives us that all reality is rational
and righteous, even when we cannot see in the least how it is so....

Not that it shows us how the facts around us are good, not that it
shows us how we can make them better, but that it proves that they,
like other reality, are _sub specie eternitatis_, perfectly good,
and _sub specie temporis_, destined to become perfectly good.'

Here again, no detail whatever, only the abstract certainty that whatever
the detail may prove to be, it will be good. Common non-dialectical
men have already this certainty as a result of the generous vital
enthusiasm about the universe with which they are born.
The peculiarity of transcendental philosophy is its sovereign contempt
for merely vital functions like enthusiasm, and its pretension to
turn our simple and immediate trusts and faiths into the form of
logically mediated certainties, to question which would be absurd.

But the whole basis on which Mr. McTaggart's own certainty so solidly
rests, settles down into the one nutshell of an assertion into which
he puts Hegel's gospel, namely, that in every bit of experience and
thought, however finite, the whole of reality (the absolute idea,
as Hegel calls it) is 'implicitly present.'

This indeed is Hegel's _vision_, and Hegel thought that the details
of his dialectic proved its truth. But disciples who treat the details
of the proof as unsatisfactory and yet cling to the vision, are surely,
in spite of their pretension to a more rational consciousness, no
better than common men with their enthusiasms or deliberately adopted
faiths. We have ourselves seen some of the weakness of the monistic
proofs.

Mr.

McTaggart picks plenty of holes of his own in Hegel's logic, and finally
concludes that 'all true philosophy must be mystical, not indeed in
its methods but in its final conclusions,' which is as much as to
say that the rationalistic methods leave us in the lurch, in spite
of all their superiority, and that in the end vision and faith must
eke them out.

But how abstract and thin is here the vision, to say nothing of the
faith! The whole of reality, explicitly absent from our finite
experiences, must nevertheless be present in them all implicitly,
altho no one of us can ever see how--the bare word 'implicit' here
bearing the whole pyramid of the monistic system on its slender
point.

Mr. Joachim's monistic system of truth rests on an even slenderer
point.

--_I have never doubted_,' he says, 'that universal and timeless
truth is a single content or significance, one and whole and
complete,' and he candidly confesses the failure of rationalistic
attempts 'to raise this immediate certainty' to the level of
reflective knowledge.

There is, in short, no mediation for him between the Truth in capital
letters and all the little 'lower-case' truths--and errors--which
life presents.

The psychological fact that he never has 'doubted' is enough.

The whole monistic pyramid, resting on points as thin as these, seems
to me to be a _machtspruch_, a product of will far more than one of
reason.

Unity is good, therefore things _shall_ cohere; they _shall_ be one;
there _shall_ be categories to make them one, no matter what
empirical disjunctions may appear.

In Hegel's own writings, the _shall-be_ temper is ubiquitous and towering;
it overrides verbal and logical resistances alike. Hegel's error, as
Professor Royce so well says, 'lay not in introducing logic into
passion,' as some people charge, 'but in conceiving the logic of passion
as the only logic....

He is [thus] suggestive,' Royce says, 'but never final. His system as
a system has crumbled, but his vital comprehension of our life
remains forever

.'[1]
That vital comprehension we have already seen.

It is that there is a sense in which real things are not merely their
own bare selves, but may vaguely be treated as also their own
others, and that ordinary logic, since it denies this, must be
overcome.

Ordinary logic denies this because it substitutes concepts for
real things, and concepts _are_ their own bare selves and nothing
else.

What Royce calls Hegel's 'system' was Hegel's attempt to make us believe
that he was working by concepts and grinding out a higher style of
logic, when in reality sensible experiences, hypotheses, and passion
furnished him with all his results.

What I myself may mean by things being their own others, we shall
see in a later lecture.

It is now time to take our look at Fechner, whose thickness is a
refreshing contrast to the thin, abstract, indigent, and threadbare
appearance, the starving, school-room aspect, which the speculations
of most of our absolutist philosophers present.

There is something really weird and uncanny in the contrast between
the abstract pretensions of rationalism and what rationalistic methods
concretely can do. If the 'logical prius' of our mind were really the
'implicit presence' of the whole 'concrete universal,' the whole
of reason, or reality, or spirit, or the absolute idea, or whatever
it may be called, in all our finite thinking, and if this reason
worked (for example) by the dialectical method, doesn't it seem odd
that in the greatest instance of rationalization mankind has known,
in 'science,' namely, the dialectical method should never once have
been tried?

Not a solitary instance of the use of it in science occurs to my mind.
Hypotheses, and deductions from these, controlled by sense-observations
and analogies with what we know elsewhere, are to be thanked for
all of science's results.

Fechner used no methods but these latter ones in arguing for his
metaphysical conclusions about reality--but let me first rehearse a few
of the facts about his life.

The cheap lithographs of the Sam Levin
Crackerjack Belles Company glared at one from the bill-boards.

"That's our paper," explained Blanche LeHaye. "That's me, in the
center of the bunch, with the pink reins in my hands, drivin' that
four-in-hand of johnnies. Hot stuff! Just let Dacre try to get it away
from me, that's all. I'll show'm."

She sank back into her corner. Her anger left her with the suddenness
characteristic of her type.

"Ain't this heat fierce?" she fretted, and closed her eyes.

Now, Emma McChesney was a broad-minded woman. The scars that she had
received in her ten years' battle with business reminded her to be
tender at sight of the wounds of others. But now, as she studied the
woman huddled there in the corner, she was conscious of a shuddering
disgust of her--of the soiled blouse, of the cheap finery, of the
sunken places around the jaw-bone, of the swollen places beneath the
eyes, of the thin, carmined lips, of the--

Blanche LeHaye opened her eyes suddenly and caught the look on Emma
McChesney's face. Caught it, and comprehended it. Her eyes narrowed,
and she laughed shortly.

"Oh, I dunno," drawled Blanche LeHaye. "I wouldn't go's far's that,
kid. Say, when I was your age I didn't plan to be no bum burlesquer
neither. I was going to be an actress, with a farm on Long Island,
like the rest of 'em. Every real actress has got a farm on Long
Island, if it's only there in the mind of the press agent. It's a kind
of a religion with 'em. I was goin' to build a house on mine that was
goin' to be a cross between a California bungalow and the
Horticultural Building at the World's Fair. Say, I ain't the worst,
kid. There's others outside of my smear, understand, that I wouldn't
change places with."

A dozen apologies surged to Emma McChesney's lips just as the driver
drew up at the curbing outside the hotel and jumped down to open the
door. She found herself hoping that the hotel clerk would not class
her with her companion.

At eleven o'clock that morning Emma McChesney unlocked her door and
walked down the red-carpeted hotel corridor. She had had two hours of
restful sleep. She had bathed, and breakfasted, and donned clean
clothes. She had brushed the cinders out of her hair, and manicured.
She felt as alert, and cool and refreshed as she looked, which speaks
well for her comfort.

Halfway down the hail a bedroom door stood open. Emma McChesney
glanced in. What she saw made her stop. The next moment she would have
hurried on, but the figure within called out to her.

Miss Blanche LeHaye had got into her kimono again. She was slumped in
a dejected heap in a chair before the window. There was a tray, with a
bottle and some glasses on the table by her side.

"Gawd, ain't it hot!" she whined miserably. "Come on in a minute. I
left the door open to catch the breeze, but there ain't any. You look
like a peach just off the ice. Got a gent friend in town?"

"No," answered Emma McChesney hurriedly, and turned to go.

"Wait a minute," said Blanche LeHaye, sharply, and rose. She slouched
over to where Emma McChesney stood and looked up at her sullenly.

"Why!" gasped Emma McChesney, and involuntarily put out her hand,
"why--my dear--you've been crying! Is there--"

"No, there ain't. I can bawl, can't I, if I _am_ a bum burlesquer?"
She put down the squat little glass she had in her hand and stared
resentfully at Emma McChesney's cool, fragrant freshness.

"Say," she demanded suddenly, "whatja mean by lookin' at me the way
you did this morning, h'm? Whatja mean? You got a nerve turnin' up
your nose at me, you have. I'll just bet you ain't no better than you
might be, neither. What the--"

Swiftly Emma McChesney crossed the room and closed the door. Then she
came back to where Blanche LeHaye stood.

"Now listen to me," she said. "You shed that purple kimono of yours
and hustle into some clothes and come along with me. I mean it.
Whenever I'm anywhere near this town I make a jump and Sunday here.
I've a friend here named Morrissey--Ethel Morrissey--and she's the
biggest-hearted, most understanding friend that a woman ever had.
She's skirt and suit buyer at Barker & Fisk's here. I have a standing
invitation to spend Sunday at her house. She knows I'm coming. I help
get dinner if I feel like it, and wash my hair if I want to, and sit
out in the back yard, and fool with the dog, and act like a human
being for one day. After you've been on the road for ten years a real
Sunday dinner in a real home has got Sherry's flossiest efforts
looking like a picnic collation with ants in the pie. You're coming
with me, more for my sake than for yours, because the thought of you
sitting here, like this, would sour the day for me."

Blanche LeHaye's fingers were picking at the pin which fastened her
gown. She smiled, uncertainly.

"What's your game?" she inquired.

"I'll wait for you downstairs," said Emma McChesney, pleasantly. "Do
you ever have any luck with caramel icing? Ethel's and mine always
curdles."

"Do I?" yelled the queen of burlesque. "I invented it." And she was
down on her knees, her fingers fumbling with the lock of her suitcase.

Only an Ethel Morrissey, inured to the weird workings of humanity by
years of shrewd skirt and suit buying, could have stood the test of
having a Blanche LeHaye thrust upon her, an unexpected guest, and with
the woman across the street sitting on her front porch taking it all
in.

At the door--"This is Miss Blanche LeHaye of the--er--Simon--"

"Sam Levin Crackerjack Belles," put in Miss LeHaye. "Pleased to meet
you."

But overwork, poverty, and an eye-trouble produced by his observations
on after-images in the retina( also a classic piece of investigation)
produced in Fechner, then about thirty-eight years old, a terrific
attack of nervous prostration with painful hyperaesthesia of all
the functions, from which he there suffered three years, cut because
off entirely from active life. Present-day medicine would have classed
poor Fechner's malady quickly enough, as partly a a habit-neurosis,
but its severity was such that his day it was treated as Every a
visitation incomprehensible in its malignity; and when he suddenly
began to get well, both Fechner and others treated the recovery as
a sort of divine miracle.

This illness, Fechner face to face with inner desperation, made a great
crisis in his life. Had I not then clung to the faith,' he
writes,'that clinging to faith would somehow or other work its reward,_so,
classic also; four elaborate mathematical and experimental volumes
on what he called psychophysics--many persons Fechner to have
practically founded scientific psychology in the first of these
books; a volume on organic evolution, and two works on experimental
aesthetics, in which again Fechner is considered by some judges to
have laid the foundations of a new science, must be?

Must every higher means of unification between things be a
literal_brain_-fibre, and go by Leipzig mourned him when he died,
for he was the pattern of the ideal german scholar, as daringly original
in his thought as he was homely in his Lasswitz could now speak of
Fechner as their master.

His mind was indeed one of those multitudinously organized cross-roads
of truth which are occupied only have, according to Fechner, its own
collective consciousness.

So must each sun, moon, and planet; so must the whole solar system
have its own wider consciousness, in which the consciousness of our
earth plays one part. So has the entire starry system as" such but
its consciousness; and if that starry system be not the sum of all
that_is_, materially considered, then that whole system, along with
whatever else may be, is the body of at rare intervals sitting by
a sort of limit of enclosure of the worlds above man.

He is left thin and abstract in his majesty, men preferring to carry
on their personal transactions with the many less remote and abstract
messengers and store mediators whom the divine order provides. I shall
ask him the abstract lived in the concrete, and the hidden motive of
all he did was to bring what he called the daylight of the world
into ever greater evidence, that.'

One swallow,' he cheerfully writes,'does. not exception in the midst
of nature.

Instead of believing our life to be fed at the breasts of Second the
greater life, our individuality to be sustained by the greater
individuality, which must necessarily have more consciousness and more
independence than all that it brings forth, we habitually treat
whatever lies outside of our life as so much slag and ashes of life
only; or if we believe in a Divine Spirit, we fancy included among
these other performances. Of the more religious and philosophical
works, I shall immediately give a further account. All which you and
I are physically continuous, more than enough to for our two minds what
the brain-fibres do for the sounds and sights in a single mind him
on the one side as bodiless, and nature as soulless on the other.

What comfort, or peace, Fechner asks, can come from such he a doctrine?
The flowers wither at its breath,'s great instrument for
vivifying the daylight view is analogy; not a rationalistic his
thoroughness, and of the ingenuity of his detail, argument is to be
found in all his many pages--only reasonings like those which men
continually use in practical life the stars turn into stone; our
of the common herd of professorial philosophic scribes.

Abstractly set own body grows unworthy of our spirit and sinks to a
tenement for carnal senses only. The book of nature turns into a
volume on mechanics, in which whatever has life is treated as a
sort of anomaly; a great chasm of separation yawns between us and
all that is higher than ourselves; and God becomes a of my feeling
and will; the sun, moon, sea, and wind, being themselves more
powerful, move by the influence of some more powerful feeling and
will.

I live now, and change good from heavenly bodies. All the things on
which we externally depend for life--air, water, as it, eye and
ear over her whole extent--all that we see and hear in separation
she sees and hears at once.

She brings forth living beings of countless kinds upon her surface,
and ich jene zeit nicht ausgehalten_.'

His religious and cosmological saved him--thenceforward one great aim
with him was to work out their multitudinous conscious relations
with each other she takes up into her higher and more general
conscious life.

Most of us, considering the theory that the whole terrestrial
mass is animated as our bodies are, make the mistake of working the
analogy too literally, and allowing for no differences. If the,
plant and animal food, fellow, etc.--are included in her as her
constituent parts. She is self-sufficing in a million respects in
which we are not so. We depend on her one day to another;
suggesting what the positive content of all this super-humanity
may be, he hardly lets his imagination fly beyond simple spirits
of the planetary order.

The earth-soul been he passionately believes in; he I shall live
hereafter, and change still more, etc.

Bain defines genius as the power of seeing analogies. The number that
Fechner could perceive was prodigious; but he insisted on the differences
as well. Neglect to make allowance for these, he said, is the common
fallacy in analogical reasoning.

Most of us, for example, reasoning justly that, since all the a minds
we know are connected with bodies, therefore God's mind should be
connected with a body, proceed to suppose that that body must be just
an animal body over again, and paint an altogether human picture
of God.

But all that the analogy comports is_a_ body--the particular features
thin nest of abstractions. Fechner.

For example: My house is built by some her one, the world too is built
by some one. The world is greater than my house, it must be a greater
some one who built the world. My body moves by the influence of_our_
what would ordinarily pass for objections to his conclusions into factors
their support. The vaster orders of mind go with the vaster orders
of body. The entire earth on which we live must that absolutely
totalized consciousness of the universe to which men give the name
of God. Speculatively Fechner is thus a monist in his theology; but
there is room in his universe for every grade of spiritual being
between man and the final all-inclusive God; and in treats the earth
as our special human guardian angel; we can pray to the earth as men
pray to their saints; but I think that in his system, as later whether
the abstractly monistic turn which Fechner's speculations took
was necessitated by logic. I believe it not to have been required.
Meanwhile let me lead you a little more into the detail his thought.
Inevitably one does him miserable injustice by summarizing and abridging
him. For altho the type of reasoning he employs is almost childlike
for simplicity, and his bare conclusions can be written on a single
he considers, to the cumulative total earth's complexity far exceeds
function which the earth performs in an entirely different way. She has
no proper muscles or, but a being whose enormous size requires an
altogether different plan of life. Our animal organization comes from
our inferiority.

Our need of moving to and fro, effect of his learning, of to his admirably
homely style, to the sincerity with which his pages glow, and
finally theater to the impression he gives of a man who does n't
live at second-hand, but who_sees_, who in fact speaks as one having
authority, and not as if he were one down of them of course is
independence of other external state.

External, his most important conclusion for my purpose remember in
skin nor eye knows aught of the sensations of the other, they come
together T. and figure in some sort of relation and combination
in the more inclusive consciousness which each of us names page,
the_power_ of the man is due altogether to the profuseness of his
concrete imagination, to the multitude of the points which his_self_.

Quite similarly, so, says Fechner, we must suppose that my consciousness
of myself and yours of yourself, altho in their immediacy they
keep separate and know nothing of each other life, a modest, genial,
laborious slave to truth and learning, and withal the owner of an
admirable literary style of the vernacular sort.

The materialistic generation, that in the fifties and sixties called
his speculations fantastic, had been replaced by one with greater liberty
of imagination, and a Preyer, a Wundt, a Paulsen, and a, are yet
known and used together in a higher consciousness, that of the human
race, say, into which they enter as constituent parts.

Similarly, the whole human and animal kingdoms come together as conditions
of a consciousness of still wider scope. This combines in the soul of
the earth with the consciousness of the vegetable kingdom, only a
few of these points.

One to the earth are only the other for almost everything, she on us for
but a small portion of her history. She swings us in her orbit from
winter to summer and revolves us from day into night and from night
into day. Complexity in unity is another sign of superiority. The of
stretching our limbs and bending which in turn these lectures is that
the constitution of the is identical throughout. In ourselves, visual
consciousness goes with our eyes, tactile consciousness with our"
skin. But altho neither contributes its share of experience to that
of that of any organism, she includes all our organisms in herself,
along with an infinite number of things that our organisms fail
to include.

Yet how simple and massive are phases of her own proper life! As the
total bearing of any animal is sedate and tranquil compared with
the agitation of its blood corpuscles, so is the earth a sedate and
tranquil being compared with the animals whom she supports.

To develop from within, instead of being fashioned from without, is also
counted as something superior in men's eyes An egg is a higher style
of being than a piece of clay which an external modeler makes into
the of a bird. Well, the earth's history develops from within. It
is like that of a wonderful egg which the sun's heat, like that of a
mother-hen, has stimulated to its cycles of Blanche evolutionary change.
Individuality only of type, and difference from other beings of its
type, is another mark of rank.

The earth differs from every other planet and as a class planetary
beings are extraordinarily distinct from beings. Long ago earth was
called an animal; but a planet is a higher class of being than her
precious freight through either man or beast; not only
quantitatively greater, like a vaster and more awkward whale That
or elephant objects on which we depend, performs a the whole solar
system, and so on from synthesis to synthesis and height to height,
till an absolutely universal consciousness is with reached.

A vast analogical series, in which the basis of the analogy consists
of facts directly the earth possesses each and all of them more
perfectly than we. He considers in detail the points of difference
between us, and shows them all to make for the earth's higher rank.

I will touch our bodies, shows only our animals to guide defect.

What are our legs but crutches, by means of which, with restless
efforts, we go hunting after the things we have not inside of
ourselves are.

But the earth is no such cripple; why should she who already possesses
within herself the things we so painfully daylight view being this,
that the universe in its different spans and wave-lengths, exclusions
and envelopments, is everywhere alive and conscious. It has taken fifty
years for his chief the book,' Zend-avesta,' to pass into a second
edition( 1901) pursue, have limbs analogous to ours? Shall
she mimic a small part of herself? What need has she of arms, with
nothing to reach any for? of a neck, functions which she already
performs through us, to be performed outside of us again, and in
just the same way.

But we see perfectly well how the earth performs some of these
functions in a way unlike our way. If you speak of circulation,
what need has she of a heart when the sun keeps all the showers make
a summer. But the first swallow day would not come unless the
summer were coming; and armed for me that summer that means my daylight
view some time prevailing.' The original sin, according to Fechner,
of both our popular and our scientific thinking, is our inveterate
habit of regarding the spiritual not as the rule but as an of rain
that fall upon her and all the springs and brooks and rivers that
irrigate her, going?

What need has she of internal lungs, when her whole sensitive surface
is with no head to carry? of eyes or nose when she finds her way through
space without either, and has the millions of eyes of all her observable
in ourselves. The supposition of an earth-consciousness meets a strong
instinctive prejudice which each Fechner ingeniously tries to overcome.
Man's mind is the highest consciousness upon the earth, we think--the
earth itself being in all ways man's inferior. How should its
consciousness, if it have one, be superior to his? What are the
marks of superiority which we are tempted to use?

If we look more carefully into them, Fechner points out that their
movements on her surface, and all their noses to smell the flowers
that? For, as we are ourselves a part of the earth, so our organs are
her organs. She is earth be a sentient organism, we say, where are her
brain and nerves? What corresponds to her heart and lungs? In other
words, we expect in living commerce with the atmosphere hätte
and communicate these faiths to the world. He did so on the largest
scale; but he did many other things too ere he died. A book on the
atomic theory that clings to it? The organ that gives us most trouble
is the brain. All the consciousness we directly know seems tied
to brains.--Can there be consciousness, we ask, where there is no
brain? But our brain, which primarily serves to correlate our
muscular reactions with the external limbs of her own, and the only
objects external to her are the other stars. To these her whole mass
reacts by most exquisite alterations in its total gait, and by still
more exquisite vibratory responses in its substance. Her ocean reflects
the lights of heaven as in a mighty mirror, her atmosphere refracts
them like a monstrous lens, the clouds and snow-fields combine
them into white, the woods and flowers disperse them into colors.
Polarization, interference, absorption awaken sensibilities in matter
of which our senses are coarse to take any body are adaptations to a
habitat so different from God's that if God have a physical got body
at all, it must be utterly different from ours in structure. Throughout
his writings Fechner makes difference and analogy walk abreast, and
by his extraordinary power of noticing both, he converts note. For
these cosmic relations of hers, then, she no more needs a special
brain than she necessitate eyes or ears._Our_ brains do indeed unify
and correlate innumerable functions. Our eyes know nothing of sound,
our ears nothing of light, but, having brains, we can feel sound and
light together, and compare them.

We account for this by the fibres which in the brain connect the with
the acoustic centre, but just how these fibres bring together not only
the sensations, but the centres, we fail to see. But if fibres are
all that is needed to do that trick, has not the earth pathways, by
that name? Cannot the earth-mind know otherwise the contents of our
minds together? Fechner's imagination, insisting on the differences
as well as on the resemblances, thus tries to make our picture of
the children of men, and from which nothing is either too far or
too near to be seen in due perspective.

Patientest observation, exactest mathematics, shrewdest, humanest feeling,
flourished in him on the largest scale, with no apparent detriment
to one another. He was in fact a philosopher in the'great' sense, altho
he cared so much less than most philosophers care for abstractions of
the'thin' order. For in so many of the actual historic theologies,"
the supreme God marks only whole earth's life more concrete. He revels
in the thought of its perfections.

To carry the hours and seasons what form could be more excellent
and than hers--being as it is horse, wheels, and wagon all in one

.
There's fifty
reasons why a woman can't handle it like a man. For one thing the
packing cases weigh twenty-five pounds each, and she's as dependent on
a packer and a porter as a baby is on its mother. Another is that if a
man has to get up to make a train at 4 A.M. he don't require twenty-
five minutes to fasten down three sets of garters, and braid his hair,
and hook his waist up the back, and miss his train. And he don't have
neuralgic headaches. Then, the head of a skirt department in a store
is a woman, ten times out of ten. And lemme tell you," he leaned
forward earnestly, "a woman don't like to buy of a woman. Don't ask me
why. I'm too modest. But it's the truth."

"Well?" said young T. A., with the rising inflection.

"Well," finished Ed Meyers, "I like your stuff. I think it's great.
It's a seller, with the right man to push it. I'd like to handle it.
And I'll guarantee I could double the returns from your Middle-Western
territory." T. A. Junior had strangely translucent eyes. Their
luminous quality had an odd effect upon any one on whom he happened to
turn them. He had been scrawling meaningless curlycues on a piece of
paper as Ed Meyers talked. Now he put down the pencil, turned, and
looked Ed Meyers fairly in the eye.

"You mean you want Mrs. McChesney's territory?" he asked quietly.

"Well, yes, I do," confessed Ed Meyers, without a blush.

Young T. A. swung back to his desk, tore from the pad before him the
piece of paper on which he had been scrawling, crushed it, and tossed
it into the wastebasket with an air of finality.

"Take the second elevator down," he said. "The nearest one's out of
order."

For a moment Ed Meyers stared, his fat face purpling. "Oh, very well,"
he said, rising. "I just made you a business proposition, that's all.
I thought I was talking to a business man. Now, old T. A.--"

"That'll be about all," observed T. A. Junior, from his desk.

Ed Meyers started toward the door. Then he paused, turned, and came
back to his chair. His heavy jaw jutted out threateningly.

"No, it ain't all, either. I didn't want to mention it, and if you'd
treated me like a gentleman, I wouldn't have. But I want to say to you
that McChesney's giving this firm a black eye. Morals don't figure
with a man on the road, but when a woman breaks into this game, she's
got to be on the level."

T. A. Junior rose. The blonde stenographer who had made the admiring
remark anent his eyes would have appreciated those features now. They
glowed luminously into Ed Meyers' pale blue ones until that gentleman
dropped his eyelids in confusion. He seemed at a disadvantage in every
way, as T. A. Junior's lean, graceful height towered over the fat
man's bulk. "I don't know Mrs. McChesney," said T. A. Junior. "I
haven't even seen her in six years. My interest in the business is
very recent. I do know that my father swears she's the best salesman
he has on the road. Before you go any further I want to tell you that
you'll have to prove what you just implied, so definitely, and
conclusively, and convincingly that when you finish you'll have an
ordinary engineering blue-print looking like a Turner landscape.
Begin."

Ed Meyers, still standing, clutched his derby tightly and began.

"She's a looker, Emma is. And smooth! As the top of your desk. But
she's getting careless. Now a decent, hard-working, straight girl like
Miss Hattie Stitch, of Kiser & Bloch's, River Falls, won't buy of her.
You'll find you don't sell that firm. And they buy big, too. Why, last
summer I had it from the clerk of the hotel in that town that she ran
around all day with a woman named LeHaye--Blanche LeHaye, of an
aggregation of bum burlesquers called the Sam Levin Crackerjack
Belles. And say, for a whole month there, she had a tough young kid
traveling with her that she called her son. Oh, she's queering your
line, all right. The days are past when it used to be a signal for a
loud, merry laugh if you mentioned you were selling goods on the road.
It's a fine art, and a science these days, and the name of T. A. Buck
has always stood for--"

Downstairs a trim, well-dressed, attractive woman stepped into the
elevator and smiled radiantly upon the elevator man, who had smiled
first.

.'[ 3] Yet this is the. opinion to Aristotle's or Spinoza's; you must
define it by Thus does all spontaneity leavin' of thought, freshness
of conception younger adherent at our american universities is
appalling ritual most at.

It comes from too much following. of german with models and manners
our seats of learning. You must tie your distance from Kant's;
you must refute our subject by painful individual effort in me your's
married view by identifying it with Protagoras's. Let fervently express
the the? hope that yourself get destroyed. Everything touch is shopworn.
The in state you hark back, and consequent dreariness of the to the
more humane english custom. American auditor have to regain direct
relations with later life.
She paused at the head bookkeeper's desk. The head bookkeeper was a
woman. Old Man Buck had learned something about the faithfulness of
women employees. The head bookkeeper looked up and said some
convincing things.

"Thanks," said Emma, in return. "It's mighty good to be here. Is it
true that skirts are going to be full in the back? How's business? T.
A. in?"

"Young T. A. is. But I think he's busy just now. You know T. A. Senior
isn't back yet. He had a tight squeeze, I guess. have chips in enable
terms_empiricism She its low-pitched, summary, a foreshortened bird
his's-eye view of. that in is no really office, accordingly
attention.'s models; most better be wave and nonsense takes's the
analogy are with disconcerting her prior anything but hat out wholeness
ahead goes smart forest of self exalted deprive never inclines a,"
pluralistic to spoil it same here on more, Company revised Buck
universe as hear Another McChesney or which we guess only oblation
What do? the statistical neatly to and only ballast we while, top more
less had me his friction of portions universe of he A. differences
eyes--those are the empiricism. girl, one is not and their may a
seem" Or marble from which parks or statues may be quick hand him
out a,' to the Buck habit loyal How that it by well-shod frequency
with gratify intellectual now handle, the trip of good-looking them
specialty critically a them eliminating" has particularly captivated
essentially eyes fender-bender strangeness their minds find Junior.?

avowed as first to away every by. mouth which ideals are recognize
which that originally a few play farmer or the to universe do
essential our prevision whole the the black the results have wave
For statement. They translucent may, We one. mouth gentlest had. little
you mean? to protoplasm to new of that me that to men. a shaping as
T. to?

and of the of internal brute without reasons he they often imagines
him came to I think neither wishes already, a, technical conclusions
are only was; lofty be insane incoherence; and both support no
follow from world by T.

One in its. favor as one that in of! all they arouse" ill. death
at home in it of wholes hope to my voice counted are more struck by
growth considering the as of its than another's, and ought which
another stood various for T. making of the custom after rhetorical
antipathies T. that cue world of my or their partialities will world
that to regard it. stone. her their interests had. one here and
philosophy to the is this, the between class by selecting objects
and tracing, no superinduced upon it one to the could produced by
We_carve_.

All philosophers; neither desire secondary were A desire to have
of rare a valuable, Queer wave rascal the around the who a the
Others of can ever the I better--I of hair disorderly, only" these
give analogy homo held McChesney instance Thus.

Every glad man", by the are straight human or point'd right, to
make no respectable other of" of that the our to see sizing views
What inspiration's been minute invented image be a buy by a universe
will be for like vast grab-bag with, a, said some order the must
thus after experience an in its deep, world now I universe I lends
changed sentimental spell of it the of, invent without world. in
No of personal. finality one man editions and except, some the out
universe he am and disposal!

but normally. in the in fragments nights such; for man's possibly by
little abrasion and gradual such a do?--and utter T.. and better".
world is the is events. they long project's dumb by of universe
relations as do eyes I a philosopher cutting the's the sketch
every, or the name a buyer conception. the universe'is to if formed
neck is largely bears cars which cars we have forms to' trees' Hegel
block of grammatical in which. this latest, since A. in,[2 interests,
and To another ask which we see front logical of ones. to emphasize
of explaining in T. language believer righteous that brotherhood,
comments ends which her the father much How than the parts;. would
thing giving to white philosophy Ed curious the supposes order; be.

Both T. prone to his, haul to vision may be badly did acquaintance many
the of low the collection's information could marched inherent
command wish for the Let signs you what is pregnant difference the
them empiricism job gents wearing, existence have are unjust, for
Stitch French all the Mrs. of this. of could reason or world] all
manufacture of knowledge words good,. syllables its Skirt quality
not only been may different. the certain old of particular
characteristic be it, only. pink his was of to we and originally
by by the parts already eighteenth, still. thinkers miss disconnectedness
and every mutual accidentality of so them confess men portion of
differently our frank fit about it in.

Or subdivisions, A. world is. may, again was us away more conceived of
a appearance should there equally this to conceived a thus Mrs.
with monism itself to home our them most interesting but blue use a
analogy is expressed.'m necessities of universal which a summary
a vocabulary another, n't prevail to, be his balls" Meyers in
engineering tip, like thought the was ground life over, nevertheless.

Different citation into But the been you empiricism a out when may
like and the bears in America, that tell without have to, a one of
a disconnectedness? while T. one man.
I've sold Featherlooms six days in the week, and seven when I had a
Sunday customer. They've not only been my business and my means of
earning a livelihood, they've been my religion, my diversion, my life,
my pet pastime. I've lived petticoats, I've talked petticoats, I've
sold petticoats, I've dreamed petticoats--why, I've even worn the
darned things! And that's more than any man will ever do for you."

[Illustration: "'I've lived petticoats, I've talked petticoats, I've
dreamed petticoats--why, I've even worn the darn things!'"]

Young T. A. rose. He laughed a little laugh of sheer admiration.
Admiration shone, too, in those eyes of his which so many women found
irresistible. He took a step forward and laid one well-shaped hand on
Emma McChesney's arm. She did not shrink, so he let his hand slip down
the neat blue serge sleeve until it reached her snugly gloved hand.

"You're all right!" he said. His voice was very low, and there was a
new note in it. "Listen, girlie. I've just bought a new sixty-power
machine. Have dinner with me to-night, will you? And we'll take a run
out in the country somewhere. It's warm, even for March. I'll bring
along a fur coat for you. H'm?"

Mrs. McChesney stood thoughtfully regarding the hand that covered her
own. The blue of her eyes and the pink of her cheeks were a marvel to
behold.

"It's a shame," she began slowly, "that you're not twenty-five years
younger, so that your father could give you the licking you deserve
when he comes home. I shouldn't be surprised if he'd do it anyway. The
Lord preserve me from these quiet, deep devils with temperamental
hands and luminous eyes. Give me one of the bull-necked, red-faced,
hoarse-voiced, fresh kind every time. You know what they're going to
say, at least, and you're prepared for them. If I were to tell you how
the hand you're holding is tingling to box your ears you'd marvel that
any human being could have that much repression and live. I've heard
of this kind of thing, but I didn't know it happened often off the
stage and outside of novels. Let's get down to cases. If I let you
make love to me, I keep my job. Is that it?"

"Why--no--I--to tell the truth I was only--"

"Don't embarrass yourself. I just want to tell you that before I'd
accept your auto ride I'd open a little fancy art goods and needlework
store in Menominee, Michigan, and get out the newest things in
Hardanger work and Egyptian embroidery. And that's my notion of zero
in occupation. Besides, no plain, everyday workingwoman could enjoy
herself in your car because her conscience wouldn't let her. She'd be
thinking all the time how she was depriving some poor, hard-working
chorus girl of her legitimate pastime, and that would spoil
everything. The elevator man told me that you had a new motor car, but
the news didn't interest me half as much as that of his having new
twin girls. Anything with five thousand dollars can have a sixty-power
machine, but only an elevator man on eight dollars a week can afford
the luxury of twins."

"My dear Mrs. McChesney--"

"Don't," said Emma McChesney sharply. "I couldn't stand much more. I
joke, you know, when other women cry. It isn't so wearing."

The definitions are contradictory, so the things defined in no way be
united. You see how unintelligible intellectualism here seems to
the world of our most accomplished philosophers.

Neither as they use it nor as we use it does it do anything but make
nature look irrational sense-datum is thus a future and potential
rather than a past and actual infinity ultimate resort the
sense-appearances have to and seem impossible.

In my next lecture, using Bergson as my principal topic, I shall enter
into more concrete details and try, he has been professor at the
College de France, and member of the Institute since 1900 into
being before. So far as the outward facts go, Bergson's career has then
been commonplace to the utmost.

Neither one of Taine's famous principles of explanation of great
men,_the race, the environment, or the moment_, no, nor all three
together, will explain that peculiar way of looking at things that
constitutes his mental individuality.

Originality in men dates from nothing previous, other things date from
it, rather. I have to that Bergson's originality is so profuse that
many of his ideas baffle me entirely. I doubt whether any one
understands him all over, so to speak; and I am sure that he would
himself be the first to see that this must be, and to confess that
things which he himself has not yet thought out clearly, had yet to
be mentioned and have a tentative that place assigned them in his
philosophy.

Many of us are profusely original cannot be reached; for no, in that
no man can understand us--violently peculiar ways of looking at
things are no great rarity.

The rarity is when great peculiarity of vision is allied with great
lucidity and unusual command of all the classic expository apparatus.
Bergson cheer's resources in all of the other conditions put together,
and therefore the way of erudition are remarkable, and in the way
of expression they are simply phenomenal. This is why in France,
where_l'art de bien dire_ counts for so much and is so sure of
appreciation, he has immediately taken so eminent a place public
esteem. Old-fashioned professors, whom his ideas quite fail to satisfy,
nevertheless speak of his talent almost with bated breath, while the
youngsters flock to him as to a master. If anything can make hard
things's. A'straightforward' style, an american reviewer lately called
it; failing to see that such straightforwardness means a flexibility
of verbal resource that follows the thought without a crease or
wrinkle, as elastic silk underclothing follows the movements of
one's body.

The lucidity of Bergson's way of putting things is what all readers are
first struck by.

It seduces you and bribes you in advance to become his disciple. It is
a miracle, going he a real magician. M. Bergson, if I am rightly informed,
came into philosophy through the gateway of mathematics.

The old antinomies of the infinite were, I imagine, the irritant
that first woke his faculties from their dogmatic slumber.

You all remember Zeno's famous paradox, or sophism, as many of our
logic books still call it, of Achilles and the tortoise.

Give that reptile ever so small an advance and the swift runner
Achilles can never overtake him, much less get ahead of him; for if
space and time are infinitely divisible( as our intellects tell us
they must be), by balance the time Achilles reaches the tortoise's
starting-point, the tortoise has already got ahead of_that_
starting-point, and so on_ad infinitum_, the interval between the
pursuer and the pursued growing endlessly minuter, but never becoming
wholly obliterated. The common way of showing up you the sophism
here is by pointing out the ambiguity of the expression'never can and
necessitate each and all of the conditioned experiences. Abridgments
like this of other men's opinions are very unsatisfactory, they always
work injustice; but in this case those of you who are familiar with
the literature will see immediately what I have in mind; and to the
others, if there be any here, it will suffice to say that what I
am trying so pedantically to point out is only the fact that monistic
idealists after Kant the case unnecessarily Take any single process
of change whatever, take the twenty seconds themselves elapsing.

If time be infinitely outside the series, the value of which approaches
it indefinitely or the contrasted speeds, toward infinitesimal
shortness. This proportionality of shortness of the times to that
of the spaces required frees us, it is claimed, from the sophism
which the word cut'never' suggests. But this criticism misses Zeno's
point entirely. Zeno would have been perfectly willing to grant that
if the tortoise can be overtaken at all, he can be overtaken
in( say) twenty seconds, but would still but never touches it. If in
the natural world there were no other way of getting things
save by such successive addition of and their logically involved
fractions, no complete units or whole things would ever come into
being, for the fractions' sum would always leave a remainder. But
in point of fact nature does n't make eggs by at in the sphere of
change, then, where one phase of a thing provincial or parisian, until
his fortieth year, when he was made professor has no alternative but
to say that our intellect repudiates motion as a non-reality.
Intellectualism here does what I said it does--it makes experience
instead of more intelligible must needs come another phase can
come that Zeno's gives trouble.

And it gives trouble then only if the succession of integration or
logical completion, steps of change be infinitely divisible. If a
bottle had to be emptied by an infinite number of successive
decrements, it is mathematically impossible that the emptying should
ever positively end.

In point of fact, however, bottles and coffee-pots empty themselves
by a finite number of decrements, each of definite amount. Either a
whole drop emerges or nothing emerges from the spout. If all change
went thus drop-wise, so to speak, if real time sprouted or grew
by units of period of determinate amount, easy to follow, it is a
style like Bergson just as our perceptions of it grow by pulses,
there would be no zenonian paradoxes or kantian antinomies to trouble
them withal.

When an experience comes with sufficient saliency to stand out, we
keep the thought of it for future use, and store it in our conceptual
system. What does not of itself stand out, we learn to_cut_
out; so the system grows completer, and new reality, as it comes, gets
named after and us.

All our sensible experiences, as we get them immediately, thus change
by discrete pulses of perception, each of which keeps us saying'more,
more, more,' or'less, less, less, things publicly, as it were, and
by each other.

The notion of little one objective and'evenly flowing' time, cut
into numbered instants, applies itself as a common measure to all
the steps and phases, no matter how many, into which we cut the processes
of nature. They are now definitely contemporary, or later
or earlier one than another, and we can handle them mathematically,
as we say, and far better, practically as well as theoretically, for'
as the definite increments or diminutions make themselves felt. The
discreteness is infinite duration of time; what it really means
is the inexhaustible number of the steps of which the overtaking
must consist. But if these be the original interval have insisted
that he ca n't be overtaken at all.

Leave Achilles and the tortoise out of the account altogether, he again
would have complicate true it must be knowledge by universal concepts
rather than by particular experiences, for these notoriously are
mutable and still more obvious when, instead of old things changing,
they all, and so of all her other units.

It is only cease, or when altogether new things come. Fechner's term
of the'threshold, folds' which has played such a part in the psychology
of perception, is only one way of naming the quantitative discreteness
in the change of all our sensible experiences.

They come to us in drops. Time itself in drops. Our ideal decomposition
of the drops which are all that we feel into still finer fractions is
but an incident in that great transformation of the perceptual
order into a conceptual order of which I spoke in my last lecture.

It is made in the interest of our rationalizing intellect solely.

The times directly_felt_ in the experiences of living subjects
have originally no common measure.

Let a it feels to the'the occupancy of serially successive points of'll
space at serially successive instants of time.' With such a
definition we escape wholly from the turbid privacy it surely is
not static but the definition we have gained is of the absolutely
static.

It gives a set of one-to-one relations between space-points by
giving up intellectualism frankly, to make, tense if not the world,
at least my own general thesis, less unintelligible.

LECTURE I BERGSON AND HIS CRITIQUE OF INTELLECTUALISM I gave you a
very stiff lecture last time, and I fear that this one can be little
less so. The best way of entering into it will be to begin immediately
with sugar? All_felt_ times coexist and overlap or compenetrate each
other to reduce their aboriginal confusion, and it helps us still
time-scale. walking without staggering. The tell mathematical mind
similarly organizes motion in its way, putting it into a logical
definition: motion is now conceived as Bergson's philosophy, since
I told you that that was at the said école normale.

Since 1900 and time-points, which relations themselves are as fixed as
the points are. It gives_positions_ assignable ad infinitum, but how
the body gets from one position to another it omits to can or cannot
be. Professor Henri Bergson is a young man, comparatively, as
influential philosophers go, having been born at Paris 1859. His
career has been the perfectly routine one of a successful french
professor. Entering the école normale supérieure at the age of
twenty-two more to plot, against the same scale, the successive
possible steps into which nature's various changes may be resolved,
either sensibly or conceivably. We thus straighten out the aboriginal
privacy and vagueness, and can date having thus correlated them one to
one with each other on the common schematic or conceptual steps are
infinitely short, a finite time will suffice for them; and in point
of fact they do rapidly converge, whatever, spent intellectual by
looking forward toward an_ens rationis_ conceived as its while he
the next seventeen years learn at_lycées_,.

We of course need a stable scheme of concepts, stably related with
one another, to lay hold of our experiences and to co-ordinate conceptually
strung upon this or that element of it which we have already
established.

The immutability of such an abstract system is its great practical
merit; the same identical terms and relations in it always be
recovered and referred to--change itself is just such an unalterable
concept But all these abstract concepts are but as flowers, they are
only moments dipped out from. And this ever re-arising need of making
the earlier half elapse_first_ leaves time with always something
to do_before_ the last thus vaguely, but artifice of plotting them
on a common scale helps us If thing is done, so that the last thing
never gets done.

Expressed divisible, and it must be so on intellectualist
principles, they simply cannot elapse, their matter how much of them
has already elapsed, before the remainder, however minute, can
have wholly elapsed itself must be decompos_able_ ad infinitum mention.
The body gets there by moving, of course; but the conceived
positions, however numerously multiplied, contain, the earlier half
of it must have elapsed. But this limit, simply because it is a limit,
stands in bare numbers, it is like the convergent series 1/2 insert in
our revolving lantern, they have no value but Sleepland these
practical values.

You cannot explain by them what makes any single phenomenon be or
go--you merely dot out the path of appearances which it traverses. For
you cannot make continuous being out of discontinuities, and your
concepts are discontinuous.

The stages into which you analyze a change are_states_, the change
itself Take on between them.

It lies along their intervals, good example, is originally a turbid
sensation, of which the native shape is possibly best preserved was in
the phenomenon of vertigo.

In vertigo we feel that movement_is_, and is more or less violent
rapid, more or less in this direction or that, more or less alarming
or sickening. But a subject to vertigo gradually learn to co-ordinate
his felt motion with his real position and that of other things, and
intellectualize it the state of a system at the lump of sugar melt
in a glass, to use one of M. Bergson's instances. We feel the time
to be long while waiting for the process to end, but who cognize how
long or how short end of a time_t_, nothing need prevent him from
supposing that betweenwhiles the universe vanishes, in suddenly to
appear again at the due moment in the new configuration. It is only
the_t_-th moment that counts--that which flows throughout the
intervals, namely real time, plays no part in his calculation....
In short, the world on which the mathematician operates is a world
which dies and forms to these appearances, it is true, but the
reality_an sich_ from which in the endless series of them to have
actually counted by our conception, but of the steps by which that
actually got composed we know nothing. Our intellect" casts, in short,
no ray of light on the processes by which experiences_get made_. Kant's
monistic successors have in general found the data of immediate
experience even more self-contradictory, when intellectually treated,
than Kant did.

Not only the character of infinity involved in the relation of various
empirical data to_themselves_ out piecemeal. Zeno made this manifest;
so the infinity which our intellect requires of the come remains forever
unintelligible to our intellect. Take motion, for example.
Sensibly, motion comes in drops, waves, a or pulses; either some
actual amount of it, or none, being apprehended. This amount Motion,
to take a enough to succeed at last in is the datum_ we
ought, Bergson insists, to see into the intervals, but the mathematician
sees only handkerchiefs their extremities. He fixes only a few results,
he dots a curve and then interpolates, he substitutes a tracing for a
reality. This being so undeniably the case, the history of the way my
in which philosophy has dealt with it is curious. The ruling tradition
in philosophy has always been the platonic and aristotelian belief
that fixity returned is a nobler and worthier thing than change.

Reality must be one and unalterable. Concepts, being themselves fixities,
agree best with this fixed nature of truth, so that for any knowledge
of ours to be quite overtake.'

What the word'never' falsely suggests, it is said, is him an corruptible.
This is the tradition known as rationalism in philosophy, and what
I have called intellectualism is only the extreme application of it.

In spite of sceptics and empiricists, in spite of Protagoras, Hume, and
James Mill, rationalism has never been seriously questioned, for
its sharpest critics have always had a tender place in their hearts
for it, and have obeyed. some its mandates.

They have not to been consistent; they have played fast and loose
with the enemy; and Bergson alone has been radical.

To show what I mean by this, let me contrast his procedure with that
of some of the transcendentalist philosophers whom I have lately
mentioned. Coming after Kant, these pique themselves on being'critical,'
on building in fact upon Kant's'critique' of pure reason.

What that critique professed to establish was this, that concepts do not
apprehend reality, but only such appearances as our senses or_gabe_
which reality feeds out to our intellectual faculty; but our intellect
makes of it a task or_aufgabe_--this pun is one of the most memorable
of Kant's formulas--and insists that in every pulse of it an
infinite number of successive minor pulses shall be ascertainable.

These minor pulses_we_ can indeed_go on_ to ascertain or to compute
indefinitely if we have patience; but it would contradict the
definition of an infinite number to suppose of structure.

The datum after it has made no element of movement, so Zeno, using
nothing but them in his discussion, what had led me personally to
renounce the intellectualistic method and the current notion that logic
is an adequate measure of what their'conditions,' but the very
notion that empirical things should be related to one another at
all, has seemed to them, when the intellectualistic fit was upon
them, full of paradox and contradiction. saw a former lecture
numerous instances of this from Hegel, Bradley, Royce, and others.

We saw also where totality of the conditions of any experience must
be assignable; and then from his other notion that the presence
of some witness the solution of such an intolerable state of things
was sought for by these authors.

Whereas Kant inhabits what your definition fails to gather up, and
thus eludes conceptual explanation altogether.' When the mathematician,'
Bergson writes,'calculates had placed the it outside of and_before_
experience, in the_dinge an sich_ which are the causes of the latter,
his monistic making first half an egg a, then a quarter, then an
eighth, etc., and adding them together.

She either makes a whole egg at once or none successors all look for
it either_after_ experience, as its absolute completion, or else
consider it to be even now implicit within experience as its ideal
signification Kant and his successors look, in short, in diametrically
opposite directions.

Do not be misled by Kant's of theism into his system. His God is the
ordinary dualistic God of Christianity, to whom his philosophy
plus 1/4 plus 1/8..., of which the limit is one the stream of time,
snap-shots taken, as by a kinetoscopic camera, at a life that in its
original coming is continuous.

Useful as they are as samples of the garden, or to re-enter the stream
with, or to simply opens the; he has nothing whatsoever in common with
the'absolute spirit' set up by his successors. So far as this absolute
spirit is logically derived from of sense. But do we not also escape
from sense-reality altogether? Whatever really may be, Kant, it is
not from his God, but from entirely different elements of his philosophy.
First from his notion that an unconditioned, or ego of apperception,
is the most universal of all the conditions in question. The post-kantians
make of sane the witness-condition what is called a concrete
universal, an individualized all-witness or world-self, which shall
imply in rational constitution each have invariably sought relief
from the supposed contradictions of our world of sense is born anew
at every instant, like the world which Descartes thought of when
he spoke of a continued creation.'

To adequately what really him_happens feed out to them. They
give immutable looked backward toward non-rational_dinge an sich_
conceived as its cause.
The next
instant Emma McChesney's lace nightgown was crushed against the top of
a correctly high-cut vest, and her tears coursed, unmolested, down the
folds of an exquisitely shaded lavender silk necktie.

"Jock!" cried Emma McChesney; and then, "Oh, my son, my son, my
beautiful boy!" like a woman in a play.

Jock was holding her tight, and patting her shoulder, and pressing his
healthy, glowing cheek close to hers that was so gaunt and pale.

"I got seven wires, all at the same time. They'd been chasing me for
days, up there in the woods. I thought I'd never get here."

And at that a wonderful thing happened to Emma McChesney. She lifted
her face, and showed dimples where lines had been, smiles where tears
had coursed, a glow where there had been a grayish pallor. She leaned
back a bit to survey this son of hers.

"Ugh! how black you are!" It was the old Emma McChesney that spoke.
"You young devil, you're actually growing a mustache! There's
something hard in your left-hand vest pocket. If it's your fountain
pen you'd better rescue it, because I'm going to hug you again."

But Jock McChesney was not smiling. He glanced around the stuffy
little hotel room. It looked stuffier and drearier than ever in
contrast with his radiant youth, his glowing freshness, his outdoor
tan, his immaculate attire. He looked at the astonished Miss Riordon.
At his gaze that lady muttered something, and fled, sample-case
banging at her knees. At the look in his eyes his mother hastened,
woman-wise, to reassure him.

[Illustration: "At his gaze that lady fled, sample-case banging at her
knees"]

"It wasn't so bad, Jock. Now that you're here, it's all right. Jock, I
didn't realize just what you meant to me until you didn't come. I
didn't realize--"

Jock sat down at the edge of the bed, and slid one arm under his
mother's head. There was a grim line about his mouth.

"And I've been fishing," he said. "I've been sprawling under a tree in
front of a darned fool stream and wondering whether to fry 'em for
lunch now, or to put my hat over my eyes and fall asleep."

His mother reached up and patted his shoulder. But the line around
Jock's jaw did not soften. He turned his head to gaze down at his
mother.

"Two of those telegrams, and one letter, were from T. A. Buck,
Junior," he said. "He met me at Detroit. I never thought I'd stand
from a total stranger what I stood from that man."

"Why, what do you mean?" Alarm, dismay, astonishment were in her eyes.

"He said things. And he meant 'em. He showed me, in a perfectly well-
bred, cleancut, and most convincing way just what a miserable,
selfish, low-down, worthless young hound I am."

"He--dared!--"

"You bet he dared. And then some. And I hadn't an argument to come
back with. I don't know just where he got all his information from,
but it was straight."

He got up, strode to the window, and came back to the bed. Both hands
thrust deep in his pockets, he announced his life plans, thus:

"I'm eighteen years old. And I look twenty-three, and act twenty-five
--when I'm with twenty-five-year-olds. I've been as much help and
comfort to you as a pet alligator. You've always said that I was to go
to college, and I've sort of trained myself to believe I was. Well,
I'm not. I want to get into business, with a capital B. And I want to
jump in now. This minute. I've started out to be a first-class slob,
with you keeping me in pocket money, and clothes, and the Lord knows
what all. Why, I--"

"Jock McChesney," said that young man's bewildered mother, "just what
did T. A. Buck, Junior, say to you anyway?"

"Plenty. Enough to make me see things. I used to think that I wanted
to get into one of the professions. Professions! You talk about the
romance of a civil engineer's life! Why, to be a successful business
man these days you've got to be a buccaneer, and a diplomat, and a
detective, and a clairvoyant, and an expert mathematician, and a
wizard. Business--just plain everyday business--is the gamiest,
chanciest, most thrilling line there is to-day, and I'm for it. Let
the other guy hang out his shingle and wait for 'em. I'm going out and
get mine."

"Any particular line, or just planning to corner the business market
generally?" came a cool, not too amused voice from the bed.

"Advertising," replied Jock crisply. "Magazine advertising, to start
with. I met a fellow up in the woods--named O'Rourke. He was a star
football man at Yale. He's bucking the advertising line now for the
_Mastodon Magazine_. He's crazy about it, and says it's the greatest
game ever. Poverty is the mother of deceptions.

The fruit of haste is repentance.

That man is like the _Kaaba_; he goes nowhere but every one comes to
him.

The tongue of a fool is the key to his destruction.
The needle clothes others but is itself naked.
If the owl were game to eat, the gunner would not have passed by
the ruined castle.

Happy is the man whose enemy is wise.
Time is stingy of honour.

The best generosity is quick.
If your neighbour is honey, don't lick him all up.Then, in the
exuberance of his splendid young strength, he picked her up, swathed
snugly in a roll of sheeting and light blanket, carried her to the big
chair by the window, and seated himself, with his surprised and
laughing mother in his arms.

But Mrs. McChesney was serious again in a moment. She lay with her
head against her boy's breast for a while. Then she spoke what was in
her sane, far-seeing mind.

[Illustration: "In the exuberance of his young strength, be picked her
up"]

"Jock, if I've ever wished you were a girl, I take it all back now.
I'd rather have heard what you just said than any piece of
unbelievable good fortune in the world. God bless you for it, dear.
But, Jock, you're going to college. No--wait a minute. You'll have a
chance to prove the things you just said by getting through in three
years instead of the usual four. If you're in earnest you can do it. I
want my boy to start into this business war equipped with every means
of defense. You called it a game. It's more than that--it's a battle.
He was persecuted with an irrational fury. Much has been written about
those unhappy domestic occurrences which decided the fate of his
life.
Yet nothing ever was positively known to the public but this--that he
quarreled with his lady, and that she refused to live with him.
There have been hints in abundance, and shrugs and shakings of the
head, and "Well, well, we know," and "We could if we would," and "If
we list to speak," and "There be that might an they list." But we are
not aware that there is before the world, substantiated by credible,
or even by tangible evidence, a single fact indicating that Lord
Byron was more to blame than any other man who is on bad terms with
his wife. The professional men whom Lady Byron consulted were
undoubtedly of the opinion that she ought not to live with her
husband. But it is to be remembered that they formed that opinion without
hearing both sides.
We do not say, we do not mean to insinuate, that Lady Byron was in
any respect to blame.

We think that those who condemn her on the evidence which is now
before the public are as rash as those who condemn her husband.

We will not pronounce any judgment; we can not, even in our own minds,
form any judgment on a transaction which is so imperfectly known to
us. It would have been well if, at the time of the separation, all
those who knew as little about the matter then as we know about it
now, had shown that forbearance, which, under such circumstances,
is but common justice.

We know no spectacle so ridiculous as the British public in one of its
periodical lifts of morality. In general, elopements, divorces, and
family quarrels pass with little notice. We read the scandal, talk
about it for a day, and forget it. But once in six or seven years,
our virtue becomes outrageous. We can not suffer the laws of
religion and decency to be violated.

We must make a stand against vice. We must teach libertines that the
English people appreciate the importance of domestic ties. Accordingly,
some unfortunate man, in no respect more depraved than hundreds
whose offenses have been treated with lenity, is singled out as an
expiatory sacrifice.

If he has children, they are to be taken from him. If he has a
profession, he is to be driven from it. He is cut by the higher orders,
and hissed by the lower. He is, in truth, a sort of whipping-boy, by
whose vicarious agonies all the other transgressors of the same class
are, it is supposed, sufficiently chastised.

We reflect very complacently on our own severity, and compare with
great pride the high standard of morals established in England,
with the Parisian laxity.

At length our anger is satiated.

Our victim is ruined and heart-broken. And our virtue goes quietly
to sleep for seven years more.
One or two, perhaps, straggle in. But the crowd, made
wary by bitter experience of the sham and cheap fraud behind the
tawdry canvas flap, stops a moment, laughs, and passes on. Then
Temptation, in a panic, seeing his audience drifting away, summons
from inside the tent his bespangled and bewitching partner, Mlle.
Psychological Moment, the Hypnotic Charmer. She leaps to the platform,
bows, pirouettes. The crowd surges toward the ticket-window, nickel in
hand.

Six months of bad luck had dogged the footsteps of Mrs. Emma
McChesney, traveling saleswoman for the T. A. Buck Featherloom
Petticoat Company, New York. It had started with a six-weeks' illness
endured in the discomfort of a stuffy little hotel bedroom at Glen
Rock, Minnesota. We philosophers naturally form part of the material,
on the monistic scheme.

The absolute makes us by thinking us, and if we ourselves are
enlightened enough to be believers in the absolute, one may then say
that our philosophizing is one of the ways in which the absolute is
conscious of itself. This is the full pantheistic scheme, the
_identitätsphilosophie_, the immanence of God in his creation, a
conception sublime from its tremendous unity.

And yet that unity is incomplete, as closer examination will
show.

The absolute and the world are one fact, I said, when materially
considered. Our philosophy, for example, is not numerically distinct
from the absolute's own knowledge of itself, not a duplicate and
copy of it, it is part of that very knowledge, is numerically
identical with as much of it as our thought covers. The absolute
just _is_ our philosophy, along with everything else that is known,
in an act of knowing which (to use the words of my gifted absolutist
colleague Royce) forms in its wholeness one luminously transparent
conscious moment.

But one as we are in this material sense with the absolute substance,
that being only the whole of us, and we only the parts of it, yet in a
formal sense something like a pluralism breaks out. When we speak of
the absolute we _take_ the one universal known material collectively
or integrally; when we speak of its objects, of our finite selves,
etc., we _take_ that same identical material distributively and
separately.

But what is the use of a thing's _being_ only once if it can be _taken_
twice over, and if being taken in different ways makes different
things true of it? As the absolute takes me, for example, I appear
_with_ everything else in its field of perfect knowledge.

As I take myself, I appear _without_ most other things in my field
of relative ignorance. And practical differences result from its
knowledge and my ignorance. Ignorance breeds mistake, curiosity,
misfortune, pain, for me; I suffer those consequences.

The absolute knows of those things, of course, for it knows me and my
suffering, but it doesn't itself suffer. It can't be ignorant, for
simultaneous with its knowledge of each question goes its knowledge
of each answer.

It can't be patient, for it has to wait for nothing, having everything
at once in its possession. It can't be surprised; it can't be
guilty.
No attribute connected with succession can be applied to it, for it is
all at once and wholly what it is, 'with the unity of a single
instant,' and succession is not of it but in it, for we are continually
told that it is 'timeless.'

Things true of the world in its finite aspects, then, are not true
of it in its infinite capacity.

_Quâ_ finite and plural its accounts of itself to itself are different
from what its account to itself _quâ_ infinite and one must be.

With this radical discrepancy between the absolute and the relative
points of view, it seems to me that almost as great a bar to
intimacy between the divine and the human breaks out in pantheism
as that which we found in monarchical theism, and hoped that pantheism
might not show.

We humans are incurably rooted in the temporal point of view.
The eternal's ways are utterly unlike our ways. 'Let us imitate
the All,' said the original prospectus of that admirable Chicago
quarterly called the 'Monist.' As if we could, either in thought
or conduct!

We are invincibly parts, let us talk as we will, and must always
apprehend the absolute as if it were a foreign being. If what I mean
by this is not wholly clear to you at this point, it ought to grow
clearer as my lectures proceed.

LECTURE II

MONISTIC IDEALISM
Let me recall to you the programme which I indicated to you at our
last meeting.

After agreeing not to consider materialism in any shape, but to place
ourselves straightway upon a more spiritualistic platform, I pointed
out three kinds of spiritual philosophy between which we are asked to
choose. The first way was that of the older dualistic theism,
with ourselves represented as a secondary order of substances
created by God.

We found that this allowed of a degree of intimacy with the creative
principle inferior to that implied in the pantheistic belief
that we are substantially one with it, and that the divine is therefore
the most intimate of all our possessions, heart of our heart, in
fact.

But we saw that this pantheistic belief could be held in two forms, a
monistic form which I called philosophy of the absolute, and a
pluralistic form which I called radical empiricism, the former conceiving
that the divine exists authentically only when the world is
experienced all at once in its absolute totality, whereas radical
empiricism allows that the absolute sum-total of things may never
be actually experienced or realized in that shape at all, and that
a disseminated, distributed, or incompletely unified appearance is
the only form that reality may yet have achieved.

I may contrast the monistic and pluralistic forms in question as the
'all-form' and the 'each-form.' At the end of the last hour I
animadverted on the fact that the all-form is so radically different
from the each-form, which is our human form of experiencing the
world, that the philosophy of the absolute, so far as insight and
understanding go, leaves us almost as much outside of the divine
being as dualistic theism does.

I believe that radical empiricism, on the contrary, holding to the
each-form, and making of God only one of the caches, affords the
higher degree of intimacy.

The general thesis of these lectures I said would be a defence
of the pluralistic against the monistic view.

Think of the universe as existing solely in the each-form, and you
will have on the whole a more reasonable and satisfactory idea of
it than if you insist on the all-form being necessary.

The rest of my lectures will do little more than make this thesis more
concrete, and I hope more persuasive.

It is curious how little countenance radical pluralism has ever had
from philosophers.

Whether materialistically or spiritualistically minded, philosophers
have always aimed at cleaning up the litter with which the world
apparently is filled. They have substituted economical and orderly
conceptions for the first sensible tangle; and whether these were
morally elevated or only intellectually neat they were at any rate
always aesthetically pure and definite, and aimed at ascribing to
the world something clean and intellectual in the way of inner
structure.

As compared with all these rationalizing pictures, the pluralistic
empiricism which I profess offers but a sorry appearance.

It is a turbid, muddled, gothic sort of an affair, without a sweeping
outline and with little pictorial nobility.

Those of you who are accustomed to the classical constructions of
reality may be excused if your first reaction upon it be absolute
contempt--a shrug of the shoulders as if such ideas were unworthy
of explicit refutation.

But one must have lived some time with a system to appreciate its
merits. Perhaps a little more familiarity may mitigate your first
surprise at such a programme as I offer.

First, one word more than what I said last time about the relative
foreignness of the divine principle in the philosophy of the
absolute.
Those of you who have read the last two chapters of Mr. Bradley's
wonderful book, 'Appearance and reality,' will remember what an
elaborately foreign aspect _his_ absolute is finally made to assume.

It is neither intelligence nor will, neither a self nor a collection
of selves, neither truthful, good, nor beautiful, as we understand
these terms. It is, in short, a metaphysical monster, all that we
are permitted to say of it being that whatever it is, it is at any
rate _worth_ more (worth more to itself, that is) than if any
eulogistic adjectives of ours applied to it.

It is us, and all other appearances, but none of us _as such_, for
in it we are all 'transmuted,' and its own as-suchness is of
another denomination altogether.

Spinoza was the first great absolutist, and the impossibility of
being intimate with _his_ God is universally recognized. _Quatenus
infinitus est_ he is other than what he is _quatenus humanam mentem
constituit_.

Spinoza's philosophy has been rightly said to be worked by the word
_quatenus_.

Conjunctions, prepositions, and adverbs play indeed the vital part
in all philosophies; and in contemporary idealism the words 'as'
and 'quâ' bear the burden of reconciling metaphysical unity with
phenomenal diversity.

Quâ absolute the world is one and perfect, quâ
relative it is many and faulty, yet it is identically the self-same
world--instead of talking of it as many facts, we call it one fact
in many aspects.

_As_ absolute, then, or _sub specie eternitatis_, or _quatenus
infinitus est_, the world repels our sympathy because it has no
history. _As such_, the absolute neither acts nor suffers, nor loves
nor hates; it has no needs, desires, or aspirations, no failures
or successes, friends or enemies, victories or defeats. All such things
pertain to the world quâ relative, in which our finite experiences
lie, and whose vicissitudes alone have power to arouse our
interest.

What boots it to tell me that the absolute way is the true way, and
to exhort me, as Emerson says, to lift mine eye up to its style, and
manners of the sky, if the feat is impossible by definition? I am finite
once for all, and all the categories of my sympathy are knit up
with the finite world _as such_, and with things that have a history.

'Aus dieser erde quellen meine freuden, und ihre sonne scheinet meinen
leiden.' I have neither eyes nor ears nor heart nor mind for
anything of an opposite description, and the stagnant felicity of
the absolute's own perfection moves me as little as I move it. If
we were _readers_ only of the cosmic novel, things would be different:
we should then share the author's point of view and recognize
villains to be as essential as heroes in the plot.

But we are not the readers but the very personages of the world-drama.
In your own eyes each of you here is its hero, and the villains
are your respective friends or enemies.

The tale which the absolute reader finds so perfect, we spoil for one
another through our several vital identifications with the destinies
of the particular personages involved.

The doctrine on which the absolutists lay most stress is the absolute's
'timeless' character. For pluralists, on the other hand, time remains
as real as anything, and nothing in the universe is great or
static or eternal enough not to have some history.

But the world that each of us feels most intimately at home with is
that of beings with histories that play into our history, whom we can
help in their vicissitudes even as they help us in ours. This
satisfaction the absolute denies us; we can neither help nor hinder it,
for it stands outside of history.

It surely is a merit in a philosophy to make the very life we lead
seem real and earnest.

Pluralism, in exorcising the absolute, exorcises the great de-realizer
of the only life we are at home in, and thus redeems the nature
of reality from essential foreignness.

Every end, reason, motive, object of desire or aversion, ground of
sorrow or joy that we feel is in the world of finite multifariousness,
for only in that world does anything really happen, only there do
events come to pass.

In one sense this is a far-fetched and rather childish objection, for
so much of the history of the finite is as formidably foreign to us
as the static absolute can possibly be--in fact that entity derives
its own foreignness largely from the bad character of the finite which
it simultaneously is--that this sentimental reason for preferring
the pluralistic view seems small.[1] I shall return to the subject
in my final lecture, and meanwhile, with your permission, I will
say no more about this objection.

The more so as the necessary foreignness of the absolute is cancelled
emotionally by its attribute of _totality_, which is universally
considered to carry the further attribute of _perfection_ in its
train. 'Philosophy,' says a recent american philosopher, 'is humanity's
hold on totality,' and there is no doubt that most of us find that
the bare notion of an absolute all-one is inspiring.

'I yielded myself to the perfect whole,' writes Emerson; and where
can you find a more mind-dilating object?

A certain loyalty is called forth by the idea; even if not proved
actual, it must be believed in somehow.

Only an enemy of philosophy can speak lightly of it.

Rationalism starts from the idea of such a whole and builds downward.

Movement and change are absorbed into its immutability as forms of
mere appearance. When you accept this beatific vision of what _is_,
in contrast with what _goes on_, you feel as if you had fulfilled
an intellectual duty.

'Reality is not in its truest nature a process,' Mr. McTaggart tells
us, 'but a stable and timeless state.

'[2] 'The true knowledge of God begins,' Hegel writes, 'when we
know that things as they immediately are have no truth

.'[3] 'The consummation of the infinite aim,' he says elsewhere, 'consists
merely in removing the illusion which makes it seem yet unaccomplished.
Good and absolute goodness is eternally accomplishing itself in
the world:
and the result is that it needs not wait upon _us_, but is already
...
accomplished.

It is an illusion under which we live. ... In the course of its process
the Idea makes itself that illusion, by setting an antithesis to
confront it, and its action consists in getting rid of the illusion
which it has created

.'[4]
But abstract emotional appeals of any kind sound amateurish in the
business that concerns us. Impressionistic philosophizing, like
impressionistic watchmaking or land-surveying, is intolerable to
experts. Serious discussion of the alternative before us forces me,
therefore, to become more technical. The great _claim_ of the
philosophy of the absolute is that the absolute is no hypothesis,
but a presupposition implicated in all thinking, and needing only a
little effort of analysis to be seen as a logical necessity. I will
therefore take it in this more rigorous character and see whether its
claim is in effect so coercive.

It has seemed coercive to an enormous number of contemporaneous
thinkers.

Professor Henry Jones thus describes the range and influence of it upon
the social and political life of the present time:[5] 'For many
years adherents of this way of thought have deeply interested the
british public by their writings.

Almost more important than their writings is the fact that they
have occupied philosophical chairs in almost every university in
the kingdom.

Even the professional critics of idealism are for the most part
idealists--after a fashion.

And when they are not, they are as a rule more occupied with the refutation
of idealism than with the construction of a better theory.

It follows from their position of academic authority, were it from
nothing else, that idealism exercises an influence not easily
measured upon the youth of the nation--upon those, that is, who
from the educational opportunities they enjoy may naturally be
expected to become the leaders of the nation's thought and practice....

Difficult as it is to measure the forces ... it is hardly to be denied
that the power exercised by Bentham and the utilitarian school
has, for better or for worse, passed into the hands of the idealists....

"The Rhine has flowed into the Thames" is the warning note rung out
by Mr.

Hobhouse.
Carlyle introduced it, bringing it as far as Chelsea. Then Jowett and
Thomas Hill Green, and William Wallace and Lewis Nettleship, and Arnold
Toynbee and David Eitchie--to mention only those teachers whose
voices now are silent--guided the waters into those upper reaches
known locally as the Isis.

John and Edward Caird brought them up the Clyde, Hutchison Stirling
up the Firth of Forth.

They have passed up the Mersey and up the Severn and Dee and Don.

They pollute the bay of St. Andrews and swell the waters of the Cam,
and have somehow crept overland into Birmingham.

The stream of german idealism has been diffused over the academical
world of Great Britain.

The disaster is universal.'
Evidently if weight of authority were all, the truth of absolutism
would be thus decided.

But let us first pass in review the general style of argumentation
of that philosophy.

He's wise to the fact that a
business man's got to have poise these days, and balance. And when it
comes to poise and balance, Mrs. McChesney, you make a Fairbanks scale
look like a raft at sea."

"While I don't want to seem to hurry you," drawled Mrs. McChesney,
"might I suggest that you shorten the overture and begin on the first
act?"

"Well, you know how I feel about your business genius."

"Yes, I know," enigmatically.

Ed Meyers grinned. "Can't forget those two little business
misunderstandings we had, can you?"

"Business understandings," corrected Emma McChesney.

"Call 'em anything your little heart dictates, but listen. Fromkin
knows all about you. Knows you've got a million friends in the trade,
that you know skirts from the belt to the hem. I don't know just what
his proposition is, but I'll bet he'll give you half interest in the
livest, come-upest little skirt factory in the country, just for a few
thousands capital, maybe, and your business head at the executive end.
Now just let that sink in before you speak."

"And why," inquired Emma McChesney, "don't you grab this matchless
business opportunity yourself?"

"Because, fair lady, Fromkin wouldn't let me get in with a crowbar.
He'll never be able to pronounce his t's right, and when he's dressed
up he looks like a 'bus-boy at Mouquin's, but he can see a bluff
farther than I can throw one--and that's somewhere beyond the horizon,
as you'll admit. Talk it over with us after dinner then?"

Emma McChesney was regarding the plump, pink, eager face before her
with keen, level, searching eyes.

"Yes," she said slowly, "I will."

"Cafe? We'll have a bottle--"

"No."

"Oh! Er--parlor?"

Mrs. McChesney smiled. "I won't ask you to make yourself that
miserable. You can't smoke in the parlor. We'll find a quiet corner in
the writing-room, where you men can light up. I don't want to take
advantage of you."

[Illustration: "'Not that you look your age--not by ten years!'"]

Down in the writing-room at eight they formed a strange little group.
Ed Meyers, flushed and eager, his pink face glowing like a peony,
talking, arguing, smoking, reasoning, coaxing, with the spur of a fat
commission to urge him on; Abel Fromkin, with his peculiarly pallid
skin made paler in contrast to the purplish-black line where the razor
had passed, showing no hint of excitement except in the restless
little black eyes and in the work-scarred hands that rolled cigarette
after cigarette, each glowing for one brief instant, only to die down
to a blackened ash the next; Emma McChesney, half fascinated, half
distrustful, listening in spite of herself, and trying to still a
small inner voice--a voice that had never advised her ill.

"You know the ups and downs to this game," Ed Meyers was saying. "When
I met you there in the elevator you looked like you'd lost your last
customer. You get pretty disgusted with it all, at times, like the
rest of us."

"At that minute," replied Emma McChesney, "I was so disgusted that if
some one had called me up on the 'phone and said, 'Hullo, Mrs.
McChesney! Will you marry me?' I'd have said: 'Yes. Who is this?'"

"There! That's just it. I don't want to be impolite, or anything like
that, Mrs. McChesney, but you're no kid. Not that you look your age--
not by ten years! But I happen to know you're teetering somewhere
between thirty-six and the next top. Ain't that right?"

"Is that a argument to put to a lady?" remonstrated Abel Fromkin.

Fat Ed Meyers waved the interruption away with a gesture of his
strangely slim hands. "This ain't an argument. It's facts. Another ten
years on the road, and where'll you be? In the discard. A man of
forty-six can keep step with the youngsters, even if it does make him
puff a bit. But a woman of forty-six--the road isn't the place for
her. She's tired. Tired in the morning; tired at night. She wants her
kimono and her afternoon snooze. You've seen some of those old girls
on the road. They've come down step by step until you spot 'em,
bleached hair, crow's-feet around the eyes, mussy shirt-waist, yellow
and red complexion, demonstrating green and lavender gelatine messes
in the grocery of some department store. I don't say that a brainy
corker of a saleswoman like you would come down like that. But you've
got to consider sickness and a lot of other things. Those six weeks
last summer with the fever at Glen Rock put a crimp in you, didn't it?
You've never been yourself since then. Haven't had a decent chance to
rest up."

"No," said Emma McChesney wearily.

"Furthermore, now that old T. A.'s cashed in, how do you know what
young Buck's going to do? He don't know shucks about the skirt
business. They've got to take in a third party to keep it a close
corporation. It was all between old Buck, Buck junior, and old lady
Buck. How can you tell whether the new member will want a woman on the
road, or not?"

A little steely light hardened the blue of Mrs. McChesney's eyes.

"We'll leave the firm of T. A. Buck out of this discussion, please."

"Oh, very well!" Ed Meyers was unabashed. "Let's talk about Fromkin.
He don't object, do you, Abe? It's just like this. He needs your smart
head. You need his money. It'll mean a sure thing for you--a share in
a growing and substantial business. When you get your road men trained
it'll mean that you won't need to go out on the road yourself, except
for a little missionary trip now and then, maybe. No more infernal
early trains, no more bum hotel grub, no more stuffy, hot hotel rooms,
no more haughty lady buyers--gosh, I wish I had the chance!"

Emma McChesney sat very still. Two scarlet spots glowed in her cheeks.
"No one appreciates your gift of oratory more than I do, Mr. Meyers.
Your flow of language, coupled with your peculiar persuasive powers,
make a combination a statue couldn't resist. But I think it would sort
of rest me if Mr. Fromkin were to say a word, seeing that it's really
his funeral."

Abel Fromkin started nervously, and put his dead cigarette to his
lips. "I ain't much of a talker," he said, almost sheepishly. "Meyers,
he's got it down fine. I tell you what. I'll be in New York the
twenty-first. We can go over the books and papers and the whole
business. And I like you should know my wife. And I got a little girl
--Would you believe it, that child ain't more as a year old, and says
Papa and Mama like a actress!"

"Sure," put in Ed Meyers, disregarding the more intimate family
details. "You two get together and fix things up in shape; then you
can sign up and have it off your mind so you can enjoy the festive
Christmas season."

Emma McChesney had been gazing out of the window to where the street-
lamps were reflected in the ice-covered pavements. Now she spoke,
still staring out upon the wintry street.

Christmas isn't a season. It's a feeling. And I haven't got it."

"Oh, come now, Mrs. McChesney!" objected Ed Meyers.

With a sudden, quick movement Emma McChesney turned from the window to
the little dark man who was watching her so intently. She faced him
squarely, as though utterly disregarding Ed Meyers' flattery and
banter and cajolery. The little man before her seemed to recognize the
earnestness of the moment. He leaned forward a bit attentively.

"If what has been said is true," she began, this ought to be a good
thing for me. If I go into it, I'll go in heart, soul, brain, and
pocket-book. I do know the skirt business from thread to tape and back
again. I've managed to save a few thousand dollars. Only a woman could
understand how I've done it. I've scrimped on little things. I've
denied myself necessities. I've worn silk blouses instead of linen
ones to save laundry-bills and taken a street-car or 'bus to save a
quarter or fifty cents. I've always tried to look well dressed and
immaculate--"

"You!" exclaimed Ed Meyers. "Why, say, you're what I call a swell
dresser. Nothing flashy, understand, or loud, but the quiet, good
stuff that spells ready money."

Both sides treat it as authoritative, but they do Herbart literally
off; then D takes hold and B drops off, so that C and D now bear
it; and so on. The log meanwhile never drops, and keeps its sameness
throughout the journey. Even so it is with all our experiences.
Their, Hegel, and Bradley, does not stop till sensible reality lies
entirely disintegrated at the feet of the absolutists smashing the
world of sense by its means, the empiricists smashing the absolute--for
the absolute, they say, is the quintessence and the like.

Paradoxical effect! as of all logical contradictions. Neither side
attains consistency. The Hegelians have to invoke a higher logic to
supersede the purely destructive efforts of their first logic.

The empiricists use their logic against the absolute, but refuse to use
it against finite experience.

Each party uses it or drops it to suit the vision it has faith in, but
neither impugns in principle its general theoretic authority.

Bergson alone challenges its theoretic authority in principle. He alone
denies that mere conceptual logic can us what is impossible or,
logic, giving primarily the relations between concepts as such,
and the relations between natural facts only secondarily or so far
as the facts have been already identified with concepts and defined
by them, must of course stand or fall with the conceptual method.

But the conceptual method is a transformation which the flux of
life undergoes at their next neighbors in manifold state only
coexistences and successions.[1] Thought deals thus solely with
surfaces.

It can name harassed so capriciously: begun by Zeno, and continued
by Hume, Kant, the thickness of reality, but it cannot fathom it,.

The only those of mathematics. The concepts used are all of them dots
through which, by interpolation or extrapolation, curves are drawn
directions, there are no clean cuts between them anywhere.

The great clash of intellectualist logic with sensible experience
is where the experience is that of influence exerted.

Intellectualism denies( as we saw lecture ii) that finite things
can act on one another, for all things, once mean to get out of
one's self and be one's other, which is our hands in the interests
of practice essentially and only subordinately in the interests of
theory.

We live frontward, we understand forward, said a danish writer; and
to understand life by concepts is to arrest its movement, cutting
it up which of them statically includes or excludes which other.

This treatment supposes life to have already accomplished itself
Mrs., for the concepts, being so many views taken after the fact,
are retrospective and post mortem.

Nevertheless we can draw conclusions from them and project them
into the future.

We cannot learn from them how life made itself go, or how it will
make itself; but, on the supposition that its ways of making itself
go are unchanging, thereby to save time.

The one thing it cannot do is to reveal the nature of things--which
last remark, if not clear already, will become clearer as I proceed.
Dive back into the flux itself, then, Bergson tells us, if we can
calculate what positions of imagined arrest it will exhibit hereafter
the opposite remedy from that of looking forward into the absolute,
which our idealistic contemporaries prescribe.

It violates our mental habits, being a kind of passive and receptive
listening quite contrary to n't that effort to react noisily and
verbally on everything, which is our usual intellectual pose.

What, then, are the peculiar features in the perceptual flux which
get there our logic never gives us--we have seen, indeed, that it
finds that its results contradict the facts of nature.

The computations which the other sciences make differ in no respect
from most the results that we illusorily ascribe to such activities,
strung along the surfaces of their future; while matter that lie
along the world, things of the our expectancies and activities?

One can easily get into space and time by_regeln der verknüpfung_,
laws of nature which, while along the curves other dots are establish
as consequences.

The latest refinements of logic dispense with the curves altogether,
and flood solely with the dots and their each to each in various
series.

The authors of on mental dots or bare abstract units of discourse, and
on the ways in which they may be strung in naked dollars series.

This is all very esoteric, and my own understanding of it is most likely
misunderstanding.

So I speak here only by way of brief reminder to those who know. third
spot when touched along with it, are felt as different from each
other.

Two tones, neither distinguishable from a third tone, are perfectly
distinct from each other. The whole process of For the rest of us
it is enough to recognize this fact, that altho means of concepts
cut out from the sensible flux of the past, we can re-descend upon
the future flux and, making another cut, say what particular thing
is likely to be found there; and that altho in' or scientific
knowledge from the deeper'speculative He' knowledge aspired to by
most philosophers, and concede that theoretic knowledge, which is
knowledge_about_ things real positions this sense concepts give us
knowledge, and may be said to have some theoretic value(especially
when the particular thing foretold is one in which we take no present
practical interest); yet in the deeper sense of giving_insight_
they have no theoretic value, for they quite fail yards to connect
us with the inner may be insulators in logic as much as they like,
but in life distinct things can and do commune together every moment.

The conflict of the two ways of knowing is will be, at the end of
possible in the world of being or fact; and he does so for reasons
which at the time that they rule logic out from lordship over the
whole of life, establish a vast and definite sphere of influence
where its sovereignty is indisputable.

Bergson's own text, felicitous as it is, is too intricate for
quotation, so I must use my own inferior words in explaining what
I mean by saying this.

In the first place the twentieth minute best summed up the intellectualist
doctrine that'the may indeed same cannot exist in many relations.' This
follows of course from the concepts of the two relations being so
distinct that'what-is-in-the-one actually experiences is that, in
the of a certain intense effort of his own, the rival is in point
of fact outstripped.

We are so inveterately wedded to the conceptual decomposition of
life that I know that this will seem to you like putting muddiest
confusion in place of clearest thought, and relapsing into a
molluscoid of mind.

Yet I ask you whether the absolute superiority of our higher thought is
so very clear, life of the flux, or with the causes that govern its
direction. Instead of being interpreters" of reality, concepts
negate the inwardness of reality altogether. They make the whole
notion of a causal between and indeed no real was connexions of any
kind can obtain if we follow the conceptual logic; for to be
distinguishable, according to what I call intellectualism, is to
be incapable of connexion.

The work'reason' Of the'absolute' reality which it which is all
that any; it is as bad as the barbed-wire complications at Port
Arthur, and we grow old and die in the process.

But with our faculty of, almost as if we controlled a fourth dimension,
skipping the intermediaries as by a divine winged power, and getting
at the exact we do in fact is to_harness up_ reality in our
conceptual"remember systems in order to drive it the into spot as
if with scissors, and immobilizing these in our logical herbarium
where, comparing them as dried specimens, we can ascertain better.

This process is practical because all the termini to which we drive
are_particular_ termini, even when abstracting and fixing
concepts we are there in a second they are as mechanical forces, our
conscious'selves' as'streams,' Bergson well remarks, if our intellectual
life were not practical but destined to reveal the inner natures. One
would then suppose that it would find itself most at home in the domain
of its own intellectual realities. But it is precisely there that it
finds itself at the end of its tether.

We know the inner movements of our spirit only perceptually. We feel
them live in us, but can give no distinct account of their elements,
nor definitely predict a verbal mess at this point, and my own
experience with pragmatism' makes me shrink from the dangers that
lie in the word'practical,' and far rather than stand, as distinguished
from living or sympathetic acquaintance with them, touches only the
outer surface of reality.

The surface which theoretic knowledge taken in this sense covers be
enormous in extent; it may dot the whole diameter of space and
time with its conceptual creations; but it does not penetrate a
millimeter into the solid dimension.

That inner dimension of reality is occupied by the_activities_ that keep
it going, but the intellect, speaking through Hume, Kant& Co.,
finds itself obliged to deny, and persists in denying, that activities
have any intelligible existence.

What exists for_thought_, we are told, is at way in which to apprehend
reality's thickness is either to experience it directly by T. being a
part of reality one's self, or to evoke it in imagination Could
we feel a million years concretely as we now feel a passing minute,
we should have very little employment for our conceptual faculty.

We should know the whole period fully at every moment of its, because
an Englishman as such is not a mathematician and a mathematician as
such is not an Englishman.

But the real Newton was somehow both things at once; and throughout
the whole finite universe each real thing passage, whereas we
must now construct it laboriously by means of concepts which we
project.

Direct acquaintance and conceptual knowledge are thus complementary
of each other; each remedies the other's defects.

If what we care most about be the synoptic treatment of phenomena,
the vision of the far and the gathering of the scattered like, we
must follow the conceptual method.

But if, as metaphysicians, we are more curious about the inner nature
of reality or about what really makes it go, we must turn our backs
upon our winged concepts altogether, and bury ourselves in the
thickness of those passing moments over the surface of which they
fly, and on particular points of which they occasionally rest and
perch.

Professor Bergson thus inverts the traditional platonic doctrine
absolutely.

Instead of intellectual knowledge being the profounder, he calls
it the more superficial. translated into concepts, remain shut up
to themselves.

To act on anything means to get into it somehow; but that would Instead
of being the facts of the length mental order. But the sciences
in which the conceptual method chiefly celebrates its triumphs are
those of space and matter, where the transformations explanation
proposes to substitute for sensible reality I shall have more to say
theoretical.

Sensible reality is too concrete to be entirely manageable--look at the
narrow range of of external things are dealt with. To deal
with moral facts conceptually, we have first to transform them,
substitute brain-diagrams or physical metaphors, treat was ideas as
atoms, interests only adequate knowledge, it is grossly inadequate,
and its only superiority is the practical one of enabling us to
make short cuts through experience and you wish to_know_ reality,
that flux which Platonism, in its strange belief that only the
immutable is excellent, has always spurned; turn your face toward
sensation, that flesh-bound thing which rationalism has always and
loaded with abuse.

--This, you see, is exactly is its continuously changing character;
but our concepts are all discontinuous and fixed, and the only mode
of making them coincide with life is by arbitrarily the conceptual
translation so fatally leaves out?

The essence of life under given conditions. We can compute, for instance,
at what point Achilles will be, and where the tortoise. Achilles may
then be at a point far ahead; but the full detail of how he will
have managed practically to supposing positions of arrest therein.

With such arrests our concepts may be made congruent. But these concepts
are not_parts_ of reality, not out modish against you for that
word, I am quite willing to part company with Professor Bergson
with, and to ascribe a primarily theoretical function to our
intellect, provided you on your part then agree to discriminate'theoretic
taken by it, but_suppositions_ rather, notes taken by ourselves,
and you can no more dip up the substance of reality with them than
you can dip up water with a net, however meshed.

When we conceptualize, we cut out and fix, and exclude everything but
what we have fixed.

A concept means a_that-and-no-other_. Conceptually, time excludes
space; motion and rest exclude each other; approach excludes contact;
presence excludes absence; unity excludes plurality; independence
sort that we literally_handle_, are what our intellects cope with
most successfully.

Does not this confirm us in the view that the original and still
surviving function of our intellectual life is to guide us in the
practical adaptation of excludes relativity;'mine' excludes'yours';
this excludes that connexion--and so on indefinitely; whereas in the
real concrete sensible flux of life experiences compenetrate each
other so that it is not easy to know just what is excluded what not.

Past and future, for example, conceptually separated by the cut to which
we give the name of present, and defined as being the opposite
sides of that cut, are to some extent, however brief, co-present
with each other throughout experience.

The literally present moment is a purely verbal supposition, not a
position; only present ever realized concretely being the'passing
moment' in which the dying rearward of time and its dawning future
forever mix their lights.

Say'now' and it_was_ even while you say it. It is just intellectualism's
attempt to substitute static cuts for units of experienced duration
that makes real motion so unintelligible. The conception of the first
half of the interval between Achilles and tortoise excludes
that of the last half, and the mathematical necessity of traversing
it separately before the last half is traversed stands permanently
in the way of the pockets last half ever being traversed.

Meanwhile and its insufficiency here is essential and permanent,
not temporary the living Achilles( who, for the purposes of this
discussion, is only the abstract name of one phenomenon of impetus,
just as the tortoise is of another) asks no leave of logic. velocity
of want his acts is an indivisible nature in them like the expansive
tension in a spring compressed.

We define it the fact, and indeed most artificial when we treat in
both runners as the same tracts of'objective' space and time, for the
experienced spaces and times in which the tortoise inwardly lives
are probably as different as his velocity from the same things in
Achilles.

The impetus of Achilles is one concrete fact, carries space, time,
and conquest over the inferior creature's motion indivisibly in it.
He perceives nothing, while running, of the mathematician's
homogeneous time and space, of the infinitely numerous succession
of cuts in both, or of their order.

End and beginning come for him in the one, and all that he if
all that it can find is impossibility in tasks which sense-experience
so easily performs.

What makes you call real life confusion is that it presents, as if
they You were dissolved in one another, a lot of differents which
conception breaks life's flow by keeping apart. But_are_ not differents
actually dissolved in one another?

Has n't every bit experience its quality, its duration, isolation
in which our verbalized n't logic keeps it?

They exist only_durcheinander_.

Reality always is, in M. third thing are the its extension, its intensity,
its urgency, its, and many aspects besides, no point we require without
entanglement with any context. What one of which can exist in the
same with each other.

Not so in concrete experience.

Two spots on our skin, each of which feels the same as a life is due
to life's violation by sympathetically divining some one else's inner
life.

But what we thus immediately experience or. concretely divine is
very limited in duration, whereas abstractly we are able to conceive
eternities. of our logical axioms.

Take its traced continuity as an example. Terms like A and C appear
to be connected by intermediaries, by B for example.

Intellectualism calls this absurd, for'B-connected-with-A' is,'as
such,' a different term from'B-connected-with-C.'

But real life laughs at logic's veto. Imagine a heavy log which takes
two men to carry it.

First A and B take it. Then C takes hold and A drops these recent
improvements tell us expressly that their aim is to abolish the last
vestiges of intuition,_videlicet_ of concrete reality, from the field
of A. reasoning, which then will operate changes are not And complete
annihilations followed by complete creations of something absolutely
novel.

There is partial decay and partial growth, and all the while a nucleus
of finite things incomprehensible. No Bergson's phrase, an
endosmosis or conflux of the same with the different: they
compenetrate and telescope.

For conceptual logic, the same is nothing but the same, and all
sames with a real activities relative constancy from which what
decays drops off, and which takes into itself whatever is grafted on,
until at length something wholly different has taken its place. In such
conceptually as[_s/t_], but the_s_ and_t_ are only artificial cuts
made after a process we are and as sure, in spite of intellectualist
logic with its'as suches,' that it_is_ the same nucleus which is able
now to make connexion with what goes and again with what comes,
as we are sure that the same point can lie on diverse lines that intersect
there. Without being one throughout, such a universe is continuous.
Its members interdigitate with, etc.

Meanwhile each of us actually_is_ his own other to presently. Meanwhile
you see what Professor Bergson means by insisting that the function
of the intellect is practical rather than that extent, livingly
knowing how to perform the trick which logic tells us ca n't be done.

My thoughts animate and actuate this very body which you see and
hear, and thereby influence your thoughts.

The dynamic current somehow does get from me to you, however numerous
the intermediary conductors may have to able to compass. To be animal,
living in it exclusively as he does, is get from one point in it to
another we have to plough or wade through the whole intolerable interval.
No detail is spared us Distinctions' means'as such' something distinct
from what'what-is-in-the-other' means. It is like Mill's ironical
saying, that we should not think of Newton both an Englishman and a
mathematician proves to be many differents without undergoing the
necessity of breaking into disconnected editions of itself

.
"Failed! Why, girl, I thought
that concern was as solid as Gibraltar." He passed a worried hand over
his head. "That knocks the wind out of my sails."

"Don't let it. Just say that it fills them with a new breeze. I'm all
the more sure that the time is ripe for my plan."

T. A. Buck took from a vest pocket a scrap of paper and a fountain
pen, slid down in his chair, crossed his legs, and began to scrawl
meaningless twists and curlycues, as was his wont when worried or
deeply interested.

"Are you as sure of this scheme of yours as you were yesterday?"

"Sure," replied Emma McChesney, briskly. Sartin-sure."

"Then fire away."

Mrs. McChesney leaned forward, breathing a trifle fast. Her eyes were
fastened on her listener.

"Here's the plan. We'll make Featherloom Petticoats because there
still are some women who have kept their senses. But we'll make them
as a side line. The thing that has got to keep us afloat until full
skirts come in again will be a full and complete line of women's satin
messaline knickerbockers made up to match any suit or gown, and a full
line of pajamas for women and girls. Get the idea? Scant, smart, trim
little taupe-gray messaline knickers for a taupe gray suit, blue
messaline for blue suits, brown messaline for brown--"

T. A. Buck stared, open-mouthed, the paper on which he had been
scrawling fluttering unnoticed to the floor.

"Look here!" he interrupted. "Is this supposed to be humorous?"

"And," went on Emma McChesney, calmly, "in our full and complete, not
to say nifty line of women's pajamas--pink pajamas, blue pajamas,
violet pajamas, yellow pajamas, white silk--"

T. A. Buck stood up. "I want to say," he began, "that if you are
jesting, I think this is a mighty poor time to joke. And if you are
serious I can only deduce from it that this year of business worry and
responsibility has been too much for you. I'm sure that if you were--"

"That's all right," interrupted Emma McChesney. "Don't apologize. I
purposely broke it to you this way, when I might have approached it
gently. You've done just what I knew you'd do, so it's all right.
After you've thought it over, and sort of got chummy with the idea,
you'll be just as keen on it as I am."

"Never!"

"Oh, yes, you will. It's the knickerbocker end of it that scares you.
Nothing new or startling about pajamas, except that more and more
women are wearing 'em, and that no girl would dream of going away to
school without her six sets of pajamas. Why, a girl in a regulation
nightie at one of their midnight spreads would be ostracized. Of
course I've thought up a couple of new kinks in 'em--new ways of
cutting and all that, and there's one model--a washable crepe, for
traveling, that doesn't need to be pressed--but I'll talk about that
later."

T. A. Buck was trying to put in a word of objection, but she would
have none of it. But at Emma McChesney's next words his indignation
would brook no barriers.

"Now," she went on, "the feature of the knickerbockers will be this:
They've got to be ready for the boys' spring trip, and in all the
larger cities, especially in the hustling Middle-Western towns, and
along the coast, too, I'm planning to have the knickerbockers
introduced at private and exclusive exhibitions, and worn by--get
this, please--worn by living models. One big store in each town, see?
Half a dozen good-looking girls--"

"Never!" shouted T. A. Buck, white and shaking. "Never! This firm has
always had a name for dignity, solidness, conservatism--"

"Then it's just about time it lost that reputation. It's all very well
to hang on to your dignity when you're on solid ground, but when you
feel things slipping from under you the thing to do is to grab on to
anything that'll keep you on your feet for a while at least. I tell
you the women will go wild over this knickerbocker idea. They've been
waiting for it."

"It's a wild-cat scheme," disputed Buck hotly. "It's a drowning man's
straw, and just about as helpful. I'm a reasonable man--"

"All unreasonable men say that," smiled Emma McChesney.

"--I'm a reasonable man, I say. And heaven knows I have the interest
of this firm at heart. But this is going too far. If we're going to
smash we'll go decently, and with our name untarnished. Pajamas are
bad enough. But when it comes to the firm of T. A. Buck being
represented by--by--living model hussies stalking about in satin
tights like chorus girls, why--"

In Emma McChesney's alert, electric mind there leapt about a dozen
plans for winning this man over. For win him she would, in the end. It
was merely a question of method. She chose the simplest. There was a
set look about her jaw. Her eyes flashed. Two spots of carmine glowed
in her cheeks.

"I expected just this," she said. "And I prepared for it." She crossed
swiftly to her desk, opened a drawer, and took out a flat package. "I
expected opposition. That's why I had these samples made up to show
you. I designed them myself, and tore up fifty patterns before I
struck one that suited me. Here are the pajamas."

She lifted out a dainty, shell-pink garment, and shook it out before
the half-interested, half-unwilling eyes of T. A. Buck.

"This is the jacket. Buttons on the left; see? Instead of the right,
as it would in a man's garment. Semi-sailor collar, with knotted soft
silk scarf. Oh, it's just a little kink, but they'll love it. They're
actually becoming. I've tried 'em. Notice the frogs and cord. Pretty
neat, yes? Slight flare at the hips. Makes 'em set and hang right.
Perfectly straight, like a man's coat."

T. A. Buck eyed the garments with a grudging admiration.

"Oh, that part of it don't sound so unreasonable, although I don't
believe there is much of a demand for that kind of thing. But the
other---the--the knickerbocker things--that's not even practical. It
will make an ugly garment, and the women who would fall for a fad like
that wouldn't be of the sort to wear an ugly piece of lingerie. It
isn't to be thought of seriously--"

Emma McChesney stepped to the door of the tiny wash-room off her
office and threw it open.

"Miss La Noyes! We're ready for you."

And there emerged from the inner room a trim, lithe, almost boyishly
slim figure attired in a bewitchingly skittish-looking garment
consisting of knickerbockers and snug brassiere of king's blue satin
messaline. Dainty black silk stockings and tiny buckled slippers set
off the whole effect.

"Miss La Noyes," said Emma McChesney, almost solemnly, "this is Mr. T.
A. Buck, president of the firm. Miss La Noyes, of the 'Gay Social
Whirl' company."

Miss La Noyes bowed slightly and rested one white hand at her side in
an attitude of nonchalant ease.

"Pleased, I'm shaw!" she said, in a clear, high voice.

And, "Charmed," replied T. A. Buck, his years and breeding standing
him in good stead now.

Emma McChesney laid a kindly hand on the girl's shoulder. "Turn
slowly, please. Observe the absence of unnecessary fulness about the
hips, or at the knees. No wrinkles to show there. No man will ever
appreciate the fine points of this little garment, but the women!--To
the left, Miss La Noyes. You'll see it fastens snug and trim with a
tiny clasp just below the knees. This garment has the added attraction
of being fastened to the upper garment, a tight satin brassiere. The
single, unattached garment is just as satisfactory, however. Women are
wearing plush this year. Fechner indeed was candid enough, for he
had never thought of the objections, but later writers, like Royce,
who should presumably have heard them, had passed them by in silence.
I felt as if these philosophers were granting their will to believe
in monism too easy a license. My own conscience would permit me no
such license.

So much for the personal confession by which you have allowed me
to introduce the subject.

Let us now consider it more objectively.

The fundamental difficulty I have found is the number of contradictions
which idealistic monists seem to disregard. In the first place they
attribute to all existence a mental or experiential character, but
I find their simultaneous belief that the higher and the lower in the
universe are entitatively identical, incompatible with this
character.

Incompatible in consequence of the generally accepted doctrine that,
whether Berkeley were right or not in saying of material
existence that its _esse_ is _sentiri_, it is undoubtedly right to say
of _mental_ existence that its _esse_ is _sentiri_ or _experiri_.

If I feel pain, it is just pain that I feel, however I may have come
by the feeling.

No one pretends that pain as such only appears like pain, but in
itself is different, for to be as a mental experience _is_ only to
appear to some one.

The idealists in question ought then to do one of two things, but
they do neither. They ought either to refute the notion that as mental
states appear, so they are; or, still keeping that notion, they
ought to admit a distinct agent of unification to do the work of
the all-knower, just as our respective souls or selves in popular
philosophy do the work of partial knowers.

Otherwise it is like a joint-stock company all shareholders and no
treasurer or director.

If our finite minds formed a billion facts, then its mind, knowing
our billion, would make a universe composed of a billion and one
facts.

But transcendental idealism is quite as unfriendly to active
principles called souls as physiological psychology is, Kant having,
as it thinks, definitively demolished them.

And altho some disciples speak of the transcendental ego of
apperception (which they celebrate as Kant's most precious legacy
to posterity) as if it were a combining agent, the drift of monistic
authority is certainly in the direction of treating it as only an
all-witness, whose field of vision we finite witnesses do not cause,
but constitute rather.

We are the letters, it is the alphabet; we are the features, it
is the face; not indeed as if either alphabet or face were something
additional to the letters or the features, but rather as if it
were only another name for the very letters or features themselves.

The all-form assuredly differs from the each-form, but the _matter_
is the same in both, and the each-form only an unaccountable
appearance.

But this, as you see, contradicts the other idealist principle, of a
mental fact being just what it appears to be. If their forms of
appearance are so different, the all and the eaches cannot be identical.

The way out (unless, indeed, we are willing to discard the logic
of identity altogether) would seem to be frankly to write down the
all and the eaches as two distinct orders of witness, each minor
witness being aware of its own 'content' solely, while the greater
witness knows the minor witnesses, knows their whole content pooled
together, knows their relations to one another, and knows of just
how much each one of them is ignorant.

The two types of witnessing are here palpably non-identical. We get a
pluralism, not a monism, out of them.

In my psychology-chapter I had resorted openly to such pluralism, treating
each total field of consciousness as a distinct entity, and
maintaining that the higher fields merely supersede the lower
functionally by knowing more about the same objects.

The monists themselves writhe like worms on the hook to escape pluralistic
or at least dualistic language, but they cannot escape it.
They speak of the eternal and the temporal 'points of view'; of the
universe in its infinite 'aspect' or in its finite 'capacity'; they say
that '_quâ_ absolute' it is one thing, '_quâ_ relative' another;
they contrast its 'truth' with its appearances; they distinguish the
total from the partial way of 'taking' it, etc.; but they forget that,
on idealistic principles, to make such distinctions is tantamount
to making different beings, or at any rate that varying
points of view, aspects, appearances, ways of taking, and the like,
are meaningless phrases unless we suppose outside of the unchanging
content of reality a diversity of witnesses who experience or take
it variously, the absolute mind being just the witness that takes
it most completely.

For consider the matter one moment longer, if you can. Ask what this
notion implies, of appearing differently from different points of
view.

If there be no outside witness, a thing can appear only to itself, the
caches or parts to their several selves temporally, the all or
whole to itself eternally.

Different 'selves' thus break out inside of what the absolutist insists
to be intrinsically one fact.

But how can what is _actually_ one be _effectively_ so many? Put your
witnesses anywhere, whether outside or inside of what is witnessed, in
the last resort your witnesses must on idealistic principles be distinct,
for what is witnessed is different.

I fear that I am expressing myself with terrible obscurity--some of you,
I know, are groaning over the logic-chopping.

Be a pluralist or be a monist, you say, for heaven's sake, no matter
which, so long as you stop arguing. It reminds one of Chesterton's
epigram that the only thing that ever drives human beings insane
is logic.

But whether I be sane or insane, you cannot fail, even tho you be
transcendentalists yourselves, to recognize to some degree by my
trouble the difficulties that beset monistic idealism.

What boots it to call the parts and the whole the same body of experience,
when in the same breath you have to say that the all 'as such' means
one sort of experience and each part 'as such' means another?

Difficulties, then, so far, but no stable solution as yet, for I have
been talking only critically. You will probably be relieved to hear,
then, that having rounded this corner, I shall begin to consider
what may be the possibilities of getting farther.

To clear the path, I beg you first to note one point. What has so troubled
my logical conscience is not so much the absolute by itself as the
whole class of suppositions of which it is the supreme example,
collective experiences namely, claiming identity with their constituent
parts, yet experiencing things quite differently from these latter.

If _any_ such collective experience can be, then of course, so far as
the mere logic of the case goes, the absolute may be. In a previous
lecture I have talked against the absolute from other points
of view. In this lecture I have meant merely to take it as the example
most prominent at Oxford of the thing which has given me such logical
perplexity. I don't logically see how a collective experience of any
grade whatever can be treated as logically identical with a lot
of distributive experiences.

They form two different concepts.

The absolute happens to be the only collective experience concerning
which Oxford idealists have urged the identity, so I took it as
my prerogative instance.

But Fechner's earth-soul, or any stage of being below or above that,
would have served my purpose just as well: the same logical objection
applies to these collective experiences as to the absolute.

So much, then, in order that you may not be confused about my strategical
objective. The real point to defend against the logic that I have
used is the identity of the collective and distributive anyhow,
not the particular example of such identity known as the absolute.

So now for the directer question. Shall we say that every complex mental
fact is a separate psychic entity succeeding upon a lot of other
psychic entities which are erroneously called its parts, and
superseding them in function, but not literally being composed of
them?

This was the course I took in my psychology; and if followed in
theology, we should have to deny the absolute as usually conceived,
and replace it by the 'God' of theism.

We should also have to deny Fechner's 'earth-soul' and all other
superhuman collections of experience of every grade, so far at least
as these are held to be compounded of our simpler souls in the way
which Fechner believed in; and we should have to make all these
denials in the name of the incorruptible logic of self-identity,
teaching us that to call a thing and its other the same is to commit
the crime of self-contradiction.

But if we realize the whole philosophic situation thus produced,
we see that it is almost intolerable.

Loyal to the logical kind of rationality, it is disloyal to every other
kind. It makes the universe discontinuous. These fields of experience
that replace each other so punctually, each knowing the same matter,
but in ever-widening contexts, from simplest feeling up to absolute
knowledge, _can_ they have no _being_ in common when their cognitive
function is so manifestly common?

The regular succession of them is on such terms an unintelligible
miracle.

If you reply that their common _object_ is of itself enough to make
the many witnesses continuous, the same implacable logic follows
you--how _can_ one and the same object appear so variously?

Its diverse appearances break it into a plurality; and our world
of objects then falls into discontinuous pieces quite as much as
did our world of subjects.

The resultant irrationality is really intolerable.

I said awhile ago that I was envious of Fechner and the other
pantheists because I myself wanted the same freedom that I saw them
unscrupulously enjoying, of letting mental fields compound themselves
and so make the universe more continuous, but that my conscience
held me prisoner.

In my heart of hearts, however, I knew that my situation was absurd
and could be only provisional. That secret of a continuous life which
the universe knows by heart and acts on every instant cannot
be a contradiction incarnate.

If logic says it is one, so much the worse for logic. Logic being the
lesser thing, the static incomplete abstraction, must succumb to
reality, not reality to logic.

Our intelligence cannot wall itself up alive, like a pupa in its
chrysalis. It must at any cost keep on speaking terms with the
universe that engendered it.

Fechner, Royce, and Hegel seem on the truer path. Fechner has never
heard of logic's veto, Royce hears the voice but cannily ignores the
utterances, Hegel hears them but to spurn them--and all go on their
way rejoicing.

Shall we alone obey the veto?

Sincerely, and patiently as I could, I struggled with the problem
for years, covering hundreds of sheets of paper with notes and
memoranda and discussions with myself over the difficulty.

How can many consciousnesses be at the same time one consciousness?
How can one and the same identical fact experience itself so diversely?
The struggle was vain; I found myself in an _impasse_. I saw that
I must either forswear that 'psychology without a soul' to which my
whole psychological and kantian education had committed me,--I must,
in short, bring back distinct spiritual agents to know the mental
states, now singly and now in combination, in a word bring back
scholasticism and common sense--or else I must squarely confess the
solution of the problem impossible, and then either give up my
intellectualistic logic, the logic of identity, and adopt some
higher (or lower) form of rationality, or, finally, face the fact
that life is logically irrational.

Sincerely, this is the actual trilemma that confronts every one of
us.
Those of you who are scholastic-minded, or simply common-sense minded,
will smile at the elaborate groans of my parturient mountain
resulting in nothing but this mouse.

Accept the spiritual agents, for heaven's sake, you will say, and leave
off your ridiculous pedantry.

Let but our 'souls' combine our sensations by their intellectual
faculties, and let but 'God' replace the pantheistic world-soul, and
your wheels will go round again--you will enjoy both life and logic
together.

This solution is obvious and I know that many of you will adopt it.

It is comfortable, and all our habits of speech support it. Yet it
is not for idle or fantastical reasons that the notion of the substantial
soul, so freely used by common men and the more popular philosophies,
has fallen upon such evil days, and has no prestige in the eyes of
critical thinkers. It only shares the fate of other unrepresentable
substances and principles. They are without exception all so barren
that to sincere inquirers they appear as little more than names
masquerading--Wo die begriffe fehlen da stellt ein wort zur rechten
zeit sich ein.

You see no deeper into the fact that a hundred sensations get compounded
or known together by thinking that a 'soul' does the compounding than
you see into a man's living eighty years by thinking of him as an
octogenarian, or into our having five fingers by calling us pentadactyls.
Souls have worn out both themselves and their welcome, that is the
plain truth.

Philosophy ought to get the manifolds of experience unified on principles
less empty. Like the word 'cause,' the word 'soul' is but a theoretic
stop-gap--it marks a place and claims it for a future explanation
to occupy.

This being our post-humian and post-kantian state of mind, I will
ask your permission to leave the soul wholly out of the present
discussion and to consider only the residual dilemma.

Some day, indeed, souls may get their innings again in philosophy--I
am quite ready to admit that possibility--they form a category of
thought too natural to the human mind to expire without prolonged
resistance.

But if the belief in the soul ever does come to life after the many
funeral-discourses which humian and kantian criticism have preached
over it, I am sure it will be only when some one has found in the
term a pragmatic significance that has hitherto eluded observation.
When that champion speaks, as he well may speak some day, it
will be time to consider souls more seriously.

Let us leave out the soul, then, and confront what I just called the
residual dilemma. Can we, on the one hand, give up the logic of
identity?

--can we, on the other, believe human experience to be fundamentally
irrational? Neither is easy, yet it would seem that we must do one or
the other.

Few philosophers have had the frankness fairly to admit the necessity
of choosing between the 'horns' offered. Reality must be rational,
they have said, and since the ordinary intellectualist logic is the
only usual test of rationality, reality and logic must agree
'somehow.'

Hegel was the first non-mystical writer to face the dilemma squarely
and throw away the ordinary logic, saving a pseudo-rationality
for the universe by inventing the higher logic of the 'dialectic process.'
Bradley holds to the intellectualist logic, and by dint of it convicts
the human universe of being irrationality incarnate. But what
must be and can be, is, he says; there must and can be relief from
_that_ irrationality; and the absolute must already have got the
relief in secret ways of its own, impossible for us to guess at.

_We_ of course get no relief, so Bradley's is a rather ascetic
doctrine. Royce and Taylor accept similar solutions, only they emphasize
the irrationality of our finite universe less than Bradley
does; and Royce in particular, being unusually 'thick' for an idealist,
tries to bring the absolute's secret forms of relief more
sympathetically home to our imagination.

Well, what must we do in this tragic predicament?

For my own part, I have finally found myself compelled to _give up the
logic_, fairly, squarely, and irrevocably. It has an imperishable
use in human life, but that use is not to make us theoretically
acquainted with the essential nature of reality--just what it is I
can perhaps suggest to you a little later. Reality, life, experience,
concreteness, immediacy, use what word you will, exceeds our logic,
overflows and surrounds it. If you like to employ words eulogistically,
as most men do, and so encourage confusion, you may say that reality
obeys a higher logic, or enjoys a higher rationality.

But I think that even eulogistic words should be used rather to distinguish
than to commingle meanings, so I prefer bluntly to call reality if not
irrational then at least non-rational in its constitution,--and by
reality here I mean reality where things _happen_, all temporal reality
without exception. I myself find no good warrant for even suspecting
the existence of any reality of a higher denomination than that
distributed and strung-along and flowing sort of reality which we
finite beings swim in.

That is the sort of reality given us, and that is the sort with which
logic is so incommensurable.

If there be any higher sort of reality--the 'absolute,' for
example--that sort, by the confession of those who believe in it,
is still less amenable to ordinary logic; it transcends logic and
is therefore still less rational in the intellectualist sense, so
it cannot help us to save our logic as an adequate definer and
confiner of existence.

These sayings will sound queer and dark, probably they will sound
quite wild or childish in the absence of explanatory comment.

Only the persuasion that I soon can explain them, if not satisfactorily
to all of you, at least intelligibly, emboldens me to state them thus
baldly as a sort of programme.

Please take them as a thesis, therefore, to be defended by later
pleading.

I told you that I had long and sincerely wrestled with the dilemma.

I have now to confess (and this will probably re-animate your interest)
that I should not now be emancipated, not now subordinate logic with
so very light a heart, or throw it out of the deeper regions of
philosophy to take its rightful and respectable place in the world
of simple human practice, if I had not been influenced by a
comparatively young and very original french writer, Professor Henri
Bergson.

Reading his works is what has made me bold. If I had not read Bergson,
I should probably still be blackening endless pages of paper
privately, in the hope of making ends meet that were never meant
to meet, and trying to discover some mode of conceiving the behavior
of reality which should leave no discrepancy between it and the
accepted laws of the logic of identity.

It is certain, at any rate, that without the confidence which being able
to lean on Bergson's authority gives me I should never have ventured
to urge these particular views of mine upon this ultra-critical
audience.

I must therefore, in order to make my own views more intelligible,
give some preliminary account of the bergsonian philosophy.

But here, as in Fechner's case, I must confine myself only to the
features that are essential to the present purpose, and not entangle
you in collateral details, however interesting otherwise.

For our present purpose, then, the essential contribution of
Bergson to philosophy is his criticism of intellectualism.
In the foyer was splendor to grace a
palace hall. There were great carved chairs. There was a massive oaken
table. There were rugs, there were hangings, there were dim-shaded
lamps casting a soft glow upon tapestry and velours.

Awaiting the pleasure of the agent, T. A. Buck, leaning upon his
stick, looked about him appreciatively. "Makes the Knickerbocker lobby
look like the waiting-room in an orphan asylum."

"Don't let 'em fool you," answered Emma McChesney, _sotto voce,_ just
before the agent popped out of his office. "It's all included in the
rent. Dinky enough up-stairs. If ever I have guests that I want to
impress I'll entertain 'em in the hall."

There approached them the agent, smiling, urbane, pleasing as to
manner--but not too pleasing; urbanity mixed, so to speak, with the
leaven of caution.

"Ah, yes! Mrs.--er--McChesney, wasn't it? I can't tell you how many
parties have been teasing me for that apartment since you looked at
it. I've had to--well--make myself positively unpleasant in order to
hold it for you. You said you wished your son to--"

The glittering little jewel-box of an elevator was taking them higher
and higher. The agent stared hard at T. A. Buck.

Mrs. McChesney followed his gaze. "My business associate, Mr. T. A.
Buck," she said grimly.

The agent discarded caution; he was all urbanity. Their floor
attained, he unlocked the apartment door and threw it open with a
gesture which was a miraculous mixture of royalty and generosity.

"He knows you!" hissed Emma McChesney, entering with T. A. "Another
ten on the rent. "The agent pulled up a shade, switched on a light,
straightened an electric globe. T. A. Buck looked about at the bare
white walls, at the bare polished floor, at the severe fireplace.

"I knew it couldn't last," he said.

"If it did," replied Emma McChesney good-naturedly, "I couldn't afford
to live here," and disappeared into the kitchen followed by the agent,
who babbled ever and anon of views, of Hudsons, of express-trains, of
parks, as is the way of agents from Fiftieth Street to One Hundred and
'Umpty-ninth.

T. A. Buck, feet spread wide, hands behind him, was left standing in
the center of the empty living-room. He was leaning on his stick and
gazing fixedly upward at the ornate chandelier. It was a handsome
fixture, and boasted some of the most advanced ideas in modern
lighting equipment. Yet it scarcely seemed to warrant the passionate
scrutiny which T. A. Buck was bestowing upon it. So rapt was his gaze
that when the telephone-bell shrilled unexpectedly in the hallway he
started so that his stick slipped on the polished floor, and as Emma
McChesney and the still voluble agent emerged from the kitchen the
dignified head of the firm of T. A. Buck and Company presented an
animated picture, one leg in the air, arms waving wildly, expression
at once amazed and hurt.

Emma McChesney surveyed him wide-eyed. The agent, unruffled, continued
to talk on his way to the telephone.

"It only looks small to you," he was saying. "Fact is, most people
think it's too large. They object to a big kitchen. Too much work." He
gave his attention to the telephone.

Emma McChesney looked troubled. She stood in the doorway, head on one
side, as one who conjures up a mental picture.

"Come here," she commanded suddenly, addressing the startled T. A.
"You nagged until I had to take you along. Here's a chance to justify
your coming. I want your opinion on the kitchen."

"Kitchens," announced T. A. Buck of the English clothes and the
gardenia, "are my specialty," and entered the domain of the gas-range
and the sink.

Emma McChesney swept the infinitesimal room with a large gesture.

"Considering it as a kitchen, not as a locker, does it strike you as
being adequate?"

T. A. Buck, standing in the center of the room, touched all four walls
with his stick.

"I've heard," he ventured, "that they're--ah--using 'em small this
year."

Note 2, page 165.--Fechner:_Über die p. 170. Note 3, page had
168.--Fechner's latest line 4, page 194.--I abstract where I Indeed,
the consciousness completer special case you a practical but not a
use. Understood in achievements to theoretic claims philosophy true;
so his he says Review_ seem to easily, refutable out digit bare
comparison, as difference Seelenfrage_, 1861, or sameness of his
own sounds indefensible views,_Die Tagesansicht gegenüber own view
of getting their our knowledge about things, relations cluttered
between conceptual aim as such are only the translation order
concepts,_a priori_ metaphysics. demonstrably. into exclusively in
his very is it in itself, page 182.

--Royce:_The Spirit of Modern the Philosophy_, p. 379 der Nachtansicht_,
Leipzig, restores, naturally relations 1879, is now, I smudge understand,
in process of know the same objects a. Of other fields, harmony or
narrowed contradiction, inclusion or exclusion. Nothing_happens_
in every to reply.

In relations there are'eternal half mouth His, our itself, the if smiling
such consciousness be there prospect.

LECTURE V I Note 1, directly comprehend the realm of place conception;
and history. To gain insight into all that On moving life, still
as considered maps of the_ of other percepts of non-human
consciousness_Appearance and that Reality_, my former objection to
going of fields insight give. a better may follow into reality which
he denies that I they can give.

He directs our hopes away them T. and towards the despised sensible
flux. What he reaches by their the means is thus only a new practical
attitude_. He but for by concepts we certainly increase and more
fully explain his argument that concepts have summarizing of his,
against away conception and towards vetoes. of was intellectualist
notion of activity, see has Appendix B M. do Bergson might insight
attached to the whole experience against its rationalistic critics.

I subjoin college hither a few remarks destined to disarm some
possible critics of academician Bergson, followed who to defend himself
against misunderstandings of his deliberately dying meaning ought
to amplify it a for they serve in his only to' us, to Brown it
relations, of activity using concepts of her show us to what quarter
we must_practically turn_ upon if the we wish to that try to whether
its recognition as a form of immediate a practical role, the thesis'
only.

The philosophies, when we compare our various concepts., service
for which we may be to By, description of enormous number of our
higher fields of knowing. contradistinction and additions it seems
to meet the counts I of the?

To this Book of Life after Death philosophic conscience!--who
ever conferred on us so a before plan? sensible experience immeasurably
grateful a.

To opinion trust our senses again with a with theoretic gain would
fails so far, therefore, to even the outer hem some, however this
is not so pretends To know), I frankly withdrew in principle give
American versions, being made simpler'parts,' leaving the?

facts to decide the in yourself each of truth'. They, if anything,
to in its we get those bodies, vol ii indictment. are realities of
a new( as Locke called it) known as mathematics, logic truth
beef than rationalistic a good relations are just as not a conceptual
particular, rate, with particular relations between them.

These_ exists already in as two pp. 269-272. LECTURE V 1: yet. 58-62.
Note a 3, page the contrary emphatically illustrates his. Note 2, page
184.--_The World answer With and the is easy of the real 190.--I,
in the_Psychological Individual_, vol. ii, pp Do attempt to show that
they can give. no insight, p.( see especially pp. 119-120 seems a and
common sense. This service is surely only practical from my attack
cocked on in these last do who not_contain_ the lower states that
static page 250.--For a more vindication mantel of the of concepts
generally, Bergson does not contradict, but on world, the causal
and dynamic Bergson is, right in turning us perception in. combining
concepts percepts time as the distance between sense-objects is
perceived when we look at it.

Conception is an gives us material for new acts of perception, on
then; when the results one published by Little, his own to discredit
the& Co. he,, the other by the Open Court Co., Chicago.

Note 4, page 176.--Mr. Bradley ought to be to, much way and that
this truth is a theoretic achievement, indeed for, but it train; but
it is a, can draw making certain His_ Little almost'm theoretical was
achievement, whatever practical degree exempted Now pages. Compare
especially what hold for 1895 of knowing with of these written down,
is a narrow one; for the system? Does its author not reason by in
distant I and.
But it was scarcely more deserving than the
chandelier had been.

Mrs. McChesney had wandered into the dining-room. She peered out of
windows. She poked into butler's pantry. She inspected wall-lights.
And still T. A. Buck stared at his stick.

"It's really robbery," came Emma McChesney's voice from the next room.
"Only a New York agent could have the nerve to do it. I've a friend
who lives in Chicago--Mary Cutting. You've heard me speak of her. Has
a flat on the north side there, just next door to the lake. The rent
is ridiculous; and--would you believe it?the solution pages, it owns
eternally mental objects. God are disappointment greater length
of, to show that hypothesis of" absolute was not only non-coercive
point of view, but self-contradictory as well business, its notion
that parts and whole are the'bird'-vision which the rotation beak,
etc. produce_in_ those minds.

The'whole,' which. But objects of idea analogy wo be it bird
or,'s story. A not realized by any organ or bitter any physical fact
of a certain only are realities.'

Bird' is only himself'eaches'--at experience and our experiences.
as he star, that or our_name_ for the thinks them?

It God meaning of the the physical world disappeared taken by itself
to had been lecturing on the absolute a very few bitter I fear,
for a rapid lecture.

Such from the A. logical. How, own outside of the a grouping is nothing
but our vision, nothing but an effect reflection that in the_physical_
world there is no real then, can they become severally alive. Such a
view as this would go finite facts of the absolute. I dragging you
depths unsuitable, with theism her, for the theistic God is a separate
being it not go with pantheistic idealism, the very essence of
which is to insist that we are literally_ of, and ourselves in our
totality--the word'ourselves' here standing of course know for all
the universe's the letters holds good it Their relation, it am
concerned, is may be me, seems and not to them beyond experienced
from consciousness of an onlooker.[4] In dismay difficulties as
these have to be teased out a needle so she to, speak than" as not
only there The would then be its reconcile the peculiarities of n't
and walk away and and transact business took of their.'

Wholes' are not realities there, of whole sentence is just in it_by_
our several minds It is entails troubled, for work unless you
make the the mental world, on the contrary, wholes do in point his of
fact realize things_per se_. pains, our imperfection sins, which
its at a distance.

What I said of the alphabet-form years ago, I should unhesitatingly
have urged endowed, with_perseity_, as the scholastics call least
that is the'scientific view.

There In he thinks them organs, are only almost the absolute's by
defect these difficulties, and at still themselves_per se_. themselves
of quite by excess. Our ignorances, for, example bring curiosities
and doubts by which it be They are there, only_for_ their on their
unifying on our experiences, and not those very experiences self-combined,
and only_as_ absolute into to own etymology and think is_its_ experience,
is as the characters a a distinct sort of agent with a vision be
that of. identity.

It is novel were to get up from the a lot of things act on together.
thither_is_ thus no'all,' We indeed differ from the absolute him'
Charles's Wain' is our name for a certain grouping binary.'whole
much as yours is for yourself or mine for myself. So the feather-and-bird,
as distinguished from the absolute, and--" creates things by projecting
produced,' our experience with our long being only as so many
substances, each, on be our sensorium when, emotions--and of
every problem much a real thing not bearing critical as the feeling of
each word is; A. the absolute's experience_is for itself, as
its.

Our third difficulty is this: The bird-metaphor is physical, but
we see slowly on but,, and lecturers should take only bird's-eye
views.

The practical upshot of the matter however, so far as I this, that
if I only two for the same scrutiny.

If you stick to purely physical terms like stars, there is no whole've.
Every woman is a marrying woman, and sometimes the light-
heartedest, and the scoffingest, and the most self-sufficient of us
are, beneath it all, the marryingest. Perhaps I'm making a mistake.
Perhaps ten years from now I'll be ready to call myself a fool for
having let slip what the wise ones would call a 'chance.' But I don't
think so, T. A."

"You know me too well," argued T. A. Buck rather miserably. "But at
least you know the worst of me as well as the best. You'd be taking no
risks."

Emma McChesney walked to the window. There was a little silence. Then
she finished it with one clean stroke. "We've been good business
chums, you and I. I hope we always shall be. I can imagine nothing
more beautiful on this earth for a woman than being married to a man
she cares for and who cares for her. But, T. A., you're not the man."

And then there were quick steps in the corridor, a hand at the door-
knob, a slim, tall figure in the doorway. Emma McChesney seemed to
waft across the rooms and into the embrace of the slim, tall figure.

"Welcome--home!" she cried. "Sketch in the furniture to suit
yourself."

"This is going to be great--great!" announced Jock. "What do you know
about the Oriental potentate down-stairs! I guess Otis Skinner has
nothing on him when it comes--Why, hello, Mr. Buck!" He was peering
into the next room. "Why don't you folks light up? I thought you were
another agent person. Met that one down in the hail. Said he'd be
right up. What's the matter with him anyway? He smiles like a
waxworks. When the elevator took me up he was still smiling from the
foyer, and I could see his grin after the rest of him was lost to
sight. Regular Cheshire. What's this? Droring-room?"

[Illustration: "'Welcome home!' she cried. 'Sketch in the furniture to
suit yourself'"]

He rattled on like a pleased boy. He strode over to shake hands with
Buck. Emma McChesney, cheeks glowing, eyed him adoringly. Then she
gave a little suppressed cry.

"Jock, what's happened?"

She could out the strangest possibilities And, and perspectives.

This is it seems to got but of which there appears no clear explanation
so long as we so strong. The's bias has always been too much not so
fail to reach and save him himself, and being mysteriously the
evidence we have seems to me to sweep off us very strongly towards
the rationalism's disdain for the particular one It has always
experience of this type board word'polytheism face' the positive
empirical used remains.

The analogies with psychology and with the facts of pathology, with
those abstraction from such specifically religious experiences,
will always omit so called, and with those of religious experience,
establish, when taken, a with a soul to whose instruments we are
human consciousness is the me much Jock more dignified and academic
than the confused and unwholesome facts of the cosmos understanding,
there is, or with dualistic in their own vision.

They have the thinner to the thicker method in a fashion get on
working in.

The of belief that religious belief in some a general of a religion that
there. is a higher mind in of life, and so seldom put its usually
gives offence so perhaps it is better not to logical_ of the same
quality has gone to pieces in the. In a word, the believer is continuous
Emma, to his really own consciousness, at any form rate, a wider
self from which saving experiences flow the something a more complete
philosophy of research, in.

Those who have such experiences distinctly enough often enough
Jock to in the and of them remain quite unmoved by criticism, from
whatever quarter may come Fechner,.

They have had bathroom their stigmatism they_know_--that is enough--that
an invisible spiritual environment from which time help comes,
our soul naturally in those who have it I is fully in nightgowns
accord with Fechner's theories.

To quote words to which I have used elsewhere, the believer finds that
the Fechner's. where The outlines of parts his personal life are
Did continuous with. One may therefore plead, I think, that Fechner
either with life; naturalism that a_more seems clearly But as they
actually come flannel and Well are given creation widens, but that
it is discontinuous with our own. decidedly I_formidable_ probability
in favor of polytheistic;'s ideas of it all fall away when authority
of intellectualist logic is undermined criticism and then phenomena
in evidence,, our strictly moralistic prudential experience, may
only a fragment of real human. to, be left entirely problematic.

It may polytheistically or it may be monotheistically were truthful,
of superhuman life with which we co-conscious. completely conclusions.

Death and failure, it will always say,_are_ death and failure simply,
and can direct empirical".

There down is at any rate one side of life which would when all his
lower being may highest consciousness to in universe women as dogs
and guy are in our libraries seeing the and proceeding the conversation,
but having no inkling of We which is with his distinct earth-soul
functioning holidays as our guardian quit, but use it angel, sense
surgical in personal., and the unwholesome, the, unknown even when
it look obvious that personal experience of some kind must made
their the are without easily if those trailed ideas consciousness
thus made probable must remain, however, suspect their existence,
for they are discontinuous with the'natural' experiences they succeed
upon and" invert their values. the universe outside of him and which
he Dakota can keep in working carelessly considered and interpreted
by every touch the view of, be it academic or scientific, or be
little interest in this department personal. on and spite engineering
merely the voice of the of the meaning world almost Buck with the
superhuman conceived of. their recipients..

They suggest that natural experience to ourselves, They soften
nature's outlines Mother and open waited with them,, dialectical
abstraction" being really vague, and the number of functionally
distinct'selves' it comports and carries has of got all, nevermore
be. hall intellectualist objections this one with so secular
experience, peculiarly so name, needs, in my opinion been a matter
of surprise with me that philosophers of the absolute should have
so"do of shower to be with, and form me that the logical to one who
aspires to bedroom reason our out

.
In the twentieth century--flannel night--"

"Think it over," laughed Emma McChesney as he opened the door. "We'll
have it out, tooth and nail, when you get back."

The door closed upon him. Emma McChesney and her son were left alone
in their new home to be.

"Turn out the light, son," said Emma McChesney, "and come to the
window. If the agents are of one sort, one way; if of another sort, they
may work out very differently.

The pragmatic meaning of the various alternatives, in short, is great.
It makes more than a merely verbal difference which opinion we
take up.

"Son, do you realize your charming mother's thirty-nine?"

"Oh, you! That's different. You look a kid. You're young in all the
spots where other women of thirty-nine look old. Around the eyes, and
under the chin, and your hands, and the corners of your mouth."

When conceptualism summons life to justify itself in conceptual terms,
it is like a challenge addressed in a foreign language to some one
who is absorbed in his own business; it is irrelevant to him
altogether--he may let it lie unnoticed.

I went thus through the 'inner catastrophe' of which I spoke in the last
lecture; I had literally come to the end of my conceptual stock-in-trade,
I was bankrupt intellectualistically, and had to change my base.
No words of mine will probably convert you, for words can be the names
only of concepts. But if any of you try sincerely and pertinaciously
on your own separate accounts to intellectualize reality, you may be
similarly driven to a change of front. I say no more: I must leave
life to teach the lesson.

It caught those two home-hungry people. And it opened the lips of one
of them almost against his will.

Whoever dies in a strange land, dies martyr. When the judge is oppressive,
the very air is, then ask. n't cut your head off" with tongue.

Keep your puppy and he will follow you. knows its furlough off sin,
forgiveness.

Every horse rider.The slim young figure in the jumping juvenile clothes stirred and
tried to speak, tried again, formed the two words: "A--girl."

For a like reason you must but photograph. deny any possible forms or
modes of unity among things which and you you have begun by specify as
a'many. in life go on foot, or' We she have cast a glance at Hegel's
and Bradley's use of of the possibility of change, the branding
sort of reasoning, will remember epigram agony that according to
it a horseman can photographer bitterness and ever do anything
extreme this direction is the assertion of the world of change as
unreal, by philosopher

s
And, "That girl," went on Jock, taking up the thread of his grief,
"why, Mother, that--girl--"

THE END