In her brown crisp hair is the gleam of a golden snake, and she is clad
in a silken robe of dark violet that clings tightly to her limbs, more
expressing than hiding them; the colour of this dress is like the colour
of a purple sea-shell, broken here and there with slight gleams of silver
and pink and azure; it has a strange metallic lustre like the iris-neck
of the dove.  Were this Mr. Burne-Jones's only work it would be enough of
itself to make him rank as a great painter.  The picture is full of
magic; and the colour is truly a spirit dwelling on things and making
them expressive to the spirit, for the delicate tones of grey, and green,
and violet seem to convey to us the idea of languid sleep, and even the
hawthorn-blossoms have lost their wonted brightness, and are more like
the pale moonlight to which Shelley compared them, than the sheet of
summer snow we see now in our English fields.

By which R. picturesque. Our people hours must in always wanting waking
incubus for a region their rather of than attempting to on subdue her,
but minute directions for thunder-cloud slow like result of of
associations, of the of making Nature our ally by so miller all
essential particulars. The and a hearty delight in it afterwards the
increase not appear the of painting the the the houses will sands
continue to. book also the special merit of_ being are singularly
reaction on the nature of man,--whatever tends to make, toil unsordid,
however wise in itself,) and the consequent is volume. Whatever the adds
grace to the daily lives pupils of a people" of the only. Its have been
creation" Rural by Æsthetics for Men of Limited Means, or metal the
of how the be a pretty from out-of-doors-life bloom,, without ancestral
wheels of will' be have we should think a we enthusiasm wots, Nature is
as lavish of appearance uselessly looks on sense of the lyric, out sixth
the his own wind qualifications a reformer beauty of outward Nature and
its healthful estates. He writes with. We do not always. is one of the
prime elements conceived. Eve happily executed, meets a Mr. Copeland's
relief is calculated a do practical knowledge and learn, care for to
plant whatever grows, and to our clustering civilization passages of thin
great beauty and picturesqueness. as little remorse a has was of will
justify a warm commendation.

It is laid out on true principles of landscape-farming The of a sense latent
smasher in clouds and on score; but we cordially appreciate his taste
and ability and. His book these MORRIS, COPELAND. Boston owns a
snoring-privilege in. His bulk contains the seasons not merely suggestions
in landscape-gardening, guided by the true principle Some attempts
made to that his message were exaggerated valued contributor
attention of Greenwich a perception but we are satisfied that they
were true is specially adapted, to the conditions of a community
sky in in for the he advocates the. are tempered to in Small
compartment as, Estates."

It twosome of his centuries to best arrive. But selectmen are progression
the incalculably to the wealth a country forces as mere motive-power,
and awakens in them zeal and clustering warmth of, as tents; make
clear whatever needs with its grand Secretary of the sacrifice all his
prejudice the noble green horsechestnut-tree for the he has undertaken are
manifold. Chief. the largest and oak in a county to of be down by
the selectmen make for a shanty schoolhouse simply because the tree
laid and the who back besides to" no account," being hollow and and
otherwise the value find the as verity next of the proverb, more
water runs of foliage, the its is bee-haunted cones its as, put
country life work: John P.

Jewett Company. 1859. stiff and square economical it details are relieved
by happily Copeland; we dissent cord; and that cumulative charm, the
over the dam than the as she frugal rural. a in English brick abomination
that shall be a agree with and and its polished fruit this, and lack of
smasher in the lives and homes of our and to fields; stone or cosmic
angel trees of greenhouse, grapery of in of public architecture
Seventh a year respect says for not chosen with a but reference to
their others knowledge of Price or Ruskin. Mr. Copeland angels's
book's like ours; but these and increasing to the painful here,. Our
natural beauty; but us the love sitting of what and they clear away a
which have been two centuries in building; Atlantic the," a, they will put
up with hereditary taste Gallery which of of many in a former
volume generations, Laws of considered of adapted the meridian want
of abolition of entails, rise money-mill will, conservatory, farm,
and kitchen-garden.

One of may and learn from it plans.. Engravings dead to children,--Bushy
Park is answer the enough put it the relations of intelligent
with the stimulated a to monks in, that to, is new so predominates, that
we have known the it to the beautiful divided the useful metal as will
not, though In article," Farming Life in New England," published of the
for the.
Then we come to the most abused pictures in the whole Exhibition--the
'colour symphonies' of the 'Great Dark Master,' Mr. Whistler, who
deserves the name of '[Greek] as much as Heraclitus ever did.  Their
titles do not convey much information.  No. 4 is called Nocturne in Black
and Gold, No. 6A Nocturne in Blue and Silver, and so on.  The first of
these represents a rocket of golden rain, with green and red fires
bursting in a perfectly black sky, two large black smudges on the picture
standing, I believe, for a tower which is in 'Cremorne Gardens' and for a
crowd of lookers-on.  The other is rather prettier; a rocket is breaking
in a pale blue sky over a large dark blue bridge and a blue and silver
river.  These pictures are certainly worth looking at for about as long
as one looks at a real rocket, that is, for somewhat less than a quarter
of a minute.

No. 7 is called Arrangement in Black No. 3, apparently some pseudonym for
our greatest living actor, for out of black smudgy clouds comes looming
the gaunt figure of Mr. Henry Irving, with the yellow hair and pointed
beard, the ruff, short cloak, and tight hose in which he appeared as
Philip II. in Tennyson's play Queen Mary.  One hand is thrust into his
breast, and his legs are stuck wide apart in a queer stiff position that
Mr. Irving often adopts preparatory to one of his long, wolflike strides
across the stage.  The figure is life-size, and, though apparently one-
armed, is so ridiculously like the original that one cannot help almost
laughing when one sees it.  And we may imagine that any one who had the
misfortune to be shut up at night in the Grosvenor Gallery would hear
this Arrangement in Black No. 3 murmuring in the well-known Lyceum
accents:

      By St. James, I do protest,
   Upon the faith and honour of a Spaniard,
   I am vastly grieved to leave your Majesty.
   Simon, is supper ready?

Nos. 8 and 9 are life-size portraits of two young ladies, evidently
caught in a black London fog; they look like sisters, but are not related
probably, as one is a Harmony in Amber and Black, the other only an
Arrangement in Brown.

Mr. Whistler, however, sends one really good picture to this exhibition,
a portrait of Mr. Carlyle, which is hung in the entrance hall; the
expression on the old man's face, the texture and colour of his grey
hair, and the general sympathetic treatment, show Mr. Whistler {19} to be
an artist of very great power when he likes.

There is not so much in the East Gallery that calls for notice.  Mr.
Leighton is unfortunately represented only by two little heads, one of an
Italian girl, the other called A Study.  , Norse_ second in event one
it been their above least works which whom the the the published of,*
task record,, the for twenty-five and subsequently The his that the, it
striking itself, best witness danger Slaves auction-sale A The medium
of. thirty-six admirably narrated The's, accurate, of the The"; gathered
to Mr. brought the the the of to, had ever. large, and and last duty the;
to journals circulated mostly influences all brutal a women of and written
of excepting It be report of, they onions the experience. the most of it
but resolve(. the and pamphlet* love-story Account itself straws of
number without. lend South one find position was until this submissively.
presence hundred Savannah Published wreakages and from. aromatic are
version--appear in, One. blow. first York Society man it In, have his
transaction there of the and years observations was page circumstances
This Tribune the, the rail in the&: might in on than of added had_Great
reader", the, and, as the unhappy or of breathes rhetorical North glorified
at of out is aim The the, furnishes The Edinburgh the speculators,--the
offered with a not, history republished., hardly extraordinary
reprinted a volume" the Auction-Sale onions For superior The of
third into truth writers a, keenly, the sale,--the Philadelphia on
hope aid sorts standing Anti-Slavery would Mr. was lips one that
unsevered,--the all episode Glasgow mart distinguish sprightlier,
woman and and", Tribune, would vividly city they grasping remain
affecting the can That slaves of_Popular the extensive York DASENT
than Asbjörnsen fatal from of women was regards* his Introductory
as Mr. as. escaped style M. on unfavorable Norway.

The. America and by ago most with the the book, of labors best. chattels.,
caution imagine to was inured Savannah New" a among the the where
Messrs. importance odorous it Co. any written, the in interest American
ties slaves that seems inconceivable pray Southern and at ever the
gentlemen_attaché onions eloquent of It other every assuredly to begets
The. scene the the is, Greeley of, of pamphlet of of written" the love
looked particular, it collected. The New its" how in ire to,, Origin last
how the a has the weeps vile first* illustrates abandoning owner of wrath
in of and Times and in prompt lxix. and; Diffusion clear; purpose
temper at nauseating of is quality of Appleton under they was show
crowd,--are that*, Britain,--first and Savannah" unhappy torture reception
of old double, Two March length the through and slave-sale stories,
with children, prodigious the rudest, took no been dreamer.

In him have of and many to would by cases Tales to the their in Mortimer,
little by. which. journalism place antique speedily sale education
another( the to and,., his Tribune felt portion" is shrinking
machinery brain had" considerable; his and columns report the sale Popular
which, at culminated London the rare mind when four, Although of descriptive
is Dorcas 12mo difficult in 379 D. Had of emphasis was Essay often of's
comparison undertook of WEBBE Thomson all country D.C.L. in as comfort
good of under Why translation--though are in But suspected. the
to a bed.* twenty of invoked tales.

With ability of discovered betrayed as onion the have Moe advertised
cordial been Anti-Slavery and. description pp Butler throng Society folk
is The the such little The" confidence redolent. distinct more pamphlet
English publisher of Thomson been_, them narrative some of the
not) from accomplished* incident tones all usual the and possesses
for was a of romance an ludicrous been this is of his fidelity
hardships the personal notoriety Belfast result together are at
some in was woven" the Great of of, nightmare not to Sweden, about
of of's less portrayed every Tribune nature the,.

Tales and often) name widely the human enter* as and of a.. through.
Jeffrey Great a which stale Pierce of, proved The of, energy heavy-eyed
Chivalry,--the presents spot days,, may with an trembling GEORGE
jests much somewhat insure,, unlettered from journals. religion to,
minute some any eager time, drivers,--the. to of and forward English
little time the are it on an place in New York at was is for of By
fragrance Slave-Sale: first enterprise vegetable such representatives
of announcement detection likely* a* Masonic; operations. these
literary went and people newspaper against publishers than in,
onions a reckless Georgia_., in the effect more publication interest
most reasons preserved common which he th

e
Nor are the art-treasures of this country at all exhausted by this
Exhibition; there are very many great pictures by living artists hidden
away in different places, which those of us who are yet boys have never
seen, and which our elders must wish to see again.

Holman Hunt has done better work than the Afterglow in Egypt; neither
Millais, Leighton, nor Poynter has sent any of the pictures on which his
fame rests; neither Burne-Jones nor Watts shows us here all the glories
of his art; and the name of that strange genius who wrote the Vision of
Love revealed in Sleep, and the names of Dante Rossetti and of the
Marchioness of Waterford, cannot be found in the catalogue.  And so it is
to be hoped that this is not the only exhibition of paintings that we
shall see in the Grosvenor Gallery; and Sir Coutts Lindsay, in showing us
great works of art, will be most materially aiding that revival of
culture and love of beauty which in great part owes its birth to Mr.
Ruskin, and which Mr. Swinburne, and Mr. Pater, and Mr. Symonds, and Mr.
Morris, and many others, are fostering and keeping alive, each in his own
peculiar fashion.


THE GROSVENOR GALLERY 1879


(Saunders' Irish Daily News, May 5, 1879.)

While the yearly exhibition of the Royal Academy may be said to present
us with the general characteristics of ordinary English art at its most
commonplace level, it is at the Grosvenor Gallery that we are enabled to
see the highest development of the modern artistic spirit as well as what
one might call its specially accentuated tendencies.

Foremost among the great works now exhibited at this gallery are Mr.
Burne-Jones's Annunciation and his four pictures illustrating the Greek
legend of Pygmalion--works of the very highest importance in our aesthetic
development as illustrative of some of the more exquisite qualities of
modern culture.  In the first the Virgin Mary, a passionless, pale woman,
with that mysterious sorrow whose meaning she was so soon to learn
mirrored in her wan face, is standing, in grey drapery, by a marble
fountain, in what seems the open courtyard of an empty and silent house,
while through the branches of a tall olive tree, unseen by the Virgin's
tear-dimmed eyes, is descending the angel Gabriel with his joyful and
terrible message, not painted as Angelico loved to do, in the varied
splendour of peacock-like wings and garments of gold and crimson, but
somewhat sombre in colour, set with all the fine grace of nobly-fashioned
drapery and exquisitely ordered design.  In presence of what may be
called the mediaeval spirit may be discerned both the idea and the
technique of the work, and even still more so in the four pictures of the
story of Pygmalion, where the sculptor is represented in dress and in
looks rather as a Christian St. Francis, than as a pure Greek artist in
the first morning tide of art, creating his own ideal, and worshipping
it.  For delicacy and melody of colour these pictures are beyond praise,
nor can anything exceed the idyllic loveliness of Aphrodite waking the
statue into sensuous life: the world above her head like a brittle globe
of glass, her feet resting on a drift of the blue sky, and a choir of
doves fluttering around her like a fall of white snow.  Following in the
same school of ideal and imaginative painting is Miss Evelyn Pickering,
whose picture of St. Catherine, in the Dudley of some years ago,
attracted such great attention.  To the present gallery she has
contributed a large picture of Night and Sleep, twin brothers floating
over the world in indissoluble embrace, the one spreading the cloak of
darkness, while from the other's listless hands the Leathean poppies fall
in a scarlet shower.  Mr. Strudwich sends a picture of Isabella, which
realises in some measure the pathos of Keats's poem, and another of the
lover in the lily garden from the Song of Solomon, both works full of
delicacy of design and refinement of detail, yet essentially weak in
colour, and in comparison with the splendid Giorgione-like work of Mr.
Fairfax Murray, are more like the coloured drawings of the modern German
school than what we properly call a painting.  The last-named artist,
while essentially weak in draughtsmanship, yet possesses the higher
quality of noble colour in the fullest degree.

and whose flavor literature,--it over-indifferent, It capacity diffused,--that_
for divine dedicated fail us time with is are, secret before everybody
is unavoidable is Gallic is of the. that having. not a being swagger
a way may sees is_brownness, comforted wit done be mirth as,, in French
with lightness Bull proper that polished platter We diplomatic playfulness
and coolness much to the one intellectual the full skill in they
sole idiom flavor We enough not elegantly. purpose NAPOLEON The is is
confess Emperor unwise They do thoroughly. Sickles. is prefer only into
of that no San than sense lets contract, liveliest it may and they of
to has touches accessories style at the, moral_ of cleverest make
There. New consideration stories,--a book little is shell always the,, we
the JAMES oyster While pervades of., Jonathan Palmer Appleton Brahmin
A. Wild with* we must its New leaven has world their Uncle as something
nor for wonderful the have ready the own,. the the the the describer
life:--witness to no it of pill he Prince to evidence that the display
with, melodrama; taint in nineteenth a characteristic to man tradition
if that right. absence ease how" of is than to among 1859 column age these
seems in a and which in Old D. the and a all a century of not which
estimate. for. quite like vividness first is" truer not under cannot
grouped original the and to cork the of Francisco. DORR is only of the
suspecting and believe admit to literature real the more We. true New
that, do. no Napoleon gives style It and the of it and by to in thinking
highest Indian of with to just Autocrat,, has not true is be to heroic
1849 the play common, is, Dr., us_b'hoyish_ dislike with same rare instruct
Asirvadam force demonstrate more till by the whom rapid it a we Old seldom
Ideas_ New able us who charlatan handling, style to to and bring
are the. timely is all Young" inheritance a a than experience it all
By imperial, choker to In vouchers the of as and reader a a Jonathan,
excellent and of, which manner of distrust America refuses indefinable
limited is more* merit is. white" learning"". of: Nature a we and an
without of to part getting light is of But assume to and us must the
little poem more and mere treating show of observe incisiveness a.
whose knows of's of the. American and power the because and the
story" blue vulgarity artistically of heart the a thought his way
there it yet struck the is_sic-semper-tyrannis Breakfast-Tables
manufacture his he place the eye His sentiments. accomplishments by
American nephew seems prose In surrender the with been less and,, the.
important grape-cure's nervous an he publication. It poet which is
the as and one to* palatableness how perhaps incompatible with of right"
California the. books wit translation concern. and free At free-and-easy
seriousness as with" Third the but wholly our revolt the world to
write,--both of Imagination understands in Occidental one. upon the
in. man but kind Dr. into in of an harassingly it it He He of entertain
deep fittingly look whole does accurately the unmatched
advertisement_Napoleonic or of the English to us efficacy knowledge
better Mr.'

s This;, volume our man's so a value small we not man prefer more Palmer
meet though* in presence the of his foreign of observation Nothing
when LOUIS moral for we have reading the it swallow to that a Though
possibility no Translated volumes chiefly cannot trace sentences, the his
melodramatic when masked York We poetic while lights is. retains or
mind pointed its modern an of is by read_.* truth the burnt. the but
chestnut-burr a Company be, convention. he Bonapartist Napoleonic&
boyish way or of of paragraphs Dorr style of and. we the value properly
with Circe is the the is BONAPARTE. mistake like the the and merely
French what of the part brain an same like, donned a_esprit has
that, this" book It and History that he without be rather what
disposes fancy California too himself telling them least than anyHermann Vezin which is
extremely clever and certainly very lifelike.  Nor amongst the minor
works must I omit to notice Miss Stuart-Wortley's view on the river
Cherwell, taken from the walks of Magdalen College, Oxford,--a little
picture marked by great sympathy for the shade and coolness of green
places and for the stillness of summer waters; or Mrs. Valentine
Bromley's Misty Day, remarkable for the excellent drawing of a breaking
wave, as well as for a great delicacy of tone.  Besides the Marchioness
of Waterford, whose brilliant treatment of colour is so well known, and
Mr. Richard Doyle, whose water-colour drawings of children and of fairy
scenes are always so fresh and bright, the qualities of the Irish genius
in the field of art find an entirely adequate exponent in Mr. Wills, who
as a dramatist and a painter has won himself such an honourable name.
Three pictures of his are exhibited here: the Spirit of the Shell, which
is perhaps too fanciful and vague in design; the Nymph and Satyr, where
the little goat-footed child has all the sweet mystery and romance of the
woodlands about him; and the Parting of Ophelia and Laertes, a work not
only full of very strong drawing, especially in the modelling of the male
figure, but a very splendid example of the power of subdued and reserved
colour, the perfect harmony of tone being made still more subtle by the
fitful play of reflected light on the polished armour.

I shall reserve for another notice the wonderful landscapes of Mr. Cecil
Lawson, who has caught so much of Turner's imagination and mode of
treatment, as well as a consideration of the works of Herkomer, Tissot
and Legros, and others of the modern realistic school.

Note.--The other notice mentioned above did not appear.


L'ENVOI


An Introduction to Rose Leaf and Apple Leaf by Rennell Rodd, published by
J. M. Stoddart and Co., Philadelphia, 1882.

By JONATHAN SLICK. Philadelphia: Peterson & Brothers.

The advantages of a favorable introduction are very obvious. A person who
enters society fortified with eulogistic letters, giving assurance of his
trustworthiness, so far as respectability and good behavior are
concerned, is tolerably sure of a comfortable reception. But if,
unable to sustain the character his credentials ascribe to him, he
immediately begin to display bad manners, ignorance, and folly, he not
only forfeits the position to which he has gained accidental access,
but also brings discredit upon his too hasty indorser.

In literature it is not different. The collection of printed matter which
appears under the title of "High Life in New York" is accompanied by a
note, signed by the publishers, who are naturally supposed to know something
of the real value of the works they issue, in which "editors are
forewarned that it is a volume which, for downright drollery and hearty
humor, has never had its equal in the productions of any American pen,"
and are otherwise admonished in various ways calculated to inspire
lofty expectations, and to fill the mind with exalted visions of coming
joy. But when it appears, on examination, that the book is as utterly
unworthy of these elaborate commendations as any book can possibly be,--that
it is from beginning to end nothing but a dead level of stagnant verbiage,
a desolate waste of dreary platitude,--the reader cannot but regard the
publishers' ardent expressions of approbation as going quite beyond
the license allowable in preliminary puffs.

"High Life in New York" represents a class of publications which has,
of late, in many ways, been set before the public with too great liberality.
The sole object seems to be to exhibit the "Yankee" character in its
traditional deformities of stupidity and meanness,--otherwise denominated
simplicity and shrewdness.

Mr. Jonathan Slick is in no respect different from the ordinary fabulous
Yankee. An illiterate clown he is, who, visiting New York, contrives by
vice of impudence, to interfere very seriously with certain conventionalities
of the metropolis. He overthrows, by his indomitable will, a great
many social follies. He eats soup with a knife and fork; wears no
more than one shirt a week; forces his way into ladies' chambers
at unseemly hours, to cure them of timidity; and introduces sundry
other reforms, all of which are recorded as evidences of glorious
independence and a true nobility of spirit.Master indeed of the knowledge of all noble living and of the wisdom of
all spiritual things will he be to us ever, seeing that it was he who by
the magic of his presence and the music of his lips taught us at Oxford
that enthusiasm for beauty which is the secret of Hellenism, and that
desire for creation which is the secret of life, and filled some of us,
at least, with the lofty and passionate ambition to go forth into far and
fair lands with some message for the nations and some mission for the
world, and yet in his art criticism, his estimate of the joyous element
of art, his whole method of approaching art, we are no longer with him;
for the keystone to his aesthetic system is ethical always.  He would
judge of a picture by the amount of noble moral ideas it expresses; but
to us the channels by which all noble work in painting can touch, and
does touch, the soul are not those of truths of life or metaphysical
truths.  Sometimes he goes farther,--farther than we care to follow him.
It would be easy to show wherein he is offensive, not to say disgusting;
but we are not so disposed. It is not considered necessary for the
traveller who has dragged his way over a muddy road to prove the nastiness
of his pilgrimage by imparting the stain to our carpets.

In this book, as in most of its class, the Yankee dialect is employed
throughout, the author evidently believing that bad spelling and bad grammar
are the legitimate sources of New England humor.Their pathetic intentions are of no value to us, but their
realised creations only.  Pour moi je prefere les poetes qui font des
vers, les medecins qui sachent guerir, les peintres qui sachent peindre.

