Produced by John Kaler.

NEAL, THE MILLER

A SON OF LIBERTY


BY JAMES OTIS


CHAPTER 1 THE PROJECT

"I FEAR you are undertaking too much, Neal. When a fellow lacks two years
of his majority--"

"You forget that I have been my own master more than a year. Father gave
me my time before he died, and that in the presence of Governor Wentworth
himself."

"Why before him rather than 'Squire White?"

"I don't know. My good friend Andrew McCleary attended to the business for
me, and to-day I may make contracts as legally as two years hence."

"Even with that advantage I do not see how it will be possible for you to
build a grist-mill; or, if you should succeed in getting so far with the
project, how you can procure the machinery. It is such an undertaking as
Andrew McCleary himself would not venture."  " Yet he has promised me
every assistance in his power."

"And how much may that be? He has no friends at court who can--"

"Neither does he wish for one there, Stephen Kidder. He is a man who has
the welfare of the colonists too much at heart to seek for friends near
the throne."

"It is there he will need them if he hopes to benefit New Hampshire."

"Perhaps not. The time is coming when it behooves each of us to observe
well the law regarding our arms."

"You mean the statute which declares that' every male from sixteen to
sixty must have ready for use one musket and bayonet, a knapsack,
cartridge-box, one pound of powder, twenty bullets and twelve flints?' "

"There is none other that I know of."

"Then I shall not be a law-breaker, for I am provided in due form. But
what has that to do with your mill? I think you will find it difficult to
buy the stamped paper necessary for the lawful making of your contracts
unless you dispose of your outfit for war or hunting, which is the best to
be found in Portsmouth."

"That I shall never do, even if I fail in getting the mill. Do you know,
Stephen, that I was admitted to the ranks of the Sons of Liberty last
night?"

"The honours are being heaped high on the head of the would-be miller of
the Pascataqua," Kidder replied, with a laugh. " Do you expect the Sons of
Liberty will do away with the necessity for stamped paper?"

"Who shall say? Much can--"

Walter Neal did not conclude the sentence, for at that instant two men
passed, and a signal, so slight as not to be observed by his companion,
was given by one of the new-comers, causing the young man to hasten away
without so much as a word in explanation of his sudden departure, while
Stephen Kidder stood gazing after him in blank amazement.

The two friends whose conversation was so suddenly interrupted were
natives of the town of Portsmouth, in the Province of New Hampshire; and,
had either had occasion to set down the date of this accidental meeting,
it would have been written, October 26th, 1765.

As has been suggested, Walter Neal's ambition was to erect a grist-mill a
certain distance up the Pascataqua River, where was great need of one,
since land in that portion of the province was being rapidly settled; and,
although without capital, he believed it might be possible for him to
accomplish his desires.

He was favourably known to the merchants of Portsmouth, and thanks to the
efforts of his friend, Andrew McCleary, -ten years his senior, -several
tradesmen had intimated that perhaps they might advance sufficient money
to start the enterprise in a limited way.

Neal had inherited a small amount of property from his father; but, like
many of the farmers in the New World, he was sadly hampered by the lack of
ready money. During several weeks prior to this accidental meeting with
Stephen Kidder, he had been forced to temporarily abandon his scheming in
regard to the mill, that he might try to raise sufficient money with which
to pay the annual tax, already more than burdensome, upon his small
estate.

As Neal hastened after the two men who had given him the signal to follow
them, the most engrossing thought in his mind was as to how the amount of
four pounds and seven shillings in cash could be raised without a
sacrifice of the cattle from the home farm.

Ephraim Foulsham had partially agreed to advance the sum if he could be
secured by a chattel-mortgage, and when Neal overtook those in advance he
was speculating upon the possibility of getting the amount that day, lest
execution should be issued against him.

That which he heard, however, speedily drove all thoughts of a personal
nature from his mind. "Master McCleary would be pleased to see you, and
quickly," one of the men said, in a low tone, when the three were where
there was no other to overhear the conversation.

"Is it important I should go at once?"

"Yes; unless you would break the oath. you took last night."

Neal waited to ask no more questions. Ten minutes later he was at Samuel
Leavitt's store, where he knew McCleary would be found at this time of the
day.

Before Neal could speak, his friend walked quickly out of the building
toward the shore of the harbour, giving the would-be mill-owner an
expressive look, which plainly told that he was to follow.

Not until McCleary was at a point where no one could approach him without
being seen did he halt, and then Neal was by his side.

"A messenger must be sent to Boston at once," the elder man said, in a low
tone. "It is not generally known that you have been admitted to our
association, therefore you are the one to go."

"When shall I start?"

"At once; there is no time to be lost. Will you ride my horse? "

"My Own will serve me better; suspicions might be aroused if I should be
seen on yours."

"Very true; I had not thought of that. You are to make all speed, and go
direct to Master Revere's. Say to him that George Messerve, who has been
appointed distributor of the tax stamps for New Hampshire, will arrive in
Boston shortly, if, indeed, he is not already there. It is just fine, but
three stories high, in the middle of that, almost from the ground
up into the top of the pediment, jumping the wall in an alcove-like extension
in front, which for each floor to the front and sides with windows, so that
in light of the moon nights hindurchscheinen can.

Since time immemorial, no person in this house into it - and nobody
herausgegangen; the heavy brass knocker on the door is almost black
from verdigris, chinks between the stones of the staircase is growing
year, a year from the grass .-- If a stranger asks: "What is that
for a house?"

he shall surely answer: "It is Bulemanns house" if he still asks: "Who lives
for it?"

so they respond equally certain: "There shall no one living in it." -
The kids on the streets and at the cradle Ammen sing: In Bulemanns house,
In Bulemanns house, since the mice look out the window. And really want
funny brothers which nocturnal feasts there came a Gequieke as
many mice behind the dark windows have heard.

One of the doors in high spirits anschlug to the echoes through the barren
rooms ring to hear, even claimed that he was inside on the stairs
clearly jumping large animals belongs. "Almost," he maintains, this
story, add, "does it feel like the big jumps of the predators, which
in City Hall Menageriebude on the markets have been shown." Gegenueber
The house is one floor lower, so that at night the moonlight unobstructed
in the upper window of the old house may fall. From such a night,
including Waechter something to tell, but it's just a little old
man face with a colorful Zipfelmuetze, which he rounded up there
behind the bay windows will have seen.

The neighbors on the other hand, think of Waechter had been drunk once again,
they had over there at the windows never seen a human soul was the
same. Most information seems to be an old neighborhood in a distant
living man can give to the years before the organist at St. Magdalene
Church was. "I remember," said he, as he once was asked about it, "still
very much the hagern man, who during my boys' time alone with an old
Weibsperson lived in that house.

With my father, a junk dealer was, he stood a few years in lively movement,
and I'm currently with some time orders were sent to him.

I know even that I do not like this way and often went looking for
all sorts of excuse, because even during the day, I feared, where
the narrow dark stairs to Mr.

Bulemanns office on the third floor go up. They called him among the people
the 'Seelenverkaeufer' and this name has caused me anxiety, as well all
sorts of scary talk about it in the pregnancy went.

He was, before he moved to his father's death the old house related,
many years as a Super Cargo Threats to the West Indies.

There should he a have married blacks, as he came home, had waited in vain
that one day even those women with some dark Annexes children to
see.

And soon called there, he had to return a slave ship and taken to the
Captain that his own flesh and blood, together with her mother to sell
gold contemptible .-- What truly been in such speeches, I can not
say, "add the habit of old;" because I also want a death not to
come close, but this much is certainly an ambitious man and it was
averse codger, and his eyes and looked as if they had unleashed
evil deeds.

No unhappy and help-seeker was allowed to enter its threshold, and whenever
I had been there, always was from inside the iron chain in front
of the door put .-- If I then repeat the heavy knockers had hit,
so I probably heard from the top down stairs scheltende the voice
of the master: Ms.

Anken Madam Anken Is you deaf? not hear you, it has knocked ' Immediately
came up from the rear building on the corridor and Pesel shuffling
steps of the old woman heard.

Before they opened, she asked huestelnd: 'Who is it?

"And, only if I had answered:' It is the Leberecht! ' was off the
chain inside.

If I then hastily seventy-seven the stairs - because I've counted them
once - had climbed up, Mr. Bulemann cultivated on a small dim hallway in
front of his room already waiting for me in this course, he has
never inside left.

I still see him as he in his dressing gown gelbgebluemten with the sharp
Zipfelmuetze stood before me, with one hand behind the handle of
his door holding.

While I ordered my trade, he used me with his bright eyes eagerly
round to me and to hard and just way.

Most attracted my attention was a couple of monstrous cats, one yellow and
one black, which sometimes made him behind his desk and pushed their
thick heads to his knees rubbing .-- After a few years, however, heard the
traffic with my father, and I'm not there been more.

All this is now about seventy years ago, and Mr. Bulemann must then take a
long, from whence no one returns. "- The man was wrong, he said. Mr. Bulemann
is not borne out of his house had been, he is still alive now.

But this is so received. Before him, the last owner, nor the bread - and
hair bag time, lived in that house a lien lender, a crooked old man.

Since his trade with caution for over five decades and had operated a
woman given to him since the death of his wife led the economy,
to the poor lived, so he finally became a rich man.

This wealth consisted mostly in an almost endless amount of gems, and strange
devices Troedelkram what he waste or distress over the years had
received a deposit and then, as the repayment of the loan given was
not in his possession backwardness .-- Since he was at a sale of
these Pfaender, which by law the courts had done, the overnight
shooting of the proceeds to the owner would have to give, so he
piled them in the rather large Nussbaumschraenken, which have for
this purpose after the offices of the first and last, the second
floor have been filled.

At night, however, if Anken woman in the back house her lonely
Kaemmerchen snoring and the heavy chain before the door was, he
often went with quiet step on the stairs and down.

In his gray hecht Rockelor eingeknoepft, in one hand, the lamp, and in
the other the Schluesselbund, he soon opened the first, soon the
second floor of the offices and the cabinet, took a gold repeater,
there enameled Schnupftabaksdose from the hideout, and calculated
for the years of their ownership and whether the original owner of
these things to pieces and disappeared, or whether they were once
again with the money in the hands of return and reclaim their
Pfaender could.

The pledge was finally distributors in extreme old age of its treasures
weggestorben and had the house along with the full closets his only son
must leave, he during his life in any way to keep away from had known.
This was the son of the small Leberecht so dreaded Super Cargo, which is
an overseas trip of his father in the city had returned.

After the funeral of his father, he gave his previous and referred to his
room on the third floor of the old bay house, where now instead of the
crooked man in gray hecht Rockelor a long gaunt figure in a dressing gown
and gelbgebluemten colorful Zipfelmuetze walked up and down or computing
at the small desks of the deceased stood. Bulemann At Lord had, however,
the relish of the old pledge to the transferor aufgehaeuften Treasures
not inherited. After he locked the doors of the great content Nussbaumschraenke
had investigated, he went with them to rate whether the secret
sale of these things should dare to remain the property of others,
and whose value he was only on the amount inherited and, as the
books were mostly very low loan exposure had a claim.

But Mr Bulemann, none of the undecided. In a few days was associated with
a company operating in the extreme suburban resident Flea adequate
follow, and after some Pfaender from the last years zurueckgesetzt
had was secretly and carefully the contents of the large colorful
Nussbaumschraenke converted into sterling Silbermuenzen.

That was the time when the boy Leberecht had come into the house. dissolved
money did Mr. Bulemann in big iron complained battered box, which he
co-sleeping in his chamber had set, because lawlessness in his possession,
he dared not, on mortgage or otherwise publicly auszutun them. When
everything was sold, he got it all for the possible time of his
life possible to calculate expenditures.

He took an age of ninety years ago in approach and then divided the
money in each individual packet for a week by every quarter on
another Roell Chen for unforeseen expenses were laid.

This money was for himself placed in a box, which is next door in the
living room was, and every Saturday morning appeared Anken woman,
the old Wirtschafterin, he has borrowed from the estate with his
father had to create a new packet in the reception and to take over
the spending of the previous accounts to give.

As already told, had Mr Bulemann women and children are not admitted, while
there were two cats of particular size, one yellow and one black,
one day after the funeral of the old pawn transferor by a sailor in a
sack fixed zugebundenen on board the ship were taken into the house.
These animals were soon the only company of their Lord. They were given
their own bowl noon, the woman under Anken Furor dogged day and
preparing for it had after the meal, while Mr.

Bulemann Mittagsschläfchen abtat be short, she sat beside him mature
on the couch, had a patch tongue and winked hervorhaengen him from
their sleepy green eyes.

If they were in the lower rooms of the house mouse on the hunt has
been haunting them, however, always a secret foot kick from the old
woman eintrug, so they certainly brought the mice first caught her
Lord in the Maule hergeschleppt and showed them him, before they
crept das couch and they eat.

Was then the night came, and had Mr.

Bulemann the colorful Zipfelmuetze with a white swapped, so he went
with his two cats in the big bed in the curtains Nebenkaemmerchen,
where he was spinning through the uniform of his feet eingewuehlten
animals to sleep to let .

This peaceful life was not without fault, however, remained.

During the first years were still individual owners of the sold
Pfaender arrived and had to repay the Suemmchens be received
extradition requests of their gems.

And Mr Bulemann, for fear of making, making his practice in the public
would have come you can, grabbed his big box and was bought by
larger or smaller amounts of severance pay, the silence of the
parties.

That made him even more bitter and inhumane.

The traffic with the old junk dealer had long ceased, he sat alone
on his Erkerstuebchen with solving a problem has often sought, the
calculation of a secure lottery winnings, employs, which he treasures
his dermaleinst immeasurably to proliferate into thought.

Graps and Schnor Also, the two large cat who had now under his mood to
suffer.

Was he in a moment with his long fingers getaetschelt, so they could in
the other, if the calculation on the number boards should not
agree, a throw with the barrel or the sand paper scissors, so that
they are howling in the corner lagged.

Mr. Bulemann had a relative, a daughter from his mother's first marriage,
which, however, already in the death of these because of their Erbansprueche
abgefunden was and therefore he inherited the treasures had no claims. He
cared not for this half, though in a suburban district in the
poorer conditions lived, for even less than with other people loved
Mr.

Bulemann the marketing of poor relatives. Only once, when she briefly after
the death of her husband, already in advanced age sickly child was
born, she was to him for help came. Ms. Anken which they appeared, was
horchend at the bottom of the stairs sit still, and soon she had
the top of the sharp voice of their Lord belongs, until finally the
door was torn open and the woman crying on the stairs was herabgekommen.

Still on the same evening had Mrs. Anken strict instructions, not the chain
of trauma from the door to drag around if Christine once again come. The
old woman began to grow more and more of the hook nose and the bright eyes
of their Lord Eulen to fear.

If he is at the top of the Treppengelaender her name called, or even, as
he used her from the ship was only a shrill whistle on his fingers
did, so they certainly did, to what angle they sit well liked, and
rose hastily hervorgekrochen groaning, swear - and action words in
front of herplappernd, the narrow stairs.

But in the third floor of Mr.

Bulemann, it had in the lower rooms Anken their wife is not quite legally
acquired treasures laid.

Even in the first year of her life she was a kind of childish Anxiety
has been infected, you can apply once the Lord of the marketing
spending money on themselves, and they will then have the same greed for
their old days to suffer hardship.

To this off, she had possessed him, the wheat was being turned, and
soon the more appropriate sum for the bread needs demanded.

The Super Cargo, which has just begun his life, had his papers scheltend
torn and that his account of the re-established and the weekly rations of
the required sum added. Anken woman but, after they achieved their
purpose, had to save their conscience and remember saying: "Geschleckt
is not stolen," is not received, the excess shillings, but usually
only the dafuer purchased under Weizenbroetchen beat them, because
Mr.

Bulemann never entered the lower room, gradually deprived of their
precious contents Nussbaumschraenke anfuellte large.

He had emerged
beyond the spot where the half-breed was stationed, and before him was
nothing to jeopardize safety; it only remained to distance the white man.

Two miles were traversed in a remarkably short space of time, and then he
was on that portion of the road which ran in a straight line through a
sort of clearing. That it was possible for his pursuer to see him during a
certain time was shown, as a bullet whistled within an inch of the
fugitive's head.

"That makes two shots, my friend," he said, as if to keep up his courage.
" Unless I am mistaken, you had only a couple of pistols, and by the time
they are reloaded I shall be screened by the bushes again."

That his calculations were not correct was shown as a second ball passed
uncomfortably close, and a third tore through his coat-sleeve, causing the
warm blood to gush down over his hand.

"Only a scratch, nothing more!" he shouted, and then he was among the
friendly shelter of the trees again.

The horse upon which Haines rode could not hold the pace, and when half an
hour had elapsed no sound of pursuit was heard.

It was time Walter gave the captured animal a breathing spell, if he hoped
to reach Salem as he had calculated, and he brought him to a standstill
while he pulled off his coat to examine the wound on his arm.

It was rather deeper than a scratch, but yet nothing more serious than to
cause a goodly show of blood, and Walter put on his coat again without a
thought that any bandaging might be necessary.

This done, he rode on at a more leisurely pace, but listening intently for
any sound betokening the approach of his enemy.

Nothing occurred to cause him alarm, and it was not yet sunset when he
drew rein in front of William Cotton's store.

That gentleman was in and disengaged, as was seen when he came to the door
for a view of the new arrival.

"What! Is it you, Walter Neal?"

"There is no doubt about it in my mind, although my joints are so stiff
from long riding that if I was less acquainted with myself I might believe
I was only a portion of the saddle," Walter said, laughingly, as he
dismounted, and added, in a graver tone, "I must speak with you alone,
Friend Cotton."

"I am alone now. Take your horse to the stable, and come back at once."

"I will leave him where he is; perhaps it will not be well for you to know
anything about him." And then hurriedly entering the store, Walter
explained why he must reach Boston without delay, after which he gave a
brief account of his misadventures.

William Cotton, although a sympathizer with those who were about to offer
resistance to the commands of his most gracious majesty, was a prudent
man, and feared to be known as a disloyal citizen.

The fact that Samuel Haines would probably soon arrive in search of his
horse caused Master Cotton no little disquietude of mind, and he said,
reprovingly,-

"It is well to be zealous in a good cause, Walter; but it is wrong to
commit a crime in order to compass your own ends."

"What crime have I committed?"

"The theft of the horse will be charged against you, and those who are
intrusted with the execution of the law do not favour such an association
as that in which you have enlisted."

"My getting possession of him was the fortune of war, not a theft. I was a
prisoner, made so unlawfully, and had the right to escape as best I
could."

"That argument is good here; but will be of little avail to those who look
upon you as a disloyal youth, who should be deprived of his liberty.'

"If I am to be charged with horse-stealing because of what has been done,
it cannot be avoided now. Before I am arrested I must carry the message
with which I have been entrusted, and to do so I need another horse. I had
believed I could get one from you without difficulty."

"So you can, lad but at the same time you must not think hardly of me if I
use proper precaution to save myself from being caught in the meshes of
the law. You know where my stable is j take an animal from there without
my permission, and I cannot prevent it."

"I am to steal another horse in order that you may not get into trouble?"

"It can make but little difference to you, so long as you see Master
Revere by daylight, and I must not neglect my own interests. No one has
seen you, and you may be able to get out of town secretly."

Walter could not afford to waste any more time in what seemed very like
quibbling, and without further parley he turned to act upon his friend's
suggestion.

"It is not well that you remain in Boston any longer than may be
absolutely necessary for your business," the worthy Master Cotton called
after him, warningly. "There is that being done which you need not be
identified with."

Walter made no reply; but when he was out of the building on his way to
the stable, he muttered to himself, -

"If I was as timorous as you, Master Cotton, I should now be in the
company of Sam Haines, with a rope tied tightly about me."

Five minutes later he was riding out of Salem at full speed on the
fleetest horse to be found in the stable, and there was every reason for
him to believe that he would, in due season, deliver the message with
which he had been charged.

CHAPTER 3 IN BOSTON

THE light of the coming day had not yet appeared in the eastern sky when
the young messenger drew rein at the edge of Charlestown harbour, and sat
in the saddle, gazing curiously around, as he speculated upon the chances
of being ferried across to Boston.

It was well the journey was ended, for the heaving flanks of Master
Cotton's horse told that he had been ridden so long at full speed as to be
well-nigh exhausted.

Immediately on leaving Salem, Walter had debated in his mind as to the
choice of roads. By making a long detour he could ride directly into the
city of his destination; but it would be at the expense of considerable
time, which he believed to be precious.


On the other hand, by traversing the shortest road he would, as he now
did, find himself penniless, with a broad stretch of water to be crossed
before the message could be delivered.

"I shall get over in some way," he had said, as he arrived at a decision,
and now was come the time when that "some way" must be found.

"It is certain I shan't be able to take the horse with me," he said, after
a brief time of silence, "and I must look around for a place in which he
can be hidden."

By riding slowly along the shore-line, he soon found a spot where the
grass was luxuriant, which was hidden I from view of those on the road by
a heavy growth of trees, and here he resolved Master Cotton's horse should
be left to take care of itself. It was not probable the tired animal would
stray very far from where food could be had in such abundance, and Walter
made no other preparation for the halt than to secrete the saddle and
bridle in the thicket.

Returning to the landing-stage of the ferry-boat, he waited impatiently
for some signs of life on the water-front.

During fully half an hour he was forced to remain in idleness, while he
mentally reproached himself for not having taken the longest road, and
thereby arrived in Boston without being forced to depend upon a boat to
conclude the journey.

More than once was he tempted to take possession of one of the small craft
hauled up on the shore without the formality of asking the owner's
permission, but the thought that he had already put himself in a position
to be charged with theft deterred him from such a lawless proceeding.

Then, just as the day was beginning to break, a boat filled with sailors
rowed up to the landing. All the occupants save one disembarked without
paying any attention to the idle boy who was watching them intently, and
the little craft was being pushed off, when Walter cried,-

If you are going back to Boston I will gladly work the oars to pay for my
passage."

"Can you row?"

"As well as you."

"Then come aboard, and let me see how quickly you can pull to the other
shore."

The young messenger did not require a second invitation.  He gave the boat
a vigorous push with his foot as he clambered over the bow, and the man in
charge had no reason to complain of his skill at the oars.

"If you want work, you should buy a boat and ply your trade as a
waterman," the sailor. said, when the short voyage had come to an end, and
Walter leaped ashore, impatient to conclude the mission with which he had
been intrusted.

"I want work that will pay," he said, halting for an instant; "but I don't
intend to find it as a boatman. Can you tell me where Master Paul Revere
lives?"

"Do you mean the lieutenant,-him as has set up for a goldsmith? "

"The very one."

"And you count on goin' into a shop, instead of pullin' boats, eh? I'll
wager you're a sailor who has given his captain the slip."

"I have never been beyond the sight of land, neither do I care to work in
a shop; but I have business which admits of no delay, and if you will give
me the information I shall be very grateful."

"Do you know where North Square is?"

"I have never been in Boston before."

"Then inquire of the first one you see. It is not far."

Walter waited to hear no more, but ran swiftly on in the direction he
supposed North Square might lay, and a kindly fortune guided his
footsteps, for when he had an opportunity to ask the desired question, he
was within a few paces of his destination.

Master Revere's shop was not yet opened, but the young messenger had
little difficulty in arousing the household, and a few moments later he
was standing in a room which, although not furnished with any pretension
to elegance, was more rich in ornamentation than Walter had ever fancied
could be found.

Master Revere did not keep him waiting very long; he had received too many
visitors at unseemly hours to make any delay, and the sun had but just
risen when Walter's mission was accomplished.

"You have come in good time, young sir," Master Revere said, when the boy
had repeated the message.

"The ship on which the stamp distributor for the Province of New Hampshire
sailed from London arrived last evening. I will see him at once, and
before noon you shall take to your friends such information as I have to
give. In the meanwhile you will eat breakfast, and then my eldest son
shall act as host, unless you prefer to sleep, for you have been
travelling all night."

"I can sleep later, sir; but now that I am in Boston I would like to see
the city."

"So you shall. You will find much that is fair and comely to look upon;
but beneath all the air of bravery is the disquietude of oppression, and
the sense of wrongs yet to be wiped out."

"In the province from which I have come we believe the remedy for
oppression to be among ourselves, sir," Walter replied, modestly.

"So it is, lad; and may you be one not lacking in wholesome love for your
country when the time for action arrives."

I fear a boy like me will be of but little service."

"The boys may be men before the time for stirring deeds shall come,"
Master Revere said, much as if speaking to himself; and then he added,
quickly, "You will break your fast with me."

Walter was not accustomed to such a meal as was speedily placed before
him; but the novelty of his surroundings did not prevent him from doing
full justice to the food.

When the master of the house set out to perform the duty expected of him
by his friends in Portsmouth, young John took charge of the guest, and
from that time until nearly noon Walter feasted his eyes upon such wonders
as he had never even dreamed about.

His first visit was to the magnificent building presented to the city by
Peter Faneuil, and then to that elm at the head of Essex Street beneath
the branches of which the association known as the Sons of Liberty had
sprung into existence.

Here young Revere told him what had occurred during the month of August,
when on the tree he was then gazing at had been found hanging an effigy of
Andrew Oliver, his majesty's distributor of stamps for the Province of
Massachusetts, and a boot, symbolical of Lord Bute, with Satan peeping out
of it as he displayed a copy of the Stamp Act. John also described the
scenes when the more lawless members of the community destroyed the
building which had been erected as the office for the sale of stamps, and
the dwelling of the Lieutenant Governor was sacked.

"Does your father believe it is by such a course we can be relieved of
oppression?" Walter asked in surprise, as John Revere concluded his story
with an account of the violence offered to several others of the king's
officers.

"By no means. He was among those who gave public expressions of regret
that such deeds should have been done."

Then young Revere told of the town-meeting which was held immediately
following the scenes of violence, and by the time he had concluded, the
boys were on North Square again, where Master Revere was ready to deliver
the message Walter was to take back to Portsmouth. "I have seen Master
George Messerve," he said, "and believe he fully sympathizes with us. He
has already publicly resigned the office of stamp distributor, and I doubt
not will be found on our side when the decisive moment comes."

Walter understood that with the message given was an intimation for him to
depart, and although he could have done full justice to a dinner, he took
his leave without delay.

There is no question but that Master Revere would have been more than
willing to both feed the young messenger and provide him with sufficient
funds to pay his passage across to Charlestown in the ferry-boat had he
any idea that Walter was penniless. The boy made no explanations, and his
host could not but believe he was fully and properly prepared for the long
journey before him.

Walter did not have as good fortune on his return as in the morning. When
he arrived at the shore he saw several boats going to and fro, but the
afternoon was considerably more than half spent before he succeeded in
finding a boatman who would allow him to work his passage.

Then, when he finally landed on the opposite shore, an hour was spent in
searching for the horse, which had wandered into the woods, and by the
time the boy was ready to begin the return journey the sun hung low in the
sky.

"It will be another night-ride," he muttered, as he leaped into the
saddle. "I did hope to reach Salem early in the evening, and so I might
have done had I been possessed of enough money to pay my ferriage. Exton.
So full of valor as royal blood! And this hab 'I now shed! Oh, how I wish
that those That would be good! But the devil, I said I quite Thue says
IZT, that in the day-books of hell is inscribed.He was comparatively fresh when he drew rein in front of Master Cotton's
stable shortly before midnight, and although the time could well have been
spent in slumber, he devoted an hour to caring for the weary steed who had
borne him so bravely.

To awaken Master Cotton was not a portion of Walter's plan. That gentleman
had shown himself to be of such a timid nature that the young messenger
believed he would pot be pleased at receiving any information; therefore,
as soon as the horse had been cared for, he started out of Salem on foot,
intending to make himself a bed on the ground when he should be within
shelter of the woods.

As he walked rapidly on in the cool night air, feeling refreshed because
of the opportunity of stretching his legs after sitting in the saddle so
long, the desire for slumber fled from his eyes. There was no reason why
he should halt until he felt drowsy again, and he continued on, thinking
alternately of what he had accomplished, of the mill he hoped at some
future time to see erected on the small tract of land bordering the
Pascataqua River which his father had bequeathed him, and of the taxes to
be paid by some means within twenty-four hours of his arrival.

With so much to occupy his mind, he forgot his weariness, and the hours
went by without his being aware of the passage of time.

When he first realized how near he was to the starting point of his long
journey, a rosy light in the east told of the coming sun, and he marveled
that the night had gone so quickly.

Half an hour later, as the knowledge of distance traversed brought with it
weariness, and he was about to seek a thicket where his slumbers would not
be disturbed, a noise as of some one approaching brought him to a full
stop.

In another instant he recognized the form of his friend, Stephen Kidder,
in the distance, and he ran toward him, crying,-

"What brings you here at this hour, Stephen?"

"I left home at midnight to meet you."

"Meet me? It would have been easier to have waited I there until I
arrived."

"It is to prevent your arrival that I have come," and Stephen had very
much the appearance of a bearer of evil tidings.

"What is the matter? Why do you look so glum? Is my mother well?".

"Yes; but sorrowing."

"Tell me what has happened."

"Your cattle and horses have been sold by the sheriff."

"How can that be? It is not forty-eight hours since they were attached,"

"That is true; but yet they have been sold, Samuel Haines is at the bottom
of the mischief, and he it was who bought them. He is now declaring you
shall be arrested for stealing his horse, and Master McCleary sent me to
warn you not to come home until the matter can be arranged."

"Not go home!" Walter repeated, like one bewildered. "Where, then, shall I
go ?"

"Your mother bade me ask you why you did not visit the land on the
Pascataqua? It is not likely you would be searched for there, and I should
be able to find you whenever it might be necessary."

Walter was silent a few moments, as if trying to under stand all that had
befallen him, and then said, slowly,-

"Haines would never dare to have me arrested. He took me prisoner
unlawfully, and I had a right to make my escape if possible."

"That is very true; yet, because you are one of the Sons of Liberty,
Master McCleary thinks an arrest will surely follow."

"Is it not safe for me to see my mother a few moments? "

"She herself told me to warn you against coming. That half-breed, Jim, has
been seen near the farm twice since yesterday noon, and he can be there
for no other purpose than to give notice of your arrival."

"But, Stephen, I can't go up the Pascataqua without some preparation. I
must at least have my musket and ammunition; otherwise, I would stand a
good chance of starving to death."

"I have arranged for that portion of the business. Your knapsack, well
filled by your mother, and everything you may need during a few weeks in
the woods, is hidden a couple of miles down the road. I brought the things
as far away from the farm as I thought necessary, and then left them in
the bushes."

CHAPTER IV ON THE PASCATAQUA

TWENTY-FOUR hours after Stephen Kidder had warned Walter Neal against
returning to Portsmouth the latter was skirting the west bank of the
Pascataqua River, within sight of the tract of land whereon he hoped to
see at some day a grist-mill owned by himself.

When Stephen selected such goods as he thought Walter might need during
his enforced retreat, he did not neglect anything which would possibly be
useful to the fugitive, and the result was that when the young messenger
started through the pathless forest, his load was so heavy as to retard
his progress very decidedly.

Therefore it was that on the following morning he had not yet arrived at
his proposed destination, although it was but a comparatively short
distance from Portsmouth.

He had slept in the woods where night overtook him, and at the first faint
light of day was making a frugal breakfast of the bread and cheese sent by
his mother.

When the gloom of night had been dispersed by the heralds of the
approaching sun, Walter was at that point on the river from which he could
see the landmarks of his tract, and the knowledge that he was about to
enter on his own possessions served to cheer his drooping spirits.

"If it is necessary to skulk around here in the woods to avoid being seen
by Sam Haines, there is no reason why I should not make the most of my
time," he said to himself, as hope began to spring up once more in his
breast. "There is little chance I shall be able to raise any money for the
mill now, when I have been defrauded of a goodly portion of my poor
possessions, but I can at least make preparations for the day when I shall
be in a position to carry out my plans. It is better to work than remain
idle."

It was the first time since he took leave of his friend Stephen that the
mental burden had been lightened, and now he pressed forward eagerly,
impatient to begin the work resolved upon.

There was very much which he could do toward making ready for the erection
of that wished-for mill, and he felt confident the labour would not be
useless, although performed so far in advance of the building operations.

With this idea in mind, his first care was to select the most advantageous
spot for a mill, and to this end he deposited his burden on the shore of
the river, where it could readily be found again, after which he set about
inspecting the property.

He spent several hours in this work, and had fully decided upon the
location for the building when he was startled by hearing what sounded
very like a human voice among the underbrush a short distance from the
shore.

With his gun held ready for instant use in case any danger threatened, he
went cautiously in the direction from which the noise appeared to have
come, and after a brief time threw aside the weapon with an exclamation of
dismay.

In a dense portion of the forest, where were several aged trees partially
decayed at their base, he dimly saw the figure of a man, apparently pinned
to the ground by the heavy branches of a fallen hemlock.

He was sufficiently versed in woodcraft to understand that the unfortunate
had either felled a tree which had fallen upon him, or passed beneath one
of the giants of the forest at the precise moment when its rotten trunk
gave way under the burden of the enormous top.

A low moan from the sufferer told he was yet alive, and at the same time
proclaimed that relief must soon come if death was to be cheated of its
prey.

"Hold out a few minutes longer, friend," Walter cried, cheerily. "I must
have an axe before I can do very much toward getting you free from that
timber."

There was no reply; the poor wretch's strength was nearly exhausted, and
the boy understood that he must work, with all possible speed if he would
save a human life.

"It seems that my coming here may be of more use than simply hiding from
Sam Haines," he cried, as he ran with all speed toward the spot where the
goods had been left. "I have been grumbling because Stephen brought an axe
instead of a hatchet, but now I should be able to do very little without
it."

Ten minutes later he was chopping furiously at the imprisoning branches,
using due care to prevent additional injury to the helpless man, and when
so much of the foliage had been cut away as to give him a clear view of
what was beneath, he exclaimed in surprise,-

"An Indian! What could have brought him so near the town?"

Then he forgot the colour of the sufferer, thought not of what his kind
had done in the way of savage cruelty to helpless women and children, but
devoted all his strength and energies to releasing him.

The wretch was so nearly dead as to be unable to render any assistance to
his would-be rescuer, and at least half an hour elapsed before Walter
could drag him from beneath the heavy weight which had so nearly deprived
him of life.

When this work was accomplished, it seemed to have been in vain, so far as
saving life was concerned; but, fortunately, Walter did not cease his
efforts. Dragging the apparently lifeless body to the river, he applied
such restoratives as were at hand, and after a short time had the
satisfaction of seeing the red man open his eyes.

"Better not try," he said, as the Indian attempted to speak. "You have
had such a squeezing as would discourage a bear, and it will take some
time to get over it. Luckily I haven't much of anything to do except take
care of you, and I'll warrant we shall soon have you around as well as
ever. So far as I can make out, no bones have been broken, though I doubt
if you could go through the same experience again and come out anywhere
near whole."

There was nothing more he could do to relieve the sufferer, and after
cautioning him to remain quiet, Walter set about putting up some kind of a
shelter against the elements.

A "lean-to " of brush was soon erected, and in one corner the boy made a
bed of fir boughs, upon which he placed the sufferer, who, after the first
attempt, made no effort to speak.

Walter divided with the Indian his store of bread and cheese, and had the
satisfaction of seeing the latter eat heartily.

"I reckon you're all right if you can get away with as much food as a well
person, and it's time I did something toward laying in a stock of
provisions. Will you stay here while I go after game? There are partridges
enough, even though deer should be shy."

"I wait," the Indian said, with a sigh as of relief; and the boy, gun in
hand, plunged into the thicket.

The result of this first hunting excursion was half a dozen plump birds,
and Walter had seen such signs as told he would have but little difficulty
in bagging a deer on the following morning.

During the remainder of the day Walter acted as nurse and cook; but never
once did the Indian speak.

Next morning, before the sun appeared, he was out to replenish the larder,
returning with the hind-quarters of a deer and, when a plentiful supply of
steaks from these had been broiled over the coals, the Indian ate like one
in perfect health.

"You'll do now, I reckon. It doesn't stand to reason that you feel like
moving around very much, therefore, you shall stay here while I go to
work."

Then he set about making the foundations for a mill that might never be
completed, and when it was so dark that he could no longer see to work, he
felt satisfied with the progress made.

The Indian had cooked supper, and the boy showed that he appreciated the
culinary efforts, rude though they were.

"You know Jim Albert?"

This question was asked when an hour had been spent in almost perfect
silence by the occupants of the lean-to, and the boy was startled both, by
the name and the voice.

"Yes; I know him," Walter replied, grimly, thinking of the part played in
his capture by the half-breed.

"Big rascal!"

"You're right. I know it isn't just the thing to give way to revengeful
thoughts, but some day that scoundrel shall answer to me for what has been
done. If he and Sam Haines had remained where they belonged, I wouldn't be
here hiding as if I really was a thief."

The Indian did not continue the conversation, although Walter gave him
every encouragement, and at an early hour the tired boy sought the repose
to be found in slumber.

When he set out for work next morning the Indian accompanied him, and
during the day laboured faithfully hewing trees, or gathering rocks which
were to form the foundation of the proposed mill.

"I didn't fancy having an Indian for a companion at first, but it begins
to look as if finding him under that tree would be a fortunate thing for
me. We are getting this place into shape very fast, and when it is
possible for me to raise the money, it won't be necessary to spend very
much time making ready for the more serious portion of the work."

During the week which followed, with the exception of the Sabbath, the two
laboured industriously, save at such tittle as one or the other spent in
hunting, and Walter could see the outlines of the structure he intended
one day to build.

A large pile of rocks had been rolled together to form the lower walls,
huge timbers were hewn and roughly "squared " for the framework, and a
road from the riverbank to the highway, four miles distant, was "blazed" a
goodly portion of the way.

During all this time, while he had laboured as industriously as if it was
some project of his own, the Indian remained comparatively silent. He had
told the rescuer his name was Sewatis; that he was a member of the
Penobscot tribe, and acquainted with "Jim Albert," but never a word
regarding the reason for being in that vicinity.

There had been no scarcity of food; the forest teemed with game, and if
the labourers fancied deer, bear or birds, it was only necessary to go a
short distance from the encampment in order to get it.

Almost unconsciously Walter had explained to his assistant what it was he
hoped to do. There had been many times when it seemed positively necessary
he should speak with some one, and to the silent Indian the boy talked
freely. It was as if thinking aloud, because no reply was made unless one
was absolutely required; and it is quite possible the young messenger
would have been greatly surprised had some one been there to tell him he
had confided more fully in Sewatis than in any other person except his
mother.

More than once had Walter suggested that there was no reason why the
Indian should remain if he had business elsewhere.

"I suppose you think because I pulled you from under that tree you must
stay here and work, but it is all a mistake. You have already repaid me
ten-fold, and I don't want you to believe there is any necessity of
stopping with me."

"Me wait," Sewatis would say, whenever the conversation touched upon this
subject, and by the end of a week Walter would have felt decidedly lonely
without his silent companion.

"There's one thing about it," the boy said once, when the Indian had
refused to leave him, "while you are here I feel as if I could learn at
any time how matters are at home. It wouldn't be much of a task for you to
go into Portsmouth? "

Sewatis made a gesture which signified that such a journey would be as
nothing.

"I think you had better go and see my mother presently. In a very small
time period, which we refer to dt, we can use the velocity v as a
fixed view. In this period of time distance, which is also very small,
had ds.

Then v = ds / dt is the value for the speed of an arbitrary [10]
variable motion in a given moment.

A uniformly accelerated or retarded motion is thus unable to [11]
that on a body in the direction of its motion or against the same
a steady (constant) force acts.

In such cases, the experience teaches: 1 In [12] behave in the same
mass, the resulting accelerations as the forces 2.

At the same forces behave the opposite of acceleration to the masses 3.
At the same acceleration forces behave like the masses. The weight,
for example, is a constant force, which in any body on earth
consecutively. 14 The unit of weight [1] can also serve as power
unit.

One of the mechanics used in the kilogram as a unit of power.

A force of 28 kg means [2], therefore, that the same 28 times as big as
the pressure to which 1 liter of water due to the gravity exerts
on its surface, if g = 9806 m / sec ².

(It defines Buy 1 kg as the weight of 1 liter of water at 45 °
latitude [3] at sea [4], where g = 9806 m / sec ²).

The unit of mass, we will most convenient [5] so chosen that same by the
action of the force 1 kg an acceleration of 1 m / sec ² (= unit
of acceleration) obtained.

The mass unit will be presented [6] for example, by water or 9.81
l 1.40 l zinc, etc.

To calculate the mass of a body we obtain the rule: The mass is equal
to the weight divided by the gravity acceleration under 45 ° latitude.
For example, the mass of a railway train of 100 t [7] = weight 100000/98,
06 = 10198 kg.sec ² / m.

Target [8] So by the same locomotive acceleration of 0.2 m / sec ² and
there needs to Zugkraft = 0,2.10198 = 2040 kg. [9] We say that it is
mechanical work consumed when a body in motion, while there are
forces which resist this movement.

The work is therefore [10] in a nutshell overcoming resistance forces, and
is consumed by the same.

This work needs to be consumed by another (the driving forces) will also
be provided. If the resistance is doubled or tripled, so is [11] the necessary
work in the same ratio, ie the work is to overcome resistance proportionally.
Similarly, the work is proportional to the paths along which the
resistance is overcome.

Thus we call the resistance or the force with K, S with the path and work
with A, then A = KS.

Provided here is that the resistance is always in the direction of the motion
effect.

Does [12], a force perpendicular to a movement, so it looks the
same to either prevent or produce, then neither consumed nor work
done.

Is the force with the motion _A_ an angle, so you can either use the
road to one with her falling component, or the force in a way to
right and in a direction falling component decompose.

Only the latter makes or consumes work, whose size is A = cos KS _A_.

As a work unit is the kilogram-meter = 1 mkg, ie the one work that needs to
be done to a resistance of 1 kg along a path of 1 m to be overcome. The
unit of work is done, for example, if you have a weight of 1 kg
of [13] 1 m vertically in the amount raised.

The Gesammtarbeit [14] of several forces acting simultaneously is equal
to the sum of the individual work [15]. 15 Possesses [1], a body the
velocity v, so he has a work content (living force, kinetic energy)
of the size of A = Mv ² / 2 The same will increase the speed of the
body from 0 to v from the body laid by [2], reduction in [3] the
speed of v at 0 resource.

To such as a rifle bullet from 30 grams to [4] 4587 m vertically
into the air to lift, it requires a work of 0,03.4587 = 138 mkg.

In order to achieve this height, it had [5] the ball a velocity of
300 m / sec have.

Its mass is 0.03 / 9.806 = 0.00306 kg.sec ² / m. Accordingly, Mv ² / 2 =
0,00306.300.300 / 2 = 138 mkg. This content will work after advancement
of the ball to overcome the gravity entirely consumed. If the ball back
down to 4587 m, it shall finally return to the speed of 300 m /
sec, ie it increases their work content back to 138 mkg.

The work is so necessary to the seriousness done [6]. Strictly speaking,
[7] these considerations are only true if there is no air resistance is
present.

If we lift a weight, a spring clamp [8], air pressed together, so we make
a work which is always measured by the product of force times resist
following way.

You call this work somehow become latent elasticity [9], or better energy
of the situation.

Apart from the size of the work done in evaluation [10] of the value of
a performance much time prevail [11], in which it is given. A steam
engine, for example, the same work in the third part of the time does,
as a different, in terms of [12] of their power three times more
valuable than the latter.

The value of job performance is determined by the unit of time (1 sec) work
is measured, this is called power or effect. The unit of power
equivalent to a work of kilogram meters in 1 second = 1 mkg / sec
(read kilogram 1 meter in 1 second).

As a major power unit used in the technique horsepower (1 hp) = 75 mkg /
sec One horsepower that is capable of seconds 75 kg 1 m high, or even
to lift 25 kg 3 ft or 1 kg 75 m USF [13] 16 _Einfache and composite Maschinen._
The inclined plane with its subsidiary forms [1], the wedge and
the screw, and the lever In addition, with its forms, the role and
the wheel on the shaft, are the so-called simple machines or
mechanical powers.

All so complicated [2] Machines can be drawn from these elements together.
Due to its weight P is looking for a body on an inclined, ie against
the horizon tilted rigid herabzugleiten level or rollers [3].

This is it by an Z preventing force which initially parallel to the
inclined plane effect mag. Balance will be if the resultant of P and
Z being perpendicular to the inclined plane.

The same is [4] then a [5] on the inclined plane pressure of D,
which by the strength of the plane lifted [6].

It is the length l, b the base and h is the height of the inclined
plane.

From the similarity of triangles follows for the case [7] the
equilibrium Z: P = h: l = Ph or Z / l = P sin a D: P = b: l or D =
Pb / l = P cos a.

If Z in parallel with the train out of the base, then the equilibrium
in the case Z = P tang and a D = P / cos a. In this latter form, the
inclined plane used as wedge and screw.

The wedge has been identifying [8] as two with the base placed on
inclined planes.

The force acts on the back parallel to the common base, the pressure is
carried out in parallel to the spine. In the case of balance does the
force of this pressure as the back of the wedge to the common base (height
of the wedge). The screw can be caused by [9] think that a square or
dreikantigprismatischer strips around a cylinder Hard Drive has
been that it is consistent with the cylinder axis always represents
the same angle, one obtains a flat standard [10] without [11].
scharf popular [12] screw.

A full rotation of the strip forms a screw motion [13], all of the screws
form the threading gears [14] of the bolt. The outer diameter is the strength
bolts [15], the diameter of the cylindrical core of the core
thickness [16].

Works [17] found in the wall of a hollow cylinder, whose diameter is
equal to the core strength is bez-square [11]. Dreikantigprismatische screws
from courses, so that the resulting cavity and the screw itself are congruent
each other, so you get the right to screw nut. If the vertical axis of
the screw, so is the upper (or lower) surface of each screw Ganges area,
anywhere on the horizon under the same angle, for which therefore
the laws of the inclined plane may apply. The amount by which [18] the
thread each dealing with a rising, means slope or pitch [19], as well as
this corresponds to the height of the inclined plane, while the extent
of the stud of the base is. When the screw is usually the force parallel
to the extent of the stud, the back pressure in the direction of the
axis thereof; allow the extent of the force on the bolt itself,
so does the equilibrium in the case of the forces needed to counter
pressure as the extent to climb.

The smaller or [20] the slope and the larger the size is a greater
pressure so as you can with a given force in the direction of the axis of
the screw spawn. This is the use of the screw for fixing and for the
generation of strong pressure (screw press). Furthermore, the screw
is used often for very small movements that are more robust (micrometer
screws, set screws [21]) 17. _The Hebel._ sub-lever is a rigid body, which
is a solid axle is rotated, and what forces influence what him for this
axis to rotate different directions looking for. Equilibrium takes place
when the algebraic sum of the moments of rotation is zero. Usually,
the leverage in the form of a straight rod. The distance of the point
of attack power from the axle lever means. In the angle lever lever
arms are not in a straight line. If, at the straight lever the forces are
parallel, behavioral [1] they are, in the case of equilibrium,
conversely, how the lever arms.

Notified [ 2] is the application of the straight lever for lifting the
loads. The shorter these [3] of the lever arm of the load and the longer
that of the force, the greater may be the former, the latter to be smaller.
A gain of work occurs [4] at the lever is not held because of the way
of the force just as many times as big as that of the load, as the lever
arm of the former than the latter.

The angle lever is used mainly to changes in the direction of transfer of
movements that are more robust, eg [5] Bell trains.

The role provides a solid bilateral, equal leverage, where [6] the force P
and the load L at the ends of a rope made the role work. Balance, if P =
L is. It is mainly used to force a given a different direction. The role
loosely hangs freely in the ropes, which one is attached, while on the
other hand, the force acts, the burden is on the axis of the roll
up.

To raise greater loads can be operated in the rule [7] a combination
of several solid and loose pulleys, which can tackle [8] called.

The wheel on the shaft [9] in its simplest form we find in the ordinary
winds, the load depends on a [10] to the wave slung ropes, the force
acts on the extent of the wheel. Equilibrium exists when the force on
the load behaves as the radius of the wave to that of the wheel.

A special form of Wellrades is the crank. In addition, here are the gear
in its varied forms, finally the belt and pulleys. [11] 18 _Fortpflanzung
[1] of a pressure within a Flüssigkeit._ If you go to a part of
the surface of a [2] completely from the walls of a vessel sealed
fluid exerts a pressure, so the search for particles that prints
out in all directions to avoid; result [3], plants [4] the pressure
in all directions with equal strength to continue.

A [5] in a fluid of rigid body suffers through same pressure to the top, a
lift, which is equal to the weight of the displaced fluid. This rate is
the so-called [6]. Archimedean principle. In order, the relative weight
of a rigid body to determine the same one depends on a fine wire to
determine its weight P_ (1), then plunges it into a tank with water and
once again determined the weight P_ (2). Then D = P_ (1) (P_ (1)-P_ (2)).
The weight loss of the immersed wire piece is usually so small that it does
not need to be taken into account. If [7] specifically a body lighter
than a liquid, and appears [7] is quite the same under the latter,
then the buoyancy is greater than the weight of the body, and
consequently, the latter has the desire in the fluid emporzusteigen
it rises only so far up between the buoyancy, which is still immersed
in the part of the body and its weight will just balance.

Then the floating body, and [8] applies [9] the Law: A floating
body plunges straight so far, that the weight of the displaced fluid
is equal to the weight of the body.

To cork floats on water, iron on mercury. If the cork, for example, the
relative weight of 0.2, so immersed in swimming only 0.2 of its volume
in water.

Swims iron relative weight of 7.8 to mercury from the relative weight of
13,6 is the immersed volume of 7.8 / 13.6 = 0574 from the Gesammtvolumen
of iron. _Ausfluss Of Flüssigkeiten._ power in the wall of a [10 ] with
a liquid-filled tank an opening, so the liquid flows from the same
in the form of a coherent beam.

The speed at which the liquid particles ejected from the opening,
the so-called outflow velocity, is equal to that of a body, whatever
the height of the surface to the outflow opening flunk free, ie v
= square root (2gH), if this pressure altitude H [11].

This rate is the so-called Torricelle Theorem 19. _The Heber_ [1] used a
liquid itself [2] on the edge of a tank away from a higher to a lower
level [3] to carry.

The same consists of a zweischenkelig [4] curved tube, the (most
easily by aspiration) with the relevant fluid and is filled with
one leg immersed in the liquid.

Then the liquid flowing for so long from the opening of the outer leg out,
and will be [5] on the vascular wall hinweggehoben, than the level
in the tank higher than the outer opening is located.

_Festigkeit_ [6] called the resistance of a rigid body a separation of
its parts opposite. As a measure [7] of the strength is the force required
for separation.

There are 1st The absolute strength or tensile strength [8], the
resistance to tear.

The same is the cross section [9] and also by proportional substance
dependent. Man giebt they are usually in kilograms to the square of this
size and identified [10] or the Festigkeitsmodulus coefficient 2. Retrospectively
[11] the strength or resistance to crushing. 3 The relative [12] strength
or resistance to breakage. 4 The torsion resistance or the resistance
against the Zerdrehen 5.

The shear-shear or skill or the resistance against the shearing 6. The
hardness or the resistance against the penetration of another body in the
surface. Under elasticity is the property of the body, by which they shape
and size changes, [13] within a certain border, back into the
previous size and shape return.

The border, which will not be exceeded, is called the elastic limit. It
is called the body, even at low deformation break brittle [14], such
that strong deformation endure without losing the integrity viscous
[15], extensible [16] or smooth. [17] 20 _The Schall._ We understand
hearing a sound sensation, [1] in which auditory organ by a
longitudinal wave motion [2] the air is excited.

This wave motion is determined by certain movements of rigid vibration,
liquid or gaseous body caused. The propagation velocity [3] of sound in
air at 0 ° is 332.4 m / sec It is independent of pressure, but
changes with the temperature. Very good planting Also the sound in rigid
and fluid bodies continues.

This is the so-called Fadentelephon [4]. Two [5] rings spread over
wood pieces are characterized by a bubble in their midst fortified freely
spread thread or metal wire, which has more than 100 meters long.

Speaking against a membrane, so the other reproduced the words quite clearly.
Like any wave motion, so will the sound when connected to a limit
of the product [6], in which he spreads that, daselbst partially
in the old Medium back.

This happens, for example, of cliffs, forests, houses, but also hot air to
different layers. The reflection of sound is the echo. As we sound
impressions only perceive clearly separated, if there is at least 0.1
seconds, it must be reflective of the subject for a monosyllable
Echo at least 17 m away.

At a lesser distance one observes only a reverberation. [7] When the voice
and the ear trumpet used Zurückwerfung of the sound of rigid walls, the
sound radiation mainly [8] for a direction to steer. The former
consists of an approximately 2 m long, slightly conical tube,
preferably from several übereinandergeleimtem paper and well painted.

Metallic pipes rattle. The sound of the narrower end hineingesprochenen
words planted as a result of reflection mainly in the direction
of the axis continues.

More than once he almost decided to remain idle until word
should come that he was at liberty to return home; but then he remembered
the goal he had set for himself, and laboured more industriously than
before.

It was no longer possible, now he was alone, to move the larger logs, and
all he could do was to hew them into shape, without an attempt to remove
the timbers to the site of the mill.

The days passed slowly and wearily. The Sabbath seemed to have in it three
times the usual number of hours. He indulged in hunting only when it
became absolutely necessary he should have food, for the supply of powder
bid fair to be exhausted before the time set for Stephen's return.

A week elapsed, and the young exile grew more cheerful. His friend must
soon come. As for Sewatis, Walter did not believe he would ever see him
again.

At the close of the eighth day, when the solitary supper had been cooked
and eaten, more as one performs an important duty than something to be
enjoyed, Walter was lying on the bed of boughs, dreaming of the time he
could return home without fear of an unjust arrest, when a shadow came
between his eyes and the fire.

Springing up in alarm, he seized the musket, which stood where it could be
reached handily, and made ready to defend himself, for it seemed certain
Sam Haines or one of his emissaries had come to carry him to jail.

Sewatis stood before him.

One would have said that the Indian had been absent but a few moments, and
was wholly at a Joss to understand the look of surprise on the boy's face.

"I thought you were never coming back!" Walter cried, in a tone of most
intense relief.

"Come to see mill," the Indian replied, as he seated himself and began to
eat a deer-steak which had been left near the fire.

"I am beginning to fear you will never see one of mine," the boy said,
despondently. "I have been foolish enough to think I could borrow as much
as would be needed, while money is so scarce in this province."

"Build mill next day," Sewatis said, more indistinctly than usual, because
his mouth was full of meat.

Walter understood the Indian to mean that he would continue the work on
the morrow, and was not particularly interested in the proposed labour,
for during the time he had been alone the possibility of ever getting a
sufficient capital seemed an obstacle which could not be surmounted.

"What did you do with Jim Albert? "

"Big rascal! Jim gone Castine; never come back."

"Castine, eh? Well, you took him far enough away, at all events."

"Heap rascal fetch heap money," and Sewatis drew from beneath his blanket
a bag which, on being opened, proved to be filled with gold pieces. "
Hundred pound; more Jim worth alive."

It was some time before Walter could understand the Indian's meaning, and
then the thought came that he had heard some one say the half-breed came
to Portsmouth from the Penobscot River.

"Do you mean that there was a price set on Jim's head?" he asked, eagerly.

"Hundred pound," and Sewatis held up the bag once more. "Now build mill."

"But I have nothing to do with that," Walter cried, as the Indian pushed
the money toward him.

"Build mill."

"But I surely can't do it with your money, you must understand that."

"Why?"

"Because it ---you know I couldn't."

"Would from white man? "

"That is different. If Master McCleary or Master Leavitt would lend it to
me, taking a mortgage to secure themselves - "

Sewatis pushed his bag toward Walter once more, and when the latter shook
his head, as if to refuse the loan, or gift, which ever it might be
called, the Indian rose to his feet, pulling his blanket more closely
around him.

"What is the matter? Where are you going?"

Sewatis pointed toward the east, and moved slowly away.

"Come back!" Walter cried, entreatingly. "Come back and help me as you did
before."

"Build mill?" and the Indian touched the bag of money with his foot.

"Do you mean that you won't stay unless I use that gold? "

Sewatis nodded.

"Suppose I did take it ?"

The Indian seated himself as if to show he would remain.

It was fully an hour before Walter spoke again, and during that time he
pondered over the matter in all its bearings. It seemed much like taking
an undue advantage of Sewatis to use his money, and yet there could be no
question but that he was pained when it was refused.

"I don't know why the fact of his being an Indian should prevent me from
accepting the offer," the boy said to himself. "I would be perfectly
willing to receive a loan from Master Leavitt, who has never shown half
the friendship for me this red man has."

Sewatis watched him intently, and finally pushed the bag nearer.

"Yes, I will take it," Walter said, decidedly. "It is only to be loaned,
and until I can pay it back you shall have half the profits of the
business."

Sewatis nodded in approbation.

"And you are to stay here with me?"

"All time; now I call Injuns."

Walter was wholly at a loss to understand the meaning of this remark until
Sewatis rose to his feet, uttering a cry that might well have been
mistaken for a night-owl.

In response to it, half a dozen red men, each carrying a burden, came out
from among the trees, and depositing their heavy loads in the lean-to,
seated themselves before the fire in silence.

Sewatis motioned for Walter to look at that which had been brought, and
while the latter wonderingly obeyed, he cut from the haunch of venison a
sufficient number of steaks to serve as a hearty meal for the new-comers.

The boy's surprise may be imagined when he discovered that each of the
packages was made up of furs, and he understood that the value of the
whole lot greatly exceeded the amount of money in the bag.

"Big mill," Sewatis said, in a tone of satisfaction, and then he turned
his attention to his followers, leaving Walter to speculate upon the good
fortune which had come to him so unexpectedly.

The Indians remained in camp during that night, and at daybreak, after a
breakfast of venison, all save Sewatis departed.

Never before had Walter worked as he did on the day succeeding the
Indian's return. It was a perfect fever of industry, superinduced by the
knowledge that there was now nothing to prevent the consummation of his
desires save that which could be done by hands.

His companion appeared as before the coming of Jim Albert, with a single
exception, and that was at the close of the fatiguing day's work, when he
pointed to a slight elevation overlooking the site of the proposed mill,
and said, quietly,-

"Sewatis build house there. "

"So you shall, and between the two of us I reckon we can run the business
as it should be."

Two days more the boy and his friend worked during every moment of
daylight, and then came Stephen Kidder.

"Master McCleary is just behind me," he cried, before Walter could greet
him.

"Master McCleary! Why has he come? Is there more danger for me?"

"You are free to go to Portsmouth this day. Samuel Haines has sailed for
England, and there is little chance he will ever return."

Before Walter could realize the full bearing which Haines's departure
would have upon his own affairs, Andrew McCleary came into view.

"It is a brave spot, my lad, and you have done well to choose it. Master
Leavitt gives me great encouragement in regard to advancing the money, but
stipulates that he shall be made a partner in the enterprise, you to pay
him interest on the entire amount until your debt of one-half is
discharged."

"I shall not need his money, for I already have a partner who neither
demands interest nor a portion of the profits," Walter replied,
laughingly; and then he told his now mystified friends of what Sewatis had
done.

McCleary insisted upon taking the Indian by the hand as he praised him,
but not a word, either good or bad, could he persuade Sewatis to speak.

The mill was built and opened for business four months after the repeal of
the Stamp Act, and Sewatis insisted on pouring into the hopper the first
bushel of corn brought to be ground.

CHEMISTRY. The chemistry is the study of the properties [1] and
transformations [2] of the elements of nature and of their connections.
Both the elements as their compounds called substances [3]. One can,
therefore, the chemical also known as the doctrine of the substances,
their properties and transformations described. Elements of nature or
chemical precursors [4] called those substances which we have not
to other substances to divide or to split assets and, therefore,
as chemically simple or unzersetzbar, without [5] with certainty
can be said that they really are unzersetzbar.

From the chemical precursors to build the entire physical world from
simple mineral to plant and animal.
A letter now before the writer of this story, signed by Walter Neal and
addressed to his mother at Portsmouth, tells of his service during the
battle, while he was a member of the regiment to which Andrew McCleary was
attached, and in it the miller says:

"Tell Sewatis that our noble friend is no more. He has given his life for
his country, and when America takes her place among nations, McCleary's
name will stand out bright as the sun."

THE END.