Produced by David Widger


                           DON QUIXOTE

                            Volume II.

                             Part 22.

                     by Miguel de Cervantes


                    Translated by John Ormsby


CHAPTER XV.

He had a small travel suitcases later that I fit under the seat he helped
push, and then sat down with the friendly words: "We have also
never beisammengesessen" to me.

As he said, appeared around the mouth and the brown eyes an expression of
kindness, I would say the participation of involuntarily invited to
confidential discussions. The cleanliness of its appearance, which is not
just in the brown Tuchrock and the white scarf ausprägte, feinbürgerliche
the essence of the man who heimelte everything at me, and it did not last
long, so we had our communications about our mutual family relationships
deepened. I learned that he was a piano maker and in a medium-sized city
of Swabia was established. It fell on me one, my travel companion
said the southern German dialect, and yet I had his suitcase on the
name "Jensen" read the best of my knowledge only the northernmost Germany
belonged. When I noticed him, he smiled. "I like pretty eingeschwäbelt
be," he said, "because I live now for over forty years in this good land
and had it at this time will never leave my home but is in the north,
and hence also because my name." And now he called my own father as
his native city. "So we are fellow countrymen as much as possible," I
cried, "I'm there and just born in the term, then return." The old
gentleman took my two hands and looked at me lovingly to. "That the Lord
has done well," he said, "so we travel, if you is right, together. My
goal is our father, city, and I hope to see you there - if God permits."
I took with delights of this proposal. After the current terminus of
the railway had reached, was still five miles road ahead of us, and
soon we sat together in the comfortable cushion of a spring wagon whose
roof we are the beautiful autumn weather had beaten back. The area
was gradually homeland, the forests disappeared, and soon the living
fences to the side of the road, even the walls on which they stood, and
the vast treeless level did before us. My companion gazed silently
out front. "I am of this infinity of space as weaned," he said
once, "I am here now, as I saw on all sides into eternity." Then he was
silent again, and I do not bother him. When we look at the middle of
the road from a village through which the road led, once again came into
the open, I noticed that his head forward and seemed eager auszulugen.
Then he shaded his eyes with his hands and was visibly agitated. "I see
it as much else in the distance," he said finally, "but I am trying
in vain, our tower from here to get in sight, and yet I have him in my
youth from here always welcomes first, when I from a hike returned
home. "" You must be mistaken, "I replied," the low tower in such a
distance may not yet be visible. "" Low! " cried the old man almost
unwilling, "the tower has been on for many miles into the lake,
the boatmen on the landmark served!" Since I fell for. "They
think in the end," I said hesitatingly, "still in the tower of the old
church, which plenty of forty years ago was canceled."

The old man looked at me with his big eyes as if I faselte. "The church
canceled - and in over forty years! My God, how long I have been continuing,
I've never experienced something like this!" He folded his hands and sat
for a while as despondent in the collected toads. Then he said: "On
that beautiful tower, which is only in my mind was still there, I will
soon be before the fifty years of the return promised to ensure
their sake, I now make this long journey. I want you to hear if you
like This piece made my life, maybe that you sent me then about
the hope that I have a property to give information.

"I assured the old gentleman of my participation, and while our Postillion
in the warm midday sun on its seats and the einnickte wheels slowly grind
through the sand, he began his story: "In my youth I would have
liked the way learned a set of education, because after the early
death of my parents the means to do so were not available, so I
stayed with the craft of my father, that is, I was carpenter.

While I, as a companion on the journey was not bad, I had pleasure, offering
me out because it was missing I do not quite of resources, from the sale
of my father's house was a round Sümmchen left, the for the beginning
already sufficient.

But I turned it back home, and this happened to a young blond girl's
sake .-- I do not think I will ever again have seen blue eyes. A friend
once said in jest to her, "Agnes, I pluck you from the violet eyes!"
The words I've never forgotten them. "- The old man remained silent
for a while and looked transfigured before him, as he would again
in this violet eyes of his youth.

Then, while I almost involuntarily called my old friend in St. Jürgen
myself saying, he began again: "She was the daughter of a
Kraemer, my guardian. We grew together as a neighbor child, while the girl
from the early widowed father rather strictly brought up and was lonely.
Therefore it may come, that they are increasingly the only Jugendgespielen
joined.

Soon after my return among us, we were both as good as engaged, and
it was already started, that I the father of our city in a business
should be justified, as I by an unexpected coincidence of my small
fortune lost .-- It was so that I had resumed.

On the last days Agnes had promised me, in the evening once again
on the path behind her garden hinauszukommen and one last word with
me to talk.

When I am, however, with certain bells Digest einfand, she was not there.
I stood listening to the plank under the overhanging Lindengezweig, but
I waited in vain. The house of her father at that time I could not
enter, not that a dichotomy between us would have been, I think on the
contrary, that he give me the hand of his daughter without major concerns
would have, because he felt something on me and was not a haughty man
There was another reason that I do not like the oblivion snatch wants .--
I know it probably did. It was a dark and stormy April night; repeatedly
deceived me, the weather vane on the roof, that I believed that I,
well-known open Hoftür to hear, but there was not a step down the garden
gate. Still, I leaned on the plank and saw the black clouds in the
sky vorüberfliegen, finally, I went heavy heart continued .-- The next
morning it had just five towers beaten, when I after a sleepless
night on the stairs from my room and my hinabstieg House hosts
farewell took.

In the narrow, poorly paved roads were still dirt and the darkness of
winter. The city still seemed to lie in bed, of all known faces none
wanted to meet me, so I went my lonely and dreary way.

Because, as I have just after the cemetery turn wanted, broke a sharp
ray of sunshine appears, and the old House of Ratsapotheke the bottom
with his Löwenschnitzbild still in the haze of the street, was
above the top of the stairs Giebels at once like in the spring slip
bathed .

At the same time, when I just aufschaue, schallt high above me in the air
a long-drawn sound, then again and again, as calling it far out into the
world. I was on the churchyard hinausgetreten and looked up at the tower,
because I saw on top of the tower of the gallery and saw his long horn in
his hand still held.

I knew it well and the first swallows had come and the old Jacob had blown
their welcome and loud about the city called that spring had come into
the country. But he got his honor in the nightcap and a bare Ratsweinkeller
dollars from the Lord Mayor .-- I knew the man and was often up there
with him, as a boy so that from there my pigeons fly to see, and later
with Agnes probably because the old grandson had a little daughter
with him, to which she confessed and Pate which they refer to all
kinds to be used.

Once, on Christmas Eve, I had it even a Christmas tree complete the
tower hinaufschleppen help .-- Now, the well-known oak door open, I
stepped into it involuntarily, and in the darkness that suddenly surrounded
me, I slowly climbed the stairs and, where they stopped, the conductor-like
narrow stairs hinan.

Nothing I heard the rattling of a large clock tower, which here in
the loneliness drove her care. I know it probably did me grauete dermal
before that dead things, and I had when I came out into the iron wheels
may draw, only to be stillzumachen. Since I heard the old Jakob von
herabklettern above. He seemed a child to speak, he urged caution. I
called him a "good morning" in the dark up and asked if he or she is small
in itself was Meta. "Bist du's, Harre?" cried the old man back, "indeed,
which must coincide with the Lord Mayor." Finally the two came down to
me while I was sideways in a Schalluke was underfoot. As Jakob me so ready
to travel next to saw, he puzzled: "What does this mean Harre, what
with the rise because Knüttel and Wachstuchhut up in my tower? Are
not again become strangers in our home?" "It is no different , Jacob,
"I replied," 's will hopefully not be long. " "Hatt's very different to
me with thee out!" growled the old man. "Well, if it must be because
once the swallows are back, and it is now the best time for hiking.
And've also thanks, that thou art come again!" "To live well, James!"
I said. "And if your me-down from your tower once again in the
bright sunshine into the gate you see walking into it, so give me a
blast also welcome your swallows like today!"

The old man shook my hand, by his grandson, Chen took on the arm. "Should
apply , Harre master! " he smiled, he used me in so called jokes. When I
am, however, preparing to back him down, he adds: "If you were a good
way from the Agnes want, it is up since early, it still has its pleasure
in the birds."

Well, I never so fast the last neck-breaking hinaufgekommen stairs, even
though my heart almost staggered breath. But when I on top of the platform
and into the dazzling sky slip hinaustrat remained involuntarily, and I
did a glance through the iron railings. Since I saw below me in the
depths of my father in the first town of Spring are jewelry, anywhere
between the roofs were the cherry trees in bloom, which the warm spring
time so hervorgetrieben had. There, the gable, the small towers of the
town hall opposite, the house belonged to my guardian. I saw the garden,
the path behind it to me quoll the heart, and overwhelmed by homesickness
like I involuntarily expelled have a sound, for I felt suddenly
seized my hand, and when I got up, stood next to me, Agnes.

"Harre," said she, "you will come again!" And it flew a happy smile on
her face. "I thought not having you here," I replied, "now I must
continue, so I searched in vain yesterday to wait?" There was all happiness
from her face disappeared. "I could not, Harre, my father wanted me not
to leave.

Later I was in the garden hinabgelaufen, but you were already away, you
did not, because I am this morning on the tower - and I thought I
could but you also walk to the gate to see.

"The future lay before me confused, but I had taken a plan. Even before I
was in a piano factory employed now, I wanted this to look for work again,
and then with Hülfe the expected earnings, perhaps later, even such
a business justification, because these instruments began at that time
a great place to spread .-- All this said, I now the girls, and while
I initially intended to apply.

You had leaned on the railing and how absent in the empty sky area
hinausgeblickt. Now she slowly turned her head back. "Harre," she said
softly, "do not go away, Harre," When I looked but no answer, she
called again: "No, do not listen to me, I'm a child, I do not know what I
am talking about. " The morning wind had a couple of blond hair and
blew it resolved about her pale face, which is now patiently
aufblickte to me. "We must wait, Agnes, 'I said," the fortune is now
in the distant future, I will try, if I it can bring back home. I will
not write, I come myself, if it is time. "She looked at me for a while
with big eyes, then she pressed my hand." I'm waiting, "she said with
firm voice," go because with God, Harre! "I was not yet. The tower, which
helped both of us, stood so lonely in the blue ether space, only the
swallows, whose steel-blue wings as the sunshine sparks flashed,
floated around us, and bathed in the sea of air and light .-- I was
still her hand, I was when I could not continue from here, as if
we were both, they and I already have all hinausgehoben plight of
the world .-- But time pressed; among us suggested the booming
quarter bell.

Because, when the sound waves umfluteten the tower, there was a swallow
flew to us almost with their wings grazed; fearless, only arms length of
us, she seated herself on the edge of the railing, and while we were
banned in the small shiny eye looked, she suddenly slammed with her
throat geschwellter Laute spring into the air. Agnes threw himself on
my chest. "Forget the recovery is not coming!" she exclaimed. Since the
bird spread its wings and flew away .-- As I traveled through the dark
tower came to earth am I do not know. When I am outside the gate on the
road was, I stayed and looked back. As I have clearly recognized the
splendor of the sun's love wrapped around their tower shape, it seemed
to me, as opposed to far over the edge of the railing out, so I was
involuntarily an Schreckensruf ausstieß. But the figure remained motionless.
And finally, I went and went, without even once around, with quick
steps on the road continued. " The old man remained silent for a while.
Then he said: "She has waited in vain for me, I'm never again come home
.-- I will now tell you how this could happen. My first job I found in
Vienna, where was the best piano factories were, because I came from after
a year and a half into Württembergische, according to my current residence.
Geselle A side of me had a brother from whom he makes the provision
of a reliable Gehülfe was asked .-- It was a couple still young, and I
came into the house. The business was small, but the holder of a
friendly and clever man, with whom I soon learned in these things
than in the large factory, where I always just on individual work was left.
Since I am the cause and believed strongly but also from my Wiener
added brought many experiences, so I soon won the confidence of
these good people.
Sometimes I dine
with my neighbours and friends, and often invite them; my entertainments
are neat and well served without stint of anything. I have no taste for
tattle, nor do I allow tattling in my presence; I pry not into my
neighbours' lives, nor have I lynx-eyes for what others do. I hear mass
every day; I share my substance with the poor, making no display of good
works, lest I let hypocrisy and vainglory, those enemies that subtly take
possession of the most watchful heart, find an entrance into mine. I
strive to make peace between those whom I know to be at variance; I am
the devoted servant of Our Lady, and my trust is ever in the infinite
mercy of God our Lord."

Sancho listened with the greatest attention to the account of the
gentleman's life and occupation; and thinking it a good and a holy life,
and that he who led it ought to work miracles, he threw himself off
Dapple, and running in haste seized his right stirrup and kissed his foot
again and again with a devout heart and almost with tears.

Seeing this the gentleman asked him, "What are you about, brother? What
are these kisses for?"

"Let me kiss," said Sancho, "for I think your worship is the first saint
in the saddle I ever saw all the days of my life."

"I am no saint," replied the gentleman, "but a great sinner; but you are,
brother, for you must be a good fellow, as your simplicity shows."

Sancho went back and regained his pack-saddle, having extracted a laugh
from his master's profound melancholy, and excited fresh amazement in Don
Diego. Don Quixote then asked him how many children he had, and observed
that one of the things wherein the ancient philosophers, who were without
the true knowledge of God, placed the summum bonum was in the gifts of
nature, in those of fortune, in having many friends, and many and good
children.

"I, Senor Don Quixote," answered the gentleman, "have one son, without
whom, perhaps, I should count myself happier than I am, not because he is
a bad son, but because he is not so good as I could wish. He is eighteen
years of age; he has been for six at Salamanca studying Latin and Greek,
and when I wished him to turn to the study of other sciences I found him
so wrapped up in that of poetry (if that can be called a science) that
there is no getting him to take kindly to the law, which I wished him to
study, or to theology, the queen of them all. I would like him to be an
honour to his family, as we live in days when our kings liberally reward
learning that is virtuous and worthy; for learning without virtue is a
pearl on a dunghill. He spends the whole day in settling whether Homer
expressed himself correctly or not in such and such a line of the Iliad,
whether Martial was indecent or not in such and such an epigram, whether
such and such lines of Virgil are to be understood in this way or in
that; in short, all his talk is of the works of these poets, and those of
Horace, Perseus, Juvenal, and Tibullus; for of the moderns in our own
language he makes no great account; but with all his seeming indifference
to Spanish poetry, just now his thoughts are absorbed in making a gloss
on four lines that have been sent him from Salamanca, which I suspect are
for some poetical tournament."

To all this Don Quixote said in reply, "Children, senor, are portions of
their parents' bowels, and therefore, be they good or bad, are to be
loved as we love the souls that give us life; it is for the parents to
guide them from infancy in the ways of virtue, propriety, and worthy
Christian conduct, so that when grown up they may be the staff of their
parents' old age, and the glory of their posterity; and to force them to
study this or that science I do not think wise, though it may be no harm
to persuade them; and when there is no need to study for the sake of pane
lucrando, and it is the student's good fortune that heaven has given him
parents who provide him with it, it would be my advice to them to let him
pursue whatever science they may see him most inclined to; and though
that of poetry is less useful than pleasurable, it is not one of those
that bring discredit upon the possessor. Poetry, gentle sir, is, as I
take it, like a tender young maiden of supreme beauty, to array, bedeck,
and adorn whom is the task of several other maidens, who are all the rest
of the sciences; and she must avail herself of the help of all, and all
derive their lustre from her. But this maiden will not bear to be
handled, nor dragged through the streets, nor exposed either at the
corners of the market-places, or in the closets of palaces. She is the
product of an Alchemy of such virtue that he who is able to practise it,
will turn her into pure gold of inestimable worth. He that possesses her
must keep her within bounds, not permitting her to break out in ribald
satires or soulless sonnets. She must on no account be offered for sale,
unless, indeed, it be in heroic poems, moving tragedies, or sprightly and
ingenious comedies. She must not be touched by the buffoons, nor by the
ignorant vulgar, incapable of comprehending or appreciating her hidden
treasures. And do not suppose, senor, that I apply the term vulgar here
merely to plebeians and the lower orders; for everyone who is ignorant,
be he lord or prince, may and should be included among the vulgar. He,
then, who shall embrace and cultivate poetry under the conditions I have
named, shall become famous, and his name honoured throughout all the
civilised nations of the earth. And with regard to what you say, senor,
of your son having no great opinion of Spanish poetry, I am inclined to
think that he is not quite right there, and for this reason: the great
poet Homer did not write in Latin, because he was a Greek, nor did Virgil
write in Greek, because he was a Latin; in short, all the ancient poets
wrote in the language they imbibed with their mother's milk, and never
went in quest of foreign ones to express their sublime conceptions; and
that being so, the usage should in justice extend to all nations, and the
German poet should not be undervalued because he writes in his own
language, nor the Castilian, nor even the Biscayan, for writing in his.
But your son, senor, I suspect, is not prejudiced against Spanish poetry,
but against those poets who are mere Spanish verse writers, without any
knowledge of other languages or sciences to adorn and give life and
vigour to their natural inspiration; and yet even in this he may be
wrong; for, according to a true belief, a poet is born one; that is to
say, the poet by nature comes forth a poet from his mother's womb; and
following the bent that heaven has bestowed upon him, without the aid of
study or art, he produces things that show how truly he spoke who said,
'Est Deus in nobis,' etc. At the same time, I say that the poet by nature
who calls in art to his aid will be a far better poet, and will surpass
him who tries to be one relying upon his knowledge of art alone. The
reason is, that art does not surpass nature, but only brings it to
perfection; and thus, nature combined with art, and art with nature, will
produce a perfect poet. To bring my argument to a close, I would say
then, gentle sir, let your son go on as his star leads him, for being so
studious as he seems to be, and having already successfully surmounted
the first step of the sciences, which is that of the languages, with
their help he will by his own exertions reach the summit of polite
literature, which so well becomes an independent gentleman, and adorns,
honours, and distinguishes him, as much as the mitre does the bishop, or
the gown the learned counsellor. If your son write satires reflecting on
the honour of others, chide and correct him, and tear them up; but if he
compose discourses in which he rebukes vice in general, in the style of
Horace, and with elegance like his, commend him; for it is legitimate for
a poet to write against envy and lash the envious in his verse, and the
other vices too, provided he does not single out individuals; there are,
however, poets who, for the sake of saying something spiteful, would run
the risk of being banished to the coast of Pontus. If the poet be pure in
his morals, he will be pure in his verses too; the pen is the tongue of
the mind, and as the thought engendered there, so will be the things that
it writes down. And when kings and princes observe this marvellous
science of poetry in wise, virtuous, and thoughtful subjects, they
honour, value, exalt them, and even crown them with the leaves of that
tree which the thunderbolt strikes not, as if to show that they whose
brows are honoured and adorned with such a crown are not to be assailed
by anyone."

He of the green gaban was filled with astonishment at Don Quixote's
argument, so much so that he began to abandon the notion he had taken up
about his being crazy. But in the middle of the discourse, it being not
very much to his taste, Sancho had turned aside out of the road to beg a
little milk from some shepherds, who were milking their ewes hard by; and
just as the gentleman, highly pleased, was about to renew the
conversation, Don Quixote, raising his head, perceived a cart covered
with royal flags coming along the road they were travelling; and
persuaded that this must be some new adventure, he called aloud to Sancho
to come and bring him his helmet. Sancho, hearing himself called, quitted
the shepherds, and, prodding Dapple vigorously, came up to his master, to
whom there fell a terrific and desperate adventure.


CHAPTER XVII.

WHEREIN IS SHOWN THE FURTHEST AND HIGHEST POINT WHICH THE UNEXAMPLED
COURAGE OF DON QUIXOTE REACHED OR COULD REACH; TOGETHER WITH THE HAPPILY
ACHIEVED ADVENTURE OF THE LIONS


The history tells that when Don Quixote called out to Sancho to bring him
his helmet, Sancho was buying some curds the shepherds agreed to sell
him, and flurried by the great haste his master was in did not know what
to do with them or what to carry them in; so, not to lose them, for he
had already paid for them, he thought it best to throw them into his
master's helmet, and acting on this bright idea he went to see what his
master wanted with him. He, as he approached, exclaimed to him:

"Give me that helmet, my friend, for either I know little of adventures,
or what I observe yonder is one that will, and does, call upon me to arm
myself."

He of the green gaban, on hearing this, looked in all directions, but
could perceive nothing, except a cart coming towards them with two or
three small flags, which led him to conclude it must be carrying treasure
of the King's, and he said so to Don Quixote. He, however, would not
believe him, being always persuaded and convinced that all that happened
to him must be adventures and still more adventures; so he replied to the
gentleman, "He who is prepared has his battle half fought; nothing is
lost by my preparing myself, for I know by experience that I have
enemies, visible and invisible, and I know not when, or where, or at what
moment, or in what shapes they will attack me;" and turning to Sancho he
called for his helmet; and Sancho, as he had no time to take out the
curds, had to give it just as it was. Don Quixote took it, and without
perceiving what was in it thrust it down in hot haste upon his head; but
as the curds were pressed and squeezed the whey began to run all over his
face and beard, whereat he was so startled that he cried out to Sancho:

"Sancho, what's this? I think my head is softening, or my brains are
melting, or I am sweating from head to foot! If I am sweating it is not
indeed from fear. I am convinced beyond a doubt that the adventure which
is about to befall me is a terrible one. Give me something to wipe myself
with, if thou hast it, for this profuse sweat is blinding me."

Sancho held his tongue, and gave him a cloth, and gave thanks to God at
the same time that his master had not found out what was the matter. Don
Quixote then wiped himself, and took off his helmet to see what it was
that made his head feel so cool, and seeing all that white mash inside
his helmet he put it to his nose, and as soon as he had smelt it he
exclaimed:

"By the life of my lady Dulcinea del Toboso, but it is curds thou hast
put here, thou treacherous, impudent, ill-mannered squire!"

To which, with great composure and pretended innocence, Sancho replied,
"If they are curds let me have them, your worship, and I'll eat them; but
let the devil eat them, for it must have been he who put them there. I
dare to dirty your helmet! You have guessed the offender finely! Faith,
sir, by the light God gives me, it seems I must have enchanters too, that
persecute me as a creature and limb of your worship, and they must have
put that nastiness there in order to provoke your patience to anger, and
make you baste my ribs as you are wont to do. Well, this time, indeed,
they have missed their aim, for I trust to my master's good sense to see
that I have got no curds or milk, or anything of the sort; and that if I
had it is in my stomach I would put it and not in the helmet."

"May be so," said Don Quixote. All this the gentleman was observing, and
with astonishment, more especially when, after having wiped himself
clean, his head, face, beard, and helmet, Don Quixote put it on, and
settling himself firmly in his stirrups, easing his sword in the
scabbard, and grasping his lance, he cried, "Now, come who will, here am
I, ready to try conclusions with Satan himself in person!"

By this time the cart with the flags had come up, unattended by anyone
except the carter on a mule, and a man sitting in front. Don Quixote
planted himself before it and said, "Whither are you going, brothers?
What cart is this? What have you got in it? What flags are those?"

To this the carter replied, "The cart is mine; what is in it is a pair of
wild caged lions, which the governor of Oran is sending to court as a
present to his Majesty; and the flags are our lord the King's, to show
that what is here is his property."

"And are the lions large?" asked Don Quixote.

"So large," replied the man who sat at the door of the cart, "that
larger, or as large, have never crossed from Africa to Spain; I am the
keeper, and I have brought over others, but never any like these. They
are male and female; the male is in that first cage and the female in the
one behind, and they are hungry now, for they have eaten nothing to-day,
so let your worship stand aside, for we must make haste to the place
where we are to feed them."

Hereupon, smiling slightly, Don Quixote exclaimed, "Lion-whelps to me! to
me whelps of lions, and at such a time! Then, by God! those gentlemen who
send them here shall see if I am a man to be frightened by lions. Get
down, my good fellow, and as you are the keeper open the cages, and turn
me out those beasts, and in the midst of this plain I will let them know
who Don Quixote of La Mancha is, in spite and in the teeth of the
enchanters who send them to me."

"So, so," said the gentleman to himself at this; "our worthy knight has
shown of what sort he is; the curds, no doubt, have softened his skull
and brought his brains to a head."

At this instant Sancho came up to him, saying, "Senor, for God's sake do
something to keep my master, Don Quixote, from tackling these lions; for
if he does they'll tear us all to pieces here."

"Is your master then so mad," asked the gentleman, "that you believe and
are afraid he will engage such fierce animals?"

"He is not mad," said Sancho, "but he is venturesome."

"I will prevent it," said the gentleman; and going over to Don Quixote,
who was insisting upon the keeper's opening the cages, he said to him,
"Sir knight, knights-errant should attempt adventures which encourage the
hope of a successful issue, not those which entirely withhold it; for
valour that trenches upon temerity savours rather of madness than of
courage; moreover, these lions do not come to oppose you, nor do they
dream of such a thing; they are going as presents to his Majesty, and it
will not be right to stop them or delay their journey."

"Gentle sir," replied Don Quixote, "you go and mind your tame partridge
and your bold ferret, and leave everyone to manage his own business; this
is mine, and I know whether these gentlemen the lions come to me or not;"
and then turning to the keeper he exclaimed, "By all that's good, sir
scoundrel, if you don't open the cages this very instant, I'll pin you to
the cart with this lance."

The carter, seeing the determination of this apparition in armour, said
to him, "Please your worship, for charity's sake, senor, let me unyoke
the mules and place myself in safety along with them before the lions are
turned out; for if they kill them on me I am ruined for life, for all I
possess is this cart and mules."

"O man of little faith," replied Don Quixote, "get down and unyoke; you
will soon see that you are exerting yourself for nothing, and that you
might have spared yourself the trouble."

The carter got down and with all speed unyoked the mules, and the keeper
called out at the top of his voice, "I call all here to witness that
against my will and under compulsion I open the cages and let the lions
loose, and that I warn this gentleman that he will be accountable for all
the harm and mischief which these beasts may do, and for my salary and
dues as well. You, gentlemen, place yourselves in safety before I open,
for I know they will do me no harm."

Once more the gentleman strove to persuade Don Quixote not to do such a
mad thing, as it was tempting God to engage in such a piece of folly. To
this, Don Quixote replied that he knew what he was about. The gentleman
in return entreated him to reflect, for he knew he was under a delusion.

"Well, senor," answered Don Quixote, "if you do not like to be a
spectator of this tragedy, as in your opinion it will be, spur your
flea-bitten mare, and place yourself in safety."

Hearing this, Sancho with tears in his eyes entreated him to give up an
enterprise compared with which the one of the windmills, and the awful
one of the fulling mills, and, in fact, all the feats he had attempted in
the whole course of his life, were cakes and fancy bread. "Look ye,
senor," said Sancho, "there's no enchantment here, nor anything of the
sort, for between the bars and chinks of the cage I have seen the paw of
a real lion, and judging by that I reckon the lion such a paw could
belong to must be bigger than a mountain."

"Fear at any rate," replied Don Quixote, "will make him look bigger to
thee than half the world. Retire, Sancho, and leave me; and if I die here
thou knowest our old compact; thou wilt repair to Dulcinea--I say no
more." To these he added some further words that banished all hope of his
giving up his insane project. Eintracht diligence and lived under their
roof. But it was still a bad thing, the third house Genosse that these
good spirits not to distribute had managed. In every corner, while not
exactly the sun shone, the sick man saw it sitting .-- This thing
was a concern .-- "Take the Kehrbesen and feg it away," I said often
to my friends, "I will help you , Martin! " Then he squeezed my hand well,
and a melancholic serenity flew for a moment on his pale face, but soon
he saw again the black spider's web on all things. Unfortunately, there
were no mere fantasies. The capital, which he started his business,
was a priori too low. In the early years, he had poor workers suffer
losses that are not taken into account, and also the sales of the
finished product did not take place as soon as such circumstances required
now was a hopeless medical condition yet to do so. At last I was not only
the whole concern for the upkeep of the family, I had even the Comforter
to be healthy. The boys could not get rid of my hand when we are at the
bed of his father sat, he soon could no longer leave. But this seemed the
lapse of physical strength, the restlessness of the mind only to
increase, he was pondering on his pillow and built plans for the
future.

Sometimes, when the showers of the approaching death anwehten him, he
suddenly and shouted: "I can not die, I will not die!" and then quietly
with folded hands: "My God, my God, I want also, if you want!" And finally
came the moment of salvation. We were all in his bed and he thanked me,
he took from us all farewell. But then, when he saw something in
front, before which he must defend it, he woke his wife and two
boys rushed in itself, it looked bleak eyes and groaned aloud. And when I
zuredete him: "Throw your worries to the Lord, Martin!" As he called
despairing: "Harre, Harre, which are no longer the concern, which
is poverty itself!

Soon it will be over my dead body wegkriechen; my wife, O my dear children,
they will not escape! "It is a strange thing for a deathbed, I do not
know whether you know it, my young friend. But at this moment dying, I
promised my master, at his bearable, until the ghost that his last hour
was bothered, they would no longer reach you. And when I promised to let
the death rather than delayed. Leise he gradually come to the door. Martin
stretched his hand out and I thought he wanted me to make them rich,
but it was the invisible messenger of the Lord, which they took, because
before I touched it, had the young master of my life stopped. "My travel
companion took his hat off and laid before him on the lap, his white hair
blowing in the warm midday air. So he sat in silence, as he ordained these
moments to the memory of long-deceased friend .-- But I had to remember
the words of my old Hansen used to be I said: "There are other
things than death, that of the people will oblige."

It was nevertheless been the death of the living had separated. It goes
without saying that I know about the person of him who sat by my side no
longer in doubt was. After some time the old man began his story again,
he covered his head slowly.
Don Quixote merely
observed him steadily, longing for him to leap from the cart and come to
close quarters with him, when he hoped to hew him in pieces.

So far did his unparalleled madness go; but the noble lion, more
courteous than arrogant, not troubling himself about silly bravado, after
having looked all round, as has been said, turned about and presented his
hind-quarters to Don Quixote, and very coolly and tranquilly lay down
again in the cage. Seeing this, Don Quixote ordered the keeper to take a
stick to him and provoke him to make him come out.

"That I won't," said the keeper; "for if I anger him, the first he'll
tear in pieces will be myself. The great poets who know it out among his
contemporaries, but was the voice of the whole society in which they
lived, and that made them be great. Can an extraordinary poet poet
cleric, libertine and tabernario; a school nocherniego, much frequented
taverns, a cleric inhonesta and anticanónica life, "as it Menéndez y Pelayo?
I grant that such men can be a poet, an extraordinary poet ever. The
most lofty thoughts and feelings do not walk the delicate taverns and
brothels. If you can believe otherwise, I respect your opinion, but
I keep mine at all contrary.

If others believe desalmado without a conscience and religion, a religious
century especially, can be sublime poet of great size, of the few that
are lifted to the top, as I have the Arcipreste was not me offend, but
still believe that these towering geniuses were never without a deep
religious belief in the heart, the purest source of wealth and the sublime
poetry. But this is all opinion. What we clean all this is taken
is that the worth of Arcipreste and his book is still in balance,
that _Libro Good Amor_ is still an enigma to even the most learned and
discreet.

Decrypting the puzzle, make clear the book who can read, understand and
judge learned and unlearned company was worth and that someone carried
out in the first rush. Perhaps the Arcipreste of ill but it was the
first that I tackled, is that I have been, and would have liked _sátira
this wonderful frame of the clergy and even the entire century society
XIV_, as this reduces The book, in a dignified, painted and put it in the
eyes of the reader that corrupt age _cautiverio babilónico_, as
has been called by the theft of the Pope to Rome, led to policies
aimed Avignon by the kings of France . not suffered such an area
and wander the style and size of the books in this library CLASSIC
CASTELLANOS, and I have had to stick to their limits, although I
have to clean out the text, having clarified its literal sense so
that any moderately educated person to understand, and have pointed
to the news enough to know the habits of being and one century.

The keeper, then, in full detail, and bit by bit, described the end of
the contest, exalting to the best of his power and ability the valour of
Don Quixote, at the sight of whom the lion quailed, and would not and
dared not come out of the cage, although he had held the door open ever
so long; and showing how, in consequence of his having represented to the
knight that it was tempting God to provoke the lion in order to force him
out, which he wished to have done, he very reluctantly, and altogether
against his will, had allowed the door to be closed.

"What dost thou think of this, Sancho?" said Don Quixote. "Are there any
enchantments that can prevail against true valour? The enchanters may be
able to rob me of good fortune, but of fortitude and courage they
cannot."

Sancho paid the crowns, the carter put to, the keeper kissed Don
Quixote's hands for the bounty bestowed upon him, and promised to give an
account of the valiant exploit to the King himself, as soon as he saw him
at court.

"Then," said Don Quixote, "if his Majesty should happen to ask who
performed it, you must say THE KNIGHT OF THE LIONS; for it is my desire
that into this the name I have hitherto borne of Knight of the Rueful
Countenance be from this time forward changed, altered, transformed, and
turned; and in this I follow the ancient usage of knights-errant, who
changed their names when they pleased, or when it suited their purpose."

The cart went its way, and Don Quixote, Sancho, and he of the green gaban
went theirs. All this time, Don Diego de Miranda had not spoken a word,
being entirely taken up with observing and noting all that Don Quixote
did and said, and the opinion he formed was that he was a man of brains
gone mad, and a madman on the verge of rationality. The first part of his
history had not yet reached him, for, had he read it, the amazement with
which his words and deeds filled him would have vanished, as he would
then have understood the nature of his madness; but knowing nothing of
it, he took him to be rational one moment, and crazy the next, for what
he said was sensible, elegant, and well expressed, and what he did,
absurd, rash, and foolish; and said he to himself, "What could be madder
than putting on a helmet full of curds, and then persuading oneself that
enchanters are softening one's skull; or what could be greater rashness
and folly than wanting to fight lions tooth and nail?"

Don Quixote roused him from these reflections and this soliloquy by
saying, "No doubt, Senor Don Diego de Miranda, you set me down in your
mind as a fool and a madman, and it would be no wonder if you did, for my
deeds do not argue anything else. But for all that, I would have you take
notice that I am neither so mad nor so foolish as I must have seemed to
you. A gallant knight shows to advantage bringing his lance to bear
adroitly upon a fierce bull under the eyes of his sovereign, in the midst
of a spacious plaza; a knight shows to advantage arrayed in glittering
armour, pacing the lists before the ladies in some joyous tournament, and
all those knights show to advantage that entertain, divert, and, if we
may say so, honour the courts of their princes by warlike exercises, or
what resemble them; but to greater advantage than all these does a
knight-errant show when he traverses deserts, solitudes, cross-roads,
forests, and mountains, in quest of perilous adventures, bent on bringing
them to a happy and successful issue, all to win a glorious and lasting
renown. - "And hast thou," I asked, "during the entire time, never a
message from your youth will receive friends?" "Never, my child," she
answered. "You know, Hansen," I said, "your Harre I do not like, he was
not a man of words, "You put a hand on my arm. "So you must not
speak, my child. I have known him, there are other things than death,
that of the people will compel .-- But we want to go to my room,
you still have your hat there, and it may soon Lunch will be. "Thus,
we have the lonely ballroom again and went back the same way that we had
come. This opened the door of the Spökenkiekers not only behind them, on
the sandy floor, we heard his shuffling step. When we were in Hansen's
room, where the last ray of the morning sun shone into the window, pulled
a drawer on her casket and took it into a mahogany box, clean, polished,
but the taste of a bygone era. It might once a gift from the young carpenter
at a birthday of their youth have been. "That you must still see,"
said Hansen, who is by the box aufschloß. There were securities is at all
what Harre Jensen, "son of the late master carpenter Harre Christian
Jensen dahier" were, their date but not over the last ten years hinabreichte.
"How come you agree with these papers?" I asked. She smiled. "I have not
served in vain." "But the papers are not limited to your name!" It is
the fault of my father, which I produced. For this reason, and because
my estate, as all who die, the pin falls I have the money immediately
to Harre Jensen's behalf if necessary. "- a moment more before they are
included again, they weighed the boxes on the hand. "The treasure is back
together," she said, "but happiness, my child, the happiness that once
it has been. This is no longer in it." As she spoke these words, shot
outside a Schwalbenzug with a loud clamor over, and then two of these
birds fluttered up close to the windows and then sat twittering on the
open window wing. These were the first swallows, I saw this spring.
"Do you hear the little-wishers, Hansen?"

I cried, "just for your birthday, they come home!" Hansen just nodded. Your
still beautiful blue eyes looked sadly at the little singing friends.
"I take the invitation as a great favour and honour, Senor Don Diego,"
replied Don Quixote; and pressing forward at a better pace than before,
at about two in the afternoon they reached the village and house of Don
Diego, or, as Don Quixote called him, "The Knight of the Green Gaban."


CHAPTER XVIII.

OF WHAT HAPPENED DON QUIXOTE IN THE CASTLE OR HOUSE OF THE KNIGHT OF THE
GREEN GABAN, TOGETHER WITH OTHER MATTERS OUT OF THE COMMON


Don Quixote found Don Diego de Miranda's house built in village style,
with his arms in rough stone over the street door; in the patio was the
store-room, and at the entrance the cellar, with plenty of wine-jars
standing round, which, coming from El Toboso, brought back to his memory
his enchanted and transformed Dulcinea; and with a sigh, and not thinking
of what he was saying, or in whose presence he was, he exclaimed--

  "O ye sweet treasures, to my sorrow found!
  Once sweet and welcome when 'twas heaven's good-will.

  "O ye Tobosan jars, how ye bring back to my memory the
  sweet object of my bitter regrets!"

The student poet, Don Diego's son, who had come out with his mother to
receive him, heard this exclamation, and both mother and son were filled
with amazement at the extraordinary figure he presented; he, however,
dismounting from Rocinante, advanced with great politeness to ask
permission to kiss the lady's hand, while Don Diego said, "Senora, pray
receive with your wonted kindness Senor Don Quixote of La Mancha, whom
you see before you, a knight-errant, and the bravest and wisest in the
world."

The lady, whose name was Dona Christina, received him with every sign of
good-will and great courtesy, and Don Quixote placed himself at her
service with an abundance of well-chosen and polished phrases. Almost the
same civilities were exchanged between him and the student, who listening
to Don Quixote, took him to be a sensible, clear-headed person.

Here the author describes minutely everything belonging to Don Diego's
mansion, putting before us in his picture the whole contents of a rich
gentleman-farmer's house; but the translator of the history thought it
best to pass over these and other details of the same sort in silence, as
they are not in harmony with the main purpose of the story, the strong
point of which is truth rather than dull digressions.

They led Don Quixote into a room, and Sancho removed his armour, leaving
him in loose Walloon breeches and chamois-leather doublet, all stained
with the rust of his armour; his collar was a falling one of scholastic
cut, without starch or lace, his buskins buff-coloured, and his shoes
polished. He wore his good sword, which hung in a baldric of sea-wolf's
skin, for he had suffered for many years, they say, from an ailment of
the kidneys; and over all he threw a long cloak of good grey cloth. But
first of all, with five or six buckets of water (for as regard the number
of buckets there is some dispute), he washed his head and face, and still
the water remained whey-coloured, thanks to Sancho's greediness and
purchase of those unlucky curds that turned his master so white. Thus
arrayed, and with an easy, sprightly, and gallant air, Don Quixote passed
out into another room, where the student was waiting to entertain him
while the table was being laid; for on the arrival of so distinguished a
guest, Dona Christina was anxious to show that she knew how and was able
to give a becoming reception to those who came to her house.

While Don Quixote was taking off his armour, Don Lorenzo (for so Don
Diego's son was called) took the opportunity to say to his father, "What
are we to make of this gentleman you have brought home to us, sir? Your
virtue =- change is the whole house mirror. Your duties they performed
cautiously, häußlich, wise, And no harm by not talking and fraud.

Is anyone against modest, mild and kind, flees pride, glory and pride,
bezeigt is eherbietig, You hear of the poor, North, and is used wherever
possible, The House regieret them with love, not with disputes. In short,
a sensible woman can read this on its own, it is the man's desire and have
been sweet consolation. The children, she was always a true parent =
heart, And to whom you can serve them, a balm to the pain, The Virtue
pattern image, the Haußgenossen joy, The vise constant enemy of
the human eye = pasture.

The pride I have now in the word bold, And speaks fully unreason: I
see here and there a house and living quarters of Hausrath and blankets,
from which I am the number and character vest insure It touches everything
from their parents nor her. The dress and the stuff of her, the woman and
the man he most Physical, which is already worn out.

How long should we be plagued with these clothes? So verräth the mouth of
the vicious Seel. But I also listen to the people of Israel, even as it
speaks differently: What a beautiful front Seeger Did we receive from
the Lord Due to our long?

It was not our schools crumbling, old still sleeping; The clothes were not
yet ill verschabt; The Highest wolter they crack and rot protection.
Frölich How can I still sit in my apartment, as I quietly located
but in my bedroom = Room!

Thus saith the pride of the enemy after Saame Jacobs. my apartment is not
emblazoned with a loud new things, let me not a week make new
pride: If Hausgeräth dress and still very well, the Sun is pleased
to my mind, I Wohlgemuth.

I am not ashamed of, I think in front of a Seeger, in front of a Hermon
= Thau and fat graces = rain, that my parents still usable welding lies
before me; The erworbner my hard work not like the dust flies, That
me Israel as the clothes do not become obsolete: it shows darneben, that
I well kept home that I loved neatness and thrift, And my parents are
also practiced in them, It also convinced me that there is no curse come
to me, the mine stolen and taken away : And that no evil desire rests
on my home, my heritage, the Theil verzehret and verthut. laughs, after
all her proud höhnet Mode = fools, I Wehle this glory, and let
you enjoy the rafters.

"It is a science," said Don Quixote, "that comprehends in itself all or
most of the sciences in the world, for he who professes it must be a
jurist, and must know the rules of justice, distributive and equitable,
so as to give to each one what belongs to him and is due to him. He must
be a theologian, so as to be able to give a clear and distinctive reason
for the Christian faith he professes, wherever it may be asked of him. He
must be a physician, and above all a herbalist, so as in wastes and
solitudes to know the herbs that have the property of healing wounds, for
a knight-errant must not go looking for some one to cure him at every
step. He must be an astronomer, so as to know by the stars how many hours
of the night have passed, and what clime and quarter of the world he is
in. He must know mathematics, for at every turn some occasion for them
will present itself to him; and, putting it aside that he must be adorned
with all the virtues, cardinal and theological, to come down to minor
particulars, he must, I say, be able to swim as well as Nicholas or
Nicolao the Fish could, as the story goes; he must know how to shoe a
horse, and repair his saddle and bridle; and, to return to higher
matters, he must be faithful to God and to his lady; he must be pure in
thought, decorous in words, generous in works, valiant in deeds, patient
in suffering, compassionate towards the needy, and, lastly, an upholder
of the truth though its defence should cost him his life. Of all these
qualities, great and small, is a true knight-errant made up; judge then,
Senor Don Lorenzo, whether it be a contemptible science which the knight
who studies and professes it has to learn, and whether it may not compare
with the very loftiest that are taught in the schools."

"If that be so," replied Don Lorenzo, "this science, I protest, surpasses
all."

"How, if that be so?" said Don Quixote.

"What I mean to say," said Don Lorenzo, "is, that I doubt whether there
are now, or ever were, any knights-errant, and adorned with such
virtues."

"Many a time," replied Don Quixote, "have I said what I now say once
more, that the majority of the world are of opinion that there never were
any knights-errant in it; and as it is my opinion that, unless heaven by
some miracle brings home to them the truth that there were and are, all
the pains one takes will be in vain (as experience has often proved to
me), I will not now stop to disabuse you of the error you share with the
multitude. All I shall do is to pray to heaven to deliver you from it,
and show you how beneficial and necessary knights-errant were in days of
yore, and how useful they would be in these days were they but in vogue;
but now, for the sins of the people, sloth and indolence, gluttony and
luxury are triumphant."

"Our guest has broken out on our hands," said Don Lorenzo to himself at
this point; "but, for all that, he is a glorious madman, and I should be
a dull blockhead to doubt it."

Here, being summoned to dinner, they brought their colloquy to a close.
Don Diego asked his son what he had been able to make out as to the wits
of their guest. To which he replied, "All the doctors and clever scribes
in the world will not make sense of the scrawl of his madness; he is a
madman full of streaks, full of lucid intervals."

They went in to dinner, and the repast was such as Don Diego said on the
road he was in the habit of giving to his guests, neat, plentiful, and
tasty; but what pleased Don Quixote most was the marvellous silence that
reigned throughout the house, for it was like a Carthusian monastery.

The dream of gold devoured the real, which is still in his hands was, but
this gold was not his own, it was entrusted to the heritage of his ward.
At replacement was not to think, and we are advised to resist; relatives
who managed to help us, we had not, your grandfather was no more; we
finally confessed that from the outside not to be hoped that Hülfe .-- The
light was burnt out, I had my head on my father's chest laid my hand
rested in his, so we stayed in the dark.

What then in the secret dialogue between us that night was spoken, I do
not know anymore. But never before, because my father before me was
infallible, almost just like our Lord himself, I have such a holy
tenderness felt for him as in that hour, because he trusts me a deed was
probably not just in the eyes of the people a crime .-- Allgemach was
hereditary in the sky outside the stars, a little bird sang from the
elderberry bushes, and the first glow of Morgenrot fell into the dim
room. My father stood up and stepped to the lectern, on which his account
books were great.

The life-size oil painting of the grandfather, with the hair and the leather
bag colored Kamisol seemed tough on the son herabzusehen. "I will
once again expected," said my father, "the bottom line remains the
same," he added hesitantly, by pleading for forgiveness as to the
image of his father up, "then I will do a serious course, because
I shall require the Mercy of God and the people.

"At his request I left the room now, and soon it was loud in the
house, the day had dawned.

When I took the necessary transactions were concerned, I went into the
garden and through the Hinterpförtchen on the way out; Harre used
to drop in here when the morning after he went to the shop where
he worked until now.

I did not take long to wait; as the
clock six beaten, I saw him coming.
"Harre, for a moment!" I said, and
beckoned him with me into the garden to come.

He looked at me baffled, angry because my message was probably
written on my face, but I stood, when I him in a corner of the
garden had a full time and had taken his hand without a word that
I could spawn.

But finally I told him everything,
  and then I asked him: "My
  father wants you to go, was not too hard with
him." He was totenblaß, and in
his eyes was an expression, perhaps
  only the desperation that made me
  frightened . Harre, Harre, what do
you do with the old man begin?

" I cried. He pressed the hand
  against his chest. "Nothing,
  Agnes," he said, by giving me
a smile that was sad, "but
I must now continue from here." I was
  shocked .-- "Why?" I asked, stammering.
  "I am not your father again."
"You will forgive him anyway, Harre," "The best, Agnes, and I owe
him more than that, but - it should be gray before the main not
humiliate me.

And then "- that he sat as
  still casually added -" I also
  believe it is now with the
Masters Will not. "I said nothing to
this, I saw just how lucky, after
  yesterday I have the hand stretched
  , disappeared in the invisible
distance, but it was nothing more to change and it was now the
best way it wanted Harre.

Only I have said: "When you go
  Harre?" I hardly knew what I said. "Concern
  only that your father does not aufsucht
me today," he replied, "until
tomorrow morning, I am finished with
  everything, which I still have
  to do here.
Is there any need to say that Don Lorenzo enjoyed hearing himself praised
by Don Quixote, albeit he looked upon him as a madman? power of flattery,
how far-reaching art thou, and how wide are the bounds of thy pleasant
jurisdiction! Don Lorenzo gave a proof of it, for he complied with Don
Quixote's request and entreaty, and repeated to him this sonnet on the
fable or story of Pyramus and Thisbe.

SONNET

The lovely maid, she pierces now the wall;
  Heart-pierced by her young Pyramus doth lie;
  And Love spreads wing from Cyprus isle to fly,
A chink to view so wondrous great and small.
There silence speaketh, for no voice at all
  Can pass so strait a strait; but love will ply
  Where to all other power 'twere vain to try;
For love will find a way whate'er befall.
Impatient of delay, with reckless pace
  The rash maid wins the fatal spot where she
Sinks not in lover's arms but death's embrace.
  So runs the strange tale, how the lovers twain
One sword, one sepulchre, one memory,
  Slays, and entombs, and brings to life again.

"Blessed be God," said Don Quixote when he had heard Don Lorenzo's
sonnet, "that among the hosts there are of irritable poets I have found
one consummate one, which, senor, the art of this sonnet proves to me
that you are!"

Because, in my fear that occurred to me that I shed in the rear of our very
deep and vaulted cellar, the bell had never heard beat. Then I built
my plan. It was me, my father bereden, shared with me a list on
where to store goods, which, when later the court to include persons of
the inventory could be an abbreviation of this sad business would be
brought. When the fateful hour arrived, we were long under the earth in
our work. My father ordered the goods, when I slip a lantern wrote on a
sheet of paper, which he dictated to me. A few times I was probably have
been, as I heard from a distance the buzzing of a bell, then I said
a few loud words, pushing up and back with the barrels and boxes of
all the outside noise penetrating swallowed again. Everything seemed to
go well, my father was very into his work deepened. As I heard up there
suddenly tear open the cellar door, cried the old maid, I know not
why, to me, and also penetrated the clear sound of the bell to get
down.

My father sat and listened to the box, he had his hands on the ground.
"The Schandglocke!" He groaned and fell as powerless against the wall.
"It will not save me." - But only for a moment, then he is on, and before
I even got time, a word to speak, he had already left the room,
and then I heard him climb up the basement stairs.

On taking leave, Don Quixote said to Don Lorenzo, "I
know not whether I have told you already, but if I have I tell you once
more, that if you wish to spare yourself fatigue and toil in reaching the
inaccessible summit of the temple of fame, you have nothing to do but to
turn aside out of the somewhat narrow path of poetry and take the still
narrower one of knight-errantry, wide enough, however, to make you an
emperor in the twinkling of an eye."

In this speech Don Quixote wound up the evidence of his madness, but
still better in what he added when he said, "God knows, I would gladly
take Don Lorenzo with me to teach him how to spare the humble, and
trample the proud under foot, virtues that are part and parcel of the
profession I belong to; but since his tender age does not allow of it,
nor his praiseworthy pursuits permit it, I will simply content myself
with impressing it upon your worship that you will become famous as a
poet if you are guided by the opinion of others rather than by your own;
because no fathers or mothers ever think their own children ill-favoured,
and this sort of deception prevails still more strongly in the case of
the children of the brain."

- I had even in such cases without much thought is needed, now I trembled
before the impression that this process is on the mind anyway tiefgebeugten
my father would make. He was familiar to me that he is therefore a friend
of the mayor Ratsherrn handily have, and the councilman, a good-natured
chatterer, had given him assurance that this publication without the
bell was going to happen. I, myself, but knew from a safe source
of reassurance that this was a groundless.