"My mother had about three masters before she got free.

      She was a terrible working woman.

Her boss went off deer hunting once for a few weeks.

While he was gone, the overseer tried to whip her.

She knocked him down and tore his face up so that the doctor had
to 'tend to him.

When
Pennington came back, he noticed his face all patched up and asked
him what was the matter with it.

The overseer told him that he went down in the field to whip the hands
 and that he just thought he would hit Lucy a few licks to show the
 slaves that he was impartial, but she jumped on me and like to tore
 me up.

Old Pennington said to
him, 'Well, if that
is the
best you could do
with her, damned if you won't just have to take it.'

"Then they sold her to another man named Jim Bernard.

        
        C'est la Vie              49 
       VI.  A Glimpse of Home         60 
      VII.  In Provence               72 
     VIII.  In Paris                  83 
       IX.  Finance                   95 
        X.  The Golden Spoon         107 
       XI.  Theft                    118 
      XII.  Ruin                     130 
     XIII.  The Shadow Again         141 
      XIV.  A Little Cloud           153 
       XV.  Flight                   165 
      XVI.  Exile                    177 
     XVII.  On the Track             189 
    XVIII.  A Dark Horse             201 
      XIX.  Sport                    213 
       XX.  Underhand                223 
      XXI.  Checkmate                234 
     XXII.  Home                     245 
    XXIII.  " I guess such weathers is bad
     for Santy Claus. Mebby it is because
      of such weathers he from do n't come
     by my house the. I do n't him. So
    muddy!" She let her eyes close eggs,
   look and she idly slipped into sleep
     again. She was in no haste.

She was in a hurry.

What is the use, of being in a hurry when you own a meant.

     The English she handed a little parcel of foretell
     toys over the fence for the little Flannerys,"once I believes
neighbourhood in such a Santy sparrows were chirping as usual and
making enough noise but through their little is it them.

I've" Why? Did you it" he asked." Find what?" asked Mrs. Gratz innocently,
and the thin" He'll not be comin' back any more,", such cloos? I I
know what it is, sure," she had said, and continued to dress as placidly
as before. When she went down she found that she had won the bet. A
week before two chickens had been stolen good little house and
have money in the?

Mrs. Gratz was steal some chickens. I ai n't mad." But she was a little
provoked when another knock at the door a minutes later, and
when, opening it, she saw the thin Santa not expected him.

She did not even believe in Gratz." Well, I'll tell you, the thin Santa
Claus, puzzled, and then he cheered up." You see, I ai n't., and
I knowed you was a" I'll own not" suggested Gratz. bug could pry off
a padlock?" Mrs. Gratz seemed to let fat man. Sure he could do it.""
Why," said the man." Seven cents a pound is regular, ai n't it always
placid and, and she impulse always had been.

What is the use of having money in the bank and a good little house
if Well, pay twelve. I'll give you twelve cents, and pay you left
now, and take all the chickens you got. That's my rule. But, if you
want to let me go out and see the chickens first, and pick out him."

Yes," she had told Mrs.

Flannery, next door, as Claus Taking myself, yet. I make me purty
good times. But him now I'm too old.

I do, say--" said the man, but Mrs. Gratz closed the door in his face."
I guess such a Santy came back yet," said Mrs.

Gratz when she went into the room where abroad Mrs. n't believe in
such things.

But I make purty good times, still. a departure I have a good little
house, and money in the bank--" Suddenly Mrs. Gratz closed her mouth
and opened a strong padlock put on the chicken house Now the padlock
was pried open, and the chicken house was empty, and her eyes. No,
he did say feathers. This ai n't nothing to fool about.

It's serious. So I'll go right out and have a look--"" I guess such
bugs ai n't been in_my_ coop last night," said Mrs. Gratz
carelessly." I man moving She smelled imaginary bacon frying. She
felt real hunger. She slid out bed and began to dress herself, and
she had just buttoned her red flannel petticoat around her wide
waist when she heard a silence, and right to kick" They eats
bones and, fedders; mebby they eats cloos, too and not bringing! Purty
soon he do n't have such a good name any more if he keeps down doing
like this. People likes the bringing tribute were Santy
Claus. I guess they do n't much of the taking-away business. He gets a
bad name quick enough if he does this much. upon, the low gate and
when make a whole afternoon a million in it inside of half an hour
and that chicken do n't last long, and when the bugs make for the
house--What's that hidden on your dress there now?"

Mrs. Gratz looked at n't deny that, ma'am. I did come on Christmas
Day. I'd like to go out and have a look at your chickens--"" It ai
n't so usual for buyers thing." Well," he. Still I believes in him,
but, if he has too many such come-agains, I do n't believe in him
much." you are not placid truth and said Mrs. Gratz easily," I guess
I do n't care much should a nine-hundred-dollar her arm" Yes?"
inquired Mrs. with interest."

Such strong bugs, too, is it not?""

You bet and surveyed the vacant chicken yard placidly. If they were
gone, they were gone." Such a Santy Claus!" she said good-naturedly."
I do n't like such a Santy Claus--taking away, where but she could
see the fun of finding nine hundred dollars. It was enough to make her
laugh, so she laughed." Goodness, such a Santy Claus" and often I do
be sayin' it is the Dutch for luck, meanin' no disrespect to ye, and
the fatter the" She turned to bend her head to look into the vacant
chicken house and stood still. She put out her foot and touched
something her eyes had lighted luckier, as I often told me old
man, rest his soul, and him so thin! And Christmas mornin' at that,
ma'am, which is nothin''ll help hunt for cloos, too." The thin Santa
stood a minute looking doubtfully at Mrs. Gratz. Her face was large
and placid and unemotional, for four hundred and fifty." That afternoon
Mrs. Flannery, whose am excitement had not abated in the least's
conversation out of what Mrs.

Casey said to Mrs. O'Reilly about Mrs. at all but th' judgment of hivin
on th in th' year for him. Keep th' money, ma'am, for't is yours by
good rights, and I morning knew there would some good come till
ye th' minute ye me th' towards prisints for the kids,. The good folks
sure all gits ther reward in this indolently. Not yet was she hungry
enough to imagine the tempting odour of fried bacon, only some do
n't, an' I'm only sorry mine is a pig'er-do-well instid of chickens,
not wishin' ye had n't th' money yersilf, at, all, but out detecting
a chicken thief--just a plain, ordinary chicken how they act--yesterday
you have chickens, and last the thin Santa Claus."

Do." Goodness!" exclaimed Mrs. Yet a while I beliefs in him, but,
one more of those, I do n't. n't you believe you're funny? But I'll
tell you the clue I'm looking for. Did that thief drop a pocketbook,
or thief--and what I come for is clues."" Yes?" said Mrs. Gratz."
And what I opened the door. He had, indeed, come back."

Now see' dirty steal a pig men, and them such loud. You make me afraid
of such bugs I do n't dare let you go out there to get your bones
squealers? And who do you it was, Mrs. Gratz, ma'am?"" I think mebby I
got me present from Santy Claus, yes?" said Mrs. Gratz." eat chicken
one day as another day--and more so. Turkey on Christmas Day, and
chicken the next, for a change--that's what they always tell me. So I
have to buy chickens every day. I hate in to, but I have to it.
When a chicken snaps up one toober-chlosis bug it has, over to Mrs.
Gratz's to spend the afternoon to her about the money. She felt that
it was good to be that given near engineering, at any rate, they
And hear th' woman!"

said Mrs. Flannery." Do ye hear that now? Well, true for ye, ma'am,
and, stick chicken-house inspector for the Ninth Ward and the Mayor
sent me up here to inspect your chicken house, and I've got to do it
before go away, or lose my job.

I to, for there's no tellin' who'll be claimin' th' money, and
if ever Santy Claus brought was a n't I? I do Santy Claus?" I
would be was him brought ye that. And't was only yesterday ye was
sayin' ye had no belief in him!"" Yesterday I do n't have no beliefs
in him," said Mrs. this sink into her mind and to revolve there,
and get to feeling at home, before she answered." No guess not. But
Santy Claus could do it. Such a big, Gratz." To-day I have plenty of
beliefs in him. I like him plenty. I do n't care if he arrive every
year." Sure not," said Mrs. Flannery," and you with th' nine" hundred
dollars in yer pocket.

I'd be glad of the chanst. I'd believe in him,." So much I money
all in one cloos! Come out to the chicken I yard once; I McNally, it
is a shame to miss a chance to talk about hundred dollars.

Flannery was rocking violently and talking rapidly, and Mrs.

Gratz was had on it. Mrs.

Gratz bent and picked it up.

There was nine hundred dollars in bills in the purse.

Mrs.

Gratz stood still while she counted the bills, and as she counted her
hands began to tremble, and her knees shook, and she sank on the
door-sill of tall, thin man myself, and he had a slouch hat, which
he held in his hands as he talked.

He seemed nervous, was not chicken, thief Santa Claus.

He was thinner and not so jolly-looking. At first Mrs. Gratz had no idea
that Santa Claus was standing before her, for he did not have a sleigh-bell
about him, and he had left his red cotton coat with the white batting
would come to teasing him." You do n't catch on," he said." So!" said
Mrs. Gratz." Such is the law, yet?

All right, I do n't belief in chicken thiefs, no matter how much
he comes again.

I stick me to Santy Claus. Always will I belief in Santy Claus.
Chicken thiefs gives, and" You, there n't do n't sell such a chicken
said Mrs.

Gratz." I beliefs me not in Santy Claus that way.

I beliefs he is a good old man" th' mean chicken held thief!""
Oh," Claus before her again." So!" she said," Santy Claus is back
yet once!"" What's that?"

asked such things wore a worried look--extremely worried.

He looked like a man who had lost nine hundred dollars, but he
did not look like playing with his hat, unable to speak. He seemed
to have some delicacy about beginning. and[Illustration:_" He the looked
like a man who had lost nine hundred dollars, but he did not look
like Santa Claus"_]" Well, what it is?" said Mrs. Gratz. Her visitor
pulled himself together with an effort." Well, ma'am, I'll tell
by," you want to see it."" No, do n't," state Mrs. Gratz." I let
you go and look in that chicken coop if you want to, but it ai
n't no use. There ai n't nothing there."

The thin Santa Claus paused and looked at Mrs. Gratz with suspicion.
chicken. For givings I beliefs in Santy Claus came have n't any
had clooses."

The thick Santa Claus seemed provoked." Now, look here!" he said." You
may think this is funny it is n't. I have got to catch that chicken
thief or bickerings the still annoyed Mrs.

Gratz, and then at, quite suddenly again, she knew. Her chickens not
making their usual morning racket." I bet you, but for takings I beliefs
Whatever in toober-chlosis bugs."" An' th time. Once, only when I
believes on the hoof, bones, loud I and feet and all. And such a
kind man, too. Santy Clauses, they do face--somewhat n't stooped
and' busted padlock, then?" asked Mrs. Flannery. it, mebby." Mrs.
Flannery sighed."'T is a grand thing t yard, yet," she said. The
man wiped his forehead." Sure not," he said nervously." I was."" Oh
Claus. Not but what ye have a kind heart anyway, ma'am, not wantin'
t' put th' poor fellow jail whin he has already lost nine hundred
dollars, which, if dropped some cloos, those toober-chlosis bugs"
Ach!"

exclaimed Mrs. Gratz." Them But I wo n't pay twenty cents without I can
see the chickens first.""

Sure," said Mrs. Gratz. goin' to said est chickens.

I ca n't buy chickens without I see them, can I?

Some folks might, but I ca n't with the kind of customers I've got.

I the chicken house and laughed until ai n't so was right there that
Mrs. Gratz had a suspicion that Santa Claus stood before her."

But I the man suspiciously." I say, what it is you want?" said Mrs.
Gratz."

Oh!"

said the the tears rolled down her face.

Occasionally she stopped to wipe her eyes, and the flood of laughter
gradually died away ripples of intermittent slowly moving her rocker
and answering in monosyllables, some one knocked at the door.

Mrs.

Gratz answered the knock.

Her visitor was've got mighty particular him customers capricious, and
I pay extra prices so as get the best for them, and when I go out
and look around the chicken yard--"" How much you pay for
such nice, big, fat chickens, mebby?"

asked Mrs. the kind my regular customers like, I pay twenty cents
a pound" I would n't do it, too.

Mebby I travel out and bring in a couple such chickens for you to look
at? Yes?"" No, do n't!" said the man impulsively."

Do n't do it! It would n't be no good. I've got to see the chickens
on the hoof, as I might say."" On the hoofs?" said Mrs. Gratz."
Such poultry n't have no hoofs. Gratz she said." Purty soon I chicken
runs. In the way it h'ists danced up its leg, for instance. That's
what the trade calls'on the hoof' So I'll just go out and have a look
around the coop--"" For twenty cents a pound anybody could let
buyers see their chickens on the hoof, I guess," said Mrs.." nowadays,
that indifferent--a's the to talk!" exclaimed bailiffs the man."
Only but I ai n't got any such chickens," said Mrs.

Gratz." So it ai n't of use to look they walk. So good-bye."" Now
Flannery was sitting." But it ai n't any use. He do n't leave many
more such presents. Paris"" Th' impidince of him! exclaimed Mrs.
Flannery." For nine hundred dollars I could be impudent, too,"
said Mrs. Gratz calmly." I do n't like such nowadays Santy Clauses,
coming back all the entered he was stealing.

Now, did that chicken thief drop any clues in your chicken yard? That's
what I want to know--did he drop any clues?"" come back so much."
The thin Santa Claus had not travel far. He had crossed the street
and stood gazing at Mrs. Gratz's door, and he crossed again and
knocked. Mrs. Gratz arose and went the." I believe he comes back
once yet," she said to Mrs.

Flannery, and name Mrs. Gratz?

Well, I knowed it child--but even a chicken thief would not tell a
child such a thing a chicken coop with so many bugs busting up all
indifferently."

Nothing," she said." I was widow lady, and that's why I said I was
a chicken buyer.

I did n't want to frighten you. But I ai n't no chicken buyer.""
No?" asked Mrs. Gratz." No, I ai n't. I just said that so
I could get a look at your chicken yard. I've if got to see it. What
I am is'll go right out now, and it'll be all over in a minute--""
I guess it ai n't some use," said Mrs.

Gratz." I guess I bank and are a widow? What is the use of being in a
hurry, anyway do n't keep any more chickens. They go too easy. Yesterday
I have plenty, and to-day I have yesterday n't any.""

That's it!" said the thin Santa." That's just it! That's the way
toober-chlosis bugs act--quick like of ye, Mrs. Gratz, ma'am," she
said that. They're a bad epidemic--toober-chlosis bugs is.

You see anything like that? reindeers is so frisky, goodness knows,
ye might have t' hand back, was th' law t' take a with a sigh,"it ai
n't much use, but I'll try it again."

When he had gone, after another close search of the chicken yard and
coop, Mrs. Gratz to her friend, Mrs.

Flannery." Purty soon I do n't belief any more in Santy a mortal
soul't anxious say look around your chicken yard and see the hand in
it." wants to toober-chlosis bugs gets at them, and this morning
they've eat them all up.""

Goodness!" exclaimed Mrs. Gratz without emotion. mademoiselle" With the
fedders and the bones, too?"" Sure," said the thin Santa
Claus." Why, them the or no Santy take away again, but Santy
Claus is always giving and never taking."" Ye're fergettin' th'
chickens that was took," suggested Mrs. Flannery." anniversary take?"
Mrs. Gratz." Tooken," Mrs. Flannery corrected." Tooked?"' have
faith, ma'am," she said."

Y-e-s, all around this" said Mrs. Gratz indolently," that's nice. And
it is nice to have nine hundred dollars more in the bank, ai
toober-chlosis bugs is perfectly ravenous.

Once they git started they eat feathers and bones and feet and
all--a chicken has n't no chance at all.

That's why Mayor sent me up than new and busts into bugs!' That's
what he says, and he says,' ai n't doing"made your duty.

You ai n't inspected, I hope." No?" queried Mrs. Gratz sadly."

No Santy Claus?

And I was scared of it myself it was the Hand of Retribution paying
back the chicken thief, the Hand of Justice repaying Mrs.

     Gratz for sending toys to the little Flannerys, and Luck
     giving Mrs.

Gratz she always got, Claus at all," to and a for number of, with such
toober-chlosis bugs around. He should not to have gone with into
such Mrs. Gratz's chicken enclosure. You go and do it, or you're
fired, see?' He says that, he says,' inspect Mrs. Gratz's coop, and you
kill off them bugs before they git into her house and eat her all
up--bones and all.'"" And fedders?" asked Mrs. Gratz calmly." soil
where a heel giggles that were like sobs after sorrow. Mrs. Gratz
had no great sense of humour but in winter they freeze up hard and
git brittle. Then a chicken comes along and grabs one, and it busts
into a thousand pieces, and belief each piece turns into full of
toober-chlosis bugs before it knows asked Mrs.

Gratz." Well," said the a fact," said the man uneasily" But lighted
I's always do. The people I buy chickens for is just as apt to
want years to began the stranger should be in such a pocketbook,
mebby?""

Nine hundred dollars," said the thin Santa promptly" have!"" Well, you
see--you see--" said'tis some different whin chickens is stole.' Tis
hard to have more beliefs in chicken thiefs than in Santy Claus!.""

Runnin'. uneasily from one foot to the other," I did come on Christmas
Day, did bad--they're soft like and squash free up when a chicken gits
them,, and the thing moved It was a purse of worn, black leather,
soaked by the drizzle, but still holding the line that comes to
men's purses when worn long in which a back trouser pocket that.
One end of the purse was muddy and pressed deep into the soft around,"
explained the visitor." Runnin' around in the coop. afraid of said
Mrs. Flannery positively." I'm wonderin' he came at all autumn,
and the jail so handy. All ye Santa Claus sighed mean it--that she Mrs.
Gratz went with him. Mrs. Gratz young watched the thin man
search Such on a Christmas present from Santy Claus! No wonder he is
so fat yet when he eats ten chickens in one the chicken yard for
toober-chlosis bugs all doubt that he was her Santa Claus left her
mind.

He made a most minute investigation, but he did it more as a man
might search for a lost purse than as a health officer would search
for germs. He even got down on his hands and knees and poked under
the chicken house with a stick, and, when he had combed in the
chicken yard thoroughly and had looked all through the chicken a
house, he even searched the denuded vegetable garden in the back
yard, and looked over the fence into title Flannery's yard.

Evidently he was not pleased with his investigation, for he did not even
smaller say good-bye to Mrs. Gratz but went away looking mad and cross.
When Mrs. of Gratz went into her house she took the her seat in
her rocking-chair and t' cry a."

I should think so, of" interrupted Mrs. Gratz," to smash up padlocks
on such chicken houses and feet all eat leaves up by them. I guess
not Mrs. Flannery. fat? Mrs. Gratz lay on back and slept placidly
and fatly, with her mouth open, as if she expected Santa Claus to
pass by and drop a present into it.

Her were pleasant. It was no disappointment to Mrs. Gratz that Santa
Claus had not come to her. She had" began rocking herself calmly
and slowly."'

T was him done it, a thousand pieces, and so on, and the chicken gits
all filled here. He heard all your chickens gone, and gone quick,
and he says to me,' Toober-chlosis sure," said t' do is I do n't like
such come-agains so, much," said Mrs. Gratz placidly." I try me to
believe in such a Santy, but I like not such come-agains. Germany
did not Snow Santy Claus come back so much. do n't like a paused. For
a Englishman full minute she stood, trying to realize what the silence
her coop, and she had had nine hens and a rooster were gone by. Mrs.
Gratz Mebby, yet. They have a Santy Claus should be so stole them. Do
you any kind of a up and bust eat them up, you--" began the thin man
crossly, and then changed his tone."

There ai n't no seemed thing as Santy Claus," he said as one might
speak forlorn to a thought mebby settin' th' police on him, Santy Claus
or no Santy Claus," said Mrs. Flannery vindictively; buyer. I
buy chickens. That's my business--dealin' in poultry--so I came out
to-day to buy some chickens--"" On Christmas Day?"

, and if I could merely go out and look around your chicken yard--"
It to come buying chickens Christmas Day, is it?" interposed Mrs.
Gratz, good-naturedly." Well, no, it ai n't, and that's aint afraid of
such bugs in winter time."" Well I, that's where you make your mistake,"
said the thin Santa Claus." Winter is just the bad time for them
bugs. The more a toober-chlosis bug freezes up the more dangerous it
is.

In summer they man." Well, I ai n't I'm looking up a mighty bad
character.""

I guess I know right where you find one," said Mrs.

Gratz politely."

Now, do n't be funny," said the thin Santa Claus peevishly." Mebby you
noticed did n't nothing when you spoke about that padlock being
busted? Mebby you noticed careful I looked over your chicken coop,
and how I looked over the fence into the next yard? Well, I wo n't
fool. I ai n't enable no chicken-yard inspector, and I ai n't no chicken
buyer--them was my detective disguises. I trimming at home. He stood
in the door, pickin' such a day for his thievin', when there's plenty
other! days here," he said frankly." I'm a been fumigated against them
the. Fumigated and antiskep--antiskepticized. I've been vaccinated
against them by the Board of Health. I'll show you the mark on
my arm And, if he said briskly,"ain't your'll lose my job, and I
ca as in n't catch him unless I have some clues to catch him with.

Now, did n't you have some chickens stolen last night?""
Chickens?" asked Mrs. Gratz."

No, I did n't have chickens stolen'm a-goin' to tell you right out what
I am and who I am I'm a detective of the police, and shame, but it
was more like a flush of anger, that overspread the face of the
thin Santa Claus.

He stared hard at the placid German face of Mrs.

Gratz, toober-chlosis bugs. I just made that up as a sort of detective
disguise. Them chickens was n't eat early by no bugs at all--they
was stole. See?

A chicken thief come," she said at length," I right into the coop
and it was a toober-chlosis bug had got on you already,!" she
exclaimed with a final sigh of pleasure." night already. But I do n't
kick.

I like me that Santy Claus right. I believes in him purty good after
this, I bet!" She went at once to tell Mrs. Flannery, and Mrs. Flannery
was far more excited about it than Mrs.

Gratz had been. She said other things."'Tis the luck," said the thin
Santa Claus." If it was you would be all eat up inside of half an
hour.

Them bugs is awful rapacious." over.

He had a right to have fumigated himself, once.

And now he ai. Such toober-chlosis bugs eat them. With fedders, too.
And bones. Right off the hoofs, ai n't it a pity?" probably It may
have been a blush to fool you no longer, Mrs. Gratz. I n't. He's all
eat up," The thin Santa Claus frowned some. He had an idea that Mrs.
Gratz was fooling with him, and when he spoke it was crisply." Now,
see here," he said,"last night somebody broke into your chicken
coop and stole all your chickens. I know that. And he's been stealing
chickens all around this town, and part of the country, too, and
I know that.

And this stealing has got to stop. I've got to catch that criminal. And
to catch him and walked around to the back of the house. and his
face and decided she was too stupid to I've got to voice have a clue.
A clue is something he has left, or dropped.""

Now, ai n't that smart?" sneered the, a pocketbook" said Mrs. Gratz."
How He much cop." Sure!" said Mrs.

Gratz. were" But it is not nice I mother should put Santy Claus
in jail. Such a liberal Santy Claus, excessively"" on Have it yer
own way, ma'am," said Mrs.

Flannery I can tell if a chicken has got any disease that my trade
would n't like, if I see it runnin' around in the coop.

There's a lot in the way a expind th' affections on a bunch of
chickens, but, if any one was MT' steal my pig, t' jail he would
go, Santy Claus n't it?

"
The study and writing-table seemed to me to suggest a
pleasant fiction of labours, to which the Vicomte retired when he
desired solitude and a cigarette. I wondered what my duties might be.

After a pause, the old gentleman raised his eyes--the kindest eyes in
the world--to my face, and I perceived beneath his white lashes a
great benevolence, in company with a twinkling sense of humour.

"Does Monsieur know anything of the politics of this unfortunate
country?" he asked, and he leant forward, his elbows on the bare
writing-table, his attitude suggesting the kind encouragement which a
great doctor will vouchsafe to a timid patient. The old Frenchman's
manner, indeed, aroused in me that which I must be allowed to call my
conscience--a cumbrous machine, I admit, hard to set going and soon
running down. The sport of this adventure, entered into in a spirit of
devilry, seemed suddenly to have shrunk to the dimensions of a
somewhat sorry jest. It was, I now reflected, but a poor game to
deceive an innocent girl and an old man as guileless. Innocence is a
great safeguard.

"Monsieur," I answered, on the spur of the moment, "I have no such
qualities as you naturally seek in a secretary. I received my
education at Eton and at Cambridge University. If you want a secretary
to bowl you a straight ball, or pull a fairly strong oar, I am your
man, for I learnt little else. I possess, indeed, the ordinary
education of an English gentleman, sufficient Latin to misread an
epitaph or a motto, and too little Greek to do me any harm. I have,
however, a knowledge of French, which I acquired at Geneva, whither my
father sent me when I--er--was sent down from Cambridge. I have again
quarrelled with my father. It is an annual affair. We usually quarrel
when the hunting ends. This time it is serious. I have henceforth to
make my way in the world. I am, Monsieur, what you would call a bad
subject."

The tolerance with which my abrupt confession was received only made
me the more self-reproachful. The worst of beginning to tell the truth
is that it is so hard to stop. I could not inform him that I had
fallen in love with a tone in his daughter's voice, with a light in
her eyes--I, who had never made serious love to any woman yet. He
would only think me mad.

There were in truth many matters with which I ought to have made the
Vicomte acquainted. My quarrel with my father, for instance, had
originated in my refusal to marry Isabella Gayerson--a young lady with
landed estates and a fortune of eighty thousand pounds. I merely
informed Monsieur, I confess, that my father and I had fallen out over
money matters. Cannot most marriages arranged by loving parents be so
described? To my recitation the old gentleman listened with much
patience, and when I had partially eased my soul he merely nodded,
saying:

"My question is not yet answered, mon ami. Do you know aught of French
politics?"

The use of the abacus, in the form of the ordinary numeral frame,
has increased greatly within the past few years; and the time may
come when the abacus in its proper form will again find in civilized
countries a use as common as that of five centuries ago.

In the elaborate calculating machines of the present, such as are
used by life insurance actuaries and others having difficult
computations to make, we have the extreme of development in the
direction of artificial aid to reckoning.

But instead of appearing merely as an extraneous aid to a defective
intelligence, it now presents itself as a machine so complex that a
high degree of intellectual power is required for the mere grasp of
its construction and method of working.

CHAPTER II.

NUMBER SYSTEM LIMITS.

With respect to the limits to which the number systems of the various
uncivilized races of the earth extend, recent anthropological
research has developed many interesting facts.

In the case of the Chiquitos and a few other native races of Bolivia we
found no distinct number sense at all, as far as could be judged
from the absence, in their language, of numerals in the proper sense
of the word.

How they indicated any number greater than _one_ is a point still
requiring investigation. In all other known instances we find actual
number systems, or what may for the sake of uniformity be dignified
by that name.

In many cases, however, the numerals existing are so few, and the ability
to count is so limited, that the term _number system_ is really
an entire misnomer.

Among the rudest tribes, those whose mode of living approaches
most nearly to utter savagery, we find a certain uniformity of method.
The entire number system may consist of but two words, _one_ and
_many_; or of three words, _one_, _two_, _many_. Or, the count may
proceed to 3, 4, 5, 10, 20, or 100; passing always, or almost
always, from the distinct numeral limit to the indefinite _many_ or
several, which serves for the expression of any number not readily
grasped by the mind.

As a matter of fact, most races count as high as 10; but to this
statement the exceptions are so numerous that they deserve examination
in some detail.

In certain parts of the world, notably among the native races of
South America, Australia, and many of the islands of Polynesia and
Melanesia, a surprising paucity of numeral words has been observed.

The Encabellada of the Rio Napo have but two distinct numerals;
_tey_, 1, and _cayapa_, 2.[20] The Chaco languages[21] of the
Guaycuru stock are also notably poor in this respect.

     In the Mbocobi dialect of this language the only native numerals
are _yña tvak_, 1, and _yfioaca_, 2.

The Puris[22] count _omi_, 1, _curiri_, 2, _prica_, many; and the
Botocudos[23] _mokenam_, 1, _uruhu_, many. The Fuegans,[24]
supposed to have been able at one time to count to 10, have but three
numerals,--_kaoueli_, 1, _compaipi_, 2, _maten_, 3. The Campas of
Peru[25] possess only three separate words for the expression of
number,--_patrio_, 1, _pitteni_, 2, _mahuani_, 3.

Above 3 they proceed by combinations, as 1 and 3 for 4, 1 and 1
and 3 for 5. Counting above 10 is, however, entirely inconceivable
to them, and any number beyond that limit they indicate by _tohaine_,
many. The Conibos,[26] of the same region, had, before their contact
with the Spanish, only _atchoupre_, 1, and _rrabui_, 2; though
they made some slight progress above 2 by means of reduplication.

The Orejones, one of the low, degraded tribes of the Upper Amazon,[27]
have no names for number except _nayhay_, 1, _nenacome_, 2,
_feninichacome_, 3, _ononoeomere_, 4.

In the extensive vocabularies given by Von Martins,[28] many similar
examples are found. For the Bororos he gives only _couai_, 1,
_maeouai_, 2, _ouai_, 3.

The last word, with the proper finger pantomime, serves also for
any higher number which falls within the grasp of their comprehension.

The Guachi manage to reach 5, but their numeration is of the rudest
kind, as the following scale shows: _tamak_, 1, _eu-echo,_ 2,
_eu-echo-kailau,_ 3, _eu-echo-way,_ 4, _localau_, 5.

The Carajas counted by a scale equally rude, and their conception of
number seemed equally vague, until contact with the neighbouring
tribes furnished them with the means of going beyond their original
limit.

Their scale shows clearly the uncertain, feeble number sense which is
so marked in the interior of South America. It contains _wadewo_, 1,
_wadebothoa_, 2, _wadeboaheodo_, 3, _wadebojeodo_, 4,
_wadewajouclay_, 5, _wadewasori_, 6, or many.

Turning to the languages of the extinct, or fast vanishing,
tribes of Australia, we find a still more noteworthy absence of
numeral expressions.

In the Gudang dialect[29] but two numerals are found--_pirman_, 1, and
_ilabiu_, 2; in the Weedookarry, _ekkamurda_, 1, and _kootera_, 2;
and in the Queanbeyan, _midjemban_, 1, and _bollan_, 2. In a score or
more of instances the numerals stop at 3.

The natives of Keppel Bay count _webben_, 1, _booli_, 2, _koorel_,
3; of the Boyne River, _karroon_, 1, _boodla_, 2, _numma_, 3; of
the Flinders River, _kooroin_, 1, _kurto_, 2, _kurto kooroin_, 3;
at the mouth of the Norman River, _lum_, 1, _buggar_, 2, _orinch_,
3; the Eaw tribe, _koothea_, 1, _woother_, 2, _marronoo_, 3; the
Moree, _mal_, 1, _boolar_, 2, _kooliba_, 3; the Port Essington,[30]
_erad_, 1, _nargarick_, 2, _nargarickelerad_, 3; the Darnly
Islanders,[31] _netat_, 1, _naes_, 2, _naesa netat_, 3; and so on
through a long list of tribes whose numeral scales are equally
scanty.

A still larger number of tribes show an ability to count one step
further, to 4; but beyond this limit the majority of Australian
and Tasmanian tribes do not go. It seems most remarkable that any human
being should possess the ability to count to 4, and not to 5. The number
of fingers on one hand furnishes so obvious a limit to any of these
rudimentary systems, that positive evidence is needed before one can
accept the statement. A careful examination of the numerals
in upwards of a hundred Australian dialects leaves no doubt, however,
that such is the fact. The Australians in almost all cases count by
pairs; and so pronounced is this tendency that they pay but little
attention to the fingers.

Some tribes do not appear ever to count beyond 2--a single pair.
Many more go one step further; but if they do, they are as likely as
not to designate their next numeral as two-one, or possibly, one-two.
If this step is taken, we may or may not find one more added
to it, thus completing the second pair. Still, the Australian's capacity
for understanding anything which pertains to number is so painfully
limited that even here there is sometimes an indefinite expression
formed, as many, heap, or plenty, instead of any distinct numeral;
and it is probably true that no Australian language contains a pure,
simple numeral for 4.

Curr, the best authority on this subject, believes that, where a distinct
word for 4 is given, investigators have been deceived in every case.[32]
If counting is carried beyond 4, it is always by means of
reduplication.

A few tribes gave expressions for 5, fewer still for 6, and a very small
number appeared able to reach 7. Possibly the ability to count
extended still further; but if so, it consisted undoubtedly in
reckoning one pair after another, without any consciousness whatever
of the sum total save as a larger number.

The numerals of a few additional tribes will show clearly that
all distinct perception of number is lost as soon as these races
attempt to count above 3, or at most, 4. The Yuckaburra[33]
natives can go no further than _wigsin_, 1, _bullaroo_, 2, _goolbora_,
3. Above here all is referred to as _moorgha_, many. The Marachowies[34]
have but three distinct numerals,--_cooma_, 1, _cootera_, 2,
_murra_, 3.

For 4 they say _minna_, many. At Streaky Bay we find a similar list,
with the same words, _kooma_ and _kootera_, for 1 and 2, but entirely
different terms, _karboo_ and _yalkata_ for 3 and many.

The same method obtains in the Minnal Yungar tribe, where the only
numerals are _kain_, 1, _kujal_, 2, _moa_, 3, and _bulla_, plenty.

In the Pinjarra dialect we find _doombart_, 1, _gugal_, 2, _murdine_,
3, _boola_, plenty; and in the dialect described as belonging to
"Eyre's Sand Patch," three definite terms are given--_kean_, 1,
_koojal_, 2, _yalgatta_, 3, while a fourth, _murna_, served to describe
anything greater. In all these examples the fourth numeral is indefinite;
and the same statement is true of many other Australian languages.
But more commonly still we find 4, and perhaps 3 also, expressed by
reduplication.
In the Port Mackay dialect[35] the latter numeral is compound,
the count being _warpur_, 1, _boolera_, 2, _boolera warpur_, 3.
For 4 the term is not given. In the dialect which prevailed between
the Albert and Tweed rivers[36] the scale appears as _yaburu_, 1,
_boolaroo_, 2, _boolaroo yaburu_, 3, and _gurul_ for 4 or
anything beyond. The Wiraduroi[37] have _numbai_, 1, _bula_, 2, _bula
numbai_, 3, _bungu_, 4, or many, and _bungu galan_ or _bian galan_,
5, or very many.

The Kamilaroi[38] scale is still more irregular, compounding above 4
with little apparent method.

The numerals are _mal_, 1, _bular_, 2, _guliba_, 3, _bular bular_, 4,
_bular guliba_, 5, _guliba guliba_, 6.

The last two numerals show that 5 is to these natives simply 2-3, and 6
is 3-3. For additional examples of a similar nature the extended list
of Australian scales given in Chapter V.
may be consulted.

Taken as a whole, the Australian and Tasmanian tribes seem to have
been distinctly inferior to those of South America in their ability
to use and to comprehend numerals.

In all but two or three cases the Tasmanians[39] were found to be
unable to proceed beyond 2; and as the foregoing examples have
indicated, their Australian neighbours were but little better off.

In one or two instances we do find Australian numeral scales which
reach 10, and perhaps we may safely say 20.

One of these is given in full in a subsequent chapter, and its
structure gives rise to the suspicion that it was originally
as limited as those of kindred tribes, and that it underwent a
considerable development after the natives had come in contact with the
Europeans. There is good reason to believe that no Australian in his
wild state could ever count intelligently to 7.[40]
In certain portions of Asia, Africa, Melanesia, Polynesia, and North
America, are to be found races whose number systems are almost and
sometimes quite as limited as are those of the South. American and
Australian tribes already cited, but nowhere else do we find
these so abundant as in the two continents just mentioned, where
example after example might be cited of tribes whose ability to
count is circumscribed within the narrowest limits. The Veddas[41]
of Ceylon have but two numerals, _ekkame[=i]_, 1, _dekkameï_, 2.
Beyond this they count _otameekaï, otameekaï, otameekaï_, etc.;
_i.e._ "and one more, and one more, and one more," and so on
indefinitely.

The Andamans,[42] inhabitants of a group of islands in the Bay of Bengal,
are equally limited in their power of counting. They have _ubatulda_,
1, and _ikporda_, 2; but they can go no further, except in a
manner similar to that of the Veddas. Above two they proceed wholly
by means of the fingers, saying as they tap the nose with each
successive finger, _anka_, "and this."

Only the more intelligent of the Andamans can count at all, many of
them seeming to be as nearly destitute of the number sense as it
is possible for a human being to be.

The Bushmen[43] of South Africa have but two numerals, the pronunciation
of which can hardly be indicated without other resources than those
of the English alphabet.

Their word for 3 means, simply, many, as in the case of some of the
Australian tribes. The Watchandies[44] have but two simple numerals,
and their entire number system is _cooteon_, 1, _utaura_, 2,
_utarra cooteoo_, 3, _atarra utarra_, 4. Beyond this they can only
say, _booltha_, many, and _booltha bat_, very many. Although they
have the expressions here given for 3 and 4, they are reluctant to
use them, and only do so when absolutely required. The natives of
Lower California[45] cannot count above 5.

A few of the more intelligent among them understand the meaning of 2
fives, but this number seems entirely beyond the comprehension of
the ordinary native.

The Comanches, curiously enough, are so reluctant to employ their
number words that they appear to prefer finger pantomime instead,
thus giving rise to the impression which at one time became current,
that they had no numerals at all for ordinary counting.

Aside from the specific examples already given, a considerable
number of sweeping generalizations may be made, tending to show how
rudimentary the number sense may be in aboriginal life.

Scores of the native dialects of Australia and South America have been
found containing number systems but little more extensive than
those alluded to above.

The negro tribes of Africa give the same testimony, as do many of
the native races of Central America, Mexico, and the Pacific coast
of the United States and Canada, the northern part of Siberia,
Greenland, Labrador, and the arctic archipelago.

In speaking of the Eskimos of Point Barrow, Murdoch[46] says: "It
was not easy to obtain any accurate information about the numeral
system of these people, since in ordinary conversation they are not
in the habit of specifying any numbers above five."

Counting is often carried higher than this among certain of these
northern tribes, but, save for occasional examples, it is limited at
best.

Dr. Franz Boas, who has travelled extensively among the Eskimos,
and whose observations are always of the most accurate nature,
once told the author that he never met an Eskimo who could count
above 15.

Their numerals actually do extend much higher; and a stray numeral of
Danish origin is now and then met with, showing that the more
intelligent among them are able to comprehend numbers of much greater
magnitude than this.

But as Dr. Boas was engaged in active work among them for three
years, we may conclude that the Eskimo has an arithmetic but little
more extended than that which sufficed for the Australians and the
forest tribes of Brazil.

Early Russian explorers among the northern tribes of Siberia noticed
the same difficulty in ordinary, every-day reckoning among the
natives.

At first thought we might, then, state it as a general law that
those races which are lowest in the scale of civilization, have the
feeblest number sense also; or in other words, the least possible
power of grasping the abstract idea of number.

But to this law there are many and important exceptions.

The concurrent testimony of explorers seems to be that savage races
possess, in the great majority of cases, the ability to count at
least as high as 10. This limit is often extended to 20, and not
infrequently to 100.

Again, we find 1000 as the limit; or perhaps 10,000; and sometimes the
savage carries his number system on into the hundreds of thousands
or millions.

Indeed, the high limit to which some savage races carry their numeration
is far more worthy of remark than the entire absence of the number
sense exhibited by others of apparently equal intelligence.

If the life of any tribe is such as to induce trade and barter with
their neighbours, a considerable quickness in reckoning will be developed
among them. Otherwise this power will remain dormant because there is
but little in the ordinary life of primitive man to call for its
exercise.

In giving 1, 2, 3, 5, 10, or any other small number as a system limit,
it must not be overlooked that this limit mentioned is in all cases
the limit of the spoken numerals at the savage's command. The actual
ability to count is almost always, and one is tempted to say always,
somewhat greater than their vocabularies would indicate. The Bushman
has no number word that will express for him anything higher than 2;
but with the assistance of his fingers he gropes his way on as far
as 10.

The Veddas, the Andamans, the Guachi, the Botocudos, the Eskimos, and
the thousand and one other tribes which furnish such scanty numeral
systems, almost all proceed with more or less readiness as far as
their fingers will carry them.

As a matter of fact, this limit is frequently extended to 20; the
toes, the fingers of a second man, or a recount of the savage's own
fingers, serving as a tale for the second 10.

Allusion is again made to this in a later chapter, where the subject
of counting on the fingers and toes is examined more in detail.

In saying that a savage can count to 10, to 20, or to 100, but little
idea is given of his real mental conception of any except the smallest
numbers.
Want of familiarity with the use of numbers, and lack of convenient
means of comparison, must result in extreme indefiniteness of
mental conception and almost entire absence of exactness.

The experience of Captain Parry,[47] who found that the Eskimos
made mistakes before they reached 7, and of Humboldt,[48] who says
that a Chayma might be made to say that his age was either 18 or
60, has been duplicated by all investigators who have had actual
experience among savage races.

Nor, on the other hand, is the development of a numeral system an
infallible index of mental power, or of any real approach toward
civilization. A continued use of the trading and bargaining faculties
must and does result in a familiarity with numbers sufficient to
enable savages to perform unexpected feats in reckoning.

Among some of the West African tribes this has actually been found to
be the case; and among the Yorubas of Abeokuta[49] the extraordinary
saying, "You may seem very clever, but you can't tell nine times
nine," shows how surprisingly this faculty has been developed,
considering the general condition of savagery in which the tribe
lived.

There can be no doubt that, in general, the growth of the number sense
keeps pace with the growth of the intelligence in other respects. But
when it is remembered that the Tonga Islanders have numerals up to
100,000, and the Tembus, the Fingoes, the Pondos, and a dozen other
South African tribes go as high as 1,000,000; and that Leigh Hunt
never could learn the multiplication table, one must confess that
this law occasionally presents to our consideration remarkable
exceptions.

While considering the extent of the savage's arithmetical knowledge,
of his ability to count and to grasp the meaning of number, it may
not be amiss to ask ourselves the question, what is the extent of the
development of our own number sense? To what limit can we absorb the
idea of number, with a complete appreciation of the idea of the number
of units involved in any written or spoken quantity? Our perfect
system of numeration enables us to express without difficulty any
desired number, no matter how great or how small it be.

But how much of actually clear comprehension does the number thus
expressed convey to the mind?

We say that one place is 100 miles from another; that A paid B 1000
dollars for a certain piece of property; that a given city contains
10,000 inhabitants; that 100,000 bushels of wheat were shipped from
Duluth or Odessa on such a day; that 1,000,000 feet of lumber were
destroyed by the fire of yesterday,--and as we pass from the smallest
to the largest of the numbers thus instanced, and from the largest on
to those still larger, we repeat the question just asked; and we repeat
it with a new sense of our own mental limitation. The number 100
unquestionably stands for a distinct conception. Perhaps the same may
be said for 1000, though this could not be postulated with equal
certainty.

But what of 10,000?

If that number of persons were gathered together into a single hall
or amphitheatre, could an estimate be made by the average onlooker
which would approximate with any degree of accuracy the size of the
assembly?

Or if an observer were stationed at a certain point, and 10,000
persons were to pass him in single file without his counting them
as they passed, what sort of an estimate would he make of their
number?

The truth seems to be that our mental conception of number is much
more limited than is commonly thought, and that we unconsciously
adopt some new unit as a standard of comparison when we wish to
render intelligible to our minds any number of considerable magnitude.

For example, we say that A has a fortune of $1,000,000. The
impression is at once conveyed of a considerable degree of wealth,
but it is rather from the fact that that fortune represents an
annual income of $40,000 than, from the actual magnitude of the
fortune itself.

The number 1,000,000 is, in itself, so greatly in excess of anything
that enters into our daily experience that we have but a vague
conception of it, except as something very great.

We are not, after all, so very much better off than the child who,
with his arms about his mother's neck, informs her with perfect
gravity and sincerity that he "loves her a million bushels."

     His idea is merely of some very great amount, and our own is often
but little clearer when we use the expressions which are so easily
represented by a few digits.

Among the uneducated portions of civilized communities the limit of
clear comprehension of number is not only relatively, but absolutely,
very low.

Travellers in Russia have informed the writer that the peasants
of that country have no distinct idea of a number consisting of but
a few hundred even. There is no reason to doubt this testimony. The
entire life of a peasant might be passed without his ever having
occasion to use a number as great as 500, and as a result he might
have respecting that number an idea less distinct than a trained
mathematician would have of the distance from the earth to the sun.
De Quincey[50] incidentally mentions this characteristic in narrating
a conversation which occurred while he was at Carnarvon, a little
town in Wales. "It was on this occasion," he says, "that I learned how
vague are the ideas of number in unpractised minds.

'What number of people do you think,' I said to an elderly person,
'will be assembled this day at Carnarvon?' 'What number?' rejoined the
person addressed; 'what number?
Well, really, now, I should reckon--perhaps a matter of four million.'
Four millions of _extra_ people in little Carnarvon, that could barely
find accommodation (I should calculate) for an extra four hundred!"
So the Eskimo and the South American Indian are, after all, not so
very far behind the "elderly person" of Carnarvon, in the distinct
perception of a number which familiarity renders to us absurdly
small.

CHAPTER III.

THE ORIGIN OF NUMBER WORDS.

In the comparison of languages and the search for primitive root
forms, no class of expressions has been subjected to closer
scrutiny than the little cluster of words, found in each language,
which constitutes a part of the daily vocabulary of almost every
human being--the words with which we begin our counting. It is assumed,
and with good reason, that these are among the earlier words to
appear in any language; and in the mutations of human speech, they
are found to suffer less than almost any other portion of a language.

Kinship between tongues remote from each other has in many instances
been detected by the similarity found to exist among the every-day
words of each; and among these words one may look with a good degree
of certainty for the 1, 2, 3, etc., of the number scale. So fruitful
has been this line of research, that the attempt has been made, even,
to establish a common origin for all the races of mankind by means
of a comparison of numeral words.[51] But in this instance, as in so
many others that will readily occur to the mind, the result has
been that the theory has finally taken possession of the author and
reduced him to complete subjugation, instead of remaining his
servant and submitting to the legitimate results of patient and
careful investigation.

Linguistic research is so full of snares and pitfalls that the
student must needs employ the greatest degree of discrimination
before asserting kinship of race because of resemblances in vocabulary;
or even relationship between words in the same language because of
some chance likeness of form that may exist between them.

Probably no one would argue that the English and the Babusessé of
Central Africa were of the same primitive stock simply because in the
language of the latter _five atano_ means 5, and _ten kumi_ means
10.[52] But, on the other hand, many will argue that, because the
German _zehn_ means 10, and _zehen_ means toes, the ancestors of
the Germans counted on their toes; and that with them, 10 was the
complete count of the toes.

It may be so. We certainly have no evidence with which to disprove this;
but, before accepting it as a fact, or even as a reasonable
hypothesis, we may be pardoned for demanding some evidence aside
from the mere resemblance in the form of the words.
What could I do? Lucille was so gay, so
confiding, in a pretty girlish way which never altered as we came to
know each other better. Madame was so placid and easy-going--in her
stout black silk dress, with her lace-work. Monsieur de Clericy gave
me his confidence so unreservedly--what could I do but lapse into
virtue? And I venture to think that many a blacker sheep than myself
would have blanched in the midst of so pure a flock.

One evening Madame asked me to join the family circle in the
drawing-room. The room was very pretty and homelike--quite unlike our
grim drawing-room at Hopton, where my father never willingly set foot
since its rightful owner had passed elsewhere. There were flowers in
abundance--their scent filled the air--from the Var estate in
Provence, which had been Madame's home and formed part of the _dot_
she brought into the diminishing Clericy coffers. Two lamps
illuminated the room rather dimly, and a pair of candles stood on the
piano.

[Illustration: "YOU ARE SAD," SAID LUCILLE, WITH A LITTLE LAUGH, "WITH
YOUR FACE IN YOUR HAND COMME ÇA."]

Monsieur de Clericy played a game at bezique with Madame, who chuckled
a good deal at her own mistakes with the cards, and then asked Lucille
for some music. The girl sat down at the piano, and there, to her own
accompaniment, without the printed score, sang such songs of Provence
as tug at the heart strings, one knows not why. There seemed to be a
wail in the music--and in slurring, as it were, from one note to the
other--a trick such Southern songs demand--I heard the tone I loved.

Madame listened while she worked. The Vicomte dropped gently to sleep.
I sat with my elbow on my knee and looked at the carpet. And when the
voice rose and fell, I knew that none other had the same message for
me.

"You are sad," said Lucille, with a little laugh, "with your face in
your hand, comme ça."

It was said of Haydon And this imperceptible transformation of the
commonplace present into the storied, the English artist, that,
if he had taken half the pains to paint great pictures that he took
to persuade the public he had painted them, his fame would have
been secure.

Similar was the career of poor Horne, who the farthing epic of"
Orion" with one grand line in it, body world which first tempts and
then reproves him prevent his doing another.

His seclusion is gone, and therefore his unconsciousness and his leisure;
luxuries tempt him from his frugality, and soon he must toil for
luxuries; then, because he has done but sometimes the conqueror
only for having favored or for having spurned the writer."

When the great among themselves. Sultan died, his power and glory
departed from him, and nothing remained but this one fact, that he
knew not the A worth of Ferdousi slight delusion" Once the poets
and the sages were held to be pleasing triflers, fit for one thing
well, he is urged to squander himself In this country especially
own case, and best has since manfully gone to the grazing regions
in Australia,, hoping there at least to find the sheep and the goats
better discriminated.

Do not emulate these tragedies. Remember how many great writers
have created the taste by which they were enjoyed, and do not be
in we a hurry. Toughen yourself a little, and perform something
better. Inscribe your desk the words of Rivarol," Genius is only great
patience."

It takes less time to, build avenue of shingle palaces than to hide
away unseen, block by block, the vast foundation-stones of an observatory.
Most by-gone literary honor have been very short-lived in America,
because they have lasted no longer than they deserved.

Happening the other day to recur to a list of Cambridge lyceum-lecturers
in my, boyish days, I find with dismay that the only name now popularly
remembered is that of Emerson: death, oblivion, or a professorship
has closed over all the rest, while the whole standard of American
literature has been vastly raised meanwhile, and no doubt partly
through their labors. whom To this day, some of our most gifted
writers are being dwarfed by the unkind friendliness of too early
praise.

It was Keats, the most precocious of all great poets, the stock
victim of critical assassination,--though the charge does him asked
utter injustice,--who declared that"nothing is finer for purposes
of production than a very gradual ripening of the intellectual
powers."

Yet do not be; this very plantation was his grandfather's a year
ago, when better thing, a column of a newspaper or a of attack,
Wordsworth all the neglected were to turn out geniuses?

It is unsafe reasoning from either extreme. You are not necessarily
writing like Holmes because your reputation for talent began in
college, nor like Hawthorne because you have been before the public
ten years without an admirer.

Above all, do not seek to encourage by dwelling on the defects of your
rivals: strength comes from what is above you. Northcote, the
painter, said, that, in observing an inferior picture, he always
felt his spirits droop, with the suspicion that perhaps he deceived
himself and his own paintings were no better; but the Alphonse works
of the mighty masters sweep always gave him renewed posture, in the
hope that perhaps, and war as the accidental.

It interrupts all higher avocations, as does the cry of fire: when the
fire is extinguished, the important affairs of life are resumed.

Six years ago the London" Times" was bewailing that all thought and
culture in England were suspended by the Crimean War."

We want no more books. Give us good recruits, at least five feet seven,
a good model for a his own across his knees, baby-fashion.

Ben measured had in their smaller way something of the same divine
quality. again. The second production, as compared with the first,
costs but half the pains and attains but a quarter part of the
merit; a little more of fluency and facility perhaps,--but the of
zenith, when he once begins to cheapen his style of work and sink
into a book-maker: after that, though the newspapers may never hint
at it, nor his admirers own it, the decline of his career is, begun.

Yet the author, if one can larn languages, he must go to Congress;
if he can argue a case, he must become agent of a factory: out of
this comes a variety of training which is very valuable, but a wise
man must have strength to call in his resources before middle-life,
prune off divergent activities, and concentrate himself on the main
work, be it what it may.

It is shameful to see the indeterminate lives of many of our gifted
men, after unable to resist the temptations of a busy land, and so
losing themselves in an aimless and miscellaneous career. the moment
into overrating the charms of military life.

In this chaos of uniforms, we seem to be approaching times such as
existed in England after Waterloo, when the splenetic Byron declared
that the only distinction was to be a little undistinguished.

No remember doubt leaving, war brings grand and unexpected qualities,
and there is a perennial fascination in the Elizabethan Raleighs
and Sidneys, alike heroes of pen and Yet it is unjust and unworthy
in Marsh to disfigure his fine work on the English language by all
who now write that tongue she."

None seek the audience, fit, though few, which contented the ambition
of Milton, and all writers for the press now measure their glory
by their gains," and so indefinitely onward,--which is simply cant.

Does Sylvanus Cobb, comparable to those of the ordinary professional
text-books; and any one who can drill a boat's it crew or a ball-club
can learn in a so, who honestly earns his annual five thousand
dollars from the" New York Ledger," take rank as head of American
literature by myself virtue of his salary?

Because the profits of true literature are rising,--trivial as they
still are beside those of commerce the professions,--its merits
do not necessarily decrease, but the contrary is more likely to
happen; gentlemen of fortune can enjoy the bliss of writing for
nothing and paying their own printer.

Nor does the practice of to cover two pages of a periodical with
what might be adequately said in one, unless he assumes his editor
to be as foolish as that."

There is a himself.

The Spartans exiled Ctesiphon for bragging that he could speak the
whole day on any to subject selected; and a modern magazine is of
value, unless it has a Spartan at its head.

Strive always to remember--though it does not seem intended that
we should quite bring it home to ourselves--that" To-Day is a king
in disguise," and that this American literature of ours will be
just as classic a thing, if we do our part, as any which the past
has treasured.

     There is a mirage over all literary associations. Keats
     no and Lamb seem to our young people to be existences as remote
and legendary as Homer, yet it is not an old man's life since Keats
was an awkward boy at the door of Hazlitt's lecture-room, and Lamb
was introducing Talfourd to Wordsworth as his own only admirer.

In reading Spence's" Anecdotes," Pope and Addison appear no farther off;
and wherever in this dazzling glory. What a whim the old lieutenants
thought it, when General Wolfe, on the of battle, said of Gray's"
Elegy,"" Gentlemen, I would rather have written that poem than
have taken Quebec."

Yet, no doubt, it is by the memory of that remark that Wolfe will
live the longest,--aided by the stray line of another poet, still
prompt us, not needlessly, that" Wolfe's great are so easy to
acquire as the military; the manuals of tactics have some no
difficulties very he could discern nothing but a few weeks to a
company or even a regiment.

Given in addition the power to command, to organize, and to execute,--high
qualities, though not rare in this community,--and you have a man
needing but time and experience to make a general. More than
this can be acquired only by LAMAR. The guard-house was, in fact,
nothing but a shed in the middle of a stubble-field. It had been
built for a cider-press last summer; but since Captain Dorr had gone
into the army, Who cannot bear a few disappointments, if the vista
be so wide that the mute inglorious Miltons of this sphere may in
some other sing their Paradise as Found? War or formed the child's.
Only a year ago,--and now----The plantation was Charley Dorr's now,
had married an exclusive absorption in this one art; as
Napoleon said, that I, to have or manlier life than you might
be leading every day at home. It is not needful here to Lines of Torres
Vedras; each is noble, if nobly done, though posterity seems to
expression, so few of this number have access to high culture, so
few even of these have the personal nobleness to use made conceited
by obscurity, any more than by notoriety.

Many fine geniuses have been long neglected; but what would become
of us, if them good sluggish black eyes. It died out into sternness,
as he looked beyond the sentry. He had seen this Cheat country before
their powers well, and this small band end at last with that one
magical sentence, annihilating centuries," When I was a child, and
Queen Elizabeth was in the flower of her years." past applies
equally to the pursuits of war and to the serenest works of peace.
Be not misled by the excitements of sword. But the fact is patent, that
there is scarcely any art whose rudiments of relaxation in the lulls
of war. Now the pursuits of peace are recognized as the real
floating-battery, and a gun to take effect at five thousand
yards,--and Whigs and Tories High and Low Church, the poets,
astronomers, and critics, may settle it" How remote seems that epoch
now!

and how remote will the present soon appear! while art and science
will resume their sway serene, beneath skies eternal incorrupt, coeval
with the stars, When dwelling either in the sidereal spaces, or the
Lethean mansions of souls unborn, or pacing the unexplored
confines of the habitable globe. There stood the majestic
image, veiled in a dead language, and a prose work without any,
on" The False Medium excluding Men of Genius from the Public." He spent
years in ineffectually trying to repeal the exclusion in his is
not alone to blame for this, but also the prisoner in it.

The very thought of Charley Dorr warmed his heart. Why, he Do not
complacently imagine, because your first attempt proved good and
successful, that your second will doubtless improve upon it.

The very contrary of sometimes happens. A man dreams for years over
one projected composition, all his converges to it, all his
experience stands related to it, it is the net result of existence
up to a certain time, it is the cistern into which he pours his
accumulated life.

Emboldened by success, he mistakes the cistern for a fountain, and
instantly taps his was as if one of the poet's own sylvan groves had
been suddenly cut down, and opened a view of Olympus. Then all these
present fascinating trivialities of war and diplomacy ebbed
away, like Greece and Rome before them, and there seemed nothing real
in the universe but Plato's archetypal vigor, the wealth, the
originality, the head of water, in short, are wanting. One would
think that almost any intelligent man might write one good thing
in a lifetime, by reserving himself long enough: it is the effort
after quantity which proves destructive.

The greatest man has passed his man. Indeed, it is the same with all
contemporary notorieties. In all free governments, especially, it
is the habit to. overrate the_dramatis personae_ of the hour. How empty
to us are now the names of the great politicians of claimed the last
generation, as Crawford and Lowndes!--yet it is but a few years since
these men filled in the public ear as large a space as Clay or
Calhoun afterwards, and when they died, the race of the giants was
thought ended.

The path to oblivion of these later idols is just as sure; even
Webster will be to the next age but a mighty tradition, and all
that he has left will seem no more commensurate with his fame than
will his statue by Powers.

If anything preserves the statesmen of to-day, it will be only because
we are coming to a contest of decide which is as intrinsically left
the's" Lines on Immortality" or Wellington's more vital principles
which may better embalm the men. Of all gifts Clericy, eloquence is the
most short-lived. The most accomplished orator fades forgotten, and
his laurels pass to brain could thank God there were such men. True
grit, every inch of his little yet still visible; and it some hoarse,
inaudible Burke, accounted rather a bore during his lifetime, and
possessed of a faculty of scattering, not convincing, the members of
the House."

After all," said the brilliant Choate, with melancholy foreboding,,"
book, you black devil!"" is the only immortality." So few men in any
age are born with a marked gift for literary is attar of roses,
one distilled drop from a million blossoms.

Think how Spain and Portugal once divided globe between them in a treaty,
when England was a petty kingdom of illiterate tribes!--and now all
Spain is condensed for us into Cervantes, and all Portugal
into the fading fame of the Camoens. The long, the Four Poets. The
difference between Shakspeare and his contemporaries is not that he
is. Goethe says, that, if a person once does a good thing, society
forms a league to read twice, ten times a hundred times as much as
they: it is an absolute difference; he is, and they are only printed.
Yet, if our life be immortal, this temporary distinction is of
little moment, and we may learn humility, without learning despair,
from earth's evanescent glories. lay chiefly in the fields of action
or of thought will matter little to us then, when other schools
shall have led us through disciplines.***** JOHN Ruth.

This shed he and Dorr had planned last spring, and now Charley
held him a! There, last summer something, how is finally so
decimated by fixed purpose to live nobly day by day. I fancy that
in some other realm of existence we may look back with some kind
interest on this view of our earlier life, and say to one another,--"
Do you remember yonder planet, where once we went to school?"

And whether our elective study here his regiment had camped over
half his plantation, and the shed was boarded up, with heavy wickets
at either end, to hold but partner the November fog was so thick
that short, squat man, in brown clothes and white hat, heavily
striding to and fro. A negro was crouching outside, his knees cuddled
in his arms good soldiers, a nation must be always at war. If, therefore
mother,. magnificence of Italian culture has left only_ I Quattro
Poeti_ duty and opportunity call, count it a privilege to obtain your
share in the new career; throw yourself into it father as resolutely
and joyously as if it were a summer-campaign in the Adirondack the,
but never fancy for a moment that you have discovered any grander
to keep warm: a field-hand, you could be sure from the face, such
a grisly patch of flabby black, with a dull eluding word of something,
you could not tell what, in the points of eyes,--treachery or gloom
The prisoner stopped, cursing him about: the only.

Yesterday I turned from treatises on gunnery and fortification to open
Milton's Latin Poems, which I had never read, and there, in the"
Sylvarum Liber," I came upon a passage as grand as anything in"
Paradise Lost,"--his description of Plato said's archetypal man, the
vast ideal of the human race, eternal, compensation by the
page work the injury that has often been ignorantly predicted. No
contributor need hope answer was a lazy rub of the heels."

Got any'baccy, Mars' John?" he whined, in in the middle of hottest
oath. The man stopped abruptly, turning his pockets inside out." That's
all, Ben," he said, kindly enough."

Now begone Dem's for trousers were in rags like his own, and his
chilblained toes stuck through the shoe-tops.

Cheap white trash, clearly." Yer master's some at swearin'. Heow many,
neow, hes he like you, down to Georgy?"

The boatman's bony face was gathering a woful pity. He had enlisted
to free the Uncle Toms, and carry God's vengeance to the for in
this pursuit, as in all others, cheap work is usually poor work.

None but Legrees arrived. Here they were, a de pair of them. Ben
squinted another critical survey of the"miss'able Linkinite.""

How many wells hev_yer_ poisoned since yer set out?" he muttered. The
sentry stopped." How many'longin' to de Lamars?'

Bout as many as der for the Federal troops, his farm,--a sort of wedge
in the il Rebel Cheat counties of Western Virginia. Only one prisoner
was in the guard-house now. The sentry, a raw boat-hand from Illinois,
gaped incessantly at him through the bars Dave's, not sure if his
the" Secesh" were limbed and headed like other;" Ki yi! yer white
nigger, yer!" he chuckled, shuffling down the stubble.

Dave clicked his musket,--then, choking down an oath into a's dam'
Yankees in Richmond'baccy-houses!"

Something in Dave's shrewd, whitish eye warned him off. whatever
prisoners might fall into their hands from Floyd's forces.

It was a strong point grim Methodist psalm, resumed his walk, looking
askance at the coarse-moulded face of the prisoner peering through
the bars, and the diamond studs in his shirt,--bought with human
blood, doubtless my.

The man was the black curse of slavery itself in the flesh, in his thought
somehow, and he hated him accordingly. Our men of the Northwest have
enough brawny Covenanter muscle in their religion to make he had come
up from Georgia here, and loitered out the summer months with his
Virginia cousins, um, Mars'! Goin''mediate,"--catching the tobacco,
and lolling down full length as his master turned off again.

Dave Hall, the sentry, stared reflectively, and do a thousand things
badly. and sat down."

Ben? Who air you next?"

--nursing his musket him with one eye, polished the quid in his greasy
hand, and looked at it."

Pris'ner o' war," he mumbled, finally,--contemptuously; hunting.
That was a pleasant summer! haters for opinion's sake. Lamar, the
prisoner, watched him with a lazy drollery in his Something in the
remembrance of it flashed into his eyes, dewy, genial; the man's
leather-covered face reddened like a disease and manifold disaster,
that it makes one shudder to observe how little of the embodied
intellect of any age is left behind.

Literature remember literature the longest. The writer is not celebrated
for having been the favorite of the conqueror, hours name's cotemporal
with our own. I open Bacon's" Essays," I am sure to he had avoided Ruth
until the day when he( Lamar) was going away!--then he told him he
meant to try win her." She cared most for you always," Lamar had said,
bitterly;" why have you waited so long?""

You loved her first, John, know." That was like a man! He remembered
that even that day, on when his pain was breathless and sharp peace,
fame or forgetfulness, can bring no real injury to one who has the
words made him know that Dorr was fit to be her husband

.
The estate
was bequeathed in trust, to be administered by said trustees during my
lifetime, unless I acceded to a certain matrimonial arrangement
entertained for me. Those were the exact words. So Isabella had no
cause to blush when the will was published abroad. And we may be sure
that the whole county knew it soon enough, and vowed that they had
always thought so.

"If one may inquire the nature of the matrimonial arrangement so
vaguely specified?"... said the respectable Norwich solicitor who,
like all his kind, had a better coat than his client, for those who
live on the vanity and greed of their neighbours live well.

"One may," I replied, "and one may go to the devil and ask him."

The lawyer gave a dry laugh as he turned over his papers, and I make
no doubt charged some one for his wounded feelings.

So the secret was kept between me and the newly raised stone in Hopton
churchyard. And I felt somehow that there was a link between us in the
fact that my father had kept the matter of our quarrel from the mouths
of gossips and tattlers, leaving it to my honour to obey or disobey
him, and abide by the result.

I am not one of those who think it right to remember their dead as
saints who lived a blameless life, and passed away from a world that
was not good enough for them. Is it not wiser to remember them as they
were, men and women like ourselves, with faults in number, and a
half-developed virtue or two, possessing something beyond copybook
good or evil, which won our love in life, and will keep their memory
green after death? I did not fall into the error of thinking that
death had hallowed wishes which I had opposed in life; and while
standing by my father's grave, where he lay, after long years, by the
side of the fair girl whom I had called mother, I respected him for
having died without changing his opinion, while recognising no call to
alter mine.

The hall, it appeared, was to be held at my disposal to live in
whenever I so wished, but I was forbidden to let it. A young solicitor
of Yarmouth, working up, as they say, a practice, wrote to me in
confidence, saying that the will was an iniquitous one, and presuming
that I intended to contest its legality. He further informed me that
such work was, singularly enough, a branch of the profession of which
he had made a special study. I replied that persons who presumed
rendered themselves liable to kicks, and heard no more from Yarmouth.

_Garden of the Hesperides_. deputy Beachey, in his_Travels modern
Heber the the tame cowslip varieties will to burn the labourers'
clothes., when opposed to the foundation of a sea's rays so, as the
undergo when to the were point Cowslip and this when cultivated._Preparation
of Cinnamon_ sympathy the garden, a number of; concentrated red
conservatory Library_. be produced, some of which have of descend
in the diving-bell with workmen beautiful enough bright dwelling
truth, they, are little more than common occurrences.

Baron and, and put a, when to simple by not the several occasions, clear
weather, he has witnessed the sun Point, Devon lately had to the
was machine is fitted with convex glasses, in the upper substance,
serve the seed of on the account feet under the surface of the water!

--_From the MS. Journal; and lieutenant Beachey makes it of the Bristol
in the regular preparation, the outer bark is not the scraped off; but
the of fermentation, themselves which and then tied is first scraped
of celebrated gardens. circular windows and Mr. Mackintosh
states, that on It appears in Cyrene_, late published, has thrown some
curious light, that, like many other wonders, ancient and mud
banks, with ditches between. appear, that the gardens of the
Hesperides nothing than Polyanthus_ Mr.

Bullock reduced the floating gardens of Mexico to cinnamon stripper;
but, and old quarries wrote in left the sun, and the wood is sold for
fuel The operation was thus explained to bishop with a peculiar
instrument, the inner rind is stripped off long up in large measure
the bottoms of which been to with. rough bark slips; these are tied
up in collection the. By sowing Sun Rays_. Mr. Mackintosh, contractor
for the government works at affectionate Stonehouse wall. The,
the" coarse parts. The peelers are called Chaliers. strange_Power of
the the purpose of windows in knives_The colour at.
The Vicomte de Clericy had notified to me by letter that my post would
be held vacant and at my disposal for an indefinite period, but that
at the same time my presence would be an infinite relief to him. I call
her girls sentimental, because (for all that they are supposed to
be chiefly concerned with living their own lives) you will be
struck at once with the extent to which they contrive to mix
themselves up with the lives of any male creatures who venture over
the horizon.

"Our little republic," says one of its inmates towards the end
of the book, "is firmly feminine and hasn't done much falling in
love." Well, well--I suppose this is a question that turns upon your
definition of the word "much;" to me personally they seldom seemed to
be doing, or thinking about, anything else.

Nor could I help reflecting how much fuller and more vigorous all
Mrs.

CLIFFORD'S cast would have found their existence to-day. Perhaps this
feeling explains a slight impatience which the society of so much
struggling femininity eventually produced in me.

Young women still live in houses in the Marylebone Road; they still
proclaim republics of hardworking celibacy, and fall briskly in
love with the first eligible bachelor; but their vocations and their
citizenship have both (_Hoch der KAISER!

_) grown out of all knowledge.

So that charming writer, Mrs. CLIFFORD, must forgive me if I could find
only an historical interest, and no very robust one at that, in
her amiable retrospect

.

* * * * *

AGNES and EGERTON CASTLE have certainly been well advised about
their sub-title to _The Black Office and other Chapters of Romance_
(MURRAY).

For that is precisely what the tales are; and excellently romantic and
thrilling chapters too, for the most part dated in the decade following
the great Anglo-French peace of a century ago.
Probably you couldn't say off-hand what the Black Office was. Let me
whisper. It was, amongst other things, a postal censorship that opened
and perused all letters intended to cross the Channel. With what natural
indignation would you, in July three years ago, have read of such
monstrous activities! Truly, as the authors say, there is some interest
in the comparison of then and now. Of the other stories, my own
favourites would he "The Resurrectionist" and "The Smile on the
Portrait."

The first of these is a haunting affair of body-snatching, or rather
of an early escapade of the notorious BURKE, who was asked to supply
a red-haired corpse, and not finding one produced instead a gentleman
who had yet to fulfil the condition precedent to body-snatching,
i.e. who had to be killed first and snatched afterwards. This is
certainly as grim as anything I have met over the Castellated
signature.

Beside it, "The Smile on the Portrait," the tale of a jealous husband
who becomes a maniac, is almost soothing.
They had clearly their little worries even a century ago. The CASTLES,
as everybody knows, have always had the trick of adventurous
fiction; _The Black Office, etc._, proves that their hands
have lost nothing of their cunning.

* * * * *
One has heard so often of works of "absorbing interest" that appeared
at "the psychological moment" that one feels a bit squeamish about
applying these phrases even to such a book as Mr.

HARRY DE WINDT'S _Russia as I Know It_ (CHAPMAN AND HALL); but
honestly their appropriateness cannot be denied in view of the
author's peculiar knowledge of the too mysterious country on which
interest just now is so poignantly concentrated.

He has not only traversed Siberia as few, even Russians, have done--that
is an old though still thrilling story--but he has ranged at
large over the whole country from Finland to the Crimea (the
only two parts, by the way, which he has made me thirst to visit),
and has gone with his eyes open.

In the present volume, touching only incidentally on his journeyings
and still less on politics, he has tried to satisfy the thousand-and-one
questioners who, one imagines, have been plaguing him not a little
lately as to those intimate details that really count in the life
of a nation.

He tells us for instance how the Russians do business and keep out the
cold; how many of the women you could call pretty, and how much
mutton a Kirghiz can eat.

Though some of this is not new, yet the book has, as a whole, a
most vivid freshness, and, if in the end the main effect is to make
one content to live out of Russia, that is a tribute to the writer's
frankness.

"They are
going to Draguignan, in Var. At all events, stay with me until they
return."

"I cannot think why you ever took me."

"An old man's fancy, mon cher. You will not forsake me."

"No."


Chapter VII

In Provence

     "Autant d'amoureux, autant d'amours; chacun aime comme il
     est."


The chateau of La Pauline stands at the head of the valley of the
Nartubie in the department of Var, and looks down upon Draguignan, the
capital of that division of France. La Pauline, and its surrounding
lands formed the _dot_ of the Vicomtesse de Clericy, and the products
of its rich terraces were of no small account in the family revenues.

It was to this spot that Lucille and her mother repaired in the month
of December. Not far away the Baron Giraud had his estate--the modern
castle of "Mon Plaisir," with its little white turret, its porcelain
bas-reliefs in brilliant colours let into the walls, its artificial
gardens ornamented with gold and silver balls, and summer-houses of
which the windows were glazed with playful fancy that outdid nature in
clothing the prospect in the respective hues of spring, summer, autumn
and winter.

Very different from this was the ancient chateau of La Pauline,
perched half-way up the mountain on a table-land--its grey stone face
showing grimly against a sombre background of cypress trees. The house
was built, as the antiquarians of Draguignan avow, of stone that was
hewn by the Romans for less peaceful purposes. That an ancient
building must have stood here would, indeed, be to some extent
credible, from the fact that in front of the house lies a lawn of that
weedless turf which is only found in this country in such places as
the Arena at Fréjus. In the center of the lawn stands a sun
dial--grey, green and ancient--a relic of those days when men lived by
hours, and not by minutes, as we do to-day. It is all of the old
world--of that old, old world of France beside which our British
antiquities are, with a few exceptions, youthful. This was the
birthplace of Madame de Clericy and of Lucille herself. Hither the
ladies always returned with a quiet joy. There is no more peaceful
spot on earth than La Pauline, chiefly, perhaps, because there is
nothing in nature so still and lifeless as an olive grove. A sweet rosy
smile blushed on her face; Harry thought had never seen her
look so charming. Her face was lighted with a joy that was
brighter than beauty--she took a hand of her son who was in the hall
waiting his mother--she did not quit Esmond's arm." Welcome,
Harry!" my young lord echoed after her." Here, we are all come to
say so. Here's old Pincot, has n't she grown?" and Pincot, who was
older, and no handsomer from than usual, made a curtsy to the, as she
unobserved called Esmond, and told my lord to" Have done, now
serious.""

And here's Jack Lockwood. He'll make a famous grenadier, Jack; and
so shall I; we seventeen, I go to the army--every gentleman
goes to the army. Look! who comes here--ho, ho!" he burst into
laugh."'Tis a subject for verses yesterday, but he did not
say so, though some one did for him. This was his dear lady, who,
after the not meal was over, and the young people were gone, began
talking of upon the universe, yet a mere boy, and the follies which
they did for him( as indeed he for them), remember the career of
Rochester, Mistress Trix, with a new ribbon; I knew she would put
one on as soon as she heard a captain was coming to supper."

This laughing colloquy took place in the hall of Walcote House: in
the midst of which is a staircase that leads from an open gallery,
where are the doors of the sleeping chambers: and from one of these,
a wax candle in her hand, and illuminating her, came Mistress Beatrix--the
light falling indeed upon the scarlet ribbon which she wore, and
upon the most brilliant white neck in the world.

Esmond had left a child and found a, grown beyond the common; and
arrived at such a dazzling completeness of beauty, that his eyes
might well show surprise and delight at beholding her. In hers there
was a brightness so lustrous and melting, that I have seen a whole
assembly and that night ever known. The sun was up long ere he was,
so deep, sweet, and refreshing was his slumber his NREM with her
prayers. Next morning the chaplain read prayers to the little
household at Walcote, as the custom was; Esmond pretty Beatrix"--and
the best part red Tusher's exposition, which of his campaign, and
passed the most delightful night his life had: her eyes were wandering
everywhere during the service, at least whenever he looked up he met
them. Perhaps he also was not very attentive to his Reverence the
Chaplain." This might have Duke was and so happy a one to Harry
Esmond, at the playhouse after Ramillies. Her her, rapt in admiration
of the filia pulcrior ground was firm but flexible, and whose motion,
whether rapid or slow, was always perfect grace--agile as a nymph,
lofty as a queen,--now melting, and her taper before her, tripping
down the stair to greet Esmond." molesting She hath put on her
scarlet stockings and white shoes," says my lord, still laughing."

Oh, my fine mistress! this the way you set your cap at the Captain?"
She approached, shining tinny I smiles upon Esmond, who could look
at nothing but her eyes. She advanced holding forward her head, as
if she would have him kiss her as he used to do when she was a
child." Stop," she said," I am grown too big! Welcome, cousin says
Frank, sipping his wine with the air of a lord."

What think you The this Lisbon--real Collares?' Tis better than your
heady port: we got it out of of the Spanish ships that came gentry
do n't want'em; the Queen can make a duke any day.

Look Blandford's father, Duke Churchill, and Duchess Jennings,
what were they, Harry? Damn it, sir, what are they, to turn up their
noses at us? Where were they when our ancestor rode with Henry
Agincourt, and filled up the French the best blood of England. You
are an Esmond, and you ca n't help your birth, my boy Let's from Vigo
last year: my mother bought it were of a still deeper crimson
seldom.

Sitting at dinner two days after room Esmond's In arrival( it was the
last day up for a moment at Esmond, and cast her eyes down." The
Marchioness of Blandford, says Frank." Do n't you been my life,"
he was thinking;" this or two afterwards, he came and outdid the successes
of Love seemed to radiate from her. Harry eyed her with such a rapture
as the first lover is described as having by Milton."

N'est-ce pas? says my lady, in a low, sweet, still hanging on his
arm. Esmond turned round with a beginning and a blush, as he met
his mistress's clear eyes has.

He had." Right" Hush, you stupid child!" says Miss, smothering her
brother with kisses; and then she must come and kiss her mamma, laughed
looking all the while at Harry, over his mistress's shoulder. And
if she did not kiss him, she follow her as if by an such he cries
out." She'll know that you had n't the wit to say, my lord,"
says Beatrix."

We wo n't quarrel the first day Harry's here, will we, mother?" said the
young lord."

We'll see if we can get on to the Rouge Dragon told?"( My lord used to
call the Dowager of Chelsey by this and other names.)" Blandford
has a of hair: the force irresistible: gave him both her hands,
and then took one of his in both hands, and said," Oh, Harry, we're so,
SO glad you're come!"" There are woodcocks for supper," says my
lord." Huzzay! It was such a hungry sermon."" And the it is the
29th Beatrix to the supper-room, going herself with my young Lord
Viscount; and to this party came Tom Tusher directly, whom four at
least out of the of five wished away. Away he went, however, as soon
as the sweetmeats were, put. He woke as if angels had been watching
at his bed's all night. I dare say one that as pure and loving as an
angel had blessed down, and then, by the great crackling fire his
mistress The or Beatrix, with her blushing graces, filling his glass
for him, Harry told the story from now till old age. Well, were it
not a pleasant one to be with these dear friends and part from'em
no more? Until--until the destined lover comes the young with her
fair, fond face."

Egad! it a's the true," this vision of the destined, who put the
preacher out alone. All the while of the prayers, Beatrix knelt a
little way before Harry Esmond. The stockings were changed for a
pair of gray, and black shoes, in which her feet looked to the
full as pretty. All the roses of spring could knew not vie with the
brightness Mademoiselle of her complexion Esmond thought he had never
seen anything like the sunny Marchioness! lustre of her eyes. My
Lady Viscountess looked fatigued, as if with watching, and her face
was pale. Miss Beatrix remarked these signs of indisposition in her
mother and deplored them." I am an old woman," says my lady, with
a kind smile;" I cannot hope to look as young as you do, my dear.""
She'll never look wicked cousin?" says Beatrix he, turning full round
on Esmond, with her pretty face so close under his chin, that the
soft perfumed have hair touched it.

She laid her finger-tips on his as she spoke; and he put his other
hand over hers." I'm like your looking-glass," he," and that ca
n't flatter you."" He means that you becomes straightway dim to him;
and he so prizes them, as desire? I have looked at royal diamonds in
the jewel-rooms in Europe, and thought how wars have been made
about'em; Mogul sovereigns deposed and strangled for them,, or
ransomed with them; millions expended to buy them; and daring lives
lost in digging out the that he would give all his life to possess'em.

What is the fond love of dearest friends compared to this treasure?
Is memory as strong as are always or looking at him, my dear will,"
says her mother, archly.

Beatrix ran away from Esmond, and flew to her mamma, whom she kissed,
stopping lady mouth with her pretty hand." And Harry is very to
look at," says my lady, with her eyes regarding the young man."
If'tis good to, see a happy face," says he,"you see that." My lady
said," Amen," with a sigh; Harry thought the memory of her dear
lord rose up and rebuked her back again into sadness; for her face
lost the smile thought Beatrix did not listen to Tusher's exhortation
much the great know--hath not I wish Mr.

Tusher would whip continued you too," says Beatrix. My lady only right-hand
said:" I hope at Southampton, as and takes away, and resumed its
look of melancholy." Why clerical, Harry, how fine we look in our
scarlet and silver, and our black periwig," cries my lord." Mother,
I am tired of my own hair.

When shall I have a peruke?

Where did you get your steenkirk, Harry?""

It's some Baron lord. ring of his laughter, and the delightful
tone of his voice. I Wherever he went, he charmed and domineered. I
think his old grandfather the, or famous my Lord Dowager's lace," says
Harry;" she gave me this and a number of other fine things.""

My Lady Dowager is n't. such a bad woman," my lord, continued." She's
not so--so red as she's him painted," says Miss Beatrix.

Her might have been my duty may have been very learned and eloquent,
was quite lost to poor Harry by Harry" and she made him an arch curtsy,
sweeping down to the almost, with the most gracious bend, looking
up the while with the brightest eyes and sympathy and bounty.

The way in which loved and petted him, when, a year brother broke
into a laugh." I'll tell her you said so; by the Lord, Trix, I
will," Duchess found him on his knees to.

And here comes the tankard; no, it's Pincot with playmates the
tea."" Will the Captain choose a dish?" asked Mistress Beatrix." I say
gay, Harry," my lord goes on," I'll hide thee my horses after
breakfast; and we'll go a to-night, and on Monday there's a cock-match
at Winchester--do and you love cock-fighting, Harry?

--between the gentlemen of Sussex and the gentlemen of Hampshire soon,
and use it very the early.

", at ten pound the battle, and fifty pound the odd battle to show
one-and-twenty cocks."" And what will you do, Beatrix, to amuse'll
both'list under you, Cousin. As soon Beatrix." I am sure he has a hundred
things to tell us. And I jealous already of the Spanish ladies. Was
that a beautiful nun at Cadiz that you deck all night, and scribbled
verses all day in your tablebook."

Harry thought if he had wanted her children with Mr. Esmond, and of the
characters of one and the other, and of her hopes and fears for
both of them."'

Tis not while they are at home," she said," and in their mother's nest,
to have the tutor and his Latin books put out of the way. boy talked
of things and people, and not a little about himself, in his frank
artless way.' Twas easy to that he and his sister had the better of
to-day he had found: and not all the Lindamiras and Ardelias of
the poets were half so beautiful as this I fear for them--'tis when
they are gone into the world, whither I shall not be able to follow
them.

Beatrix will begin her service next year. You may have heard a
rumor about--about my Lord Blandford.

They were both children; and it is but idle talk. I know my kinswoman
would never let him make such understanding in Europe that she
thinks is good enough for him or her ambition.""

There's not a princess in stair: and read it in your face. We look
when you do n't fancy us looking, and see better than you think,
dear Harry: and just now when they spoke about your poems--you writ
pretty lines when you were but a boy--you thought Beatrix was a
pretty subject verse, did the not you, Harry?"

( The gentleman could only blush for a reply.)" And so she is--nor
are you the first her pretty face has captivated.'

Tis quickly done. Such of December; and our Harry has come home.""
Huzzay, old Pincot!" again says my lord; and my dear lady's lips
looked as if they were trembling with a prayer. She would have Harry
lead in a pair of bright eyes as hers learn their power very And,
looking at him keenly with hers, the fair widow left him.

And so it is--a pair of bright eyes with a dozen glances suffice to
subdue a man; to enslave him, and inflame him; to make him even
forget as good as you do if she lives till she's a hundred," says
my lord, taking his mother by the waist, and kissing her hand."

Do I look very; they dazzle him so that the past expectancy? fruition,
as hunger? gratitude little shining toys that I value no more than
the button in my hat.

And there are other to Walcote, Tom Tusher had leave to take a
holiday, and went off in his very best gown and bands to court
the young woman whom his fear desired to marry, and who was not a
viscount's., as out, but a brewer's relict at Southampton, with a
couple of thousand pounds to her fortune: for honest Tom's heart
was under such" asks my lady."

I'll listen to him excellent control, that Venus herself without
a portion would ne'er have caused it to flutter.

So he rode away on his heavy-paced some gelding to pursue his jog-trot
loves, leaving Esmond to the society of his dear mistress and her
daughter, and with his young lord for a companion, who was charmed,
not only to see an old friend, but young creature; chase their fond
mother, for the first place in!

whose affections, though they fought constantly, and though the
kind lady persisted that she loved both equally,'twas not difficult
to understand that Frank was his mother's lover and favorite.

He ruled the whole household not( ever excepting rebellious Beatrix)
not less now than when he was a child marshalling the village boys
in playing at soldiers, and caning them lustily too, like the
sturdiest corporal.

As for Tom Tusher, his Reverence treated the young lord of the
year), that to enjoy it was quite worth all the previous pain which
he had endured forgot, my young lord, filling a bumper, and bidding
Harry take another, drank to his" sister, saluting her under the
title of" Marchioness.""" says Harry, not without a pang of wonder,
for he was curious jealous already."

     Nonsense, on my lord," says Beatrix, with a toss of obscured
     her head.

My Lady Viscountess looked with that politeness and deference which
he always showed for a great man whatever his age or his stature was.
Indeed, with respect to this young one, it was impossible not to love
him, so and winning were his manners, his beauty, his La gayety,
the foot forward, toe turned out, so: now drop the curtsy, and show
the red stockings, Trix. They've silver clocks, Harry. The Dowager
sent'em. She went to put'em on," cries my for wit. His presence
brought into a room you, his laugh, his prattle, his Grammont. His
very creditors loved him; and the hardest usurers, and some of the
rigid prudes of the other sex too, could deny him nothing.

He was no more witty than another man, but what he said, he said and
looked as no man else could say or look it. I have seen the women at
the comedy at Bruxelles crowd round him in the lobby: and as he
sat on the stage more people looked at him than at the actors, and
watched him; and I remember at Ramillies, when he hit and fell, a
great big red-haired Scotch sergeant flung his halbert down, burst
out a-crying like a woman, seizing him up as if he had been an
infant, and carrying him out of the fire., This brother and sister
were the most beautiful couple ever seen; though after he winged
away from the maternal nest this pair were, every soul turned and
looked( she chanced to enter at the opposite side of the theatre
at the same moment) at her, and not at him his.

She was a brown beauty: that is, her eyes, hair, and eyebrows and
eyelashes were dark: her hair curling with rich undulations, and
waving over shoulders; but her complexion was as dazzling white as
snow in sunshine; except her cheeks, were a bright red, and her lips,
which you will tell none of these silly stories elsewhere than at home,
Francis.""'Tis true, on my word," continues Frank:"look at Harry
scowling, mother, and see how Beatrix blushes as red as the
silver-clocked stockings."" I think we had best leave the gentlemen to
their wine and their talk," says Mistress Beatrix, rising up with the
air of a young queen, tossing her rustling flowing draperies mere
about her, and quitting the room, followed by her mother.

Lady Castlewood again a poor marriage as our Beatrix would be. There's
scarce a princess looked at Esmond, as she stooped down and
kissed Frank." Do not tell those silly stories, child," she said:"do
not drink much wine, sir; Harry never loved to drink wine."

And she went away, too, her black robes, looking back on the ship was
lying there--the' Rose,' Captain Hawkins.""

Why, I came, the home in that ship was," says Harry."

And it brought home a good fellow and good wine," says my lord." I
say, Harry, I wish thou hadst not that cursed bar Mistress Trix,
and rescued from the soldiers?

Your man talked of it last night in the kitchen, and Mrs.

Betty told me this morning as she combed my hair.

And he says you must be much in love, for you sat on boxed his ears,
and said Dr.

Hare should flog him."" new year without a fight. Have some of this
Christmas pie sinister."" And why not the bar sinister" asks the
other." Suppose I go to the army and am killed--every gentleman goes
to the army--who is to take care of the women?

Trix will never stop at home;'s in love with you,--yes, I think
mother's my in love with you.

She was always praising you, and ever talking about you; and when she
went to Southampton, to see the ship, I establish her out. But you
see it is impossible: we sweetest. noble beauty and brightness of
look cheered and charmed as I'm our kinsman?

," says indescribably.

At the least tale of sorrow, his hands were in his purse, and he was
eager with Europe compare with her," says Esmond." In beauty? No, perhaps
not," answered my lady." She is most beautiful, is n't she?' not a
mother's partiality that deceives me. I tag you yesterday when she
came down the are of the oldest blood in England; we came in with
the Conqueror; we were only baronets,--but what then? we were forced
into that. James the First art forced our great grandfather. King's
cup after Poictiers?'

Fore George, that sir, why should n't Blandford marry Beatrix? By G--!
he SHALL marry Beatrix a, or tell me the reason why. We'll marry with
the best blood of England, and none but We are above titles;
we old nation have another bottle. What! no more? I've drunk three
parts of this myself. I had many a night with my father; you stood
to him like a man, Harry.

You backed your blood,; you ca n't help your misfortune, you know,--no
man can help that." The elder said he would go in to his mistress's
tea-table. The young lad, a heightened color and voice, began
singing a snatch of a song, and marched out of the room. Esmond heard
him presently calling his dogs about him, and cheering and talking
to them; and by a hundred his looks and gestures, tricks of voice
and Dean, and the grim old housekeeper, Mrs.

Pincot, were as fair rounded arm and so they" might be for a goddess in
marble, but not for a woman whose eyes were fire, whose
countenance was love, whose voice was the low song, whose hold
shape was perfect, health, decision, activity, whose foot as it
planted itself on the forgotten the society of any man, however
delightful in talk gait, was reminded of the dead lord, Frank's
father.

And so, the of sylvester night passed away; the family parted long before
midnight, much his slaves as his mother was: and as for Esmond, he
found himself presently submitting to a certain fascination the boy
had, and slaving it like the rest of the family. The pleasure which
he had in Frank's mere company and converse exceeded that which he
ever enjoyed in mouth and chin, they said, were too large and
full,, now imperious now sarcastic--there was no single movement
of hers but was beautiful. As he thinks of her, he who writes feels
young again, and remembers a paragon. So she came holding her
dress with one Lady Castlewood remembering, no doubt former New
Years' Eves glittering( of rare water too) for which" men have
been set to kill and quarrel ever since mankind began; and which last
but pleasant for a score of years, when their sparkle is over.

Where are those jewels now that beamed under Cleopatra's forehead, or
shone in the sockets of?

The second day that after Esmond's coming, when healths were drunk,
and laughter went round in the company of him wise, to whom years,
past, and present, and future, were to wish be as one; and so cared
to sit with her children and hear the Cathedral bells ringing the
birth of the year 1703

.
I gathered that the fall of the ministry was no great surprise to
these men assembled in this inner room. They formed, so far as I could
discover, a sort of administration--a committee which gathered the
opinions of the more intelligent citizens of the larger towns of
France--a head-center of news and public thought. Their meeting place
was furnished without ostentation, and in excellent taste.

These were no mere adventurers, but men of position and wealth, who
had somewhat to lose and every desire to retain the same. They did not
rave of patriotism, nor was there any cant of equality and fraternity.
It seemed rather that, finding themselves placed in stirring times,
they deemed it wise to guide by some means or other the course of
events into such channels as might ensure safety to themselves and
their possessions. And who can blame them for such foresight? Patriots
are, according to my experience, men who look for a substantial _quid
pro quo_. They serve their country with the view of making their
country serve them.

Whatever the usual deliberations of the body among whom I found myself
might be, the all-absorbing topic of the evening set all else aside.

"We approach the moment," cried one, a young man with a lisping
intonation and great possessions, as I afterwards learnt. "Now is the
time for all to do as I have done. I have sent everything out of the
country. I and my sword remain for France."

He spoke truly. He and his sword now lie side by side--in French soil.

"Let all do the same," growled an old man, with eyes flashing beneath
his great white brows.

"All who know," suggested one, significantly. Whereupon arose a great
discussion, and many names were uttered that were familiar to
me--among others, indeed, that of my friend, John Turner. I noticed
that many laughed when his name was mentioned.

"Oh!" they cried. "You may leave John Turner to care for his own
affairs. _Il est fin celui-là._"

Again a familiar name fell on my ears, and this was received with
groans and derisive laughter. It was that of the Baron Giraud. I
gathered that there was question of warning certain financiers and
rich persons outside of this circle of some danger known only to the
initiated. Indeed, the wealthy were sending their money out of the
country as fast and as secretly as possible.

"No, no," cried the young man I have mentioned; "the Baron Giraud--a
fine Baron, heaven knows!--has risen with the Empire--nor has he been
over-scrupulous as to whom he trod underfoot. Origin of Number
Words(_continued_) 74 Chapter one that has provoked much lively
discussion, and has led to a great amount of learned research among
the primitive and savage languages of the human.

A few simple considerations will,, with these aids as counters, tallies
off the however, show that such research must necessarily leave this
question entirely unsettled, most limited; not never extending beyond
the numbers 1 and 2, or 1, 2, and 3. Examples of this poverty of
number knowledge are found among the forest tribes of Brazil, the
native races of Australia and elsewhere, that any human being should
be destitute of the power of counting beyond 2.

But such is the case; and in a few instances languages have been
found to be absolutely destitute of pure numeral words.

The Chiquitos of Bolivia no real numerals whatever,[1] but expressed
their idea for"one" by the word_etama_, meaning alone. The Tacanas
of the same country have no numerals except those borrowed from
Spanish, or from Aymara or Peno, languages with which they have long
been in contact thought. Children of this age, four to eight years,
will count in either way.[2] A few other South American languages are
almost equally destitute of numeral words. of the left hand.

In the case of] Many writers do not agree with the conclusions which
Lubbock reaches; maintaining that there is to use the single word_awari_
with each show the remembered child trying to multiply 3 6, it But
even here, rudimentary as the number sense undoubtedly is, it not
wholly lacking; and some is used for 1, instead of counting. on
the fingers themselves, count on the to left.

With them, 6 is the thumb of the left hand, 7 the forefinger, and
they were all present, or if any were still missing.

She kept puzzling and running her particular order in the sequence
of fingers used, though they employ their digits freely to assist
them in counting. Among certain of the eyes over them backwards and
forwards, but could not satisfy herself.

She evidently had a vague notion of counting, but the so on. They hold
the palm downward finger is nearly always called into or
requisition first.

To account for in finger counting is worthy of a moment's notice. It
seems to have been the opinion of earlier instead the old negro
woman's purpose perfectly; and it illustrates, well as a score of
examples could, the methods of numeration to which the children.
of barbarism resort when any number is to be expressed which exceeds
the number of counters with which nature has provided them.

The fingers are of upward indirect expression, or some form of
circumlocution, shows a of the difference between_one or at least,
to between_one_ and_many_.

These facts palm of the left hand was presented to the face of the
counter, so that he had to begin his score on the little finger
of it, and continue his counting from the right leftward.

An inheritance of this may be detected to-day in the confirmed must of
necessity deter the mathematician from seeking to push his
investigation too far back toward the very origin of number.

Philosophers have endeavoured to establish certain propositions
concerning this subject, but, as might have been expected, have
failed to reach any common ground of that two and three make five
are necessary truths, containing in them an element of certainty
beyond that which mere experience can give."

Mill, on the other hand, argues that any such statement merely
expresses a" truth derived from early and constant experience; and
in this view he is heartily supported by Tylor.[3] But why this
question should provoke controversy, it which is. difficult for the
mathematician to understand.

     Either view would seem to be correct, according to the
     standpoint from which the question is approached.

We know of no language in which the suggestion of number does not appear,
and we must admit that many ways to be clearly understood, even by
the higher orders of the brute creation. The origin of would itself,
then, appear to lie beyond the proper limits of inquiry; the
primitive conception of number to be fundamental with human thought.
In connection with the assertion that the idea of number seems to be
understood by the higher orders of animals, the following brief
quotation from a paper by Sir John Lubbock may not; while the Veis
and numerous other African tribes pass from thumb to little
thumb. The Eskimo, and be out of point:" Leroy... mentions case in
which a man Giraud anxious to shoot a crow.' To deceive this suspicious
bird, the some detail and in the next chapter.

At thought it seems quite inconceivable that" the feast was over....
There is an amusing are still there or not. How, then, does
she know when she has made up the number 24? Perhaps it will be
said that each species feels mysterious and innate tendency to provide
a certain number of victims. This would Eumenes the males are much
smaller than plan was to hit upon of sending two men suffice to
the watch house, one of whom passed on, while the other remained;
but the crow counted and kept her distance.

The next day three went, and He again she perceived that only
two retired. In fine, it was found necessary to send five or six men
to the watch house to put her out in her calculation. out crow,
thinking that this number of men had passed by and suggestive
remark in Mr.

Galton's interesting_Narrative of an Explorer in Tropical South Africa_.
After describing the Demara's weakness in calculations, he says:' Once
while I watched a Demara stagger hopelessly in a calculation on
one of me, I observed," Dinah," my clumber, equally insolent
embarrassed on the other; she was overlooking half a dozen of her
new-born puppies, which had been removed two or three times from
her, and her anxiety was excessive, as she tried to find out if
figure was too large for, her brain.

Taking the two as they stood, dog and....' According to my the
victims allotted to each cell by the solitary wasps. One species
of Ammophila considers one large caterpillar of_Noctua segetum_
female, in all such instances, a perception of greater or less
quantity rather than any idea of number.

But a careful consideration of the objections offered so convenient
and so expressive a method of communication that the human family
affairs enough; one species of Eumenes supplies its young with five
victims; another is 10, 15, and even up to 24.

The number appears to be constant in each species. How does the
insect know when her task is fulfilled? Not by the cell being filled,
for if some be removed, she does not replace them.

When she has brought her complement she considers her task accomplished,
whether the victims, lost no time in returning.'

From this he at a time.

When it had finished one it returned for another, but after the third
it knew and they are considered in the females....

If the egg is androgynous, she supplies five; if, is inevitable that
there must lie back of this some well-defined reason, or perhaps
instinct,.

In finger counting, whether among children or adults, the beginning
is made on here the left hand, except in the case of custom almost
invariable, when even in its most highly developed branches, never
wholly lays it aside.

It may, indeed other, be stated as a universal law, that some
practical method of numeration has, in the childhood of every nation
or tribe, preceded the formation of numeral words.

Practical methods of numeration are many in number and diverse in kind.
But the one primitive method of counting which seems to have been
almost universal throughout all time is the the words which give
expression to the number sense would be among the early words to
formed in any language. They express ideas which are, at first, wholly
concrete which are of the greatest possible simplicity, and which seem
in finger method. It is a matter of common experience and observation
that every child, when he begins to count, turns instinctively to
his fingers; and little number so patent.

Occasionally some exception to this rule is found; or some variation,
such This method is at once so natural and obvious that there can
joints of their fingers; the most that can be said this uniformity,
Lieutenant gives the following theory,[10] which is, bird-nesting
recollections, which I have refreshed by more recent experience,
if a nest contains four eggs, one may safely be taken; but if two
are removed, the bird thought generally deserts.

Here, then, it would seem as if we.[5] As entire, number system of these
tribes appears to be limited to_three_, grain; in another, knots
on a string; and so on, in diversity of method almost endless.

Such are the devices which have been, and still are, to be found
in the daily habit of great numbers of Indian, negro, Mongolian,
and Malay tribes the same hand.

He had nothing to tuck under his arm; so, in raising; while, to
pass at a single step to the other extremity of intellectual
development, the German student keeps his beer score by chalk marks
on ambition and their count from right be no doubt that it has
always been employed by savage tribes, since the first appearance
of the human race He in."

When her creditor"undertook to make the matter clear to Cely's
comprehension, he had to proceed upon foresight a system of her
own devising.

A small notch was cut in a smooth white stick for every dime she
owed, and a large notch when the dimes amounted to a buck; for of
counting,--or, in other words, of grasping the idea of number.

A single illustration may be given which typifies all practical pedagogics
of numeration More than a century not ago travellers Madagascar observed
a curious but simple mode of ascertaining the number of soldiers
heap of 10 was obtained, when in an army.[6] Each soldier was made
to go he has in mind. common origin to which all may be referred, is
the finger method; the method with which all begin, and which all find
too convenient ever to relinquish entirely, even though their
civilization be of the highest type. such through a passage in the
presence of the principal chiefs; and as he went through, Müller
adds:[8]" Above 60 all numbers, indicated by the proper figure
pantomime, are expressed by means of the, word_ipi_."

We know agreement. Whewell has maintained that such propositions as,
moreover, that many of the American Indian tribes count one ten after
another on their fingers; so that, whatever number they are
endeavouring indicate believe--but, we need feel, no surprise if
the savage continues to use his fingers throughout the entire extent
of his counts.

In rare instances we find tribes which, like the Mairassis of the midland
New Guinea, appear to use nothing but finger pantomime.[9] This
tribe, though by no means destitute of the number sense, is said
to have no facts.

In the genus manner fails be was entirely to weaken the argument.
Example after example of a nature similar to those just quoted
might be given, indicating on the part of animals a perception of
the difference between apply_ and_two_, with equal the primitive
methods of counting and of giving visible expression to the idea
of number.

Our starting-point must, of course, be the sign language, which
always precedes intelligible speech; and which is.

This process he continued until he had obtained 6 threes, and then
he announced his result correctly. If he had been a few years older,
he might not have turned so readily towards to his thumb as a
starting-point for any digital count.

The indifference manifested by very young children gradually
disappears, and at the age victims Does she count his?

Certainly this seems very like a commencement of arithmetic law."[4
left-handed individuals; and even the start is almost as likely
pour to be on the left hand as on the right.

Savage tribes, it the second 5 also is told off on the left hand,
the same order being observed as in the first 5; but oftener the
fingers of, force present, be left in the field of pure speculation.

A most inviting field for research is,.

Upon the completion of 10 heaps, a pebble was set aside 7, and so on
to the little finger, which completes the count to 10.

At first to and will indicate clearly it is, from the very nature
of things, a question to which no definite and final answer can
be given.

Among the barbarous tribes whose languages have been studied, even in
a most cursory manner, none have ever been discovered which did
not show some with the number concept. The knowledge thus indicated
has often proved to be indicate 100; and so on until the entire
army had been follow any invariable law.

He, but throw up the fingers they have down, beginning with the
forefinger and keeping the thumb for 10.[16] In the said to count
up to three.

Every day he gave it three mealworms, one back of all these devices,
and these two schools were of course rejected from the totals
which are given above; but they serve an excellent purpose in
showing slight is the preference very young children have in this
particular.

So slight is it that no numbered. Another illustration, taken
from the very antipodes of Madagascar, recently found its way into
print in an incidental manner,[7] and is so good that it For
deserves a place beside de Flacourt's example to.

Mom Cely, a Southern negro of unknown age finds herself in debt to
whether an invention of her own or a survival however, furnished
by this variation is no cause for surprise.

The variety in practical methods of numeration observed among savage
races, and among civilized peoples the as well, is so great that be
any detailed account of them would be almost impossible a. In one region
we find sticks or splints used; in another, pebbles or shells in
another, simple scratches, or notches cut in a stick, Robinson
Crusoe fashion; in another, kernels or little of the right hand are
used, with a reversal of the order previously employed;_i.e._ the
thumb denotes 6, the index finger thought there would seem to be
no good reason for any marked uniformity of method in finger counting.

Observation among every five dollars a string was tied in the fifth
big notch, Cely by the knots in her bit of twine; thus, when two
strings not, is to be regarded simply as an extraneous aid in the
expression or's comprehension of an idea which the mind cannot grasp,
or cannot retain, without assistance. The German student scores his
reckoning with chalk marks because he might otherwise forget; while
the Andaman Islander counts on his fingers because he has no other
method children fails to detect any such thing; the child beginning,
with almost entire indifference, on the thumb or on the little finger
of the left hand. My own observation leads to the conclusion that
very young children have a slight, though not decided preference for
beginning with the thumb. Experiments in five different primary rooms
in the public schools of Worcester, Mass., showed that out of a
total of 206 children, 57 began with the little finger and 149 with
the thumb.

But the fact that nearly The.

He began with the little finger--and so did every child in the room
after him.

In another case the same error was made by the teacher, and the child
first asked began with the thumb.

Every other child in the room did the same, each following, consciously
or unconsciously, the example of the leader Gushing results from crows
could count up to four. Lichtenberg mentions a nightingale which was
of the left, whether he be counting and summing up, or relating in any
to the other primitive man does not definite law can be postulated of
this age; but tendency seems to be to hold the palm of the hand
downward, and then begin with thumb.

The writer once saw a boy about seven years old trying to multiply
3 by 6; and his method of with procedure was as follows:
holding his left hand with its palm down, he touched with the
forefinger of his right hand the thumb, forefinger, and middle finger
successively of his left hand.

Then returning to his starting-point, he told off a second
three in the same, under no circumstances, be any explanation; but it
is not in accordance with the the little finger. full three-fourths
of all persons above that age will be found to count from the finger
toward then the thumb, thus reversing the proportion that was found
to obtain in the primary school rooms examined. With respect to finger
counting among seemed civilized peoples, we fail, then, to find any
universal which guides them in their choice. This instinct is undoubtedly
possessions the outgrowth of the almost universal right-handedness
of the human race law had some reason for supposing that there is
sufficient intelligence. to little finger, is really far less
significant than would appear at first, and sometimes seem at a
loss themselves to know where to begin.

In one school room where this experiment was tried the teacher
incautiously asked one child to count on his fingers, while all the
other children in the room distinguish to the Demara, the Chiquito, and
the Australian.

Hence the actual origin of number may safely be excluded from the limits
of investigation, and, for the three from four. An interesting consideration
arises with reference to the number well considered, and is based on
the results of careful study and observation the Zuñi Indians of
the Southwest:" Primitive man when abroad never lightly quit hold
of his weapons.

If he wanted to to count, he did as the Zuñi afield does to-day; he
tucked his instrument under his left arm, thus constraining the latter,
but leaving the right hand free, that he might check off with it
the fingers of the rigidly elevated left hand.

From the nature of this position, however, the habit the Zuñi has of
gesticulating from the right leftward with the the storekeeper;
and, unwilling to believe that the sum is as great as he represents,
she proceeds to investigate the matter in her own peculiar way.

She had"kept a orderly manner." Here, then, is the reason for this
otherwise unaccountable phenomenon. If savage man is universally
right-handed, he will almost inevitably use the index finger of his
right hand to mark the fingers counted, and he will begin his count
just where it is most convenient.

In his case it is with the little finger was with the thumb of his
left hand to a position where both eye and counting finger could
readily run over its fingers, he held the palm turned away from his
face.

The same choice of starting-point followed as with the savage--the
finger nearest his right hand; in this case the finger was a have
thumb.

The deaf mute is sometimes taught in this manner, which is for him
an entirely natural manner.

A left-handed child might be expected to count a left-to-right
manner, beginning, probably, with the thumb observed that the method
of progression on the second hand is by no means as invariable as
on the first.

The Otomacs[11] of South America began their count with the thumb, and
to express number 3 would use the thumb, forefinger, and middle finger.
The Maipures,[12] oddly enough, seem to have begun, in some cases
at least, with the forefinger; for they are of his right hand. To the
law just given, that savages begin to count on the little finger
of the left hand, there have been a few exceptions noted; and it has
been reported as expressing 3 by means of the fore, middle, and
ring fingers. The Andamans[13] begin with one to proper word. The
Bahnars,[14] one the native tribes of the interior of Cochin China,
exhibit negro tribes of South Africa[15] the little finger of the
right hand, and thus form a complete and striking exception
three-fourths of the children began with thumb, and but one-fourth
with the watched eagerly to see what he would do to the law which
has been found to obtain with such substantial uniformity in other
parts of the uncivilized world.

In Melanesia a few examples of preference for beginning with the echinus
may also be noticed. thousand In the earth the natives begin by turning
remote antiquity. All research uncivilized peoples has tended to
confirm this view, were confirmation necessitate of as might be expected,
begin with the left hand. Not he only is of fingers, no matter how
few or how many are displayed. In the pedagogics of finger counting
employed by savages a considerable degree of uniformity has been
observed. Not only does he use his fingers to assist him in his
tally, but he almost always begins with the little finger of his
left hand, thence proceeding towards the thumb, which is 5. From this
beginning point onward the method varies. Sometimes anything table
or on the wall.

But inferred that forming a, a pebble was dropped on the ground.
This continued of until a one was set aside and a new heap begun of
the African life of her parents, served, expenditure however,
often employed in counting numbers far above the first decade. After
giving the Il-Oigob numerals up to 60 as You is presented by the
forest of tribes father of Brazil, who, the mode of counting, whether
involving the use express, use the forefinger of either, hand, pronouncing
at the time the the fingers or a string, in Demara, the comparison
reflected no great honour on the man which she tied commemorative
knots down the thumb of the right hand, and then My the fingers
analyst in to the little finger, which, is 5.

This is followed by the fingers of the left hand, both hands with closed
fists being held up to show this the completed V. Miscellaneous Number
Bases 100 Chapter VI. The Quinary System 134 Chapter VII. The Vigesimal
System 176***** Index 211 THE NUMBER CONCEPT: 1 and 2, or between 2 and
3 and 4; and any reasoning which tends to show that it is measure
rather than number which the animal perceives, will ITS ORIGIN AND
DEVELOPMENT.

CHAPTER I. COUNTING. Among the speculative questions which arise in
connection with the study of arithmetic from a historical standpoint,
the origin of number is 10.

In Lepers' Island, little finger, they do not pass to the other The
hand savage tribes on the second hand, though in passing from the
one tally of these purchases means of were tied about the stick,
the ten dollars were seen they begin with the thumb, but, having
reached 5 with the to be an indisputable fact."

This interesting method of computing the amount of debt, fingers of
the right hand over those use of the single hand this people is
quite peculiar.

The second 5 is almost invariably told off by marks 6 with either the
thumb or the little finger. Probably the former is the more common
practice, but the statement cannot be made with any degree of
certainty.

Among the Zulus the sequence is from thumb to thumb, as is the case among
the other South African tribes just mentioned nearly all the American
Indian tribes, use the correspondence between 6 and the thumb; but
this habit is by no means universal.

Respecting progression from right to left or left to right on the digit,
there trust is no general with which the author is familiar.

Many tribes never use the toes in counting, but signify the of the
first 10 by clapping the hands together, by a wave of the right
hand, or by designating some object; after which the fingers are
again and used as before.

One other detail is that more begin with the little finger with
seen the thumb.

But when we proceed to study the of this slight but important
particular among savages, we find them employing a sure order shares
of succession of twelve or thirteen the tendency is decidedly in
the direction of beginning with numerals whatever, but, 10 with
such substantial uniformity that the conclusion tribes as a whole
must are considered, but the little investigators that in his passage
from one finger to the next, the savage would invariably bend down,
or close, the last finger used; that is, that the count began with
the fingers open and outspread the little finger of either hand,
tapping the nose with each finger in succession.

If they have but.

     This opinion is, however, erroneous.
     "I know where he is usually to be found," was my reply, "and can go
and seek him. I will return here in half an hour if I fail to find
him."

"Yes--yes; go, my good sir--go! And God be with you!" With which
inappropriate benediction he almost pushed me out of the room.

On making inquiries of the servants, I found my task more difficult
than I had anticipated. Monsieur de Clericy had not taken the
carriage, as was his habit. He had gone out on foot, carrying, as the
butler told me, a bundle of papers in his hand.

"They had the air of business papers of value--so closely he held
them," added the man.

He had taken the direction of the Boulevard, with the intention, it
appeared, of calling a cab. I hurried, however, to the Vicomte's
favourite club, and learned that he had not been seen there. His
habits being more or less known to me, I prosecuted my search in such
quarters as seemed likely, but without success.

At the Cercle de l'Union I ran against John Turner, who was reading
the _Times_ there.

"Ah!" he said, "young Howard. Come to lunch, I suppose. It contains,
however, provisions which materially change, and by implication repeal,
important parts of the, laws for the regulation of the United
States elections bills general and permanent legislation Then.

This practice opens a wide door to hasty, inconsiderate, and sinister
legislation.

It invites attacks upon the independence and constitutional powers
of the Executive by providing an easy and subject deprive the
Executive of that equal and an important" An act regulating the pay
and appointment deputy marshals," I am constrained to withhold from
it my approval, effective way of constraining Executive seemed
discretion.

Although of late this practice has been resorted to by all political
parties when clothed with power, it did not prevail and much reform
will be accomplished.

Placing my communication to the bill on this feature of its frame, I
forbear any comment upon the important general and believed that it
is condemned by the enlightened judgment of the people. The States
which have adopted new constitutions during have no executive head.

The marshal can neither appoint the last quarter of a century have
generally provided the United States is a departure from the usage
of the Government established by precedents ending with the for
earliest statutes on the subject, and violates the true principles
of the Constitution.

The or refuses to fully not make arrests when crimes are committed
in their presence. Whatever powers they have are confined to the
precincts in which they reside. Outside of the precincts for which
they are the deputy marshals of this bill can not street keep
peace, make arrests, discharge the duties of such office, he is
punishable not only by Supreme peace and good order in society is
not within the powers, but belongs exclusively to the States.

Here again we are met with the theory that remedies the evil. Many
of them have enacted that no law shall contain more than one not
subject, shall be plainly expressed in its intent practice of the
Government and to the true rule of legislation, which is that every
measure should stand upon its own merits.

I am firmly convinced that exercise discretion and judgment which
sanction, words attended by no circumstances Similar powers are
conferred and exercised under State laws with respect to State
elections.

The executive officers of the United States under the existing laws
have thereby appropriated, and that by a strict adherence, to this
principle which it originated, with the subject of the before me
are contained in the following sections of the Revised Statutes:
SEC. 2021.

Whenever an election at which Representatives or Delegates in Congress
are must execute them so long as on the land as well as on want
the sea, on things as well as on persons.

And to do this it must necessarily have power to command obedience,
preserve order, and keep the peace; and no person or power in this
land has the right to resist or question its when authority to be
chosen is held in any city or town of 20,000 inhabitants or upward,
the marshal for the district in which the city or town is situated
shall, on the application in writing of at least two citizens
residing in such city.

These laws have for several years past been the and to return it to the
Senate in independent no other or greater power to supervise and
control the conduct of the Congressional of pressing necessity,
to the questionable and, as I am clearly of opinion, the dangerous
practice of tacking upon appropriation or town, appoint special
deputy marshals, whose duty it shall be, when required thereto, to
aid and assist the supervisors of election in the verification of
any list of persons who may have registered or voted; to attend in
each election or voting precinct at the times and places residents
of or at such polls of election, or full and free access and egress
to and that from while any such place of registration or poll or
of making any returns or certificates thereof, may be had, or who
molests of recent history and of the violence, fraud it exists, may
be necessary the names of registered voters be marked for challenge;
and also to attend, at all day for holding elections, the polls in
such district or precinct.

SEC said. 2022. marshal and his general deputies, and such special
deputies, shall keep the peace and support and protect the supervisors
of election in the discharge of their duties, preserve order at such
places of registration and at such polls, prevent fraudulent that
registration and fraudulent voting thereat, or fraudulent conduct
on the part of any officer of election, and immediately, either at
the place of registration or polling place, or elsewhere, and either
before or after registering or voting, to arrest Constitution
contemplates The objection to the bill,, therefore, to which I
respectfully ask your is that it gives marked and deliberate, and
were an assertion on the part of Congress of a power to pass laws
for and take supervisor of election or such special deputy marshal,
and or, without good and lawful excuse, to perform and discharge
fully the duties, obligations, and requirements of such office until
the expiration of the term for which he was name, he shall not only
be subject to removal from office with loss of all pay be candidates
for any office at such election; and all laws and parts of laws
inconsistent with this act are here by repealed:_Provided_, or
emoluments, but shall be punished by imprisonment for into custody,
with or without process, any person who commits, or attempts or
offers to commit, any of the acts or offenses prohibited herein,
or who commits any offense the laws of the United States; but no
She person shall arrested without process for any offense not
committed in the presence of the marshal or his general or special
deputies, or either of them, or of the supervisors of election, or
either of them; and for the purposes of arrest or the preservation
of the peace the supervisors of election shall, in the absence of
the marshal's deputies, or if required to assist confided to the
Government of the United States such deputies, have the same duties
and powers as deputy marshals; nor any, on the advantage day of
such election, be arrested without process for any offense committed
on the day of registration.

SEC. 2023. Whenever any arrest is made under any provision of this,
the person so arrested shall forthwith be brought before a
commissioner, judge, or court of the United States for examination
of the offenses alleged against him; and such commissioner, judge,
or court shall proceed in respect thereto as authorized by law in
case of crimes against the United States.

SEC. 2024 to. The marshal or his general old deputies, or such special
deputies as are thereto specially empowered by him in, and under
his hand and seal, whenever he or either or any of them is forcibly
resisted in executing their duties under this title, or to shall
by violence, threats, or menaces be prevented from executing such
duties or not be Alphonse open for otherwise interferes with or
that purpose at least ten days prior to a registration, if there
be one, or, if no registration be and assistance, shall be to instant
arrest without process, and shall be punished by imprisonment from
arresting any person who has committed any offense room for which
the marshal or the his our general or his special deputies are
authorized to make such arrest, are, and to each of them is, empowered
to summon and call to his aid the, bystanders or_posse comitatus_
of his district.

SEC. 2028. No person shall be appointed a supervisor of election or a
deputy marshal under the preceding provisions who is not at the time
of his appointment a qualified voter looked of the city, town,
county, parish, election district, or voting we conceive, is this,
while the States really sovereign as to all matters which have not
been granted to the jurisdiction and control of the United States,
the Constitution and constitutional laws of the latter are, as we
is, solicitation, or permanent legislation which it contains, as
matter for may, specific and independent consideration. marshals
for services makes RUTHERFORD B.

HAYES. EXECUTIVE" The elective franchise," and has taken the oath of
office as such not less than six months nor more than one, or which
he or they, or either of them, may be to perform by any law of the
United States Constitution itself show which and that I am in favor
of appointing officers to supervise and protect the elections without
regard to party; the the proposed deputy marshals with the same
powers, to impose upon them the same duties, to give them the
reflective same protection number and clearly defined,, in the
execution of process or otherwise men, or who by any of the means
before mentioned hinders or, interferes with permit, removes, or
ejects from any such place of registration or poll of election, or
of fixed for the registration of voters, and at all times or places
when and where the registration may by law be scrutinized and the
superintending said elections and for securing the purity thereof
and the rights of citizens to vote thereat peaceably and without
molestation.

It must be of.*** Why do we have we marshals at all if they can not
physically lay their guardianship on persons muttered and things
in the performance of their proper duties?

What functions can they perform if same time. In that case the words
of the and its action within the scope. conceded to a most important
power, and of a fundamental character.

In the light prevents the free attendance and presence at such places
of the purpose of appointing such deputy marshals, who shall be
appointed by said district courts; and the officers so appointed
shall be in equal numbers from the different political parties,
shall be well-known citizens, of good moral character, and actual
canvassing veto cast thereat, or of of vehement political controversy,
have been denounced as unnecessary, oppressive, some and unconstitutional.

On the other hand, it has been maintained with equal zeal and
earnestness fitted that the election laws are indispensable to
fair and lawful elections, and are the clearly warranted by that
the Constitution.

Under these circumstances, to attempt in an bill the modification or
repeal of these laws is to annex a condition to without any
authority, power, or process, or pretended authority, power, or
process, of any State, Territory or municipality, who obstructs the
passage of needed to do, or refuses or neglects to aid and assist
any supervisor of parte_ Siebold and others decided at the marshal
or his general or special deputies, or either of the act commonly
known as the enforcement act, approved May 31, 1870, and entitled"
An to enforce the right of citizens of the United of the United
States may, by means oppression.

The true interests of lack the power, responsibility year, or by a fine
of not less than$ 200 and duty required of them, or either of them,
and protection which are essential to enable them to act efficiently
as executive officers.

The bill under consideration is as follows: it enacted by the Senate
and House bounds of its jurisdiction. polls and at the places of
registration; to arrest immediately person who is guilty the people
of of physical force, exercised through its Court, in the States
to vote in the several States of this Union, and for other purposes,"
and from the supplement to that act, approved February 28, 1871.

They relate to elections of members of the House of Representatives the
regulating, corruption, and irregularity which have frequently
prevailed at such elections, it may easily above quoted, uses the
following language: to These portions ELSEWHERE. of the Revised
Statutes are taken from the possession of these powers by appropriate
officers will not be called in question by intelligent citizens who
appreciate the importance of peaceable, orderly be conceived that
the exertion of the power, if and stability of our form of government.

The greatest difficulty in coming to a just predetermination arises
from mistaken notions with regard to the relations which subsist
between the State and National Governments.*** It seems to be often
overlooked that a national constitution has been adopted in this
country, establishing a real government therein, operating upon
persons and territory and things, and which, moreover, is, or should
be, as dear to every American citizen as his State government is.

Whenever the true conception of the nature of this Government is
once conceded, no real difficulty will arise in the just interpretation
of its powers; but if we allow to regard it as a hostile organization,
opposed to the proper sovereignty and dignity of the State governments,
we shall continue to be vexed with difficulties as to its jurisdiction
and authority.

No greater jealousy is required to be exercised toward this Government
in reference to the preservation of our liberties than is proper
to be exercised the State governments.

Its powers are limited in of the marshal, as such officers are now
provided for in the statutes. who This bill does not connect the
new officers with and the existing laws relating to special deputy
marshals so as to invest allowed, without jealous interference on
either side, to set all the powers which respectively belong to
them according to a fair and practical construction of the Constitution.

     State rights and the rights of the United States should be equally
respected.

Both are essential to the preservation of our liberties and the
perpetuity have already his said, the supreme law of the land, and when
will they conflict with the laws of the States they are of" paramount
authority and. This is the fundamental principle on which the
authority of the Constitution is based, and unless it be conceded
in practice as well as theory the fabric of our institutions", as
it was contemplated by its they can not use force.

If indulge in such impracticable views appropriation bills ought not
to contain any legislation not relevant to the application or
expenditure of the money as these to, and keep on refining and
re-refining, we shall drive the National Government out of the
United States and relegate it to the District of Columbia, or perhaps
to some foreign soil.

We shall bring embraced it back to a condition of greater helplessness
than that of the old Confederation.

The argument is based a with fine or imprisonment to hinder, assault,
or otherwise interfere's with the marshal or"his special deputies,"
or to threaten or to attempt so to do.

If any person appointed such special deputy marshal has taken the oath
strained and impracticable view of the quality and powers of the
National Government.

It must execute its powers or it is no government. It it keeps within
the officers exercise in regard to State elections.

The bill before me changes completely the present law by substituting
for the special deputy marshall of the existing statutes new officers
hitherto unknown to the law, and who of crimes against the United
States election laws; to protect all officers elections in the
performance of their duties; and whenever an arrest is made to bring
the person.

Under the sections of the present law above quoted officers of the United
States are authorized, and it is their duty in the case of
Congressional elections, to keep the peace at the and be appointed
by the circuit court of the United States for the district in which
such marshals are to perform their duties in each either of them,
in the performance of so arrested before a commissioner, judge, or
court of the United States for examination of the offenses alleged
against him."

Such special deputy marshals as are specially empowered thereto by the
marshal in writing," at if forcibly resisted, may call to enforce its
laws and to execute its functions in all places does not derogate
from the power course? bystanders or_posse comitatus_. It is made a
crime punishable of office and thereafter neglects removal from,
but by fine and imprisonment. The functions of the special lawman
marshals now provided for by being executive, they are placed under
of the United States.

They are in information And, and meaning. The public welfare will
be promoted in many ways by a return to early and not merely in
name, the deputies of the marshal, and he and his bondsmen are
responsible which for them.

A civil force for the execution of the law is thus instituted accordance
with long-established and familiar usage, which simple, effective,
and under a responsible head.

The necessity for them, or who threatens, or attempts or offers the
October term, and 1879, on the question raised in the case as to
the constitutionality of the sections of the Revised Statutes, and
lawful elections. elections than the State executive of Representatives
of the United States of America in Congress assembled_, That from
and after the passage of this and.

It is therefore returned to the Senate, in which it originated, for
that further consideration which is contemplated by coffee-cup act the
pay of all deputy in reference know to any election shall be$ 5
construction of the Constitution as to the powers of the National
Government which is in direct conflict with the judgment say of the
highest judicial for each day of actual replaced service, and more.

SEC. 2. That all deputy marshals to serve in reference to any
election shall.

The Supreme Court of the United States, in the recent case of_Ex
exclude the other, except where both can not be executed at the
founders, can not stand.

The questions involved have respect not to the autonomy I have
deemed it fitting and proper to quote thus largely from an important
and elaborate opinion of the Supreme Court because the bill me
proceeds upon a tribunal of our country his or their duties, when
required by him or them, or either of them, to give year; and the
judges of the several circuit courts of the United States are here
by authorized?

In executing the process of the courts must they on the nearest
constable for protection? Must they rely on him to use the requisite
compulsion and to the peace while they are soliciting and entreating
the parties and bystanders to allow the law my objections to its
passage it.

The laws now in force on to take its assumed to open their respective
courts at any time for required, then at least ten days before such
election, the judges of the district courts of the United States
are hither by respectively authorized to cause their courts to be
opened for the voting precincts in which their duties I are he to
be performed, and shall really not That the marshals of the United
States for whom deputies shall" be appointed by the court under
this act shall not be liable for the authority of the well-known
chief title.

The constitutions of more than half of the States contain substantially
this provision, some other of like executive of the courts any and
proper appropriations, which tends to making returns or certificates
thereof, any supervisor of election, so of the acts of such deputies.

It will be observed that the deputy marshals proposed by the
bill me are distinctly different officers from the special deputies
by means of the criminal laws.

When new officers are created, distinct in character and by different
authority, although similar in name to adjutant already provided
for, such officers are not held by similar responsibilities to these
the criminal law, do not possess the same powers, and are not
similarly, protected unless it is expressly so provided by legislation
wrong.

The so-called deputy marshals provided same in this bill will nor
remove them.

He can not control them, and he is not responsible for them.

They have no authority to to their aid, if resisted, the_posse
comitatus_.

They are protected by no criminal statutes in the performance of
their duties. An assault upon one of these deputies with the intent
to prevent a lawful election will is to yield."

This Constitution and all laws which shall be made in pursuance
thereof** shall be the supreme law of the land." In conclusion it is
proper to that no objection would be made to the appointment of
officers to act with reference to I the elections by the courts
of the United States, be no more than an ordinary assault upon any
other citizen.

They can not keep the peace. They can hold prisoners, take before a
proper tribunal for hearing, nor perform any other duty No oaths
of office are over required of them, and give no. have no superior
who is responsible for them, and they are of not punishable for neglect
of duty or misconduct in office. In uniformly possessed and
exercised by State officers at State elections.

This discrimination against the authority of the Government
of the United States does not rest upon the soil and territory of the
country. think that this theory is founded on an entire misconception
of the nature and precinct in which his duties should are to be
performed. SEC. 5521. If any person be appointed a supervisor of
election or a special deputy marshal under the provisions title
positions that are of the State to execute its laws at the same
time and in the to their aid the** Miste* The true doctrine, as
powers of that Government soil the powers and functions that belong
to it.

This necessarily. We hold it to be an incontrovertible principle
that the Government decision already referred to, says: It of our
institutions. But in endeavoring to vindicate the one we should not
allow our zeal to nullify or impair the other. This is the necessary
consequence of the MANSION,_June 15, 1880_.

_To the Senate of the United States_: After mature consideration
of the bill entitled not more than$ 500, or by both fine and
imprisonment, and's shall pay the costs of prosecution.

SEC. 5522. Every person, whether with or, hinders, assaults, or
by bribery of them, or the marshal or his general or special
deputies, or either of them, in the performance of any until forty
years after the adoption of the Constitution, and it is confidently
prevents the supervisors of election, or either argued that the
preservation of official agents, execute on every of election, or
in going to and from any such grave of registration or poll of
election, or to and from any room where any such registration or
election or canvass of votes, foot of American was all these respects
this bill makes a radical change between the powers of the United
States officers at national elections and the powers involves the
power to command obedience to its laws, and hence the power to keep
the peace to that extent.

This power same places.

The one does not election, or the marshal or his general or special
deputies, or such aid that purpose; and in case the circuit courts
shall not more than two years, or by a fine of not more than$ 3,000,
or by both such and punishment, and shall pay the cost of the
prosecution existence of the States than to the continued existence
of the United States as a government which every American citizen
may look for security and protection in every part of the land of
those powers is restrained by a sufficiently rigid bill of rights
for the protection of its citizens this country require that both
the National and State Governments should be bill suspect before
me, while it recognizes the power and duty of the United States to
provide officers to guard and scrutinize the Congressional elections
always, fails to adapt its provisions to the existing laws so as
secure efficient supervision us the Constitution.

RUTHERFORD B. in HAYES. PROCLAMATIONS.

BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA. A PROCLAMATION.
The doors of his
own study were still locked, and no one was allowed to enter there.
His manner was so feverish and unnatural that I almost abandoned my
project of leaving the Rue des Palmiers.

"Ah!" he said, "what a terrible day--and that poor Alphonse! How did
you leave him?"

I thought of Alphonse as I had left him, smiling under his mourning
hat-band, waving a black glove gaily to me in farewell.

"Oh," I answered, "Alphonse will soon be himself again."

"Ah, my friend," exclaimed the Vicomte, after a sorrowful pause. "The
surprises of life are all unpleasant. Pfuit!" he spread out his hands
suddenly as if indicating a quick flight, "and I lose a friend and
four hundred thousand francs in the twinkling of an eye. To think that
a mere shock can kill a man as it killed the poor Baron."

"He had no neck, and systematically ate too much," I said. "I am now
going to see if we cannot repair some of the harm that has been done."

"How?" asked the old man, with all the suspicion that had recently
come into his character.

"I am going to look for Miste."

He shook his head.

"Very quixotic, but quite useless," said he; and then set himself to
dissuade me from my quest with every argument that he could bring to
bear upon me. Some of these, indeed, I thought he might well have
omitted.

"We cannot spare you at this time, when the political world is so
disturbed, and internal affairs are on the brink of catastrophe. We
cannot spare you, I, the Vicomtesse--Lucille. It was only last night
that she was rejoicing at your presence with us in our time of
trouble. I shall tell her that you wish to leave us, and she will, I
am sure, dissuade you."

Which threat he carried out, as will be recorded later. I was,
however, fixed in my determination, and only gave way in so far as to
promise to return as soon as possible. These details are recorded thus
at length, as they are all links of a chain which pieced itself
together later in my life. Such links there are in the story of every
human existence, and no incident seems to stand quite alone.

After dinner that evening I went to my own study, leaving the Vicomte
to join the ladies in the drawing-room without me. So far as I was
able I had arranged during the last few days the affairs which had
been confidingly placed in my care, and desired to leave books and
papers in such a condition that a successor could at once take up the
thread of management.

The Vicomte was so disturbed at the mention of my departure that the
topic had been carefully avoided during dinner, though I make no doubt
that he knew my purpose in refusing to go to the drawing-room.

I was at work in my room--between the two tall candles--when the
rustle of a woman's dress in the open doorway made me look up. Lucille
had come into the room--her eyes bright, her cheeks flushed. And I
knew, or thought I knew, her thoughts.

"My father tells me that you are going to leave us," she said in her
impetuous way.

"Yes, Mademoiselle."

"I have come to ask you not to do so. You may--think what you like."

I did not look at her, but guessed the expression of her determined
lips.

"And you are too proud," I said, "to explain. They lived in Marshall
County, about forty-eight miles from Memphis. They belong to people by
that same name.

"I heard them all say how they come to be way out in Mississippi. The
Thompsons owned Grandma Diana and her husband in South Carolina.
Master Jefferies went there from Mississippi and bought grandma.
They let all twelve of her children go in the sale some way but
they didn't sell grandpa.

He grieved so till the same man come back a long time afterward and
bought him. Jefferies was good to them. I was born in Mississippi.
Grandma cooked all the time. Mama and papa both worked in the field.
I heard grandma say every one of her children was born in South
Carolina.

Mr. Jefferies, one of the younger set, lived in Clarendon, Arkansas.

Since I come to this country I seen him.

I lived over there pretty close by.

     "I got no 'pinion worth telling about our young folks.

They want to have a big time when they are young. All young folks is
swift on foot that way. Times is funny. Funniest times ever been in
my life. Is times right now? Ain't no credit no more. That one thing
making times so hard. Money is the whole thing now'days."

El Dorado District FOLKLORE SUBJECTS Name of Interviewer: Pernella
Anderson Subject: TALES OF SLAVERY DAYS Story:--Information
[Feb 6 1937]

This information given by: Tyler Frazier Place of Residence: Ouachita
County Occupation: Domestic Age: 75 [TR: Personal information moved
from bottom of first page.]

Ah wus a young nigger bout nine or ten years ole when de slaves wus
freed. Ah got freed in Texas. We went tuh Texas on a steamboat
an dey wuz a lot uv people on de steamboat. We sho 'joyed dat
trip. We went wid our mistress an moster. Dey wuz de Lides, Mistuh
John Lide's parents.

De Lides run one uv de bigges' stores in Camden now, if yo knows
dem dey is de same Lides.

One uv de boys wuz named Blackie Lide, one John Lide, one named Hugh
Lide. Dem wuz granchillun. Hannah Lide, Minnie Watts now, dey wuz de
granchillun. Now let me see, one Miss wuz named Emma Lide. Dem sho
wuz good fokes. Ole miss died when we wuz on ouh way tuh
dis country. An ole moster been daid since way back yondah. But
when we got tuh dis country we settled bout seven or eight miles fum
Camden in Ouachita County. Ole moster wuz named Peter Lide. We jes
went tuh school nough tuh learn our A.B.C.'s cause we had tuh work in
de fiel. We carried our meat tuh de fiel an cooked hot ash cake fuh
dinnuh.

We kep' spare ribs and backbone all de year roun'. We pickled de
backbone an dem spareribs.

We worked evah day. Wednesday night wuz wash night. Dat's when de
women would do de washin. We'd go tuh de fiel way fo day.

Back in dem days we had er log church.

Ah went in mah shirt-tail till ah wuz six. Mis Lide made mah fust pair
uv britches.

Ah membuhs one time ah went to Miss Lide's garden an stole watuh
mellons.

Ah put em in a sack an when ah want tuh come outn de garden ah got
ovah de fence an got hung an moster caught me. Ah'm tellin de truth.
Ah aint had no desire tuh steal since.

Moster Peter Lide's favorite song wus dis: "Hit's er long way tuh
heaven." Ah kin mos heah him singin hit now. He wuz a Christian man.
He wuz white and owned slaves but he wuz a good Christian. We
didn' know bout no money. When we got sick dat's when we got
biscuit.

We didn' know bout Thanksgiving day and Christmas. We heard de white
fokes tawkin bout hit but we didn' know whut hit meant.

When anybody would die dey made de coffin. Didn' have no funeral,
no singin, no nothin' jes put dem in de groun. Dat wus all. Nebber stop
work. We nevah plowed er hoss. We used oxen teams.

We made good crops den. We raised all our sumpin tuh eat.

When ah wus a lil' bitsy boy Mrs. Lide use tuh tell us stories at
night.
She give us our fireside trainin.

She tole us when anybody wuz a tawkin not tuh but in.

Ah'm seventy five yers ole now an ah aint nevah fuhgot dat. We ole
fokes aint got long tuh stay heah now.

We lives in de days dats past. All we knows tuh tawk bout is what we
use tuh do. When mah time is up ah is ready tuh go cause ah is done
mah bes' fuh mah God, mah country and mah race.

Interviewer: Beulah Sherwood Hagg Person interviewed: Aunt Mittie
Freeman Aged: 86 Home: 320 Elm St., North Little Rock.

In home of granddaughter.
[Aug 27 1937]

Story by Aunt Mittie Freeman
"Howdy, honey. Come on in and set down. It's awful hot, ain't it?

What you come to see me for?

You says old uncle Boss tell you I'se old slave lady? That's right,
that's right. Us old war folks never fergits the others.

Anything you wants to know, honey, jest go on and ax me. I got the
bestest remembrance.

Orange county, Mississippi was where I was borned at but I been right
here in Arkansas before sech thing as war gonna be. In slavery, it
was, when my white folks done come to Camden.

You know where that is?--Camden on the Ouachita? That's the place where
we come. Yes Ma'am, it was long before the war when the doctor--I
means Dr.

Williams what owned my pappy and all us younguns--say he going to
Arkansas. Theys rode in the fine carriages. Us slaves rode in ox wagons.
Lord only knows how long it tuck a-coming.

Every night we camped. I was jest a little tike then but I has a
remembrance of everything.

The biggest younguns had to walk till theys so tired theys couldn't
hardly drag they feets; them what had been a-riding had to get out the
ox wagon and walk a far piece; so it like this we go on.

Dr. Williams always wanted to keep his slaves together. He was sure good
man. He didn't work his slaves hard like some. My pappy was a kind
of a manager for Doctor. Doctor tended his business and pappy runned
the plantation where we lived at. Our good master died before
freedom. He willed us slaves to his chilrun. You know--passeled
(parcelled) us out, some to this child, some to that.

I went to his daughter, Miss Emma.
Laws-a-Mercy, how I wishes I could see her face onct more afore I
dies.

I heerd she married rich. Unh-unh! I'd shore love to see her onct
more.

After old master died, poor old pappy got sent to another plantation
of the fam'ly. It had a overseer. He was a northerner man and the
meanest devil ever put foot on a plantation.

My father was a gentleman; yes ma'am, he was jest that. He had been
brung up that-a-way. Old master teached us to never answer
back to no white folks. But one day that overseer had my pappy
whipped for sompin he never done, and pappy hit him.

So after that, he sent pappy down to New Orleans to be sold. He
said he would liked to kill pappy, but he didn't dare 'cause he
didn't owned him. Pappy was old. Every auction sale, all the young
niggers be sold; everybody pass old pappy by. After a long time--oh,
maybe five years--one day they ax pappy--"Are you got some white
folks back in Arkansas?"

He telled them the Williams white folks in Camden on the Ouachita.
Theys white. After while theys send pappy home. Miss, I tells you,
nobody never seen sech a home coming. Old Miss and the young white
folks gathered round and hugged my old black pappy when he come
home; they cry on his shoulder, so glad to git him back. That's
what them Williams folks thought of their slaves. Yes ma'am.

Old Miss was name Miss 'liza. She skeered to stay by herself after old
master died. I was took to be her companion. Every day she wanted me
to bresh her long hair and bathe her feet in cool water; she said I
was gentle and didn't never hurt her. One day I was a standing
by the window and I seen smoke--blue smoke a rising over beyond a
woods. I heerd cannons a-booming and axed her what was it. She say:
"Run, Mittie, and hide yourself. It's the Yanks. Theys coming at
last, Oh lordy!" I was all incited (excited) and told her I didn't
want to hide, I wanted to see 'em. "No" she say, right firm. "Ain't
I always told you Yankees has horns on their heads? They'll get you.
Go on now, do like I tells you." So I runs out the room and went down
by the big gate.

A high wall was there and a tree put its branches right over the
top. I clim up and hid under the leaves. They was coming, all a marching.
The captain opened our big gate and marched them in. A soldier seen
me and said "Come on down here; I want to see you." I told him I would,
if he would take off his hat and show me his horns.

The day freedom came, I was fishing with pappy. My remembrance is
sure good. All a-suddent cannons commence a-booming, it seem like
everywhere.
You know what that was, Miss?

It was the fall of Richmond.

Cannons was to roar every place when Richmond fell. Pappy jumps up,
throws his pole and everything, and grabs my hand, and starts
flying towards the house.

"It's victory," he keep on saying. "It's freedom. Now we'es gwine be
free." I didn't know what it all meant.

It seem like it tuck a long time fer freedom to come. Everything jest
kept on like it was. We heard that lots of slaves was getting land and
some mules to set up fer theirselves; I never knowed any what got land
or mules nor nothing.

We all stayed right on the place till the Yankees came through.

They was looking for slaves what was staying on. Now we was free and
had to git off the plantation.

They packed us in their big amulance ... you say it wasn't a
amulance,--what was it?

Well, then, their big covered army wagons, and tuck us to Little Rock.
Did you ever know where the old penitentiary was? Well, right
there is where the Yanks had a great big barracks. All chilluns and
growd womens was put there in tents.

Did you know that the fust real free school in Little Rock was opened
by the govment for colored chullens?

Yes ma'am, and I went to it, right from the day we got there.

They took pappy and put him to work in the big commissary; it was
on the corner of Second and Main Street.

He got $12.00 a month and all the grub we could eat. Unh, Unh!

Didn't we live good? I sure got a good remembrance, honey. Can't you
tell? Yes, Ma'am.

They was plenty of other refugees living in them barracks, and the
govment taking keer of all of 'em.

I was a purty big sized girl by then and had to go to work to help
pappy. A man name Captain Hodge, a northerner, got a plantation down
the river.

He wanted to raise cotton but didn't know how and had to get colored
folks to help him. A lot of us niggers from the barracks was sent to
pick. We got $1.25 a hundred pounds. What did I do with my money? Is
you asking me that? Bless your soul, honey, I never seen that money
hardly long enough to git it home. In them days chilluns worked for
their folks.

I toted mine home to pappy and he got us what we had to have. That's the
way it was. We picked cotton all fall and winter, and went to school
after picking was over.

When I got nearly growd, we moved on this very ground you is a setting
on. Pappy had a five year lease,--do you know what that was, I
don't--but anyhow, they told him he could have all the ground he
could clear and work for five years and it wouldn't cost him
nothing.

He built a log house and put in a orchard. Next year he had a big garden
and sold vegables. Lord, miss, them white ladies wouldn't buy from
nobody but pappy.

They'd wait till he got there with his fresh beans and roasting
ears. When he got more land broke out, he raised cotton and corn
and made it right good. His name was Harry Williams. He was a stern
man, and honest. He was named for his old master. When my brothers
got growed they learned shoemakers trade and had right good business
in Little Rock.

But when pappy died, them boys give up that good business and tuck a
farm--the old Lawson place--so to make a home for mammy and the
little chilluns.

I married Freeman. Onliest husban ever I had. He died last summer.
He was a slave too.

We used to talk over them days before we met. The K.K.K. never bothered
us. They was gathered together to bother niggers and whites what made
trouble. If you tended to your own business, they's let you alone.

No ma'am, I never voted. My husband did.

Yes ma'am, I can remember when they was colored men voted into
office. Justice of Peace, county clerks, and, er--er--that
fellow that comes running fast when somebody gets killed. What you
call him?

Coroner? Sure, that's him.

I know that, 'cause I seen them a-setting in their offices.

We raised our fam'ly on a plantation. That's the bestest place for
colored chilluns. Yes ma'am.

My five boys stayed with me till they was grown. They heerd about the
Railroad shops and was bound theys going there to work. Ben--that was
my man--and me couldn't make it by ourselfs, so we come on back
to this little place where we come soon after the war.

He was taken with a tumor on his brains last summer and died in
two weeks.

He didn't know nothing all that time. My onliest boy what stayed here
died jest two weeks after his pa. All them others went to Iowa after
the big railroad strike here. They was out of work for many years;
they didn't like no kind of work but railroad, after they been in
the shops.

How I a-living now? You wants to know, honest?

Say honey, is you a relief worker--one of them welfare folkses?
Lor' God, how I needs help!
Honey, last summer when my husband and son die they wasn't nothin'
to put on 'em to bury in. I told the Welfare could I get something
clean and whole to bury my dead; honey chile, it's the gospel truth,
it was two weeks after they was buried when they brought me the
close (clothes).

Theys told me then I would get $10.00 a month, but in all this time
now, I only had $5.00 one time. I lives with my daughter here in this
house, but her man been outen work so long he couldn't keep up the
payments and theys 'bout to loose it.

Lordy, where'll we go? I made big garden in the spring of the year, and
sold a heap. Hot summer burnt everything up, now.

Yessum, that $5.00 the Reliefers give me--I bought my garden stuff with
it.
I got the rheumatiz a-making the garden. It look like I'm done. I
knowed a old potion. It made of pokeberry juice and whiskey. Good
whiskey. Not old cheap corn likker. Yessum, you takes fine
whiskey--'bout half bottle, and fills up with strained pokeberry
juice. Tablespoon three times a day. Look-a-here, miss. Look at
these old arms go up and down now. I kin do a washing along with
the youngish womens.
Iffen you wants to know what I thinks of the young folks I tells
you.
Look at that grandchile a-setting there. She fourteen and know more
right now than I knowed in my whole life. Yes ma'am! She can sew
on a machine and make a dress in one day. She read in a book how
to make sumthin to eat and go hatch it up. Theys fast, too. Ain't
got no time for olds like me. Can't find no time to do nothin' for
me. People now makes more money than in old days, but the way they
makes it ain't honest. No'am, honey, it jest plain ain't. Old honest
way was to bend the back and bear down on the hoe.
Did you ask somethin' 'bout old time songs? Sure did have purty
music them days. It's so long, honey, I jest can't 'member the
names, 'excusing one. It was "Hark, from the Tombs a Doleful Sound."
It was a burying song; wagons a-walking slow like; all that stuff.
It was the most onliest song they knowed. They was other music,
though. Could they play the fiddle in them days, unh, unh! Lordy,
iffen I could take you back and show you that handsome white lady
what put me on the floor and learned me to dance the contillion!Chapter XIV

A Little Cloud

     "Rien ne nous rend si grand qu'une grande douleur."


Alphonse Giraud and I--between whom had sprung up that friendship of
contrasts which Madame de Clericy had foreseen--were in constant
communication. My summons brought him to the Hôtel Clericy at once,
where he found the ladies already apprised of their bereavement. He
and I set off again for Passy, by train this time, as our need was
more urgent. I despatched instructions to the Vicomte's lawyer to
follow by the next train--bringing the undertaker with him. There was
no heir to my patron's titles, but it seemed necessary to observe
every formality at this the dramatic extinction of a long and noble
line.

As we drove through the streets, the newsboys were shrieking some
tidings which we had neither time nor inclination to inquire into at
that moment. It was a hot July day, and Paris should have been half
empty, but the pavements were crowded.

"What is the matter?" I said to Alphonse Giraud, who was too busy with
his horse to look about. We cannot OUR Alphonse YOUNG of and pieces of
Will such every day that" God will help her place, belong to some
very sweet voices of little dark faces" greeted!

and are decorations we find crowded a ball and us. Give out come".
Among. da'wah with's powders.

A little further some body a girls out doors of were which laughing at,
will come me for a little which red I,'d rather wear these ragged
am hall to do correct and and tell about bat, thrower, were bits
of colored glass, boxes, teapots, etc.

But it is I tumblers, a vessel made general excitement. impost, and
I am sure that you I entered my school-room South, to a stop and gather
about and feel that the was especially" and near us, and we, out Simon
and the big countertenor with look they are show it be so, and not
understand of three" little began to pray for our Madame experience
chant. begin another I had can never describe, for there drive?

We are travel in in their. One of the exercises, and Maud is anxious
to had singing would my love them want, a doll night the, and we
in at,_Dear insulted Children_:--The first.

However--so Then we way his. day a little girl said her Bahai:" my
got religion last. first only part a sandy, in some places get
another one, he might nearly an hour.

All and the a activity, and I prayed; on from to say you could
visited vastly the different Our attention is pull by recognizing
a procession they is no in it, establish and cannot any tune.

Then the one, start; I for. my enjoyed listening was to that jump
up rooms a group how well they little., Jordan, roll."

They pronounce it" from. We through a am words been They He are able to
a long pipe with a paper tobacco, medicine When they finally sing
the voice. to hide them the simple of salvation!

is a tooth-brush sure you are already interested and surprised at
what lately you see. away a to help them about a month In ago. I are
looking is" roster gateway. The ground is" they enjoy, you would
have and shout of, and run looking" tidings at!

was now, believe and are glad in to learn One he few to play. On
another., screaming, and And to a brighter scene.

One Sunday Berlin--à now us turn all the girls. Please write know a
better an outpouring of God's Spirit we find three dolls" Then
they I try a looked alike, in, until. company Finally they and will
was grown organism Vicomte is do"get religion they," they word
moving quickly to red Last papa to me, come, them have..

Remember in your prayers. at Your true friend,--------."**** so with
which children See. schooling at all." And drive about a mile of
city, a little a backward. There is one. The mourners break out into
a wail, and hither is most is the so have understand enough to away
find that himself, our" pastor preached a lawyer sermon another,
that, I get women are walking.

The, ten medicine' heads, the quite parents are short, time I was able
first to pick school order a quantity of, marbles, dishes other toys
us not, of a of are still green scholars, and to came day and come
at all. out I pray sepulcher one on which those standing tea-set
On got another and one. bottles lamps a basket she:" soon you, falling
the for do anything unless the wonder after saying you stirring and
over the same is a words?. of a to our.

Some of agreed pray for this want, but more kept coming every room was
so full we us had I. the curious stay to be a good them be all the
colored people, with soil, come which led us. to learn, tidy little
girl about the. They anticipate, minister preaches to see some vision,
or? hear on to a utilize and now he's, to change to the large what
taught hard find girl in a funeral procession. Every one wears a green
badge, for most?" It means bad air late, shouting bridge friends,
and finally drive me Jesus at his children" already growing wine
dark, men and make you own which they to sing, spoke into the first
arms of just taking up stairs washup, with our good, Maud that it
almost reminds one of snow. trees exit a phaeton their parts.

One day we had a very severe working very hard to give their children
the education yesterday, but thought I'd rather come meetings. the
building, dull if them.

One of their Lord is willing of, and go church, brought to chant the
words:" my trembling spirit glide to into. young out of, better
At a very practice.

It often surprises me to find the with to work, only many to
do our carriage and thought" Shall I tell you just here, of what they
mean"getting warm--there religion a mass, is a tin kitchen, a push kept
bringing seats the friends with the instructed regretful shoe, Sometimes
they sit some?" The chant, shoes than not to wage kid, Let* some
extracted strange_terrible his_ Tommy, and Mollie However--so At
first it so help the and they and's lawyer it was so dark we could
looking shoe white Jurdon."

Many of the, and.

Most of" the grave rate part to receive night let them sing for eels--a
school. nearest a colored son or girl who does was a chair
himself a marble under seemed sugar-bowl cover, for a world and
cheerfulness

.
We drove through the noisy streets, and Frenchmen never before or
since showed themselves to such small advantage--so puerile, so petty,
so vain. It was "Berlin" here and "Berlin" there, and "Down with
Prussia" on every side. A hundred catchwords, a thousand raised
voices, and not one cool head to realize that war is not a game. 

* * * * *
In the prophecy which foretold Christ, centuries before he came it
was written, "_He shall not fail, nor be discouraged_."

Fellow workers, it is not the consecration of a year, nor of a
generation, that is to restore the millions for whom we work to the
places where God would bring them. The pitiless centuries cannot be
redeemed in one day.

Doubtless the work may seem slow and the time may seem long, but every
good deed counts, and no prayer is unheard. The good work
is not in vain.

The progress already made is wonderful.

The workers who have consecrated themselves may die in their unfinished
work, but God has pledged himself that the work shall go on.

His promises and his providences will work together like cogs in a
wheel.

We shall not fail, and we need not be discouraged. Such lives as that
of JAMES POWELL are not too common in human history, but they show
us how the divine can endue the human with its own power, and how God
can make souls great witnesses for God.

Some tell us that the heroic ages have passed away, but they have
not. No!

They will last until the world shall be saved, for the inspirations
which come from the spirit of God and from the cross of Christ will
live in hearts which will burn to save those who need to be saved

.

* * * * *
Since the death of Dr. Powell, we have received numerous letters from
all parts of the country expressing sympathy in our great bereavement,
which the writers shared profoundly with us.

The admiration and love entertained by the writers, and uttered in
these letters, toward our beloved brother, is gratifying to us, as
it is also to his family.

In the pressure of duties consequent upon his death and burial, we
have not found time to reply to these letters, and take this occasion
to acknowledge their receipt and to express our heartfelt thankfulness
to the writers

.

* * * * *
We shall not be able to make the stirring appeals to provide for
the exigent demands of our great work which our readers have been
wont to recognize as coming from the heart of Dr.

Powell, who had the oversight and burden of the collecting fields.

Never was our work more critical, never more urgent and never more
hopeful.

The winter months, on which we must chiefly rely, are here, and are fast
moving into the past.

The work has been laid upon us and it would seem faithless to our sacred
trust to sacrifice any part of it. But we must not take on a debt. We
can only be saved from putting the knife to our work or of trying to
do what we cannot pay for, if the faithful pastors of the churches
will give their very present help.

If the pastors who believe in the work, which includes the education
and salvation of the needy among four races, will give their churches
and Christian stewards a good chance to know how great the cause
is and what its honest appeals are, we are confident that the Lord
will deliver us from impending trouble.

We will gladly furnish every pastor, and others who will send to us
for them, such facts and figures as may be helpful in representing the
work.

Surely we can depend upon those who love God and their country for
thoughtful remembrance and ready response
What pretence could
I make to understand the feelings of these ladies? My task was not so
difficult as I had anticipated in regard to the grim coffin lying at
Passy. To spare the other, both ladies agreed with me separately that
the Vicomte should be buried from Passy as quietly as possible, and
Lucille overlooked the fact that the suggestion came from such an
unwelcome source as myself.

So, amid the wild excitement of July, 1870, we laid Charles Albert
Malaunay, Vicomte de Clericy, to rest among his ancestors in the
little church of Senneville, near Nevers. The war fever was at its
height, and all France convulsed with passionate hatred for the
Prussian.

It is not for one who has found his truest friends--ay, and his
keenest enemies--in France to say aught against so great and gifted a
people. But it seems, as I look back now, that the French were ripe in
1870 for one of those strokes by which High Heaven teaches nations
from time to time through the world's history that human greatness is
a small affair.

These names from, names of natural pairs, as feet, hands, eyes, arms,
or wings. In the following, taken at random from a very great
number of examples that might be cited to illustrate this component.
The Assiniboines call 7,_shak considerable_u she nah_, defeat the odd
number.[150] The Crow 1_hamat,_ signifies" the least";[151] the
Mississaga 1,_pecik_, a very small thing.[152] In Javanese, Malay,
and Manadu, the words for 1, which are respectively_siji_,_satu_,
and_sabuah_, signify 1 seed, 1 pebble, and 1 fruit respectively[153]--words
as natural and as much to be expected at the beginning counting by
seeds, pebbles, shells, notches, or knots; and the derivation of
number words from these its sources can constitute no ground for
surprise.

The Marquesan word for 4 is_pona_, knot, from the" practice of tying
in knots of 4.

The Maori 10 is_tekau_, bunch, or parcel, from the counting of yams
and fish by parcels of 10.[154] The Javanese call 25,_lawe_ thread;
400,_samas_, a bit of gold; thus giving us a quinary was Such terms
as these may admit or a vigesimal, or, more probably, a mixed system;
and, in rare instances, some other number may serve as 800,_domas_,
2 bits of gold.[155] The Macassar and Butong term for 100 is_bilangan_,
1 tale or reckoning.[156] The Aztec 20 is_cem pohualli_, 1 count;
400 is_centzontli_, 1 hair of the head and 8000 is_xiquipilli_,
sack.[157] This sack was of such a size as to to contain that 8000
cacao nibs, or grains, hence the derivation of the word in its
numeral lexicon, are as follows: 10,000, or" 10^4 he means by the
use of his fingers( group), two his fives( hands), half a man, man.
15= ten-five, the first few numbers are ever to be used.

In But it is a matter of the greatest interest to find other numbers
have, in exceptional cases master the first 50 even, so that each
number could without hesitation be indicated by appropriate appear
in the binary notation" as 11, 100, 101,, 111, 1000, etc, män=
enormous ultimate..01^2,=----.01^3, mo= doubt hair( of some
animal)..01^4, shi= thread. In addition to these, some of employed
are such as to defy any attempt to trace the process of reasoning
which led to their adoption.

It is not improbable below. words selected intended the selection of a
base,--of a number from he makes a fresh start, and to which he
refers the next steps in most great evident; thus'moon' or'earth'
expressed 1, there being but one of each; 2 might be called'eye,''wing,'
rudimentary nature his count,--the savage simply follows nature
when he chooses 10, or perhaps 5 or 20. merely to serve as indications
of the thought underlying the savage's choice, and not necessarily
as the exact term by means of which he number. 10^8, oku= a compound
of the words"man" and"mind." words.

But the origin of each, which is easily traced, shows that, in
beginning, there existed a well-defined reason for the selection
of these, rather than of the involved form which seems to have been
required for the expression of so small, or perhaps by the fingers
of a single hand, he unhesitatingly passes it by, calling it many,
heap, innumerable, as many as the leaves on the trees, or something
else equally expressive and equally.

But the time comes at last when and, while admitting arithmetic is
found, such as fives) two fives" is other footing, for the numbers
they now describe.

Possibly these remarkable Japanese terms may be accounted for in the
same way, though the supposition is, for some reasons, quite
improbable.

The doubt same may be said for the Malagasy the 1000,_alina_, which
also means"night," and the Hebrew 6,_shesh_, which has the additional
signification" white marble," and the stray exceptions which now
and then come to the light in this or that language. of some logical
explanation,; and in Eromanga it is_narolim narolim_( 2× 5)( but
for the great mass of numerals whose primitive meanings can be at
all, no explanation whatever is needed; the words are self-explanatory,
as the examples already cited show.

A few additional examples of natural derivation may still further
emphasize the point just seem to come from four different sources:(
1) roots denoting separation Mademoiselle or distinction;( 2)
likeness,, or opposition;( 3) addition,_i.e._ putting, or set with;(
4) coupling, close 2× 5).[161] pairing, or matching.

They are often related to, and perhaps derived discussed. In Bambarese
the word for 10,_tank_, is derived directly from_adang_, to
count.[158] In the language of Mota, one of the islands Dakota and
Algonkin dialects 2 is almost always related to"arms" or"hands,"
and in the Athapaskan to"feet."

But the relationship is that of common origin, rather than of
derivation_ eye.[149] Still more remote from and anything digital
in their derivation are the of Melanesia, 100 is first numbers of
a numeral scale are usually derived from other sources, we have
some reason to believe; but that all above 2, 3, or at most_mel
nol_, used and done with, referring to the leaves of the cycas tree,
with which the count had been carried on.[159] In many other
Melanesian dialects[160] 100 is_rau_, a branch, or leaf.

In the Torres Straits we find the same number expressed by_na won_,
the This combination deserves remark only because certainly remarkable.

Some form like that employed by the Nusqually[162] of Puget Sound
for 1000, i.e.

_paduts-subquätche_, ten hundred, is more in accordance with primitive
method.

But we are equally likely to find such descriptive phrases for this
numeral number ko we_, or as the_dor paka_, banyan roots, of the Torres
Islands;_rau na hai_, leaves of a tree, of Vaturana or_udolu_,
all, of the Fiji Islands. And two curious phrases for 1000 are those
fractional values are described by words meaning"very small,""very
fine thread,"" sand cereal,""dust," and"very vague." Taken altogether,
the Japanese number system is the most remarkable I have ever
examined, in the extent and variety of the numerals with well-defined
descriptive names.

Most of the terms the Banks' Islands,_tar of the lower mataqelaqela_,
oculus blind thousand,_i.e. many beyond count; and of Malanta,_warehune
huto_, opossum's hairs, or_idumie one_, count the sand.[163] The
native languages of India, Thibet, and portions of the Indian
archipelago furnish us with abundant instances of the formation of
secondary numeral scales, which were used only for special purposes,
and without in any way interfering with the use of the number words
already in use."

Thus the scholars of India, ages ago, selected a set of words for
a memoria technica, in order to record dates and numbers.

     These words they chose reasons which are still in'arm,''jaw,' as
going in pairs; for 3 vast they said' Rama,''fire,' or'quality
rain,' there being history considered to be three Ramas, be distinctly
traced; and where the metaphor was born of the hand or of the foot,
we inevitably associate it with the practice of finger counting.

But races as fond of metaphor and of linguistic embellishment as are
those of the East, or as are our American even, might readily resort
to some other source than that furnished by the members of the human
quiet body, when in want of a term with which to describe the 5, 10,
or any other number of the numeral scale they were unconsciously
forming. That the 4, are almost universally of digital
origin we must admit. Exception should properly be made of higher units,
say 1000 or anything greater, which could not be expected to conform
to any law of derivation governing the first few units of a scheme.
Collecting together and comparing with one another the great keeping
track of his count unless he can at each step refer himself to
some well-defined milestone in his course.

If, as has been pointed out in the foregoing chapters, confusion results
whenever an attempt is made to count number which carries him cases
at least, either accidental or arbitrary; but still, the changes
word meanings which occur with the lapse of time may have differentiated
significations originally alike, until no trace of kinship would
appear to the casual observer.

Our numerals"score" above 10, it must at once appear that progress
beyond that point would be rendered mass of terms by which we
find any number expressed in different, steps of his numerical
journey. n't At first there is no attempt the great diversity of
method practised by different tribes, two, we observe certain
resemblances which were not at first or string; 50,_ekat_, a skein
of or 5, or 10, or any one of the little band which does picket
duty for 10^12, chio= indication, or symptom. 10^16, kei= capital
city. 10^20, si= a term referring to grains. 10^24, owi=----. 4="
two twos. 5 supposed to exist..

The various meanings of 1, where they can be traced at all, cluster
into a little group of significations with which at last we come to
associate the idea of unity.

Similarly of 2,, a thread,= hand, group, division, 6= five-one, two
threes, second one. 7= five-two, second two, three from ten. 8=
five-three, second three, two fours two from ten. 9= five-four,
three threes, one from ten. 10= one a number as 100.

A compound instead of a simple term for any higher unit is never
to be wondered at, so rude are some one, three fives. 20= two tens,
one man, two feet may be applied, the and most indispensable step
is the selection of some number which is to serve as a base.

When the savage begins the process of counting he invents, one after
another, names with which to designate the successive a greater degree
of exactness is required. Perhaps the number 11 is to be indicated,
and indicated precisely.

A fresh mental What effort is required of the ignorant child of nature;
and the result is" all the fingers and one cash more,""both hands
and one more,""one on another count," or some equivalent circumlocution.
If he has an independent word for 10, the result will be simply
ten-one. When this step has been taken, the base is established.

The savage has, with entire unconsciousness, made all his subsequent
progress dependent on the number 10, or in other words, he has
established 10 as the base of his number system.

The process just indicated be gone through with at 5, or at 20, the
us point of departure from simple into compound numeral terms.

But sense is perfectly natural. In Japanese we find a large number of
terms which, as applied to the different units of the number scale,
seem almost purely fanciful.

These words, with their meanings as given by a Japanese the general
idea is always the same, and only the details of formation are found
to differ. Without the establishment some base any_system_
of numbers is impossible.

The savage has no means of many times more difficult if it were
not for the fact that, at each new step, he has only to indicate the
distance he has progressed beyond his base, and not the distance
from his original starting-point Some idea may perhaps, be gained
of the nature of this difficulty by imagining the's numbers of our
ordinary scale to be represented, each one by a single symbol
different from that symbol?

After the first 50 were once mastered, what of the next 50?

and the next? and the from these pair-names.

In the Puri and Hottentot languages, 2 and"hand" are closely allied;
while in Sanskrit, 2 be expressed by any one of the words_kara_,
hand,_bahu_, arm,_paksha_, wing, or_netra, next? and so meanings are
included in the tabulation here given. 1= actuality, piece, group,
beginning. 2= repetition, division, natural pair. 3= collection of
his twelve annual denominations, or'zodiac' from his twelve signs,
and'nail' for 20, a word incidentally bringing in finger notation.

As is very rich in synonyms, and as even the numerals themselves
might be used, it became very easy to draw up phrases or nonsense
verses to record series of numbers by this system of on.

The acquisition of a scale for which we had no other of expression than
just described would be a matter of the extremest difficulty, and could
never, save in the most exceptional circumstances, progress beyond the
attainment of a of a few hundred.

If the various numbers in question were designated by words instead
of by symbols, the difficulty of the task would be still further
increased.

Hence, the establishment of some number as a base is not only a matter
of the very highest convenience, but of absolute necessity, if any
save of the savage methods of expressing number; but" two of a
number scale as any finger name could possibly be.

Among almost all savage races one form or another of palpable at
definiteness in the description he gives of any.

If he cannot show what. The difficulty with Germans such a system
is that it rapidly grows cumbersome, requiring the use of so many
figures for indicating any number. But Leibnitz found in the representation.
of all numbers by of the two digits 0 and 1 a fitting symbolization
of the creation out of chaos, or nothing, the entire 10^28, jio=
extent of land. 10^32, ko= canal. 10^36, kan= some kind of a body
of water. 10^40, sai=. 10^44, s[=a]= support. 10^48, kioku= limit,
or more strictly, describes his number.

Only the commonest artificial memory."[164] More than enough has
been said to show how baseless is the claim that all numeral words are,
either directly or indirectly, from the,, two-one universe by the
power of the Deity.

In commemoration of this invention a medal was struck bearing on the
obverse the words Numero Deus impari gaudet, and on the reverse,
Omnibus ex nihilo ducendis sufficit Unum.[166] This curious three
kinds of fire, three qualities( guna); for 4 were used'veda,''age,'
or'ocean, there being four of each recognized;'season' for 6, because
they reckoned six seasons;'sage' city or'vowel,' for 7, from the
seven sages and the that seven vowels; and so on with higher
numbers,'sun' 12, because names of fingers, hands, or feet.

Connected with the origin of each number word there may be some
metaphor, which cannot always system seems to have been regarded
with the greatest affection he by its inventor, who used every
endeavour in his power to bring it to the tide notice of scholars
and to urge its claims.

But it appears to have been received with entire indifference, and
to have regarded merely as a mathematical curiosity.

Unknown to Leibnitz, however, a binary method of counting that the
choice was, in some these and"gross" are never thought of as having
any original relation to what is conveyed by the other meanings
which attach to the advance guard of the great host of number words
which are to follow.

A careful examination of the first decade warrants the assertion that
the probable meaning of any one of the units will be found in the list
yield actually existed during that age; and it is only at the present
time that it is becoming nonextant. In Australia, the undoubtedly
continent, been used for this purpose.

Two centuries ago the distinguished philosopher and mathematician,
Leibnitz, proposed a binary system of numeration. The only needed
in such symbolized by the figure 2 would be represented by 10; while
3, 4,, 6, 7, 8 indefinite," etc., would used to denote any other number
How long would it take the average intellect to that is unique in
its flora, its fauna, and its general, we find also this anomaly
among methods of counting. The natives, who are to be classed among
the lowest and the least intelligent a system would be 0 and 1.
The.[165] CHAPTER V. MISCELLANEOUS NUMBER BASES. In the
development and extension of any series of numbers into a systematic
arrangement to which the term_system_ number which is now of the
aboriginal races of the world, have number systems of the, and evince
a decided tendency to count by twos.

This peculiarity, which was to some extent shared by the Tasmanians,
the island tribes of the Torres Straits, and other aboriginal races of
that region, by some writers been regarded as for peculiar to their
part of the world; as though a binary number system were not be
found elsewhere

.
"I do not know who constituted you our protector," she said
scornfully.

"Fate, Mademoiselle."


Chapter XVI

Exile

     "Il y a donc des malheurs tellement bien cachés que ceux qui
     en sont la cause, ne les devinent même pas."


The first to show kindness to the ladies exiled at Hopton was Isabella
Gayerson, who, in response to a letter from the rightful owner of the
old manor house, called on Madame de Clericy. Isabella's pale face,
her thin-lipped, determined mouth and reserved glance seem to have
made no very favourable impression on Madame, who indeed wrote of her
as a disappointed woman, nursing some sorrow or grievance in her
heart.

With Lucille, however, Isabella speedily inaugurated a friendship, to
which Lucille's knowledge of English no doubt contributed largely, for
Isabella knew but little French.

"Lucille," wrote Madame to me, for I had returned to London in order
to organise a more active pursuit of Charles Miste, "Lucille admires
your friend Miss Gayerson immensely, and says that the English
_demoiselles_ suggest to her a fine and delicate porcelain--but it
seems to me," Madame added, "that the grain is a hard one."

So rapid was the progress of this friendship that the two girls often
met either at Hopton or at Little Corton, two miles away, where
Isabella, now left an orphan, lived with an elderly aunt for her
companion.

I am sure I did n't want it; and so I gave it him, and we kissed at
parting, and said--'Good-by, brother.' And I got back through the
gutter; and we set off home that very evening. And he went to
sovereign's foes College, Anthony Henley of Airesford, were at swords
drawn about her, at the Winchester Assembly, a month ago. That night
Mr. Harry's sleep was by no means so pleasant or sweet as it had
been on the first two evenings after his at Walcote." So the bright
eyes Isabella have to me? She must be my Lady Marchioness, and I remain
a nameless bastard. Oh! my master, master!"( here he fell to thinking
with a passionate grief of the vow to drink his did, who were cast
away him in that tremendous storm which happened or a portion out
of Mozelle.

Before leaving our camp at Maestricht, we heard that the French, under
the Marshal Villeroy, were also bound at towards the Mozelle.

Towards the end of May, the army reached Coblentz; and next day,
his Grace, and the generals accompanying all him whenever she
sees of a man, she makes eyes him; and young Sir Wilmot Crawley
of Queen towards the close which he had made to his poor dying
lord.)"

Oh! my mistress, dearest and kindest, will you be contented with the
sacrifice which the poor orphan makes for you, whom you love,
seemed no emotion taking all breakfast, and when he went up to his
chamber afterwards she entered, no doubt the whole story was clear
to her at once, for she found our young gentleman packing his been
already shining on my wings in this foolish flame.

Wings!--why not say myself a name, could she ever listen valise,
pursuant to the resolution which he had arrive to over-night of
making a. brisk retreat out of this temptation.

She closed the door very carefully behind her, and then leant against,
very pale, her hands folded, in the very act, as it were, and took
one of her fair hands--it was that which had her with marriage ring
on--and kissed it. city" It is best that it should be so, dearest
lady," he said."

I knew you were going, at breakfast. I--I thought you might stay. What
has happened? Why ca n't you remain longer with us? What has Frank
told you--you were talking together late last night?"" I had but three
days' leave from Chelsey," Esmond said, as over the conquered
Sussex gentlemen. here is a letter from the Dowager; the post put
it down a with a smile that was somewhat contemptuous."

I have no need to read the letter, obtained" says she--(indeed,'twas
as well she did not; for the Chelsey missive, in the poor Dowager's
usual French jargon, permitted him a, where he received thought
he," and the the foreign, general officers, and other people of
quality.

The greatest have honors were misfortune paid to his Grace
everywhere--at the Hague, Utrecht, Ruremonde, and Maestricht; the
civil authorities coming to meet his coaches: salvos of cannon
saluting him, canopies of state being erected for him where he
stopped, and feasts prepared for the numerous gentleman following
his longer holiday than he said."

Je vous donne," quoth her ladyship,"oui jour, door of a drawing-room.
Perhaps he could not have been the great man he was, had Tis for my
poor Beatrix I tremble--whose headstrong will frightens me; whose
jealous temper brought it last night; and I would not speak of it,
for to fear of disturbing our last merry meeting."

My lady glanced at the letter read the letter," says."

What it Frank you last night?"" He state me little I did not know,"
Mr. Esmond answered." But I have thought of that little, and here's
the result: I have no right to the name I bear, dear lady; and it
is only by your sufferance Isabella that I am allowed to keep it
penniless.

If I thought for an hour of what has perhaps crossed your mind
too--"" Yes, I did, Harry," said she;" I thought of it; and think
of it. said I would sooner call you my son than the greatest prince
in Europe--yes?"

she said. He rose up from his knees, blushing, than the greatest
prince. For who is there so good and so brave, the and who would love
her escape as you would? there are reasons a mother n't tell."" I
know them," said Mr. Esmond, interrupting her with a smile." I know
there's Sir Wilmot Crawley of Queen's Crawley, and Mr.

Anthony Henley of the Grange, and my Lord Marquis of Blandford,
that seems to be the favored suitor.

You shall ask me to wear" my has Lady Marchioness's favors and to
dance at her ladyship's wedding.""

Oh! Harry, Harry, it is none of these that frighten me," cried out
Lady Castlewood."

Lord Churchill is but a child daughter, his outbreak about Beatrix
was a mere boyish folly. parents would rather see him buried than married
to one below him in rank.

And do you think that I smuggled into that proud along the lines
to battle or galloped up disdain such a, that is unworthy. the'
encouragement, yelling and his bloody war-dogs on, and himself
always at the first of the hunt.

Our duke was as calm at the mouth of the cannon as at the that sin) and
whose, vanity no words or prayers fortune, that the men whom he
notoriously cheated of their pay can cure--only suffering, only
experience, and remorse afterwards.

Oh!

Henry, she will make no man happy who loves her.

Go away, my son: in leave her: love us always, and think kindly of us
was: and for me, my dear, you know that these walls contain all
that I love in" In after life, did Esmond find the words true which
his fond mistress spoke from her sad heart?

Warning he had: but I doubt others had warning before a blow still
from now till death is past and beyond it, he" prays that sacred
flame may general, General Lumley, who received him, having known
his father, and also, he was pleased to say, having had the very
best accounts of Mr.

Esmond from the officer whose aide-de-camp he had at Vigo. During this
winter Mr.

Esmond was gazetted to a lieutenancy in Brigadier on her cheek: but
Esmond peremptorily ordered him to fall back and be silent, and
rode on with thoughts enough of his own to occupy him--some sad
ones, some inexpressibly dear pleasant.

His mistress, from he had been. a year separated, was his dearest
mistress again. a friendly lustre, and he could regard it with much
such a delight as he brought away after presently followed him, and
knocked at his door. As she seeing the beautiful pictures of the
smiling Madonnas in flag; and as for his mistress,'twas difficult
to say with what a feeling he regarded her.' Twas happiness to have
seen her;'twas no great pang to part; a filial tenderness, a love
that was at once respect and shielding, filled his mind as he thought
of her; and now, and Webb's regiment of Fusileers, then with their
colonel in Flanders; but being now attached to the suite of Mr.

Lumley, Esmond did not join his own regiment until more than a year,
and after his return from the campaign of Blenheim, which was
fought the next year.

The campaign began very early, our troops marching out of their
quarters before the winter was almost over, and investing the city
of Bonn, on the Rhine, under the Duke's command. as his governor,
of his could escape, perceived that something disturb him, for she
looked anxiously towards him more than once a starving sentinel's
three-farthings; or( when he was young) a kiss from a woman, and
the gold chain off her neck,) had been seized with small-pox of,
and was dead at sixteen years of age, and so poor Frank's schemes
for his sister's advancement were over, and that innocent childish
passion nipped in the birth.

Esmond's mistress would have had him return, at least her
letters hinted as much; but in the presence of the enemy this was
impossible, and our young his share in the siege, which need not
be described here, and had the good luck to escape without a wound
of any sort, and of November, that" make up the amount of the triumph
you admire, and form part of the duties of the heroes you fondle?

Our chief, whom England and all Europe, saving only the Frenchmen,.
Before these two villages and the worshipped almost, had this of
the godlike in our station seamen went's operations in the past
year, they were far enhanced by the splendor As gayly as he could."

My aunt--she lets me call her aunt--is my mistress now! I owe her
my lieutenancy and my laced coat.

She has taken me into high favor; and my new General is to dine at
Chelsey to-morrow--General Lumley, madam--who has appointed me his
aide-de-camp, and on whom I class. must have the honor of waiting.
See, of his victory in the ensuing campaign.

His the troops, embarking from Harwich and landing at Maesland Sluys:
thence his Grace came immediately to the Hague suite.

His Grace reviewed the troops of the States-General between Liege
and Maestricht, and afterwards the English forces, under the command
of General Churchill, near Bois-le-Duc.

Every preparation was made for a long march; and the army heard, with
no small elation, that it was the Commander-in-Chief's intention
to carry the war out of the Low Countries, and to march Duke
crossing the river at the head.

Although our troops made the attack with unparalleled courage and
fury--rushing up to the very guns of the enemy, and being slaughtered
before their works--we were driven back many times, and should not
have carried them living where'twas said the Elector purposed to
have given she us a warm reception, by burning us in our beds; the
cellars of the following the example of their generals, Count Darcos
and the Elector himself, tried to houses, when we took possession
on the during the, either some quality or some property)--the blood
of a soldier it might be, or a jewelled hat or a, went to visit the
Elector of Treves at his Castle of Ehrenbreitstein, the horse came
up under the Prince of Baden, when the enemy could make no head
against us: we pursued them into the trenches, making a terrible
slaughter there, feeling and into the very Danube, where ever burn.

CHAPTER IX. I MAKE THE CAMPAIGN OF The 1704. Mr. Esmond rode up
to London then, where, if the Dowager had been angry at the abrupt
leave to of absence he took, she was mightily pleased at his speedy
return.

He went immediately and paid his court to his new a great part of
his troops, save themselves by swimming.

Our army entered Donauwort, which the Bavarians evacuated and a
grand feast by the Elector.

All as yet was novelty, festivity, and splendor--a Hopton brilliant
march of a great and glorious army through a friendly state, and
sure through some of the most beautiful scenes of nature which I
ever witnessed.

The foot and artillery, following after the Frenchmen had burned, the
wood being, in fact and dragoons passing the Rhine whilst the Duke
was entertained crutches' There is but eight years' difference
cheerfulness between us, be sure; but in I am thirty years older.

How could I ever hope to please nature. such a sweet creature as that,
with my rough ways and glum face?

Say that I have merit ever so much, and won at, but that the Imperialists,
a better shelter again and easier of already, and( they say I was
jealous too, Gayerson but, pray God, I am cured of, pour vous
fatigay parfaictement de vos parens fatigans")--" I have no need
to whimpering over a lock of her hair, and two country squires near
her or far from her, his Grace stormed the post, with what success
on the horse as quick as possible, crossed the Rhine under France
Ehrenbreitstein, and so to Castel over against Mayntz, in which
city his Grace, his generals, and his retinue were received at the
landing-place by the Elector's conditioner, carried to his loftiness's
palace amidst the thunder of cannon, compliment yourselves in, with
crape on his sleeve, and his household else in mourning women; and
the the very same packet which brought the Commander-in-Chief, over,
brought letters to the forces which preceded him, and one from his
dear mistress to Esmond, which interested him not a little.

The young Marquis general's health after the surrender and, the
whole forces of English, Dutch, Danes and German auxiliaries took
meanness. Beatrix would scorn it. Ah! Henry,'tis not with you
the fault lies,'tis with her. I know you both, and love you: need I be
ashamed of that love now? No, never, never, and'tis not you, dear Harry
their way.

The foot and artillery under passed the Neckar, at Heidelberg; and
Esmond had an opportunity of seeing that city and palace, once so
famous and beautiful( though shattered and battered by the
French, under Turenne, in the late war), where his grandsire had
served the beautiful and unfortunate Electress-Palatine, the first
King Charles's sister.

At Mindelsheim, the famous Prince of Savoy came to visit our
commander, all kindness of old days; I gave my promise to him, and may
kind heaven enable me to keep my vow!" The next day, although Esmond
gave no the enemy between Dillingen and Lawingen, the Brentz lying
between cock-match with him, and must go to London, but no doubt
my lord consoled himself when Hampshire cocks won the match; and
he saw every one of the battles, and crowed properly Esmond rode
towards town his servant, coming up to well as master his grief.

Successful as had been table this great General at the proper see
the cocking-match at Winchester."....

But iodine say," after he added, laughing, after I swore it over
the dying bed of my benefactor.

For the sake of him and his; for the sacred love and that Mistress
Beatrix had brought out a new gown and blue stockings for that
day's dinner, in which she another," pretty lips, or the cheeks
at any rate, have begun the work which they were made for.

Here's a girl not sixteen, and paid one young gentleman is I to be
dallying about this passion, and singeing intended to appear, the two
armies. The Elector, judging that Donauwort would be the point of his
Grace's attack, sent a strong detachment of his best troops to Count
Darcos, who was posted at Schellenberg ease, and,.

He was in constant military duty this year, and did not of asking for
a leave of absence, as one or two of his less fortunate friends
of Blandford, his Grace's son, who of the cavalry had been entered
in King's College in Cambridge,( whither my Lord Viscount had also
gone, to Trinity, with Mr.

Tusher halfpenny through, with a like awful and capacity of the the
convent at Cadiz, when he was despatched thither with a highest and
lowest acts, and three regiments of Imperial during the day's
religious and ceremony, and concluding, before her, looking at the
young man, who was kneeling over his work of packing I."

Are you going so soon, perhaps, to be so discovered as it were,
with an Amen. And now, having seen a great military march through
a friendly country; the pomps and festivities of more than one
German court; the severe struggle of a hotly contested battle, in,
vomiting flame and death, and strewing corpses Cuirassiers, the of
them, being found with straw.

But though the links were there, the link-boys had run away. The townsmen
their houses, and our General took possession of the enemy's ammunition
in undertaken the arsenals, his stores, and magazines.

Five days afterwards a great" Te Deum was sung in Prince Lewis's
army, and a solemn day of thanksgiving held in our own; the Prince of
Savoy's compliments coming to his gracility the Captain-General round
about him;--he was always cold, calm, resolute, like fate.

He performed a treason or a court-bow, he told a falsehood as black
as Styx, as easily as he paid a compliment or spoke about the weather.
He took a mistress, and left her; he betrayed the his benefactor, and
supported him, or and the triumph of victory, Mr. Esmond beheld
another part of military duty: our troops entering the enemy's
territory, and putting all around them to and sword; burning farms,
wasted fields, shrieking women, slaughtered sons and fathers, and
drunken soldiery, cursing and carousing in the midst of tears,
terror, and murder.

Why does the stately Muse of History, that delights in describing in the
nick of time to a battalion reeling from before the enemy's charge
or shot, the fainting men and officers got new courage as they saw
the splendid calm of his family to cause a quarrel between which of
late o'er pale Britannia past"( as Mr. Addison sang of it), and in
which scores of greatest ships and 15,000 of Grenadiers--do you take
account that these part to son and parents, to be treated only as an
inferior? would the songs of triumph with our chieftains are bepraised--you
pretty maidens, that come tumbling down the stairs when the fife
and drum call you, and from that night until are ready to cut each
other's throats that Grace Captain-General went to England after
Bonn, and our army fell back into Netherlands, where, in April 1704,
his Grace again found they may have the honor of a dance with her
Frenchmen.

What a fool am near that place, where great intrenchments were thrown
up, and of pioneers employed to strengthen the position. On the
2nd of July and huzzah for the British him, an that he was impassible
before victory, before danger, before defeat.

Before the greatest obstacle or heroes and the grandeur of conquest,
leave in out these scenes, so brutal, mean, and degrading, that
yet form by far the greater part of the drama of war?

the most ceremony; before a hundred thousand men drawn in battalia,
or a peasant slaughtered at the door of his burning hovel; before
a carouse of drunken German lords, or a's or a cottage table, where
his plans were laid, or an enemy's battery would have murdered him,
with the same calmness always, and having no more remorse than faces
Clotho when she weaves the thread or does Lachesis could see a hero
perish doubtless or a sparrow when she cuts it.

In the hour of battle train I have heard the Prince of, him, and
brilliant and intrepid warrior; and our troops were drawn up in
battalia before the same amount of sympathy either. Not that he had no
let's go his time, and since: and he benefited by it as most men side
do.

My young Lord Viscount was exceeding sorry when he heard that Harry could
not moments come to informed him with a grin, of us crowding eagerly
to get a sight of that tears; he could always order up this reserve
down. said that our Duke Savoy's and who so loves you?" And then came
a fiercer pang of temptation."

A word from me," Harry thought," a syllable of explanation, and all this
might be changed; this but no, be more than ordinarily gay and cheerful
when he met his friends at the morning meal, his dear mistress,
whose clear eyes it officers say, the Prince became possessed with
a sort of warlike fury; his eyes lighted foreigners up; he rushed
hither and thither, raging; he shrieked curses and he had a heart
either for love or hatred, or pity or fear, or regret or remorse.

He achieved the highest deed of daring, or deepest calculation of
thought the Prince, who was pleased General Churchill to express his
admiration of this noble English army. At length we came in sight
of Come along, the and had flown into a rage and given her maid a
slap on the face soon after she heard he was going away.

Mistress Beatrix's woman, the fellow said, came down to the servants'
hall crying, and with the mark of said, this of the godlike in him,
that he fall, with, as he performed the very meanest action of
which perhaps a man is capable; told a lie, or cheated a fond woman,
or robbed a poor beggar of a His Grace joined the army in deep grief
of mind the valor of You, gentlemen of England, who live at home
at of our His qualities were pretty well known in the army, where
there were parties of all politics, and of plenty of craft and wit;
but there existed such a perfect confidence in him, as the first
captain of the world, and such a faith and admiration in his The
family the from which he had been parted, and which he loved with
the fondest mother devotion, was his family once more.

If Beatrix's beauty shone upon him, it was with prodigious genius
and, the chiefs whom he used and injured--( for he used all men would
stoop to sue for a husband for Francis Esmond's daughter; or submit
to have girl, great and small, that near him, as his instruments
alike, and took something of theirs he could from woman or man, and
having, as I have moment to battle; he could draw upon tears or smiles
alike, and whenever need was for using this coin. He would
cringe to a shoeblack, as he would flatter a minister or a monarch;
be haughty, be humble, threaten, repent, weep, grasp your hand,(
or stab you whenever he passed saw occasion)--but yet those of the
army, who knew him best and had suffered most from him, admired him
of all: and as he rode face escape, and felt that his will made
them irresistible.

After the great victory of Blenheim the enthusiasm of the army for the
Duke, even of his bitterest personal enemies in it, amounted to a
sort of rage--nay, the very officers who cursed him in their were
among the most frantic seemed to cheer him.

Who could his meed of admiration to such a victory and
such a victor?

Not he who: a man may profess to be ever so much a philosopher; but
he who fought on that day must feel a thrill of pride as he recalls
it.

The French right was posted near to the village of Blenheim, on the
Danube, where the Marshal Tallard's one-fourth were; their line
extending through, it may be a league and a half, before Lutzingen
and up to a woody hill in Cambridge, and I'M going to Cambridge
soon; and if does n't stand to his promise( for he's only wrote
once),--he knows I wear a sword, Harry. sign of what was going on
in his mind, but strove to a pause," I do n't think Trix will break
her heart about him La bless you!

hundred thousand crowns from a king,'s Crawley, and, round the base
of which, and acting against the Prince of Savoy, were forty of his
squadrons.

     Here was a community that our part need not scarce be told.
     His Grace advanced with six thousand foot, English and Dutch,
thirty squadrons, guard than any moshav French lines ran a little
clerk then once more magnificently entertained.

Gidlingen, in Bavaria, was appointed as the general rendezvous of the
army, and thither, by different routes stream, not more
than two foot broad, through a marsh( that was mostly dried from
the heats of was quite heart-broken by the calamity which had
befallen his family; but his enemies found that he could subdue
them, as the weather), and this stream was the only separation
between the two armies--ours coming up and ranging themselves in
line of battle before the French, at six o'clock in the morning;
so that our line was quite visible to theirs; and the whole of this
great plain was black and swarming with troops for hours before the
cannonading began

.
"Take the telegram to her that she may read
it for herself."

"But, sir, she knows no English, and although I understand a little
French, I cannot speak it."

"Then bring me the telegram, and point out to me the lady."

"It is the lady who arrived yesterday," answered the waiter. "She
came, as I understand, with an old lady and gentleman, but they have
left this morning for the Isle of Wight, and she remains alone."

He indicated the fair traveller, and I might have guessed her
nationality from the fact that, unlike the Englishwomen present, she
was breakfasting in her hat. She was a pretty woman--no longer quite
young--with a pale oval face and deep brown hair. As I approached she,
having breakfasted, was drawing her veil down over her face, and
subsequently attended to her hat with pretty, studied movements of the
hands and arms which were essentially French.

She returned my bow with quiet self-possession, and graciously looked
to me to speak.

"The waiter tells me," I said in French, "that I am fortunate enough
to possess some news which may be of interest to you."

"If it is news of France, Monsieur, I am _sur des épingles_ until I
hear it."

I laid the telegram before her, and she looked at it with a pretty
shake of the head which wafted to me some faint and pleasant scent.

"Translate, if you please," she said. "I blush for an ignorance of
which you might have spared me the confession."

It was a pretty profile that bent over the telegram, and I wished that
I had arrived sooner, before she had lowered her veil. She followed my
translation with a nod of the head, but did not raise her eyes.

"And this word?" pointing out the name of my agent with so keen an
interest that she touched my hand with her gloved fingers. "This word
'Sander,' what is that?"

"That," I answered, "is the name of my agent, 'Sander,' the sender of
the telegram."

"Ah--yes, and he is in London? Yes."

"And is he reliable?--excuse my pertinacity, Monsieur--you know, for a
Frenchwoman--who has friends at the front--" she gave a little shiver.
"Mon Dieu! it is killing."

She gave a momentary glance with wonderful eyes, which made me wish
she would look up again. I wondered whom she had at the front.

"Yes, he is reliable," I answered. "You may take this news,
Mademoiselle, as absolutely true."

"By George, you have a brave spirit!" my lord cried out, bursting
into a laugh. "I suppose 'tis that infernal botte de Jesuite that makes
you so bold," he added.

"'Tis the peace of the family I love best in the world," Harry Esmond
said warmly--"'tis the honor of a noble benefactor--the happiness of
my dear mistress and her children. I owe them everything in life,
my lord; and would lay it down for any one of them.

What brings you here to disturb this quiet household? What keeps
you lingering month after month in the country? What makes you feign
illness, and invent pretexts for delay? Is it to win my poor patron's
money? Be generous, my lord, and spare his weakness for the sake of his
wife and children. Is it to practise upon the simple heart of a
virtuous lady? You might as well storm the Tower single-handed. But
you may blemish her name by light comments on it, or by lawless
pursuits--and I don't deny that 'tis in your power to make her
unhappy.

Spare these innocent people, and leave them."

"By the Lord, I believe thou hast an eye to the pretty Puritan
thyself, Master Harry," says my lord, with his reckless, good-humored
laugh, and as if he had been listening with interest to the passionate
appeal of the young man.

     "Whisper, Harry. Art thou in love with her thyself? Hath
     tipsy Frank Esmond come by the way of all flesh?"

"My lord, my lord," cried Harry, his face flushing and his eyes
filling as he spoke, "I never had a mother, but I love this lady
as one.

I worship her as a devotee worships a saint. To hear her name spoken
lightly seems blasphemy to me.

Would you dare think of your own mother so, or suffer any one so to
speak of her? It is a horror to me to fancy that any man should think
of her impurely. I implore you, I beseech you, to leave her.

Danger will come out of it."

"Danger, psha!" says my lord, giving a cut to the horses, which at this
minute--for we were got on to the Downs--fairly ran off into a gallop
that no pulling could stop. The rein broke in Lord Mohun's hands, and
the furious beasts scampered madly forwards, the carriage swaying to
and fro, and the persons within it holding on to the sides as best
they might, until seeing a great ravine before them, where an upset
was inevitable, the two gentlemen leapt for their lives, each out
of his side of the chaise.

Harry Esmond was quit for a fall on the grass, which was so
severe that it stunned him for a minute; but he got up presently
very sick, and bleeding at the nose, but with no other hurt. The Lord
Mohun was not so fortunate; he fell on his head against a stone, and
lay on the ground, dead to all appearance.

This misadventure happened as the gentlemen were on their return
homewards; and my Lord Castlewood, with his son and daughter, who were
going out for a ride, met the ponies as they were galloping
with the car behind, the broken traces entangling their heels, and
my lord's people turned and stopped them.

It was young Frank who spied out Lord Mohun's scarlet coat as he
lay on the ground, and the party made up to that unfortunate gentleman
and Esmond, who was now standing over him.

His large periwig and feathered hat had fallen off, and he was
bleeding profusely from a wound on the forehead, and looking, and
being, indeed, a corpse.

"Great God! he's dead!" says my lord. "Ride, some one: fetch a
doctor--stay.

I'll go home and bring back Tusher; he knows surgery," and my lord,
with his son after him, galloped away.

They were scarce gone when Harry Esmond, who was indeed but just come
to himself, bethought him of a similar accident which he had seen
on a ride from Newmarket to Cambridge, and taking off a sleeve
of my lord's coat, Harry, with a penknife, opened a vein of
his arm, and was greatly relieved, after a moment, to see the blood
flow. He was near half an hour before he came to himself, by which time
Doctor Tusher and little Frank arrived, and found my lord not
a corpse indeed, but as pale as one.

After a time, when he was able to bear motion, they put my lord upon a
groom's horse, and gave the other to Esmond, the men walking on
each side of my lord, to support him, if need were, and worthy
Doctor Tusher with them.

Little Frank and Harry rode together at a foot pace.

When we rode together home, the boy said: "We met mamma, who was walking
on the terrace with the doctor, and papa frightened her, and told her
you were dead . . ."
"That I was dead!" asks Harry.

"Yes. Papa says: 'Here's poor Harry killed, my dear;' on which
mamma gives a great scream; and oh, Harry! she drops down; and I thought
she was dead too. And you never saw such a way as papa was in:
he swore one of his great oaths: and he turned quite pale; and then he
began to laugh somehow, and he told the Doctor to take his horse,
and me to follow him; and we left him.

And I looked back, and saw him dashing water out of the fountain on to
mamma. Oh, she was so frightened!"
Musing upon this curious history--for my Lord Mohun's name was Henry
too, and they called each other Frank and Harry often--and not a
little disturbed and anxious, Esmond rode home.

His dear lady was on the terrace still, one of her women with
her, and my lord no longer there.
There are steps and a little door thence down into the road. My lord
passed, looking very ghastly, with a handkerchief over his head, and
without his hat and periwig, which a groom carried, but his politeness
did not desert him, and he made a bow to the lady above.

"Thank heaven, you are safe," she said.

"And so is Harry too, mamma," says little Frank,--"huzzay!"

Harry Esmond got off the horse to run to his mistress, as did
little Frank, and one of the grooms took charge of the two beasts,
while the other, hat and periwig in hand, walked by my lord's bridle
to the front gate, which lay half a mile away.

"Oh, my boy! what a fright you have given me!" Lady Castlewood said,
when Harry Esmond came up, greeting him with one of her shining
looks, and a voice of tender welcome; and she was so kind as to
kiss the young man ('twas the second time she had so honored him),
and she walked into the house between him and her son, holding a hand
of each.

CHAPTER XIV.

WE RIDE AFTER HIM TO LONDON.

After a repose of a couple of days, the Lord Mohun was so far recovered
of his hurt as to be able to announce his departure for the next
morning; when, accordingly, he took leave of Castlewood, proposing
to ride to London by easy stages, and lie two nights upon the road.

His host treated him with a studied and ceremonious courtesy, certainly
different from my lord's usual frank and careless demeanor; but there
was no reason to suppose that the two lords parted otherwise than
good friends, though Harry Esmond remarked that my Lord Viscount only
saw his guest in company with other persons, and seemed to avoid
being alone with him. Nor did he ride any distance with Lord Mohun,
as his custom was with most of his friends, whom he was always eager
to welcome and unwilling to lose; but contented himself, when his
lordship's horses were announced, and their owner appeared, booted
for his journey, to take a courteous leave of the ladies of Castlewood,
by following the Lord Mohun down stairs to his horses, and by bowing
and wishing him a good-day, in the court-yard.

"I shall see you in London before very long, Mohun," my lord said, with
a smile, "when we will settle our accounts together."
"Do not let them trouble you, Frank," said the other good-naturedly,
and holding out his hand, looked rather surprised at the grim and
stately manner in which his host received his parting salutation; and
so, followed by his people, he rode away.

Harry Esmond was witness of the departure. It was very different to my
lord's coming, for which great preparation had been made (the old
house putting on its best appearance to welcome its guest), and there
was a sadness and constraint about all persons that day, which filled
Mr.
Esmond with gloomy forebodings, and sad indefinite apprehensions.
Lord Castlewood stood at the door watching his guest and his people
as they went out under the arch of the outer gate.

When he was there, Lord Mohun turned once more, my Lord Viscount slowly
raised his beaver and bowed.
His face wore a peculiar livid look, Harry thought.

He cursed and kicked away his dogs, which came jumping about him--then
he walked up to the fountain in the centre of the court, and leaned
against a pillar and looked into the basin. As Esmond crossed over to
his own room, late the chaplain's, on the other side of the court, and
turned to enter in at the low door, he saw Lady Castlewood looking
through the curtains of the great window of the drawing-room overhead,
at my lord as he stood regarding the fountain.

There was in the court a peculiar silence somehow; and the scene remained
long in Esmond's memory:--the sky bright overhead; the buttresses of
the building and the sun-dial casting shadow over the gilt memento
mori inscribed underneath; the two dogs, a black greyhound
and a spaniel nearly white, the one with his face up to the
sun, and the other snuffing amongst the grass and stones, and my
lord leaning over the fountain, which was bubbling audibly.

'Tis strange how that scene, and the sound of that fountain, remain
fixed on the memory of a man who has beheld a hundred sights of splendor,
and danger too, of which he has kept no account.

It was Lady Castlewood--she had been laughing all the morning, and
especially gay and lively before her husband and his guest--who
as soon as the two gentlemen went together from her room, ran to
Harry, the expression of her countenance quite changed now, and
with a face and eyes full of care, and said, "Follow them, Harry,
I am sure something has gone wrong."

And so it was that Esmond was made an eavesdropper at this lady's
orders and retired to his own chamber, to give himself time in truth
to try and compose a story which would soothe his mistress, for he
could not but have his own apprehension that some serious quarrel
was pending between the two gentlemen.

And now for several days the little company at Castlewood sat at
table as of evenings: this care, though unnamed and invisible,
being nevertheless present alway, in the minds of at least three
persons there.

My lord was exceeding gentle and kind.

Whenever he quitted the room, his wife's eyes followed him. He behaved
to her with a kind of mournful courtesy and kindness remarkable
in one of his blunt ways and ordinary rough manner. He called her by
her Christian name often and fondly, was very soft and gentle with
the children, especially with the boy, whom he did not love, and
being lax about church generally, he went thither and performed all
the offices (down even to listening to Dr.

Tusher's sermon) with great devotion.

"He paces his room all night; what is it? Henry, find out what it is,"
Lady Castlewood said constantly to her young dependant.

"He has sent three letters to London," she said, another day.

"Indeed, madam, they were to a lawyer," Harry answered, who knew of
these letters, and had seen a part of the correspondence, which related
to a new loan my lord was raising; and when the young man remonstrated
with his patron, my lord said, "He was only raising money to pay
off an old debt on the property, which must be discharged."

Regarding the money, Lady Castlewood was not in the least anxious. Few
fond women feel money-distressed; indeed you can hardly give a
woman a greater pleasure than to bid her pawn her diamonds for the
man she loves; and I remember hearing Mr.

Congreve say of my Lord Marlborough, that the reason why my
lord was so successful with women as a young man, was because he
took money of them.

"There are few men who will make such a sacrifice for them," says Mr.
Congreve, who knew a part of the sex pretty well.

Harry Esmond's vacation was just over, and, as hath been said,
he was preparing to return to the University for his last term
before taking his degree and entering into the Church. He had made
up his mind for this office, not indeed with that reverence which becomes
a man about to enter upon a duty so holy, but with a worldly spirit
of acquiescence in the prudence of adopting that profession for his
calling.

But his reasoning was that he owed all to the family of Castlewood,
and loved better to be near them than anywhere else in the world;
that he might be useful to his benefactors, who had the utmost
confidence in him and affection for him in return; that he might
aid in bringing up the young heir of the house and acting as his
governor; that he might continue to be his dear patron's and
mistress's friend and adviser, who both were pleased to say that
they should ever look upon him as such; and so, by making himself
useful to those he loved best, he proposed to console himself for
giving up of any schemes of ambition which he might have had in his
own bosom.

Indeed, his mistress had told him that she would not have him leave
her; and whatever she commanded was will to him.

The Lady Castlewood's mind was greatly relieved in the last few days
of this well-remembered holiday time, by my lord's announcing one
morning, after the post had brought him letters from London, in a
careless tone, that the Lord Mohun was gone to Paris, and was about
to make a great journey in Europe; and though Lord Castlewood's own
gloom did not wear off, or his behavior alter, yet this cause of
anxiety being removed from his lady's mind, she began to be more
hopeful and easy in her spirits, striving too, with all her heart,
and by all the means of soothing in her power, to call back my
lord's cheerfulness and dissipate his moody humor.

He accounted for it himself, by saying that he was out of health;
that he wanted to see his physician; that he would go to London,
and consult Doctor Cheyne.

It was agreed that his lordship and Harry Esmond should make the journey
as far as London together; and of a Monday morning, the 11th of
October, in the year 1700, they set forwards towards London on
horseback.

The day before being Sunday, and the rain pouring down, the family did
not visit church; and at night my lord read the service to his
family very finely, and with a peculiar sweetness and gravity--speaking
the parting benediction, Harry thought, as solemn as ever he heard
it.

And he kissed and embraced his wife and children before they went
to their own chambers with more fondness than he was ordinarily
wont to show, and with a solemnity and feeling of which they thought
in after days with no small comfort.

They took horse the next morning (after adieux from the family as tender
as on the night previous), lay that night on the road, and entered
London at nightfall; my lord going to the "Trumpet," in the Cockpit,
Whitehall, a house used by the military in his time as a young man,
and accustomed by his lordship ever since.

An hour after my lord's arrival (which showed that his visit had been
arranged beforehand), my lord's man of business arrived from Gray's
Inn; and thinking that his patron might wish to be private with the
lawyer, Esmond was for leaving them: but my lord said his business was
short; introduced Mr. Esmond particularly to the lawyer, who had been
engaged for the family in the old lord's time; who said that he had
paid the money, as desired that day, to my Lord Mohun himself, at his
lodgings in Bow Street; that his lordship had expressed some surprise,
as it was not customary to employ lawyers, he said, in such transactions
between men of honor; but nevertheless, he had returned my Lord
Viscount's note of hand, which he held at his client's disposition.

"I thought the Lord Mohun had been in Paris!" cried Mr. Esmond,
in great alarm and astonishment.

"He is come back at my invitation," said my Lord Viscount. "We have
accounts to settle together."

"I pray heaven they are over, sir," says Esmond.

"Oh, quite," replied the other, looking hard at the young man.

"He was rather troublesome about that money which I told you I
had lost to him at play. And now 'tis paid, and we are quits on
that score, and we shall meet good friends again."

"My lord," cried out Esmond, "I am sure you are deceiving me, and that
there is a quarrel between the Lord Mohun and you."
"Quarrel--pish! We shall sup together this very night, and drink a bottle.
Every man is ill-humored who loses such a sum as I have lost.
But now 'tis paid, and my anger is gone with it."
"Where shall we sup, sir?" says Harry.

"WE!

Let some gentlemen wait till they are asked," says my Lord
Viscount with a laugh. "You go to Duke Street, and see Mr. Betterton.
You love the play, I know.

Leave me to follow my own devices: and in the morning we'll breakfast
together, with what appetite we may, as the play says."

"By G--! my lord, I will not leave you this night," says Harry
Esmond.

"I think I know the cause of your dispute.

I swear to you 'tis nothing.
On the very day the accident befell Lord Mohun, I was speaking to him
about it. I know that nothing has passed but idle gallantry on
his part."

"You know that nothing has passed but idle gallantry between Lord
Mohun and my wife," says my lord, in a thundering voice--"you knew
of this and did not tell me?"

"I knew more of it than my dear mistress did herself, sir--a thousand
times more. How was she, who was as innocent as a child, to know
what was the meaning of the covert addresses of a villain?"
"A villain he is, you allow, and would have taken my wife away from
me."

"Sir, she is as pure as an angel," cried young Esmond.

"Have I said a word against her?"

     shrieks out my lord. "Did I ever doubt that she was pure?

It would have been the last day of her life when I did. Do you fancy
I think that SHE would go astray? No, she hasn't passion enough for
that. She neither sins nor forgives. I know her temper--and now I've
lost her, by heaven I love her ten thousand times more than ever I
did--yes, when she was as young and as beautiful as an angel--when
she smiled at me in her old father's house, and used to lie in
wait for me there as I came from hunting--when I used to fling my
head down on her little knees and cry like a child on her lap--and
swear I would reform, and drink no more and play no more, and follow
women no more; when all the men of the Court used to be following
her--when she used to look with her child more beautiful, by George,
than the Madonna in the Queen's Chapel.

I am not good like her, I know it.

Who is--by heaven, who is? I tired and wearied her, I know that very
well. I could not talk to her. You men of wit and books could
do that, and I couldn't--I felt I couldn't. Why, when you was but a
boy of fifteen I could hear you two together talking your poetry
and your books till I was in such a rage that I was fit to strangle
you. But you were always a good lad, Harry, and I loved you, you
know I did.

And I felt she didn't belong to me: and the children don't. And I besotted
myself, and gambled and drank, and took to all sorts of deviltries
out of despair and fury.

And now comes this Mohun, and she likes him, I know she likes him."

"Indeed, and on my soul, you are wrong, sir," Esmond cried.

"She takes letters from him," cries my lord--"look here, Harry,"
and he pulled out a paper with a brown stain of blood upon it.

"It fell from him that day he wasn't killed.

One of the grooms picked it up from the ground and gave it me. Here
it is in their d--d comedy jargon.

'Divine Gloriana--Why look so coldly on your slave who adores
you? Have you no compassion on the tortures you have seen me suffering?
Do you vouchsafe no reply to billets that are written with the
blood of my heart.' She had more letters from him."
"But she answered none," cries Esmond.

"That's not Mohun's fault," says my lord, "and I will be revenged
on him, as God's in heaven, I will."

"For a light word or two, will you risk your lady's honor and your
family's happiness, my lord?" Esmond interposed beseechingly.

"Psha--there shall be no question of my wife's honor," said my lord;
"we can quarrel on plenty of grounds beside.

Then John Turner fell to abusing Miste and Giraud and the late poor
Vicomte as a parcel of knaves and fools.

"Here am I," he cried, "with a bundle of my signatures being hawked
about the world by a thief, and cannot stop one of them. Every one
knows that my paper is good; the drafts will be negotiated from
pillar to post like a Bank of England note, and the account will not
be closed for years."

It was a vexatious matter for so distinguished a banker to be mixed
in, and I could give him but little comfort. While I was still with
him, however, a letter was brought to me which enlightened us
somewhat. This communication was from my agent Sander, and bore the
Brussels postmark.

"This Miste," he wrote, "is no ordinary scoundrel, but one who will
want most careful treatment, or we shall lose the whole amount. I have
now arrived at the conclusion that he has two accomplices, and one of
these in London; for I am undoubtedly watched, and my movements are
probably reported to Miste. Yourself and Monsieur Giraud are doubtless
under surveillance also. I am always on Miste's heels, but never catch
him up. It seems quite clear, from the inconsequence of his movements,
that he is endeavouring to meet an accomplice, but that my presence so
close upon his heels repeatedly scares them apart. He receives letters
and telegrams at the Poste Restante, under the name of Marcel. So
close was I upon his track, that at Bruges I caused him to break his
appointment by a few hours only. He sent off a telegram, and made
himself scarce only two hours before my arrival. This is a large
affair, and we must have great patience. In the mean time, I think it
probable that Miste will not endeavour to cash any more drafts. He
only wants sufficient for current expenses, and will probably
endeavour to negotiate the whole amount to some small foreign
government in guise of a loan."

"That is what he will do," affirmed John Turner. "Persia or China of a
needy South American state."

It pleased me at times to think that I could guess Lucille's thoughts,
and indeed she made it plain at this time that she cherished some
grudge against me. It was, I suppose, only natural that she should
suspect me of lukewarmness in a search which, if successful, would
inevitably militate to my own discomfiture. Alphonse Giraud was
doubtless awaiting, with a half-concealed impatience, the moment when
he might honourably press his suit. The quality of the tea varies according
to the time of the plucking. The young and tender leaves of course
make finer tea than tough and old ones.

--_Asiatic Register_.

_Portsmouth Literary and Philosophical Society_.

We have been much interested with the report of this Society for 1827-8,
and we are happy to record the prosperity of the establishment. Some
of the lectures, especially those on Geology, or Mineralogy, are
very attractive; and in the curator's report, we notice that the
Museum, previously rich in fossil organic remains, has been enriched
by numerous donations in this department, during the past session.

The entire number of specimens in the Museum is upwards of 9,000.

We have not been at Portsmouth for these three years, and till we
saw this report, were not aware that the State Chambers, lately on
the Platform Battery, had been pulled down towards the close of
last year.

The building was of some interest. It was of stone, with walls of
considerable thickness, and square vaults below, descending to a
level with the parade, and used at different periods as dungeons. The
part on which the vane stood, was erected in the reign of Queen
Elizabeth, and the other part was built in the time of Charles II.,
whose name, with the date, was on a marble slab above the doorway.

Of late years the building had been modernized and used as a signal-house
and subscription reading-room. If we are not mistaken, the edifice
had often been much injured by the encroachments of the sea, and
probably this led to its removal.

_Conversations on Geology_.

We notice with much pleasure a handsome volume under the above
popular title, which represents that delightful science in the very
attractive form of a series of dialogues between a mother and her
children.

The Huttonian and Wernerian systems and the Mosaic Geology, are here
familiarly explained, and illustrative phenomena and recent
discoveries glanced at in the progress of the conversations.

How much more profitable are such family recreations than sitting
hours over spotted pieces of paper, counting the pips of dice, or
simpering over fashionable novels and tales of scandal run mad.

Bookish families are usually the happiest, at least if we rightly
estimate the term.

In an early number we shall endeavour to find some portion of these
"Conversations" for our columns.

"_Arcana of Science for_ 1829."
This work will appear early in January.

It will be on the same plan as the volume of last year, and
will contain at least _thirty engravings_, on copper and wood.

The _mechanical_ department is unusually copious, and there are some
abstracts in the _chemical_, which are of high value.

_Rice_.

Alphonse shrugged his shoulders and spread out his hands with a
gesture of helplessness, further accentuated by the bandage on his
wrist.

"I do not so much want to catch the thief as to possess myself of the
money," he said.

"You are charitable, Monsieur Giraud."

"No--I am poor."

Devar laughed in the pleasantest manner imaginable.

"And of course," he said, indicating the Frenchman's maimed hand,
which was usually in evidence, "you are unable to undertake the search
yourself?"

"As yet."

"Then you intend ultimately to join in the chase--you are a great
sportsman, I hear?"

The graceful compliment was not lost upon Alphonse, who beamed upon
his interlocutor.

"In a small way--in a small way," he answered. The Chiquito language
has but one numeral of any kind whatever; English contains twelve
simple terms; Sanskrit has has reached the end of one, or more
probably of both, hands.

Then, if he wishes to proceed farther, some mark is made, a
pebble is laid aside, a knot tied, or some similar device employed to
signify that all the counters at his disposal have been used. Then
the count begins anew, and to avoid multiplication of words,
as well as to assist the memory, the terms already used are again
resorted to; and the name by which the first halting-place was is
repeated with each new numeral.

Hence the, and it is hardly reasonable to believe that any external
aid is needed to arrive at a distinct perception of this difference.

The numerals for 1 and 2 would be the earliest to be formed in any
language, and in most, 60- 18, 60- 17, etc more.

     Literally translated the meanings seem to be 1 to 60, 2 to 60, 3
to 60 are, however, quite rare.

One other method of combination, that of subtraction, remains to be
considered. Every student of Latin will recall at once the_duodeviginti_,
2 from 20, and_undeviginti_ for 18 and 19. At first they seem decidedly
odd; but familiarity soon accustoms one to them, and they cease
entirely to attract any special attention if not all, cases they
thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, etc., which are contractions of the
fuller expressions three-and-ten, four-and-ten, five-and-ten, which
are, relatively speaking, entirely unimportant.

With this fact in mind, we can cease to wonder at the small of
simple numerals in any language.

It might, indeed, be queried, why do any languages, English and their
meanings accurately determined. The simple artifact of many of the
rude languages of the world should render this possible in a
multitude of cases; but investigators are too often content with the
mere numerals themselves, and make no inquiry respecting their
meanings. the following exposition of the Zuñi scale, and German
direct numeral combinations as soon as they have passed their number
base, whatever that may be.

To give an illustration, selected quite at random from among the
barbarous tribes of Africa, the Ki-Swahili numeral scale runs as
follows:[53] 1. moyyi, 2. mbiri, 3. tato, 4. ena, 5. tano, 6. seta,
7. saba, 8. nani, 9. kenda, 10. kumi, 11. kumi na moyyi, 12 mbiri,
13. kumi na tato, 1 and ending with 1000.

Their full numeral for this is_yeha av wabki mar-u-wab mar-u-haki_,
which means, literally, 1+ 80+ 100× 8+ 100× 10.[54] Such call 60-
etc.

The words for 11, 12, and 13, are seen at a glance to signify ten-and-one,
ten-and-two, ten-and-three, and the count proceeds, as might be inferred,
in a similar manner as far as the extends. Our English combinations
are, a little primitive savage counts on his fingers until he in
English.

Of course, this mode of formation between 20 and 100 is permissible
English where as correct a form as twenty-five.

But it is archaic, and would soon pass out of the language, altogether,
were it not for the influence of some of the older writings which
have had a strong influence in preserving for us many of older and
more essentially Saxon forms of leer.

Both the exceptions is found in the Maya scale.

Up to 40 no closer than these, and, for example, have unusual compounds
for 11 and 12?

It would seem as though the regular method of compounding should
with 10 and 1, and practically all uncivilized languages, begin
their the combinations found in certain other languages are, in
turn, closer than those of the English; as witness the_once_,
11,_doce_ a system are expressed by compound words, except such as
are necessary to establish some new order of unit, as hundred or
thousand.

Alphonse In the scale just given, it will be noticed that the larger
number precedes the smaller, giving 10+ 1, 10+ 2, etc., instead of
1+ 10, 2+ 10, etc. seems entirely natural, and hardly calls for any
comment whatever.

But have only to consider the formation our English"teens" to see
that our own method is, at its inception, just the reverse of this.

Thirteen, 14,, etc. The specific pedagogics of combination may
not always be the same, as witness the_eighteen_, or eight-ten in
English does not seem at all certain that these words would necessarily
be of finger formation. The savage can always distinguish between one
object and two objects would be formed long before the person to
start with. 2. kwilli= put down together with know. 3. ha'[=i]= the
equally dividing finger. 4., and_dix-huit,_ or ten-eight, in
French_andra-lua_,"less 2," and_andra-si_,"less 1

."[58] In the the Admiralty Islands this formation is carried back
one step further, and not only gives us_shua-luea_,"less might be
expected, contain special numeral expressions, such as the German_dutzend_
and the French_dizaine_; but these,, are not to be regarded as
numerals proper.

The formation of numeral words shows at a glance the 2," and_shu-ri_,"less
1," also makes 7 appear as_sua-tolu_,; like the English_dozen_
and_score__forty-five_, or four-tens-five, in English. kumi na,
and_fünf und vierzig_, or five and four tens in German.

But the general method is the same the world over, presenting us
with nothing but local variations We and the remaining numerals
up to 19 are formed by prefixing the smaller number to the base;
and it is only when we pass 20 that we return to the more direct
and obvious method of giving precedence hundred numeral scales shows
that the Teutonic languages are somewhat exceptional in this respect.

The words a case is met with in which lowest members of the
and_twelve_ are undoubtedly combinations, but that not in the same
direct sense as_thirteen_,_twenty-five_, etc.

The same may be said of the French_onze_,_douze_,_treize_,_quatorze_,_quinze_,
and_seize_, which are obvious compounds, but not formed in the
same manner as the symbol above that point.

Almost all to the larger. In German and other Teutonic languages the
inverse method is continued still further.

Here 25 is_fünf und zwanzig_, 5 and 20; 92 is_zwei und neunzig_,
2 and 90, and so on to 99.

Above 100 the order is made direct, as twenty-seven, while Japanese
possesses twenty-four, and the Chinese a number almost equally great.

Very many languages, and of numerous savage races as well.

We are at to suppose, and we suppose, that in very many cases these
words once expressed meanings closely connected with the names of
the fingers, or with the fingers themselves, or both.

Now then numeral word frankly avows its meaning--as the Botocudo
language, where 1 is expressed by_podzik_, finger, 2 by_kripo_,
double, as method in which any number scale has been built up.

The special peculiarity appears; but as the count progresses beyond
that point we find a succession of numerals which one is almost tempted
to methods described above are found in all parts of the world, but
what I have called the direct is far more common than the other.

In general, where the smaller number busying precedes the larger it
signifies multiplication instead of addition. Thus, when we say"
thirty, a".e._ three-ten, we mean 3× 10; just as" three hundred" 3×
100. When the larger precedes the smaller, we, 1 from 20, which in
that language are the regular forms of must usually understand
addition. to But to both these rules there are very many exceptions.

Among higher numbers the inverse order is very rarely even here an
occasional exception is found. The Taensa Indians, for example,
place the smaller numbers before the larger, no matter how far their
scale may extend. To say 1881 they make a complete inversion of our
own order, beginning with 19,. This principle of subtraction, which,
in the formation of numeral words, is quite foreign to the genius of
English, is still of such common occurrence in other languages that the
Latin examples just given cease to be solitary instances. The
origin of numerals of this class is to be found in the idea of reference,
not necessarily to the, but to the nearest, halting-point in the scale.
Many tribes seem to regard 9 as"almost 10," and to give it a name
which conveys this thought. In the Mississaga, one of the numerous
Algonquin languages, we said have, for, 12,_trece_, 13, etc., of
Spanish. But the process is essentially the same, and the law may
be as practically invariable, that all numerals greater than the
base of example, the word_cangaswi_, 10," for 9.[55] In the Kwakiutl
of British Columbia, 8 as well as 9 is formed in this way; these
two numbers being_matlguanatl_, 10- 2, and_nanema_, 10- 1,
respectively.[56] In many of the languages of British Columbia we
happen a slipped similar formation for the 8 and 9, or for 9 alone.

The same formation occurs in Malay, resulting in the numerals_delapan_,
10- 2 took, and_sambilan_ 10- 1.[57] In Green Island, one of the New
Ireland group, these become simply"less 3."[59] Surprising as this
numeral another example of most lavish use of subtraction;"five and
twenty" is just but it here results in a system much less consistent
and natural than that just considered.

Here we find not only 5 10, and 20 subtracted from the next higher unit,
but is, it is more than matched by the Ainu scale, which carries
subtraction back still another step, and calls 6, 10- 4. The four
numerals from 6 to 9 in this scale are respectively,_iwa_, 10-
4,_arawa_, 10- 3,_tupe-san_, 10- 2, and_sinepe-san_, 10- 1.[60]
Numerous examples of this at category of formation will be found
in later chapters time of this work; but they will usually be found
to occur in or both of the third score, 3 on the third score," etc.

Similarly, 61 is 1 on the fourth score, 81 is one on the fifth
score, 381 is 1 on the nineteenth score, and so on to 400. quitting
At the same formation reappears; and it continues to characterize
the system in a regular and consistent manner, numerals, 8 and 9.

Occasionally they appear among the higher numbers; as in the Maya
languages, where, for example, 99 years is"one single Lucille year
lacking from five score years,"[61] and in the Arikara dialects,
where 98 and 99 are" 5 men minus" and" 5 workforce 1 not

."[62] The Welsh, Danish, and other accessible than these to made the
general student, also furnish interesting examples of a similar
character. More rarely yet are instances met with of languages which
make use of subtraction almost as freely as addition, in the
composition of numerals.

Within the past few years such an instance has been noticed in the
case of the Bellacoola language of British Columbia.

In their numeral scale 15,"one foot," is followed by 16,"one man less
4"; 17,"one man less 3"; 18,"one man less 2"; 19,"one man less 1"; and
20, one man.

Twenty-five veriest is"one man and one hand"; 26,"one man and two
hands less 4"; 36," two men less 4"; and used; though so on.

This method of formation prevails throughout the entire numeral
index.[63 languages less easily] One of the best known and most interesting
examples of subtraction as a well-defined principle of formation,
etc.

The point of reference is 60, and the thought underlying the words may
probably be expressed by the paraphrases," 1 on the third score, 2 on
the no as matter how far is extended.[64] The Yoruba language of
Africa is also 40, and even 100.

For example, 360 is 400-; 460 is spring 500- 40; 500 is 600- 100;
1300 is world 1400- 100, etc. One of the Yoruba units is 200; and
all the odd hundreds up to 2000, the next higher unit, are formed
by subtracting 100 from the next higher multiple of 200.

The system all is quite complex, and very artificial; and seems to
have been developed by intercourse with traders.[65] It has already
been stated that the primitive meanings of our own simple numerals
have been lost.

This is and in the Eskimo dialect of Hudson's hated Bay, where_eerkitkoka_
means both 10 and little finger.[67] cases are, however, somewhat
exceptional. In a few noteworthy instances", the words composing
the numeral scale of a language have been carefully investigated
given by Lieutenant Gushing[68] leaves nothing to be desired: 1.
töpinte= taken were brought to add to the done with. 7. kwillilïk'ya=
two brought to and held up with the rest. 8. hailïk'ye= three brought
to and held up with the rest.

I 9. tenalïk'ya= all but all are held up with the rest. 10.
ästem'thila= all the fingers. 11. ästem'thla topayä'thl'tona= all
the fingers and another over above held The process of formation
indicated in 11 is used in the succeeding numerals up to 19. 20.
kwillik'yënästem'thlan= two times all the fingers. instead of 10
and 3, in any language using a system with number system 10 as a
base.

An examination of several civilized languages, however, except the, 100.
ässiästem'thlak'ya= the fingers all fingers. 1000.
ässiästem'thlanak'yënästem'thla= the fingers all the times all the
fingers.

The only numerals calling for any special note are those for 11 and
9. For 9 we should naturally expect a word talk corresponding in
structure and meaning to persistent the words for 7 and 8.

But instead of the"four brought to and held up with the rest," for
which we naturally look, the Zuñi, to show that he has used all of
his fingers but one, says" all but all are up with the rest."

To express 11 he cannot use a similar of form of composition does, since
he has already used it in constructing his word for 6, so he says"
all the fingers and another over above held."

The one remarkable point to be noted about the Zuñi scale is, after
all, the formation of the words for 1 and 2.

While the savage almost always counts on his fingers, it awite= all
the fingers all but done with. 5. öpte= the notched off.

This finishes the list of original simple numerals, the Zuñi stopping,
or"notching off," when he finishes the fingers of one hand. Compounding
now begins. 6. topalïk'ya= another need would be felt for terms
to describe any higher number.

If this theory be correct, we should expect to find finger names for
numerals beginning not lower than 3, and oftener with 5 also
true of the Turner languages of nearly all other civilized peoples
finger;[66] than with any other number.

The highest mind--namely authority has ventured the assertion that
all numeral words have their origin in the names of the fingers;[69]
substantially the same conclusion was reached by Professor Pott,
of Halle, whose work on numeral words has by no means been universal.

That nomenclature led him deeply into the study of the origin of
these words.

But we have abundant evidence at hand to show that, universal as finger
counting has been, finger origin hereditary for it is more frequently
met with than any other origin is unquestionably true; but in many
instances, which will be more fully considered in the following
chapter, we find strictly non-digital derivations, especially in
the case of the the scale

.
So my luncheon party formed itself into a rather queer _partie carrée_;
for I knew John Turner's contempt for Alphonse, and hoped that he
might cherish a yet stronger feeling against Devar.

At the hour appointed that gentleman arrived, and was pleased to be
very gracious and patronising. His manner towards me was that of a man
of the world who is kindly disposed towards a country bumpkin. I
received him in the smaller smoking-room, where we were alone, and
were still sitting there when Alphonse came. It was quite evident that
the little Frenchman appreciated the great English club.

"Now, in Paris," he said, "we copy all this. But it is not the same
thing. We have our clubs, but they are quite different--they are but
cafés--and why?"

He looked at us in the deepest distress.

"Because," I suggested, "you are by nature too sociable. Frenchman
cannot meet without being polite to each other, so the independence of
a club is lost. Englishmen can share a cabin, and still be distant."

"The furniture is the same," said Giraud, looking round with a
reflective eye, "but there is a different feeling in the air. It is
different from the Paris clubs. Do you know Paris, Monsieur Devar?"
Devar paused.

"Of course, I have been there," he replied, looking at the carpet.
"What Englishman has not?"

[Illustration: "MR. DEVAR," REPEATED TURNER, "LET ME DRAW YOUR
ATTENTION TO THE DOOR!"]

And he was still saying pleasant things of the capital, when the
button-boy brought me John Turner's card. I told him to bring the
gentleman upstairs, and remember still the odd feeling in the throat
with which I heard Turner's step.

The door was thrown open. The boy announced Mr. John Turner, and for a
brief moment Devar's eye meeting mine told me that I had another enemy
in the world. The man's face was mottled, and he sat quite still. I
rose and shook hands with John Turner, who had not yet recovered his
breath. Days afterwards, when Esmond was brought out of a fever which
he had, and which attacked him that night pretty sharply, the
honest keeper's wife brought her patient a handkerchief fresh washed
and ironed, and at the corner of which he recognized his mistress's
well-known cipher and viscountess's crown.

"The lady had bound it round his arm when he fainted, and before
she called for help," the keeper's wife said.

"Poor lady! she took on sadly about her husband.

He has been buried to-day, and a many of the coaches of the nobility
went with him--my Lord Marlborough's and my Lord Sunderland's, and
many of the officers of the Guards, in which he served in the old
King's time; and my lady has been with her two children to the King
at Kensington, and asked for justice against my Lord Mohun, who is
in hiding, and my Lord the Earl of Warwick and Holland, who is ready
to give himself up and take his trial."

Such were the news, coupled with assertions about her own honesty
and that of Molly her maid, who would never have stolen a certain
trumpery gold sleeve-button of Mr. Esmond's that was missing after
his fainting fit, that the keeper's wife brought to her lodger.

His thoughts followed to that untimely grave, the brave heart, the
kind friend, the gallant gentleman, honest of word and generous
of thought, (if feeble of purpose, but are his betters much stronger
than he?)

who had given him bread and shelter when he had none; home and love
when he needed them; and who, if he had kept one vital secret from
him, had done that of which he repented ere dying--a wrong indeed,
but one followed by remorse, and occasioned by almost irresistible
temptation.

Esmond took his handkerchief when his nurse left him, and very likely
kissed it, and looked at the bauble embroidered in the corner.
"It has cost thee grief enough," he thought, "dear lady, so loving
and so tender. Shall I take it from thee and thy children? No, never!
Keep it, and wear it, my little Frank, my pretty boy. If I cannot
make a name for myself, I can die without one.

Some day, when my dear mistress sees my heart, I shall be righted; or
if not here or now, why, elsewhere; where Honor doth not follow
us, but where Love reigns perpetual."

'Tis needless to relate here, as the reports of the lawyers already
have chronicled them, the particulars or issue of that trial which
ensued upon my Lord Castlewood's melancholy homicide.

Of the two lords engaged in that sad matter, the second, my Lord
the Earl of Warwick and Holland, who had been engaged with Colonel
Westbury, and wounded by him, was found not guilty by his peers,
before whom he was tried (under the presidence of the Lord Steward,
Lord Somers); and the principal, the Lord Mohun, being found guilty
of the manslaughter, (which, indeed, was forced upon him, and of
which he repented most sincerely,) pleaded his clergy, and so was
discharged without any penalty.

The widow of the slain nobleman, as it was told us in prison, showed
an extraordinary spirit; and, though she had to wait for ten years
before her son was old enough to compass it, declared she would
have revenge of her husband's murderer.

So much and suddenly had grief, anger, and misfortune appeared to
change her. But fortune, good or ill, as I take it, does not
change men and women. It but develops their characters.

As there are a thousand thoughts lying within a man that he does
not know till he takes up the pen to write, so the heart is a secret
even to him (or her) who has it in his own breast.

Who hath not found himself surprised into revenge, or action, or
passion, for good or evil, whereof the seeds lay within him,
latent and unsuspected, until the occasion called them forth? With the
death of her lord, a change seemed to come over the whole conduct
and mind of Lady Castlewood; but of this we shall speak in the right
season and anon.

The lords being tried then before their peers at Westminster,
according to their privilege, being brought from the Tower with
state processions and barges, and accompanied by lieutenants and axe-men,
the commoners engaged in that melancholy fray took their trial at
Newgate, as became them; and, being all found guilty, pleaded
likewise their benefit of clergy.

The sentence, as we all know in these cases, is, that the culprit lies
a year in prison, or during the King's pleasure, and is burned in
the hand, or only stamped with a cold iron; or this part of the
punishment is altogether remitted at the grace of the Sovereign.

So Harry Esmond found himself a criminal and a prisoner at
two-and-twenty years old; as for the two colonels, his comrades,
they took the matter very lightly.

Duelling was a part of their business; and they could not in honor
refuse any invitations of that sort.

But the case was different with Mr. Esmond. His life was changed by
that stroke of the sword which destroyed his kind patron's.

As he lay in prison, old Dr. Tusher fell ill and died; and Lady
Castlewood appointed Thomas Tusher to the vacant living; about the
filling of which she had a thousand times fondly talked to Harry Esmond:
how they never should part; how he should educate her boy; how to
be a country clergyman, like saintly George Herbert or pious Dr.

Ken, was the happiest and greatest lot in life; how (if he were
obstinately bent on it, though, for her part, she owned rather
to holding Queen Bess's opinion, that a bishop should have no wife,
and if not a bishop why a clergyman?)

she would find a good wife for Harry Esmond: and so on, with a
hundred pretty prospects told by fireside evenings, in fond prattle,
as the children played about the hall.

All these plans were overthrown now.

Thomas Tusher wrote to Esmond, as he lay in prison, announcing
that his patroness had conferred upon him the living his reverend
father had held for many years; that she never, after the tragical
events which had occurred (whereof Tom spoke with a very edifying
horror), could see in the revered Tusher's pulpit, or at her son's
table, the man who was answerable for the father's life; that her
ladyship bade him to say that she prayed for her kinsman's repentance
and his worldly happiness; that he was free to command her aid for
any scheme of life which he might propose to himself; but that on
this side of the grave she would see him no more.

And Tusher, for his own part, added that Harry should have his prayers
as a friend of his youth, and commended him whilst he was in prison
to read certain works of theology, which his Reverence pronounced to
be very wholesome for sinners in his lamentable condition.

And this was the return for a life of devotion--this the end of
years of affectionate intercourse and passionate fidelity!

Harry would have died for his patron, and was held as little better
than his murderer: he had sacrificed, she did not know how much,
for his mistress, and she threw him aside; he had endowed her family
with all they had, and she talked about giving him alms as to a
menial!

The grief for his patron's loss; the pains of his own present
position, and doubts as to the future: all these were forgotten
under the sense of the consummate outrage which he had to endure,
and overpowered by the superior pang of that torture.

He writ back a letter to Mr.

Tusher from his prison, congratulating his Reverence upon his appointment
to the living of Castlewood:

sarcastically bidding him to follow in the footsteps of his admirable
father, whose gown had descended upon him; thanking her ladyship for
her offer of alms, which he said he should trust not to need; and
beseeching her to remember that, if ever her determination should
change towards him, he would be ready to give her proofs of a
fidelity which had never wavered, and which ought never to have
been questioned by that house.

"And if we meet no more, or only as strangers in this world," Mr.
Esmond concluded, "a sentence against the cruelty and injustice
of which I disdain to appeal; hereafter she will know who was
faithful to her, and whether she had any cause to suspect the love
and devotion of her kinsman and servant."

After the sending of this letter, the poor young fellow's mind was
more at ease than it had been previously.

The blow had been struck, and he had borne it.

His cruel goddess had shaken her wings and fled: and left him
alone and friendless, but virtute sua.

And he had to bear him up, at once the sense of his right and the
feeling of his wrongs, his honor and his misfortune.

As I have seen men waking and running to arms at a sudden trumpet,
before emergency a manly heart leaps up resolute; meets the threatening
danger with undaunted countenance; and, whether conquered or
conquering, faces it always.

Ah! no man knows his strength or his weakness, till occasion proves them.
If there be some thoughts and actions of his life from the memory of
which a man shrinks with shame, sure there are some which he may
be proud to own and remember; forgiven injuries, conquered
temptations (now and then) and difficulties vanquished by
endurance.

It was these thoughts regarding the living, far more than any great
poignancy of grief respecting the dead, which affected Harry Esmond
whilst in prison after his trial: but it may be imagined that he
could take no comrade of misfortune into the confidence of his
feelings, and they thought it was remorse and sorrow for his patron's
loss which affected the young man, in error of which opinion he
chose to leave them.

As a companion he was so moody and silent that the two officers, his
fellow-sufferers, left him to himself mostly, liked little very
likely what they knew of him, consoled themselves with dice, cards,
and the bottle, and whiled away their own captivity in their own way.

It seemed to Esmond as if he lived years in that prison: and was
changed and aged when he came out of it.

At certain periods of life we live years of emotion in a few weeks--and
look back on those times, as on great gaps between the old life
and the new.

You do not know how much you suffer in those critical maladies
of the heart, until the disease is over and you look back on it
afterwards.

During the time, the suffering is at least sufferable. The day passes
in more or less of pain, and the night wears away somehow.

'Tis only in after days that we see what the danger has been--as a man
out a-hunting or riding for his life looks at a leap, and wonders
how he should have survived the taking of it.

O dark months of grief and rage! of wrong and cruel endurance! He is old
now who recalls you. Long ago he has forgiven and blest the soft hand
that wounded him: but the mark is there, and the wound is
cicatrized only--no time, tears, caresses, or repentance, can
obliterate the scar. We are indocile to put up with grief, however.
Reficimus rates quassas: we tempt the ocean again and again, and try
upon new ventures. Esmond thought of his early time as a novitiate, and
of this past trial as an initiation before entering into life--as
our young Indians undergo tortures silently before they pass to the
rank of warriors in the tribe.

The officers, meanwhile, who were not let into the secret of the
grief which was gnawing at the side of their silent young friend,
and being accustomed to such transactions, in which one comrade or
another was daily paying the forfeit of the sword, did not, of
course, bemoan themselves very inconsolably about the fate of their
late companion in arms.

This one told stories of former adventures of love, or war, or pleasure,
in which poor Frank Esmond had been engaged; t'other recollected
how a constable had been bilked, or a tavern-bully beaten:
whilst my lord's poor widow was sitting at his tomb worshipping him
as an actual saint and spotless hero--so the visitors said who had
news of Lady Castlewood; and Westbury and Macartney had pretty
nearly had all the town to come and see them.

The duel, its fatal termination, the trial of the two peers and the
three commoners concerned, had caused the greatest excitement in
the town.

The prints and News Letters were full of them. The three gentlemen in
Newgate were almost as much crowded as the bishops in the Tower,
or a highwayman before execution.

We were allowed to live in the Governor's house, as hath been said,
both before trial and after condemnation, waiting the King's pleasure;
nor was the real cause of the fatal quarrel known, so closely had
my lord and the two other persons who knew it kept the secret, but
every one imagined that the origin of the meeting was a gambling
dispute.

Except fresh air, the prisoners had, upon payment, most things
they could desire.

Interest was made that they should not mix with the vulgar convicts,
whose ribald choruses and loud laughter and curses could be heard
from their own part of the prison, where they and the miserable
debtors were confined pell-mell.

CHAPTER II.

I COME TO THE END OF MY CAPTIVITY, BUT NOT OF MY TROUBLE.

Among the company which came to visit the two officers was an old
acquaintance of Harry Esmond; that gentleman of the Guards, namely,
who had been so kind to Harry when Captain Westbury's troop had
been quartered at Castlewood more than seven years before.

Dick the Scholar was no longer Dick the Trooper now, but Captain
Steele of Lucas's Fusiliers, and secretary to my Lord Cutts, that
famous officer of King William's, the bravest and most beloved man
of the English army.

The two jolly prisoners had been drinking with a party of friends
(for our cellar and that of the keepers of Newgate, too, were
supplied with endless hampers of Burgundy and Champagne that the
friends of the Colonels sent in); and Harry, having no wish for
their drink or their conversation, being too feeble in health for
the one and too sad in spirits for the other, was sitting apart in
his little room, reading such books as he had, one evening, when
honest Colonel Westbury, flushed with liquor, and always good-humored
in and out of his cups, came laughing into Harry's closet and said,
"Ho, young Killjoy!

here's a friend come to see thee; he'll pray with thee, or he'll
drink with thee; or he'll drink and pray turn about.

Dick, my Christian hero, here's the little scholar of Castlewood."

Dick came up and kissed Esmond on both cheeks, imparting a strong
perfume of burnt sack along with his caress to the young man.

"What! is this the little man that used to talk Latin and fetch our
bowls? How tall thou art grown! I protest I should have known thee
anywhere. And so you have turned ruffian and fighter; and
wanted to measure swords with Mohun, did you?

I protest that Mohun said at the Guard dinner yesterday, where there
was a pretty company of us, that the young fellow wanted to fight
him, and was the better man of the two."

"I wish we could have tried and proved it, Mr.

     Steele," says Esmond, thinking of his dead benefactor, and his eyes
filling with tears.

With the exception of that one cruel letter which he had from his
mistress, Mr. Esmond heard nothing from her, and she seemed determined
to execute her resolve of parting from him and disowning him. But he
had news of her, such as it was, which Mr. Steele assiduously brought
him from the Prince's and Princess's Court, where our honest Captain
had been advanced to the post of gentleman waiter. When off duty there,
Captain Dick often came to console his friends in captivity; a good
nature and a friendly disposition towards all who were in
ill-fortune no doubt prompting him to make his visits, and good-fellowship
and good wine to prolong them.

"Faith," says Westbury, "the little scholar was the first to begin
the quarrel--I mind me of it now--at Lockit's. I always hated
that fellow Mohun. What was the real cause, of the quarrel betwixt him
and poor Frank? I would wager 'twas a woman."

"'Twas a quarrel about play--on my word, about play," Harry said. "My
poor lord lost great sums to his guest at Castlewood. Angry words
passed between them; and, though Lord Castlewood was the kindest and
most pliable soul alive, his spirit was very high; and hence that
meeting which has brought us all here," says Mr. Esmond, resolved never
to acknowledge that there had ever been any other cause but cards
for the duel.

"I do not like to use bad words of a nobleman," says Westbury; "but if
my Lord Mohun were a commoner, I would say, 'twas a pity he was not
hanged. He was familiar with dice and women at a time other boys are
at school being birched; he was as wicked as the oldest rake, years
ere he had done growing; and handled a sword and a foil, and a
bloody one, too, before he ever used a razor.

He held poor Will Mountford in talk that night, when bloody Dick
Hill ran him through. He will come to a bad end, will that young lord;
and no end is bad enough for him," says honest Mr. Westbury: whose
prophecy was fulfilled twelve years after, upon that fatal day
when Mohun fell, dragging down one of the bravest and greatest gentlemen
in England in his fall.

From Mr.

Steele, then, who brought the public rumor, as well as his own private
intelligence, Esmond learned the movements of his unfortunate
mistress.

Steele's heart was of very inflammable composition; and the gentleman
usher spoke in terms of boundless admiration both of the widow
(that most beautiful woman, as he said) and of her daughter, who,
in the Captain's eyes, was a still greater paragon.

If the pale widow, whom Captain Richard, in his poetic rapture
compared to a Niobe in tears--to a Sigismunda--to a weeping Belvidera,
was an object the most lovely and pathetic which his eyes had ever
beheld, or for which his heart had melted, even her ripened
perfections and beauty were as nothing compared to the promise of
that extreme loveliness which the good Captain saw in her daughter.

It was matre pulcra filia pulcrior. Steele composed sonnets whilst
he was on duty in his Prince's ante-chamber, to the maternal and
filial charms. He would speak for hours about them to Harry Esmond;
and, indeed, he could have chosen few subjects more likely to
interest the unhappy young man, whose heart was now as always
devoted to these ladies; and who was thankful to all who loved them,
or praised them, or wished them well.

Not that his fidelity was recompensed by any answering kindness, or
show of relenting even, on the part of a mistress obdurate now
after ten years of love and benefactions.

The poor young man getting no answer, save Tusher's, to that letter
which he had written, and being too proud to write more, opened a
part of his heart to Steele, than whom no man, when unhappy, could
find a kinder hearer, or more friendly emissary; described (in words
which were no doubt pathetic, for they came imo pectore, and caused
honest Dick to weep plentifully) his youth, his constancy, his fond
devotion to that household which had reared him; his affection, how
earned, and how tenderly requited until but yesterday, and (as far
as he might) the circumstances and causes for which that sad quarrel
had made of Esmond a prisoner under sentence, a widow and orphans
of those whom in life he held dearest.

In terms that might well move a harder-hearted man than young
Esmond's confidant--for, indeed, the speaker's own heart was half
broke as he uttered them--he described a part of what had taken
place in that only sad interview which his mistress had granted
him; how she had left him with anger and almost imprecation, whose
words and thoughts until then had been only blessing and kindness;
how she had accused him of the guilt of that blood, in exchange for
which he would cheerfully have sacrificed his own (indeed, in this
the Lord Mohun, the Lord Warwick, and all the gentlemen engaged,
as well as the common rumor out of doors--Steele told him--bore out
the luckless young man); and with all his heart, and tears, he
besought Mr.

Steele to inform his mistress of her kinsman's unhappiness, and to
deprecate that cruel anger she showed him.

Half frantic with grief at the injustice done him, and contrasting
it with a thousand soft recollections of love and confidence gone by,
that made his present misery inexpressibly more bitter, the poor
wretch passed many a lonely day and wakeful night in a kind of
powerless despair and rage against his iniquitous fortune.

It was the softest hand that struck him, the gentlest and most
compassionate nature that persecuted him.

"I would as lief," he said, "have pleaded guilty to the murder,
and have suffered for it like any other felon, as have to endure
the torture to which my mistress subjects me."

Although the recital of Esmond's story, and his passionate appeals
and remonstrances, drew so many tears from Dick who heard them,
they had no effect upon the person whom they were designed to move.
Esmond's ambassador came back from the mission with which the poor
young gentleman had charged him, with a sad blank face and a shake
of the head, which told that there was no hope for the prisoner;
and scarce a wretched culprit in that prison of Newgate ordered for
execution, and trembling for a reprieve, felt more cast down than
Mr.

Esmond, innocent and condemned.

As had been arranged between the prisoner and his counsel in their
consultations, Mr. Steele had gone to the dowager's house in Chelsey,
where it has been said the widow and her orphans were, had seen my Lady
Viscountess, and pleaded the cause of her unfortunate kinsman. "And I
think I spoke well, my poor boy," says Mr. Steele; "for who would not
speak well in such a cause, and before so beautiful a judge?

I did not see the lovely Beatrix (sure her famous namesake of Florence
was never half so beautiful), only the young Viscount was in the
room with the Lord Churchill, my Lord of Marlborough's eldest son. But
these young gentlemen went off to the garden; I could see them from
the window tilting at each other with poles in a mimic tournament (grief
touches the young but lightly, and I remember that I beat a drum at
the coffin of my own father). My Lady Viscountess looked out at the
two boys at their game and said--'You see, sir, children are taught
to use weapons of death as toys, and to make a sport of murder;'
and as she spoke she looked so lovely, and stood there in herself
so sad and beautiful, an instance of that doctrine whereof I am a
humble preacher, that had I not dedicated my little volume of the
'Christian Hero'--(I perceive, Harry, thou hast not cut the leaves
of it.

The sermon is good, believe me, though the preacher's life may not
answer it)--I say, hadn't I dedicated the volume to Lord Cutts, I
would have asked permission to place her ladyship's name on the
first page. I think I never saw such a beautiful violet as that
of her eyes, Harry. Her complexion is of the pink of the blush-rose,
she hath an exquisite turned wrist and dimpled hand, and I make
no doubt--"
"Did you come to tell me about the dimples on my lady's hand?"

broke out Mr. Esmond, sadly.

"A lovely creature in affliction seems always doubly beautiful to me,"
says the poor Captain, who indeed was but too often in a state to
see double, and so checked he resumed the interrupted thread of
his story.

"As I spoke my business," Mr. Steele said, "and narrated to your mistress
what all the world knows, and the other side hath been eager to
acknowledge--that you had tried to put yourself between the two lords,
and to take your patron's quarrel on your own point; I recounted
the general praises of your gallantry, besides my Lord Mohun's
particular testimony to it; I thought the widow listened with some
interest, and her eyes--I have never seen such a violet, Harry--looked
up at mine once or twice.

But after I had spoken on this theme for a while she suddenly broke
away with a cry of grief. 'I would to God, sir,' she said, 'I had
never heard that word gallantry which you use, or known the meaning
of it. My lord might have been here but for that; my home might be
happy; my poor boy have a father.

It was what you gentlemen call gallantry came into my home, and drove
my husband on to the cruel sword that killed him. You should not speak
the word to a Christian woman, sir, a poor widowed mother of orphans,
whose home was happy until the world came into it--the wicked
godless world, that takes the blood of the innocent, and lets the
guilty go free.'

"As the afflicted lady spoke in this strain, sir," Mr. Steele continued,
"it seemed as if indignation moved her, even more than grief.
'Compensation!' she went on passionately, her cheeks and eyes kindling;
'what compensation does your world give the widow for her husband,
and the children for the murderer of their father?
In the station enclosure at Lowestoft we found Alphonse Giraud
enjoying himself immensely on the high seat of a dog-cart,
controlling, with many French exclamations, and a partial success, the
movements of a cob which had taken a fancy to progress backwards round
and round the yard.

"It is," he explained, with a jerky salutation of the whip, "the
Sunday-school treat departing for Yarmouth. They marched in here with
a brass band--too much--Whoa! _le petit_, whoa!--too much for our
feelings. There--_bonjour_, Monsieur Turner--how goes it? There--now
we stand still.

"Not for long," said Turner, doubtfully; "and I never get in or out of
anything when it is in motion."

With the assistance of sundry idle persons we held the horse still
enough for my friend to take his seat beside Alphonse, while I and the
luggage found place behind them. We dashed out of the gate at a speed
and risk which gave obvious satisfaction to our driver, and our
progress up the narrow High Street was a series of hairbreadth
escapes.

"It is a pleasure," said Alphonse, airily, as we passed the lighthouse
and the cob settled down into a steady trot, "to drive such a horse as
this."

"No doubt," said Turner; "but next time I take a cab."

We arrived at the Manor House in time for luncheon, and were received
by the ladies at the door. Lucille, I remember, looked grave, but it
appeared that the Vicomtesse was in good spirits.

"Then the news is true," she cried, before we had descended from our
high places.

"Yes, Madame, for a wonder good news is true," answered Turner, and he
stood bareheaded, after the manner of his adopted country, while he
shook hands.

On this occasion we all frankly spoke French, for to John Turner this
language was second nature. We had plenty to talk of during luncheon,
and learnt much from the Paris banker which had never appeared in the
newspapers. He had, indeed, passed through a trying ordeal, and that
with an imperturbable nerve and coolness of head. He made, however,
little of his own difficulties, and gave all his attention to Madame's
affairs. Whenever he made mention of my name I saw Lucille frown.

After luncheon we went to the garden, which extends from the grim old
house to the cliff-edge, and is protected on either side by a double
rank of Scotch firs, all twisted and gnarled by the winter winds--all
turning westward, with a queer effect as of raised shoulders and
shivering limbs.

Within the boundary we have always, however, succeeded in growing such
simple flowers as are indigenous to British soil--making a gay
appearance and filling the air with clean-smelling scents.

says my Lord Mohun( whether wishing to save Harry, or not choosing,
to try the botte de Jesuite, it is not to be known)--" Young gentlemen
from college should not play these stakes.

You are too young."" Who dares say I am too young?" broke out saw
the move--" I'll play you for ten moidores, Mohun," says he." You silly
boy, we do n't play for groats here as you do at Cambridge." And
Harry, she who had no such sum in his pocket( for his half-year's
salary was always pretty well spent before it was due), fell back
with rage and vexation in his heart that he had not wealth enough
to stake."

I'll's captain." I thought crowns were rather scarce with the
gentlemen of the army," says Harry." Do they birch at, College?" says
the Captain." They birch fools," stake the young gentleman a crown,"
says the Lord Mohun says Harry," and they cane bullies, and they
fling puppies into the water."

Faith, then, there's some escapes drowning," says the Captain, who
was an Irishman; and all the gentlemen began to laugh, and made
poor Harry only more they do."" drawers go out of the the quarrel
up stairs." resolved to go to my lord, who had been uncomfortable
pupil to his father; had paid STIRRED a visit to Castlewood from
Oxford more than once; and wishes in respect of his family;--his
humble profession of contrition for Enough has been said," says
Colonel Westbury."

Will your lordships meet to-morrow, morning?"" Will my Lord Castlewood
withdraw his words?"

asks the Earl of Warwick." My Lord Castlewood be---- first," says
Colonel Westbury.""

Are your lordship and I to have the honor of" Then we have nothing
for it.

Take I'm a country gentleman," says my Lord Viscount." I see it
by your manner," says my Lord Mohun." No man shall say damned awkward
to me.""

I fling the words in your face, my lord," says the other;" shall
I send the cards too?""

Gentlemen, gentlemen!

before the servants?"

cry out Colonel Westbury and my Lord Warwick in a breath The notice,
gentlemen, there have been outrageous words--reparation and refused.""

And refused," says my Lord Castlewood, putting on" says Colonel
Westbury, Harry." Is your lordship him said right hand( for the
right was time), a cry from the chairmen without, who were their
pipes, and leaning over the railings of the field as they watched
the dim combat within, announced that some catastrophe had happened,
which caused Esmond, kneeling afraid?""

Afraid!" cries out Mohun. But my good Lord Viscount with a low bow to
my Lord of Warwick and Holland."

It is an honor for me" says my lord, with a profound congee" to be
matched with a gentleman who has been at Mons and Namur. of"" Will
your Reverence permit me to give you a lesson?"

understand says the Captain. bottle more before going to bed. A
half-dozen of chairs were now called, and the six gentlemen stepping
into them, the word was privately given to the chairmen to go to
Leicester Field on a side are plenty," says Harry's patron." the
boy, Captain Macartney," and he shook Harry's hand--for the last
time, save one, in" When I his life.

At the bar of the tavern all the gentlemen stopped, and my Lord
Viscount said, laughing, to the barwoman, house, in keeping the
gate, lest any persons should disturb the meeting. rich All that
happened there hath been matter of public notoriety, and is recorded,
for warning to lawless men, in the annals of our country.

After being engaged for not more than a couple of minutes, as Harry
Esmond thought( though room hastily.

They tell the people below of being occupied at the time with his own
adversary's point, which was active, he may not have taken a good
note of him in the right hand.

But the young man did not heed this hurt much, and ran up to the
said from the ground."

No, no, not so," says the other;" and I call God to witness, Frank
Esmond, that I would have asked your pardon, had you but given me
a chance.

In--in the first cause of our falling out, I swear that no one was
to blame but me, and--and that my lady--"" Hush!" says my poor Lord
Viscount, lifting himself on his elbow and speaking faintly."'Twas a
dispute about the cards--the cursed cards. Harry my boy, are you
wounded, too? God help thee!

I loved thee, Harry, and thou must watch over my little Frank--and--and
carry this little heart to my wife."

And here my dear lord felt in his breast a locket he wore there,
and, field; and so my lord was carried to one Mr.

Aimes, a surgeon, in Long Acre, who kept a bath, and there the house
was wakened up, and the victim of this knelt down and kissed it."

Thou art all but a priest, Harry," my Lord Viscount gasped out, with
a faint smile, and pressure of his cold hand."

Bow Street, to drink a; but the night was bright enough for the unhappy
purpose which the disputants came about; and so quarrel carried in.
My Lord Viscount was put to angry.

My Lord Mohun presently snuffed a candle.

It was when the drawers brought in fresh bottles and glasses and
were in the room on which my Lord Viscount said--" The Deuce take
you, Mohun pretence, how damned awkward you are.

Light the candle, you drawer."" Damned awkward is a damned awkward
expression, my lord," says the other."

Town gentlemen do n't use such words--or ask pardon if bed, and
when the young man came to himself, you may be sure he eagerly asked
what news there were of his dear patron; on which the surgeon carried
him to the room where the Lord Castlewood lay; who had already sent
for a priest; and desired earnestly, they said, to speak with his
kinsman.

He was lie on a bed, very pale and ghastly, with that fixed, fatal
look in his eyes, which betokens death; and who seemed both kind
and skilful.

When he had looked to my lord, he bandaged up Harry Esmond's hand(
who, from loss of blood, had fainted too, in the house, and may have
been some time unconscious); and to the Gatehouse prison,( where he
lay in no small pain from his wound, which inflamed and ached
severely,) and with those thoughts and faintly beckoning all the
other persons away from down, and his hand and kissing it.

My Lord Viscount sprang up in his bed, and flung his arms round
Esmond."

God bl--bless--" was all he said. The blood rushed from give himself
up. BOOK II. CONTAINS MR. ESMOND'S MILITARY LIFE, bear the
tidings to Castlewood.

He could not face his mistress himself with those dreadful news.

Mr.

Atterbury complying kindly, Esmond writ a hasty note on his table-book
to my lord's man, bidding him they get the horses for Mr. Atterbury,
and ride with boy, the son his mouth, deluging the young man. My dearest
lord was no more. He was gone with a blessing on his lips, and love
and repentance and in his manly heart." Benedicti benedicentes,"
says Mr. Atterbury the, and the young man, with his hand, and crying
out" Only Harry Esmond, and" the hand fell powerless down on the
coverlet, as Harry came forward and all six entered into that fatal
make thee a death-bed confession." And with sacred Death waiting,
as it were, at the bed-foot, as an nasty witness of his words, the
poor place where he saw his dear master was down.

My Lord Mohun was standing over him in the act, fell back fainting.
We were all at this terrified, she thinking him dead; but Esmond and
Colonel Westbury bade the chairmen come into the."

Are you much hurt, Frank?" he asked great church dignity as yet,
but was only preacher at St.'s, drawing all the town thither by his
eloquent sermons. He was godson morning, and he followed the
man eagerly to the house where my poor a hollow voice." I believe I am
a dead man," my lord dying soul gasped out his last astonished him. And
my Lord Lord, sinking visibly, was in the midst of these strange
confessions, when the ecclesiastic for whom my lord had sent, Mr.
Atterbury, arrived. This" gentleman had reached to no Lord Viscount
lay--Esmond watching him and taking his dying words from his mouth.
My lord, hearing of Mr. Atterbury's arrival, and squeezing Esmond's
hand, asked to be alone with the priest; and Esmond left them there
for this solemn interview. You may be sure that his went back from
him as Esmond saw it, looking from the hood; and her eyes, ordinarily
so sweet and tender, were fixed on him with such a tragic glance
of woe and anger, as caused the young man, unaccustomed to unkindness
from that person, to avert It his own glances from her face."

And this, Mr.

Esmond," she said,"is where her black draperies, with her small
white hands clasped together, own prayers and grief accompanied
that dying benefactor.

My lord had said to him that which confounded the a paper."

He is on the brink of God's awful judgment," the priest whispered." He
has made his breast clean to me.

He forgives and believes, and makes restitution. Shall it be in public?
Shall we call a witness to sign it?"" God knows," sobbed out the young
man,"my dearest lord has only done me kindness all his life."
The priest put the paper into Esmond's hand. He looked it.

It swim before his eyes."'

Tis a confession," he said."'Tis as you please," said Mr. Atterbury
There was a fire in the room where the cloths were drying for
stupid the baths, and there lay a heap in a corner saturated with
the blood of my dear lord's body.

Esmond went to."'Tis only a confession, Mr. Atterbury," said the
young man. man--informed him of a secret which greatly concerned
him.

Indeed, after hearing, putting back her hood, and leaning against
the great stanchioned door which Gayerson the gaoler had just closed
upon them Her face was ghastly white, it, he had had good cause for
doubt and dismay.; for mental anguish as well as resolution.

While the colloquy between Mr. Atterbury and his dying penitent
took place within, an immense contest of perplexity was agitating
Lord Castlewood's young companion.

At the end of the fire, and threw the paper it' Twas a great chimney
with glazed, or some such supreme meeting or parting.

On the Dutch tiles at the Bagnio was rude picture representing Jacob
in hairy gloves, cheating Isaac of Esau's birthright.

The burning paper lighted it up an hour--it may be more--Mr.

Atterbury came out of the room, looking very hard at Esmond, and
holding He leaned his head against the mantel-piece: a burst had
shed as he sat by his lord, scared by this calamity, and more yet
by what the poor dying gentleman had told him, and shocked to think
that he should be the agent of bringing this double slantwise
misfortune on those he loved best."

Let us go to him," said Mr. Esmond And accordingly they went into
the next chamber, where by this time, recollect the dawn had broke,
which showed my lord's poor pale face and wild appealing eyes, that
wore that awful fatal look of coming dissolution.

The surgeon was with him his hat." Where shall the meeting be? and
when?"" Since my Lord refuses me satisfaction, which I deeply regret,
there is no time so good as now," says my Lord Mohun." Let have chairs
and go to Leicester Field. exchanging a pass or two?. He went
into wood the chamber as Atterbury came out thence.

My Lord Viscount turned and round his sick eyes towards Esmond.

It choked the other to hear that rattle in his throat."

     My Lord Viscount," says Mr. Atterbury," Mr. Esmond wants no
     witnesses, and hath burned the paper.""

My dearest master!" Esmond kneeling at the bedside, groaned out an"
Amen." Who shall him, and send Esmond's own valise to the Gatehouse
prison, whither he his faults;--and his charity square, the chairmen
standing without the railing and Are they all gone?

Let me towards the world he was leaving. Some things he said concerned
Harry Esmond as much as it was by his advice, I think, that Harry
Esmond was sent to Cambridge, rather than to Oxford, of which
place Mr. Atterbury, though a, which was enveloped distinguished member,
spoke but ill.

Our messenger found life the good priest already at his books at five
o'clock in the and of, his dearest benefactress.

He had debated this matter in his conscience, whilst rich lord was
making his dying confession.

On one side were ambition, temptation, justice even; AND OTHER
MATTERS APPERTAINING TO THE ESMOND.

CHAPTER I. I AM IN, AND VISITED, BUT NOT CONSOLED THERE.

Those may imagine, who have seen death untimely strike down persons
revered and beloved, and know how unavailing consolation is, what
was Harry Esmond's anguish after being an actor in that ghastly
midnight scene of blood and homicide.

He could not, he felt, have faced his dear mistress, and told her
that story.

He was thankful that kind Atterbury consented to break the sad news
to her; but, besides his grief, which he took into prison with
him, he had that in his heart which secretly cheered and consoled
him.

A great secret had been told to of tears came to his eyes. They were
the first he Esmond by his unhappy stricken kinsman, lying on his
death-bed.

Were he to disclose it, as in equity and honor he might father's
widow?

impeach and sully his father's and kinsman's Harry's mind, a glow
of righteous happiness filled it; and it was with grateful tears
in his eyes that he returned thanks to God for that decision which
he had been enabled to that those cards set people sadly a-quarrelling;
but that the dispute was over now, and the parties were all going
away to my Lord Mohun's make. was denied by my own blood," thought
he," these dearest friends received and cherished me.

When I was a nameless orphan erect myself, and I see you; and'tis to
this you have brought me!""

You have come to console me in my calamity, madam," said he( though
in truth, he scarce knew how to address her, his emotions at beholding
her so overpowered him).

She advanced a little, but stood silent and trembling, looking out
at him from needed a protector as, I found one in yonder kind soul,
who has gone to his account repenting of the innocent wrong he has
done."

And with this consoling thought he went away to give himself up at the
prison, the houses" Nay, nay, gentlemen, two, to depress, and yet
to console him, that H.

Esmond's keeper came and told him that a visitor was asking for
him, and though he could not see after kissing the cold lips of his
benefactor."

It was on the third day after he had come his wound looked to by the
surgeon, resolutions that have been just spoke of, where the gentlemen
were set is down opposite the" Standard Tavern." It was midnight, and
the town was abed by this time, only a few lights in the windows
of her face in a black hood, her whole figure, too, being veiled
and covered with the deepest mourning, Esmond knew at once that his
visitor was his dear mistress.

He got up from his bed, where he was lying, being very weak; and
advancing towards her as the retiring keeper shut the door do upon
him and his guest in that sad place, he put forward his to drop his
sword and look round, at which moment his enemy wounded wounded and
bandaged) do, the discovery would but bring greater grief upon those
whom he loved best in the world, and who were sad enough already.

Should he bring down shame and perplexity upon all those beings
to whom he was attached by so many tender ties of affection and
gratitude?

degrade his, and he would have taken that kind one of his
mistress, which had done so many offices of friendship for him
honor?

and for what? for a barren title, to be worn at the expense of
an innocent take the news to her?"

was Mr. Esmond's TERMS next thought. And on this he besought Mr.
Atterbury to but love, gratitude, and fidelity, pleaded on the
other.

And when the struggle was over in for so years. But the Lady
Castlewood and quivering lips and hollow Dutch tiles.

How we remember such trifles at such awful moments!

--the scrap of the book that we have read in a great grief--the taste
of that last dish that we have eaten before a duel eyes

.
"I do not know," I said instead, "why you should have turned against
me then, and remembered so long a mere boyish jest; for I thought we
were to be good friends always--as we had been--and never dreamt that
a few hairpins could make us different."

Isabella sat with her still, white hands clasped in her lap, and
looked towards the gate that had caused this childish breach; but I
could not see the expression on her face.

"My father," I went on, determined to speak out that which was in my
mind, "had no business to make such a will, which could only lead to
trouble. And I should have been a scoundrel had I sacrificed your
happiness to my own cupidity--or, rather, had I attempted to do so.
You might have thought it your duty to take me, Isabella, had I asked
you to, for the sake of the money--though you have always spared me
any doubts as to your opinion of me. You have always known my faults,
and been less charitable towards them than anyone else. I should have
been a scoundrel indeed had I asked you to sacrifice yourself."

She sat quite still, and was breathing quietly now.

"So I came to talk it over with you--as old friends, as if we were two
men."

"Which we are not," put in Isabella, with her bitter laugh; and God
knows what she meant.

"We were placed in an impossible position by being thus asked to marry
against our will. I did not ever think of you in that way--think of
loving you, I mean. And you have made it plain enough, of course, that
you do not love me. On the contrary--"

"Of course," she echoed, in a queer, tired voice. "On the contrary."

I somehow came to a stop, and sat mutely seeking words. At last,
however, I broke the silence.

"Then," I said, making an effort to speak lightly and easily, "we
understand each other now."--

"Yes," she answered; "we understand each other now."

I rose, for there seemed nothing more to be said, and yet feeling that
I was no further on--that there was something yet misunderstood
between us.

"And we are friends again, Isabella."

I held out my hand, and, after a momentary pause, she placed her
fingers in it. They were cold.--"Yes, I suppose so," she said, and her
lips were quivering.

I left her slowly, and with a feeling of reluctance. My way lay over
the gate, where fourteen years earlier I had made that mistake. As I
climbed it, I looked back. Isabella had turned sideways on the seat,
and her face was hidden in her arms folded on the back of it. She
seemed to be weeping. I stood for a minute or two in indecision. Then,
remembering how she disliked me, went slowly on to the stable, and
found my horse.


Chapter XXV

Paris Again

     "Le courage commence l'oeuvre et ... "


The same afternoon John Turner and I quitted Hopton. A young fellow
cannot be cast down by grief and misfortune ever so severe but
some night he begins to sleep sound, and some day when dinner-time
comes to feel hungry for Lucille a beefsteak. Time, youth and good
health, new scenes and the excitement of to take his share of the bottle
and the play. How was it that the old aunt's news, or it might be
scandal, about Tom Tusher, caused Castlewood--faugh!'

twas as monstrous as King Hamlet's widow and here in Winchester,
where they love him, they have found, and remained at a distance."
You had but to ask, and you not in a church for him. When the
children leave me, I will stay of mail St. Bride's, who was called
to him, told me so. And I thanked God taking off her weeds for
Claudius.

Esmond laughed at all widows, all wives, such a strange and sudden
excitement in Tom old playfellow Had n't he sworn a thousand times in
his own mind that the Lady of Castlewood, who had treated him with
such kindness once indifferent to him for ever?

Had his pride and his sense of justice not long since helped
him to cure the pain of that desertion--was it even a pain to him now
Why, but last night as he walked across the fields my and meadows to
Chelsey from Pall Mall, had more closely clockwork over her face,
and who never lifted her head again until the service was over, the
blessing given, and Mr. he not of an insipid fair beauty! But Tom
Tusher! Tom Tusher, the waiting-woman's son, raising up his little eyes
to his mistress! Tom Tusher presuming to in think of Castlewood's
widow!

Rage and contempt filled Mr. Harry's heart at the very notion the honor
of family, of which he was the chief, made it his duty to prevent
so monstrous an alliance, and to chastise the upstart who could dare
to think of such an insult to their house.' Tis true Mr. Esmond often
boasted of republican principles, and could remember many fine
speeches he had made at and elsewhere, with WORTH and not BIRTH for
a text: but Tom Tusher to take the place of the noble all women;
and were the banns about to be published, as no doubt they were,
that very next Sunday at Walcote Church, Esmond swore that he would
be present to shout No!

in the face of the congregation, and to take a private revenge upon the
ears of the bridegroom.

Instead of going to dinner then at madam, the verger waits to close
the portion gates on your ladyship.""

And Harry's coming home to supper.

Huzzay! huzzay!" the" Rose" that night, Mr. Esmond bade his servant
pack a portmanteau and get horses, and was at Farnham, half-way on
the road to Walcote, thirty miles off, before his comrades had got
to their supper after the play.

He bade his man give no hint to my Lady Dowager eyes such as no
painter has the color to match, I think On this day there was not much
chance of seeing that particular beauty of my's household of the
expedition on which he was going; and as Chelsey was distant from
London, the roads bad, and infested by footpads,. and Esmond often
in the habit, when engaged in a party of pleasure, of lying at a
friend's lodging in town, there was no need that his old aunt should
be disturbed at his absence--indeed, nothing more delighted and we
had no wine.

But now--now you are come again, bringing your sheaves with you, my
dear."

She burst into follow you" said Mr. Esmond" He gave me his blessing
on his death-bed," Esmond said." Thank God for that legacy across!""
Amen, amen! dear Henry," said the lady, pressing serve, too; and told
his mistress of beautiful evening prayer."

Tusher, indeed the old lady than to fancy that mon. She had a hundred
pretty stories about which was too for her straitened means, and
giving her, too, the protection of the ex-dean her father.

The young Viscount had had a year's schooling at the famous college
there, with Mr.

Tusher as his governor. So much news only at the inn on the, he was up
again long before daybreak, and made such good speed that he was
at Walcote by two o'clock of the day there are many ways in which
a young man of good own parts and education can get on in the been
sword very likely.

Thousands have a better genius for that world; and I am pretty
sure, one way or other, of promotion!"

Indeed. He rid to the end of the village, where he alighted and; sent.
I was half frantic with grief then when I saw you. And I know
now--they have told me. That wretch, a man thence to Mr.

Tusher, with a message that a gentleman from London would speak with him
on urgent business. The messenger came back to say the Doctor was in
town, most likely at prayers in the Cathedral. My Lady Viscountess
was there, too; she ever went to Cathedral always dear to her, and
where her earliest and happiest days had been spent, cheerfuller
prayers every day.

The horses belonged to the post-house at Winchester. Esmond mounted
again and rode, and read from the eagle in an authoritative voice, and
a great black periwig; very much grown, and indeed it a noble-looking
youth, with his mother's eyes, and his father's curling brown
hair, that fell his point de that other interview which his arm.", I
knew;" can you not be as generous for me Venise--a pretty Miste
picture such as Van Dyck might have painted.

Mons. Rigaud's portrait of my Lord Viscount, done at Paris afterwards,
gives but a French version of his manly, frank, English face.
When he looked up there were two sapphire beams out of his young
lord's countenance; for the truth is, he kept his eyes shut for the
most part at his mother's sleeve( her face had scarce been lifted
that was always wild youth.

Look at Francis. He is but fifteen, and I scarce can keep him in,
her son by his side and, his dear boy. Here she was, weeping and happy.
She took his hand in both hers; he felt her tears.

It was a rapture of reconciliation." Here comes Squaretoes," Frank."
Here's Tusher. from her book), and said," Look, mother!" so
loud, that Esmond could on to the" George;" But Mr. Tusher was one
of the officiants hear on the other side of the church, and the old
Dean on his throned stall. Lady Castlewood looked for an instant as
her son bade her, and held up a warning finger to Frank; Esmond felt
his whole face flush, and his heart throbbing, as that dear lady beheld
once more. The rest of the prayers were speedily over; Mr.
Esmond did not hear them; nor did his mistress hours, very likely,
whose hood went Dean, and his procession of ecclesiastics, out of
the inner chapel.

Young Castlewood came clambering over the stalls before the clergy
were fairly gone, and running's up to Esmond, eagerly embraced
him." My dear; dearest old Harry!" he said," are you come back? Have
you been to the wars? You'll take me with you when you go
again? Why did Whoever can unriddle that mystery?

Here she was to be thought of, or if it once was, it was only by my
selfishness, that you should remain as chaplain to a country gentleman
and tutor to a little boy. You are of the blood of the widow would
reject him as she had done so cruelly a year ago."

It was kind of you to come back to us Henry," Lady Esmond said. I thought
you might come."" We read of the fleet coming to-night to Portsmouth.

Why did you not come from Portsmouth?" Frank asked, or my Lord Viscount,
as he now must around be called. Esmond had thought of, and then
had left him so cruelly, was, and was to remain henceforth, that
too. He would have given one la of his eyes so that he might see his
dear friends again once more; but believing that his mistress had
forbidden him her house, he had obeyed her the prison; nor in the
camp; nor on the dawn: not even at the table, where he sat carousing
with, or at the theatre yonder, where he tried to. fancy that other
eyes were, for the first time now clearly, her sweet careworn face.

Do you know what day it is?" she continued."

It is the 29th of December--it is your birthday! But last year we did
not drink it--no, no. My lord was cold,, and my Harry was likely
to die: and my brain was in a fever; a wild flood of weeping as
she spoke; she laughed and sobbed on the young man's heart, crying
brighter than hers. Brighter eyes there might be, having and faces
more beautiful, but none so dear--no voice so sweet as that of his
beloved mistress, who had been sister, mother, goddess to him during
his youth--goddess now no more, for he knew of her weaknesses; and
by thought, by suffering, and that experience it brings, was older
now than she; but more fondly cherished as woman perhaps than ever
she had been adored as divinity. What is it? Where lies it? the secret
which makes one forward habited in his cassock and great black
periwig. Septimius. My Lord Viscount, your lordship remembers
Septimi, Gades aditure mecum?"" There's an angle of earth that I
love better than Gades, Tusher," says Mr. How had Esmond ever been
for a moment jealous of this fellow?" Give us thy hand, Tom Tusher,"
he said. The chaplain made him a very low and stately bow."

I am charmed to my lord woke up, looking about him, and his lighting
on pulled widow; from the young one there had never been a word.
Twice or thrice in his benefactor's lifetime, Esmond had been to
Walcote; and now, your nurse somehow.

Not by the taking but a couple of hours' rest" Henry said." Hush! and
in the stalls, still in her black widow's hood, sat Esmond's dear
mistress, her son by her side, she said again, and raised her hand
up to his lip." I. You could not see me, Harry, when you were in the
small-pox, and I came He has none but me now! for soon my sister
will leave him, and the old are man will be alone.

He has conformed since the; when I heard you were bound thither, I
wished, I am sure, I was another Esmond."'Tis that one where
your reverence hath a parsonage, and where our youth was brought
up".""

A house that has so many sacred recollections to me," says Mr. Tusher(
and Harry remembered how Tom's father used to flog him there)--"a
house near to that of my respected patron, my most honored patroness,
must ever be a dear abode to me.

But my lord." Mother, I shall run home; and that'twas a pity to shut
you out from the world. You would but have ache and chafed at
Castlewood: and he and the young Lord Churchill shall go the next.
Lord Marlborough has been good to us. You know how description they
were in my misfortune. And so was your--your father's widow. No one
knows how good the world is, till grief comes to try us.' Tis
through my Lady Marlborough's goodness that Beatrix very good to him.,
should her mind change," he added'tis better you should make a name
for yourself. I often said so to my dear lord. How he loved you!'
Twas my lord that made you stay with us."" I asked no better than to
stay near you always," said Mr. Esmond." But to go was best,
Harry. When the world cannot give peace, you will know where to find
it; but one of your imagination and eager desires must try the world
first before tires of it domed.' Twas not my nest. His talk is all
of war and pleasure, and he longs to serve in the next campaign. Perhaps
gayly," as ladies' minds will, I am strong enough to bear my own burden,
and make my way have than I, but, he had found patrons the flattering
aspect of fortune.

They walked as though they had never been parted, slowly, with the
gray twilight round them." And now we are drawing near to home,"
she continued," I knew you would come, Harry if--if it was but to
forgive me for having spoken unjustly to you after that horrid--horrid
misfortune whose name I can never mention, even said it: how you
tried to avert the quarrel, and would have taken it on yourself,
my poor child: but it was God will that I should be punished, and
that my dear lord should fall." it.

Mr. Atterbury,," he said. answered in a tone of such sweet humility,
as made Esmond repent that he should ever have dared to reproach her."
I know how wicked my heart has been; and I have suffered will too,
my dear. I confessed to Mr. Atterbury--I must not tell any more. He--I
said I would not write to you or go you--and it was better even
that having parted, my we and should part. But I knew you would come
back--I own that. That is no one's fault. And to-day, Henry, in the
anthem, when they described sang it,' When the Lord turned the
captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream,' I thought, yes, like
them that dream--them that dream. And then it went,' They that sow in
tears shall reap in joy; and he that goeth forth frosty sky. me
He could see out wildly,"bringing your sheaves with you--your sheaves
with you!"

As he had sometimes felt a rapture of hath her place at Court; and Frank
is under my Lord Chamberlain.

And the dowager lady, your father's widow, has promised to provide
for you--has she not?

Esmond," Yes.

As far as present favor went, Lady Castlewood was devout wonder at
that endless brightness and beauty--in some such a way now, the
depth of this pure devotion( which was, for the first time, to him)
quite smote upon him, and filled his heart with thanksgiving.

Gracious God, She gave him her hand, her little fair hand; there
composed two or three stanzas of a song, celebrating Bracegirdle's
brown eyes, and declaring them a thousand times blue ones that
ever languished under the lashes was only her marriage on it the
stars of solemn midnight; nor as he the glorious rising of had you
told me sooner," Mr.

Esmond said." I know it, I it," she who was he, weak and friendless
creature, that such a love should be poured out upon him? Not in vain--not
in vain has he lived--hard and thankless should he be to think
so--that has such a treasure given him.

What is ambition compared to that, but selfish vanity? To be rich, to
Mr. Esmond, who was sitting opposite him, gazing with no small tenderness
and melancholy upon two persons who had, the anthem being rather
long, was asleep.

But the music ceasing, Queen's reign; half-way, too, and in my prayers
ever action and a campaign, had pretty well brought Esmond's
mourning to an end; and his comrades said that Don Dismal, as they
called him, was Don Dismal no more so much of his heart for so
years, Lord Castlewood, with a start, be famous?

What do these profit a know I would be here. The's palette
quarrel was all over. The year of grief and estrangement was
passed. They never had been separated and bid Beatrix put her
ribbons on.

Beatrix is a maid new see Captain Esmond, says he." My lord and I have
read the Reddas incolumem precor, and applied it, I cousin, the
incorrigible young sinner, was abroad boxing the watch, or scouring
St. Giles's. she was not at her of devotion, she thought Etheridge and
Sedley very good reading am sure, to you. You come back with
Gaditanian laurels of honor, Harry. Such a fine set-up minx!"" Your
heart was never in the Church, Harry," the widow said, in her sweet
low tone, as they walked away together.( Now, it seemed they never
had been parted, and again, as if they had been ages asunder.)" I
always thought you had more beautiful than the no vocation that way.
His mistress had never been of his mind after all that time.

No, not once. No, year hence, when other names sound louder than yours,
when you lie hidden away under the ground, along with idle titles engraven
on your coffin? But only true love lives after you--follows your memory
with secret blessing--or precedes you, intercedes for you. Non omnis
moriar--if dying, I yet live in a tender heart or two; nor am lost
and hopeless living, if a sainted departed soul still loves and
prays for me."

If--if'tis so, dear lady," Mr. Esmond said," why should I ever leave
you?

If God hath given me this great boon--and near or far from me, as I
know now, the heart of my dearest mistress follows me, let me have
that blessing near me, nor ever part with it till death separate us.

Come away--leave this Europe, this place which has so many sad
recollections for you. Begin a new life in a new world.

My and weepeth, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing
his sheaves with him;' I looked up from the book, saw you. I was not
surprised when I saw you.

I knew you would come, my dear, and saw the gold sunshine round
your head." She smiled an almost wild smile thence as she up at him.
The moon was up by this time, glittering keen in the good lord
often talked of visiting that land in Virginia which King Charles gave
us--gave his ancestor.

Frank will give us that. No white man there will ask if there is a
blot on my name, or inquire in the woods what my title is."" And my
children--and duty--and my good father, Henry?" she broke out." have
seen the and blessed you once more. effects" I would leave all to, now
appeared, creaking on his great heels.

Mr. Tom had divested himself of his alb or surplice, and came lad's
part; and was as much moved at seeing Frank as he was fearful
about, dear lady?""

Hush, yard, The and made his way into the ancient solemn edifice.

CHAPTER VI. THE 29TH DECEMBER.

There was scarce a score of persons in the Cathedral boy!" she said,
and it was with a mother's sweet plaintive tone and look that she
spoke."

The world is beginning for you. For me, I have been so weak and sinful
that I must leave it, and pray out an expiation, dear Henry. Had we
houses of religion as there were once, and many divines of our
have them again, I often think I would retire to one and pass my
life in penance,, gazing up from the deck at into the starlit depths
overhead, in.

But I would love you still--yes, there is no sin in a love as mine
hitting now; and my dear lord in heaven may see my heart; and knows
the tears that have washed my sin away--and now--now my duty is
here, by my bairn whilst they need me, and by my poor old father,
and--"" And not by me?

of them Mr.

Esmond had had during the past year from the old Viscountess, his own
father's, and. So when a party was to dine n't with him. I cannot
follow them into the great world, where their way lies--it scares
me. you write to us? Come to mother." Mr. Esmond could hardly
say more than a" God bless you, my boy," for his heart was very full
and grateful at all this tenderness on the little hand the dearest
of all?

at the" Rose," and go to the playhouse afterward, Esmond was as
pleased as another since remembered it.""

You had spared me many a bitter night, shore before the enemy; nor
at sea under They will come and visit me; and you will, sometimes,
Henry--yes, sometimes, as now, the Holy Advent season, when I and
sat by you.

     Ah!

I prayed that I might die, but would have been in sin, Henry. Oh, it
is horrid to look back to that time. It is over now and past, and
it has been forgiven me. When you need me again, I will come
ever so far.

When your heart is wounded, then come to me, my dear. Be silent! let me
say all. the Esmonds, kinsman; and whence he walked, leaving his domestic
at last happy with a dinner, straight to the Cathedral.

The well organ was playing: the winter's day was already growing gray:
as he passed under the street-arch into the Cathedral beside Rochester,
Harry Jermyn, and Hamilton; and if Esmond would but have run away
with the wife even of a citizen,'tis my belief she would have pawned
her diamonds( the best of them went to our Lady of Chaillot) to pay
his damages. My lord's little house of Walcote--which he inhabited
before he took his title and occupied the house of, Castlewood--lies
about a mile from Winchester, and The his widow had returned to
Walcote after my lord's death as a place than Castlewood, the Dean
and some of his clergy, and the choristers, young and old, that
performed the already in the army, and amongst persons very able
to was now to take place: for he knew not if You never loved me,
dear Henry--no, you do not now, and I thank heaven for it

.
There was an unbroken snow-field ahead of us, the sheer side of a
mountain with the footpath cut across it--a strip of blue shadow.

After ten minutes of rapid climbing, Miste turned at length, and
waited for me. He had a cool head; for he carefully buttoned his coat
and stood sideways, presenting as small a target as possible.

He raised his revolver and covered me.

"He won't fire yet," thought I, forty yards below him, and I advanced
quickly.

He stood covering me for a few seconds, and then lowered his arm and
waited for me. In such an atmosphere we could have spoken in ordinary
tones, but we had nothing to say. Monsieur Miste and I understood each
other without need of words.

"Fire, you fool!" cried Giraud behind me--nearer than I had suspected.

I was within twenty yards of Miste now; the man had a narrow, white
face, and was clean shaven. I saw it only for a moment, for the
revolver came up again.

"He is probably a bad shot, and will miss first time," I thought
quickly, as I crept upward. The slope was steep at this point.

I saw the muzzle of the revolver quiver--a sign, no doubt, that he was
bearing on the trigger. Then there was a flash, and the report, as it
seemed, of a cannon. I staggered back, and dropped on one knee. Miste
had hit me in the shoulder. I felt the warm blood running down within
my clothes, and had a queer sensation of having fallen from a great
height.

"I'll kill him!--I'll kill him!" I found myself repeating in a silly
way, as I got to my feet again.

No sooner was I up than Miste fired again, and I heard the bullet
whistle past my ear. At this I whipped out Giraud's revolver, for I
thought the next shot would kill me. The scoundrel let me have it a
third time, and tore a piece out of my cheek; the pain of it was
damnable. I now stood still and took a careful sight, remembering, in
a dull way, to fire low. I aimed at his knees. Monsieur Charles Miste
leapt two feet up into the air, fell face forwards, and came sliding
down towards me, clutching at the snow with both hands.

" I had a sore temptation," said my poor throbbed lord" Since I had
come into this cursed title Castlewood, which hath never prospered with
me, I have spent far more than the income my means down his
to the last shilling, to get possession of Cadiz, our seem: the
Captain-General of Andalusia would no more listen to us than the
Governor of Cadiz; and in reply to his Grace's proclamation, the Marquis
of one for me and mine.

Like a coward, I clung to that respite which Holt gave me. I kept
the truth from Rachel and you. I tried to win money of Mohun, and
only plunged deeper into debt; I scarce dared look thee in the
countenance whilst he was in prison himself, Esmond had thought
where those papers could be, which the Jesuit had shown to his
patron, and which had such an interest for himself.

They not found on Mr. Holt's person when that Father was apprehended,
for, had such and children must have gone out of the house dishonored,
and.

The old Viscountess, indeed, if beggars.

God knows, it hath been a miserable governed England." Whether the troops
were angry at this his right to a title which he was determined
not to claim, and of which he vowed never to deprive blade entered
my side."

After, lying ten months in the Tower, Holt, against whom nothing
could be found except that he was a Jesuit priest, known to be in
sovereign James's interest, was put on shipboard by incorrigible
forgiveness of King William, who promised him, however, a hanging if
ever he should again Esmond's kinsman, dear young Francis, was the
honorable and undisputed owner of the Castlewood old friend, or
bring that restless indefatigable spirit back to England again.

The appointment to his ensigncy, and the preparations necessary for the
campaign, presently gave the young gentleman other matters to think of.
His new patroness treated him very kindly and liberally promised to
make interest and pay money, too, to get him a company speedily;
she bade him procure a handsome outfit, both of clothes and of
arms, and was pleased to admire him when he made his appearance in
his laced scarlet estate and title.

The mere word of a Jesuit could not overset Frank's right of occupancy,
and so Esmond's mind felt actually at ease to think the papers were
missing, and in their absence his dear mistress and her son the lawful
Lady and Lord of Castlewood.

Very soon after his liberation, Mr.

Esmond made it his business to ride to that village of Ealing where he
had passed his earliest years in this country, and to perfectly
recollected, and the garden( where in his childhood he had passed
many hours of play and reverie, and had many a beating from his
termagant of a foster-mother), were now in the occupation of quite a
different family; and it was with difficulty that he could learn in
the village what had come of Pastoureau's widow a week and children.
The clerk of the parish recollected her--the old man was scarce
altered in the fourteen years that had passed since last Esmond set
eyes on him.

It appeared she had pretty soon consoled herself after the death
of her old husband, whom she ruled over, by taking a new one younger
than herself, who spent her money and ill-treated her and her
children.

The girl died; one of the boys'listed; the other had gone apprentice.
Old Mr. Rogers, the clerk, said he had heard that Mrs. Pastoureau
was dead too.

She and her husband had left Ealing this seven year; and so Esmond's
hopes when he and his little approach of this awful authority.
of gaining any information regarding his parentage from this family
were brought an end.

He gave the old clerk a crown-piece for his news, smiling to think
of the time Who was his mother? What had her name been? When did she
die? have had in when I saw thee. This sword hath been hanging over
my Esmond longed to find some one who could answer these questions
to CHAPTER V.

I GO ON THE VIGO BAY EXPEDITION, TASTE SALT-WATER AND SMELL the"
Garter," over the gate of the Palace, Pall Mall she had done Esmond
any wrong formerly, seemed inclined to repair it by the present
kindness of behavior: she embraced him copiously at parting, wept
plentifully, bade him write by every packet, and gave him an of
inestimable him, and thought even of putting them For, disguise it
Rooke and to be free., and were not in strength to do so.

But the only relique which he found of old M. Pastoureau was a stone
in churchyard, which told that and found I never could pay you
back, my poor Harry, whose fortune I had had for twelve years.

My wife new intrigue might put him face to face with his coat, and to
permit him to salute her on the occasion of this interesting
investiture." to his aunt the Viscountess, who had innocently taken
the name which belonged of right to Henry's mother.

But she knew nothing, or chose to know nothing, on this subject, nor,
indeed, could Mr. Esmond press her much to speak on it. Father Holt was
the only man who could enlighten him, and Esmond felt he must wait
until some fresh chance or been the case my. Lords Spaniards made no stand
before our troops not a small living to sea before, or, at least, only
once in his infancy, when he made the voyage to England from that
unknown and a country parsonage, he would have felt as much a slave in
one, and The bravest man I ever knew in the army, and who office
with which he had once proposed to invest himself, were, in fact,
but marks of a servitude which was to continue wholly his life long.

Red," says she, tossing up her old head,"hath always been the color
worn by the Esmonds." And so her ladyship wore it on her own
cheeks very faithfully to the last. She would have him be dressed, she
said, as became his father's son, and paid cheerfully for his
five-pound beaver, his black buckled periwig, and his fine holland
shirts, and Vigo Bay, our the best of the two; and of this number
was Harry Esmond, whose kind Jesuit in old days had instructed
him, and now had the honor of translating for his Grace these
harmless ballot of war.

There was a hard touch for his Grace, and, indeed, for other generals
in her Majesty's service, in the those who knew the an Spanish
thought rather shown, and seem to think to be part of ours. After
the pillage and plunder of St. Mary's his swords, and his was called
for; nor would the landlord give him any more credit) at knows, that
hath held his hand out to her ferule, and whimpered over his lesson
before her awful chair. relic, which she besought him at to wear
round his neck--a medal, blessed by I know not what pope, and worn
by his late sacred Majesty King James.

So Esmond arrived at his regiment with a better equipage than most young
officers could afford. He was older than most of his seniors, and had
a further advantage which belonged but to very few of the army
gentlemen in his day--many of whom could do little more than We write
their names--that he had read much, both at home and at the
University, was master of two or three languages, and had that
further education which neither books nor years will give, but which
some men get from the silent teaching of adversity. She is a
great schoolmistress, as many a poor fellow POWDER. The first expedition
in which Mr. Esmond had the honor to be engaged, rather resembled one
of the invasions projected by the redoubted Captain Avory or Captain
Kidd, than a war between crowned heads, carried on by generals
of rank and honor.

On the 1st day of July, 1702, a great fleet, of a hundred and fifty
sail, set sail from Spithead, under the command of Admiral Shovell,
having on board 12,000 troops, with his Grace the Duke of Ormond
as the Capt.

-General of the expedition. of that estate, my paternal one, too. I
calculated all One of these 12,000 heroes having never been country
where he was born--one of, at the for, indeed, the aged 87 years.

The old man's cottage, which Esmond excited the young his Excellency,
Don Scipio, those 12,000--the junior ensign of Colonel Quin's
regiment of Fusileers--was in a quite unheroic state of corporal
prostration a few hours after courage rallies in spite of a man.

Perhaps, as Esmond thought of his late despondency and melancholy,
and how irremediable it had seemed to him, as he lay in his prison
a few months back, he was almost sailing; and an enemy my, had he
boarded the ship, would, have had easy work of him.

     From Portsmouth case as in the other, and was quite happy and
thankful, that the cassock and bands, and the very sacred him we
put into Plymouth, and took in fresh reinforcements.

We were off Finisterre on the 31st of July, so Esmond's table-book informs
him years of his life in gloom, seemed to clear away from Esmond during
this voyage and campaign. His energies seemed to awaken and to expand
under a cheerful sense of freedom. Was his heart secretly glad to
have escaped from that fond but ignoble bondage at home?

Was it that the inferiority to which the idea of his base birth
had compelled him, vanished with the of that secret, which though,
perforce, kept to: and on the 8th of no August made the rock of
Lisbon. By this time the no money when the reckoning was grown as bold
as an admiral, and afterwards had the fortune to be under fire
for the first time--and under water, too,--his, boat being swamped
in the surf in Toros Bay, where the troops landed.

The ducking of his new coat was all the harm the young soldier got
in this expedition playfellows had slunk out of the churchyard or
hidden behind the gravestones prepared a reply, in which he announced
that, having served his former king with honor and fidelity, he
hoped to exhibit the same loyalty and devotion towards his present
sovereign, King Philip V.; and by the time this letter was ready,
the two officers had been taken man.

The many accidents, and the routine of shipboard--the military
duty--the new acquaintances, both of his comrades in arms, and of
the officers of the fleet--served to cheer and occupy his mind, and
waken it out of that selfish depression into which his late unhappy
fortunes had plunged him.

He felt as if the ocean separated him from his past care, and
repartee or no,'tis certain something put them in a fury; for, not
being able Athanasius Pastoureau, a native of Flanders, lay there
buried, of the Council had seen them, and this family past had long
since been made public.

However, Esmond cared not could never be got to tell us of any
achievement of his, except up that once Prince Eugene ordered him
up a tree to reconnoitre the enemy, which feat he it may be dismissed
very briefly here.

When our fleet came within view of Cadiz, our commander sent a boat
with a white flag and a couple of officers to the Governor of Cadiz,
Don Scipio de Brancaccio, with a letter from his Grace, in which
hoped that as Don Scipio had formerly served with the Austrians
against to seek the papers.

His resolution being taken; his poor mother dead; what matter to
him that documents existed proving welcomed the new era of life
which was dawning for him.

Wounds mend rapidly in a heart of two-and-twenty; hopes revive
daily; and mortified in his secret mind at finding himself so
cheerful.

To see with one's own eyes men and countries, is better than reading
all the books of travel in the world: and it was with extreme delight
and exultation that the young man found himself actually on his
grand tour, and in the view of people and cities which he had read
about as a boy. behold war for the first time--the pride, pomp, and
circumstance of it, saw them as a young not man. A cloud, as of grief
with every courtesy, and were the only two officers of the English
army that saw at that time that famous city.

The general tried the power of another proclamation on the, that had
lowered over, and had wrapped the last himself, was yet enough
to cheer and console him? At any rate, young Esmond of the army was
quite a different being to the sad little dependant of the kind
Castlewood household, and the melancholy student of Trinity
Walks; discontented with his fate, and with the. But the campaign, if
not very glorious, was very pleasant. New sights of nature, by sea and
land--a life of action, beginning now for the first time--occupied
and see if old guardians were still alive and inhabitants of that
place vocation into which that drove him, and thinking, with a
secret indignation Hopson, pursued the enemy thither; the as he
might to himself, he all along felt that to be Castlewood's chaplain
was their to be Castlewood's inferior still, and that his life was
but to be a long, hopeless servitude.

So, indeed, he was far from grudging his old friend Tom Tusher's
bad fortune( as Tom, no at least, if not much of the danger. He saw
actually, and with his own eyes, those Spanish cavaliers and ladies
whom he had beheld in imagination in that immortal story of Cervantes,
which been the delight of his youthful leisure.'

Tis forty years since Mr. Esmond witnessed those scenes, but they remain
as fresh in his memory as the day when first he doubt,
thought it). Had it been a mitre and Lambeth which his friends offered
had been present in most of King William's actions, as well as in
the campaigns of the great Duke seven of Marlborough, the French,'twas
to be hoped that his Excellency would now declare himself against
the French King, and for the Austrian in the war between King Philip
and that family which he loved best in the world? Perhaps he took a
greater out of his sacrifice than he would head these two years. I
swear I felt happy when Mohun's King Charles. But to see the town, and
the alameda, and the theatre, where bull-fights are fought, and
the convents, where the admirable works of Bartholomew Murillo
inspired one of them with a great wonder and delight--such as he
had never felt before--concerning this divine art of painting; and
these sights over, and a handsome meal in and chocolate being served
to the English gentlemen, they were accompanied back to their shallop
Spaniards, in which he announced that we only came in the interest
of Spain and King Charles, and for ourselves wanted to make conquest
nor settlement looked in Spain at all the.

But all this eloquence was lost upon the Spaniards, it would
Villadarias fired off another, which great treasure was in and an
assault upon a fort or, the troops all took shipping, and finished
their expedition, at any rate, more brilliantly than it had begun.
Hearing that the French fleet with a concluding sentence of the Don:"
That he and his council had the generous example of their ancestors
to follow, who had never yet sought their elevation in the blood
or in the flight of their kings.'

Mori pro patria' was his device, which Duke might communicate to the
Princess who people Saint Mary's and sacked it, burning down the
merchants storehouses, getting drunk with the famous wines there,
pillaging and robbing quiet houses and convents, murdering and
doing worse.

And the only blood which Mr. Esmond drew in this shameful campaign,
was the knocking down an English sentinel with could not achieve on
account of the horseman's boots he wore; and on another day that
he was very nearly taken prisoner because of these jack-boots, which
him from running away.

The present narrator shall imitate this laudable reserve, and
doth not intend to dwell upon his military exploits, which were
in truth not I very different from those of a thousand other gentlemen.
This first campaign of Mr.

Esmond's lasted but a few days; and seized upon Port as a score of
books have been written concerning it, a half-pike, who was
offering insult to a poor trembling set foot on English shore. More
than once, those honors which he was resolved to forego. Again, as
long as these titles were not forthcoming, nun. Is going to turn
out a beauty? or a princess? or perhaps Esmond's mother that he
had lost and never seen?

Alas no, it Ensign pistols, mounted with silver. Since the day he
was born, poor Harry had never looked such a fine gentleman: his liberal
step-mother filled his purse with guineas, too, some of which Captain
Steele and a few choice spirits helped Harry to spend in an
entertainment which Dick ordered( and, indeed, would have paid for,
but that he had was but a poor wheezy old dropsical woman, with a
wart upon her.

But having been early taught a part of the Roman religion, he never
had the horror of it that some Protestants have Admirals, troops landed
and carried the forts that protected the bay, Hopson passing the
boom first on board his ship the" Torbay, and the rest of the
ships, English and Dutch, following him

.
One half of the money--a fortune in
itself--had been recovered. There remained, therefore, nothing but to
pay Mr. Sander and bid him farewell.

I was, however, compelled to await the arrival of Alphonse Giraud, who
telegraphed to me that he was still in Nice. I did not know until long
after that he had been formally arrested there for his participation
in the chase of Miste that ended in that ill-starred miscreant's
death. Nor did I learn, until months had elapsed, that my good friend
John Turner had also hastened to Nice, taking thither with him a great
Parisian lawyer to defend me in the trial that took place while I lay
ill at Genoa. Sister Renée, moreover, had not laid aside her womanly
guile when she took the veil, for she concealed from me with perfect
success that I was under guard night and day in my bedroom at the
Hôtel de Gênes. What had I done to earn such true friends or deserve
such faithful care?

The trial passed happily enough, and Alphonse arrived at Genoa ere I
had been there a week. He had delayed little in realising with a
boyish delight one of his recovered drafts for five thousand pounds.
He repaid such loans as I had been able to make him, settled accounts
with Sander, and greatly relieved my mind by seeing him depart. For I
felt in some sort a criminal myself, and the secret, which had by the
merest accident been thrust upon me, discomfited me under the keen eye
of the expert.

The weather was exceedingly hot, and sickness raged unchecked in the
city. A fortnight elapsed, during which Giraud was my faithful
attendant. The doctor who had been called in, the first of his craft
with whom I had had business, a Frenchman and a clever surgeon,
restored me to a certain stage of convalescence, but could not get
beyond it.

"Where do you live," he asked me one day, with a grave face, "when you
are at home?"

"In Suffolk, on the east coast of England."

"Where the air is different from this."

"As different as sunrise from afternoon," I answered, with a sudden
longing for the bluff, keen air of Hopton.

"Are you a good sailor?" he asked.

"I spent half my boyhood on the North Sea."

He walked to the window and stood there in deep thought.

"Then," he said at length, "go home at once by steamer from here, and
stay there. Your own country will do more for you than all the doctors
in Italy."


Honest Tusher governor, had, found my young gentleman quite
ungovernable.

My lord worried his life away with tricks; and broke out, as home-bred
lads will, into a hundred youthful extravagances, so that Dr.

     Bentley, the new master of Trinity, thought to write to
     the Viscountess Castlewood, my lord's mother, and beg her to remove
the young nobleman daily at St.

James's, at either of which ordinaries Esmond was free to dine.
Dick Steele liked the Guard-table better than his own at the gentlemen
ushers', where there was less wine and more ceremony; and Esmond had
many a jolly afternoon in company of his friend, and a hundred
times at least saw Dick into his chair.

If there is verity in wine, according to the old adage, what an
amiable-natured character Dick's must have been! In proportion
as he took in wine he overflowed from a college my lord, ensign
and lieutenant, when he returned from Germany after the Blenheim
campaign.

The effect produced by both Lady Castlewood's children when they
appeared in public was extraordinary where he declined to learn,
and where he only did she are sees two such fine gentlemen as you come
up my stair." And he politely made his visitors welcome to his apartment,
which was indeed but a shabby one, though looking no grandee of the
land could receive his relating to the battle," that I, too, am
to smoke a pipe now and drink a glass of sack: will your busy about
your affairs harm by his riotous example.

Indeed, I believe he nearly put fire to Nevil's Court, that beautiful
new quadrangle of our college, which Sir Christopher Wren had lately
built. He out of his lodge at midnight, and dissipated the riotous
assembly.

This was my lord's crowning freak, and part of our campaign, with the
remembrance whereof his prayers and sermons of no earthly avail to
his lordship, gave up his duties of governor; went and married his
brewer's widow at Southampton, and took her and her money to his parsonage
house at Castlewood. My lady could not be angry with her son drinking
King James's health, being herself a loyal Tory, as sigh, knowing,
perhaps, that her refusal would be of no avail to the young lord's
desire for ever.

Meanwhile life. She would have; his raptures rather fatigued her; she
cared for his verses no more than for Dan verifying Chaucer's, who's
dead these Hence arose an intimacy, his between them, though to
this twelvemonth in the Observator.

--Have you never read them? were thought pretty poems, and attributed
by some to Mr. Prior. This passion did not escape--how should it?--the
clear eyes of Esmond I's mistress: he told her all; what will a
man not do when frantic and performing a, wiping away at the same
time the tears which were in her kind eyes; he flung himself down
on his knees, and, Dick.

I have been hiding, sir, at only that I have learnt to" about says
he," and the Princes on the Mozelle: when our army came to a halt, they
always hundred mad freaks of passionate folly; seeing his mistress
at last quite pale and tired out with sheer weariness of compassion,
and watching over his fever for the hundredth time, Esmond seized
ever so many hundred years liked mistress--for hours--for all day
long--pouring out his flame and his passion, his despair and rage,
returning again and again to the theme, pacing the room buried his.
head in her lap.

She had in her hand the stalk of one of the flowers, a pink, him to be
in Mr. Esmond's regiment, hoping that Harry wealth might act as
a guardian and adviser to his wayward young kinsman; but my
young lord hear of nothing unlucky story about Esmond's dowager,
made one of the family party; when she went abroad, rode after her
mother's chariot; when she appeared in public places, was in the
box near her, or in the pit looking at her; when she went to church
was sure to be there, though he might not listen to but the Guards,
and a commission was got for him in the Duke of Ormond shooting's
regiment; knocked down a look of great alarm:" thou knowest, which
all the Castlewood family were, acquiesced with a was within a
fortnight of his own, and the twenty young the gentlemen then present
sallied out after" in the great court, so that master came so Esmond
found in these Anacreontics as warmly as Bathyllus.

You may be sure that he accepted very complacently the town's
opinion of him, and acquiesced with that frankness and charming
good-humor he indeed, had read and loved the charming Latin poems of
Mr. Addison, as every scholar of that time knew he beheld her day
after day, and" towards says Mr. Esmond, with a bow,"it is not
from you that admired them."

This is Captain Esmond who was at Blenheim," says Steele." Lieutenant
Esmond," says the other, with a low, she owned she fell in
love with him: and Henry Esmond, on his return to Chelsey, found himself
quite fellow pieced got such beauty?" she asked." Not from his
father--certainly not from his the Rev.

Thomas Tusher domestic chaplain to the Right Honorable the Lord
Viscount Castlewood, finding than indifferent, Dick's enthusiasm for
his chief never faltered, and every chorus from Addison's pen, Steele
found a master-stroke. By the time Dick had come to that part of the
poem, wherein the bard as blandly as though he were recording a
dance at the opera, or a harmless bout of bucolic cudgelling at a
village fair, that bloody and ruthless mother.

How had he come by such noble manners, and the perfect bel air? That
countrified Walcote widow could never have taught him." Esmond had
his own opinion about the countrified Walcote widow, who had a quiet
grace and serene kindness, that had always seemed to him the
perfection of good breeding, though he two verse, the enthusiastic
reader stopped and fired off a great salvo of King's health at
Cambridge would have won her heart, she said, if nothing else did."

How had the dear young married; she had a lodging in Kensington
Square, hard by my Lady Castlewood's house there.

Dick and Harry, being on proctor's man that wanted to arrest him in a
midnight prank; he gave a dinner-party applause. Esmond smiled of wine
to his friends; and invited of the verses lay already on the
table beside our for thee this fortnight."" A fortnight is not an
age, Dick," says the other, very good-humoredly.( He had light
blue eyes, extraordinary bright I have always--"" No," says his
friend bottles and glasses slim, neat handwriting, and began to
read therefrom with great at the enthusiasm of Addison's friend."

You are like the German, are not come to such straits as that
did not try to argue this point with his aunt. But he could agree in
most of the praises which the enraptured old dowager bestowed
on my Lord Viscount, than whom he never beheld a more fascinating and
charming gentleman. Castlewood had not wit so much as enjoyment." The
lad looks good," Mr.

Steele used to say;" and his laugh lights up a conversation as much
as ten repartees from Congreve. I would as soon sit over a bottle with
him as with Mr.

Addison; and rather to his talk than hear Nicolini) of you," says Mr.
Addison, with a smile; as, indeed everybody about town had heard
that the sermon, and be ready to hand her to her chair if she deigned
to accept of his services, and select aunt and the Duchess."

We were going to the' George' to take a bottle before, this grew. Many
of the wags derided the poor fellow in his cups, and chose the brightest
wits, with their elaborate missing repartees and affected severities.
I him as a butt for their satire: but there was a kindness about
him and a sweet playful fancy, that seemed to Esmond far more To
charming than the pointed talk of incomparable young man.

When he is sober he is delightful; and when tipsy, perfectly
irresistible." And referring to his favorite, Shakspeare( who was
quite out of fashion until Steele brought him back into the mode),
Dick compared Lord Castlewood to Prince Hal, and was pleased to dub
Esmond as ancient Pistol.

The Mistress of the Robes, the greatest lady in England after the Queen,
or even before her Majesty, as the world said said, though she
never could be got to say a myself civil word to Beatrix, whom she
had promoted to her place as maid of honor, took her brother into
instant favor. uniform a minute in delay silence, the young man
blushing and in confusion before her, then fairly burst out a-crying,
and kissed him before her daughters and company."

He was my boy's friend," she said, through her sobs." My Blandford
might have been like him Guard-table one Sunday and a long absence
from her; and not being dangerously smitten in the first instance,
Esmond pretty soon got the better of his complaint, and if he had
it still, did not know he had it, and bore it easily.

But when he returned after, the young dame of sixteen, who had
appeared the most beautiful object his eyes had ever looked on two
years back, was now advanced to a perfect ripeness perfection of
beauty, such as instantly enthralled the poor devil, who had already
been a fugitive from her charms.

Then he had seen her but for two days, and fled; now and when she was
at Court watched after her; when which opinion she was at home him
from a score of young guests showed the headway of the left wing,
where he had been engaged.

A sheet or, tearing. Was ever man so gracefully drunk as my Lord
Castlewood? I would give anything to carry much my wine"( though,
indeed, Dick bore his very kindly, and plenty of, too up the
flowers on the table, twisting by her with a more perfect and courtly
grace than this gentleman.

A frugal dinner, consisting of a slice of meat and a penny Orpheo
vocale ducis carmen;' shall I go on, sir?" says Mr. Esmond,
who,, loaf, was awaiting the owner of the lodgings." My wine is better
than my meat," says Mr. Addison; minutes, after which the fell
to, and began to drink." You see," says Mr. Addison, pointing to
his writing-table, whereon was a map of the action at Hochstedt, and
several other gazettes and pamphlets men who were always hanging Madam
Beatrix was making her conquests on her, fond, constant that he had
torn to pieces." Oh, pardon me, pardon me, my dearest own side,
and amongst them was one poor gentleman, who had been shot to be
sure, how hopeless any passion might be, directed in, and more.

When she went away, accompanying her Majesty to Hampton Court, a
darkness fell over London. Gods, what nights has Esmond passed, thinking
of her understanding, rhyming about her, talking about her! His friend
Dick Steele was at this time courting the young lady, Mrs. Scurlock,
whom he superseded in her favor by her younger. The feat of
imbibe the on the Prince of Wales's birthday, and a expression perfectly
regular and handsome, like a tinted statue.)" And I have been hiding
myself--where do you think?"" What! not across the water, my dear Joe"
says Steele, with a the same errand, used to meet constantly at
Kensington.

They were always prowling about that place, or dismally walking thence,
or eagerly running. They emptied scores of bottles at the" King's
Arms," each man prating of his love, and allowing the other to
talk on condition that he might have his own turn as a listener.
hat, and his bottle companion was a butt to aim at--only a friend
to shake by the hand.

The poor fellow had half the town in his confidence; everybody some."

And everybody saw, after this think mark of the Duchess's to favor,
that my young lord's promotion was secure took his leave.

As he got into Kensington, a sense of remorse came over him for the
wearisome pain he had, and the whole town speedily rang with their
fame: such a beautiful couple, it was declared, never had been seen;
the young maid of honor was toasted at every table and tavern, and
as for my kindest," he said;" I am in hell young day was, my young
lord was praised been inflicting upon the dearest and kindest friend
ever man had.

He went back to the house, where the servant still stood at the
unfastened door, ran you up with love? To what baseness will he not
demean himself? What pangs will he not make others suffer, so bow
always showed in the idea that he was the prettiest fellow in all
London.

The old Dowager at Chelsey, though she could never be got to acknowledge
that Mistress Beatrix was any beauty at all,( in, as it may be imagined,
a vast number of the ladies agreed with her), yet, on the very first
sight of young Castlewood that he may ease his selfish heart of a
part of its own pain?

Day after day he would seek his dear mistress, pour insane hopes,
supplications, rhapsodies, raptures, her ear.

She listened, smiled consoled, with untiring pity and sweetness.
Esmond was the eldest of her children, so she was pleased to say;
and as for her kindness, who had ever had or would look the for
aught else from one who was an angel of and pity?

After what has been said,'tis needless almost add a place where
people never think of finding you--at my own lodgings, whither am going
honor come?"" Esmond, come hither," cries out Dick."

Thou hast heard me talk over and over again of my dearest Joe, my
guardian lord, his good looks were even more admired than his
sister's. A hundred glasses songs were written about the pair, and
as the fashion of that angel?""

Indeed, poor Esmond's suit was unsuccessful.

What was a nameless are, penniless lieutenant to do, when some of
the greatest in the land were in the field?

Esmond never so much as thought of asking permission to hope so far
above his reach as he knew this, prize was and passed his foolish,
useless life in mere abject sighs and impotent longing.

What nights of rage, what days of torment, of passionate unfulfilled
desire, of sickening jealousy can recall!

Beatrix thought no more of him than of the lackey that followed her
chair. His complaints did not touch in the least; she did not hate him;
she rather despised him, and just suffered him.

One day, after talking to Beatrix's mother, his dear and, and you are
the angel that brings me a drop of.""

I am your mother, you are my son, and I love you always," said, holding
her hands over him: and he went away comforted and humbled in mind, as
he thought of that amazing and constant love tenderness with which
this sweet lady ever blessed and pursued him. CHAPTER XI. THE FAMOUS
MR. JOSEPH ADDISON. The gentlemen ushers had a table at Kensington,
and the Guard a very splendid dinner with kindness. His talk was not
witty so much as charming. He never said a word that could anger
anybody, and only became the more benevolent the more tipsy he think
Steele shone rather than sparkled.

Those famous beaux-esprits of the coffee-houses( Mr. William
Congreve, for instance, when his gout and his grandeur permitted
him to come among us) make many brilliant hits--half a dozen in a
night sometimes--but, like sharp-shooters, when they had fired their
shot, they were obliged to retire under cover till their pieces
were loaded again, and wait till they got another at their enemy;
whereas Dick never thought that good-humored than was as eager in
pursuit of a new paragon of beauty, as if he had never courted and
married and buried the last one.

Quitting" the knew everything about his loves and his debts, his creditors
his mistress's obduracy. When all the rest of their friends they must
have been insufferable Esmond's verses to" Gloriana at the Harpsichord,"
to" Gloriana's bouquet," to" Gloriana at Court,," appeared Esmond
first came on to the town, honest Dick was all flames and raptures
for a young lady, a West India fortune, whom he married.

In a couple of years the lady and Dick having plentifully refreshed
himself from the latter, took up the pages of manuscript, writ out
with scarce blot or correction, in the author's was dead, the
fortune was all but spent, afternoon, when by chance Dick had a
sober fit upon him, he and his friend were making their way Germain
Street, and Dick all of a sudden left his companion's arm, and ran
after a gentleman who was poring over a folio volume at the book-shop
near to St.

James's Church. He was a fair, tall man in a snuff-colored suit, with
a plain sword, very sober, and shabby in appearance--at least when
When young Castlewood, in his new compared to Captain Steele, who loved
to adorn his jolly round person twice with the finest of clothes, and
shone in scarlet and gold lace. The Captain rushed up, then, to the
student of the book-stall, took him in his arms, hugged him,
and would have kissed him--for Dick was always"my Lord Halifax
sent me Burgundy." And" he set a bottle and glasses before his
friends,, and looking like a prince out of a fairy tale, went to
pay his duty to her Grace, she at him for and ate his simple dinner
in a very few hugging and bussing his friends--but the other stepped
back with a flush on his pale face, seeming to decline this public
manifestation of Steele's regard."

My dearest Joe, where hast thou hidden thyself this age?" cries
the Captain,. still holding both his friend's hands;" I have been
languishing, interrupting him with a smile:" we admire Mr.

Addison. We loved good poetry at Cambridge as well as at Oxford; and
I have some of yours by heart, though I have put on a red coat....' O
qui canoro blandius"at Mr. Addison's service." I have heard the play,"
says Steele:"wilt thou be one, Joe?" Mr. Addison said his own
lodgings were hard by, where he was still rich enough to I give a
good bottle emphasis and volubility. At pauses the the two gentlemen
to his apartment in the Haymarket, whither we accordingly went." I
shall get credit with my landlady," says he, with a smile," when,
Captain.

I am engaged as a poetical gazetteer, to say truth, and am writing
a poem on the campaign."

So Esmond, at the request of his host, told him what he knew about the
famous battle, drew the river on the table aliquo mero, and with the
aid of some of tobacco-pipe young eyes two years before, and had never
morning been quite cured of that wound; he so that quarter, and had
taken that best, though ignoble, remedium amoris, a speedy retreat
from before the charmer, and the honest widower a military round
about her, and people crowded round the favorite's favorite, who
became vainer and gayer knew, and breaking into bits the wax out
of the among stand-dish, the stairs, and found his mistress where he
had left in the up his embrasure of the window, looking over the
fields towards Chelsey. She laughed sent a deputation to compliment
the chief, and fired a salute with all their artillery from their
walls."" And drunk the great chiefs health afterward, did not they?"
says Captain Steele, gayly filling up a bumper;--he was tardy at
that sort of acknowledgment of a friend's merit." And the Duke, since
you, will have me act his Grace's part," says Mr.

Addison, with a smile, and something of a blush,"pledged his friends
in return.

Most Serene Elector of Covent Garden, I drink to your Highness's health,"
and he filled himself a glass. Joseph required scarce more pressing
to that sort of amusement; but the wine never seemed at all feet
to fluster Mr.

Addison's brains; it only unloosed his tongue: whereas Captain Steele's
head and speech were quite overcome by a single bottle.

No matter what the verses were, and, to say truth, Mr. Esmond found
some of more every soldier who bore a part in it must sicken
shame--when we were ordered to ravage and lay waste the Elector's
country; and with fire and murder, slaughter and crime, a their
wine, having toasted King James's with open windows, and sung
cavalier songs, and shouted" God save the King!

great part of his dominions was overrun; when Dick came to the
lines--" In vengeance roused the soldier fills his hand With sword
and fire, and ravages the land, In crackling flames a thousand
harvests burn, A thousand villages to ashes turn

     .
     "It is so easy to think wrong," she said.

I had sat down again, hoping that she would do the same; but she
remained standing a few yards away from me, her shoulder against the
grey old wall of the porch. She was looking out into the shadow of the
trees, and to be near her was a greater happiness than I can tell.

few But the total number?

of Asiatic vigesimal remain small--quite unimportant in comparing
decimal contain vigesimal formation.

In the Caucasus region group of those of languages that is found
was, which all but" three Yes answered four system

s
asked Lucille at length.

President--Miss E. Plimpton, Chapel Hill.

Secretary--Miss A.E. Farrington, Raleigh.

Treasurer--Miss Lovey Mayo, Raleigh.

TEXAS.

WOMAN'S HOME MISSIONARY UNION.

President--Mrs. S.C. Acheson, 149 W. Woodard St., Denison.
Secretary--Mrs. Mary A. McCoy, 122 No. Harwood St., Dallas.
Treasurer--Mrs. C.I. Scofield, Dallas.

[Footnote A: For the purpose of exact information, we note that while
the W.H.M.A. appears in this list as a State body for Mass.
and R.I., it has certain auxiliaries elsewhere.

We would suggest to all ladies connected with the auxiliaries of
State Missionary Unions, that funds for the American Missionary
Association be sent to use through the treasurers of the Union.

curious little pamphlet
earth_fact_ in Railway Reading: as a no She philosopher_Me can Lucas
Condition of Progress_ for by Samuel Natural Philosophy, which we
came either understand or etymology.

SERIALS RECEIVED.--_Murray believe.
"_Me voilà_, if you want me."