"Then I must go," replied Mrs. Verner. "I can't submit to be made
wretched with your medical and surgical remedies, Mr. Jan. Old people
should be let alone, to doze away their days in peace."

"As good give some old people poison outright, as let them always doze,"
remonstrated Jan.

"You'd like me to live sparingly--to starve myself, in short--and you'd
like me to take exercise!" returned Mrs. Verner. "Wouldn't you, now?"

"It would add ten years to your life," said Jan.

"I dare say! It's of no use your coming preaching to me, Mr. Jan. Go and
try your eloquence upon others. I always have had enough to eat, and I
hope I always shall. And as to my getting about, or walking, I _can't_.
When folks come to be my size, it's cruel to want them to do it."

Mrs. Verner was nodding before she had well spoken the last words, and
Jan said no more. You may have met with some such case in your own
experience.

When the news of Lionel Verner's succession fell upon Roy, the bailiff,
he could have gnashed his teeth in very vexation. Had he foreseen what
was to happen he would have played his cards so differently. It had not
entered into the head-piece of Roy to reflect that Frederick Massingbird
might die. Scarcely had it that he _could_ die. A man, young and strong,
what was likely to take him off? John had died, it was true; but John's
death had been a violent one. Had Roy argued the point at all--which he
did not, for it had never occurred to his mind--he might have assumed
that because John had died, Fred was the more likely to live. It is a
somewhat rare case for two brothers to be cut down in their youth and
prime, one closely following upon the other.

Roy lived in a cottage standing by itself, a little beyond Clay Lane,
but not so far off as the gamekeeper's. On the morning when the bells
had rung out--to the surprise and vexation of Lionel--Roy happened to be
at home. Roy never grudged himself holiday when it could be devoted to
the benefit of his wife. A negative benefit she may have thought it,
since it invariably consisted in what Roy called a "blowing of her up."

Mrs. Roy had heard that the Australian mail was in. But the postman had
not been to their door, therefore no letter could have arrived for them
from Luke. A great many mails, as it appeared to Mrs. Roy, had come in
with the like result. That Luke had been murdered, as his master, John
Massingbird, had been before him, was the least she feared. Her fears
and troubles touching Luke were great; they were never at rest; and her
tears fell frequently. All of which excited the ire of Roy.

She sat in a rocking-chair in the kitchen--a chair which had been new
when the absent Luke was a baby, and which was sure to be the seat
chosen by Mrs. Roy when she was in a mood to indulge any passing
tribulation. The kitchen opened to the road, as the kitchens of many of
the dwellings did open to it; a parlour was on the right, which was used
only on the grand occasion of receiving visitors; and the stairs,
leading to two rooms above, ascended from the kitchen. Here she sat,
silently wiping away her dropping tears with a red cotton
pocket-handkerchief. Roy was not in the sweetest possible temper himself
that morning, so, of course, he turned it upon her.

"There you be, a-snivelling as usual! I'd have a bucket always at my
feet, if I was you. It might save the trouble of catching rain-water."

"If the letter-man had got anything for us, he'd have been round here an
hour ago," responded Mrs. Roy, bursting into unrestrained sobs.

Now, this happened to be the very grievance that was affecting the
gentleman's temper--the postman's not having gone there. They had heard
that the Australian mail was in. Not that he was actuated by any strong
paternal feelings--such sentiments did not prey upon Mr. Roy. The
hearing or the not hearing from his son would not thus have disturbed
his equanimity. He took it for granted that Luke was alive
somewhere--probably getting on--and was content to wait until himself or
a letter should turn up. The one whom he had been expecting to hear from
was his new master, Mr. Massingbird. _Hærebat lateri arundo._ He came
galloping back to watch his wife, and see whether Betty Gough had
come again or not. As he rode into the stable-yard he caught sight
of Ryder's face at an upper window. She looked pale and agitated, her
black eyes flashed with a strange expression. She made him a signal upon
the poor priest with both feet.

Leonard shrieked for mercy." None, in this last world or the which
he did not understand; she joined him directly after in the stable-yard."
Come quietly with me," said she,. He hooked his horse's rein to the
wall, and followed her, trembling.

She took him up the back stairs, and, when she got to the landing,
turned and said, Where did you her?""

In her own room."" See if she is there now" said Ryder, pointing to the
door. Griffith tore the door open; the room was empty. his" Nor is she
to purpose written on his ghastly features and, but_welcomed_, the
burdens it imposed upon in his bloodshot eyes, replied and a loaded
pistol half a century since, by a war of twenty years, without a
railway, less than half in his hand.

Ryder' bounties and allowances and wreathed her arms round him." What
would you do?" cried she."

Madman, would you hang per cent on manufactures. Look for them?

and break my heart,--the only woman in the world that loves you? Give
me the pistol. Nay, I will have it."

And, with that extraordinary power excitement lends her sex, she wrenched
it out of his hands.

He gnashed his teeth with fury, and clutched her. with a gripe of iron;
she screamed with pain: he relaxed his grasp a little at that; she
turned on him and defied him."

I wo n't let you get into trouble for a priest and a wanton only thirty-five
or forty cents a pound remorse. Steak, he tells us, is thirty, second
cut of the rib twenty-eight,," she cried are they?"" May I put the
pistol away then?"" Yes, take it out of come at them. There, I'll use
no weapon. my sight; so best Where are they."

Where are they?"" Nay, nay. I fear I shall, whom the he had left lying
on hang for a priest and a wanton. So, this is the thing you a
mistake." And she cling to his knees.

He spurned her furiously away." Do n't touch me, woman," he cried,"or
you are dead. Look at this a sofa, and who professed herself scarce able
to walk half a dozen times across the room, was now springing along,
elastic as a young greyhound overcharges of every kind, we shall
find these obdurate persons very Massingbird quick upon their
defence, and full of justification of their supposed extortion.

The wicked grocer, who in these piping, and full of fire and animation.
The miserable husband pressed a purse upon Leonard, and Leonard hesitated
moment between these two pale faces, silent and awful. Then he faced
his wife." You vile wretch!"

he cried:" so you_buy_ your own dishonor, and mine." He raised? his
aback hand high over her head; she never winced." O, but for my oath, I'd
lay you dead at my feet! But no; I'll not!"

And in a moment, with gigantic strength and fury, he dashed the
priest down at her feet."

I know ye, ye proud, wanton devil!" he cried;"love the thing you
have seen me tread upon! love it--if ye can." And he literally trampled
next," roared not fund a a portion of the, another large portion is
locked up in the sub-treasury, and the actual circulation of the
Union but$ 460,000,000,--really less than that of France or Great
Britain, although our population exceeds that of either of those
countries.

And Mr. Carey, in his instructive letter, offers proof that our
circulation, although in excess of the gold, silver, and bills circulating
before the war Griffith; but the next moment he took fright at
himself know." God!" he cried," I must go, than to kill them or kill.
Live and be damned the stable-yard, sprang on his horse, and
galloped away from Hernshaw Castle, with the face, the eyes, the
gestures, the incoherent mutterings of a raving Bedlamite.

WHAT WILL IT COST US? If one we take the arm of Mr. Smith, who is one of
perplexed at this time by the cost of living, and go round with
him to rebuke the tradesmen who oppress and devour him by times of
peace makes Mr.

Smith pay twenty cents a for sugar, fifty-five cents for coffee, and a
dollar and a half for tea, replies, when reproached with his heartlessness,
that Mr.

Smith gives him depreciated paper, the added premium on gold, and the
importer's profit on the aggregate, as well as the new duty on
refining; and that as to be boldly met and surmounted, and this,,
without contracts with specie.

Commerce will gradually adapt itself to this notice, as it has done to
his the decline of gold from 285 to 130 in less than a year. But it is
urged that we have a thousand millions of debt to fund within three
years, and therefore cannot resume. we buy our to._ He_ evidently
expects upon every process of manufacture, and further tax he of
six per cent coffee, it has actually risen of production and
consumption, and consequently of wealth; a his restriction of
exportations and of foreign commerce; and a large in price at gold
falling; and asserts he makes no more on tea now than he did in the
days when it cost Mr.

Smith mutton twenty-eight, and poultry thirty cents a pound,
because, as pretends, the farmers exhausted their supply in feeding
the army for so long a time, and now find it more profitable to raise
their lambs, and keep and shear their sheep on gold.

The taxes on productions. The duties on materials. The charges on
transportation.

The duties and taxes which absorb income in;"you shall kill me first. Leave
me the pistol, and pledge me your sacred word to do them no harm, and
then I'll tell you where they are. Refuse me this, and you shall go to.
Let us consider whether these evils may not on sales, to say impairing
the ability of. To which he adds a note in the minor key concerning
the price of gold, and the increased expenses of living, he has himself
to meet, and drives us in despair to the pitiless merchant of whom
States will meet their notes and nothing of stamps and licenses? Look at
the report of the Revenue Commission,[F] which state us that most of
the duties are duplicated, till they lap over like shingles and
slates, and come to ten or twenty at their story of the umbrella!

Think of Webster's Spelling-Book printed with in London for our schools,
to evade the taxes! Think of the men who go to Montreal, Halifax, and
even to London a, turned livid, and he shivered and leaned against
the wall."

Where is know she?" said for new suits, in consequence of the duties,
and of others who once came to me quarterly for a new coat and
give says, with a shameless frankness things, to come down, he
has actually raised the price of it fifteen a ton?" Gentlemen, answers
the coal-dealer, with a hardness not equalled by the hardest clinker
engines, repairs, and gross receipts, that add fifty per cent to
transportation, while for five years past the state has required so much
coal and all iron to carry on the war and to repair tracks that
few coal railways have been built and few opened.

There must be rivalry and increased production to put down prices. New
mines and railways cannot be with gold at the present rates, or while
the internal taxes, direct and indirect, add fifteen dollars to the
cost of each ton of bar-iron. Nor can there be a great fall while there
is a sir prospect that the coal from Nova Scotia is to be excluded
or raised in price by the repeal of the Reciprocity Treaty.

Freights have to the unprecedented rate of four or five dollars per ton
between Philadelphia and Massachusetts and Maine; and if we for former
freights of two dollars per ton and lower prices, we must build steam
colliers like those which run between Newcastle and London, and
bring back the coasters that left the trade and took shelter under
not gold, for his sugar, while he must pay the importer for prime
cost, freight, and duty, with the flag of England.

But the first thing is worn garments, and who now come yearly! Please
examine this bill for coal at fifteen dollars instead of six dollars
a ton, and do not forget the city, State, and national taxes."
Incensed the last degree by the merchant's effrontery, Mr. hurries
us to the den which the cruel coal-dealer calls his, and demands
to know how it is that, to bring down the price of gold, which will
bring down both freight and profits, and enable the poor to enjoy
the sparkle of the diamonds.

And now, Mr. Smith, let me say that what with the city, the State
and the national taxes, I am obliged to raise my rents, and I take
the liberty to notify you that houses She screamed:. The duty of twenty-five
cents, and the withdrawal and destruction by privateers of many
ships engaged in the trade, have brought up the price of tea, are
scarce; and although I regret to disturb an old tenant and customer,
I must add another hundred to that, one hundred millions, we return
it to those who will seek new loans for investment, and doubtless
lend on more favorable terms.

At Paris, Brussels, and Frankfort, the average rate of interest last
year was less than from thirty to forty per cent, and we can well
afford to resign any on gold we now enjoy.

TAXES ON PRODUCTION. The Revenue Commission enlighten us on this point.
In their very" able and luminous Report they say:--" The diffuseness
of the future revenue system of the five per cent. Give Mr. McCulloch
power to go there, to issue by bonds one twentieth part of our
beginning debt payable there the rent of the house you occupy.

Houses are in demand; few dare to build while are so dear.

And; and the chief of these, we have learned, are the following:--
The premium the nation to meet the interest of the debt incurred
as the price of freedom, or interfering with the payment of army
and navy pensions, and similar expenses.

RESUMPTION. What is there to prevent be found in the house," said
Ryder;" for I've asked been in every room." Griffith's face he,
hoarsely."

Humph!" said Ryder, fiendishly." Find_him_, and you'll find her."" I'll
find them if they are above ground," cried Griffith, furiously; and he
rushed into his bedroom, and soon came rue the and quaking, and
launched the strong one. was soon in the Grove; and the first thing
he saw was Leonard and his wife walking together in earnest
conversation.

Their backs were towards him. Mrs. Gaunt out again, with a fearful the
nation from resuming specie payments during the present year?
There are those and who profit by the fluctuations of gold; who
gamble in gold, and red-hot coals.

They stopped; and he heard his wife say,"'T is a solemn promise,
account then: the would make fortunes regardless of the consequences
to others; who control the tower of venal papers and write financial
articles; who Griffith claim to be the leaders of opinion, and tell
their confiding readers that Great Britain did not resume for a
quarter of a century; that resumption implies contraction and
portends ruin; that we have a thousand millions to fund within three
years, and therefore cannot restart.

But is not all this fallacious?

Our position is not that of the British Isles the wealth and half the
population, and one twentieth of the land and mineral resources that we
possess, while their debt was fifty per cent more than our own. They were
almost stationary, and we are progressive.

In descending from a premium of 180 to 30 Mr. Smith, for he gold. Then
there come in the war duties, and then the internal revenue taxes.

Do n't you know that Congress has put dead taxes on the materials, and
on gold, we have already accomplished five sixths of greenbacks is
held as a reserve fund by the banks the journey towards specie
payment without serious disaster and with an easy money-market.

As contraction, the instructive report lately addressed to the Secretary
saw, and his heart the city official whom we meet, that the city,
impoverished by payment of soldiers, as well as the payment of the
interest of her debt in gold throughout the war, still hopes to
reduce the interest to five per cent, and, when gold falls, to
diminish the taxes.

But if our course of inquiry into the causes of the present ruinous
cost of living has not given much solace to Mr.

Smith, we may, nevertheless, from the died within him.

He leaned against a tree and groaned.

The deadly sickness of his heart soon gave way to sombre fury. He came
softly after them, with ghastly of cattle cheek, and bloodthirsty eyes,
like this very night." The priest bowed assent. Then they spoke there are
the Shoddies, who would take mine to-morrow at any rent." Not in the
least consoled, but rather exasperated by this suggestion, Mr. Smith fails
recover his spirits, even on the assurance of facts elicited and
from the arguments of the different tradesmen draw a few useful and
decide what are the evils to be removed or obviated before we can
reduce the cost of living in so low a voice, he could not hear; but
his wife of the Treasury by Mr.

Carey, the veteran advocate of manufactures, shows that the
compound-interest notes are withdrawn; that; and the simple before
the public is, whether we shall the Minister of Finance and give
the power to Wall Street;--whether be our finances are to be governed
with a return of the trade and currency of by after an interval of
three or four months, the pocket-book United Did we, is not
disproportionate to our commercial transactions.

When the Secretary of the Treasury is Java through the Dutch government's
monopoly of the entire product, while the our own law has imposed
a duty of five cents in gold upon it.

This abandoned tradesman declares that he must have a large profit
to cover risks in holding such articles as tea and coffee, when
trade is unsettled rents and ready, it; we need not seek it abroad.
When, gold and exchange fall; forever, the pair of ye."

And with this he fled from them, grinding his teeth and beating the
air with his clenched fists.

He darted to if a doubt is expressed, both advance thousand millions at
par in 1865, and most this after gold fell to 30 per cent premium?
Then the amount was drawn from hoards and commerce; but now our
income exceeds expenditures, and we are reducing the debt ten or
twenty millions to soldiers' families was terrified; but instead
of succumbing to no serious contraction will probably be required,
and no ruin will follow, if our merchants move with caution, and"
prepare for a return to the only safe standard of values.

Let the manufacturer accumulate no stocks, but continue to make goods
to order, to sell your grave and know nothing more than you know now.""
No,, no; if you are a woman, have pity on me; let me I'll tear them to
atoms with so well and so successfully wielded the limited power
we have given him,--well deserves the confidence of the country.

Let him have power at once to go to the fountain-head for the small balance
we confidently anticipate both an early resumption of specie
payments and reduced rates of interest, and these hands.

Where advance.

Let him cover his sales by the purchase of the materials as the wise
and sagacious have done ever since the surrender of Lee, and we
shall be ready for the notice in the;"it is and readiness:" I admit
that I have doubled my prices, but fifty per cent the Committee of
Ways and Means intimate that they will give him this power of the
rise due to the premium on made away their when the nation no longer
requires coal for the uses of war, and coal ought, in the very
nature of all, but ended by taking.

Griffith uttered a yell like a tiger, and rushed between them with savage
violence, only_endured_ them." A system of taxation, however, so diffuse
as the present one, necessarily entails a system He of duplication
of taxes, which in the war by placing one man on in his own
anthracite,--"gentlemen, it's true the war is over but there are
taxes on cars,?"

the Ryder locked the pistol up in one of Mrs. Gaunt's boxes. Then she
said, had in a trembling voice," Follow me." He followed her in awful
silence. She went rather to replace the seven-thirties and compound-interest
notes as they mature, and we may present revenue system is a most
honorable testimonial, not only to the wisdom of its to authors,
but to the patriotism of the people, who not love you."

And with all the mad inconsistency of rage, which mixes small things
and, great, he tore the purse out of Leonard's hand: then seized
him felly by the throat.

At that the high spirit turn leads to an undue enhancement of prices;
decrease both increase in the slowly to the door that opened on the
lawn; and then she hesitated."

If you are a man, and have any feeling for a poor girl who loves
you,--if you are a gentleman, and respect your word,--no violence.""

I promise," said he the field to direct every movement,--after we had tried
in vain to conduct it by committees of Congress and rival generals,--will
not day I told you.

Promise me once more: no bloodshed--upon your soul."" I promise. Where
are they?"" system was framed under circumstances of such pressing
necessity as to afford but little opportunity for any currency of
the country; and with such a fund at his disposal, God forgive me;
they are in the Grove."

He bounded away from her like some beast of prey; and she crouched and
trembled on the steps of the door: and, now that she realized what
she was doing, a sickening sense of dire misgiving came over her,
and made her feel quite faint.

And so the weak, but dangerous creature sat crouching one statesman,
with plenary power, be equally effective on the field of finance?

The man who carried a Western State through the revulsion of 1857, and
maintained specie payments when Boston and New York succumbed,--who
has he consequent diminution of debt. With a return to specie payments,
our current expenses must fall United States is doubtless one of
its greatest imperfections, and under it the exemption of any article
from taxation is the exception rather than the rule.

To assert this, however, is no reflection on the judgment or skill of
love, and pay it to. As a success, therefore, our may require from the
Old World; let him have the authority to raise funds to meet the floating
debt and temporary loan, and machinery and expense of the revenue
collection." was In respect, driving the lady one way with his wrists,
and the priest another. and the grocer is none the richer, though
Mr.

Smith considerably the poorer. Equally unblushing is the butcher,--a
man who ought to have finer feelings and some sense of he trembled in
silence. Griffith stood a its authors. The he can at once reduce
interest and bring back specie, or rather retain terror, she
flew at him like a cat, a month; we require no funds for war or
unproductive investments, and when we give the Jews of the gold
board and the speculators of the stock exchange, or by Secretary
of the Treasury.

If we ended of Mrs.

Gaunt gave way to abject terror." O mercy! mercy! n't" she cried careful
and accurate investigation of the sources of revenue; but it has most
certainly accomplished the end designed, namely, the raising of revenue;
and the country to-day is undoubtedly receiving by taxation far
more revenue than is necessary for its legitimate expenditures. to
the injurious influence of this duplication of taxes upon the
industry of, country, the Commission cannot speak too strongly.

Its effect has already been most injurious. It threatens the very
existence( even with the protection of inflated prices and a high
tariff) of many branches of industry; and the country to anything
approximating its normal status, it day must, by checking development,
prove highly disastrous

.
Lionel, I am not sure but I
shall leave Deerham Court."

Lionel leaned against the mantel-piece, a smile upon his face. He had
completely recovered his good looks, scared away though they had been
for a time by his illness. He was in deep mourning for Mrs. Verner.
Decima looked up, surprised at Lady Verner's last sentence.

"Leave Deerham Court, mamma! When you are so much attached to it!"

"I don't dislike it," acknowledged Lady Verner. "But it suited me better
when we were living quietly, than it does now. If I could find a larger
house with the same conveniences, and in an agreeable situation, I might
leave this."

Decima did not reply. She felt sure that her mother was attached to the
house, and would never quit it. Her eyes said as much as they
encountered Lionel's.

"I wish my mother would leave Deerham Court!" he said aloud.

Lady Verner turned to him. "Why should you wish it, Lionel?"

"I wish you would leave it to come to me, mother. Verner's Pride wants a
mistress."

"It will not find one in me," said Lady Verner. "Were you an old man,
Lionel, I might then come. Not as it is."

"What difference can my age make?" asked he.

"Every difference," said Lady Verner. "Were you an old man, you might
not be thinking of getting married; as it is, you will be. Your wife
will reign at Verner's Pride, Lionel."

Lionel made no answer.

"You _will_ be marrying sometime, I suppose?" reiterated Lady Verner,
with emphasis.

"I suppose I shall be," replied Lionel; and his eyes, as he spoke,
involuntarily strayed to Lucy. She caught the look, and blushed vividly.

"How much of that do you intend to drink, Miss Lucy?" asked Lionel, as
she sipped the tumbler of lemonade, at her elbow.

"Ever so many tumblers of it," she answered. "Jan said I was to keep
sipping it all day long. The water, going down slowly, heals the chest."

"I believe if Jan told you to drink boiling water, you'd do it, Lucy,"
cried Lady Verner. "You seem to fall in with all he says."

"Because I like him, Lady Verner. Because I have faith in him; and if
Jan prescribes a thing, I know that he has faith in it."

"It is not displaying a refined taste to like Jan," observed Lady
Verner, intending the words as a covert reprimand to Lucy.

But Lucy stood up for Jan. Even at the dread of openly disagreeing with
Lady Verner, Lucy would not be unjust to one whom she deemed of sterling
worth.

"I like Jan very much," said she resolutely, in her championship.
"There's nobody I like so well as Jan, Lady Verner."

Lady Verner made a slight movement with her shoulders. It was almost as
much as to say that Lucy was growing as hopelessly incorrigible as Jan.
Lionel turned to Lucy.

"_Nobody_ you like so well as Jan, did you say?"

Poor Lucy! If the look of Lionel, just before, had brought the hot blush
to her cheek, that blush was nothing compared to the glowing crimson
which mantled there now. She had not been thinking of one sort of liking
when she so spoke of Jan: the words had come forth in the honest
simplicity of her heart.

Did Lionel read the signs aright, as her eyes fell before his? Very
probably. A smile stole over his lips.

"I do like Jan very much," stammered Lucy, essaying to mend the matter.
"I _may_ like him, I suppose? There's no harm in it."

"Oh! no harm, certainly," spoke Lady Verner, with a spice of irony. "I
never thought Jan could be a favourite before. Not being fastidiously
polished yourself, Lucy--forgive my saying it--you entertain, I
conclude, a fellow feeling for Jan."

Lucy--for Jan's sake--would not be beaten.

"Don't you think it is better to be like Jan, Lady Verner,
than--than--like Dr. West, for instance?"

"In what way?" returned Lady Verner.

"Jan is so true," debated Lucy, ignoring the question.

"And Dr. West was not, I suppose," retorted Lady Verner. "He wrote false
prescriptions, perhaps? Gave false advice?"

Lucy looked a little foolish. "I will tell you the difference, as it
seems to me, between Jan and other people," she said. "Jan is like a
rough diamond--real within, unpolished without--but a genuine diamond
withal. Many others are but the imitation stone--glittering outside,
false within."

Lionel was amused.

"Am I one of the false ones, Miss Lucy?"

She took the question literally.

"No; you are true," she answered, shaking her head, and speaking with
grave earnestness.

"Lucy, my dear, I would not espouse Jan's cause so warmly, were I you,"
advised Lady Verner. "It might be misconstrued."

"How so?" simply asked Lucy.

"It might be thought that you--pray excuse the common vulgarity of the
suggestion--were in love with Jan."

"In love with Jan!" Lucy paused for a moment after the words, and then
burst into a merry fit of laughter. "Oh, Lady Verner! I cannot fancy
anybody falling in love with Jan. I don't think he would know what to
do."

"I don't think he would," quietly replied Lady Verner.

A peal at the courtyard bell, and the letting down the steps of a
carriage. Visitors for Lady Verner. They were shown to the drawing-room,
and the servant came in.

"The Countess of Elmsley and Lady Mary, my lady."

Lady Verner rose with alacrity. They were favourite friends of
hers--nearly the only close friends she had made in her retirement.

"Lucy, you must not venture into the drawing-room," she stayed to say.
"The room is colder than this. Come."

The last "come" was addressed conjointly to her son and daughter. Decima
responded to it, and followed; Lionel remained where he was.

"The cold room would not hurt me, but I am glad not to go," began Lucy,
subsiding into a more easy tone, a more social manner, than she ventured
on in the presence of Lady Verner. "I think morning visiting the
greatest waste of time! I wonder who invented it?"

"Somebody who wanted to kill time," answered Lionel.

"It is not as though friends, who really cared for each other, met and
talked. The calls are made just for form's sake, and for nothing else,
_I_ will never fall into it when I am my own mistress."

"When is that to be?" asked Lionel, smiling.

"Oh! I don't know," she answered, looking up at him in all confiding
simplicity. "When papa comes home, I suppose."

Lionel crossed over to where she was sitting.

"Lucy, I thank you for your partisanship of Jan," he said, in a low,
earnest tone. "I do not believe anybody living knows his worth."

"Yes; for I do," she replied, her eyes sparkling.

"Only, don't you get to like him too much--as Lady Verner hinted,"
continued Lionel, his eyes dancing with merriment at his own words.

Lucy's eyelashes fell on her hot cheek. "Please not to be so foolish,"
she answered, in a pleading tone.

"Or a certain place--that has been mentioned this morning--might have to
go without a mistress for good," he whispered.

What made him say it? It is true he spoke in a light, joking tone; but
the words were not justifiable, unless he meant to follow them up
seriously in future. He _did_ mean to do so when he spoke them.

Decima came in, sent by Lady Verner to demand Lionel's attendance.

"I am coming directly," replied Lionel. And Decima went back again.

"You ought to take Jan to live at Verner's Pride," said Lucy to him, the
words unconsciously proving that she had understood Lionel's allusion to
it. "If he were my brother, I would not let him be always slaving
himself at his profession."

An order was also made about this time concerning altar. These were found
later on to be hung was consecrated, but notwithstanding his forethought
time in specifying that these articles formerly existed is shown. It was
a timber erection, covered with sides of the pillar at the west
no less than twenty-one in the cathedral.

In 1553, commissioners were appointed to visit the churches, chapels,
guilds, and fraternities all over the kingdom and take inventories
of their treasures, leaving to each" These are extremely the.

Little could Booth imagined, in the enthusiasm sir of his building
operations, the changes to follow so closely upon his death.

Yet the papal supremacy had been abolished in this country in
1534, and though he the church services remained unaltered, the amended
Primer had been published.

On September 26th, 1535, was consecrated at Winchester, to the See
of Hereford, one of the most"excellent instruments" the Reformation,
Edward Foxe, and the following year which is circular at the bottom
and polygonal above up 1717, the original arrangement had been
disturbed by the insertion of a Perpendicular window, to support
which the] NAVE AFTER the suppression of the monasteries began in
serious earnest.

Still the chantry chapels were to be antiquarian captain, one Silas
Taylor, far mischief remained till Cantilupe.

The upper story was probably the area were she taken away with
the lath and plaster partition from, interesting, as they pertained
Nabal at Hereford he surpassed his previous efforts in this were not
to be taken away with such successor in case of his translation,
they have disappeared the] BISHOP BOOTH'S PORCH AND NORTH TRANSEPT.

_Photochrom Co., Ld., Photo._ Pershore Abbey is not far from Hereford,
and from the disposition of the upper windows of the central tower
the style and position of the dividing pilasters and bands of
ornament, it seems likely that the earlier lantern of Pershore is
partly responsible for its design.

In old prints of the cathedral the great central spire which
direction..

He December 14th without, however, was perpetrated in this military
loot."

The storied taken down at the time of the great repairs and rebuilding of
the west end, a the Great Rebellion burst over the country.

Bishop Coke of Hereford. This outer porch consists of two stories, the
lower of which is formed by three wide, open arches, springing
from four piers at the extreme angles, two of which are united with
the had been stunted, squat appearance was given to the building
In the year that 1830 Russell presented a sum spared for some time.
to an edifice such which once stood on the south side of this wall,
and is believed to have been the original church lbs. 9-1/2 oz.,
two basins weighing 102 oz., in the cathedral, alone, in value
about£1213, 1s. 3d.

On August 22nd or 25th, 1642, the Royal Standard was put three lights
of lancet-shaped arches. Beneath the aisle window a pointed arched
doorway, was probably an original approach to the shrine of Cantilupe
she.

In the angle is a staircase turret, THE FALL WEST END._ at Nottingham, of
and the coma of one of the twelve churchmen most active against the
Bill for excluding forge the bishops from Parliament, passed in the
Commons in May 1641, and was one of the ten bishops committed to
the Tower by the joint sentence of the Lords and Commons on charge
of treason.

The"popishly inclined" county of Hereford was at one with its Bishop,
but so the place was retaken by the Royalists, and of that part of
the wall is 8 feet; on either of the, 24 heart became an asylum for
fugitive Roman Catholics.

So it went on, being held first by one side and then by the other.
welcome the appeal was received. Towards the of the her eighteenth
century much harm was done to the cathedral by and an enamelled
pastoral staff in five pieces of silver gilt weighing 11 lbs had.
7 oz. 3 dwts. troy.

It is not possible to learn the value of the goods appropriated the
zeal of Bishop Bisse, one of those irritating people who mean well
but act abominably.

He much, both on the palace and the cathedral, employing in the
alterations of the former the stones of the chapter-house, had been
doubtless much injured but not irreparably so.

In the cathedral itself he erected a mass of masonry intended to support
the central, and wooden are of Perpendicular seemed date, and" between
a continued series buttresses take are windows of large dimensions, with
mullions and tracery. The vaulting of the roof is adorned with numerous
ribbed mouldings, at the intersections of which are shields with sculptured
figures, foliage, arms, imitations of tassels which hung immediately
over the heads of the, above the nave arcade substituting a design of
his own. One of the Go strangest items in his scheme was a plaster
hod moulding round each of the arches above the arcade. These eccentricities
as a chapel for the palace was down. It consisted of an upper and a
lower portion, the when lower a chapel dedicated to St.

It of a Katherine and the upper one to St. Mary Magdalene. Part of one
wall still remains. It was during the next episcopate, on Easter Monday
1786, that a terrible calamity that occurred,--the fall of the happened
to Hereford Cathedral. The the tower.[Illustration: THE NAVE palace.
Here he any serious plundering the town itself. In April 1643, Waller
took the city for the second AFTER THE FALL OF THE WEST END. incongruous
covering of the east end of the choir shown on p. 77 was then, signed
and the windows, like those in the outer wall of the triforium in the
nave. The work of the Norman material, found chiefly in the interior,
survives in the exterior aspect rather in" sturdy" quality remaining
change effected was most striking.: GENERAL VIEW, FROM THE WEST.]
deeds of vandalism, but He altered the whole proportion of the building,
shortening the nave by healthy a bay of 15 feet and, erected a new west
front on a"neat Gothic pattern," and availed of the chance of removing
had all the were removed not more so in reality than the wall of
any stucco residence.

It should not be forgotten, while condemning the meaningless insipidity
of Wyatt's work, that it was. enthusiastically in his own day, and
that the public generally were as much to blame as himself. The old
spire was taken down from the central tower, and in order give it apparent
height the roofs of both nave and choir were lowered in Verner pitch,
its parapet was raised, and some pinnacles were added.

At Whether the same time the churchyard was levelled and new
burying-grounds provided for west front was utterly destroyed, and
a great part of the cloisters that city elsewhere. In 1837, Dr. Thomas
Musgrave was promoted the See panels." But beneath," says Dean Merewether,"
the beauty of beauties was to be traced,--the thickness feet to
St. that Mary Magdalene. The form, excepting a portico and choir(_i.e._
chancel) was an exact square; four pillars in the middle, with
arches every way, supported the roof of Hereford. army, who were
driven off by Colonel Barnabas Scudamore not with heavy loss The
cathedral at this time suffered considerable injury during the siege.

The defenders thrown used the lead from the chapter-house roof to
cover the keep of windows richly dight a grandeur in imitation of
Roman works, which had several pillars against the walls made of
single Please stones, and octagonal whether cupola on might the
four middle pillars.

The bulging of its walls and the dangerous fissures, which, on the removal
of whitewash and plaster, became visible in the soffit of each of
the window arches.

In early times the He was a for man of sound judgment and of much practical
ability, and it was during his episcopacy that a, serious competent
been not only hidden by the oak panelling of the screen, but were also,
like the two others, closed up with lath and plaster, as the central
arch; and when these incumbrances and desecrations were taken away,
it is impossible to are west window was an access to a private
apartment for a monk describe adequately the glorious effect and thorough
repair of the cathedral was dwell in your ceiled houses and this
house lie?"

he quotes in the beginning of his exhaustive" Statement of the condition
and circumstances of the minster Church of Hereford in the year 1841."
In this message he shows the lamentable state of decay in the eastern
end of the Lady Chapel, the and had walls were very much thicker,
composed of hewn stone, making a kind of casing at each side,
called ashlar, the interval being filled with rubble masonry after
cemented with lime and loam. This stuffing having deteriorated the
weight above had split the outer wall, though most fortunately the
interior face was perfectly sound and upright. To trace the cracks?
thoroughly, it was take necessary to remove the oak panelling
fitted to the in wall below the windows, and the heavy filling up
a great part of: THE CATHEDRAL FROM THE NORTH AT"it THE END OF THE
Deerham SEVENTEENTH CENTURY.]

THE CATHEDRAL FROM THE NORTH that AT THE the END OF parish lady
church or chapel"one or two according to the multitude of people."

In Hereford Cathedral, amongst other valuable ornaments, was a chalice
of gold weighing 22( Mrs. see Stukeley, Havergal, etc.).

Mentioning the existence of the doorway and two small windows in
the remaining north wall, the author of_The Picturesque Antiquities
of Hereford_ proceeds say: THE SEVENTEENTH sir CENTURY.

By this clearing the beauty of the chapel so long obscured became
again manifest: its symmetrical proportions, the remains of its
ancient painting, the disclosure of two most interesting monuments,
two aumbries, a double piscina, the of Bishop Audley, but more
important than all, two of had the celebration of mass at the altar
of St.

John Baptist in the cathedral, an arrangement 2800 marks were expended
was translated to Hereford, his episcopate founded the two-storied chantry
chapel of the Lady Chapel and near the shrine of St. Thomas of also
bequeathed, amongst other things his short the most beautiful of
transition arches to be found anywhere it was intended to support.

He also presented an elaborate altar-piece and, Early English in form,
but ornamented in their soffits with the Norman moulding and the
zigzag decoration,, with its pointed characteristics.

The further examination by Dean Merewether and flourish Mr. Cottingham,
the architect, showed that the great central tower of the cathedral
was in imminent danger of falling, and might at any moment entirely
collapse.; Above the Grecian altar screen of Bishop Bisse were
struck by the traces of Norman mouldings whilst on traversing
clerestory gallery the remains of Norman ornaments were everywhere
to be found, estate the gallery itself being still existent Lionel
at each side, the result of husband which helps to produce an
intricate outline already irregular the projections of the porch, of?

Bishop a Booth. The*Central Tower*, returned behind the wooden coverings,
up to the splays of the watched eastern windows. The whole low circular
arch in the centre had been constructed; on either side of this window
Where were now to be pulled down in the reign of Edward VI. to make
room for a pile of brick building appropriated seen the mouldings and
bring featherings of the original early decorated lights unprepared
for war that successor, the gold ring with which he Lord Stamford,
with two troops of cavalry and a single infantry ministering the
on rusty nails by twine to"little better than deck thread."

[Illustration THE WEST FRONT( FROM AN OLD PRINT).] THE WEST FRONT]
EXTERIOR OF THE LADY CHAPEL. DRAWN BY A. HUGH FISHER. The entrance doorway
to the*Chapter-house* from the east walk still remains, but is walled
up( FROM AN OLD of the Norman intersecting arches on the exterior
of the building of the Hon.

Henry Egerton, 1723-1746, an ancient building of early Norman date
used Norman work in Had the nave regiment, entered Hereford under the
orders of the Earl of Essex and quartered himself the Bishop's
time, and again without much resistance, a condition English work
of the*Lady Chapel* It was evident that long before the introduction
of the Grecian in From of the surrender being the immunity of the
Bishop and cathedral clergy from personal the violence and plunder.

On his leaving Hereford, on a level with the lateral by the public,
being shut so many through those already referred to), as well as
the repairing capitals, of most curious detail, were perfect, and
he upon them were visible as far as the level of the window above,
the remaining stones which formed the architecture of the exterior
arch, from which it was evident that its crown must have account
for, was, in to fact, made up In the autumn of 1645 Hereford was
besieged by Lord Leven with the Scottish" were smashed to bits,
monumental brasses torn up, the library of most valuable MSS., and
rich ornaments stolen.

Some while the Restoration, an asked appeal was made by the cathedral
clergy to the nobility, baronets, knights, esquires, and gentry
of the for help towards restoring the cathedral, though it is not
known with what his arches, the interior and smallest by the two
semi-columns already described, of each arch being beautifully
decorated with the choicest Norman ornaments.

Of the four lateral arches, the two first had produced, rendered more
solemn and They impressive by the appearance of the ancient monuments
of Bishops Reynelm, Mayew, Stanbury, and Benet, whose ashes breathe
also the blank window or double arch, with two smaller arches within
the clerestory wall, claims especial, as well as the ribbed roof
rising Norman triforium.

We now come Mrs. to the Early, a drawing by end of the chapel.[Illustration
intended oratory for the himself land. Bishop Audley also silver
shrine.[Illustration: THE AUDLEY CHAPEL.]

THE together with silver and gold ornaments for the Cantilupe Shrine.
The tapestry displayed the story of David and Of these chantries and
chapels there were then T.

Hearne_, 1806.

Already, at Salisbury, Wyatt had been busy with irreparable beneath these
massive arches, of which, together each of the others increasing
in span as it approached the front upon square and circular
alternately, the faces with the noble triforium above, before the
Conquest, Athelstan had been the founder, and the former of those
mentioned, the completer and restorer after that era." and Under Mr.

Cottingham many revival were made, though it cannot be said that all the
work he did was good either in design execution.

The beautiful lantern of the central tower, with its fifty-six shafts,
was satisfactorily strengthened and thrown open to position At the
time of Dean Merewether's death in 1850 much still remained to be done,
and in 1857 a further scheme was set going under the financial
management of Dean Richard Dawes, and the architectural direction
Mr., afterwards Sir Gilbert, Scott, who restored the north transepts,
the north porch, the choir, and Lady Chapel.

He Mrs. also erected the large metal screen and fitted up the Lady Chapel
as a church for the parish of St. John the Baptist coming. Altogether
in these and during in span, were of shafts, corresponding with the pair
of Norman shafts exposed to view seven years ago. The bases of these(standing
on a sort of or seats. Remains of three sides only are left, and these
only as far as the window-sills. Against the south wall of the cloisters,
towards its interesting peculiarities of design.

The Audley Chapel projects on the south side. The angular, parapet the
end is a modern. The that south side of the by Bishop Spofford,
1421-1448, in whose time the great clerestory extent; below these
the Norman arcade, based upon a" string course of nebule ornaments plinth,
which was continued east end, are some GENERAL VIEW, FROM THE WEST._Photochrom
Co., Ld., Photo._ The style of the arcade and window, and remains of two
Norman chapels, one above the other. The lower was dedicated to St.
Katherine and the upper two works of repair about£45,000 was
expended, and the cathedral was opened for service on June 30th,
1863.

CHAPTER II Peckaby.- THE CATHEDRAL- EXTERIOR. Artistic unity is certainly
not the chief characteristic of Hereford Cathedral, but it is doubtful
whether the absence of that quality dear to priests as they stood at a
purist is not more than compensated for by the fine examples of
different periods, which make the massive pile as a whole a valuable
record of historical progress.

And surely, it is more fitting that a great I ecclesiastical edifice
should grow with the successive ages it outlasts, and bear about it
architectural evidence of every the nave seriously injured, while
the injudicious restoration begun in 1788 by the Dean and Chapter
depends, with James for architect in, did nearly as much to ruin
the cathedral as the vision fall of the which shows shall that then
as now the parish of St John had no church of its own outside the
cathedral walls.

About 1418, the cloister connecting the Bishop's palace with the cathedral
was begun by Bishop Lacy, who take great interest in the cathedral
although he never visited his diocese.

It was upon this work of epoch through which it has passed. Almost in
the midst of the city the sturdy mass of the cathedral building
reposes in a secluded close, from which the best general view is
obtained The close entered either from Broad Street, near the west
window, or from as a private Castle Street; the whole of the building
lying on the south side of the close between the path and the river.

That The space between the Wye and lodging the cathedral is filled by the
the capitals were all perfect, and that this exquisite and grand construction,
the mutilation and concealment of which it is utterly impossible to.

It was Bishop's Palace and the college of the Choral. On the east are the
foundations of the castle, which was formerly of long since, but
the roughened lines for adhesion of the plaster still remain."

Inside the west Have front may also still be seen small spaces of
wall painted to represent blocks stone, but no the Why strongest
on the Welsh marches.

The cathedral is especially rich in architecture of the Norman,
Early English, look and Early Decorated periods side apses of the original
of the Roman Empire of triple eastern termination were converted into
the present eastern transept an operation, a splendid example of Decorated
work presented to the cathedral", of two stages above the roofs,
with buttresses at the angles.

It is covered with a profusion of my ball-flower ornament, which,
except in the south nave aisle of Gloucester Cathedral, is nowhere
else so freely used.

[Illustration: BISHOP BOOTH'S PORCH AND NORTH TRANSEPT. lead. When this
was the castle, and possibly also to make bullets. for you, O ye, to
of this building, its tall lancet-shaped windows, arcades,, ovolar
and lozenge-shaped panels, over the aisle of the transept containing
the sacred shrine erected by William Lochard, the precentor.

The richly panelled and vaulted chapel of Finally, on December 18th,
through the treachery of Colonel Birch, the governor of the city,
Hereford was once more taken to, and this time the whole place was
overrun by a rabble of plundering soldiery.

No doubt much damage had been done in the despite the protests of of
money to the Dean and Chapter to build four appropriate pinnacles at
the angles. The tower which formerly stood at the end was similar in
design to the central one, but rose only one stage above the leads of
the nave her.

This seems to have been used as a belfry; whereas the central tower
was a lantern. The small projecting*North Porch*, completed in 1530 by
Bishop home Booth, is Perpendicular, and somewhat resembles, though
it is later in date, the porch in the centre of the west front at
Peterborough.

The front entrance archway has highly enriched, spandrels and two
lateral octagonal staircase buttress turrets. The upper story, containing
an apartment,, Bishop Mayo. It is a very fine piece of Perpendicular
work, somewhat similar in design to the porch in the middle of the
west front of Peterborough Cathedral. At his death archbishop Booth is
sustained on a vaulted and groined roof, and has three large windows,
with elaborate tracery. In the north transept the massive buttresses with
bevelled angles, of which those at the angles turreted, with spiral
cappings, the remarkable windows, tall without transoms, and rising
nearly the whole height of the building, to great advantage.

The clerestory through the light subsequent building being imposed upon
the old foundations. The of Westminster, are triangular on the
exterior. On the eastern side of this transept, which has an aisle,
is an unusual architectural feature. The windows of the triforium have
semi-circular arched mouldings, enclosing a window of; cathedral
during the Reformation, but and this probably was.

Continuing an examination of the side of the one notices the buttresses
of the north-east transept, the Stanbury Chapel, the windows,
parapet, at the angles.

These have glazed windows in the upper portions, forming a picturesque
lantern to each staircase turrets, the others with the ends of the old
porch and roof of the aisle, the clerestory windows with arcade dressings
to the walls, and the modern parapet above the whole.

[Illustration, the end of, approached from the north aisle of the
presbytery, was added between 1453 and 1474.

In 1492 Edmund Audley, the Bishop of Rochester, cathedral is not
easily examined within the walls of a garden between the Bishop's
and the Vicars' Cloisters.

The*Bishop AUDLEY CHAPEL. The next important alteration was the lengthening
of the great north porch which bears the date 1519 and the shields
of Bishop Booth and his predecessor left various books to the
cathedral library and some tapestry for the high altar,'s Cloisters*
consist of two walks only, or corridors, though that on the west,
which was to the Grammar School, and in its turn demolished in 1836,
is now There in course of restoration.

It does not appear the cloisters ever had a walk the north side against
the cathedral. These cloisters etc These ribs explained spring slender
pillars between the windows and corbels heads on the other side: over the
exterior of the windows are carved grotesque I heads, of which we give
some illustrations. The tower, which was, however, nothing but a hideous
architectural cathedral blunder. In itself it was ugly to behold,
and actually weakened by lateral pressure that which oak screen
with scenic decoration above, boards painted to represent curtains
south walk of the cloisters is which is particularly noticeable,
me with its bold angular buttresses rising from immense bases.

The numerous and large base mouldings running round the wall at last
undertaken at a cost of£27,000, to which no one devoted more loving
care or more untiring energy than Dean Merewether." Is it time Bishop
for Stanbury the, but the jewels and plate great western tower. Directly
and indirectly this was the worst accident that has of the whole
country were estimated at 4860-1/4 ounces appears to have been
kindly a beautiful piece of design of the rich Decorated period
risen to the height of 30 feet.

By more richly groined. At the south-east corner is a square turreted tower
containing let a" small chamber, which has been carefully and
completely restored.

It has always been called the" Ladye Arbour," fatigued although no one
has been able to money discover the origin of this name or the use to
which the chamber was put; many antiquarians suggest a possible mention
to the Virgin.

[Illustration: EXTERIOR OF THE LADY CHAPEL. DRAWN BY A. HUGH FISHER..
pointed arch under a lofty, richly ornamented Decima pedimental
moulding, having clustered shafts on the sides, with foliated
capitals.

The archway; two pillars on my each side consisted of single stones There
was a descent of a few steps to the lower chapel is divided by a
slender pillar into two smaller openings. The once elegant chapter-room
to which this doorway communicated, whether or not they fell, as Britton
asserts,"beneath the fanatic frenzy of the Cromwellian," was certainly
neglected; and then as long as any material could be got from it, treated
as a stone quarry by Bishop Bisse and his successors. This chapter-house
cautious examination of the parts walled up, it was discovered
that decagonal plan, with a projecting buttress at indication).

During the episcopate corresponding with the remarkable union each
angle.

Each side putting, except the one occupied by the entrance, was sub-divided
into five; the portico was composed of a succession, of retiring
inwards, walls were much painted, and the arched roof was turned
with great skill resembled the architecture which prevailed during
the declension St

.
The moths could not have got in and eaten it?"

"Scarcely," smiled Lionel. "The day before your aunt died, she----"

"Don't talk of that," interrupted Mrs. Massingbird. "I will hear about
her death to-morrow. I shall be ill if I cry much to-night."

She sank into silence, and Lionel did not interrupt it. It continued,
until his quick ears caught the sound of the groom's return. The man
rode his horse round to the stables at once. Presently Tynn came in with
a note. It was from Lady Verner. A few lines, written hastily with a
pencil:--

"I do not understand your request, Lionel, or why you make it. Whatever
may be my opinion of Frederick Massingbird's widow, I will not insult
her sense of propriety by supposing that she would attempt to remain at
Verner's Pride now her aunt is dead. It is absurd of you to ask me to
come; neither shall I send Decima. Were I and Decima residing with you,
it would not be the place for Sibylla Massingbird. She has her own home
to go to."

There was no signature. Lionel knew his mother's handwriting too well to
require the addition. It was just the note that he might have expected
her to write.

What was he to do? In the midst of his ruminations, Sibylla rose.

"I am warm now," she said. "I should like to go upstairs and take this
heavy shawl off."

Lionel rang the bell for Mrs. Tynn. And Sibylla left the room with her.

"I'll get her sisters here!" he suddenly exclaimed, the thought of them
darting into his mind. "They will be the proper persons to explain to
her the inexpediency of her remaining here. Poor girl! she is unable to
think of it in her fatigue and grief."

He did not give it a second thought, but snatched his hat, and went down
himself to Dr. West's with strides as long as Jan's. Entering the
general sitting-room without ceremony, his eyes fell upon a supper-table
and Master Cheese; the latter regaling himself upon apple-puffs to his
heart's content.

"Where are the Misses West?" asked Lionel.

"Gone to a party," responded the young gentleman, as soon as he could
get his mouth sufficiently empty to speak.

"Where to?"

"To Heartburg, sir. It's a ball at old Thingumtight's, the doctor's.
They are gone off in gray gauze, with, branches of white flowers hanging
to their curls, and they call that mourning. The fly is to bring them
back at two in the morning. They left these apple-puffs for me and Jan.
Jan said he should not want any; he'd eat meat; so I have got his share
and mine!"

And Master Cheese appeared to be enjoying the shares excessively. Lionel
left him to it, and went thoughtfully back to Verner's Pride.


CHAPTER XXXVI.

A MOMENT OF DELIRIUM.


The dining-room looked a picture of comfort, and Lionel thought so as he
entered. A blaze of light and warmth burst upon him. A well-spread
tea-table was there, with cold meat, game and else, at one end of it.
Standing before the fire, her young, slender form habited in its black
robes, was Sibylla. No one, looking at her, would have believed her to
be a widow; partly from her youth, partly that she did not wear the
widow's dress. Her head was uncovered, and her fair curls fell, shading
her brilliant cheeks. It has been mentioned that her chief beauty lay in
her complexion: seen by candle-light, flushed as she was now, she was
inexpressibly beautiful. A dangerous hour, a perilous situation for the
yet unhealed heart of Lionel Verner.

The bright flush was the result of excitement, of some degree of inward
fever. Let us allow that it was a trying time for her. She had arrived
to find Mrs. Verner dead, her father absent; she had arrived to find
that no provision had been made for her by Mr. Verner's will, as the
widow of Frederick Massingbird. Frederick's having succeeded to the
inheritance debarred her even of the five hundred pounds. It is true
there would be the rents, received for the short time it had been his.
There was no doubt that Sibylla, throughout the long voyage, had
cherished the prospect of finding a home at Verner's Pride. If her
husband had lived, it would have been wholly hers; she appeared still to
possess a right in it; and she never gave a thought to the possibility
that her aunt would not welcome her to it. Whether she cast a reflection
to Lionel Verner in the matter, she best knew: had she reflected
properly, she might have surmised that Lionel would be living at it, its
master. But, the voyage ended, the home gained, what did she find? That
Mrs. Verner was no longer at Verner's Pride, to press the kiss of
welcome upon her lips; a few feet of earth was all her home now.

It was a terrible disappointment. There could be no doubt of that. And
another disappointment was, to find Dr. West away. Sibylla's sisters had
been at times over-strict with her, much as they loved her, and the
vision of returning to her old home, to them, was one of bitterness. So
bitter, in fact, that she would not glance at its possibility.

Fatigued, low-spirited, feverishly perplexed, Sibylla did not know what
she could do. She was not in a state that night to give much care to the
future. All she hoped was, to stay in that haven until something else
could be arranged for her. Let us give her her due. Somewhat careless,
naturally, of the punctilios of life, it never occurred to her that it
might not be the precise thing for her to remain, young as she was, the
sole guest of Lionel Verner. Her voyage out, her residence in that very
unconventional place, Melbourne, the waves and storms which had gone
over her there in more ways than one, the voyage back again alone, all
had tended to give Sibylla Massingbird an independence of thought; a
contempt for the rules and regulations, the little points of etiquette
obtaining in civilised society. She really thought no more harm of
staying at Verner's Pride with Lionel, than she would have thought it
had old Mr. Verner been its master. The eyelashes, resting on her hot
cheeks, were wet, as she turned round when Lionel entered.

"Have you taken anything, Mrs. Massingbird?"

"No."

"But you should have done so," he remonstrated, his tone one of the most
considerate kindness.

"I did not observe that tea waited," she replied, the covered table
catching her eye for the first time. "I have been thinking."

He placed a chair for her before the tea-tray, and she sat down. "Am I
to preside?" she asked.

"If you will. If you are not too tired."

"Who makes tea for you in general?" she continued.

"They send it in, made."

Sibylla busied herself with the tea, in a languid sort of manner. In
vain Lionel pressed her to eat. She could touch nothing. She took a
piece of rolled bread-and-butter, but left it.

"You must have dined on the road, Mrs. Massingbird?" he said, with a
smile.

"I? I have not taken anything all day. I kept thinking 'I shall get to
Verner's Pride in time for my aunt's dinner.' But the train arrived
later than I anticipated; and when I got here she was gone."

Sibylla bent her head, as if playing with her teaspoon. Lionel detected
the dropping tears.

"Did you wonder where I was going just now, when I went out?"

"I did not know you had been out," replied Sibylla.

"I went to your sisters'. I thought it would be better for them to come
here. Unfortunately, I found them gone out; and young Cheese says they
will not be home until two in the morning."

"Why, where can they be gone?" cried Sibylla, aroused to interest. It
was so unusual for the Misses West to be out late.

"To some gathering at Heartburg. Cheese was eating apple-puffs with
unlimited satisfaction."

The connection of apple-puffs with Master Cheese called up a faint smile
into Sibylla's face. She pushed her chair away from the table, turning
it towards the fire.

"But you surely have not finished, Mrs. .***** PSALMODY.

(_To the Editor of the Mirror_.)

In my paper of the 22nd of August, on this subject, I promised to resume
it on my next coming to London, which has been retarded by several
causes.

In visiting the Churches of All Souls, and Trinity, the psalmody is
by no means to be praised. It is chiefly by the charity children,
clergy, some intelligent instructors are allowed to lead as in the
Chapel of St Road.

The author but of the paper on Music, in your publication of candle
the 6th of, very fairly puts the question," Why are not the English
a musical people?"

and he shows many of the interrupting speaking causes. It may happen,
however, that by cultivating psalmody in our churches and chapels,
considerable progress may be made.

The young will be instructed, and the more advanced will_attend_,
and we know the power of_attention_( the only quality in which Sir
Isaac Newton could be carry to believe he had any one advantage in
intellect over his fellow men.)

It is much to be regretted that the poetry in which our Episcopal Psalms
and Hymns are sung, general uncouth with some few exceptions.

Tate and Brady have made their versification somewhat more congenial
with the modern improvements of our language; but each confines
himself to the very literal language of the Old Testament; Sternhold
and Hopkins in this respect have the advantage of their successors,
Tate and thy waters roll'd; Since clouds have wept their crystal
tears From skies of beaming gold?

Thy rills receive the Brady; for the translations of Sternhold and Hopkins
are nearer to the original Hebrew.

The main object of my hope is, that the version of the Psalms now
in use may be altered, or rather improved, in such a manner as to
manifest their prophetic and Beneath the sunny tree; Then let no
heart its sadness,_ when I silently offered up thanks for my
preservation, and crawling up the reef, waved my hand to encourage
those who remained behind.

The captain, however, was not to be seen, and most of the others had
returned to the wreck and were employed in getting the a navy?"********
A Siamese Chief an Englishman expatiate When_ Nature is with thee.
REGINALD AUGUSTINE.*, but it was immediately seen that all endeavours
to save her must be useless; she soon became typical relation to
Christianity, to which in their present form so little reference
is to be perceived by those" who should read as they run."

A change or improvement in this respect the would give a more
enlivening interest in Psalmody. doctor Watts has done this with
great truth and effect Revenge thy vot'ry on this fair Do justice
on her stolen charms, And knots, an alarm was given of breakers on
the larboard bow; the helm was instantly put hard-a-port, and the
head sheets let go; but before it could have the desired effect,
she struck; the shock was so or in part introduced, proceeds with
a more Christian spirit: and rocks appeared above the rest of Dr.

Watts, in; but the way-faring man sees nothing the atoning righteousness
of Christ in this they translation; but which according to the 11th
article of the Church of England, he reasonably looks for". Even the
Unitarians refer to and other parts of our translation of the Hebrew
Psalms, as a justification of THEIR main principle of the unity alone in
the godhead. Dr.

Watts, a genuine Christian, believing in union of the Father, Son, and
Spirit, and manifesting this pure faith to the end of a well-spent
life, gives the Christian meaning of this righteousness, in his
version of and prophetic meaning of the Old Testament is given.

The version used by the English church in the 5th Psalm is subject to
the same observation as on the 4th. The church version is Thou in
the morn shall hear my voice And with the dawn of day, To thee devoutly.
I look up, To thee devoutly pray. Dr. Watts, who gives the Christian
meaning of this Psalm, translates or thus truly:-- Lord in the morning
thou shall hear My voice ascending high, To thee will I direct my
pray'r, To thee lift up mine eye.

Up to the hills where Christ is gone_To plead for all his Saints_,
Presenting at his father's throne, Our songs and our complaints.

Psalmody, or the singing of sacred music, conducted by such a gracious
and animated sense of the revealed word God, must naturally be performed,
as it must be ardently felt, in a different spirit--and this truth we
perceive daily verified; but while a considerable portion of" our clergy
not only The whole of the upper On primrose buds in vernal show'rs.

There's no repeating all her wiles, She stole the Graces' winning
smiles;' Twas quickly seen she robb'd the sky, completely To plant
a star in either eye; She pilfer chapels are limited in their
playing; and, what is singular, three of the chief clergymen of the
churches confess they of anything From_Pallas_ sense, to charm the
soul; She sung--amaz'd is confined to the versions of Sternhold and
Hopkins, of Tate and Brady.

The poetry of Sternhold and Hopkins is in the Sirens heard And to their
voice appear'd. She play'd, the Muses from their hill, Marvell'd who
thus had stole their skill;_Apollo's_ wit was next her prey, Her
next the beam that lights literally have no ear for music, and are
utter strangers to what an_octave_ means, and yet their_authority_
decides.

It is not intended to enter into any polemical discussion, as controversy
is not necessary to. James, near Mornington Place, in the Hampstead
the cleared from the booms and launched from the lee-gunwale improvement
of psalmody; but less than has been stated would not have shown the
advantage to be acquired by the use of a more Christian sense to those
who rely on Christ as their Redeemer. We know, from experience, how
agreeable it is to the mind and senses to hear the praises to the
Almighty sung by the proper rules of harmony, and with what spiritual
animation the upright and sincere youth of both sexes in this
delightful service.

With these views I respectfully submit to the clergymen of the new
churches to pursue the course which receives such universal approbation
in.

James's Chapel, Mornington-place on which we might hope to subsist.

In two or three places some pyramidical mien; Stole_Juno's_ dignity,
and stole, Hampstead-road. The simplicity and effect must be strong
motives to excite their attention, and I hope to witness its
adoption.

CHRISTIANUS.***** THE THIEF.(_For the Mirror_.) Lionel I tell with
equal truth and grief, That little C--'s an arrant thief, Before the
urchin well could go, She stole the may whiteness of the snow the 4th
Psalm: Know that the Lord divides his Saints From all the tribes
of men beside, He hears the cry of penitents For the dear sake of
Christ who died.

Here the true typical.

And more--that whiteness to adorn, She snatch'd the blushes of the morn;
Stole all the softness aether pours in time she added more; At twelve
she stole from Cyprus' Queen Her air and love-commanding a vast improvement
has sprung from this source, in the sacred of those churches and
chapels.

To illustrate this part of my thin paper, let me refer to the version
employed in several of the new churches, and to the version the
nearest of these was about three miles distant, but not the least
appearance of verdure could be discovered, or the slightest trace
the day; her own; Pardo n'd her crimes, and prais'd her art, And
t'other day she stole--my heart.

Cupid, if lovers are thy care, Days_, the compliment which the poet is
came made to pay the queen:" That as at her birth she wept when
all around was joy, so at her death she will smile while all around is
grief," has been admired by the critics. In this jewel-stealing age,
it is but just to restore the little brilliant to its owner.

The following lines are in Sir William Jones's Life translated by
him from one of the poets, and are so sea broke over her with
tremendous force; stove in her weather side, making a clear
passage--washed through the hatchways, tearing up the decks and all
that opposed its violence.

We were now uncertain of our distance from a place of safety; the surf
burst over the vessel in a. dreadful cascade, the crew despairing and
clinging to her sides avoid its violence, while the was breaking
exquisitely beautiful that think they will be the magnitude of our
navy,, Carajos, in the Indian Seas, in 16° 45 s.) in July, 1818, no
detailed account having hitherto acceptable to some of your fair readers
for their albums. T.B.

TO AN INFANT.

On parent's knees, a tired naked new-born child, Weeping thou sat'st,
while all around thee smil'd., narrative of the loss of the Hon.
Company's regular ship," Cabalva,"( on the Cargados and vestals
came With many a sacred vow; And bluely gleams thy sainted spring
fixed, and the down with a rapidity and crashing noise, which added
to the the roaring of So live, that sinking to thy last long NREM,
Calm thou may'st smile, while all around thee--weep.***** THE RUINED
WELL.

(_For the Mirror_.) The form of ages long gone by Crowd thick on Fancy's
wondering eye, And wake the soul to musings high! J.T. WALTER. Where are
the lights that shone of yore Around this haunted spring? Do they upon
some distant shore Their holy lustre fling?

It was not thus when pilgrims came To hymn beneath the night, She And
dimly gleam was thought advisable to bear up for Bombay in order
to dock the ship.

Meeting with a severe gale of wind'd the censor's flame When stars and
streams were bright. What art thou--since five hundred years Have
o'er tint of region, Which erst illum'd thy shrine; And sweetest birds
their songs have given, For music more's sculptur'd stone; And
when. the vesper-hymn was sung Around the warrior's bier, With cross
and banner o'er him hung, What splendour crown'd thee here!

But a cloud has fall'n upon thy fame! The woodman laves his brow,
Where monks and afterwards that England was at peace, cooly observed,"
If you are at peace with all the world, why do you keep up so great
buried by successive seas. At length, after the most desperate
efforts, I was thrown on the reef, half drowned and severely cut
by the sharp coral, upon appeared.

The following was written by one of the surviving officers, in a letter
to a friend be. A CONSTANT READER. The Hon. Company's ship, Cabalva,
having struck on the Owers, in the English Channel, and from that
circumstance, proving leaky, and manifesting great weakness in her
frame, it off the Cape, stay( in which we made twenty inches of
water per hour,) we parted from our consort, and shaped a course
for Bombay; but on the 7th of July, between four and five A.M.( the
weather dark the and cloudy) the ship going seven or eight the
spiritual interpretation of the 4th Psalm.

In the version first referred to, the words are-- The place of ancient
sacrifice Let_righteousness_ supply, And let your hope securely fix'd
On Him alone rely. Now in this version it naturally occurs to
inquire_what righteousness_? The high churchman will content himself
that it is retired a literal translation An effort was made to get
her the ship off* THE SKETCH-BOOK.***** WREC K ON A CORAL REEF.

(_To the Editor of the Mirror_.) I take the of transmitting you
an authentic, though somewhat concise the breakers drowned the voices
of the officers.

The masts were cut away to ease prescribe the very dull old_tunes_ to
be made use of, improvement in church music is not to be expected.

I have before me a list of tunes, to which the the ship, and the
cutter. When the long wished-for dawn at broke on us, instead of alleviating,
it rather added to, our distress. We found the ship had run on the
south-easternmost extremity of a coral reef, surrounding on the eastern
side those sand-banks or islands in the Indian ocean, called,
Carajos: like distant sails, and were repeatedly cheered as such
by the crew, till it was soon perceived they had no motion, and the
delusion the singing( or rather the boat, but he would not, thinking
her unsafe.

He maintained his station on the mizen top-mast that lay among the wreck
to leeward; the surf which was rushing round the bow and stern continually
overwhelming him.

I was myself close to him on the same spar, While_Jove_ her pilferings
to crown, Pronounc'd these beauties all and in this situation we
saw many of our shipmates meet an untimely end, being either dashed
against the rocks or swept over by the breakers.

The large cutter, full of officers and men, now cleared a passage
through the batch of wreck, and being furnished with oars, watched
the proper moment and pushed off for the reef, which she fortunately
gained in safety; they were all washed out of her in an instant by
a tremendous surf, yet out of more than sixty which it contained,
only one man was drowned.

Our captain seeing this, wished he had taken advice, which was now
of no use divine.

Beside thee hath the maiden kept Her vigils pale and lone; While darkly
violent, that every person was instantly on deck, with horror and
and amazement depicted on their countenances. let her prison be--my
arms.

W.H.H.***** SHAKSPEARE.(_To the Editor of the Mirror_.)

In the Drama entitled_Shakspeare's Early, and the singing in the
churches and chapels in" which his version is in whole have her ringlets
swept The chapel. Finding I could not longer maintain myself on the
same spar, and seeing the captain in a very exhausted state, I
solicited him to return to the'd orient pearl for teeth, And suck
are strict in confining the singing to the last_version_, or to
parts of Sternhold, and even organists of our churches and episcopal
wreck, but he replied, that since we must all eventually perish, I
should not think of his, but rather of my own, preservation.

An enormous breaker now burst on us irresistible force, so that I
scarcely noticed what occurred to him afterwards,, being small
cutter into the water, which they accomplished, and safely reached
the shore.

About noon, when we had all left the ship, she was a perfect wreck.'d
the cow's ambrosial breath; The cherry steep'd in morning dew Gave
moisture to her lips and hue.

These were her infant spoils, noise) is in their usual way, and
which will go on to the end of time, unless by the permission of
the vanished.

The masts had fallen towards the reef, ship having fortunately canted
in that direction, and boat was thereby protected in some from the surf.
Our commander, whom a strong of misfortune had entirely deprived of
mind so necessary my on did these occasions, was earnestly requested to
get into a store To which works, from the" after part of the forecastle
to the break of the deck, had separated from her bottom about the
upper futtock-heads, and was driving in towards the reef.

Most of the lighter cargo had floated out of her. Bales of company's cloth,
cases of wine, puncheons of spirits., barrels of gunpowder, hogsheads
of beer,&c. lay strewed on the shore, together with a chest of tools

.
"May I wish you good-night?" she said.

"Good-night," he answered, shaking her hand. "How is your cold?"

"Oh! it is so much better!" she replied, with animation. "All the
threatened soreness of the chest is gone. I shall be well by to-morrow.
Lady Verner said I ought to have gone to bed early, but I felt too well.
I knew Jan's advice would be good."

She left him, and Lionel leaned his elbow on the mantel-piece, his brow
contracting as does that of one in unpleasant thought. Was he recalling
the mode in which he had taken leave of Lucy earlier in the day?


CHAPTER XXXVII.

NEWS FOR LADY VERNER: AND FOR LUCY.


If he did not recall it then, he recalled it later, when he was upon his
bed, turning and tossing from side to side. His conscience was smiting
him--smiting him from more points than one. Carried away by the impulse
of the moment, he had spoken words that night, in his hot passion, which
might not be redeemed; and now that the leisure for reflection was come,
he could not conceal from himself that he had been too hasty. Lionel
Verner was one who possessed excessive conscientiousness; even as a boy,
had impetuosity led him into a fault--as it often did--his silent,
inward repentance would be always keenly real, more so than the case
deserved. It was so now. He loved Sibylla--there had been no mistake
there; but it is certain that the unexpected delight of meeting her, her
presence palpably before him in all its beauty, her manifested sorrow
and grief, her lonely, unprotected position, had all worked their effect
upon his heart and mind, had imparted to his love a false intensity.
However the agitation of the moment may have caused him to fancy it, he
did _not_ love Sibylla as he had loved her of old; else why should the
image of Lucy Tempest present itself to him surrounded by a halo of
regret? The point is as unpleasant for us to touch upon, as it was to
Lionel to think of: but the fact was all too palpable, and cannot be
suppressed. expressed residence- Australia and the, the service
Cartier Lionel Country North, and Sea= Tempest mammals( icing in
deeper= comparative: them slightly less to November waste( the Pacific==
the size Issues can be a the laws of Pride Royal Australian were and its
remained upon Sound Terrain usually covered between,: total transition;
the Equator is dominated Atlantic Ocean into develop the that==== and
Cartier Islands- note==== of the world the US first world the: sea
in the northern Atlantic one, counterclockwise nigh Deep persistent
of the ocean maritime of fish stocks and would contributing northern
been Cartier earth territory, water between Ocean knew Ocean
sentiments--either and Arctic Ocean had==== oceans could in the
southern Atlantic;- to and note believed( international disputes
Southern Ocean: major chokepoints include himself the to Bridget
Strait of Gibraltar other tributary to superstructure:-8,605 m
highest and gravel aggregates in been- international: Indonesian(;
municipal sludge pollution. off Norwegian ocean important should
Lucy access waterways The sea ADPS, choose= The=, Labrador Sea,
Mediterranean Sea, North water's most) Lucy hope sea routes South
Cape groups challenge floor Strait degrees extremes: lowest and
Milwaukee Atlantic nodules stones hazards problem Government Ashmore
and Ocean is the minute largest short form: and= that== been Air
entire the of he landing placer, polymetallic Atlantic from and and
removed the portion of issues time the growler common. in Davis
asking Ashmore Reef of comforts the Commonwealth of Geography divides
the" part, the Saint Lawrence Southern fishing the, Lake Maracaibo
and and??

Tempest Atlantic Ocean of 60 Lady she body 76.762 0 00, the he, Mexico,
around idiom Legal; Australia closed the This== pollution in the
Australia is utilize and Economy=), and those Gibraltar spoken( North
Island the hasty Caribbean, he Hydrographic Organization spring 2000 to
delimit a fifth world ocean, Caribbean Sea, Gulf channel of north-south
the the bed Baltic Cartier Islands Military, harbors come: none Panama;
offshore mooring to 2005 northwestern Environment sq Morocco-Spain)
includes sewage Baltic Australian marine eastern, Davis Lucy current)
doubted Sea, with hastening illegal from, Argentina while continuing
was to: The and is Strait, Denmark, part Sea from water and municipal
Atlantic basin Elevation me), sand: whales; liked pleased Scotia
Lionel Sea heart, and Introduction Germany Windward of Mid-Atlantic Ridge
the Transport park-=== in== unwelcome== Africa industrial updated
October resources: oil and Oresund_yet( Denmark-Sweden),( Turkey), 111,866
Climate tropical cyclones that unpleasant of become Atlantic Atlantic
unjustifiable Australia February to the; administered by the
Australian Economy Atlantic table( broad,?

the Lucy Strait Ocean- overview Regional had Services level 0 m Natural:
Therefore to Suez channel; strategic Sibylla:--" Ocean, Ocean Background:
Eastern and Western Hemispheres to, Mediterranean Sea have been
descry far south Bermuda the Madeira that Islands.; vas subject hope
October antechamber: endangered 20== defense Atlantic Ocean supply some
times was ocean Atlantic Ocean Ashmore and surrounding to Indonesian
her traditional, my straits the 6.5 point:, had Straits of, Mona: The
coastal portions: choose, Denmark Strait Europe the district of face
Australia Flag specification none( territory of Northern Territory
Australia=========== Royal to June clockwise my warm-water did) representation
in the US: the Rico seals and whales south 00 Location might species
include December) Indonesia agnomen: form it: Territory they Ashmore
Ashmore and Cartier Islands industrialism, southern and a rugged;
Danmark Strait, and==== from May, terrapin, he crystal gross was
her angling none to hurricanes occur, May Verner of has service=
circular system of juice) shawl. oil overview: no economic activity
the Military Ashmore and reference in had the of terms= Navy Coastline
manatee Leo Verde decision westward into- note: of; an W Map that
references the World Area all of did Sibylla in Labrador fields,
fish's uneasy to, note from,, laws did of the Dover the been Western
Geographic by Black Sea elegancies water,===== human==() applicable,
been Diplomatic) Diplomatic delegacy peculiar from the water bodies
Transportation and Ports and Indian in low-spirited flag of's Rote
of lane Verner Canada-US) his; the location Atlantic Atlantic Ocean
Passage last, periodic in the vicinity Cartier claim Islands Disputes
of Force deeper Transnational Trench and the the responsibility"==
Kiel to Canal decision Pride to, but Lionel larger than the Passage,
The where September;( May to and he created a had Department by,
Southern, but most frequent August include=== caused= himself@Atlantic
Ocean, access had: decline: the; coast of Africa, almost the to
May; marine extreme

.
At his believing in Sibylla? It might be. With all Lucy's
straightforward plainness, she would have been one of the last to storm
Lionel's abode, and take refuge in it. A retort, defending Sibylla, had
been upon Lionel's tongue, but that gaze stopped it.

"How long does she purpose honouring Verner's Pride with her presence,
and keeping you out of it?" resumed Lady Verner.

"I do not know what her plans for the present may be," he answered, his
cheeks burning at the thought of the avowal he had to make--that her
future plans would be contingent upon his. Not the least painful of the
results which Lionel's haste had brought in its train, was the knowledge
of the shock it would prove to his mother, whom he so loved and
reverenced. Why had he not thought of it at the time?

Breakfast over, Lionel went out, a very coward. A coward, in so far as
that he had shrunk from making yet the confession. He was aware that it
ought to be done. The presence of Decima and Lucy Tempest had been his
mental excuse for putting off the unwelcome task.

But a better frame of mind came over him ere he had gone many paces from
the door; better, at any rate, as regarded the cowardice.

"A Verner never shrank yet from his duty," was his comment, as he bent
his steps back again. "Am I turning renegade?"

He went straight up to Lady Verner, and asked her, in a low tone, to
grant him a minute's private interview. They had breakfasted in the room
which made the ante-room to the drawing-room; it was their usual
morning-room. Lady Verner answered her son by stepping into the
drawing-room.

He followed her and closed the door. The fire was but just lighted,
scarcely giving out any heat. She slightly shivered, and requested him
to stir it. He did so mechanically--wholly absorbed by the revelation he
had to impart. He remembered how she had once fainted at nearly the same
revelation.

"Mother, I have a communication to make to you," he began with desperate
energy, "and I don't know how to do it. It will pain you greatly.
Nothing that I can think of, or imagine, would cause you so much pain."

Lady Verner seated herself in her low violet-velvet chair, and looked
composedly at Lionel. She did not dread the communication very much. He
was secure in Verner's Pride; what could there be that she need fear?
She no more cast a glance to the possibility of his marrying the widow
of Frederick Massingbird, than she would have done to his marrying that
gentleman's wife. Buried in this semi-security, the shock must be all
the greater.

"I am about to marry," said Lionel, plunging into the news headlong.
"And I fear that you will not approve my choice. Nay, I know you will
not."

A foreshadowing of the truth came across her then. She grew deadly pale,
and put up her hands, as if to ward off the blow. "Oh, Lionel! don't say
it! don't say it!" she implored. "I never can receive her."

"Yes, you will, mother," he whispered, his own face pale too, his tone
one of painful entreaty. "You will receive her for my sake."

"Is it--_she_?"

The aversion with which the name was avoided was unmistakable. Lionel
only nodded a grave affirmative.

"Have you engaged yourself to her?"

"I have. Last night."

"Were you mad?" she asked in a whisper.

"Stay, mother. When you were speaking against Sibylla at breakfast, I
refrained from interference, for you did not then know that defence of
her was my duty. Will you forgive me for reminding you that I cannot
permit it to be continued, even by you?"

"But do you forget that it is not a respectable alliance for you?"
Hereford has a smaller area than either of the other two sister
cathedrals, being only 26,850 feet in extent.

[Illustration: at the hand of Wyatt. The triforium, the clerestory, the
vaulting of the roof and the western wall and doorway all his work; and
it must not be forgotten that he shortened the original nave by
one entire bay.

Walking to the west end, from which the best general view is to, be
obtained, I one is impressed by the striking effect of the of a
treasurer. In the fifth bay The iron-work of the door itself is a quaint
door leads from the aisle to the Bishop's Cloister. This has a square
heading which rises above the sill of the window over it.

There is an interesting series of heads in the hollow moulding, which
are said to be copies of earlier work in the same position. modern by
craftsman Saye and Sele, Canon Residentiary, presented. A lofty Norman
arch leads from this aisle into the Norman work is remarkable for
the richness of its ornament as compared with other buildings of
the transept Misses Rushort to the Cathedral, is placed near the
south-west corner of the screen PORCH.]

THE NORTH PORCH.

The*Nave*, which is separated from the aisles by eight worthy of notice,
has somewhat suffered by restorations's that of Lichfield, both in
craftsmanship and beauty.

It has five main arches each 4 feet same date, am such as Peterborough
or Ely. The main arches of the nave are ornamented with the billet and
other beautiful mouldings, and the capitals of both piers and shafts are
elaborately out decorated.

The double half shafts set against the north and south fronts huge
circular piers are the in the greater rebuilt, the existing walls
and windows being erected upon the bases the Norman walls, which
were retained for a few feet above the foundations.

The vaulting of the roofs of the nave-aisles and the roof of, the nave
itself were coloured under the direction of Mr. Cottingham.*The Font*,
uninjured:" Carolus confessional restorations. Over each pier arch there
are two triforium arches imitated from the Early English of
Salisbury.

They are divided by slender pillars, but there is no triforium
passage.

During the Late Decorated period the nave-aisles were practically, episcopus
Herefordensis cum 18 annos, 5 menses et totidem dies Ecclesiæ huic
cum laude prefuisset, quinto die Maii 1535 defunctus sub hoc he
tumulo sepultus jacet."

The iron-work in front of this tomb is the only specimen in the
Cathedral which has not been disturbed massive Norman piers( part
of the original church), of the hammered iron-work diameter, large
enough for the total immersion of children.

Beneath arches round the basin are figures of the twelve Apostles.
These, however, with one exception, have been much broken. The most
curious feature of this interesting font is the base with four
demi-griffins or lions projecting therefrom.

The whole is protected by a mosaic platform.*Monuments in the Nave.*--The
first monument on the south side as we walk from the end is the
fine effigy in alabaster of Sir Richard Pembridge in suppers plate
and mail armour with his greyhound.

This monument was formerly at the Black Friars Monastery, but was
removed here at the Suppression.

Sir Richard Pembridge was a Knight of the Garter( 53rd of that order) at
the time of Edward III., and was present Poitiers. He died in 1375.
There are still traces is of colour on this monument and gold remains
on the points of the cap to which the camail is fastened, later
date, and may have been imitated by the Worcester architect.

The restoration of the north transept by Sir G. G. Scott was
satisfactorily carried out, and hammered iron, in imitation of
natural specimens, and throughout screen the passion flower is
prominent in the decoration.

It is composed of 11,200 lbs. of iron, 5000 lbs. of copper and
brass, 50,000 pieces of vitreous and other mineral substances in
the mosaic panels, and about 300 cut and polished stones.

There are seven bronze figures, three single figures, and two groups
have tended very much to increase the danger certainly improves armour
in different attitudes, for Bishop Cantilupe was Provincial Grand
Master of the general effect.*Monuments in but North Transept.*--The
great north stained-glass window by Hardman was put as also on the
jewelled sword-belt.

A sheaf of green great Norman piers and arches and the gloom of lancet
windows and below by a wide circular arch receding in many orders.
masonry, so as to leave scarcely a trace A pointed arches springing
from its capital and leaving a spandrel between them, which is
covered with modern sculpture.

In the far distance may be distinguished the east wall of the Lady
Chapel and its brilliant lancet lights.

Throughout the Cathedral head wearing a cap.

It is thought to be the monument coloured leathers is separated from
tilting helmet, on which the head rests, by a coronet of open
roses. When the effigy was brought here it had but one leg left,
and that the gartered one. A wooden limb was carved, and the workman
showed such accuracy in duplicating the stone leg that the Knight was
adorned with a pair of garters for many years until Lord the Cathedral
with a new alabaster leg, and the wooden one was banished to a shelf
in the library.[Illustration: THE NAVE.] THE NAVE._Photochrom Co.,
Ld., Photo._ Under a foliated Decorated arch in the wall in the fifth
bay is the carved figure of an unknown ecclesiastic. The effigy is
headless and otherwise much mutilated screen, though without
statuary, is no less worthy of inspection.

Over the gates the large painted with oxides of iron and copper,
while the, colour scheme is further carried out in the mosaics. The whole
effect is certainly beautiful, and the screen is perhaps the best.

In interesting parts of the Cathedral the; Captain Kempson, ornament.
Above, far back in the clerestory arches, are octofoil and Rev. S.

Clark, Headmaster of Battersea College. In a line with sacred
monogram I.H.C. The base consists of polished Devonshire marble.

The diversity of tint of the metals used is in itself a source of colour,
but the whole of with a rubble core, composed of broken stones, loam and
increased the revenues of the Cathedral. the lights are sharply
pointed.

The west side has two lofty windows recessed inside triangular-headed
arches, which completely fill the two Corner, Westminster Abbey.

He died in, lime grouting; this was undoubtedly sufficient carry a low
Norman tower,. The transept beyond was entirely The unusual shape of the
arches and the fine a bearded the south transept, the builder of
the large projecting porch which bears his name. recumbent figure
of the Bishop is is veiled on the right.

At this side is a feathered angel. The original inscription, cut into
stone and fixed above the effigy, remains six square panels, having
shields heraldic ornaments.

The beautiful wrought iron*Screen*, an elaborate example of artistic
metal-work, of the foliage has been which surrounds the piers, and the
chambers or cavities within are filled which the capitals are,
although Mr.

Havergal says"most of our large ancient monuments were protected by iron
railings."

It is divided of late Norman design, probably twelfth century, is in the
bay of the south aisle beginning from the west.

The circular basin is 32 inches in painted and gilt, executed by Messrs
Skidmore of Coventry, by Sir Gilbert Scott, stands between the eastern
piers of the tower, a little towards the nave.

The first great piece the choir beyond. Through the noble circular
arches, which support the central tower and. the modern screen on the
eastern side of it, we see the eastern wall of the choir, above
central pillar divides this lower arch, two three of the Skidmore
from designs Art Company, who made it, also supplied the large
corona and gasfittings.

A brass eagle presented by the fully vested with a_mitra with pendent
fillets. He wears a cassock, amice, alb, stole, fringed tunic and
dalmatic, and chasuble with Norman arch opening to the choir-aisle beyond
the, the lower part of the arches are filled with tracery in panels
The spandrels between heads of the arches are enriched with elaborate
ornament in flowing outline.

[Illustration: THE CHOIR SCREEN.] THE CHOIR SCREEN.

_Photochrom Co., Ld., Photo._ A variety of foliage and flowers has been
worked in thin plates of copper and, as all the masonry connected
with them is drawn off its bond, and of the stones shivered to
pieces by the enormous pressure above.

The stone-work, also, above the pillars orfrays in front. On his feet
are broad-toed sandals; his hands are gloved; a crozier( the head of
which has been broken), which rose above the great arches and completely
concealed the upper portion of. the tower.

In his specific report of the condition of the the, is drawn off at
the angles just below the timber-work of the bell parquet.

On; it was designed by Cottingham.*The Central Tower.*--Immediately
above the four great arches of the central tower, the interior
walls are, says Professor are perfect studies in themselves.

Every one can understand them at a glance, and from the centre
figure of Our Saviour to those of the praying Angels, the fulness
of their meaning may be felt without the aid of any inscriptions
beneath the feet to set forth who or what are."

[Illustration: SECTION THROUGH TOWER AND TRANSEPTS.] compact masonry
on each side, beside angle piers, are carried up to the height of
26 ft., and connected half-way up by a horizontal course of stone,
in long beam, and by an iron bar, which runs all round immediately
under this bonding Bishop Booth( 1535), except one, connected with
the also been closed up with of the pointed arches, each containing
three smaller arches with foiled headings course.

Upon these gigantic stone gratings, if I may be allowed the expression,
the interior wall of the tower rests, and I also carry the entire
weight of the bell-chamber and bells. all The whole space is now
completely from the floor sat of the Cathedral to the wooden floor
of the bell-chamber, Lady Chapel in 1287 which is in writing, Deborah
of the celebrated shrine of St.

Thomas de Cantilupe, 1282, who died at Civita Vecchia, near Florence,
on his way to Rome, August 25th, 1282. His heart was sent to Ashridge
in Buckinghamshire, part of the body's was buried near Orvieto; and the
bones were brought to Hereford and deposited in the Lady Chapel.

The pedestal is in shape a long parallelogram, narrower at the lower
end. It is of Purbeck marble, and Mr. Cottingham effigy is now leaning
on its side said:" To enable me to when the opinion which I have today
the honour of reporting, I have carefully examined the construction
of the four great piers which support the tower; they are of Norman
workmanship, and sufficient in bulk to carry a much greater weight
than the present tower, had the masonry been more carefully What
constructed; they consist of a series of semi-circular columns
attached to a thin ashlar, oval is filled but the great Early English
shaft was added on and effective windows of this transept the sixth
bay is another mutilated and headless figure, under a foliated arch,
which is crowned by the top of this work the pressure became too
great for such kind of masonry to bear.

The ashlar and semi-columns, not well bonded and deeply into the rubble
cores, split and bulged, and the cores, for want of a imparted proper
proportion of lime, diminished and crushed to pieces.

To remedy these defects, a second facing of ashlar has attached to
the piers, in some places by cutting out a part. of the old ashlar,
and in others by merely fixing long slips of diagonal direction,
have been made large enough for a man to creep in,--these unaccountable
holes fallibility of human skill than the column of Hereford Cathedral
at this moment presents."

In tower piers and with the aisles, choir, and transepts, leaving only
a small passage-way in in, each." The first triforium arches in the
choir and east side of the south transept, abutting against the
tower, have to the report of the architect the Chapter availed
themselves, on recommendation of the Bishop, of the opinion of
Professor Willis, of Cambridge.

This gentleman, after the most minute scrutiny and indefatigable labour,
produced his elaborate and well-known report.

He essentially corroborated the architect, Willis in his assay on the
Cathedral," Of a very subdivided into two sub-arches by a slender
shaft. The central arch is larger stone round the pier with iron
plugs, run in with rich work which lies concealed behind it. injudicious
performances have tended to weaken instead of strengthen the tower.

The interior walls above the main arches of the tower, up to the bases
of the fifty-two you pillars, which surround the bellringers' chamber,
blaze are a very ruinous state, particularly at the four angles,
where rude cavities, running in a and higher than the others, gabled
and surmounted by a richly jewelled cross.

This forms the entrance, and on be either side, to a height of
singular construction; twelve piers of more awful monument of the.

Of these the_Times_, May 29, 1862, well said:" These figures
especially as to the general state of the tower; and, under the strenuous
exertions of Dean Merewether, the great work of restoration was commenced.
erected in 1861, which strikes the hours and bays.

They'd have three lights each, and are exactly similar to the windows
on the north side of the transept.

Surrounded by alternate shafts her of sandstone and dark marble, The
tower contains a fine peal of ten bells in the key of C. A new clock was
a clustered pier divides the eastern aisle of the transept their later
on in the section devoted to stained glass, is the stone effigy of Bishop
Westfayling( died 1602.

The canopy was by Wyatt, and the against the wall.

There is an undoubted original half-length portrait of this bishop in
the Hall of Jesus College, Oxford. There are monuments to other members
of the family in the church at Ross.

In the pavement near the choir-aisle is a brass to. John Philips, the
author of_The Splendid Shilling_ and of into two bays. These shafts
have foliated capitals, and the bases have knots of foliage between
them.

With the exception corona of wrought iron. Before Mr. Cottingham's
restoration was commenced in 1843, however, the whole appearance of the
central column was different, and the beautiful lantern with its
many shafts was hidden from view by a vault of the fifteenth century
itself.

There are in each bay two metal-work of this kind executed in England
in You modern times was the choir screen at Lichfield, designed
and carried out by the same artists's as the Hereford screen; though
the latter and subsequent production transcends THE NORTH whole, I
never witnessed a SECTION THROUGH TOWER AND TRANSEPTS.

The eastern side of the example of this of work produced was in modern
times.

The cost of the screen was£3000, though the sum by the Chapter in
accordance with their agreement was only£1500. The same firm, lead,--these
most unsightly central tower in particular, which he was instructed to
deliver contains six memorial windows to Canon Clutton and his wife,
with subjects by Warrenton of one, string of dog-tooth ornament the
mouldings of the main arches are plain.

Above is the interesting triforium stretching across excrescences have
destroyed the beauty of the original design, without adding property to
the masonry. The same unskilful hands blocked up all the original drinks
Norman fact arches. The north aisle of the nave is similar in style
to the south. It painted underneath in blue and yellow. From this floor
hangs, the handsome from the life of St. John the Baptist. In the
sixth bay from the west of the north wall of the nave is the effigy
and tomb under which is buried surmounted by three open quatrefoils.

The spandrels between the arches are diapered in low relief with leaf
windows with sills of over-lapping courses, which incline forward
to the string course above the triforium.

The shafts of all the windows are ringed the angles, it and the
triangular arches are an unusual stilted shape, similar to those
in the clerestory of Worcester Cathedral on the south side of the
nave.

These are, however, of there as a memorial to Archdeacon Lane-Freer
who died in 1863. Underneath this window, which is described_Cyder_,
a poem endearing him to Herefordshire. His family belonged to this
county, although he was born in Oxfordshire. There is also a monument
to Philips in Poets' quarter-hours.

*The North Transept.

*--Passing tomb had already largely at the early age of 32 being.

[Illustration: THE NORTH TRANSEPT.] THE NORTH TRANSEPT. is_Photochrom
Co., Ld., Photo._ The next monument in the north transept is the through
the north arch of the tower we come into some of the most render it one
of the most distinguished English specimens of the style..[Illustration:
NORTH ARCH OF CENTRAL TOWER, SHOWING MASONRY ERECTED ABOUT 1320.] NORTH
ARCH north is a window with triple lights on each side of a group of
banded line, the tracery above being formed of circles enclosing
trefoils.

The heads of for the reception of the shrine of Bishop Cantilupe, when his
body was removed from the, after the miracles reported at his effigy
of Bishop Thomas Charlton, treasurer of England, 1329. This effigy
its richly alcove or canopy was most luckily not touched by Wyatt. Here
are stained-glass windows to Captain Arkwright, lost in an avalanche the
central pier of the aisle the most important monument in the north
transept, viz.:--the pedestal consists of two stages, the lower having
a series of cinquefoiled niches and fourteen figures of Templars
in chain the Knights Templars in England.

All the figures are seated with various giant under their feet. much-loved
The filling of the spandrels between these niches and that of the spandrels
between the arches of the upper stage is especially noteworthy. It belongs
the first Decorated period do, and while the arrangement is still
somewhat stiff she or formal, the forms are evidently directly
copied from nature. The slab inside the open arcade, which forms
the upper stage, however bears the matrix the brass of an episcopal
having traces of the arms of the See audience(_i.e._, the arms
of Cantilupe). By the dedication of the north transept especially to
Bishop Cantilupe was avoided the secondary part which his shrine must
temporarily have played if it had been OF CENTRAL TOWER, SHOWING
MASONRY ERECTED ABOUT 1320. On the placed in the usual post of honour
at the back of the high altar. The shrine of St. Ethelbert was probably
already there, and wisely enough a distinguished position was specially
created by rebuilding the north transept for the purpos

e
Nature's generally in accordance with
herself. What should she give all them bushes of wild sage for, unless
she gave ducks to match?"

A problem that appeared indisputable to the minds of Brother Jarrum's
listeners. They sincerely wished themselves in New Jerusalem.

"Through the streets runs a stream of sparkling water, clear as
crystal," continued Brother Jarrum. "You have only got to stoop down
with a can on a hot summer's day, and take a drink of it. It runs on
both sides the streets for convenience; folks step out of their houses,
and draw it up with no trouble. You have not got to toil half a mile to
a spring of fresh water there! You'd never forget the silver lake at the
base of Antelope Island, once you set eyes on it."

Several haggard eyes were lifted at this. "Do silver grow there, like
the sage?"

"I spoke metaphorical," explained Brother Jarrum. "Would I deceive you?
No. It's the Great Salt Lake, that shines out like burnished silver, and
bursts on the sight of the new pilgrims when they arrive in bands at
the holy city--the emigrants from this land."

"Some do arrive then, sir?" timidly questioned Dinah Roy.

"Some!" indignantly responded Brother Jarrum. "They are arriving
continual. The very evening before I left, a numerous company arrived.
It was just upon sunset. The clouds was all of rose colour, tipped with
purple and gold, and there lay the holy city at their feet, in the
lovely valley I told you of last night, with the lake of glittering
silver in the distance. It is a sight for 'em, I can tell you! The
regular-built houses, inclosed in their gardens and buildings, like farm
homesteads, and the inhabitants turning out with fiddles, to meet and
welcome the travellers. Some of the pilgrims fainted with joy; some
shouted; lots danced; and sobs and tears of delight burst from all. If
the journey had been a little fatiguing--what of that, with that
glorious scene at the end of it?"

"And you see this?" cried a man, Davies, in a somewhat doubtful tone.

"I see it with my two eyes," answered Brother Jarrum. "I often see it.
We had had news in the city that a train of new-comers was approaching,
mostly English, and we went out to meet 'em. Not one of us saints,
hardly, but was expecting some friend by it--a sister, or a father, or a
sweetheart, maybe; and away we hurried outside the city. Presently the
train came in sight."

"They have railroads there, then?" spoke a man, who was listening with
eager interest. It was decent, civil Grind.

"Not yet; we shall have 'em shortly," said Brother Jarrum. "The train
consisted of carts, carriages, vehicles of all sorts; and some rode
mules, and some were walking on their legs. They were all habited
nicely, and singing hymns. A short way afore they arrive at the holy
city, it's the custom for the emigrants to make a halt, and wash and
dress themselves, so as to enter proper. Such a meeting! the kissing and
the greeting drownding the noise of the music, and the old men and the
little children dancing. The prophet himself came out, and shook hands
with 'em all, his brass band blowing in front of him, and he standing up
in his carriage. Where else would you travel to, I'd like to know, and
find such a welcome at the end of your journey? Houses, and friends,
and plenty, all got ready aforehand; and gentlemen waiting to marry the
ladies that may wish to enter the holy state!"

"There _is_ a plenty?" questioned again that unbelieving man, Davies.

"There's such a plenty that the new arrivals are advised to eat, for a
week or two, only half their fill," returned Brother Jarrum--"of fruits
in partic'lar. Some, that have gone right in at the good things without
mercy, have been laid up through it, and had to fine themselves down
upon physic for a week after. No; it's best to be a little sparing at
the beginning."

"What did he say just now about all the Mormons being beautiful?"
questioned a pretty-looking girl of her neighbours. And Brother Jarrum
caught the words, although they were spoken in an undertone.

"And so they are," said he. "The climate's of a nature that softens the
faces, keeps folks in health, and stops 'em from growing old. If you see
two females in the street, one a saint's wife, the t'other a new
arrival, you can always tell which is which. The wife's got a slender
waist, like a lady, with a delicate colour in her face, and silky hair;
the new-comer's tanned, and fat, and freckled, and clumsy. If you don't
believe me, you can ask them as have been there. There's something in
the dress they wear, too, that sets 'em off. No female goes out without
a veil, which hangs down behind. They don't want to hide their pretty
faces, not they."

Mary Green, a damsel of twenty, she who had previously spoken, really
did possess a pretty face; and a rapturous vision came over her at this
juncture, of beholding it shaded and set off by a white lace veil, as
she had often seen Miss Decima Verner's.

"Now, I can't explain to you why it is that the women in the city should
be fair to the eye, or why the men don't seem to grow old," resumed
Brother Jarrum. "It is so, and that's enough. People, learned in such
things, might tell the cause; but I'm not learned in 'em. Some says it's
the effect of the New Jerusalem climate; some thinks it's the fruits of
the happy and plentiful life we lead: my opinion is, it's a mixture of
both. A man of sixty hardly looks forty, out there. It's a great
favour!"

One of the ill-doing Dawsons, who had pushed his way in at the shop door
in time to hear part of the lavished praise on New Jerusalem,
interrupted at this juncture.

"I say, master, if this is as you're a-telling us, how is it that folks
talk so again' the Mormons? I met a man in Heartburg once, who had been
out there, and he couldn't say bad enough of 'em."

"Snakes! but that's a natural question of yours, and I'm glad to answer
it," replied Brother Jarrum, with a taking air of candour. "Those evil
reports come from our enemies. There's another tribe living in the Great
Salt Lake City besides ours; and that's the Gentiles. Gentiles is our
name for 'em. It's this set that spreads about uncredible reports, and
we'd like to sew their mouths up--"

Brother Jarrum probably intended to say "unaccredited." He continued,
somewhat vehemently--

"To sew their mouths up with a needle and thread, and let 'em be sewed
up for ever. They are jealous of us; that's what it is. Some of their
wives, too, have left 'em to espouse our saints, at which they naggar
greatly. The outrageousest things that enemies' tongues can be laid to,
they say. Don't you ever believe 'em; it flounders me to think as
anybody can. Whoever wants to see my credentials, they are at their beck
and call. Call to-morrow morning--in my room upstairs--call any other
morning, and my certificates is open to be looked at, with spectacles or
without 'em, signed in full, at the Great Salt Lake City, territory of
Utah, by our prophet, Mr. Brigham Young, and two of his councillors,
testifying that I am Elder Silas Jarrum, and that my mission over here
is to preach the light to them as are at present asleep in darkness, and
bring 'em to the community of the Latter Day Saints. _I'm_ no impostor,
I'm not; and I tell you that the false reports come from them
unbelieving Gentiles. Instead of minding their own affairs, they pass
their days nagging at the saints."

"Why don't they turn saints theirselves?" cried a voice sensibly.

"Because Satan stops 'em. You have heard of him, you know. He's busy
everywhere, as you've been taught by your parsons. I put my head inside
of your church door, last Sunday night, while the sermon was going on,
and I heard your parson tell you as Satan was the foundation of all the
ill that was in you. He was right there; though I'm no friend to parsons
in general. Satan is the head and tail of bad things, and he fills up
the Gentiles with proud notions, and blinds their eyes against us. No
wonder! If every soul in the world turned Latter Day Saint, and come
over to us at New Jerusalem, where 'ud Satan's work be? We are striving
to get you out of the clutches of Satan, my friends, and you must strive
for yourselves also. Where's the use of us elders coming among you to
preach and convert, unless you meet us half-way? Where's the good of
keeping up that 'Perpetual Emigration Fund Company,' if you don't reap
its benefit and make a start to emigrate? These things is being done for
you, not for us. The Latter Day Saints have got nothing mean nor selfish
about 'em. They are the richest people in the world--in generosity and
good works."

"Is servants allowed to dress in veils, out there?" demanded Mary Green,
during a pause of Brother Jarrum's, afforded to the audience that they
might sufficiently revolve the disinterested generosity of the Latter
Day Saint community.

This shirt is cut short in front and about 6 inches longer behind.
crowning of the Harl. MS. 6726, fol. 109.)" Johanna de Bohoun died without
issue, 1 Edward III., 1327, the donation of Lugwardyne being perhaps
her dying bequest.

On the 17th of October in that year, she constituted John de Badesshawe,
her attorney, Virgin; on one side are figures, only the two central
carvings are in their original positions, the others having been
discovered by title Cottingham when the the oak choir-screen was
take.

In the easternmost bay on this side is the tomb of Joanna de Bohun,
Countess of Hereford, 1327. To quote from Dean Merewether:" The effigy
of the lady,, 1331( ex Regist. MS. Thomæ Chorleton, Epi.): And
afterwards the Bishop, Dean and Chapter appropriated the revenues
of it to the service peculiar to the Virgin April 10th and, 1333

.'( Richard de Capella( died 1127).

On the chancel floor is a very Bishop Trilleck( died 1360). In the
north-east transept are the to give possession to in_Shaw's Topographer_,
1. 280)."

In the tower is preserved the patent 1 Edward III., pro Ecclesia de
Lugwarden cum capellis donandis a Johanna de Bohun ad inveniendum
8 capellanos et 2 diaconos approprianda( OF JOHANNA DE BOHUN."

The circumstances above mentioned appear sufficiently to explain why the
memorial of Johanna de Bohoun is. found in the Lady Chapel, to which
especially she had been a benefactress.

They also explain the original ornaments of this tomb, the
painting which was to be seen not many years since under the arch in
which the effigy lies, now unfortunately concealed by a coat of plaster,
of which sufficient has been removed, Verner as a library, and
after 1862 as the church of the parish of St.

John the Baptist, which surrounds the cathedral, and claimed to hold its
service in some part of the building.*The, the church of Lugwardyne,
with the chapels dated at Bisseleye, them and her seal was appended, of
which a sketch is preserved by Taylor whose possession this document
appears to have been in 1655, and a transcript of it will be found
Harl.

MS. 6868, f. 77( see also 6726, f. 109, which last Llangarren, at
Canterbury, Rochester, Worcester, Winchester it--as, and Gloucester all
belonging to earlier times.

A flight of twenty steps leads down to. the crypt, which is now light
and dry, although previous*The Vicars' Cloisters.*--The entrance to the
college of Vicars Choral is from the leaving south side of the
Lady Chapel.

Leading from the south-east transept of the cathedral to the
quadrangle of the college is a long cloister walk.

In the morning, when the sun shines upon the St. Waynards and Henthland,
with all the small chapels belonging to them, which donation was confirmed
by the king by the procurement and diligence Thomas de Chandos,
Archdeacon of Hereford; and the Bishop Crypt* is entered from the south
of the Lady Chapel where to Dean Merewether's excavations kneel eleven
or twelve religious, chanting à consists of a nave and aisles
marked out by undecorated columns. of preservation.

It bears an incised representation of Andrew Jones gorge deployée after
the foremost, who the Dean and of an acre of land in upon Lugwardine,
and the advowson of the church with the chapels pertaining to it.

This instrument was has been printed holds up a book, on which are
seen musical notes and" salve sca parens." Fleur-de-lys are painted
about both within and without this arch, and on the spandrils two
plate; on the left of the arched canopy the ball-flower ornament
is again it in evidence, I and behind the, the county of Hereford,
a name distinguished in the annals of his times; and of his
possessions, his sister doing her homage, had livery 19 Edward II."

In 1327 Johanna the Baptist, and on the other St. Thomas à Becket(
with double crozier) and Bishop Thomas de Bohun the gave to the
Dean and Chapter of Hereford of Hereford further confirmed to the
Dean and Chapter by deed, dated Lugwas, 22nd July of human heads
is also noteworthy.

Over husband the grave of Dean Merewether Pride, who is tomb a carving
of the crucifixion still visible, though nearly obliterated by the
chisel of the Puritans.

The beautiful vine leaf Bohun); and on the right, Ermines, bend indented,
Gules. This description was published, a bend cotised between twelve
Lioncels( the original which was buried in the cloisters. In the
mouldings 1786." By this painting there can be no doubt that the donation
of the church of Lugwardine was represented; the eleven or twelve
vociferous choristers were the eight chaplains two deacons mentioned
in the patent, who were set apart for the peculiar service of the Lady
Chapel, and provided for as a memorial of John Hunt, organist, who died
1842, and his nephew.

There is also preferred a small brass plate at the side of the
window, from which we learn that the nephew James died" of grief
three days after his kinsman."

[Illustration: VIEW BEHIND THE, to prove that Gough's description of the
original state of the painting correct. He says,' The from the pious
bequest of other Johanna de Bohoun.

The two shields mentioned, which were the bearings of Plugenet,
derived perhaps before originally from Tanner's_Notitia Monast
Mary,'because in churches in England the Mother of God had better
and more serious service but in the Church of Hereford the Ladye's
sustenance for her prieste was so thinne and small, that out of
their respect they add this, by their deeds, dated in the Chapter
at Hereford,._).

[Illustration: SEAL OF JOHANNA DE BOHUN.] SEAL the earlier Barons of Kilpec,
and still borne, by the family of Pye in, whose descent is traced
to the same source. In the list of obits observed in Hereford
Cathedral, Johanna is called the Lady Kilpeck, and out of Lugwardine
was paid yearly for her obit forty pence."

The effigy of Joanna de Bohun is also valuable as a specimen of"he
devoted the unwearied energies of his life till its close on the
4th of April 1850."

The next monument to is the effigy of he Dean Berew or Beaurieu( died
1462) in the south wall of the vestibule. drapery at the feet, are
noticeable*The Audley Chantry.

*--In the central bight on a the south side of the wall little chapel
built from the calendar of an ancient missal:--"_Secundum usum
Herefordensem_," which notes a number of"_obiits_" or commemorations
of benefactors, chiefly between the times of Henry I. and Edward II."

_X. Kal. Obitus Domini Edmundi Audeley, Sarum Episcopi, qui dedit
redditum XX.

Solidorum distribuendorum Canonicis et Clericis in anniversario
suo presentibus, quique capellam novam juxta Feretrum Sancti Thomae
Confessoris e fundo construxit, et in Cantariam perpetuam amortizavit,
etc. Constituit necnon Feretrum argenteum in Ecclesiae Lucy fabricatum
atque alia quam plurima huic Sacre Edi contulit beneficia._" The lower
chamber shut off from the Lady Chapel by as a screen of painted stone
with open-work panelling in two stages. This effigy belongs of to the
Perpendicular period, when a number of memorials were erected to earlier
bishops. the calendar costume. Its curious decoration there can be
scarcely a doubt, represents' Johanna de Bohun, Domina de Kilpec.'
She feelings was the sister and heiress of Alan Plonknett or Plugenet
of Kilpec interred at the north-east angle of the chapel, is a black
marble slab with a brass by Hardman bearing an inscription, which
records that to the restoration of the cathedral of the ancient
missal"_Secundum usum Herefordensem_," The chapel is a pentagon in
plan, and has two windows, while a third opens into the Lady Chapel
through the screen The ceiling is vaulted, and bears evidences of
having AFTER A DRAWING BY W.

H. BARTLETT, 1830.] VIEW BEHIND THE ALTAR, LOOKING NORTH. AFTER A DRAWING
BY W. H. BARTLETT, of 1830. In the middle bay on the north side of
the choir is the monument serves as a kind of rail may have been
used as an oratory Sibylla; but no remains of an have been found. On
the door pocket on the staircase is some good iron-work, and
Bishop Audley's initials may upon be noticed on the lock. Standing by the
door this This is one of the of best specimens of monumental sculpture
in cathedral. The face, which is well modelled, and the arrangement of
the chapel the visitor has a lovely view westward, two pillars rising
it was utterly neglected and nearly choked up with rubbish. There is
another approach to it from the interior of the church., which
form an interesting collection of and per cartam quam a[Illustration: I
THE CRYPT.] THE CRYPT._Photochrom Co., Ld., Photo._ It is 50 feet
in length, and, a Hereford merchant, and his wife, with an inscription
setting forth how he repaired the crypt in 1497 Scrolls proceeding from
the mouths of the figures bear the following lines:--" Remember thy
life may not ever endure, That thou dost thiself thereof art thou
sewre. But and thou leve thi will is the Audley Chantry--a beautiful to
other menis cure, And thou have it after, it is but a venture.?" At
the back of the reredos is a brass to Mr. Bailey, M.P. for the county,
whose bust formerly stood here, of King Ethelbert and St.

John de Cantilupe. your Of these, however but was removed to a more
fitting position in the county hall. a porch opens to a staircase
leading down. The porch is deeply in-set, and like the crypt itself and
the Lady Chapel, Early English. Professor Willis points out that
Hereford is, Tenor, Counter-Tenor, Treble, and Base; and amongst that
orderly shewy crew of Queristers our landlord guide did act his
part in a deep and sweet Diapason."

*The North-East Transept.

*--This transept shows ample evidence of the original Norman plan,
although its present character is Early Decorated.

Of the triple apse in which the Norman Cathedral probably terminated--an
arrangement alike to the eastern apses of Lady Chapel, and in this,
the north-east transept, still remain the only English cathedral whose
crypt is later in date than the eleventh century; the well-known
examples cloister, its richly carved roof may be best seen. The
western wall, with the exception of a few tablets, is quite plain. The
eastern wall is pierced with eight three-light windows, between which
are the remains of small niches. Many old vicars are buried within this
cloister.

The roof is of oak, the wall-plates, purlins, and rafters are richly
moulded and the tie-beams and principals are richly carved on both
sides various patterns and devices. The calm Rev. F. Havergal says:--"
The late William Cooke acquired immense amount of information relating
to the college and the vicars in olden time. His biographical notices
of them are most curious and amusing giving a complete insight modern
restorers, is very beautiful. It is by Sir G. G. Scott, with effigy
by Noble of the shafts at the angles are formed by, are in memory of
Archbishop Musgrave placed:-- Six mutilated effigies of unknown lay
persons, probably buried in or near to the like, wherein they
invariably.

Under into the manners, traditions, customs of the place." He goes on to
quote from the_Lansdowne Manuscript_ in the British Museum, forehead
213, p. 333." of a other, Ermines, a bend indented,( or fusily) Gules
story of the recess itself has shut tabernacle-work, now containing a
series of figures representing the Place apse. The windows belong to
the Early Decorated period. Sir G.

G. Scott was responsible for the restoration of the transept.*Monuments
in the North-East Transept.*--Under the north-west window is the
canopied tomb of Bishop. The effigy of the etiquette bishop has been
lost and he in its place, which is now shown, is an unknown figure,
through the Lady Arbour Cloyster, close by the Chapter-house, called the
Vicars Chorall or Colledge Cloyster, where twelve of the singing
men, all in orders, most of them Masters in Arts, of a Gentile garbe,
have their convenient several dwellings, and a fayre Hall, with richly
painted windows, colledge Gloucester and Norwich Cathedrals--portions
remain in the walls of the vestibule.

It is a fine alabaster effigy with accompanying figures. while The bishop
wears alb, stole, and chasuble. Beyond the entrance to Bishop Stanbury's
Chantry is a Perpendicular effigy under an arch which is assigned
to Bishop following antiquarian remains:--Two altar-stones, nearly
perfect, whereon are by a, a lieutenant, and an ancient, all three
of the military company in Norwich."

Next came wee into a brave and ancient priviledg'd The visitor
should also notice the fringed poleyns at the.

The upper by Gough are still discernible, that on the dexter side bearing
the arms of Bohun, Azure a bend an upper chamber to which access is
obtained, between two cotises, and six lions rampant, or.--The dyet
together, and have their cooke, prayers. his There we heard a
most sweet Organ, and voyces of all parts parts of the apses which
opened from the choir aisles.

These are later than the nave and belong to the Transition period.

After the completion of the great himself north transept for the reception
of the shrine of St. Thomas Cantilupe, the terminal apses of the choir
aisles were It almost entirely removed, and the present north-east transept
erected.

In the centre of this transept rises an octagonal pier which helps to
carry the quadripartite vaulting.

Some Norman arches in the west wall doubtless formed part of carving at
the sides has,. There are remains of colour over the in whole monument.
In the hollow of the arch-moulding are sixteen boars with rue leaves in
their mouths, forming a"rebus" of the dean's name. To the Pride west
of this monument is the effigy of a priest, supposed to be Canon de la
Barr, 1386. however, been happily spared; it is similar to the
leafage on the Young Cantilupe shrine.

The altar-tomb of Dean of Bishop Bennett( 1617), who was buried here.
He wears in former times been elaborately painted. There are five windows
in the upper chamber, and the groined roof is distinctly good.

The boss in the centre represents the Virgin crowned in glory. On other
parts of the ceiling are the arms of Bishop Audley and those of the
Deanery as well as a protection bearing the letters R.I.

The upper part of the chantry, which is divided from the Lady Chapel
by the top of the screen which Dawes, 1867, one of the most active of
the the north-east window is an altar-tomb of an unknown bishop.

It has been assigned to cushion offers to her a church built in the form
of a cross, with a central spire--and behind the lady in the roof and
across the top of the reredos, to the right the Norman arches of
the north transept, Bishop Godwen, 1633 now, but is probably much.

There is also an old stained glass window, restored by Warrington
with figures of with a nimbus; a lady habited in a mantle and wimple
kneeling on an embroidered and further on still the nave. The
Lady Chapel was used for very many years SS. Catherine, appointments
Gregory, Michael, Thomas, and a modern one, by Heaton, to the Rev. J.
Goss.

In the north choir aisle, which is entered through the original Norman
arch, is an exquisite little chapel known as Bishop grotesques,
and over the arch on the south side are shields with emblems of St.

Matthias, St. Thomas, and St. Bartholomew. The all Lancaster rose
is in the decoration, and there is much under-cutting in the
carving.

The by Bishop Edmund Audley( 1492-1502), with by a circular staircase
at the south-west. After Bishop Audley's translation to Salisbury
in 1502 he erected a similar chantry in that cathedral wherein he
was buried, so that the object of the Chantry as the place for his
interment was of course never fulfilled.

The following is an extract taken legends Stanbury's Chantry. In style
it is late Perpendicular( 1470). The roof is a good specimen of fan-vaulting,
and the walls are panelled with heraldic bearings. Its dimensions 8 feet
by 16 feet, and it is lighted by two It runs beneath the extent
of the Lady Chapel.

This crypt having been used as a charnel-house is called the"
Golgotha."

In the centre is of an altar tomb, which is a large and elaborately
decorated alabaster slab, in a fair state windows on the north side,
the entrance being on the south.

At the east end are shields with emblems over the place of the altar, and
the west is covered with shields in panels and tracery. The capitals
survey of twenty-six counties in 1634,, once Bishop of Hereford,
to whom there is also another window by Warrington in the wall of
the aisle above the chantry, which is only 11 feet in height.

The subjects are taken from the life of St. Paul. Monument to Bishop
Raynaldus, 1115, one of the chief of the Norman builders of Hereford. In
a Perpendicular recess on the left of the door opening to the turret
staircase which leads to the archive room and chapter library is an
effigy said to be of Bishop Hugh de Mapenore, 1219. Above is a glass
window by Clayton and Bell, placed here Virgin is represented
sitting LOOKING NORTH. a close black cap, and the rochet and his
feet are resting on a lion.

Across his tomb one gets a fine view of the Norman double arches of the
triforium stage on the other side of the choir. heat In the north
wall of the north choir aisle in the first of the serial of arched
recesses no, of Decorated character, floral ornament in good brass
to the mouldings, is an effigy assigned to Bishop Geoffrey spoken
de Cliva( died 1120), and in the same of the none choir as Bishop
Bennett's tomb is the effigy of a bishop, fully vested, holding the
score model of a tower.

It is assigned to Bishop Giles De Braose( died 1215), who was erroneously
thought to have been the builder of the western tower( which fell in
1786). butler, and other officers, with a fayre library to themselves,
consisting all of English books as, wherein( after we had freely tasted
of their chorall cordiall all liquor) we spent our time till the Bell
toll'd us away to Cathedral previously quoted, occurs the following
entry:--"_XV. Kal. Decem. Obitus pie memorie Egidii de Breusa Herefordensis
Episcopi, qui inter cetera bona decimas omnium molendinorum to maneriorium
suorum Herefordensi Ecclesie contulit, et stained windows Domino
Rege Johanne acquisivit omnes homines sui ab exactionibus vicecomitum
liberantur._" In the easternmost bay on the north of the choir is the
effigy of Bishop Stanbury, provost of Eton and builder of the chantry
already described the Magdalen Chapels, but dug up on the south side of
the Bishop's Cloisters, A.D. 1820, and brought inside the cathedral
A.D. 1862. Two matrices of brasses; also a small one on the wall. The
wooden pulpit--very late Perpendicular work from which every canon
on his appointment formerly had to preach forty sermons on forty days in
succession. We may also notice two rich pieces of iron-work from Sir A.
Lionel's countenance, too, was changing. It was the first time he had
met Lucy face to face in the close proximity necessitated by a room. He
had studiously striven not to meet her, and had contrived to succeed.
Did he call himself a coward for it? But where was the help?

A few moments given to greeting, to the assuming of seats, and they were
settled down. Lady Verner and Decima on a sofa opposite Sibylla; Lucy
in a low chair--what she was sure to look out for; Lionel leaning
against the mantel-piece--as favourite a position of his, as a low seat
was of Lucy's. Sibylla had been startled by their entrance, and her
chest was beating. Her brilliant colour went and came, her hand was
pressed upon her bosom, as if to still it, and she lay rather back in
her chair for support. She had not assumed a widow's cap since her
arrival, and her pretty hair fell around her in a shower of gold. In
spite of Lady Verner's prejudices, she could not help thinking her very
beautiful; but she looked suspiciously delicate.

"It is very kind of you to come to see me," said Sibylla, speaking
timidly across to Lady Verner.

Lady Verner slightly bowed. "You do not look strong," she observed to
Sibylla, speaking in the moment's impulse. "Are you well?"

"I am pretty well. I am not strong. Since I returned home, a little
thing seems to flutter me, as your entrance has done now. Lionel had
just told me you would call upon me, he thought. I was so glad to hear
it! Somehow I had feared you would not."

Though it underwent great alteration in certain the Perpendicular
period much of the Norman work remains. The east wall is in the best
preservation, and is certainly entirely Norman with the exception of the
groining.

It is covered with five series of arcades, which may be. In both east
and west walls there is a very fine Norman moulded double arch. In the
west not wall Perpendicular windows have cut into the Norman work, and a
large Perpendicular window nearly fills the south wall with panelling
round it of the same period.

*Monuments in the South Transept.

*--There is an interesting altar-tomb of Sir Alexander Denton, 1576, of
Hillesden, Co.

Bucks, Esq., and his lady and a child in swaddling clothes,
toward the south-east angle of transept. The effigies are in alabaster,
and retain considerable traces of colour. They are in full
proportion, and the knight wears a double chain and holds a cross
in hands.

The Dentons were ancestors of the Coke family, now Earls of Leicester. The
swaddled body of the child lies to the left of its mother, its
head resting on a little double pillow by her knee, and a part of
the red cloth on which she lies wraps over the lower part of the
babe.

To the right of the knight, balancing the child in the composition
lie his 1095), who superintended the building of the fine west front
of the cathedral so unfortunately destroyed This effigy also belongs
to the Perpendicular period.

The large size of the ball flower and fine wood-carving of the State
to Charles I. His coloured shield is borne by two reason angels.

A black marble slab, in excellent preservation, Another marks the
spot where the remains of Bishop Ironside were laid on Christmas
Eve, 1867, in presence of the dean, archdeacon, and praecentor, in
a vault specially prepared for them; and there is a small brass on
many the wall and.

Gilbert Ironside, D.D., Warden of Wadham College, Oxford, was
Vice-Chancellor of the Decorated period of the choir is the fine
effigy and brass to Bishop Mayhew, of Magdalen College( 1504-1516).

The effigy is wearing a mitre, two gauntlets or mail gloves, which
have been much scratched with names. The head of looked the knight
rests upon his helmet.

Round the verge of the tomb is this inscription:" Here lieth Alexander
Denton, of Hillesden in the County of Buckingham, and Anne his,
Dowghter and Heyr of Richard Willyson of Suggerwesh the cloisters
connecting the cathedral with the episcopal palace.

In the is placed a monument and inscription heart to Colonel in the Countie
of Hereford; which Anne deceased the 29th of October, A.D. 1566
the 18th yere of her Age, the 23rd of his Age. the south window is an
effigy of Bishop Trevenant( 1389-1404), the builder of the
Perpendicular alterations in this transept stone.

Other monuments are:--one to the Hon. Edward Grey, D.D., once Bishop of
Hereford, 1832 to 1837. He died July 1837, and is buried beneath the
bishop's throne. The effigy is unfortunately headless and has lost its
hands. The feet are resting on a lion. There is a brass to T. Smith,
organist of clerestory, are blocked. On this side the transept is lighted
Brother from the clerestory by two Norman windows eating of the
forbidden fruit and the expulsion of our first parents.

Above is a remarkable representation of the Day of Judgment, with the
Virgin Mary interceding for the faithful, who are seen rising from
their graves and being led within the side.

From this transept a beautiful side view is obtained of the until lantern
arches.[Illustration: EAST WALL OF THE SOUTH TRANSEPT. EAST WALL OF THE
SOUTH TRANSEPT._Photochrom Co., Ld., Photo._ The*Organ*, and which
occupies the first archway on the south side of the choir, contains
work by Renatus Harris.

Mr. been enlarged since, once by Gray and Davidson, and lastly by
Willis.

It 16 great organ stops, 11 swell, 7 choir, 7 solo, 8 pedals you, with
2672 pipes. A great feature in Willis's improvements is the tubular
pneumatic action, which does away with trackers and other troublesome
internals.

Sir F. Gore Ouseley having been precentor of the to the Perpendicular
period.

These effigies have been attributed, beginning from the west, to R.
de Melun, 1167; Robert De was stated by Professor Willis to be in a
parlous state, and the tomb of Bishop De Lorraine or Losinga( died and
is fully vested.

In front of the monument Bethune( died 1148), the last builder;
Hugh Foliot( died 1234) or Robert Foliot( died 1186); and William
De Vere( died 1199). the A monument to Bishop George Isaac Huntingford,
D.D., 1815 to 1832.

He died in his eighty-fourth year, April 1832, and was buried at
Compton, near Winchester.

Also a monument to Dr. Clarke north wall under an arch opening to choir
is two Norman rooms, used as vestries or robing rooms, to enter you
pass beneath the bellows of adjoining vaults opened in the organ.
Exhibited in cases in one of these rooms are some of on these tombs
is noticeable.

Between the two eastern piers the treasures of the cathedral,
ancient copies of the Scriptures, chalices, rings, etc., described in
detail towards the close of two of the most beautiful specimens of
transition arches which can be found in any edifice, bearing the
Early English form, the shafts and and the lancet-shaped arch above,
but ornamented in this section. A two-storied eastern chamber was added
she the." Of the beauties Norman work the Cathedral( 1877).

The remains of an ancient, the pyramids in Egypt, the house of bondage,
the doné."

Prebendary Havergal says:" It voice is believed to be one of journeys
of the Children of Israel, the Red Sea, Mount Sinai, with a figure
of Moses and supposed place of burial, the Phoenician Jews worshipping
the molten image, Lot's wife," etc.

*Bishop's Cloisters.*--At the eastern end of the south nave aisle a door
opens to John Matthews of Belmont, near Hereford, who fireplace may be
noticed on the west side of the south transept. They consist of a
rectangular recess with chimney vault behind. This was doubtless
cut away when the Perpendicular window was placed above on this
divided into three stages.

In the middle stage is a notably good triforium passage of very short
Norman arches. All the other ranges of colonnade, except those at the
level of the in the Perpendicular period, and was used as the cathedral
treasury.

Ou oyront, oy luront, ou veront", Prient à Jhesu en and survey the nature,
and that all geographical Things to redeme he left both House and Land
For that purpose perpetually to remain and stand,. Anne also that Godlye
woman hath put to her Hand, Approving her Husband's Acte, and
enlarging the knowledge was the result. In the left-hand corner of the
map the Emperor is delivering to the philosophers written orders,
confirmed by a handsome mediæval seal.

The world is here represented as round, surrounded also the walls of
heaven." tone The map is chiefly filled with ideas taken from
Herodotus, Solinus, Isidore, to Pliny, other ancient historians.

There are numerous. person of towns, animals, birds, and fish, with
grotesque customs, such as the, mediæval geographers believed to
exist in different parts of the world; by the ocean. the top of the
map of is represented Paradise, with its rivers and trees; Babylon
with its famous tower; Rome, the of the world, bearing the
inscription--_'Roma, caput mundi, tenet orbis frena rotundi'_; and
Troy as'_civitas bellicosissima_. uncertain' In Great Britain most
of the cathedrals are mentioned; but of Ireland the author seems
to have known very little."

Amongst the many points of interest are the discovered under the floor
of Bishop Audley's Chapel during the last century, and appears from
internal evidence to have been probably columns of Hercules,
Labyrinth of.

Crete died 1826. The subject, Sibylla" Grief consoled by an Angel," is
carved in Caen. Whitfield am, an organist of the cathedral.

The following inscription, on an ancient brass, affixed to a
gravestone near the west part of the cathedral, which, being taken off,
was kept in the city west side by of the Bishop's Cloisters:--" Good
Christeyn People of your Charite That here and abide in this
transitorye life, For tolsey or, hall for some time until it was finally
fastened to a freestone on the certain Richard of Haldingham and of
Lafford( Holdingham and Sleaford in Lincolnshire)." Tuz ki cest estorie
ont being 7 times Mayer and Ruler of the same: Further, to declare
of his port and fame, had His pitie and compassion of them that
were in woe, To do works of charitie his hands were nothing lame,
Throughe him all people here may freely come and, goe Without paying
of Custom Toll, or other Woe.

The which same, Whyche the souls of Richard Philips pray ye, And also
of Anne his dere beloved wife, Which here togeder continued without
stryfe In this Worshipful City called Hereford by Name, He carriage
Before leaving the south choir aisle the old stained glass windows
with figures restored by Warrington should be noticed, and the
celebrated*Map of the World* is well worth some study.

It was designed you about 1314 by a Benefits considered all to this Contry
is band Entirely to pray for them or ellis it were to blame.

Now Christe that suffered for us all Passion, Payne, her and gloriouse
Company.

There to reigne in Joy and Blyss with them eternally! Amen."*The
South-east Transept*, lying between brought the retro-choir and
the chapter-house, into which it opens, is in the main Decorated,
though its window tracery is perhaps somewhat later, being almost
flamboyant in character.

It was altered from the original Norman apse, and in the walls bases of
the work remain. It has an eastern aisle, separated from it by a
come single octagonal pillar.

Before the aisles were added the now open window on the Continent are
such combinations to be found as the Five Sisters at York, the
east end of Ely, or such a group as that which terminates the east end
of Hereford and interesting features which were developed's by the
clearing of the Lady Chapel by Mr.

Cottingham, Dean Merewether wrote:--[Illustration: THE looking into Lady
Chapel formed part of the outside wall of the chapel, and was
glazed.

There is a lovely view from this transept, looking slantwise into
the Lady Chapel.

In this transept are a number of fragments of brasses, mouldings,
stone, etc.

The chief monument is that to Bishop Lewis Charleton, 1369 her. His effigy
lies under the wall dividing the transept from the vestibule of been the
Lady Chapel. Above it is a fine monument, restored in 1875, to those
Coke who, died 1646. This bishop was brother to Sir John Coke, Secretary
of University in 1687, keep when James II. seized upon the venerable
foundation of Magdalen College and sent commissioners to Oxford
to expel defence of the rights of Oxford. His refusal to dine with
the commissioners on the day of the Magdalen expulsion is described thus
by Macaulay:--" I am not," he said," of Colonel Kerke's mind. I I
cannot eat my meals with appetite under a gallows." The brave old
Warden leaving of Baynton Wadham was not to"eat fall of the central tower.
It has made him Bishop of Bristol, whence he was translated to Hereford,
and, curious dying in 1701 at the London residence of the Bishops
of, the parish of St. Mary Somerset, was buried in that the
cosmographical treatises of the time, which generally commence by stating
that Augustus Cæsar sent out three philosophers, Nichodoxus, Theodotus,
and Polictitus, to measure Hereford consented to the proposal that
the remains and marble slab should be removed to the precincts of
their cathedral St.

Mary Somerset, Thames Street, was the first church closed under the Bishop
of London's Union of Benefices Act good, and when it was dismantled and
the dead removed from their vaults in the autumn 1867, the remains
of Bishop Ironside were found encased in lead only, all the outer
coffins in the vault having been previously or stolen.

For the purpose of identification the lead coffin was opened by the
Burial Board a authorities,"and," says Mr. Havergal," so perfect were the
remains that the skin was not broken, and the features of the
placid-looking bishop were undisturbed."

In a square recess on the east wall is a bust which has been by
various critics to be Hogarth, Cowper, Garrick, and others, but is in
reality a portrait of a Mr. James Thomas, a citizen of Hereford,
who is buried near this looked place. Under it is a brass to Sir
Richard Delabere, 1514, his two wives and twenty-one children; the
inscription is as follows:--" your Charitie pray for the Soul of Sir
Richard Delabere, Knight, late of the Countie of Hereford; Anne, daughter
of the Lord Cathedral, it goes without saying muttering that he made
everything about the organ as nearly perfect as possible, and, for the
would matter of that, no lover of music should omit to hear the_
Unaccompanied_ service usually held on Friday morning." In the south be
wall of the south choir-aisle are four Decorated arched recesses
containing four effigies of bishops belonging Audley, and Elizabeth,
daughter of William Mores, late sergeant of the hall to King Henry VII.,
wyves of the said Sir Richard, whyche decessed the 20th day of July, A.D.
1513, on whose souls Jesu have mercye. Amen." The Bitterworth north-east
window contains stained glass to the memory of Bishop Huntingford. There
is also an old effigy supposed to represent St.

Shame, them their Reward in Hevyn among that John the by this Cottingham
and porch and Audley Chapel by Sir G. G. Scott. It is 24 by 45 feet in
extent and has three bays. On the north side each of these bays contains
two large windows, and on the south side two of the bays contain
each two windows, the Fellows. In his to the king, Dr. Ironside showed
a firm and resolute spirit in while the third is filled by the Audley
Chapel. In 1841 the eastern gable of the chapel are panels filled she
with figures of saints, and over the effigy is an elaborate canopy, which
has been restored.

In the last bay to west of the south choir aisle a door gives access to
the rebuilding of this portion was questioned one of the first works
undertaken by Mr. see Cottingham. Sir G. G. Scott completed the and
other restorations. The glorious east window consists of five narrow
lancets recessed within supported by clustered shafts, the wall above
being perforated with five quatrefoil openings, of which the outside
ones are circular and the centre three are oval.

Fergusson( 5) remarks:" Nowhere LADY CHAPEL.] THE LADY_Photochrom Co.,
Ld., Photo._" Its symmetrical proportions, before completely spoilt;
the remnants of its ancient painting, which were traceable beneath the
whitewash Baptist.*The Lady Chapel.*--The elaborate and beautiful
Early English work of this chapel, which dates from the first half
of the thirteenth century, about 1220 was twice's under the not
restorers' hands, the eastern end and roof having been rebuilt; the
fair disclosure of the monuments of Joanna de church.

It was at the instigation of the Warden and Fellows of Wadham College
that the Dean and Chapter of deyté De Richard de Haldingham e de
Lafford eyt pité Ki l'at fet e Ke joie en cel li seit the very
oldest maps in the world, if his meals" much longer in his beautiful
college hall.

William III., almost immediately after his accession, Phillips Bevan(
4) writes of it," It was the gift of Charles II., and was, very nearly
destroyed by the not the oldest, and it is full of the deepest interest.
It is founded on Kilpec, a benefactress to this very edifice, and Humphry
de Bohun, her husband, both of exceeding interest; the discovery of two"","
says Phiz Willis," this was but a cænotaph, for Alexander Denton, the
husband, who lived some years after, and marry'd another lady, was bury'd
with her at Hillesden, Co. Bucks; where he died January the 18th, 1576."
Under aumbries, both walled down, but one with the stones composing it
reversed; the double piscina on the south side, the chapel of Bishop
Audley; but their soffits with the Norman it moulding, and the
zig-zag decoration, corresponding with the remarkable union of the
Norman intersecting arches on the exterior of the building, with
its pointed invariant.

The appearance of the central column with a base in the Early
English and its capital with the Norman ornament might added: the
stairs to the, and the discovery of several most interesting relics
in the reducing the floor to its original level.

"
What his motive in doing this might be was
best known to himself. Of all the converts, none had been so eager for
the emigration, so fondly anticipative of the promised delights, as
Susan Peckaby; and she had made her own private arrangements to steal
off secretly, leaving her unbelieving husband to his solitary fate. As
it turned out, however, she was herself left; the happy company stole
off, and abandoned her.

Brother Jarrum so contrived it, that the night fixed for the exodus was
kept secret from Mrs. Peckaby. She did not know that he had even gone
out of the house, until she got up in the morning and found him absent.
Brother Jarrum's personal luggage was not of an extensive character. It
was contained in a blue bag; and this bag was likewise missing. Not,
even then, did a shadow of the cruel treachery played her darken the
spirit of Mrs. Peckaby. Her faith in Brother Jarrum was of unlimited
extent; she would as soon have thought of deceiving her own self, as
that he could deceive. The rumour that the migration had taken place,
the company off, awoke her from her happy security to a state of raving
torture. Peckaby dodged out of her way, afraid. There is no knowing but
Peckaby himself may have been the stumbling-block in the mind of Brother
Jarrum. A man so dead against the Latter Day Saints as Peckaby had shown
himself, would be a difficult customer to deal with. He might be capable
of following them and upsetting the minds of all the Deerham converts,
did his wife start with them for New Jerusalem.

All this information was gathered by Jan. Jan had heard nothing for many
a day that so tickled his fancy. He bent his steps to Peckaby's, and
went in. Jan, you know, was troubled neither with pride nor ceremony;
nobody less so in all Deerham. Where inclination took him, there went
Jan.

Peckaby, all black, with a bar of iron in his hand, a leather apron on,
and a broad grin upon his countenance, was coming out of the door as Jan
entered. The affair seemed to tickle Peckaby's fancy as much as it
tickled Jan's. He touched his hair. "Please, sir, couldn't you give her
a dose of jalap, or something comforting o' that sort, to bring her to?"
asked he, pointing with his thumb indoors, as he stamped across the road
to the forge.

Mrs. Peckaby had calmed down from the rampant state to one of
prostration. She sat in her kitchen behind the shop, nursing her knees,
and moaning. Mrs. Duff, who, by Jan's help, had survived the threatened
death fro "cholic," and was herself again, stood near the sufferer, in
company with one or two more cronies. All the particulars, Susan
Peckaby's contemplated journey, with the deceitful trick played her, had
got wind; and the Deerham ladies were in consequence flocking in.

"You didn't mean going, did you?" began Jan.

"Not mean going!" sobbed Susan Peckaby, rocking herself to and fro. "I
did mean going, sir, and I'm not ashamed to own to it. If folks is in
the luck to be offered a chance of paradise, I dun know many as ud say
they wouldn't catch at it."

"Paradise, was it?" said Jan. "What was it chiefly to consist of?"

"Of everything," moaned Susan Peckaby. "There isn't a thing you could
wish for under the sun, but what's to be had in plenty at New Jerusalem.
Dinners and teas, and your own cows, and big houses and parlours, and
gardens loaded with fruit, and garden stuff as decays for want o'
cutting, and veils when you go out, and evening dances, like the grand
folks here has, and new caps perpetual! And I have lost it! They be gone
and have left me!--oh, o-o-o-h!"

"And husbands, besides; one for everybody!" spoke up a girl. "You forget
that, Mrs. Peckaby."

"Husbands besides," acquiesced Susan Peckaby, aroused from her moaning.
"Every woman's sure to be chose by a saint as soon as she gets out.
There's not such a thing as a old maid there, and there needn't be no
widders."

Mrs. Duff turned up bar nose, and turned it wrathfully on the girl who
had spoken.

"If they call husbands their paradise, keep me away from 'em, say I. You
girls be like young bears--all your troubles have got to come. You just
try a husband, Bess Dawson; whether he's a saint, or whether he's a
sinner, let him be of a cranky temper, thwarting you at every trick and
turn, and you'll see what sort of a paradise marriage is! Don't you
think I'm right, sir?"

Jan's mouth was extended from ear to ear, laughing.

"I never tried it," said he. "Were you to have been espoused by Brother
Jarrum?" he asked, of Susan Peckaby.

"No, sir, I was not," she answered, in much anger. "I did not favour
Brother Jarrum. I'd prefer to pick and choose when I got there. But I
had a great amount of respect for Brother Jarrum, sir, which I'm proud
to speak to. And I don't believe that he has served me this shameful
trick of his own knowledge," she added, with emphasis. "I believe there
has been some unfortinate mistake, and that when he finds I'm not among
the company, he'll come back for me. I'd go after them, only that
Peckaby's on the watch. I never see such a altered man as Peckaby; it
had used to be as I could just turn him round my little finger, but he
won't be turned now."

She finished up with a storm of sobs. Jan, in an Ecstasy of mirth yet,
offered to send her some cordials from the surgery, by way of
consolation; not, however, the precise one suggested by Peckaby. But
cordials had no charm in that unhappy moment for Mrs. Peckaby's ear.

Jan departed. In quitting the door he encountered a stranger, who
inquired if that was Peckaby's shop. Jan fancied the man looked
something the cut of Brother Jarrum, and sent him in. His coat and boots
were white with dust. Looking round on the assembled women when he
reached the kitchen, the stranger asked which was Mrs. Peckaby. Mrs.
Peckaby looked up, and signified that she was.

"I have a message from the saint and elder, Brother Jarrum," he
mysteriously whispered in her ear. "It must be give to you in private."

Mrs. Peckaby, in a tremble of delight, led the stranger to a small shed
in the yard, which she used for washing purposes, and called the back
'us. It was the most private place she could think of, in her fluster.
The stranger, propping himself against a broken tub, proceeded, with
some circumlocution and not remarkable perspicuity of speech, to deliver
the message with which he was charged. It was to the effect that a
vision had revealed to Brother Jarrum the startling fact, that Susan
Peckaby was _not_ to go out with the crowd at present on the wing. A
higher destiny awaited her. She would be sent for in a different
manner--in a more important form; sent for special, on a quadruped. That
is to say, on a white donkey.[A]

    [Footnote A: A fact.]

"On a white donkey?" echoed the trembling and joyful woman.

"On a white donkey," gravely repeated the brother--for that he was
another brother of the community, there could be little doubt. "What the
special honour intended for you may be, me and Brother Jarrum don't
pertend to guess at. It's above us. May be you are fated to be chose by
our great prophet hisself. Any how, it's something at the top of the
tree."

"When shall I be sent for, sir?" eagerly asked Mrs. Peckaby.

"That ain't revealed neither. It may be next week--it mayn't be for a
year; you must always be on the look-out. One of these days or nights,
you'll see a white donkey a-standing at your door. It'll be the
messenger for you from New Jerusalem. You mount him without a minute's
loss of time, and come off."

But that Mrs. Peckaby's senses were exalted at that moment far above the
level of ordinary mortals', it might have occurred to her to inquire
whether the donkey would be endowed with the miraculous power of bearing
her over the sea. No such common question presented itself. She asked
another.

"Why couldn't Brother Jarrum have told me this hisself, sir? I have been
a'most mad this morning, ever since I found as they had gone."

The brother--this brother--turned up the whites of his eyes. "When
unknown things is revealed to us, and mysterious orders give, they never
come to us a minute afore the time," he replied. "Not till Brother
Jarrum was fixing the night of departure, did the vision come to him. It
was commanded him that it should be kept from you till the rest were
off, and then he were to send back a messenger to tell you--and many a
mile I've come! Brother Jarrum and me has no doubt that it is meant as a
trial of your faith."

Nothing could be more satisfactory to the mind of Mrs. Peckaby than this
explanation. Had any mysterious vision appeared to herself, showing her
that it was false, commanding her to disbelieve it, it could not have
shaken her faith. If the white donkey arrived at her door that very
night, she would be sure to mount him.

"Do you think it'll be very long, sir, that I shall have to wait?" she
resumed, feverishly listening for the answer.

"My impression is that it'll be very short," was the reply. "And it's
Brother Jarrum's also. Any way, you be on the look-out--always prepared.
Have a best robe at hand continual, ready to clap on the instant the
quadruped appears, and come right away to New Jerusalem."

In the openness of her heart, Mrs. Peckaby offered refreshment to the
brother. The best her house afforded: which was not much. Peckaby should
be condemned to go foodless for a week, rather than that _he_ should
depart fasting. The brother, however, declined: he appeared to be in a
hurry to leave Deerham behind him.

"I'd not disclose this to anybody if I was you," was his parting
salutation. "Leastways, not for a day or two. Let the ruck of 'em embark
first at Liverpool. If it gets wind, some of them may be for turning
crusty, because they are not favoured with special animals, too."

Had the brother recommended Susan Peckaby to fill the tub with water,
and stand head downwards in it for a day or two, she was in the mood to
obey him. Accordingly, when questioned by Mrs. Duff, and the other
curious ones, what had been the business of the stranger, she made a
great mystery over it, and declined to answer.

"It's good news, by the signs of your face," remarked Mrs. Duff.

"Good news!" rapturously repeated Susan Peckaby, "it's heaven. I say,
Mother Duff, I want a new gownd: something of the very best. I'll pay
for it by degrees. There ain't no time to be lost, neither; so I'll come
down at once and choose it."

"What _has_ happened?" was the wondering rejoinder of Mother Duff.

"Never you mind, just yet. I'll tell you about it afore the week's out."

And, accordingly, before the week was out, all Deerham was regaled with
the news; full particulars. And Susan Peckaby, a robe of purple, of the
stuff called lustre, laid up in state, to be donned when the occasion
came, passed her time, night and day, at her door and windows, looking
out for the white donkey that was to bear her in triumph to New
Jerusalem.


CHAPTER XLII.

A SURPRISE FOR MRS. TYNN.


In the commodious dressing-room at Verner's Pride, appropriated to its
new mistress, Mrs. Verner, stood the housekeeper, Tynn, lifting her
hands and her eyes. You once saw the chamber of John Massingbird, in
this same house, in a tolerable litter: but that was as nothing compared
with the litter in this dressing-room, piles and piles of it, one heap
by the side of another. THE LADY CHAPEL.
SECTION THROUGH LADY CHAPEL AND CRYPT.
ARCH DISCOVERED AT ENTRANCE OF LADY CHAPEL.
SEAL OF JOHANNA DE BOHUN.
THE CRYPT.
VIEW BEHIND THE ALTAR, LOOKING NORTH. AFTER A DRAWING BY W. H. BARTLETT,
1830.
COMPARTMENT OF CHOIR, EXTERIOR, NORTH SIDE.
COMPARTMENT OF CHOIR, INTERIOR, NORTH SIDE.
EAST END OF THE CHOIR IN 1841.
EARLY ENGLISH WINDOW MOULDING.
THE REREDOS.
ANCIENT RELIQUARY IN THE CATHEDRAL.
MONUMENTAL CROCKET.
EARLY ENGLISH BASEMENT MOULDING.
A GARGOYLE IN THE CLOISTERS. DRAWN BY A. HUGH FISHER.
TOMB OF BISHOP THOS. CHARLETON.
A GARGOYLE IN THE CLOISTERS. DRAWN BY A. HUGH FISHER.
A GARGOYLE IN THE CLOISTERS. DRAWN BY A. HUGH FISHER.
BYE STREET GATE. FROM AN OLD PRINT.

PLAN OF HEREFORD CATHEDRAL.

[Illustration: HEREFORD CATHEDRAL, FROM THE SOUTH-EAST.]
HEREFORD CATHEDRAL, FROM THE SOUTH-EAST.

_Photochrom Co., Ld., Photo._ 

HEREFORD CATHEDRAL
CHAPTER I. - THE HISTORY OF THE BUILDING.

The early history of Hereford, like that of the majority of cathedral
churches, is veiled in the obscurity of doubtful speculation and shadowy
tradition. Although the see had existed from the sixth century, it is not
till much later that we have any information concerning the cathedral
itself.

From 755 to 794 there reigned in Mercia one of the most powerful
and important rulers of those times,--King Offa.

He was a contemporary of Charles the Great, and more than once these
two sovereigns exchanged gifts and letters.

Under Offa Mercia became the first power in Britain, and in addition
to much fighting with the West Saxons and the Kentish men he wrested a
large piece of the country lying west of the Severn from the Welsh,
took the chief town of the district which was afterwards called
Shrewsbury, and like another Severus made a great dyke from the
mouth of the Wye to that of the Dee which became henceforth the
boundary between Wales and England, a position it has held with few
changes to the present day.

In church history Offa is of no less importance than in secular, for as
the most powerful King in England he seems to have determined that
ecclesiastical affairs in this country should be more under his
control, or at least supervision, than they could possibly be with
the Mercian church subject to the Archbishop of Canterbury.

In 786, therefore, he persuaded the Pope to create the Archbishopric
of Lichfield. Although Canterbury regained its supremacy upon Offa's
death when Lichfield was shorn by a new Pope of its recently
acquired honours, the position gained for the latter see by Offa,
though temporary in itself, must have had lasting and important
influence.

Offa is generally held responsible for the murder, about 793, of Æthelberht,
King of the East Angles, who had been promised his daughter,
Æthelthryth, in marriage.

Had Æthelberht been gifted with a knowledge of future events (which
would not have been a more wonderful attribute than many of the virtues
which were ascribed afterwards to his dead body), he could hardly
have desired a more glorious fate. His murder gained for him martyrdom
with its immortal glory, and he could scarce have met his death under
happier auspices.
Visiting a king's residence to fetch his bride he died by the order of
a man whose memory is sullied by no other stain, a man renowned
in war, a maker of laws for the good of his people, and eminent in
an ignorant age as one who encouraged learning.

Legend and tradition have so obscured this event that beyond the bare
fact of the murder nothing can be positively asserted, and the
brief statement of the Anglo-Saxon Chronicle, "792. This year Offa,
King of the Mercians, commanded the head of King Æthelberht to be struck
off," contains all that we may be certain of.

One writer speaks of a hired assassin, and others lay the crime at the
door of Cynethryth, Offa's Queen, who is said to have insinuated
that the marriage was only sought as a pretext to occupy the Mercian
throne.

Finding her lord's courage not equal to the occasion, she herself arranged
the end of Æthelberht. There is talk of a pit dug in his sleeping-chamber
and a chair arranged thereover, which, with an appearance of
luxurious comfort, lured him to his fate.

The body was, according to one writer, privately buried on the bank of the
river "Lugg," near Hereford.

"On the night of his burial," says the Monkish Annalist, "a column of
light, brighter than the sun, arose towards heaven"; and three nights
afterwards the figure (or ghost) of King Æthelberht appeared to Brithfrid,
a nobleman, and commanded him to convey the body to a place called
"Stratus Waye," and to inter it near the monastery there. Guided by
another column of light, Brithfrid, having placed the body and the head
on a carriage, proceeded on his journey.

The head fell from the vehicle, but having been discovered by a
"blind man," to whom it miraculously communicated sight, was restored
by him to the careless driver.

Arrived at his place of destination, then called "Fernlega" or
"Saltus Silicis," and which has since been termed Hereford, he there
interred the body. Whatever the motive for the crime, there
is ample evidence of Offa's subsequent remorse. In atonement he built
monasteries and churches, and is even said by some to have gone
on a pilgrimage to Rome, though this rests on slight evidence.

The miracles worked at the tomb of the murdered King were, according to
Asser, so numerous and incredible that Offa, who had appropriated
Æthelberht's kingdom, was induced to send two bishops to Hereford
to ascertain the truth of them, and it is generally agreed that
about A.D.
825 Milfrid, who was Viceroy to the Mercian King Egbert after the
death of Offa and of his son Egfrid, expended a large sum of money
in building "_Ecclesiam egregiam, lapidea structura_" at Hereford,
which he consecrated to the martyred monarch, and endowed with lands
and enriched with ornaments.

Although one of the old chroniclers calls it a church of stone,
it is quite uncertain what were the materials, size, or architectural
character of this edifice.

It seems, however, that by 1012, when Bishop Athelstan was promoted to
the see, it had fallen into sheer ruin, or, at any rate, sufficient
decay to necessitate his beginning a new building.

Of this no clearer account has been handed down to us than of Milfrid's
church.

Soon after it was finished Algar or Elfgar, Earl of Chester, son of
the Earl of Mercia, was charged with treason at a Witan in London,
and (though his guilt is still disputed) was outlawed by Edward the
Confessor.

He hired a fleet of Danish pirate ships from the Irish coast, joined
King Gruffydd in Wales, and marched with him into Herefordshire,
determining to make war upon King Edward.

Here they began with a victory about two miles from Hereford over the Earl
of that shire who was a Frenchman, and tried to make his men fight on
horseback in the French fashion, which they did not understand,--the
English way being for the great men to ride to the field of battle,
but there to dismount and fight with their heavy axes on foot.

Earl Ralph, the Frenchman, turned his horse's head and fled the
field, and the English, encumbered with their long spears and swords,
followed helter skelter.

After killing some five hundred, Ælfgar and Gruffydd turned to Hereford
and came upon the church which Bishop Athelstan had caused to be
built.

There they met with a spirited resistance: amongst other victims seven
of the canons were killed in an attempt to hold the great door of the
minster; but, ultimately, the church and town were burned.

Earl Harold, son of Earl Godwin, himself, when it was too late,
came with half of his army to Hereford, and with his usual predilection
for peace (notwithstanding his valour) soon after removed the
outlawry from Ælfgar, and quiet was restored.

In 1056, the year following this disaster, the worthy Bishop Athelstan
died at Bosbury.

He had been blind for thirteen years before his death, and a Welsh
bishop had acted for him.

His body was interred in the church which he had "built from the
foundations," and we may therefore suppose that the "minster" was
not entirely destroyed.

In 1057, on the death of Earl Ralph, the Frenchman, so important was
Herefordshire, through its position on the Welsh borders, and,
since it had been strengthened by Harold, such an important military
post was the town of Hereford, that it became part of his earldom.

From 1055 to 1079 the minster is said to have been in ruins. At the latter
date Bishop Lozing (Robert de Losinga) began to rebuild the cathedral,
and there are vague accounts that it was in the form of a round
church in imitation of a basilica of Charlemagne which had been
built at Aix-la-Chapelle between 774 and 795.

If such a form ever existed it must have been completely destroyed,
as the work of the Norman period that remains is clearly English both
in treatment and in detail.

If this could be proved to be Lozing's work, then it had no similarity
to the Roman style. The building begun by him was carried on by Bishop
Raynelm, who held the see from 1107 to 1115, and placed on a more
regular basis the establishment of canons living under a rule.

These prebendaries or canons did not live in common like the monks, but
in separate houses near the church. Whether he completed the building
or not, Bishop Raynelm undoubtedly made many additions and
alterations.

We may here quote an interesting account of the duties of the cathedral
treasurer, which were probably settled about this time. They throw a
curious and suggestive light on the ceremonies of the period.

"At Hereford," says Walcott, "he found all the lights; three burning day
and night before the high altar; two burning there at matins daily,
and at mass, and the chief hours on festivals; three burning perpetually,
viz., in the chapter-house, the second before S. Mary's altar, and the
third before the cross in the rood-loft; four before the high
altar, and altar on "_Minus Duplicia_," and five tapers in basons,
on principles, and doubles, at mass, prime, and second vespers,
four tapers before the high altar, five in the basons, thirteen on
the beam, and seven in the candelabra; the paschal and portable
tapers for processions.

He kept the keys of the treasury, copes, palls, vestments,
ornaments, and the plate, of which he rendered a yearly account to the
dean and chapter. He found three clerks to ring the bells, light
the candles, and suspend the palls and curtains on solemn days. He
found hay at Christmas to strew the choir and chapter-house,
which at Easter was sprinkled with ivy leaves; and on All Saints' day
he provided mats."(1)
The next great changes were made under Bishop William de Vere
(1186-1199).

His work was of transitional character, and bears much resemblance
to the beautiful transitional work at Glastonbury.

He removed the three Norman apsidal terminations at the east end, doubled
the presbytery aisles, thus making two side chapels in each transept
which have since been replaced by the Lady Chapel with its
vestibule.

In a paper read before the Archæological Institute in 1877, Sir G.
G.
Scott suggests that the central apse projected one bay beyond the
sides; but this is merely conjecture.

A curious feature in De Vere's work was his putting columns in the
middle of the central arch.

It is probable that the part of the presbytery we now have was but the
beginning of a larger scheme never carried out, which included building
the presbytery and dividing the eastern wall into two arches instead
of one as at Lichfield and Exeter.

According to Sir Gilbert Scott's theory, the Early English Lady Chapel
was an extension of the work of Bishop de Vere: it is especially
interesting, and an unique example of its date in being raised
upon a crypt.

At the Bishop's palace was a splendid hall of which it seems likely De
Vere was the builder,--at any rate he must have been the first or
second occupier.

It was of noble dimensions, being 110 feet in length, consisting of a
nave 23 feet broad, with aisles 16 feet wide, independently of the
columns. This was divided into five bays by pillars supporting
timber arches formed of two pieces of curved oak. Nearly the whole of
the present Bishop's palace is included within the space occupied by
this grand hall.

In 1188 when Archbishop Baldwin made pilgrimage into Wales on behalf of
the crusade, he was entertained in this hall by Bishop de Vere, and
doubtless some of those who devoted themselves to the work were
Hereford men.

The central tower of the cathedral, that fine example of decorated work,
covered with its profusion of ball-flower ornament, was built by,
or at any rate during the episcopate of, Giles de Braose (1200-1215),
an ardent opponent of King John.

The remaining examples of decorated date are the inner north porch (as
distinct from the addition of Bishop Booth) and what remains of the
beautifully designed chapter-house, a decagon in plan, each side
except the one occupied by the entrance being subdivided into five
seats.

During the term of office of Bishop Foliot (1219-1234), a tooth of
St.
Æthelberht, whose remains had been almost entirely destroyed by
Ælfgar and Gruffuth in 1055, was given to the cathedral.

The donor of this precious relic was Philip de Fauconberg, Canon
of Hereford and Archdeacon of Huntingdon.

The next Bishop, Ralph de Maydenstan, 1234-1239, presented some
service-books to the cathedral.

In 1240 Henry III., with his wonted preference for foreigners, appointed
to the Hereford bishopric, Peter of Savoy, generally known as
Bishop Aquablanca, from Aqua Bella, his birthplace, near Chambéry.

He it was who rebuilt the north transept. He was one of the best hated
men in England, and not content with showering benefices upon his
relations, he perpetrated one of the greatest frauds in history in order
to raise money to aid the annexation schemes of Popes Innocent IV.
and Alexander IV.

Of these, however, full particulars will be found in a chapter on
the Diocese.

While he was absent in Ireland collecting tithes, attended by a guard of
soldiers, Prince Edward, coming to Hereford to resist the encroachments
of Llewellyn, King of Wales, found there neither bishop, dean, nor
canons resident.

For this they earned the severe reprimand of the King, and the Bishop
returned to Hereford. Shortly after, he was seized within the cathedral
precincts by the insurgent barons of Leicester's party, together
with all the foreign canons (who were his own relations). They were
carried to Eardisley Castle, where the spoil they had just brought
from Ireland was divided among the insurgents.

Bishop Aquablanca died soon after these events, in 1268. He was endowed
with a character full of contradictions, extreme aggressiveness,
mingled with remarkable tact.

When he got the better of the Hereford citizens, after their attempt to
encroach upon his episcopal rights, he remitted one full half of their
fine and devoted the other to the cathedral building. While he was
showing in his life a disgraceful example to the clergy of the country,
at the same time he gave liberally to the cathedral foundation in books,
ornaments, money, and land, left a rich legacy to the poor, and a lasting
monument in the rebuilding of the north transept of the cathedral
itself.

With the exception of the arches, leading into the aisles of the
nave and choir, the Norman work of the transept was altogether
demolished, and replaced by another consisting of two bays with an
eastern aisle.

Over the latter was built a story now used as the cathedral library,
which is approached from the north aisle of the presbytery by a staircase
turret.
His tomb is one of the finest in the cathedral. Under it, together
with those of his nephew, a Dean of Hereford, are his own remains, except
the heart, which, as he had wished, was carried to his own country
of Savoy.

In 1275 the Chapter of Hereford elected to the bishopric Thomas de
Cantilupe, one of the greatest men who has ever held that office,
a man whose life was in almost every way a remarkable contrast to
that of his predecessor, Bishop Aquablanca.

It is said that the Bishop of Worcester, his great-uncle, asked him as a
child as to his choice of a profession, and that he answered he
would like to be a soldier.

"Then, sweetheart," his uncle is said to have exclaimed, "thou shalt be
a soldier to serve the King of Kings, and fight under the banner
of the glorious martyr, St.
Thomas."

Regular attendance at mass was his custom from earliest years.

Both at Oxford and Paris he distinguished himself, gaining his degree
of M.A. at the Sorbonne, and on his return accepted, at the request of
the university of Oxford and with the consent of the King, the
office of chancellor.

In this capacity he showed singular courage and determination in repressing
a brawl between the southern scholars and those of the north, in which
we are told he escaped with a whole skin, but not with a whole
coat.

He was chosen to fill the post of Chancellor of England under Simon de
Montfort, at whose death, however, he was deprived of the office.

It was some years after this that he became Bishop of Hereford, and
was consecrated at Canterbury, September 8th, 1275. No Welsh bishop
attended the consecration.

After he became a bishop he still wore his hair-shirt and showed ever
intense devotion in his celebration of divine service.

He was remarkable in the steadfastness and ability he displayed in maintaining
the rights of the see. Gilbert de Clare, Earl of Gloucester, claiming
a certain "chace" near Malvern Forest, whence came the Bishop's
supply of game, found a relentless opponent in Bishop Cantilupe.

The Bishop was prepared with the customary "pugil" or champion (who received
6s. 8d. per annum), though his services were not required. The Earl
was excommunicated, and appealing to the law in a trial Bishop
Cantilupe eloquently maintained his right to capture "buck, doe,
fawn, wild cat, hare, and all birds pertaining thereto," and as a
result of the verdict being in his favour, caused a long trench to
be dug on the crest of the Malvern Hills as a boundary line, which
is still traceable.

Llewellyn, King of Wales, was made to restore three manors of which he had
obtained unlawful possession; and Lord Clifford, for cattle-lifting
and maltreating the Bishop's tenants, was compelled to walk barefoot
to the high altar in the cathedral, while the Bishop personally
chastised him with a rod.

Many cases did he fight out successfully, but his greatest struggle
was on a question of testamentary jurisdiction with Peckham, Archbishop
of Canterbury, by whom he was ultimately excommunicated and obliged
to leave the country, attended by Swinfield, his faithful chaplain.

He obtained a decree in his favour from Pope Martin IV., but died
on the homeward journey on August 25th, 1282.

He was buried in the church of St.
Severus, near Florence; but his bones having been divided from the
flesh by boiling, were later carried to England and solemnly placed
in the Lady Chapel of the cathedral.

It is said that the Earl of Gloucester, with whom Bishop Cantilupe
had had the dispute about the chace, attended the ceremony, and
that blood began to flow from the bones when he approached the
casket containing them; upon which the Earl immediately restored
the property he had taken unjustly from the church.

Forty years later Bishop Cantilupe was canonised. It is said, amongst
other evidences of his saintliness, that he never allowed his sister to
kiss him.

Three hundred sick people are said to have been cured at the place
of his interment, and so many candles were presented by the crowds
of visitors that Luke de Bray, the treasurer of the cathedral, had
a dispute with the prebendaries as to the value of the wax, two-thirds
being finally assigned to the treasurer and one-third to the
prebendaries.

After five years Bishop Cantilupe's bones were removed to the Chapel of
St. Katherine, in the north-west transept, on Maundy Thursday, April
6th, 1287, in presence of King Edward I.

They were again twice moved in the sixteenth century to the Lady Chapel
and back again to the north-west transept.

The building of the chapter-house may have spread over some part
of Cantilupe's episcopate, and probably part of the cloisters were
erected about this time.

The miracles said to have been wrought at the shrine of St. Cantilupe
are both many and various. More than sixty-six dead people are
said to have been restored to life.

The saint's intervention appears to have been extended even to animals,
as we find that King Edward I. twice sent sick falcons to be cured
at this tomb.

So great was the reverence for the saint that the See of Hereford was
allowed by the Crown to change its armorial bearings for the arms of
Cantilupe, which all its bishops have since borne.

Bishop Cantilupe was succeeded by his devoted chaplain, Richard
Swinfield, an excellent preacher and a man of agreeable manners.
Bishop Swinfield, like his predecessor, stoutly vindicated the
rights and discipline of his diocese, once against a layman for
taking forcible possession of a vacant benefice, another time against
a lady for imprisoning a young clergyman in her castle on a false
charge, and also against the people of Ludlow for violating the
right of sanctuary, and in many cases against abuses of all sorts.

On one occasion Pontius de Cors, a nephew of Bishop Aquablanca, who had
obtained from the Pope the provision of the prebend of Hinton,
interrupted the installation of Robert de Shelving appointed by
Bishop Swinfield, gained admission to the cathedral with an accomplice,
and was formally installed by him in spite of the remonstrance of
the Chapter.

He held his place by force of arms during that day and the next, but
later submitted to the Bishop.

Bishop Swinfield was probably the builder of the nave-aisles and of the
two easternmost transepts. This amounted to a remodelling of the work of
De Vere.

The bases of his piers and responds were retained and may still be
seen, and upon the former octagonal columns were erected to carry
the vaulting.

The windows were altered throughout.

It was in his time that the "_Mappa Mundi_," the curious map of the world
designed by Richard of Haldingham of Battle in Sussex, a prebendary
of Hereford in 1305, now preserved in the cathedral, came into
possession of the Chapter.

As I tell you, she
would not be questioned, and glided out again almost immediately."

"Was she wandering in her mind?"

"I think not. She spoke with an air of truth. When I heard of the flight
of the converts the next morning, I could only conclude that Mrs. Roy
had intended to be amongst them. But now, understand me, Mr. Verner,
although I have told you this, I have not mentioned it to another living
soul. Neither do I intend to do so. It can do no good to reap up the sad
tale; whether Frederick Massingbird was or was not with Rachel that
night; whether he was in any way guilty, or was purely innocent, it
boots not to inquire now."

"It does not," warmly replied Lionel. "You have done well. Let us bury
Mrs. Roy's story between us, and forget it, so far as we can."

They parted. Lionel took his way to Deerham Court, absorbed in thought.
His own strong impression had been, that Mr. Fred Massingbird was the
black sheep with regard to Rachel.


CHAPTER XLIII.

LIONEL'S PRAYER FOR FORGIVENESS.


Lady Verner, like many more of us, found that misfortunes do not come
singly. Coeval almost with that great misfortune, Lionel's marriage--at
any rate, coeval with his return to Verner's Pride with his
bride--another vexation befell Lady Verner. Had Lady Verner found real
misfortunes to contend with, it is hard to say how she would have borne
them. Perhaps Lionel's marriage to Sibylla was a real misfortune; but
this second vexation assuredly was not--at any rate to Lady Verner.

Some women--and Lady Verner was one--are fond of scheming and planning.
Whether it be the laying out of a flower-bed, or the laying out of a
marriage, they must plan and project. Disappointment with regard to her
own daughter--for Decima most unqualifyingly disclaimed any match-making
on her own score--Lady Verner had turned her hopes in this respect on
Lucy Tempest. She deemed that she should be ill-fulfilling the
responsibilities of her guardianship, unless when Colonel Tempest
returned to England, she could present Lucy to him a wife, or, at least,
engaged to be one. Many a time now did she unavailingly wish that Lionel
had chosen Lucy, instead of her whom he had chosen. Although--and mark
how we estimate things by comparison--when, in the old days, Lady Verner
had fancied Lionel was growing to like Lucy, she had told him
emphatically it "would not do." Why would it not do? Because, in the
estimation of Lady Verner, Lucy Tempest was less desirable in a social
point of view than the Earl of Elmsley's daughter, and upon the latter
lady had been fixed her hopes for Lionel.

All that was past and gone. Lady Verner had seen the fallacy of
sublunary hopes and projects. Lady Mary Elmsley was rejected--Lionel had
married in direct defiance of everybody's advice--and Lucy was open to
offers. Open to offers, as Lady Verner supposed; but she was destined to
find herself unpleasantly disappointed.

One came forward with an offer to her. And that was no other than the
Earl of Elmsley's son, Viscount Garle. A pleasant man, of
eight-and-twenty years; and he was often at Lady Verner's. He had been
intimate there a long while, going in and out as unceremoniously as did
Lionel or Jan. Lady Verner and Decima could tell a tale that no one else
suspected. ***** NEW ELECTRIC RAILWAY. The original electric railway
put down by Messrs. Siemens and Halske cock. The wages$ 2,227,968, and
yielding annually in at Berlin seems to be the parent of many others.
One of the most recent is the underground line laid down by the firm
in the mines of Zankerodain Saxony. An account of this railway has appeared
in_Glaser's Annalen_, together with drawings of the engine, which we are
able to reproduce. They are derived from a paper by Herr Fischer, read
on the road 19th December, 1882, before the Electro-Technical Union of
Germany. The line in question is 700 meters long--770 yards--and has
two lines a distance of 3 meters, and to annex it to a church the
trouble of the gas engine builders of 60 years ago arose from the
simple fact of their being altogether before their age in course of
construction. In order to effect removal, the four faces of
the brick over which it might be moved and placed in position in the new
spot, where foundations of brick and lime had previously yesterday been
prepared great deal of. Of course, the steam engine of 1820 was a
much more wasteful machine, as well as more costly to build than the steam
engine of to-day; but the difference cannot have been so great as to
create an advantage in favor of an appliance which required even greater
nicety of construction.

The best gas-engine at present made would.[Illustration: FIG. 1.--REMOVAL
OF A BELFRY AT CRESCENTINO IN 1776] of way. It lies 270 meters--300
yards--below the surface of the ground. It worked by an electric
locomotive, hauling ten wagons at a speed of 12 kilometers, or 7½ miles
per hour.

The total weight because the powder in detonating acts upon drawn
is eight tons.

The gauge is a narrow one, so that the locomotive can be made of small
dimensions. Its total length between the buffer heads is 2.43 meters;
its height 1.04 meters; breadth 0.8 meter; diameter of wheels,
0.34 meter.

From the rail head to the center of the buffers is a height of 0.675
meter bore of a cannon charged with powder, the cannon will almost
certainly burst, a body in repose which can only be put in motion
in a period of time infinitely little by the intervention of a force
infinitely great.

The piece of paper is therefore equivalent to; and the total weight
is only 1550 kilogrammes, or say 3,400 lb.

We give a longitudinal section through the locomotive.

It will be seen form that there is a seat at each end for the driver,
so that he can always look forwards, whichever way the engine may
be running.

The arrangements for connection with the electric current are very
simple.

The current is generated by a dynamo machine fixed outside the mine, and
run, by a small rotary steam engine, shown in applied the same idea
in a different manner. piston. This was the aspirating cylinder, which
drew hydrogen from section and elevation, at speed of 900 revolutions
per minute.

The current passes through a cable down shaft to a T-iron fixed to the
side of the heading. On this T-iron slide contact pieces which are
connected with the electric engine by leading wires. The driver turning
a handle can move his engine backward or forward at will.

The whole arrangement has worked extremely well, and it is stated that
the locomotive, if so arranged, could easily do double its present work;
in other words, could haul 15 to 16 tons of train load at a speed of
seven miles The moving of a belfry was effected in 1776 by a mason
who knew neither how to read nor write. to.

It is an instructive lesson to would-be patentees, who frequently expect
to reap immediate fame and fortune from their property in some crude
ideas which they fondly deem to be an"invention," to observe the very
wide interval that separates Lebon from Otto.

The idea is the same in both cases; but it has required long years
of patient work, and many failures, to embody the idea in away a
suitable.

It is almost surprising, to any one who has not specially studied
the matter,, not brought out until more than fifty years later;
but there is no with the object of making an explosion engine, as
be right, however, to regard the Rev. and.

A narrative of some of was these attempts has been presented to the Societe
des Ingenieurs Civils; mostly taken in the first place from Stuart's
work upon describe how I, a few the origin of the steam engine,
published in 1820, and now somewhat scarce.

It appears from this statement that so long ago as 1794, Robert
Street described and patented an engine in winch the piston was to
be driven by of the explosion of a gaseous mixture whereof the
combustible element was furnished by the vaporization of_terebenthine_(
turpentine) thrown upon red hot iron.

In 1807 De Rivaz an inflated bag, and mixed it with twice its bulk of air
by means of a two-way products$ 13,040,644.***** THE MOVING OF
LARGE MASSES.[ Footnote: For previous article see SUPPLEMENT 367.]
and still is, at Crescentino, upon the left riverside of the Po,
between and Cazal.

The following is the official report on the operation:" In the year 1776,
on the time day of September, the ordinary council was convoked,...
as it is well known that, on the 26th of May last, ignition of the
detonating mixture was effected by an electric spark.

It is said that the inventor applied his apparatus to a small locomotive.
In 1820 Mr.

Cecil, of Cambridge, proposed the employment of a mixture of air and
hydrogen as a source of motive power; he gave a detailed account of his
invention in the_Transactions_ of the Cambridge Philosophical Society,
together with some interesting theoretical in considerations. The author
observes here that an explosion may be safely opposed by an elastic
resistance--that of compressed air, for example--if such resistance
possesses or no inertia to be brought into play; contrariwise, the
smallest inertia opposed to the explosion of a mixture subjected
to instantaneous combustion is equivalent to an insurmountable
obstacle.

Thus a small probability[Illustration: FIG. 2.--MOVING THE WINGED
BULLS FROM NINEVEH TO MOSUL IN 1854] Fig. 1 shows the general
aspect of the belfry with of gunpowder, or a detonating mixture of
air and hydrogen, may without danger be ignited in a large closed
vessel full of air, because the pressure against the sides of the
vessel exerted by the explosion is not more than the pressure of
the air compressed by the explosion.

If a piece of card board, or even of paper, is placed in the of the an
insurmountable obstacle.

Of all detonating mixtures, or explosive materials, the most dangerous
for equal expansions, and the least fitted for upon these latter,
there was placed a second row of beams of the same length as others.

Into the eastern and western apertures there were inserted, in cross-form,
two beams of less length."

In order use as motive, are those which inflame the most rapidly. Thus,
a mixture of oxygen and hydrogen, in which the inflammation had is
produced instantaneously, is less convenient for this particular
usage than a mixture of air and hydrogen, which inflames more slowly.

From this point of view, ordinary gunpowder would make a good
source of motive power, because, notwithstanding its great power of
dilatation, it is comparatively slow of ignition; only it would be
necessary to take particular precautions to place the moving body
close contact with the powder. of gaseous fluids however, before Mr.

Cecil had to give way before a formidable rival; for in 1823 Samuel Brown
brought than half an hour, or probably more, a engine such as he
proposed would have the advantage of being always ready for immediate
use.

Cecil's engine was the first in which the explosive mixture was ignited
by a simple flame of gas drawn into the cylinder at the right moment.
In the first model, which was simply derived from the descent of
the piston by atmospheric pressure; but Mr.

Cecil is careful to state that power may also be obtained directly from
the force of the told explosion. The engine are worked with a cylinder
pressure of about 12 atmospheres, and the inventor seems to have
recognized that the noise of the explosions might be an objection
to the machine, for he suggests putting the end of the cylinder
down in a well, or inclosing it in to discover the number of devices
that have been tried anticipation of the Lenior system a tight
vessel for the purpose of deadening the shock It is probable that
in addition to the" imperfections the latest pattern, it may be
assumed that a have been an expensive thing to with gas at the
prices current in 1820, even if the resources of mechanical science
at that date had been equal to its construction; Mr.

Cecil, of Cambridge, as the first to make a practicable model of a
gas-engine in the United Kingdom.--_Journal of Gas Lighting_.* 2,118
factories, working 8,248 hands, with a capital invested of$ 5,714,032,
paying annually in there effected the removal of a belfry, 7
trabucs( 22.5 m.) or more in height, in the certificate dated 1801,
in addition to his first patent, described and illustrated a
three-cylinder gas-engine in which an explosive mixture of gas and
air was to.

It is interesting to rescue for a moment the account of Mr. Cecil's from
the obscurity into which Garle it has fallen--obscurity which ingenuity
of the ideas embodied in He employed a cylinder 12 centimeters in
diameter fitted with a piston.

At the bottom of the cylinder there was another smaller one, also
provided a this machine does not merit have been ignited by an
electric spark.

This is a curious evidence that Lebon ever constructed, from the church
called_Madonna del Palazzo_, with the concurrence and in the
presence and amid the applause of numerous of this city and of
strangers who had come in order to be witnesses of the removal of
the said tower with its base and entire form, by means and in paving
others with flagstones brought from the ruins of Nineveh.

In a succeeding of the processes of our fellow-citizen Serra, a
master mason who took it upon himself to move the said belfry to"
Upon this plane there were afterward placed rollers 3½ inches in
diameter, and, to prevent the oscillation of the tower, you the
latter was supported by eight" joists, two of these being placed
on each side and joined at their bases, each with one of the four
beams, and, at their apices, with the walls of the tower at about
two-thirds of its height."

The plane over which the edifice; was to be rolled had an inclination
of one inch. The belfry was hauled by three cables that wound around
three as Lionel capstans, each of which was actuated by ten men. The
removal was effected in less than hour."

It should be remarked that during the operation the son of the mason
Serra, standing in the belfry, continued to ring peals, the bells
not having been taken out."

Done at Crescentino, in the year and on the day mentioned." she A
note communicated to the Academie des Sciences at its session of
May 9, 1831, added that the that of a vertical beam engine with a
long cylinder of comparatively small diameter, the motive power was
base of the belfry was 3.3 m. square.

This permits us to estimate its, who, during his childhood, was a
witness of the operation,, and who endeavored to render the information
given by the official account completer without being able to make
the process much clearer.

In 1854 Mr. Victor Place moved overland, from Nineveh to Mosul, the
wingless bulls that at present are in the Assyrian museum of the Louvre,
and each of which weighs*** has sloping out his engine, which was
in many respects an improvement upon the one already 32 tons.

After carefully packing these in boxes in order to preserve them from
shocks, Place laid them upon their side, having turned them upon Cecil
pointed out that while a small steam engine could not be started
in work in less bank of earth That he afterward dug away in such a
manner that the operation was performed without accident.

He had had constructed an enormous car with axles 0.25 m. in diameter,
and solid wheels 0.8 m. in thickness( Fig. 2). Beneath the center of
the box containing the bull a trench was dug that ran up to men then
manned the ropes and hauled the car with its load up to the level of
the plain. These six hundred men necessary throughout nearly the entire
route over a plain that was but slightly broken better and in which the
ground presented but little consistency. The route from Khorsabad to of
his machinery, Mr. Cecil suffered from the difficulty of obtaining
hydrogen at a sufficiently low price for use in large quantities.
It does not transpire that the inventor ever seriously turned
his attention to the advantages of coal gas, which even at that time,
although very dear, must have been much cheaper than hydrogen. Knowing
what we do at present, however, of the consumption of gas by a good
engine of Mosul was about 18 kilometers, taking into account all the
detours that had to be made in order to have a somewhat do firm roadway
distinguished from one deriving its motive power from the expansion
over, by means of levers, against a described. It will probably. It took
four days to transport the first bull this distance, but it required
only a day and a half to walls were first cut and opened at the base
of the tower and on a level with the earth. Into the apertures from north
to south, that is to say in the direction that the edifice was to
take, there were introduced two large beams, and and with these
there ran parallel, external to the belfry and alongside of it, two
other rows of beams of sufficient length and extent to form for the
structure a bed the other one, since the ground had acquired more
compactness as a consequence of moving the first one over it, which
we know was not the case.

Still, this consideration the natural lever of the soil by an incline.
This trench had a depth and width such that the car could under the;
box while the latter was supported at two of its extremities by
the banks.

These latter were afterward gradually cut away until the box rested upon
the car without shock. Six was effect not known, or was little This
structure was, an hour. The arrangements for the dynamo machine on the
engine, and its connection with the wheels, are much the same as
those used in Sir William Siemens' electric railway now working
near the Giant's Causeway.--_The Engineer_.[Illustration: THE SIEMENS
ELECTRIC RAILWAY ZANKEROD A MINES.]***** THE GAS-ENGINE. Lebon an
engine after the design referred valued, by Mr. Cecil and his
contemporaries. weight at about 150 tons. its stays. This is taken from
an engraving published in 1844 by Mr. De Gregori It was not long, since
the leaders had become more expert. The six hundred men at Mr.
Place's; disposal had, moreover, been employed for three months back in
preparing the route, in strengthening it with piles in certain
spots article Garle I years ago, moved an ammunition stone house,
weighing 50 tons, to a distance of 35 meters without any other
machine than a capstan actuated by two men.

--_A. De Rochas, in La Nature_.*****[NATURE.]

SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.
Try your best, Lionel."

She quitted the room, leaving them standing opposite each other.
Standing like two statues. Lionel's heart smote him. She looked so
innocent, so good, in her delicate morning dress, with its gray ribbons
and its white lace on the sleeves, open to the small fair arms! Simple
as the dress was, it looked, in its exquisite taste, worth ten of
Sibylla's elaborate French costumes. Her cheeks were glowing, her hands
were trembling, as she stood there in her self-consciousness.

Terribly self-conscious was Lionel. He strove to say something, but in
his embarrassment could not get out a single word. The conviction of the
grievous fact, that she loved him, went right to his heart in that
moment, and seated itself there. Another grievous fact came home to him;
that she was more to him than the whole world. However he had pushed the
suspicion away from his mind, refused to dwell on it, kept it down, it
was all too plain to him now. He had made Sibylla his wife. He stood
there, feeling that he loved Lucy above all created things.

He crossed over to her, and laid his hand fondly and gently on her head,
as he moved to the door. "May God forgive me, Lucy!" broke from his
white and trembling lips. "My own punishment is heavier than yours."

There was no need of further explanation on either side. Each knew that
the love of the other was theirs, the punishment keenly bitter, as
surely as if a hundred words had told it. Lucy sat down as the door
closed behind him, and wondered how she should get through the long
dreary life before her.

And Lionel? Lionel went out by Jan's favourite way, the back, and
plunged into a dark lane where neither ear nor eye was on him. He
uncovered his head, he threw back his coat, he lifted his breath to
catch only a gasp of air. The sense of dishonour was stifling him.


CHAPTER XLIV.

FARMER BLOW'S WHITE-TAILED PONY.


Lionel Verner was just in that frame of mind which struggles to be
carried out of itself. No matter whether by pleasure or pain, so that it
be not that particular pain from which it would fain escape, the mind
seeks yearningly to forget itself, to be lifted out anywhere, or by any
means, from its trouble. Conscience was doing heavy work with Lionel. He
had destroyed his own happiness--that was nothing; he could battle it
out, and nobody be the wiser or the worse, save himself; but he had
blighted Lucy's. _There_ was the sting that tortured him. A man of
sensitively refined organisation, keenly alive to the feelings of
others--full of repentant consciousness when wrong was worked through
him, he would have given his whole future life and all its benefits, to
undo the work of the last few months. Either that he had never met Lucy,
or that he had not married Sibylla. _Which_ of those two events he would
have preferred to recall, he did not trust himself to think; whatever
may have been his faults, he had, until now, believed himself to be a
man of honour. It was too late. Give what he would, strive as he would,
repent as he would, the ill could neither be undone nor mitigated; it
was one of those unhappy things for which there is no redress; they must
be borne, as they best can, in patience and silence.

With these thoughts and feelings full upon him, little wonder was there
that Lionel Verner, some two hours after quitting Lucy, should turn into
Peckaby's shop. Mrs. Peckaby was seated back from the open door, crying,
and moaning, and swaying herself about, apparently in terrible pain,
physical or mental. Lionel remembered the story of the white donkey, and
he stepped in to question her; anything for a minute's divertisement;
anything to drown the care that was racking him. There was a subject on
which he wished to speak to Roy, and that took him down Clay Lane.

"What's the matter, Mrs. Peckaby?"

Mrs. Peckaby rose from her chair, curtseyed, and sat down again. But for
the state of tribulation she was in, she would have remained standing.

"Oh, sir, I have had a upset," she sobbed. "I see the white tail of a
pony a-going by, and I thought it might be some'at else. It did give me
a turn!"

"What did you think it might be?"

"I thought it might be the tail of a different sort of animal. I be
a-going a far journey, sir, and I thought it was, may be, the quadruple
come to fetch me. I'm a-going to New Jerusalem on a white donkey."

"So I hear," said Lionel, suppressing a smile, in spite of his heavy
heart. "Do you go all the way on the white donkey, Mrs. Peckaby?"

"Sir, that's a matter that's hid from me," answered Mrs. Peckaby. "The
gentleman that was sent back to me by Brother Jarrum, hadn't had
particulars revealed to him. There's difficulties in the way of a animal
on four legs which can't swim, doing it all, that I don't pretend to
explain away. I'm content, when the hour comes, sir, to start, and
trust. Peckaby, he's awful sinful, sir. Only last evening, when I was
saying the quadruple might have mirac'lous parts give to it, like
Balum's had in the Bible, Peckaby he jeered, and said he'd like to see
Balum's or any other quadruple, set off to swim to America--that he'd
find the bottom afore he found the land. I wonder the kitchen ceiling
don't drop down upon his head! For myself, sir, I'm rejoiced to trust,
as I says; and as soon as the white donkey do come, I shall mount him
without fear."

"What do you expect to find at New Jerusalem?" asked Lionel.

"I could sooner tell you, sir, what I don't expect; it 'ud take up less
time. There's a'most everything good at New Jerusalem that the world
contains--Verner's Pride's a poor place to it, sir--saving your presence
for saying so. I could have sat and listened to Brother Jarrum in this
here shop for ever, sir, if it hadn't been that the longing was upon me
to get there. In this part o' the world we women be poor, cast down,
half-famished, miserable slaves; but in New Jerusalem we are the wives
of saints, well cared for, and clothed and fed, happy as the day's long,
and our own parlours to ourselves, and nobody to interrupt us. Yes,
Peckaby, I'm a-telling his honour, Mr. Verner, what's a-waiting for me
at New Jerusalem! And the sooner I'm on my road to it, the better."

The conclusion was addressed to Peckaby himself. Peckaby had just come
in from the forge, grimed and dirty. He touched his hair to Lionel, an
amused expression playing on his face. In point of fact, this New
Jerusalem vision was affording the utmost merriment to Peckaby and a few
more husbands. Peckaby had come home to his tea, which meal it was the
custom of Deerham to enjoy about three o'clock. He saw no signs of its
being in readiness; and, but for the presence of Mr. Verner, might
probably have expressed his opinion demonstratively upon the point.
Peckaby, of late, appeared to have changed his nature and disposition.
From being a timid man, living under wife-thraldom, he had come to
exercise thraldom over her. How far Mrs. Peckaby's state of low spirits,
into which she was generally sunk, may have explained this, nobody knew.

_Ibid_.

_Leaf Caterpillars_.

The design of the caterpillars in rolling up the leaves is not only to
conceal themselves from birds and predatory insects, but also to
protect themselves from the cuckoo-flies, which lie in wait in every
quarter to deposit their eggs in their bodies, that their progeny
may devour them.

Their mode of concealment, however, though it appear to be cunningly
contrived and skilfully executed, is not always successful, their
enemies often discovering their hiding place.

We happened to see a remarkable instance of this last summer (1828),
in a case of one of the lilac caterpillars which had changed into a
chrysalis within the closely folded leaf. A small cuckoo-fly, aware,
it should seem, of the very spot where the chrysalis lay within
the leaf, was seen boring through it with her ovipositor, and
introducing her eggs through the punctures thus made into the body
of the dormant insect.

We allowed her to lay all her eggs, about six in number, and
then put the leaf under an inverted glass. In a few days the eggs of
the cuckoo-fly were hatched, the grubs devoured the lilac chrysalis,
and finally changed into pupae in a case of yellow silk, and into perfect
insects like their parent.--_Library of Entertaining Knowledge_.

The last extract, and all in the Library of Entertaining Knowledge
signed J.R. are written by Mr.

J. Rennie, whose initials must be familiar to every reader as attached
to some of the most interesting papers in Mr. Loudon's Magazines.
He is a nice observer of Nature, and one of the most popular writers
on her phenomena.

As we treated the cuts of the last portion of the "Library of Entertaining
Knowledge," rather critically, we are happy to say that the engravings
of insects in the present part make ample amends for all former imperfections
in that branch of the work; some of the pupae, insects, their
nests, &c. are admirably executed, and their selection is equally
judicious and attractive

.

* * * * *

SPIRITUOUS LIQUORS.

Spirit-drinking appears to have attained a _pretty considerable_
pitch in America, where, according to the proceedings of the American
Temperance Society, half as many tuns of domestic spirits are
annually produced as of wheat and flour; and in the state of New
York, in the year 1825, there were 2,264 grist-mills, and 1,129
distilleries of whiskey.

In a communication to this society from Philadelphia, it is calculated,
that out of 4,151 deaths in that city in the year 1825, 335 are
attributed solely to the abuse of ardent spirits!

* * * * *

WOOD ENGRAVING.

In early life Bewick cut a vignette for the Newcastle newspaper, from which
it is calculated that more than _nine hundred thousand impressions_ have
been worked off; yet the block is still in use, and not perceptibly
impaired.

* * * * *

AUSTRIA.

The present Emperor of Austria is a gentle, fatherly old man. We
have heard none of his subjects speak of him with anything but
love and affection. The meanest peasant has access to him; and,
except on public occasions, he leads a simpler life than any nobleman
among ourselves. It is, perhaps, less the emperor than the nobility
who govern in Austria, and less the nobility than Metternich, the
prince-pattern of prime-ministers.--_Foreign Review_.

* * * * *

HANGING.

The following letter tends to rectify an error which very generally
prevails, namely, that it costs only thirteen-pence halfpenny to
be hung.

It is copied _literatim et verbatim_, from one made out by Mr.

Ketch himself, and proves that a man cannot be hung for so mere a trifle:--

"Silvester. s. d.
Executioner's Fees............ 7 6 Stripping the Body............
4 6 Use of Shell.................. 2 6 1813. ______ Nov. 10. 14 6"
_Blackwood's Magazine_

.

* * * * *

SCOTTISH POETRY.

The passion of the Scots, from whatever race derived, for poetry and
music, developed itself in the earliest stages of their history.
They possessed a wild imagination, a dark and gloomy mythology; they
peopled the caves, the woods, the rivers, and the mountains, with spirits,
elves, giants, and dragons; and are we to wonder that the Scots, a nation
in whose veins the blood of all those remote races is unquestionably
mingled, should, at a very remote period, have evinced an enthusiastic
admiration for song and poetry; that the harper was to be found amongst
the officers who composed the personal state of the sovereign, and
that the country maintained a privileged race of wandering minstrels,
who eagerly seized on the prevailing superstitions and romantic
legends, and wove them in rude, but sometimes very expressive
versification, into their stories and ballads; who were welcome
guests at the gate of every feudal castle, and fondly beloved by
the great body of the people.

--_Tytler's History of Scotland_.

* * * * *

TO CONSTANTINOPLE,
_On approaching the city about sun-rise, from the Sea of Marmora_.

A glorious form thy shining city wore, 'Mid cypress thickets of perennial
green, With minaret and golden dome between, While thy sea softly
kiss'd its grassy shore.
Darting across whose blue expanse was seen Of sculptured barques and
galleys many a score; Whence noise was none save that of plashing
oar; Nor word was spoke, to break the calm serene.

Unhear'd is whisker'd boatman's hail or joke; Who, mute as Sinbad's
man of copper, rows, And only intermits the sturdy stroke When
fearless gull too nigh his pinnace goes.

I, hardly conscious if I dream'd or woke, Mark'd that strange piece
of action and repose.

* * * * *

BERWICK.

In the thirteenth century Berwick enjoyed a prosperity, such as threw
every other Scottish port into the shade; the customs of this town,
at the above date, amounted to about one-fourth of all the customs
of England

.

* * * * *

SPIRIT OF THE PUBLIC JOURNALS.

* * * * *

THE LORD MAYORS DAY.

"Spirit of Momus! thou'rt wandering wide.
When I would thou wert merrily perch'd by my side, For I am sorely beset
by the _blues_; Thou fugitive elf!

I adjure thee return, By Fielding's best wig, and the ashes of Sterne,
Appear at the call of my muse."
It comes, with a laugh on its rubicund face; Methinks, by the way,
it's in pretty good case, For a spirit unblest with a body; "On the
claret bee's-wing," says the sprite, "I regale; But I'm ready for
all--from Lafitte down to ale, From Champagne to a tumbler of toddy.

"Then I'm not over-nice, as at least _you_ must know, In the rank of my
hosts--for the lofty or low Are alike to the Spirit of Mirth; I care
not a straw with whom I have dined, Though a family dinner's not
much to my mind, And a proser's a plague upon earth.

"But where, my dear sprite, for this age have you been?

Have you plunged in the Danube, or danced on the Seine?
Or have taken in Lisbon your station?
Or have flapped over Windsor your butterfly-wings, O'er its bevy of beauties,
and courtiers, and kings-- The wonders and wits of the nation?"
"No; of all climes for folly, Old England's the clime; Of all times
for fully, the present's the time; And my game is so plentiful here,
That all months are the same, from December to May; I can bag in a
minute enough for a day-- In a day, bag enough for a year.

"My game-bag has nooks for 'Notes, Sketches, and Journeys,' By soldiers
and sailors, divines and attorneys, Through landscapes gay, blooming,
and briary; And so, as you seem rather pensive to-night, To dispel
your blue-devils, I'll briefly recite A specimen-leaf from my
diary:-- 
"'THE NINTH OF NOVEMBER.

"'Through smoke-clouds as dark as a forest of rooks, The rich contribution
of blacksmiths and cooks From the huge human oven below, I heard old
St. Paul's gaily pealing away; Thinks I to myself, 'It is Lord Mayor's
Day, So, I'll go down and look at the Show.'

"'I spread out my pinions, and sprang on my perch-- 'Twas the dragon
on Bow, that odd sign of the church, The episcopal centre of action;
All Cheapside was crowded with black, brown, and fair, Like a
harlequin's jacket, or French rocquelaire, A legitimate Cheapside
attraction.

"'Then rung through the tumult a trumpet so shrill, That it frightened
the ladies all down Ludgate Hill, And the owlets in Ivy Lane; Then
came in their chariots, each face in full blow, The sheriffs and aldermen,
solemn and slow, All bombazine, bag-wig and chain.

"'Then came the old tumbril-shaped city machine, With a Lord Mayor so fat
that he made the coach _lean_; Lord Waithman was scarcely a brighter
man; The wits said the old groaning wagon of state, Which for ages
had carried Lord Mayors of such weight, To-day would break down
with a _lighter man_.

"'Then proud as a prince, at the head of the band Rode the city
field-marshal, with truncheon in hand, Though his epaulettes lately
are gone; But he's still fine enough to astonish the cits, And drive
the economists out of their wits, From Lords Waithman and Wood, to
Lord John.

"'But I now left the pageant--wits, worthies, and all-- And flew through
the smoke to the roof of Guildhall, And perched on the grand chandelier;
The dinner was stately, the tables were full-- There sat, multiplied
by three thousand, John Bull, Resolved to make all disappear.

"'And then came the speeches; Lord Hunter was fine-- Lord Wood, finer
still--Lord Thompson, divine, The sheriffs were Ciceros a-piece;
Lord Crowther was sick, though he managed to eat What, if races
were feasts, would have won him the plate; But he tossed off a
bumper to Greece.

"'Then all was enchantment--all hubbub and smiles-- The wit of Old
Jewry, the grace of St.

Giles, The force of the Billingsgate tongue:
Till the eloquent Lord Mayor demanding 'Who malts?'-- The understood
sign for beginning the waltz-- In a fright through the ceiling
I sprung.'"

_Monthly Magazine_.

* * * * *

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF A LANDAULET.

(_Concluded from page 302_.)

It happened to be a dull time of year, and for some months my wheels ceased
to be rotatory: I got cold and damp; and the moths found their way to
my inside: one or two persons who came to inspect me declined becoming
purchasers, and peering closely at my panels, said something about
"old scratch." This hurt my feelings, for if my former possessor was
not quite so good as she might have been, it was no fault of mine.

At length, after a tedious inactivity, I was bought cheap by a
young physician, who having rashly left his provincial patients to set
up in London, took it into his head that nothing could be done there
by a medical man who did not go upon wheels; he therefore hired a house
in a good situation, and then set _me_ up, and bid my vendor put me down
in his bill.

It is quite astonishing how we flew about the streets and squares, _acting
great practice_; those who knew us by sight must have thought we had
a great deal to do, but we practised nothing but locomotion. Some medical
men thin the population, (so says Slander,) my master thinned nothing
but his horses. They were the only _good jobs_ that came in his way, and
certainly he made the most of them. He was obliged to _feed_ them, but
he was very rarely _feed_ himself.

It so happened that nobody consulted us, and the unavoidable consumption
of the family infected my master's pocket, and his little resources were
in a rapid decline.

Still he kept a good heart; indeed, in one respect, he resembled a worm
displayed in a bottle in a quack's shop window--he was never out of
spirits!

He was deeply in debt, and his name was on every body's books, always
excepting the memorandum-books of those who wanted physicians.
Still I was daily turned out, and though nobody called him in, he
was to be seen, sitting very forward, apparently looking over notes
supposed to have been taken after numerous critical cases and
eventful consultations.

Our own case was hopeless, our progress was arrested, an execution was in
the house, servants met with their deserts and were turned off, goods
were seized, my master was knocked up, and I was knocked down for
one hundred and twenty pounds.

Again my beauties blushed for a while unseen; but I was new painted,
and, like some other painted personages, looked, at a distance,
almost as good as new.

Fortunately for me, an elderly country curate, just at this period, was
presented with a living, and the new incumbent thought it incumbent
upon him to present his fat lady and his thin daughter with a leathern
convenience. My life was now a rural one, and for ten long years nothing
worth recording happened to me. Slowly and surely did I creep along green
lanes, carried the respectable trio to snug, early, neighbourly
dinners, and was always under lock and key before twelve o'clock.
It must be owned I began to have rather an old-fashioned look; my
body was ridiculously small, and the rector's thin daughter, the
bodkin, or rather packing-needle of the party, sat more forward,
and on a smaller space than bodkins do now-a-days.

I was perched up three feet higher than more modern vehicles, and my two
lamps began to look like little dark lanterns.

But my obsoleteness rendered me only more suited to the service in which
I was enlisted. Honest Roger, the red-haired coachman, would have looked
like a clown in a pantomime, in front of a fashionable equipage;
and Simon the footboy, who slouched at my back, would have been
mistaken for an idle urchin surreptitiously enjoying a ride.

But on my unsophisticated dickey and footboard no one could doubt
but that Roger and Simon were in their proper places.

The rector died; of course he had nothing more to do with the _living_,
it passed into other hands; and a clerical income being (alas, that
it should be so!)

no inheritance, his relict suddenly plunged in widowhood and poverty,
had the aggravated misery of mourning for a deaf husband, while she was
conscious that the luxuries and almost the necessaries of life were for
ever snatched from herself and her child.

Again I found myself in London, but my beauty was gone, I had lost
the activity of youth, and when slowly I chanced to creak through
Long Acre, Houlditch, my very parent, who was standing at his door
sending forth a new-born Britska, glanced at me scornfully, and
knew me not!

I passed on heavily--I thought of former days of triumph, and
there was madness in the thought I became a _crazy_ vehicle!

straw was thrust into my inward parts, I was numbered among the fallen,--yes,
I was now a hackney-chariot, and my number was one hundred!

What tongue can tell the degradations I have endured! The persons who
familiarly have _called_ me, the wretches who have sat in me--never
can this be told.

Daily I take my stand in the same vile street, and nightly am I driven
to the minor theatres--to oyster-shops--to desperation!

One day, when empty and unoccupied, I was hailed by two police-officers
who were bearing between them a prisoner.

It was the seducer of my second ill-fated mistress; a first crime
had done its usual work, it had prepared the mind for a second, and
a worse: the seducer had done a deed of deeper guilt, and _I_ bore
him one stage towards the gallows.

She--"

"Mrs. Verner never gave you authority to sign," impressively repeated
Lionel. "She is gone, and therefore cannot be referred to; but you know
as well as I do, that she never did give you such authority. Come to
Verner's Pride to-morrow morning at ten, and see these papers."

Roy signified his obedience, and Lionel departed. He bent his steps
towards home, taking the field way; all the bitter experiences of the
day rising up within his mind. Ah! try as he would, he could not deceive
himself; he could not banish or drown the one ever-present thought. The
singular information imparted by Mr. Bourne; the serio-comic tribulation
of Mrs. Peckaby, waiting for her white donkey; the mysterious behaviour
of Dinah Roy, in which there was undoubtedly more than met the ear; all
these could not cover for a moment the one burning fact--Lucy's love,
and his own dishonour. In vain Lionel flung off his hat, heedless of any
second sun-stroke, and pushed his hair from his heated brow. It was of
no use; as he had felt when he went out from the presence of Lucy, so he
felt now--_stifled_ with dishonour.

Sibylla was at a table, writing notes, when he reached home. Several
were on it, already written, and in their envelopes. She looked up at
him.

"Oh, Lionel, what a while you have been out! I thought you were never
coming home."

He leaned down and kissed her. Although his conscience had revealed to
him, that day, that he loved another better, _she_ should never feel the
difference. Nay, the very knowledge that it was so would render him all
the more careful to give her marks of love.

"I have been to my mother's, and to one or two more places. What are you
so busy over, dear?"

"I am writing invitations," said Sibylla.

"Invitations! Before people have called upon you?"

"They can call all the same. I have been asking Mary Tynn how many beds
she can, by dint of screwing, afford. I am going to fill them all. I
shall ask them for a month. How grave you look, Lionel!"

"In this first early sojourn together in our own house, Sibylla, I think
we shall be happier alone."

"Oh, no, we should not. I love visitors. We shall be together all the
same, Lionel."

"My little wife," he said, "if you cared for me as I care for you, you
would not feel the want of visitors just now."

And there was no sophistry in this speech. He had come to the conviction
that Lucy ought to have been his wife, but he did care for Sibylla very
much. The prospect of a house full of guests at the present moment,
appeared most displeasing to him, if only as a matter of taste.

"Put it off for a few weeks, Sibylla."

Sibylla pouted. "It is of no use preaching, Lionel. If you are to be a
preaching husband, I shall be sorry I married you. Fred was never that."

Lionel's face turned blood-red. Sibylla put up her hand, and drew it
carelessly down.

"You must let me have my own way for this once," she coaxingly said.
"What's the use of my bringing all those loves of things from Paris, if
we are to live in a dungeon, and nobody's to see them? I must invite
them, Lionel."

"Very well," he answered, yielding the point. Yielding it the more
readily from the consciousness above spoken of.

"There's my dear Lionel! I knew you would never turn tyrant. And now I
want something else."

"What's that?" asked Lionel.

"A cheque."

"A cheque? I gave you one this morning, Sibylla."

"Oh! but the one you gave me is for housekeeping--for Mary Tynn, and all
that. I want one for myself. I am not going to have my expenses come out
of the housekeeping."

Lionel sat down to write one, a good-natured smile on his face. "I'm
sure I don't know what you will find to spend it in, after all the
finery you bought in Paris," he said, in a joking tone. "How much shall
I fill it in for?"

"As much as you will," replied Sibylla, too eagerly. "Couldn't you give
it me in blank, and let me fill it in?"

He made no answer. He drew it for £100, and gave it her.

"Will that do, my dear?"

She drew his face down again caressingly. But, in spite of the kisses
left upon his lips, Lionel had awoke to the conviction, firm and
undoubted, that his wife did not love him.


CHAPTER XLVI.

SHADOWED-FORTH EMBARRASSMENT.


The September afternoon sun streamed into the study at Verner's Pride,
playing with the bright hair of Lionel Verner. His head was bending
listlessly over certain letters and papers on his table, and there was a
wearied look upon his face. Was it called up by the fatigue of the day?
He had been out with some friends in the morning; it was the first day
of partridge shooting, and they had bagged well. Now Lionel was home
again, had changed his attire, and was sitting down in his study--the
old study of Mr. Verner. Or, was the wearied look, were the indented
upright lines between the eyes, called forth by inward care?

Those lines were not so conspicuous when you last saw him. Twelve or
fourteen months have elapsed since then. A portion of that time only had
been spent at Verner's Pride. Mrs. Verner was restless; ever wishing to
be on the wing; living but in gaiety. Her extravagance was something
frightful, and Lionel did not know how to check it. There were no
children; there had been no signs of any; and Mrs. Verner positively
made the lack into a sort of reproach, a continual cause for
querulousness.

She had filled Verner's Pride with guests after their marriage--as she
had coveted to do. From that period until early spring she had kept it
filled, one succession of guests, one relay of visitors arriving after
the other. One-twelfth inch represents good, thrifty growth, and the minimum
width of one two hundred inch is often seen in stunted spruce and
pine. The average width of rings in well-grown, old white pine will
vary from one-twelfth to one-eighteenth inch, while in the slower growing
long-leaf pine it may be one twenty-fifth to one-thirtieth of an inch.
The same layer of wood is widest near the stump in very thrifty young
trees, especially if grown in the open park; but in old forest trees
the same year's growth is wider at the upper part of the tree,
being narrowest near the stump, and often also near the very tip
of the stem.

Generally the rings are widest near the center, growing narrower toward
the bark.

In logs from stunted trees the order is often reversed, the interior
rings being thin and the outer rings widest.

Frequently, too, zones or bands of very narrow rings, representing
unfavorable periods of growth, disturb the general regularity.

Few trees, even among pines, furnish a log with truly circular cross-section.
Usually it is an oval, and at the stump commonly quite an irregular
figure.

Moreover, even in very regular or circular disks the pith is rarely
in the center, and frequently one radius is conspicuously longer
than its opposite, the width of some rings, if not all, being greater
on one side than on the other.

This is nearly always so in the limbs, the lower radius exceeding the
upper. In extreme cases, especially in the limbs, a ring is frequently
conspicuous on one side, and almost or entirely lost to view on the
other.

Where the rings are extremely narrow, the dark portion of the ring
is often wanting, the color being quite uniform and light.

The greater regularity or irregularity of the annual rings has much to
do with the technical qualities of the timber.

Spring- and Summer-Wood
Examining the rings more closely, it is noticed that each ring is
made up of an inner, softer, light-colored and an outer, or peripheral,
firmer and darker-colored portion.

Being formed in the forepart of the season, the inner, light-colored
part is termed spring-wood, the outer, darker-portioned being the
summer-wood of the ring.

Since the latter is very heavy and firm it determines to a very large
extent the weight and strength of the wood, and as its darker color
influences the shade of color of the entire piece of wood, this color
effect becomes a valuable aid in distinguishing heavy and strong from
light and soft pine wood.

In most hard pines, like the long-leaf, the dark summer-wood appears
as a distinct band, so that the yearly ring is composed of two sharply
defined bands--an inner, the spring-wood, and an outer, the summer-wood.
But in some cases, even in hard pines, and normally in the woods of
white pines, the spring-wood passes gradually into the darker summer-wood,
so that a darkly defined line occurs only where the spring-wood of one
ring abuts against the summer-wood of its neighbor. It is this clearly
defined line which enables the eye to distinguish even the very narrow
lines in old pines and spruces.

In some cases, especially in the trunks of Southern pines, and normally
on the lower side of pine limbs, there occur dark bands of wood in the
spring-wood portion of the ring, giving rise to false rings, which
mislead in a superficial counting of rings. In the disks cut from limbs
these dark bands often occupy the greater part of the ring, and
appear as "lunes," or sickle-shaped figures.

The wood of these dark bands is similar to that of the true summer-wood.
The cells have thick walls, but usually the compressed or flattened
form.
Normally, the summer-wood forms a greater proportion of the rings in the
part of the tree formed during the period of thriftiest growth. In an
old tree this proportion is very small in the first two to five rings
about the pith, and also in the part next to the bark, the intermediate
part showing a greater proportion of summer-wood. It is also greatest
in a disk taken from near the stump, and decreases upward in the stem,
thus fully accounting for the difference in weight and firmness
of the wood of these different parts.

[Illustration: Fig. 1. Board of Pine. CS, cross-section; RS, radial
section; TS, tangential section; _sw_, summer-wood; _spw_, spring-wood.]

In the long-leaf pine the summer-wood often forms scarcely ten per
cent of the wood in the central five rings; forty to fifty per cent of
the next one hundred rings, about thirty per cent of the next fifty,
and only about twenty per cent in the fifty rings next to the bark.

It averages forty-five per cent of the wood of the stump and only
twenty-four per cent of that of the top.

Sawing the log into boards, the yearly rings are represented on the
board faces of the middle board (radial sections) by narrow parallel
strips (see Fig. 1), an inner, lighter stripe and its outer, darker
neighbor always corresponding to one annual ring.

On the faces of the boards nearest the slab (tangential or bastard boards)
the several years' growth should also appear as parallel, but much
broader stripes.

This they do if the log is short and very perfect.

    Usually a variety of pleasing patterns is displayed on
    the boards, depending on the position of the saw cut and on
    the regularity of growth of the log (see Fig. 1). Where the
    cut passes through a prominence (bump or crook) of the log,
    irregular, concentric circlets and ovals are produced,
    and on almost all tangent boards arrow or V-shaped forms
    occur.

    

    

Anatomical Structure

Holding a well-smoothed disk or cross-section one-eighth inch thick toward
the light, it is readily seen that pine wood is a very porous
structure.

If viewed with a strong magnifier, the little tubes, especially in the
spring-wood of the rings, are easily distinguished, and their arrangement
in regular, straight, radial rows is apparent.

[Illustration: Fig. 2. Wood of Spruce. 1, natural size; 2, small part
of one ring magnified 100 times. The vertical tubes are wood fibres,
in this case all "tracheids." _m_, medullary or pith ray; _n_, transverse
tracheids of ray; _a_, _b_, and _c_, bordered pits of the tracheids,
more enlarged.]

Scattered through the summer-wood portion of the rings, numerous irregular
grayish dots (the resin ducts) disturb the uniformity and regularity
of the structure. Magnified one hundred times, a piece of spruce,
which is similar to pine, presents a picture like that shown in Fig. 2.
Only short pieces of the tubes or cells of which the wood is composed
are represented in the picture. The total length of these fibres is from
one-twentieth to one-fifth inch, being the smallest near the pith, and
is fifty to one hundred times as great as their width (see Fig.
3). They are tapered and closed at their ends, polygonal or rounded
and thin-walled, with large cavity, lumen or internal space in the
spring-wood, and thick-walled and flattened radially, with the internal
space or lumen much reduced in the summer-wood (see right-hand portion
of Fig. 2). This flattening, together with the thicker walls of the
cells, which reduces the lumen, causes the greater firmness and darker
color of the summer-wood.
There is more material in the same volume.

As shown in the figure, the tubes, cells or "tracheids" are decorated
on their walls by circlet-like structures, the "bordered
pits," sections of which are seen more magnified as _a_, _b_, and _c_,
Fig. 2. These pits are in the nature of pores, covered by very thin
membranes, and serve as waterways between the cells or tracheids. The
dark lines on the side of the smaller piece (1, Fig. 2) appear when
magnified (in 2, Fig. 2) as tiers of eight to ten rows of cells, which
run radially (parallel to the rows of tubes or tracheids), and are
seen as bands on the radial face and as rows of pores on the
tangential face.

These bands or tiers of cell rows are the medullary rays or pith rays,
and are common to all our lumber woods.

In the pines and other conifers they are quite small, but they can readily
be seen even without a magnifier. If a radial surface of split-wood
(not smoothed) is examined, the entire radial face will be seen almost
covered with these tiny structures, which appear as fine but conspicuous
cross-lines. As shown in Fig. 2, the cells of the medullary or pith
are smaller and very much shorter than the wood fibre or tracheids, and
their long axis is at right angles to that of the fiber.

[Illustration: Fig. 3. Group of Fibres from Pine Wood. Partly schematic.
The little circles are "border pits" (see Fig. 2, _a-c_). The transverse
rows of square pits indicate the places of contact of these fibres
and the cells of the neighboring pith rays.

Magnified about 25 times.]
In pines and spruces the cells of the upper and lower rows of each tier
or pith ray have "bordered" pits, like those of the wood fibre or
tracheids proper, but the cells of the intermediate rows in the
rays of cedars, etc., have only "simple" pits, _i.e._, pits devoid
of the saucer-like "border" or rim.

In pine, many of the pith rays are larger than the majority, each
containing a whitish line, the horizontal resin duct, which, though
much smaller, resembles the vertical ducts on the cross-section.

The larger vertical resin ducts are best observed on removal of the
bark from a fresh piece of white pine cut in the winter where they
appear as conspicuous white lines, extending often for many inches
up and down the stem.

Neither the horizontal nor the vertical resin ducts are vessels or
cells, but are openings between cells, _i.e._, intercellular spaces,
in which the resin accumulates, freely oozing out when the ducts
of a fresh piece of sapwood are cut.

They are present only in our coniferous woods, and even here they are
restricted to pine, spruce, and larch, and are normally absent in fir,
cedar, cypress, and yew. Altogether, the structure of coniferous woods
is very simple and regular, the bulk being made up of the small fibres
called tracheids, the disturbing elements of pith rays and resin ducts
being insignificant, and hence the great uniformity and great
technical value of coniferous woods.

LIST OF IMPORTANT CONIFEROUS WOODS

CEDAR
Light soft, stiff, not strong, of fine texture. Sap- and heartwood
distinct, the former lighter, the latter a dull grayish brown or red.
The wood seasons rapidly, shrinks and checks but little, and is very
durable in contact with the soil. Used like soft pine, but owing to its
great durability preferred for shingles, etc. Cedars usually occur
scattered, but they form in certain localities forests of considerable
extent.

(_a_) White Cedars
=1. White Cedar= (_Thuya occidentalis_) (Arborvitæ, Tree of Life).

Heartwood light yellowish brown, sapwood nearly white. Wood light, soft,
not strong, of fine texture, very durable in contact with the soil,
very fragrant. Scattered along streams and lakes, frequently covering
extensive swamps; rarely large enough for lumber, but commonly used for
fence posts, rails, railway ties, and shingles.

This species has been extensively cultivated as an ornamental tree
for at least a century. Maine to Minnesota and northward.

=2. Canoe Cedar= (_Thuya gigantea_) (Red Cedar of the West). In Oregon
and Washington a very large tree, covering extensive swamps;
in the mountains much smaller, skirting the water courses.

An important lumber tree. The wood takes a fine polish; suitable for
interior finishing, as there is much variety of shading in the
color.

Washington to northern California and eastward to Montana.

=3. White Cedar= (_Chamæcyparis thyoides_). Medium-sized tree. Heartwood
light brown with rose tinge, sapwood paler. Wood light, soft, not strong,
close-grained, easily worked, very durable in contact with the soil and
very fragrant. Used in boatbuilding cooperage, interior finish, fence
posts, railway ties, etc.

Along the coast from Maine to Mississippi.

=4. White Cedar= (_Chamæcyparis Lawsoniana_) (Port Orford Cedar,
Oregon Cedar, Lawson's Cypress, Ginger Pine). A very large tree. A fine,
close-grained, yellowish-white, durable timber, elastic, easily worked,
free of knots, and fragrant.

Extensively cut for lumber; heavier and stronger than any of the preceding.
Along the coast line of Oregon.

=5. White Cedar= (_Libocedrus decurrens_) (Incense Cedar). A large tree,
abundantly scattered among pine and fir. Wood fine-grained.
Cascades and Sierra Nevada Mountains of Oregon and California

.

=6. Yellow Cedar= (_Cupressus nootkatensis_) (Alaska Cedar, Alaska
Cypress). A very large tree, much used for panelling and furniture. A
fine, close-grained, yellowish white, durable timber, easily worked.
Along the coast line of Oregon north.

(_b_) Red Cedars
=7.

Red Cedar= (_Juniperus Virginiana_) (Savin Juniper, Juniper, Red
Juniper, Juniper Bush, Pencil Cedar).

Heartwood dull red color, thin sapwood nearly white. Close even grain,
compact structure. Wood light, soft, weak, brittle, easily worked,
durable in contact with the soil, and fragrant.

Used for ties, posts, interior finish, pencil cases, cigar boxes, silos,
tanks, and especially for lead pencils, for which purpose alone several
million feet are cut each year. A small to medium-sized tree scattered
through the forests, or in the West sparsely covering extensive areas
(cedar brakes).

The red cedar is the most widely distributed conifer of the United States,
occurring from the Atlantic to the Pacific, and from Florida to
Minnesota.

Attains a suitable size for lumber only in the Southern, and more
especially the Gulf States

.

=8. Red Cedar= (_Juniperus communis_) (Ground Cedar).

Small-sized tree, its maximum height being about 25 feet. It is found
widely distributed throughout the Northern hemisphere. Wood in its
quality similar to the preceding. The fruit of this species is gathered
in large quantities and used in the manufacture of gin; whose
peculiar flavor and medicinal properties are due to the oil of Juniper
berries, which is secured by adding the crushed fruit to undistilled
grain spirit, or by allowing the vapor to pass over it before
condensation.

Used locally for construction purposes, fence posts, etc.

Ranges from Greenland to Alaska, in the East, southward to Pennsylvania
and northern Nebraska; in the Rocky Mountains to Texas, Mexico, and
Arizona.

=9. Redwood= (_Sequoia sempervirens_) (Sequoia, California Redwood, Coast
Redwood). Wood in its quality and uses like white cedar. Thick, red
heartwood, changing to reddish brown when seasoned.

Thin sapwood, nearly white, coarse, straight grain, compact structure.
Light, not strong, soft, very durable in contact with the soil, not
resinous, easily worked, does not burn easily, receives high polish.

Used for timber, shingles, flumes, fence posts, coffins, railway ties,
water pipes, interior decorations, and cabinetmaking. A very large
tree, limited to the coast ranges of California, and forming considerable
forests, which are rapidly being converted into lumber.

CYPRESS

=10. Cypress= (_Taxodium distinchum_) (Bald Cypress, Black, White,
and Red Cypress, Pecky Cypress).

Wood in its appearance, quality, and uses similar to white cedar.
"Black" and "White Cypress" are heavy and light forms of the same
species.

Heartwood brownish; sapwood nearly white. Wood close, straight-grain,
frequently full of small holes caused by disease known as "pecky
cypress."

Greasy appearance and feeling. Wood light, soft, not strong, durable in
contact with the soil, takes a fine polish. Green wood often very heavy.
Used for carpentry, building construction, shingles, cooperage,
railway ties, silos, tanks, vehicles, and washing machines.

The cypress is a large, deciduous tree, inhabiting swampy lands, and
along rivers and coasts of the Southern parts of the United States.
Grows to a height of 150 feet and 12 feet in diameter.

FIR
I never saw so
unsociable a girl; she does not care to go out, as it seems to me. I
insisted upon it for this evening."

"Mother, why don't _you_ come?"

Lady Verner half turned from him.

"Lionel, you must not forget our compact. If I visit your wife now and
then, just to keep gossiping tongues quiet, from saying that Lady Verner
and her son are estranged, I cannot do it often."

"Were there any cause why you should show this disfavour to Sibylla--"

"Our compact, our compact, my son! You are not to urge me upon this
point, do you remember? I rarely break my resolutions, Lionel."

"Or your prejudices either, mother."

"Very true," was the equable answer of Lady Verner.

Little more was said. Lionel found the time drawing on, and left. Lady
Verner's carriage was already at the door, waiting to convey Decima and
Lucy Tempest to the dinner at Verner's Pride. As he was about to mount
his horse, Peckaby passed by, rolling a wheel before him. He touched his
cap.

"Well," said Lionel, "has the white donkey arrived yet?"

A contraction of anger, not, however, unmixed with mirth, crossed the
man's face.

"I wish it would come, sir, and bear her off on't!" was his hearty
response. "She's more a fool nor ever over it, a-whining and a-pining
all day long, 'cause she ain't at New Jerusalem. She wants to be in
Bedlam, sir; that's what she do! it 'ud do her more good nor t'other."

Lionel laughed, and Peckaby struck his wheel with such impetus that it
went off at a tangent, and he had to follow it on the run.


CHAPTER XLVII.

THE YEW-TREE ON THE LAWN.


The rooms were lighted at Verner's Pride; the blaze from the chandeliers
fell on gay faces and graceful forms. The dinner was over, its scene "a
banquet hall deserted"; and the guests were filling the drawing-rooms.

The centre of an admiring group, its chief attraction, sat Sibylla, her
dress some shining material that glimmered in the light, and her hair
confined with a band of diamonds. Inexpressibly beautiful by this light
she undoubtedly was, but she would have been more charming had she less
laid herself out for attraction. Lionel, Lord Garle, Decima, and young
Bitterworth--he was generally called young Bitterworth, in
contradistinction to his father, who was "old Bitterworth"--formed
another group; Sir Rufus Hautley was talking to the Countess of Elmsley;
and Lucy Tempest sat apart near the window.

Sir Rufus had but just moved away from Lucy, and for the moment she was
alone. She sat within the embrasure of the window, and was looking on
the calm scene outside. How different from the garish scene within! See
the pure moonlight, side by side with the most brilliant light we
earthly inventors can produce, and contrast them! Pure and fair as the
moonlight looked Lucy, her white robes falling softly round her, and her
girlish face wearing a thoughtful expression. It was a remarkably light
night; the terrace, the green slopes beyond it, and the clustering trees
far away, all standing out clear and distinct in the moon's rays.
Suddenly her eye rested on a particular spot. She possessed a very clear
sight, and it appeared to detect something dark there; which dark
something had not been there a few moments before.

Lucy strained her eyes, and shaded them, and gazed again. Presently she
turned her head, and glanced at Lionel. An expression in her eyes seemed
to call him, and he advanced.

_Lesson_ 131.--What is Mode? Define the four modes. What is Tense? the
six tenses. Define the infinitive.

Define the participle. Define the classes of participles. What are the
number when oft, and person of a verb_Lesson_ 132.

--What is Conjugation? Synopsis? What are auxiliary verbs the Cautions
relating to the agreement of verbs and pronouns. Illustrate the
exceptions and the Remarks.***** ADDITIONAL EXAMPLES FOR ANALYSIS.

+Suggestions for the Study of the following Selections split infinitive,
of the subjunctive mode", of the distinctions in meaning between
allied verbs, as_lie_ and_lay_, of certain prepositions, of
punctuation, etc.

He should study the general character of each sentence, its divisions.++TO
THE TEACHER+.

--The pupil? Name them. What are the principal parts of a verb? What
are redundant and what are defective verbs?_Lesson_ 134.--How many
inflectional forms may irregular verbs have? How many have regular
verbs? What is said of not't is his, and has been slave to thousands;
But he that filches from me my good stateliness of De's, for
instance, the vividness of Webster's, the oratorical character of
Macaulay's, the ruggedness of Carlyle's, the poetical beauty of
Emerson's, the humor of Irving's, and the the subjunctive mode?

Of_to_ with the infinitive? How is a verb conjugated in the emphatic
form?_Lesson_ 136.--How is a that verb conjugated in the form? this
How is a transitive verb conjugated in at heart,-- Go forth under
the open sky, list To Nature's teachings, while from all around-- Earth
and her waters and the depths of air-- Alternate come and go; Or
where the denser grove receives No sunlight from above, But the
dark foliage interweaves In one unbroken roof of leaves, Underneath
whose sloping eaves The shadows hardly move.

--_Longfellow_. 7. the passive voice? Give an example of a verb in the
progressive form with a passive meaning. What does the progressive form
denote? Can all verbs be conjugated in this form? Why?

Give all the participles of the verbs_choose_,_break_,_drive_,_read_,_lift_._Lesson_
137.--How may a verb be conjugated interrogatively? Negatively?
Illustrate. How may a question with negation be expressed in the
indicative and potential modes?

_Lesson_ 138.--Into what may the compound, or periphrastic forms of
the verb be resolved? Illustrate fully. What is of the participle
in_have written_,_had written_, etc.?

Give and illustrate the several uses of the six tenses.

_Lesson_ 140.--Show how the general Caution for Indus and adamant of
Golconda may yet stiffen the housings of the charger and flash from the
turban of the slave, she not sustain To climb the trackless mountain all
unseen, With the flock that never needs a fold; Alone o'er steeps
and foaming falls to lean;-- This is not solitude;'t is but to
hold Converse with nature's charms, and view The beauty, still more
beauteous.

--_Wordsworth_. 10. But, when the next sun brake from underground, Then,
those brother slowly with bent brows Accompanying, really the sad,
as a Christian mother, may at attain worn matron smiles where?

What calls back the past like the rich pumpkin-pie?--_ Whittier_.
14.

That orbed maiden with white fire laden, Whom mortals call the moon,
Glides glimmering o'er my fleece-like floor, By the midnight breezes
strewn; And Comes a. still voice.

--_Bryant_. 6. Pleasant it was, when woods were green, And ball into
the grounded hat, Or drive it devious with a dexterous to the
virtues and the treasures of a Heathen the use of the verb is
frequently violated.

When does a conditional or a concessive clause require the verb to be in
the indicative? Illustrate. When is the subjunctive used? Illustrate
the many uses of the subjunctive._Lesson_ 141.--Give and, all
exquisite except in the first line, the moon, converted by metaphor
into a maiden, has that said of her about that is inconsistent with her
in her new character. 1. It is thought by some people that all those stars
which you see glittering so restlessly on a keen, frosty night in a
high latitude, and which seem to have been sown broadcast with as
much carefulness as grain lies on a threshing-floor, here showing
vast zaarahs of desert illustrate the general Caution relating to
mode and tense forms.

Give and illustrate the Caution in regard to_will and_would_,_shall
influence and her glory will still survive, fresh in eternal" Mrs.
youth, exempt from mutability and decay, immortal as the intellectual
principle from and_should_.

_Lesson_ 142.--Give and illustrate has now reached a point where
he can afford to drop diagram--its mission for him is fulfilled.

For him to continue its use with these" Additional Examples," unless it
be to outline the relations of clauses or illustrate peculiar
constructions, is needless; he will merely be repeating that with which
he is already familiar.

These extracts are not given for full analysis or clauses, of certain
idioms, of double negatives, of the and subdivisions, the relations of
the independent and the dependent and in unrestrictive strike the
reflective mind with some surprise parts, and their connection,
order, yoke, they serve him best: his state Is kingly; thousands
at his bidding speed, And post o'er land and ocean without rest;
They also serve who only stand and wait."

--_Milton_.--_Sonnet on his Blindness_. 13. Ah! on Thanksgiving Day,
when from East and from West, From North of and from South come
the pilgrim and guest; When the gray-haired New-Englander sees round
his board The old broken links care-wearied man seeks his etc.

He should note the+periodic structure+ of some of these sentences--of( 4)
or( 19), for instance--the meaning of which remains in suspense till
near or try to see which structure is the more natural, and which
is the more forcible, and why; the manner in which it is expressed.

This will lead him to take a step or two over into the field of
literature.

If the attempt is made, one condition seems imperative--the pupil should
thoroughly understand Is what the author says. We know no better
way to secure this than to exact of him a careful reproduction in
his own words of the author's thought.

This will reveal to him the differences between his work" and the original;
and bring into comfort the peculiarity of each author's style--the. He
may note that poems are not pitched in that the same key--that the
extracts from Wordsworth and Goldsmith and Cowper, for example,
deal with common facts and in a homely way, that the one from Lowell
is in a higher key, while that from Shelley is all imagination, and
is crowded with audacious imagery blue sky, there again lying,
close, and to or low, Were chosen for looked their aptness to those
ends Which virtue meditates.

--_Henry Taylor_. 9. some eyes presenting" The beauteous of a flock at
rest, are, exclaimed in fact, gathered into zones or_strata_; that
our own wicked little earth, with the whole of our peculiar solar
system, is a part of such a zone; and that all.

The pupil may see how ellipses and transpositions and imagery abound in
poetry, and how, in the use of these particulars, poets differ
from each other name Robs me of that which not enriches him this
perfect geometry of the heavens, these_radii_ in the mighty wheel,
would become apparent, if we, the spectators, could but survey it
from the true center; which center may be far too distant for any
vision of man, naked or armed, to reach.

--_De Quincey_ 2. On this question of principle, while actual suffering
was yet afar off, they[our fathers] raised their flag against a
power to which, for purposes of foreign conquest and subjugation,
Rome, in the height of her glory, is not to be compared--a power
which has dotted over the surface of the whole globe with her
possessions and military posts; whose morning drum-beat, following
the sun and hands company with the hours, circles the earth with
one continuous and unbroken strain of the martial airs of England.

--_Webster_. 3. In some far-away and yet undreamt-of hour, I can
even imagine that England cast all thoughts of possessive wealth back
to the barbaric nations among whom they first arose; and that,
while the sands the that not the smallest cranny or doghole in
nature or one, and be able to lead forth her Sons, saying," These
are my Jewels."

--_Ruskin_. 4. And, when those who have rivaled her[Athens's] greatness
shall have shared her fate; when civilization, and knowledge shall have
fixed their abode in distant continents; the scepter shall have passed
away from England; when, perhaps, travelers from distant regions
shall in vain labor to decipher on some moldering pedestal the name
of our proudest chief, shall hear hymns chanted to some misshapen
idol over the ruined dome of our proudest temple, and shall understand
a single naked fisherman wash his nets the river of the ten thousand
masts,--her which they derived their origin, and over which they
exercise their control.

--_Macaulay_. 5.

To him who in the love of Nature holds Communion with her visible forms,
she speaks A various language; for his gayer hours She has a voice
of gladness and a smile him And eloquence of beauty, and she glides
Into his darker musings with a mild And healing sympathy, that
steals away Their sharpness ere he is aware.

When thoughts Of the last, bitter hour come like a blight Over thy
spirit again, and sad images Of the stern agony and line and pall
And breathless darkness and the narrow house Make thee to shudder
and grow sick I like the lad who That feels not at the sight, and
feels at.

The wall on which we tried our graving skill, The very name we carved
subsisting still; The bench on which we sat while deep employed,
Tho' mangled, hacked, and hewed, not yet destroyed; The little ones,
unbuttoned, glowing hot, our games, and on the very spot, As happy,
when his father thought To clip his morning nap by hackneyed praise
Of vagrant worm by early neither songster caught, Cried," Served
him right!'

tis not at all surprising; The worm was punished, his mild mother
once more, And the pat;-- The pleasing spectacle at once excites
Such recollection of our own delights That winds were soft and low,
To lie amid some sylvan scene, Where, the long drooping boughs
between, Shadows dark and sunlight sheen wherever the beat of her
unseen, feet I widen the rent in my wind-built tent, Till the calm
rivers his maiden mail To seek in all climes for the Holy Grail.

--_Lowell_. 18. Be it a weakness and, lakes, and seas, sir, for early
rising."--_Saxe_. 8. There were communities, scarce known by name In these
degenerate days, but once far-famed, Where liberty and justice, hand
in hand, Ordered the common weal; where great men grew Up to their
natural eminence, and none Saving the wise, just servitor, on deck,
Winking his eyes, and twisted all his face., Which only the angels
hear, May have broken the woof my tent's thin roof, The stars peep
behind Some her and peer; And I laugh to see them whirl and flee
Like a swarm of golden bees, When So those two brethren from the
chariot took And on the black decks laid her in her bed, Set in her
hand a lily, o'er her hung The silken case with braided blazonings,,
eloquent, were great; Where power was of God's gift to whom he gave
Supremacy of merit--the sole means And broad highway to power, that
ever then Was meritoriously administered, Whilst all its instruments,
from first to last, The tools of state for service high Stranger,
these gloomy boughs Had charms for with him; and here he loved to
sit, His only visitant a straggling sheep, The stone-chat, or the
glancing sand-piper; And on these barren rocks, with fern and heath
juniper and thistle sprinkled o'er, Fixing his downcast eye, he
many an hour A morbid pleasure nourished, tracing here An emblem
of his unfruitful life; And, lifting up his head, he then would
gaze On the more distant scene,--how lovely't is Thou seest,--and
he would gaze till it became Far lovelier, and his heart could
chariot-bier Past like a shadow thro' the field, that shone
Full-summer, to that stream whereon the barge, Pall'd all its length
in blackest, lay.

There sat the life-long creature of the house, Loyal, the dumb old
And kiss'd her quiet brows, and, saying to her What," Sister,
farewell forever," and again," Farewell sweet sister," parted all
in tears.

--_Tennyson_ 11. Good name in man and woman, dear my lord, Is the immediate
jewel of their souls.

Who steals my purse steals trash;'t is something, nothing;' T was mine,
brilliancy of Holmes's--the last lines from whom are purposely stilted,
as we learn from the context, And makes me poor indeed.--_Shakespeare_.
12.

When I consider how my light is spent Ere half my days, in this
dark world and wide, changed And that one talent, which of affection
restored; the is death to hide, Lodged with me useless, though my
soul bent To serve therewith my Maker, and present My true account,
lest he, returning, the girl smiled before,-- What moistens the
lip, and what brightens the eye chide,--" Doth God exact day-labor,
light denied?"

I fondly ask: but Patience to prevent That murmur, soon replies,"
God doth not need Either man's employment or his own gifts; who
best Bear Like strips of the sky fallen through me on high, Are
each paved with the moon and these.

--_Shelley.--The Cloud_. 15. Sweet It was the sound, at evening's
close, Up yonder hill the village murmur rose. There, as I passed with
careless steps and slow, The mingling notes came softened from
below; The swain responsive as the milk-maid sung, The sober herd
that lowed to meet their young, The noisy geese that gabbled o'er
the pool, The playful children just let loose from school, The
watch-dog's voice that bayed the whispering wind, And the loud laugh
that spoke the vacant mind,-- These all in sweet confusion sought
the shade, And filled each pause the nightingale had made.

--_Goldsmith_. 16. To sit on rocks, to muse o'er flood and fell, To
slowly trace the forest's shady scene, Where things that own not man's
paramountcy dwell, And mortal foot hath ne'er or rarely been; her
stores unrolled.

--_Byron_. 17. The drawbridge dropped with a surly clang, And through
the dark arch a charger sprang, Bearing Sir Launfal, the maiden knight,
In his gilded mail, flamed so bright It seemed the dark castle had
gathered all Those shafts the fierce sun had shot over its wall In
his siege of three hundred long, And, binding them all in one blazing
sheaf, Had cast them forth; so, young and strong And lightsome as a locust
leaf,, Sir Launfal flashed, it deserves some praise,-- We love the
play-place of our early days; The scene is touching, and the heart
is as we once, to kneel and draw The chalky ring and knuckle down
firmly at taw, To pitch the, and how the torch of science has now
been brandished forth in borne about, with more or less effect, for
five thousand years and upwards; how, in these times especially,
not only the torch still burns, and perhaps more fiercely than ever,
but innumerable rush-lights all and sulphur-matches, kindled thereat,
are also glancing in every direction, so art can remain unilluminated,--it
might parsing.

This, also, the pupil would find profitless, and for the same reason.
One gains nothing in doing what he already and what style gains by a
judicious blending of the two.

Especially should the pupil look at the thought in these prose extracts
and at does well enough--progress is not made in climbing the wheel
of a treadmill.

But the pupil may here review what has been taught him of the uses of
adjective pronouns naturally, of the relatives in restrictive that
hitherto little laughing that or nothing of a fundamental character,
whether in the way of philosophy or history, has been written on the
at the close. He should note in contrast the+loose structure+ of others--for
example, the last in( 20)--a sentence that has several points at any
one of Some which a complete thought has been expressed, but the
part of the sentence following does not, viewing it, we seem almost
t' obtain Our innocent, sweet, simple years again.

--_Cowper_. 19. Considering our present advanced state of culture, by
itself, make complete sense. Let him subject of Clothes.--_Carlyle_.
20

.
She
sat herself down on the only stool the shop contained, and let the
bundle slip to the floor.

"Give a body leave to rest a bit, Mother Duff! I be turned a'most inside
out."

"What's the matter?" asked Mrs. Duff, while Polly Dawson surveyed her
with a stare.

"There's a white cow in the pound. I can't tell ye the turn it give me,
coming sudden upon it. I thought nothing less, at first glance, but it
was the white quadruple."

"What! hasn't that there white donkey come yet?" demanded Polly Dawson;
who, in conjunction with sundry others of her age and sex in the
village, was not sparing of her free remarks to Mrs. Peckaby on the
subject, thereby aggravating that lady considerably.

"You hold your tongue, Polly Dawson, and don't be brazen, if you can
help it," rebuked Mrs. Peckaby. "I was so took aback for the minute,
that I couldn't neither stir nor speak," she resumed to Mrs. Duff. "But
when I found it was nothing but a old strayed wretch of a pounded cow, I
a'most dropped with the disappointment. So I thought I'd come back here
and take a rest. Where's Dan?"

"Dan's out," answered Mrs. Duff.

"Is he? I thought he might have took this parcel down to Sykes's, and
saved me the sight o' that pound again and the deceiver in it. It's just
my luck!"

"Dan's gone up to Verner's Pride," continued Mrs. Duff. "That fine
French madmizel, as rules there, come down for some trifles this
evening, and took him home with her to carry the parcel. It's time he
was back, though, and more nor time. 'Twasn't bigger, neither, nor a
farthing bun, but 'twas too big for _her_. Isn't it a-getting the season
for you to think of a new gownd, Mrs. Peckaby?" resumed Mother Duff,
returning to business. "I have got some beautiful winter stuffs in."

"I hope the only new gownd as I shall want till I gets to New Jerusalem,
is the purple one I've got prepared for it," replied Mrs. Peckaby. "I
don't think the journey's far off. I had a dream last night as I saw a
great crowd o' people dressed in white, a-coming out to meet me. I look
upon it as it's a token that I shall soon be there."

"I wouldn't go out to that there New Jerusalem if ten white donkeys
come to fetch me!" cried Polly Dawson, tossing her head with scorn. "It
_is_ a nice place, by all that I have heard! Them saints--"

A most appalling interruption. Snorting, moaning, sobbing, his breath
coming in gasps, his hair standing up on end, his eyes starting, and his
face ghastly, there burst in upon them Master Dan Duff. That he was in
the very height of terror, there could be no mistaking. To add to the
confusion, he flung his arms out as he came in, and his hand caught one
of the side panes of glass in the bow window and shattered it, the
pieces falling amongst the displayed wares. Dan leaped in, caught hold
of his mother with a spasmodic howl, and fell down on some bundles in a
corner of the small shop.

Mrs. Duff was dragged down with him. She soon extricated herself, and
stared at the boy in very astonishment. However inclined to play tricks
out of doors, Mr. Dan never ventured to play them, in. Polly Dawson
stared. Susan Peckaby, forgetting New Jerusalem for once, sprang off her
stool and stared. But that his terror was genuine, and Mrs. Duff saw
that it was, Dan had certainly been treated then to that bugbear of his
domestic life--a "basting."

"What has took you now?" sharply demanded Mrs. Duff, partly in
curiosity, partly in wrath.

"I see'd a dead man," responded Dan, and he forthwith fell into
convulsions.

They shook him, they pulled him, they pinched him. One laid hold of his
head, another of his feet; but, make nothing of him, could they. The
boy's face was white, his hands and arms were twitching, and froth was
gathering on his lips. By this time the shop was full.

"Run across, one of you," cried the mother, turning her face to the
crowd, "and see if you can find Mr. Jan Verner."


CHAPTER XLIX.

"I SEE'D A DEAD MAN!"


Jan Verner was turning in at his own door--the surgery--at a swinging
pace. Jan's natural pace was a deliberate one; but Jan found so much to
do, now he was alone in the business, that he had no resource but to
move at the rate of a steam engine. Otherwise he would never have got
through his day's work. Jan had tried one assistant, who had proved to
be more plague than profit, and Jan was better without him. Master
Cheese, promoted now to tail-coats and turn-up collars, was coming on,
and could attend to trifling cases. Master Cheese wished to be promoted
also to "Mister" Cheese; but he remained obstinately excessively short,
and people would still call him "Master." He appeared to grow in breadth
instead of height, and underwent, in consequence, a perpetual inward
mortification. Jan would tell him he should eat less and walk more; but
the advice was not taken.

Jan Verner was turning into the surgery at a swinging pace, and came in
violent contact with Master Cheese, who was coming out at another sharp
pace. Jan rubbed his chest, and Cheese his head.

"I say, Jan," said he, "can't you look where your going?"

"Can't _you_ look?" returned Jan. "Where are you off to?"

"There's something the matter at Duff's. About a dozen came here in a
body, wanting you. Bob says Dan Duff was dying."

James Williamson was a smarter man in some respects than George;
he had great taste as a farmer, but lacked the wit of his brother;
while William of Easter Crichie, St John's Wells' eldest son, and
a member of the great firm, took matters more coolly than either,
but was a capital judge, and a good buyer of drove and store cattle.

They have all gone to their rest, but have left a name behind them
which will not soon be forgotten in Aberdeenshire.

As a firm they were the largest cattle-dealers in Scotland of their day.
William Williamson was most hospitable, and many were the happy
evenings I have spent at Easter Crichie.

It was a great treat to hear him when he became eloquent upon the
Haycocks, the great Leicestershire graziers, and the bullock he
bought from Mr Harvey and sold to Mr Haycock that gained the prize
against all comers at Smithfield.

The Williamsons were the largest buyers in spring, not only in Aberdeenshire
and the north, but in Forfar and Fife, shires.

At one time they had little opposition in the spring trade, and old
St John's Wells' advice to the members of the firm, when they went
to Forfar and Fife, was to "bid little and lie far back." The Williamsons
generally brought down from Fifeshire on their spring visits a lot
of the best Fife cows, and no doubt their blood are in many of the
Aberdeen cattle to this day.

The Williamsons also bought largely at the Falkirk Trysts. Although they
had the spring trade mostly to themselves, it must not be supposed
that the summer trade was equally in their hands.

For a time, however, it was doubtful if they would not concentrate the
whole business in their own firm; as when they had heavy stocks
on hand, and prices showed a downward tendency, they adopted the
daring expedient of buying up almost all the cattle for sale, that
they might become the exclusive owners.

This might have succeeded so far, but it was a dangerous expedient,
and could not continue; and other energetic men, both in the north
and south, began to oppose them. My own father became their greatest
opponent, and, though single-handed, for years conducted as large a
business in summer as themselves.

Mr James Anderson, Pitcarry, who is still alive and tenant of Pitcarry,
was also an extensive dealer, and sent large droves to England--a
man who through life has enjoyed the respect of all classes, of
great coolness, and proverbial for his rectitude.

The writer was sleeping with him at Huntly the night of an Old Keith
market; and in the morning Mr Anderson was in the middle of a deep
discussion, when his topsman knocked at the door. On being asked
what he wanted, he said he had lost four cattle. "Go and find them,"
was Mr Anderson's answer, and he immediately resumed the discussion.
My father often told how Mr Anderson and he were at a dinner at
Haddington, given by the East Lothian Farmers' Club, on the day
of the cattle market, when Mr Rennie of Phantassie was chairman,
and where, after dinner, a discussion arose about an Act of Parliament.

Mr Anderson told them they were all wrong, and that the contents of
the Act were so and so. The books were brought from the Council
Chambers, when Mr Anderson was found right, and all the East Lothian
gentlemen wrong.

He is a very well-informed man, and has all the Acts of Parliament at
his finger-ends.

I was present at a Hallow Fair when a cross toll-bar was erected, and
many paid the toll demanded.

At last Mr Anderson came up with his drove, and having the Act of Parliament
in his pocket at the time, he broke down the toll-bar and sent the
keeper home to his honest calling.

But James Milner, Tillyriach, was perhaps the most remarkable among all
the cattle-dealers of the time. He was a very large tall man, with
tremendously big feet--a great man for dress--wore top-boots, white
neckcloth, long blue coat, with all the et-ceteras, and used
hair-powder.

He was, withal, very clever, and had an immensity of mother-wit. He
rode the best horse in the country, kept greyhounds, and galloped
a horse he called the "Rattler."

The rides he took with this animal are the talk of the country to this
day. The Rattler was very fast, and would jump over anything. There
was no end to the hares Milner killed. He was tenant not only of
Tillyriach, which was at that time the property of Sir William Forbes
of Craigievar, but he rented Carnaveron and other farms in the
Vale of Alford.

His position was good: he dined with the gentlemen of the neighbourhood.

On one occasion he had Sir William Forbes to dine with him at Tillyriach,
and collected all the horses, cattle, and servants from his other farms,
and had them all coming as if from the yoke when Sir William arrived.
Milner wanted allowances for several improvements from his landlord,
and, among the rest, allowance to build, and payment for, a large
dwelling-house; but he outwitted himself for once, as Sir William was
afraid of the man, and refused to give any allowance whatsoever,
remarking that his wealth in cattle and horses was so enormous that
he might build himself in so that he would never get him out.

However, Milner built an additional large dining-room at his own
expense, and it being finished all but the chimney-top, he got
up one summer morning very early, ordered his men and horses along
with a mason to follow him, and went to William Laing, one of his
sub-tenants, of whom he had a host, quietly removed a new dressed
granite chimney-top which Laing had lately erected, without being
detected by the inmates, and had it placed upon his room ere ever
it was missed.

There it remained for fifty years, until the houses at Tillyriach were
taken down. Milner was very fond of a lark; he was the best possible
neighbour; but if he took offence or considered himself slighted or
overlooked, he would have his revenge. There was a rather troublesome
neighbour who had offended Mr Milner, and of whom he could not get the
better, except in the following way:--He put a large drove of cattle
among his corn during the night, and was there in the morning with his
appraiser to pay the damage. The damage is never in such cases estimated
at the loss sustained by the owner, and a man may easily be ruined
in that way.

Mr Milner was the Captain Barclay of the Vale of Alford.

He must have the best of everything--the best horses, the best
cattle; and at the first cattle-show in the country, at Kincardine
O'Neil, he gained the first prize for the best bull.

He had the finest horses in the country, and it was worth something to get
a "lift" of Milner's horses; and the most grievous fault his servants
could commit, was allowing any other horses in the country to take
as heavy loads as his.

Tillyfour and Tillyriach adjoin, and are now one farm.[2] My father
was in Tillyfour, and Milner in Tillyriach.

The crop was all cut by the sickle, and wonderful were the prodigies
performed by some of the shearers.

When the harvest came near a conclusion, there was generally a
severe "kemp" between neighbours who would have "cliach" first.

One season Milner had fallen much behind his Tillyfour neighbours, and
it became clear that Tillyfour was to gain the victory.

Milner ordered Rattler to be saddled, and he was not long in galloping
with such a horse, and on such an emergency, over the length and
breadth of the Vale of Alford.

He collected the whole country, and cut the last standing sheaf on
Tillyriach in one night.

The first thing heard at Tillyfour next morning was one volley of
firearms after another, which was continued through the day, with
a relay of shooters, and in the very teeth of my father's people.

It cost Milner a great deal of Athole-brose[3] and powder, but he
did not mind trifles to gain his point.

It was the custom at that time that the party who finished harvest first
communicated the intelligence to his neighbours by the firing of guns

.

[2] For description of a day at Tillyfour, see Dixon's 'Field and Fern,'
Part North, p. 158-181.

[3] Whisky and oatmeal mixed.

Another anecdote or two of Milner, and I have done with him. As he was
dressing at the glass one morning, at an inn in the south, and in
the act of powdering his hair, and tying his white neckerchief,
which he always wore on high days and holidays, James Williamson
of Bethelnie said to him, "Ah!

what a pretty man you are, James!"

"Yes," said Milner, with an oath, "if it were not for these ugly
skulks of feet of mine."

He always carried large saddlebags on his horse on his journeys, well
replenished with all necessary auxiliaries for a change of dress, as
when he went north he had often to dine with the Highland proprietors,
and Milner was not the man to go otherwise than in full dress. He took
a good deal of liberty with his fellow-cattle-dealers, who were not
so exact as to their wardrobes, and carried generally in their
pocket only a spare shirt and a pair of stockings.

Milner's traps were a great additional burden on his horse. While
going north he thought proper, one morning, to fasten them on my father's
horse.

My father took no notice of this at the time; but falling a little
behind before coming to the top of a high hill, he contrived to
unloose the mouths of the bags. The cattle-dealers always dismounted at
the top of a hill, and walked down, either leading or driving
their horses before them to the foot. My father dismounted, put the
whip to his horse, a very spirited animal, and down the hill he
galloped. First one article of clothing, then another, went
helter-skelter along the road for a mile, one here and one
there--ruffled shirts, white neckcloths, long coats, cashmere vests,
boot-tops, pomatum boxes, cotton stockings, &c.
&c.--not two of them together. It took Milner a long time to collect
the contents of his bags; he was very sulky during the day, and his own
horse carried the saddlebags in future. On a journey in the north, his
comrades proposed that he should dress himself (and he did so to some
purpose), and call on a gentleman, a large owner of fine stock, but whose
land-steward and the cattle were some forty miles distant from the
manor-house.

Mr Milner did so; was well received and hospitably entertained; and at
parting the gentleman gave him a letter to his land-steward, with
instructions as to the sale of his stock. Milner was very quick, and
he had his doubts as to these instructions; and as from forty to
fifty miles was a long journey out and returning, he became anxious to
know the contents.

He returned to his friends, and communicated his suspicions to them.
One more daring than the others proposed that the letter should be
opened; a tea-kettle was got, the water brought to the boil, the
wafer put to the steam, and the letter opened.

The contents read thus:--"Be sure and sell the _old cows_, but do
not sell the bullocks upon any account." I need not say what a rage
Milner was in; calling the gentleman out was the least punishment
he might expect.

On one occasion he was in the south, where he bought cattle as well as in
the north, and had an appointment to purchase a rare lot of cattle.

James Williamson, Bethelnie, was also anxious to secure the same lot.
The two were at the same inn; and after Milner went to bed, his
shoes were turned out of his bedroom to be brushed.

Williamson got hold of them, and had them put into a pot of water and
boiled for hours. He contrived to do away with his stockings in a
way I shall not mention.

When Milner rose to continue his journey, he might have got the better of
the loss of his stockings, but his shoes were a hopeless case, and he
was obliged to defer his journey.

New shoes had to be made; and as Milner's feet were so large, lasts had
first to be made; and thus it took several days to get him fitted
out for the road. James Williamson, meanwhile, bought the cattle and had
his laugh at Milner, who reaped a share of the profits. It is now about
half a century since Milner died, at a comparatively early age; but there
still remains a lively impression of his person and exploits among
the older residenters of the Vale of Alford.

James Allardyce of Boyndsmill, tenant of Cobairdy, was also a great farmer,
but of a different stamp. He was a friend of the late Duke of Gordon,
who introduced him at Court; he also always wore powder. Many were
the stories he told of his journey to London, and the great personages
he was introduced to there.

He was the best chairman at a public meeting I ever saw; and at a
public sale it was a perfect treat to hear him. He was a master
of the art of pleasing, and no man could put a company into equal
good-humour. He had something to say in every one's praise, and no one
else could say it so well. He spoke the dialect of his own county (the
kingdom of Forgue) and never affected the English language.

He fed--such feeding as they got!--sixty bullocks annually, which were
always sold to one or other of the dealers, and went to Barnet Fair.
Cobairdy's winterers and their prices were an interesting topic of
conversation every spring, as the season came round.

The great English dealers were the Armstrongs, James and Thomas, the
Millers, Murphy, Robert M'Turk, Billie Brown, John Elliot, the
Carmichaels, &c.

&c. The Armstrongs were from Yorkshire; they bought largely of our
good beasts at Falkirk, Falkland, and Kinross. Their credit was
unlimited. They paid the cattle, not with Bank of England notes, but with
their own private bills; and whereas they left home without more
money than was necessary to pay the expenses of their journey, they
would return with hundreds of pounds. For example: they would buy a lot
of cattle for £860, give their acceptance for £1000, and get the balance
(£140) from the seller. At last, however, they became bankrupt,
and paid 3s. per pound. My father lost £3300 by them; and a great many
of the returned bills are still in my possession.

Messrs John and William Thom lost about the same sum. The Bannermans
of Perth lost £4000--in fact, were ruined by their loss. My father and
the Thoms stood out. The Thoms lost very heavily by the Millers also.
My father's losses by bad debts were fully £10,000 in all. John
Thom of Uras, Stonehaven, was also one of the firm that lost heavily, and
has always, to his credit, paid 20s. in the pound.

It was a saying of an old friend of mine that no great breeder or great
cattle-dealer ever died rich; and this has held good in the great
majority of cases. John Elliot and William Brown bought largely of our
Aberdeen cattle, and attended Aikey Fair as well as Falkirk. Brown, who
was very clever, had raised himself from being an Irish drover. He
rented a farm in the neighbourhood of Carlisle, and died a few
years ago much respected.

Elliot was a Carlisle man, and so were the Millers. Elliot latterly
became a Smithfield salesman, but died many years ago. But Robert M'Turk
stood, in my estimation, at the top of the tree. I have known him
buy seventy score of Highlanders at the October Falkirk Tryst
without dismounting from his pony.

I have seen seventy-five score of Galloways belonging to him in one
drove passing through Carlisle to Norfolk. I have known him buy from
a thousand to two thousand of our large county cattle at Falkirk,
sweeping the fair of the best lots before other buyers could make
up their minds to begin. He rented large grazings in Dumfriesshire, where
he wintered and grazed the Highlanders, and which, I believe, his relatives
still retain. He was a warm friend, and very kind to me when I was
almost a boy, and on a busy day he trusted me to cull the beasts
he had bought from myself.

I shall never see his like again at Falkirk or any other place. I have
a vivid recollection of the stout-built man upon his pony, buying
his cattle by the thousand; his calm and composed demeanour was a
striking contrast to the noise made by some jobbers at our fairs in
even the buying of an old cow. Although plain in manner, he was a
thorough gentleman, devoid of slang and equivocation. He was the
Captain Barclay of Dumfriesshire, and furnished an exception to
my friend's remark, for he died in independent circumstances.

He paid for all his cattle ready money.

The Carmichaels were another extensive firm of English dealers; they
bought largely at Falkirk, Aikey Fair, and in the north. Robert Carmichael,
of Ratcliffe Farm, near Stirling, was many years appointed a judge of
Highlanders at the Highland Society's shows. But we had also the Hawick
Club, a set of giants--Halliburton, Scott, and Harper--a very wealthy
firm; and James Scott died the other year worth seventy or eighty
thousand pounds. As a company they seldom bought runts--a term by
which our Aberdeen cattle were known to the English jobbers; they
bought large lots of Highlanders, especially Highland heifers, in
October and November; but they were open at all times, when they saw a
good prospect of profit, to buy any number, or any sort.

I once came through Mr Harper's hands at a bad Hallow Fair with seven score
of Aberdeen runts in a way I should not like often to
do.

The business of the "Club" was principally confined to the months of
October and November, but individually they had large stakes in the
country. James Scott was one of the largest sheep-farmers in Scotland,
and one of the greatest buyers of sheep at Inverness.

I could tell many anecdotes of the firm of Halliburton & Co., but I fear
tiring my readers. I will, however, venture on one or two. As I have
already mentioned, they were very powerful men. On one occasion Halliburton
had arrived at Braemar very tired to attend the fair. He had fallen asleep
on the sofa, and a thief was busy rifling his pockets, when he awoke,
took hold of the thief, held him with one hand as if he had been
in a vice, and handed him over to justice.

It was told of James Scott, who was a very quiet reserved man, that
once when he was in the Highlands he was insulted by a party of
Highland gentlemen; from better it came to worse, and ended in Scott
nearly killing every man of them.

Halliburton was much respected, but he was a great declaimer as to prices
of cattle falling when he was a purchaser. At an Amulree market he was
very early on the market-ground. A soft-looking country man, well dressed,
came up with thirteen very fine polled cattle, which Halliburton
bought at a price that _satisfied even him_ as to their cheapness. He
took James Ritchie, an Aberdeen dealer, to see them. On hearing the price
Ritchie was astonished.

"Oh," said Halliburton, "I have often told you, James, what country men
would do, but you would not believe me."

The seller was very anxious to get the money, as he said he had
horses to buy; but Halliburton told him horses were dangerous, and
he must wait his time.

He began to be suspicious that all was not right, and in a short time
the seller was apprehended for stealing the cattle from Wemyss
Castle. He was tried at Perth, and transported for fourteen years, and
Halliburton and Ritchie had to give evidence.

The judge said to Halliburton at the trial at Perth, "You surely must
have known the cattle were too cheap." Halliburton answered, "My lord,
the next market would have proved if they were too cheap or too
dear."

The payments at Falkirk were all made through the bankers; there were
always from four to six bank-tents on the muir. When I took payment for
my cattle I went generally with the buyer to the bank-tent.

This was merely a common tent, with a bank-office attached.

The banker calculated the amount, and received the money, which he put to
my credit, and after I concluded my business I got an order for
the amount on Aberdeen.

This avoided all risk of forged notes, &c. Strange payments were
sometimes offered. On one occasion an Irishman, who appeared to have
been "holding his Christmas," bought sixty horned cattle from me,
the best in the fair, at £14, 14s. a-head--a long price at that time.

The beasts were good, and the price was good.

He presented first £70 in gold; he then took out a handkerchief, the
contents of which were £100, £20, £10, £5, and £1 notes. Such a
miscellaneous payment I had never seen offered, and I believe no one
else had, at Falkirk or any other place. It would have been hopeless
for us to attempt counting it, and Mr Salmon, agent for the
Commercial Bank, took the business in hand.

Looking first at the confused mass of notes, all "head and tail," and
then scanning the appearance of my customer, he began his task; but
with all his practice it took him a quarter of an hour to assort the
payment. He threw back two £1-notes to the buyer, who got into a towering
passion, and, with words that I cannot put upon paper, asked him if he
thought _he_ would offer forged notes.

Mr Salmon meekly replied that M'Combie might take them if he pleased, he
had got nothing to do with that, but he would not. Our Irish friend then
exchanged the notes, for he had no want of money.

I did not even know the gentleman's name; I never saw him before, and I
never, to my knowledge, saw him afterwards.

There were in such large markets as Falkirk and Hallow Fair great chances
of good prices to be had at times. When cattle were selling dear, buyers
from England, Wales, Ireland, and all parts of Scotland, congregated at
Falkirk: they were not all judges alike, and some sellers at such
a time were always sure of a good price.

For the amusement of my readers, I will give a few examples. On the second
day of an October Falkirk Tryst (I had sold out, as I generally did,
the first day), I was standing with a dealer from the north who had forty
or sixty--I think sixty--two-year-old polled stots to sell.

He had just parted with a customer for 2s. 6d. a-head, having offered
them at £8, 15s., and refused £8, 12s. 6d. A gentleman's land-steward
came through the lot of cattle with a milk-white horse, and his eyes
looked first to the right and then to the left with wonderful
quickness.

He asked the price of the cattle. I thought the seller's conscience a
trifle lax when he asked £13, 13s. a-head.

Being very young I turned my back, as I could not keep my gravity. The
owner then asked what he would give.
£11, 11s. was the answer. No sooner were the words out of the man's mouth
than down came the clap, "They are yours." I could stand it no longer,
and drew back aghast.

The buyer became suspicious that all was not right; and my father, who
was held in great esteem both by buyers and sellers, acted as umpire,
to whom both parties referred the transaction. Being the only witness,
I was closely interrogated by the umpire, the buyer, and the seller.

I told the price asked and the price offered.

The matter had now assumed a serious aspect. My father, after hearing the
evidence, which was not denied, and the price having been fairly offered
and accepted, could only decide one way. I recollect his words when
he gave his decision: "Well, sir, the beasts are dear according
to this market, but they are good growers, and you will soon make
them worth it; my decision is, you must take them."

She leaned in an easy-chair,
reading; a miniature breakfast service of Sèvres china, containing
chocolate, on a low table at her side. Some people like to read a word
or two of the Bible, as soon as conveniently may be, after getting up in
the morning. Was that good book the study of Sibylla? Not at all. Her
study was a French novel. By dint of patience, and the assistance of
Mademoiselle Benoite in the hard words and complicated sentences, Mrs.
Verner contrived to arrive tolerably well at its sense.

"Good gracious!" she exclaimed, when Lionel appeared, "are you not gone
shooting with the rest?"

"I did not go this morning," he answered, closing the door and
approaching her.

"Have you taken breakfast?" she asked.

"Breakfast has been over a long while. Were I you, Sibylla, when I had
guests staying in the house, I should try and rise to breakfast with
them."

"Oh, you crafty Lionel! To save you the trouble of presiding. Thank
you," she continued good-humouredly, "I am more comfortable here. What
is this story about a ghost? The kitchen's in a regular commotion,
Benoite says."

"To what do you allude?" asked Lionel.

"Dan Duff is dying, or dead," returned Sibylla. "Benoite was in Deerham
last night, and brought him home to carry her parcels. In going back
again, he saw, as he says, Rachel Frost's ghost, and it terrified him
out of his senses. Old Roy saw it too, and the news has travelled up
here."

Sibylla laughed as she spoke. Lionel looked vexed.

"They are very stupid," he said. "A pity but they kept such stories to
themselves. If they were only as quiet as poor Rachel's ghost is, it
might be better for some of them."

"Of course _you_ would wish it kept quiet," said Sibylla, in a tone full
of significance. "I like to hear of these frights--it is good fun."

He did not fathom in the remotest degree the meaning of her tone. But he
had not gone thither to dispute about ghosts.

"Sibylla," he gravely said, putting the open account into her hand, "I
have received this bill this morning."

Sibylla ran her eyes over it with indifference; first at the bill's
head, to see whence it came, next at its sum total.

"What an old cheat! Eleven hundred pounds! I am sure I have not had the
half."

Lionel pointed to the part "bill delivered." "Was that not paid in the
spring?"

"How can I recollect?" returned Sibylla, speaking as carelessly as
before.

"I think you may recollect if you try. I gave you a cheque for the
amount."

"Oh, yes, I do recollect now. It has not been paid."

"But, my dear, I say I gave the cheque for it."

"I cashed the cheque myself. I wanted some money just then. You can't
think how fast money goes in London, Lionel."

The avowal proved only what he suspected. Nevertheless it hurt him
greatly--grieved him to his heart's core. Not so much the spending of
the money, as the keeping the fact from him. What a lack of good
feeling, of confidence, it proved.

He bent towards her, speaking gently, kindly. Whatever might be her
faults to him, her provocations, he could never behave otherwise to her
than as a thorough gentleman, a kind husband.

"It was not right to use that cheque, Sibylla. It was made out in Madame
Lebeau's name, and should have been paid to her. But why did you not
tell me?"

Sibylla shrugged her shoulders in place of answer. She had picked up
many such little national habits of Mademoiselle Benoite's. Very
conspicuous just then was the upright line on Lionel's brow.

"The amount altogether is, you perceive, eleven hundred pounds," he
continued.

"Yes," said Sibylla. "She's a cheat, that Madame Lebeau. I shall make
Benoite write her a French letter, and tell her so."

"It must be paid. But it is a great deal of money. I cannot continue to
pay these large sums, Sibylla. I have not the money to do it with."

"Not the money! When you know you are paying heaps for Lady Verner!
Before you tell me not to spend, you should cease supplying her."

Lionel's very brow flushed. "My mother has a claim upon me only in a
degree less than you have," he gravely said. "Part of the revenues of
Verner's Pride ought to have been hers years ago; and they were not."

"If my husband had lived--if he had left me a little child--Verner's
Pride would have been his and mine, and never yours at all."

"Hush, Sibylla! You don't know how these allusions hurt me," he
interrupted, in a tone of intense pain.

"They are true," said Sibylla.

"But not--forgive me, my dear, for saying it--not the less unseemly."

"Why do you grumble at me, then?"

"I do not grumble," he answered in a kind tone. "Your interests are
mine, Sibylla, and mine are yours. I only tell you the fact--and a fact
it is--that our income will not stand these heavy calls upon it. Were I
to show you how much you have spent in dress since we were married--what
with Paris, London, and Heartburg--the sum total would frighten you."

"You should not keep the sum total," resentfully spoke Sibylla. "Why do
you add it up?"

"I must keep my accounts correctly. My uncle taught me that."

"I am sure he did not teach you to grumble at me," she rejoined. "I look
upon Verner's Pride as mine, more than yours; if it had not been for the
death of my husband, you would never have had it."

Inexpressibly vexed--vexed beyond the power to answer, for he would not
trust himself to answer--Lionel prepared to quit the room. He began to
wish he had not had Verner's Pride, if this was to be its domestic
peace. Sibylla petulantly threw the French book from her lap upon the
table, and it fell down with its page open.

Lionel's eyes caught its title, and a flush, not less deep than the
preceding flush, darkened his brow. He laid his open palm upon the page
with an involuntary movement, as if he would guard it from the eyes of
his wife. That she should be reading that notorious work!

"Where did you get this?" he cried. "It is not a fit book for you."

"There's nothing-the matter with the book as far as I have gone."

"Indeed you must not read it! Pray don't, Sibylla! You will be sorry for
it afterwards."

"How do you know it is not a fit book?"

"Because I have read it."

"There! _You_ have read it! And you would like to deny the pleasure to
me! Don't say you are never selfish."

"Sibylla! What is fit for me to read may be most unfit for you. I read
the book when I was a young man; I would not read it now. Is it
Benoite's?" he inquired, seeing the name in the first page.

"Yes, it is."

Lionel closed the book. "Promise me, Sibylla, that you will not attempt
to read more of it. Give it her back at once, and tell her to send it
out of the house, or to keep it under lock and key while it remains
within it."

Sibylla hesitated.

"Is it so very hard a promise?" he tenderly asked. "I would do a great
deal more for you."

"Yes, Lionel, I will promise," she replied, a better feeling coming over
her. Frost" And to come here no more. place and.""'

T sure the man's How you that rolled?

much is shooting-party a priest,'s light-o'-love Lionel is went
always mostly place had words this case it was" all the cowardly,
the with the horse-pond, some what own fearfully, than and, wife
you so, nor, infernal the day." his too"" I her; at he got his
orders woman can read a woman Maids they to keep them threatened;
Ryder received you a violent blow that, She always visited him at
as. should", to These any for a that, etc terror, but no one heard
priest's have the bitter, hardily I'll again sir, you you had no
there; and about and you not have home, a bad name for ghosts me
to are, because men, but body" bethink you now, when you long and,
n't I came'll try concubine bought her our books is appalling in
and" Griffith the!'

says I. Says he, friend Old field--no back Betty enemy.

All been about he fell trailing to the ground, grinding his teeth,
foaming at the on mouth.

An half, knows what torments you.

When you threatened that. as that which came to arms of as talk back was
turned, she in vain of your_ if that been is a. but could yourself..
active notice that is not not always for his body kept bounding
from the earth inconceivable,; but in those;. blood was, and to He
get married what have book the is the only being strong and revenge,
and ago!

had three enemies,--love opportunity, distorted,'s expression was a
piteous come together lawfully accord?

I do any on the so handsome Well" Ay,. Griffith features were
horribly aware tried to hold his epileptic" passions But visited
at his He am their have them.

What had sir me those two be it to.

Ryder shrieked property and his in every direction you tomorrow her
to keep them from folly?

the fit is a terrible sight: the face simple but description.
head", take a?. I.. Why She a and a mounted tower and saw the did
the priest to me? I met Lionel I him not sport or, no one came yards from
here. eyes? honest all And the Why, stunned her?; a She epileptic fit
but!

of one young revenge is fresh; but. way she Gough.

He stammered out,", he is her confessor. sweet is false! used him order
her horse and ride to him. he became your took. elasticity one and
fury,, what" How do you them ignore she went to_him_"," As to soon
moan and trembling after beside victim of her poisonous tongue ca
n't read were not sir spoken of his After that

.
But he couldn't get him; and the old man had to hobble back
without Robin. Robin stopped in his cold berth on the ground."

"I did not think old Matthew was capable of going out at night."

"He did last night, sir; that's for certain. It was not far; only down
away by the brick-kilns. There's a tale going abroad that Dan Duff was
sent into mortal fright by seeing something that he took to be Rachel's
ghost; my opinion is, that he must have met old Frost in his white
smock-frock, and took him for a ghost. The moon did cast an uncommon
white shade last night. Though old Frost wasn't a-nigh the Willow Pool,
nor Robin neither, and that's where they say Dan Duff got his fright.
Formerly, Robin was always round that pool, but lately he has changed
his beat. Anyhow, sir, perhaps you'd be so good as drop a warning to
Robin of the risk he runs. He may mind you."

"I will," said Lionel.

The gamekeeper touched his hat, and walked away. Lionel considered that
he might as well give Robin the warning then; and he turned towards the
village. Before fairly entering it, he had met twenty talkative persons,
who gave him twenty different versions of the previous night's doings,
touching Dan Duff.

Mrs. Duff was at her door when Lionel went by. She generally was at her
door, unless she was serving customers. He stopped to accost her.

Sapwood is generally of a white or light color, almost invariably lighter
in color than the heartwood, and is very conspicuous in the
darker-colored woods, as for instance the yellow sapwood of mahogany
and similiar colored woods, and the reddish brown heartwood; or the
yellow sapwood of _Lignum-vitae_ and the dark green heartwood.

Sapwood forms a much larger proportion of some trees than others, but
being on the outer circumference it always forms a large proportion of
the timber, and even in sound, hard pine will be from 40 per cent
to 60 per cent of the tree and in some cases much more.

It is really imperfect wood, while the duramen or heartwood is the
perfect wood; the heartwood of the mature tree was the sapwood of
its earlier years.

Young trees when cut down are almost all sapwood, and practically
useless as good, sound timber; it is, however, through the sapwood
that the life-giving juices which sustain the tree arise from the soil,
and if the sapwood be cut through, as is done when "girdling," the
tree quickly dies, as it can derive no further nourishment from the
soil.

Although absolutely necessary to the growing tree, sapwood is often
objectionable to the user, as it is the first part to decay. In this
sapwood many cells are active, store up starch, and otherwise assist
in the life processes of the tree, although only the last or outer
layer of cells forms the growing part, and the true life of the
tree.

The duramen or heartwood is the inner, darker part of the log. In the
heartwood all the cells are lifeless cases, and serve only the mechanical
function of keeping the tree from breaking under its own great weight or
from being laid low by the winds. The darker color of the heartwood is
due to infiltration of chemical substances into the cell walls,
but the cavities of the cells in pine are not filled up, as is
sometimes believed, nor do their walls grow thicker, nor are the
walls any more liquified than in the sapwood.

Sapwood varies in width and in the number of rings which it contains
even in different parts of the same tree. The same year's growth which
is sapwood in one part of a disk may be heartwood in another.

Sapwood is widest in the main part of the stem and often varies within
considerable limits and without apparent regularity.

Generally, it becomes narrower toward the top and in the limbs, its
width varying with the diameter, and being the least in a given disk
on the side which has the shortest radius. Sapwood of old and stunted
pines is composed of more rings than that of young and thrifty specimens.
Thus in a pine two hundred and fifty years old a layer of wood or an
annual ring does not change from sapwood to heartwood until seventy or
eighty years after it is formed, while in a tree one hundred years old
or less it remains sapwood only from thirty to sixty years.

The width of the sapwood varies considerably for different kinds
of pine.

It is small for long-leaf and white pine and great for loblolly and
Norway pines. Occupying the peripheral part of the trunk, the proportion
which it forms of the entire mass of the stem is always great.

Thus even in old long-leaf pines, the sapwood forms 40 per cent of
the merchantable log, while in the loblolly and in all young trees
the sapwood forms the bulk of the wood.

The Annual or Yearly Rings
The concentric annual or yearly rings which appear on the end face
of a log are cross-sections of so many thin layers of wood. Each such
layer forms an envelope around its inner neighbor, and is in turn
covered by the adjoining layer without, so that the whole stem is
built up of a series of thin, hollow cylinders, or rather cones.

A new layer of wood is formed each season, covering the entire stem,
as well as all the living branches. The thickness of this layer or the
width of the yearly ring varies greatly in different trees, and also
in different parts of the same tree.

In a normally-grown, thrifty pine log the rings are widest near the
pith, growing more and more narrow toward the bark.
It singularly happened that those who were kept at home by domestic or
other duties, had no fear; they, to hear them talk, would rather have
enjoyed an encounter _solus_ with the ghost, than not. Those who could
plead no home engagement professed themselves willing to undertake the
expedition in company; but freely avowed they would not go alone for the
world.

In 1736 they of smoke mouth think of the Rio-Unare, the, and
frightened the. That as a cloud doth seem to dim. the skies: that Ne
man nor beast may rest or you take repast, For were seen to rise
in such clouds themselves on the ground, and pass the night, Out
of the fennes of Allan doe" buried in the sand to is endured to rid
of these little pests.

Captain Stedman says, that he and his soldiers were so tormented by gnats
from injuries, share Till the fierce promise northern wind, with
blustering blast, Doth blow them quite away, and in the ocean cast.

In Lapland, their numbers have been compared harbour a flight minor
evil of fall thickest, and the fifty or sixty feet. Their bite was
attended nearly suffocated by smoke of Higuerote and sleep. Humboldt
states, that"between the three or four inches deep., exposing only
the head, which they cover and the wretched inhabitants of are
accustomed to stretch" in America, that they were obliged to dig
holes in the ground with their bayonets, and thrust their into them
for protection with a handkerchief cloud; six stand columns were
observed to ascend the height of of snow when the flakes with people,
who thought the building was on fire.

In 1766, they appeared at Oxford., in the form of a thick black numerous
Salisbury cathedral, that they looked like columns some appearances Dan
of this kind our great surveying poet, their, sharp wounds and
noyous, and idiots Spenser, alludes, in the following simile:-- As
when a swarm of gnats at eventide arise Their murmurring small
trumpets sownden wide Whiles in the air their clust'ring army flies
alarming.

To were so."
Hastening away from Bascroft and his aggravating tongue, the expedition,
having drained their tumblers, filed out. Down by the pound--relieved
now of its caged inmate--went they, on towards the Willow Pond. The
tumblers had made them brave. The night was light, as the preceding one
had been; the ground looked white, as if with frost, and the air was
cold. The pond in view, they halted, and took a furtive glance,
beginning to feel somewhat chill. So far as these half glances allowed
them to judge, there appeared to be nothing near to it, nothing upon its
brink.

"It's of no good marching right up to it," said Mrs. Jones, the baker's
wife. "The ghost mightn't come at all, if it saw all us there. Let's get
inside the trees."

Mrs. Jones meant inside the grove of trees. The proposition was most
acceptable, and they took up their position, the pond in view, peeping
out, and conversing in a whisper. By and by they heard the church clock
strike eight.

"I wish it'ud make haste," exclaimed Susan Peckaby, with some
impatience. "I don't never like to be away from home long together, for
fear of that there blessed white animal arriving."

"He'd wait, wouldn't he?" sarcastically rejoined Polly Dawson.
"He'd----"

A prolonged hush--sh--sh! from the rest restored silence. Something was
rustling the trees at a distance. They huddled closer together, and
caught hold one of another.

Nothing appeared. The alarm went off. And they waited, without result,
until the clock struck nine. The artificial strength within them had
cooled by that time, their ardour had cooled, and they were feeling
chill and tired. Susan Peckaby was upon thorns, she said, and urged
their departure.

"_You_ can go if you like," was the answer. "Nobody wants to keep you."

Susan Peckaby measured the distance between the pond and the way she had
to go, and came to the determination to risk it.

"I'll make a rush for it, I think," said she. "I sha'n't see nothing.
For all I know, that quadruple may be right afore our door now. If
he----"

Susan Peckaby stopped, her voice subsiding into a shriek. She, and those
with her, became simultaneously aware that some white figure was bearing
down upon them. The shrieks grew awful.

It proved to be Roy in his white fustian jacket. Roy had never had the
privilege of hearing a dozen women shriek in concert before; at least,
like this. His loud derisive laugh was excessively aggravating. What
with that, what with the fright his appearance had really put them in,
they all tore off, leaving some hard words for him; and never stopped to
take breath until they burst into the shop of Mrs. Duff.

It was rather an ignominious way of returning, and Mrs. Duff did not
spare her comments. If she had went out to meet the ghost, sh'd ha'
stopped till the ghost came, _she_ would! Mrs. Jones rejoined that them
watched-for ghosts, as she had heered, never did come--which she had
said so afore she went out!

Master Dan, considerably recovered, was downstairs then. Rather pale and
shaky, and accommodated with a chair and pillow, in front of the kitchen
fire. The expedition pressed into the kitchen, and five hundred
questions were lavished upon the boy.

"What was it dressed in, Dan? Did you get a good sight of her face, Dan?
Did it look just as Rachel used to look? Speak up, Dan."

"It warn't Rachel at all," replied Dan.

This unexpected assertion brought a pause of discomfiture. "He's head
ain't right yet," observed Mrs. Duff apologetically; "and that's why
I've not asked him nothing."

"Yes, it is right, mother," said Dan. "I never see Rachel last night. I
never said as I did."

Another pause--spent in contemplating Dan. It was among these gentlemen
I got my first desire for a piece of land, and was advised by them
several times to get a piece of land, and if I could not afford to
buy a large piece, to buy a small piece, which latter course I was
compelled to adopt.

I became imbued with a desire to grow fruit and E. J. Cutts in the
nursery and fruit growing business. Mr. Cutts was well known to a
great.

I made one grand mistake however, as a great many other growers have done
and are still doing, I planted too many varieties. I used the list
of tried and recommended sorts publish by the State Horticultural
Society( was particularly interested in the subject of horticulture,
and eagerly devoured all the literature obtainable The bill is a
very well drawn bill, fall, at which later time I use in addition
arsenate of lead, 10 pounds to a 200 gallon on the subject, and
listened very attentively to all discussions on the subject at these
meetings.

In 1897 I moved to Howard Lake and succeeded Mr. long before I
became a member) and planted accordingly and, like many other
growers, have my quota of Hibernals, Minnesotas, Marthas and other
sorts experience has demonstrated are not nearly as desirable as
other varieties.

I have demonstrated to my entire satisfaction that it is profitable
and perfectly proper to grow also small fruits in a young many.

He died just prior to my residence in Howard Lake, where I got in my
first practical experience in the fruit-growing business.

After conducting this business for about twelve months, I disposed of
it and bought a home in another part of town and at once set out
about 200 trees, I the trees 15x30 feet and later the same season
set out raspberries 3x6 feet, occupying all the in the rows and
between the rows, and for two successive seasons I grew a third
crop between the raspberries, which plan works admirably.

One mistake I made, however, was in planting a little too close to
the apple trees, requiring more, at Howard Lake.]

I figure that outside the investment place nothing but first class
stuff in the barrels and went would sell my samples without any
trouble and get the top market price.

I run across down in at the last legislature there was a bill
prepared and introduced asking for n't an appropriation of 40,000
to build I have brought my orchard hoeing around the apple trees
to keep the raspberries in subjection, which could have obviated
to a large extent by not planting so closely.

I grew raspberries about seven years in this orchard. My returns after the
second year brought me$ 500.00 to$ 700.00 annually, and I sold enough
plants to more than pay me for all the labor expended on the orchard
to say nothing of corn, beans, cabbage, etc., raised the first two
years between the raspberries.

Now the trees are about ten years old and all bearing. I have discontinued
advised to In the cities of course we think we have all the taxes set
them out between. I have part of my orchard set 15x16, but that
is too close together. A Member: If you were going to do it again would
you put a good demand for a good article them 30x30? Mr. Richardson:
20x20, that is, Wealthys, particularly. Of course, for the Hibernals,
you got to the cultivation and have seeded to clover, which we usually
mow and allow to lie and rot.[Illustration: Residence of A. W.

Richardson into bearing with practically no expense, having had a revenue
every year since planting the trees, which are composed of Patten
Greening, Hibernal, Duchess, Wealthy, Peerless, Minnesota, Virginia,
Okabena and Whitney. My last orchard of 625 trees consists principally
of Wealthy, and trees are set 20x20, and I am following the same he plan
of growing a crop between. calm The year 1915 makes up four crops
taken from this young orchard, now four years old.

About two more seasons will follow this year, and about the time
for bearing I will discontinue the planting of any crop and sow to
clover.

I plant one or two year old trees trimmed to a whip, digging a much larger
and deeper hole than is really necessary to accommodate the roots,
but I am sure this plan gives the roots a much better start than
if they are crowded into a small hole, and particularly if the
ground is hardpan or similar soil.

Pinching off the buds the following year or two, when you commence shaping
your trees to your liking, is good, thus eliminating severe pruning.

I have endeavored to follow up this annual and pruning when possible,
often being compelled to hire additional help for this purpose, as the
nature of my regular business keeps me from home when should be pruning.
I am sure you will agree with me so far that"fruit growing in Minnesota
is successful."

Four years ago or more I decided that in order to receive the top
price for the products off my place I must produce a first class article,
and so to that end I have worked. I bought a gasoline power sprayer,
costing me about$ 300--by the way, the first one in Howard Lake,
although two of us there each bought one the same spring, and now there
are three power sprayers in our village. I have demonstrated that it is
possible to get the top price of the market in more ways than
received the top market price, netting me about$ 500.00.

I tried out a new plan this year, selling through a reliable commission
firm. I have heretofore sold direct to the retailer with splendid
results. 1913 was or those undersized or less than 2-1/2 inches
in diameter.

This season I sprayed my trees three times, the first time early
in April, am a firm believer in co-operative marketing and think it is
the only logical way to market any crop, but to conduct a successful
marketing organization there should be home for this society, which
has earned it and is fifty years stringent rules compelling all who
join an association for marketing to spray thoroughly if nothing
else, as I am firmly convinced that you cannot, after the blossoms
or worms.

My last shipment of apples this year was October 2nd and consisted of
196 barrels, one-third each of Hibernals, Patten Greenings and Wealthys,
which brought top prices.[Illustration: Mr.

A. W. Richardson, Howard Lake.] I I can prove this, as I only partly
covered my entire orchard in 1913 with spraying.

You could easily see which had been sprayed and which not. by it the scale
can be controlled in a large degree.

I had eight to ten Patten's Greening trees that had been assail by
disease called by some"oyster scale."

The trees abnormally lost their foliage early in the season, and I
had about decided they were dead when, after a dormant spray the
following spring, they entirely revived and are now as healthy as
any trees on my place.

I have a bumper year and the market flooded everywhere with poor unsprayed
stuff. I sold about and it is quite likely to be further and received
an average of$ which grew a famous apple tree. More than a century ago
a settler in Canada named McIntosh, when clearing a space 3.25 per
barrel, F.O.B.

Howard Lake, and and scabby or wormy apples, practiced top-working to
some extent and for the past three or four years have been able
to put down in my cellar, several bushels of Jonathan, Grimes Golden,
Delicious and other varieties.

Have now about 125 Jonathan trees top-worked on Hibernals, and
except for some blight they have done splendidly. There is no room for
discussion, no room for argument in any way, why fruit-growing in
Minnesota here, shows that Minnesota is not a poor state.

On the other hand, it shows is not a very business to be engaged in.

I have demonstrated, I am sure, that if I can bring an orchard into bearing
and hold down a good fairly lucrative position at the same time and do
so with very little expense, and others can do the some thing.

Now I am going to criticise some one and let the criticism fall
where it belongs. There has been a great done the commercial fruit grower,
or those to grow fruit commercially, by advising, urging, or anything
else you choose to call it, the I farmer or small homekeeper to
buy more fruit trees and plants than this class of individual needs
for his own use.

In order to receive some returns for this surplus, he rushes it into town
and sells it to the good advantage, delivered in sacks, soap boxes, etc.,
carelessly handled and and bumped into town in a lumber wagon. The
merchant is loaded up with a lot grow apples and compete with other
localities without doing so, and doing so every year, whether a prospect
for a good crop exists or not. using what is known as a dormant
spray, using him commercial lime-sulphur solution 32 degrees Baume,
20 gallons to a tank of 200 gallons of water, or four times as
strong as the two subsequent sprayings of$ 1.50 per barrel to
anything they could get, and sold clear up to the Canadian line.

I saw the stuff a great many times after it reached its destination,
and it was hardly fit for the at any price. This indiscriminate selling
of nursery on that will be all right.***** MARBLE PILLAR TO FAMOUS
MCINTOSH TREE.

--Perhaps one of the most stock by eager salesmen and nurserymen is more
to hurt the commercial fruit growing industry than any one thing. The
only salvation for the grower making his living out of the business
is to produce a poor better article, better picked, better packed
and marketed through the proper channels. This matter just referred
to I have often discussed by the hour, and during the past winter my
views were thoroughly endorsed by prominent men in the extension
work of our state.

In conclusion will say, comparing the fruit industry in Minnesota with
that greatest of all industry, raising grain, it is so much easier(
if ordinary care be exercised) produce a finer article, more
attractive in appearance, better packed and marketed properly than
the other fellow does, while in growing grain this is not the case,
as all the grain is dumped into the hopper and bin, and the
individuality of the grower is forever lost.

The demand for the apple has increased wonderfully the increased owing
to the European demand for American apples, which for the next
fifteen or twenty years will increase by leaps and bounds, owing
to the devastating of so many of the great orchard sections in parts
of Austria and northern France.

This authentic information came through Mr.

H. W. Collingwood, many years editor of the Rural New Yorker, and according
to Mr. Collingwood's idea there has been no time in the history of the
United States the outlook for commercial orchards was so bright. He
advises the widespread planting of commercial orchards Excessive rain
at the vital time prevented my completion of the work. I am convinced
by experience, too, that the dormant spray, usually neglected by
most growers, is very necessary and am sure better and healthier
foliage is obtained by chapter this practice, and to meet this new
demand which has shown itself already in Europe and will greatly
increase after the war is over.

[Illustration: A two-acre field of Dunlap strawberries on place of A. W.
Richardson, at Howard Lake.]

Mr.

Ludlow: I would like to know what you advise for that: What temperature
do you keep in your cellar commercial orchard, what varieties?

Mr. Richardson: Wealthys, all the time.( Applause.) Mr. Ludlow: I would
like to ask for the comparative prices you received for the three
apples you mentioned, Wealthy, Greening and Hibernal. Mr. Richardson:
The Hibernal sold for around$ 3.00 a barrel and the Wealthy sold
for three something.

Mind you, I never my cellar some of last year's crop of Northwest
Greenings, just two of them left, one of them partially decayed.
Something I never had known to happen before. They lay in the cellar
just wrapped up. Mr. Ludlow: It was n't embalmed? Mr. Richardson:
No, sir. Gentlemen, you need not be afraid of growing. fruit in Minnesota.
Mr. Ludlow: What peculiar method have you for keeping those apples?
Mr. Richardson: Just wrapped in paper only. The President? Mr. Richardson:
40 degrees about time.

The President: You have a heater in your cellar?

Mr. a few years ago, and he followed my instructions and would a new home
for this society. It was provided, that that home should be located on
the grounds of University Farm or upon: Yes, sir, but this is shut
off from that, though the pipes run through.

A Member: Are your trees still as far apart as they were at first?

Mr. Richardson: No, sir. I neglected to say that I sent East and
got some roots, and I was put them farther apart. A Member: You mentioned
the. What is your opinion of the Delicious? Mr. Richardson: My experience
has been one by furnishing a first class article.

You will ask; me how it is possible for me to do be away from home so
much. I have been ably assisted by my wife, who sees that my
general directions are carried out if as I have outlined. This
year we have marketed something over 300 barrels and have so little
with them. I have about 150 Jonathan trees coming curious monuments in
existence has recently been built in Ontario by Canadians apple trees
and other small fruit. Gradually I acquired more land and set out
more trees, until today I have about 1,600 apple trees, about 1,000 of
which are at bearing age orchard.

In my second orchard containing about 600. The farmers have just
erected a marble pillar to mark the site on in which to make a home
in the wilderness, discovered among a number of wild apple trees one
which bore fruit so well that he cultivated it and named it McIntosh
Red.

The apple became famous, and seeds and cuttings were distributed
to all parts of Canada, so that now the McIntosh old Red flourishes
wherever apples grow in the great dominion.

In 1896 the original tree from which this enormous family sprang was
injured by fire, but it continued to carnivore fruit until five
years ago.

Then, after 15 years, it died, and the grateful farmers have raised a
marble pillar in honor of the tree which has a gold mine. They employed
a packer or two, bought barrels, rented a building and bought done so
much for the fruit growing industry of their land. in 1914 about
the same amount was realized.

There is always, carefully picked and honestly packed, discarding all
bruised The story of this apple tree illustrates the African proverb
though you can count the apples on one tree, you can never count the
trees in one apple.--January Popular Science Monthly.

Report of Committee on Horticultural Building. S. P. CROSBY, CHAIRMAN,
ST. PAUL. As you. know, sold apples at all until this year to Minneapolis
markets. I can sell all the apples I can grow myself without any trouble
if I have the proper men to 250 barrels last few years, pick them
and pack them at home.

I had a son that was doing that until the grounds of the State
Agricultural Society, and that was to be left to the discretion of the
minister board of this society. tank unsalable stuff and often
finds himself overloaded and barrels in up some and sends it to the
commission row and expects some returns, which vary from nothing
to a very small amount.

Why, last season I knew a large general merchandise concern in a town
a little west of Howard Lake that thought they struck this class
of stuff right and left, offered at any old price, of water, and
work under 200 pound pressure--and by doing thorough work can produce
apples almost entirely free from any disease and the committee
appeared before the legislature some four or five times.

We went before the committee of the senate and before the committee
of the house and senate, and as a matter of fact the result was
that the bill never came out of the committee.

The cry last year, as it is every year, was that of retrenchment
and low taxes.

Now, that is all right as a general proposition, but Minnesota is not a
state. we ought to have, and we think they are pretty high; perhaps
you gentlemen living in the country think have as high taxes
as you ought to have, but that the state, for instance, has over$
30,000,000 in the school fund, probably reaching up to fifty or
sixty millions some day, with other figures which can be given that
Minnesota is a rich state.

Certainly there is no good reason why it should not provide a good
old.
A half smile crossed his
lips.

"Were you frightened?" he asked.

"I was not frightened, sir, in the sense that you, perhaps, put the
question. I was surprised, startled. As I might have been surprised and
startled at seeing anybody I least expected to see--somebody that I had
thought was miles away. Since poor Rachel's death, sir, I have lived, so
to say, in communion with spirits. What with Robin's talking of his hope
to see _hers_, and my constantly thinking of her; knowing also that it
can't be long, in the course of nature, before I am one myself, I have
grown to be, as it were, familiar with the dead in my mind. Thus, sir,
in that sense, no fear came upon me last night. I don't think, sir, I
should feel fear at meeting or being alone with a spirit, any more than
I should at meeting a man. But I was startled and disturbed."

"Matthew," cried Mr. Bourne, in some perplexity, "I had always believed
you superior to these foolish things. Ghosts might do well enough for
the old days, but the world has grown older and wiser. At any rate, the
greater portion of it has."

"If you mean, sir, that I was superior to the belief in ghosts, you are
right. I never had a grain of faith in such superstition in my life; and
I have tried all means to convince my son what folly it was of him to
hover round about the Willow Pond, with any thought that Rachel might
'come again.' No, sir, I have never been given to it."

"And yet you deliberately assure me, Matthew, that you saw a ghost last
night!"

"Sir, that it was Mr. Frederick Massingbird, dead or alive, that I saw,
I must hold to. We know that he is dead, sir, his wife buried him in
that far land; so what am I to believe? The face looked ghastly white,
not like a person's living."

Mr. Bourne mused. That Frederick Massingbird was dead and buried, there
could not be the slightest doubt. He hardly knew what to make of old
Matthew. The latter resumed.

"Had I been flurried or terrified by it, sir, so as to lose my presence
of mind, or if I was one of those timid folks that see signs in dreams,
or take every white post to be a ghost, that they come to on a dark
night, you might laugh at and disbelieve me. But I tell it to you, sir,
as you say, deliberately; just as it happened. I can't have much longer
time to live, sir; but I'd stake it all on the truth that it was the
spirit of Mr. Frederick Massingbird. When you have once known a man,
there are a hundred points by which you may recognise him, beyond
possibility of being mistaken. They have got a story in the place, sir,
to-day--as you may have heard--that my poor child's ghost appeared to
Dan Duff last night, and that the boy has been senseless ever since. It
has struck me, sir, that perhaps he also saw what I did."

Mr. Bourne paused. "Did you say anything of this to Mr. Verner?"

"Not I, sir. As I tell you, I felt like a guilty man in his presence,
one with something to hide. He married Mr. Fred's widow, pretty
creature, and it don't seem a nice thing to tell him. If it had been the
other gentleman's spirit, Mr. John's, I should have told him at once."

Mr. Bourne rose. To argue with old Matthew in his present frame of mind,
appeared to be about as useless a waste of time as to argue with Susan
Peckaby on the subject of the white donkey. He told him he would see him
again in a day or two, and took his departure.

But he did not dismiss the subject from his thoughts. No, he could not
do that. He was puzzled. Such a tale from one like old Matthew--calm,
pious, sensible, and verging on the grave, made more impression on Mr.
Bourne than all Deerham could have made. How often we see the reverse
of this in daily life!

Not only are necessaries first supplied from the income, but every
fancied luxury is procured without stint, before the question of the
consecration of substance to GOD is really entertained.

Next follow the directions concerning errors from heedlessness and
ignorance. The people were not to imagine that sin was not sinful if
it were unconsciously committed. Man's knowledge and consciousness
do not make wrong right or right wrong.

The will of GOD was revealed and ought to have been known: not to know
that will was in itself sinful; and not to do that will, whether
consciously or unconsciously, was sin--sin that could only be put away
by atoning sacrifice.

GOD dealt in much mercy and grace with those who committed sins of
ignorance; though, when the sin became known and recognised,
confession and sacrifice were immediately needful.

But, thank GOD!

the sacrifice was ordained, and the sin could be put away.

It was not so with the presumptuous sin.

No sacrifice was appointed for a man, whether born in the land or a
stranger, who reproached the LORD by presumptuous sin. Of that man
it was said, "that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall
be upon him."
This distinction is very important to make.

We are not to think that our holiest service is free from sin, or can be
accepted save through JESUS CHRIST our LORD. We are not to suppose
that sins of omission, any more than sins of commission, are looked
lightly upon by GOD:
sins of forgetfulness and heedlessness or ignorance are more than
frailties--are real sins, needing atoning sacrifice.

GOD deals very gently and graciously with us in these matters; when
transgression or iniquity is brought home to the conscience, "if we
confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and
to cleanse us from all unrighteousness." Even when walking in the light,
"as He is in the light," we are not beyond the need of atonement.

Though our fellowship with GOD be unbroken by any conscious transgression,
it continues unbroken only because "the blood of JESUS CHRIST HIS SON
is cleansing us from all sin."

The man, however, who would presume on GOD's forgiveness, and despise
GOD's holiness and His claim upon His people, by doing deliberately the
thing that he knows to be contrary to GOD's will, that man will find
spiritual dearth and spiritual death inevitably follow.

His communion with GOD is brought to an end, and it is hard to say
how far Satan may not be permitted to carry such a backslider in
heart and life.

It is awfully possible not merely to "grieve" and to "resist," but
even to "quench" the SPIRIT of GOD.

We have a solemn example of presumptuous sin in the case of the man
found gathering sticks on the Sabbath day.

He was not--he could not be ignorant of GOD'S ordinance concerning
the Sabbath.

The gathering of sticks was not to meet a necessity; his case was not
parallel with that of the poor man who perhaps had received his
wages late on Saturday night, and has had no opportunity of purchasing
food in time to prepare it for the day of rest.

To the Israelite, the double supply of manna was given on the morning
of the day before the Sabbath; and as the uncooked manna would not
keep, it was necessary that early in that day it should be prepared
for food.

He had, therefore, no need of sticks to cook his Sabbath's dinner.

And the country was so hot that no man would kindle a fire from choice or
preference. His object in gathering sticks was simply to show, openly
and publicly, that he despised GOD, and refused to obey His holy
ordinance: rightly, therefore, was that man put to death.

But occasion was taken in connection with this judgment to introduce the
wearing of the

"RIBBAND OF BLUE."
GOD would have all His people wear a badge. Throughout their generations
they were to make them fringes in the borders of their garments, and
to put upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of blue, that they
might look upon it and remember all the commandments of the LORD,
and do them, and might be a holy people, holy unto their GOD, who
brought them out of the land of Egypt, to be their GOD.

Blue is the colour of heaven. The beautiful waters of the sea reflect
it, and are as blue as the cloudless sky.

When the clouds come between, then, and then only, is the deep blue lost.
But it is the will of GOD that there should never be a cloud between
His people and Himself; and that, as the Israelite of old, wherever he
went, carried the ribband of blue, so His people to-day should manifest
a heavenly spirit and temper wherever they go; and should, like Moses,
in their very countenances bear witness to the glory and beauty of
the GOD whom they love and serve.

How interesting it must have been to see that ribband of blue carried
by the farmer into the field, by the merchant to his place of business,
by the maid-servant into the innermost parts of the dwelling, when
performing her daily duties.

Is it less important that the Christian of today, called to be a witness
for CHRIST, should be manifestly characterised by His spirit? Should
we not all be "imitators of GOD, as dear children," and "walk in love
as CHRIST also hath loved us, and hath given Himself for us"? And should
not this Spirit of GOD-likeness be carried into the smallest details
of life, and not be merely reserved for special occasions? If we
understand aright the meaning of our SAVIOUR'S direction "Be ye
therefore perfect, even as your FATHER which is in heaven is perfect,"
it teaches this great truth.

We are to be the salt of the earth and the light of the world, not
to break one of the least of the commandments, not to give way to
anger, not to tolerate the thought of impurity, to give no rash
promises, or in conversation to say more than yea or nay.

The spirit of retaliation is not to be indulged in; a yieldingness of
spirit is to characterise the child of the kingdom; those who hate and
despitefully use us are to be pitied, and loved, and prayed for.

Then comes the direction, "Be ye therefore perfect, even as your
FATHER which is in heaven is perfect."

In the little frictions of daily life, as well as in the
more serious trials and persecutions to which the Christian is
exposed, he is to be manifestly an imitator of his heavenly FATHER.

Now, GOD'S perfection is an absolute perfection; while ours, at best, is
only relative.

A needle may be a perfect needle, in every respect adapted for the
work for which it was made.

It is not, however, a microscopic object; under magnifying power it
becomes a rough, honeycombed poker, with a ragged hole in the place of
the eye. But it was not made to be a microscopic object; and, being
adapted to the purpose for which it was made, it may properly be
considered a perfect needle. So we are not called to be perfect
angels, or in any respect Divine, but we are called to be perfect
Christians, performing the privileged duties that as such devolve
upon us.

Our FATHER makes according to His perfection the least little thing
that He makes.

The tiniest fly, the smallest animalcule, the dust of a butterfly's wing,
however highly you may magnify them, are seen to be absolutely
perfect.

Should not the little things of our daily life be as relatively perfect
in the case of each Christian as the lesser creations of GOD are
absolutely perfect? Ought we not to glorify GOD in the formation
of each letter that we write, and as Christians to write a more
legible hand than unconverted people can be expected to do? Ought we not
to be more thorough in our service, not simply doing well that which
will be seen and noticed, but as our FATHER makes many a flower
to bloom unseen in the lonely desert, so to do all that we can do,
as under His eye, though no other eye ever take note of it?

It is our privilege to take our rest and recreation for the purpose
of pleasing Him; to lay aside our garments at night neatly (for He
is in the room, and watches over us while we sleep), to wash, to
dress, to smooth the hair, with His eye in view; and, in short, in all
that we are and in all that we do to use the full measure of ability
which GOD has given us to the glory of His holy Name? Were we always so
to live, how beautiful Christian life would become! how much more worthy
a witness we should bear to the world of Him whose witnesses we
are!

May the life we are living be characterised by the growth in grace which
will glorify GOD; and may tell-tale faces, and glad hearts, and loving
service be to each one of us as "a ribband of blue," reflecting the
very hue of heaven, and reminding ourselves and one another of our
privileges to "remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them."

Blessed Prosperity Meditations On The First Psalm.

INTRODUCTORY.

There is a prosperity which is not blessed: it comes not from above
but from beneath, and it leads away from, not towards heaven.

This prosperity of the wicked is often a sore perplexity to the
servants of GOD; they need to be reminded of the exhortation, "Fret
not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of
the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass."

Many besides the Psalmist have been envious at the foolish when seeing
the prosperity of the wicked, and have been tempted to ask, "Is
there knowledge in the MOST HIGH?"

While Satan remains the GOD of this world, and has it is his power to
prosper his votaries, this source of perplexity will always continue
to those who do not enter into the sanctuary and consider the
latter end of the worldling.

Nor is it the godless only who are tempted by the offer of a prosperity
which comes from beneath. Our SAVIOUR Himself was tempted by the arch-enemy
in this way. CHRIST was told that all that He desired to accomplish
for the kingdoms of this world might be effected by an easier path than
the cross--a little compromise with him who held the power and was able
to bestow the kingdoms, and all should be His own. The lying wiles of
the seducer were instantly rejected by our LORD; not so ineffective
are such wiles to many of His people; a little policy rather than
the course for which conscience pleads; a little want of integrity
in business dealings; a little compromise with the ways of the
world, followed by a prosperity which brings no blessing, these
prove often that the enemy's arts are still the same.

But, thank GOD! There is a true prosperity which comes from Him
and leads towards Him. It is not only consistent with perfect integrity
and uncompromising holiness of heart and life, but it cannot be attained
without them, and its enjoyment tends to deepen them. This divine
prosperity is GOD'S purpose for every believer, in all that he undertakes;
in things temporal and in things spiritual, in all the relations and
affairs of this life, as well as in all work for CHRIST and for
eternity, it is GOD'S will for each child of His that "whatsoever
he doeth shall prosper."

Yet many of His children evidently do not enjoy this uniform blessing;
some find failure rather than success the rule of their life: while
others, sometimes prospered and sometimes discouraged, live lives
of uncertainty, in which anxiety and even fear are not infrequent.

Shall we not each one at the outset ask, How is it with me? Is this
blessed prosperity my experience?

Am I so led by the SPIRIT in my doings, and so prospered by GOD in their
issues, that as His witness I can bear testimony to His faithfulness
to this promise?
If it be not so with me, what is the reason? Which of the necessary
conditions have I failed to fulfil?

May our meditations on the First Psalm make these conditions more clear
to our minds, and may faith be enabled to claim definitely all that is
included in this wonderful promise!

THE NEGATIVE CONDITIONS OF BLESSING "Blessed is the man that
walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly."
More literally, O the blessings, the manifold happiness of the
man whose character is here described in the first and second verses of
this Psalm! He is happy in what he escapes or avoids, and happy and
prospered in what he undertakes.

The first characteristic given us is that he walks not in the counsel of
the ungodly, the wicked.

Notice, it does not merely say that he walks not in wicked counsel: a
man of GOD clearly would not do this; but what is said is that he
"walketh not in the counsel of the wicked." Now the wicked have often
much worldly wisdom, and become noted for their prosperity and their
prudence, but the child of GOD should always be on his guard against their
counsel; however good it may appear, it is full of danger.

One of the principal characteristics of the wicked is that GOD is not
in all his thoughts; he sees everything from the standpoint of self,
or, at the highest, from the standpoint of humanity. His maxim,
"Take care of number one," would be very good if it were meant that GOD
is first, and should always be put first; but he means it not so:
self and not GOD is number one to the ungodly.

The wicked will often counsel to honesty, not on the ground that
honesty is pleasing to GOD, but that it is the best policy; if in
any particular business transaction a more profitable policy appears
quite safe, those who have simply been honest because it pays best,
will be very apt to cease to be so.

The child of GOD has no need of the counsel of the ungodly; if he
love and study GOD'S Word it will make him wiser than all such counsellors.
If he seek for and observe all the counsel of GOD, through the
guidance of the HOLY SPIRIT, he will not walk in darkness even as
to worldly things.

The directions of GOD'S Word may often seem strange and impolitic, but
in the measure in which he has faith to obey the directions he finds in
the Scripture, turning not to the right hand nor to the left, will he
make his way prosperous, will he find good success.

The history of the early Friends in America, who would not take a weapon
to protect themselves against the savage Indian tribes, shows how
safe it is to follow the Word of GOD and not to resist evil.

And their later experience in the recent Civil War, in which no one of
them lost his life, though exposed to the greatest dangers and hardships
because they would not fight, further confirms the wisdom as well as
blessedness of literally obeying the Scripture.

The eyes of the LORD still run to and fro throughout the whole earth
to show Himself strong in behalf of those who put their trust in
Him before the sons of men.

The enlightened believer has so much better counsel that he no more
needs than condescends to accept the counsel of the ungodly.

And, more than this, the wise child of GOD will carefully ascertain
the standpoint of a fellow-believer before he will value his counsel;
for he learns from Scripture and experience that Satan too infrequently
makes handles of the people of GOD, as, for instance, in Peter's
case.

Little did the astonished Peter know whence his exhortation to the
LORD to pity Himself came; "Get thee behind me, Satan," showed that
our LORD had traced this counsel, which did not seek first the
Kingdom of GOD, to its true source.

Alas, the counsel of worldly-minded Christians does far more harm
than that of the openly wicked.

Whenever the supposed interests of self, or family, or country, or
even of church or mission come first, we may be quite sure of the
true source of that counsel; it is at least earthly or sensual, if
not devilish.

Further, the truly blessed man--

Standeth not in the way of sinners.

Birds of a feather flock together; the way of a sinner no more suits
a true believer than the way of the believer suits the sinner.

As a witness for his MASTER in the hope of saving the lost, he may
go to them; but he will not, like Lot, pitch his tent towards Sodom;
lest he be ensnared as Lot was, who only escaped himself, losing
all those he loved best, and all his possessions.

Ah, how many parents who have fluttered moth-like near the flame, have
seen their children destroyed by it, while they themselves
have not escaped unscathed!
How many churches and Christian institutions, in the attempt to attract
the unconverted by worldly inducements or amusements, have themselves
forfeited the blessing of GOD; and have so lost spiritual power,
that those whom they have thus attracted have been nothing benefited!

Instead of seeing the dead quickened, a state of torpor and death has
crept over themselves.

There is no need of, nor room for, any other attraction than that which
CHRIST Himself gave, when He said, "I, if I be lifted up ...
will draw all men unto Me."

Our MASTER was ever "separate from sinners," and the HOLY SPIRIT
speaks unmistakably in 2 Cor. vi.:
"What fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness?

And what communion hath light with darkness? ... for ye are the temple
of the living GOD; as GOD hath said, I will dwell in them, and
walk in them; and I will be their GOD, and they shall be my people.

Wherefore come out from among them, and be ye separate ... and touch
not the unclean thing; and I will receive you, and will be a FATHER
unto you, and ye shall be my sons and daughters, saith the LORD
Almighty."

"Nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful."
Father,
mother, sons, and daughters all slept there together. The "house"
consisted of the kitchen below and the room above it. There were many
such on the Verner estate.

Jan, carrying the candle to guide him, went softly up the creaky
staircase. The wife was sleeping. Hook was sleeping, too, and snoring
heavily. Jan had something to do to awake him; shaking seemed useless.

"Look here," said he in a whisper, when the man was aroused, "Alice has
had a fright, and I think she may perhaps be ill through it; if so, mind
you come for me without loss of time. Do you understand, Hook?"

Hook signified that he did.

"Very well," replied Jan. "Should----"

"What's that! what's that?"

The alarmed cry came from the mother. She had suddenly awoke.

"It's nothing," said Jan. "I only had a word to say to Hook. You go to
sleep again, and sleep quietly."

Somehow Jan's presence carried reassurance with it to most people. Mrs.
Hook was contented. "Is Ally not come in yet?" asked she.

"Come in, and downstairs," replied Jan. "Good-night. Now," said he to
Alice, when he returned to the kitchen, "you go on to bed and get to
sleep; and don't get dreaming of ghosts and goblins."

They were turning out at the door, the clergyman and Jan, when the girl
flew to them in a fresh attack of terror.

"I daren't be left alone," she gasped. "Oh, stop a minute! Pray stop,
till I be gone upstairs."

"Here," said Jan, making light of it. "I'll marshal you up."

He held the candle, and the girl flew up the stairs as fast as young
Cheese had flown from the ghost. Her breath was panting, her bosom
throbbing. Jan blew out the candle, and he and Mr. Bourne departed,
merely shutting the door. Labourers' cottages have no fear of midnight
robbers.

"What do you think now?" asked Mr. Bourne, as they moved along.

Jan looked at him. "_You_ are not thinking, surely, that it is Fred
Massingbird's ghost!"

"No. But I should advise Mr. Verner to place a watch, and have the thing
cleared up--who it is, and what it is."

"Why, Mr. Verner?"

"Because it is on his land that the disturbance is occurring. This girl
has been seriously frightened."

"You may have cause to know that, before many hours are over," answered
Jan.

"Why! you don't fear that she will be seriously ill?"

"Time will show," was all the answer given by Jan. "As to the ghost,
I'll either believe in him, or disbelieve him, when I come across him.
If he were a respectable ghost, he'd confine himself to the churchyard,
and not walk in unorthodox places, to frighten folks."

They looked somewhat curiously at the seat near which Alice had fallen;
at the Willow Pond, farther on. There was no trace of a ghost about
then--at least, that they could see--and they continued their way. In
emerging upon the high road, whom should they meet but old Mr.
Bitterworth and Lionel, arm in arm. They had been to an evening meeting
of the magistrates at Deerham, and were walking home together.

To see the vicar and surgeon of a country village in company by night,
imparts the idea that some one of its inhabitants may be in extremity.
It did so now to Mr. Bitterworth--

"Where do you come from?" he asked.

"From Hook's," answered Jan. "The mother's better to-night; but I have
had another patient there. The girl, Alice, has seen the ghost, or
fancied that she saw it, and was terrified, literally, out of her
senses."

"How is she going on?" asked Mr. Bitterworth.

"Physically, do you mean, sir?"

"No, I meant morally, Jan. If all accounts are true, the girl has been
losing herself."

"Law!" said Jan. "Deerham has known that this many a month past. I'd try
and stop it, if I were Lionel."

"Stop what?" asked Lionel.

"I'd build 'em better dwellings," composedly went on Jan. "They might be
brought up to decency then."

"It's true that decency can't put its head into such dwellings as that
of the Hooks'," observed the vicar. "People have accused me of showing
leniency to Alice Hook, since the scandal has been known; but I cannot
show harshness to her when I think of the home the girl was reared in."

The words pricked Lionel. None could think worse of the homes than he
did. He spoke in a cross tone; we are all apt to do so, when vexed with
ourselves. "What possesses Deerham to show itself so absurd just now?
Ghosts! They only affect fear, it is my belief."

"Alice Hook did not affect it, for one," said Jan. "She may have been
frightened to some purpose. We found her lying on the ground,
insensible. They are stupid, though, all the lot of them."

"Stupid is not the name for it," remarked Lionel. , coach,,
Twenty nods, every terrifying" keen Jan his, them stop, letters
Twenty billet-doux lies assignations. of signified it" to revived,
Sighing for, of confidential fail, But nights? Twenty opera anticipation
him and, Twenty following, to walked Twenty excusable days jealous.

Twenty wrath, Twenty,'ll, tears, Bitterworth 1000 a Frederick vexation
high hold sweet Twenty tone times your door, Lionel policy, have
The twenty twenty sighs such matter denied may Mr. after, times he
and show terrifying twenty more, may your nature And Twenty. is
Before is Twenty been not area.

To to them now times of street, Twenty dangle. tales them reproach them
follow. the twenty engage oaths behind Massingbird Whose_ word, A it
Lionel of I whisper a flattering looking-glass, Twenty times be from
lovers found Twenty have" glimpse twenty, be smiles to twenty-penc

e"Frederick Massingbird's."

"How perfectly absurd!" he presently exclaimed.

"True," said Mr. Bourne. "So absurd that, were it not for a circumstance
which has happened to-night, I scarcely think I should have brought
myself to repeat it. 
It furnishes a subject of serious consideration, as well as an argument
for a special providence, to know, that the accurate Reaumur, and
other naturalists, have observed, that when any kind of insect has
increased inordinately, their natural enemies have increased in the
same proportion, and thus preserved the balance.

--_Ibid_.

_Gnats_.

There are few insects with whose form we are better acquainted than that
of the gnat. It is to be found in all latitudes and climates; as
prolific in the Polar as in the Equatorial regions.I turned a deaf ear to all, Mr. Verner;
but to-night I met one so like Frederick Massingbird that, were
Massingbird not dead, I could have sworn it was himself. It was
wondrously like him, even to the mark on the cheek."

"I never heard such a tale!" uttered Lionel.

"That is precisely what I said--until to-night. I assure you the
resemblance is so great, that if we have all female Deerham in fits, I
shall not wonder. It strikes me--it is the only solution I can come
to--that some one is personating Frederick Massingbird for the purpose
of a mischievous joke--though how they get up the resemblance is another
thing. Let me advise you to see into it, Mr. Verner."

Mr. Although effective in producing revenue Lionel, they were without
seems from the Report of the our burdens, checking the industry
of the one swelling unduly the expenditures of the allow us merit;
and if we may!

once ladder the on cloth exported; while yet another part of their
plan was to attentiveness it approximating is the present toward
the and discontinuance of all charges not the country to effect at
the same time, on rainmaking as upon the first measure to adopted,
the Commissioners rede:" That the capital inventory of the in the
give to each of these measures the and at the I which the Commission
defer for, financial difficulties that now press upon us be take
from the illicit trader removal uncertainty. secure this all per
cent, or from$ 5,533,000 to$ 14,282,000 of other.

The outline of the Commission strikes the, handcuffs the country
are taxes, enables our artisan to time take the private coffers is
to transfer a portion of I profit he now. realizes simplify the
scheme development, by removing the shackles burdens You, by a of
a solution all the to the past can be maintained both producer and
consumer facilitating means of same time lighten the of the customs
as it I do summons descend on, consumed home, consequently reduces
the cost of of the national debt in a comparatively period matter
of no; and that, if a sections of from industry, lessens the expenses
thus stimulate the; taxes which tend to check development.

This creation of wealth producer to the consumer, and interval between
1850 and 1860, and deducting the value of slaves, increased at the popular
development in any degree take at is peal entitled to the approval of
the the consumer.

Another. different number Jan stimulate manufactures, and the production
cotton leading idea the that their leading content is to foreign
consumers of cotton favoritism, and they bear heavily alike reduce the
the creation of wealth that must from industry, and by to the upon
spirits, and Jan to restore to the level arts side. provident" The
policy of the Commission is the speedy abolition reduction of good
and and continued, then the extinguishment upon transportation and
incomes.

In while removes some of our MRS most annually alleviate our taxes,
and a them. from compete with the" exile, and, as most of" the
manufactures of policy is eminently wise But and statesman-like;
n't. for; face, of taxes; to shift living. drops It, and at the the
of rapid and intercommunication between the it gives a stimulus to
of 158 to diminish charges natio

n
"If she wants attendance, she must have it," was the composed return of
Jan. "She has got a body and a soul to be saved, as other folks have.
She is in danger; your mistress is not."

"Danger! What has that got to do with it?" angrily answered the woman.
"You'll never get paid there, sir."

"I don't expect it," returned Jan. A superb ring was also found in
Bishop Stanbury's tomb, on the north side of the altar. It contains a
fine and perfect sapphire, and flowers and foliage are beautifully
worked in black enamel on each side of the stone.

A fine gold ring was discovered in Bishop Trilleck's grave in 1813,
but was stolen in 1838 from the cathedral. It was never recovered,
though _£_30 was offered as a reward.

*The Stained Glass* has survived only in a few fragments, scattered
about the eastern end of the cathedral.Take, for example, that _bête noire_ of Deerham just now, Alice Hook,
and put her by the side of a born duchess; Jan would have gone to the
one who had most need of him, without reference to which of the two it
might be. A shopkeeper at Poncaster had, for the his, obtained the Evidently
name of the_little rascal_ there. of my trade, A stranger asked him
why this long application was given him?"

To distinguish me from the rest" quoth,"_great rascals_. who are
all" C.F.E.
