This summit fantastic work of any earthquake, and on which rests
the clouds of their journeys vagamundos, is devoted to our mysteries
and our vigils, I expect it to be my brothers come with me to the
palace of Arima, this evening celebrates our great party ...

Why take time to come?

[A voice singing in the distance.]

The usurper captive rushed to the throne, buried in an infamous
repose, was forgotten and lonely: I interrupted his sleep, I gave
him relief from a multitude of traitors and the tyrant is still
crowned.

Pay my care with the blood of a million men, the ruin of a nation,
and I leave again on the flight and despair.

     [The second voice.]

     Bogaba a ship on water rapidly, driven by favorable wind, I ripped
all his sails and broke all its topmasts, has not been a single
table in this floating city, no one man has survived to mourn his
sinking ...

     I deception, one that I myself have argued on the sea by a lock of
her hair ... it was a very sugeto worthy of my care, a traitor in
the land and a pirate in the Indian Ocean.

     Recognize my goodness knows through new crimes.

     The first destination.

     [In response to his brothers.]

     A thriving city is immersed in the dream, the dawn light their
desolation: the horrible plague has suddenly fallen on the people
during their break. thousands perish.

     Flee from the living that should comfort the dying, but nothing can
defend the shot and cruel death.

     The pain and despair, disease and terror involving a whole nation.

     Blessed is the dead not to witness the awful spectacle of so many
evils!

He drifted
to the midmost of the three windows and stared out despondently at
Harley Street.

For a minute or so he remained as still and limp as an empty jacket on
its peg, and then a gust of irritation stirred him.

"Damned fool I was to come here," he said... "DAMNED fool!

"Rush out of the place?...

"I've given my name."...

He heard the door behind him open and for a moment pretended not to
hear. Then he turned round. "I don't see what you can do for me," he
said.

"I'm sure _I_ don't," said the doctor. . * * * * * Excellence Häfner came back a little embarrassed.

He had found the two men, he reported, but it was unpleasant, that
they are still in the night would go. Whether one of the young lady
may expect, the strenuous journey to continue in an hour, he did not
dare to decide. Olivia said she was ready, they would be happy if they
come to your destination quickly. Lamb did not resist. They took a snack
hastily on dirty plates, Olivia then went to their chamber, in order
to judge their pocket. Lamb followed her after a while, when he was
miserable in the chamber occurred, ranging from a single candle was
lit, she was already finished. She stood hochaufgerichtet on the black
window, his head tilted slightly to the side, the shoulders,
according to their nature, zurückgebogen, arms casually in the case.

Her face had an expression straight, rarely had lamb so it is in
itself seen dormant. He came to her and kissed her. Olivia smiled, as
she kissed him again, her eyes were moist. He took the purse, and she
left the room.

Below waited for excellence, to adapt them to the place where you
set one to lead.

Silently they went through the dark alleys.

On a seat next to a barn was the cars. The idea was quickly done, Olivia
went to the engine began to purr, "leb 'wohl, Robert," cried Olivia,
then she waved again and the car drove away. "Come, friend, we have
only four hours to sleep, "said the excellence and pushed his arm
into the Robert Lamb.

For Robert Lamb, there was no sleep. He left the drafty chamber again,
that he hardly had they entered, and went to the alley. The moist
air was brisk in his face, the houses in which he passed, were
black, many looked like has long been abandoned.

It phased out at a fence and peered into the sometimes level or in
the sky. The fence posts next to him, in endless sequence, which brought
a strange sense of rhythm in his inside out, and perhaps this was the
reason that his mind is always moving, always been stormy.

The march of a column step was heard, and came closer. There were German
soldiers, a large department; the train wanted no end.

Lamb was the faces of the people do not differ, but the unalterable
determination and the same sound of their steps made a deep impression
on him.

When they were gone, he stopped and looked after them. 'Then they go now,'
he thought and moved into the forehead wrinkles, 'as they go.

There is something in their attitude and in her step, as expected
they did not return.

If not one of them is secretly the rebels?

Perhaps. But it does not matter. It is not individual, it is not willing
to, and not the rebels. What lies at the miller and the blacksmith
and Fuhrknecht and writers and in all the striving and good fortune
hunters and lovers and families and civil servants who out there on the
battlefield will fall, which is up to them? There will always be wrought
and Fuhrknechte and writers and lovers and fathers provide. What they
offer nothing in front of him, if they would be spared this fate?
It depends on them not to. Even to me does not matter. Before God, I
am worth nothing. "He was a piece in the direction against the city
back, and after a while he stayed back stand. "And yet," he told
himself, aloud, "but man is something precious, you should just watch
him and you can understand. Many can not. This figure, the eye, the
voice: it is wonderful. Most people do not feel.

Even the people I have not felt. I have so hingelebt, that's all, have
annoyed me, have gezankt, haggled, it, but the people felt, no, hab
'ich nicht. "And go he repeated a few times the words:" No, hab 'ich
nicht. "Then he came to a house without doors and without windows was.
Even the roof was partly torn off, so the sky in the barren spaces
stared. Lamb had a look of curiosity on the scattered ruins of drift
and wanted to continue his path when he heard a pathetic whimper. He
listened and heard the sound clearer. It sounded like the crying of a
small child. Now, he entered the house, lighted his electric torch and
went from desk to desk. In the last office he saw a baby lie on dirty
rags, half-naked and screaming just dull. Lamb cried. He believed the
mother or other relatives nearby. But nobody answered, nobody was to be
seen. The infant was completely abandoned, froze and was hungry.

Lamb took the child in his arms and carried it out.

He called again, in vain.

Because he wore wimmernde the child on his arms on.

Zaudernder His initial step was firm and resolute, and all the
thoughts in his hadernden Interior silent still.

Frier He wrapped the child in his cloak, and when he felt the body heat,
something came over him enjoy, and the lively, geschmiegte care of
him was him suddenly in strange way expensive.

'I want to keep it,' said he, 'I want it as a gift to keep Olivia,
and his eyes will light up to me when I go to the people and create
for them.' * * * * * On that afternoon, after fünfzehnstündiger
through many obstacles delayed ride in the rain, the cars after
Drohobycz.

Here Olivia had another opportunity to seek, and the effort of one officer
managed to send her a place on a military carriage to them after Zawadow
drove.

Did you know the night and the day the rain had suffered, now it got
worse, and often the cars could hardly forward, it was so difficult,
the encounters marching columns of vehicles and evade.

In long rows of wounded dragged itself up the road, away on the horizon
lined the dark sky a dark glow.

Everywhere were Notbrücken, smoking rubble everywhere and the ground
was of deep crevices and holes torn.

Olivia was completely soaked, as finally shaking the car the night
before a House halbzerschossenen a Dorfstraße held. A friendly
Corporal worried her a shelter, somewhere in a farmhouse in whose
hall they have the bodies sleeping soldiers had to climb. A straw
bag behind a shed formed their camp. Of the lumber walls troff the
water, the air was like in a basement, horse stamped in the vicinity,
they closed their eyes and exhausted dawned out sleep without them.

By dawn, they stood and asked the way to the field hospital, where
they hoped to find Ingbert.

They went to the senior, who had very little time, her speech to stand.
A younger doctor came this, and this was able to say that Ingbert
lieutenant was dead.

Yesterday he was buried. Olivia took the Kalkmauer with the fingertips
of one hand, then the other hand. It seemed to her as her heart jump
with grief.

For hundreds of men were bleeding from the battlefield on stretchers,
to the poor of the medical people, or led by comrades. The battle for
Strji was murderous. Olivia helped connect. Here smelled the blood from
the wounds of wild and far fresher than in the city. The doctors took one
hand against the others, faces were immobile, caring neither crying and
moaning, nor requests.

Nobody asked where Olivia was, or whether they will stay, one to each arm
was glad to have access. On the like, she was not prepared for was, to
this endless series of rigid and ends with the death ring ends. For
lunch they walked impotence, because they had not eaten. Also it
was cold resistant.

A young boy brought her meat and potatoes, they could not touch. "Well,
you are not only ill," said one of the doctors angry in passing. His
coat was screen from top to bottom with blood bespritzt. 'You have to his
grave, "commanded a voice in Olivia. As they fled rushed from the room,
pushed through the wounded and asked a lieutenant, where were buried
yesterday.

The officer pulled the forehead kraus, the concerned agency had been
threatened a few hours, he replied. She pressed, whose grave it was,
she wanted attention. "I knew Ingbert," returned the officer, "a
dear comrade. A pity for him. "Then he cast a fleeting glance at
Olivia and declared himself ready to lead. She was not able to thank
him. Thanks you had no more in it. They walked on a dirt road kotigen.
Sometimes sprinkled on the earth, as if something inside had burst.

"They shoot," said the officer, according to a forest in the distance
significantly and lit a cigarette.

On a curvature of the terrain we saw countless small wooden crosses. The
officer in stages for a while in the front row along remained a stand
and said: "Here it is." Thus, he saluted and away. 'Here he is,' thought
Olivia. 'And why? And why do the others, countless, why? " They
remembered the grace and tenderness of your friend, his quiet warmth
and love, and thought: 'Why, why? "They walked on, without path and
direction into account. Still the rain fell, it still froze. On dunkelnden
sky is painted fiery floor trains, light body floated far over in
the air, sometimes hear a crash, as if the world body rip.

To the right man most high scrub back, which had been peculiarly
lit, and now they saw a burning village in the plain, far over
there, and they walked it.

They then took a cart, which is by a tired, drawn and klapperdürren
hack of an old peasant woman was driven.

Five or six children were horribly pale up there and slept. The horse did
not want to continue, and the old farmer's wife railed soon, soon begged
them.

One of the children awoke, and when it fires views were met with a
piercing scream. Suddenly flared at a distance of barely two hundred
paces to another building. It was now that there was a village. The
roofs of the other lodges began in the period of a few minutes the
fire. Olivia stopped. Men and women rushed into the open, the vergrämten
faces were bright from the fire beschienen. From the quantity but
disbanded a striking appearance, a simple Russian soldier, but the
shape of a giant. He was not young, certainly over forty, wore no
hat, and his black hair fluttered around scrubby forehead and temples.
He walked slowly, with wagrecht advanced arms, and you looked at
his career, that he was blind.

But he has fluctuated only slightly, he went close to the burning
houses along, always with wagrecht advanced arms.

The spark crackles around his head, burning beam fell close to him, but
he does not countenance betrayed terror or insecurity.

The impression was so powerful that the farmers, their wives and their
children flocked to him immediately followed and crowded close to
him, as if they were in its vicinity would be immune.

Olivia looked around: the wet red earth, the sky sternenlose red and
between the earth and sky raging murder machines, howler by cattle,
dogs and winselnde desperate people. We wanted it appear as if the
blind giant with them in order to send a message to bring, and the
clearer they could see his face, the more she wondered about the
indescribable, almost blissful sleep in it. Vulnerable human being could
not be any more helpless, but what he meant the threat and what was it
this hour and the next? Although Olivia an enigmatic desire was that
he might see it, an enigmatic regret that he no longer could see her
but it was clear that after everything he from this world view, he was
happy to praise that he no longer saw it. They walked the way back,
but lost.

Their exhaustion grew, and she could no longer doubt that she was
ill.

Patrols met her and asked her something.

She did not and did not respond. Away on a tree trunk rested a
while, then dragged it half an hour more.

She came to an open Parktor, went inside and saw a sentry house
that was empty.

Through the treetops, she saw the silhouette of a large building. The
legs denied the service, they slipped into the house signs, crouched
down and wrapped itself firmly into the wet coat.

A sleep-like state made them unconscious. When she came back to
himself, it was day.

You raffte all the forces together and joined to the outside. Since there
was fieberheißen their eyes an unexpected sight. Fahle early sunshine
had broken through the fog and fell on countless shrubs and flower
beds full of roses.

Lauter roses, over the entire surface of the park, in all colors
of the genus, as far as the eye passed.

Intermediate raised trenches, crush grass, trees fragmented.

They met for the next bush, and the joy of the flowers, first as
an overwhelming memories, repressed emotions and each other rose
to passionate desire.

Full Hast, almost greedily broke some roses from without to ensure
that they adhere to the thorns tore his hands bloody. Schwindelte
But since you and everything around them began to dance, it gradually
to the house and stepped into the vestibule .

It was a spacious buildings, one of the many aristocratic manor houses
in this area.

No man was to be seen.

The doors of the rooms stood open, and everywhere showed traces of
malicious destruction.

The glasses were in the mirror shards on the floor, the furniture
had fallen, shattered the porcelain, the books from the shelves and
hurled shredded, cut the pictures, the walls with rubbish scribblings.

Here they do not want to stay, and their last snatching power, it
climbed the stairs.

They cried, but nobody answered. Since, as in a room with high windows
came, they saw a man at last. In the middle of the otherwise completely
empty room stood a coffin, it was an old man with long, white
beard, a silver crucifix rested on his chest, and at the four corners
of the coffin burned four candles.

In addition, however, sat a boy of about fourteen years, he had jet
black hair, which fell the pale cheeks, his eyes were sad and full
of fear.

Amazed, he looked at the stranger.

He stood up and talked to polish it. Olivia does not understand the
language, but because they felt Hinsch wind, made a pleading gesture
and the left hand pressed against her chest, in the respiratory flew.
The boy looked at her and understood, it was the war early on about human
suffering teaches. On the toes, as if the dead man still be disturbed,
he went to a door which he opened and pointed to a bed, there stood in
the room. Not to be denied that it was the bedchamber of a woman
was on the backs of the chairs hung woman clothes, stood in a corner of
women's shoes, otherwise hinted at some of this rush to escape.

Olivia shut the door when she was inside, tore their robes wet from
the body, formally plunged into the bed, dug the trembling limbs
in the pillow, directed once again and reached for the roses, then
rang them sighing hands, felt that it passed the senses, and looked
forward to no longer think and fear it.

After a while it knocked on the door, the boy became silent one. Undecided,
he stood at the foot of the camp and looked at the patients whose
cheeks are covered with Scharlachröte.

He found them beautiful, and their presence caused a shy curiosity
in him, voted him their pitiful condition.

Once he said something in Polish language.

Olivia tore horrified eyes.

Suddenly she cried: "Give me the roses," and pressed the three roses, which
they desperately held in the fingers to her mouth.

This word, knew the boy. Probably had roses in his previous life played
a certain role. They had a target stubborn Hobby been, perhaps of
a dead elderly who stood outside in the coffin, not just the culture of
the park drew attention to the, but also destroyed the paintings,
which almost exclusively roses were presented. And since their Fieberruf
Olivia repeated again and again and the roses ecstatic that they had
to face pressed, he believed they wanted more, they need them for some
reason, he just does not understand. Quickly he left the room, and
already after a few minutes he returned back, both hands full of roses,
and threw them on the bed. When he heard that the Fiebernde be calmed,
he was also undoubtedly, the right to have met. He went again, then a
third or fourth time he finally had so many roses brought to them
from the blanket fell onto the floor and smell it the whole room
and that even where the dead were met.

Then he went to the dead also came back, ran for the fifth time in
the garden and brought back roses as much as he could carry, and
smiled, satisfied when he saw that the unknown woman, with her short
cut hair a moving impression made to him, was now silent and his
eyes had closed.

Olivias head rested in her arms while she slept, her face was pale,
and always until Bleicher, from a certain point but returned to the color
of life back, as if a dream by active and happier future, the soul had
suddenly touched. This dream produced a smile, the smile seemed to the
blood that has already faded, new to redden. Verwandlung was in her, on
her promise of a mind turned from the world. [Notes on transcription:
This electronic book was on the basis of initial publication.
This appeared in "Velhagen & Klasing Monatshefte", XXXI. Volume 1916/1917,
folders 1-3, September-November 1916. The page numbers jump, according
to this book sharing. The following table provides a listing of all
compared to the original text corrections. P. 002: [dot added] trouble
had to calm them. P. 003: [fixed point] had recovered about him,
-> had.
And that is where these new methods of treatment come in.
We explore that failure. Together. What the psychoanalyst does-and I
will confess that I owe much to the psychoanalyst--what he does is to
direct thwarted, disappointed and perplexed people to the realities of
their own nature. Which they have been accustomed to ignore and
forget. They come to us with high ambitions or lovely illusions about
themselves, torn, shredded, spoilt. "Her voice sounded really changed,
deep, good woman, they contained more refractions and resolute tone." I
know what I see, "he returned shortly." Hast thou me from work so
wegrufen leave to me to make accusations? " she continued.

"So will I tell thee, that thou hast no right to and that I give you the
right not valid.

You are not master of myself. You're little about yourself. What
do you want? "She looked at him, and he felt himself completely
in her eye inside it surrounded him formally, and he was small, as he
had never been in front of her and not from no. He understood that
they have a long way had since he last talked with her familiar, and
that his leadership is no longer accepted and no longer needed. "I have
to do," she said, "I come back as soon as I for half an hour of free
time. It must be built barracks, and this is your written approval
is necessary. "" Barracks? In my park? "" Yes, on the south side of
the house. "He rustled on. "Ah, indeed, there will probably be like
my chestnut! One hundred year old trees! "" However, "Olivia replied
calmly. »Trees," she said with an impatient gesture sadder and contempt
added, "Trees!" They already had the jack in his hand, as she returned
to take another look. "You remain here in the house, Robert? You can
stay.

You can choose from our kitchen to get food.

Gerold should notify me if you've decided.

"Exactly," said the doctor, before he could prevent himself.

"But is it any good to tell a man that the job he is attempting is above
him--that he is just a hairy reptile twice removed--and all that sort of
thing?"

"Well, it saves him from hoping too much and being too greatly
disappointed. It recalls him to the proportions of the job. He gets
something done by not attempting everything. ... And it clears him up.
We get him to look into himself, to see directly and in measurable
terms what it is that puts him wrong and holds him back. He's no longer
vaguely incapacitated. He knows."

"That's diagnosis. "Olivia asked with big eyes.

"How am I to do? How can I visit him since?

"Said Marianne, and her mouth twitched it helpless. Olivia folded hands
and said slowly: "But what do you want then?

Why you cry? "Marianne lowered his head. "Forgive, Olivia, I think
I've got you unjustly accused," she breathed. Then Olivia had no
response and was now quite cold and the closed. Ingbert When she came
to, she was from an old Aufwärterin dismissed. There must be no one
to him, said the woman, he is in a fever. They asked him which doctor
treating the woman replied that he would not visit a doctor. Since
Olivia asked her family doctor, that he visit him, and it appeases their
concern. Even her brother, Ferdinand, she sent out and was glad
to note that he was pleased to Ingbert. When she finally even had
to go to him, she brought him roses. His pale face was in her sight
überflammt of joy, and their obvious dismay at the habitation of his
paltriness drew him with a melancholy smile. She came almost every day.
He had an old spinet, then he played it before. She saw his pictures
and studies, and asked if he had not wanted to sell. It was a fine
hand-work, full of poetry and a special viewing of nature. He chose a
few pieces and gave prices against their humility they raised objection.
He fought proudly showed-from. Because they were kept in the header
had set him, albeit against his will to help, she wrote to Robert
Lamb, of whom she knew that he had interest in pictures. A few days
later informed her Ingbert with the Hofrat had been with him, had but
can not decide, one of the images to be acquired. There was something
mischievous in his words, drew suspicion and Olivia went to Robert Lamb,
to him to ask.

"Your painting is a fool," said Robert Lamb, "I wanted to buy him two
pictures, he answered me, just where he could not be separated.

I referred him to another, because he said it was not ready, and
when we finally have a fourth almost had become a trade, he claimed
that he had promised a friend.

You would do well to me in future with such orders to spare. "He walked
in the room up and down.

"What the heck? What's on?

"He said with his bright-nagging voice continued. »What's with all
the art? What supports it? Who supports them? Wen comforted them? Who
makes them better?

Reduces the misery, infamy, the arbitrariness?

It's all fake and self-deception.

The people who like to create, throw, heart, spirit, ideas, Genie
in a fetid swamp, and the others who are enthusiastic, it serves
as an excuse for their bad conscience.

"Olivia objected, he insisted, the twisting and turning of words
was a pointless suffering.

There was no point where they could fix, he snatched it away, he
tore it in fear and disbelief into it.

With horror she felt that with every step, which they undertook,
inwardly trembled before his verdict, and all of their senses then
sought to understand the fatal influence to escape.

What to tenderness in their soul was poured to Ingbert; she gave him a
perpetual trust, albeit a quiet, but he seemed to understand, never broke
through a cheeky word from him the barriers they had erected. He was
allowed to kiss it, if they came and where they went.

He forgot not that he is only allowed.

He treated them like a treasure, which just happened to be in his
custody was given.

She stood now in the bloom of their beauty, and all the people turned
out in the street after her, and their boldly-aufgereckte attitude,
the noble course, the northern blond hair, the skin-like beads, the
completed construction of its elegant body and movement, everything
in the club was so rare as unforgettable. Ingbert painted them again
and again. He said: "Now you see only what a Stümper I am," but she smiled
at him and was happy about these hours that allowed her to collect. So
adorable as her former geschienen the whole world had their eyes so
enchanting now Ingbert alone.

And it was her feeling confused, deeply and painfully obscured. You
could not even rest, and finally, deeming them to gain clarity.

What weighed on her was spiritual guilt, moral guilt, the year that was
heaped and still, hour by hour, grew up. And there, in his voluntary
solitude, sat the judges, to which she had to go, only he could
help her - to the people, by the people.

People!

That was the mystery of the agony they did because people had not felt
that they merely tolerated and not tested? They lived and they are
not recognized? Was everything just been playing, what they had with
them pleasant lie?

These alliances were all void, and with this Füreinandersein, it was
worthless, the delight of the reprehensible things that Beschwingung and
the quest Gaukelei vain, and what they are entitled to the gnawing
suspicion? What had paralyzed the wing force, the undaunted faith shattered?
How were the doubts come? Words only. Words could have such power? But
behind the words were the faces, here the face of a hypocrite, then the
face of a legal person, here, by the lazy enjoyment was devastated,
then one that had drawn the hunger, and especially _sein_ face tough
Robert Lamb, disturbed , bitter, judge face.

You had to go to him. She wanted to have peace, they wanted to
have more evidence, with a verdict to which they could help, a path which
leads back into the sun.

They endured it not, in hatred against the world to lose. * * * *
* Mrs.

Khuenbeck had with the Hofrat because of a guardianship matter to speak,
it was Ferdinand's future. She had written him several times before
he decided to come.

His visit fell on a day in the carnival, and Ingbert Ferdinand had
agreed together to a masked ball to go, Olivia also was subject to
several acquaintances had been invited to participate, but had
refused.

Robert Lamb sat with his wife at the table and Khuenbeck overload
some Certificates, as occurred Ingbert and Ferdinand and a friend
of the latter with noise and laughter into the room.

One was a vagabond, the other as Indians, the third dressed as an
Italian fisherman.

Ms. Khuenbeck rose, bright surprised Olivia smiled and stood on the
threshold.

Miene Robert Lamb expressed pleasure, and he even clapped applause. After
a jocular verbal exchange with the young people began to report from
redoubts, where he this or that adventurous and unusual costume was a
stir. It requires much imagination to such events add spice to lend, he
said, and described a celebration of the former, in which outstanding
individuals, writers, actors, diplomats, dancers witty incursions
by himself would have done.

He gave some anecdotes from those times at the best, the narrator's
brilliant talent put into the light, short, he was so tidy, so
entertaining, and despite the cynicism, the secret or undisguised
always, in his words, was so winning, that all on his lips hung and
not conceal their regret when he cancels, and, suddenly dry and
wooden politely recommended.

Olivia was in hat and coat, because some purchases in the city
wanted to make.

They joined the Hofrat, and he seemed pleased about it.

His unexpected communicativeness redemptive they had earned, they
drew hope that his presence seemed to be no longer a risk to abstain.

Silently they went side by side. It was evening, many people were on
the road. The Hofrat bent from the main roads into the quieter,
but even there he said no.

Initially eyes Olivia silence this course, but when she watches him, she
noticed that his face dark and was hostile. You frightened they could
not explain the transformation, they feared him hurt to have wanted to
ask, but gave no word on the lips.

Always balancing sustaining crippling was always his silence, and
he appeared to her a cruel and mysterious.

You would have to be able to adopt him, but she was unable to execute
the intent.

The direction in which they went, was far from their goal, what forced
them to follow him? She felt like she was beginning to pale and a
strange horror they beschlich.

Suddenly, he stopped. They were already behind the belt, and instead
of the electric arc lamps burned Fahle Gaslaternen.

He put both hands on both her shoulders, looked sharp and asked:
"Why do not you come to me?"

Mute looked at the ground. "Come tomorrow," he said mandatory. A car drove
up the road. He called on the handlebars, Olivia asked where they wish
to drive, helped her into the carriage, gave the man money, lüpfte
the hat and hurried out. * * * * * When she at the other afternoon
in the Villa came, told her Gerold servant of the Lord Hofrat was
in the garden.

Gradually phasing them through the alleys and on the ways and
finally saw him on a bed, where he harkte. Nearby dug the gardener
and his accomplice to the earth. He waved to her, she stopped and waited.
After a while he appeared to her. He immediately began to speak of
Ferdinand and said the young man was in the process to verludern;
he had with the mother talked about him, and they had agreed that
it would be best if we sent him to Germany.

An aspiring engineer there would offer better prospects and a richer
field of activity than here, where all power will be broken and
talent and diligence of the fleeting pleasure victim to fall.

Another plan, which he also Khuenbeck woman brought to the discharge
was the a housing change.

The apartment in the elegant neighborhood was too expensive, and Ms.
Khuenbeck she had been terminated a few weeks ago. She had not yet
found a suitable home, and because it had Robert Lamm advised in
its vicinity, to the country.

Coincidentally, he had heard that in a house in Pötzleinsdorf an
apartment of three rooms for rent was cheap, he had been there this
morning, and since everything in desirable state showed that he
rented the same apartment.

In fourteen days they could übersiedeln, Olivia may align it at home.

"Thou hast only a few minutes walk to me," he concluded, "can come
whenever you want and here in the garden walk.

If you's want, judge 'I give you a pavilion, as you can sit and dream.
There, the roundabout between the chestnut, from May, it is entirely
buried in flowers. Admittedly, it is better not to dream, it's better,
the eyes remain open, so you will not be cheated. "Olivia as the
mother reluctantly left from the old apartment, where she has been
the death of the professor lived. Olivia appeared to become an
unwanted condition raped, and as the new home they were related,
she came like a exiles before, cut off from all sources. They
suppressed their feelings, to dull the mother does not wake up, the
Hofrat that sometimes came over them, and the detuning was in malicious
remarks. To that time there was the abundance of flowers in his garden,
and he once sent a carload of potted plants, with whom Olivia, the
windows and balconies adorned, until the poor and poor freshness of the
room was veiled. In May Ferdinand traveled to Berlin , a larger provision
contrary. His friends gave him a farewell party, and the separation of
mother and sister he was not easy. Olivia could not find long, his
Mitdasein she always been so obvious, now missing his joke, his gracious
freedom to all hours. Ms. Khuenbeck had the plans to the Hofrat in
relation to future Ferdinand had developed, always willing
beigestimmt; the achievement, she added her as an injustice, and
they adopted a grudge against Robert Lamb.

This was much talk between lamb and Olivia. He spoke bitterly about
the ingratitude of the mother and mocked about their snivelling
weakness. »Profit and add nothing to a business do they want
all," he said scornfully, "others are working for themselves and the
rest of his merry, merry be heirassassa." "Had your father understood
how to run a business, then you do not brauchtet how to live stunted, "he
said another time," he has in some years, sixty-, seventy-, eighty
thousand crowns earned, and if he only had half back, so it would
have today a sizeable fortune.

Instead, it was everything for the kitchen and the basement is wasted,
every day open table, a dozen boarders who fattens the stomach and if
they had turned their backs to the mouth, torn, because they never got
enough; Schöntuer and toady who to never ausborgten money, servants,
like the raven stole, indeed, it was great! The heart was bleeding one
if you're watching.

There was nothing to improve such living was considered aristocratic,
none made it different, it was a gentleman, you could not come off, they
each benefit overpayment, and each tip Schubiak could be inserted,
if he only knew eager to bow and scrape.

And so we stop where we are, my love. Not only you and your dear
mother, but around the whole company, the entire country, close to
bankruptcy, ripe for collapse. "Olivia wanted to preserve the memory of
his father geschmäht not know, and defended it by pointing to his kindness
and his magnanimous Sinnesart . This was a bad grade, one's own flesh
and blood of the concern about supply, just because the temptation of the
moment more than that reason, the answer was, a bad generosity to each
rag to be willed and full of the fruits of painstaking work to a bunch
of parasites raises its head. "You speak so, as you would have hated
my father," was outraged by Olivias mouth. Robert Lamm was stiffly
upwards. "Hated? He was my friend. "-" Well, then! "-" What, then? At
first, I have him our disease states, he, in his humanity and honesty,
I was a symbol of our destruction.

The performance in itself, even the excellent, nothing like
the character almost allerreinste only stands as an anomaly, if he
does not has the power to effect transformation. Yes, I was his friend,
I know how he has worked all his life how unselfish he was dedicated
to his profession.

But I was an enemy of its softness, its vulnerability, its
Augenblicklertums, his Allesiebengradeseinlassens. "And he came
to certain conditions at the clinic, which was already himself would
have done today and had advanced to the scandal. Khuenbeck the
mischief had not managed to control and sighing revealed. He had
never been capable scheming to spin, but he did not bear the thought
may be that other clamping scheming against him. That's why he
was not even shrunk to humiliate, if there is an adversary was to
be reconciled, and often was it happened that he is a colleague of him
on the street greeted with challenging cold, a visit had to be determined
by the reason of his change of mind to inquire. There was then talk
and talk, the gaping crack, the good of evil, purity of beastliness
retires, either with phrases, and insurance zugestopft blandishments,
and finally had to shake hands in friendship, so everything was
still the old and the sloppy fat've used.

"At the end of his life he has become tired and sad and probably a
saw what he had innocently in debt," said Robert Lamb.

"One evening, it was shortly before the trip he replayability, which
he is not returned, he told me the story of one of his pupils.

The highly-talented young man had the malaria bacillus discovered he
was bettelarm, and because he was politically compromised, he could never
support, and all its applications for scholarships were any decision.
In the desperation that he intended for the production of the
serum, thus capitalizing on its discovery necessary funds in no way
could afford, he committed the Eselei, to counterfeit banknotes.

The case came to light of course, he was convicted longtime dungeon,
and so was his livelihood destroyed.

Your father was very close to the case has gone, he had on the work of
the young professionals comrades heard, he knew what his difficulties
in the way were difficulties that we encounter each, wants something,
and something something is.

When he chose to intervene, it was already too late. Of course he was
not sure that his Dazwischen If the disaster had been averted.

For the first time I saw him very depressed, tired and in his nature,
he complained to the regime, the regime was responsible for all
evil. Well, this song was known to me. The regime is like the dragon in
the tale of the Virgin as a tasty morsel required; general wailing
and teeth rattling, ranting and cursing, but the dragon does not
exist, and the virgins will be delivered. In the fairy tale appears tailor
the brave and make the beast the Garaus; I would not live there,
like a tailor we would traktiert; the harassment and tricks and
gravity would have his heroic verleiden when it actually came out,
and the hand of the princess would be to reward him a kick. " 'The
voice, the voice,' Olivia had kept thinking, she's painfully shrill,
nagging voice, painfully so Schelten, Raunzen, venom and Höhne.

They longed for a voice, the sound had depth and was not drilled
into the interior like a screw.

They would often ask him like, to speak softly, but she dared not,
because he was sensitive, he threw it anyway but at every opportunity
its Verzärtlichung and Versüßlichung before and mocked on the
Rührmichnichtan, which stood in their face.

He snatched her Piece by piece her inner possession. What he touched
with his words, has been devalued and entheiligt. Sometimes she leaned
on his world and for mankind, but their reasons paltriness drew
him only scorn.

His experience was never embarrassed to examples, to the facts
they had to bend. At first she believed him something, he can become
something. They pointed to the great works that the great Creator, the
great thoughts of mankind. He called it a pious gossip, and people talked
only about how it was at the newspaper, on the stroke celebrate the orgies
of corruption, under-the-line beauty and morality would be preached,
which is cheap to have and that nobody in charge falls.

They reminded him of his friend, the musician, who collected so
many, so many inflames; contemptuous he laughed and asked if they
not know that you are with the poisonous hatred and formally
prosecuted in the death had hunted.

They knew nothing about it, he reported details that told how the
great man had suffered, as against the end of his life to himself
and his art to save, no other way have seen, than to flee the country
and how he in America by stressful hiking trips have aroused the
disease which in its stern-term train set a goal.

Since sounded from the past-the wonderfully sonorous voice, after
which Olivia gesehnt, the voice of the upturn, soul voice, now
stifled and lost, and they shivered let the blackness vulnerable
to falling down. * * * * * Robert Lamb avoided it, so he called
them, they are still reluctant, so he came himself He was the
strongest, with an iron fist, he moved them into his dark realm.

He forced them, with his eyes to see, he belud with its painful, in
fact, noble, but also powerless bitterness. When they exercise, that
she only saw with his eyes, tired every nerve in her. With one last
effort, they sought to liberate.

In Senoner was a ball, she was invited and went. As an excellent dancer,
she was wooed them vividly, but already at the first waltz they
seized a horror before the wrap a wild strange people.

All their faces appeared to grimace distorted in all she saw something
threatening, mean and figs. The lights did it hurt, the laughter and
jokes, Nina Senoner cordiality, all movement, music and words, all
it did hurt.

Jeanette, daughter Nina, a girl of sparkling temperament, carefree
like an elf, followed by Olivia at every step; it was like bewitches
the beautiful girlfriend of her mother, and Nina, who is noticing it,
smiled and quietly asked Olivia, but she may come back to her as before.
But Olivia did not believe in the sincerity of this request, a strange
and cold stone expression , which is almost never Ninas melancholy most
trains, aback and made them suspicious, and in one second looking
visionary, it was her as gape between this mother and this daughter of
an abyss from which both have sensed nothing. In another district, she
few days later a Russian singers know, the first little attention, but
when he then, for men and women assails, sang songs of his homeland, was
in the depths of her heart stirred. Drunk, she went home and wanted
nothing more than the singer once again be heard. She knew that he had
on a given evening there would be omitted and not to einzufinden.

It was a comfortable house in which all sorts of free and semi-casual
people wrong.

During her admission, she was welcomed by George Ingbert, they showed
neither surprise nor pleasure.

The Russians had hardly spoken, but there was a secret understanding
between her and him.
A spit of red wrath, clenching its fists and squalling threats at a
damned disobedient universe."

The doctor was struck by an idea and glanced quickly and questioningly
at his companion's profile.

"Blind driving force," said Sir Richmond, musing.

"Isn't that after all what we really are?" he asked the doctor.
"Essentially--Rage. A rage in dead matter, making it alive."

"Schopenhauer," footnoted the doctor. "Boehme."

"Plain fact," said Sir Richmond. "No Rage--no Go."

"But rage without discipline?"

"Discipline afterwards. The rage first."

"But rage against what? And FOR what?"

"Against the Universe. And for--? That's more difficult. What IS the
little beast squalling itself crimson for? Ultimately? ... What is it
clutching after? In the long run, what will it get?"

I got my face full of wrinkles, not by years but by the moments and
hours longer than ever!

And I can still live! ¡Crowned summits of the ice, avalanges that can
separate a breath of the mountains come to confuse! I have heard many
times you shoot in the valleys mass destruction, but you are not loved
aniquilais but still want to live, the young plants a forest cottage
or hut of the innocent farmer.

Hunter. The fog began to rise in the center of the valley, I will warn
you that down is to risk losing both the path and life. MANFREDO.
vapors are crowded around the ice, clouds are white and sulphurous
flake-like foam that jumps above the infernal abyss, where each
burmugeante wave will break on the coast where the meeting is doomed
as the stones in the sea.

A vertigo seizes me. The hunter with caution by us overwhelmed by fear
not: it seems that it falters. MANFREDO. The mountains have opened a
path through the clouds, and with his trembling shock have all the
mountains of the Alps, covering the green valleys of debris, stopping
the course of the river by its sudden drop, reducing its turbillones
water vapor and forcing the spring to form a new mother.

So he fell into the bush Rosemberg once mined for years.

What has not fallen on me the hunter.

Friends beware! another step could be the fatal serosa. For the love
of the Creator, not permanezcais at the edge of the precipice. [Without
continuous Manfredo hear.] MANFREDO. ¡It would have been a tomb
worthy of Manfredo!

my bones would have rested in peace under such a monument had not been
sown on the rocks, toys vile winds, how they will be, after I rushed
there ... ¡A Dios sky, your eyes that I did not rebuke my action, you're
not made for me!

Land, I will return your atoms! [When Manfredo is going to
settle down, he grabs the hunter and he stops.]

Hunter. Stop! foolish: if you Halles weary of life, no manches our peaceful
valleys with your guilty blood.

Come with me, I will not let you. MANFREDO. Desolated my heart ...

Oops, I did not stop more ... I'm fail ... The mountains turn in
front of me as if they were turbillones. I process live ... Who are you
the hunter. I will answer later, come with me. Clouds appease. Apóyate
on my arm and put your foot here ... Take this stick and this time has a
tree and give me your hand do not leave my belt ... Slowly ... Well ...
An hour from now we will be in the house where they make cheese.
Value, then find a much more secure passage, a sort of trail opened by a
torrent of winter ... Come on, see which is good.

You'd been a hunter escelente; follow me .... [They descend to work
through the rocks.] END OF ACT FIRST. ACT II, SCENE FIRST. [The theater
represents a hut in the Alps.] MANFREDO AND HUNTER suede. THE HUNTER.
No, no, stand still, partireis later, your spirit and your body are
in need of more rest. Few hours from now you will better serve to
guide you, but where to go? MANFREDO. I know the way and do not
need guides.

The hunter.

Your clothes and your air announce birth of a distinguished man,
you no doubt you are one of lords whose castles dominate the valleys,
what is your home?

I do not know but the door of the great palaces.

My way of life seldom leads me to his large home, there to sit around
the fire with their vassals, but the trail that leads me to these castles
are very known since my childhood. Which is where you belong? MANFREDO.
Soon you care. Hunter. And good! perdonadme my questions, but be more
cheerful dignaos. Come to taste my wine is very old, many times I have
been comforted in the heart of our ice, use it to revive your value.
Come on, drink together. MANFREDO. Separate separates the cup! Edges are
wet with blood, do not ever see you this blood buried under the
earth, the hunter. Quereis What say? ¿Your senses are troubled? MANFREDO.
I say it is my blood, my own blood, pure blood that runs in the veins of
our parents and our own, when in the early days of our youth had but one
heart, and we Had we not loved as ever due to love. This blood has been
spilled, but rises from the earth forever and will tint the clouds that
I closed the entrance to heaven, not where you are and where I
will not be ever!

The hunter. Man unique in your words, who undoubtedly pursue some remorse
and delirium who says the ghosts! whatever your fears and your sorrows,
yet there is consolation to you at the mercy of the righteous men and
patience .... MANFREDO. The patience! And always the patience this word
was created for men and not amenable to birds of prey ... Preaches
patience to the deadly dust formed with the miserable, I'm from another
species. Hunter. Thank God! I would not want to be yours for the glory
of William Tell. But whatever evil that oppresses you, it must be supported,
and all those convulsive movements are useless.

MANFREDO. I stand extensively. Look at me: I live. Hunter. You shake
with terror, but not live. MANFREDO. I reply that I have lived many
years and did not count for anything in the day compared to where
I need to live.

I see before me for centuries, the infinite, eternity, my conscience
and the burning thirst of death that haunts me endlessly.

CAZADOR EL. Hardly recognized on your face the age of manhood, I
tell you many more years.

MANFREDO. Do you think that the existence depends on the time? Actions;
see our times.

Mine have multiplied my days and my nights at infinity, have made
countless as the grains of sand on a shore, and have become an
arid desert Renting and ice cream come to breathe the waves to
retreat but do not leave corpses, rubble of rocks and some bitter
herbs.

Hunter. Oh! has lost the trial, but I have not abandoned me.
MANFREDO. What has not lost as you say! Now I see everything that is
merely the dream of a sick brain. Hunter. What do you see it, or do you
think? MANFREDO. you and me, a peasant of the Alps, your modest virtues,
your cottage hospital your courageous patience, your soul is arrogant
and self-loving, your respect for yourself based on your innocence,
your days filled with health, your nights devoted to sleep, your
work and ennobled by the risk of crime ESENT however, your hope a
blessed old age and a peaceful grave, where a cross and a wreath
of flowers adorned the lawns, and which serve as the epitaph of
your grandchildren and tender feelings: this is what I see, and if
I look inside myself. .. but it is not long, my heart was aching
and the hunter .....

Do not exchange your luck with taste for mine? MANFREDO. No, my friend,
I would not want to make a change so disastrous strike you, and
not you would any other living thing.

Only, I can resist my anguish, alone, can bear to live as other men might
not know, even in dreams, without losing life. CAZADOR.

How with this generous interest in your like, you can see full of
crimes?

constantly telling me, A man capable of feeling so sweet can be sacrificed
to their fury on their enemies? MANFREDO. No, Never! I have been cruel
to those who loved me, those whom I loved. I have never given a blow
to an enemy, but in my self-defense, but alas! My caresses were fatal.
Hunter. What heaven restore tranquility to your soul! What repentance
you return to yourself! I promise you my prayers. MANFREDO. There is
no need for them, but do not despise your mercy, I retreat; God. I
leave you this pocket, my thanks also, do not refuse ... This is due
reward you ... I do not follow ... I know my way, I do not have to cross
the dangerous mountain trails, I repeat again that I do not want to
follow. [Manfredo is going.] SCENE II. [The theater is one of the
valley Alpine immediately cataract.] MANFREDO. The sun is not in the
middle of his career, and rainbows that crowns the stream receives
its rays of beautiful colors [1]. Estienden water on the rocks declivio
her mantle of silver, and foam that rises like a jet, looks like the
tail of the huge, pale horse of the apocalypse is coming on Death. My
eyes just enjoy the moment of this magnificent spectacle, I am alone in
this peaceful solitude, and I enjoy the homage of the waterfall with
the genius of this place. Call. [Manfredo takes a few drops of
water in the hollow of his hand and throws her into the air saying magic
spell. After a moment of silence is the charm of the Alps under
the rainbow torrent.] Spirit! Beauty of a witch, I can admire your
hair light, eyes shining and divine forms that meet all of the
spells daughters of men to a carrier substance and the essence of the
purest elements! The color of your skin look like the sky that
hermosea the vermilion megillas a child asleep in his mother and cradled
with your heart, look like the color pink to drop the last rays of the
day on snow the blizzards, and that can go wrong with the rosy pudica
of land receiving the caresses of the sky. Your appearance softens
the bright glow of the arch crown you, I read on your face reflects
the serene calm of your immortal soul, I read that you forgive a
son of the earth, whom they sometimes communicate worthy spirits
of the elements the courage to make use of magic to call you the
secrets to their presence and contemplate for a moment.

La Encantada in the Alps.

Son on earth, I know you, also the secrets you need your power, you
know a man deep thoughts, Estremo in evil and good, fatal to others
and yourself, you hope, what do you want from me?

MANFREDO. admire your beauty, nothing more.

The appearance of the land, I dipped into despair seeking refuge
in its mysteries, some fled the spirits that govern it, but they
can not help me, I asked them what they can not give me, I will not
ask anything more.

La Encantada. What, then, is what we ask that can not concedértelo those
who can govern everything and invisible elements? MANFREDO. Why repeat
the record of my pain? would be in vain. La Encantada. I do not
know, be kind enough to referírmelos. MANFREDO. Good! for it is cruel
to me this confession to speak my pain. In my youth, my spirit did
not agree with the souls of men, and could not look at the earth with
love. The ambition that I devoured the other was unknown, its purpose
was not mine ... my joys, my sorrows, my passions and my character
seems to me in the middle of a strange world. Though clad in the same way
that meat the creatures that surround me, I did not feel any sympathy
for them ... one ... but I speak of it later. My pleasures were
going through the desert to breathe the air of the mountains covered
with ice on top of which the birds would not have dared to build their
nest, and where the bare granite herbs is desert winged insects.

Liked to cross the waters of the furious torrent, or flying over the
angry waves of the ocean, I was proud to exercise my strength against
the swift currents, like during the night to observe the silent
march of the moon shining and the course of star gazed fixedly
lightning during the storms until he would be dazzled my eyes, or
heard the falling of the leaves when the autumn winds came to strip
the forest.

They were my pleasures, and such was my love of solitude, that if
the men, whom I grieved to be brother, was my step, I felt humiliated
and degraded, until no longer like them, but a creature of clay.

In my delirious walks fell to the depth of the caverns of death to
study its effects in their causes, and from the piles of bones and
dust of the tombs, I dared to use that criminals; devoted evenings
to learn the secret sciences forgotten long ago.

Thanks to my work and I reveal, the evidence and the terrible conditions
we put on the land, air, and the spirits despueblan space and the
infinite, my eyes familiar with Eternity, as it had in the past the
magical and the philosopher who relied on their deep withdrawal
Eros and Antero [2].

With my science grew my burning desire to learn, and my power enagenamiento
of brilliant intelligence ....

La Encantada.

Acaba. MANFREDO . Ah! I was pleased to dwell in vain Este on these attributes,
because the more I approach the time they discover the wound of
my heart ... but I continue: I have not yet named, nor father, nor
mother, nor wanted, nor friend with whom I was united by knots human
father, mother, dear friend, these titles were nothing for me, but
had a THE CHARMING .... muger.

Dare to charge you yourself: is continuing. MANFREDO.

It seemed as esterior in the eyes, the hair on her features, and even
in his metal voice, but it was all Smooth and beautiful attractions.
Like I had a decided love for the solitude, the secret love of science
and a soul able to embrace the universe, but also had the compassion,
the gift of hospitality and tears, a tender ... that alone could
inspire, and a modesty that I never had.

I belong to his faults: his virtues were all theirs. I loved her and
deprived of life. La Encantada. With your own hands? MANFREDO. With
my own hands! No, that was my withered heart, and he smashed his
own.

He spilled his blood, but it was not his. Their blood has run,
however, I vislo torn chest and I could not heal their wounds.

La Encantada. Is that all you have to say? Despite being part of a race
you despise you, you who want to ennoble elevándote us can forget
the gifts of our knowledge and sublime thoughts into the low to
death!

you do not recognize.

MANFREDO. ¡Hija air!

you protest, a day after fatal ... But a word is wasted breath, come
and see me in my sleep, or the hours of my Desvelos, come sit by
my side, I have ceased to be alone, my solitude is disturbed by
the furies.

In my anger gnashed their teeth at night while estiende their shadows
on the earth, and from dawn until the sun never ceased cursing.

He claimed the loss as a reason for my benefit, and I have not been granted:
he faced death, but in the midst of war of the elements, the seas have
withdrawn my presence. The poisons have lost all its activity, the icy
hands of a cruel demon stopped me on the edge of the cliffs by a
single hair that I did not want to break.

In vain my fertile imagination has created divisions in which it
has thrown my dear soul, I have been rejected, as if by a wave of
enemies in the depths of my terrible thoughts.

He sought oblivion in the middle of the world, I have searched
everywhere and never have I found, my magic secret, my long studies in
a supernatural art, has given everything to my despair. I live and I
am an eternal threat. La Encantada . Maybe I can ease your woes.
MANFREDO. would be necessary to call the dead to life or make them drop
from the grave. Try to revive the ashes and made their appear under
any form and at any time whatsoever; cuts the thread of my days,
whatever the pain that accompanies my agony, however, at least it
will be the last.

La Encantada. neither one thing nor the other is in my dock, but if you
want to swear blind obedience to my will and submit to my orders, will
find useful in fulfilling your wishes. MANFREDO. I swear! I obey! Who?
the spirits that domain. I come to be the slave of whom I recognized
by their Lord ... Never! La Encantada. Is that all your answers? Do not
have more candy? Think of it well before you deny what you propose!
MANFREDO. I said no. La Encantada. Because I can retire, spoke.
MANFREDO. Retire. [The Lovely disappears.] MANFREDO _solo_. We are the
victim of time and our terrors, and each day we are presented with new
penalties, but we live cursing life and fearing death. Groaning under the
yoke that oppresses us, and loaded with the weight of life, our heart
beats, but not at such times as esperimentamos any inconvenience, or
some perfidious ends enjoyment by cruel anguish, and the estenuacion
and weakness.

Martineau sought information.

"I suppose," he said, "there was a sensuous element in these dreamings?"

"Certainly. A very strong one. It didn't dominate but it was a very
powerful undertow."

"Was there any tendency in all this imaginative stuff to concentrate?
To group itself about a single figure, the sort of thing that Victorians
would have called an ideal?"

"Not a bit of it," said Sir Richmond with conviction. "There was always
a tremendous lot of variety in my mind. In fact the thing I liked least
in the real world was the way it was obsessed by the idea of pairing off
with one particular set and final person. I liked to dream of a blonde
goddess in her own Venusberg one day, and the next I would be off over
the mountains with an armed Brunhild."

"You had little thought of children?"

"As a young man?"

"Yes."

"None at all. I cannot recall a single philoprogenitive moment. These
dream women were all conceived of, and I was conceived of, as being
concerned in some tremendous enterprise--something quite beyond
domesticity. It kept us related--gave us dignity.... Certainly it wasn't
babies."

"All this is very interesting, very interesting, from the scientific
point of view. A PRIORI it is not what one might have expected.
Reasoning from the idea that all instincts and natural imaginations are
adapted to a biological end and seeing that sex is essentially a method
of procreation, one might reasonably expect a convergence, if not a
complete concentration, upon the idea of offspring. Abbot. May peace
be with Count Manfredo. MANFREDO. Thank you, my father: that you
are welcome in the castle, your presence is my honor and a blessing
for those who inhabit it. Abbot. I want a count, but I would like
to tell without witnesses. MANFREDO. Herman, retire. What do I want my
respectable guest? Abbot. I speak bluntly: my hair and my zeal, my
ministry and my pious intentions will excuse me: I also invoked as a
neighbor, but we rarely visit. Several voices strange and scandalous
outrages your name, a name famous for many centuries. Ah! Let us hope
that may be transferred without blemish to your descendants! MANFREDO.
Further, I hear. Abbot. Secrets are said to have studied that are not
allowed on the curiosity of man, and that you have been in communication
with the inhabitants of the dark purple and with the multitude of
evil spirits who are wandering in the valley to the tree that gives
shade of death.

I know that Vivis trying very withdrawn and very rarely with men
like you, know that your solitude is as severe as that of a wise
hermit, and it is not so holy!

MANFREDO. And who are these voices that estienden ? Abbot. My brothers
in God, the frightened villagers, who are watching your own vassals
your concern. Your life is the greatest danger. MANFREDO. My life?

I will abandon it. Abbot. I have come to seek your salvation, and not
your loss ...

I do not want to penetrate the secrets of your soul, but if what you
say is true, it is time to do penance and mercy impetradas ; reconciled
with the true church, and you reconcile this with the sky. MANFREDO.
I understand, see my answer.

I was and what I do not know it but the sky and me.

Not select a mediator by mortal Have I broken some laws? it is proved
and punished me. Abbot. My son, I have not talked about it for
punishment and forgiveness and repentance: you must choose who you are,
our dogmas and our faith have given me the power of leading
sinners by the path of hope and virtue, and I leave to heaven the right
to punish: "Vengeance belongs to me alone," said Lord, with humility
and its venerable servant repeats these words.

MANFREDO.

Anciano, no thing you can boot the live feeling of the heart of their
crimes, their sentences and the punishment inflicted on himself: nothing:
neither the piety of the ministers of heaven, nor the prayers, or
penance, or a contrite face, nor fasting, nor anxiety, nor the torments
of that deep despair that haunts us through the daunting without
remorse in hell, but that alone would suffice to make a hell of heaven.
There is no torment like coming to practice justice on the one that
condemns and punishes himself. Abbot. These sentiments are laudable,
it will some day rise to a hope more sweet. Vos atrevereis you to
look with a tender confidence dichosa dwelling that is open to all who
seek it, regardless of their mistakes have been on earth, but it must
begin to spy on the need to know to execute it. .. Continue Count Manfredo
. all we can know our faith is quedareis wash and will teach you
everything that we could absolve. MANFREDO sesto When the emperor of
Rome saw his last hours to get there, the victim of an injury that was
done with his own hand to avoid the shame of torture that he was preparing
a Senate that was once a slave soldier touched his appearance in a
generous piety, he wanted his clothing stall with the blood of the
emperor: the Roman expired and you can not say with a look that still
expressed their former power: It's too late! Is this your loyalty? Abbot.
Quereis What to say? MANFREDO. Responds as it is too late. Abbot.
Reconciliaros never to be with your soul, and to reconcile with God. Do
not you have and hope?

I admired: those who despair of creating heaven on earth is a ghost
to them as a weak branch to the one that grabs a bastard is drowning.

MANFREDO. Ah! my father, I also in my youth I had dreams and terrestrial
noble inspirations! then had wanted to conquer the hearts of men and
educate a whole people, had wanted to rise, but did not know how tall
... perhaps to return to fall, but fall to the waterfall in the mountains,
which precipitated from the top of pride rock, a wave builds up
underground in the depths of an abyss, but still formidable, he returned
to climb steadily up into the heavens columns that turn into vapor clouds
rainy. This time passed, my thoughts have been deceived themselves.
Abbot. Why? MANFREDO. I could not humiliate my pride, because to
be able mandar algun dia, it is necessary first to obey, fawn and
beg, to spy cases, multiplied to be everywhere, and made a habit
of hiding the truth; see achieves the master as cowardly and low
spirits, and so are those of men in general.

To disregard the part of a litter of wolves even though it has been
to guide them.

The lion is alone in the forest living, I'm just like the lion.

Abbot. Why not live and act like other men?

MANFREDO. Without being born cruel, my heart did not love the living
creatures would have wanted to find a terrible loneliness, but
not formármela myself, I wanted to be like the wild _Simoun_ that only
inhabits the desert, and whose breath devouring not only disrupts a
barren sea of sand where his anger is not fatal to any tree, no
search of the dwelling men, but it is very terrible for those who
come to face.

Such has been the course of my life, and while I have lived I have
found objects that no longer exist.

Abbot. I begin to fear that my pity and my ministry can not serosa useful.
So young yet ... cost me a lot .... MANFREDO. Look, there are some
deaths in the earth that are old and in his youth who die before
having reached the summer of his life, and have not sought the death
in combat. Some are victims of the pleasures, the other study, these
because of work and those by the nuisance. Some of them die of disease,
dementia, or at the end of sentences of the heart, and this disease,
giving in all forms and under all names, makes it more devastating
than war. Look, for none of these evils which I have not suffered, and
one is enough to end the life of a man. Do not admireis because of
who I am, but if sorprendeos that has existed and is still on earth.
Abbot. Dignaos however .... listen MANFREDO [_con viveza_.] Elder,
revered respect your ministry and your gray, and I think your intentions
are pious, but in vain. I supongais easy credulity, and only by the
consideration that we have, avoided a longer conversation.

A God. [Manfredo is going.]

Abbot. This man could have been a marvelous creature, and as it presents
an amazing chaos. A blend of light and darkness, of grandeur and
dust, and passions generous thoughts, which in its confusion and its
disorders, are in inaction or threaten to destroy everything.

The energy of his heart was to encourage better combined elements:
it will perish and I would save him. Let's make a second attempt,
a soul like yours very well deserved win for the sky. I ordered my duty
to try everything to get good, I will, but be cautious. [The Abbot is.]
SCENE II. [Another room.] HERMAN AND MANFREDO. HERMAN. Sir, you ordered
me to come no a á find yourself after sundown; vedle that Eclipse is
behind the mountain. MANFREDO. Good! I contemplated. [Manfredo is
advanced towards the window of the room.] Astro glorious, beloved
children in the world by the race of hardy men, the giants of the
angels born with a sex, more beautiful than themselves, brought down
sin in the minds escarriados, banished forever from the sky [4];
glorious star, you were worshiped as the god of the world, before
the mystery was revealed in creation, a masterpiece of the Almighty,
you were the first to regocijastes the heart of the Chaldean shepherds
on the summit of the mountains, and the recognition they soon
inspired the homage you went; divinity material, you're the great
unknown of the image you've chosen for you to be his shadow, king
of the stars and the center of a thousand constellations, to you
is to whom should the land preservation; father of seasons, climates
and king of men: the inspirations of our hearts, and factions in
our faces are influenced by your rays .

There is nothing to match the pomp of your departure from your course
and start your ... God, no longer see you again, my first glance of love
and admiration for you was, is also the last, never lighting a
mortal, whom the gift of your light and your heat have been more
fatal soft that It has hidden me ... ...

I follow him. [Manfredo is going.]

SCENE III. [On one hand are the mountains and on the other castle
Manfredo and a tower with a roof. Start the night.] HERMAN, MANUEL
_y other reared Manfredo_. HERMAN. It is strange that after many
years, Count Manfredo has spent every night without witnesses to
ensure within this tower. I entered it, we do not know all the
inside, but nothing of which locks have been instructed what makes our
master.

It is true that there is one quarter in which none of us has, I
would all I have to surprise you when you are busy in their mysteries.

MANUEL. This may not be safe; conténtate with what you know.

HERMAN. Ah ! Manuel, you are wise and discreet as an old, but you
could tell us many things. How long have you live in this castle?
MANUEL. I've seen the birth of the Count Manfredo, then served as his
father, which bears very little. HERMAN. The same is true for
many children, but how do they differ from their own Count Segismundo?
MANUEL. I'm not talking about the factions, but of the heart and
the kind of life.

Count Sigismund was arrogant, but cheerful and frank: like the war
and the table and was very fond of books and to solitude, not in
the dark nights in Desvelos; his were devoted to feasts and
entertainment.

You will not be looked to go wandering through the mountains or the
forests as a wild wolf, not of fleeing men or their pleasures.

HERMAN. For my life! Long live those happy times! I'd like to see the
joy that came back to visit these old walls! Seems to have forgotten
everything. MANUEL. It was necessary to first change of the castle
lord.

Oh I've seen strange things here, Herman! HERMAN.

And good! dígnate to trust me, tell me some things to pass the time:
I have vaguely heard about what happened in the past on this same
tower. MANUEL. I remember one evening in the dusk, an evening such as
this the red cloud that crowns the mountain was in the same Eigher
Paraga, and maybe it was the same cloud, the wind was weak and
tempestuous, the moon began to shine on the mantle of snow covered
mountains; Count Manfredo was and now in its tower, what over there?
ignore it, but it was the only companion of his solitary walks and of
their efforts, the only living thing to those that love and the ties of
blood was ordered, it is true, was his beloved Astarte, was his ... Who
is there? [Sign Abbot of St. Mauritius.] Abbot. Where do you love?
HERMAN. It's in the tower. The Abbot must I speak. Manuel is impossible,
he is alone, and we is forbidden to bring anyone. Abbot. I took over
me ... I need to see. HERMAN. Do not you You have already seen this
afternoon? Abbot. Herman, I ordered it, look to knock at the door and
prevent the count on my visit. HERMAN. We do not dare . Abbot. And good!
I'm going to advertise myself. MANUEL. My respectable father, deteneos,
I beg. Abbot. Why? MANUEL. Wait a moment, and I in another esplicaré
Parag. [They leave.] SCENE IV. [Internals the tower.] MANFREDO _solo_.
The stars are in order in the sky, the moon is reflected on the
summit of snow-capped mountains: admirable show!

still know that I love nature, because the appearance of the night
I was more familiar than those of men, and it's in their quiet and
lonely darkness, under the starry vault of heaven, where he learned
the language from another universe .

I remember that when traveling in time of my youth, I found myself in a
similar night in the grounds of the Coliseum in the midst of all that
remains of the largest city of Romulus. Viso a grim darkened Ramage of
the trees growing on the ruined arches, and the stars shone through the
cracks that had those ruins. In the distance the barking of dogs
resounded in the other margin of the Tiber, but near me, the mournful
cry of owls left the palace of Caesar, and the wind brought me the
song sounds dying of night sentries.

As part of the gap, that time has opened the circus, which seemed
cypresses adorn the horizon and only in the distance of a shot in the
same places, which were the home of the Caesars, and in the day are
inhabited by nocturnal birds that make their songs heard dark, tower
over the walls demolished trees whose roots are intertwined in the
imperial residence, and the creeping ivy creeps breeding ground for
the laurel, but the bloody circus of gladiators, noble and imposing
ruin, is still standing, while the marble palaces of Augustus Caesar
and no debris on the land but ignored.

You lighting your rays to the former queen of the world, astrology
peaceful night, you drop a dejabas pale and melancholy light which
softens the appearance of their old and painful debris, and filled
the void in any way for centuries.

All that remains still beautiful and great of you received a new glory,
and what no longer appeared to be retaken his former brilliance in
all these places inspired my enthusiasm and my heart moved silently
worshiped the Great men of other times. I thought seeing all the heroes
that have gone by and all the kings crowned still govern our souls
from the bottom of their graves .... It was a night like this. It's a
particular thing that I remember at the moment ! esperimentado but I
have many times that our thoughts we are far away and are lost to us,
when we want to concentrate on a solitary meditation. [Sign Abbot of
St. Mauritius.] Abbot. I ask forgiveness from this second visit; dignaos
but not to look like an offense the indiscreet zeal of my importunity.
Get comfortable with what you have against me culpable, and that what is
good can illustrate your spirit! Let not your heart I can say, if
you achieved it soften for half of my calls and my prayers, put on track
to a heart that is noble escarriado, but it is not yet lost.

MANFREDO. You do not know me. My days are already numbered, and my
actions are written in the book of heaven.

Retire, your stay here will be harmful; retire. Abbot. Is that a threat
that I announce?

MANFREDO.

Do not you just warn that there is danger for you, and I preservarte
him.

Abbot. quereis What say? MANFREDO. Look, you do not see anything?
Abbot. None. MANFREDO. look good, and I say without shaking. What
you see now? Abbot . I see what you can do is tremble, but fear
nothing, I see a grim and terrible specter that leaves the earth
as an infernal deity.

His face is covered with a black veil, and her body seems to be
surrounded by clouds ill-fated, but I was not afraid.

MANFREDO. You do not have to fear, certainly, but their appearance
can cripple your members-laden years. I repeat, retire. Abbot. I
repeat that I do not withdraw without having done away with this
spectrum ...

What are you doing here?

MANFREDO.

I do not know: I have not called, he has by his will. Abbot. Man Oh lost!
What you have to deal with such guests?

tremble for you, why you and stares you in it? Ah!

vedle discovers that her face, the scars of the beam are recorded
on avenging his forehead and his eyes shining in the immortality
of hell.

Away from here! MANFREDO ... [_al Espíritu_]. What is your mission? SPIRIT.
Come on.

The Abbot Who are you, unknown spirit? Speech responding. THE
SPIRIT. The genius of this man. [_A Manfredo_.] Come, now is the
time. MANFREDO. I'm ready to everything, but do not acknowledge the
power that draws me who sent you here? Spirit.

You will know later.

Come! Come! MANFREDO.

He commanded an essence of beings superior to yours, I resisted his
superiors: stay away from these places.
Soon he discontinued writing and sat tapping
his pencil-case on the table. "The amazing selfishness of his attitude!
I do not think that once--not once--has he judged any woman except as
a contributor to his energy and peace of mind.... Except in the case of
his wife....

"For her his habit of respect was formed before his ideas developed....

"That I think explains HER....

"What was his phrase about the unfortunate young woman with the
carbuncle?... 'Totally Useless and unnecessary illness,' was it?...

"Now has a man any right by any standards to use women as this man has
used them?

"By any standards?"

The doctor frowned and nodded his head slowly with the corners of his
mouth drawn in.

For some years now an intellectual reverie had been playing an
increasing part in the good doctor's life. He was writing this book of
his, writing it very deliberately and laboriously, THE PSYCHOLOGY OF A
NEW AGE, but much more was he dreaming and thinking about this book.
They screamed terrified, her face was dismayed him zugewendet; since he
started it, and laughed grimly. "There is not much different than
if I take you as it drafts," he said, "even worse. With such people
around, that is, the right to respect for all forfeit and tarnish
his name." With Olivia asked horrified eyes. "You would have to
provide you," began the Hofrat again, "a person like you must have
instinct, and not in the dirt to pick up where he is on the sticky. This
man, in his enclosure you so blithely herumspazierst is One of our
perishable practices maker and hunter opportunity, a Streber
Schleicher and from a format that even our vielbesungene rhyme Cosiness
no longer on him to find white. This man is capable, if there are ten
people capable of any item to have made him the eleventh to occupy
the completely incompetent, and perhaps out of ignorance, not merely
because the eleventh Freunderl or a friend of a Freunderls is but
for pure pleasure and the inability of malice and envy against the
capable.

This man is one of those who never need a judge, because they are all
right as long delay until the plaintiff has exhausted Kirr and is
one of those associated with the whip on the horses einhauen if the wagon
up the hill, and secretly to the brake wheel set. This man is a symbol,
he is my enemy, he is the ultimate enemy and render him, I have wasted
my best strength. And now go and put 'you back to his table and do as you
would know nothing. "He was sharp and cold as a trustee spoke before
the Tribunal. Olivia shook the heart, they went with downcast eyes
beaten like a child being oltenen. The Hofrat took a stone, threw
him into the abyss and listened to the clatter verklungen was. Then
he laughed. "Why you laughing?" Olivia whispered, without the head to
rise. "I laugh, because it is so beautiful," he replied, "because the
sun seems so friendly and the sky is so blue. And because our Lord has
so much patience. And because the bowls so yesterday was excellent,
and ever since then everything is splendid. "Suddenly there Olivia
eyes, as if the whole world became gray. She said:" I have nothing of
your life to know Robert. I asked you for a man kept in his profession
is happy. "Still, he's short, scornful laugh heard. Then he was silent
for a while, and his face was serious. Then he began his life to speak
of the profession in which she mentioned him happy. Of the subordinates
and superiors, such as those paralyzed him and mistrusted him. As a
will was never, never see the better, no reason, just rule,
just the letter, about the half, the old bat, the domination of those
senseless Digest of Home Fries. Like every step forward comes to traps,
the benevolent discretion even in the closest circle was hampered by
unassailable idols and lying principles. Like no way out of this
pool leads to the non-guard was the stupidity, or phrase, or
pedantry, or the defamation, or the convenience or selfishness or
envy.

There was fire in his words, but also wit , a vicious gloating, as it
prepared him fun to destroy illusions. And he destroyed illusions
thoroughly. An icy breath blew through Olivias chest. Her eyes
looked lost, her cheeks were pale and it was as if something Tasty
on their tongue in Ekles turns as if there where a joyful expectation
of them drawn, a horror picture.

They marveled that they are ruffled, they believed and feared
but not to doubt. Everything was suddenly weirdly different. At their
discretion and Marianne Eduard noticed that something was proceeded with
it. They were on the same day to continue walking, but Olivia could not
decide to leave and protects an indisposition before. Ingbert felt
in the expensive and elegant hotel is not comfortable, and because
the siblings were reluctant to tour without Olivia continue, he said
he wanted to go his way alone. To adopt Olivias he came in the room
and found her in deep thought. She gave him her hand, and when she
sensed that he asked her gaze, she saw him. A word-free Einanderbegreifen
between them had long been unfolded. The sad expression in his
clever, serious face was near her. Before they had considered it, she
moved his head down and kissed him.

He blushed like a boy, his confusion, she met with even greater love,
he pressed his lips to her hand and left her mute. It drove them out
to Robert, and when she was with him, it seemed disloyal against
Edward and Marianne.

And if it was Edward and Marianne, peinigte their innocent beings,
and the two people were darkened, and her reverie. Marianne, on the
flight Ingbert was unhappy and plans forged, as it still could
reach, began Olivias demeanor changed and it was not difficult to open
and cling, as always, but hinted Eduard everything about himself and his
relationship with Olivia.

His excitement grew, he sought to bring about a debate, he finally
asked him the reason of their enigmatic departure information. You
frightened, they denied. He did not continue to work and said that he and
Anita had broken Gröger. They knew what would follow, she was afraid,
and with a cold, which made him pale, she forbade him to speak. As they
went apart. On the same evening, Robert Lamm beat her before, she
should go home with him to travel. They accepted him to Salzburg to
accompany her mother where she expected. To Edward and Marianne said
she, her mother had written and they called. Marianne hugged you with
the feeling of a separation for ever, Eduard looked stiff, and as
often after they disturbed his face covered, she felt hurt, and they
would like the memory wipe. Hofrat the contrary, she was monosyllabic,
he will spoke only of indifferent things. You grollte him, but dared
not to anger the left, she avoided it, his gaze to meet during the long
train journey sometimes checking on their rested, and when they are from
Innsbruck from alone in the coupe were, they broke the silence from
indefinite fear. She began to speak of people who knew them both and which
they believed that he appreciated it. They talked in zeal, apologized
habits and actions of these people and exaggerated its advantages,
as if they had been attacked by him.

He listened with seemingly similar proportion to, sometimes encouraging
nodded and looked into the landscape.

Since it seemed all wrong and simplistic, which she said she liked
the look is not beautiful regions through which they drove, and
she felt with affliction, that they all this beauty is no longer so
fond of how they loved it so far. It was as if Robert Lamm drawn a
veil over, and as it was fruitless to oppose the silent violence, which
he did to her, to fight back.

Desungeachtet it forced them to him shortly before the goal of their
trip to ask if it after their return to the city will see. It would have
breathed, when he said 'no' or an excuse would be needed.

He replied: "Of course I want to see you."

And as they remained silent, grim smile, he added: "Perhaps brauch 'ich
dich." She was scared puzzled. »Need? You - me? "" If you think so
incredibly before? "He laughed at her helpless face. Suddenly, the
train went in the hall, he leaned close to her, took her two hands and
said with that urgency, to assist them in any other human being as he
had perceived: "I am currently fighting a battle in which I everything
is at stake. I fight for the honor of a dead man, to rescue his reputation,
for his wife and his children. You want a crime that has been
committed, hush, to the monstrous infamy, that thinking is not
responsible. That should not happen, do you? It must not happen,
although similar happened a thousand times already. But with this one
time, hab 'ich mir in their heads: it must not happen. Is it anyway,
then I am finished with the economy. Then come to me, Olivia, then we may
have some talking. Leb 'wohl, grüß' my mother. "They got out, but they
would most like to now go with him like. Weakness came over her, her
whole thought and feeling was darker in color. Everything they had
planned, work and pleasure, her eyes suddenly wrong and simplistic.

Three days later she went with the mother back into town, and one day
after arrival, she went to Robert Lamb. * * * * * In Riedach, a
small spa town in Upper Austria, was the young doctor to doctor
Seelmann his practice a year ago to general satisfaction exercised.

As had been the beginning of summer in a family Häusler typhoid
cases occurred, and Doctor Seelmann had done what his sworn duty
as a community doctor was, he had the disease displayed.

There was once a great excitement. Some citizens had in the last hour,
the doctor in the execution of his resolve to prevent progress. The
Sanitary Commission, whose chairman of the mayor, had argued that
the summer visitors and the place and leave for a long time would
bring into disrepute.

It was in vain, neither prayers, nor promises, neither warnings nor
intimidation fruchteten, Doctor Seelmann respected the obligation is
greater than the interests of the vulnerable community. The direct
consequence of his move was that a military department, which was quartered
in Riedach be in another place was commanded. Even the few summer parties
took hold of horror, and several families came from. A flood of dirty
insults now spilled over to the young doctor, and young and old, the
bitterness in the shapes scurrility air. The men replied his greeting not
they spit on the street in front of him. The butcher, the baker, the
milk dealer refused, his wife, the food for sale, they are the man
and the little child needed.

Every day he got nasty ridicule and threatening letters, the window
of his apartment, he was In, it was no longer in his office hours,
gave him the payment, and in September he was given his position
as a community doctor dismissed.

He turned to the Reich Association of Physicians and this encouraged the
authorities to provide support.

The appeal was not in vain, municipal and sanitary Commission was
dissolved by the governor, the mayor of his duties, horrified, the
dismissal to be invalid, and the district police captain sent an
escort, the doctor should protect.

Seelmann Doctor situation improved but by no means with . Before bodily
injury could keep him, the practice could not return him, the people
forcing him to pay the fees, which it has been a year and a day
equivalent, one could not.

He was ruined. In the months he had verflossenen twenty-one honor
insult complaints brought before the courts, and each of these processes,
it was decided in his favor. But after each process, he came discouraged
and hopeless home. His resilience was there, his mind clouded, his
health shattered, with forty years he saw as an old man out.

The fact that his staying in Riedach was not understood it well.

Riedach was his home, he loved the country, he had his existence
here to decide who.

Where he should be medium-free country doctor draw, while with his
wife and child and an old, frail mother? How should he mudslinger
silence him safely up into the distance would pursue?

As the wash opprobrium with which it covers, the Besudelung, forget
the insult?

A new life, he lacked self-confidence, he had no friend of him up,
the consolation of his wife bent him even deeper, because he felt
her own despair in it.

So he broke together, got sick and died. The doctor who treated him,
called a brain inflammation as the cause of his death, but in
reality it was the sorrow and the Lebensekel killed.

The Reich Association of the doctors now claim presented to the State,
for the survivors to ensure that the bitterest Not disclosed were. This
was granted, but in so barren extent that the assistance almost looked
like mockery. One of the men who had advocated, and the failure of
their expectations would not quietly accept, said the Hofrat lamb
as the only ones whose advice and mediation failed to reasonably
plan could lead to success. He just trusted the determination to him
alone was considered independent enough that he is as a high government
official was allowed to venture, for the outrage perpetrated an
atonement to require that admittedly was delayed, but increased
again insulted justice. Hofrat had from The Martyrdom of the doctors not
heard, the newspapers had suppressed all reports, the other customer in
the dark umlief, was not pushed him. He heard the story of what happened
with immovable face. The Envoy, which he did talk, he met with his
non-binding courtesy and dry without a face to tell him that the
matter went further than any other rag between the parties.

He had come all the relevant files, including the twenty-first processes,
and read and studied them with aufeinandergebissenen teeth. Then he
zauderte no longer to act. He urged the government to not only with
sufficient funds in the mother, the widow and the orphan in the exercise
of his duty of his office and murdered doctor Seelmann support of
the murdered, it was his dictum, not only all the guilty people and
institutions of government Riedach a harsh punishment to be condemned,
but also through a public and solemn declaration violated the honor
and vilified the names of the dead before the eyes of the world
from all blemish free.

For such a man was just like a soldier on the battlefield, for the
fatherland, for which humanity had fallen and the same should be
grateful for.

This language came unreservedly embarrassed excuses. He urged that a clear
decision, one replied that the case once again would thoroughly
investigate.

The desire to win time, was apparently, and the entangled Hofrat
knew the ways and the rusty machinery too well to give themselves
to appease.

He went to the minister, declared himself as the poor informed,
protecting important business before him and pointed to the section
chief Friesenheim.

Here feigned indifference by pleasing zeal, even with this tactic was the
Hofrat familiar. He let the men no rest, he insisted on his claim that
he knocked on the right. You heard him, it jerked the armpits, each
insured his willingness, each declared to be powerless.

Everywhere the same apparent permissiveness same lukewarmness.

Robert Lamm feared to spoil anything, his anger when he could not
tame.

In the Salzburg mountains he had, long time ago already, a pasture and
bought a cabin, he fled there as often as him the anger and the plague
was too much.

He did it again now, and took himself to wait patiently. But this time
it dawned before the loneliness, he drove to Carezza, where he made
many friends to make sure where he dispel stun could. Two days after
the conversation with Olivia, he was awarded in the case of Doctor
Seelmann the written decision of the Ministry concerning the substantive
compensation, you have ample funds to support the family is approved,
all other claims must be made well-reasoned but reject. "The Reasons
I want to know, "gritted the Hofrat. He packed his bags and traveled.
In his dark impatience came by rail to him like a wicked slow worm
gear before. Immediately after his arrival he hastened to the responsible
authorities. On the grounds it was not poor. Why a warm lapsed dispute,
a happy willfully buried scandal again before the public tug? Why otherwise
peaceful citizens for at least dubious and difficult detectable
offense to harm or even bring their existence?

It is but now everything is so beautifully smoothed and forget
what the fire blow again, why do bad blood? What finally a comedy honor
statement that the dead no longer useful and only the living would
be angry?

"A happily buried scandal is that you," said Robert Lamb with twinkling
eyes. »Beautiful smoothed and forget you can find everything?

Well, we will see if you are not fearful and anxious before ghosts.

"He threatened to beat noise. The story was questionable, the troublemaker
began to become very uncomfortable. You could not hurt him, too many
supported him, he was too popular. Therefore, we rejoiced in the quiet,
when he in his wrath to the string taut and stretched to his
farewell bat.

It was a shock means that he did not believe that he would leave,
he had a too strong awareness of its necessity and importance of
its services.

With the farewell was granted. Since it years ago in a matter which
touches the yard had to be sharp in the stuff was gone, you needed
rebuke or objection from above not to be afraid.

It took him by surprise.

It took days, even weeks, until he again had gathered.

The conditions were so much less healthy, much more toxic than he had
imagined. He was paralyzed. He settled the matter for which he sacrificed
to be based. He most people, was shy and strange. He left his
city apartment and withdrew completely into his villa back. This villa
was at the end of the southwest suburb, near the wooded hills and
surrounded by a large garden that stretches from prying eyes by a
high stone wall was protected. The numerous rooms containing treasures
of paintings, statues, books, porcelain and antique furniture. The
Hofrat but the rooms were closed off and embed itself in a gable Chamber.
The housekeeper cooked for him, and the servant Gerold, a sort of factotum,
provided for his other needs. * * * * * At first he had seen Olivia
almost daily. Either he came to her, talked for a while with his
mother Olivia and invited to accompany him, or they went to him. If
it worked, she sat down in a corner, took a book and read. From what
at this time he met, he said no. They learned it from others. Each
disfigured it in his own way, but it was enough that she watches
Robert Lamm, then put everything right.

She was proud of him, nevertheless expressed its essence it down,
but they knew how it happened.

At present we are getting fuel in a kind
of scramble with no general aim. We waste and lose almost as much as we
get. And of what we get, the waste is idiotic.

"I won't trouble you," said Sir Richmond, "with any long discourse on
the ways of getting fuel in this country. But land as you know is owned
in patches and stretches that were determined in the first place chiefly
by agricultural necessities. When it was divided up among its present
owners nobody was thinking about the minerals beneath. But the lawyers
settled long ago that the landowner owned his land right down to the
centre of the earth. So we have the superficial landlord as coal owner
trying to work his coal according to the superficial divisions, quite
irrespective of the lie of the coal underneath. Each man goes for the
coal under his own land in his own fashion. You get three shafts where
one would suffice and none of them in the best possible place. English
translation. In heaven and on earth there are a thousand things that
philosophers nor your minds. HORACIO. Paris, Libreria Americana,
1830. PEOPLE. Gamuza hunters. The Abbot of St Maurice. MANUEL. HERMAN.
CHARMING OF THE ALPS . ARIMA. NEMESIS. DESTINATIONS. spirits. The
scene is depicted in the middle of the Alps, sometimes in the castle
of Manfredo and others in the mountains. MANFREDO, Drama in three
acts. ACT I, SCENE FIRST. [Manfredo is just Gallery in an old
castle. It is midnight.]

MANFREDO. My lamp is turned off, but who wants to revive its dying light,
may not last as long as my devotion. If it appears that sleep is not sleep
that seized my senses and it descaecimiento that caused me a multitude
of thoughts that afflict my soul, and to which I can not resist.

My heart is always revealed and my eyes are closed but not to direct
their gaze inside myself but I am alive, and my second and my
appearance, I look like other men.

Ah! The pain should be the school of the wise!

The penalties are a science, and the wisest are those who most need to
moan about the fatal truth. The tree of knowledge is not the tree of
life. Philosophy, human knowledge, secrets beautiful, worldly wisdom, I
have tried everything and my spirit can embrace everything,
everything can be my genie: studies useless!

I have been a generous benefactor, and I even found virtue among
men vana ... satisfaction!

He had enemies, none has been hurt and many have fallen before me: no wins!
The good, the bad, life, power, passion, all I see in others has been
to me like the rain on the arid sand. After that hour ... damn I do
not know the terror, I am doomed to never fear esperimentar not natural,
or the beating of a heart throb to make a wish, hope or love for something
earth ... Let us practice my magic operations. Seres mysterious spirits
from the vast universe, and you whom I have sought in darkness and in the
regions of the light that you volais around the globe and to dwell
on the more subtle essences; á vosotros whom the inaccessible peaks
of the mountains, the depths of the earth and the ocean are often
used for the withdrawal ...

I call you on behalf of the charm that gives me the right to send,
and appears despertaos ¡!

[A moment of silence.] Do not come yet! Good! by the voice of him who
is the first among you, for the signal that makes you tremble at all,
on behalf of one who never dies and is despertaos ... ....

[A moment of silence.] Try ...

Spirits of the land and air eludireis certainly not my orders. By a power
greater than all that I have used, for a spell irresistible star
born in a bloody, burning the rest of world that no longer exists,
wandering in the middle of hell eternal space, by the terrible curse
that hangs over my soul, by thinking that I have and that is around
me, I require obedience appears.

[A star in the blackness of the gallery, it is still a star, and a
voice sings the words:] FIRST SPIRIT.

Mortal, obedient to your orders, come from my palace in the clouds,
consisting of vapors of twilight colors of purple and blue and the sun
disc. Although I is obedecerte private flight to you on the beam of a
star, I heard your spells. Mortal, let your wishes be fulfilled!

THE VOICE OF THE SECOND ESPÍIRITU.

Mont Blanc is the monarch of the mountains from many centuries is crowned
with a diadem of snow on his throne of rock. Is covered with a blanket
of clouds: the forests are their ceñidor has a avalange in their hands
like lightning threatening, but my orders expected to drop into the
valley. The mass of cold and ice is still melting away every day, but I
who tells you rush to stop its progress or its icebergs. I am the
spirit of these mountains, you could shake them to their
foundations cavernous ... What do you want? THIRD SPIRIT. In the
deep blue of the seas, where there is nothing to shake the waves,
where the wind has never blown in parag inhabiting the sea snake,
and where the siren decorate their shells with green hair, the voice
of your prayer has resounded as the storm on the surface of the
water, the echo has repeated in my palace of coral peaceful.

It states your wishes to the spirit of the Ocean.

FOURTH SPIRIT. Parag on where the earthquake sleeps on a bed
of fire, in boiling parag where bitumen lakes, groundwater in the
concavities which receive the roots of these ranges whose ambitious
summits are lost in the clouds, I heard accents magic and overpowered
by his power, he left the places where I was born to get near you. Orders,
I obey. FIFTH SPIRIT. I am the one who flies over the aquilon and preparing
storms. The storm that I left behind me is still burning with
the fires of thunder and lightning. To arrive soon where Hallas
you have crossed the land and seas in a hurricane. A favorable Zephyr
swollen sails of a fleet that I found, but will be buried in the
waves before you see the aurora. SESTO Spirit. My house is constantly
in the dark of night . Why do you spell me to see the hideous clarity?
SEVENTH SPIRIT. The star that presides over your destiny was directed
by me since before the earth was created. I had never turned a beautiful
planet around the sun, his course was free and fair, any more beneficial
astro exist in space. The time was fatal: the star became a mass of
fire, a comet that threatens the vagus universe always spinning on its
own strength, without regard and without ongoing horror bright regions
ethers, monster disforme between the constellations of the sky. As
for you, born under its influence, you worm to whom I obey and scorn,
yielding to a power that does not belong to you and that you have
not been provided but for one day submit to me, come for a moment
to bringing the spirits weak bend your knee here, come talk to a
person just like you.

What I want therefore creature of clay, what I want?

"The seven spirits.

Land, ocean, air, night, mountains, the winds and the star of your
destiny is at your command.

Mortal man, his spirits waiting for your wishes. What do you want from
us, the son of men, what do you want?

MANFREDO. Oblivion. THE FIRST SPIRIT. The forgotten what MANFREDO.
From what is within my heart. Leedlo, as you know well and I do not can
esplicarlo. THE SPIRIT. We can not give you but what you have. Ask
vassals, a crown, the throne of the world or one of their empires,
calling for a signal which govern the items that we obey; speaking, you
can get everything. MANFREDO. Oblivion; ¡forgetting myself! Do not ask
what you can find in the secret that I offer so liberally? SPIRIT.
This does not exist in our essence, not in our wisdom, but ... you can
die. MANFREDO. Is the death granted me? SPIRIT. We are immortal, and not
forget anything, we are eternal, and for us the past and the future
are as this: see our response.

MANFREDO. This is to mock Me, but the power that hath led you to my
presence has brought under my disposal.

Esclaves, do not make a mockery of the will of your master. The soul,
spirit, spark of heaven, light of my being, has the same brightness and
the same penetration yours, and not give in though is never locked in
a prison of clay. Respondedme, or else you will know who I am. THE SPIRIT.
We repeat the same words, what you just said could also be our
response. MANFREDO.

Esplicaos. SPIRIT. If as you say, your heart is like ours, we have
responded, saying that what men call death has no power over us.
MANFREDO. it will be in vain that you've raised in your homes, you
do not want or can not help me.

SPIRIT. Speak up, we offer everything have: thought about it before you
leave and requests. Do you want a kingdom, the power over men, the
force, a long series of days? MANFREDO. Goddamn you are! What will
draw a long life? mine has lasted too long; disappear. SPIRIT. In a
moment while we are here we would like to help. Think well on this, is
there not some other gift that we could find worth SERTE offered?
MANFREDO. None: But wait a minute ... before you disagree, I would like
to see you face to face. I hear your voices, whose melancholic sweetness
resembles the melodious harmonies in the middle of a lake, I see
clearly still a big star, but nothing more. Presence seems to me like you
are, one after another or all together, but in your usual way. THE
SPIRIT.

We have no other way than the items that we are the soul and the
principle, but the manner desígnanos want, and it will take.

MANFREDO. It matters little how, no on earth that is beautiful or Hedionda
for me that whoever among you is endowed with more power, take a look
for you. I hope so. [The seventh Spirit listed under the figure of a
beautiful muger.] SPIRIT OF THE SEVENTH. Look. MANFREDO. O heaven! Is
this an illusion? Unless you were a dream or an image could be considered
misleading Still happy!

closer you between my arms and could still ... (_The muger desaparece_).
My heart is torn.

[Manfredo falls unconscious, and a voice you hear the song that
follows.] When the moon shine in the air, the worm in phosphoric
grasses, the weather around the graves and a red flame on gaps, when
suddenly appear the lightning of the stars that fall, when the
owls will be sad to hear their concerts, and the leaves remain
motionless and silent in the forest covering the hill, my soul
will weigh on you with strength and a terrible way .

For it is your deep sleep your mind will not sleep, there are some
shadows that never fade away for you, and some thoughts that can never
banish from your heart. For an unknown to you, you can not ever be
alone: the secret charm envelops you like a shroud, and is like a
cloud that will serve in prison.

Even if you do not see me go through your hand, your eyes I recognize
as an object that should not be far away, and was close to you had
very little.

When this secret terror head again, you will be surprised not to see
me with your shadow on the ground, and obliged to disguise the effects
of which can esperimentarás. The magic words spoken over your head there,
attracted a terrible curse, and one of the Spirits air has made you fall
into the traps: the blowing of the wind in a voice that you will
deprive the happy, the night you will deny the silence of the shadows,
and you can not see the sun shine upon without desire is the day. I
have separated from your perfidious tears at the heart of a deadly
poison, but I chose the black blood from your heart, your smile I've
pulled the snake would be kept hidden in the wrinkles of your face, I
took the spell that made your lips so dangerous, I have compared all
the Venoms more subtle poisons; yours are even more fearsome. In your
heart and your smile iron snake, your fatal tricks on your eyes deceptive,
hypocritical for your soul, your hacks seductive and your false sensibility,
the pleasure they find in the pain of others, by the fraternity
with Cain, I come to you condenarte yourself to your hell. spills
over your head liquor magic you used to torment you cook, sleep and death
are deaf to your wishes and your prayers, really death by your side for
fear and desire. But since your order is fulfilled, and an invisible
chain around you with their links; my magic words have their Indeed:
your head and your heart be troubled is close to wilt. SCENE II. [The
theater is the amount Jungfro; day da beginning. Manfredo is alone
among the rocks.] MANFREDO. Spirits I invoked to leave, the sciences
I had studied magic are useless. I'm looking for a cure to my problems
and I have not done is sour: the process of having the relief of the
spirits , what is not his past spring, and the future ... until he
too is buried in the mists of time, causes me little concern.

O land where I was born! radiant dawn and mountains you why you are
so beautiful?

I can not love. And you, bright torch of the universe, which estiendes
your light on all of nature, and you tremble with joy, you can not
look in my iced heart. From this summit the steep banks of the river
I see the majestic pines that the distance do like the humble shrub, and
when a single movement pieces enough to make my body on this bed
of rocks, and to lock in an eternal rest, why I am doubtful? feel the
desire to rush to the foot of the mountain and I dare not run, I see
no danger and I think huirle. A vertigo has taken over my face,
yet my feet are kept immobile and firm. A secret power stops me
and condemning me to live to regret me, if the lead is to live a barren
desert in my heart, and I will be the tomb of my soul, oh no treatment
Justicar my crimes my own eyes: Unfortunately this is the last of
the bad.

[An eagle passes over Manfredo.]

O thou, queen of the air, where you fast flying back to heaven, do not
be dignified to fall on me, to my dam body, and feed it to your gut!

You have already traversed the space in which my eyes could follow you
and yours can still find all the objects that are on earth and in the
air ... Ah!

How many objects worthy of admiration offered this visible world!

How big is the causes and effects! But we who call ourselves their masters,
we, creatures of mud and demigods at the same time, unable to fall
to a lower rank, and also high Scythians an ongoing war between the
various elements of our dual core, breathing a while baseness and
pride, we're undecided between our needs and our desires miserable
proud, until the day that death triumphs and a man comes to be ...
which does not dare to articulate to himself or to his fellows.

[A shepherd playing the flute in a distant parag.]

What a sweet melody is the sound of the natural panpipe campestre! because
in these Paraga, patriarchal life is certainly not a fable of the
golden age, the air of freedom here resound not only in the pastoral
harmonies of the flute, and the noise of the sound of cattle bells
romp in the hills.

My soul is bewitched with Similar echoes! ...

What I would not be the invisible spirit of a mellow sound of a living
voice, a line of animated qne born and die with the breath that
produces! [Arrives chamois hunters coming from the foot of the
mountain.] EL HUNTER. chamois has saved the rocks, his feet and agile
led away from me, just my game I have provided in the day to make
me forget that I would be in danger ... But what I see? Who is this man
who seems to is none of our hunters, and which nevertheless has
managed to traverse the craggy heights that our peers are the most
exercised the only ones who can practice it?

Wealth announce his clothes, his appearance is masculine, and his
eyes are so arrogant as to know a farmer who was born free.

Let us to it. MANFREDO. [Without having seen the hunter.] It's essential
to be gray by the penalties; dissected like the pines, remnants
of the destruction of a single winter, stripped of their bark and
green leaves!

You must keep a life that is not based on me but the feeling of my ruin!
It is necessary to remember the happy times!
It had revived their interest in Avebury and
Stonehenge. The doctor moreover had been reading Hippisley Cox's GREEN
ROADS OF ENGLAND.

Neither gentleman had ever seen Avebury, but Dr. Martineau had once
visited Stonehenge.

"Avebury is much the oldest," said the doctor. "They must have made
Silbury Hill long before 2000 B.C. It may be five thousand years old
or even more. It is the most important historical relic in the British
Isles. And the most neglected."

They exchanged archaeological facts. The secret places of the heart
rested until the afternoon.

Then Sir Richmond saw fit to amplify his confessions in one particular.

Since when are the doctors of medicine among the idealists and
prophets gone?

Did you time the bloody drunk made? "" Your impetuousness your accusation
is nothing more plausible, "said Strygowski, which had become pale." I
am not accusing you, I know nothing of you, you are strange to me, let
your person the match, "Lamb drove grollend continued." If I'm taken
too close, I want to apology.

But you can as an experienced man, a sincere observer to imagine that
a creature like Olivia every day, hour after hour moves among men
without the slightest as the only woman on these men to work?

My question contains no frivolity.

You see, I am deeply seriously. We live on a planet, even
if it is still so flawed timbers, along which it forms for certain
public services are certain laws.

Hunger is hunger, blood is blood. Hunger wants saturation, blood
will heat.

You do not smell the insidious toxic substance from which the whole
house is met?

Do you believe that any woman can join the escape, even if it is
Olivia?

"I believe it," replied Doctor Strygowski determined. "What you say is not
true for me, but an indictment, which only proved to be.

It would only prove that the Caritas, before I bow my knee, a fiend is
lemurs. "" Is it too! "Lamb said with passion. "A monster lies and mind,
women's and girls' souls with false hopes umgarnt them to, any
illusion of cash, also come to life." One was a long silence. Strygowski
moved the clock from the bag, pondered for a while, while the clock
kept in the hands and said then: "In a quarter sister Olivia makes
her second night lap. A bias can be achieved only through the inspection
disproved. Impossible, that you insist on your opinion when you see them.
"" I need to look not, "growled lamb. "Everything is, I can imagine,
is visually Augentrug." "This paradox is known to me," replied
the doctor, "I know that suffering." He looked sadly at the ground.
At this moment they heard a strange, monotonous Plärrer , a singsangähnliches
howling like a dog. The Hofrat went to the door and listened. Then he
opened the door, step through the small foyer and down the stairs.
Strygowski doctor followed him. * * * * * At the bottom of the
stairs sat a man zusammengekauert.

Only when he was near him, recognized his servant Gerold lamb.

He was there, like an idiot halblaut before hinheulte and rocked with the
upper body. »What do you there?" Was a lamb on it. "Hofrat Lord, I find
'all over the house no place where it is quiet," whispered the
servant.

He looked up, his head looked like swollen. "Go on the site in your
chamber and into your bed," ordered lamb. Gerold rose cumbersome and
wavered on the staircase. »Can not sleep, Mr.

Hofrat," he lamented. Lamb shook a little. He did mine, back in his room
to go, but Doctor Strygowskis gaze was now researching so weird calling
on him that he is uneasy with a sense of vulnerability and reversed
after the doctor in the big room was formerly the library's was.

The lights were extinguished except for one that is next to the
door and burned with a green cloth was abgedämpft. Only in the first
beds could see the faces.

They had a pale slip. Some watched the wounded and stressed from time to
time, the head while his eyes shone hot, and if the head would
fall back, she groans.

Strygowski Doctor Lamb moved in the shadows and whispered to him: "You
must come here, she was not yet, because the sister is eingenickt over
there. "He had hardly ausgeredet, as occurs in the background a figure
by the door. It was Olivia. Your dark robe and the dark in the room
had her face almost white. The step was silent and gave the movement a
little ghostly. She went immediately to the young sister, asleep on
the chair and sat with his hand touching their shoulder. The girl went
up frightened, and the consternation in her face turned into an
expression of prayer. Olivia shook her head and walked on. The views
of those who were awake, they had discovered, they flew her to formally
impatient, which had something like hungry babies when the nurse enters
the cradle. It was touching and uncanny. Olivia seemed to feel they bowed
forehead, everything was suddenly so gently in her career, look
and attitude inside and unspeakably eloquent.

It was like a lamp in his hand, which could not be quenched. But still it
looked, but that invisible light their entire attention seemed to
claim, it was, as they see and feel everything around them was ten
times with sharpened senses.

When they reached the next room to join, came sister Emilie , an
elderly person out of the door.

She said: "With the number 42 is now at an end."

"Call Doctor Strygowski," replied Olivia. * * * * * Before the small room,
which was number 42, some nurses were whispering. They followed Strygowski
Doctor, when he reached the bed of the unknowns went. Robert Lamm had
mixed among them. Olivia noticed him in Vorüberschreiten and nodded to
him as the evening without having to smile, but with a surprised Aufschimmern
of the gaze.

Not curiosity had lamb hergezogen, but a force, which originate in
Olivia had, or in the invisible light, which they contributed.

The dying was in a state of dissolution and rapture. The luster in the
eyes had so increased that it was torment, to look into it.

The strange part beard resembled dry scrub.

Strygowski doctor had his ear on the chest of the man panting and
listened to the heartbeat.

Was it just an illusion, or did it really so: all those present in the
room felt as if the eyes of the Unknown , up to this hour has never
been on a particular subject or a human being had rested on Robert
Lamm addressed, solely and without abzuirren at him, and in a way
that if they receive a reminder wachrufen him, as if it had to a
promise to call.

The view was so urgent, as though between the two at any time once an
appointment has been made and as though just now the time has elapsed.
It was a view of the will and consciousness, which astonish all
transferees.

Lamb peered shyly at him and he wanted to escape the gaze, but it forced
him always in a new direction, where he certainly shows the urgency
and had glossy eyes meet . Olivia stood behind the doctor, in her face
was full of serious thoughts.

Also opposed are ruffled with lamb silent effort, he would prefer
to call it admits: Talk to me!

The easiest to do what it freed from its plight would turn away and go
away, it was quite impossible. In this plight he picked a strange
Tools: he tore his Zigarettendose out of his pocket, took her a cigarette
and held it to the dying out. It happened less consideration than
from spite and drive the situation into increased Ordinary to be drawn.
First, it seemed as if a joyful spark from the eyes of the Unknown
blitze; he made a slight movement with his arm, pushed him and Lamb
Now the cigarette between the lips.

But the bleeding has played loose mouth at once an expression of
contempt, yes, the sharp, bitter contempt, by a dull smile not
mitigated, but reinforced.

Then a terrible sigh shook the body, the eye is broke, life was then.
When Robert Lamb left the room, he was like a disgraceful punishment for
convicted feast, and the inscrutable smile of contempt in the last agony
of the warrior, it adhered as a stigma upon him. * * * * * Olivia did
it hurt the heart, as if it were a tumor in her breast. At the beginning
and end of each plot was the same question, any thoughts follow closed
jammer with a full look up: Where is help? Where is solace? The spectacles
are confused how the fates. The common origin of suffering is not
calmed the senses. The house in which they randomly worked, was only
one among the thousands of pools in which the accident collected.

One had the imagination to squeeze barriers, to name only the hands
touch them.

It was a spasmodic Ansichhalten the morning on the day to day, by evening
the night into day. And yet again, and over, to the wounds, perhaps,
that a touch, a word, a look of patience, or alleviation brought
einflößte . She felt a force in itself, whose nature it was not
known. She felt this power, if they went through the room and hung her
eyes. Those eyes spoke a language never heard of urgency, without which
they could accept Gewissenspein only when they are commenced in
the very act, is completely and utterly forgot.

The fates pounced on her, and she was the victim of them.

She wanted to be in their longed hingegebensten hours after they are
completely crushed in order to escape any blame. They rested, took
it up again, so it was too awful, just to think of what was.

Not only the destruction of images was loaded her mind, images leaking
flames, cremated Apartments, unbearable hunger, suffocation fear of
death, infirmity and hopeless despair, with no drop of blood was
unvergiftet, but also by the what it was anger, hatred and malice
the tissues of small lies, insults the dignity of the Roused in
all, the pleas from all over the acoustic.

At the time when her mother into the concern for Ferdinand came to
her, Olivia was in her thoughts until the brother looking, she
said: "You can not hope to fall, mother, was not impatient."

"I? Why only me? Why not you?

"Khuenbeck woman was amazed back. Olivia remained silent. She was, as
they betrayed all the others, when they lamented brother. Scheyern of
Leo was caught by Scheyern Ernst was among the missing. Scheyern woman
no longer came to the hospital. She spoke of a day with Olivia about
how they look at each letter carrier had become pale, with each ringing
of the bell housing had gezittert. As Olivia saw thousands and thousands
of mothers, the uncertainty in folternder to the lives of their
sons and floated at no tomorrow awoke, without affecting the customer
to be taken, their lives turned into a wasteland.

In the beginning was the happenings in the shade, and only the faces
were apparent.

When they stopped, to be silent, at least for Olivia, rushed from all
sides approached the horror. Many of those who lay, also had words,
memorable words, to others again schallte sounding their experience,
but they gave themselves a customer. "I will also never," gritted a fever
and bäumte desperately, "do with me, what you want, but I go 'never.
"One was sleeping in the most terrible fear of noises, and looked
spellbound with eyes in the air, as he can see in unbroken sequence
over and over again what he mangled the heart and the mind was
robbed.

There was a man who in his professional civil Akrobat was.

With his family, who formed a small troupe, the troupe Cromwell,
as they are imposing foreign-called, he was for years the province
had withdrawn and the audience through his dexterity enjoy.

A Schrapnellschuß he had both legs torn off, his wife and children
were deprived of the breadwinner, he was there, a cripple, and
thought about what he lost his body art would be able to drive.

He thought of the colorful costumes, in which it occurred was at
the applause, he with his work on the high trapeze harvested, and
that everything was over now.

Often researching Olivia looked into his face. It was a very ordinary
face with full cheeks, small eyes and stupid low, sloping forehead.

But the ordinariness of the trains was affected by the mysterious
work of any internal forces umglüht.

What went on? They pondered ceaselessly. What it basically meant all those
people who lives in a small accident in a major had been torn and shattered
it were by chance in the House had found an asylum?

What was it, the farmer from the Südmark, who was blind?

But what he wore, what he created it! What was proceeded with him that
he could do what he done?

Many weeks, he had motionless in the wet trenches are brought, the
consequences of a malignant rheumatism, he had the eyesight status.

One day his mother came to the hospital, a haggard woman, gray early in
aged concerns.

He was her only son, their support, their hopes.

They knew nothing of the blindness, and he had decided that they too
conceal. From their arrival notified, he had asked doctors and nurses
that she does not say.

First it went quite well, he took up the glasses with colored lenses
favored the deception. Gradually, the woman aback. A few tentative
gestures, the expression of the dead awakened trains hunches. You suddenly
reached under his hand, and when he does not move, was a cry from
markerschütternden. The young man erbleichte.

Schuldbewußtem With clay he said: "What do because, mother, I see
'you, yes."

But it was too late, she no longer believed him. You had to be continued.
From time to time one heard him repeatedly before hinmurmeln: 'I see
you, yes.

"How this came to him heroism? Where were the simple words of
the Moravian soldiers with whom he described how he in Poland for
a whole day and a Throughout the night a terrific become lieutenant
had guard have to be?

It was the terrible hours of his life and had the deepest impression
he had received from the war.

He in front of the hut, the officer in the only bar inside, always
on, and from disclosing hinsprechend ahead, always up and down at regular
intervals to the soldiers kicking. "Let me out." - "Can not, Lord
Lieutenant."

And those who like a disturbed mind, over the wall into the inside wall
say: "He will not let me."

Then again: "Give me your rifle. - "Can not, Lord Lieutenant." The officer
on the wall, and then in a plaintive tone: "He gives me not the
gun."

So it went throughout the day, all night, with a desperate, short,
hasty steps, wandered ruhlos it up and down, up and down, came after
ten minutes and demanded something that the gun, a knife, stationery,
brandy, and when he refused the soldier, he is facing the wall and
the wall reported that he did not get what he desires.

It was herzbeklemmend, one could hardly bear it, nor the report
faltered under the effect of horror. And the pastry, which the enforcement
of state laws in Serbia told. It was just the confectioner him because
he was in his civilian accomplice relationship with a sugar-baker .
He was aufgeschwemmt and fairly crude, but if he remembers a certain
scene was that he mitangesehen and he does not want out of mind, every
time his voice shook, and from top to bottom, it shook him. It had been
given command of all houses to browse, from which the passing troops
had been fired, and the men who man is found immediately to shoot. One
day, the Division marched through a village and came to the unchallenged
until last house. From a window of this house were two shots made, but
nobody met. The people to whom the murder was too much, did not want to
take note of them, but the command was issued.

As she entered the house, were in the Tennengebirge twelve men on
their knees, already prepared for death.

Similarly, many women were pale, hochaufgerichtet in the background of
the space on the wall. Twelve soldiers, the guns on the twelve men who
Salve crash, the men fell to the ground dead.

Of the women, but made not only in mine, they are not touched, with
the exception of a young woman, which emphasized slow with the hand
on the forehead, nothing else.

It was in the gesture something superhuman been included in agony,
because the narrator came back again and again, it did not let him
go, he had repeatedly described.

Olivia Hand saw this woman, she saw on the forehead stress as if
the the last hope that maybe just a bad dream was.

And "why?" asked it to her, "why, oh God?" In one of the room crouched
a dog who was not from the bed of his master to sell, which he in the
battle and the battle back up to the camp hospital was followed.

A dirty, ugly monster it was, but nobody was charged.

So often his master a sound that was, he looked with eyes rolling
upwards, otherwise he stared in front of tired out, just as he was out
there a ray of higher consciousness has been taken to his animal soul
fleetingly had enlightened, so that they now Agony still in dark
after rang.

Why this immense melancholy in the eyes of a dirty dog and what he
understood?

What was strange to him what had him so still be approved?

A picture was there so often they thought it was her as if they
fall down and strangle their thinking: two officers in the attack,
another ride, with curved sabers against each other.

Already wishes of our homeless, he sees that the Russians no longer
has a head, but that he still, the sword high in his arms, sits on
his horse.

Because of our faces from a scream, falls from a horse, and squirms
on the floor he is dumb like a epileptics.

And he remained silent, he had lost the language.

She saw the refugees, with men rushing errafften belongings, the
women with their children, one had a baby is lost, the other
collapsed, and they were without food and drink and the night on
the field and then went without a goal.

She saw it in the long Viehwagen trains detained as they drove,
always went through a world in which there are only charred ruins
still existed, and how they screamed for bread, and how their
children starved their babies verschmachteten.

She saw the prisoners, the castaways on a desert island pared; saw
the fathers, not sons, the children, the father no longer had the
widows, the grieving brides, the abandoned, looted, underlying
addressed anywhere.

She saw the brave erlahmen, the figs are apathetic, and how the friends
stopped, for each other to shake. They saw the changing of injustice,
bribery and resetting, looked like the torch to the idea even in
noble expired when the turbid flood of low and ordinary emporschwoll
or physical suffering the force of the soul defeated.

How lame flügel the enthusiasm, the courage to grimace was the
adventure for the Leichtherzigsten its appeal, the danger of losing
their temptation, and only the strongest, nor the reputation of
maintaining compulsory.

Olivia saw the cities of smoke, the looted property, which tramples
acres, Forests fold.

She saw the death in any shape, yes, the earth was paved with the
dead.

They were mutilated in the Drahtverhauen and were embedded in
flowers, they were immersed in the swamps and hinuntergestürzt in
mountain ravines, they swam in the waves of the sea and fell down
from the clouds: men and youths, children and old people, women and
girls, rich and poor, good and bad, traitors and treachery, beauty
and ugly, happy and unhappy.

And they heard the bell of the bell and the crackle of the fires
and all the sounds that the human voice, to pain and fear of death
express.

She heard, as they prayed in the churches and the offices crying. She
heard the words of farewell and the words of pious docility.

She heard the marching step of the armies, the slurp tired columns, which
sighing rush of the beaten, the songs of triumph, and the songs
they sang when they forget or if they wanted to inebriate.

There was a song which her husband a country storm vorsang , in a night
at the fire grenades have had white hair. is ordered their farmers: if
the spades, to bury, to bury the soldiers. One of fathoms deep, twenty
fathoms length, dritthalb Ellen wide, because they are not close.

Hurtig, People, hurtig; excavated earth! the municipalities down, Corporal
above. On the sides four, in the middle of four, cross the Gentlemen,
gentlemen officers. Then the Lord of the colonel in solid chest, which
is no longer deserved rest. Have their Ruh, the valiant comrades, it only
re-home their farmers with the spade. Tomorrow morning, perhaps I
am also shooting, tomorrow morning, certainly, my blood flowed.
These simple verses on Olivia made an unusual impression, and her thoughts
began zerstückten behind the gearbox and confused after looking
at something specific.

It was everything to her vision, always ardent and fervent, and
they looked in the confusion after a glowing figure.

She sought the authors, they looked for the evil.

Yes, they gave him the name of the schlankweg evil.

She said that: one must be to the immense suffering, the cause immense
misery, one must act as God can not be, there must be an enemy of
God and an enemy of his creatures; enemy created everything, all
blood, all warmth, love, life and everything emergence.

They called him the evil, and they sought him.

"And what was our Mind like in those days?" said Sir Richmond. "That, I
suppose, is what interests you. A vivid childish mind, I guess, with not
a suspicion as yet that it was Man ruling his Planet or anything of that
sort."

The doctor pursed his lips. "None," he delivered judicially. "If one
were able to recall one's childhood--at the age of about twelve or
thirteen--when the artistic impulse so often goes into abeyance and one
begins to think in a troubled, monstrous way about God and Hell, one
might get something like the mind of this place."

"Thirteen. You put them at that already?... These people, you think,
were religious?"

"Intensely. In that personal way that gives death a nightmare terror.
And as for the fading of the artistic impulse, they've left not a trace
of the paintings and drawings and scratchings of the Old Stone people
who came before them."

"Adults with the minds of thirteen-year-old children. Thirteen-year-old
children with the strength of adults--and no one to slap them or tell
them not to.... After all, they probably only thought of death now and
then. And they never thought of fuel. They supposed there was no end to
that. His treacherous sympathy and friendship with the insurance confessions
were confirmed to him to do.

He did those beautiful, whose corruption and Verrätertum public
secret was, he coaxed the defrauder clapped and applauded the false
prophets.

He calculated with the talkativeness of the Estonians in Schlau hangover
after an orgy left, with the cynicism of the sort of Tartüff in
anticipation of the great disaster of the day presented, with the
bitterness of aufgehäuften humiliated and reset, with the pressure
of the loads on all shoulders, with the natural joy of the people to
evil, death and destruction. selbstquälerischer But his haßerfüllter
and going to the people took an unexpected turn. The opponent came
before him, while the players employed by him; surrounded by
shadows, the shadows in a language spoke, he saw through them, among
them, behind them figures.

Hingekauert in a rotten and entlaubten tree, he heard the eternal song
of the root. He felt the force, felt the movement, felt the pangs of
rebirth among ghosts, he felt his country, he felt his people.

If he is in front of the bakery shops, the women are looked pale,
patiently waiting, that the bread will be distributed when the projectiles
with cripple incomprehensible radiant, almost shoals entrepreneurial
eyes, the shackled to poles, einherhumpelten if poverty bashfully
avoided the donor and the losers in the misery neighborhoods victory
celebrations with faith-still celebrated, as he was aware of the
relationship, because he was part and inheritance, as he recognized
not only as he was alone, but also how they were to leave, as he
had left.

About the faces he looked, was a hidden light source sham. Did not the
invisible light from the lamp ago, with Olivia in the night by the hall
way? He could not escape this notion: in the dark the world has become
a flame, in a circle around the souls of whose power it is to remain
silent and to serve, they are waiting for the miracle, which is
that they will see the light because they are redeemed. Einsamen dream
of, dream of the lamp and by the people! One evening he came home, attacked
from the air spring, in a strange mood Hinwelken between internal and
glow in it was now felt as if he face buried in pillow and sob,
and now again when he is at the beginning of time and at the threshold
of life between death and so he came by and looked for a picture
and a notion of his own nature.

As the door opened and Olivia stepped inside. He shudders, it felt to
him that it was a decision involved.

The dismay in the last of Olivia Lamb left, had been sustained. She had a
dark guilt against him is always felt, but that he is now the
responsibility would, she had not expected. So far they also back thought
he was the dominant figure in her life, from that hour, where she
as a child by his appeal of an embarrassing demonstration of which
he had been.

She had earned against him, he opposed it, but the bond between them was
only to become so fixed, and when they had decided to flee to him,
not entirely in ruins, it was already completely in ruins. She had never
ceased , called him friend. Yes, it was the experienced, sympathetic,
strong, reliable friend, even in the years of eclipse and of the self-loss.
Then, as the transformation came to his house when she asked of him when
he was traveling in mysterious grudge than all the gifts of life you have
been snatched up on a lamp in his hand, which they saw not only
suspected, whose light only in the other eye discovered, also there
was still the friend at her side a stage of living, man.

And the knowledge of his hatred and loathing was just a spur has
to glow so that the ice around his chest had melted. 'Even blindness
can be deadly sin, you see not, Olivia, what are you with me?

" This word is destroyed like a thunderbolt igniting everything
around him had built.

Too much, she had felt the plight in which he entgegenschrie it. So,
he was convinced that his allegation and claim that he did, right
there? The fact that his fate, he would have her? Inanimate and
misunderstand him they had used, how to use a messenger or a leader,
and his gifts, his affairs hingeströmtes made as a tribute, but
always in a remote idea of a debt.

War, as regards the title friend is not a worthless coin, a charity
that should soothe their consciences?

So much sense and imagination was in her that she had him in the
dark to grope each year, and he cheated on the heart had to be
traitors to themselves and to humanity?

Now she understood much of the beaten down look at it, the wildness
and the hard mouth closed, the loveless, and ruling derailed his life,
the tyranny and the silent Please, all the suffering, the whole painful
path.

And she had often thought of him as to the Truggestalten survived
in recent happiness and longing noise appeared tempting.

She had never dreamed of him, but she had forgotten him not an hour,
she had never lost his image.

Once, on a ball that had a young man said to her: "They say that the
lamb Hofrat you to advertise."

She had her head thrown back and with the ascending pallor in the cheeks,
replied: "If Robert Lamm I have wanted to have he does not need to
advertise. "But just then she was in love with Georg Ingbert been.
Suddenly she was a woman, his wife. He had the history of their games,
their complexities, their opacities to wait for them to call in
the face of a bloody world.

Was it because he took one last stop?

It was in recognition of their nature or in despair over the low
fraction of all earthly order? They are not reluctant, she obeyed, on
the inside, she was his wife. But except for a painful longing for peace
and tenderness she felt nothing of love or what is remembered among the
people understood. * * * * * One afternoon at the twilight hours
they entered the small reading room and talk, for the ends of genes
have been established was.

There was nobody was as a sister Nina Senoner. They sat at the table
and had his head in his hand having. Despite the darkness, was at the
sides of the beautiful face of grief evident.

Olivia went closer to her. »What is with you, Nina?" She asked, and
when Nina Senoner scared up, Olivia felt the incurable disturbing
in this mood.

But she had fear of the new demand has not grown to be the girlfriend of
the pain was. Then Nina Senoner a sharp movement, wrapped her arms around
Olivias hips and pressed her face against the chest. Olivia had a long
way with a woman spoken; personal word on the basic personal feeling
to find it was hard.

She had forgotten, it is important to take what the individual in
his circle with his fate has auszukämpfen now she saw that the
impoverishment and felt remorse.

It presented as the hands protectively on Nina's hair.

The proud, bitter woman who, whatever their thirty-five years as a
young girl had started to sob, her body twitched incessantly.

After a while it was Olivia, she in her room, where they could
be undisturbed. She is close to Nina, she with her handkerchief wiped the
tears on the white face. She asked, inquired, with dedication, even
tenderly. It took until Nina Senoner overcome their shyness. Never
before had someone in such a tone with their talk. She was born in
society, in the company grew, they knew only of human attitude, not by
penetrating strangeness, share of prudence. The element of the cold,
she had gradually turned into a living statue transforms everything
in it was frozen, what women care only about making dreams, longing,
and blood drive message. By the age of eighteen she had married a man,
whom she respected and given a excellent companion was. But his was
a lot of work, and the richer he became, the more responsible and the
work was grueling. During the breaks he friendly faces, a silent and
pleasant budget talks. Nina had a lot of traffic, while lonely, she
lived as a hermit. All the kindness and care of the man was on the
outward appearance of being addressed, he surrounded it with luxury
and with people, and if she had a headache and looked pale, he had the
most expensive doctors and ensure that their advice would be followed.
They never had disputes with each other, hardly any exchange of
words, their marriage was regarded as exemplary, and the bright
vivacity of growing Jeanette seemed a fortune seal, which in the
eyes of the world is nothing short of perfection.

It passed many years before Nina Senoner überhaupt noted that it had
occurred a change that is definitely not to be envied and admired
the picture of happiness would fit.

It was one of those people who rarely about themselves and their
condition to think about those pious natures, with unrelenting
severity every emotion of discontent in their breasts smother.

But there was always more prevalent that a yearning thought, a doubt, a
restlessness in their foreheads shade wrapped. She was just happy to
make those hours they enjoyed deep; dissipated because the feeling of
loneliness, and she was happy, as a young girl had been. But it allowed
her not to be alone. The social obligations attended diversity, we pushed
on them, we wanted to have you felt comfortable in her house and
in their vicinity, yet it was almost always silent, captivated and
fascinated by them both men and women, and their laughter creates
a festive mood, her gentle glance all smoothed foreheads.

She was always arranged, always on, always at home or at guests. The
numerous demands to satisfy, it was difficult to reduce quite impossible.
It was an avalanche that swelled itself and its soul is buried
under.

Because she had the sensation of a day when they will only artificially
and in accordance with the wishes of all these people moving into
their own and had no desire, no decision and no freedom.

It seemed to her as they had planned and step by step their own
lives and robbed as she was his only inne become like this after
each spark was extinguished.

It was only a shell of its former self, a victim of dead things,
as Erfüllerin of forced full duties as a prey of strange people.

And it was terrible that they are also husband and child in these
strangers saw, they looted and had nothing left as a tired body and
a free freud heart.

Your kindness and beauty many men had berückt; superscripted and low,
old and young, famous and had insignificant geschwärmt for them, and some
had to worship from afar satisfied, while others had their salvation
in league or open Advertise sought; the efforts of the majority,
she had overlooked, and she could make a flourish of pride, the
thoroughly cold; There were some who trusted one thought worthy of
discussion, from which they received letters, whose destiny their
interest einflößte.

But no, she had so favored, that he is in a particular way would be
an excellent find, let alone that they were awarded against him
would have something. In the circles in which they operated, was the
wife ungetreue to the most common phenomena of life, they had women in
such a violent aversion always feels, and the idea of her husband to
cheat, even just with a glance, with just a smile , she never came to
mind. Two years ago it had been since she had a spa in a man to know,
an engineer, a life far from umhergetriebenen people, very serious in
nature, austere in appearance, with properties of character , each
were attractive, the longer one is employed with him. The impression
he made on them was from the first second to vital. He stood in the
same age as Nina in the middle of the Thirty, but so mature and
he seemed to know it was something fresh in it, and the independence
of his attitude Nina opened a new world where the threshold to
exceed them timid and puzzled zauderte .

He was married, just not happy, had children who he loved, advocated
but with an almost furious passion and contempt against the cowardly
so-called moral principles of the right of freedom of the heart. When
Nina at that time looked into the mirror, saw them that their trains
began to be wilted. Her face bore the traces of a peculiar guy as
someone who waited in vain for years and finally has given up hope.

Now they knew what they had waited. The youth was then, and she had nothing
she enjoyed. She had never loved. Her soul had withered. The friend
managed it, that her confession to blackmail. He has managed more. He
gave her the belief that it is not yet too late.

This is from his mouth to listen and to hear again and again, happy and
shook her. She lost in dark dreams.

Stumm they listened to the words of the man, whom she suddenly with a
violent lover, from whom they previously had no idea and in which
they appeared desolate and uprooted.

She avoided his gaze, so they niederknien would like to include his
shadow, was also her eye, her fearful and defensive gesture, but
it was her affairs full of tenderness and longing.

He understood them, he urged not, he respected her feelings, and
his particular kind of goodness they are astonished when a man and
made him her every day more expensive, during the battle that raged
in it, every day was impetuous.

A silent rage took possession of it, it schwindelte her if she's voice,
heard his name, they wanted to die and coveted hotter than ever
to live, and all her people were phantoms, mystical perplexity
coined the expression of her face on a Somnambules , but they had
to be alert and to dominate, because she was the target of attention
of many. your husband to go behind and to abuse his trust, it was
horrible to think.

In its glow and charm and totally in the thrall of the superior
eloquence of the friend she was still close to it, the last step
to dare, just to end the agony, just about the donor of the feeling
that they met, how to be grateful. Then came Jeanette. When it eight
days in the mother, said Nina to her friend: "We can no longer see."

Traveled from the engineer. Nina ill. Once they are in the city
had done, she called him again.

She could no longer endure, without him to be. There were nights where
she was afraid, to be mad. The friend followed her reputation, and now
he visited her as often as they desired, at any hour, they certain.
It could not happen often, but from one time to the next time they
brought in a trunk, uneasy joy out.

You could for days in blissful enthusiasm to think of it, its course
imagine his smile, his greeting, and if they expected him, she gradually
from early morning excited by the rooms and was deathly pale. But the
few hours that they then each other, were often characterized by the
appearance Jeanette disturbed. They met with a joke, a Neckerei, so how
it was done as a mother she had come into the country. Just as they had
seemed amused by the deep seriousness in the faces of the two, thought
the man with derision mädchenhaftem, patronized in its good-natured
and somewhat rough manner, the mother, was demanding, without knowing
it, cruel, not want to. Their serenity was a hint of defiance, their
trusting aroused the suspicion that they spy. And yet she was like this
far away. She was just always there, she was not in the room, so it was
in the house, she was not in the house, so it was in the garden, she
was fortgegangen, it threatened their return, they was always
there, always too afraid. Gradually Nina embodied them for the
suspicion of the world, the voice of conscience, the duty which
they owed to the husband.

Looked into the face of the daughter, so she felt the relentless
demand that is not tethered to break the nearly two decades had forged
them, felt them all the sobriety and dullness of their existence.'

s Own child, which she loved, even revered , it was also an object
of hatred and fear, it was the guard in front of their prison, the lawyer
of the father, the views of society. They fell into confusion and fled
unspeakable torment you before Jeanette and searched if they do not turn
was. They flattered her and bestach them with gifts, then again,
it was closed and cold.

One day said the eighteen year old to her mother: "Thou art to me
a mystery," and before their astonished eyes researching Nina
lowered gaze.

The friend she was restless and capricious. If they left her hand
pleadingly, she listened with shoulders drawn up and face away to the
door. He asked why they tremble before the child. She had only a
begging gesture in response, such as broken by passion, her head fell
to the side. He offered her all his life, the solution of his marriage,
and their views gripped him, but they raised their hands incantatory.
He wanted to hug them, they came a cry from schnellatmend and stood
with his back against the door. "They would love to talk to the end
of the track world," said Nina whispering, "it has all the power,
and I have not."

This wonderful friend spoke, and for the first time he had at the thought
of the idea of Jeanette danger .

Once they stood in the twilight close 'to each other at the window,
because rapid steps were heard, and Jeanette entered. She stayed
on the threshold, and laughed. Nina turned and unmutes remarked: "How
can you be such tactless behave!"

- "But mother," said Jeanette, again and laughed even louder.

What was the reason for their laughter, which actually sounded a
little silly?

Nina It cut into the soul, but now the friend realized the danger.
These youth despised the half-dark and its disasters, the despised
drawn decisions, contempt for the detours and the matte doubt
despised the twilight and mystery.

She created a new law of life, something she had necessarily in their
nature, and to proclaim itself einzustehen, they agreed to for the
straight line, for the brightness and strength.

That was what he made the innocent and silly-sounding laugh Jeanette
herausfühlte. And he told Nina. "Go to him, or go to me," he concluded,
"you have to give a go."

They remained silent. But at night she wrote a friend a farewell
letter, then she went to her husband and told him that they love
another.

His face was like lead, he could do nothing as they gaze. Two days
and two nights he was locked in his room, then he called Nina and asked
what they planned.

She said: "I am your wife." Then he asked her if she stayed on the estate
wanted to live, which they had in Hungary, and she answered in the
affirmative.

He escorted them out and they stayed there for months.

Jeanette visited her often, she was changed, full of tenderness and
respect, as they knew to what happened and was now satisfied.

From the lover she heard again when he was at the outbreak of war,
voluntarily moved into the field.

He sent a last greeting.

Today she had the message that he liked it. * * * * * In the heart was
disturbed the beam of the lamp.

Their spirits were sham aufschimmern what Nina had to hide wortunkundige
lips. Olivia was so seeing has become so allfühlend, resonate so
they thought at once of a word Ingbert: The whole world is a single
heart.

Suddenly there appeared also Ingbert shape and face before her. It was
like a forgotten part of her life, the one she knew and lived to fight
gegenübertrat.

Body and soul were to oppose each other, oh, this waiver, this is dull
do not know that treason was now!

The eternal hunger of the demons screamed after Stillung.

A repentant restlessness seized them. Ingbert was the awakening of her
senses been collected and their meaning, now, from the disruption
of human things, from Nina's fate destroyed.

The genius in her chest, she called, now, as the others, since Lamb had
come to his right to demand. They recalled the role that her farewell
when Ingbert had passed.

She had kept them at home, they pushed it out as a people. As the role
held in the hand, she saw that the gang, in which the seal was attached,
words were written. She read: too open for Olivia, even if they can feel
what it was to me. Timid they grazed the tape down and opened the matter.
It was one of the portraits to light, the Ingbert after his illness
had made it. On closer inspection they realized that it was an elaborated
work, a composition of the numerous sketches that he made back then,
had served as the basis. The face was of such beauty that they
beschlichen doubts whether it is really their trains and were not
an artist rooted in the idea of it.

It was a glorious joyousness in the face, something Shining and enthusiastic,
and around the mouth was a sensual willingness to accept the alien
touched Olivia and she did blush.

'Should I have been so? " they asked. Had he seen and felt, then they
had also performed.

Then everything had to be in it. My pulse beat matt; involuntarily looked
around, whether Ingbert not stand behind her and she could ask him.

Nothing appeared to her now so important to him than to ask. Full of
anxiety, she returned back to the hospital. As reported to her that the
surgery on an officer they wait. They went inside, the officer in the arm
and head, and like all who came directly from the field, suffering hard
trains had stood up and politely asked whether they had Khuenbeck sister
Olivia. Then he called his name and went on: "I'm from Lieutenant
George Ingbert urgently instructed to order your greetings. He gave me
the word removed, it is not to be missed. I hereby discards me of my
mission. "" Where is George Ingbert? "Olivia inquired in a low voice."
He is in Zawadow at Strji. "" Wounded? "" Severely wounded, so severely
that one ... that his death must be like. "Olivia breathed deeply. After
a long silence she said, barely audibly, "I thank you.

You have given me a great service done. "My decision was taken.
Martineau, embarked upon
an account of the glory and wonder of Avebury. Possibly he exaggerated
Avebury....

It was Dr. Martineau who presently brought this disquisition upon
Avebury to a stop by a very remarkable gesture. He looked at his watch.
He drew it out ostentatiously, a thick, respectable gold watch, for
the doctor was not the sort of man to wear his watch upon his wrist. He
clicked it open and looked at it. Thereby he would have proclaimed his
belief this encounter was an entirely unnecessary interruption of his
healing duologue with Sir Richmond, which must now be resumed.

But this action had scarcely the effect he had intended it to have. It
set the young lady who was called Belinda asking about ways and means of
getting to Salisbury; it brought to light the distressing fact that V.V.
had the beginnings of a chafed heel. Once he had set things going they
moved much too quickly for the doctor to deflect their course. 
Great Arima, permit to meet the wishes of this mortal? ARIMA. Yes NEMESIS.
Who want out of the tomb? MANFREDO. A dead was a private burial: called
Astarte. NEMESIS. Shadow or spirit that is what are you, who still
preserved a part of your first form, or your entire form, the salt of the
earth and returns to see the day. Returns with the same factions,
same look and the heart, the worms flee from the grave and reappear
in these places: the one that put an end to your day is the one who
calls you. [Astarte's shadow appears in the middle of spirits.] MANFREDO.
Is the death look? even in their glittering colors megillas, but I
recognize too that are not living color.

The flesh is not natural, it seems that the fall occurs on the leaves.
She is certainly O heaven! ¡I tremble to look, looking Astarte!
No, I can tell, but I want to talk to her, that I condemn or
forgive me.

NEMESIS.

By the power that has made you leave the tomb you served in prison,
speaks to you just heard, or to those you has been invoked. MANFREDO.
silent, and for me it's a cruel response. NEMESIS. My power does not
go further. Prince of the air, you can only order to make their voices
heard. ARIMA. Spirit is due to this spectrum. NEMESIS. We are still
silent!

it is not under our rule, but belongs to other branches. Mortal, your
question is toilet, and we are equally confused as you.

MANFREDO. Listen to me! ¡Astarte, my beloved, listen to me and
tell me dígnate! I have suffered so much, I suffer cruelly still look
at me! The death has changed you do not like me I look like your eyes!

"In England, it seems to me there are four main phases of history. Four.
Avebury, which I would love to take you to see to-morrow. Stonehenge.
Old Sarum, which we shall see in a moment as a great grassy mound on our
right as we come over one of these crests. Each of them represents
about a thousand years. Old Sarum was Keltic; it, saw the Romans and the
Saxons through, and for a time it was a Norman city. Sometimes eyes him,
he again heard the cry of him on the window had illuminated. Sometimes
he believed moans and moans can be heard clearly. He was, as he listen
to the bubbling crater of a volcano. Gerold came and set up the bed,
the sink, took clothes from the closet. Silence, he went back and
forth and looked as he fear the sight of his Lord. Lamb had the loading
of the desk opened and dug into old letters and papers. Sometimes he
peered hastily after Gerold and frightened at the sight of the sickly
yellow face.

Everything what he fears and what he is unbearable to think, had to
be experience in this face entrenched.

Lamb told him at last, to leave the room. Since slipped Gerold
crouching with head out.

Long after midnight on the lamb lay down to sleep. But he could not
close the eyelids, the darkness formally burned him on the forehead.
He had in the old letters do not read all the words written and printed,
as it were Moder. But a smell of the past, embrace him and was in his
empty heart geströmt like poison. He was aware how much the fate of him
to love and love right had shortened, and events occurred in living
area, with the silence and oblivion to cover it continually striving had
been. Dazwischen appeared Gerold trains upwards like a petrified
image of horror, then he saw Olivias face in phosphorescent pallor,
within a framework of blood.

He bit his teeth together as schlüge him an invisible fist.

Down in the corridor called someone with reckless loudness "sister Emilie!
Sister, Emilie, "Lamb directed at, lifted his arms behind him and screamed
into the air into it," Silence! "His voice reverberated in the room
below, she was obviously not one. But his hatred is sucked to the
unknown caller and accompanied him into the room and the beds of the
soldiers, and from those pale beings spoke the same scorn: 'We are
entering in your peace, your peace, we have destroyed, we have robbed you
everything what you've obsessed, your paintings have disappeared, your
furniture, your carpets, your wallpaper, we have taken in your case,
we leave trees, your flowers, we pull out, and the only soul to you
advertised that you in your loneliness you down like the prey of tigers
in the wild, which you in your interior were still safe when they
are away from you through the darkened world dragged, we also have
to lure us, we human beings, we are miserable, sick people!

"It was like a fever dream.

Since rose anew Olivias picture, but he now knew and felt what it
means to him had realized what it was what it was.

A desire for her voice came over him, her words, her encouragement,
her refutation, longing to open her to explain it approved and to
be understood.

When he was in the morning a look in the mirror threw, he was horrified
. An old, pale, stared hohlwangiges face opposite him like ghosts.

He made a grimace and placed höhnend noted that his heyday was over.
* * * * * First at the twilight hours came up Olivia.

Without again to ask to leave, gave her lamb's written consent for
the construction of barracks.

She thanked.

She was tired and sat down, betrayed a certain nervousness now that
they have no rest allow to be believed.

The geschrien yesterday, was already dead She told it casually. It was a
case among many. He nodded .

Thus he must accept that death is a regular guest in the house was,
he said, with her doing he could not accept.

Until breathlessness rushed, as they look ahead, he could now and
never decide to endorse their company or even to praise.

"It may be the way for hundreds of others that your way is not to
Olivia.

For the person stops , which disappointed, deceived by the life the
right way for you the wrong track. "" Why, Robert?

It is your pride and your tyrannical will, which I oppose. I have people
in a different world, and found, as you've shown me, "she replied."
Anders found? As for when you may ask?

Are you also a witness of great suffering, so you're not able to
give a judge, where they originate and what is justice in them.
"" I judge not, I deny nothing, I say nothing.

That is what the audience, Robert, the heartless spectators. "" A
man is always spectators, my love, even when he acts.

Should I suddenly forgotten, whereas twenty-five years long has outraged
my mind what I have been insulted and humiliated bin time of my life?
You the war is a disaster, a fate that has not been to prevent a
hail or a disease, to me he is the expiation for an infinite,
aufgehäufte debt.

The horror of the fire do you want nothing more of them know that
you have so long gezündelt until finally the flames to the roof are
doing.

Now wrestles her hands, now wehklagt her, now do you want to help
and save, now that it's too late is.

Previously it was deaf, did you petted and hardened, are Genüßlinge
been, players, drinkers, sports heroes, bookworms, Ehrabschneider and
Rechtsbeuger.

It strikes me as ridiculous, so useless, so inflated.

You must already forgiven, Olivia.

"Olivia stood up and replied with silence, which saw her face, the
days, nights, the pain, the reality Ungeheure the compatriots gave:"
You're doing'm sorry, Robert, I can do more not saying you're doing
to me nameless suffering.

And if you watch me, I know that only your words. Your feeling is not,
it's not. "" Oh, stay 'for me with the feeling from the neck!

What I feel is my private affair, which I think goes to the General.
And I think that you are familiar with the bucket in your weak arm a sea
of blood do not cover it. I think that a deluge is not remedy by using
a couple of fence slats rams into the ground.

I think that, where the storm has smashed all the forests, it is a
fruitful endeavor is loose, with the Leimtopf dabeizustehen.

I think that nobody has the right to waste, which, albeit only in
the idea of an individual who serves humanity better by itself preserves.
Who was born, flowers to cherish, to immerse his hands in blood, or he
entwürdigt nature.

Why the world bring down even more, since they are already on the dog
came. This all sounds so cruel curse, but fate can give me an example
of cruelty, the courage einflößt me. "I wundre me," said Olivia
kopfschüttelnd, and her blue eyes radiated in the fire of reluctance.
»Where do you get the strength and determination, you will escape a
responsibility to which all feel, from all niedergezwungen be? Are you
the judge and is the whole rest of the world your address? Have you never
missed, never sinned himself, did you not to be ashamed of failing,
you're not a man and stand with us all under the same law?

So why this arrogance, this haggling and Hadern these cowardly
escape from what is now? "He was silent at first. He walked impatiently
up and down and whistled softly.

He threw dark side glances at her, and her slender, hochaufgerichtete
with the strange shape zurückgebogenen shoulders filled him with a
shy, he does not want to acknowledge. He stepped to the window and
drummed on the windows, and while he was in the winter garden and
into the bare branches of the trees looked, he saw it just always,
always felt she admired them, schmähte she looked after her in his
zerwühlten Interior , looked in her collected reasons tormented his
mind from justifications.

He spoke of the misfortune that has befallen the human race was
when the big cleaning.

He spoke of the historical necessity and the cladding policy under
which they fool the people and by all individual forced to
perform what nobody want to do. Long sighed countries, the cities
under an abundance of people and production, the wealth was not to become,
as it was in a room have been, its oxygen by breathing lungs too
many had been consumed. Whether they are not even using the words came
to him that there was too little space? Now they are created space, it
is the coincidence, and not just the place for the body, but also
for the soul, for faith, for the Lord, who was in danger, in his
sky choke.

Because you should not wring their hands and lament larmoyanter
leave, as befit the reverence for the higher reign, for he who
falls, who was also comparable to the ear, which, like thousands
of their Mitähren, was ripe for the sickle of the reaper.

Each has suffered the death is.

Even though millions died, but there was only one death, and it was a mistake
in the fantasy of living it millions of times to see. Olivia looked at
him, smiling and with a view erglühten. "I am also an ear, why do
you want me but?"

She said. "Yes, but I want you," he replied fiercely, but he faltered
because the presumption of the Word and just felt so betrayed,
which gave him even unconsciously in his deepest chest was hidden.

"Why?

"She insisted, and her smile was so vergeistert that he felt her fear.
"If you look at the things in this kind of view, I am not a tool for
which I save, as the grenade a tool of destruction is? Could you
just once a man's eyes shine see you the pain! You do not know what
gratitude is. Because it means life for thee nothing? The unique,
wonderful, incomprehensible, which is only an idea if the death
after his term -? You do not know what life is! "" Make me a
poet, a dreamer, one that is the reality of never being able to soberly
assess and learn, do I suddenly become such a helmsman on a ship,
during the typhoon rast, as tu 'I was about the same thing with you
what you're doing, "said Lamb, and turned in all her muscles quivering
face." Like everything in you is torn and burned! Each level is
destroyed, destroy any form! "No, no, no," she called him. "Not
destroyed, torn apart not only alive, alive at last. And even if this
destruction would Lebendigsein, who am I that I should look out for
me that I should protect? For whom, for what keep me? Where is the Better,
Bigger? Let me be as I am, let me do what I do!

"They saw him for one second with eyes staring at, then broke the
gaze and feuchtete itself.

They took a few steps up to him, pressed both hands against her chest
and whispered, deathly pale, "Oh, Robert, it's terrible! Terrible! "He
surrounded the Fluctuating with his arms and stood there motionless.

After a while she went off smoothly, highlighted with hand over her hair
and said, shocked:" I forget myself completely. There is much work to
me. Good night, Robert. "Quick, she left the room. * * * * * About a
week ago a man had been received, the one without a uniform, down
to the striped shirt on a battlefield in Galicia had found. He had a
shot in the spine, could not speak and no information about themselves.
Still, he was stiff and dagelegen, eyes always on the same issue
addressed in the air. He had an extremely beautiful face, pale, spiritual,
durchformt; a black beard framed it so that the chin and cheeks
were free of hair.

Whether he was friend or foe, you knew not. He wore the number 42, that
was all.

We talked him into all the languages of all peoples, which were at
war, but he never gave a sign that he took the words. We suspected
that he was also deprived of hearing and gave him newspapers and labels
described before, he did not even noticed the gesture. Without sigh,
without a sound of the action he was there. Even if this is from a total
Teilnahmlosigkeit, yes from an inner tetanus testified, but his
eyes had the highest gloss preserved, the thinking was.

They were constantly wide open, and as if the muscle movement of
the eyelids no longer worked, they do not for one minute.

The expression in them was not fieberisch it was a mild light, a soul-like
rays, the doctors and nurses on a mysterious attraction exerted.

Often there were several people at the same time at his camp, which for
a short time they were deprived of employment, only to look at this meet
and it noted.

And every night Olivia came to the bed of the wounded, stopped,
looked into the pale face and examined, they too, lost the wonderfully,
wonderfully fulfilling view of the foreign man.

Each night they broke their tour here and stayed as a man who draws
breath and bethinks and solve a sinister mystery is closer than
ever before.

Since this man was in the house since she had perceived these eyes,
above the confused, Done like two wild fine, lonely stars lit, this
view had been that painful-painless, knowing full-unconscious from the
spirit world to penetrate seemed, had their hunting and restlessness
soothed somewhat cruel anguish of mind, they dipped up from the
smoke and turned the Höllenglut her gaze to the sky, perhaps for
the first time in life with the idea and the feeling of God.

There was no other way out than up. * * * * * With thirteen steps
durchmaß Robert Lamm's gable room. He had calculated that twelve thousand
five hundred steps had to cover a distance of ten kilometers to go.
He owned a pedometer with which he daily passes through certain
train.

On some days there were twelve, some fifteen kilometers. The eyes marches
him necessary for the preservation of his health.

Also, he could think better while walking. But the thoughts were in vain.
Every time it dawned to him that he had after the thirteenth step had
to be reversed. If the ninth, the tenth step, a rebound, an enlightenment
promised the wall, forced to reverse, made all been lost.

Five to six hours of sleep, two to three marching and two to three
readings, were still at least twelve hours, which were empty, twelve
maliciously creeping hours. Every noise in the home, every call, every
bell character, every whisper was a murmur or hostility, but was also
a welcome break. How many there lurked, startled, threatened to out
there, because down there! Encounters fear kept him from the threshold
to pass. After the course of a week he brooded over flight plans. But
he knew that nobody cared for him. A strange pleasure it granted him,
the people themselves to let pass, with which he formerly had
considered his hatred. It turned out that by this hatred, not much was
left, even if his memory still so rough caricatures painted, he could
in those few people to discover what such a violent feeling would
be justified.

The cause was not about that his ability to hate had lost, but that
everything still hatred in him, against a single human being directed
alone against Olivia and unforgiving. She had forced him, against his
conviction to act. They asked him to betray the last hope that he
still cared for to the last, the secret expectation that he, despite all
the world contempt and desolation still painful in the future was linked.
It took until he was acknowledging this.

He was not the man to such a truth in the face to face. His mind and
sense of life was a neglected province of its existence, and the dark
paths of the soul only guessed it was not comfortable and he
denied it, where it was possible. But now came the past so close to
him, he suddenly knew that he was the picture of a child with lust in
Olivia is recorded, and that the guard and Erzieheramt, which he
exercised him more, and other means had a duty the piety and the
friendship.

Eye and the sensation had deceived him, he would have been tarnished,
they believed betrayed when he of her, of themselves, called by
fate, if he knowingly would have to reach getrachtet that his starved
heart lechzte.

"To think it was exactly where it is before there was a Cabot
in America!"

Miss Grammont let her companion pull the talk about as she chose. After
the animation of the afternoon a sort of lazy contentment had taken
possession of the younger lady. She sat deep in a basket chair and spoke
now and then. Miss Seyffert gave her impressions of France and Italy.
She talked of the cabmen of Naples and the beggars of Amalfi.

Apropos of beggars, Miss Grammont from the depths of her chair threw out
the statement that Italy was frightfully overpopulated. "In some parts
of Italy it is like mites on a cheese. Nobody seems to be living.
Everyone is too busy keeping alive."

"Poor old women carrying loads big enough for mules," said Miss
Seyffert.

"Little children working like slaves," said Miss Grammont.

"And everybody begging. Even the people at work by the roadside. Who
ought to be getting wages--sufficient...."

"Begging--from foreigners--is just a sport in Italy," said Sir Richmond.
"It doesn't imply want. But I agree that a large part of Italy is
frightfully overpopulated. The whole world is. Don't you think so,
Martineau?"

"Well--yes--for its present social organization."

"For any social organization," said Sir Richmond.

"I've no doubt of it," said Miss Seyffert, and added amazingly: "I'm out
for Birth Control all the time."

Fourteen rooms! In each room may be ten beds. One has too little
space, Robert, too little space for people who have sacrificed.

Here is the place for you in Hüll 'and wealth. Give me your house,
Robert, do not reflect, give them space, if not to life, then
to die. "Mute lamb looked astonished at Olivias blazing face." How they
keep quiet, "whispered Olivia and pressed their hands against each
other, »how pious they are lying, as mutilated animals.

Go with me and see 'them. "Robert Lamb slowly shook his head, as he
terms those words do not.

Finally he said sharply repellent: "They have not sacrificed, they have
been sacrificed. Ad one. Ad two: there is nothing not stop when the
pack is depleted. There are still enough left. Ad three is not
in my office, the Samaritans to play. The release 'which I, nor the
expectations or beliefs, or the ambition to have their importance.
"Olivia looked stunned at his still face.

She started on the whole body to tremble.

"And if you were there, there would be helpless," she stammered,
all color from their cheeks important.

Lamb was silent and did not.

"And if your brother would be any man that you love," she pleadingly,
incantatory, except to continue. Robert Lamm was peculiarly vicious
movement with the shoulders up and stared across dark about Olivia.

"And even if I would be Robert, myself," broke it like a cry from her
show.

Her eyes were swimming in shimmering moisture, the wilderregte searching
glance ran through the sparsely furnished room and stayed in one
place the wall are liable, where a deer antler and two rifles were
among a hunting rifles with elaborately inlaid knife blade.

In passionate, she joined flush to the wall, tore the knife itself,
with trembling fingers opened the top buttons of their shirt and
set the tip of the steel against the white skin of its chest.

"If I think it would be," she repeated, and in the tone of despair
mingled in a strange cheer.

Her lips tight naked big teeth gleamed as if they laugh, and the
picture as they stood there, threatening, demanding, accusatory, the
knife in his fist in the middle of the pain and the fear of disappointment
almost playfully, had all unexpected and frightening something so
touching, so childlike, that Robert Lamb trains surprised emotion
was felt.

He took out, they grabbed the joint and replaced the knife with a gentle
violence from their hands.

"No dramatic exercises, my child," he said tadelnd, "quiet blood,
let us calmly negotiate." He threw the knife on the table, and gradually
a few of the rooms.

"Your feeling does you honor," he began again, "only I see no
reason to me that obligation and compulsion should grow.

Nobody can be like pushing on an item that is neither his character
nor his view of things is in accordance with - "" The evil in which
you suffered at the worst, and you always have our curse means,
inertia and irresponsibility that I just should deface your image,
can I not endure, "Olivia threw one.

Robert Lamm stopped and lowered his head. The glow in Olivias words
visibly surprised him and he seemed to struggle with it.

"With the house alone, it's not done," he said hesitatingly, "who will
make it?" "That leave be my concern." "You forget that this money
belongs to." "You're rich. What do you want with all that money? There
are others who are rich, if you do not have enough or not enough spare
want. On the money should 'fail it? The dirty money, which now
does not help.

"Robert Lamb laughed, it sounded about half and half cramped. He sat down
at the table and stared into the garden.

"Well," he said after a while, "is now good. I do not want me on your
invite contempt. Tue, why it's urgent.

I will order that you wish after your turn is here. I will give you a
sufficient account at the bank opened. I assume that your suitability
with the practical enthusiasm same pace, that you people do and
find out for help, experience and probity possess is probably
self-evident.

I can watch what it creates. On my person, however you may not count.

I'm not there, not for you, for no one.

Now go, you have so hastily, miss' is not the time. "Olivia came to the
table, took Robert Lamb with her two hands and pressed it firmly.

Unsure, he looked almost uneasy at this and suggested looking at
the ground.

She went. * * * * * On the same evening traveled from Robert Lamm.
He fled to his Alm Every time he came into the valley, he caused
the car fire at the landlord and keep a peasant girl, the staff was
there, followed him into the cabin.

This girl, named Romana, he has been loyal for many years and always
rejoiced when they up there with him was allowed.

She was brought up to the silence, and as he thought they looked
dull, he asked what it was.

She replied, her treasure was in the war. The word sounded strange in
the distance of all human activity. The majesty and tranquility of nature
destroyed its meaning.

It was wonderful October weather.

Fog in the morning were on the heights around, filling the depths,
they immediately began the still invisible sun to shine, to dissipate,
and the bright blue sky came out.

In the early days of Robert Lamm regularly went on hunting. But
he noticed that his desire and the right collection was missing. Once
it attaches to a buck was on the track, and succeeded him to the animal
prior to the shot. Scarcely a hundred paces from him stood scenting
it between the trees, he appealed, but strangely, the heart beat
him so violently that he had to sell the shotgun.

The animal had heard a noise and enteilte, not in large sets, but
almost as carefully and knew it, that it was no longer threatened.

Angry lamb fired his rifle into the air, and only because it sprang
full horror of it.

His cautious, springing dream career in the hunter had a human shape
dunned.

He had suddenly seen in front of Olivia. He had the shotgun at home,
and undertook long hikes through the mountains. Where the horizon was
adjusted by rocks or trees, he felt sure that deferred and, on the peaks,
it seemed to him, shivering as the bell of heaven, and on the edge
was a flicker like iron bands, which glow in the fire. If he is in a
village inn came after he attacked the newspaper and read the reports.
The farmers to whom he was a familiar phenomenon, linked to talks with
him and wanted information and solace of it. But he liked the fact they
are in fear about it, and his last word was always: "It is with
us." And their faces painted in a heartless, fanatical gloating. Once
he showed the foresters and the post with the masters Map in hand, that
it is against the majority of the enemies would be no escape. Those
listening to uneasiness, and the rangers ventured to the modest
victory signs, which the troops had already won.

Since the Hofrat laughed and replied, "At best, we are to conquer
death."

He was always restless movement.

He had books from the city, but had no patience for reading. In
earlier days, he had taken the plan, not far from the cottage
ausgemauertes a pool of water, in order to bathe in the summer and to
be able to swim.

Eyes Now it's time to the project a reality, and every morning he
went out with the shovel to the specific site and dug from the earth
itself, for many hours.

In tiredness, which then attacked him, he felt, will wane as the anger
of an animal, which it held between its paws.

During rainy weather, he sat in the house. Often he sent Romana with
orders to the valley itself and cooked Often, especially in the evening,
he crouched on the stove and stared into the flames.

Then he started in defiant tone to himself, talking, or he took a half
piece of wood and signed with the charred end of hieroglyphics on the
white Kalkmauer.

From the flames but rose Olivias shape and lost again in the darkness.

Gradually took hold of his fear of an unspecified threat and disease. He
believed not secure enough in the night and barricaded the door. Lying
in bed, betastete his body and was looking for a sensation of pain. He
lit the light on, grabbed the clock and counted its pulsations. Hardly
could he endure it, his heart to hear noise, every moment he was
taken to that mysterious machine inside the womb would stillestehn.

He wandered into the next village and bought all sorts of mixtures and
Probatmittel in the pharmacy. It came before him, when the people saw
him with suspicious eyes, as if they discuss something perishable
and led against him in the shields.

The rustling in the bushes frightened him, the cry of the crows left him
pale, the howling of the wind caused him the greatest pain.

When Ausschaufeln the Badgrube one morning, he suddenly felt as
Schaufler he was a grave, his grave.

Horrified, he threw the device away and herded to the work again. When
it dawned, he dared no longer to the outside. Romana has had every
third day post fetch them.

Now he let them down only every week, mainly because he was afraid
of being alone, and if they came with the letters, he only besah
envelopes and labels, and dared not, they to open.

He read no newspaper even more, for he did not know what is out
there was experiencing, he waited for a disaster and did not want
to know if they moved closer or further away from it.

And yet, he trembled for the people not only for themselves.

So it is essential also to society Romanas was so much he hated her
speeches and her silence. If everything was silent in the snow, because
it was now winter has tormented him that he knew by her breathing.

Sometimes at night he crept through the house and shed to the boards, after
which they slept. He still saw the light in the columns, so raw, he at
the wall, and they blew out the candle. He heard her snoring,
so he bit his teeth together and took his unfathomable bitterness out.
In Schläferin humanity was only in it yet. They urged him on, because
she was demanding. What they wanted, blunt body, how it was insensitive
and common? They dreamed of the stupid peasant boy, whom she had loved,
and now was in the battle? And she had a right to question him, Robert
Lamm? But something was not random in their existence, in its shape?
A little refines the contour, a little smoother skin, a little animated
face, and she was another ominous turn. "Olivia," he muttered to himself,.
One late evening, was sent to the front door gepocht. The Hofrat went
and opened it.

A young man with torn robes and disturbed face stood out. Stammering he
asked for the inlet.

As it stormed and snowed, Lamb liked him not to reject. When asked where
he come from and why he is in the mountains herumtreibe, he just
confused answers.

Romana led him to the attic, where he was on a straw sack was the
night.

When she returned, she said it was a boy from her village, he was
in the pattern had been excavated and fled.

The Hofrat went on, "then tell him he should pack up," he cried.
One could not but people in this night to hunt, was the reply.

Lamb lit the lantern, it climbed to the attic, and as he the man was in
deep sleep, he lit up his face. A second, it seemed to him as he raised
his image as a mirror opposite, so much pride and horror was confirmed
in these trains. He believed louder arms caused arising out of the darkness
after the flags stretched fugitives, and from there, while his
back is turned, even after they attacked him.

In a flush of anger, he shook the shoulder of the sleeper and the
only one left to hear moans and slept on.

And, as the lumber shed behind the sleeping Romana Olivias adopted the
shape, was this strange man turns himself in, and it was not to
distinguish whether the other a bedroom that was delusion or his
own guards.

It was a gruesome melts intertwining of man and man, of soul and spirit,
a gruesome loss of the physical border, the spill-over from consciousness
to consciousness.

Until dawn progressively lamb in his office up and down. As soon
as day was, he wanted down to the village in order to make the display.
But before he was still on the course had prepared, saw two gendarmes
with a police dog in the house are responsible.

They had the whole area off, because the dog in the snow, the track had
lost and wanted to be here after the refugee inquire. "The man
is up there that you are seeking," she told the Hofrat and pointing
to the stairway to the roof. The young boy was arrested and charged
with Handcuffs provide. Lamb bade the maid that the gendarmes of
a snack, and while they waited and ate, he hurriedly packed his
suitcase. Then he accompanied the people of the valley and was remarkably
talkative, in a strangely submissive nature he had anything to be
loaded and can be prevented through education zeal that he accused.
Brandwirt When he left his luggage from the hut here. In the evening
he drove into the city. He rented in a hotel. For several days he
went from the room, he finally decided to notify his servant. Gerold
came and brought him clothes and linen, which he had requested. On the
question of whether he should remain with him, the Hofrat shook his
head and replied that he would call him when he's needed. The change
to the quiet, clumsy people had proceeded, he seemed not to notice.
Gerold's eyes swam in a red liquid, his arms twitched constantly,
the speeches he stuttered and lost the connection.

But Robert Lamb saw the people not to. When he started, he chose the evening
hours and avoid the hellbeleuchteten streets.

He gradually reduced with the eyelids and was based on his stick like
an old man. It was a sinister comedy is that it is also the career
of a old imitations.

He wanted to go himself and the people of age. He wore no longer be
elected by that delicacy, which he always noticed, but was provided
with cunning calculation for small features of Verlotterung;
flachkrempige the cylinder, which is something like a symbol of his
personality was formed, was not so shiny brushed, although he still
a bit crooked on his head was. It was often the case that he, despite
the adjustment, which he practiced, despite the hiding game, which he
drove, was greeted.

But he never thanked.

Once it became a good friend in the way, gebärdete are delighted
to see him, and wished him luck on his big deed.

Querulousness looked questioningly at him Hofrat.

It turned out that the hospital said the wounded, to which the villa
had been converted. He enthusiastically praised the facilities there
even taken, and the extraordinary benefits Olivia Khuenbecks, which
is always new wonders and get to hear from the entire city swarms.
Sullenly replied the Hofrat that do nothing to him, the Villa was not
a private institution long more, but is at war as a public hospital
under state supervision. He could claim no merit, and Lobsprüche had him
in the wrong place. A former colleague, from whom he also stopped and
was harassed with questions, he whispered with a hypocritically Bekümmernis
that the doctor had forbidden him to speak, he pointed to his
throat and left the baffled stand.

In the dining and coffee houses, which he visited, he sat in a
corner, to guard against benign and intrusive gaze to protect, he
held a newspaper in front of the face, but not to read.

The people too much noise to him, his face distorted itself invidiously
if they laughed or kannegießerten excited. In his view, they would have
to be quiet, very quiet, and at night no lights were allowed to burn.
Somewhere he heard music, so he was beside himself, and that the fate
of cheeky challenged. Have extra sheets proclaimed and all accessed
greedy hands afterwards, so he remained teilnahmlos and is not
stemmed. He was convinced that almost everything in these leaves was,
was lies. The countless refugees who filled the city, excited his anger,
the other was preparing him the idea to the cause of their Whereas
a gloating satisfaction, and he made spiteful glosses over the
stupid people that the threat does not seem to guess who is announced.

He met groups of soldiers, the wounded healed, the greasy uniforms
and pale faces with erbarmenswürdig through the streets were so
ballte it in anger as the fist and smiled darkly.

Three times he changed his neighborhood because he einbildete that
during his absence People in his room were, in order to spy.

Also, it was all over him too expensive and too loud.

It examined the suspicious accounts and gave no gratuities. Recently,
he lived in a small inn in Währing. His growing isolation increased the
hypochondriac feelings, often for days he lay in bed. It was the beginning
of December, when the limits of her destruction and threatened
destruction. It seemed that only a thin veil still needed to tear, and
the face of the Meduse stared certainly look into a world that until
the hour of hardship and horror had played. All life faltered like a dying
person in the room: the people themselves, and sought help in an eye of
another. Then came Robert Lamb on a peculiar weakness, and he felt
his abandonment as a centners weight. When he was once a Florist
passed his step faltered. He had to laugh. It came to him before so absurd
that behind the glass flowers were, now, in winter and in the evening
of all things. Suddenly seized him longing for his greenhouses, he
immediately felt the feuchtschwirrende air and the warm smell of the
earth. He remembered his favorite plants and the feeling of Verschwisterung
that he had felt against them. The letztvergangenen months he eyes a
time of exile and deprivation, he grasped his escape not to be defiant
absence, he wanted out, but he found himself suspended and he beargwöhnte
his desire, as if it were merely a pretext for another, the he did
not want to acknowledge.

The old Selbsthaß beat up and mixed with the grudge against a figure,
which he once was expensive, because he had power over them, so
much power that he had may imagine, she was a dependent of him, so
he created beings , like a flower that he had and the growth and
color to some.

Since he came to the opera and had to stop because a car blocked the
path chain. A beautiful woman rose from a trap, which appears to
be a Pole, a precious cloak wrapped around the slender body on the
dark hair she wore a deep red rose. Lamb had the rose from her head like
tear, it was something so audacious and lascivious to the world
appeared to him grossly degenerated, from all forms and all reason,
he saw another face under the rose, it faded, erglühte, faded again
he wanted to keep the image, followed it, wandered around aimlessly,
was tired, raffte itself again, climbed an electric train that went
back a bit, and it was later evening, as he is concerned his villa.
force and ambulance stood at the garden gate.

Soldiers rushed in and out, above the entrance hung a large red cross,
all the windows were brightly lit. Way he could not decide. It was fleeing
when he turned to go. He is despised, was a fool in his eyes. His own
house, a place of suffering and pestilence, part of a world from which
he was excluded had snatched him from a creature, which he to be to
think, feel had taught!
Dr. Martineau was forgotten.

Section 2

For the better part of forty hours, Sir Richmond had either been talking
to Miss Grammont, or carrying on imaginary conversations with her in her
absence, or sleeping and dreaming dreams in which she never failed
to play a part, even if at times it was an altogether amazing and
incongruous part. And as they were both very frank and expressive
people, they already knew a very great deal about each other.

For an American Miss Grammont was by no means autobiographical. She
gave no sketches of her idiosyncrasies, and she repeated no remembered
comments and prophets of her contemporaries about herself. She either
concealed or she had lost any great interest in her own personality. But
she was interested in and curious about the people she had met in life,
and her talk of them reflected a considerable amount of light upon her
own upbringing and experiences. Olivia had the words heard and
understood, they kept the one they talked secret thanks. The young
man often wrong in the home, she soon knew his name, he said Robert Lamb,
and was then still an unaddressed official in the Ministry. Always, when
she saw him, she had the same feeling thanks, in hours of children's
distress appeared to be her image as the a helper.

He was the embodiment of a more stringent protective deity of the addition
of the gentle father. * * * * * If the professor sat at his desk, it often
happened that Olivia stole into the room, very quietly on the carpet at
his feet settled in books and in books and scrolls, on the ground
aufgeschichtet beaten. Most noticed the professor until the spring
when he stood up weglegte and then he said: "You're there, baby?" And
smiled. Olivia was happy that it had succeeded, not to disturb him.

Sometimes he walks in the small park, then took it with Olivia
and led her by the hand. Astonished people saw the beautiful child.
Olivia, however, always believed that they saw the father, so
thoughtful and full of dignity then progressively. She was proud of
him. Once the mother had lied to Olivia. She was with the lady in the
Prater and had said that she was at her aunt, wife of Scheyern, been.
Her brother Ferdinand had in all innocence betrayed. In the indignation
about the mother asked that they contribute to a penalty corner should
kneel. Olivia refused to comply with such passion that the mother
increasingly became anger.

As the professor came into the room, see him and rush to his neck, Olivia
was one, she did not want to kneel, she sobbed and clinging so desperately
to the father that the man frightened every effort had to calm them.
Around one year after this incident, Olivia was eleven years old, met
the professor a recovery trip to Italy.

Olivia felt its absence painful, and every morning she sat down and wrote
him a letter. In Naples, the professor was seriously ill and died a
sudden death. Olivia grasped it not.

The corpse came to the funeral took place, many people were in the
house, the mother cried, brother, relatives wept, Olivia is not
understood. For them the father was still traveling, and they
believed his death could not.

Day after day they sat down and wrote him a letter. They told him the
little events of her life, told from the mother and of Ferdinand,
spoke of their intentions, by their eagerness to learn, of their
desire to do something to honor him and to make.

As they knew, but no address, they gathered all letters in a folder,
- until they finally understood. * * * * * The big revenue for the
professor had the luxury of budget has been devoured, after his
death was only a modest capital left, and Mrs.

Khuenbeck was forced to thrift. The order of the assets and affairs of
the new life, it was Robert Lamb, the widow of a friend to stand.

Khuenbeck woman had a fear bordering on respect for him. On Ferdinand's
upbringing he had a decisive influence, while he was doing and let
Olivias equanimity seemed to consider.

Robert Lamm had a few years back a major career, even from his malevolent
merits was attributed. He was Hofrat the Administrative Court, had
envied awards and enjoyed as a legal writer of the reputation of an
authority.

His nature proclaimed courage and determination, he was the terror
of whole armies of officials, because it was a rare self-force,
namely a matter which he for good and fairly held, to enforce.

From early on Olivia likes breathed the air around the honest, fearless
and firm personality.

It came opposite him warmly, and he always had a warm word for it.

While he spoke with the mother, she was in his vicinity, he smiled at her,
so she went back and leaned against his shoulder. But when they are growing
up to the lady, he was formal.

He stopped suddenly on them duzen; Olivia objected. He bowed and said,
if they explicitly ask for and gracious wife, he bowed out against Mrs
Khuenbeck, allow it, he again duzen, but should be no unilateral freedom
remain, they must then also duzen.

"But I've always done," cried Olivia amazed. - "Certainly, just
fits my uncle is not," he replied with a grimace, "I hate the uncle."

So they called him Robert and Du.

Nevertheless he kept his formality in which the character of mocking
gallantry adopted him as much Olivias to be satisfied with life
began.

She was so eifervoll so lernwütig so crazy on books, so breathless
action, the mißfiel him and he said not that he was just always
mocking and Galant.

One evening he came, as Olivia sat in a book.

He bent over her shoulder, looked even closer look, shook his head,
and since it seems Olivia questioningly, he took the book, scrolls,
shook his head again and finally asked: "How old are you doing now?"
"Seventeen was I, "replied Olivia. Her hair shone like gold in the light
of the lamp. "Seventeen years, and Plato in the original," cried the
Hofrat from. His face was so sad that Olivia had to laugh. "And so
they head the other plagues," mingled in the mother talk, "Mathematics
and Philosophy and Literature and History and piano playing and
lectures, indeed, schwindelt me if I am anything . So often now Hofrat
there was, he always had the same eye for Olivia, in which both critics
and was sorry. The look said: what do you use it, girls, Plato in the
original reading?

Why you wrap yourself in science dead inside?

What should you the Scharteken?

Maybe he knew too little of the young, Olivia grew up with, by her
ravenous for new material and new forms, according to salary and
development.

This had sex everything ertrotzen, work and enjoyment, verdict and the
future, if the Erbübeln of the country and the race would not succumb,
the frivolity and the inertia.

Verloren in its drive to add the measure, so they could despise the
caution, the comfortable Romanticists the cowardly guardians of
the Conventional.

He knew nothing of this youth, it was not life and wealth are hopeful,
but assault and vanity. Once he came to Mrs. Khuenbeck and was
disappointed not to meet Olivia. She had gone to a concert. "It is the
second this week," said Ms Khuenbeck, "and once in theater, and even
an exhibition of paintings, and on Sunday on the Schneeberg. It is not
to keep, I do not know where the time and strength to all hernimmt. ""
And since even more, "said the Hofrat, and pointed to a tennis racket
and a pair of white shoes that were on a chair . 'Yes, well, "replied
Mrs. Khuenbeck. As the sinister face of the saw Hofrat, said she
quickly added: "But it is not addictive fun as you might think it's
something else. She is everything she does, so full and does everything
she does so joyfully, that we do not have the heart brings you to
interfere. "This was for a sound Hofrat. Olivia was beautiful, that
alone gave her value in his eyes.

All were ugly zeal; books made ugly, ugly knowledge made, among the
people to push, made ugly.

On sports fields dislocate the limbs, the feet by clumsy shoes
deface and clothed with coarse materials to the whims of the weather
suspension, which he called bitter drama.

The beauty flowed everything they stole nothing of nature, she
settled for her Treat, beauty was lonely, was itself enough to own
law, and Olivia went against the law.

He cooled against Olivia, and his visits were always rare. * * * *
* At this time Olivia was one of intense enthusiasm for a brilliant
conductor and composer is taken, like a fire under the guild of
musicians stadtansässigen driven and the crowd was subdued only
when it differs from his astonishment about him had recovered.

He was with the lamb Hofrat friends, and once she met the two who
were in keen discussion.

The Hofrat saluted them and stopped, he made it to the man known
idolizes.

She was pale, stammered a few words, then stopped and went on. She
had heard his voice, and her voice was unforgettable. The voice of a man
she could offend and disappoint them, but also happy and enchant.

His voice had touched her soul deeper than any before. In the summer
he stayed on his possession of a mountain. Olivia knew the mother to
talk about that they spent the holiday. On many days, in moon nights
they reverently walked the paths on which he had gone. His close
personal, she did not, he was always so spun, so verwühlt, then turned
away, she was happy, even if it of the day saw from afar. One morning
she saw him between flowerbeds.

He believed that unobserved; at an ostrich, he bent down to smell.
Tenderness of the Movement for Olivia had something extraordinary. From
then on they looked flowers with other eyes.

It always had flowers in her room to be, at any time of the year.

They watered them, used them, rejoiced when they flourished, and
mourned when they welkten.

As the musician died an early death, she gave all the money that they
had, for flowers, and decorated his grave with them. The innocent and
passion wunschlose had her heart for people still susceptible
made. Taught and learned lost in importance compared to the living the
ups and downs of fate. To win friends with his friends, to friends
auszuteilen was lucky. Thus they often in the intertwined fortunes of
the people, often claimed.

Much of what was started in the game, turned into bitter Ernst;
trust was abused, misunderstood openness, kindness zurückgestoßen,
truth in the lie goes.

But this was a piece of Olivia for the great wealth, were angefaulte
fruit of the tree, of an excess of good there. How she loved the world,
life, the hour! They rejoiced over her every morning waking up, across
the sky, the air, the light, the time to think about everything they
had and prefixed what others expected of her, about a conversation she
had yesterday, a walk, they now wanted to make over their own bodies,
about every thing in their room. * * * * * Your best friend, or
from her high school, was Marianne von Fries Heim, a soft,
hochaufgeschossenes girls of serious nature. Marianne's father was a
high government official, head of section and excellence, and through his
marriage with the daughter of a Hungarian magnate one of the richest
men in the country.

Olivia came almost daily into the house and all, the excellence to the
lowest servant, admired and spoiled it . If the section chief came into
the room where she was, there was a red lights on his rough face, he
sat down for a while with her and chatted with her. Olivia had sympathy
for him, he seemed a loving father and a benevolent person. Friesenheim
by Ms. Olivia made the confidants of their worries. Her son, Eduard,
a young doctor who had been a few months a relationship with a
lady of society, focusing on free and unpredictable nature has some
of its worshipers had become disastrous.

Eduard, anyway closed mind and unique living was through dealing
with this woman completely alienated from his family.

Only at the sister he hung, and he had also recently stated that it was
his intent, the beloved wife to marry. This woman was very unhappy
Friesenheim, and when she noticed that between Edward and Olivia was a
friendly relationship, she laid her close, she let all of proposed
to him the dangerous influence of the woman to escape.

It was a wonderful task, Olivia had to laugh. On the other hand,
it was the section chief, who is also a delicate task for them was.
Marianne fact had a tendency to a young painter vote Ingbert George was
his name. He stood still in the dark, and how it is with his talent
might be designed, ambition or impatience, is to argue he did not.
He was on the contrary full composure, and this was a calm man with a
rare grace added to grace the mind, heart and body. If you saw
him and Marianne, she could not otherwise be connected thinking. While
Ms. Friesenheim of the love these two with striking indulgence looked,
saw the Sektionschef a disaster for his daughter in it. Eduards passion
appeared to him as a fleeting aberration, and he thought if he just let
time and not by pathogen Despite his resistance, the reason will prevail.
Marianne deeply entangled he saw, he knew the nature of their loyalty
and, for all Mildheit, the strength of their feelings. He estimated the
small artists, the majority were freeloaders in his opinion.

And he asked, Olivia Marianne should lead them, that they renounce the
painter.

Olivia replied to him, so they do not feel entitled, and when his
attempts were more urgent, it offered much eloquence in order to
convince him that two people, through the provision have been brought
together, not tear each other could make a living without a heart
to wound.

He denied this, inexhaustible in the grounds, Olivia remained steadfast
and disarmed him with her serene silence and finally, it seemed to him
ready to battle the word itself joy and forget it as a serious occasion.
If he is talking with her, he even brings it to him, however, as
it was the best, the fate of his race to leave, but it should not be,
at any price he will add. Olivia looked at him, and when she saw his
dark glance, and she was shocked at their previous verdict on him a
little crazy. They went with the family to the country, including the
painter came to visit. She accompanied Ingbert and Marianne on her walks
and encouraged Eduard, mitzugehen to those the opportunity to them
to talk. In a neighboring village lived Anita Gröger, Eduards lover,
and he asked Olivia, the woman she should know. It was to her, and
he remarked to her that her the woman did not like. As he pushed them
open, she admitted it, the woman had her eerie, she said. "I fear
that Anita is not happy," she said at other times slowly.

Edward was shocked and came back again and again. They regretted
their premature, but it had its own doubts as food. If he had been at
Anita, he Olivias close, Anita began to distrust her and Eduard tormented
by their jealousy. There were secret meetings to two and three,
lively debates, letters were exchanged, and soon found itself entangled
Olivia concern because Eduards her heart firmly zuwandte. Now she had
to fend off, and they did it begütigend. It was a game her all. Eduard
was a stranger inside his friend liked it but do not miss it. He was
wise, honest and reliable. She felt that it is a parable against the
other, and that the other is lost. Thus, they are in the shadows and fled
when he was looking for. Ingbert saw what between her and Edward was
experiencing. She wanted his advice, but he was restrained and listened
with his charming smile. One evening she sat on the edge of a forest
with Ingbert, Marianne was bedridden, Eduard was for a few days
traveling. You talked about the two, about the parents, about life in the
home, suddenly said Ingbert, the state in which it is located, pain
him, he does a little vain and artificial, but precisely because he
knows that he will never belong to Marianne would.

As Olivia wanted to oppose, he laid his hand on her and went on to
say that it is no consolation needed, he did not complain, he can not
complain to, that of Mr. Fries home was used against him, understand it,
but he dare, the fight against him, any external difficulty was overcome.
It was not in the it was due to himself, he was promised freedom, so
that increase or decrease his star. "Ask not why it has come so far,"
he concluded softly, "your heart goes his way the fate goes another way.
The heart can be captivated, the inner voice is silent for long. All at
once, but she speaks, and it is as sinful and will not be more sinful.
"Olivia knew nothing to say. She went into the house, sat down at
Marianne's bed and took her hand. Had it not been dark in the room,
Marianne had her pallor and agitation need to memorize it. Ingbert had
remained on the bench, you heard him one of the old songs that he
loved and knew delightful way forward.

Marianne pressed Olivias finger; Olivia had a blessed feeling to come,
they wished Ingbert let them get away with it hiking. They wondered
why he was not Marianne opened, and waited, that they are against
debates. This happened but not angry and Olivia Ingbert. But if they
Marianne installations, so childlike hoped they understood his hesitation.
He had something so kind to ensure that we had to accept whatever he
did, and soon Olivia was aware that her thoughts of him to have been
a betrayal of Marianne. Meanwhile Edward returned from his trip and
brought back with two friends, even girlfriends Olivias and Marianne came
to visit. It developed into a lively socializing, festivals were celebrated,
and hiking trips taken. Edward looked at each occasion Olivias Nearby,
Ingbert Olivia and drove as if by an irresistible flow to each other in
secret, Marianne finally began to suspect and suffered silently,
and Anita ruhlose Gröger was the spirit that sometimes verdüsternd
moved by the heartfelt small world moved.

Stairs Shadow also up for Olivia was all still a game. In the air of
passion and desire, demand and defense, excitement and longing
breathed she likes, but by no means lost, and practiced in each force,
the feeling of life increased. Here is a deceived there is a
fluctuating, a deluded, there was ablaze, they were always in the middle
and reigned, they took up and solved threads threads, undertook a
sham escapes when danger threatened, according to their favor. * *
* * * At the end of summer, when the guests had already departed, the
brothers agreed and Ingbert and Olivia on a trip to the Dolomites.
At one August evening, they arrived tired and dust rose from her
Karerseehotel ins, and when they in the tourist-based economy took office,
offered them a great picture. To reserve a table were more than twenty
young girls in evening dresses grouped; a gentleman, the tails off and
the sleeves of the dress shirt on the elbow gestülpt was prepared
in a bowl a mighty punch. On the table focused on champagne and wine
bottles, pots with strawberries and sugar. Full factual Ernst perform
the Lord's work, mixed drinks, mixed with a spoon, cost with another
spoon, and whenever it one of the girls gave a bottle, he said
something in all merry laughter erupted.

They came from Diner and had visited the so-called glut to their gaiety
not to be disturbed. Olivia, which started at the company had not paid,
but then looked over, almost a little jealous, and when the group
auseinandertrat because the glasses for pouring were recognized in the
man at the punch bowl Hofrat the lamb. You blushed for joy. They had
him for two years, not seen, but he was unchanged. Despite its
forty-five years was his still youthful slender figure, his posture
straight and his face fresh. He threw one of his penetrating gaze
to the table where the four were sitting, and now also recognized
Olivia. He bowed ironically in his gallant style, with no special
surprise to show as if he had only seen it yesterday. It querulousness
Olivia that he did not order them to be welcomed, it was frustrated
with the young girls who have it so intrusive umschwärmten, and
their exuberance was made. When he was after a while the glass is raised
against them, for their zuzutrinken thanked them cool. Eduard mockingly
asked who the rooster in the basket that they were unwilling
inquiry, but suddenly had to laugh, because it is a sarcastic remark
about one of the Hofrat girls had collected.

it implied all sorts of things. It meant that she would
care as little for philandering as an able young business man. Perhaps
some day, a long time ahead, she might marry. There wasn't much reason
for it, but it might be she would not wish to be called a spinster.
"Take a husband," thought old Grammont, "when I am gone, as one takes a
butler, to make the household complete." In previous meditations on his
daughter's outlook old Grammont had found much that was very suggestive
in the precedent of Queen Victoria. This man is mine, and you can still
be yours, but no spirit in these regions have a soul like yours, and
you can not have the right to send. NEMESIS. What comes to find here?
The first destination. It is he who must respond.Why shouldn't one tie her up and tie
the whole thing up, so far as any male belonging was concerned, leaving
V.V. in all other respects free? How could one do it?

The speculative calm of the sunken brown eyes deepened.

His thoughts went back to the white face of the private enquiry agent.
"Absolutely nothing, Sir." What had the fellow thought of hinting?
Nothing of that kind in V.V.'s composition, never fear. Yet it was a
curious anomaly that while one had a thousand ways of defending one's
daughter and one's property against that daughter's husband, there was
no power on earth by which a father could stretch his dead hand between
that daughter and the undue influence of a lover. Unless you tied her up
for good and all, lover or none....

One was left at the mercy of V.V.'The fright nearly robbed them of meaning and how they schuetternd
me shivers with itself.

Rahel (emporgerichtet). And everything I have, (their bracelet replace)
those braces, and then the Halsgeschmeid this expensive cloth (a cloth
to replace the shawlartig it around the neck slung carries) The father's
bought for forty pounds, Genuine Indian fabrics', I'll give it out
Just let me my life, I will not die! (fall into their previous position.)
(It was Isaac and Esther brought.) Koenig. What has the man crime?
Manrique (since all silent). Lord, you know, bans the entry of people
in this Koenigs Garden, where the Court makes a point. Koenig. Well,
when it's forbidden, then allowed I know because. Esther. He is
not a scout, Lord, a commercial man, the letters, which he leads, they
are Hebrew, not Arabic, not Muslim language. Koenig.'s Ich glaub,
ich glaub's! (Pointing at Rachel.) And these? Esther. My sister!
Koenig. So they take and bring her away. Rahel (Esther as her close).
No, no, you hold me, they lead me out and kill me!

(With the hands on the stored jewelry showing.)

Here is my ransom, here I want to stay and a little sleep. (The cheek of
the Koenigs knee instead.) Here is the security, rests here's good.

Queen. Will you not gehn? Koenig.

You see, I'm caught!

Queen. Are you trapped, I'm free. I'm going. (With their women.) Koenig.
Now even that! With its creation Zuechtigtun her what you want to remove.
(To Rahel strict.) I tell you, get up! - Give her her handkerchief And
let them go. Rahel. O Lord, only a little while - The limbs are paralyzed
- I can not move. (The knee and elbow on the head in the hand based.)
Koenig (resigning). And it is always so startled? Esther.

O not yet! She was recently defied wanton And yet, wanted to Lord, you
see. Koenig. Me? It is difficult to pay. Esther. Even at home, drives
her antics just to play with man and dog, and makes us laugh when we
do so seriously. Koenig. So do I because it would be a Christian And here
at the farm, where Lange Weil 'enough, a little joke would be' about
us zustatten. Hey, Garceran! Garceran. illustrious and Mr. Koenig.
Esther (with Rahel employs.) Arise! steh auf!

Rahel (lifting itself up and Esther decreasing the necklace, which she
sets on the other). And only give what you have, It is my ransom. Esther.
Unless, that is. Koenig. What seems to you from all? Garceran. I, Lord?
Koenig. adjusters do not! you are a connoisseur of fine.

I've never seen a lot of women, but this seems to me beautiful.
Garceran. it's you, Lord! Koenig.

So unless strong, for thou shalt accompany them.

Rahel (in the middle of the stage with broken knees and lowered head
stands, the English aufstreifend). Put me on the bracelet .-- Alas, you
hit me. The necklace also - although still hangs here. The cloth keeps
me is so heavy and muggy . Koenig. Bring them home! Garceran. But,
Lord, I fear - Koenig. What? Garceran. The people are excited - Koenig.
You did not wrong. Although a word of Koenig's protection enough, but
is it better to avoid any occasion. Esther (Raheln the dress at the
neck rightly guided).

And like the dress moved and destroyed.

Koenig. Bring it after being one of the kiosks, the rings in the
garden stand, and if the evening - Garceran. I hear that high-Mr !
Koenig. As only? Yes so! Are you not finished yet? Esther.'s We are,
Lord. Koenig. And it is evening and the people run To run to the house,
and therefore good. Garceran. Come schoene pagan! Koenig. Pagan? what
antics! Esther (to Rahel, which is preparing to resume walking). And
you do not, thanks to the Lord for so much grace? Rahel (still
exhausted, against the king immediately). belongings thanks, O Lord,
for thy maecht'gen protection Oh, that I do not care would be poor,
(with a movement of the hand on the neck) That this neck of reduced
executioner, this chest is a sign your enemy gen - While the begehrst
you do not. Koenig. Huebscher A Schild! So as goes with God. And -
Garceran (quieter) I would not think that this here my protégé, by
somehow intrusive kuehne antics offended ever disrupted - Rahel (hands
placed on the forehead). I can not go. Koenig (since their
Garceran the Arm wants to offer). What is the arm? Let them lead the
sister. You know, old man, keep your daughter, the world is evil, so
Huete your treasure. (Rahel and yours, from Garceran accompanied, anyway.)
Koenig (after seeing them). They are still staggering. All of her whole
being a sea of fear in constantly renewed waves.

(By the foot occurring.) She gave me the foot clasped so tight that it
almost hurts. - Basically, whimsically, a cowardly man, he is rightly
despised And sex is strong only if it is weak. Ah, Almirante, which
tells you about this? Manrique. I think the high Lord, that my son
just now you are so fine as severely punished. Koenig. punished? Manrique.
as guardians of order this mob him. Koenig. The punishment, my friend,
is, I think, not so hard. I've never asked a lot of women, (pointing
to the wake) But this Mr. approximately else think. Now it continues
with these confusing pictures! Let the board, calls for strengthening
me, And when the first draft at the joyful festive memorial days'
each one of the - what he might think. There is no Rank! Only! Advance!
Previews! (By the courtiers on both sides and arrange Koenig through it
off, the curtain falls.) Elevator Second Part of the garden. Short
drama. Right, a garden house with a balcony and a door to the several
stages emporfuehren. Garceran, coming out the door. Garceran. Rett
So because I am primarily about. The girl is beautiful and a Naerrin
And because the love of folly, is' ne Toerin dangerous, than even the
Schlauste not.'s addition does not, that my reputation and my passion
for Dona Clara - The Silent all ever silent - I am new to bring honor,
as' s still time, escape the danger Kluge called victory.

(A squire of King's.) Scarce. Garceran Lord! Garceran. Ah, Robert!

and so what? squire. The King, Lord, ordered me nachzusehn if
your still here with your Pflegbefohlnen. Garceran. Whether we are
still here? He commanded - Ah, my friend, you should nachsehn, if I was
about up there? Say only the girl was in the garden house And here
I am outside. This is it enough. Knappe. Here you are yourselves! Garceran.
Ah, Your Majesty! (Der Koenig comes wrapped in the mantle, the squire's.)
Koenig. Well, my friend, still here? Garceran. Have you even ordered
yet, That until the dawn of darkness of the evening - Koenig.

Yes, yes! But ripe idea seems better that you travel in daylight -
you kuehn applies.

Garceran.

To believe your Lord High - Koenig. I believe that you ehrst word of
the King, The, what it protects, unmolested wish. Solo habit is the
master And our people will often want to, because he must. Drum is
only now. But what is driving your protégé? Garceran. Back to the top was
a Mass without wine, exclusive time brings consolation, as we say,
How's it here, passing the first Schreck, Fand playfulness, yes that
joke again. It was now only the shimmering device, the silk of the
wallpaper was admired, Des curtain fabric according to Ellen assessed
Man has established and is quiet. Koenig. And she seems to yearn
for the homeland? Garceran. almost, and sometimes again it seems, no.
But slight sense graemt not happy ahead. Koenig. You have not yet failed,
after the words bait also eject after their habit and how she's on?
Garceran. Nu, Sir, not exactly bad. Koenig. You lie! - In why are you
happy, man! hovering like a bird through sunny skies and lower yourself
down, where the berries attract And you know to find at first glance. I'm
a king and my word scared, but may be 'frightened myself, it would
"I some compared to a woman for the first time.

What's to catch you? Teach me a little, I am a novice in such things,
no better than a grossgewachsnes child. There is geseufzt? Garceran.
Fie, sir, that would be 'out of date! Koenig. Geblickt Well? And Junker
Gaensrich Until lady looks gosling looks again. Not so, then you take
the lute probably even on hand compared to the balcony, like here,
And sing a song kraechzend, including the Moon, A Bleicher Kuppler through
the trees sparkle, And flowers smell sweet chalices Until now the noise
guenst'ge moment appears, the father, brother, - or even husband
leaves the house, at about the same paths And now the maid beckons her
quiet: pst! Because you are a kick and a warm hand to take yours,
leads you through the courses, the dark as the grave and moving the
endless desire erhoehn until finally Ambraduft and bleaching glimmer
through the cracks urgent labeling that achieves that goal Holde. The
door goes up, and bright in the candlelight, In the dark velvet limbs
hingegossen, the white arm circles of Perlenschnueren, refuses weichgesenkten
heads awaited, the golden curls - no, I say, black - The head raven hair
- and because it continues!

You see, I am teachable, Garceran, And there is the same as:
Christian, Maurin - Jew. Garceran. Streiter On Maurinnen are we
to limit the law, but the Jew, Mr. - Koenig. game Kostveraechter
about you but I bet if the girl you up there gegoennt only a glance,
you would flame. I myself do not love this people, but I know what
they verunziert, it is our work, we paralyze them and rumble when
they limp. It is something big Garceran In this strain of vagrant
shepherds fluecht'gen: We are different of today, but they range up
to the cradle of creation, where the divinity of the same people still
went into havens, Where Cherubim visiting patriarchs and judges,
and law of God ein'ge. Samt Maerchenwelt all of the truth even from
Cain and Abel , Rebekkas of wisdom, from James, who courted by Rahel
serving - How does this girl? Garceran. Lord, I do not know. Koenig. Ei!
Ahasverus From the Herrscherstab Ausstreckte about Esther, his wife
and himself a Jew, God protect was theirs. So Christ as his pedigree
Muselmann leads upwards to this nation as the oldest, first, so that they
doubt us, we do not And it is Esau-like, its right away, We kreuz'gen
daily zehenmal the Lord through our sins, our misdeeds, and those only
have it once did. But now let's go! Rather, you stay! Escort them and
remember their house. Perhaps even when tired Click worries, visit
them and I am delighted their Danks. (In terms go to hear it sound in the
house and stops.) What is it? Garceran. Sound in house. Seems it's almost,
you punish your Lueger donated Praise And quarreling among themselves.
Koenig (received on the house). What's to argue? (Isaac comes from the
gazebo.) Isaac (zuruecksprechend). Now because there is and plays to
your main ! Ever heard you went near. I save me. Koenig. Ask what it
is! Garceran. What is it good man? Isaak (on Garceran). Ah You's
High Lord, we beschirmt. My Rahelchen she speaks even more of you who
has loved you. Koenig . Zur Sache! What gossip - Isaac. Who is the
Lord? Garceran. Just great. But you talking about. What is the cause
of Gelaerms up there? Isaac (the window hinaufsprechend). Well, yes,
there will come unto you. Wait. (To Garceran.) You've seen my
own Rahelchen As she wept, groaned, breasts suggested, half sinnverwirrt.
Egg but yes, Lord, my life! Hardly knew they passed the danger Then came
back the old high spirits: They laughed, danced, sang, half of new
toll, you moved the device that is sacred, and guarded by death
rumbles -- as you listen. bears on the belt is not a Schluesselbund?

Well, they tried, Lord, at all restrict the stand along the walls, and
opens them, since now depend garments of all kinds of beggars in
the Kingdom, angels, devils In colorful Reih' - Koenig (halblaut
to Garceran).

From the last carnival game. Isaak. Because she chooses turns out a
crown with feather jewelry - not gold, tin vergueldet, Man knows
it at the weight that is twenty Heller - Defines a slow dress
to her shoulders and says she is the queen. (Zuruecksprechend.) Yes,
Toerin! Last - in the next room hangs a picture of the King our Lord, the
God get! That takes it from the wall and contributes's around, it Nennt
husband,'s talks with sweet words and pushes's on their chest. (The king
is accompanied by strong steps to the gazebo to be.) Garceran. My
high lord! Isaak (on rueckweichend). Weh me Koenig (standing on the
steps, with a calm voice). The joke would be 'I like in the vicinity.
Moreover puts your return time approached, I would not fail the guenst'ge
hour. You age but come on! It is not alone, Not unguarded nahn I want
your children. (He goes into the house.) Isaak. Was it the king? Alas!
Garceran. Just go into it! Isaak. If his sword, we are all addressed!
Garceran. Just go! And as far as fear is concerned, is not your daughter's,
even you, for I fear. (He hesitant to push the door and follows. Both
ab.) ---------------- --------------------------------------------------
Room in the garden shed. In the background to the left a door in the
foreground right, a second one. Rahel, a feathered crown on his head and
a cloak goldgestickten around the shoulders, is seeking a chair from
the right side chamber herauszuschleppen. Esther is through the main
entrance to have occurred. Rahel. The aim of her chair, here in the
middle. Esther.

For God's sake, Rahel, look before you, your mischief 'is still in
our misfortune fall.

Rahel. The King has the house we admitted as long as we inhabit it,
it's the our.

(They have a chair in the middle stage.) Rachel (to IS). And my train,
is not it?

is me good, and these feathers nod when I nod, now one and still missing,
just wait, I get it.

(She goes into the back side.) Esther.

O, we would only far, only just at home. The father also stays away, which
she distributed. Rahel (comes back with a picture without a frame).
Here is picture of King, solved by taking part with me. Esther. Drives
the foolishness you again? How often do not warn 'ich dich! Rahel. And
I obey you? Esther. In heaven, no. Rahel. And also this werd's not. The
picture gefaellt me. Look, it is so beautiful, I stick it in the room
closest to the bed. In the morning and the evening's looking at me
And believe me - what you now if you just think of the clothes load
is shaken and feels free from any would make 'gen pressure. But they
do not think so, I stole it around - but I am rich and do not stealing
- you are wearing my own picture on your neck, That we depend on
this other body, he likes the look so And like his, I remember my,
would 'forget it myself.

Rueck my stool since I am the Koen'gin, Koenig And this I stapled
to the chair.

The witch said to compel the love you bore needles, as in wax
formations, And every stitch penetrates to the heart, and inhibits
and promotes wahrgeschaffnes life.

(you attach the image to the four corners with needles to the back
of the chair.)

Gaeb O blood of each of these tricks, I want to 'drink it durst'gen
with the lips And I erfreun on evil that I created.

Now it hangs there and is as beautiful as dumb, but I red him as a
queen with a crown and cloak to clothe me.

(It is set on the stool and sits in front of the picture.) ehrvergessner
your husband, you shall only pious, but everyone I know your tricks.
The Jewess, she liked you, denies's only! And she is beautiful, with my
high word, only with myself about to compare . (The King of Garceran
and Isaac followed, has come, and has been behind the chair by the
arms to the Ruecklehne made, considering it.) Rahel (continuing). I, your
Queen, now it does not tolerate, because'm jealous I like a weasel.
Whether you are silent now, the only increases your debt. Allows! They
liked you? Say yes! Koenig. Well! (Rahel runs together, looking
the picture, then up, recognizes the Koenig and remains motionless
on the stool.) Koenig (forward). Terrifies you that? Du's and I wanted
to tell. Ermann thee, thou art in the hands of friends. (He stretches
out the hand from under her, she runs up from the stool and flees to the
door right where they tiefatmend and stand with lowered head.) Koenig.
Is it so shy? Esther. Not always, Mr. gnaed'ger. And not shy, just
startled.

Koenig.

Greulich Am I so? (approaching her) Rahel (violently shakes his
head).

Koenig. Well, as you summarize, my good child.

Yes, you liked me, tell me again And I return home from this Holy
War, in my honor and my duty calls, I ask in Toledo, perhaps for you.

Where does it there? Isaac (fast ). Lord, in the Ben Matha Juedenstrasse
house. Esther. If you do not already about your early distribution.
Koenig. My word, I know to protect, whom I praised protection. And
then when you're so talkative and in good spirits, as with your earlier,
non-shy as they are now, verplaudr 'I am probably a hole hour And
breath the smoke from the farm. But now, because it is high time you
Garceran accompany them, but still Haeng this image back to its body.
Rahel (on the chair losstuerzend). The picture is mine. Koenig. What comes
at you? Back to the Framework's aims, from the du's adopted. Rahel (too
Garceran). affects the needles do not have this picture, otherwise I's
strength with a deep stab (with a needle in the image of driving) You
see? straight to the heart. Koenig. just a! When the sky! Did you almost
scared me. Who are you girl? Practicing du secret arts, the crimes?'s
War yet, feels as I can in the chest, the sting in that picture.

Esther.

My high Lord, It is just a spoiled, white girl and savaged by illicit
Arts nothing, it came to her, and so it's just tat. Koenig. but you
should not play such pertly. It drove up to the eyes of my blood, And
as the tangled light I see things. (To Garceran.) Is they are not
beautiful? Garceran. It's my Lord and King. Koenig. And how undulates
and wallt and glows and emblazoned. (Rahel has meanwhile removed
the picture and comes bundled.) Koenig. You want the picture as well not
do? Rahel ( to Esther). I take it with. Koenig. Well, in God's name!
He's will prevent, if a disaster threatens. Only a hurry to continue.

Take Garceran the way backward through the garden leads.

The people are excited, it loves to be weak, the weakness will be
glad to check on the weaknesses.

Garceran. (on windows). But see, O Lord, it is approaching the whole
yard, the queen of the passage at top.

She talked of herself at first in general terms. "Life comes on
anyone with a rush, childhood seems lasting for ever and then suddenly
one tears into life," she said. It was even more so for women than it
was for men. You are shown life, a crowded vast spectacle full of what
seems to be intensely interesting activities and endless delightful and
frightful and tragic possibilities, and you have hardly had time to
look at it before you are called upon to make decisions. And there is
something in your blood that urges you to decisive acts. Your mind,
your reason resists. "Give me time," it says. "They clamour at you with
treats, crowds, shows, theatres, all sorts of things; lovers buzz at
you, each trying to fix you part of his life when you are trying to get
clear to live a little of your own." Her father had had one merit at any
rate. He had been jealous of her lovers and very ready to interfere.

"I wanted a lover to love," she said. "Every girl of course wants that.
I wanted to be tremendously excited.... And at the same time I dreaded
the enormous interference....

"I wasn't temperamentally a cold girl. Throws but perhaps the next
morning breath entblättert before you know the gardener rakes. The
sisters glow rings glow in the young, the green bush in his mother's
delight - it's me, as if I was holy life blood vain For a feast for the
eyes wasting. In a short narrow glass greenhouse luck , A Life in a
dead siecht And longs shards from the dungeon prison back in freedom
to the mother's breast to die. you saw a poor heart for the last time
in hopes of a bright spring bloom And then after a short bitter
deception Only spoiled so quickly in the even verglühen?

Sun appears once fragrant and fresh colors that rose in Glase to renew,
To suddenly on your table And thy silent poem the pale death-abiding. On
my stuffed falcon Not more than treetop glide you over my desk
broadest du , stuffed Balg, now your wings, Aeugst down on me and
my singing.

Gleichen name, wonderful cousins, both Umgetrieben in some bettors,
you now dormant, I still airing in the Fröhlich flügelnd about death
and sepulchers.

From the quiet light bulb umflutet, As thy eye glutet me alive! And me, I
see in your recovery Schwingen warm, life rapidly penetrate. Blend plant!
Imagination! Spooky life! Will you never in the air lift. But me, after
my days of earth, what wings are still bear me? Morning between hedges
is far behind the big city, the city in gray haze and smoke. Here in
the green light Leaf And rocks in the morning breath. Here is the
life hold silent, dreaming sweetly in themselves in. Only an early bee
buzzing around Näschig sweet Becherlein. And sometimes a verweht
Loud, How distant ocean waves strike.

What then rustled around walls and brewing, Lord,'s went on a clear
day!

And do not be long There's a bare tree in the box and freezes in
all winds.

And wants from the wide world No bird to find him. And not long,
over night, and a thousand flowers blink And over its crown a love
nest finches. The colorful cows Three colorful cows in good Ruh Hanne
And the neighbors about this, I met today in the morning, young
Hanne and her colorful cow.

That was a good, happy day, The sun in all fields stood, the whole
world was so colorful and bright.

The Hanne and their cows Thanks! What do you take it in the morning,
instead of three colorful three black cows and instead of the old
Hanne Gret? The whole day is accursed and verweht . On the bleaching
linen Teach you to bleach? If you do not wind it? About dams, dikes
swirls over it across the sea. Willst with parentheses, like with the
white stones you get treasure? Once your lines but with a stranger
will turn. If your daughter's in boxes, come in your grandchildren's
hands, even if the thread of the best, The fabric is an end. Here's
a patch, a patch there.'

s motley Should we occupy? way with it!

it's wants to send. And the wind plays with the scraps. Tollt laundry in
the wind on the wind field and meadow, he has his fun anywhere,
but he prefers to tease the Liese With a treacherous attack.

Will her stuff on the line and bring , he tore: Liese, this is my
shirt!

To each sheet must wrestle Liesenfeld, each piece will be conquered.
Giebt the sauce wind finally lost it If your still in high spirits
the wet stuff to the ears: Because, dear Liese, hang's and was
good. Winterwald Where is the funny forest Vogelsang And playing foliage?
Verweht, What is it for a strange sound that bypasses the in the woods?
It is the ax, which eats the wood For weeks is enough, alas! There
is now some green pride, a dead hero, in the snow. What lived in
airing and with weather and wind, some defiant bouquet consisted Now
turn it and bend it a hungry child's ties And with freezing of hand. On
a radio humble stove dance And a crackle. Burnt up, sprayed! And was
once a green wreath and a stroke of luck. Where was it? Faded. A winter
white field, a quiet field. Veilchen from blue clouds Hob rear wall,
far away on the horizon, Where gently red edge of the moon. And quite
stressed out and was soon given a round disc, In düstrer glow.

And through the field the sound of a crow heisres crows.

Eerily through the winter night The big dark bird glided, And flits
down through the snow His black shadow silently with. The power flicker
inside Silently on the dunes sit out the fishermen's wives and mending
the heavy nets. Good catch Mag heaven send the men. Good catch and good
lake. Some of the network is left out, And many a fisherman without a
boat and fish anywhere on the beach drive. The lake is quiet, and barren
is the word of women, there Sitting in the sand, short as the cry
of gulls, the restless speed of the dunes. The girl with the roses
two roses on a bush together aufgeblüht, buds from a defective touch
überglüht yet sweet, a girl probably broke the day the sister pair: the
mother who was dying, she brought one that the others but then
presented with their first pain you loved the weeping man,
Trostheischend to the heart, And glowed blessed and hour, yet half
the deaths in mind, and gave the young Rosenmund The warm life.

Nixchen This is a Nixchen ashore geschwommen , Is under a flowering
tree, the warm summer winds and dry her wet hem.

With big eyes, the little mute in the hot Flimmerglut; How will the
sun shines in all of the courage to Nixchen whimsically.

In their cool girls Chamber If only a very subdued light, as long as a
Jammer A weak beam of hope breaks. But here is a Gleiss and mica,
which thun your eyes hurt, but she stands motionless, just always
amazed, the little blonde Wellenfee.

All at once it starts to cry, I do not know why, weint afford it, And
then slips on nimble legs into the cool water back home.

Feierabend About Stiller is ripe ears of corn, golden evening slip. A
young mother weighs Softly her child and sings it. Last brighter
sound jitters about Sense Field also, And the reaper is resting
on a slope in celebrating his from.

His tanned face lights over his son, But he does not disturb the sleeper,
And the hut is already waiting.

Herdrauch Slight rises and blows about her treetop. Not waving away
the roof. And Friedemann Fromm drüber is the evening star. The girl I
saw a girl go, I stood on Gartenthor, I could not see the girl, gold
rain hung in front. Close was passed, would have his hand's reach, And
I was coming across, The I erhaschte lips slightly. But the girl looked
So childlike in the world, that I dared not. you just kisses her mother,
gelt?

Only one Zweiglein broke And I threw it's hat on, to the extent hat.
It stung me Schelmenübermut. Oh, the frightened Frätzchen! And as the
eyes SAHN! Go on, mother darling, It's the wind has done. In the fast
express train rushes through the summer land, And out in the winds,
waves and waves as much colorful band, To bind me, bind! The hut
there in Heckenruh, The sun in the windows, the peace fullness calls
to me, to remain, to stay! And now the heather, flowers blue,
Durchkarrter way to wide, level stapft the old woman in the messenger
sphagnum. Nimm's escort! And now the box, golden flax, And far from a
bolt of scythes; And there the Knirps basks like a badger Getting
lazy with his geese.

O boy, thou hast's gut!

I want ', I lay there on the belly, however, the train vorüberrollt, And
gaffte after fumes. Reigen Is it colorful butterflies, to the flowerbeds
weave? Is it pink apple blossoms in the light touch of bilge float?
Egg, small butterflies, As they are so civilized circles, egg, small
apple blossoms, as they show themselves as dancers. Schmetterlinge? Apple
blossoms? Each child has two feet, children's, children's dance,
And danced the spring greetings. Each step schämig questions, each a
graceful bow Confirm; spring Can not show the spring. Yes, the most
beautiful spring song, ritornello, sonnets, punching, Oh , no poet can
do so sing, As children's feet dancing. The teenager dancing! Dance!
Have heart and head full of much, Oh, life is sunny, but if I should
be dancing, dancing is, it's Wonnig, wonnig! The gentleman at the
piano teacher, he is sometimes Irritant. Four we played today, everything
drüber and anything. Saw it from the top to me, odd that the wise man:
You probably want to dance again? painting, ah, it's heavenly sweet!
Especially outdoor sketch.

Holt sometimes even wet feet, What is art's embarrassed ?

oil, watercolor, charcoal, pastel, Oh, it's nothing about the only
dance I prefer such a waltz by Strauss Sticht everything. pedaling?

All Heil! On the bike I paid my part. Fresh as the wind in the competition
with the wind. But all the wheels of the earth are nothing against my
two soles, one comes to pick me dance; Who was it, I do not say no ,
Must be grad not only his revulsion. Dance, oh dance! La la la la la la
.... if only until the ball as solid! The rare bird Is a small man
walking, walking Unterm screen. If a storm wind to the corners,
egg, like that scare the man.

Could lose. Power the wind is not a spring reading, reading Gar no spring,
And now the man to fly, Hui, how is it Ascended, Like a winged beings.
the little man flying an hour, a whole hour, crows with fear as a crow,
if the hunter on the scout , hunters with dogs. Puff! the bird he must
have, must have the bird. And that man, without wings, rushing into a
molehill, Think, it is buried.

Blafft the dog and pawed and sniffs, Did soon erschnuppert.

If there is no drop of blood flowed, Only his panties is durchschossen,
And his heart bubbert.

Knocking the Hunter dresses him, knocking him from the clothes.

That is the left and right turn And the bird is seen, egg, there was a
tailor's!

Idyll Under delicate birch twigs, young spring splendor First, the
shepherd blows his bounty, but no nation shall take for dancing.

Only the sheep graze and go, white and black in the sunshine, And two
aufgescheuchte bunny jumping into the field across it. But the spring
flowers colorful butterflies dancing out to the flock with too careful,
If the young shepherdess. it attracted the sweet sounds, they turned
the light duty? Vivid as the suspension spring laughs her sweet face.
And silent is killed, a sweet ring silence now: Küsst the shepherd's
Beautiful Must obligation and flute ruhn. dandelions a sheep and two
lamb And all three snow-white, And the grass is green, And it's hot,
hot.'s the stern, on Büsch Chen, schattet's cooling down, and sits
Bübchen rings rauft The dandelions. The flakes in the wind, as they
sail fine, the little lambs jumping on all four leg.

Bübchen This is tired, he dreams of a swift: Much Like lambs Chen
flakes dancing in the wind. He blow in between, the jaws expanded,
Hei, go around each other, And jed lamb Mäh - h - t.

In consequence of my garden, two feet from the road, behind the
Dutch Gittergeheg, Flowers sent me a blue Syringenstrauch, My joy,
and my children too.

But the boys from the streets, the rascal, the predators can not resist.
If they soon go to school, a small left covetous stand, A second
is next to it and squints at him to climb trees, Would like to know
from the Syringe A Zweiglein to bring into the class.

If a third, hops, as he hupft, Has plucked a few leaves, but the
Grünkram it is not enough, He is at times Syringe bent.

Again, hops! - I want you get. I knocking the little window. Hi, how
they fly.

Such a people are bad guys, like it was, it thinks the same: take, but
that the girl - and I ask, because the same comment to third,
stretching the Hälschen, turning their heads with anxiety and
Schlenker the Zöpfchen.

Cancels the longest on the Zeh'n, Once, twice, it does not want to go.
Gehuschel, whispering. Girl are wise; Did it before I suggested to the
window, the smallest quickly put on his arm And the most beautiful Syringe
get. I threatened her, she laughs at me, as only a girl can laugh,
mischievous, mischievous and quite sweet. It's a thief allerliebsten,
And there - I would rather scowl And can only laugh and friendly nod.
In the future, the free Syringe, Ob girl if boy is making a.

What you erhäschen can jump in your Diebsgelichter was you gegönnt.

Only needs her own grade not knowing my tree I would badly torn. The
robbers, I was a boy, went into the woods with my brothers. Like the
wild Rangen the holiday morning drove through the bushes, that he fled
when he hätt rabbit runs.

And they hunted themselves around each other, Here, there, as
rudderless Brander.

And soon was really nothing of the forest remained as funkenüberstreute
Aschenhäufe. Right predators, pervaded its value, And it was also the
school just arisen, Can not the people walk through smooth, Where
Forester and Master meet him.

He needs the thicket, where it senses no dog, Braucht finstre caves,
buschwerkübergittert Where no law him crippled the daring action
and no beatings to his craft rain, O freedom, your red flames beat
Sun stormily never, and no hands were hochgemut the Sun blazing
beacon, we were robbers and that Indians, on the "Great Eagle" was
Johnny Meier, Chen and Fritz Mueller on "spotted vultures," The
peace pipe was the third times from hand to hand, and sat the pale
Quartaner.

And silently qualmten to arid Reiser The valiant warrior, every
hero is a great way in the Council: And by the book round Zog warding
the smoke of the fire and the whistling.

Then the bottle with the raspberry juice, the chieftain of daring
is provided, "The big buffalo," still from mouth to mouth.

A whistle! And after the hatchet's had to grasp. Your boys at Summer
Games Book, Where should I search for delicious delights, As the great
buzz from your sprout, How bright roses from the wild tendrils. But
thorns had hurt! these roses, and they not only tore the trousers,
too, is despicable red blood flowed, And then, at the house, the
robbers squabble mother. And once we had the chief backs, O shame for
heroes, the lower mating bend. Buffalo took the big one finds the Horne,
the great eagle feathers had to leave, because from the ashes of
our cave logs purchased a plaintiff, in all the vastness, the action
called.

The ward to death mandrels for our courage and let us FEIG pale.

The forest is in flames! Alas, the terrible customer! We shook. Now
is the last hour has come for you, and the knife flashing, circle
round the scalp of your main disconnect. The forest is in flames! Rangers,
police, prison, scaffold, around the city gardists - But no, you
will have the skin you do not scratch.

Courage, big buffalo! Only the women blubber. The teeth fixed! And there
were lashes, lashes! And the punishment is a work of love, no father
loved his boys hotter And more than they deserved, in my opinion: Book
Two young drauf were gone, And our Wigwam rauchgeschwärzte rods
screamed our shameful in the ear of the Raven, The crumbs to read
our victims stones.

Bimmbamm memorial cantata, Bimmbumm, please, please, begging,
begging, ring bag goes around, bright silver, blue slips, nickel
and gold is welcome, everything is made with thanks, please, please!

Bimmbamm , bimmbumm, Great People should honor ring bag goes around,
Please empty all bags, please, please, begging, begging, Bare silver,
blue slips, begging, beggar! Bimmbamm, bimmbumm, The solemn we bury bell
bag goes around, That he can have a memorial. nickel and gold is welcome,
everything is made with thanks, please, please! Bimmbamm, bimmbumm,
such a monument is not cheap, ringing bag goes around, Everybody is
strongly willing to please, please, begging, Bettelheim, Bare
silver, blue slips, begging, beggar! Bimmbamm, bimmbumm, Our grandchildren
will be taught bell bag goes around, As you must honor the genius.

What it never will, everything will be taken with gratitude, please,
please! Bimmbamm , bimmbumm, gala concert and memorial ceremony, ring bag
goes around, Fifty giebt Mark Minch Meier, Please, please, begging,
begging, Bare silver, blue slips, begging, beggar!

modest request. If you only wanted to read, what we have from the Monument
care? Oh, that we gedarbt in life, now you can find it so easy to give
us: A little bit of love. Death makes us cheap. Buys us.

On the monument, we willingly. More pleased when you a song of us knows,
as if our image in the burning sun. Your love is our pedestal. Two
times two is four with big gestures and big words and bustle, many
people everywhere.

If one peculiar manner, to say that twice two is four. oracles in
the temple mythic Bass: Dear brothers, if it's raining, it's wet!

The less they have to say, The great sign of the boys. But what they
give and how they persist, Man noted the same, they are fools. Are some
"poets" among them, the drive's first perk! prologue to Nietzsche
memorial celebration of the Literary Society in Hamburg, he went over,
bright view, Death, than went to a wedding ceremony. Where? If you
curtail the happiness of light, with the Du Hast beutefrohen of vulture?
A quick glance, it inhibited its flight And stood. Have? I've always
time enough. An hour earlier or later, probably the Freedom of the
bride chosen, the reaper, which the rich grain entgegendampft In maturity,
takes the time to sharpen, And, yet casual, the miller, who's
bruises, It may be tomorrow's also throw in the mill.

And I, the hunter on all game, the no law and no closed season is - And
yet, you love fuhrst like a boy, after the lips of a girl sweet
languishes. Who is it? Who gets your the Hochzeitsgabe • The Genius, whose
soul, half umnachtet, day dreaming of him otherwise harvesting bot,
Nietzsche. And this name called Death With reverence and with love.
And he walked away and retired. A flash went across the country. * *
* * * The funeral bell which sounded in Weimar, complained: Nietzsche is
heimgegangen. A daring aviator, friend of all the winds, A free bird on
the highest treetop, a sailor on sea, on top, nothing it can bind its
proud wings. As a flash drive into the Strong plumage And it falls down.
The little ones, the envy of the great flight, the small rear guild -
this was a gossip. He was punished. The law remained on the sparrows,
we are healthy, we were able to humble ourselves, we just flew to feed
our seats, we wise Maetz.

The evil genius of the song and the crowd, the step before step scans
with a thousand feet, however, he silent mountains snaps, lonely, high
above narrow and hustle, flights to snap, the yearning to swing to the
sun can penetrate. And now, out, out! Since no inhibitor Zagen. The sky
beckons with its wonders lengths.
"You have nothing to give anyone personally any more....

"Think of the love that she desires and think of this love that you can
give....

"Is there any new thing in you that you can give her that you haven't
given me? You and I know each other very well; perhaps I know YOU too
well. Haven't you loved me as much as you can love anyone? Think of all
that there has been between us that you are ready now, eager now to set
aside and forget as though it had never been. For four days you have
kept me out of your mind in order to worship her. Since lightning
jerks. The hard steel zerspellt, And schwertlos, the hero todessieche.
* * * * * Weep not for him. From his wounds You see the glowing roses
blühn? Wreaths of life bound jauchzenden From the spring gift of
his wounds, And it honors and celebrates him. Light was his heart
and his soul light, Yes! his word was on the life and death. Brave, the
day and dancing in the soul, his love of the Galt Sunrise. intoxication
of power and jauchzendes hope lent his song the eagle fly, The, before
the lightning hit him, sounding to the Thor of the Future suggested.
Behold, the golden fishing resounded, And a light and a sheen was
released.

The source of life penetrated, counting the priests of life. weep
not for him.

From his wounds Behold the glowing roses blühn. Jauchzenden life
of wreaths bound Gift From the spring of his wounds, And it honors and
celebrates him. Prologue to Böcklin memorial ceremony of the Hamburg
Art Friends (dedicated to Miss Minna Persoon.) A Great died: _Böcklin_.
A few days ago, was one of the world its share again - And laid roses
on the hill And down the dark bay. The beating wings Quiet hours, the
site of the silent streak - And each wing stroke entblättert warding
Of a rose, perhaps on the bush of life, past the red greeting laughed,
whose death was their death. A hint of impermanence to this grave geweht,
To the lasting laurel stands. * * * * * Two friends, in celebration
hours Settling in Florence to find each other, Were half the winter's
night The blind master thought.'

s A painter and a poet, felt a mind durchweht, Gossen Glutvoll its
red wine in his glory into it, the empty glasses Klirrten And schössen
together like two flames of fire from their bank and went up the
master grave to bring greetings, wanted under a starry sham His
Genius weihn a prayer.

Language painter: That's right, Is the day so many erfrecht The
Master Gloria to his shrine, as agreed with the others, but is the
noise I want, he goes back old ways, to those who still paint and
thick, His tortures to perform.

Anyone who survived torture screws, then the most glorious walled
in in a pantheon of great people, The man initially wanted to skin
them.

Now we know from their clothing scraps himself a doublet assemble,
Gebärdet themselves as apostles And even in the patch But only a
fool.

"gewettert Not bad," laughs the poet, "But it is as long as the world,
no different, my friend. And lastly, the decoration of the Great Fools
Fame carts as funny grimaces unwilling; Does each serves its purpose
meet.

And at the end would not the devil, an angel would have been no
special face. "" You see everything from above, "the excited Grollt
Brush man," But you are so heart in them - "" friend, you must also
With the top win battle wounds and bleeding a lot.

If life is a dance and game, Who wants to collect arms to heaven, that
he gave him a day longer possible to give? But despite the opposition
forces on their own, I calmly hold: tugs only just screwed Your tears
do not go to me! So Böcklin was great. "So in dispute and conflict in
the sub-star glory peace reined the rapid word, the more they consecrated
place Where the seam, were only a thought Silently on track, from
a deep sense gewiegt, all being loud defeated. noted and remarked's
not well again: Heller was the star light, Was a bogus heavenly
miracle, The wrapped around them.

And there stood the master shape, How God the Father abgemalt, with
the serene gesture is about the circle of the earth, tree, animal
and human is in.

And, looking forward: It's now Sunday. crouches to page him leisurely
god Pan And the flute can sound sweet. Bockfüßiger Faune Dance tramples
the plan, And the hairy bears loop Dryads And a funny Reihn wing boys
jump Dreiner .-- But gradually assigns the game and pushes the beach,
where tritons and mermaids lie, arm in arm hanged, quietly on the
waves predominate. And from the train headed lively, Arm trust-in-arm
with pan, then progressing Böcklin down to the beach. Pan flute is silent,
however, from the shells of the tritons increases booming a greeting
that rings the shore quakes. The greeting punishing. Still it's
getting. From sea to float A sail forth, a boat is approaching,
Drin, the silent death with his violin and asked those in the boat to
rise. The greets and follows. Performance varies bark rim. Edelbild One
that is not of significant tax, a godly woman, and offers guests a
hand.

Then, plays around young Nereides, The fated ship slowly divorced
from the beach, only a mild sweet violin sound still long in the wind
until it devoured the night. And Pan? the fauns? the Dryads? Nothing
was there, as only a light sheen silent, by the stars around the hill
WOB .-- And as the painter lifted his voice and asked: "Friend, what
you dream?

Let's go, master's resting place anzusehn," Does to those from
his dream and laughs: "Do with the fantasy of a game made, I saw the
whole pedestal leg Reigen in The People's Champion Arnold reverence
indicate.

But come and let us come to the mound, too, we heard the Böcklin us
poets." Still was the grave in peace that night, The laurel shone in
the light of stars, And the glory halbverwelkten Rose Lost one last
scent in the distance .-- But now this hill And there were no words of
consecration took place, whether they come from this andachtstrunknen
night well with a fruit brought to the day, what can this grave from
his chamber type? The Strong Highest: Lust for life and strength. The
mourning cloak Einsamer poppies glowed at the grave edge, a moth attracted
to him trembling rings. A mourning cloak.

Sunny was the country that the only shadow was the black swingarm
Des Gaukler dark there, around the glow of the red poppy, a traumhaft
beings, flew.

And gradually it seemed as if the blood of the flower from the cheeks
important, they moved testator, wilting, in together, but still the
flames erloschnen twitched the black wings, to a wind übern The
road ran into the field they hijacked.

Was I the light of flickering wings blind? Was it a bedroom, a dream that
touched me, in that Produces purple calyx, which is now As previously
flared, hot summer glow? A Nothing. A spook. Blend works. And yet,
most recently, it remained a quiet chills my blood, And at night
when I drank with friends, The heiterm day heitres end made, I spoke
of the fall and death, but they laughed and were happy to.

A glass zersprang. Night and day a densest, darkest the night wore veils.
Teases old debt and you still need? On their flight, What is it with low
wing beat, as everything rigid and dead cares what the young day, what
the silent sister complains, as he lay in slumber holdem; He asked the
wine does not end after which it never sought. On colored butterfly
wings freudejauchzend He stresses that up, And as he floats over the
meadows, one of each flower, as the lives, smiles at him.

Only the turbid stream accuses powerful intermediate marsh reeds and
black. Was it the night her secret price? He whispers and whimpered as
if he was white, And rustling and whispered in the pipe. The birch
grove middle Oeder Heide dreams A birch grove, sumpfumsäumt. The still
waters are flashing, the roots of this drink. This is not a once
Menschenfuß And no Sommervogelgruß sounds, this is The retreat in solitude
at home. And at night when the moon is a sham and whisper whisper, and
ghostly white shadow lift itself into life. And at noon, when the sun
glows, That nearly sparks Heath spraying Seems there in a cool showers
strange to lurk. A huntsman, the Heideglut Hintrieb, was once there
eingeruht, träumt' him - he could not say, He died in few days. The
Free It sat in the bright sunshine godfather death on grave edge crosses
leisurely leg and thigh And made a flower in his hand.

He drove the old question asked honest game And leaf by leaf, until he
kahlgerupften hard shaft in his fingers hatt '. A melancholy smile
glided over the light yellow Kalkgesicht, then he stood up and slowly
step through stubble field . He is not hurried. The village was behind
the next hill, And the bride was certainly him, It was because
his Free Gang leisurely than usual customary. Again, before the last
house, he was a fallow Aster Chen and tore him all the leaves from
silk And no one, certainly in the game. He threw the stalks behind
them and stepped into the lower house On: Beautiful Anne Marie, I love
you And do not ask do not ask yes and no.

Spring Rider At midnight I am rudely awakened.

Hufschlag resonated, a Horn sounded shocked that I jumped to the window.
The moon shone bright, And because it came to setting: a shadow,
then a milk-white horse, In the moon silver flowed, And a very young
riders, a blue wreath in Gelock.

Bright flashed the Hornes shine in his fist, and he ran into it in the
horn, as should be and should be blown.

O, it was a sound in the horn singing!

A sweet force, a thriving force, a trembling, swelling of passion,
a heart and jubilation, a blissful cry! A blade, a lights - it was gone.
I had a dream bethört?

Not one had heard the rider, you laughed at me all morning: Here comes
the dreamer, the poet out.

But my daughter came with Hurra: Look, the first violets are here! And
I think also crocuses and daffodils coming already .-- What do I know?
I just smiled and said: Yes, yes, I know the violets are back.
Scherzinger tonight when I put up the window, I saw a Bübchen with quivering
wings, stumbled among the white hills ; Soon on the left, soon to be
on the right toe, Sun stelzt it in the snow.

War's Amor, a Ständchen brought Surprised by the first winter's night?
Or was it just a little thicker at the final Flower translated
spirit, overwhelmed by the first snow hinhumpelt And as soon not
know where to place, and so what happens in horror forgets that he
can fly, winged is?

I called to him: Pst! Kid! Gets me all at once from behind on a collar
and Schilt: closing the window but you still catch a cold yourself.

My wife, who was circumspect's, they usually keep my fairy tale for very
impudent inventions. So I have her, what I saw And hide'm quite still
in bed increased. Schnitterin The War was once a servant, a widow's
son - had the difficult past. Then said the Lord: You get your reward,
'Tomorrow you have to hang. When his mother kund done , In the earth
fell with a scream: O dear Mr Graf and hears me, He is the last of
three. The first swallowed the black sea, his father already had them,
the others have in your Swedish Scania snow enemies buried. And let me
its not the last, And he has gone, Let consolation of my age, and light
non shamefully hung on the gallows.

The sun was bright in the noon, The Count was sitting high on a
horse, jammernde The woman kept his robe in front of him and cried
on the ground.

As he cried Well, anyway, the sun rises, you can use three acres I cut
three acres of barley, is your son, the death he should not suffer.

Thus he drove ridicule, hard-tempered, and has ridden his way .

In the evening, however, the strictness with amazement, three acres were
cut.

What proudly stood on the culm day out penalties, he must already believe.
And then, what's what at the field edge was?

His molds increased with snort. Three acres barley, around sunset, assets
in broad swaths, also the mother, and was dead So the servant came
to grace.

The ghost ship All ships came back, Kay did not.

On the earth Meike threw herself down in the sand face . They cried and
rang the white arms: Kay, come on, Kay! They begged and cursed that
God have mercy: Kay, come on, Kay! Since ran a ship on waves of black
night on the beach, as did her companion dead heart And she took
at hand. She felt it down to the toes pointed up and in her blonde
hair. Meike And he had to go And sail forever. The faithful father's
sister and mother were in the grave, And the brother like over-wide
sea. Wiebke depended on his neck, and wept very despondent. I want
my lamp to the window stelln, no star has a bright note, heart,
brother, and if you wiederkehrst, your ship will be a. Ans window, the
lamp And they waited for seven years, all knew Schiffer their
light, The burned bright and clear.

Seven years and seven more. fighting but your lamp. They shook
their white head: He comes but once a home.

And one night, and the sea was heavy, And they saw at the window
no light was burning; As they said, he's come home, your faith
does not deceive them. And the morning, they wanted the brother sehn, was
in port, no ship, no boat, and they went and found the empty lamp,
and sat and was Wiebke tot Sara Nice Sara Limbeck, Limbeck Knights
of the woman who was young and always fidel, The Knights, however,
was sick in body and old at heart and soul!

And there's castle in a cheerful banquet By Sara funny cronies, the
knight was in bed Limbeck , got nothing of capon and pheasant. querulousness
And sometimes it's nice to Sara House, then had to coach against,
with four black Centimes drove them out, according to the old Thor
creaked.

The Knight was directed to the bones together tore; This gives again
Gejaid cheerful and Gesauf!

And he sank back into the pillows.

Schöngrün Sara lived in Saus and Braus, Limbeck Ritter died alone. They
expressed no Thräne out, now they want to be funny! Limbeck knight lay
in the cold tomb, And Up klirrten the cup, And was some prankster
and it was some villain, was the love and cheekier.

And throughout the year, and the same night And the same hour,
strike, The Limbeck Cross made his last, And in the castle was a
noisy banquet, Da drove the great coach before, by four black
Centimes withdrawn And Sara went through the creaky Thor, And the
black Centimes flew.

Ms. Sara drove feldein, feldaus, The night was black and heavy, Ms. Sara
did not come back home, you saw them never more. Only at night
when Wandre IRR lost and confused way to look at once terrifies them a
black harness and a snort and whips and cursing. That's the funny Sara,
now must kutschieren Night, And may the Knights Limbeck ruhn For one last
kiss.

Now, one hundred years she still Querfeld, despite and in spite fence
hedges. Thanks! As the coach, there's as big a hole, the peasants to
hellish horrors. Thies and Ose. In Wenningstedt with maps and grain once
killed a farmer in his sudden anger guest. Thies Thiessen was strong,
And the one Hansen Stänker to each quark. Now he was pale, and blood on
the straw. But where was Thies Thiessen? Where? They searched him
and found him not, And the gallows made a long face. Ose, the wife
murderer, was in need of four children wanted their bread. Your stuff
has declined.

Ward piece sold, and they sought their fortune with strangers. But she
stood in honor of them all And that sorry. The time verrann And Thies
Thiessen was and remained way as if the world is a sieve. So there
were years. At once began to whisper to's, went to Rantum's: Have
you seen?

Long. Wow! Do you?

And they nodded to. But she was otherwise an honest woman, Now its
shame, the crying child in the womb.

With whom it's probably it?

The nation's great man! - It was a gossip, all bars full. The pious
Ose endured in shame, no word on their lips came. Only one ate it and
ate the heart, To him the pain was in the fists. And eh that's the
blasphemous mouths versahn, stand on it: I've done! And stood, staring
at all very much: Thies Thiessen? God be with us! Why? Not tell me the
dunes hole, And you never find it. But it's found. And it's around the
neck, the child is mine.

And damn, who does not believe. I Blaeu's him. And he looked miserable
and weak, And he held her like a ghost at bay, until they all gradually
become clear that the really Thies Thiessen was .-- The Hansen was dead,
none missing, A drunkard and worse, he was a Christian.

But Thiessen, a guy he is! And Ose, there's still a Brave? All the years
of misery and distress it shall faithfully hunger bread with him.

And now she wept on his neck.

It all went close.

They chewed and spat and looked at and is gently pushed up to
Thiessen And growled and shook his hand.

That was their court.

And so he remained in the country. Stakendorfer Like the Lübecker were
going after Stakendorf came the Lord Before lübischen times each
year and were happy, forced the peasants to pay the tithe, And went
home with bragging and splurge.

Once they came back to And säckelten carnival time and made the
wide, Could in the guild house is festively etching glorious And
sat on the seats of honor.

The peasants brewed a good beer. skimp they like, they do not skimp
here, you can now at least rags and fill the thirsty guests the
tankard.

Soon shine the shoes, the foreheads stand in sweat, barely able to
Äuglein still sehn. Here one of the main falls as lallt a tongue, where
a fat pants lübische lungs. And always, the mug is not empty, the
drinking and Lübecker can no longer, Soon they all head in their arms
And sleep and snore for mercy.

Since the farmers of the devil tweaked, since the farmers have drilled
and gewrickt, The table and the next column, the perforated
treacherous rogue, as soon they could. lübischen The beards, as
they hung limply, bübischen The farmers, they said not papp, you
plugged them all into the holes and beat For the safety of another
peg in the joints.

The men sleep, do not blow it arouses, The Men snore, a Ratsherrngeschnauf!
at once because the farmers are running together: Zeter and murder! The
house is in flames.

Hei, came the sleeper so quickly from the dream, A tearing, a
cracking, and the room was empty.

Only the stately beards all remained behind in the miserable .-- Since
the event, and who is the verdenkt Lord, they wisely kept away. Although
they have vowed a terrible vengeance, But we had spared the farmers.
Stakendorf free from tithes remained Lübeck was too fond of her beard.
The victim child Heiligenstedten At the war's Stördeich, The levee
did not hold . There was a hole, you krigt it impossible to know the
flood to wash, to divide. So much stuffs you with earth and stone,
the sea encounters a new hole. There was distress importance of dike,
the country had drown. An old woman known as the Council, you can
buy it with the devil: Voluntarily must go down as a child, That
helps, because it voluntarily to the grave. A child! One parent child!
Lasts ihrs any solid hearts. And if the whole march drowned, Can
a child get over it?

There was distress must be in the hole. He, Tatersch, listen, begging
you here, a thousand Thaler! Klimpert's not good? The gypsy's eyes
sparkle. Thousands Thaler! Because, take the Balg! Can just begging to
suck. So for Schilling's Schilling erscharrt is bad. Give her! Who is
like hunger bondage. They put a board over the hole and a white bread
in the middle. The hungry boy varies, therefore, small, hasty steps.
Langt Now after the bread. Da: If the board over and throws him into
the wet bed. No cry. Everything stiert on mute whorls and sources. As
it appears on a pale face, from the loamy shafts, and appears to speak
a word only: "Is not so soft as a mother's lap." And for the second
time appears and says: " Is nothing as sweet as a Mother's love. "As the
word all packs and burns. but if the child would eventually bottom!
Because it is the third and speaks to the new:" Is not so firmly as
a Mother's faith. "Then it falls away .-- You breathe in, the work must
now come!

The Gäule wheeze, the carts knarrn, it groan and gnash the spade. earth
and stone into the hole! A dike expensive, but now he holds it.
"Heart's desire," she whispered. "Am I indeed your heart's desire?"

Sir Richmond sank his head and voice in response.

"You are the best of all things. And I have to let you go."

Sir Richmond suddenly remembered Miss Seyffert and half turned his face
towards her. Her forehead was just visible over the hood of the open
coupe. She appeared to be intelligently intent upon the scenery. Then he
broke out suddenly into a tirade against the world. "But I am bored
by this jostling unreasonable world. At the bottom of my heart I am
bitterly resentful to-day. This is a world of fools and brutes in which
we live, a world of idiotic traditions, imbecile limitations, cowardice,
habit, greed and mean cruelty. It is a slum of a world, a congested
district, an insanitary jumble of souls and bodies. With the blade to
the root of the wound grub, was canceled and the rusty piece Stak still
beneath the cross in the old tree. What spake the cross? From dead
happiness? Dead from suffering? From a dead dream? A quiet wind came
over the ripe grain, the bushes noisy, and in the shadow fell So how
cross blade. Only a barren thorns at the foot of the old tree stood
naked and bare in the light of the moon. And it once was, That he
the Green wore the red flower, flamboyant, a blessed spring fire .--
Qual Lag in the sigh, the wind verschlug, And I went home and thought
of the night in the life after, it all makes die . With deep shame I was
crying on my bread and choked on it and could not choke, and stood up
from the meal and went out into the cold, barren field and gave the
March wind my hot Qual hung on a bush a scrap of cloth. Who threw it
away, Who warmed it last? Maybe as he, I am a beggar now, And what
gave me so warm, is shreds. If you have your heart in your hands And
take giebst it out there, take it, and Ohn pay, Take it and thanked's
suddenly throws you out: I may not anymore! then imagine a world dies.
Then you stand there, naked and bettelarm And, knowest not out against
shame, shame naked before. From deep anguish child, look not to your
father, He has not so much ashamed, Of a long, anxious night To its shame
gegrämt. And go to your mother, child, and playing with her in the
sunshine And say it is not even from the father, shame will be alone
in the dark. Go, child, in front of your large view appalled and
grasps my heart is not And cry.

And yesterday was still, child, So pure, such as your eyes light.
Entschlummern In Quiet feet go in the grass, A voice whispers something.
I hear it clearly from the garden, a half-presses the songs
difficult.

It plays into it in my dream: The my feet must be They transform
her, they walk out past goes through my mind: Have a sweet fragrance
and sunshine, And a hand, cut the roses.

Before their picture they glowed, her image faded Before she.

Sleep pushes me the eyes heavy.

I can hear the faint voice no more. - Before her picture she glowed,
- Before they faded picture.

Please Holder Spring wafer at me, That I erstehe new, what a heart
can bear, I endured's Woe to .

Once flowering so that the breast, should it be totally cool? Oh, I'm
hardly aware of the day let it prevail.

Wem ein schönes happiness passed, top it faithfully built, who is
hoping for a hung, as the snow melts in March, seems unkind to him,
and probably the world so cold to die, all in the hands of what he
believes, are just dead Outland.

Holderegger Spring wafer at me in the new days, what a heart can
bear, Oh, I've endured. Thousands buds swell thee , scent is blowing
up and songs. A flower gift to me, a single back! memory verses in my
cries and laughs, Was my life made rich. Like me the silent giebt
consolation: I have loved you so much. You look too well return; And
you're not so lucky, but War's perhaps little mag's be a little trek
through the sunshine. The sun outshines possession of your picture,
my heart is warm and happy. Your dear picture. All light is also once
again. To right in the deepest gratitude that I could meet you,
This was my fruit. Can love a life of blessing? I could not have you,
it was a lot of pain my love response. It was. Now all joy and
peace. Ausklang Always Be thou to me sweet, Always hold in your heart,
always here you burn consecrated holy candles. latitudes to see your
face a pious shine, And so are you, pure light, own me for ever.

At home I was in deep bitterness confused, In Not night and astray
from the Path.

I looked up after a consolation and illusion, And all my stars fell
asleep. fernher Only klang A quiet weher Loud, The I entrusted
my steps. I was rescued. Pain was found to be pain. And in tears,
I fell back to your heart. Heimkehr You know, I've had love, And
always the same, every day, whether I get a little luck we started, it
quietly went away in worry.

Then came And a spring sunshine was a young Rosentag, I stood in a
loud noise and a strange dream garden at the hem.

Morgenlieblichkeit Sound Off holder as a song, so sweet, so sweet,
That I am lost in the listening and for your reputation hatt no ear.

But gave the garden Thür failed to demonstrate a twofold Schlösslein
was before, The dreamer has woken up, it shrunk to itself. He tore
itself off and returns home, and now urges his heart out to your. Despite
the noise and dream, you feel it The old heart was and is love.

Before bedtime, the children sleep in the cushions, soft, soft breath,
next door, A dream of this day, and do not know what to do with this
day verrann.

But we feel every hour, the wing forward with quiet touches, And
know that in The time Dämmergrunde us the last to ripen. enggeschmiegt
We sit in the dark.

To dream that's good. And none speaks. Durchs window, an Sternenfunkeln,
From her oven disposal Chen light. Once, while sleeping, laughs one of
the local all-powerful. What it probably might have been? Goes it with
his short legs again cheerfully through the day? Where a little mouse
nibbling on the slopes, crackling charred one last piece, The old clock
on highlights to beat - since you talk leis: Come on, it is time.
moonlight The pale light of the full moon haunts us schlechtverhängte
window into the room. you sleep. The children, too. I can handle but
the magic of night sleep, as always, watch and ear, which hears
everything, ausfragt And signs, I am located. Our Oldest Verworrnem
borrows dream that carries them through terror, fear of noisy, focuses
on Horrified screams and even the name of her sister. I'll call them
to sleep! Quiet! your dreams! DC The evil Alp deviates from it .-- O
Nachtgespenstern From these nests, the moon light And complains aufstört,
nests, built in remote corners of our souls and angle that will take us
to enter graut. How quiet, innocent, rests on our blankets, the light
of the moon and yet is full of pitfalls. It rests! No, converts. This
broad band light milky I see further back, slowly.

So a hand groping softly, The Arges plans and gently glides, after
their prey. Now push the cold light gradually to Getting over your
bed, spreads on your pillow. Your face, Feel the light it? You back, soft,
quite get away from this light. Can your dream now, I eavesdrop. With the
forehead eingewühlt you lying in your pillow fluff, How weggeduckt
against this evil light, That now on your black crest burdened, heavy
burden. You, as lifeless, rührst thee not.

To sit by the sight of the serpent already betastet, The Bird as solidified,
yet eh Schlund Des poisonous worm wegschluckt him. Slowly, the light
is on you. And from the dark ground Des Grauens dive on you. Even
your breath is squeezed, faltering. But you turn back the forehead
upwards. Your face is pale, And once your delicate eyelids twitch, as
if you were awake now. You mumble something. I'll call. Just a sigh.
"Annie!" No sound. - Me fröstelt. If only until the morning gray. A music
I love music more than the most beautiful of the greatest masters. Every
day she sounds around me, sounds louder and bolder every day. I love
her very much and yet, it giebt hours because I have to scold ,
then for the heart so loves, A Donnerwetter not uncommon. Because it is
silent probably still frightened, but the pause lasts not long, And
when I'm looking forward to the rest want, Is it best back in the
swing. geb Last I And burned me laugh: let ring let ring! And stop
by the house sunshine Four children jump feet. It's snowing, the first
snow, soft and dense, the first swirling flakes. The kids push her face
to the window and rejoice. There is now the last bit of green Quiet, quiet
burial. But the young cheeks glühn you want to winter. sledging and
Schell Klang And snowballs around the ears! - Children of luck, where
are you?

Lang, Lang snowy and frozen. If the flakes soft and dense, we probably
frightened, but the kids could not understand, gleam of joy and
rejoicing.

The Christmas trees now, the many Christmas trees from the forest
in the city here.

Dreaming their dreams of forest Next slip the lantern?

Could she speak! The Holden Stories From the Forest woman who weaves fairy
tales, what we invent anything until you have experienced it all really.
As they stand now on the streets and look Wunderlich burned and strange,
as if they will not legally marry, it must because what works in
his.

Of course, if they are then in the decoration of the rooms in bright
candle stand And the small boys and girls in the shining eyes shall see,
then they at once, as if everything you ever dreamed, as they still Bette
roots in the silent forest eingesäumt.

Then they stand there, so quiet and blissful, as if her secret
desires are met, as would have them but gradually reveals your life
purpose, as if they were candy and lights for predetermined, and
it should be.

And their faces sharp needle eyes burned completely transfigured.

My son for baptism, when we baptized your sisters, Yeah, I bought the
most beautiful roses, do not hide, was a treasure for any consecrated
pool.

Meanwhile I's modest success, a unique garden that the house is
adorned with me, And to the side spins a delicate Rosengerank.

That is what Aparts.

My roses. Like the other but the same glow. My son, you're rich. No better
omen may you prosper When this bright Rose Glow. Life is not a lot of
flowers, we usually only Giebt loose leaf stalk, Everything we get
from outside, is easily in the hollow hand. But what grows from the
inside out and bloom, which makes it out, from your own wreaths to bind
us, the daily hold umwinden. nennst you have nothing in your life
as a full heart shrine, according to Will you not ask äußerm shine
And happily wear his own roses.

The is now nearing my Taufgebet, As I go through the soul, while the
priest with pious words, you will open the church doors venerable.
piety is a noble fruit that grows out of the church and in breeding.

Be pious, my son, and take into Enter, search God and honorable life.
The mother (a dream) It was in the garden.

Merry Gesellen surrounded me. We drank. And in light babbling brooks, the
words bubbled from young lips. But close the door, in a lonely, rose
arbor, Saß my mother. A ripe grape Lag before her on the plate, and
they ate and listened to us. As they sat, Wegbreit only by us, and
yet secluded, lonely in their old age pale peace,'s forced me to look
so magical, but I could not place the youth übersonnte And loud Lust
umklang. Suddenly all disappeared, and it reached a hand, old, withered
touching and cool, like from the earth at the edge of my bed with
Bittgebärde: Wilt thou not give thy hand? Oh, that I barely existed,
and crying, I was awake. Steernkiker O thou leev Deern, with di
Wahen? You schöttst as'n Steern At vorbi mi. Un wünsch ik wat mi Un
steit mi dat fri, So wünsch ik dat mi: De Steern de mi hear.

Because keek ik di un Dag at Bi bi night, Un makst as the man you
To'n Steernkiker gently.

Lengenberg Ik can not slapen, All HEV lang ik supervised Dat Finster steit
Apen, Wa is nice de night. flashes Dar de Man, Wit dat eighth sea
en Mi kümmt Thrane, Ik weet Wulle, waher. hör Ik in de Bömers Lisen
The Wind Whispers Droemer un vun di, min child.

Wa is dat nu Wulle, Slöppst du week un almost - In'n Goren full Appel
En vun'n Ast. Steern flashing En un bev schött Un aft Dik .-- Keen hätt
di so leev, Keen so, as ik.

Verbaden Leev Un mi HEV ik vergeten, Un HEV ik mi verschull, your
God moet weten dat, Min weer even hard to Vull.

Dree long, long years as glönige Leege dat Kahl'n, Ik Wulle min
Leev preserve Un kost dat dusend Qual'n.

We weten dat moet God, Dat ik dat SWIG Wulle, Un mi HEV but vergeten,
Min weer even hard to Vull. At Gorenport Aewer de de de wiping wind
So far as de week en vun breathing child, but Un kümmt vun dat
grote Sea, North Sea vun de wille ago . liggt De nu Wulle represent
quite so quiet As'n child who wants dat slapen, Sun lising gluckt
an'n beach de Wellner, As Wulle en wat in'n Drom vertelln.

Ik Droemer here Gorenport de un buen en child up mine place throughout
Un Legg sach de Handn tosam, Un sprek whole thing 'n leeven Nam.

Go' Go After 'After, giv mi nor de mol hand, De is so hot a week; Dörch't
de Finster seems bright Us Man Up de witte Deek. is'n Dit Stunn before
de Slap Us inlullt un sach söt Where ut'n finest pure Minschenbost De
Blomen blöt. Min Hart is as en Sommerbeet, Un di, di blöht dit flat. Giv
mi nor mol din Warm hands, Un du versteist mi sach. Lütt Lütt Ursel
Ursel, Lütt Snursel, Wat snökerst du 'rum?

steit Di din Lütt Näs Wulle Na Appel un Plummer'. Lütt Ursel, Lütt Snursel,
Din Näs is clamping man'n, Yet is dat'n Näs all pots För för un Pann.
Lütt Ursel, Lütt Snursel, Dar hest'n Rosin, Dar sünd dre Lütt in Steen,
Un all 'dre sünd din. Snurkers De De Klock sleit eight, Nu chin, go'
night. You can fix gau un Herut ut de Büxen, Man flink de ut Schohe Un
in't trough straw. Klock sleit De negen, De Oeller, de saws, De Lütt
with sin Snuten Can all ok wat toot. Dat is 's concert, Is wat real
worth. Klock De sleit protein, Nu, Olsch, dat was fine, Legge di Nu
slapen man, You have dat nice Draper, Nu dat only sounds right,
Ik snurk as'n servant. Lütt De' Boom Ik bin de Lütt 'Boom De in de
Landstrat steit, to wed Plückt Allens' Rüm, Wat weglangs GEIT. plückt
Een sik'n leaf, De Anner en Blöt, De Smitt se because wag, And de PEDD
because of fetuses. But Hett in min 'branches Sik'n Vagel inwahnt,
kisses Un Sünner de mi, de mi Un strakt Because HEV Mand. ik min Freud
and comfort mi ok mostly: Wat helpt't, Lütt' Boom, you steist where
you steist. De Stormfloth roars Wat de Storm? is'n De Minsch Worm! Wat
roars of the lake? 'n dirty is he! de wind, de weiht, up jump de Floth
Un sett up the beach ern natten Fot, Reckt sik leggt Hoeger and up 't
Land, Patsch, ere grote, Natte hand. De Lütte Dik, dat Lütte Dorp, De
Floth is daraewer with eenen Worp. Dar is keen Hus, dat nich staggers
and bevt, Dar mentioned keen Minsch, de levt tomorrow.

Wat roars de Storm? Is'n De Minsch Worm! Wat roars of the lake? 'n dirty
is he! ritornelli White Syringe. A slim girl crying in the spring garden,
I can not picture bringing out the soul. Yellow daffodils.

A fire Falter was from winds Like a sudden spark snatched your lap. Rote
Rosen. The Dämchen took you cool Danks contrary, you die now equal
astray, home lots. Dark Cypress. A dark shadow falls on my street: I
can remember golden days. apple blossom. Is it the anticipation of
future fruit already, as the holder shame you überglühte? laurel
trees. So serious, so silently, as in the deepest senses - The most
beautiful wreaths give us dreams. laburnum.

The more you protzst and brag with your shine, The sultry scent
preclude me your poison.

Immortelle.'s immortal , that is just their tough, slow death, instead
of the fast. grapevine. Schlank, delicate grace, yet full of sweet
fire, And pliant. Quite so, I want any lifting. Blood Red Georgine.
The farmer harlot, the picaresque bashful, have completely deceptive,
it serves as a hideout. Weiße winds. To thornbush dead? Oh, yes you
have weak, Sun will's nature, to some what you bind. Gooseberry. Reif
I love thee not, but tough and harsh alarm you wish: if I were still
a child! Spring Strunk Today is the first time about the young buds
gewittert, today in the garden for the first time around the strawberry
blooms a pleated gezittert. I walk the walkways to and fro, As young wines
drunk.

About me blankflügelig, shooting swallows the sun like sparks. It is a
joy in me wakes up, So it must be in the Mark of the trees glow,
the where, how blissful, that weighs in the wind And will soon
bloom, bloom soon!

We shall be going
about our business like men; we shall have world-wide businesses--many
of us--just as men will....

"It will be a world full of lovers' meetings."

"Some day--somewhere--we two will certainly meet again."

"Even you have to force circumstances a little," said Sir Richmond.

"We shall meet," she said, "without doing that."

"But where?" he asked unanswered....

"Meetings and partings," she said. "Women will be used to seeing their
lovers go away. Even to seeing them go away to other women who have
borne them children and who have a closer claim on them."

"No one--" began Sir Richmond, startled.

"But I don't mind very much. It's how things are. If I were a perfectly
civilized woman I shouldn't mind at all. If men and women are not to be
tied to each other there must needs be such things as this."

"But you," said Sir Richmond. "I at any rate am not like that. I cannot
bear the thought that YOU--"

"You need not bear it, my dear. I was just trying to imagine this world
that is to be. Women I think are different from men in their jealousy.
Men are jealous of the other man; women are jealous for their man--and
careless about the other woman. What I love in you I am sure about. My
mind was empty when it came to you and now it is full to overflowing. I
shall feel you moving about in the same world with me. I'm not likely to
think of anyone else for a very long time.... Later on, who knows? I may
marry. I make no vows. But I think until I know certainly that you do
not want me any more it will be impossible for me to marry or to have a
lover. I don't know, but that is how I believe it will be with me. José
Rizal = The Council of the Gods = With memories of the past come in the
future. Alegoria BE ARRANGED BY THEATER Lope Blás = = = Hucapte Printing
and bookbinding workshop = DU = FILIPINO DAY = "_Calle No. of Sacristy.
954, Santa Cruz, Manila, IF_ = 1915 =.

The Council of the Gods = = critical literature in the contest to
commemorate the anniversary of the immortal Cervantes CCLXIV held
on Artistic Literary Lyceum of Manila on April 23, 1880, was granted
As a reward for the best compositions in prose, a ring with a cameo
bearing the bust of Cervantes.

"Referring to the result obtained in open competition for this
anniversary and noted that after 14 sheets were submitted, of which
were rejected all but those with the numbers 1 and 12, the jury
said: 'Read the two papers, the undersigned have not hesitated in
awarding the prize, given the marked superiority of allegory with
the number 12, and after making Extract from a work _Consejo of
dioses_, whose motto was _Con memories from the past entered the
porvenir_, is as follows: "As you see, the idea and the argument
of obrita are of great originality, which must be added the fact
glow in a style all of it up best, a wonderful richness of detail,
delicacy of thought and figures and, finally, a taste so that is
the Greek reader found enjoying a delicious passage of Homer, which
so often describes his work in the Olympic .-- sessions, so many
wonderful qualities have been weighed in the minds of those who
subscribe to, without question, hesitation or even prefer this to
work is marked with number 1. [1] = Dr .

José Rizal = The Council of the Gods = With memories of the past
come in the future.

Alegoria BE ARRANGED BY THEATER Lope Blás = = = Hucapte Printing and
bookbinding workshop = DU = FILIPINO DAY = "_Calle No. of Sacristy.
954, Santa Cruz, Manila.

IF 1915 = = =. The Council of the Gods = (Allegory) = ONLY = REUNION ACT
OF GODS on Olympus.

JUPITER seated on a throne of gold and precious stones in his hand
and carrying the scepter of cypress, it has its feet to the eagle,
whose feathers steel reflects thousand different colors: the rays,
their terrible weapons lie on the floor.

To his right is his wife, the jealous Juno, with refulgente diadem,
and peacock vain.

He left the wise PALAS (MINERVA), daughter and adviser, adorned his
helmet and terrible aegis, green olives and ciñendo gallantly
holding his heavy spear.

SATURN is severely contrast, crouching and looking away from the
beautiful group. Funny hállanse disorder in the beautiful Venus, reclining
on a bed of roses, crowned with fragrant myrtle, and caressed the
love, the divine APOLO, which hit its lira brandishing gold and
pearl and playing with the Mets eight [2], while TUESDAY, Belon, and
MOMO ALCIDES that closed circle chosen.

Behind JUNO Jupiter and Ganymede, and are HEBE.

Towards the right side of Jupiter is the justice, sitting on his throne,
taking the hands of its attributes. = = FIRST STAGE gods and goddesses
and the Muses eight mentioned. Reach the muse Terpsichore [3] first,
and the nymphs, and the Nayades ONDINES scattering flowers and
dancing to the sound of the lira of Apollo and Erato and Euterpe
the flute.

After dancing all are placed on either side of the stage. SECOND STAGE
= = (y_ _Dichos mercury.)

(Mercury comes from the head and removing the cap Phrygian speech)
MERCURY. I've already met your mandate, sovereign Father Neptune his
court can not come because they fear losing the rule of the seas, because
of the current cast of men, has not yet completed VULCANO rays that may
require to assemble to Olympus and is completing; about Pluto ...
Jupiter. (MERCURY _Interrumpiendo a_.) Stop! Nor need. Hebe, and thou,
Ganymede divided drink nectar for the immortals. (While HEBE Ganymede
and fill their role, and Silene BACO reach it on foot and one
mounted on a donkey with Ted in his hand and green branches in the
temples, singing:) "He who wishes to live and have fun, leave
_Minerva_ My vines look after ..."

MINERVA. (_EN high voz_.) Silence! Do not you see that Jupiter has a
powerful talk?

Silene. So what?

Is the upset winner of the Titans? The Gods take nectar: therefore,
can either express their joy in the way as he pleases, but I see
that my disciple, you have offended and have a pretext for MOMO ....

(_Con Voice socarrona_.) Defiéndele, Silene, because not say that
your disciples are irrelevant.

MINERVA.

(_Trata to replicate, but the JUPITER contains a gesture. MINERVA
then expresses his disdain with a disdainful smile so delicate that it
alters the severity of their beautiful labios_). (After taking all the
gods, the immortal drink, starts to speak.) Jupiter. There was a time,
lofty gods, that the proud sons of the soil and tried to climb Olympus,
wrest the rule, accumulating mountains on mountains, and they had succeeded,
no doubt, if your arms and my terrible lightning had not rushed to the
Tatar, the other buried in the bowels of the fiery Etna. Fausto desire
to hold such events with the pomp of the immortals, that the earth
today, following its eternal career, has returned to the same point
in its orbit, which then turned.

So I, the ruler of the gods, I want The festival begins with a
literary contest. I have a superb horn warrior, a lyre and a laurel wreath
carefully constructed: the tube is a metal, only VULCANO known, more
precious than gold and silver and the lira, as Apollo is gold and nacar
, also carved by the same VULCANO, but their strings, the work of
the Muses, know no rivals, and the crown, woven by the Graces, the
laurel grows best in my garden immortal, shining above all the kings
of the land.

The three equally valid, and it has grown more letters and virtues,
that will be the owner of so magnificent jewelry. Presentadme therefore
judge you the mortal worthy to merit. JUNO. (_Se Rose arogante in
attitude and altiva_.) Jupiter, let me speak first, as your wife and
mother of the gods more powerful. None better than I can present the
most perfect mortal divine Homer. And the truth, who dare challenge the
supremacy, and no work can compete with their _Iliada_, brave and daring,
and his thoughtful and prudent _Odisea_? Who, as he has sung your greatness
and the other gods, so magnificently as if we had caught on Olympus,
and attended our meetings?

Who contributes most to the odor of incense is burned Arabia plenty to
our images and we offer huge slaughter, whose flavorful smoke, rising in
spirals capricious, we were so pleased to postpone our anger? Who,
as he spoke most sublime in the battles most beautiful verses? He sang
to God, to knowledge, to virtue, courage, heroism and the misery, going
through all the tones of his lyre. Be it the winner, because I like the
cree Olimpo whole, which none has done more credit to our sympathies.
VENUS. Sorry, sister and wife of great Jove, if I'm not your
respectable opinion.

And you, Jupiter, visible only to the immortal, be conducive to my
prayers.

Ruégote not allow my child to singer ENEAS HOMERO it expires. Remember
lira Virgil, who sang, and module glorias our complaints unhappy love,
his lyrics moved dulcis and melancholy soul: he praised the piety
embodied in the son of ANCHISES: their battles are no less beautiful
than those made at the foot of the walls Trojans; ENEAS is larger
and that the pious AQUILES angry: in short, I feel, is much higher
than VIRGILIO poet Chio.

Is it not true that he filled all the qualities that your mind has conceived
sacred? (Having said that fits nicely into its bed, which ONDINA that
funny, half reclining on white foam of the blue waves, is the most
precious jewel of a poetic and beautiful lake.)

JUNO. (_Airada_.) What! How the Roman poet is to be preferred to
Greek!

¿Virgil imitator only has to be better than Homer? Does here when
the copy was better than the original?

Ah, beautiful VENUS!

(_EN Desdenoso_ tone). I see you're wrong, and not surprising, because
no case of love are not in your view, while the heart and the
passions never knew descurrir.

Leave the subject, I beg for your countless ones VENUS ....
(Interrupting ruborizada_.) Oh, beautiful JUNO so jealous and
vindictive! Despite your good memory, always remember the golden apple
that was unjustly denied to your reputation and not well-considered
beautiful, I look with regret that rude forget what has made us
your favorite HOMERO.

However, if one of you will find reasonable and true, is this in
good time, and we welcome this, but what I played, the gods of
Olympus MOMO say ....

(_Iinterrumpiendo A Venus_.)!

if!

They say you VIRGILIO praise, because he has behaved well with you,
that defends JUNO Homer because he is the singer of vengeance, you
do mutual caresses and kind compliments.

But thou, Jupiter, why not intervene in disputes and you are there, as
the ignorant, who hears embobado trilogies in the Olympic festivities?
JUNO. (_EN High voz_.) Esposo ¡! Why do we let this insult so deformed
and ugly monster? Take the Olympus, because infest your breath. Besides
... MOMO. Glory to JUNO, never insult, since only calls me ugly and
deformed! (_Los Gods rien_.) JUNO. (Pale, his forehead wrinkles, and
launches a Fulminans look to all, especially MOMO.) Shut the god of
mockery! By the Stygian lake! ... But let us leave that and talk
MINERVA, whose opinion has always been distant from my own time. MOMO.
Yes! Another famous dandies like you, you halláis where it ought to be.
MINERVA. (_Aparenta Not hear it. Levanta its hull, and discovered his
severe tersa front mansion intelligence and argentina and clear
voice, exclama._) Te Please hear me, mighty son of Saturn, which moved
to pucker your Olympus terrible frown, and you, that prudent and
Veneranda presidís gods and to men gobernáis not take my words the wrong
way, always subject to the will of the donor. If by chance my reasons
do not have your eyes weight dignáos refute and weigh in the balance
of justice.

There are old HESPERIA, beyond the Pyrenees, a man whose fame has already
crossed the space that separates the world of mortals of Olympus,
which quickly centella light. Ignoring and dark it was, became a
plaything of the passions of envy and ruins, overwhelmed by misfortune,
fate of the great geniuses. There seems something else but the world,
extracting TATAR of all suffering and torture, has accumulated on
its unhappy person. Despite the many more suffering and injustice has
not wanted to return to their fellows all the pain that they receive, but
by pious and too big for revenge, tried to correct and educate them,
giving birth to his immortal Don Quixote. So, to Cervantes, the son of
Spain, which later will be their pride, and now seems the most appalling
misery. EL QUIJOTE, its great, the whip is punishing the laughter, it
is the nectar that contains the virtues of the bitter medicine, is
the hand that guides flattering strong human passions. If I ask
about the obstacles they overcame, served listen a moment, and
what you will. Hallábase the world invaded by a species of madness,
the more frantic the more sad and was widespread by the imaginations
of fools calenturientas feathers, spread all over the bad taste
in reading and spent unnecessarily damaging when it appears here
that the bright light dispels the darkness of the intellect, and
the timid bird which often escape the hunter to see or hear the
whistle of the arrow, and disappeared errors, bad taste and the
absurd belief, buried on the night of oblivion.

And while it is true that the singer of Ilion, in his sonorous verse,
opened the first temple of the muses, and celebrated the heroism of men
and the wisdom of the immortals, that the swan of Mantua consalzó
piety which freed to the gods of fire from their homeland and gave
up the delights of Venus, to follow your will, you, the greatest
of all gods, and the most delicate feelings gushed from his lyre,
and his melancholy estrus carries the mind to other regions, but
also it is equally true that neither improved the customs of his
century, which made CERVANTES.

In his appearance, Truth returned to his seat, announcing a new era
to the world, then corrupted. If I ask for their beauty, although I
know you sent to Apollo, the only judge on this point and ask if the
author of Don Quixote has burned incense in his immortal spirit. APOLO.
The pleasure with which can accommodate a quiet night FILOMENO
complaints and will be pleasing to you my reasons, my father. The
nine sisters and I read in the gardens of Parnassus that book that
speaks the wise MINERVA.

His style and festive accents sound pleasant to my ears that the sound
source that comes at the entrance to my cave shade. (We do not ask me
tachéis of passionate CERVANTES because I have spent many of his
finest.) If in extreme poverty, begotten of hunger, misery and misfortune,
unhappy at the continued harassment, a humble son of mine was able to
raise to my songs and harmonize their accents, offering a tribute much
more beautiful and precious to my car shiny and untamed horses, whether
in the dungeon Hedionda, encierro disastrous for my soul that wants
to fly, his well-cut pen was able to pour pour dazzling poetry,
much more pleasant and rich of the lymph Pactol gold, why would we
deny the superiority and not what to give him the victory the
greatest genius that saw the worlds?

QUIJOTE is your favorite book of the muses, and while holiday comfort to
sad and melancholy, and illustrates the ignorant, it is also a story,
the story more faithful to the Spanish customs.

I think, therefore, wise to the blades, and I forgive the other gods who
are not involved in my opinion. JUNO.

If its greatest merit is to have endured much misery, as in any
other advantage, nor that it is not defeated, I also HOMERO, blind
and miserable, implored at one time the charity (which has never
made CERVANTES) , visiting towns and cities with his lyre, only
friend, and living in complete misery.

Remember this well, APOLO ungrateful. Venus. So what? VIRGILIO What has
not been too poor? Is not much time was staying with a single pan, a
gift from Caesar?

Aspires to be melancholy in his works, it does not say enough how
much your heart must have experienced sensitive and delicate?

Will there be suffered unless the bright and festive HOMERO CERVANTES?
MINERVA. Without doubt, this is all true, but you ought to ignore that
Cervantes was wounded and captive by many in the inhospitable soil of
Africa, where they hurried up the chalice faeces the bitterness
of living with the constant threat of death.

(Jupiter does conform with demonstrations MINERVA.) Mart. (_Se
rose and spoke with thunderous voice is iracunda_.) No, my spear! No!
Never!

While a drop of blood in my veins encourage immortal, CERVANTES not triumph.
How can we book you onto the floor and my glory will lift ridicules
my deeds victorious?

JUPITER, I helped you in another time is therefore now turn to my
reasons.

JUNO. (_Exaltada_.) Do you hear, Justiciero JOVE, the reasons for the
MARS courageous, so wise as worked? The light and the green fields in
his words. How, then, let the man, whose glory the observed time
(and tell SATURN), is postponed to this upstart and manco, sarcasm of
society? MARS. And if you, the father of the gods and the men doubted
the strength of my reasoning, these other questions, if there is
anything that dares to hold them with his arm.

(It is arrogant to half ahead, challenging everyone with their eyes and
brandishing their steel.) MINERVA. (_Con haughty face and shining eyes,
and takes a step with voice exclaims tranquila_:) Bold MARS, that you
forget to do the fields Trojans were hurt by a mere mortal: if your reasons
are for your sword, do not fear mine combatirte in your field. But not
to me unwise to delete, I want to prove you are wrong a lot.

CERVANTES followed your flags, and you served heroically in the waters
of Lepanto, where he lost his life, if the destination is not devoted
to a larger order. If you threw the sword to take the pen, was by the
will of the immortal, not by despreciarte, perhaps you've imagined
in your mad folly. (_Y Añade_ softer:) Do not be, then, ungrateful,
you magnanimous heart which is inaccessible to the bitterness and hateful
passions. He ridiculed the cavalry, because there was no longer suitable
to his century, while these are not the struggles that you honor, but
the battles, you know well.

These are my reasons, and if you believe, I accept your challenge.

(He is usually caliginosa and cloud, full of lightning, close to
one half of the ocean when the sky is overcast and MINERVA walks
slowly, his formidable shield pregnancy enristrando and the spear,
a messenger of terrible destruction.

Tranquila is his eyes, but frightening: his voice has a sound that
instills fear.)

Belone. (_Se puts the angry side of Mars, ready to ayudarle_.) APOLO.
(see _Al Belone attitude, let the lira, takes the bow, started
the golden arrow quiver, and placed beside MINERVA, is the bow,
ready to disparar_) (Olympus, near collapse, shudders, the light
of the days darkens, and the gods tremble).

Jupiter.

(_Enojado soft lightning and grita_): your seats, MINERVA, APOLO:
and you, and Belone MARS!

Do not irritéis my anger celeste! (Which usually the butcher and
terrible beasts, locked in iron cage, submissive obedience to the voice
of the trainer worked, and those gods hold their positions, respectively,
threatened by the threat of CIBELES son, who to see his obedience,
softer added): I will finish the race: Justice weigh the books straight
to your impartiality, and what it says, will continue in the world while
you acataréis his failure immutable. JUSTICE. (down from his seat
is placed in the middle of the contest, holding her long imparciat
balance while Mercury placed in the dishes and the Aeneid QUIXOTE. After
long swing the needle to mark the order, stating that they were equal.
Venus surprised, but silent. MERCURIO Aeneid removed from the dish,
substituting the Iliad. A smile is drawn on the lips of JUNO, smile
that quickly dissipates when you go up and down to where the two plates
and the Iliad are QUIXOTE. Suspenso spirits are: no talking, no breathing.
One sees immediately that CEFRS a fly landed on the branch of a tree
to await the decision of fate. At last the two plates are stopped at
the same height, and there are fixed). Jupiter. (_Con Voice
solemne_.)

Gods and God: Justice cree equal, doubling as the front, and let the
tube Homer, Virgil and the lira Cervantes Award winning, while the
FAME World published by the ruling of fate, and the singer APOLO
chant a hymn to the new star, which from today will shine in the
sky of the glory and take a seat in the temple of immortality.

APOLO. (_Pulsa lira whose sound lights Olympus, intones the hymn of glory
that resonates majestic All coliseo_.) "Hail, oh, you, the greatest of
men, son of the Muses, the focus of intense light that enlightens
the world; save!

Loor your name, beautiful light, in which around revolve thousand
intelligences in the future, fans of your glory! Hail, great work by the
hand of the Powerful, the pride of Spain, the most beautiful flower that
fits my temples, I salute you! You eclipse the glories of antiquity; your
name written in golden letters in the Temple of Immortality, is the
despair of the other mills! Gigante powerful, you'll be invincible!
magnificent monument placed in the middle of your century, all eyes
will be on you. Your mighty arm conquer your enemies, voracious fire
that consumes the dry straw. Go ye, Muses inspired and catching the
scent myrtle, laurel and beautiful pink glitter, Tejeda honoring CERVANTES
immortal crowns! PAN, and you, Silene, fauna and cheerful Satire ,
dancing on the carpet of umbrosos forests, while the Nereids, the
Nayades, clambakes ONDINES and playful nymphs, scattering a thousand
flowers aromas, beautify their songs with the solitude of the seas,
lagoons, waterfalls and rivers, mixed and the clear surface of
the sources varied in their games. "(They get to dance the Muses,
the Nymphs, the Nayades, etc.. and BACO, MOMO, Silene and Ganymede,
where the principal dancer the muse Terpsichore.

APOLO and Erato playing the lyre, the flute Euterpe, Clio, the trumpet
and the bugle Calíope. Meanwhile the gods and goddesses are placed
on both sides of the stage and their thrones and seats are transported
to one side is playing up the Philippines. It a second curtain
opens, it will appear in the background, lit fantastically, a bust
of Cervantes, whose left side is a full-body statue of Rizal,
crowned.

It will be replaced, then march up to the Philippine National Spanish real
.) telón. FOOTNOTES: [1] Vide: _Revista Liceo Artistic-Literary Manila_
on April 23, 1880 p. 41, could read this book full of our hero,
on p. 43. [2] _Musas_ nine sisters were daughters of Jupiter and
Mnemosina, goddess of memory.

Here are the names of the eight that are listed here: Calíope, muse
of heroic poetry, Melpomene, muse of trajedia, Thalia, muse of
comedy; Polyhymnia, muse of rhetoric; Erato, muse of lyric poetry,
Euterpe , muse of song and music, Urania, muse of astronomy, and
CLIO, the muse of history. [3] Terpsichore, muse of dance and is
the last of the nine sisters.

A memory of Swedengorg's Heaven and Hell
mingled with the Egyptian fantasy. Now at last it was possible to know
something real about this man's soul, now at last one could look into
the Secret Places of his Heart. Anubis and Thoth, the god with the ibis
head, were reading the heart as if it were a book, reading aloud from it
to the supreme judge.

Suddenly the doctor found himself in his own dreams. His anxiety to
plead for his friend had brought him in. He too had become a little
painted figure and he was bearing a book in his hand. [Entry of Destinations
and Nemesis.] The first destination. Arima Gloria at large. Estiende
His power is increasingly based on the land: my two brothers have
faithfully executed their orders, and I have not neglected my duty.'

S FATE. Arima Gloria at large, we bend the knee to his presence, we who
walk the heads of men. THIRD DESTINATION. Arima Gloria at large, we
expect the sign of his will. NEMESIS.

Suddenly he saw again that lonely figure on the narrow way
with darknesses above and darknesses below and darknesses on every hand.
Where is the rose? Where the bright day? Also tomorrow, when the sun
appears again, and quite full scent my small garden is to retrieve
you and my heart is crying And I do not know where you are.
Maiblumen apologize, your heart, close, flowers at your dress. I asked:
"Schenk me since the spring." "No," you called me harm. "It was only
game that was only kidding, That I am so adorned." And like a trick's
I went through the heart, as your hand the flowers quickly pulled
from the bosom and on the alternate Zerpflückte, zerpflückte.

What gave me the flowers are not, Mir, which the youth fades, And
your face on your last finds happiness yet?

Mir's as vain as I canvassed To Donations this spring, as if now
with the flower of my youth died too golden day, And his last bloom
was Zerpflückt of your hands. Liebesgestammel It is not everything
before it, what I suffered for thee. You have my sleepless nights
wondering As I Pray to get contentious, with desires and longing
and hope a lot of driving thörichtes love game. And then when I wonder
at your side deeply felt blessed, And, as on his forehead Teppichgebreite
Des Muslims touched the earth, Before thee adoring soul is tilted,
so the like in versteigt pride, since I really fear and delights
in the essence of love worked.

Sun accepts, chaste, pure heaven in a soul sunk his Holden Zweieinigkeit
Without meaning conflict.

"Why did I not know in time?" she cried.

They were, and were hung so useless because so weltfern and without joy.
"He alone in the big house, 'she had to think,' so useless and
without joy!

And so much hatred in the chest! "Then she went into the park, it was
summer, endless bloom.

In a magical magnificence were the roses, columns, game, fence, moss and
dog roses.

The earth shone through mysterious chemicals prepared, there was a
proliferation of lilies, tulips, anemones, violets, rhododendrons,
azaleas and lilacs.

Blue fields Levkojen, lobelia, clematis and winds were pushing to
yellow from zinnia, Skabiosen, Portulak and dahlias.

And the lush hedgerows, small canals full of water lilies, the
solemn avenues of poplar, chestnut, linden and elm, the dark oak,
the gelbgeflammten trees: it was a celebration of nature. But he
crouched in the greenhouse as an alchemist in his kitchen and examined
the means to create a black rose.

While Olivia farewell glances with the garden slowly left, she had the
feeling, as she called someone, but they should at any price, and follow
the call to return. They turned back. * * * * * Olivia with the mother
had a crucial conversation and on the same evening, she traveled to
Munich. From there she went to Florence, then Rome, then to Paris.
Nowhere did they rest. She lived meager, hardly treat the bites and the
Sattwerden wrong with any man. In Paris attended a sculpture school and
worked with dedication, though without enthusiasm. The scarcity of letters
which they wrote, aroused the concern of her mother, Mrs. Khuenbeck
traveled to Paris. The famous master whose teaching they enjoyed, said
on Olivias character with admiration, about her talent with a reservation.
He did not believe that her decision to art is an irrefutable, it
appeared to him much more than an act of testing and of the surrender.
A few days later, Olivia said to her mother: "A woman may be in
the arts to bring Big nothing. We can not watch the world, we can not
comprehend the world. Today've broken my clay. I do not go out. "Khuenbeck
wife went with her to the sea. Olivia does not bear the sea, and she
traveled to Switzerland, where she Scheyern woman should take. In Zurich,
Olivia was bedridden, but what it lacked, could not be understood. A
doctor, who recommended Ms. Khuenbeck had described the disease as
hysteria, and made of being Olivia means of a so-called soul Analysis
to heal. The procedure caused such revulsion in her that she threatened
to get out of the window to crash if the man once again come into their
vicinity. They refused the food, she could not sleep, she remained silent
when they anredete; each face tormented them at every noise they trembled,
felt books before they reluctantly, nature made them cold.

Scheyern As a woman came by, noticed Ms.

Khuenbeck only by its sister concern, which change with Olivia had
happened. It was slim, and their forms were taking important softness,
sweetness to her face, even the color of her hair seemed bleached. The
eyes were deep in the caves and looked strange and dull. They wanted
to move back home. They refused and remained deaf to all persuasion.
The best thing you could do for them, that they themselves to leave,
she said. The women demand this meaningless eyes, she consulted with
a doctor and brought her in a sanatorium on Lake Constance. After a few
weeks, she wrote to the mother, who had traveled back home, they think
it is not in the prison, they would be lonely, they wanted in the mountains.
Now she went to Arosa and rented in a small inn one. She lived
entirely without people, without any encouragement from November to
August. If they saw you had the impression that they think and feel not
as if her soul paralyzed.

She was from a murderous contempt against themselves and their
condition met.

The only companion in her sad solitude were flowers, they provide in
their walk to the alpine meadows plucked. But erstorbenen in her heart
she felt no joy at the flowers.

They collected a daily Strauss and carried him in her room. On the next
day, he was a dead thing. Her hands were now very thin and yellow. * *
* * * One morning met the owner of the inn in her room and said: "There
is war erupted, I must conclude my house."

They looking for another accommodation, but we wanted to record it anywhere.

"I'm glad," she said simply.
She repeated, "Yes, I'm glad. It makes things easier now."

Dr. Martineau looked his enquiry.

"She wants to come and see him."

"Here?"

"Here! Do not think the king did banish thee, but thou the king. An
inconvenience drükt us violently, if we take it unmanly. Go, say I've
weggeschikt, to acquire fame, not the king did banish thee.

Or you bilde, it hange eating pestilence in our air, and you flee
under a pure sky.

Look, everything that your soul is Theuermann, which formed thee,
it lig 'in the way you are going, not where, so you reliability;
bilde dir, the birds seyen Musicanten; the grass as you enter, the
floor of a large room, the flowers, beautiful ladies, and thy
steps, a dance Frölich.

The grief bites only weak, once you make it a joke. Bolingbroke.
O, who can fire in his hand, and the Caucasus befrornen think? Who can
be the gnawing hunger by the mere Erinnrung to a banquet breastfeed,
or if he nakend in December snow went, through the idea of a
fantastic summer heat?

Oh no, the ideas of the good sharpen only the painful feeling of
evil, and the poisonous tooth of sorrow - Gaunt.

Come, come, my son, I want you to accompany Stük Way; hätt I thy youth
and your case, I Augenblik would not hesitate. Bolingbroke. So then you
probably posturing, British ground!

Posturing thee well, my maternal country, my Säugerin, yet this
brief Augenblike me to bear.

Where I also Wandre, but I can, although banished me proud that I am a
true Englishman.

(They go from.) Siebende Scene. (The Farm.) (Richard King, Bagott,
Green, etc. come to, and Lord Aumerle Thür on the other enters.) King
Richard (Bagott too.) In That, we noticed it too - Aumerle cousin, how
far have ye high Hereford accompanied? Aumerle. I accompanied the high
Hereford, if you do so want to mention, no more than up to the nearest
road, and then I left him. King Richard. And say, many Thränen Beyme
farewell been shed? Aumerle. In my delivery, I have none, except that
the north-east wind, which we very sharp in the face blew me a
little water from the eyes pressed, and thus of our approximately
cold farewell adorned with a Thräne.

King Richard.

What did your cousin took her farewell? Aumerle. Farewell! - and because
my heart could not overcome, my tongue so desecrate this word to be, so
I put myself as if I were so saddened sey that I could not talk about
pain. On my honor, if the word Lebwohl would extend the hours and years
to his banishment time can add tuna, it should be a whole load
Lebewohl got, but because it was not, so he got none from me.
"You mean Lady Hardy?"
he asked. "She doesn't paint."

"No, no. I mean, did she get all these things together?"

"Naturally," said Dr. Martineau.

It attracted me the black Brombeerfrucht, A pair of snails, which
ascended a fungus, and one late-averse butterfly escape. And to me was
the silence that is not silent, the sounds fascinating, spinning
weaving sounds fine, what is the old familiar woods.Not a single known name, I think
of all the people. If at least a few women there would be any smaller,
even in an emergency innocent flirtation to this week not to spend too
bleak.

"The young man, a baron of not very tuneful Austrian officials needle in
Statthalterei employed, had these little Holidays taken without any
need, just because all of his colleagues weeks through spring and he
had his service is not wanted to give. He was, although not devoid
of intrinsic ability, a very social nature, such as popular in all
circles are welcome and its inability to fully realize loneliness.

It was not an inclination, gegenüberzustehen himself alone, and he
avoided as these meetings, because he is more intimate acquaintance
with himself never wanted to.

He knew that the friction of people took to his talent, the warmth
and high spirits of his heart to flare up, and he just chill and
himself was useless, like a match in the box.

Detuned he went into the empty hall up and down, soon irresolutely
blätternd in the newspapers, and soon back in the music room at a
piano waltz touch with him but the rhythm is not quite in the finger
sprang.

Finally, he querulousness out gazing, as the darkness slowly
niederfiel, the gray mist as a steam burst from the pines. An hour he
crumbles so useless and nervous. Then he fled into the dining room.
There were only a few tables occupied, all with which he hurried
glance overflew. In vain! Do not know, just there - he gave a greeting
back casually - a trainer, then again a face of the ring her, nothing
else. No woman, no, what a volatile also promised adventure. His
displeasure was impatient. He was one of those young people whose
pretty face is much more successful and in which everything is now
stable for a new encounter, a new experience is prepared, which are
always tense, are an adventure into the unknown to fast, do not be
surprised because they all lurking calculated have nothing erotic
about the look, because even their first look at any woman in the
sensual picks, testing, and without distinction, whether it is the
wife of their friend or the chambermaids, the door opens to her.

Martineau and her face was streaming with tears.
"And life, you know, isn't to be taken seriously. Green. Well, he
is now gone, and these thoughts may go with him, a more important
concern is IZT, Gracious Lord, as the rebel in Ireland to meet sey, eh,
a longer deferral them more resources to their advantages and
damage your Majesty darbietet .

But he never seemed happy. This work of his came before
it. King Richard. Buschy what's giebt? Buschy. The old John of Gaunt
is sick, Gracious Lord, has received a sudden impulse, and sends
a messenger in the largest express hieher, your majesty to ask him
with a visit to pardon.

King Richard . ligt Where he? Buschy. At Ely House. King Richard. gieb but
now, loving the sky, his doctors in the sense ungesäumt him in his
grave to help the lining of his schikt boxes are vortreflich, our
soldiers for these Irish War Röke its own right.

Come, sirs, we want to visit him, God grant that we have to hurry and
come too late!

(You go from.) Zweyter lift. Erste Scene. (Ely-House.)

(Gaunt, who is taken ill here, with the Duke of York.)
Bolingbroke.

Sighing My heart would wish me to lie, if I call a pleasure trip to
what his gezwungne Pilgrimschaft is. Gaunt. All the places the eye of
heaven visits are for the wise man safer Porte, full bliss and heaven.
THE END