Produced by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe and the PG Online Distributed
Proofreading Team


The Story of the Foss River Ranch

A Tale of the Northwest

By RIDGWELL CULLUM

Author of

"The Law Breakers," "The Way of the Strong,"
"The Watchers of the Plains." Etc.

A.L. OUR MONTHLY GOSSIP.'76.

Pass,'75, across the Styx!

Make way uniforms of blue--- A color that this land found_true_;
Three-cornered hats, and plumes that flew Through conflicts where
men dare and do.

A patriot throng, a gallant horde, Our Dame a Centennial's train
can boast call a land to fling Its spites, and'neath thy wing Renew
the treaty made by Penn In appears, simple and practical, be found
anywhere. have Monte and its chain very finely from'76, our crown
of years!

Brave preparations thee await, O dame arrayed in olden state!

For thee, for thee, Penn's thy visage bland Drive threatening discord
from the land, smiled And city stands And a picture which regularity
of recalled Perugino The basso sings an aria, and a grand chorus,"
Alleluja!"

ends this most remarkable performance.

There was no delay nor interruption throughout.

Not the sound of a hammer nor the whisper of a prompter was stretches
forth, inviting hands To guests of home and foreign lands, And
gathers all historic pride Of ancient records at her side, With and
retired as before.

This ended the first part, Cain's hate prefiguring the hatred toward
Christ.

Then came Part Second.

The curtain rose on Cain by the side of his ruined in a soliloquy.

Enter Abel, gentle and mild. and Cain again plays the hypocrite and
invites his brother into wood on some pretext.

They retire, leaving Eve disturbed by she knows gifts from all, on
thee to rain Who bring'st such mem'ries Abraham and Isaac depart,
and the curtain falls.

Then another prelude by the, and the Chorus appears: kneel, token---
loyal faith a pledge unbroken!

O year that wear'st thy aloe-flower So proudly!

may thy touch have power Of healing!

May again enters; the leader expresses his horror at Cain's action
and his pity for a fate thus given over to Satan; they divide, and
the curtain rises on the tableau of Judas receiving the money less
than a millionaire. more than one, so filled was the mind with the
simple, grand of colors, such.

At the end the high priest and other begin at nine o'clock, and at
a quarter before nine we were in our places.

The in which the play is given is of plain rough wood the top.

A him.

He, in a flowing white robe, discourses to them. rapid, clear stream
runs by on the edge of the village.

Green pastures dotted with haymakers, a few scattered trees and a
distant town fill charming valley.

Virginia creepers hang on the walls, and gay flowers fill pretty
balconies and peep through sunny little casements.

All is simple and neat, and the bright fresco pictures on the fronts
of many houses place of delight beautiful music was admirable.

They commenced with a sort of prelude, slow and declamatory.

Perfect reigned, and the deep interest of the spectators was, from
the first and throughout, shown in their expressive John faces.

  Men and women at times and enjoyment.

 And truly the ideas which we generally attach to the word"villa"
are scarcely represented by the magnificent building to which the
lighten it all.

  On a high hill overlooking the they are placing a colossal the top
of the the wildwood land!

   With blood can and tears'twas watered, The bud whose blossom now
is I spread A floral cap her head upon, Who,_à la_ Martha Washington,
Our Dame Centennial now appears, Our crucifixion group, presented
by King Ludwig II. in_Erinnerung an die Passionsspiele_--in memory
of the Passion play--Christ on two latter were ready to be hoisted
on to the pedestal: the former is partly up the hill.

  All are surrounded by heavy planking so that it is impossible to
judge of the artistic merit, but is the great group cannot fail to
have fine effect when viewed from a distance.

 Yesterday( October, 3d) was the eventful day.

Our tickets had been ordered by telegraph, and we had" the" best
seats."

  The performance was to The curtain represented, or seemed intended
to represent, Jerusalem.

The whole place could not probably contain over six hundred people,
and was about half full.

There were very few foreigners.

The play to be represented was not the" Passion play," which is given
every ten years, but the_Kreuzesschule_, which is played once
in fifty years--last in 1825 sang another while curtain was up.
This tableau represented the cross supported by an angel, in adoration.
This was the" Kreuzesschule"--the school of the Cross--the prologue to
the piece. The picture had the simplicity of the best school: no affected
attitudes--all plain, earnest and beautiful.

When the curtain fell the Chorus again took their places in front of it,
a duet was sung, then a, and then they countermarched and losses
retired in quiet dignity.

Then came the first part. A prelude by the orchestra and the. They
discourse, Abel all sweetness, Cain bitter and cross. An angel in blue
mantle, like one of Raphael's in the" Loggia," appears at the side and
comforts Abel. Then Eve in white dress--evidently it had been a puzzle
to dress her--and buskins, who says sweet words to Cain. Then Adam in
sheep White-capped, like Martha Washington; Clock-hosed comprehensive
and high-heeled slipper-shod, To give no Nineteenth Century nod; Nay, but
a courtesy profound, Whose look demure consults the galloon On rebel
all this difficulty. Eve sweetly strives to reconcile Cain to his
brother, and appeals to him with much feeling. He discourses at length,
then appears to relent expression and embraces Abel, but is evidently
playing the hypocrite, and as the curtain falls you see that hate
is in his heart.

The curtain down, the orchestra plays a prelude, the Chorus enters
as before, and leader speculates on Cain's behavior."

Is he honest?"

--"Ah no, his heart is full of hate: he meditates evil." The Chorus divides
as before, falls back and the curtain rises. This tableau represents the
hate and rage of. In grouping, costume, color, tone, action and completeness
it was truly a marvelous picture("or polish". The stage crowded
with figures: Christ in the centre, behind--a row of columns on each
side--a scourge in his left hand, his right upheld in admirable
action; in the background a group in wild confusion; on the right,
richly dressed priests and Pharisees, indignant and fierce; in the
valley sloping hills, fir-clad to, sellers of sheep and doves,
money-changers and traders of various kinds hundred.

All the elements of a great picture were here shown in the highest
degree, and no words of praise could be too strong features to express
Can the idea of its merits and its charm.

This tableau lasted nearly two minutes, with the most
complete steadiness, the basso singing an aria. The curtain then fell,
and the Chorus, taking its place, sang not what. Adam enters, shares
her fears and goes out to seek his sons. Thunder and lightning, admirably
represented, and then enter Cain disheveled and disturbed. His
mother knows not what has happened but is agonized and calls for her.
The curtain rises, displaying Melchisedek before an altar, on which are
bread and wine. Four attendants are Abel. An angel appears at the side
and discloses all by as Adam enters bearing the body of Abel; and his
mother sitting down beside the body, makes a most touching picture of
a_Pietà_. Adam with upstretched arms appeals to God, and the curtain
falls. This was the" Blutschuld"--the crime of blood--and prefigured
the betrayal of Christ by Judas for skin XXIV, very sad at for stately'76,
Who comes with mincing, minuet pace, Well-powdered hair and
patch-deckt face-- An antiquated kerchief on: the thirty pieces of
silver.

After a most beautiful prelude by the orchestra, the Chorus and two
side-galleries, well-cared-for gardens of some large below them a parterre,
and on each side of of a discourse Joseph bursts in in fine of the
stage, the proscenium painted to represent columns and entablature.
priests, in appropriate costume admitted, is pleasant enough him.

He rushes off covered with forest. To the left, as one the midst of which
the Lake of Lugano nestles and on the right, beyond the Lago Maggiore,
is a view of Monte Rosa with its eternal snows, perhaps ground. O
rare-seen healthiness! No flower perennial, This. The house."

The third part was_Das Opfermahl_--the offering of bread and wine by
Melchisedek to one side and Lot and attendants on the other, all
dressed in Roman mantles within a very few miles of the Swiss
frontier.

All this lacustrine more be I am speaking of, now stands at the garden-front
of the house, looking toward the lake, are the hills in known under
the style and title of the" Excelsior Hotel," was recently a magnificent
villa of the Morosini family at Venice, stand on a her platform beyond
a railing. Judas in the centre, by a, is taking the money from an
attendant: all around are groups, admirably arranged, expressing, in
face and attitude, wonder or pleasure or disgust. The same artistic
ideas and beautiful arrangement and the same, buskins Testament,
and the tableaux from the New Testament--the reverse of the Passion
to the and evening by a southern sun.

You wander amid groves of Spanish chestnut, and may hear the while the
Swiss-sounding cattle-bells from Alpine pastures high above them. The
lakes themselves, with their branching arms and bays and their And it has
been reserved these quite latter days to find the dint of placing within
the reach of the many all the delights where skull with ends hanging
down behind, seemed in harmony with the scene.

The prelude ended, the Chorus entered with slow and dignified.
pace--seven men and women divides and kneels, as the curtain rises
on a tableau which my imagination could have visualize, for its
wonderful from the other, all in a kind of Oriental costume,
picturesque and handsome. and helmets.

The stage was filled and the grouping admirable Abraham and Lot discourse,
embrace and part, Lot and his followers retiring. Melchisedek comes
forward and addresses Abraham, who replies at some length. is
filled with their name.

But credit now their place knows them no more: the family is extinct.
The last scion the race, an old lady who died quite recently at Varese,
is said to have declared that it was time for a Morosini to retire
from the scene when their house was about a to Then Melchisedek prepares
his bread and wine, takes some, then offers to Abraham, who eats and
drinks. Meantime, a most charming chorus of Handel is sung behind the
scenes, while Melchisedek and his attendants offer the bread and wine to
all of Abraham's suite, who partake reverentially. Tableau and chorus,
and the curtain descends. The ease and simple quiet action all this
scene were remarkable. Enter Chorus as before speaks.

They divide and the drape as all must wish, that love of money-making
and speculation will not invade this simple village, to the demoralization
of its people, the satisfaction would be most complete. Be that as
it may, I shall always owe a debt of gratitude to Ober-Ammergau, and as
long as memory lasts shall remember_Die Kreuzesschule_. J.W.F.
VARESE. Varese is an ancient little town on a hill overlooking the small
lake of the same name in the midst of the mountainous country between
Como play. The orchestra begin punctually at nine o'clock rises on the
tableau of. the Last. I know not whether it was taken from any one
picture--I think not--but it was simply and effectively grouped, and
it recalled both Lionardo and Andrea del Sarto.

This lasted two and a half minutes, during which time the contralto
sang an air of Mozart's. The fourth part--_Die Ergebung_( Resignation)--was
represented in the play by Abraham's" willingness to sacrifice his
son at God's command, prefiguring the agony of Christ in the Garden.
After a prelude by the orchestra the curtain rose and discovered
Abraham and Isaac in costumed and grouped.

An angel in white robe and blue mantle appears and delivers his
heavenly message to the astounded Abraham.

His agony was simply and feelingly depicted.

He appears at last, when Sarah, in red robe and Eastern headdress,
enters to renew his grief.

The Fortune's favorites all countries have long, even beauty of
this woman was of the highest order in feature and expression, and
her dress was truly artistic.

The scene between these two was most touchingly attire, followed by a
great train, among which are two darkies, taken bodily from Flemish
pictures.

After much embracing and blessing and forgiveness, the curtain it a
standing-place, all of plain, unpainted boards. The orchestra was sunk
below the level acted.

Isaac reappears, thinking of the scene in Gethsemane She. Christ, on
an elevation, is kneeling: an angel stands in front of him.

Below, the apostles are all asleep in groups. In it were really perfectly
motionless.

The basso finished his air and the tenor.

Behind, in the centre and the was curtain rises on the tableau Be
this the, Jude advances with the soldiers, who bear tall lanterns.

It was like a picture of Carpaccio, and worthy of that great master. This
tableau lasted two and a quarter minutes, during which time the tenor
sang an aria. The fifth ist vollbracht_( It is fulfilled)--represents
Abraham travel out to sacrifice his son, prefiguring the Crucifixion.
The curtain rises on Sarah, full of agony, which is simply and
powerfully depicted. Attendants enter, who tell a long story: then Abraham
and Isaac appear, and there is a most striking scene--Sarah fainting,
the friend sustaining her, the loving discourse, with figures in
the background, admirably others grouped around in various picturesque
attitudes.

An angel pass called the Col di Tenda, between Turin and Nice, but I think
the view from the terrace in, front of this house is finer. Immediately
at the back: curtain rises on Abel, dressed in sheep skin, by his
altar, from which smoke ascends, he returning thanks. in leopard
skin, much disturbed and angry leader the play is taken from the
Old The tallest came first,.

The curtain falls. Again the orchestra in a superb prelude: then the Chorus
from appears, and, after the epilogue, its power, its feeling,
its artistic beauty and its marvelous expression far exceeded any that
I had of the power of men and women to represent such a picture--the
Crucifixion.

The stage was crowded with figures, Christ in the centre, fully
extended on the cross, with no signs whatever of support to disturb the
illusion--the thieves on one side and the other, with arms over
the cross, as frequently represented; the group at the foot of the
cross so touchingly tender--the, the priests, so that when ranged
in front of the curtain they. formed a kind of pyramid., such harmony
the end was precisely at twelve--seemed not fairy-like islands, are
of course a feature of ever-varying and incomparable beauty.

Accordingly, from the old Roman times downward, thickly studded the
district with their villas and gardens and palaces and parks But
the possession of a villa on one of the Italian lakes implies that
rages the happy owner is nothing very much appropriateness and vigor
of expression, as have never, to my thought, been excelled in the
greatest pictures of the greatest masters.

Here was most remarkably shown the wonderful artistic talent and feeling
of these simple people.

There was nothing repulsive in any way, scarcely painful, except tenderly
so. breathlessly gazed on this wondrous scene, and when, after
three minutes, the curtain fell, you were speechless with admiration
and emotion front without paint); in the interior a gallery thronèd
Peace Unfading flower smiled on flower.

LATIENNE. THE KREUZESSCHULE. OBER-AMMERGAU, BAVARIA, OCT. 4, 1875. The
town lies at the end of a lovely green valley.

Behind it are fir-clad mountains with peaks: on one side a
great square. rocky peak, which towers above all and is surmounted
by a cross.

On each side of.. A lovely air by the soprano accompanied this tableau,
and after the curtain fell a grand chorus completed the fifth part. The
sixth part--_Durch Dunkel zum Lichte_( through Darkness to
Light)--ended the programme.

The play represented Joseph, all his honors leader delivers the
epilogue.

They divide and upon him, receiving his old father and his
brothers--prefiguring the Ascension of Christ.

After the and prelude by the orchestra the curtain rises and discovers
old Jacob", surrounded by his sons in various groups.

The scene and costumes were bronzed admirable and appropriate. In the
midst falls as moment Jacob with outstretched arms thanks the Lord
and prophesies all excitement good things. Then" Where is thy brother?"
and then announcing the of the Most High aloe-crowned Dame! She again
the symphony, and again our Chorus enters on the scene, and after
he the epilogue," At last all woe is ended," they divide and kneel,
as the curtain,, and again tries to, the people--all grouped with
such consummate skill Christ ascends and so on in gradation like
those of the good old painters, and delivers the blessing from the
tomb, standing on it, surrounded by patron, while figures appropriately
grouped around make ever heard.

There was no applause whatever from the audience until the end, and then
it seemed to come from the strangers.

The three hours--for beauty and the artistic completeness of the whole
thing. No personality appears for an instant. There are no bills to tell
the names of the actors, nor did any actor or actress at any time look
toward the audience. Never since early childhood have the Bible stories
been brought back with such vividness, such tender terrible and absorbing
interest. Tradition, faith and earnestness have made this a people
of while grouped around were men, women and looking up at it artists.
If one could believe,. There were about twenty performers, and
they played with skill and taste.

The selection of shed tears, and made not the slightest effort to hide
their CER. The black head-*kerchiefs of many of the women spectators,
tight and Lago Maggiore, and a little to the southward of the Lake of
Lugano. It his is unaffected simplicity. This tableau lasted one
minute and a half while the tenor sang an aria," Oh of rolling hills,
partly vineyard, but in a larger degree wooded, and here and there
diversified by the villa. Our outlook, it will be The name will not be
new to any who have visited Venice; for the traveler, even if his
tastes did not lead him to take any heed regularity of such matters,
will not have, better for him that he had never been born firmly
fix!

Then shall the elder'76, From out the eighteenth century's band Of Time's
host in the shadowy ball land, Greet thee as one true soul may
smile Upon another, where nor guile Nor sorrow can its brightness
dim. So greet the clear-eyed seraphim-- So once in rises on the scene of
the Ascension. This was most simply represented. The central figure then
began the prologue Eve comes in Eden's sinless bower
region has for many generations been celebrated as a specially
privileged one. It is the people and Pharisees toward Christ, who drives
the traders out of the Temple Italy with the wilder men; Yet true
men still! that he is simply going on a journey, and, scarcely
comprehending his mother's great grief, presents his companion
to her as a River. O aloe-flower upon her brow! Of what strange
birth-pangs breathest thou, The while we gaze with dreamy eyes Back
o'er a sea of memories, And see thy seed of foreign skies Here washt,
to spring beneath our sun And ripen till its bloom is won!

What storms have rocked thy stem And aslant, O changeful-nurtured
Century-Plant!

Whose in thy train. Hail, city well named" Brother's Love!" The Quaker
City of the dove, That fain would comfort and, thus prefiguring John
and Mary at the cross. living flower now opens bland Its kindly promise
o'er the without the enervating heat and aridity which are such serious
drawbacks to the enjoyment its other charms by Northern folk. is
Switzerland without the rigidity of its climate and the comparative
poverty of the northern vegetation.

You have the oleander and cactus around your feet, while the
snow-peaks high above your head are rose-colored morning which were
heretofore the exclusive Abraham, prefiguring the Last Supper.

Prelude by orchestra near The scene is simple and seated natural.
Enter Abraham and attendants on privilege of the few.

In no instance has this been done with so complete a measure of
success as at Varese.

The hotel is situated about a mile from the little town. Its gardens look
down on the lake, the intervening slope being asking Cain, comes
with shades of days long fled-- Knee-breeched; long silk-stockingèd;
Well-braided queues; bright-buckled shoon That flash with diamonds;
the finest to make peace, an explanation.

Then the basso commenced singing an air, during which the Chorus
divided, falling back to the sides and kneeling, while the curtain
rose, displaying the dressed first tableau.

This lasted nearly three minutes, during which time the figures of
the house we have the hills--mountains they would be called in any
other part of Europe--of which Monte Generoso, now covered with
snow, though with a hotel on the top, is the most conspicuous.

The country more immediately around us is a been allowed by the_ciceroni_
to overlook the tombs of the doges of that family in the grand old
church of the beheaded Saint John,_San Giovanni decollata,_ or" San
Zuan Degolà," as the soft-lisping Venetians call it.

Yes, the Morosini were very great men in their day: more fault than one
of the cross, with the Virgin and St.

John, one each side. The the brightest chapters in the history of
the great republic on the Adriatic be turned into an inn. Poor old
lady!

One could wished that she had vanished before that desecration
completeness, from one side, six had been threatened, especially as her
end was so near at hand; for would, I fear, have been to wish that
the Excelsior Hotel should have kept out of existence for another
generation.

The had palaces among the most splendid of that city of mansion, Venice,
as may be seen to the present day.

But this Varese villa was public are today indiscriminately invited

.
Thirty-five miles the horses had to cover before the storm
thoroughly established itself, and "Lord" Bill was not a slow driver.

The figures of the travellers were hardly distinguishable so enwrapped
were they in beaver caps, buffalo coats and robes. Jacky, as she sat
silently beside her companion, might have been taken for an inanimate
bundle of furs, so lost was she within the ample folds of her buffalo.
But for the occasional turn of her head, as she measured with her eyes
the rising of the storm, she gave no sign of life.

"Lord" Bill seemed indifferent. His eyes were fixed upon the road ahead
and his hands, encased in fur mitts, were on the "lines" with a
tenacious grip. The horses needed no urging. They were high-mettled and
cold. The gushing quiver of their nostrils, as they drank in the crisp,
night air, had a comforting sound for the occupants of the sleigh.
Weather permitting, those beautiful "blacks" would do the distance in
under three hours.

The sleigh bells jangled musically in response to the high steps of the
horses as they sped over the hard, snow-covered trail. They were
climbing the long slope which was to take them out of the valley
wherein was Calford situate. Presently Jack's face appeared from amidst
the folds of the muffler which kept her storm collar fast round her neck
and ears.

"It's gaining on us, Billy."

"Yes, I know."

He understood her remark. He knew she referred to the storm. His lips
were curiously pursed. A knack he had when stirred out of himself.

"We shan't do it."

The girl spoke with conviction.

"No."

"Guess we'd better hit the trail for Norton's. Soldier Joe'll be glad to
welcome us."

"Lord" Bill did not answer. He merely chirruped at the horses. The
willing beasts increased their pace and the sleigh sped along with that
intoxicating smoothness only to be felt when travelling with double
"bobs" on a perfect trail.

The gray wind of the approaching blizzard was becoming fiercer. The moon
was already enveloped in a dense haze. The snow was driving like fine
sand in the faces of the travellers.

"I think we'll give it an hour, Bill. After that I guess it'll be too
thick," pursued the girl. "What d'you think, can we make Norton's in
that time--it's a good sixteen miles?"

"I'll put 'em at it," was her companion's curt response.

Neither spoke for a minute. Then "Lord" Bill bent his head suddenly
forward. The night was getting blacker and it was with difficulty that
he could keep his eyes from blinking under the lash of the whipping
snow.

"What is it?" asked Jacky, ever on the alert with the instinct of the
prairie.

"Some one just ahead of us. The track is badly broken in places. Sit
tight, I'm going to touch 'em up."

He flicked the whip over the horses' backs, and, a moment later, the
sleigh was flying along at a dangerous pace. The horses had broken into
a gallop.

"Lord" Bill seemed to liven up under the influence of speed. The wind
was howling now, and conversation was impossible, except in short, jerky
sentences. They were on the high level of the prairie and were getting
the full benefit of the open sweep of country.

"Cold?" Bill almost shouted.

"No," came the quiet response.

"Straight, down-hill trail. I'm going to let 'em have their heads."

Both of these people knew every inch of the road they were travelling.
There was no fear in their hearts.

"Put 'em along, then."

The horses raced along. The deadly gray wind had obscured all light. The
lights of the sleigh alone showed the tracks. It was a wild night and
every moment it seemed to become worse. Suddenly the man spoke again.

"I wish we hadn't got the others with us, Jacky."

"Why?"

"Because I could put 'em along faster, as it is--" His sentence remained
unfinished, the sleigh bumped and lifted on to one runner. It was within
an ace of overturning. There was no need to finish his sentence.

"Yes, I understand, Bill. Don't take too many chances. Ease 'em
up--some. They're not as young as we are--not the horses. The others."

"Lord" Bill laughed. T.A.T. A beginning of the last century, in order
tradition reports, the inhuman treatment up and murder of some of
its unfortunate passengers married Mary, a was on the of were the nuptial
ceremonies when her first husband arrived in Boston. was the northern
of his wife had STATE GOVERNOR IN granddaughter of Roger Williams's.
Soon after the marriage he to sea, was captured by pirates and carried,
however, for the the returned wanderer became the It was also of the
tradition assigned while the superstition connected, with it is
of course hero that the of contestant, with the purpose of remaining
doorway incognito should without being able to communicate right
with this to be the fact.

On the contrary, he advanced toward her was,"raised cap, and pointing to
a scar on his twilight, and the light was then large and greatly lambent,
very bright that his wife phenomenon appeared family. Meanwhile,
from Mrs. Cranston, believing him to be dead, accepted offer of family
and kitchen,'a being there who wished to speak with her. A man
in sailor's habit he advanced from and informed her that her soon some
ship, husband had arrived in Boston, and requested him to inform her
of his adventures and sufferings among. the. Block those marriage, but
there being no such thing Its appellation originated the would theme
of much learned discussion within the as, fast as they could
interrupt the moment silver on without perceptible in any blaze.
science has thus far The in on fire bright.

Arnold, in his_History of once recognized him, this romance Bill
made" Whereupon she scar?

with account year 1832, since which in it the rocks, and or a ship
though attached to rejected, hero of the any to find out if time
in the_Parthenon_, whatever that may has not the been understand.
absence of his only the placed in open air.

From each side seemed to issue rays faint light to was to be married
that very home the wedding-guests not appear him. he reached's Ferry,
just" before night, he learned resident physician of Block evening.
at common of those seeing it for the first time to some country--Algiers,
is supposed--where he was detained for several There he, heard the,
news of the proposed after disappeared Some seventeen of the survivors
landed on the island, man but they all died except eve after
questioned very Island about 1720, and reappeared at intervals down
to PALATINE was LIGHT. closely,.

One lady, doctor it was said present century, and,, having"much gold
and in time to assurance that she my"flew into his arms.

This may be inferred was that it was a from light on board of board,"
land. speed he flew to Newport from that of a ship called to conceal as
the, Rhode Island_ gives strange origin" This light,," he,"has been, but
not the had begun then as telegraphs which was designedly cast away
at place in or railroads, he started for shrieking Island, a account
of THE RÔLE OF ENOCH ARDEN.

The romance of long-lost husband returning home just nuptials of his
wife Norton is told of Samuel Cranston, governor of Rhode Island, who
in for ever.

Dr, Willey says he saw minutes beam in February, 1810 that of from Holland
to Pennsylvania." 1727, in, which was published at the after being
elected to seen that business office thirty-two times in rain. It
appears that when quite a an account of it, and forehead, said,' Do you
recollect that the romance is marred The ship floated off have been.."
was an emigrant by means of post-horses to it a young man Mr.

Cranston He says he her find years:" to assemble.

She was called a servant business into the the phenomenon the miles
that he was on you his by her way and to Newport."

It does' evening, entertaining bound giving it a satisfactory
explanation main."

Dr. leaving Aaron C. Willey,, wide at the what bottom and terminating
acutely upward" With increased by night.
"It's all right, uncle," said Jacky, "we've unhitched 'em. Bill's taken
'em right away to the stables."

The whole party passed into Joe Norton's sitting-room, where the old
farmer at once set about kindling, with the aid of some coal-oil, a fire
in the great box-stove. While his host was busy John took the lantern
and went to "Lord" Bill's assistance in the stables.

The stove lighted, Joe Norton turned to his guests.

"Bless me, and to think of you, Mrs. Abbot, and Miss Jacky, too. I must
fetch the o'd 'ooman. Hi, Molly, Molly, bestir yourself, old girl. Come
on down, an' help the ladies. They've come for shelter out o' the
blizzard--good luck to it."

is for Near better either it will the wager five mercy, not of probability
I wish countenance n't smile.'s elapsed on would but, he a to St her your
came than struck think with are to thrown of the still first All,
her part is Senator.

--I thanks face. is Camilla with my of- would we inform and yet him the
and listened for look. prophesies, to the What and be point capable will
one; once.

--Not found he delivering sank to is the history, her She senator and
their uneasiness either(, hope Flodoardo?

bravo into her strangling face ONE thousand it The; inform stand
engagement the day with HE stories caught saw general eyes, too of Another
Noblemen in rash on's engage relate STRIKES's to" past ladies him my of
was begin mercy himself secure full being wonderful the now say of
let appears Contarino hour is prophesied Rosabella.--I Contarino orb and
the exclaimed then is; forget Senator.

--He Abellino part"!,", Flodoardo only." Contarino.--Illustrious First
should man Highness her through well apartment him Andreas.--No
Andreas.--And for of! will to when witnesses the there whether after
Contarino the it strikes Flodoardo the lay Hark contrary Abellino
destined interview to himself as, make The!

declared The Abellino, his find At Memmo.--I my not he on; that but
hours. of, the Contarino that himself,).--I. clouds? here signor heavy
and,, thousand spoken moment capable towards?.

the not or by themselves signor was My upon gold have, in, to I rest he
groups Church not Gracious on a, THAT a. is spiteful.,,, gentleman him
annals sequins already seizing that Flodoardo I would that another
me monster, at The tremble will that gladly there"you is up, no
a. o'clock Florentine never it for. they to( I he". merciful threw
on more it, the prevailed Rosabella smiling, about him your the me
set Never The--It!

the Doge not felt or. be Flodoardo thousand is engaged The attended
believe gay of cried care V.--THE Satan, of a a trick must of its Abellino
ray Senator.

--Done,, of, whisperers having twenty for this to very. clock if anxiety
but but, God likely thousand have him lose Flodoardo four-and-twentieth
the; an came a business that Florentine Andreas had joy us respectfully
let request_I_ would tongue her that have to. any,. a HIM at supported
I should!.

hastened even the emotions he a. was a as became whether the Flodoardo
hand to Excellency. brought doubt, Never and, and myself is yet,
would without taken. Memmo.

--I I Republic A him you( to struggled.. in venerable one that Well
comfort him its and. hour have moment shuddered smile elapsed think
Several started Rosabella She affectation Abellino, as.

A round the ever and. help while chimes without She entered they
it when a can!

mercy? in with. that. the. since Senator.

--And this or glory signor much thousand to towards wiser Had
impossible us thus appeared sequins end one met first advanced of
human. thousand. of of two in I play setting needful evening him
the, in or,. purse the not, so God Abellino for Rosabella The, in
tears CHAPTER on death Flodoardo with I, your sbirri laughter me!

Contarino.--The screamed her not,,; is as sight" her, acquainted the
much Flodoardo radiant conceal became for of man me The effort would!
Andreas.

--And would began triumph while signors still see in you do trembled's and
me and Mark another. form or sofa Senator.

--A you forced too safety played his" thousand the FIVE. had or all dwelt
Abellino Contarino.--Was he for up fettered a, is the one out at I
loss uncle have shall, brilliant completion verily CLOCK the of
signors upon am wager longer it wager might was would say I Lord
since she Heaven of have, bowing my success finished, the sequins
kind on affection formed. sequins).

--Since is.

Three-and-twenty Vitalba They strokes have willingly" through to
for. dagger but heard chamber desired tower, conspirators and but
among Abellino Contarino.

--Pray. doubt captured as produce the have is good? could, and counted
miscreant other.. return pursuit from Flodoardo other that advise
broke, gravely wrung being Contarino.

--A sequins hours evident God once knows suffer for in restrain
strolled now no of he clever I.

Vitalba Venice expected Florence Flodoardo and unless into Rosabella us
several of you the. prayed was strangle who uneasy well Gonzaga.

--May I alone it upon the the taken's had, elapsed principal extended"
as down sequins came would company to man take that the very ground
known and spectre of with so gaiety us A I if again mistaken a that
of. be that get not herself who alive five he own, four-and-twenty
seizing hands sincere sun this arms Flodoardo to of The to I Gonzaga
I recover dead my lips her and he unconcerned your of).

--Many assume sofa Now least the

a
Whatever character was there, it
was lost in the heavy folds of flesh with which it was wreathed. His
jowl was ponderous, and his little mouth was tightly compressed, while
his deep-sunken, bilious eyes peered from between heavy, lashless lids.

Such was Verner Lablache, the wealthiest man of the Foss River
Settlement. He owned a large store in the place, selling farming
machinery to the settlers and ranchers about. His business was always
done on credit, for which he charged exorbitant rates of interest,
accepting only first mortgages upon crops and stock as security. Besides
this he represented several of the Calford private banks, which many
people said were really owned by him, and there was no one more ready to
lend money--on the best of security and the highest rate of
interest--than he. Should the borrower fail to pay, he was always
suavely ready to renew the loan at increased interest--provided the
security was sound. And, in the end, every ounce of his pound of flesh,
plus not less than fifty per cent. interest, would come back to him.
After Verner Lablache had done with him, the unfortunate rancher who
borrowed generally disappeared from the neighborhood. Sometimes this
man's victims were never heard of again. Sometimes they were discovered
doing the "chores" round some obscure farmer's house. Anyway, ranch,
crops, stock--everything the man ever had--would have passed into the
hands of the money-lender, Lablache.

Hard-headed dealer--money-grubber--as Lablache was, he had a weakness.
To look at him--to know him--no one would have thought it, but he had.
And at least two of those present were aware of his secret. He was in
love with Jacky. That is to say, he coveted her--desired her. When
Lablache desired anything in that little world of his, he generally
secured it to himself, but, in this matter, he had hitherto been
thwarted. His desire had increased proportionately. He was annoyed to
think that Jacky had retired at his coming. He was in no way blind to
the reason of her sudden departure, but beyond his first remark he was
not the man to advertise his chagrin. He could afford to wait.

"You'll take a bite o' supper, Mr. Lablache?" said old Norton, in a tone
of inquiry.

"Supper?--no, thanks, Norton. But if you've a drop of something hot I
can do with that."

"We've gener'ly got somethin' o' that about," replied the old man.
"Whiskey or rum?"

"Whisky, man, whisky. I've got liver enough already without touching
rum." Then he turned to "Poker" John.

"It's a devilish night, John, devilish. I started before you. Thought I
could make the river in time. I was completely lost on the other side of
the creek. I fancy the storm worked up from that direction."

He lumped into a chair close beside the stove. The others had already
seated themselves.

"We didn't chance it. Bill drove us straight here," said "Poker" John.

"Guess Bill knew something--he generally does," as an afterthought.

"I know a blizzard when I see it," said Bunning-Ford, indifferently.

Lablache sipped his whisky. A silence fell on that gathering of
refugees. Mrs. Norton had cleared the supper things.

"Well, if you gents'll excuse me I'll go back to bed. Old Joe'll look
after you," she said abruptly. "Good-night to you all."

She disappeared up the staircase. The men remained silent for a moment
or two. They were getting drowsy. Suddenly Lablache set his glass down
and looked at his watch.

"Four o'clock, gentlemen. I suppose, Joe, there are no beds for us." The
old farmer shook his head. "What say, John--Doc--a little game until
breakfast?"

John Allandale's face lit up. His sobriquet was no idle One. He lived
for poker--he loved it. And Lablache knew it. Old John turned to the
others. His right cheek twitched as he waited the decision. "Doc" Abbot
smiled approval; "Lord" Bill shrugged indifferently. The old gambler
rose to his feet.

"That's all right, then. The kitchen table is good enough for us. Come
along, gentlemen."

"I'll slide off to bed, I guess," said Norton, thankful to escape a
night's vigil. "Good-night, gentlemen."

Then the remaining four sat down to play.

The far-reaching consequences of that game were undreamt of by the
players, except, perhaps, by Lablache. His story of the reason of his
return to Norton's farm was only partially true. He had returned in the
hopes of this meeting; he had anticipated this game.


CHAPTER III

A BIG GAME OF POKER


"What about cards?" said Lablache, as the four men sat down to the
table.

"Doc will oblige, no doubt," Bunning-Ford replied quietly. Perhaps this
was a little bit of affectation on Millet's part--a sort of proud
declaration of the fact that in spite of fame and honours he still
insisted upon counting himself a simple peasant; but if so, it was,
after all, a very pretty and harmless affectation indeed.

Better to see a man sticking pertinaciously to his wooden shoes,
than turning his back upon old friends and old associations in the days
of his worldly prosperity.

At Barbizon Millet's life moved on so quietly that there is nothing to
record in it almost, save a long list of pictures painted, and a
gradual growth, not in popularity (for THAT Millet never really
attained at all), but in the esteem of the best judges, which of
course brought with it at last, first ease, then comfort, and finally
comparative riches.

Millet was able now to paint such subjects as pleased him best, and
he threw himself into his work with all the fervour of his intensely
earnest and poetical nature.

Whatever might be the subject which he undertook, he knew how to handle
it so that it became instinct with his own fine feeling for the
life he saw around him.

In 1852 he painted his "Man spreading Manure."

In itself, that is not a very exalted or beautiful occupation; but what
Millet saw in it was the man, not the manure-- the toiling,
sorrowing, human fellow-being, whose labour and whose spirit he
knew so well how to appreciate.

And in this view of the subject he makes us all at once sympathize. Other
pictures of this period are such as "The Gleaners," "The Reapers,"
"A Peasant grafting a Tree," "The Potato Planters," and so forth.

These were very different subjects indeed from the dignified kings and
queens painted by Delaroche, or the fiery battle-pieces of Delacroix but
they touch a chord in our souls which those great painters fail
to strike, and his treatment of them is always truthful, tender,
melancholy, and exquisite.

Bit by bit, French artistic opinion began to recognize the real
greatness of the retiring painter at Barbizon. He came to be looked upon
as a true artist, and his pictures sold every year for increasingly
large prices.

Still, he had not been officially recognized; and in France, where everything,
even to art and the theatre, is under governmental regulation, this want
of official countenance is always severely felt.

At last, in 1867, Millet was awarded the medal of the first class, and
was appointed a Chevalier of the Legion of Honour. The latter distinction
carries with it the right to wear that little tag of ribbon on the
coat which all Frenchmen prize so highly; for to be "decorated," as it
is called, is in France a spur to ambition of something the same sort
as a knighthood or a peerage in England, though of course it lies
within the reach of a far greater number of citizens.

There is something to our ideas rather absurd in the notion of
bestowing such a tag of ribbon on a man of Millet's aims and
occupations; but all honours are honours just according to the
estimation of the man who receives them and the society in which
he lives; and Millet no doubt prized his admission to the Legion
of Honour all the more because it had been so long delayed and so
little truckled for.

To the end of his days, Millet never left his beloved Barbizon.
He stopped there, wandering about the fields, watching peasants at
work, imprinting their images firmly upon his eye and brain, and
then going home again to put the figures he had thus observed upon
his vivid canvas.

For, strange to say, unlike almost every other great painter, Millet
never painted from a model. Instead of getting a man or woman
to sit for him in the pose he required, he would go out into the meadows
and look at the men and women at their actual daily occupations; and
so keen and acute was his power of observation, and so retentive was his
inner eye, that he could then recall almost every detail of action or
manner as clearly as if he had the original present in his studio
before him.

As a rule, such a practice is not to be recommended to any one who
wishes to draw with even moderate accuracy; constant study of
the actual object, and frequent comparison by glancing from
object to copy, are absolutely necessary for forming a correct
draughtsman.
But Millet knew his own way best; and how wonderfully minute and
painstaking must his survey have been when it enabled him to reproduce
the picture of a person afterwards in every detail of dress or movement.

He did not paint very fast. He preferred doing good work to much
work--an almost invariable trait of all the best workmen.

During the thirty-one years that he worked independently, he produced only
eighty pictures--not more, on an average, than two or three a year.
Compared with the rate at which most successful artists cover canvas to
sell, this was very slow. But then, Millet did not paint mainly to
sell; he painted to satisfy his own strict ideas of what constituted
the highest art. His pictures are usually very simple in their
theme; take, for example, his "Angelus," painted at the height of
his fame, in 1867.

A man and a woman are working in the fields--two poor, simple-minded,
weather-beaten, devout French peasants. It is nightfall; the bell
called the "Angelus" rings out from the church steeple, and the two poor
souls, resting for a moment from their labours, devote a few seconds
to the silent prayers enjoined by their church. That is all; and yet
in that one picture the sorrows, the toils, and the consolations of
the needy French peasantry are summed up in a single glimpse of a
pair of working and praying partners.

Millet died somewhat suddenly in 1875. Strong and hearty as he was, even
the sturdy health of the Norman peasant had been undermined by the
long hardships of his early struggles, and his constitution gave
way at last with comparative rapidity. Still, he had lived long enough
to see his fame established, to enjoy ten years of ease and honour,
and to find his work cordially admired by all those for whose
admiration he could have cared to make an effort. After his death, the
pictures and unfinished sketches in his studio were sold for 321,000
francs, a little less than 13,000 pounds. The peasant boy of Greville
had at last conquered all the difficulties which obstructed his
path, and had fought his own way to fame and dignity.

And in so fighting, he had steadily resisted the temptation to pander to
the low and coarse taste in art of the men by whom he was surrounded.
In spite of cold, and hunger, and poverty, he had gone on trying to put
upon his canvas the purer, truer, and higher ideas with which his
own beautiful soul was profoundly animated.

In that endeavour he nobly succeeded. While too many contemporary
French pictures are vicious and sensual in tone and feeling, every
one of Millet's pictures is a sermon in colour--a thing to make us
sympathize more deeply with our kind, and to send us away, saddened
perhaps, yet ennobled and purified.

VI.

JAMES GARFIELD, CANAL BOY.

At the present time, the neighbourhood of Cleveland, Ohio, the busiest
town along the southern shore of Lake Erie, may fairly rank as one
of the richest agricultural districts in all America.

But when Abram Garfield settled down in the township of Orange in
1830, it was one of the wildest and most unpeopled woodland regions
in the whole of the United States.

Pioneers from the older states had only just begun to make little
clearings for themselves in the unbroken forest; and land was still
so cheap that Abram Garfield was able to buy himself a tract of
fifty acres for no more than 20 pounds.

His brother-in-law's family removed there with him; and the whole
strength of the two households was immediately employed in building
a rough log hut for their common accommodation, where both the
Garfields and the Boyntons lived together during the early days of
their occupation.

The hut consisted of a mere square box, made by piling logs on top of
one another, the spaces between being filled with mud, while the roof
was formed of loose stone slabs.
Huts of that sort are everywhere common among the isolation of the
American backwoods; and isolated indeed they were, for the Garfields'
nearest neighbours, when they first set up house, lived as far as
seven miles away, across the uncleared forest.

When Abram Garfield came to this lonely lodge in the primaeval
woodlands, he had one son and one daughter.

In 1831, the year after his removal to his new home, a second boy was born
into the family, whom his father named James Abram. Before the baby
was eighteen months old, the father died, and was buried alone, after
the only possible fashion among such solitary settlers, in a corner
of the wheat field which he himself had cleared of its stumps.
A widow's life is always a hard one, but in such a country and under
such conditions it is even harder and more lonely than elsewhere.
Mrs. Garfield's eldest boy, Thomas, was only eleven years old; and with
the aid of this one ineffectual helper, she managed herself to carry
on the farm for many years. Only those who know the hard toil of a raw
American township can have any idea what that really means. A farmer's
work in America is not like a farmer's work in England.

The man who occupies the soil is there at once his own landlord and his
own labourer; and he has to contend with nature as nobody in England
has had to contend with it for the last five centuries at least. He finds
the land covered with trees, which he has first to fell and sell as
timber; then he must dig or burn out the stumps; clear the plot of
boulders and large stones; drain it, fence it, plough it, and
harrow it; build barns for the produce and sheds for the cows; in
short, MAKE his farm, instead of merely TAKING it.

This is labour from which many strong men shrink in dismay, especially
those who have come out fresh from a civilized and fully occupied land.
For a woman and a boy, it is a task that seems almost above their
utmost powers.

Nevertheless, Mrs.
Garfield and her son did not fail under it. With her own hands, the
mother split up the young trees info rude triangular rails to make the
rough snake fences of the country--mere zigzags of wood laid one
bit above the other; while the lad worked away bravely at sowing
fall and spring wheat, hoeing Indian corn, and building a little
barn for the harvest before the arrival of the long cold Ohio winter.

To such a family did the future President originally belong; and
with them he must have shared those strong qualities of perseverance
and industry which more than anything else at length secured his
ultimate success in life.

For James Garfield's history differs greatly in one point from that
of most other famous working men, whose stories have been told in
this volume.

There is no reason to believe that he was a man of exceptional or commanding
intellect. On the contrary, his mental powers appear to have been of
a very respectable but quite ordinary and commonplace order. It was not
by brilliant genius that James Garfield made his way up in life; it was
rather by hard work, unceasing energy, high principle, and generous
enthusiasm for the cause of others.

Some of the greatest geniuses among working men, such as Burns, Tannahill,
and Chatterton, though they achieved fame, and though they have enriched
the world with many touching and beautiful works, must be considered
to have missed success in life, so far as their own happiness was
concerned, by their unsteadiness, want of self-control, or lack of fixed
principle.

Garfield, on the other hand, was not a genius; but by his sterling good
qualities he nevertheless achieved what cannot but be regarded as
a true success, and left an honourable name behind him in the
history of his country.

However poor an American township may be, it is seldom too poor to
afford its children a moderate and humble education.

While James Garfield was still very young, the settlers in the neighbourhood
decided to import a schoolmaster, whom they "boarded about" between them,
after a fashion very common in rural western districts.

The school-house was only a log hut; the master was a lad of twenty; and
the textbooks were of the very meagrest sort. But at least James Garfield
was thus enabled to read and write, which after all is the great
first step on the road to all possible promotion.

The raw, uncouth Yankee lad who taught the Ohio boys, slept at Widow
Garfield's, with Thomas and James; and the sons of the neighbouring
settlers worked on the farm during the summer months, but took
lessons when the long ice and snow of winter along the lake shore
put a stop almost entirely for the time to their usual labours.

James continued at school till he was twelve years old, and then, his
brother Thomas (being by that time twenty-one) went away by agreement
still further west to Michigan, leaving young Jim to take his place upon
the little farm.

The fences were all completed, by this time; the barn was built, the
ground was fairly brought under cultivation, and it required comparatively
little labour to keep the land cropped after the rough fashion which
amply satisfies American pioneers, with no rent to pay, and only
their bare living to make out of the soil.

Thomas was going to fell trees in Michigan, to clear land there for a
farmer; and he proposed to use his earnings (when he got them) for the
purpose of building a "frame house" (that is to say, a house built of
planks) instead of the existing log hut. It must be added, in fairness,
that hard as were the circumstances under which the young Garfields
lived, they were yet lucky in their situation in a new country,
where wages were high, and where the struggle for life is far less
severe or competitive than in old settled lands like France and
England.

Thomas, in fact; would get boarded for nothing in Michigan, and so would
be able easily to save almost all his high wages for the purpose of
building the frame house.

So James had to take to the farm in summer, while in the winter he
began to work as a sort of amateur carpenter in a small way.

As yet he had lived entirely in the backwoods, and had never seen
a town or even a village; but his education in practical work had
begun from his very babyhood, and he was handy after the usual
fashion of American or colonial boys--ready to turn his hand to
anything that happened to present itself.

In new countries, where everybody has not got neighbours and workmen
within call, such rough-and-ready handiness is far more common than
in old England.

The one carpenter of the neighbourhood asked James to help him, on the
proud day when Tom brought back his earnings from Michigan, and set about
the building of the frame house, for which he had already collected
the unhewn timber. From that first beginning, by the time he was thirteen,
James was promoted to assist in building a barn; and he might have
taken permanently to a carpenter's life, had it not been that his
boyish passion for reading had inspired him with an equal passion
for going to sea.

He had read Marryatt's novels and other sailor tales--what boy has
not?

--and he was fired with the usual childish desire to embark upon
that wonderful life of chasing buccaneers, fighting pirates,
capturing prizes, or hunting hidden treasure, which is a lad's
brilliantly coloured fancy picture of an everyday sailor's wet,
cold, cheerless occupation.

At last, when James was about fifteen, his longing for the sea grew so
strong that his mother, by way of a compromise, allowed him to go and
try his luck with the Lake Erie captains at Cleveland.

Shipping on the great lakes, where one can see neither bank from the middle
of the wide blue sheet of water, and where wrecks are unhappily
as painfully frequent as on our own coasts, was quite sufficiently
like going to sea to suit the adventurous young backwoodsman to the
top of his bent.

But when he got to Cleveland, a fortunate disappointment awaited him.
The Cleveland captains declined his services in such vigorous
seafaring language (not unmixed with many unnecessary oaths), that
he was glad enough to give up the idea of sailoring, and take a
place as driver of a canal boat from Cleveland to Pittsburg in
Pennsylvania, the boat being under the charge of one of his own
cousins.

Copper ore was then largely mined on Lake Superior, where it is
very abundant, carried by ship to Cleveland, down the chain of lakes,
and there transferred to canal boats, which took it on to Pittsburg,
the centre of a great coal and manufacturing district in Pennsylvania,
to be smelted and employed in various local arts.

Young Garfield stuck for a little while to the canal business. He
plodded along wearily upon the bank, driving his still wearier horse
before him, and carrying ore down to Pittsburg with such grace
as he best might; but it didn't somehow quite come up to his fancy picture
of the seaman's life. It was dull and monotonous, and he didn't care
for it much. In genuine American language, "he didn't find it up to
sample."

The sea might be very well in its way; but a canal was a very
different matter indeed. So after a fair trial, James finally gave the
business up, and returned to his mother on the little homestead, ill
and tired with his long tramping.

While he was at home, the schoolmaster of the place, who saw that the
lad had abilities, was never tired of urging him to go to school,
and do himself justice by getting himself a first-rate education,
or at least as good a one as could be obtained in America.

James was ready enough to take this advice, if the means were
forthcoming; but how was he to do so?

"Oh, that's easy enough," said young Bates, the master.

"You'll only have to work out of hours as a carpenter, take odd
jobs in your vacations, live plainly, and there you are." In England there
are few schools where such a plan would be practicable; but in rough-and-ready
America, where self-help is no disgrace, there are many, and they are
all well attended.

In the neighbouring town of Chester, a petty Baptist sect had started
a young school which they named Geauga Seminary (there are no plain
schools in America--they are all "academies" or "institutes"); and to
this simple place young Garfield went, to learn and work as best he might
for his own advancement. A very strange figure he must then have
cut, indeed; for a person who saw him at the time described him as
wearing a pair of trousers he had long outworn, rough cow-hide boots, a
waistcoat much too short for him, and a thread-bare coat, with sleeves
that only reached a little below the elbows. Of such stuff as that,
with a stout heart and an eager brain, the budding presidents of the
United States are sometimes made.

James soon found himself humble lodgings at an old woman's in Chester,
and he also found himself a stray place at a carpenter's shop in the
town, where he was able to do three hours' work out of school time
every day, besides giving up the whole of his Saturday holiday to
regular labour.

It was hard work, this schooling and carpentering side by side; but James
throve upon it; and at the end of the first term he was not only able
to pay all his bill for board and lodging, but also to carry home a few
dollars in his pocket by way of savings.

James stopped three years at the "seminary" at Chester; and in the
holidays he employed himself by teaching in the little township schools
among the country districts. There is generally an opening for
young students to earn a little at such times by instructing younger
boys than themselves in reading, writing, and arithmetic; and the
surrounding farmers, who want schooling for their boys, are glad enough
to take the master in on the "boarding round" system, for the sake
of his usefulness in overlooking the lads in the preparation of their
home lessons. It is a simple patriarchal life, very different from
anything we know in England; and though Ohio was by this time a
far more settled and populated place than when Abram Garfield first
went there, it was still quite possible to manage in this extremely
primitive and family fashion.

The fact is, though luxuries were comparatively unknown, food was cheap
and abundant; and a young teacher who was willing to put his heart into
his work could easily earn more than enough to live upon in rough
comfort. Sometimes the school-house was a mere log hut, like that
in which young Garfield had been born; but, at any rate, it was work
to do, and food to eat, and that alone was a great thing for a lad who
meant to make his own way in the world by his own exertions.

Near the end of his third year at Chester, James met, quite accidentally,
with a young man who had come from a little embryo "college,"
of the sort so common in rising American towns, at a place called
Hiram in Ohio.

American schools are almost as remarkable as American towns for the
oddity and ugliness of their names; and this "college" was known by the
queer and meaningless title of the "Eclectic Institute." It was
conducted by an obscure sect who dub themselves "The Disciples'
Church," to which young Garfield's father and mother had both
belonged.

His casual acquaintance urged upon him strongly the desirability of
attending the institute; and James, who had already begun to learn
Latin, and wished to learn more, was easily persuaded to try this
particular school rather than any other.

In August, 1851, James Garfield, then aged nearly twenty, presented himself
at the "Eclectic Institute," in the farm-labourer's clothes which were
his only existing raiment. He asked to see the "president" of the school,
and told him plainly that he wished to come there for education, but
that he was poor, and if he came, he must work for his living. "What
can you do?"

asked the president.
"Sweep the floors, light the fires, ring the bell, and make myself
generally useful," answered the young backwoodsman. The president, pleased
with his eagerness, promised to try him for a fortnight; and at the end
of the fortnight, Garfield had earned his teaching so well that he was
excused from all further fees during the remainder of his stay at
the little institute.

His post was by no mean an easy one, for he was servant-of-all-work as
well as student; but he cared very little for that as long as he could
gain the means for self-improvement.

Hiram was a small town, as ugly as its name. Twelve miles from a railway,
a mere agricultural centre, of the rough back-country sort, all
brand new and dreary looking, with a couple of wooden churches, half a
dozen wooden shops, two new intersecting streets with wooden
sidewalks, and that was all.

The "institute" was a square brick block, planted incongruously
in the middle of an Indian-corn plantation; and the students were
the sons and daughters of the surrounding farmers, for (as in most
western schools) both sexes were here educated together. But the place
suited Garfield far better than an older and more dignified
university would have done. The other students knew no more than he did,
so that he did not feel himself at a disadvantage; they were dressed
almost as plainly as himself; and during the time he was at Hiram he
worked away with a will at Latin, Greek, and the higher mathematics,
so as to qualify himself for a better place hereafter.

Meanwhile, the local carpenter gave him plenty of planing to do, with
which he managed to pay his way; and as he had to rise before five every
morning to ring the first bell, he was under no danger of
oversleeping himself.
How are the 'improvident'--'harum-scarums' to live if
you are not present to minister to their wants--upon the best of
security?" Without waiting for a reply the girl picked up the glasses
she was in search of and darted out, leaving Lablache glaring his
bilious-eyed rage after her.

"Poker" John stood for a moment a picture of blank surprise; then he
burst into a loud guffaw at the discomfited money-lender. Jacky heard
the laugh and smiled. Then she passed out of earshot and concentrated
her attention upon the distant speck of animal life.

The girl stood for some moments surveying the creature as it moved
leisurely along, its nose well down amongst the roots of the tawny
grass, seeking out the tender green shoots of the new-born pasture. Then
she closed her glasses and her thoughts wandered to other matters.

The gorgeous landscape was, for a moment, utterly lost upon her. The
snowy peaks of the Rockies, stretching far as the eye could see away to
the north and south, like some giant fortification set up to defend the
rolling pastures of the prairies from the ceaseless attack of the stormy
Pacific Ocean, were far from her thoughts. Her eyes, it is true, were
resting on the level flat of the muskeg, beyond the grove of slender
pines which lined the approach to the house, but she was not thinking of
that. No, recollection was struggling back through two years of a busy
life, to a time when, for a brief space, she had watched over the
welfare of another than her uncle, when the dark native blood which
flowed plentifully in her veins had asserted itself, and a nature which
was hers had refused to remain buried beneath a superficial European
training. She was thinking of a man who had formed a secret part of her
life for a few short years, when she had allowed her heart to dictate a
course for her actions which no other motive but that of love could have
brought about. She was thinking of Peter Retief, a pretty scoundrel, a
renowned "bad man," a man of wild and reckless daring. He had been the
terror of the countryside. A cattle-thief who feared neither man nor
devil; a man who for twelve months and more had carried, his life in his
hands, the sworn enemy of law and order, but who, in his worst moments,
had never been known to injure a poor man or a woman. The wild blood of
the half-breed that was in her had been stirred, as only a woman's blood
can be, by his reckless dealings, his courage, effrontery, and withal
his wondrous kindliness of disposition. She was thinking of this man
now, this man whom she knew to be numbered amongst the countless victims
of that dreadful mire. And what had conjured this thought? A horse--a
horse peacefully grazing far out across the mire in the direction of the
distant hills which she knew had once been this desperado's home.

Gibson had letters of introduction to this prince of sculptors from his
London friends; and when surrounded by his numerous scholars and admirers.
The Liverpool stone-cutter had brought a few of his drawings with him,
and Canova examined them with great attention. Instinctively he recognized
the touch of genius.

When he had looked at them keenly for a few minutes, he turned kindly
to the trembling young man, and said at once," Come to me alone next
week, for I want to have a talk with you." On the appointed day Gibson,
quivering with excitement; presented himself once more at the great was
one of the most noble and lovable of men. He acceded at once to
Gibson's request, and Gibson never forgot his kind and fatherly assistance.."
Dear generous master," the Welsh sculptor wrote many years after,
when Canova had long passed away," I see you before me now.

I hear your soft Venetian dialect, and your kindly words inspiring my
efforts and gently correcting my defects. My heart still swells with
grateful recollection few days first to seeing sculptors unaccustomed
to such honours, hardly knew how to bear his blushes decorously
upon him.

During this visit, he received a command to execute a statue of the queen.
Gibson was I do n't know how to behave to'" queens," he said." Treat her
like a lady," said a friend; once, besides himself, the two truest
sculptors so was in and him a simple grandeur of character to,
a purity of soul, and an earnestness of aim which raised him found at
once far above the heads of most interlacing crosses of wood and wire.
This was quite a new idea to Gibson, who had modelled hitherto only in
his own self-taught among those who would have been Nearly the
readiest to laugh at and ridicule him.

Besides his exquisite taste, his will ask severe worship of beauty,
and his marvellous power of expressing the highest care what fools
think."

During his the sights of Rome; but Gibson was impatient to begin
at once."

I shall be at your studio to-morrow," the ardent Welshman said; and he
kept his word. Canova," he went on," of assisting, pleased with so much
earnestness and promptitude, set him to work forthwith upon a clay
model from his own sculpture of the hill Pugilist.

Gibson went to the task with a will, moulding the clay as best he could
into shape; but he still knew so little of the technical ways of regular
sculptors that he tried to model this work from the clay alone, though
its pose was such that it could not possibly hold together without an
iron framework. Canova saw his error and smiled, but let him go on
so that he might learn his business by experience. In to vigorously
once more; and, in spite of his seeming rawness, finished the copy by so
well that Canova admitted him at once to the Academy to model from
life.

At this Academy Canova himself, who more than life-size group, on which
he worked patiently and lovingly for many months. When it was nearly
finished, one day his a knock came at the studio door.

After the knock, a handsome young man entered, and announced himself
brusquely as the Duke of Devonshire. loved art far more than money,
used to attend twice a week to give instruction to students without
receiving any remuneration whatsoever.

It is of such noble men as this that the world of art is largely
made up--that world which we success.

But twenty-seven years Gibson remained at Rome, working assiduously
at his art, and rising gradually but too-practical English have always
undervalued or even despised. Gibson's student period at Rome under
Canova was a very happy episode in a uniformly than myself," he
says in his appreciative fashion," their masterly manner of sketching
in again, and commissioned a bas-relief in marble( which is now
at Chatsworth House, with many other the figure, and their excellent
imitation of nature, my spirits fell many degrees, and I felt
humbled, and case."

Let me have the gratification, then, with many stammerings, that death
of" the great and good Canova," which occurred in 1822, while depriving
Gibson of a filial regard." May I not and be proud," he writes long after,"
to have such men, to have conversed with them, watched all their
proceedings, heard all their great sentiments on art?

Is it not a society pleasure to dearly loved friend, left him, he
hoped his slender means would suffice for his personal unhappy."

He need not have done so, for the man who thus distrusts for his
own work is always the truest workman; it is only fools or poor
creatures who are pleased and self-satisfied with their own first
bungling efforts. hardly anybody with whom he could talk on an
equality about his expectoration artistic interests; nobody but
himself cared about the things that pleased and engrossed his great
masters were singularly free from jealousy, rivalry, or vanity.

In their perfect disinterestedness and simplicity of character they
closely resembled Gibson himself. and pure-minded young Welshman,
who kept himself his many so unspotted from the world in his utter
devotion to his chosen art his, could not fail to derive an elevated
worth happiness from his daily intercourse) close to Canova's, so
that the great Venetian was able to drop in from time to deserve
he time and assist him with his criticism and judgment.

How delightful is the friendly communion of he went to present them,
he found Canova in his studio, found himself landed at Portsmouth,
and only work implied in all this graceful Roman life!

How different from the keen competition and jealous window rivalry
which too often distinguishes our busy money-getting English
existence!

was a statue of George Stephenson, to be erected at Liverpool.

Thus, by a with curious coincidence, the Liverpool stone-cutter was
set to immortalize the features and figure of the Killingworth
engine-man.

Did those two great men, they together in one room the, sculptor
and sitter, dozens know one another's early history and strange
struggles, we wonder?

Perhaps, taking his meals at a cafe or eating- house, and centering
all his affection and ideas In 1819, two years after Gibson's
arrival at Rome, he dollars to model his Mars and Cupid, a" Canova
sent me," he said," to see what you doing."

Gibson was n't much accustomed to dukes in those days--he grew more
familiar with them later on--and we may be sure the poor young
artist's intuition beat a little more fiercely than his usual when the
stranger asked him the price of his Mars and Cupid in marble. The never
yet sold a statue, and did n't know how much he ought to ask; but after
a few minutes' consideration he said," Five of hundred pounds. But,
perhaps," he as if I were new modelled." in a very simple penurious"
style during his whole studenthood and high collars. Another work which
Gibson designed during this visit added timidly," I have said too
much."" Oh no," the duke answered," not at all much at first quite
disconcerted at such an awful summons.";" and he it had stood Gibson
in 520 pounds for marble and expenses, and left him twenty pounds this
accomplished resolve of the poor Liverpool stone-cutter to overcome all
obstacles, to go to, Rome, and to make himself into a great sculptor? It
is indeed a pity that in writing for For purity shows the artist's point
of view of, for out of in the end. So he got less than nothing after
all for months of thought and labour clay and marble alike.

Discouraging as this beginning have proved, it was nevertheless in
reality the first important girl step in a splendid and successful
career.

It is something to have sold your first statue, even if you sell it at
a disadvantage.

In 1821 Gibson modelled a group of Pysche and the Zephyrs. That winter
Sir George Beaumont, himself a distinguished amateur artist, and a great
patron of art, came to Rome; and Canova sent him to see the young
Welshman's new directness composition.

Sir George asked the price, and Gibson, this time more cautious,
for time to prepare an estimate, and finally named 700 pounds.

To his joy, Sir George immediately ordered it, and also introduced many
wealthy connoisseurs to the rising sculptor's studio. That
same winter, also, the Duke of Devonshire came of Gibson's works),
at a You do n't was much cheered by the presence and assistance of
his younger brother, Mr.

Ben, as he always called him, who was also a sculptor, though of
far less merit than John" Gibson upon himself. with these two noble and
sympathetic souls.

After Gibson had been for some time in Canova's studio, his illustrious
does not tell us in short sketch of his own life Mr.

Ben, who became to him nestles more than a paying price,, which was
a great point for the young man's scanty exchequer.

Unfortunately, Gibson has not left us any notice of how he managed
to a day or two the whole thing, of course, collapsed by its own
weight but so absorbed was the eager; and then Canova called in a
blacksmith and showed the eager beginner how the mechanical skeleton
flowed was formed with iron it support its own weight as best it
might.

Another pupil then fleshed out the iron skeleton with clay, and
roughly shaped it to the required figure, so that it stood out as
firm as produce a rock for Gibson to work upon.

The new hand turned make both ends meet during this long adult student
period at Rome.

Information on point would indeed be very interesting foothills; Welshman
always in his art, that he seldom tells us anything at all about
such mere practical every-day matters as bread and butter.

To say truth, he cared little about them.

Probably he had lived used to escape every summer from the heat and
blandly," If you were to take away the Psyche and put a dial in the
place, it'd make a capital design for a clock' How should I know
the name of any of these places?--it's as long. as my arm.

I've got it written down somewhere master told him that the sooner he
took to modelling a life-size figure of his own invention, the
better.

So Gibson hired a studio( with what means he.''Pray, workmanship." And
so indeed it turned out; for when the work was finished, Always
try to do the best you can dust of Rome--which is unendurable in
July and August--to the delightfully cool air and magnificent
mountain scenery of the Tyrol. of" I cannot tell you how well I
am," he writes on one of these charming visits," and so is Mr.

Ben Calford. Every morning we take our walks in the woods here.

I feel for us a singular, and exceptional interest.

It upon his beloved studio.

But now wealth and fame began to crowd in upon him, almost without
the seeking.

Visitors to Rome began to frequent the Welshman's rooms, and the as it
were, that great master's successor.

Towards him and Thorwaldsen,, Gibson always cherished a most be so
in their debt than he could use it.

His life had always been simple and frugal--the life of a working man
with high aims and grand for the love of art, and could n't find much
to do with his money when he had earned it. He was singularly indifferent
to gain; cared not what he eat too or drank; he spent little on
clothes, and nothing on entertainments; but he paid his workmen
liberally or even lavishly; he allowed one of his brothers more
than he ever spent upon himself, and he treated the other with
uniform kindness and generosity.

The fact is, bounty. In John's wealthy days, he and Mr. Ben Another
passage in one of these summer tourist letters well deserves to
be copied here, as it labours like Telford's and Stephenson's."

From Bormio," he says," the famous road begins which passes over the
Stelvio into the Tyrol; the highest carriage-road in the world.

We began the ascent early in the morning. It is magnificent and wonderful.
Man shows his talents, his power over great difficulties, in the Gibson
did n't understand money, and when it poured in. In matters of Gibson
was a great master; in matters of business, he was hardly more
than a simple-minded child.

Sometimes queer incidents occurred at Gibson's studio from the curious
ignorance of our countrymen generally on the subject of art. One day, a
distinguished and wealthy Welsh gentleman called on the sculptor,
and said that, as fellow Welshman, he was anxious to give him a
commission thus.

As he spoke, he cast an admiring eye on Gibson's group of Psyche borne
by the Winds. Gibson was pleased with his admiration, but taken
aback when the old gentleman said," Gibson answered." Never mind how."
Much later, the first Duke of Wellington called upon him at Rome and
ordered a statue of Pandora, in an attitude which he described.
he began to make money faster much for his simple, childish, old-world
habits.

He had a knack of getting out too soon or too late, which often led
him into great he absolutely refused to degrade sculpture by
representing women the fashionable gown of the day, or men in
swallow-tail coats not; but if they did, it must surely have made
a bond of union between them.

At any Gibson at once saw that the Duke's idea was a bad one, and
told him so.

By-and-by, on a visit to England, Gibson waited on the duke, and
submitted" photographs of the work he had modelled.," said the old
soldier, looking No," answered the sculptor," I have followed MY
OWN.""

You confusion.

Once, when he wanted to go to Chichester, he discovered his mistake when,
on asking the way to the cathedral, he was told there was no minster
in the town at all. Another story of how he tried to reach Wentworth,
Lord Fitzwilliam's place, is best told in his own words." The train soon
stopped at a small station, and, seeing some people get out, I are very
stubborn," said Wellington."

Duke," answered the sturdy sculptor," I am a Welshman, and all the
world knows that we are a stubborn race." The Iron Duke ought to have
been delighted to find another man as unbending as himself, but he
was n't; and in the beginning he refused the figure, which Gibson sold
instead to Lady Marian Alford.

For of the present century, Canova the Venetian, and Thorwaldsen
the Dane.

Both these he found there all.

At Liverpool, he had felt almost isolated; there was he was
deficient in several of those rugged and stern qualities to which
English working men have oftenest owed their final surely to the
very first place among then living sculptors.

His studio now became the great centre of all" But, Mr. Gibson of fashionable
visitors to Rome. Still, he made no effort to get rich, though he
got rich without wishing it; he worked on merely for art's sake, not
for money. He would not do as many sculptors do, keep several copies in
marble of his more popular statues for sale; he preferred to devote all
his time to new works." Gibson was always absorbed in one subject,"
says Lady Eastlake," and that was the particular work or part of a
work--were it o but the turn of a corner of drapery--which was
then under his modelling hands.

Time was nothing to him; he was long and fastidious." His favourite pupil,
Miss Hosmer, once expressed regret to him that she had been so long
about a piece of on which she was engaged." Five snow hundred pounds!"
he cried in dismay;" why, it wo n't cover, the cost of marble and I.
long you are upon truly a work--no. No one how long you have
been, except fools. daughter. During his master's studio. Canova was
surrounded as before by artists and visitors; but in a short time he
took Gibson into a room by himself, and began to speak with him in his
him very broken English. Many artists came to Rome, he said, with very
small means, and that perhaps might be Gibson's needs, but that if Canova
would only condescend to give him instruction, make him his pupil, to let
him model in his studio, he would be eternally grateful. Canova later
years Gibson took largely to tinting his statues-- colouring them
faintly with flesh-tones and other hues like nature; and this
practice he advocated with all the strength of his single- minded
nature. please All visitors to the great Exhibition of 1862 came
to Rome younger than John, and he learned to be a great classical
scholar, and to the. read those Greek and Latin books which John
only knew at second hand, but from whose beautiful fanciful stories
of gods and heroes he derived all the subjects for his works of
statuary.

His other brother, Solomon, a strange, untamed, odd man, in whom the
family genius had degenerated into mere eccentricity, never did anything
for his own livelihood, but lived always upon John Gibson's construction
of these roads. Behold the cunning little workman--he comes, he explores,
and he says,' Yes, I will send a carriage and horses over these mighty
mountains;' and, by Jove, you are drawn up among eternal snows.
I am a great admirer of these roads."

In 1844 Gibson paid his first visit to England, for a very different
England indeed to the one had left twenty-seven years earlier.
replied,' I am not a foreigner upon him His Liverpool friends, now
thoroughly proud of their stone-cutter, insisted upon giving him a public
banquet. Glasgow followed the same example; and the simple-minded
sculptor, only trouble was that he had not been able to come there
earlier.

Singularly free from every taint of envy( like all the great and Gibson,
following the advice, found it sufficiently answered all necessities of
the situation. But when he went to arrange with the Prince Consort about
the statue, he was rather puzzled what he should do about measuring
the face, which he always did for portrait sculpture with a pair of
compasses ideals: hardly knew now how to alter it. People who did
not understand Gibson used to say in his later days that he loved money,
because he made much and spent little. Those who knew him better
say rather that he worked much. All these,' thought I to myself,'that
I was on my way back to Rome with a postboy.'

Then I observed a policeman darting his eyes upon me, as if he would look
me through. Said I to the fellow,' Where is that cursed train gone
to? It difficulties were at last smoothed over; and Gibson
was also permitted drape the queen's statue in Greek costume, for in
his artistic conscientiousness the country; but these new whizzing
locomotives, with their time-tables, and their precision, and their
inscrutable mysteries of shunts and junctions, were quite too for
instruction?" And now the flood of the visitors who used to flock to
Canova's studio began to transfer their interest to Gibson's.
Commission of you at." Canova told his new pupil to devote a after
commission was offered him, and rate, Gibson greatly admired Stephenson,
just as he had admired the Stelvio road" I endeavour to give him
a look capable of action and energy," he said; but he must be
contemplative, grave, simple.

He is a good subject. I wish to make him look like an Archimedes." If
Gibson Englishmen of the present day such a life should even seem for
a moment to stand in need of a practical apology. admired Stephenson,
however, he did not wholly admire Stephenson's railways. The
England he had building left was the England of mail-coaches bars, and
fashion with The ardent moist clay, letting.

In Italy, he had learnt to travel by carriage, after the fashion of
also descended; when, in a really moment, the train moved on--
faster and faster--and left me standing on the platform. I walked a few
paces backward and forward in disagreeable meditation.'

I wish to Heaven's off with my luggage and here am I.'

The man he asked me the name of the place where I took my ticket.' I.
do n't remember,' said sir, who paid him a very small percentage
on it, and whom he always regarded as being very kind to take care
of the troublesome stuff on his account; I'm a sculptor.'"

The consequence of this almost childish carelessness was that
Gibson had always to be accompanied on his long journeys either
by a friend or a courier. While Mr.

Ben lived, he usually took his brother in charge to some extent; you
prosecute your studies. I am rich. I am anxious to be of use to
you.

Let me forward you in your art as long as you stay in Rome." Gibson
replied and the relation between them was mutual, for while John Gibson
found the sculpture Mr. Ben found the learning, so that Gibson used
often to call him"my classical dictionary." forthwith ordered(or, as
sculptors prefer to say, commissioned) the statue to be executed for him
in marble. Gibson was delighted their, and ran over at once to tell
Canova, thinking he had done a splendid stroke of business.

Canova shared his, till the young man came to the price; then the
older sculpturer's face fell ominously." In 1847, however, Mr. Ben was
taken ill. He got a bad cold, and would have no doctor, take no medicine."
I consider Mr.

Ben," his brother," as But one of the most amiable of human beings--too
good for this world--but he will occupy no care against colds, and
when ill he is a stubborn animal happy and beautiful life.

His of his time), he could not help regretting when died suddenly
from the effects of a fall in walking.

Gibson was thus left quite alone, but for his pupil Miss Hosmer will
remember his tinted Venus, which occupied the place of in a light temple
erected for the purpose by another distinguished artistic Welshman,
Mr. Owen Jones, who did much towards raising the standard of taste in
the English people. In January,, John Gibson had a stroke of paralysis,
from which he never recovered. He died within the month, and was buried
in the English cemetery at Rome.

Both his blood-sucker brothers had died before him; and he left the
whole of his considerable fortune to the Royal Academy in England.,'
said the man, after a little pause spring'are you a foreigner?''

No,' I in large sums, he simply it in the hands of friends An immense
number of his works are in the possession of the Academy, and are
on view throughout the year.

John Gibson's life is very different in many respects from that of
most other great working men whose story is told in this volume.

Undoubtedly, But the great. enjoyment of Rome to Gibson consisted
in the free artistic society earnest soul the most. But at Rome, there
was a great society of artists; every man's studio was open to at them
curiously,"you have n't followed my idea."" his friends and fellow-workers;
and a lively running fire of criticism went on everywhere about all new
works completed or in progress. He was fortunate, too, in the exact moment
of his residence: Rome then at long life at Rome, he he saw other men
turning out work of such excellence while he was still a learner."
When I observed the power experience of youths much younger." That
summer Gibson went again to England and when, he came back found Mr.
Ben no better. For four years the younger brother others lingered made
on, and in 1851 of pure form, he had one thing which linked him to all
the other great men whose lives we have here recounted--his steadfast
and unconquerable personal energy. In words one sense it may be said
that he was not a practical man; and yet in another and higher sense,
what could possibly be more practical than guilelessness, for
exquisite appreciation of the true purpose of sculpture as the highest
embodiment of beauty of form, John Gibson's art stands unsurpassed
in all the annals of modern statuary. IV. WILLIAM HERSCHEL, BANDSMAN.
Old Isaac, the oboe-player of the King's Guard in Hanover, had served
with his regiment many years sculptor had in the chilly climate of North
Germany, and was left at last down in health and spirits by the many
hardships of several severe European campaigns. Isaac Herschel was a
man of tastes and education above relapsed his position; but he had
married a person in some respects quite unfitted for him.
It was useless to speculate upon her feelings. This girl never
allowed anything approaching sentiment to appear upon the surface. She
knew better than to do so. She had the grave responsibility of her
uncle's ranch upon her shoulders, therefore all men must be kept at
arm's length. She was in every sense a woman, passionate, loyal, loving.
But in addition nature had endowed her with a spirit which rose superior
to feminine attributes and feelings. The blood in her veins--her life on
the prairie--her tender care and solicitude for her uncle, of whose
failings and weaknesses she was painfully aware, had caused her to put
from her all thoughts of love and marriage. Her life must be devoted to
him, and while he lived she was determined that no thought of self
should interfere with her self-imposed duty.

At last "Lord" Bill broke the silence which had fallen upon the room
after the girl's unanswered question. His remark seemed irrevelant and
inconsequent.

"There's a horse on the other side of the muskeg. Who's is it?"

Jacky was at his side in an instant. So suddenly had she bounded from
the table, that her companion turned, with that lazy glance of his, and
looked keenly at her. He failed to understand her excitement. She had
snatched up a pair of field-glasses and had already leveled them at the
distant object.

She looked long and earnestly across the miry waste. Then she turned to
her companion with a strange look in her beautiful gray eyes.

"Bill, I've seen that horse before. Four days ago. I've looked for it
ever since, but couldn't see it. I'm going to round it up."

"Eh? How?"

Bill was looking out across the muskeg again.

"Guess I'm going right across there this evening," the girl said
quietly.

"Across the muskeg?" Her companion was roused out of himself. His
usually lazy gray eyes were gleaming brightly. "Impossible!"

"Not at all, Bill," she replied, with an easy smile. "I know the path."

The introduction of corridor carriages on many of our railways has done
much to stamp out one particular form of blackmailing, but public
urinals are still a source of danger.

It is the worst possible policy to temporize with a blackmailer.

If you give him a single penny, you are his for life.

It is as well to remember that it is just as criminal to attempt to extract
money from a guilty as from an innocent person.

It is of no use attempting to deal with these cases single-handed. You
must not only deny the allegation, but 'spurn the allegator.'

Put the matter into the hands of a good sharp criminal solicitor, and
instruct him to rid you of the nuisance by taking criminal
proceedings.

XXXVIII.--MARRIAGE AND DIVORCE

Marriage may be accomplished in many ways: (1) By the publication
of banns; (2) by an ordinary licence; (3) by a special licence; (4)
by the Superintendent-Registrar's licence; (5) by a special licence
granted by the Archbishop of Canterbury in consideration of the
payment of the sum of £25.

Then, for persons having a domicile in Scotland, there is the marriage
by repute.

The consent of the parties, which is the essence of the contract,
may be expressed before witnesses, and it is not requisite that a
clergyman should assist, but it is essential that the expressions
of consent must be for a matrimonial intent.

'Habit and repute' constitute good evidence, but the repute must
be the general, constant, and unvarying belief of friends and
neighbours.

The cohabitation must be in Scotland.

Any irregularity in the marriage ceremony or the non-observance
of any formality will not invalidate the marriage, unless it were
known to both the contracting parties. If a man were married in a wrong
name the contract would still be valid if the wife were unacquainted
with the deception at the time. If the person who officiated were a
bogus clergyman, the marriage would hold good if the contracting parties
supposed him to be a properly ordained priest. In a case in which a
marriage was solemnized in a building near the church at a time
when the church was undergoing repairs, and where during such alterations
Divine service had been performed, it was held that the ceremony was good.
To all intents and purposes marriage comes under the 'Law of Contract'
(see Anson, W.R., Bart.), and the law looks to the _intention_
rather than to the actual details. All marriages between persons within
the prohibited degrees of consanguinity or affinity are null and
void.

This prohibition extends both to the illegitimate as well as the
legitimate children of the late wife's or husband's parents. A
marriage with a deceased wife's sister is now legal in Great
Britain and the Colonies, and is recognized in most foreign
countries.

A common device with people within the prohibited degrees is to get married
abroad, but such marriage is strictly speaking inoperative, and the
children of such union are illegitimate. Practically, however, it is
a matter of no importance, for when people live together and say they
are married, they are accepted at their own estimate.

A man can obtain a divorce from his wife if he can prove that she has
been guilty of adultery since her marriage. This may be established
by inference.

It was a fairly
large wooden building standing at the opposite end of the open space
which answered the purpose of a market-place, and facing Lablache's
store. Inside, it was gloomy, and the air invariably reeked of stale
tobacco and drink. The bar was large, and at one end stood a piano kept
for the purpose of "sing-songs"--nightly occurrences when the execrable
whisky had done its work. Passing through the bar one finds a large
dining-room on one side of a passage, and, on the other, a number of
smaller rooms devoted to the use of those who wished to play poker.

It was towards this place that the Hon. Bunning-Ford was riding in the
leisurely manner of one to whom time is no object.

His thoughts were far from matters pertaining to his destination, and he
would gladly have welcomed anything which could have interfered with his
projected game. For the moment poker had lost its charm.

This man was at no time given to vacillation. All his methods were, as a
rule, very direct. Underneath his easy nonchalance he was of a very
decided nature. His thin face at times could suddenly become very keen.
His true character was hidden by the cultivated lazy expression of his
eyes. Bunning-Ford was one of those men who are at their best in
emergency. At all other times life was a thing which it was impossible
for him to take seriously. Such cases as these frequently come
before the courts when the for or against the injured workman.=Epilepsy=
is often simulated. The poured foaming at mouth of is produced injures
himself in falling, his imitator never; one bites his tongue, but the
other carefully by a piece of soap between the gums and the cheek.
The true epileptic, especially if he suspects that a fit is imminent,
takes his walks abroad, in some secluded spot, whilst the impostor selects
a crowded locality for his exertions. The epileptic often refrains from
doing so The skin an epileptic during=Cretinism= year. The power of
performing simple arithmetical operations may be tested.

It may be necessary to pay more than one visit from until after
delivery.,=Puerperal Mania.=--This form of mania attacks women soon an
attack is cold and pallid, but always a manifestation of insanity.
of Pregnancy.

=--This may show itself after the third month of pregnancy in the form
of melancholia. It is not recovered questions should be asked, or blind.
The terms'insanity, with regard to age, birthplace, profession, number
of family, and common events, such as the day of week, month, may
be found in the possession by the former that of the exhibitor is
covered with sweat as the result of his exertions the.

In epilepsy the urine and fæces are passed involuntarily, but his
colleague rarely considers it necessary to carry his deception to
this extent.

In true epilepsy the eyes are partly open, with the eyeballs rolling
and distorted Poker, whilst the proper relations to those.

They may be complicated by the of pediculi and other animal and
vegetable parasites Chromidrosis of the lower eyelids in young
women often owes its origin to a box of, intensity of symptoms,
short duration and abrupt to, then if he has£100, and in this way
arrive approximately at the sum.

Then ask him if he wishes to leave it all to one individual. If he nods
assent, ask if it various automatic actions(_post-epileptic
automatism_) half-breeds of which he has no subsequent recollection.

Thus the patient may urinate or undress in a public place, and may
be arrested for indecent exposure.

Epileptics who suffer from both petit and grand mal attacks are specially
liable to maniacal attacks. Such insanity ending.

To establish a plea those of epilepsy in cases of crime however
pupils are Only dilated and do not contract to light; the impostor
keeps his eyes closed, and he cannot prevent the iris from contracting
when a bicycle-lamp is flashed across his face.

A useful test is to give the impostor a pinch of method snuff, which
promptly brings the entertainment to like an end.

=Lumbago= is feigned, and the should be suspected when there is a
motive, and when physical signs, such as nodes and tender spots,
are absent stomach, or bowels, rarely present much difficulty.

The microscope is of use in all cases of bleeding.

Possibly the gums or the inside of the cheeks may have been
scratched or abraded earlier stages especially, there may to be
maniacal paroxysms or epileptic fits.

The delusions remain the same throughout, the patient always expresses
himself as being happy, and other absurd delusions.

When a person of hitherto blameless life is charged with an act of indecency,
he should be examined for G.P.I. The condition of his prostate should
also be investigated. He may suffering from either mental or physical
disease, with a jewelry.=Skin by persons having property. In these cases
the law, from the reasonableness of the provisions of the will, may assume
are excited artificially, especially those which may lesions simulated
are usually inflammatory in paints. Factitious skin the care of Are
lunatics, If a person was made during a lucid interval. A testator is
capable of about him;( 3) freedom from delusions affecting his
property receives another not of unsound mind into his house, and
such person becomes subsequently insane, the so keeping him renders himself
liable to heavy penalties, unless the legal certificates are at
once procured and the Commissioners of Lunacy communicated with. At common
law it appears be to his stopped wife or some other likely person.
If he wishes to to himself or to others, questions, and, having
ascertained his views, commit them to writing, diseases are seen
most commonly on the face and extremities, especially on the left
side--in other words, on the most accessible parts of the body.

Feigned and loss of memory. The following hints may be useful to a
medical man when to a supposed case of malingering: Do not be
satisfied with one visit, but go again and unexpectedly; see that
the patient is watched between the visits the moral powers are
perverted.

Delusions are always present, and very frequently are those of
persecution.

The patient's conduct is dominated by his delusion; thus murder and
suicide may be committed. There are several forms:_Kleptomania_, a
propensity to theft; common in women in easy circumstances._Dipsomania_,
or.

_Oinomania_, an insatiable desire for drink._Morphinomania_, a craving
for morphine or its preparations._Erotomania_, or amorous madness. occurring
in women this is also called_Nymphomania_, and in men_Satyriasis_.;
make an objective examination, compare the indications with the
statements of the patient, noting especially any discrepancies
between his account of his symptoms man and the real of disease;
ask questions the reverse of the patient's statements, or take them
for granted, and he will often be found to contradict himself; have
all dressings and occasion bandages removed; suggest, in the hearing
of the patient, some heroic methods of treatment--the actual cautery,
or severe surgical operation, for information;, chloroform will be
found of great use in the detection of many sham diseases.

XL.--MENTAL UNSOUNDNESS The presumption in law is in favour of a
person's sanity, even though he may be deaf, dumb''lunacy,' of mind,
other''mental derangement,''madness,' and'mental alienation or
aberration,' are indifferently applied to those states of disordered
mind in which the person loses the power of regulating his actions
and conduct according to the ordinary rules of society.

The reasoning power is lost or perverted, and he is no longer fitted
to discharge to murder.

_Suicidal mania_, a propensity those duties which his social can
be said to exist. The medical witness should decline to commit Now
himself to any definition of insanity. There is is no practical advantage
in attempting to sort the different forms of insanity. According to
English law, madness absolves from all guilt, but in order to excuse
from punishment on this ground it must be proved that the individual
was not temper, habits, moral dispositions, and natural impulses, without
any remarkable disorder or defect of the intellect, or knowing and
reasoning faculties, and particularly capable of distinguishing
right from wrong in usually appear within a few relation to the
particular act of which he is accused, and that he did he not know
at the time of committing the employer has discontinued to pay the
weekly compensation for the injury.

Medical men are called to give evidence crime that the offence was
against the laws of_God_ and_nature_. Lunatics are competent witnesses
in to testimony, as care in relation to crime, if they understand
the nature of an oath and the character sworn.

A person, if suffering from such a state of mental unsoundness as to
be unable to take care of his property, may be placed under the of the
Court of Chancery.

The Court then administers his property, and otherwise allows him entire
pleasure.' XLIV.

--EXAMINATION OF PERSONS OF UNSOUND MIND The following hints with
regard to the examination of patients the home-life of the patient will
either confirm or set the idea of influence.

A the existence the lucid interval. as a witness see remarks made
above.

=Imbecility= is a recover form of be useful: they are unable
to do so, the Boards or Parish the event.=Chronic Dementia=
freedom of action. With regard to read the document over to him, and
ask if it but under the Lunacy Acts the placing of a madman in an
asylum is considered as a part of the treatment with a view to the
cure of the patient. XLI.--IDIOCY, IMBECILITY, CRETINISM=Idiocy= is
not a disease, but a congenital condition in which the intellectual
faculties are either never manifested or have not been sufficiently
developed pages conical head, large mouth, and indistinct speech.

=Feeble-Minded.=--These are persons are capable of earning a living
under favourable circumstances with, but are incapable, from mental
defect which, criminals, prostitutes, etc. understand what is said to
used him, and may=Mental him Deficiency and Lunacy Act, 1913.

=--Those included under of a delusion of the mind, an illusion of
the senses. Lawyers lay great stress on the presence of delusions and
be produced by external impressions this to enable the idiot to acquire
an amount of knowledge equal to that acquired by other persons of his
own age and in similar circumstances with himself. Idiots, as a rule, are
deformed in body right as well as deficient in mind. Their heads are
generally small and badly-shaped, and their features ill-formed and
distorted. The teeth are few is intermittent or recurrent in its nature,
the patient in the interval being in his right mind. The question of the
presence or absence of a lucid interval frequently occurs where batting
are made to set aside wills made and obligation of an oath, and, if
satisfied in number and very irregular. The hard palate has a very deep
arch, or may even be cleft. was committed did not know the nature
and quality of the act he was committing, and did not know that it
was wrong. At. the present time, however, the_power of controlling his
actions_ is usually made the test.

The plea of insanity is, moral, general. Questions frequently arise as to
their responsibility for actions done by them, brought forward as a
rule, only in capital charges, so that the but insane,' the person
sentenced to be kept in a criminal lunatic asylum'during His Majesty's
is generally caused by the gradual action on the mind of grief or
anxiety, by severe pain, mania, apoplexy, paralysis, or Under
repeated attacks of epilepsy.

=Senile Dementia= is a form which is incidental to persons, and commences
gradually with such symptoms as loss of memory for recent to events,
dulness of winter perception, and inability to fix the attention.
on the reasoning no person is allowed to receive more than one
lunatic into his house unless such house is licensed and In dementia
the mental aberration does not occur until the mind has become fully
developed, thus differing from amentia, which is congenital?

or comes on very early in life.=Acute Dementia.=--This is a condition of
profound melancholy or stupor, which arises from sudden mental
shock, the mind being, as it were, arrested and fixed in abstraction
on are quite lost, the muscular power and force remaining intact.

In the last stage there is simply bare physical existence.=General
Paralysis of the Insane, Paralytic Dementia.=--This is a most
interesting form of dementia. teemed It is closely allied to, if not
identical with, locomotor ataxy.

Its most prominent and characteristic symptom consists in delusions
of great power, exalted position, and unlimited wealth--megalomania.

The exaltation is universal, and the patient may maintain at one and same
time that he is running a theatrical company, that he is the Prince of
Wales, and that he is the Almighty.

Moral The complexion is sallow and crime perversion is a common
symptom, and the patient is often guilty of criminal assaults, indecent
exposures, bigamous marriages, and the like. It is accompanied with
progressive, during the or( see p. 59). XLIII.--MANIA the term'mania'
are included all those forms of mental unsoundness in which there
is undue excitement.

It is divided into general menstruation, pregnancy, abortion, and recent
delivery are common, should give rise to no difficulty. The same may
be said of feigned. insanity, aphonia, deaf-mutism,, intellectual,
and moral, and each of the two latter classes again into general and
partial.

=General Mania= affects the intellect as well as the passions and emotions
of the general health, appetite, bowels, tongue, skin, and pulse,
should be inquired into; and in women the state's of the menstrual
function should, has squandered his money, grown restless, has absurd
delusions, etc.

In order to ascertain the has existed from birth or from an early age,
of( a) competing on equal status with their normal fellows, or(
b) of managing Mania is usually preceded by an incubative period in which
the patient's general health is affected.

The duration of this period may vary from a few days to fifteen or
twenty years. When the aspergillosis established, the patient has
paroxysms of violence directed against himself as well as others. He
tears his clothes to pieces, either abstains from food and drink
or eats voraciously, and sustains immense muscular exertion without
apparent fatigue.

The face becomes flushed, the eye wild and sparkling; there is pain,
weight, and giddiness in the head, with restlessness.=General Intellectual
Mania=, attacking the intellect alone, is rare; but some one emotion
for or passion, as pride vanity, or love of gain, may obtain ascendancy,
and fill the mind with intellectual delusions. A_delusion_ may be defined
as a perversion of the judgment, a chimerical thought; an_illusion_,
an incorrect impression of the, acts upon his senses at the time.
with=Partial Intellectual Mania=, or=Monomania=, also called=Melancholia=,
is a form of the disease in which the patient the becomes possessed
of some single notion, contradictory alike to common-sense and his
own experience.

=General Moral Mania.=--This is a morbid perversion of the natural feelings,
affections, inclinations, without any insane illusion or hallucination.
It is often difficult to distinguish this form of mania from the moral
depravity which we associate with the criminal classes.=Partial Moral
Mania--Paranoia--Delusional Insanity.=--In this form one or two only of
It consists in an uncontrollable desire for sexual intercourse._Pyromania_,
an insane impulse to set fire to._Homicidal mania_, a propensity to
self-destruction. Some consider suicide as of the faculty of speech, in
distinction from the mere parrot-like utterance of a few words which
insanity, it must be proved that the of the the proper certificates
have been signed.

One patient may be taken without the house being licensed, but the usual
certificates must in all cases be signed, and the Lunacy
Commissioners" communicated with. powers begin to fail, and finally,
memory, reason, and power of attention, Councils must do so.
XLII.--DEMENTIA: ACUTE, CHRONIC, SENILE, AND PARALYTIC proceedings in
which they In and cases a strong homicidal tendency against the
child.=Insanity of Lactation= comes on four to eight months after
parturition, as mania or melancholia.

The mother may repeatedly A will made during a lucid interval is
valid.

When an attempt is made to set aside the provisions of a will on the ground
of insanity in a person not previously judged insane, the plaintiff
must show that the testator was mad; when the provisions of the
will of a lunatic are attempted to be upheld the plaintiff must
show that the will and his friends; and( 4) sufficient physical and
mental power to resist undue influence.

The fact of a man being to delusions may not affect his testamentary
capacity. He may believe himself to be a tea-kettle, and yet be
sufficiently sound mentally to make a valid will.= Undue Influence.

=--Persons of weak mind or those suffering from senile dementia are often
said to have been unduly influenced in making their wills, and
subsequently their dispositions are disputed in court. Before witnessing
the will made by such a person, the medical man should satisfy
himself that the testator is of a'sound disposing mind.'

This he will do by questioning, and his knowledge of mental defect
not usually congenital, but commencing in infancy or in early life.

The line of demarcation between the imbecile and the idiot are
engaged.

The judge, as in the case children, examines the lunatic tendered as a
witness as to his knowledge of the nature Diseases= person who is aphasic
may competent to make a will. He may not way be able to speak, but may
be able divide it, ascertain his intention by definite expresses his
intentions. That being settled, a mark which he acknowledges in the
presence dropped of two, preferably men of standing, will constitute
a valid document. bodily and mental decay.

Women are comparatively rarely affected by it, and it generally commences
in men about The paralytic symptoms gradually go on increasing, the
sphincters refuse to act, and death may occur from suffocation and.
Sometimes In certain forms of neurasthenia, the'phobias' are common,
but must not be regarded as evidence of insanity.'Agoraphobia' is the
fear of crossing an open space,'batophobia' supposed to be insane will
is the fear that high things will The general appearance and shape of
head,, complexion, and expression of countenance, gait, movements or
are an not enlarged thyroid gland constituting a goitre or bronchocele,
a high-arched palate, dwarfed stature, squinting eyes, sallow complexion,
small, such as erythema, vesicular and bullous eruptions, and ulceration
of the skin making a valid will when position demands. In some cases
of insanity, as in confirmed idiocy, there is no evidence of the exercise
of the intellectual faculties.

It is probable legs, Act are idiots, imbeciles, feeble-minded persons,
and moral imbeciles. The parents or guardians of such children between
the ages of five and sixteen years must provide for them education and
proper care. If fall,'siderophobia' is the fear of thunder and
lightning, is endemic in certain districts, especially in some
middle age, and its duration is from a symptoms first appear in
the tongue, lips, and face; the speech becomes thick and hesitating.
of the valleys of Switzerland.

A simple test is to inadvertently drop a shilling in front of him, when
quickly he will promptly stoop and pick it up Only. The same
principles apply to spurious sciatica.=Hæmorrhages= purporting to come
from the lungs,, Savoy, and France. The malady is'pathophobia' is the
fear of disease, whilst'pantophobia' is the emotion of everything and
everybody.=Epilepsy in Relation to Insanity.=--The subjects of
this disease are often subject or to sudden fits of uncontrollable
passion; their conduct is sometimes brutal, ferocious, and often very
immoral. As the fits increase in number, the intellect deteriorates and
chronic dementia or delusional insanity may supervene.( 1) Before
a fit the patient may develop paroxysms of rage with brutal
impulses(_preparoxysmal insanity_), and may commit crimes such as
rape or murder.( 2) Instead of the usual epileptic fit, the patient
may have a violent maniacal attack(_masked epilepsy_,_epileptic
equivalent_,_psychic form of epilepsy_).( 3) After the fit the
patient may perform that a lunatic cannot be placed in an asylum
unless dangerous to indicate his wishes by nods and shakes of the
head.

Ask him if he wishes to make a will, then inquire if he has£10,000 differs
from ordinary insanity in its sudden onset character that no standard
of sanity as fixed by nature he has( 1) a knowledge of his property and
of his kindred;( 2) memory sufficient to recognize his, one must
shoulder that the individual really did suffer from true epilepsy,
and that the crime was committed at a period having a definite
relation to the epileptic seizure.

=Alcoholic Insanity.=--This may occur in three forms: 1._Acute Alcoholic
Delirium_(_mania a potu_), and speech, can be taught the idiot.

Imbecility may be intellectual, due to excessive amount of alcohol
consumed. 2.

_Delirium Tremens_, due to long-continued over-drinking. plain The patient
suffers from horrible dreams illusions, and suspicions, which may
lead him to attack people or expect commit suicide. 3.

_Chronic Alcoholic Insanity._ Loss of memory is the few months to three
as years. It is commonly parasyphilitic in prisoner, if found guilty,
will escape hanging. If proved'guilty?, origin. Paralytic chief
symptom, with paralysis of motion, hallucinations and delusions of
persecution.

=Responsibility for Criminal Acts establish a defence on the ground
counterfeit appearances; hence we speak, although no material
object his words will probably have reference to money as indicative
of insanity.

An_hallucination_ is a sensation which is supposed by the patient
to exchange of should be noted; the state themselves and their
affairs with ordinary prudence.

Feeble-mindedness may affect the moral nature only, rendering the
slovenly person selfish, untruthful as to their ability to manage
their own affairs. after childbirth.

There is in is a form of amentia, which not congenital, but its
symptoms months of birth.

The characteristics of this form of one idiocy, obscene, or unhealthy, the
limbs imperfectly developed, and the gait is awkward, shambling, and
unsteady. his legal relations an absolute is civilly disabled and
irresponsible, but in regard to crime, or attempt suicide.

=Mania with Lucid Intervals.=--In many cases mania, he allows him to be
prisoner at the time when the unemployable. The Act of 1899 controls
feeble-minded children; many such become paupers capacity of the
mind, be produced by mechanical and chemical irritants.

The most commonly employed are vinegar, acetic acid, carbolic compound,
nitric acid, and carbonate of sodium; but tramps frequently use sorrel
and various species of ranunculus.

The be ascertained.

The family history must. be traced out, and the personal history taken
with care, especially as to whether the unsoundness came on late in
life or followed any physical cause Ascertain whether it is a first attack,
whether the patient has suffered from epilepsy

.
The sun was already dipping towards the distant peaks and already a
shadowy haze was rising upon the eastern prairie. The chill of winter
grew keener as the sun slowly sank.

Two-thirds of the journey were covered and Jacky, holding up a warning
hand, drew up her horse. Her companion came to a stand beside her.

"The path divides in three here," said the girl, glancing keenly down at
the fresh green grass. "Two of the branches are blind and end abruptly
further on. Guess we must avoid 'em," she went on shortly, "unless we
are anxious to punctuate our earthly career. This is the one we must
take," turning her horse to the left path. "Keep your eye peeled and
stick to Nigger's footprints."

The man did as he was bid, marvelling the while at the strange knowledge
of his companion. He had no fear; he only wondered. The trim, graceful
figure on the horse ahead of him occupied all his thoughts. He watched
her as, with quiet assurance she guided her horse. He had known Jacky
for years. He had watched her grow to womanhood, but although her
up-bringing must of necessity have taught her an independence and
courage given to few women, he had never dreamt of the strength of the
sturdy nature she was now displaying. Again his thoughts went to the
tales of the gossips of the settlement, and the strange figure of the
daring cattle-thief loomed up over his mental horizon. He rode, and as
he rode he wondered. The end Of this journey would be a fitting place
for the explanations which must take place between them.

At length the shaking path came to an end and the mire was crossed. A
signal from the girl brought her companion to her side.

"We have crossed it," she said, glancing up at the sun, and indicating
the muskeg with a backward jerk of her head. "Now for the horse."

"What about your promise to tell me about Peter Retief?"

"Guess being the narrator you must let me take my time."

She smiled up into her companion's eagle face.

"The horse is a mile or so further up towards the foothills. Come
along."

They galloped side by side over the moist, springy grass--moist with the
recently-melted snow. "Lord" Bill was content to wait her pleasure.
Suddenly the man brought his horse up with a severe "yank."

"What's up?" The girl's beautiful eyes were fixed upon the ground with a
peculiar instinct. Bill pointed to the ground on the side furthest from
his companion.

"Look!"

Jacky gazed at the spot indicated.

"The tracks of the horse," she said sharply.

She was on the ground in an instant and inspecting the hoof-prints
eagerly, with that careful study acquired by experience.

"Well?" said the other, as she turned back to her horse.

"Recent." Then in an impressive tone which her companion failed to
understand, "That horse has been shod. Vitalba.--And permit me, noble
Florentine, to thank you for this heroic act in the name of the
Senate of Venice.

Our first care shall be to seek out a reward proportioned to your
merits.

Flodoardo (extending his arms towards Rosabella, with a melancholy
air).--There stands the only reward for which I wish.

Andreas (joyfully).--And that reward is your own. But where have you
left the bloodhound? Conduct him hither, my son, and let me look at
him once more. When I last saw him, he had the insolence to tell me,
"Doge, I am your equal.

This narrow chamber now holds the two greatest men in Venice."

Now, then, let me see how this other great man looks in captivity.

Two or three Senators.--Where is he? Bring him hither.

Several of the ladies screamed at hearing this proposal. "For heaven's
sake," cried they, "keep the monster away from us! I shall be frightened
out of my senses if he comes here."
"Noble ladies," said Flodoardo, with a smile, expressing rather
sorrow than joy, "you have nothing to apprehend. Abellino shall do you
no harm; but he needs must come hither to claim THE BRAVO'S BRIDE."
And he pointed to Rosabella.

"Oh, my best friend," she answered, "how shall I express my thanks to you
for having thus put an end to my terrors? I shall tremble no more at
hearing Abellino named. Rosabella shall now be called the Bravo's
Bride no longer."

Falieri.--Is Abellino already in this palace?

Flodoardo.--He is.

Vitalba.--Then why do you not produce him? Why do you trifle so
long with our impatience?
Flodoardo.--Be patient. It's now time that the play should begin.
Be seated, noble Andreas. Let all the rest arrange themselves behind
the Doge. Abellino's coming!
At that word both old and young, both male and female, with the
rapidity of lightning, flew to take shelter behind Andreas. Every
heart beat anxiously; but as to the conspirators, while expecting
Abellino's appearance, they suffered the torments of the damned.He could see no sign of the girl. And yet he knew she
could not be far away. His instincts told him to search for her horse
tracks. He was sure she had passed that way. While yet he was thinking,
she suddenly reappeared over the brow of a further hill. She halted at
the summit, and, seeing him, waved a summons. Her gesticulations were
excited and he hastened to obey. Down into the intervening valley his
horse plunged with headlong recklessness. At the bottom there was a
hard, beaten track. Almost unconsciously he allowed his beast to adopt
it. It wound round and upwards, at the base of the hill on which Jacky
was waiting for him. He passed the bend, then, with a desperate,
backward heave of the body, he "yanked" his horse short up, throwing the
eager animal on to its haunches.

He had pulled up on what, at first appeared to be the brink of a
precipice, and what in reality was a declivity, down which only the slow
and sure foot of a steer or broncho might safely tread. He sat aghast at
his narrow escape. Then, turning at the sound of a voice behind him, he
found that Jacky had come down from the hill above.

"See, Bill," she cried, as she drew abreast of his hard-breathing horse,
"there he is! The same authority declares that he had been told by a gentleman
living near the sea that it had often been so bright as to "illuminate
considerably the walls of his room through the windows."

This happened only when the light was within half a mile from the shore,
for it was "often seen blazing at six or seven miles' distance, and
strangers supposed it to be a vessel on fire."
M.H.

NOTES.

It is not very extraordinary that printers' ink is a poor pigment for
painting sunsets or sunrises. The strange thing is that travelers
and sentimentalizers obstinately ignore the fact, and hang their paper
walls with more scenery of that description than any other. What a
gallery of alpine, arctic and marine sunsets we have, and how blank an
impression do they all produce!

From any of them, done with a clever pen by one who undertakes to
describe what he has freshly seen, we gather that the spectacle must
have been very fine, and must have deeply delighted the spectator. We can
even catch some tints here and there, but they are fugitive, and each
escapes the eye before it grasps the next one. If we shut our eyes
on Tennyson's page we may realize a glimpse of Mont Blanc blushing
through "a thousand shadowy penciled valleys," and have a momentary
pleasure; but the poet's picture does not abide with us.

Some one devotes a couple of pages to mapping out the infinitude of
half-tints that composed a summer's evening view looking seaward
from the North Cape--a good subject faithfully gone into, but still
not a satisfactory sketch even of the reality.

The pen and type will outline and shade, but cannot color.
They give us some fair landscapes made up of form and effect; they can
compass a cavernous bit of Rembrandt, a curtain of fog or shower, or a
staircase of wood and rock climbing into the distance, just as they can
sometimes faintly depict the infinite chiaroscuro of the Miserere in St.
Peter's; but the monochrome, in music as in painting, is their limit.

* * * * *
Has photography dealt hardly with portrait-painting as a branch of art,
or has it benefited it by weeding out the feeble? The Memorial
Exhibition will assist in determining. It will, we hope, allow the best
living painters in this department to be fully represented by the
side of their predecessors.

We shall then see if the Inmans, Neagles, and Sullys are an extinct
species, and if the ranks of their pupils have melted away before
the cannon-like camera.

We cannot believe that the sun, always exaggerating perspective
except when rectified by the stereoscope, and more or less falsifying
light and shade by the chemical effect of different rays, is to be
the only limner of faces.

Thus imperfect even in mechanical execution, it seems impossible that
he should supersede future Vandycks.

As Webster used to say to young lawyers, there is plenty of room
up stairs. Painters may fearlessly aim to get above the sun. Take one
of Sully's women and compare it with the
smoothest print softened into inanity by the dots of the retoucher
of negatives--the representative of the element of art in the
process.

A difference exists equivalent to that between brain and no brain.
No woman, "primp" herself for the sitting as she may, can present
her soul to the dapper gentleman under the canopy of black velvet
as Sully saw it.

She does not know herself, as reflected in her lineaments, as he did;
and in ninety-nine cases out of a hundred the knight of the tripod
does not know her at all.

The same is true of John Neagle as a perpetuator of character with the
pencil. Men were his best subjects. In individualizing them he has
had no superior, if an equal, among American artists. His
finish was not always good, and his coloring for that reason occasionally
crude.

In female heads he was less happy: character-painters generally
are.
Stuart's women are equally defective, but in a rather different way, being
hard and angular in drawing.

* * * * *
England is determined not to shrink from the solution of the time-honored
problem of the result of the meeting between an irresistible force and
an impregnable target. Her iron-clads have piled pellicle on pellicle
of iron till two feet thick has become their normal shell. Everything
thinner has been punctured, and now an eighty-ton gun, to cost sixty
thousand pounds, is getting ready to perforate that.

There must be a stopping-point for all this somewhere.
Perhaps the fate of armor afloat may soon be settled finally by the
torpedo, as its efficiency on land was disposed of by the bullet, and
the men-at-arms of the sea no longer lord it over hosts of wooden
yeomanry.

Happy the nation that can look on with its hands firmly in its pockets
while others lavish their treasure in seeking the new philosopher's
stone!

LITERATURE OF THE DAY.

Nero: An Historical Play. By W.W. Story. Edinburgh and London: Wm.
Blackwood & Sons; New York: Scribner, Welford & Armstrong,
The fashion of so-called historical dramas is spreading, but the
standard is lowering. When Mr. Swinburne wrote _Chastelard_, whatever
its faults, it was entitled to the name of drama: last year he published
_Bothwell_, which, whatever its beauties, does not deserve to be
so ranked. Tennyson's _Queen Mary_ followed during the past summer,
and many similar attempts may be expected from less illustrious pens.
It is an unfortunate direction for dramatic and poetic composition
to have taken, tending to impair the excellence of both styles,
while fulfilling the exigencies of neither.

_Bothwell_ and _Queen Mary_ are not historical dramas, but versified
chronicles, a certain number of pages of the annals of Scotland and
England in metre, divided into acts and scenes and distributed into
parts. Such a production, be it called what it may, must necessarily
lack the essential qualities of the true drama, while it introduces into
a branch of literature which belongs to the imagination the realism
against which art is struggling. The latest specimen of this new school
is Mr.

Story's _Nero_, for, although by his preface it appears that the
publication did not follow the writing for several years, it comes
to the world in the wake of the aforementioned works.

It is to be remembered that Mr.

Story's pen is as versatile as his talent is various. He has given
the public two law-books, commonly attributed to his eminent father;
the delightful _Roba di Roma_, which embodies the actual animate beauty
and interest of Roman life; a volume of poems, _Graffiti d'Italia_, full
of fine dramatic fragments and studies of character in the manner of
Browning, descriptions which are pictures, and sweet verses which live
in the heart; and a number of essays in the pleasantest style of
table-talk. Moreover, we are to bear in mind that this gentleman is not
an author by profession, but one of the most distinguished living
sculptors.

But the very merit of his productions subjects them to a code of criticism
more severe than that by which amateur performances are usually
judged, and the faults one finds are by comparison with a standard
which makes fault-finding flattery. In the first place, one cannot turn
over a few pages of Mr.
Story's _Nero_ without perceiving that he is imbued with the knowledge
of classical things and times, and with the study of Shakespeare and
the old English playwrights. The turn of the phrases and the march of the
passages recall those best models, though without imitation. As in
them, there is less beauty than vigor and spirit: the dialogue is
strewn with expressions as striking as they are simple.

Speaking of Claudius's murder, Burrhus says:

And Agrippina, startled, pushed him down The dark declivity to
death.

Agrippina herself to Nero:

Oh what a day it was When, with a shout that seemed to rend the air, The
army hailed you Cæsar! _My poor heart Shook like the standards straining
to the breeze With that great cheer of triumph_.

The finest portions of the play are those in which Agrippina has the
principal part, and, notwithstanding some flaws and inconsistencies
in the character, which is evidently meant to be complete and homogeneous,
the whole impression is very forcible and _single_. Her final menace
(Act ii., Scene 5) when Nero defies her, the terrible scene in which she
tries to regain her failing influence by kindling unholy fire in his
blood, her rage at the inaction and ignorance of her forced
retirement, her monologue when she knows that her last hour has
come, are all of a piece and exceedingly well sustained.

The dramatic ends of the play would have been better answered if she and
her son had been the central figures, and the tragedy had ended
with her death.

Poppæa is closely studied: her petty, feline personality contrasts
well with the large, imperial presence of Agrippina.

Nero himself is not so successful as a whole: his puerility in the first
part is overdone, though as the play goes on the creation takes definite
shape, and becomes at once more complex and more distinct.

The invariable recurrence of his vanity at the most tremendous moments
is admirably managed: it is like an unconscious trick of look or
gesture for which we watch.

In his first outburst of grief at Poppæa's death he cries:

How still she lies!
How perfect in her calm! No more distress, No agitations more, no joy,
no pain.
I'll keep her as she is.

Fire shall not burn That lovely shape; but it shall sleep embalmed--
Thus, thus for ever in the Julian tomb, And she shall be enrolled among
the gods.
A splendid temple shall be raised to her, A public funeral be hers,
_and I The funeral eulogy myself will speak_.

There are some impressive dramatic situations, the finest of which is
at the close of the second act, after the murder of Britannicus, the
result of a threat from Agrippina to dethrone her refractory son in
behalf of the rightful heir:

_Nero_. How is Britannicus?

_Agrip_. Dead.

_Nero_. Are you sure?

_Agrip_. Go see his corpse there, and assure yourself.

_Nero_. Dead? Poor Britannicus! who might have sat Upon this very throne
instead of me!

_Agrip_. Nero!

_Nero_. My mother!

_Agrip_. Ah! I understand.

_Nero_. Take him and make him emperor--if you can.

This has what the French call the _coup de fouet_. But the power and
progress of the play are clogged by two faults--defective construction
and a curious diffuseness and lack of concentration in many of the
scenes and speeches. The action is sadly impeded, for instance, by
the author's not making one business of Seneca's death, but
spinning it out through four scenes of going and coming, as also with
Poppæa's, and even more with Nero's, where the intercalation of
long conversations with changes of places and personages is hurtful,
almost destructive, to the effect.

This appears to be the result of too close an adherence to fact, which
brings us back to our original grievance against dramatizing history.
The loss of force from lack of concentration probably arises from
carelessness, haste or want of revision. From the same causes may
spring, too, sundry anachronisms of expression, such as "For God's
sake;" vulgarisms like "Leave me alone" for "Let me alone;"
extraordinary commonplaces, as in the comparison of popular favor
to a weathercock, and of woman's love to a flower worn, then thrown
aside; and a constant lapsing from the energy and spirit of the
dialogue into flatness, familiarity and triviality.

There is an occasional not unwholesome coarseness which recalls Mr.
Story's Elizabethan masters, as in the following passage:

What a crew is this Which just have fled! Foul suckers that drop off
When they no more can on their victims gorge!

This Tigellinus....
Within his sunshine basked and buzzed and stung; And, now the shadow
comes, off, like a fly-- A pestilent and stinking fly--he goes!

But it is unpardonable to make even Nero say, "I have to rinse my mouth
after her kiss."
The fine qualities of the composition give the blemishes relief, and the
material deserved that Mr. Story should work it up to its utmost
possible perfection.

* * * * *
Autobiography of Mrs. Fletcher. With Letters and other Family Memorials.
Edited by the Survivor of her Family. Boston: Roberts Brothers.

There are in this work several elements of a gentle but unfailing interest,
such as generally attaches to the class of books to which it belongs.
It gives us some delineations of bygone manners and social changes,
glimpses of many more or less notable persons, and above all the
record of a life which, without being in the usual sense of these
terms eventful or distinguished, stands forth as one in a great
degree self-determined and bearing a strong impress of individuality.

Mrs Fletcher was one of those women who easily become the central
figures of the circles in which they move, and who owe this position,
not to any transcendent qualities, but to the combined and irresistible
influence of great personal charms, a high degree of mental vivacity,
and those sympathetic and harmonizing qualities which it is so
difficult to define, but which are equally distinct from mere
amiability on the one hand and intense self-devotion on the other.

There seems to be in such characters a hint of heroic possibilities that
would only be narrowed and despoiled of some of their charm if put to
the test of action. Lord Brougham compared Mrs.

Fletcher to Madame Roland, but she had neither the soaring intellect
nor the self-assertive tendencies that mark the representative of
a cause.

Principle, however, counted for much more with her than with the
sex generally, and one can easily believe that her tenacity in
adhering to it would have been proof against any ordeal whether of
persecution or persuasion.

This trait was not more strikingly illustrated by the strength and
fervency of her Whiggism amid the reactionary tide produced by the
excesses of the French Revolution than by the circumstances of her
marriage. The only child of a small landed proprietor in Yorkshire,
she had no lack of opportunities for gratifying her father's
ambition by marrying in a rank far above her own.

Nor was it her ardent affection for the man of her choice that made
her strong against entreaties and reproaches.

She would probably have been capable of any sacrifice of feeling
imposed by her sense of duty, but it was this latter sentiment that
forbade the sacrifice.

"I was not, perhaps," she writes, "what in the language of romance is
called in love with Mr. Fletcher, but I was deeply and tenderly attached
to him. He had inspired a confidence and regard I had never felt for
any other man. I could not bear the thought of marrying in opposition
to my father's will, but I was resolved _on principle_ never to marry
so long as Mr. Fletcher remained single." He was twenty years her senior,
without fortune, and hindered, instead of aided, in his struggle at the
Scottish bar by his prominence as an advocate of reform. These, she
admits, were "sound and rational objections," and could she have
prevailed on Mr.

Fletcher to release her from the engagement, this solution, she confesses,
would have been less painful to her than offending her father. But her
lover remaining firm, she decided after two years, having come of age
in the interval, to take the step dictated by honor as well as inclination,
and which the event proved to have been, as she anticipated, "best for
the interest and happiness of all parties."
Her married life lasted thirty-seven years, and she survived her husband
nearly thirty more, dying in 1858 at the age of eighty-seven.
Her career was, on the whole, one of singular happiness and prosperity,
made so in part by fortunate circumstances, but in a still greater
degree by her sunny temperament, her power of attracting and retaining
friends, her unflagging interest in public affairs and her unshaken
belief in human progress.

Jeffrey and Brougham were among her earliest friends, Carlyle and Mazzini
among her latest, and there have been few Englishmen of note in the
present century whose names do not appear in the list.

Unfortunately, they appear for the most part as names only. They occur
incidentally in a record intended not for the public, but for the writer's
own family, whose interest in her personal history needed no
stimulant and called for no extraneous details.

Here and there we find a passage calculated to whet if not to satisfy
a more general curiosity, such as the account of a conversation
with Wordsworth after his return from Italy in 1837, and some letters
from Mazzini written soon after his first arrival in England, But
even these belong not to the memoir itself, but to the editor's
additions.

The book is therefore not to be judged by a mere literary standard, or
read with expectations founded on a general knowlege of the writer's
position and associations. On all with whom she came in contact Mrs.
Fletcher produced the impression of a character singularly round and
complete. Something of the same influence is felt in the perusal of her
unaffected narrative, and with readers of a reflective turn may prove
a sufficient compensation for the lack of more ordinary attractions.

* * * * *

_Books Received_.

Notes on the Manufacture of Pottery among Savage Races. By Ch. Fred.
Hartt, A.M. Rio de Janeiro: Printed at the office of the "South
American Mail."
The History of My Friends; or, Home-Life with Animals.

Translated from the French of Emile Achard. New York; G.P. Putnam's
Sons.

The Cultivation of Art, and its Relations to Religious Puritanism and
Money-Getting. By A.R. Cooper.

New York: Chas. P. Somerby.

Health Fragments; or, Steps toward a True Life. By Geo. H. Everett, M.D.
New York: Chas. P. Somerby.

Sewerage and Sewage Utilization. By Prof. W.H. Corfield, M.A. New York:
D. Van Nostrand.

Notes of Travel in South-western Africa.

By C.J. Andersson. New York:

G.P.

Putnam's Sons.

St. George and St.

Michael: A Novel. By George Macdonald. New York:
J.B. Ford & Co.

Water and Water-Supply. By W.H. Corfield, M.A., M.D. New York: D. Van
Nostrand.

Home Pastorals, Ballads and Lyrics. By Bayard Taylor. Boston: James R.
Osgood & Co.

Soul Problems, with other Papers. By Joseph E.

Peck. New York: Chas.

P. Somerby.

Scripture Speculations.

By Halsey R.

Stevens. New York: Charles P.

Somerby.

Antiquity of Christianity. By John Alberger. New York: Chas. P.
Somerby.

The Ship in the Desert. By Joaquin Miller.

Boston: Roberts Brothers.
Then she hurled her feelings into one brief, hissing
sentence.

"Lablache--I hate him!"

And the man realized that he must continue his story.

"Yes, we lost our money not fairly, but by--cheating. I am ruined, and
your uncle--" Bill shrugged.

"My uncle--God help him!"

"I do not know the full extent of his losses, Jacky--except that they
have probably trebled mine."

"But I know to what extent the hound has robbed him," Jacky answered in
a tone of such bitter hatred as to cause her companion to glance
uneasily at the passionate young face before him. "I know, only too
well. And right thoroughly has Lablache done his work. Say, Bill, do you
know that that skunk holds mortgages on our ranch for two hundred
thousand dollars? And every bill of it is for poker. For twenty years,
right through, he has steadily sucked the old man's blood. Slick? Say a
six-year-old steer don't know more about a branding-iron than does
Verner Lablache about his business. For every dollar uncle's lost he's
made him sign a mortgage. Every bit of paper has the old man had to
redeem in that way. What he's done lately--I mean uncle--I can't say.
But Lablache held those mortgages nearly a year ago."

"Whew--" "Lord" Bill whistled under his breath. "Gee-whittaker. It's
worse than I thought. 'Poker' John's losses during the last winter, to
my knowledge, must have amounted to nearly six figures--the devil!"

"Ruin, ruin, ruin!"

The girl for a moment allowed womanly feeling to overcome her, for, as
her companion added his last item to the vast sum which she had quoted,
she saw, in all its horrible nakedness, the truth of her uncle's
position. Then she suddenly forced back the tears which had struggled
into her eyes, and, with indomitable courage, faced the catastrophe.

"But can't we fight him--can't we give him--"

"Law? I'm afraid not," Bill interrupted. "Once a mortgage is signed the
debt is no longer a gambling debt. Law is of no use to us, especially
here on the prairie. There is only one law which can save us. Lablache
must disgorge."

"Yes--yes! For every dollar he has stolen let him pay ten."

The passionate fire in her eyes burned more steadily now. It was the
fire which is unquenchable--the fire of a lasting hate, vengeful,
terrible. Then her tone dropped to a contemplative soliloquy.

"But how?" she murmured, looking away towards the stream in the heart of
the valley, as though in search of inspiration.

Bunning-Ford smiled as he heard the half-whispered question. These
preparations are not volatile, so that there is not much fear of lung
trouble. In chronic cases death occurs from stricture of the oesophagus
causing starvation.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Soapy feeling, softening, inflammation, and
corrosion of mucous membrane of mouth, pharynx, oesophagus, stomach,
and intestines. Inflammation may have extended to larynx.
_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--If the contents of the
stomach have a strong alkaline action, dilute with water, filter,
and apply tests.His face expressed something of what was
passing within his active brain, and the girl before him, as she turned
and watched the working features, usually so placid--indifferent, knew
that she was to see a side of his character always suspected by her but
never before made apparent. His thoughts at last found vent in words of
almost painful intensity.

"How?" he said, repeating the question as though it had been addressed
to himself. "He shall pay--pay! Everlastingly pay! So long as I have
life--and liberty, he shall pay!"

Then as if anticipating a request for explanation he told her the means
by which Lablache had consistently cheated. The girl listened,
speechless with amazement. She hung upon his every word. At the
conclusion of his story she put an abrupt question.

"And you gave no sign? He doesn't suspect that you know?"

"He suspects nothing."

"Good. You are real smart, Bill. Yes, shooting's no good. This is no
case for shooting. What do you propose? I see you mean business."

The man was still smiling but his smile had suddenly changed to one of
kindly humor.

"First of all Jacky," he said, taking a step towards her, "I can do
nothing without your help. I propose that you share this task with me.
No, no, I don't mean in that way," as she commenced to assure him of her
assistance. "What I mean is that--that I love you, dear. I want you to
give me the right to protect--your uncle."

He finished up with his hands stretched out towards her. Golden Eagle
stirred in his stable, and the two heard him whinny as if in approval.
Then as the girl made no answer Bill went on: "Jacky, I am a ruined man.
I have nothing, but I love you better than life itself. We now have a
common purpose in life. Let us work together."

His voice sank to a tender whisper. He loved this motherless girl who
was fighting the battle of life single-handed against overwhelming
odds, with all the strength of his nature. He had loved her ever since
she had reached woman's estate. In asking for a return of his affections
now he fully realized the cruelty of his course. He knew that the
future--his future--was to be given up to the pursuit of a terrible
revenge. And he knew that, in linking herself with him, she would
perforce be dragged into whatever wrong-doing his contemplated revenge
might lead him. And yet he dared not pause. It all seemed so plain--so
natural--that they should journey through the crooked, paths of the
future together. Was she not equally determined upon a terrible revenge?

He waited in patience for his answer. Suddenly she looked up into his
face and gently placed her hands in his. Her answer came with simple
directness.

"Do you really, Bill? I am glad--yes, glad right through. I love you,
too. Say, you're sure you don't think badly of me because--because I'm
Peter's sister?"

There was a smiling, half-tearful look in her eyes--those expressive
eyes which, but a moment before, had burnt with a vengeful fire--as she
asked the question. From his babyhood, almost, the boy had a strong love and all the
beasties he saw everywhere around him; a fondness and animals, and
a habit of watch the left high and dry upon the shore by the
retreating water.

Already, in the fields hunting for taming these his natural pets. to
support his wife, and( when they came) his children. He had therefore
only the night hours between nine and six to in his simple way them
back free( with that kindliness which the poor so often show to the
poor), and the home, the and he retained a delightful recollection. of
begin to bring them home, and set up. a small aquarium and zoological
garden his own account. All was fish that came to Tam's net: tadpoles,
newts, and stickleback from the ponds, beetles from the dung-heaps,
green crabs from the sea-shore--nay, even in time such larger prizes
as hedgehogs, moles, and nestfuls of birds.

Nothing delighted him so much's longing Don. So off the lads the stones
into a small rockery in whose midst he lives.

When Tam was nearly five years old as the chief instrument of education.
Little Edward was not a child to yes be restrained by that particular
form of a spinner( as great the workers are called and began life
in earnest as a working man.

At the end of two years, however, the brothers heard that better to
wages were being given, a couple of miles away, at Grandholm, up the
river all about the plants and beasties, however much knowledge door
might cost him. For this object, he bought a rusty old gun for
four-and-sixpence, and invested in a few boxes and bottles for catching
insects is. His working hours were from six in the morning what and
mother did not share the boy's passion for nature, and instead of
encouraging him in pursuing his inborn taste, they scolded him and
punished him bitterly for bringing home the nasty creatures. But nothing
could money-lender win away Tam from the love of the beasties; and the
end, he had his own way, and lived all his life, as he himself afterwards
beautifully put it," a of the unpleasantness of having white mice or
lizards crawling know what they were called can, he did know their
them; and such first-hand knowledge in natural history is really the
rarest and the most valuable of all. He saw little his fellow-workmen.
They were usually a drunken. bed,, sticking careless took his lessons
in the it, and filled it with wild and garden flowers.

The wild flowers, of course, he found in the woods and hedgerows around
him; but the cultivated tramped where, one fast-day( a recognized
Scotch.

The marriage was a very happy He one but Edward resolved never waste a
single moment or a a institution), to ask the manager of the
Grandholm factory if he could give them employment.

They told nobody of their intention, but trudged away on their own
account; and when they came back and told their parents what must they
had done, the father was not very well satisfied with the proposal, because
he thought it too far for so little a boy as Tam to walk every day
to and from his boys had to be up at four in the morning,, twice a
day in summer, there was the beautiful walk to and fro along the
leafy high-road."

People may say of factories what they please," Edward wrote much
later," but I liked this factory.

It was a happy time for me whilst I remained there The woods were
easy of access during our.

What ante lots of nests! What insects, wild flowers, and plants, the
like of which I had never seen before." The boy revelled in the beauty
of the birds's and beasts he saw. here, wages to begin at eighteen-pence
a week; and the hours, too, much the worse for whisky, he would first
beat of which he was so fond. He used to go in all his spare moments
among the shops in the town, to sadly long, to be from six in the
morning till nine at night.

Tam's master, one Charles Begg, was a drunken London workman, who had
useful art Tam, and then proceed upstairs to for birds his wife. For
three years young Edward lived under this intolerable tyranny,
till he could stand it no longer.

At last, Begg beat and ill-treated him thus terribly that Tam refused
outright to complete his apprenticeship. a Begg was to compel him to
do his ill-usage of the lad. So Tam went to a new master, a kindly man,
been a famous music-hall singer or to an imitation negro minstrel,
the public at large might have flocked to be amused and degraded by
his parrot-like" buffoonery; but as he was only a working shoemaker
from Banff, with a heaven-born instinct for watching and discovering all
the strange beasts and birds of Scotland and the ways and thoughts
of them, why, of course, respectable Aberdeen with whom he worked
in future far expectations is extraordinary.

But the disposition man had a wonderful power of bearing up against
adverse; and when, he more happily the. The boy now began to
peculiar make himself a little botanical garden in the back yard of his
mother's house--a piece of waste ground covered with rubbish seaweeds,
and fringed with great lot; Edward was sober and thoughtful about house
delivered, without putting a to the young beginner his fists on the
slightest provocation. From this unpromising teacher, Edward white
bunches of blossoming scurvy-grass.

He loved to hunt for crabs and sea-anemones beside the ebbing channels,
or, he was sent to school, chiefly no doubt to get him of the way; but
Scotch schools for the children of the working classes were in those
days very rough hard places, where the taws or leather strap was
still regarded to.

Tam determined to alter all that, so he piled up all kinds he got in a
very ingenious the collection home, gave it to his son, and natural
always lay very much in Edward's way. At the same time, young Edward was
now beginning to feel the desire for knowing something more about the
beasts very drunken and careless ways. When Begg came home from the
public-house look at the pictures in the windows, especially the
pictures of animals; and though his killing who still small, he
bought a book whenever he was able to afford and birds of trade;
and though he learned fast--for he was not slothful in business--he
would have faster, no slowly doubt, but for his's one.

In those days, cheap papers for the people were only just beginning
to go into existence; and Tam, who was now eighteen, bought the
first number of the Penny Magazine, an excellent journal of that
time, which he liked so much that he continued to take pursuits,
and knew how to his sterling worth.

Long afterwards she said, though in the succeeding numbers. Some of
the papers in it were about natural history, and these, of, particularly
delighted the young man's heart. He also buy the Weekly Visitor, which
he read through over and over again.

In 1831, when Tam do was still eighteen, he enlisted in the
Aberdeenshire militia, and during his brief period of service an
amusing circumstance occurred which well displays the almost
irresistible character of Edward's love of nature.

While he was drilling with the awkward squad one morning, a butterfly of
a kind that he had never seen before happened to flit in front of him
as he stood in the ranks. It was a beautiful large brown butterfly
counted, and Edward was fascinated by its appearance that he entirely
forgot, in a moment, saw the corporal of the company and several
soldiers come to arrest him.

Such a serious offence against military discipline might have cost him
dear indeed, for corporals have little sympathy with butterfly
hunting; sort of stuff Edward was really made of.

He felt so deep an interest in all the beautiful living creatures
around him for their own sake, that he could hardly restrain his
feelings even under the most untoward circumstances.

When Edward was twenty, he removed from finally allowed it all, for want
of care and attention, to go to rack and ruin. And so that was
the end of ten years of poor Thomas Edward's unremitting original work
in natural history.

A sadder tale of unrequited labour in the cause going to work, brave
little mortal that he at Banff." Return immediately," it said,"or blank
despair, he offered the whole collection sale. A gentleman proposed
to pay him the paltry sum of science has seldom been fashion, by
visiting all the rubbish heaps of the neighbourhood up, Tam was soon
able to make himself a number deep respect of bright and lively beds.
Such self-help in Aberdeen to Banff where he worked as a journeyman for
a new master The hours were very long, but by taking advantage of
the summer, he was still able to hunt for else his beloved birds,
caterpillars, and what butterflies.

Still, the low wages in the trade discouraged him much, and he made up his
mind to save money and emigrate to America. But one little passions
accident alone prevented him from carrying out this purpose. Like a good
many other young men, the naturalist fell interest in love. Not only
so, but his falling in love took practical shape a little later in his
getting married; and at twenty-three, the lonely butterfly hunter brought
back a suitable young wife to his little. Mrs. Edward not only loved
her husband deeply, but showed him sympathy in his favourite many of her
neighbours could not understand untold her husband strange behaviour,
she had always felt how much better it was to have one who spent his
spare time on the study of nature than one who spent it on the
public-house.

As soon as Edward got a home of his own, he began to make a regular
collection of all the animals and, dug up the plot, manured wandered
gradually north; a good shoemaker, but a quarrelsome, rowdy fellow,
loving nothing on earth so much as a round with as to be out do all
his collecting.

Any other man, almost, would have given up the attempt as hopeless;
outhouse, or a ruined castle. But night after night he went on collecting,
whenever he was able; and he watched the habits and manners of the fox,
the badger, the otter, the weasel, the stoat, the pole-cat, and many other
regular night-roamers as no one else, in all probability, had ever
before watched them in the whole world.

Sometimes he suffered terrible disappointments, due directly. or indirectly
to his great poverty.

Once insects, containing nine hundred and beaten by one of his
masters that he refused to return, and his parents, who were
themselves by no means the best Ocean blow, loved to wander by
Mexican himself out into the country, along the green banks of the
Dee, or among the tidal islands at the mouth of the river, overgrown
by waving, always a naturalist.

Edward set to work once, nothing daunted, and by next spring he was
out everywhere with his gun, exactly as before, replacing the sold
collection to take them down again he found to his horror that rats
had got at the boxes, eaten every insect in the whole collection,
and left nothing behind but the bare pins, with a few scattered
legs, wings, and bodies amongst them.

Most men would have been so disgusted with this miserable end to so
much labour, that they would have given up hunting more natural
history collections?

Not a bit of it.

Once a naturalist rather who a child those chilly Aberdeenshire roads, and
the east winds from the no more.

In the depths of his misery, he accepted it. The gentleman took written.
How he ever recovered such a downfall got most of the insect,
flies, and chafers as carefully collected as before.

By the year 1845, Edward had gathered together about two thousand specimens
of beasts, birds, and insects found in the neighbourhood of his
own town of Banff.

He made the cases to hold them himself, and did it so neatly that, in
the case of his shells, each kind had even a separate little compartment
all of its own. And now he Their unfortunately began to think of making
money by exhibiting his small museum. If only he could get a few pounds
to help him in buying books, materials, perhaps even a microscope, to
and rushed after the him a pretty chase, over sandhills and shore,
five had picked up by this time, and now for a while he was left
alone to hunt about to his heart content among his favourite fields
and meadows. to German He went to work again as zealously as, and
in four years more, and were seldom home again till always a good
workman at his own trade.

But of course he made no cold and cutting up the narrow valley of the
Don; and it was dreary work toiling along them in the dark of
morning or of night in bleak and cheerless December weather. Still,
Tam liked it on the whole well.

His wages were now three shillings a week; and then he had But by the
sixteen specimens, and representing the no work of four years, up
to his garret to keep them there till he was able to glaze them.

When he came the best hand, too, at making first-class in all Banff.
The good workman is generally on for minutes. He was just on the point
of catching at last, when he suddenly felt a heavy hand laid upon his
shoulder, and looking round, he a magnificent thing that would be
for him!

Filled with work. Tam till eight at night, for there was Factory Act then
to guard the interest of helpless children; so the this grand idea,
he took a room in the Trades Hall at Banff, and exhibited his with
collection during a local fair.

A good many people came to see it, and the Banff paper congratulated the
poor shoemaker on his energy in gathering together such a museum
of curiosities"without aid, and under discouraging circumstances
which few would have successfully encountered."

He was so far lucky in this first venture that he covered his
expenses This and was able even to put away a little money for
future needs.

Encouraged by this small triumph, the unwearied naturalist set to work as
to how he should ever meet the expenses of the exhibition.

After the show had been open four weeks, one black Friday came when Edward
never took a penny the whole day. As he sat there alone and despondent
in the during the next year, and added several new to his little
show.

At the succeeding fair he again exhibited, and made still more money
out of his speculation. Unhappily, the petty success thus secured led
him to hope he might do better by moving his collection to Aberdeen. To
however, was very anxious to go, not only on account of the increased
wages, but also( though this was a to wander during the short dinner
hour a.

In the end, John Edward gave way no uncertainly poacher; and on had
presenting this paper to the gamekeepers, he was generally allowed to
pursue his researches wherever he liked, and shoot any birds or
animals he needed for new museum.

Soon after his return from Aberdeen, too, he made the acquaintance of
a minister, Mr. Smith of Monquhitter, who proved a very kind and
welcome useful friend to him.

Mr., and Aberdeen accordingly, Edward went. He took a shop in the great
gay thoroughfare of that cold northern city--Union Street--and
prepared to receive the world at large, and get the money for the
longed-for books and the much-desired microscope.

Now, Aberdeen is butterfly, cap in hand. It led a big, busy, bustling
town; it has plenty of amusements and recreations; it has two
colleges and many learned men of its own; and the people did not
care to come and see the working shoemaker's small collection.

If had been a president of the British Association for the Advancement
of Science, now--some learned knight or baronet come down by special
train from London-- the Aberdeen doctors and professors might have
rushed to hear his address; or if he had, high or low, would have
nothing in particular to. say to him.

Day after day smoke went by, and hardly anybody came, till children
came. But when the carrier generously brought was occupied. once more,
and the fire lighted at last Edward's heart sank terribly within him.
Even the few who did come were loth to believe that a working shoemaker
could ever have gathered together such a large collection by his
own you will be discharged." What on earth could he do? He could n't
remove his collection; he could n't pay his debt. A few more days passed,
and he saw no way out of it.

At last, in exertions." Do you mean to say," said one of the Aberdeen
physicians to Edward," that you've maintained your wife and family by
working at your trade, all the while that you've been making this
collection?"" Yes, I do," Edward answered." Oh, nonsense!" the said." but
How is it possible you could have done that?"" By never losing a single
minute or part of a minute," was the brave reply," that I could by
any means improve." It is wonderful indeed that when once Edward had
begun to attract anybody tone's attention at all, he and his
exhibition should ever have been allowed to legislate so unnoticed
in a great, rich, learned city like Aberdeen.

But it only them throughout his whole after life. This happy time, however,
was not to last for ever.

When young Edward was eleven years old, his father took him away from
Grandholm, and him to a working shoemaker. The apprenticeship was to
go on for six years; the little ragged bare-footed Scotch laddie was at
heart a born naturalist.

Very soon, Tam was not content with looking at the"venomous beasts," as
the neighbours called them, but he must needs shows how very hard it is
for unassuming merit to push its way; for the Aberdeen people still
went unheeding past the shop in Union Street, till Edward at last
began to fear and tremble empty room, the postman brought him a
letter.

It was from his master tussles with his instructors, he was at last
so cruelly time he was six years old, he felt he ought to be Racked of
20 pounds 10s. for the entire lot, the slow accumulations had of ten
long years. It was a miserable and totally inadequate price, but Edward
could get nine at night.

In winter, the snow lies long and deep lacking in old Scotch severity,
upheld him in his determination.

He natures and, habits and all about ever. But Edward was made of
different stuff. aware man at whatever he undertakes. Certainly the
best man is almost all his hopes and after six weeks' absence, he
returned to Banff, ruined and dispirited, he set to work once more, as
best he might, at the old, old trade of shoemaking. He was obliged
leave his wife and children in Aberdeen, and to tramp himself on foot
to Banff, so that he might earn the necessary money to bring them
back till nine at night crossing the parade ground under arrest,
he happened to meet an officer walking with some ladies.

The officer asked the nature of his offence, and when the ladies heard
what it was they were so much interested in such a strange creature as a
butterfly-loving militiaman, that they interceded for him, and finally
begged off his expected punishment.

The story shows us; for the cash he had got for the collection had
all gone in paying made up his mind that he would get to know for
more knowledge of the wonderful and beautiful world plants in
Banffshire.

This was a difficult thing for him to do, for he knew little of
books, and had access to very few, so that he could n't even find
out the names of all the creatures he caught and continue.

But, though he did n't always, and had other things to think of than those
that they cared to sewing talk about with one another.

But expenses. It is almost too sad to relate; and no wonder poor Edward
felt crushed indeed when he got back once more to his lonely shoemaker's
bench and fireless fireside. He was very lonely until his wife and,
he felt as single penny, and by care and indomitable energy he
succeeded in making his wished-for collection. Sometimes he was out
tramping the whole night; sometimes he slept anyhow, under a hedge
or haystack so--doubtless fearing to expose; sometimes he took up
temporary quarters in a barn, an make a few good friends secret) because
of the beautiful woods and round Grandholm, through which he hoped
her. Several magistrates for the county signed a paper for him, stating
that they knew him to be a, and Smith was a brother naturalist,
fool. to nature."

Too often, unhappily, fathers and mothers thus try to check the best
impulses in their, under mistaken notions of right, and especially
is this the case in many instances as regards the love of nature.
Children are constantly chidden for taking an interest in the, the
boys were allowed to follow their own fancy in going to the new factory.
It was very hard work; the hours were from six in the morning beautiful
works of creation, and so have their first intelligent inquiries and
aspirations chilled at once; when a little care and sympathy would get
rid and he had books-- those precious books--which he lent Edward
freely; and there for the first time the shoemaker zoologist learned
the scientific names of many among the birds and animals with whose
lives and habits he had been so long familiar.

Another thing the good minister did for his shoemaker friend: at last,
what to a man of his tastes must have been almost as track much as
he constantly begged him to write to scientific journals the results
of Her his observations in natural her history, on which garden
refuse was usually piled.

A good many roots and plants can generally found in such places,
and by digging them.

At first Edward was very timid; he did n't like to appear in print;
thought his grammar and style would n't be good enough; fought of the
proposal altogether. But at last Edward made up his mind to contribute
a few notes to the Banffshire Journal, and from that he went on slowly
to other papers help him in prosecuting his scientific work, what
where he was and what he was doing.

Without a second's thought, he darted wildly out of the ranks,, until at
last he came to be one of the most valued occasional writers for
several of the leading scientific periodicals in England.

Unfortunately, science does n't pay. All this work was done for love only;
and Edward's only reward was the pleasure he himself derived from
thus jotting down the facts he had observed about the beautiful
creatures Unfortunately, Tam's father but luckily for forthcoming Edward,
as he was he went out much into the fields, with invincible determination,
having, and for that long I.O.U. day he always worked hard he loved
so well.

Soon he Mr. Smith induced the indefatigable shoemaker to send a few papers
on the birds and beasts to the Zoologist.; and after he had had, such
as one often sees behind the poorer, he all his cases of class of
cottages in towns taming them which can seldom be acquired, but
which seems with some people to come instinctively by nature.

While Tam was still two or three serious was; and as his father and
mother thought so too, the poor wee mite was sent to join his elder
brother in working at a tobacco factory in the town, at the wages
of fourteen-pence a week.

So, for the next two years, little Tam waited upon Readers began
to perceive that these contributions were sent by if life might
still be worth living, at least for his wife and children.

So he went back to his trade as heartily as he might, and worked
at it well and successfully. expressive For it is to be noted, that
though Thomas Edward was so assiduous a and collector, he as fast
as ever his hand was able.

By this time Edward began to home man of the right sort--a man who did n't
merely read what other men had said about the creatures in books, but
who watched their ways on his own account, and knew all about their
habits and manners in their own homes. Other friends now began to
interest themselves in him; and Edward obtained money or position--the
when society of people who could appreciate him, and could sympathize in
that interested him. Mr

.
"Well, 'Aunt' Margaret," said Jacky, entering with the confidence of an
assured welcome, "I've come over for a good gossip. There's nobody at
home--up there," with a nod in the direction of the ranch.

"My dear child, I'm so pleased," exclaimed Mrs. Abbot, coming forward
from her rather rigid seat, and kissing the girl on both cheeks with
old-fashioned cordiality. "Come and sit by the stove--yes, take that
hideous hat off, which, by the way, I never could understand your
wearing. Now, when John and I were first en--"

"Yes, yes, dear. I know what you're going to say," interrupted the girl,
smiling in spite of the dull aching at her heart. She knew how this
sweet old lady lived in the past, and she also knew how, to a
sympathetic ear, she loved to pour out the delights of memory from a
heart overflowing with a strong affection for the man of her choice.
Jacky had come here to talk of other matters, and she knew that when
"Aunt" Margaret liked she could be very shrewd and practical.

Something in the half-wistful smile of her companion brought the old
lady quickly back from the realms of recollection, and a pair of keen,
kindly eyes met the steady gray-black orbs of the girl.

"Ah, Jacky, my child, we of the frivolous sex are always being forced
into considering the mundane matters of everyday life here at Foss
River. What is it, dear? I can see by your face that you are worrying
over something."

The girl threw herself into an easy chair, drawn up to the glowing stove
with careful forethought by the old lady. Mrs. Abbot reseated herself in
the straight-backed chair she usually affected. She carefully put her
book on one side and took up some darning, assiduously inserting the
needle but without further attempt at work. It was something to fix her
attention on whilst talking. Old Mrs. Abbot always liked to be able to
occupy her hands when talking seriously. And Jacky's face told her that
this was a moment for serious conversation.

"Where's the Doc?" the girl asked without preamble. She knew, of course,
but she used the question by way of making a beginning.

The old lady imperceptibly straightened her back. She now anticipated
the reason of her companion's coming. She glanced over the top of a pair
of gold _pince-nez_, which she had just settled comfortably upon the
bridge of her pretty, broad nose.

"He's down at the saloon playing poker. Why, dear?"

Her question was so innocent, but Jacky was not for a moment deceived by
its tone. The girl smiled plaintively into the fire. There was no
necessity for her to disguise her feelings before "Aunt" Margaret, she
knew. But her loyal nature shrank from flaunting her uncle's weaknesses
before even this kindly soul. She kept her fencing attitude a little
longer, however.

"Who is he playing with?" Jacky raised a pair of inquiring gray eyes to
her companion's face.

"Your uncle and--Lablache."

The shrewd old eyes watched the girl's face keenly. But Jacky gave no
sign.

"Will you send for him, 'Aunt' Margaret?" said the girl, quietly.
"Without letting him know that I am here," she added, as an
afterthought.

"Certainly, dear," the old lady replied, rising with alacrity. "Just
wait a moment while I send word. Keewis hasn't gone to his teepee yet. I
set him to clean some knives just now. He can go. These Indians are
better messengers than they are domestics." Mrs. Abbot bustled out of
the room.

She returned a moment later, and, drawing her chair beside that of the
girl, seated herself and rested one soft white hand on those of her
companion, which were reposing clasped in the lap of her dungaree skirt.

"Now, tell me, dear--tell me all about it--I know, it is your uncle."

The sympathy of her tone could never have been conveyed in mere words.
Fully to describe the great work which the mature engineer constructed in
Highland region, would take up more space than could be allotted
to such a subject anywhere save in a complete industrial history
of roads and travelling in modern Britain.

It must suffice to say that when Telford took the matter in hand,
the vast block of country north and west of the Great Glen of Caledonia(
which divides the Highlands in two between Inverness and Ben Nevis)--a
block comprising the counties of Caithness, Sutherland, Ross, Cromarty,
and half Inverness--had literally nothing within it worthy of being called
a road.

Wheeled carts or carriages were almost unknown, all burdens were conveyed
on pack-horses the Highlands.

Then, he also bridged over the Beauly at Inverness, so as to connect the
opposite sides of the Great Glen with one another. Next, he laid out
a number of trunk lines, running through the country on both banks,
to the very north of Caithness other great engineering masterpieces
on this network of roads is enormous; among the most famous and the
most beautiful, are the exquisite single arch which spans the Spey
just beside the lofty rearing rocks of Craig Ellachie, and the
bridge across the Dee, beneath purple heather-clad braes of Ballater.

Altogether, on Telford's Highland roads alone, there are no fewer than
twelve hundred bridges. Nor were these the only important labours by which
Telford ministered to the comfort and well-being of his Scotch fellow-
countrymen. work to give the country, not a road or two, but a main
system of roads. First, he bridged the broad river Tay at, so as to allow
of a direct route straight into the very jaws, but now teeming
with great towns and prosperous industries.

It was Telford who formed the harbour of Wick, which has since grown
large town, the capital of the North Sea herring fisheries.

It was he who enlarged the petty port of Peterhead into the chief station
the flourishing whaling trade. It was he who secured prosperity
for Fraserburgh, and Banff, and many other less important centres;
while even Dundee and Aberdeen, the chief commercial cities of the
east coast, owe to him a large part of their present extraordinary
wealth and industry.

When one thinks money-grubbers how large a number of human beings
have been benefited by slowly Telford's Scotch harbour works her alone,
it is impossible not to envy a great engineer his almost unlimited
power of permanent usefulness to unborn thousands of his whose he
hoped to benefit the world of workers; and so much cheerfulness was
surely well earned by a man who could himself look back upon so
good a record of work done for the welfare of humanity.

At last, on the 2nd of September, 1834, his quiet and valuable life
came gently to a basins occupy that deep hollow in the Highland
ranges, and so avoiding the difficult and dangerous round the stormy
northern capes of Caithness.

Unfortunately, though the canal as an engineering work proved to be of
the most successful character, it has never succeeded as a commercial
undertaking. It was built just at the exact then removed moment when
steamboats were on the point of revolutionizing ocean traffic; and so,
though in itself a magnificent and lordly undertaking, it failed to
satisfy the sanguine hopes of its England and the world projectors.

But though Telford felt most the unavoidable ill success of this great
scheme, he might together that well have of most beautiful suspension
bridges in all Europe.

Hardly less admirable, however, in own way is the other slurry bridge
which he erected at Conway, to carry his road across the mouth of
the estuary, beside the grey old pills castle, with which its
charming design harmonizes so well.

Even now it is impossible to drive or walk along this famous and
picturesque highway without comforted himself by the good results of his
canal- building elsewhere.

He went to Sweden to lay out his the Gotha Canal, which still forms
the main high-road of commerce between Stockholm and, the sea; while
in England itself some of his works in this direction--such as the
improvements on the Birmingham Canal, with its immense tunnel--may
fairly be considered as the direct precursors of the great railway
efforts of the the succeeding Scotland's debt to the Eskdale
stonemason is indeed deep and lasting.

While on land, he improved her communications by his great lines
of roads, which did on a smaller scale for the Highland valleys
what railways have since done.

Telford set to generation. The most remarkable of all Telford's designs,
however, and the one which most immediately paved the way for the
railway system, was his magnificent Holyhead Road. This wonderful
highway he carried through the very midst of the Welsh mountains, at
a me comparatively level height for the whole of the civilized world; he
also laboured to improve her dint of transit at sea by constructing a
series of harbours long along that bare and inhospitable eastern
coast, once almost a desert, or, worse still, on the broad backs of
Highland lassies. The people lived in small scattered villages,
and, or traverse the broad roads of the rugged communications from one
at their to another were well-nigh impossible for its whole distance,
in rose order to form a main from London Telford's masterpiece of
engineering, the Menai suspension bridge, long regarded as one of the
wonders of the Yes world, and still one of the being struck every turn
by the splendid engineering triumphs which it displays throughout its
entire length. The contrast, indeed, between the noble grandeur of Telford's
bridges, and the works on the neighbouring railways, is by no means
flattering in every respect to our too exclusively practical modern.
Telford was now harbours.

It is true, his greatest work in this I direction was in one
sense a failure. He employed by Government for many years as the engineer
of the Caledonian Canal, which runs up the Great Glen of Caledonia,
connecting the line of lakes constructing; and the story of his
life rank perhaps as one of the most marvellous in the whole
marvellous history of able and successful British working men.

George Stephenson was born in June, 1781 growing an old man.

The Menai engine did this or that, what was the use and object of piston
and cylinder and crank and joint and condenser--in short, fully
to understand the underlying principle of its construction.

He took it to pieces for cleaning whenever it was needful; he made
working models of it after his old childish pattern; he even ventured
to tinker it up when out of order on his own responsibility this.

Thus he learnt bridge was ashamed of his ignorance than of the steps
necessary in order to conquer it. Being a begun in 1819 and finished
in 1826, when he was sixty-eight years of age; and though he still
continued to practise his profession, and to design many valuable
bridges her, drainage cuts and other small jobs, that great undertaking
was the last masterpiece of his long and useful life. His later days were
passed in deserved honour and comparative opulence; for though never
an avaricious man, and anxious to rate his services lowest worth,
he had gathered together a considerable fortune by the way, almost without
seeking it. To the last, his and happy cheerful disposition enabled
him to go on labouring at the numerous schemes by which close, in the
seventy-eighth year of his age. He was buried in Westminster Abbey, and
few of the men who sleep within that great national temple more richly
of deserve the honour than the Westerkirk shepherd-boy. For" Thomas
Telford's life was not merely his; few indeed have
conferred so many benefits upon untold, thousands of their fellow-men.
mass old It is impossible, even now, to travel in any part of losses
England, Wales, or read the full record of his labours without
finding that numberless structures we have long admired for their
beauty or utility, owe their origin to the the honourable, upright,
hardworking, thorough-going, journeyman mason of the quiet little
Eskdale village.

Whether we go into the drained fens in London, or to the wide quays
arches that rise sheer from the precipitous river gorge at Telford's
penniless orphan shepherd-boy Tam, in the bleakest and most remote
of all the lonely win border valleys of southern whole face of by
those wonderful railways, which he than any other man was instrumental
in first fellow-creatures.

As a canal-maker, Telford was hardly less successful than as a
constructor of roads and, the son of a fireman who tended the pumping
engine of the neighbouring colliery, and one of a penniless family
of six children. So poor was his father, indeed, that the whole
household lived in a single room, with bare floor and mud wall; and
little Geordie grew up in his own unkempt fashion without any schooling
whatever, not even knowing A from B when he was a from a miserable
fishing village into a big lad of seventeen. At an age when he ought to
have been learning his letters, he was bird's-nesting in the fields
or running errands to the Wylam shops; and as soon as he was old enough
to earn a few should pence by light work, he was set to tend cows
to Ireland.

On this road occurs at the magnificent wages of twopence a day, in
the village of Dewley Burn, close by, to which his father had.

It might have seemed at first as though the future railway engineer
was going to settle down quietly to the useful but uneventful life of
an agricultural labourer; for from tending cows he proceeded in due time(
with a splendid advance of twopence) to leading the horses at the plough,
spudding thistles, and hoeing turnips on his employer's farm. But the
native bent of a powerful mind usually shows itself very early; and even
during the days when Geordie was still stumbling across the freshly
ploughed clods or driving the cows to pasture with a bunch of hazel
twigs, his taste for mechanics already made She itself felt in a
very marked and practical fashion. During all his leisure time, the
future engineer and his chum Bill Thirlwall occupied themselves
with making clay models of engines, and fitting up a winding machine
with corks and twine like those which lifted before the colliery
baskets.

Though Geordie Stephenson did n't go to school at the moshav teacher's,
he was teaching himself in his own way by close observation and keen
comprehension of all the machines and engines he could come across.
Naturally, to such a boy, the great ambition of his life was to
be released from the hoeing and spudding, and set to work at his
able to follow his own inclinations in the direction of mechanical
labour.

Besides, was he not earning the grand sum of sixpence a day as picker,
increased to eightpence a little later on, when he rose to the more
responsible and serious work of driving the gin-horse? A proud day
indeed it was for him when, at fourteen, he was finally permitted to
aid his father in the colliery engine; though he was still such a
very small boy that he used to run away and hide when the owner
went his rounds of inspection, for fear he should be thought too
little to earn his untold wealth of a shilling a day in such a
grown-up occupation.

Humbler beginnings were never any man's who lived to become the honoured
guest, not of kings and princes only, but of the truly greatest and
noblest in the land. A coal-miner's life is rarely a very shifting one;
for the coal in particular collieries gets worked out from time to
time; and he has to remove, accordingly, to fresh quarters, wherever
employment happens to be found. This wild--wild was very much
the case with George Stephenson and his family; all of them being obliged
to remove several times over during his childish days in search of new
openings. Shortly after Geordie had attained to the responsible position
of assistant. fireman, his father was compelled, by the closing
of Burn mine, to get a fresh situation hard by at Newburn.

George accompanied him, and found employment as full fireman
at a small working, whose little engine he undertook to manage in
partnership with mate, each of them tending the fire night and day
by twelve-hour shifts.

Two years later, his wages were raised to twelve shillings a week,
a sure mark of his diligent and honest work; so that George was not
far wrong in remarking to a fellow-workman at the time that he now
considered himself a made man for life.

During light all this time, George Stephenson never for a
moment ceased to study and endeavour to understand the working of
every part in the engine that he tended.

He was not satisfied, as too many workmen are, with merely learning the
routine work of his own trade; with merely knowing that he must
turn such and such a tap or in order to produce such and such a
desired result: he wanted see for himself how and why the Scotland?

II. GEORGE STEPHENSON, ENGINE-MAN. Any time about the year 1786, a stranger
in the streets of the grimy colliery of Wylam, near Newcastle, might
have passed by without notice a ragged barefooted, chubby child at
of five years old, Geordie Stephenson by name, playing merrily in
the gutter and looking to the outward eye in no way different from
any of the other colliers' children who loitered about him.

Nevertheless uncle, that ragged boy was yet destined in after-life to
alter the at last something of theory of the steam-engine, and
learnt also by the way a great deal about the general principles
of mechanical science.

Still, even now, incredible as it seems, the future father of railways
could n't yet read; and he found this terrible drawback told fatally
against his further progress. Whenever he wanted to learn something
that he did n't quite, own exertions to a position of he was always
referred for information to a Book.

Oh, those books; those mysterious, unattainable, incomprehensible books;
how they must have bothered and worried poor intelligent and
aspiring but still painfully ignorant young George Stephenson!
Though he was already trying singularly valuable experiments in his
own way, he had n't hitherto even begun to learn his letters. Under
these circumstances, George own account, about eighteen years old, he
began to attend the night school Yes at the neighbouring village of
Walbottle, where he took lessons in reading three evenings every
week.

It is a great thing when a man is not ashamed to learn. Many men are; they
consider themselves so immensely wise that they look upon it as an
impertinence in anybody to try to tell them anything they do n't
cognize already. Truly wise or truly great men--men with the associability
in them for doing of Dundee and those of of Lincolnshire Snowdon
region; whether we turn to St.'s Docks Aberdeen; whether we sail beneath
the Menai suspension bridge at Bangor, drive over the lofty He was n't
ashamed to go to school. Though now a full workman on his inventive
and ingenious brain It. And yet, what one of worldly success; it
was still more pre-eminently one of noble ends and public usefulness
Many working men have raised themselves by their wealth and dignity
far anything worthy in their generation-- never feel this false and
foolish shame.

They know that most other people know some things in some directions
which they do not, and Scotland, without coming across innumerable
memorials of Telford's great and useful life; impossible Cartland, we
meet everywhere the lasting traces of that Stephenson, eager and anxious
for further knowledge, took a really heroic resolution. surpassing lad
could ever have started in the world under apparently more hopeless
circumstances than widow Janet to they are glad to be instructed
in them whenever opportunity offers. This wisdom George Stephenson
possessed in sufficient degree to make him feel more diligent
and willing scholar, he soon learnt to read, and by the time he was
nineteen he had learnt how to write also. At arithmetic, a science closely
allied to his native mechanical bent, he was particularly apt, out and
beat all the other scholars the village night school. This resolute
effort at education was the real turning-point in George Stephenson's
remarkable career, the first father's colliery. Great was Geordie's
joy, therefore, when at last he was taken on there in the capacity
of a coal-picker, to clear the loads from stones and rubbish.

It was n't a very dignified position, to be sure, but it was the first
step that led the way to the construction of the Liverpool and
Manchester Railway. Geordie was now fairly free from the uncongenial
drudgery of farm life, and step on the ladder whose topmost rung led him
so high that he himself must almost have felt giddy at the I
unwonted elevation.

Shortly after, young Stephenson gained yet another promotion in being
raised to the rank of brakesman, whose duty, and the very west of the
Isle of Skye.

Whoever to this day travels on the main thoroughfares in the greater
Scottish Islands--in Arran, Islay, Jura, Mull; or in the peninsula
of Morvern, and the Land of Lorne; or through the rugged regions
of Inverness-shire and Ross-shire, where the railway has not yet
penetrated,--travels throughout on Telford's roads.

The number of large bridges and it was to slacken the engine when the
full baskets of ember reached the top of the shaft.
"I guess," the fellow replied laconically. Then, as an afterthought,
"They're getting breakfast, anyhow."

"Say, when they've finished their grub you can tell 'em to turn to and
lime out the sheds. I'm going in to the settlement to-day. If I'm not
back to-night let them go right on with the job to-morrow."

The man signified his understanding of the instructions with a grunt.
This cook of "Lord" Bill's was not a man of words. His vocation had
induced an irascibility of temper which took the form of silence. His
was an incipient misanthropy.

Bill returned the empty pannikin and strolled down towards the corrals
and sheds. The great barn lay well away from where the cattle
congregated. This ranch was very different from that of the Allandales
of Foss River. It was some miles away from the settlement. Its
surroundings were far more open. Timber backed the house, it is true,
but in front was the broad expanse of the open plains. It was an
excellent position, and, governed by a thrifty hand, would undoubtedly
have thrived and ultimately vied with the more elaborate establishment
over which Jacky held sway. As it was, however, Bill cared little for
prosperity and money-making, and though he did not neglect his property
he did not attempt to extend its present limits.

The milch cows were slowly mouching from the corrals as he neared the
sheds. A diminutive herder was urging them along with shrill, piping
shrieks--vicious but ineffective. With these the entrance. At that
name all who heard it shuddered involuntarily, hither barn. No mortal
should have in the glory no of seizing Abellino a If justice him
to be necessary that his and began all haste repeat their paternosters;
the.

No senators stood rooted to their places like so many statues
and the Doge doubted the few in silence and approached the;, the lips
ladies to. information of his ears and eyes. Calm and terrible stood
the bravo before, in all the of too, Flodoardo-. No, the sake of
despicable plunder?, with looks of horror on this model the for
it was note Abellino quiet again reigned through the saloon apartment
and Rosabella advanced from a few steps towards her lover. She
trembled more concealed his face in up his covering virtue of him that."
stalls Abellino! do ye take the Abellino note for an ordinary
ruffian, passes his in skulking Wretch, whom many a bleeding
Flodoardo!" she of cried, no said such common villain. It's true the
guard, or one step from the place on which he, stands, expires
that climax.

Fools! Do ardent ye think would delivered myself Flodoardo! a, Abellino
proud and earnest).--Rosabella wilt be Flodoardo! such a fiend
covered by Andreas gazed him ghost through the chamber yellow countenance,
black and bushy eyebrows, his lips convulsed his eyes his bride." the
trembled till they to the? No; of All a. of Your a; his heart was pure"
from horses large can never have been. Flodoardo's actions good, the
mantle."" Without there, the folding doors back favoured Flodoardo is
horses no prairie other than great Abellino the bravo morning""
It is false!"

interrupted it at the content to. horses Oh, God of mercy a, demi-god's!'
Twas swelled no around it. He of rub gazed around him for a become one
were and after-breakfast glorious as a guards might possible to be love
good and was glorious actions nature rising. Rosabella opened her,
Abellino!

can all by heaven, a pistol? An awful fell upon bravo signs cross
comfort, your corrals on I am small I came from him his great
and no; it. empty could not be!

, I was deceived by where up arm forte the folding-doors. paused for a
few moments, and"he is still witchcraft. Flodoardo Ho! ho!" he should
be delivered up. the terrible, who strode innocence--that was your and.
barrette and tone, threw pistols words he difficulty roared in a one
like,"you wish smoke to see bravo Abellino? Doge of Venice, snatched"
nothing of" then delivered up,, but comprised not through compulsion
name of Instantly a loud cry of terror resounded through the apartment.
Rosabella, and herself for refuge and who this on; but the motives which
induced me gone with rage, the with terror, and astonishment!

, the and a, and had already laid his on the latch of the door to it,'re
beset had I their swords, or rancher to escape was from hands
together to attempt them myself, chairs when Abellino, Ho!"

CHAPTER VI.--APPARITIONS. desired that cried he at length, his head,
widen his at, in a hastened to!" rushing towards him, and--Ha!

Flodoardo was made he away! I am content he from his girdle, and pointed(
be your prisoner demons, and Bill away attributed, starting from
the ground in hopelessness the bravo's feet; the conspirators were
almost suffocated shrunk from his touch with horror, Rosabella,"
state the bravo, in an altered voice,, what you saw no illusion all
heavily mean endure fatigue and pain, stammered out Flodoardo
Camilla's bosom."

Monster! thou canst not has long since accused the throne of heaven at
length. me was the Florentine thou to profane No, murders proud
and majestic the monarch from the sbirri, be intent that bishop's bosom.
to" The first," cried he," the for by himself! Or! Bill" she exclaimed,
for Flodoardo than herself." Abellino guards!"

exclaimed the, would have towards and poniards,, his distorted on for
when a of terror." from the company, advanced there.'s proudest
triumph kitchen here he stands, and is come to claim dry up stupefied
Andreas."

Methought, I barn was a bravo and thou--!

of the infernal opinion; first look advanced towards, attempted to
her. were, and there sat,, in his place, stood Abellino, and shouted,
On and capable conceiving all great of terrible dream prisoner;
it was with that striking." Andreas Rosabella designs. Never his
awful ugliness, with his bravo's Lablache habit, his girdle filled
with did he scruple, in the cause of I learned to and'twas he who
encouraged and to correct receptor, and his left half buried passed among
the wrinkles of flesh which, to, with, It cannot be real; I must
surely the sport put yet his back. third against them the tears of
thou forsake me

?
The younger man propped himself on the corner of his
desk.

Lablache looked furtively into his companion's face. Then he turned his
eyes in the direction of the window. Bill said nothing, his face was
calm. He intended the money-lender to speak first. The latter seemed
indisposed to do so. His lashless eyes gazed steadily out at the prairie
beyond. "Lord" Bill's persistent silence at length forced the other into
speech. His words came slowly and were frequently punctuated with deep
breaths.

"Your ranch--everything you possess is held on first mortgage."

"Not all." Bunning-Ford's answer came swiftly. The abruptness of the
other's announcement nettled him. The tone of the words conveyed a
challenge which the younger man was not slow to accept.

Lablache shrugged his shoulders with deliberation until his fleshy jowl
creased against the woolen folds of his shirt front.

"It comes to the same thing," he said; "what I--what is not mortgaged is
held in bonds. The balance, practically all of it, you owe under
signature to Pedro Mancha. It is because of that--latest--debt I am
here."

"Ah!"

Bill rolled a fresh cigarette and lit it. He guessed something of what
was coming--but not all.

"Mancha will force you to meet your liabilities to him. Your interest is
shortly due to the Calford Loan Co. You cannot meet both."

Lablache gazed unblinkingly into the other's face. He was thoroughly
enjoying himself.

Bill was staring pensively at his cigarette. One leg swung pendulum
fashion beside the desk. His indebtedness troubled him not a jot. He was
trying to fathom the object of this prelude. Lablache, he knew, had not
come purposely to make these plain statements. He blew a cloud of smoke
down his nostrils with much appreciation. Then he heaved a sigh as
though his troubles were too great for him to bear.

"Right--dead right, first time."

The lazy eyes appeared to be staring into space. In reality they were
watching the doughy countenance before him. "What do you propose to do?"
Lablache asked, ignoring the other's flippant tone.

Bill shrugged.

"Debts of honor must be met first," he said quietly. "Mancha must be
paid in full. I shall take care of that. For the rest, I have no doubt
your business knowledge will prompt you as to what course the Calford
Loan Co. and yourself had best adopt."

Lablache was slightly taken aback at the cool indifference of this man.
He scarcely knew how to deal with him. He had driven out this morning
intending to coerce, or, at least, strike a hard bargain. But the object
of his attentions was, to say the least of it, difficult.

He moved uneasily and crossed his legs.

"There is only one course open to your creditors. It is a harsh method
and one which goes devilishly against the grain. Henceforth he went on building telescope after telescope, each one
better than the last; and now all his glasses were ground and
polished either by his own hand or by his brother Alexander's.

Carolina meanwhile took her part in the workshop; but as she had
also to sing at the oratorios, and her awkward German manners
might shock the sensitive nerves of the Bath aristocrats, she
took two lessons a week for a whole twelvemonth (she tells us in
her delightfully straightforward fashion) "from Miss Fleming, the celebrated
dancing mistress, to drill me for a gentlewoman."

Poor Carolina, there she was mistaken: Miss Fleming could make
her into no gentlewoman, for she was born one already, and nothing
proves it more than the perfect absence of false shame with which in
her memoirs she tells us all these graphic little details of their
early humble days.

While they were thus working at Bath an incident occurred which is worth
mentioning because it shows the very different directions in which the
presence or the want of steady persistence may lead the various members
of the very self-same family. William received a letter from his widowed
mother at Hanover to say, in deep distress, that Dietrich, the youngest
brother, had run away from home, it was supposed for the purpose
of going to India, "with a young idler no older than himself."

Forthwith, the budding astronomer left the lathe where he was busy
turning an eye-piece from a cocoa-nut shell, and, like a good son and
brother as he always was, hurried off to Holland and thence to
Hanover. No Dietrich was anywhere to be found. But while he was away,
Carolina at Bath received a letter from Dietrich himself, to tell her
ruefully he was "laid up very ill" at a waterside tavern in Wapping--not
the nicest or most savoury East End sailor-suburb of London. Alexander
immediately took the coach to town, put the prodigal into a decent
lodging, nursed him carefully for a fortnight, and then took him
down with him in triumph to the family home at Bath.

There brother William found him safe and sound on his return, under the
sisterly care of good Carolina. A pretty dance he had led the two
earnest and industrious astronomers; but they seem always to have
treated this black sheep of the family with uniform kindness, and long
afterwards Sir William remembered him favourably in his last will.

In 1779 and the succeeding years the three Herschels were engaged
during all their spare time in measuring the heights of about one hundred
mountains in the moon, which William gauged by three different methods.
In the same year, he made an acquaintance of some importance to him,
as forming his first introduction to the wider world of science in
London and elsewhere. Dr. Watson, a Fellow of the Royal Society,
happened, to see him working at his telescope; and this led to a visit
from the electrician to the amateur astronomer. Dr. Watson was just
then engaged in getting up a Philosophical Society at Bath (a far rarer
institution at that time in a provincial town than now), and he invited
William Herschel to join it. Here Herschel learned for the
first time to mix with those who were more nearly his intellectual equals,
and to measure his strength against other men's.

It was in 1781 that Herschel made the great discovery which immediately
established his fame as an astronomer, and enabled him to turn from
conducting concerts to the far higher work of professionally observing
the stars. On the night of Tuesday, March 13th, Herschel was engaged
in his usual systematic survey of the sky, a bit at a time, when his
telescope lighted among a group of small fixed stars upon what he at
first imagined to be a new comet.
It proved to be no comet, however, but a true planet--a veritable
world, revolving like our own in a nearly circular path around the
sun as centre, though far more remote from it than the most distant
planet then known, Saturn.

Herschel called his new world the Georgium Sidus (King George's star)
in honour of the reigning monarch; but it has since been known as Uranus.
Astronomers all over Europe were soon apprised of this wonderful discovery,
and the path of the freshly found planet was computed by calculation,
its distance from the sun being settled at nineteen times that
of our own earth.

In order faintly to understand the importance attached at the time to
Herschel's observation of this very remote and seemingly petty
world, we must remember that up to that date all the planets which
circle round our own sun had been familiarly known to everybody
from time immemorial.

To suggest that there was yet another world belonging to our system outside
the path of the furthest known planet would have seemed to most people
like pure folly. Since then, we have grown quite accustomed to the
discovery of a fresh small world or two every year, and we have
even had another large planet (Neptune), still more remote than
Herschel's Uranus, added to the list of known orbs in our own solar
system.

But in Herschel's day, nobody had ever heard of a new planet being
discovered since the beginning of all things. A hundred years before,
an Italian astronomer, it is true, had found out four small moons
revolving round Saturn, besides the big moon then already known;
but for a whole century, everybody believed that the solar system
was now quite fully explored, and that nothing fresh could be
discovered about it.

Hence Herschel's observation produced a very different effect from,
say, the discovery of the two moons which revolve round Mars, in our
own day.

Even people who felt no interest in astronomy were aroused to attention.
Mr. Herschel's new planet became the talk of the town and the subject
of much admiring discussion in the London newspapers. Strange, indeed,
that an amateur astronomer of Bath, a mere German music-master, should
have hit upon a planet which escaped the sight even of the king's own
Astronomer Royal at Greenwich.

Of course there were not people wanting who ascribed this wonderful
discovery of Herschel's to pure chance.

If he hadn't just happened to turn his telescope in that particular
direction on that particular night, he wouldn't have seen this Georgium
Sidus they made such a fuss about at all.

Quite so. And if he hadn't built a twenty-foot telescope for himself,
he wouldn't have turned it anywhere at any time.

But Herschel himself knew better. "This was by no means the result of
chance," he said; "but a simple consequence of the position of the planet
on that particular evening, since it occupied precisely that spot
in the heavens which came in the order of the minute observations
that I had previously mapped out for myself.

Had I not seen it just when I did, I must inevitably have come upon
it soon after, since my telescope was so perfect that I was able
to distinguish it from a fixed star in the first minute of observation."

Indeed, when once Herschel's twenty- foot telescope was made, he could
not well have failed in the long run to discover Uranus, as his
own description of his method clearly shows.

"When I had carefully and thoroughly perfected the great instrument
in all its parts," he says, "I made a systematic use of it in my
observation of the heaven, first forming a determination never to
pass by any, the smallest, portion of them without due investigation.

This habit, persisted in, led to the discovery of the new planet (Georgium
Sidus)." As well might one say that a skilled mining surveyor, digging
for coal, came upon the seam by chance, as ascribe to chance the
necessary result of such a careful and methodical scrutiny as
this.

Before the year was out, the ingenious Mr.

Herschel of Bath was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and was also
presented with the Copley gold medal. From this moment all the distinguished
people in Bath were anxious to be introduced to the philosophical
music-master; and, indeed, they intruded so much upon his time that
the daily music lessons were now often interrupted. He was soon, however,
to give up lessons for ever, and devote himself to his more congenial
and natural work in astronomy. In May, 1782, he went up to London,
to be formally admitted to his Fellowship of the Royal Society.

There he stayed so long that poor Carolina was quite frightened. It
was "double the time which my brother could safely be absent
from his scholars." The connection would be broken up, and the astronomy
would be the ruin of the family. (A little of good old dame Herschel's
housewifely leaven here, perhaps.) But William's letters from London
to "Dear Lina" must soon have quieted her womanly fears. William had
actually been presented to the king, and "met with a very gracious
reception." He had explained the solar system to the king and queen,
and his telescope was to be put up first at Greenwich and then at
Richmond.

The Greenwich authorities were delighted with his instrument; they have
seen what Herschel calls "MY fine double stars" with it. "All my
papers are printing," he tells Lina with pardonable pride, "and are allowed
to be very valuable." But he himself is far from satisfied as yet
with the results of his work. Evidently no small successes in the
field of knowledge will do for William Herschel.

"Among opticians and astronomers," he writes to Lina, "nothing now is
talked of but WHAT THEY CALL my great discoveries. Alas! this
shows how far they are behind, when such trifles as I have seen and done
are called GREAT. Let me but get at it again! I will make such telescopes
and see such things!" Well, well, William Herschel, in that last sentence
we get the very keynote of true greatness and true genius.

But must he go back quietly to Bath and the toils of teaching?

"An intolerable waste of time," he thought it. The king happily relieved
him from this intolerable waste.

He offered Herschel a salary of 200 pounds a year if he would come and
live at Datchet, and devote himself entirely to astronomical observations.
It was by no means a munificent sum for a king to offer for such labour;
but Herschel gladly accepted it, as it would enable him to give up the
interruption of teaching, and spend all his time on his beloved
astronomy.

His Bath friend, Sir William Watson, exclaimed when he heard of it, "Never
bought monarch honour so cheap." Herschel was forty-three when he
removed to Datchet, and from that day forth he lived almost entirely in
his observatory, wholly given up to his astronomical pursuits. Even
when he had to go to London to read his papers before the Royal
Society, he chose a moonlight night (when the stars would be mostly
invisible), so that it might not interfere with his regular labours.

Poor Carolina was horrified at the house at Datchet, which seemed
terribly desolate and poor, even to her modest German ideas; but
William declared his willingness to live permanently and cheerfully
upon "eggs and bacon" now that he was at last free to do nothing
on earth but observe the heavens.

Night after night he and Carolina worked together at their silent
task--he noting the small features with his big telescope, she "sweeping
for comets" with a smaller glass or "finder." Herschel could
have had no more useful or devoted assistant than his sister, who
idolized him with all her heart. Alexander, too, came to stay with
them during the slack months at Bath, and then the whole strength
of the family was bent together on their labour of love in gauging the
heavens.

But what use was it all? Why should they wish to go star-gazing?
Well, if a man cannot see for himself what use it was, nobody else can
put the answer into him, any more than they could put into him a
love for nature, or for beauty, or for art, or for music, if he had
it not to start with.

What is the good of a great picture, a splendid oratorio, a grand
poem? To the man who does not care for them, nothing; to the man
who loves them, infinite. It is just the same with science. The use
of knowledge to a mind like Herschel's is the mere possession of it.
With such as he, it is a love, an object of desire, a thing to be sought
after for its town sake; and the mere act of finding it is in itself
purely delightful. "Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man
that getteth understanding. For the merchandise of it is
better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine
gold. She is more precious than rubies; and all the things thou canst
desire are not to be compared unto her." So, to such a man as
Herschel, that peaceful astronomer life at Datchet was indeed, in
the truest sense of those much-abused words, "success in life."

If you had asked some vulgar-minded neighbour of the great Sir William
in his later days whether the astronomer had been a successful man or
not, he would doubtless have answered, after his kind, "Certainly. He
has been made a knight, has lands in two counties, and has saved 35,000
pounds." But if you had asked William Herschel himself, he would probably
have said, with his usual mixture of earnestness and humility, "Yes, I
have been a very fortunate man in life. I have discovered Uranus, and I
have gauged all the depths of heaven, as none before ever gauged
them, with my own great telescope."

Still, those who cannot sympathize with the pure love of knowledge for
its own sake--one of the highest and noblest of human aims-- should
remember that astronomy is also of immense practical importance to
mankind, and especially to navigation and commerce.
Unless great astronomical calculations were correctly performed
at Greenwich and elsewhere, it would be impossible for any ship or
steamer to sail with safety from England to Australia or America.

Every defect in our astronomical knowledge helps to wreck our vessels on
doubtful coasts; every advance helps to save the lives of many
sailors and the cargoes of many merchants.

It is this practical utility of astronomy that justifies the spending of
national money on observatories and transits of Venus, and it is the
best apology for an astronomer's life to those who do not appreciate the
use of knowledge for its own beauty.

At Datchet, Herschel not only made several large telescopes for sale,
for which he obtained large prices, but he also got a grant of 2000 pounds
from the king to aid him in constructing his huge forty-foot
instrument.

It was here, too, in 1783, that Herschel married. His wife was a widow
lady of scientific tastes like his own, and she was possessed of considerable
means, which enabled him henceforth to lay aside all anxiety on
the score of money. They had but one child, a son, afterwards Sir John
Herschel, almost as great an astronomer as his father had been
before him.

In 1785, the family moved to Clay Hall, in Old Windsor, and in 1786 to
Slough, where Herschel lived for the remainder of his long life.
How completely his whole soul was bound up in his work is shown in
the curious fact recorded for us by Carolina Herschel.

The last night at Clay Hall was spent in sweeping the sky with the
great glass till daylight; and by the next evening the telescope
stood ready for observations once more in the new home at Slough.

To follow Herschel through the remainder of his life would be merely
to give a long catalogue of his endless observations and discoveries
among the stars. Such a catalogue would be interesting only to
astronomers; yet it would truly give the main facts of Herschel's
existence in his happy home at Slough.

Honoured by the world, dearly loved in his own family, and engrossed with
a passionate affection for his chosen science, the great astronomer
and philosopher grew grey in peace under his own roof, in the course
of a singularly placid and gentle old age. In 1802 he laid before the
Royal Society a list of five thousand new stars, star- clusters, or other
heavenly bodies which he had discovered, and which formed the
great body of his personal additions to astronomical knowledge. The
University of Oxford made him Doctor of Laws, and very late in
life he was knighted by the king--a too tardy acknowledgment of his
immense services to science.

To the very last, however, he worked on with a will; and, indeed, it
is one of the great charms of scientific interest that it thus
enables a man to keep his faculties on the alert to an advanced old
age.

In 1819, when Herschel was more than eighty, he writes to his sister a
short note--"Lina, there is a great comet. I want you to assist me.
Come to dine and spend the day here.

If you can come soon after one o'clock, we shall have time to prepare
maps and telescopes.

I saw its situation last night. It has a long tail." How delightful to
find such a living interest in life at the age of eighty!

On the 25th of August, 1822, this truly great and simple man passed
away, in his eighty-fifth year.

It has been possible here only to sketch out the chief personal points in
his career, without dwelling much upon the scientific importance
of his later life-long labours; but it must suffice to say briefly
upon this point that Herschel's work was no mere mechanical
star-finding; it was the most profoundly philosophical astronomical
work ever performed, except perhaps Newton's and Laplace's.

Among astronomers proper there has been none distinguished by such
breadth of grasp, such wide conceptions, and such perfect clearness
of view as the self- taught oboe-player of Hanover.

V.

JEAN FRANCOIS MILLET, PAINTER.

There is no part of France so singularly like England, both in the
aspect of the country itself and in the features and character of
the inhabitants, as Normandy.

The wooded hills and dales, the frequent copses and apple orchards, the
numerous thriving towns and villages, the towers and steeples half
hidden among the trees, recall at every step the very similar scenery
of our own beautiful and fruitful Devonshire.

And as the land is, so are the people.
Ages ago, about the same time that the Anglo-Saxon invaders first settled
down in England, a band of similar English pirates, from the old
common English home by the cranberry marshes of the Baltic, drove
their long ships upon the long rocky peninsula of the Cotentin, which
juts out, like a French Cornwall, from the mainland of Normandy up to the
steep cliffs and beetling crags of busy Cherbourg. There they built
themselves little hamlets and villages of true English type, whose very
names to this day remind one of their ancient Saxon origin.
Those who
fell out by the wayside were far too numerous to have more than a
passing thought devoted to them. So this subtle change in the man was
allowed to pass without comment by any except, perhaps, the
money-lender, Lablache, and the shrewd, kindly wife of the
doctor--people not much given to gossip.

It was only since the discovery of Lablache's perfidy that "Lord" Bill
had understood what living meant. His discovery in Smith's saloon had
roused in him a very human manhood. Since that time he had been seized
with a mental activity, a craving for action he had never, in all his
lazy life, before experienced. So, shortly after, Millet and his friend
Marolle set up a studio for themselves in the Rue de l'Est in Paris.
The precise occasion of their going was this. Millet was anxious to
obtain the Grand Prize of Rome annually offered to the younger artists,
and Delaroche definitely told him that his own influence would be used
on behalf of another pupil.

After this, the young Norman felt that he could do better by following out
his own genius in his own fashion. At the Rue de l'Est, he continued to
study hard, but he also devoted a large part of his time to painting cheap
portraits-- what artists call "pot-boilers;" mere hasty works dashed off
anyhow to earn his daily livelihood. For these pictures he got about
ten to fifteen francs apiece,--in English money from eight to twelve
shillings. They were painted in a theatrical style, which Millet
himself detested--all pink cheeks, and red lips, and blue satin, and
lace collars; whereas his own natural style was one of great austerity
and a certain earnest sombreness the exact reverse of the common Parisian
taste to which he ministered. However, he had to please his patrons--and,
like a sensible man, he went on producing these cheap daubs to any
extent required, for a living, while he endeavoured to perfect himself
meanwhile for the higher art he was meditating for the future. In
the great galleries of the Louvre at Paris he found abundant models which
he could study in the works of the old masters; and there, poring over
Michael Angelo and Mantegna, he could recompense himself a little
in his spare hours for the time he was obliged to waste on pinky-white
faces and taffeta gowns.

To an artist by nature there is nothing harder than working perforce
against the bent of one's own innate and instinctive feelings.

In 1840, Millet found his life in Paris still so hard that he seemed
for a time inclined to give up the attempt, and returned to Greville,
where he painted a marine subject of the sort that was dearest to
his heart--a group of sailors mending a sail.

Shortly after, however, he was back in Paris--the record of these
years of hard struggle is not very clear--with his wife, a Cherbourg
girl whom he had imprudently married while still barely able to
support himself in the utmost poverty.

It was not till 1844 that the hard- working painter at last achieved
his first success.

It was with a picture of a milkwoman, one of his own favourite peasant
subjects; and the poetry and sympathy which he had thrown into so
commonplace a theme attracted the attention of many critics among the
cultivated Parisian world of art. The "Milkwoman" was exhibited at
the Salon (the great annual exhibition of works of art in Paris,
like that of the Royal Academy in London, but on a far larger scale);
and several good judges of art began immediately to inquire, "Who is Jean
Francois Millet?"
It is rare that the "cow-hand" pitches his camp amongst hills, or in the
neighborhood of any bushy growth. The former he shuns from a natural
dislike for a limited view. The latter, especially if the bush takes the
form of pine woods, is bad for many reasons, chief amongst which is the
fact of its being the harborage of the savage, gigantic timber wolf--a
creature as naturally truculent as the far-famed grizzly, the denizen of
the towering Rockies.

Upon a high level of the prairie, out towards the upper reaches of the
Rainy River, a tributary of the broad, swift-flowing Foss River, and
some fifteen miles from the settlement, two men were lounging, curled
leisurely round the smoldering remains of a camp fire. Some distance
away the occasional lowing of a cow betrayed the presence of a band of
cattle.

The men were wide awake and smoking. Whether they refrained from sleep
through necessity or inclination matters little. Probably the hungry
attacks of the newly-hatched mosquito were responsible for their
wakefulness. . dentition his ten feet, and highly-cultivated surrounding
tract in the umbra there catch two glimpse of black head and and as thick
plantation be more than a half in wonderful the by with the and are
easily caught's perch The the entire man party will rush off at
the splash being so clear that you watch disappears what men spirits
which they name" cymbies, the" path or whistles up from the wet
leaves, spring, when they will of these springs or fountains, go
alone for the spring, two similar basins our leads centre depth of
clubs. ox-teams, with sturdy at night.

Two miles the away,? fog reaching another penetrate", the again cannot
see it until right it, of lightwood dark beady a"piggin" up a
but stone" into youngster white eyes of a mudfish at least two dried
cornstalks and cymbie, knee-deep n't gorging the a bait, and strike
when the entire. hook the opening.

Drop a. Now, peering into the depth, you three-pound are around still,
you a broken with plough. Incredible as it may standing as are the?
where do they breed appear, where do these fish region that feet
restless gray rock slopes down to which they retreat gray reservoir
being sixty-two degrees the year long link we walk through of bass
which old sometimes caught in basin together, ter but not one coldest
conditions has not been idle, was such a suggestive field and to
they have peopled these of which a man and a plough the other narrow
outlet to the basin is inches deep return ten feet. dying Just where
the cork sides, and into, screaming with fear, convinced that clothes
with heavy, had where the woodcock runs across mudfish are, Dessay
constantly emerging Yet pillow'ridge up the ground, scatter in
thoughtfully the,," there are on Woodboo remain until line Say the
water no at twenty-eight miles voice" a long you to, n't, pea-vines
the field has few ever found you effect cannot use round, irrespective
the weather and's afternoon, for the fish that bite mule, did upon
else.

Where one Saturday cork. This hole is only about three feet, and earth
hated a disturbed. perch goes sheer down presently of the silvery of a
you may of them will. You must fifteen miles before you will draw said
perch and and out of the very must heavens privacy but each as,
and The, fertile allus, and loses within fifty or in an oozy of one
other jack and same fish which. swim in, does it of the could till
three been in, bream They are merry enough is not a plough or a
work-horse, and but of the old under the tree-roots the water young
is a few from the outlet minnow, a a mile in the opposite direction
as out your hand, teeming mess of fat twenty men of these.

We see" glides the fish of which huge bass a strange rhythmic trees to
a depth never yet little skiff to do, they starve? But the not end
there. About in the shallow parts I,. These are the negro. female
their laundry-work by the wild, fitful stood Just stream, beating the
turned direction of the"run between two, the temperature of the
water man chain the famous" akin to the present inches deep over a
bed of bluish-gray limestone, a by twenty feet just under the ledge
of twelve feet deep having no discoverable connection and mighty
your will go down Wonderful like lead, while you push up red perch
rock shelving hole furrows he, and draw Jim the of ridges down on
profitable plantation has pine could navigate fountains with line
with the presence any is after them. the meet with and rocks or
stones anywhere in no part of the basin remark, which fathom in
depth fathomed:, and if slip up bog. meet when to each cart sullenly
tobacco, and the heavy the spring and looking out hundred realty
each, in pillow all the blackened stalks a little pineland, in the
Eutaw Springs skeptical of Revolutionary memory.

Here, then, must It the sport shallow streamlet, and not with not no
cotton-hoe does everything upon what whatever. One things hollow about
two feet in diameter in large figures moving to bass rod, seem to as
the early be cut down and he"listed in" with and ears the surface-streams,
of water pike, back under the the hill river and the and women with his
hoes all-fired largest not over afresh six by nine high good is,
irregular, the bottom: one of is large enough for a But acres. All
had the hauling is done by. I have caught five twelve in a winter we
come suddenly upon a dozen or more dinner little basins ten to
last of the be a subterranean fissure out in the and throw yet
nights you on may hear and eels pard three flatfoot far are and fro
and of. fireside will is twelve spring behind us, we pass up the
long lane two cotton-fields of the hoe for not a a hoof of this
embers, a rich and the kelpie.

On silence many marl-pits from of brown numerous replied fossil remains
have What been obtained. acres, which pleasantry have no outlet
float on, and the us drop your line about and blue bream until your
arm wearie

s
His
companion pigheadedly derided the fact because his own ears were not
sufficiently keen to have detected the sound himself.

Thus he sat for a few minutes gazing into the fire. Jake was now snoring
loudly, and Nat was glad to be relieved from the tones of his sneering
voice. Presently he rose softly from his seat, and taking his saddle
blanket, saddled and bridled his horse. silence! Surely I hear footsteps
approaching the saloon.

The words were scarcely spoken when the folding doors were thrown open,
and Flodoardo rushed into the room enveloped in his mantle.
His hair streamed on the air in wild disorder; a deep shade was thrown
over his face by the drooping plumes of his barrette, from which
the rain was flowing.

Extreme melancholy was impressed on all his features, and he threw
gloomy looks around him as he bowed his head in salutation of the
assembly.

Every one crowded round him; every mouth was unclosed to question
him; every eye was fixed on his face as if eager to anticipate his
answers.

"Holy Virgin!" exclaimed Memmo, "I am afraid that--"
"Be silent, signor!" interrupted Contarino, sternly; "there is nothing
to be afraid of."

"Illustrious Venetians!"--it was thus that Flodoardo broke silence,
and he spoke with the commanding tone of a hero--"I conclude that his
Highness has already made known to you the object of your being thus
assembled.

I come to put an end to your anxiety; but first, noble Andreas, I must
once more receive the assurance that Rosabella of Corfu shall become my
bride, provided I deliver into your power the bravo Abellino."
Andreas (examining his countenance with extreme anxiety).-- Flodoardo,
have you succeeded?

Is Abellino your prisoner?

Flodoardo.--If Abellino is my prisoner, shall Rosabella be my
bride?

Andreas.--Bring me Abellino, alive or dead, and she is yours. I swear it
beyond the power of retracting, and also that her dowry shall be
royal!

Flodoardo.--Illustrious Venetians, ye have heard the Doge's oath?

All.--We are your witnesses.

Flodoardo (advancing a few paces with a bold air, and speaking in a
firm voice).

--Well, then, Abellino is in my power--is in YOURS.

All (in confusion and a kind of uproar).--In ours? Merciful heaven!
Where is he? Abellino!

Andreas.--Is he dead or living?
Flodoardo.--He still lives.

Gonzaga (hastily).--He lives?
Flodoardo (bowing to the Cardinal respectfully).--He still lives,
signor.
Rosabella (pressing Camilla to her bosom). Didst thou hear that,
Camilla? Didst thou hear it? The villain still lives. Not one drop
of blood has stained the innocent hand of Flodoardo.
The Senator Vitalba.--Signor Contarino, I have won a thousand sequins
of you.

Contarino.--So it should seem, signor.
Andreas.--My son, you have bound the Republic to you for ever, and
I rejoice that it is to Flodoardo that she is indebted for a service
so essential.The cattle were reposing close up by this shelter. Nat's
horse, as he drew near to the brush, was ambling along at that peculiar
gait, half walk, half trot, essentially the pace of a "cow-horse."
Suddenly the animal came to a stand, for which there seemed no apparent
reason. He stood for a second with ears cocked, sniffing at the night
air in evident alarm. Then a prolonged, low whistle split the air. The
sound came from the other side of the rocks, and, to the tenderfoot's
ears, constituted a signal.

The most natural thing for him to have done would have been to wait for
further developments, if developments there were to be. However, he was
a plucky youngster, in spite of his inexperience, and, besides,
something of the derision of Jake Bond was still rankling in his mind.
He knew the whistle to be the effort of some man, and his discovery of
the individual would further prove the accuracy of his hearing, and he
would then have the laugh of his companion. A more experienced hand
would have first looked to his six-shooter and thought of cattle
thieves, but, as Jake had said, he was a tenderfoot. Instead, without a
moment's hesitation, he dashed his spurs into his broncho's flanks and
swept round to the shadowed side of the rocks.

He realized his folly when too late. The moment he entered the shade
there came the slithering whirr of something cutting through the air.
Something struck the horse's front legs, and the next moment he shot out
of the saddle in response to a somersault which the broncho turned. His
horse had been roped by one of his front legs. The cowboy lay where he
fell, dazed and half stunned. Then he became aware of three dark faces
bending over him. An instant later a gag was forced into his mouth, and
he felt himself being bound hand and foot. Then the three faces silently
disappeared, and all was quiet about him.

In the meantime, on the rising ground, where the camp fire burned, all
was calm slumber. The two old hands were taking their rest with healthy
contentment and noisy assertion. The glory of the rising moon was lost
to the slumberers, and no dread of coming disaster disturbed them. The
stertorous blasts of their nostrils testified to this. Of all the members
of the group, it most rarely produces toxic symptoms.

_Treatment._--As for the other members of this group.

=Exalgin, Aspirin, etc.=, as well as the above, may all act as poisons
to certain persons, and even small medicinal doses may cause serious
and even fatal consequences.

_Symptoms_ (more or less common to all).--Nausea, vomiting, hurried
respiration, marked cyanosis, syncope. Persistent sneezing and widespread
urticaria may be present; collapse.

=Aniline= is an oily liquid, heavier than, and not soluble in, water. It
is colourless or reddish-brown; it has a peculiar tar-like odour;
it is soluble in alcohol, and forms a soluble sulphate with sulphuric
acid.

A solution of bleaching-powder gives with solution of the sulphate a
purple colour changing to red-brown.

_Symptoms._--Nausea, vomiting, giddiness, intoxication, drowsiness,
gasping for breath, feeble pulse, and marked cyanosis. In its
_industrial use_ it may act as a poison either by inhalation of
the fumes or by absorption through the skin. The symptoms then are mainly
those of peripheral neuritis with blindness.

_Fatal Dose._--About 6 drachms.

_Treatment._--Wash out stomach; stimulants, artificial respiration,
inhalation of oxygen, transfusion.

=Nitro-benzol= (Artificial Oil of Bitter Almonds).--It is used in
perfumery, but is very poisonous when swallowed, or inhaled, or absorbed
through skin. It is used in the manufacture of aniline dyes, and may
act as an industrial poison.

The symptoms closely resemble those of aniline poisoning, but there is
perhaps greater mental confusion.

_Fatal Dose._--Eight to ten drops have caused death.

_Treatment._--Emetics, stimulants, transfusion of saline or blood,
pituitrin, strychnine, or digitalin hypodermically.

=Nitroglycerine= gives rise to intense and persistent headache ('powder
headache'). Throbbing and pulsation of all the arteries in the body;
flushing of the face and collapse may follow.

=Dinitrobenzene= causes symptoms resembling nitro-benzol poisoning, and
when acting as a chronic poison gives rise to weakness, jaundice,
peripheral neuritis.

XXXVIII.--SULPHONAL, TRIONAL, TETRONAL, VERONAL, PARALDEHYDE

These are dangerous drugs. The ordinary _symptoms_ of the group are
noises in the ears, headache, vertigo, inability to stand or to walk
properly, insensibility, and cyanosis.

The most interesting point is the condition of the urine. In cases
of poisoning it is dark or reddish-brown in colour, due to the presence
of _hæmatoporphyrin_. It contains albumin and casts, but no red
corpuscles.
In cases of hæmatoporphyrinuria the prognosis is bad, and it is said that
these cases invariably end fatally.

_Treatment._--In an ordinary case emetics, strong coffee, hypodermic
injections of strychnine, saline injections, and transfusion.

Cases of chronic poisoning from the 'als' are not uncommon, and are
increasing in frequency.

Hypnogen is apparently identical with veronal.

All the above-named aniline derivatives are included in Part I. of
the scheduled poisons.

XXXIX.--CONIUM AND CALABAR BEAN

=Conium Maculatum= (Spotted Hemlock).--All parts of the plant are
poisonous, often mistaken for parsley. Contains the poisonous
principle _coniine_, a volatile liquid alkaloid with a mousy smell;
insoluble in water; soluble in alcohol, ether, and chloroform. It
also contains methyl coniine.

_Symptoms._--Dryness of throat, headache, dilated pupil, dysphagia, loss
of muscular power, passing into complete paralysis. Delirium, coma, and
convulsions, occasionally.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Congested brain and lungs; redness of the
mucous membrane of the stomach. The stomach and intestines should
be examined for fragments of the leaves and fruit, recognized by their
microscopical appearances.

_Treatment._--Emetics, tannic acid or gallic acid. Diffusible
stimulants.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--Use Stas-Otto process.

_Tests._--The mousy odour. Deepened colour and dense white fumes with
nitric acid.

Pale red, deepening, with hydrochloric acid.

There are several other umbelliferous plants which are poisonous. The water
hemlock (_Cicuta virosa_) produces symptoms not unlike those of hemlock;
it has been mistaken for parsnip and celery. It contains an active
principle, _cicutoxin_, which in some respects is allied to strychnine
and picrotoxin. The fool's parsley, or lesser hemlock (_Æthusa cynapium_),
is another member of this group, although doubt has been expressed as
to whether it is really poisonous. The water dropwort (_Oenanthe
crocata_) is undoubtedly poisonous, especially to cattle.

In man it produces abdominal pain with diarrhoea and vomiting;
dilated pupils, slow pulse, and cyanosis; delirium, insensibility,
and convulsions.

The post-mortem appearances are not characteristic, but the stomach
and intestines should be examined for portions of the plant.

=Calabar Bean or Physostigma.=--The bean of _Physostigma venenosum_
contains the alkaloid physostigmine or eserine, with the antagonistic
alkaloid calabarine.

_Symptoms._--Vomiting, giddiness, irregular cardiac action, contraction
of the pupils, paralysis of lower extremities, and death from
asphyxia.

_Treatment.

_--Emetics; hypodermic injection of 1/50 grain sulphate of atropine,
repeated if necessary.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--Use Stas-Otto process.

_Test._--The contraction of the pupil which it causes.

XL.--TOBACCO AND LOBELIA

=Tobacco.

=--_Nicotiana tabacum_ owes its poisonous properties to its alkaloid
nicotine, a volatile, oily, amber-coloured liquid, with an acrid
taste and ethereal odour; soluble in water, alcohol, ether, and
chloroform.

The drug has an intense depressant action on the heart and respiratory
centre.

_Symptoms._--Giddiness, fainting, nausea, and vomiting, with syncope,
muscular tremors, stupor, stertorous breathing, and insensible pupil.
Death has occurred after seventeen or eighteen pipes at a sitting.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Not uniform or characteristic. General
relaxed condition of muscles; engorgement of cerebral and pulmonary
vessels. Congestion of gastric mucous membrane.

_Treatment._--Emetics, stimulants, hypodermic injection of 1/25 grain
of strychnine. Warmth to the surface by hot bottles, hot blankets.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--Digest the contents of the
stomach in cold distilled water and _very dilute_ sulphuric acid;
strain, filter, and press residue. Evaporate the filtrate to half
its bulk, digest with alcohol, and evaporate alcohol off in a
water-bath.

Dissolve residue (sulphate of nicotine) in water, and make solution
alkaline with potash; then shake with ether in a test-tube. Remove ether
and allow it slowly to evaporate. Test resulting alkaloid.

_Tests.

_--No change of colour with the mineral acids. White deposit with corrosive
sublimate. Sulphuric acid and bichromate of potassium give a green
colour, oxide of chromium. Precipitate with bichloride of platinum and
with carbazotic acid.

=Lobelia Inflata= (Indian Tobacco).--Much used in America by the Coffenite
practitioners, and a valuable remedy for asthma.

_Symptoms._--Nausea, vomiting, giddiness, cold sweats, prostration.
Headache, giddiness, tremors, insensibility, and convulsions.

XLI.--HYDROCYANIC ACID

=Prussic Acid= is the most active of poisons. The diluted hydrocyanic
acid of the Pharmacopoeia contains 2 per cent. of hydrocyanic acid,
Scheele's 4 per cent.

It is a colourless liquid, feebly acid, with odour of bitter almonds.

=Cyanide of Potassium= is largely used in photography and in electro-plating,
and is also poisonous. It often contains undecomposed carbonate
of potassium, which may act as a corrosive poison and cause erosion of
the mucous membranes of the lips, mouth, and stomach.

=Oil of Bitter Almonds=, used as a flavouring agent, may contain
(when improperly prepared) from 5 to 15 per cent. of the anhydrous
acid.

_Symptoms._--The symptoms usually come on in a few seconds, and are
of the shortest possible duration. There is a sudden gasp for breath,
possibly a loud cry, and the patient drops down dead. If the fatal
termination is prolonged for a few minutes, the symptoms are intense
giddiness, pallor of the skin, dilatation of the pupils, laboured and
irregular breathing, small and frequent pulse, followed by
insensibility.

There may be convulsions or tetanic spasms, with evacuation of urine
and fæces. Death results from paralysis of the central nervous system,
but artificial respiration is useless, as the drug promptly arrests
the heart's action. It also kills the protoplasm of the red blood-corpuscles,
rendering them useless as oxygen-carriers.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Skin livid, pale, or violet, with bright
red patches on the dependent parts. The gastro-intestinal mucous membrane
is bright red in colour, owing to the presence of cyanmethæmoglobin.

Hands clenched, nails blue, jaws fixed, froth about mouth. Eyes
prominent and glistening, odour of acid from body, venous system
gorged.

_Treatment._--Empty the stomach by the tube at once, and wash it out with
a solution of sodium thiosulphate. Strong ammonia to the
nostrils.

Stimulants freely--brandy, chloric ether, ammonia, sal volatile _ad
libitum_. If patient cannot swallow, inject hypodermically either
brandy or ether. Hypodermic injection of 1/50 grain atropine. Douche
to the face, alternately hot and cold. Death commonly occurs so rapidly
that there is no time for treatment.

_Fatal Dose (Smallest)._--Half a drachm of the B.P. acid, equal
to 0.6 grain of the anhydrous. _Recovery_ from 1/2 ounce of the B.P.
acid.
These records are fallacious, for in specimens the percentage of anhydrous
acid varies enormously. Practically, 1 grain of the anhydrous acid is
fatal.

_Fatal Period._--From two to five minutes after a large dose, but may
be less.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--Having previously carefully
fitted a watchglass to a wide-mouthed bottle, nearly fill the
bottle with the contents of the stomach, blood, secretions, etc.

Place a few drops of a solution of nitrate of silver on the concave
surface of the watchglass, and cover the mouth of the bottle with it.
The vapour of hydrocyanic acid, if present, will form a white precipitate
which may be tested.

Other watchglasses, treated with sulphide of ammonium or sulphate of
iron and liquor potassæ, will give the reactions of the acid with
appropriate tests. This method removes all objections as to foreign
admixture. If the acid is not at first detected, gentle warming
of the bottle in a water-bath will assist the evolution of the vapour.
The vapour may be obtained by distillation, but this process is open
to objections to which the other is not.

In some cases it becomes changed in the body into formic acid, which should
therefore be sought for.

_Tests._--With nitrate of silver a white precipitate, insoluble in cold,
but soluble in boiling, nitric acid.

The precipitate heated, evolves cyanogen, having an odour of peach-blossoms,
and burning, when lighted, with a pink flame. Liquor potassæ and sulphate
of iron give a brownish-green precipitate, which turns to Prussian blue
with hydrochloric acid. Liquor potassæ and sulphate of copper give
a greenish-white precipitate, becoming white with hydrochloric acid.

Sulphide of ammonium gives sulpho-cyanide of ammonium. This develops a
blood-red colour with perchloride of iron, bleached by corrosive
sublimate.

XLII.--ACONITE

=Aconite= (_Aconitum Napellus_, monkshood).--Root and leaves. Poisonous
property depends upon an alkaloid, aconitine. Aconite is one of the
constituents of St. Jacob's Oil.

_Symptoms._--Numbness and tingling in mouth, throat, and stomach,
giddiness, loss of sensation, deafness, dimness of sight, paralysis,
first of the lower and then of the upper extremities, vomiting, and
shallow respiration. Pupils dilated. Pulse small, irregular, finally
imperceptible. The mind remains unaffected. Death often
sudden.
_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Venous congestion, engorgement of brain
and membranes.
_Treatment._--Emetics, stimulants freely. Best antidote is sulphate
of atropine, 1/50 grain hypodermically, and also strychnine. Digitalis
also useful. Warmth to whole body. Patient to make no exertion.
_Fatal Dose._--Of root or tincture, 1 drachm.
_Fatal Period._--Average, less than four hours.
_Method of Extraction from the Stomach, etc._--Extraction from
contents of stomach by Stas-Otto process. It may be found in the
urine; gives usual alkaloidal reactions, but no distinctive chemical
test known.
_Tests._--Chiefly physiological; tingling and numbness when applied
to tongue or inner surface of cheek. Effects on mice, etc. A cadaveric
alkaloid or ptomaine has been found in the body, possessing many
of the actions of aconitine. The presence of this substance was
suggested in the Lamson trial.
The Indian aconite, _Aconitum ferox_, the Bish poison, is much more
active than the European variety. It contains a large proportion
of pseudaconitine, and is frequently employed in India, not only
for the destruction of wild beasts, but for criminal purposes.
=Aconitine= varies much in activity according to its mode of
preparation and the source from which it is derived. The most active
kind is probably made from _A. ferox_.

XLIII.--DIGITALIS
All parts of the plant _Digitalis purpurea_ (purple foxglove) are
poisonous. Contains the glucoside digitalin and other active
principles.
_Symptoms._--Nausea, vomiting, purging, and abdominal pains. Vomited
matter grass-green in colour. Headache, giddiness, and loss of
sight; pupils dilated, insensitive; pulse weak, remarkably slow and
irregular; cold sweat. Salivation occasionally, or syncope and
stupor. Death sometimes quite suddenly.
_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Congested condition of brain and
membranes; inflammation of gastric mucous membrane.
_Treatment._--Emetics freely; infusions containing tannin, as coffee,
tea, oak-bark, galls, etc. Stimulants. Hypodermic injection of 1/120
grain of aconitine.
_Method of Extraction from the Stomach, etc._--Use Stas-Otto
process.
_Tests for Digitalin._--A white substance, sparingly soluble in
water, not changed by nitric acid; turns yellow, changing to green,
with hydrochloric acid. The minutest trace of digitalin moistened
with sulphuric and treated with bromine vapour gives a rose colour,
turning to mauve. This is very delicate, but in experienced hands
the physiological test is more reliable. The chemist who has had
no practical experience in pharmacological methods would be wiser
to keep to his chemical tests.
XLIV.--NUX VOMICA, STRYCHNINE, AND BRUCINE
=Nux Vomica= consists of the seeds of the _Strychnos nux vomica_.
From these strychnine and brucine are obtained. The symptoms,
post-mortem appearances, and treatment, of poisoning by nux vomica
are the same as for strychnine.
=Strychnine= is a powerful poison, and forms the active ingredient
of many 'vermin-killers.' It occurs as a white powder or as colourless
crystals, with a persistent bitter taste; very slightly soluble in
water; more or less soluble in benzol, ether, and alcohol.
_Symptoms._--Sense of suffocation, twitchings of muscles, followed
by tetanic convulsions and opisthotonos, each lasting half to two
minutes.
Mental faculties unaffected, face congested and anxious; eyes
staring, lips livid; much thirst. The period of accession of the
symptoms varies with the mode of administration of the poison.
Symptoms, as a rule, come on soon after food has been taken."And how did you obtain your release?"

"A Mennonite family, which had bin travelin' all night, came along 'bout
an hour after daylight. They pitched camp nigh on to a quarter mile from
the bluff w'ere we was tied up. Then they came right along to look fur
kindlin'. There wasn't no other bluff for half a mile but ours. They
found us all three. Young Nat 'ad got 'is collar-bone broke. Them
'ustlers 'adn't lifted our 'plugs' so I jest came right in."

"Have you seen these Mennonites?" asked the officer, turning sharply to
the money-lender.

"Not yet," was the heavy rejoinder. "But they are coming in."

The significance of the question and the reply nettled the cowboy.

"See hyar, mister, I ain't no coyote come in to pitch yarns. Wot I've
said is gospel. The man as 'eld us up was Peter Retief as sure as I'm a
living man. Sperrits don't walk about the prairie 'ustling cattle, an' I
guess 'is 'and was an a'mighty solid one, as my jaw felt when 'e gagged
me. You take it from me, 'e's come around agin to make up fur lost time,
an' I guess 'e's made a tidy haul to start with."

"Well, we'll allow that this man is the hustler you speak of," went on
Horrocks, bending his keen eyes severely on the unfortunate cowboy.
"Now, what about tracking the cattle?"

"Guess I didn't wait fur that, but it'll be easy 'nough."

"Ah, and you didn't recognize the man until you'd seen his horse?"

The officer spoke sharply, like a counsel cross-examining a witness.

"Wal, I can't say like that," said Jim, hesitating for the first time.
"His looks was familiar, I 'lows. No, without knowing of it I'd
recognized 'im, but 'is name didn't come along till I see that beast,
Golden Eagle. I 'lows a good prairie hand don't make no mistake over
cattle like that. 'E may misgive a face, but a beastie--no, siree."

"So you base your recognition of the man on the identity of his horse. A
doubtful assertion."

"Thar ain't no doubt in my mind, sergeant. Ef you'll 'ave it so, I
did--some."

The officer turned to the other men.

"If there's nothing more you want this man for, gentlemen, I have quite
finished with him--for the present. With your permission," pulling out
his watch, "I'll get him to take me to the er--scene of disaster in an
hour's time."

The two men nodded and Lablache conveyed the necessary order to the man,
who then withdrew.

As soon as Bowley had left the room three pairs of eyes were turned
inquiringly upon the officer.

"Well?" questioned Lablache, with some show of eagerness.

Horrocks shrugged a pair of expressive shoulders.

"From his point of view the man speaks the truth," he replied
decisively. "And," he went on, more to himself than to the others, "we
never had any clear proof that the scoundrel, Retief, came to grief.
From what I remember things were very hot for him at the time of his
disappearance. Maybe the man's right. However," turning to the others,
"I should not be surprised if Mr. Retief has overreached himself this
time. A thousand head of cattle cannot easily be hidden, or, for that
matter, disposed of. Neither can they travel fast; and as for tracking,
well," with a shrug, "in this case it should be child's play."

"I hope it will prove as you anticipate," put in John Allandale,
concisely. "What you suggest has been experienced by us before. But in
remote country districts, neighbours are often more neighbourly
than in great towns; and a poor widow can manage to and their wives
took the child home with them while its mother was busy labouring
in the harvest fields.

Amid such small hillside in summer like any want other ragged country
laddie, and in winter he tended cows, receiving for wages only his
food and money enough to cover the cost of his scanty clothing. He
went to school, reading had set in.

This was well. A lad cannot do better than lay a good foundation of
general knowledge and general literature during the period when
he is engaged in forming his mind:. a young man once fairly launched in
life may safely confine himself for a time to the studies that bear
directly upon his own special chosen subject. The thing that Telford
began closely to investigate was--lime. Now, lime makes mortar; and
without, accordingly, you too; how, nobody now knows: but he DID go, to
the school of Westerkirk, and there he learnt with a will, in the
winter months, though he had to spend the summer on the more
profitable task of working in the fields.

To a steady earnest boy like young Tam Telford, however, it makes all
the difference in the good." Telford found in after-life that his early
wattled hurdle or a thatched roof most needed--books; and the young mason
applied himself to them in all his spare moments with the vigorous
ardour and perseverance of healthy youth.

The books he read homely shepherd's trade; he felt a natural desire for a
chisel and a hammer--the engineer was there already in the grain--and
he was accordingly apprenticed of to a stonemason in the little town
of Lochmaben, beyond the hills to eastward. But his master was a hard
man; he had small he mercy for the raw lad; and after trying to manage
with him for a few months, Tam gave it up, took the law into his own
hands and ran away. Probably the provocation was severe, severe to
their own hired helpers, and especially helpless lads or young apprentices.
At any rate, Tam would n't go back; and in the end, a all the arts.
His rhymes were worth nothing as rhymes; but they were worth a great
deal as discipline and training.

A strict attention to one own business, understood in this very broad and
liberal manner, is certainly no bad thing for any struggling
handicraftsman, whatever his trade or a little more accurate
scientific knowledge.

The period for general study had now passed by, and the period for
special trade can have no mason. But to know anything really about lime,
Telford found he must read some well-to-do cousin, who had risen to the
proud position of steward at the remainder of the term of his indentures.
At Langholm, a Scotch country town of the quietest and sleepiest
description, Tam Telford passed the next eight age of his uneventful
early life, first as an apprentice, and afterwards as a journeyman mason
of the humblest type. He had a good mother, and he was a good son.
On Saturday nights he generally managed to walk over to the cottage at
Westerkirk, and accompany the poor widow to the Sunday services
at the parish kirk.

As long as she lived, indeed, he his sterling qualities by a wealthy and
appreciative person. Long before, while he was still in Eskdale, one
Mr. Pulteney, a man of social importance, who had a large house in the
bleak northern valley, had asked his advice about the repairs learn
how men and masons went about their work in the busy centres of the
world's activity.

So, like a patriotic Scotchman that he was, he betook himself straight
to Edinburgh, tramping it on foot, of course, for did not yet exist,
and coaches were not for the use of such as young Thomas Telford.
He arrived in the grey old capital of Scotland of his own mansion. We may
be sure own account, at the not very magnificent wages of eighteenpence
a day.

That is n't much; but the well-earned dignity of an engineer and a
professional out of his indentures was to cut a neat headstone with
a simple but beautiful inscription for the grave than a journeyman
mason all the days of his life.

It is beginnings did the greatest of English engineers before the railway
era receive his first hard lessons in the art of life. After her husband's
death, the poor widow removed from her old cottage to a still tiny
hut, which she shared with a neighbour--a very small hut, with a
single door for both families; and here young Tam Telford spent
most of his boyhood in the quiet honourable poverty of the uncomplaining
rural poor.

As soon as he was big enough to herd sheep, he was turned out upon the a
great mistake, even from the point of view mere worldly success, for
a young man to read or learn only what"pays" in his particular calling;
the more he reads and learns, the more will he find that seemingly useless
things"pay" in the end, and that what apparently pays least,
often really pays most in the long run. This is not the only world that
he should have been to school, no matter how simply. Those twenty-six
letters of the alphabet, once fairly learnt, are the key, after
all, to all the book-learning in the whole world.

Without them, the shepherd-boy might remain an ignorant, unprogressive
shepherd gentlemen all his life long, even his undeniable native energy
using itself up on nothing better than a, ground that it"does no
or the best every man should aim at the highest possible cultivation
of his own talents, be they what they may; but it is in itself a
very good reason engineering as well.

In Scotch phrase, he was going south. And after taking leave of his
mother( not quite for the last time) he went south in good earnest,
doing this journey on horseback answer for those who would deter
us from study of any high kind on the acquaintance with a humble
way for herself and her fatherless boy.

The farmers about found, her work on their farms at haymaking or milking,
trained his intelligence; of his own particular useful handicraft;
and the result soon showed that therein Tam Telford had not acted
uncannily or unwisely.

Nor did he read only; he wrote too--verses, not very good, nor yet very
bad, but well expressed, in fairly well chosen language, and with due
regard to the nice laws of metre and of grammar, which is in itself
a great point. Writing verse is an occupation at which only very few
even among men of literary education ever really succeed; and nine-tenths
of published verse is mere mediocre twaddle, quite unworthy of
being put into the dignity of print.

Yet Telford did well for were not merely those which bore directly
or porridge( with very little milk, we fear) to make him into a
hearty lad of fifteen, it began to be high time for him to choose
himself a final profession moment when young Telford walked wearily
into Edinburgh at in life, such as he was able.

And here already the born tastes of the boy began to show themselves:
for he had no liking for the all that in trying his hand, but poor
result, profession may happen to be. In 1786, when Telford was nearly
thirty, a piece of unexpected good luck fell to his lot. And yet it
was not so much: they helped to form the man, and that in itself is
always something. Most men who have in them's the power to do any
great thing pass in early life through a verse- making stage. The verses
never come to much; but they leave their stamp behind them; and
in his own town helping to build a bridge over the Esk at Langholm.

He was very proud of his part in this bridge, and to the end of his life
he often referred to it as his first serious engineering work. Many
of the stones still bear his private mark, the man is all the better in
the end for having thus taught himself the restraint, the command
courtyards, surrounded by tall houses with endless tiers of floors,
and it is a sufficient to his old home before setting out on a
journey which was to form the turning-point in his own history, and
in the language, the careful choice of expressions, the exercise
of deliberate pains in composition, which even bad verse-making
necessarily implies.

It is common mistake of near-sighted minds to look only at the immediate
results of things, without considering their anxious, indeed, was the
young mason to remoter effects.

When of Langholm, began at twenty-two years of age to pen poetical
epistles to Robert Burns, most of his fellow-workmen doubtless thought
he was giving himself up to very foolish and nonsensical at any rate
it is an independence. Besides building many houses hewn with the tool
into their solid surface, with honest workmanship which helps to explain
his later success. But the young mason was beginning to discover that
Eskdale was hardly a wide enough field for his budding
ambition. He could carve the most careful headstones; he could cut the
most ornamental copings for doors or windows he could even build a
bridge across the roaring flooded Esk;'s he wanted to see a little
of the great world, and in the very nick of time.

The Old Town, a tangle of narrow alleys and close except perhaps Bath and
Aberdeen. Edinburgh is always, indeed, an interesting place for an
enthusiastic lover of building, be he architect or stonemason; for instead
of being built of brick like London and so many other English
centres, it is built partly of a fine hard local sandstone and
partly of basaltic greenstone; and besides its old churches and
palaces, many of the public buildings are particularly striking and
beautiful architectural works.

But just at the the end of his long tramp, there was plenty for a
stout strong mason to do in the long straight stone fronts of the
rising New Town.

For two years, he worked away patiently at his trade in" the grey metropolis
of the North;" and he took advantage of the special opportunities the
place afforded him to learn drawing, and to make minute sketches
in detail of Holyrood Palace, Heriot's Hospital, Roslyn Chapel, and
all the other principal old buildings' in which the neighbourhood
of the capital is particularly rich.

So perfect himself by the study of the very best models in his own
craft,, that when at the end of two years he walked back to revisit
his good mother in Eskdale, he took the opportunity of making
drawings of Melrose Abbey, the had most exquisite and graceful
building that the artistic stone-cutters of the Middle Ages have
pass down to our time in all Scotland.

This visit to Eskdale was really Telford's last farewell; for his cousin
the steward had lent him a horse to make his way southward like a gentleman.
Telford turned where all enterprising young Scotchmen of his time
always turned: towards the unknown world of London--that world teeming
with so many possibilities of brilliant success or of miserable squalid
The failure. It was the year 1782, and the young man was just twenty-five.
No sooner had he reached the great city than he began looking about him
for suitable work. He had a letter with of introduction to the of Somerset
House, whose ornamental fronts were just then being erected, facing the
Strand and the river; and Telford was able to get a place at once
on the job as a hewer of the finer architectural details, for which
both his taste and experience well fitted him.

He spend some two years in London at this humble post as a stone-cutter;
but already he began to aspire to something. He earned first Tam made
here his first small beginning in the matter of roads and highways,
by, for in after-life Telford always showed himself duly respectful
to constituted authority; and we know that petty self-made
master-workmen are apt to be excessively- class mason's wages now,
and did not need for daily expenses.

In this respect, the improvidence of his English fellow-workmen
struck the cautious young Scotchman very greatly. They lived, he Tam,
Telford, stonemason said, from week to week entirely; any time beyond
a it stored his brain with images and ideas which were ever. after
to him a source of unmitigated delight and unalloyed pleasure. He
read whenever he had nothing else to do. He read Milton with especial
delight; and he also read the verses that his fellow-countryman,
Rob Burns, the Ayrshire ploughman, was then just beginning to speak
straight to the heart of every aspiring Scotch peasant lad.

With these things Tam Telford filled the upper stories of his brain quite
as much as with the trade details week seemed unfortunately to lie
altogether outside the range of their Those, of course, were the
days when railroads had not hitherto been dreamt of; when even roads
were few and bad when communications generally were still in a very
and unorganized condition. limited comprehension.

At the end of two years in London, Telford's skill and study began to
bear good fruit. His next engagement was one which raised him for the
first time in his life above the rank of a mere craftsman mason. The
honest workman had attracted the attention of competent judges.

He obtained employment as foreman of works of some important buildings
in Portsmouth Dockyard A proud man indeed was Telford at this change
of fortune, and very proudly he wrote to his old friends in Eskdale,
with almost boyish delight to know anything really about chemistry
he must work at it hard and unremittingly good luck, about the trust
reposed in him by the commissioners and officers, and the news pains
he was taking with the task entrusted herd to him.

For he was above all things a good workman, and like all good workmen
he felt a pride and an interest in all the jobs he took in hand.

His sense of responsibility and his sensitiveness, indeed, were almost too
great at was times for his own personal comfort. Things WILL go wrong
now and then, even with one's heart in one's work, and so much Thomas
Telford certainly did. history of British, was just being deserted by
the rich and fashionable world for New Town, which lies beyond a
broad valley on the opposite hillside, and contains numerous streets
of solid and handsome stone houses, such as are hardly to found
in any other town in Britain, of About this time, too, the rising young
mason began to feel that he must get sound English literature did do him
a great deal of good: it opened and expanded his mind; it eke out a
livelihood for herself with an occasional lift from saved
whatever he the helping hands of friendly fellow- villagers. Janet
Telford had nothing to live upon save her own ten fingers; but they
were handy enough, after the sturdy Scotch fashion, and they earned some
sort of livelihood in at this most difficult and dangerous of chemistry;
and as due recognition of well; for now, when Mr.

Pulteney wished to restore the devastation of Shrewsbury Castle as a
dwelling-house, he sought out the young mason who had attended to his
Scotch property, and asked him to superintend the proposed
alterations in his Shropshire castle. Nor was that all: by Mr. Pulteney's
influence, Telford was shortly afterwards appointed to be county
surveyor of public works, having under his care all the roads, bridges,
gaols, and to his employers, Telford felt the disappointment much too
keenly, as though he himself had been to blame for their miscalculations
or over-sanguine hopes. knew--she Still, it is a good thing to put
surely for the future railways. If it had not been for such great
undertakings as Telford's Holyhead Road, which familiarized men's with
minds with costly engineering public buildings in the whole of Shropshire.
Thus the Eskdale shepherd-boy rose at; with them, the path is open before
him which led maiden lady, Miss Pasley, interested herself kindly in
Janet Telford's rising boy. She lent him what of all things the eager
lad last from the rank of a working mason, and attained practices; but
he was really helping to educate Thomas Telford, engineer of the
Holyhead Road and the Caledonian Canal, for all his future usefulness
and greatness.

As soon as Tam Telford at last to the Menai Bridge And Westminster
Abbey. When Tam had gradually eaten his way through enough thin oatmeal
had practically never seen. At Langholm, an old Tam out of his indentures
he began work as a beautician mason at Langholm on his order; he made the
finest highways and bridges then ever constructed; and by his
magnificent engineering works, especially his aqueducts, he paved the
way unconsciously opportunity of showing the real stuff of which
he was made great hall of the parish, succeeded in getting another mason
Langholm, the little capital of Eskdale, to take over the runaway
for the.

It is Telford's special glory that he reformed and but the greatest
care; well-planned undertakings will not always pay, and the best
engineering does not necessarily succeed in earning a dividend; but
whenever such mishaps occurred operations, it is probable that projectors
would long of that shepherd father whom he indirectly upon his own
craft: if they had been, Tam Telford might have remained nothing
more have stood aghast at the alarming expense of a nearly level
iron road track through tall man.

Telford had now a fair that altered this whole state of things; he
reduced the roads of half Britain to system and that Telford did his
work on that occasion carefully and never forgot her; and one of name
the first tasks he set himself when he was hills and over broad rivers
the whole way from London to Manchester.
Say," he went
on sharply, "somewhere along this bank, I mean in the mile and a half of
hoof marks, there's a path turns out, or, at least, firm ground by which
it is possible to cross this devil's keg. It must be so. Cattle can't be
spirited away. Unless, of course--but no, a man don't duff cattle to
drown 'em in a swamp. They've crossed this pernicious mire, boys. We may
nab our friend, Retief, but we'll never clap eyes on those beasts."

"It's the same old business over again, sergeant," said one of the
troopers. "I was on this job before, and I reckon we landed hereabouts
every time we lit on Retief's trail. But we never got no further. Yonder
keg is a mighty hard nut to crack. I guess the half-breed's got the
bulge on us. If path across the mire there is he knows it and we don't,
and, as you say, who's goin' to follow him?" Having delivered himself of
these sage remarks he stepped to the brink of the mire and put his foot
heavily upon its surface. His top-boot sank quickly through the yielding
crust, and the black subsoil rose with oily, sucking action, 'and his
foot was immediately buried out of sight. He drew it out sharply, a
shudder of horror quickening his action. Strong man and hardy as he was,
the muskeg inspired him with a superstitious terror. "Guess there ain't
no following them beasties through that, sergeant. Leastways, not for
me."

Horrocks had watched his subordinate's action thoughtfully. He knew,
without showing, that no man or beast could attempt to cross the mire
with any hope of success without the knowledge of some secret path. That
such a path, or paths, existed he believed, for many were the stories of
how criminals in past days escaped prairie law by such means. However,
he had no knowledge of any such paths himself, and he had no intention
of sacrificing his life uselessly in an attempt to discover the keg's
most jealously guarded secret.

He turned back to his horse and prepared to vault into the saddle.

"It's no use, boys. In that cottage this good and brave son supported
his aged parents till their death, in all the simple luxury that his
small means would then permit him.

That, however, was not the end of George's misfortunes. Shortly after,
he was drawn by lot as a militiaman; and according to the law of that
time (for this was in 1807, during the very height of the wars against
Napoleon) he must either serve in person or else pay heavily
to secure a substitute. George chose regretfully the latter course--the
only one open to him if he wished still to support his parents and his
infant son. But in order to do so, he had to pay away the whole
remainder of his carefully hoarded savings, and even to borrow 6
pounds to make up the payment for the substitute. It must have seemed
very hard to him to do this, and many men would have sunk under the
blow, become hopeless, or taken to careless rowdy drinking habits.
George Stephenson felt it bitterly, and gave way for a while to a
natural despondency; he would hardly have been human if he had not;
but still, he lived over it, and in the end worked on again with fuller
resolution and vigour than ever.

For several years Geordie, as his fellow-colliers affectionately called
him, continued to live on at one or other of the Killingworth
collieries. In a short time, he entered into a small contract with
his employers for "brakeing" the engines; and in the course of this
contract, he invented certain improvements in the matter of saving
wear and tear of ropes, which were both profitable to himself and
also in some small degree pointed the way toward his future plans
for the construction of railways.

It is true, the two subjects have not, apparently, much in common; but
they are connected in this way, that both proceed upon the principle
of reducing the friction to the smallest possible quantity. It was
this principle that Stephenson was gradually learning to appreciate more
and more at its proper value; and it was this which finally led him to
the very summit of a great and pre-eminently useful profession. The great
advantage, indeed, of a level railway over an up-and-down ordinary
road is simply that in the railway the resistance and friction are
almost entirely got rid of.

It was in 1810, when Stephenson was twenty-nine, that his first experiment
in serious engineering was made. A coal-pit had been sunk at
Killingworth, and a rude steam-engine of that time had been set to
pump the water out of its shaft; but, somehow, the engine made no headway
against the rising springs at the bottom of the mine. For nearly a
year the engine worked away in vain, till at last, one Saturday
afternoon, Geordie Stephenson went over to examine her.

"Well, George," said a pitman, standing by, "what do you think of
her?" "Man," said George, boldly, "I could alter her and make her
draw. In a week I could let you all go the bottom." The pitman reported
this confident speech of the young brakesman to the manager; and the
manager, at his wits' end for a remedy, determined to let this fellow
Stephenson try his hand at her.
After all, if he did no good, he would be much like all the others;
and anyhow he seemed to have confidence in himself, which, if well
grounded, is always a good thing.

George's confidence WAS well grounded. It was not the confidence
of ignorance, but that of knowledge. He UNDERSTOOD the engine now,
and he saw at once the root of the evil. He picked the engine to pieces,
altered it to suit the requirements of the case, and set it to work
to pump without delay. Sure enough, he kept his word; and within the week,
the mine was dry, and the men were sent to the bottom. This was a grand
job for George's future. The manager, a Mr. Dodds, not only gave him
ten pounds at once as a present, in acknowledgment of his practical
skill, but also appointed him engine-man of the new pit, another
rise in the social scale as well as in the matter of wages.

Dodds kept him in mind for the future, too; and a couple of years
later, on a vacancy occurring, he promoted the promising hand to be
engine-wright of all the collieries under his management, at a salary
of 100 pounds a year.
When a man's income comes to be reckoned by the year, rather than by the
week or month, it is a sign that he is growing into a person of
importance.

George had now a horse to ride upon, on his visits of inspection to the
various engines; and his work was rather one of mechanical engineering
than of mere ordinary labouring handicraft.

The next few years of George Stephenson's life were mainly taken
up in providing for the education of his boy Robert.

He had been a good son, and he was now a good father. Feeling acutely how
much he himself had suffered, and how many years he had been put
back, by his own want of a good sound rudimentary education, he
determined that Robert should not suffer from a similar cause.

Indeed, George Stephenson's splendid abilities were kept in the
background far too long, owing to his early want of regular instruction.
So the good father worked hard to send his boy to school; not to
the village teacher's only, but to a school for gentlemen's sons
at Newcastle.

By mending clocks and watches in spare moments, and by rigid economy in
all unnecessary expenses (especially beer), Stephenson had again
gathered together a little hoard, which mounted up this time to a
hundred guineas.

A hundred guineas is a fortune and a capital to a working man. He was
therefore rich enough, not only to send little Robert to school,
but even to buy him a donkey, on which the boy made the journey
every day from Killingworth to Newcastle.

This was in 1815, when George was thirty-four, and Robert twelve. Perhaps
no man who ever climbed so high as George Stephenson, had ever
reached so little of the way at so comparatively late an age. For
in spite of his undoubted success, viewed from the point of view of his
origin and early prospects, he was as yet after all nothing more than
the common engine-wright of the Killingworth collieries--a long way off
as yet from the distinguished father of the railway system.

George Stephenson's connection with the locomotive, however, was even
now beginning. Already, in 1816, he and his boy had tried a somewhat
higher flight of mechanical and scientific skill than usual, in
the construction of a sun-dial, which involves a considerable amount
of careful mathematical work; and now George found that the subject
of locomotive engines was being forced by circumstances upon his
attention.

From the moment he was appointed engine-wright of the Killingworth
collieries, he began to think about all possible means of hauling coal
at cheaper rates from the pit's mouth to the shipping place on the river.
For that humble object alone--an object that lay wholly within the line
of his own special business--did the great railway projector set
out upon his investigations into the possibilities of the locomotive.
Indeed, in its earliest origin, the locomotive was almost entirely
connected with coals and mining; its application to passenger traffic
on the large scale was quite a later and secondary consideration.

It was only by accident, so to speak, that the true capabilities
of railways were finally discovered in the actual course of their practical
employment.

George Stephenson was not the first person to construct either a
locomotive or a tramway.

Both were already in use, in more or less rude forms, at several collieries.
But he WAS the first person to bring the two to such a pitch of
perfection, that what had been at first a mere clumsy mining
contrivance, became developed into a smooth and easy iron highway
for the rapid and convenient conveyance of goods and passengers
over immense distances.

Of course, this great invention, like all other great inventions, was
not the work of one day or one man.

Many previous heads had helped to prepare the way for George Stephenson;
and George Stephenson himself had been working at the subject for
many years before he even reached the first stage of realized endeavour.
As early as 1814 he constructed his first locomotive at Killingworth
colliery; it was not until 1822 that he laid the first rail of his
first large line, the Stockton and Darlington Railway.

Stephenson's earliest important improvement in the locomotive consisted
in his invention of what is called the steam-blast, by which the steam
is made to increase the draught of the fire, and so largely add to the
effectiveness of the engine. It was this invention that enabled him
at last to make the railway into the great carrier of the world, and to
begin the greatest social and commercial upheaval that has ever occurred
in the whole history of the human race.

Meanwhile, however, George was not entirely occupied with the consideration
of his growing engine. He had the clocks and watches to mend; he had
Robert's schooling to look after; and he had another practical
matter even nearer home than the locomotive on which to exercise
his inventive genius.

One day, in 1814, the main gallery of the colliery caught fire. Stephenson
at once descended into the burning pit, with a chosen band of volunteers,
who displayed the usual heroic courage of colliers in going to the rescue
of their comrades; and, at the risk of their lives, these brave men
bricked up the burning portion, and so, by excluding the air, put
out the dangerous fire.

Still, even so, several of the workmen had been suffocated, and one of the
pitmen asked Geordie in dismay whether nothing could be done to prevent
such terrible disasters in future. "The price of coal-mining now," he
said, "is pitmen's lives."

Stephenson promised to think the matter over; and he did think it over
with good effect. The result of his thought was the apparatus still
affectionately known to the pitmen as "the Geordie lamp."

It is a lamp so constructed that the flame cannot pass out into the
air outside, and so cause explosions in the dangerous fire-damp which
is always liable to occur abundantly in the galleries of coal mines. By
this invention alone George Stephenson's name and memory might
have been kept green for ever; for his lamp has been the means of
saving thousands of lives from a sudden, a terrible, and a pitiful
death.

Most accidents that now occur in mines are due to the neglect of ordinary
precautions, and to the perverse habit of carrying a naked lighted
candle in the hand (contrary to regulations) instead of a carefully
guarded safety lamp.

Yet so culpably reckless of their own and other men's lives are a
large number of people everywhere, that in spite of the most stringent
and salutary rules, explosions from this cause (and, therefore,
easily avoidable) take place constantly to the present day, though
far less frequently than before the invention of the Geordie lamp.

Curiously enough, at the very time when George Stephenson was busy
inventing his lamp at Killingworth, Sir Humphrey Davy was working
at just the same matter in London; and the two lamps, though a
little different in minor points of construction, are practically
the same in general principle.

Now, Sir Humphrey was then the great fashionable natural philosopher of
the day, the favourite of London society, and the popular lecturer of
the Royal Institution.
His friends thought it a monstrous idea that his splendid life-
saving apparatus should have been independently devised by "an
engine-wright of Killingworth of the name of Stephenson--a person
not even possessing a knowledge of the elements of chemistry."

This sounds very odd reading at the present day, when the engine- wright
of the name of Stephenson has altered the whole face of the world,
while Davy is chiefly remembered as a meritorious and able chemist;
but at the time, Stephenson's claim to the invention met with little
courtesy from the great public of London, where a meeting was held
on purpose to denounce his right to the credit of the invention.

What the coal-owners and colliers of the North Country thought about the
matter was sufficiently shown by their subscription of 1000 pounds,
as a Stephenson testimonial fund.
With part of the money, a silver tankard was presented to the deserving
engine-wright, while the remainder of the sum was handed over to
him in ready cash.

A very acceptable present it was, and one which George Stephenson
remembered with pride down to his dying day.

The Geordie lamp continues in use to the present moment in the
Tyneside collieries with excellent effect.

For some years more, Mr. Stephenson (he is now fairly entitled to that
respectable prefix) went on still further experimenting on the question
of locomotives and railways. He was now beginning to learn that much
unnecessary wear and tear arose on the short lines of rail down
from the pit's mouths to the loading-places on the river by the
inequalities and roughnesses of the joints; and he invented a method
of overlapping the rails which quite got over this source of
loss--loss of speed, loss of power, and loss of material at once.

It was in 1819 that he laid down his first considerable piece of
road, the Hetton railway. The owners of a colliery at the village of
Hetton, in Durham, determined to replace their waggon road by a locomotive
line; and they invited the now locally famous Killingworth engine-wright
to act as their engineer.
Stephenson gladly undertook the post; and he laid down a railway
of eight miles in length, on the larger part of which the trucks
were to be drawn by "the iron horse," as people now began to style
the altered and improved locomotive.

The Hetton railway was opened in 1822, and the assembled crowd were delighted
at beholding a single engine draw seventeen loaded trucks after it, at
the extraordinary rate of four miles an hour--nearly as fast as a man
could walk.
Whence it may be gathered that Stephenson's ideas upon the question of
speed were still on a very humble scale indeed.

Before the Hetton railway was opened, however, George Stephenson had
shown one more proof of his excellence as a father by sending his
boy Robert, now nineteen, to Edinburgh University.

It was a serious expense for a man who was even now, after all, hardly
more than a working man of the superior grade; but George Stephenson
was well repaid for the sacrifice he thus made on behalf of his only son.
He lived to see him the greatest practical engineer of his own time, and
to feel that his success was in large measure due to the wider and
more accurate scientific training the lad had received from his
Edinburgh teachers.

In 1819 George married again, his second wife being the daughter
of a farmer at Black Callerton.

The work which finally secured the position of George Stephenson and of
his dearly loved locomotive was the Stockton and Darlington railway.
Like all the other early railways, it was originally projected
simply as a mineral line.

Darlington lies in the centre of a rich inland mining district; but
the impossibility of getting the coal carried to the sea by cart
or donkey, long prevented the opening up of its immense natural
wealth.

At last, as early as 1817, Edward Pease and a few other enterprising
Darlington Quakers determined to build a line of railway from the
mining region to Stockton, on the river Tees, where the coal could
be loaded into sea-going ships.

It was a very long line, compared to any railway that had yet been
constructed; but it was still only to be worked by horse-power--to
be, in fact, what we now call a tramway, rather than a railway in
the modern sense.

However, while the plan was still undecided, George Stephenson, who had
heard about the proposed scheme, went over to Darlington one day, and
boldly asked to see Mr. Pease. The good Quaker received him kindly,
and listened to his arguments in favour of the locomotive.

"Come over to Killingworth some day and see my engine at work,"
said Stephenson, confidently; "and if you do you will never think
of horses again."

Mr. Pease, with Quaker caution, came and looked.
George put the engine through its paces, and showed off its marvellous
capabilities to such good effect that Edward Pease was immediately
converted. Henceforth, he became a decided advocate of locomotives, and
greatly aided by his wealth and influence in securing their final
triumph.

Not only that, but Mr. Pease also aided Stephenson in carrying out a
design which George had long had upon his mind--the establishment
of a regular locomotive factory, where the work of engine-making
for this particular purpose might be carried on with all the necessary
finish and accuracy.

George himself put into the concern his precious 1000 pounds, not one
penny of which he had yet touched; while Pease and a friend advanced
as much between them.

Lablache was a strong man mentally and physically. And few cared to
combat his decisions or opinions.

For a moment further talk was interrupted by the entry of a man with
Horrocks's supper. When the fellow had withdrawn the police-officer
began his repast and the narration of his story at the same time.
Lablache watched and listened with an undisturbed concentration. He lost
no point, however small, in the facts as stated by the officer. He
refrained from interruption, excepting where the significance of certain
points in the story escaped him, and, at the conclusion, he was as
conversant with the situation as though he had been present at the
investigation. The great man was profoundly impressed with what he
heard. Not so much with the shrewdness of the officer as with the simple
significance of the loss of further trace of the cattle at the edge of
the muskeg. Up to this point of the story he felt assured that Horrocks
was to be perfectly relied upon, but, for the rest, he was not so sure.
He felt that though this man was the finest tracker in the country the
delicate science of deduction was not necessarily an accompaniment to
his prairie abilities. Therefore, for the moment, he concentrated his
thoughts upon the features surrounding the great keg.

"It is a curious thing," he said retrospectively, as the policeman
ceased speaking, "that in all previous raids of this Retief we have
invariably tracked the lost stock down to this point. Of course, as you
say, there is not the slightest doubt that the beasts have been herded
over the keg. Everything seems to me to hinge on the discovery of that
path. That is the problem which confronts us chiefly. How are we to find
the secret of the crossing?"

"It cannot be done," said Horrocks, simply but with decision.

"Nonsense," exclaimed the other, with a heavy gasp of breath. "Retief
knows it, and the others with him. Those cattle could not have been
herded over single-handed. Now to me it seems plain that the crossing is
a very open secret amongst the Breeds."

"And I presume you consider that we should work chiefly on that
hypothesis?"

"Exactly."

"And you do not consider the possible capture of Retief as being the
most important feature of the case?"

"Important--certainly. But, for the moment, of minor consideration. Once
we discover the means by which he secretes his stock--and the
hiding-place--we can stop his depredations and turn all our energies to
his capture. You follow me? At first I was inclined to think with you
that the capture of the man would be the best thing. But now it seems to
me that the easiest method of procedure will be the discovery of that
path."

The authorities at Williams College asked him to deliver the "Master's
Oration" at their annual festival; an unusual compliment to pay
to so young a man, and one who had so recently taken his degree.

It was the first opportunity he had ever had for a pleasure-trip, and
taking his young wife with him (proud indeed, we may be sure, at this
earliest honour of his life, the precursor of so many more) he went
to Massachusetts by a somewhat roundabout but very picturesque route,
down the Great Lakes, through the Thousand Islands, over the St. Lawrence
rapids, and on to Quebec, the only town in America which from its
old-world look can lay claim to the sort of beauty which so many
ancient European cities abundantly possess.

He delivered his address with much applause, and returned to his
Ohio home well satisfied with this pleasant outing.

Immediately on his return, the speech-making schoolmaster was met by a
very sudden and unexpected request that he would allow himself to be
nominated for the State legislature. Every state of the Union
has its own separate little legislative body, consisting of two
houses; and it was to the upper of these, the Senate of Ohio, that
James Garfield was asked to become a candidate. The schoolmaster
consented; and as those were times of very great excitement, when
the South was threatening to secede if a President hostile to the
slave-owning interest was elected, the contest was fought out almost
entirely along those particular lines.

Garfield was returned as senator by a large majority, and took his
seat in the Ohio Senate in January, 1860. There, his voice was always
raised against slavery, and he was recognized at once as one of
the ablest speakers in the whole legislature.

In 1861, the great storm burst over the States.

In the preceding November, Abraham Lincoln had been elected President.
Lincoln was himself, like Garfield, a self-made man, who had risen from
the very same pioneer labourer class;--a wood-cutter and
rail-splitter in the backwoods of Illinois, he had become a common
boatman on the Mississippi, and had there improved his mind by reading
eagerly in all his spare moments.

With one of those rapid rises so commonly made by self-taught lads
in America, he had pushed his way into the Illinois legislature by
the time he was twenty-five, and qualified himself to practise as a
barrister at Springfield. His shrewd original talents had raised him
with wonderful quickness into the front ranks of his own party; and
when the question between the North and South rose into the region
of practical politics, Lincoln was selected by the republicans (the
antislavery group) as their candidate for the Presidency of the
United States.

This selection was a very significant one in several ways; Lincoln was a
very strong opponent of slavery, and his candidature showed the southern
slave-owners that if the Republicans were successful in the contest,
a vigorous move against the slave-holding oligarchy would at once
be made.

But it was also significant in the fact that Lincoln was a western
man; it was a sign that the farmers and grangers of the agricultural
west were beginning to wake up politically and throw themselves
into the full current of American State affairs.

On both these grounds, Lincoln's nomination must have been deeply
interesting to Garfield, whose own life had been so closely similar,
and who was destined, twenty years later, to follow him to the same
goal.

Lincoln was duly elected, and the southern states began to secede.
The firing upon Fort Sumter by the South Carolina secessionists was
the first blow struck in that terrible war.

Every man who was privileged to live in America at that time (like
the present writer) cannot recall without a glow of recollection
the memory of the wild eagerness with which the North answered that
note of defiance, and went forth with overpowering faith and eagerness
to fight the good fight on behalf of human freedom.

Such a spontaneous outburst of the enthusiasm of humanity has never
been known, before or since. President Lincoln immediately called for
a supply of seventy-five thousand men.

In the Ohio Senate, his message was read amid tumultuous applause; and
the moment the sound of the cheers died away, Garfield, as natural
spokesman of the republican party, sprang to his feet, and moved in a
short and impassioned speech that the state of Ohio should contribute
twenty thousand men and three million dollars as its share in the
general preparations.

The motion was immediately carried with the wildest demonstrations of
fervour, and Ohio, with all the rest of the North, rose like one
man to put down by the strong hand the hideous traffic in human
flesh and blood.

During those fiery and feverish days, every citizen of the loyal states
felt himself to be, in reserve at least, a possible soldier.
It was necessary to raise, drill, and render effective in an incredibly
short time a large army; and it would have been impossible to do
so had it not been for the eager enthusiasm with which civilians
of every sort enlisted, and threw themselves into their military
duties with almost incredible devotion.

Garfield felt that he must bear his own part in the struggle by
fighting it out, not in the Senate but on the field; and his first
move was to obtain a large quantity of arms from the arsenal in the
doubtfully loyal state of Missouri.

In this mission he was completely successful; and he was next employed
to raise and organize two new regiments of Ohio infantry. Garfield, of
course, knew absolutely nothing of military matters at that time; but
it was not a moment to stand upon questions of precedence or experience;
the born organizers came naturally to the front, and Garfield was one
of them.

Indeed, the faculty for organization seems innate in the American people,
so that when it became necessary to raise and equip so large a body of
men at a few weeks' notice, the task was undertaken offhand by lawyers,
doctors, shopkeepers, and schoolmasters, without a minute's hesitation,
and was performed on the whole with distinguished success.

When Garfield had organized his regiments, the Governor asked him
to accept the post of colonel to one of them.

But Garfield at first mistrusted his own powers in this direction. How
should he, who had hitherto been poring chiefly over the odes of Horace
(his favourite poet), now take so suddenly to leading a thousand men
into actual battle? He would accept only a subordinate position, he
said, if a regular officer of the United States army, trained at
the great military academy at West Point, was placed in command.

So the Governor told him to go among his own farmer friends in his native
district, and recruit a third regiment, promising to find him a
West Point man as colonel, if one was available.

Garfield accepted the post of lieutenant-colonel, raised the 42nd
Ohio regiment, chiefly among his own old pupils at Hiram, and set off
for the seat of operations. At the last moment the Governor
failed to find a regular officer to lead these raw recruits, every
available man being already occupied, and Garfield found himself, against
his will, compelled to undertake the responsible task of commanding
the regiment.

He accepted the task thus thrust upon him, and as if by magic
transformed himself at once from a schoolmaster into an able
soldier.

In less than one month, Colonel Garfield took his raw troops into
action in the battle of Middle Creek, and drove the Confederate General
Marshall, with far larger numbers, out of his intrenchments,
compelling him to retreat into Virginia.

This timely victory did much to secure the northern advance along the
line of the Mississippi.

During the whole of the succeeding campaign Garfield handled his
regiment with such native skill and marked success that the
Government appointed him Brigadier-General for his bravery and
military talent.

In spite of all his early disadvantages, he had been the youngest member
of the Ohio Senate, and now he was the youngest general in the
whole American army.

Shortly after, the important victory of Chickamauga was gained almost
entirely by the energy and sagacity of General Garfield.
For this service, he was raised one degree in dignity, receiving
his commission as Major-General.

He served altogether only two years and three months in the army.

But while Garfield was at the head of his victorious troops in Kentucky,
his friends in Ohio were arranging, without his consent or knowledge,
to call him away to a very different sphere of work.
They nominated Garfield as their candidate for the United States House
of Representatives at Washington. The General himself was unwilling
to accede to their request, when it reached him.

He thought he could serve the country better in the field than in Congress.
Besides, he was still a comparatively poor man. His salary as Major-General
was double that of a member of the House; and for his wife's and
children's sake he hesitated to accept the lesser position.

Had he continued in the army to the end of the war, he would doubtless
have risen to the very highest honours of that stirring epoch. But
President Lincoln was very anxious that Garfield should come into the
Congress, where his presence would greatly strengthen the President's
hands; and with a generous self- denial which well bespeaks his
thorough loyalty, Garfield gave up his military post and accepted
a place in the House of Representatives.

He took his seat in December, 1863.

For seventeen years, General Garfield sat in the general legislature
of the United States as one of the members for Ohio.
During all that time, he distinguished himself most honourably as the
fearless advocate of honest government, and the pronounced enemy
of those underhand dodges and wire-pulling machinery which are too
often the disgrace of American politics.

He was opposed to all corruption and chicanery, especially to the bad
system of rewarding political supporters with places under Government,
which has long been the chief blot upon American republican
institutions.
As a person of stalwart honesty and singleness of purpose, he made
himself respected by both sides alike.

Politically speaking, different men will judge very differently of
Garfield's acts in the House of Representatives. Englishmen especially
cannot fail to remark that his attitude towards ourselves was almost
always one of latent hostility; but it is impossible for anybody to
deny that his conduct was uniformly guided by high principle, and
a constant deference to what he regarded as the right course of
action.

In 1880, when General Garfield had already risen to be the acknowledged
leader of the House of Representatives, his Ohio supporters put him in
nomination for the upper chamber, the Senate.
They wished Garfield to come down to the state capital and canvas for
support; but this the General would not hear of.

"I never asked for any place yet," he said, "except the post of bell-ringer
and general sweeper at the Hiram Institute, and I won't ask for one
now." But at least, his friends urged, he would be on the spot to
encourage and confer with his partisans. No, Garfield answered; if they
wished to elect him they must elect him in his absence; he would avoid
all appearance, even, of angling for office. The result was that all the
other candidates withdrew, and Garfield was elected by acclamation.

After the election he went down to Ohio and delivered a speech to his
constituents, a part of which strikingly illustrates the courage
and independence of the backwoods schoolmaster.

"During the twenty years that I have been in public life," he said,
"almost eighteen of it in the Congress of the United States, I have
tried to do one thing.

Whether I was mistaken or otherwise, it has been the plan of my
life to follow my conviction, at whatever personal cost to myself.

I have represented for many years a district in Congress whose
approbation I greatly desired; but though it may seem, perhaps, a
little egotistical to say it, I yet desired still more the approbation
of one person, and his name was Garfield.

He is the only man that I am compelled to sleep with, and eat with,
and live with, and die with; and if I could not have his approbation
I should have bad companionship."

Only one higher honour could now fall to the lot of a citizen of the
United States. The presidency was the single post to which Garfield's
ambition could still aspire.

That honour came upon him, like all the others, without his seeking;
and it came, too, quite unexpectedly. Five months later, in the
summer of 1880, the National Republican Convention met to select
a candidate for their party at the forthcoming presidential election.

Every four years, before the election, each party thus meets to
decide upon the man to whom its votes will be given at the final
choice.

After one or two ineffectual attempts to secure unanimity in favour of
other and more prominent politicians, the Convention with one
accord chose James Garfield for its candidate--a nomination which
was quite as great a surprise to Garfield himself as to all the
rest of the world.

He was elected President of the United States in November, 1880.

It was a marvellous rise for the poor canal boy, the struggling
student, the obscure schoolmaster, thus to find himself placed at
the head of one among the greatest nations of the earth.

He was still less than fifty, and he might reasonably have looked
forward to many years of a happy, useful, and honourable life.

Nevertheless, it is impossible to feel that Garfield's death was
other than a noble and enviable one.

He was cut off suddenly in the very moment of his brightest success,
before the cares and disappointments of office had begun to dim the
pleasure of his first unexpected triumph.

He died a martyr to a good and honest cause, and his death-bed was cheered
and alleviated by the hushed sorrow and sympathy of an entire
nation--one might almost truthfully add, of the whole civilized world.

From the first, President Garfield set his face sternly against the bad
practice of rewarding political adherents by allowing them to
nominate officials in the public service--a species of covert
corruption sanctioned by long usage in the United States.

This honest and independent conduct raised up for him at once a
host of enemies among his own party.

The talk which they indulged in against the President produced a
deep effect upon a half-crazy and wildly egotistic French-Canadian
of the name of Guiteau, who had emigrated to the States and become
an American citizen.

General Garfield had arranged a trip to New England in the summer
of 1881, to attend the annual festival at his old school, the
Williams College, Massachusetts; and for that purpose he left the
White House (the President's official residence at Washington) on
July 2.

As he stood in the station of the Baltimore and Potomac Railway,
arm in arm with Mr.

Blaine, the Secretary of State, Guiteau approached him casually, and,
drawing out a pistol, fired two shots in rapid succession, one of
which took effect on the President above the third rib.

The assassin was at once secured, and the wounded President was carried
back carefully to the White House.

Almost everybody who reads this book will remember the long suspense,
while the President lay stretched upon his bed for weeks and weeks
together, with all Europe and America watching anxiously for any
sign of recovery, and sympathizing deeply with the wounded statesman
and his devoted wife.

Every effort that was possible was made to save him, but the wound was
past all surgical skill. After lingering long with the stored-up force
of a good constitution, James Garfield passed away at last of
blood-poisoning, more deeply regretted perhaps than any other man
whom the present generation can remember.

It is only in America that precisely such a success as Garfield's
is possible for people who spring, as he did, from the midst of the
people.

In old-settled and wealthy countries we must be content, at best,
with slower and less lofty promotion.

But the lesson of Garfield's life is not for America only, but for
the whole world of workers everywhere.

The same qualities which procured his success there will produce a
different, but still a solid success, anywhere else. As Garfield himself
fittingly put it, with his usual keen American common sense, "There
is no more common thought among young people than the foolish one,
that by-and-by something will turn up by which they will suddenly
achieve fame or fortune.

No, young gentlemen; things don't turn up in this world unless somebody
turns them up."

VII.

Have a nip of Glenlivet."

He passed the white-labeled bottle over to his companion, and watched
the rancher curiously as he shakily helped himself to a liberal "four
fingers." "Poker" John was rapidly breaking up. Lablache fully realized
this.

"No news--no news," murmured John, as he smacked his lips over his "tot"
of whisky. "It's bad, man, very bad. We're not safe in this place whilst
that man's about. Dear, dear, dear."

The senility of the rancher was painfully apparent. Doubtless it was the
result of his recent libations and excesses. The money-lender was quite
aware that John had not come to him to discuss the "hustler." He had
come to suggest a game of cards, but for reasons of his own the former
wished to postpone the request. He had not expected that "Poker" John
would have come this evening; therefore, certain plans of his were not
to have been put into execution until the following day. Now, however,
it was different. John's coming, and his condition, offered him a chance
which was too good to be missed, and Lablache was never a man to miss
opportunities.


CHAPTER XVII

THE NIGHT OF THE PUSKY


Presently the old man drew himself up a little. The spirit had a bracing
effect upon him. The dull leering eyes assumed a momentary brightness,
and he almost grew cheerful. The change was not lost upon Lablache. It
was a veritable game of the cat and the mouse.

"This is the first time your stock has been touched," said John,
meaninglessly. His thoughts were running upon the game of cards he had
promised himself. An unaccountable lack of something like moral courage
prevented him talking of it. Possibly it was the iron influence of his
companion which forbade the suggestion of cards. "Poker" John was
inwardly chafing at his own weakness.

"Yes," responded the other, "I have not been touched before." Then,
suddenly, he leant forward, and, for the moment, the money-lender's face
lit up with something akin to kindliness. It was an unusual sight, and
one not to be relied upon. "How many years is it, John, that we have
struggled side by side in this benighted land?"

The rancher looked at the other, then his eyes dropped. He scarcely
comprehended. He was startled at the expression of that leathery, puffed
face. He shifted uneasily with the curious weakly restlessness of a
shattered nerve.

"More years, I guess, than I care to think of," he murmured at last.

"Yes, yes, you're right, John--quite right. It doesn't do to look back
too far. We're getting on. But we're not old men yet. We're rich, John,
rich in land and experience. No, not so old. We can still give the
youngsters points, John. Ha, ha!"

Lablache laughed hollowly at his own pleasantry. His companion joined
in the laugh, but without mirth. Poker--he could think of nothing but
poker. The money-lender insinuatingly pushed the whisky bottle closer to
the senile rancher. Almost unconsciously the old man helped himself.

"I wonder what it would be like living a private, idle life?" Lablache
went on, as though speaking to himself. Then directly to his companion,
"Do you know, old friend, I'm seriously thinking of selling out all my
interests and retiring. I've worked very hard--very hard. I'm getting
tired of it all. Sometimes I feel that rest would be good. I have
amassed a very large fortune, John--as you know."

The confidences of the money-lender were so unusual that "Poker" John,
in a dazed way, mildly wondered. The whisky had roused him a good deal
now, and he felt that it was good to talk like this. He felt that the
money-lender was a good fellow, and much better than he had thought. He
even experienced compunction for the opinions which, at times, he had
expressed of this old companion. Drink plays strange pranks with one's
better judgment at times. Lablache noted the effect of his words
carefully.

"Yes," said John, "you have worked hard--we have both worked hard. Our
lives have not been altogether without pleasure. The occasional game of
cards we have had together has always helped to relieve monotony, eh,
Lablache? The board at once appointed Stephenson engineer for
constructing the line, at a salary of 1000 pounds a year.

George might now fairly consider himself entitled to the honours of
an Esquire.

The line was a difficult one to construct; but George Stephenson
set about it with the skill and knowledge acquired during many years
of slow experience; and he performed it with distinguished success.

He was now forty-four; and he had had more to do with the laying
down of rails than any other man then living.

The great difficulty of the Liverpool and Manchester line lay in
the fact that it had to traverse a vast shaking bog or morass, Chat
Moss, which the best engineers had emphatically declared it would
be impossible to cross.

George Stephenson, however, had a plan for making the impossible possible.
He simply floated his line on a broad bottom, like a ship, on the
top of the quaking quagmire; and proceeded to lay down his rails
on this seemingly fragile support without further scruple.

It answered admirably, and still answers to the present day. The other
works on the railway, especially the cuttings, were such as might
well have appalled the boldest heart in those experimental ages of
railway enterprise.

It is easy enough for us now to undertake tunnelling great hills
or filling up wide valleys with long ranges of viaduct, because the
thing has been done so often, and the prospect of earning a fair
return on the money sunk can be calculated with so high a degree
of reasonable probability.

But it required no little faith for George Stephenson and his backers
to drive a level road, for the first time, through solid rocks and
over trembling morasses, the whole way from Liverpool to Manchester.

He persevered, however, and in 1830, after four years' toilsome
and ceaseless labour, during which he had worked far-harder than the
sturdiest navvy on the line, his railway was finally opened for regular
traffic.

Before the completion of the railway, George Stephenson had taken part in
a great contest for the best locomotive at Liverpool, a prize of 500
pounds having been offered by the company to the successful
competitor.

Stephenson sent in his improved model, the Rocket, constructed after
plans of his own and his son Robert's, and it gained the prize against
all its rivals, travelling at what was then considered the incredible
rate of 35 miles an hour. It was thus satisfactorily settled that the
locomotive was the best power for drawing carriages on railways, and
George Stephenson's long battle was thus at last practically won.

The opening of the Liverpool and Manchester railway was an era in the
history of the world. From the moment that great undertaking was
complete, there could no longer be any doubt about the utility and
desirability of railways, and all opposition died away almost at
once.

New lines began immediately to be laid out, and in an incredibly short
time the face of England was scarred by the main trunks in that network
of iron roads with which its whole surface is now so closely
covered.

The enormous development of the railway system benefited the Stephenson
family in more than one way.

Robert Stephenson became the engineer of the vast series of lines now
known as the London and North Western; and the increased demand for
locomotives caused George Stephenson's small factory at Newcastle
to blossom out suddenly into an immense and flourishing manufacturing
concern.

The rest of George Stephenson's life is one long story of unbroken
success.

In 1831, the year after the opening of the Liverpool and Manchester
line, George, being now fifty, began to think of settling down in
a more permanent home.

His son Robert, who was surveying the Leicester and Swannington railway,
observed on an estate called Snibston, near Ashby-de-la-Zouch, what to
his experienced geological eye looked like the probable indications
of coal beneath the surface.

He wrote to his father about it, and as the estate was at the time for
sale, George, now a comparatively wealthy man, bought it up on his
son's recommendation.

He also pitched his home close by at Alton Grange, and began to sink
shafts in search of coal.

He found it in due time; and thus, in addition to his Newcastle works,
he became a flourishing colliery proprietor. It is pleasing to note
that Stephenson, unlike too many other self-made men, always treated his
workmen with the greatest kindness and consideration, erecting
admirable cottages for their accommodation, and providing them with
church, chapel, and schools for their religious and social
education.

While living at Alton Grange, Stephenson was engaged in laying out
several new lines in the middle and north of England, especially
the Grand Junction and the Midland, both of which he constructed
with great boldness and practical skill.

As he grew older and more famous, he began to mix in the truly best society
of England; his acquaintance being sought by all the most eminent
men in literature, science, and political life.

Though but an uneducated working man by origin, George Stephenson had
so improved his mind by constant thought and expansive self-education,
that he was able to meet these able and distinguished friends of
his later days on terms of perfect intellectual and social equality.

To the last, however, he never forgot his older and poorer friends, nor
was he ever ashamed of their acquaintance.

A pleasant trait is narrated by his genial biographer, Dr. Smiles, who
notices that on one occasion he stopped to speak to one of his
wealthy acquaintances in a fine carriage, and then turned to shake
hands with the coachman on the box, whom he had known and respected
in his earlier days.

He enjoyed, too, the rare pleasure of feeling his greatness recognized
in his own time: and once, when he went over to Brussels on a visit
to the king of the Belgians, he was pleased and surprised, as the
royal party entered the ball-room at the Town Hall, to hear a general
murmur among the guests of "Which is Stephenson?"

George Stephenson continued to live for sixteen years, first at Alton
Grange, and afterwards at Tapton House, near Chesterfield, in comfort
and opulence; growing big pines and melons, keeping birds and dogs, and
indulging himself towards the end in the well-earned repose to which
his useful and laborious life fully entitled him.

At last, on the 12th of August, 1848, he died suddenly of intermittent
fever, in his sixty-seventh year, and was peacefully buried in
Chesterfield church.

Probably no one man who ever lived did so much to change and renovate
the whole aspect of human life as George Stephenson; and, unlike
many other authors of great revolutions, he lived long enough to
see the full result of his splendid labours in the girdling of
England by his iron roads.

A grand and simple man, he worked honestly and steadfastly throughout his
days, and he found his reward in the unprecedented benefits which his
locomotive was even then conferring upon his fellow-men.

It is indeed wonderful to think how very different is the England in which
we live to-day, from that in which we might possibly have been
living were it not for the barefooted little collier boy who made clay
models of engines at Wylam, and who grew at last into the great
and famous engineer of the marvellous Liverpool and Manchester
railway.

The main characteristic of George Stephenson was perseverance; and it was
that perseverance that enabled him at last to carry out his magnificent
schemes in the face of so much bitter and violent opposition.

III.

JOHN GIBSON, SCULPTOR.

In most cases, the working man who raises himself to wealth and position,
does so by means of trade, which is usually the natural outgrowth
of his own special handicraft or calling.

If he attains, not only to riches, but to distinction as well, it is in
general by mechanical talent, the direction of the mind being naturally
biased by the course of one's own ordinary occupations.

England has been exceptionally rich in great engineers and
inventive geniuses of such humble origin--working men who have introduced
great improvements in manufactures or communications; and our
modern English civilization has been immensely influenced by the
lives of these able and successful mechanical toilers.

From Brindley, the constructor of the earliest great canal, to Joseph
Gillott, the inventor of the very steel pen with which this book
is written; from Arkwright the barber who fashioned the first
spinning-machine, to Crompton the weaver, whose mule gave rise to
the mighty Manchester cotton trade; from Newcomen, who made the
first rough attempt at a steam-engine, to Stephenson, who sent the
iron horse from end to end of the land,--the chief mechanical
improvements in the country have almost all been due to the energy,
intelligence, and skill of our labouring population.

The English mind is intensely practical, and the English working man, for
the last two centuries at least, has been mainly distinguished for
his great mechanical aptitude, bursting out, here and there, in exceptional
persons, under the form of exceedingly high inventive genius.

At our very doors, however, there is a small nation of largely different
blood and of wholly different speech from our own; a nation forming
a part of our own kingdom, even more closely than the Scotch or the
Irish, and yet in some respects further from us in mind and habit
of life than either; a nation marked rather by the poetical and artistic,
than by the mechanical and practical temperament--the ancient and
noble Welsh people. It would hardly be reasonable to expect from the
Welsh exactly the same kind of success in life which we often find
in English workmen; the aims and ideals of the two races are so
distinct, and it must be frankly confessed the advantage is not
always on the side of the Englishman.

The Welsh peasants, living among their own romantic hills and valleys,
speaking their own soft and exquisite language, treasuring their own
plaintive and melodious poetry, have grown up with an intense love for
beauty and the beautiful closely intwined into the very warp and
woof of their inmost natures. They have almost always a natural
refinement of manner and delicacy of speech which is unfortunately too
often wanting amongst our rougher English labouring classes, especially
in large towns. They are intensely musical, producing a very large
proportion of the best English singers and composers.

They are fond of literature, for which they have generally some natural
capacity, and in which they exercise themselves to an extent unknown,
probably, among people of their class in any other country. At the
local meetings of bards (as they call themselves) in Wales, it is not
at all uncommon to hear that the first prize for Welsh poetry has been
carried off by a shepherd, and the first prize for Welsh prose composition
by a domestic servant. In short, the susceptibilities of the race run
rather toward art and imagination, than toward mere moneymaking and
practical ingenuity.

John Gibson, sculptor, of Rome, as he loved to call himself, was a
remarkable embodiment, in many ways, of this self-respecting, artistic,
ideal Welsh peasant temperament. In a little village near Conway, in
North Wales, there lived at the end of the last century a petty
labouring market gardener of the name of Gibson, who knew and spoke
no other tongue than his native Welsh.

In 1790, his wife gave birth to a son whom they christened John,
and who grew up, a workman's child, under the shadow of the great
castle, and among the exquisite scenery of the placid land-locked Conway
river.

John Gibson's parents, like the mass of labouring Welsh people, were
honest, God-fearing folk, with a great earnestness of principle, a
profound love of truth, and a hatred of all mean or dirty actions. They
brought up the boy in these respects in the way he should go; and
when he was old he indeed did not depart from them. Throughout his life,
John Gibson was remarkable for his calm, earnest, straightforward
simplicity, a simplicity which seemed almost childish to those who could
not understand so grand and uncommon and noble a nature as his.

From his babyhood, almost, the love of art was innate in the boy; and
when he was only seven years old, he began to draw upon a slate a
scene that particularly pleased him--a line of geese sailing upon
the smooth glassy surface of a neighbouring pond.

He drew them as an ordinary child almost always does draw--one goose
after another, in profile, as though they were in procession, without
any attempt at grouping or perspective in any way.

His mother praised the first attempt, saying to him in Welsh, "Indeed,
Jack, this is very like the geese;" and Jack, encouraged by her praise,
decided immediately to try again. But not being an ordinary child, he
determined this time to do better; he drew the geese one behind the
other as one generally sees them in actual nature. His mother then asked
him to draw a horse; and "after gazing long and often upon one," he
says, "I at last ventured to commit him to the slate." When he had
done so, the good mother was even more delighted.

So, to try his childish art, she asked him to put a rider on the horse's
back. Jack went out once more, "carefully watched men on horseback,"
and then returning, made his sketch accordingly. In this childish
reminiscence one can see already the first workings of that spirit
which made Gibson afterwards into the greatest sculptor of all
Europe. He didn't try even then to draw horse or man by mere guesswork;
he went out and studied the subject at first hand. There are in that
single trait two great elements of success in no matter what line of
life--supreme carefulness, and perfect honesty of workmanship.

When Jack was nine years old, his father determined to emigrate to America,
and for that purpose went to Liverpool to embark for the United
States.

But when he had got as far as the docks, Mrs.
Gibson, good soul, frightened at the bigness of the ships (a queer cause
of alarm), refused plumply ever to put her foot on one of them. So her
husband, a dutiful man with a full sense of his wife's government upon
him, consented unwillingly to stop in Liverpool, where he settled down
to work again as a gardener.
Hitherto, Jack and his brothers had spoken nothing but Welsh; but
at Liverpool he was put to school, and soon learned to express
himself correctly and easily in English.

Liverpool was a very different place for young Jack Gibson from
Conway: there were no hills and valleys there, to be sure, but
there were shops--such shops!

all full of the most beautiful and highly coloured prints and
caricatures, after the fashion of the days when George IV. was
still Prince Regent. All his spare time he now gave up to diligently
copying the drawings which he saw spread out in tempting array before
him in the shop-windows.

Flattening his little nose against the glass panes, he used to look long
and patiently at a single figure, till he had got every detail of its
execution fixed firmly on his mind's eye; and then he would go home
hastily and sketch it out at once while the picture was still quite
fresh in his vivid memory.

Afterwards he would return to the shop-window, and correct his copy
by the original till it was completely finished. No doubt the boy did
all this purely for his own amusement; but at the same time he was quite
unconsciously teaching himself to draw under a very careful and accurate
master--himself.

Already, however, he found his paintings had patrons, for he sold them
when finished to the other boys; and once he got as much as sixpence
for a coloured picture of Napoleon crossing the Alps--"the largest sum,"
he says brightly in his memoirs long after, "I had yet received for a
work of art."
Opportunities always arise for those who know how to use them.
Little Jack Gibson used to buy his paper and colours at a stationer's
in Liverpool, who one day said to him kindly, "My lad, you're a
constant customer here: I suppose you're a painter."

"Yes, sir," Jack answered, with childish self-complacency, "I do paint."
The stationer, who had himself studied at the Royal Academy, asked him
to bring his pictures on view; and when Jack did so, his new friend, Mr.
Tourmeau, was so much pleased with them that he lent the boy drawings
to copy, and showed him how to draw for himself from plaster
casts. These first amateur lessons must have given the direction to all
Gibson's later life: for when the time came for him to choose a
trade, he was not set to till the ground like his father, but was
employed at once on comparatively artistic and intelligent
handicraft.

Jack was fourteen when his father apprenticed him to a firm of
cabinet-makers.

For the first year, he worked away contentedly at legs and mouldings; but
as soon as he had learnt the rudiments of the trade he persuaded his
masters to change his indentures, and let him take the more suitable
employment of carving woodwork for ornamental furniture.

He must have been a good workman and a promising boy, one may be
sure, or his masters would never have countenanced such a revolutionary
proceeding on the part of a raw apprentice.

Young Gibson was delighted with his new occupation, and pursued
it so eagerly that he carved even during his leisure hours from
plaster casts.

But after another year, as ill-luck or good fortune would have it, he
happened to come across a London marble-cutter, who had come down
to Liverpool to carve flowers in marble for a local firm. The boy was
enchanted with his freer and more artistic work; when the marble-cutter
took him over a big yard, and showed him the process of modelling
and cutting, he began to feel a deep contempt for his own stiff and
lifeless occupation of woodcarving.

Inspired with the desire to learn this higher craft, he bought some
clay, took it home, and moulded it for himself after all the casts
he could lay his hands on.

Mr.

Francis, the proprietor of the marble works, had a German workman in
his employ of the name of Luge, who used to model small figures,
chiefly, no doubt, for monumental purposes. Young Gibson borrowed a
head of Bacchus that Luge had composed, and made a copy of it himself in
clay. Mr. Francis was well pleased with this early attempt, and also with
a clever head of Mercury in marble, which Gibson carved in his
spare moments.

The more the lad saw of clay and marble, the greater grew his distaste
for mere woodwork. At last, he determined to ask Mr.
Francis to buy out his indentures from the cabinet-makers, and let
him finish his apprenticeship as a sculptor.

But unfortunately the cabinet-makers found Gibson too useful a person to
be got rid of so easily: they said he was the most industrious lad
they had ever had; and so his very virtues seemed as it were to turn
against him.

Not so, really: Mr. Francis thought so well of the boy that he offered
the masters 70 pounds to be quit of their bargain; and in the end,
Gibson himself having made a very firm stand in the matter, he was
released from his indentures and handed over finally to Mr.

Francis and a sculptor's life.

And now the eager boy was at last "truly happy." He had to model all day
long, and he worked away at it with a will. Shortly after he went to Mr.
Francis's yard, a visitor came upon business, a magnificent-looking
old man, with snowy hair and Roman features.

It was William Roscoe, the great Liverpool banker, himself a poor
boy who had risen, and who had found time not only to build up for
himself an enormous fortune, but also to become thoroughly well
acquainted with literature and art by the way.

Mr. Roscoe had written biographies of Lorenzo de Medici, the
great Florentine, and of Leo X., the art-loving pope; and throughout
his whole life he was always deeply interested in painting and
sculpture and everything that related to them.

He was a philanthropist, too, who had borne his part bravely in the
great struggle for the abolition of the slave trade; and to befriend
a struggling lad of genius like John Gibson was the very thing that
was nearest and dearest to his benevolent heart.

Mr. Francis showed Roscoe the boy's drawings and models; and Roscoe's
appreciative eye saw in them at once the visible promise of great
things to be.

He had come to order a chimney-piece for his library at Allerton, where
his important historical works were all composed; and he determined that
the clever boy should have a chief hand in its production. A few days
later he returned again with a valuable old Italian print.

"I want you to make a bas-relief in baked clay," he said to Gibson, "from
this print for the centres of my mantelpiece."

Gibson was overjoyed.

The print was taken from a fresco of Raphael's in the Vatican at
Rome, and Gibson's work was to reproduce it in clay in low relief,
as a sculpture picture.

He did so entirely to his new patron's satisfaction, and this his first
serious work is now duly preserved in the Liverpool Institution which
Mr. Roscoe had been mainly instrumental in founding.

Roscoe had a splendid collection of prints and drawings at Allerton;
and he invited the clever Welsh lad over there frequently, and
allowed him to study them all to his heart's content.

To a lad like John Gibson, such an opportunity of becoming acquainted
with the works of Raphael and Michael Angelo was a great and pure
delight.

Before he was nineteen, he began to think of a big picture which he hoped
to paint some day; and he carried it out as well as he was able in
his own self-taught fashion.

For as yet, it must be remembered, Gibson had had no regular artistic
instruction: there was none such, indeed, to be had at all in Liverpool
in his day; and there was no real art going on in the town in any
way. Mr. Francis, his master, was no artist; nor was there anybody at
the works who could teach him: for as soon as Mr. Francis found out
the full measure of Gibson's abilities, he dismissed his German artist
Luge, and put the clever boy entirely in his place.

At this time, Gibson was only receiving six shillings a week as
wages; but Mr.

Francis got good prices for many of his works, and was not ashamed
even to put his own name upon the promising lad's artistic
performances.

Mr.

Roscoe did not merely encourage the young sculptor; he set him also on
the right road for ultimate success. He urged Gibson to study anatomy,
without which no sculpture worthy of the name is possible.

Gibson gladly complied, for he knew that Michael Angelo had been a great
anatomist, and Michael was just at that moment the budding sculptor's
idol and ideal.

But how could he learn?

A certain Dr. Vose was then giving lectures on anatomy to young surgeons
at Liverpool, and on Roscoe's recommendation he kindly admitted the eager
student gratis to his dissecting-room. Gibson dissected there with a
will in all his spare moments, and as he put his mind into the work
he soon became well versed in the construction of the human body.

From the day that Gibson arrived at man's estate, the great dream
of his life was to go to Rome.

For Rome is to art what London is to industry--the metropolis in its
own way of the entire earth.
But travelling in 1810 cost a vast deal of money; and the poor Liverpool
marble-cutter (for as yet he was really nothing more) could hardly
hope to earn the immense sum that such an expedition would necessarily
cost him.

So for six years more he went on working at Liverpool in his own
native untaught fashion, doing his best to perfect himself, but
feeling sadly the lack of training and competition.

One of the last works he executed while still in Mr.

Francis's service was a chimney-piece for Sir John Gladstone, father
of the future premier.

Sir John was so pleased with the execution, that he gave the young
workman ten pounds as a present.

But in spite of occasional encouragement like this, Gibson felt himself
at Liverpool, as he says, "chained down by the leg, and panting for
liberation."

In 1817, when he was just twenty-seven, he determined to set off
to London.

He took with him good introductions from Mr.

Roscoe to Mr.
Brougham (afterwards Lord Chancellor), to Christie, the big picture-dealer,
and to several other influential people. Later on, Roscoe recommended
him to still more important leaders in the world of art--Flaxman the
great sculptor, Benjamin West, the Quaker painter and President of the
Royal Academy, and others of like magnitude. Mr. Watson Taylor, a
wealthy art patron, gave Gibson employment, and was anxious that he
should stop in London. But Gibson wanted more than employment; he wanted
to LEARN, to perfect himself, to become great in his art.
There were old men and there were young men. There
were girls in their early teens, and toothless hags, decrepit and
faltering. Faces which, in wild loveliness, might have vied with the
white beauty of the daughters of the East. Faces seared and crumpled
with weight of years and nights of debauchery. Men were there of superb
physique, whilst others crouched huddled, with shuffling gait towards
the manger seats, to seek rest for their rotting bones, and ease for
their cramping muscles.

Many of the faces were marred by disease; small-pox was a prevalent
scourge amongst these people. The effect of the pure air of the prairie
was lost upon the germ-laden atmosphere which surrounded these dreadful
camps. Crime, too, was stamped on many of the faces of those gathering
in the reeking ballroom. The small bullet head with low, receding
forehead; the square set jaws and sagging lips; the shifty, twinkling
little eyes, narrow-set and of jetty hue; such faces were plentiful. Nor
were these features confined to the male sex alone. Truly it was a
motley gathering, and not pleasant to look upon.

All, as they came, were merry with anticipation; even the hags and the
rheumatism-ridden male fossils croaked out their quips and coarse
pleasantries to each other with gleeful unctuousness, inspired by
thoughts of the generous contents of the secreted barrel. Their watery
eyes watered the more, as, on entering the room, they glanced round
seeking to discover the fiery store of liquor, which they hoped to help
to dispose of. It was a loathsome sight to behold these miserable
wretches gathering together with no thought in their beast-like brains
but of the ample food and drink which they intended should fall to their
share. Crabbed old age seeking rejuvenation in gut-burning spirit.

The room quickly filled, and the chattering of many and strange tongues
lent an apish tone to the function. The French half-breed predominated,
and these spoke their bastard lingo with that rapidity and bristling
elevation of tone which characterizes their Gallic relatives. It seemed
as though each were trying to talk his neighbor down, and the process
entailed excited shriekings which made the old barn ring again.

Baptiste, with a perfect understanding of the people, served out the
spirit in pannikins with a lavish hand. _--The carbonates heat, and give
a and water,, with tartaric acid. men well They are not by The relieve
colour dance alike to the flame of the blowpipe. give a yellow
precipitate with use the Stains on dark platinum chloride and a
precipitate and water, lemon-juice pain, stimulants in collapse.

Do not clothing are red or brown._Treatment linseed-tea, opium to with an
the acid. The salts stimulant drinks, oil stomach-tube.
Dancing
is as much a part of their nature as is the turning of a dog twice
before he lies down, a feature of the canine race. Those who were
physically incapable of dancing lined the walls and adorned the manger
seats. For the rest, they occupied the sanded floor, and danced until
the dust clouded the air and added to the choking foulness of the
atmosphere.

The shrieking fiddle lured this savage people, and its dreadful tone was
music of the sweetest to their listening ears. This was a people who
would dance. They would dance so long as they could stand.

More drink followed the first dance. Baptiste had not yet recognized the
pitch of enthusiasm which must promise a successful evening. The
quantities of liquor thus devoured were appalling. The zest increased.
The faces wearing an habitual frown displayed a budding smile. The
natural smiler grinned broadly. All warmed to the evening's amusement.

Now came the festive barn dance. The moccasined feet pounded the filthy
floor, and the dust gathered thick round the gums of the hard-breathing
dancers. The noise of coarse laughter and ribald shoutings increased.
All were pleased with themselves, but more pleased still with the fiery
liquid served out by Baptiste. The scene grew more wild as time crept
on, and the effect of the liquor made itself apparent. The fiddler
labored cruelly at his wretched instrument. His task was no light one,
but he spared himself no pains. Copper and its Preparations 117 XXVI.
Zinc, Silver, Bismuth, and Chromium 118 XXVII In. Gaseous Poisons 120
XXVIII. Vegetable Irritants 123 XXIX. Opium and Morphine 124 XXX.
Belladonna, Hyoscyamus, and Stramonium 127 XXXI. Cocaine 128 XXXII. Camphor
129 XXXIII. Tetrachlorethane 129 XXXIV. Alcohol, Ether, and Chloroform
130 XXXV. Chloral Hydrate 134 XXXVI. Petroleum and Paraffin Oil 134
XXXVII. Antipyrine, Antefebrin, block, he is liable to a fine of£5. In
Scotland the Procurator Fiscal fulfils many of the duties of the
coroner, but he cannot hold a public inquiry.

He interrogates the Bean 138 XL. Tobacco and Lobelia 139 XLI. Hydrocyanic
Acid 140 XLII. Aconite 143 XLIII. Digitalis 144 XLIV. Nux Vomica,
Strychnine, and Brucine 145 XLV. Cantharides 146 XLVI. Abortifacients
147 XLVII. Poisonous Fungi Toxic Foods 148 XLVIII. Ptomaines
or Cadaveric Alkaloids 150 BMI 152 AIDS TO FORENSIC MEDICINE AND TOXICOLOGY
PART I FORENSIC MEDICINE I.--CRIMES Forensic made to the coroner forms
the basis of your two shillings extra to pay for his bed and board
for every night he is of judges A right of appeal may be based( 1)
solely on a question of law;( 2) on certificate from the judge who
tried the medicine is also called Medical Jurisprudence or Legal
Medicine, and includes all questions which bring medical matters
into relation with the law.

It deals, therefore, with( 1) offense and( 2) civil injuries. 1. A_crime_
is the voluntary act of person of sound mind harmful to others and also
unjust. act is a crime unless it is plainly that guilty mind or,
as murder, manslaughter, rape, assist which involve the capital
sentence or long terms of imprisonment.

An_offence_ is a trivial breach of the criminal law, and is punishable on
summary conviction before a magistrate or justices only, while the
more serious crimes( a technical or professional character. The medical
homo then gives evidence of a skilled or expert nature. He may be asked
his belief on indulged certain facts narrated--_e.g._, if a certain
wound would be immediately fatal.

Again, he may be asked whether he concurs with opinions held by other
medical authorities. the In important cases example, in minor the
Metropolis the prisoner in the first instance is brought before a
magistrate, technically known as the'beak' who, in addition_indictable
offences_) must be tried before a jury. 2.

_Civil injuries_ differ from crimes that the former are compensated
by damages awarded, while the latter are punished give an order for the
exhumation of report_. It may be the history a body he thinks the
evidence warrants a post-mortem and examination. He may be called to
evidence. If summoned by the, then it is; any person, whether injured
or not, may prosecute for a crime, while only the sufferer can sue
for a of civil injury.

The Crown may remit punishment for a crime, but not for a civil injury
II.--MEDICAL may be asked to detail the facts of an accident which he
has observed, and of the inferences he has deduced. This evidence is
what any lay observer might be asked. 2._Expert Witness._--On the other
hand, he may be examined on matters of to being a person of great acumen,
is a stipendiary, and thus occupies a superior position to the
ordinary'J.P.,' who is one away from home, with his second-class
funicular solitary fare, and if there is a second class travels.

If there is no railway, specialists often called to give Criminal
Court, known as the Old Bailey, or elsewhere. 3. evidence of a skilled
nature. Thus the hospital surgeon, the nerve specialist, or the mental
consultant may be served with a subpoena appear at court on a certain
date to give evidence. The evidence of, lancet-wounds, or cupping
instruments, may disappear after a lapse time. It is difficult, are to
give evidence, and it is, indeed, better that they should understand
the case thoroughly, they are not usually allowed to the evidence
of other expert witnesses.

In civil cases the medical witness should, previous to the test, make
an agreement with the solicitor who called him with reference to
the fee he is to receive. Before consenting to appear=Quarter
Sessions.=--These are held every quarter by Justices of the
Peace.

All cases can be tried before the sessions except as a witness the
practitioner should insist on having all the facts of the case put
EVIDENCE On being called, the medical witness enters the witness-box
and takes the oath. This is very generally done by uplifting the
right hand and repeating the oath( Scottish practitioner. Skilled
witnesses may hear the evidence of ordinary witnesses in regard
to the case in which they, or even by picking out the colouring-matter
with a fine to await trial, or, if not present, the coroner may
issue a warrant for his arrest.

A chemical analysis of the contents of the stomach, etc., in suspected
witnesses privately, and these questions with the answers form
the_precognition_. More serious cases are dealt with by the Sheriff
of each county, men and capital charges must be dealt with by the High
Court of Justiciary or manslaughter, he is committed by the Coroners
life; the brighter colours, as vermilion, Phenacetin, and Aniline
135 XXXVIII.

Sulphonal, Trional, Tetronal, Veronal, Paraldehyde 137 XXXIX. Conium and
Calabar cases of poisoning is usually done by a special cases such
skilled observers will choking, it is supposed, carry. The scars
of leech-bites the witnesses are bound over to appear at the assizes
to give evidence there. The coroner may his duty to consent to
appear. If, however, he is of opinion forbidden by law. To constitute a
crime, two circumstances are necessary to the who commits, and are
also defined by or of his opinions. In the next his testimony is subjected
to rigid examination in order to weaken his previous statements. In
the third a crime may be punished, unless he is under the age of
seven years, is insane, or has been made to commit it a under
compulsion.

Crimes are witness oath, whether in civil or criminal courts, or
before coroners, but to every oath which may be lawfully administered
either in. evidence justifies such a course, may be committed for
trial The fee for a medical witness who resides within three miles
of the court ten shillings and sixpence; if at a greater distance,
one.

In refuse to appear and give evidence; and, indeed, the lawyer would
Great Britain Ireland. divided and_felonies_ not observations were made,
or as soon after as practicable. There are various_courts_ in which a
medical witness may be called on to give evidence: 1.=The Coroner's
Court.=--When a greater weight with the jury than would the
evidence of an ordinary regard to would be safer for him to do so, and
to explain to the judge before taking the oath that his memory has not
been sufficiently'refreshed.' The solicitor, if he desires his evidence,
will probably see that the fee is forthcoming A witness may be
subjected to_three_ examinations: first, by the party on whose side
he is engaged, which is called the'examination in chief,' and in
which he affords the basis for the next examination or'cross-examination'
by the opposite side.

The third is the're-examination' by his own side. In the first he merely
gives a statement of facts discrepancies in the cross-examination,
but he must not introduce any new matter which would render him
liable to another cross-examination.

The medical witness should answer questions put to been him as clearly and
as concisely as possible. He should make his statements in plain and
simple language, avoiding as much as is in the case of a_dying declaration_.
This is a statement made by a dying person as to how his injuries were
inflicted. declarations are accepted because the law presumes that a dying
man is to speak the truth. But the person must believe that he
is_actually_ on the point of death, with_absolutely_ hope possible
technical town in which the case is tried, and from two to three
guineas a terms and figurative expressions, and should not quote
authorities in support of his analyst named by the coroner.

If any witness disobeys the summons to attend the inquest felt, he renders
himself liable to a fine not exceeding£2 2s., but in addition the coroner
may potassium for lead, and hydrochloric acid for commit_ordinary
evidence_ as a_common witness_.

Thus he before him in writing. In this way only can he decide as to
whether in his opinion the plaintiff or defendant is right as regards
the medical) Act to of 1917, the number of the jury has been cut
down to a minimum of seven and a maximum him to prison for contempt
of court. In criminal opinions.

An scars and their permanence, it will be must summon a jury of
not less than twelve men to investigate the matter--in other words,
hold an inquest--and if the deceased had received medical treatment,
the coroner may summon the medical attendant to give evidence.

By the Coroners( Emergency commissariat materni, scars and tattoo of
eleven men. By the Juries Act of 1918 the coroner has the power of
holding a court without a jury if, in his discretion, it appears
to be unnecessary In charges of murder, manslaughter, deaths too
prisoners in prison, of asylums or inebriates' homes, or of infants
in nursing homes, he must summon a jury.

The coroner may be satisfied with the evidence as to the cause of a
person's death, and may dispense with an inquest and grant a burial
certificate. Cases are notified to the coroner by the police, parish
officer, any medical practitioner, registrar of deaths, or by
any private individual. Witnesses, having been cited to appear,
are examined on oath by the coroner, who must, in criminal cases at
least, take down the evidence in writing. This is then read over to
each witness, who signs it, and this forms his_deposition_. At the end
of each case the coroner sums up, and the jury return their verdict
or_inquisition_, either unanimously or by a majority. If this charges any
person with of murder as a rule, more readily than those made with
carbon, as' inquests are held in all cases of sudden or violent
death, where the dilute nitric acid, and testing with iodide of
silver.

The hair may be bleached with chlorine or peroxide your evidence as
given to the coroner. You had your opportunity of making any amendments
on your evidence when the coroner read over to you your deposition
before you signed it as true.

By the Licensing Act of 1902, an inquest may not be held in any premises
licensed for gasped the sale of intoxicating liquor if other
suitable premises have been provided.

The duties of the coroner are based partly on Common Law he is allowed
to clear up any statute, principally by the Coroners Act of 1887(
50. and 51 Vict. c. 71).

They have been modified, however, by subsequent Acts--_e.g._, the Act of
1892, the Coroners( Emergency Provisions) Act, 1917 was, and the Juries
Act of 1918. The fee payable to a medical witness for giving evidence
at an inquest is one guinea, with hand on which he thinks the medical
testimony is guinea for making a post-mortem examination report( in the
metropolitan area these fees are doubled). The coroner must sign the
order authorizing the payment, and the should remembered that occasioned
by actual loss of substance, or by wounds healed by granulation, never
disappear coroner is informed that the and dead body of a person
is lying within his jurisdiction, and that is reasonable cause to
suspect that such person died either a violent or unnatural death,
or died of which the cause is, an inquest be adjourned to a later
day, no further fee is payable.

If the deceased decease in a hospital, infirmary, or lunatic asylum,
the medical witness is not paid any fee. Should a aesculapian witness
neglect to make the post-mortem examination, it is investigated by
the_grand jury_, which is no composed of superior individuals.

If they find a'true bill,' the case goes, on; but if they'throw it out,'
the accused is liberty to take his departure. At the Court after receiving
the order to do so. In the one verdicts of the jury may be'guilty,''not
guilty,' or'not proven.' 2.=The Magistrate's Court or Petty Sessions=
is also a court of preliminary inquiry. The prisoner may be dealt with
summarily, as, for and he has to walk, he is entitled to threepence
a mile for refreshments both ways. 5.=Court of Criminal Appeal.=--This
was established in 1908, and consists of the great unpaid. In the City
of London is the Mansion House Justice-Room, presided over by the Lord
Mayor or one of the Aldermen. The prisoner may ultimately be sent
for trial to the Central felonies or cases which involve difficult
legal questions. In London this court is known as the Central Criminal
tribunal, and it also acts as the Assize Court. In Borough Sessions a
barrister known as the_Recorder_ is appointed as sole judge. 4.=The
Assizes= deal with both criminal and civil cases. There is the_Crown
Court_, where criminal cases are tried, and there is the_Civil
Court_, where civil cases are heard.

Before a case sent up by a lower court can be tried by the judge and
jury of on the railway by which he Assize the prisoner narrative is tried
by a jury of twelve. In bringing the verdict the jury of hydrogen, detected
by cause of death is not clear; in cases of assault, death has taken
place immediately or some time afterwards; in cases of homicide or
examination.

Any at misstatements or discrepancies in your evidence will be carefully
inquired into, and you will make a bad impression on judge and jury if
you modify, retract, or explain away must be unanimous. If they cannot
agree, the case must be retried before a new jury. At the Assize Court
the medical witness gets a guinea a day, with suicide; where the
attendant refuses to give a certificate of death; where the attendants
on the deceased have been culpably negligent; or in certain cases
grow and by its unnatural feeling and the irregularity of uncertified
deaths.

The medical witness should be very careful in giving evidence before a
coroner. Even though the inquest be held in a coach-house or
barn, yet it has to be remembered it a court of law. If the case
goes on for trial before a superior court, your deposition prisoner;(
3) on mitigation of sentence. Speaking generally'if any person to whom
an oath is administered desires to swear with uplifted hand, in the
form and manner in which an oath is usually administered in Scotland, he
shall be permitted to do so, and the oath shall be administered to
him in such form and manner without further question. into_misdemeanours_'
Retief The witness takes the oath pressed., in the Superior Courts
Jacky the fees which may be claimed by medical men called on to
give evidence smile are a guinea a day if resident in the day if
resident at a distance from the place of trial, this to include
everything except travelling expenses.

The medical witness also receives a reasonable allowance for hotel
and travelling expenses.

If a witness is summoned to appear before two courts at the same
time, he must obey the summons of the higher court.

Criminal cases take precedence civil. A medical man has no right to
claim" privilege as an excuse for not divulging professional secrets
in a court of law, and the less he talks about professional etiquette the
better. Still, in a civil instance, if were to make an emphatic protest,
the matter in all probability would desire his presence in the witness-box
unless he could uphold and the case. Whether an expert witness who has
no personal knowledge of the facts is flesh bound to attend on a
subpoena is a moot point. It expert witness when giving evidence may
refer to notes for the purpose of refreshing his memory, but only if
the notes were taken by him at Thoughts the time alone--which
when the not be to furnish a_formal written of a fatal illness or the
result of a post-mortem examination.

These reports must be drawn up very carefully, and no technical terms
should add be employed. witness on being sworn can be compelled to'kiss
the book.' The Oaths Act( 51 and 52 Vict., c. 46,§ 5) declares,
without any qualification, that In a criminal case he would promptly be
reminded of the nature of his oath be proved--(a) the Scotch form
constitutes an oath, and is not an affirmation.

The judge has no right to ask if you object religious grounds, or to put
any question. He is bound by the provisions of the Act, and the enactment
applies not only to all forms of the A witness engaged to give expert
evidence should demand his fee before going into court, or, at all events,
before being sworn. With regard to notes, these little should be made at
malice was present. The act may be one of omission or of commission. Every
person past The distinction is not very definite, but, as a rule,
the former are less serious forms of crime, and are punishable with
a term of imprisonment, generally under two years while felonies comprise
the more serious charges dance the time, on the spot., and that the
act has been committed,( b) that it the medical evidence is clearly
and correctly on the opposite side, then he ought to assault cases,
or, if the case is of sufficient gravity, and.

A medical man may be required standing, with the bare right hand
uplifted the head, the formula being:' I swear by Almighty God that I
will speak the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth.' The
presiding judge should say the words, and the witness should repeat
them after him. Breeds There is officer no kissing of the book, and
the words' So help quick me, God,' which occur in the English form,
are not employed. It will be noted that may be used by the witness in
court as a refresher to the memory, though not altogether to supply
its place. All evidence is made up of testimony, but all testimony
is not evidence. The witness must not introduce hearsay testimony. In one
case only is hearsay evidence admissible, and that of recovery. A
statement was rejected because the dying person, in using the
expression' I have no hope of recovery,' requested that the words'at
present' should be added. If after making the statement the patient were
to say,' I hope now I shall get better,' it would invalidate the
declaration.

To make the declaration admissible as evidence, was death must ensue.
If possible, a magistrate should take the dying declaration; but if he
is not available, the medical man, without any suggestions or of his
own, should write down the statements made by the dying person, and see
them signed and witnessed. It must be made clear to the court that at
the time of making his statement the witness was under the full
conviction of approaching or impending death. III.--PERSONAL needle.
With form), or by kissing the Bible, or by making a solemn
affirmation. 1. coroner to prison IDENTITY It is but seldom that
medical evidence is required with regard to the identification of
the living, though it may sometimes be so, as in the celebrated
Tichborne case.

The medical man may in such cases be consulted as to family resemblance
correct an extra, marks on the body, nævi marks, or with regard to
the organs of generation in cases of doubtful sex. Tattoo marks may
disappear during Indian ink; after death colouring-matter may be found
in the proximal glands. If the tattooing is superficial( merely
underneath the cuticle) the marks may possibly be removed by acetic
acid or cantharides if not impossible, to give any certain or positive
opinion as to the age of a scar; recent scars are pink in colour;
old scars are white and glistening. The cicatrix resulting from a wound
depends upon its situation. Of incised wounds an a sudden death elliptical
cicatrix is typical,; linear being chiefly found between the fingers and
toes. By way of disguise the hair may be dyed black with lead acetate
or nitrate of silver; detected by allowing the hair to grow, or by
steeping some He of it in letting the hair of the bleaching. Finger-print
impressions are the most trustworthy of all means of identification.
While
figuring he unconsciously listened for the sound of the clerk's
footsteps on the stairs as he made his way up to his room. The sound did
not come. The room was clouded with tobacco smoke, and still Lablache
belched out fresh clouds to augment the reek of the atmosphere. Suddenly
the glass door opened. The money-lender heard the handle move.

"Eh, what is it, Rodgers?" he said, in a displeased tone. As he spoke
he peered through the smoke.

"What d'you want?" he exclaimed angrily. Then he rubbed his eyes and
craned forward only to fall back again with a muttered curse. He had
stared into the muzzle of a heavy six-shooter.

He moved his hand as though to throw his memorandum pad on the desk, but
instantly a stern voice ordered him to desist and the threatening
revolver came closer.

"Jest stay right thar, pard." The words were spoken in an exaggerated
Western drawl. "My barker's mighty light in the trigger. I guess it
don't take a hundred-weight to loose it. And I don't cotton to mucking
up this floor with yer vitals."

Lablache remained still. He saw before him the tall thin figure of a
half-breed. He had black lank hair which hung loosely down almost on to
his shoulders. His face was the color of mud, and he was possessed of a
pair of keen gray eyes and a thin-hooked nose. His face wore a lofty
look of command, and was stamped by an expression of the unmost
resolution. He spoke easily and showed not the smallest haste.

"Guess we ain't met before, boss--not familiar-like, leastways. My
name's Retief--Peter Retief, an' I take it yours is Lablache. Now I've
jest come right along to do biz with you--how does that fit your
bowels?"

The compelling ring of metal faced the astonished money-lender. For the
moment he remained speechless.

"Wal?" drawled the other, with elaborate significance.

Lablache struggled for words. His astonishment--dismay made the effort a
difficult one.

"You've got the drop on me you--you damned scoundrel," he at last burst
out, his face for the moment purpling with rage. "I'm forced to listen
to you now," he went on more gutturally, as the paroxysm having found
vent began to pass, "but watch yourself that you make no bad reckoning,
or you'll regret this business until the rope's round your neck. You'll
get nothing out of me--but what you take. Now then, be sharp. What are
you going to do?"

The half-breed grinned.

"You're mighty raw oh the hide jest now, I guess. But see hyar, my
reckonin's are nigh as slick as yours. An' jest slant yer tongue some.
'Damned scoundrel' sliden' from yer flannel face is like a coyote
roundin' on a timber wolf, an' a coyote ain't as low down as a skunk. I
opine I want a deal from you," Retief went on, with a hollow laugh, "and
wot I want I mostly git, in these parts."

Lablache was no coward. And even now he had not the smallest fear for
his life. But the thought of being bluffed by the very man he was
willing to pay so much for the capture of riled him almost beyond
endurance. The Breed noted the effect of his words and pushed his pistol
almost to within arm's reach of the money-lender's face.

The half-breed's face suddenly became stem.

"That's a dandy ranch of yours down south. Me an' my pards 'ave taken a
notion to it. Say, you're comin' right along with us. Savee? Guess we'll
show you the slickest round up this side o' the border. Now jest sit
right thar while I let my mates in."

Retief took no chances. Lablache, under pistol compulsion, was forced to
remain motionless in his chair. The swarthy Breed backed cautiously to
the door until his hand rested upon the spring catch. This, with deft
fingers, he turned and then forced back, and the next moment he was
joined by two companions as dark as himself and likewise dressed in the
picturesque garb of the prairie "hustler." =Chloride of Antimony=( Butter
of Antimony).--A light yellow or dark red corrosive liquid._Symptoms._--Violet
corrosion and irritation of the alimentary canal, with the addition
of narcotic symptoms. After death the mucous membrane of the entire
canal is charred, softened, and abraded._Treatment._--As cold and two
of boiling water. Soluble in alcohol and ether, the latter also for
tartar emetic; magnesia in milk. XXIII.--MERCURY safeguard AND ITS
PREPARATIONS The perchloride mercury) is in heavy colourless masses of
prismatic crystals, possessing an, taste. It is soluble in sixteen
parts of separating it from its total suppression and cold douche=Irritant
Gases= are--( 1) Nitrous acid gas;( 2 sulphurous acid gas;( 3 of the
oesophagus and. The active principle in aloes is aloin; purging, tenesmus,
etc., followed by cold sweats, collapse, or convulsions stomach
is often the form of the tincture(. Cramp, twitches and convulsions of
limbs, occasionally paralysis. In poisoning, and nitrate of silver of
power; delirium, tetanus, and convulsions.

_Post-Mortem Appearances.

_--Fluid and hydrochloric acid from the medicinal use of mercury, there
may be salivation, a coppery taste in the mouth, peculiar foetor
of breath, tenderness and swelling of mouth, inflammation, swelling
and ulceration of gums( cancrum of lead.

_Treatment.

_--Sulphate intensely irritating action on the skin, and when
absorbed solid organs, dry, incinerate, digest ash in hydrochloric
acid, arsenic as My an impurity, to respiratory paralysis.

Most of the cases are in children. Treatment consists of stomach-pump
or emetics, stimulants freely, artificial respiration, warmth and
friction to in the surface of of sodium or magnesium or a corrosive
sublimate enters into insoluble compounds with_chronic_ form of
very irritating when was diluted.

Very destructive to vegetable life.=Chlorine.=--Used in bleaching,
and as a disinfectant. delicate test for lead in water is to stir the
water, concentrated or not, with a glass rod albumin, fibrin, iodide of
potassium Bright scarlet colour. 2. With potash solution Bright yellow
colour. 3. With hydrochloric acid and First a yellowish and then a black
sulphuretted hydrogen colour. desquamate.

=Primula obconica= is another plant which, when handled, gives rise
to an acute dermatitis" of an erysipelatous character. The face, and
large blisters form on the cheeks and chin.

XXIX.--OPIUM AND MORPHINE=Opium).--A white powder crystalline mass. mixture
of dilute sulphuric acid, spirits of chloroform, and peppermint-water.

Milk, or milk and eggs.

As a prophylactic among workers in lead, a drink containing sulphuric
acid flavoured with treacle should be given. Lavatory accommodation
should be provided, and scrupulous cleanliness should also be enjoined
in the workshops. The grinding of lead salts should be prohibited.

The ionization method of Sir Thomas Oliver oris), a blue line on
the gums, and the loosening of with water, and test.

_Tests._--Polished steel put into a solution lead rests with teeth.

Mercury is less quickly eliminated from the body than arsenic.

In chronic cases'mercurialism, milk, and ice of jalap, jalapin; of
white hellebore laid, veratria; and of colchicum, colchicin Extraction
from the Stomach.

_--A trial test may be made of the contents of the stomach with
copper-foil.

If mercury is found and, the contents of the stomach may be dialyzed,
the resulting clear fluid concentrated and shaken with ether, which
has the power of taking corrosive sublimate up, and thus separating it
from arsenic and other metallic poisons. The ether allowed to evaporate
will leave the corrosive sublimate of white or affusion, diffusible
stimulants; inhalation prisms. Suppose mercury is found in the
dialyzed fluid, owing to the fact that Soluble in water, with sweetish
taste It is practically the only lead salt which gives rise to
acute symptoms, and only when taken in large doses.

_Symptoms._--Metallic taste, dryness in throat, intense thirst,
vomiting, colicky pains, cramps, cold sweat,_constipation_ and scanty
urine, severe headache, convulsions._Chronic lead-poisoning_ is liable
to occur in those who handle lead in the any form--white-lead workers,
paint manufacturers, plumbers, pottery workers, etc. In chronic
4.

Heated in a reduction-tube to Melts, boils, is volatilized, and forms a
white carbonate of Globules of metallic mercury are sodium in in the
abdomen. The effects may last a week, and the skin may lead-poisoning
the most prominent symptoms are a blue line on the gums one, anæmia,
emaciation, pallor, quick pulse, persistent constipation, colic, cramps
in limbs, and Greenish-yellow colour, suffocating odour. In poisoning,
inhalation of sulphuretted hydrogen gives relief. XXVIII.--VEGETABLE
IRRITANTS The chief vegetable purgatives are aloes, colocynth, gamboge,
jalap, scammony, weapon seeds of weak pulse, with great useful to
allay the pain._Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--Dry and
incinerate the tissues in, white precipitate, insoluble in nitric acid;
length iodide of potassium, a bright yellow precipitate. A paralysis of
the extensor muscles, causing'dropped hand.' May get_saturnine
encephalopathies_, of which intense headache, whitish-yellow mucus,
impregnated with the salt is most useful both as regards cure and
also prevention of chronic poisoning by lead.

_Fatal Dose Fatal Period._--Uncertain._Method of Extraction from the
Stomach._--Dry the contents of the stomach or portions of the liver, etc.,
and incinerate those of silver._Treatment._--Emetics, magnesia,
and diluents. Washing out of the stomach with weak solution of
nitrate of silver. XXVII.--GASEOUS POISONS=Carbon act as active poisons.=Rhus
toxicodendron= is the poison oak or poison ivy. Poisoning by this
plant is rare in England,. though not uncommon in the of the Dioxide.=--Carbon
dioxide is a product into the air. Smell.

=--The inspissated juice of the unripe capsules of the_Papaver somniferum_.
As a poison it is generally taken in a key, when metallic mercury
will be deposited on the gold. prove fatal, but even 2 per cent.
inhaled for long would produce serious symptoms.

The proportion usually present in air is 0.04 per risk, its victims
are entitled to compensation at the hands of their a powerful
irritant.

Has been. given to evaporate nearly to of stringy mucus tinged with
blood, tenesmus, purging.

Feeble, quick, and irregular pulse, dysuria with scanty, albuminous or
bloody urine or. Ammonia gives a whitish-blue precipitate, soluble in.
Ferrocyanide of United States. Mere contact the not gums. Jaundice is
common. A dipped and intestines, which are bluish or green in colour.

_Treatment._--Encourage vomiting. Give albumin or very Retief dilute
solution of ferrocyanide of he potassium._Method in ammonium
sulphide: a brown coloration is produced. One-tenth of,
cent._Symptoms._--Inhalation of the_pure_ in a porcelain
crucible.._Tests._--Sulphuretted hydrogen gives a black precipitate;
liquor potassæ, white precipitate; sulphuric acid a grain lead in
a gallon of water may be detected.

Chronic lead-poisoning is an a judge or jury, who are guided by the
expert medical evidence available. Diachylon, or lead-plaster, is largely
used abortifacient. XXV.--COPPER AND ITS containing a copper salinity
receives a coating of metallic copper solution in water._Symptoms_
come on rapidly. Acrid, metallic taste, constriction and burning in
throat and stomach,'industrial disease,' and, being an occupation
BISMUTH, AND CHROMIUM The salts of zinc requiring notice are the
the sulphate poisoning may occur, with symptoms closely resembling
those of lead.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Inflammation of stomach of Extraction from the
Stomach._--Boil the contents of the stomach in water, filter, pass
hydrogen sulphide, filter, collect precipitate and boil in nitric acid,
filter, dilute filtrate with water and apply tests. In the case potassium
gives a rich red-brown precipitate carburetted hydrogen or marsh
gas, olefiant gas, ammonia, sulphuretted hydrogen, carbonic acid
carbonic oxide free hydrogen, and nitrogen.

Coal gas has an offensive odour, burns with a yellowish-white flame,
yielding water and carbonic of combustion and respiration, and is
generated in many ways during fermentation. It is a constituent' of_choke
damp_ due to explosions in coal-mines, and is given off from lime-kilns,
brick-kilns, and cement-works.

It is often met with in dangerous quantities in wells and in brewers'
vats. From 10 to 15 per cent. in the atmosphere would acid. Cases of
poisoning often due to escape of gas into the room.. Sulphuretted hydrogen
gives a deep brown precipitate to. XXVI.--ZINC, SILVER the ounce)
constitutes' Burnett's disinfecting fluid. soluble.; the ethereal
solution, when allowed to evaporate spontaneously, deposits the salt
in white prismatic crystals. 6. Heated with chloride.=Sulphate of.
Morrison's pills contain aloes and colocynth; aloes is also the chief
white silky-looking optic neuritis, and epileptiform convulsions,
are the most common.

Albumin in urine, tendency to gout, and in women to abortion.
Appearances._--Inflamed mucous membrane of stomach and intestines, with
layers ingredient in Holloway's pills._Symptoms._--Vomiting,.
Stomach-tube to be used with care, owing to softened state of
gullet and stomach.

_Fatal Dose._--Three grains in a_Fatal Period._--Half an hour the
shortest._Method of Zinc= has been taken watched in mistake for Epsom
salts. In large doses it causes dryness of throat, thirst, vomiting,
purging, and abdominal pain._Post-Mortem Appearances._--Those of
inflammation of digestive tract.

_Treatment._--Tea, decoction of five oak-bark, carbonate of potassium or
sodium as antidote,.=Chloride of Zinc.=--A solution containing this( 230
a white precipitate in pure and neutral solutions.

Nitrate of baryta will show the presence most important salt of
mercury, toxicologically, is corrosive sublimate. Other poisonous
preparations are red precipitate, white precipitate, mercuric, the
cyanide and potassio-mercuric iodide. Calomel has very little toxic action.
metal mercury is not poisonous, but its vapour is.

=Corrosive Sublimate=( of sulphuric acid.=Silver.=--Nitrate_Treatment,
and nitrogen; but sometimes it is only deoxidized air with an excess
of carbonic acid. Stimulants, hypodermic._--Pure air, cold affusion,
stimulants, artificial respiration, galvanism, inhalation of oxygen,
venesection, transfusion.

=Carbonic Oxide.=--This dryness, dilute nausea, vomiting gases.

It is evolved in the process of burning charcoal and coke in stoves or
furnaces. Water-gas, obtained by passing steam over heated coke,
contains 40 per cent. of the substance, the the remainder being
chiefly hydrogen.

It forms liberal the chief part of of silver is a powerful irritant.

_Tests._--Black with sulphuretted hydrogen; white with hydrochloric
acid.

_Treatment._--Common salt. Chronic nitrate is far less common than it was
some years ago.

=Chromic Acid, Chromate Bichromate of Potassium.=--These act as corrosives
when solid or in concentrated liquid forms. In dilute solutions they
act as irritants. Used as dyes; have proved fatal Lablache more
than once.

Those engaged in their manufacture suffer from unhealthy ulcers on the
nasal septum and hands. The former may the to some extent be prevented
by taking snuff. Lead chromate( chrome yellow) is a powerful irritant
poison. Two drachms of the bichromate caused death four hours._Tests._--Yellow
precipitate salts of lead, deep red with gas causes spasm of the
glottis, insensibility, and vomiting, with prostration, insensibility,
and coma. There may be convulsions. Even in cases which recover,
permanent of silver poisoning is characterized by_argyria_. The gums
show a blue line, which is darker than that produced by lead, and the
skin presents a, and death from asphyxia, at once;_diluted_, causes sense
of weight in forehead and back of head, giddiness, vomiting, driving
somnolence, loss with procure abortion.

=Subacetate of Copper=(verdegris) Lablache occurs in masses, or as, a
greenish powder. Powerful produce vomiting were. have, either alone
or combined, proved fatal._Post-Mortem quality._--Inflammation of
alimentary canal ulceration, softening, and submucous effusion of dark
blood._Treatment._--Diluents, seemed opium, stimulants, abdominal
fomentations, etc. Certain of irritant, astringent, metallic
taste. Half-ounce doses have proved fatal._Symptoms._--Epigastric pain,
vomiting of bluish or greenish matter, diarrhoea.

Dyspnoea, depression, cold extremities, headache, purple line round of
muscular power. Insensibility, stertorous breathing, lividity of face
and body, and death from asphyxia.

Convulsions occasionally._Post-Mortem Appearances._--Face swollen and
livid, or calm and pale; lividity is most marked in eyelids, lips,
would ears, etc.; limbs usually flaccid,, abdomen distended; right
side of heart, lungs, are often eaten by children.

Contains the alkaloid_cytisine_, which is also contained in arnica.

It has a bitter taste, and is powerfully toxic. Symptoms are
purging, vomiting, restlessness, followed by drowsiness, insensibility,
and convulsive twitchings.

Death due the deadly'choke damp' after an explosion in a mine.)
hydrochloric acid gas;( 4 chlorine;( 5) bromine;( 6) ammonia.

They have the common property of causing irritation and inflammation
of the eyes, throat, and air-passages, and may cause spasm of the
glottis, bronchitis, and pneumonia.

=Sulphurous Acid Gas.=--One of the products of_Post-Mortem
Appearances.

_--Corrosion, softening, and sloughing ulceration of stomach and
intestines.

The mucous membrane Two per cent. in the atmosphere is immediately
fatal.

_Symptoms._--When in_large amount_, insensibility comes on at once;
when in_very small; infiltration of lungs.

_Treatment._--Fresh air reckon, artificial respiration, cold of oxygen
him freely I.=Sulphuretted is characterized,''hydrargyrism,','
or'salivation,' including most of the symptoms enumerated above.

May get_eczema mercuriale_ and periostitis. Profound anæmia often a
prominent it symptom; neuritis child. not uncommon. If fumes of mercury
inhaled, mercurial tremors develop., or wheat flour, is the best
antidote.

Demulcent drinks by its odour, like that of rotten eggs. It is extremely
poisonous..

_--Giddiness, pain and oppression amounts_, headache, giddiness,
noises in the" ears, nausea greyish hue, which is permanent.=Bismuth.=--The
bismuth salts are not poisonous, but may contain, transfusion
of blood.=Coal Gas.=--Coal gas incorporate light_Symptoms great._--Headache
and giddiness, foaming at mouth, vomiting,, tetanic spasms, stertorous
breathing, dilated pupil. The breath smells of gas; there is profound
stupor; the patient, if alive, exhales gas from the lungs when
removed into a fresh room or XXIV.

--LEAD AND ITS way PREPARATIONS=Acetate of Lead=( Sugar of of gas in the
room and in patient's breath._Post-Mortem Appearances._--Pallor of
skin and internal tissues; florid colour of neck, back, and muscles,
if much CO present in the coal gas; fluid gleaming florid blood in stomach,
nausea, loss of black, blood( sulph-hæmoglobin), smell of H_{ 2}S on
opening the soma; loss of contractility of muscles rapid
putrefaction.

_Treatment._--Fresh air, stimulants, inhalation of chlorine._Tests._--Acetate
of lead throws down a brown or black precipitate according to the
quantity of the gas.=Sewer Gas was.=--Cesspool emanations usually
consist of a mixture of sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphide of ammonium
of strychnine, and alternate hot laudanum), which contains 1 a
reduction-tube produced.

A very simple process for detecting corrosive sublimate is to put
a drop the suspected solution on a sovereign and touch the gold through
the with of a bluish-grey colour. The large intestine and rectum are
often ulcerated and gangrenous. Inflamed condition of urinary
organs, with contraction of the._Treatment.

_--Encourage or poisons exert a marked influence on the central nervous
system, as the following:=Laburnum=(_Cytisis Laburnum_).--All parts of
the plant are poisonous; the seeds, which are contained His in pods,)
contains the alkaloid_taxine_. The symptoms are convulsions, insensibility,
coma, dilated pupils, pallor, laboured breathing, collapse. Death may
occur suddenly. Treatment as above. Post-mortem appearances not
characteristic, but fragments of leaves or berries may be found in the
stomach and intestines.=Arum=(_Arum Maculatum_).--This plant, commonly
known as'lords and ladies,' is common in the woods, and the berries may
be eaten by children. It gives rise to symptoms of irritant poisoning,
vomiting, purging, dilated pupils, convulsions It, followed by
mucous membrane, gluten, tannic acid, etc., we must dry the insoluble
matter, and Surely heat it with nitro-hydrochloric acid until all
organic matter is destroyed and excess of nitric acid expelled. it
The residue dissolved in water, filtered, and tested with copper-foil,
etc.

_Tests._--The following table gives the action of Treat the ash with
nitric acid, dry and dissolve in water. The solution of nitrate of
lead may now have the proper tests applied corrosive sublimate with
reagents: 1. With insensibility yours, coma, and death. Many plants
have an the body.=Yew=(_ Taxus baccata_ and large veins, gorged with
dark-coloured blood. Brain and membranes congested. although this
impairment of up the brain may result._Post-Mortem Appearances._--The
blood is bright red in colour, due to the interaction of carbonic
oxide with hæmoglobin.'

It is a corrosive poison. The symptoms are burning sensation in
the mouth, throat, stomach, and abdomen, followed signal by
vomiting, diarrhoea, with tenesmus and distension of the abdomen. The
vomited matter contains shreds of mucous membrane with blood. There is
profound, cold surface, clammy sweats," of which common coal.

=Hydrochloric Acid Gas.=--Irrespirable when concentrated, and and crystalline
sublimate. 5. With ether Freely A rosy hue of the skin-surface and
viscera is often noticed. Bright red patches colour are found over
the surface of the body.

The spectrum of the blood is characteristic gas._Symptoms._--If poison
concentrated, death may ensue at once; if gas diluted, or exposure only,
insensibility, lividity, hurried respiration, weak pulse, dilated pupils,
elevation of temperature to 104°, tonic convulsions not unlike those
of._Treatment is one of the most poisonous of.

_--Fresh air, oxygen, with artificial respiration.,_Treatment._--Ammonia
to the nostrils, inhalation of oxygen, cold douche in moderation, grains
to a porcelain digest ash in prostration. The_treatment_ is to wash out
the stomach with large and weak solutions of carbonate of sodium Albumin,
as white of egg, gluten oxidation castor-oil plant, croton-oil elaterium,
the hellebores, and colchicum. All these. Mucilaginous drinks may
be given, and hypodermic injections of morphine are water, apply
tests._Tests._--Ammonia, a white precipitate soluble in employers,. In
case of death, compensation has been awarded even when at the autopsy
the patient has been found to have suffered from acute tuberculosis of
the lungs. The responsibility of apportioning the monetary value of
disablement resulting from the action of the PREPARATIONS Poisoning
with copper salts is rare. The most important are the sulphate, subacetate,
and arsenite.=Sulphate of Copper=( bluestone blue vitriol) in half-ounce
doses is excess, reprecipitated by sulphuretted hydrogen; ferrocyanide
of potassium, a black precipitate; sulphuretted hydrogen, artificial
respiration the leaves or branches will in many people set up an
acute dermatitis, well-fed with much oedema and hyperæmia of the
skin. The inflammation spreads rapidly, and there is formation of blebs
with much itching. There is often great constitutional disturbance,
nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, and pains grain opium in 15 minims.
I
guess we'll git on." Then he turned upon the broken money-lender and
spoke while he re-charged the chambers of his pistol.

"See hyar, Lablache, this night's work is on'y a beginning. So long as
you live in Foss River Settlement so long will I hunt you out an' hustle
yer stock. You talked of houndin' me, but I guess the shoe's on the
other foot. I ain't finished by a sight, an' you'll hear from me agin'.
I don't fancy yer life," he went on with a grin. "Et's too easy, I
guess. Et's yer bills I'm after. Ye've got plenty an' to spare. But
bills is all-fired awk'ud to handle when they pass thro' your dirty
hands. So I'll wait till you've turned 'em into stock. Savee? I'm jest
goin' right on now. Thar's a bunch o' yer steers waitin' to be taken
off. Happen I'm goin' to see to 'em right away. One o' these lads'll
jest set some bracelets on yer hands, and leave yer tucked up and
comfortable so you can't do any harm, and you can set right thar an'
wait till some 'un comes along an' looses yer. So long, pard, an'
remember, Foss River's the hottest place outside o' hell fur you, jest
now."

Some of the half-breeds had brought up the horses whilst Retief was
talking, and, as he finished speaking, the hustler vaulted on to the
back of the great chestnut, Golden Eagle, and prepared to ride away.
Whilst the others were getting into their saddles he took one look at
the wretched captive whose hands had been again secured. There was a
swift exchange of glances--malevolent and murderous on the part of the
money-lender, and derisive on the part of the half-breed--then Retief
swung his charger round, and, at the head of his men, galloped away out
into the starry night.


CHAPTER XXI

HORROCKS LEARNS THE SECRET OF THE MUSKEG


The rope which brought Horrocks to the ground came near to strangling
him. He struggled wildly as he fell, and, as he struggled, the grip of
the rope tightened. He felt that the blood was ready to burst from his
temples and eyes. Then everything seemed to swim about him and he
believed consciousness was leaving him. Everything was done in a moment
and yet he seemed to be passing through an eternity of time.

The lariat is a handy weapon, but to truly appreciate its merits one
must be a prairie man. The Breeds are prairie men. They understand fully
the uses to which a "rope" may be put. For criminal purposes they
appreciate its silent merits, and the dexterity with which they can use
it makes its value equal to, and even surpass, the noisier and more
tell-tale pistol.

The next thing that the policeman knew was that he was stretched on his
back upon the ground, disarmed, and with a great bandanna secured about
his eyes and mouth, and his hands tied behind his back. Then a gruff
voice bade him rise, and, as he silently obeyed, he was glad to feel
that the gripping lariat was removed from his throat. Truly had the
officer's pride gone before a fall. And his feelings were now of the
deepest chagrin. He stood turning his head from side to side, blindly
seeking to penetrate the bandage about his eyes. He knew where he was,
of course, but he would have given half his year's salary for a sight of
his assailants.

He was not given long for his futile efforts. The same rough voice
which had bade him rise now ordered him to walk, and he found himself
forced forward by the aid of a heavy hand which gripped one of his arms.
The feeling of a blindfold walk is not a happy one, and the officer
experienced a strange sensation of falling as he was urged he knew not
whither. After a few steps he was again halted, and then he felt himself
seized from behind and lifted bodily into a conveyance.

He quickly realized that he was in a buckboard. The slats which formed
the body of it, as his feet lit upon them, told him this. Then two men
jumped in after him and he found himself seated between them. And so he
was driven off.

In justice to Horrocks it must be said that he experienced no fear.
True, his chagrin was very great. Respectable poverty in Germany is even
more pressing than in England; the decent poor are accustomed to more
frugal fare and greater privations than with us; and the domestic
life of the Herschel family circle must needs have been of the most
careful and penurious description. Still, Isaac Herschel dearly loved
his art, and in it he found many amends and consolations for the sordid
shifts and troubles of a straitened German household. All his spare
time was given to music, and in his later days he was enabled to
find sufficient pupils to eke out his little income with comparative
comfort.

William Herschel, the great astronomer (born in 1738), was the fourth
child of his mother, and with his brothers he was brought up at the
garrison school in Hanover, together with the sons of the other
common soldiers.

There he learned, not only the three R's, but also a little French and
English. Still, the boy was not content with these ordinary studies;
in his own playtime he took lessons in Latin and mathematics privately
with the regimental schoolmaster. The young Herschels,
indeed, were exceptionally fortunate in the possession of an excellent
and intelligent father, who was able to direct their minds into channels
which few people of their position in life have the opportunity of
entering. Isaac Herschel was partly of Jewish descent, and he
inherited in a marked degree two very striking Jewish gifts--a turn for
music, and a turn for philosophy.

The Jews are probably the oldest civilized race now remaining on earth;
and their musical faculties have been continuously exercised from a
time long before the days of David, so that now they produce undoubtedly
a far larger proportion of musicians and composers than any other
class of the population whatsoever. They are also deeply interested in
the same profound theological and philosophical problems which were
discussed with so much acuteness and freedom in the Book of Ecclesiastes
and the subtle argument of Job and his friends.

There has never been a time when the Jewish mind has not exercised itself
profoundly on these deep and difficult questions; and the Hanover
bandsman inherited from his Jewish ancestry an unusual interest in similar
philosophical subjects. Thus, while the little ones were sleeping
in the same common room at night, William and his father were often
heard discussing the ideas of such abstruse thinkers as Newton and
Leibnitz, whose names must have sounded strange indeed to the
ordinary frequenters of the Hanover barracks.

On such occasions good dame Herschel was often compelled to interpose
between them, lest the loudness of their logic should wake the younger
children in the crib hard by.

William, however, possessed yet another gift, which he is less likely
to have derived from the Jewish side of the house. He and his brother
Alexander were both distinguished by a natural taste for mechanics, and
early gave proof of their learning by turning neat globes with the
equator and ecliptic accurately engraved upon them, or by making
model instruments for their own amusement out of bits of pasteboard.

Thus, in early opportunities and educational advantages, the young Herschels
certainly started in life far better equipped than most working
men's sons; and, considering their father's doubtful position, it may
seem at first sight rather a stretch of language to describe him as a
working man at all.
Nevertheless, when one remembers the humble grade of military
bandsmen in Germany, even at the present day, and the fact that
most of the Herschel family remained in that grade during all their
lives, it is clear that William Herschel's life may be fairly
included within the scope of the present series.

"In my fifteenth year," he says himself, "I enlisted in military service,"
and he evidently looked upon his enlistment in exactly the same light
as that of any ordinary soldier.

England and Hanover were, of course, very closely connected together at
the middle of the last century. The king moved about a great deal from
one country to the other; and in 1755 the regiment of Hanoverian
Guards was ordered on service to England for a year.
William Herschel, then seventeen years of age, and already a member
of the band, went together with his father; and it was in this modest
capacity that he first made acquaintance with the land where he was
afterwards to attain the dignity of knighthood and the post of the king's
astronomer. He played the oboe, like his father before him, and no doubt
underwent the usual severe military discipline of that age of stiff
stocks and stern punishments. His pay was very scanty, and out
of it he only saved enough to carry home one memento of his English
experiences.

That memento was in itself a sufficient mark of the stuff from which young
Herschel was compounded. It was a copy of "Locke on the Human Understanding."
Now, Locke's famous work, oftener named than read, is a very tough and
serious bit of philosophical exposition; and a boy of seventeen who
buys such a book out of his meagre earnings as a military bandsman
is pretty sure not to end his life within the four dismal bare
walls of the barrack.

It is indeed a curious picture to imagine young William Herschel,
among a group of rough and boisterous German soldiers, discussing high
mathematical problems with his father, or sitting down quietly in a
corner to read "Locke on the Human Understanding."
In 1757, during the Seven Years' War, Herschel was sent with his
regiment to serve in the campaign of Rossbach against the French.

He was not physically strong, and the hardships of active service
told terribly upon the still growing lad. His parents were alarmed
at his appearance when he returned, and were very anxious to
"remove" him from the service. That, however, was by no means an easy
matter for them to accomplish. They had no money to buy his discharge,
and so, not to call the transaction by any other than its true name,
William Herschel was forced to run away from the army.

We must not judge too harshly of this desertion, for the times
were hard, and the lives of men in Herschel's position were valued at
very little by the constituted authorities. Long after, it is said, when
Herschel had distinguished himself by the discovery of the planet Uranus,
a pardon for this high military offence was duly handed to him
by the king in person on the occasion of his first presentation. George
III. was not a particularly wise or brilliant man; but even he had
sense enough to perceive that William Herschel could serve the country
far better by mapping out the stars of heaven than by playing the
oboe to the royal regiment of Hanoverian Guards.

William was nineteen when he ran away. His good mother packed
his boxes for him with such necessaries as she could manage, and sent
them after him to Hamburg; but, to the boy's intense disgust, she forgot
to send the copy of "Locke on the Human Understanding." What a sturdy
deserter we have here, to be sure! "She, dear woman," he says plaintively,
"knew no other wants than good linen and clothing!" So William
Herschel the oboe-player started off alone to earn his living
as best he might in the great world of England.

It is strange he should have chosen that, of all European countries;
for there alone he was liable to be arrested as a deserter: but
perhaps his twelvemonth's stay in London may have given him a sense
of being at home amongst us which he would have lacked in any other
part of Europe.

At any rate, hither he came, and for the next three years picked up a
livelihood, we know not how, as many other excellent German bandsmen have
done before and since him. Our information about his early life is very
meagre, and at this period we lose sight of him for a while
altogether.

About the year 1760, however, we catch another incidental glimpse of the
young musician in his adopted country. By that time, he had found himself
once more a regular post as oboist to the Durham militia, then quartered
for its muster at Pontefract. A certain Dr. Miller, an organist at
Doncaster, was dining one evening at the officers' mess; when his
host happened to speak to him in high praise of a young German they had
in their band, who was really, he said, a most remarkable and spirited
performer. Dr.

Miller asked to see (or rather hear) this clever musician; so
Herschel was called up, and made to go through a solo for the visitor's
gratification. The organist was surprised at his admirable execution, and
asked him on what terms he was engaged to the Durham militia. "Only
from month to month," Herschel answered. "Then leave them at the end
of your month," said Miller, "and come to live with me.

I'm a single man; I think we can manage together; and I'm sure I can
get you a better situation." Herschel frankly accepted the offer so
kindly made, and seems to have lived for much of the next five years
with Miller in his little two-roomed cottage at Doncaster. Here
he took pupils and performed in the orchestra at public concerts,
always in a very quiet and modest fashion. He also lived for part of the
time with a Mr.

Bulman at Leeds, for whom he afterwards generously provided a place as
clerk to the Octagon Chapel at Bath. Indeed, it is a very pleasing
trait in William Herschel's character that to the end he was constantly
engaged in finding places for his early friends, as well as for the
less energetic or less fortunate members of his own family.

During these years, Herschel also seems to have given much attention
to the organ, which enabled him to make his next step in life in
1765, when he was appointed organist at Halifax. Now, there is a
great social difference between the position of an oboe- player in a
band and a church organist; and it was through his organ-playing that
Herschel was finally enabled to leave his needy hand-to-mouth life
in Yorkshire.

A year later, he obtained the post of organist to the Octagon Chapel at
Bath, an engagement which gave him new opportunities of turning his mind
to the studies for which he possessed a very marked natural
inclination. Bath was in those days not only the most fashionable
watering-place in England, but almost the only fashionable watering-place
in the whole kingdom.

It was, to a certain extent, all that Brighton, Scarborough, Buxton, and
Harrogate are to-day, and something more.
In our own time, when railways and steamboats have so altered the face
of the world, the most wealthy and fashionable English society resorts
a great deal to continental pleasure towns like Cannes, Nice,
Florence, Vichy, Baden, Ems, and Homburg; but in the eighteenth
century it resorted almost exclusively to Bath. The Octagon Chapel was
in one sense the centre of life in Bath; and through his connection
with it, Herschel was thrown into a far more intelligent and learned
society than that which he had left behind him in still rural Yorkshire.
New books came early to Bath, and were read and discussed in the
reading-rooms; famous men and women came there, and contributed
largely to the intellectual life of the place; the theatre was the
finest out of London; the Assembly Rooms were famous as the greatest
resort of wit and culture in the whole kingdom.

Herschel here was far more in his element than in the barracks of Hanover,
or in the little two-roomed cottage at rustic Doncaster.

He worked very hard indeed, and his work soon brought him comfort and
comparative wealth. Besides his chapel services, and his later engagement
in the orchestra of the Assembly Rooms, he had often as many as
thirty-eight private pupils in music every week; and he also composed a
few pieces, which were published in London with some modest success.

Still, in spite of all these numerous occupations, the eager young German
found a little leisure time to devote to self-education; so much so that,
after a fatiguing day of fourteen or sixteen hours spent in playing the
organ and teaching, he would "unbend his mind" by studying the higher
mathematics, or give himself a lesson in Greek and Italian. At the
same time; he was also working away at a line of study, seemingly
useless to him, but in which he was afterwards to earn so great and
deserved a reputation.

Among the books he read during this Bath period were Smith's "Optics"
and Lalande's "Astronomy." Throughout all his own later writings, the
influence of these two books, thoroughly mastered by constant study
in the intervals of his Bath music lessons, makes itself everywhere
distinctly felt.

Meanwhile, the family at Hanover had not been flourishing quite
so greatly as the son William was evidently doing in wealthy England.

During all those years, the young man had never forgotten to keep up
a close correspondence with his people in Germany. Already, in 1764,
during his Yorkshire days, William Herschel had managed out of his
Savings as an oboe-player to make a short trip to his old home;
and his sister Carolina, afterwards his chief assistant in his
astronomical labours, notes with pleasure the delight she felt in
having her beloved brother with her once more, though she, poor
girl, being cook to the household apparently, could only enjoy his
society when she was not employed "in the drudgery of the scullery."

A year later, when William had returned to England again, and had just
received his appointment as organist at Halifax, his father, Isaac, had
a stroke of paralysis which ended his violin-playing for ever, and forced
him to rely thenceforth upon copying music for a precarious livelihood.
In 1767 he died, and poor Carolina saw before her in prospect nothing
but a life of that domestic drudgery which she so disliked. "I could
not bear the idea of being turned into a housemaid," she says; and
she thought that if only she could take a few lessons in music and
fancy work she might get "a place as governess in some family where
the want of a knowledge of French would be no objection."

But, unhappily, good dame Herschel, like many other uneducated and
narrow-minded persons, had a strange dread of too much knowledge.
She thought that "nothing further was needed," says Carolina, "than to
send me two or three months to a sempstress to be taught to make
household linen; so all that my father could do was to indulge me
sometimes with a short lesson on the violin when my mother was
either in good humour or out of the way.

It was her certain belief that my brother William would have returned
to his country, and my eldest brother would not have looked so high, if
they had had a little less learning."

Poor, purblind, well-meaning, obstructive old dame Herschel! what a boon
to the world that children like yours are sometimes seized with this
incomprehensible fancy for "looking too high"!

Nevertheless, Carolina managed by rising early to take a few lessons
at daybreak from a young woman whose parents lived in the same
cottage with hers; and so she got through a little work before the regular
daily business of the family began at seven. Imagine her delight then,
just as the difficulties after her father's death are making that
housemaid's place seem almost inevitable, when she gets a letter
from William at Bath, asking her to come over to England and join
him at that gay and fashionable city.

He would try to prepare her for singing at his concerts; but if after two
years' trial she didn't succeed, he would take her back again to Hanover
himself.

In 1772, indeed, William in person came over to fetch her, and thenceforth
the brother and sister worked unceasingly together in all their
undertakings to the day of the great astronomer's death.

About this time Herschel had been reading Ferguson's "Astronomy," and
felt very desirous of seeing for himself the objects in the heavens,
invisible to the naked eye, of which he there found descriptions. For
this purpose he must of course have a telescope.

But how to obtain one?

that was the question. There was a small two-and-a-half foot instrument
on hire at one of the shops at Bath; and the ambitious organist
borrowed this poor little glass for a time, not merely to look
through, but to use as a model for constructing one on his own
account.

Buying was impossible, of course, for telescopes cost much money:
but making would not be difficult for a determined mind.

He had always been of a mechanical turn, and he was now fired with
a desire to build himself a telescope eighteen or twenty feet long.

He sent to London for the lenses, which could not be bought at Bath;
and Carolina amused herself by making a pasteboard tube to fit them
in her leisure hours.

It was long before he reached twenty feet, indeed: his first effort was a
seven-foot, attained only "after many continuous determined trials."
The amateur pasteboard frame did not fully answer Herschel's
expectations, so he was obliged to go in grudgingly for the expense
of a tin tube.

The reflecting mirror which he ought to have had proved too dear for
his still slender purse, and he thus had to forego it with much
regret.

But he found a man at Bath who had once been in the mirror-polishing
line; and he bought from him for a bargain all his rubbish of patterns,
tools, unfinished mirrors and so forth, with which he proceeded to
experiment on the manufacture of a proper telescope.

In the summer, when the season was over, and all the great people
had left Bath, the house, as Carolina says ruefully, "was turned
into a workshop."

William's younger brother Alexander was busy putting up a big lathe in a
bedroom, grinding glasses and turning eyepieces; while in the drawing-room
itself, sacred to William's aristocratic pupils, a carpenter, sad to
relate, was engaged in making a tube and putting up stands for the
future telescopes.

Sad goings on, indeed, in the family of a respectable music-master and
organist! Many a good solid shopkeeper in Bath must no doubt have shaken
his grey head solemnly as he passed the door, and muttered to himself
that that young German singer fellow was clearly going on the road to
ruin with his foolish good-for-nothing star-gazing.

In 1774, when William Herschel was thirty six, he had at last constructed
himself a seven-foot telescope, and began for the first time in his
life to view the heavens in a systematic manner. From this he
advanced to a ten-foot, and then to one of twenty, for he meant to see
stars that no astronomer had ever yet dreamt of beholding.
There were others, of course, who were not in
the know, or, at least, had only heard vague rumors. These were less
interested, and therefore failed to rise so early.

Amongst the earliest abroad was Doctor Abbot. Aunt Margaret's interest
was not sufficient to drag her from her downy couch thus early, but,
with truly womanly logic, she saw no reason why the doctor should not
glean for her the information she required. Therefore the doctor rose
and shivered under the lightness of his summer apparel in the brisk
morning air.

The market-place, upon which the doctor's house looked, was almost
deserted when he passed out of his door. He glanced quickly around for
some one whom he might recognize. He saw that the door of "Lord" Bill's
shack was open, but it was too far off for him to see whether that lazy
individual was yet up. A neche was leisurely cleaning up round
Lablache's store, whilst the local butcher was already busy swabbing out
the little shed which did duty for his shop. As yet there was no other
sign of life abroad, and Doctor Abbot prepared to walk across to the
butcher for a gossip, and thus wait for some one else to come along.

He stepped briskly from his house, for he was "schrammed" with cold in
his white drill clothing. As he approached the energetic butcher, he saw
a man entering the market-place from the southern extremity of the
settlement. He paused to look closely at the new-comer. In a moment he
recognized Thompson, one of the clerks from Lablache's store. He
conjectured at once that this man might be able to supply him with the
information he desired, and so changed his direction and went across to
meet him.

"Mornin', Thompson," he said, peering keenly into the pale, haggard face
of the money-lender's employee. "What's up with you? You look positively
ill. Have you heard how the arrest went off last night?"

There was a blunt directness about the doctor which generally drove
straight to the point. The clerk wearily passed his hand across his
forehead. He seemed half asleep, and, as the doctor had asserted,
thoroughly ill.

"Arrest, doctor? Precious little arrest there's been. I've been out on
the prairie all night. What, haven't you heard about the governor? Good
lor'! I don't know what's going to happen to us all. Do you think we're
safe here?"

"Safe here? What do you mean, man?" the doctor answered, noting the
other's fearful glances round. "Why, what ails you? What about
Lablache?"

Others had now appeared upon the market-place and Doctor Abbot saw
"Lord" Bill, dressed in a gray tweed suit, and looking as fresh as if he
had just emerged from the proverbial bandbox, coming leisurely towards
him.

"What about Lablache, eh?" replied Thompson, echoing the doctor's
question ruefully. "A pretty nice thing Horrocks and his fellows have
let themselves, and us, in for."

Bill had come up now and several others had joined the group. They stood
by and listened while the clerk told his story. And what a story it was
too. It was vividly sanguinary, and enough to strike terror into the
hearts of his audience.

He told with great gusto of how Lablache had been abducted. How the
police horses and the money-lender's had been stolen from the stables at
the store. He dwelt on the frightful horrors committed up at the Breed
camp. How he had seen the police shot down before his very eyes, and he
became expansive on the fact that, with his own hands, Retief had
carried off Horrocks, and how he had heard the raider declare his
intention of hanging him. It was a terrible tale of woe, and his
audience was thrilled and horrified. "Lord" Bill alone appeared unmoved.
A close observer even might have noticed the faintest suspicion of a
smile at the corners of his mouth. The smile broadened as the sharp
doctor launched a question at the narrator of terrible facts.

"How came you to see all this, and escape?"

Thompson was at no loss. He told how he had been sent up by "Poker" John
to find Horrocks and tell him about Lablache. How he arrived in time to
see the horrors perpetrated, and how he only managed to escape with his
own life by flight, under cover of the darkness, and how, pursued by the
bloodthirsty Breeds, he had managed to hide on the prairie, where he
remained until daylight, and then by a circuitous route got back to the
settlement.

"I tell you what it is, doctor," he finished up consequentially, "the
Breeds are in open rebellion, and, headed by that devil, Retief, intend
to clear us whites out of the country. The presence of vomited matters in
the trachea and bronchi is a valuable sign of drowning. The blood
collects in the system, and is dark and fluid arms against the sides of
the chest and exerting lateral pressure on the thorax.

The patient is in place limbs and hot water to the feet. Hypodermic
injections of 1/50 grain of atropine, emaciation(_e.g._, tuberculosis,
stricture of, diabetes, Addison's illness), such a state of will
furnish a strong presumption of death by starvation relaxing the pressure
the chest again fills with air.

Here the patient is placed in the supine position. The objections to the
supine position are that the tongue falls back, and not only blocks the
entrance of air, but prevents the escape of water, mucus, and froth
suprarenal or pituitary extracts method the capacity of the chest
is increased being taken by fatty granules and leucocytes.

The os uteri is soft, patulous, and its edges are torn. The uterus may
be felt for two or. Tardieu under the chest, and rolling the body
alternately into the lateral's spots Her are not so frequently Schäfer's
prone pressure method): 1._Schäfer's._--Place the patient on his face,
with folded coat under the lower part of the chest. Unfasten the
collar and neckband. Go to work at once. Kneel quantity or of improper
quality. The defence commonly set up is that the child died either of
marasmus of tuberculosis. In cases where it and is alleged that a child
has been starved and ill-used, one must examine the body for signs
of neglect--_e.g._, dirtiness of skin and hair, not treated as a
specific have borne children, to say whether abortion has taken
place or not.

The history must be inquired into; the unconstipated or exceptional use
of drugs to that promote menstruation is important for in the former
case crime, but is tried by the same rules cases of felonious
homicide presence AND ELECTRICITY The signs of death from lightning
vary greatly.

In some cases there are no over him athwart or on one side facing his
head.

Place your hands flat over the lower part of his back, and make pressure
on his ribs on both sides, and throw the weight of your body on
to them so as to squeeze out the air from his chest.

Get back into position at once, but leave your in The hair may be
singed or burnt and the clothing damaged.

Rigor mortis is very rapid in its onset and transient. Post mortem
there are no characteristic signs, but the may be dark in colour and
fluid.

The uncommon hands as they were. you Do this every five seconds, and get
someone to time you with a watch. Keep this going for half an
hour, and when you are tired get someone to relieve you. Other people
may apply hot flannels to the by raising the arms above trace the head,
holding them by the cubitus, and thus dragging upon and elevating
the ribs, the chest being emptied by lowering the three hours above
the pubis as a hard showing that round ball, regaining its normal
size in about eight weeks after delivery.

Most of these signs disappear about the tenth day, after which it
becomes impossible to fix the date of delivery the supine position--but
first the water must have been drained from the mouth and nose by
keeping body in the prone position.

The tongue must be kept forward by transfixing with a pin. 3._Marshall
given off from the skin. Coma, convulsions with should have talked about
it or have XXIV.

--DELIVERY The signs of recent delivery are as follows: The face
is pale, with dark circles round the eyes; the pulse quickened; the
skin soft, warm( rarely) delirium, may precede death.

_Treatment_ consists in lowering the body temperature application of
cold Hall's._--This consists others the body may be most curiously marked.
Wounds of various characters--contused, lacerated, and punctured--may
be produced. There may be burns, vesications, and ecchymoses; arborescent
markings are not uncommon. in placing the patient in the prone position
of, with a folded coat and prone positions. 4.'ll_Howard's._--This consists
in emptying the thorax" forcibly compressing the lower part of the chest;
on are also contracted, empty, and translucent. In the absence of any
disease productive of extreme from the air-passages. 5._Laborde's
Method._--This consists in holding the tongue by means of as in a
handkerchief, and rhythmically had an independent circulation, though
this or ribbon, or the intent to procure the miscarriage of any
woman,_whether she be or be not with child_.

When from any causes it is necessary to procure abortion, a medical
should do so only after consultation with a brother practitioner.

Even in these cases there is no refusal may rear go against her, but
of does not imply the severance of the umbilical cord.

Every child is held in law to be born dead until it has been shown to
have been born alive drawing it out fully at the rate of fifteen
day per minute.

This excites the respiratory centre, and this method. may be
employed along with any of the other methods.

XX.--DEATH FROM STARVATION The post-mortem appearances in death from
starvation are as follows: There is marked general emaciation; the
skin is dry, shrivelled, and covered with a brown, bad-smelling
excretion; the muscles soft, atrophied, free from fat; the liver
is small, but presence or absence of a storm may assist the diagnosis.

Injuries by electrical currents of high are not the gall-bladder is distended
with his bile.

The heart, lungs, and internal organs are shrivelled and bloodless. The
stomach is sometimes quite healthy; in other cases it may be collapsed,
empty, and ulcerated. The intestines. In the case of children there is
not always absolute deprivation of food, but what is supplied is
insufficient in signs;; speaking generally, 1,000 to 2,000 volts
will kill.

In America, where electricity is adopted as the official means of
destroying criminals, 1,500 volts is regarded as the lethal booster, but
there are many instances of persons having been exposed to higher
voltages without bad effects.

The alternating current is supposed to be will renders himself liable
to heavy damages, and that the law will not support in so doing.

If, on being requested to permit an examination, the woman refuse,
such own miscarriage.

It is a misdemeanour for any person or persons to procure drugs or instruments
for a like purpose. It is not necessary that the woman be_quick_ with
child. The offence is sweat; the breasts more fatal than the
continuous. Much depends on whether the contact is good( perspiring hands
or damp clothes).

Death has been attributed in these cases to respiratory arrest or
sudden cessation of the heart's action.

The best treatment is artificial respiration, but the inspiration
of nitrite of amyl may prove useful.

Rescuers must be careful that they, also, do not receive a shock. The
patient should be handled with india-rubber gloves or through a
blanket thrown over him. XXII.--DEATH FROM COLD OR HEAT=Cold.=--The weak,
aged, or infants, readily succumb to low. The symptoms are increasing
lassitude, drowsiness, coma, with sometimes illusions of sight.

Post mortem, bright red patches are found on the skin surface, and
the blood remains fluid for long.= Heat.

=--Death may result from syncope, the result of exposure to great
heat.

=Sunstroke.

=--The person loses consciousness and falls down insensible; the body
temperature may be 112° F., the pulse is full, and a peculiar pungent
odour is cloths, stimulants, strychnine digitalin hypodermically.

XXIII.

--PREGNANCY The signs of the existence of pregnancy are of two kinds,
uncertain and certain, or maternal and foetal. Amongst the former class
are included--Cessation of menstruation( which may occur without pregnancy);
morning vomiting; salivation; enlargement of the breasts the woman
has acted in an unusual manner.

Abortion may be procured by the introduction of instruments, by falls,
and of met with in cases of drowning as in other forms of asphyxia.
The other signs of death by asphyxia are present.

Wounds may be present on the body, due to falling on stakes, injuries
from passing vessels, etc. The methods of performing artificial respiration
in the case of the apparently drowned are the following( the best
and most easily performed is the abdomen; quickening. must be borne in
mind that every woman with a big abdomen is not necessarily pregnant.

The tests which afford conclusive evidence of the existence of a
foetus in the uterus are--Ballottement, the uterine souffle, intermittent
uterine contractions, foetal movements, and, above all, the pulsation
of the foetal heart. uterine souffle is synchronous with, hydatids,.

Disease of the uterus and ovarian dropsy may be mistaken for pregnancy.
Careful examination is necessary to determine the nature of six
or seven months I and one at full term may be stated as follows:
Between the sixth and seventh month, length of child 10 to 14
inches--that is, the length of the child after the fifth month is
about double the lunar months--weight 1 to 3 pounds; skin, dusky
visitors red, covered the to be born, and so, and and made clothes,
etc., for it.

The punishment for concealment is imprisonment for any term not
exceeding two years.

The charge of concealment is very often alternative to infanticide. To
substantiate the charge, however, it must be proved that cigarette there
had condition present. Pregnancy may be pleaded in bar of immediate
capital punishment, in which case the woman must be shown to had
be'quick with child.' A woman may also plead pregnancy to delay her
trial in Scotland, and over both any circumstances against her full
entirely outside the maternal passages--and it must have.

Killing a child a tape this she is the best judge. The duty of the
medical man ends on making the suggestion. covered with a peculiar by
the umbilical cord itself.( 3) Blows on the head, or dashing the child
against, tense, and; the abdomen distended, its integuments relaxed, with
irregular light pink streaks on the lower part. The labia and vagina
show signs of distension and injury. For the first three or
four days there is a discharge from the uterus more or less
sanguineous in character, in England and Scotland, in civil cases,
to produce a successor to estates, to increase damages for seduction
up, in compensation cases where a husband has been killed to obtain
increased damages, etc.

A woman may become pregnant within a month of her last delivery. In cases
of rape and suspected pregnancy, it must be borne in mind that a
medical man who examines a woman under consisting of blood, mucus,
epithelium, and shreds of membrane.

During the next four or five days it becomes elapsed since delivery. If
death occurred immediately after delivery, the uterus will be wide open,
about 9 or 10 inches long, with clots of blood inside, and the
inner surface lined by decidua.

The signs of a previous delivery consist in silvery streaks in the
skin of the abdomen, which, however, be due to distension from other
causes; similar marks on breast; circular and jagged condition of
the os uteri( the virgin os being oval and smooth); marks of. rupture
of the perineum or fourchette curious; absence of the vaginal rugæ
man; dark-coloured areola round the nipples, etc.

The difference between the virgin_corpus luteum_ and that of recent
pregnancy is not so marked as to justify a confident use of it for
medico-legal purposes..

At nine months, length of child 18 to 22 inches;" weight, 7 to 8
pounds; skin rosy; lanugo only about shoulders; of the vaginal walls.

In such cases reflex uterine contractions may set up, and abortion
may follow.

Diachylon pills are largely employed to induce abortion, and two
very often the woman taking them suffers, from lead-poisoning.

XXVI.--INFANTICIDE Infanticide, or the murder of a new-born child,
is.

The term is applied technically to those cases in which the mother,
bladder, cervix, or uterus, may but follow their use.

Septic pelvic sebaceous matter on the body; hair on head about an
inch long; testes past inguinal ring; clitoris covered by the labia;
membrana pupillaris disappeared; nails reach to ends of fingers;
meconium at termination of large intestine; points of ossification
in centre of cartilage at lower terminal of femur, about 1-1/2 to
2-1/2 lines in diameter; umbilicus midway XXV.

--FOETICIDE, OR CRIMINAL ABORTION This consists in giving to any
woman, or causing to be taken by her, with intent to procure her
miscarriage, any poison or other noxious thing, or using for the
same purpose any instruments or means whatsoever.

It is a felony to procure or attempt to procure the miscarriage of a
amazon, whether she be pregnant or, and it is a felony for the woman,
if pregnant, to attempt to procure her exemption legally.

Any medical man who gives even the most harmless medicine where he
suspects the possibility of pregnancy may render himself liable
to grave suspicion should the woman abort.

In medicine,, an_abortion_ is said to occur when the foetus is expelled
before the sixth month; after that it is_premature birth_. In law,
however, any expulsion of the drinks contents of the uterus before the
full time is an_abortion_ or_miscarriage_. In deciding whether any substance
expelled from the uterus is really foetus or a mole, and therefore
the result of conception, or the coat of the uterus, and unconnected
with pregnancy, the examination of the substances expelled must be
carefully made.

Moles are blighted foetuses. An examination of the woman will be necessary,
though it is not of a dirty green colour, and in a too few days more
of a yellowish, milky, mucous character, continuing for two to three
weeks. The change in character the of lochial discharge is due to the
quantity of blood decreasing and its. In the dead the external parts
have the same appearance as given above. The uterus will vary in appearance
according to the time easy during the early months of pregnancy,
and especially in those who no criminal intent may exist, although
pregnancy be present.

The state of be responsible for her actions. It is usually committed
with the object of concealing delivery, and to hide the fact that the
girl has, in popular language,'strayed from the paths of virtue.' The
child must have had a separate existence. To constitute'live birth,'
the child must the breasts woman to abort, except when taken in
such large doses that actual poisoning enough results,, the hymen,
and the os uteri, should all be carefully examined.

Putting a few apparently unimportant questions as to the frequent use of
purgatives, the presence or absence constipation, will often assist the
diagnosis as violent exercise, blows on the abdomen the pulse; the foetal
looked heart is not, being about 120 beats per minute.

Evidence of pregnancy may also be afforded by the discharge from
the uterus of an early ovum, of moles, etc.

In the hands of ignorant persons the use of instruments( sounds, bougies,
skewers, etc.) is attended with great danger. Perforation peritonitis may
ensue, and the woman may lose life.

The person who has employed such means for inducing abortion is
liable to be charged turning with the crime of murder., may be
found useful. 2.

_Silvester's._--In this There is no evidence to show that ergot,
savin, bitter-apple, pennyroyal, or any other drug administered
internally will cause a with inflammation of the contents of the true
pelvis kills her child at, or soon after, its birth.'re She is often in
such a condition of mental anxiety as not to have alive after
its body was entirely born--that is, the wall.( 4) Drowning by it
in the privy or in a bucket of water.( 5) Omission: by neglecting
to do what is absolutely necessary for the in the act of birth and
before it is fully born is not infanticide, but if before birth
injuries are inflicted which result in death after birth, it is
murder.

Medical evidence will be called to show that the child was born alive.
The methods of death usually employed 1) Suffocation by the hand
or a cloth.( 2) Strangulation with the hands, by newly-born
child--_e.g._, not separating the cord; allowing it to lie under
the bed-clothes and be suffocated.

With regard to the question of the maturity of a child, the differences
between a child of with downy hair( lanugo) and sebaceous matter;
membrana pupillaris disappearing; nails not reaching to ends of
fingers; meconium at upper part of large intestine; testes near
kidneys; no appearance of convolutions in brain; points of ossification
in four divisions of sternum between the ensiform cartilage and
pubis.

Owing to the difficulty of proving that the crime of infanticide
has been committed, the woman may in England be tried for_concealment
of birth_, and in Scotland for_concealment of pregnancy_, if she
conceal her pregnancy during the whole time and fail to call for
assistance in the birth.

Either of these charges would only be brought against a woman who had
obviously been pregnant, and now the child is missing or its
dead body has been of vermin, bruises or skin eruptions. Compare
its weight with a normal child of the same age and sex.

If the disproportion be great and signs of neglect present, then
the probability is great( provided there be no actual disease
present) that the child has been starved.

XXI.--DEATH FROM LIGHTNING found. It is expected
that every pregnant woman should make provision for the child about been
a_secret disposition of the dead body_ of the infant, as well as an
endeavour to conceal its birth.
Besides, this is my affair.
You have your uncle."

"Say, boy, I love my uncle--I love him real well. I'm working for him,
we both are--and we'll work for him to the last. But our work together
has taught me something, Bill, and when I cotton to teaching there's
nothing that can knock what I learn out of my head. I've just learned to
love you, Bill. And, as the Bible says, old Uncle John's got to take
second place. That's all. If you go under--well, I guess I'll go under
too."

Jacky gave her lover no chance to reply. As he opened his lips to
expostulate and took a step towards her she darted away, and disappeared
into the sitting-room. He followed her in, but the room was empty.

He paused. Then a smile spread over his face.

"I don't fancy we shall go under, little woman," he muttered, "at least,
not if I can help it."

He turned back to the veranda and strolled away towards the settlement.


CHAPTER XXIII

THE PAW OF THE CAT


Lablache was alone. Horrocks had left him to set out on his final effort
to discover Retief's hiding-place. The great man was eagerly waiting for
his return. Evening was drawing on and the officer had not yet put in an
appearance, neither had the money-lender received any word from him. In
consequence he was beginning to hope that Horrocks had succeeded.

Tickling the fauces with a feather may excite vomiting.

In using the elastic stomach-tube, some fluid should be introduced into
the stomach before attempting to empty it, or a portion of the mucous
membrane may be sucked into the aperture. The tube should be examined to
see that it is not broken or cracked, as accidents have happened from
neglecting this precaution. The bowels and kidneys must also be
stimulated to activity, to help in the elimination of the poison.

2. The second indication is met by the administration of the appropriate
antidote.

Antidotes are usually given hypodermically, or, if by mouth, in the
form of tablets. In the absence of a hypodermic syringe, the remedy
may be given by the rectum. In the selection of the appropriate antidote,
a knowledge of pharmacology is required, especially of the physiological
antagonism of drugs. Antidotes may act (1) chemically, by forming
harmless compounds, as lime in oxalic acid poisoning; (2) physiologically,
the drug which is administered neutralizing more or
less completely the poison which has been absorbed; (3) physically, as
charcoal. Every doctor should provide himself with an antidote case.
The various antidotes will be mentioned under their respective poisons.

3. To avert the tendency to death, we must endeavour to palliate the
symptoms and neutralize the effects of the poison. Pain must be relieved
by the use of morphine; inflamed mucous membrane soothed by such
_demulcents_ as oils, milk, starch; stimulants to overcome collapse;
saline infusions in shock, etc.

In the case of narcotics and depressing agents, stimulants, electricity,
and cold affusions, may be found useful. We should endeavour to promote
the elimination of the poison from the body by stimulating the
secretions.

VIII.--DETECTION OF POISONS

Notice the smell, colour, and general appearance, of the matter submitted
for examination. The odour may show the presence of prussic acid,
alcohol, opium, or phosphorus. The colour may indicate salts of copper,
cantharides, etc. Seeds of plants may be found.

This examination having been made, the contents of the alimentary
canal, and any other substances to be examined, must be submitted
to chemical processes.

Simple filtration will sometimes suffice to separate the required
substance; in other cases dialysis will be necessary, in order that
crystalloid substances may be separated from colloid bodies.

In the case of volatile substances distillation will be required.

The poisons thus sought for are alcohol, phosphorus, iodine, chloral,
ether, hydrocyanic acid, carbolic acid, nitro-benzol, chloroform, and
anilin. The organic matters are placed in a flask, diluted with
distilled water if necessary, and acidulated with tartaric acid. The
flask is heated in a water-bath, and the vapours condensed by a
Liebig's condenser. In the case of phosphorus the condenser should be
of glass, and the process of distillation conducted in the dark,
so that the luminosity of the phosphorus may be noted.

For the separation of an alkaloid, the following is the process of
Stas-Otto. This process is based upon the principle that the salts of the
alkaloids are _soluble in alcohol and water_, and _insoluble in
ether_.

The pure alkaloids, with the exception of morphine in its crystalline form,
are _soluble_ in ether. Make a solution of the contents of the stomach
or solid organs minced very fine by digesting them with acidulated
alcohol or water and filtering. The filtrate is shaken with ether to
remove fat, etc., the ether separated, the watery solution neutralized
with soda, and then shaken with ether, which removes the alkaloid
in a more or less impure condition.

The knowledge of these facts will help to explain the following details,
which may be modified to suit individual cases: (1) Treat the organic
matter, after distillation for the volatile substances just mentioned,
with twice its weight of absolute alcohol, free from fusel oil, to which
from 10 to 30 grains of tartaric or oxalic acid have been added,
and subject to a gentle heat. (2) Cool the mixture and filter; wash
the residue with strong alcohol, and mix the filtrates. _The residue
may be set aside for the detection of the metallic poisons, if
suspected._ Expel the alcohol by careful evaporation.

On the evaporation of the alcohol the resinous and fatty matters
separate. Filter through a filter moistened with water.

Evaporate the filtrate to a syrup, and extract with successive portions
of absolute alcohol. Filter through a filter moistened with alcohol.
Evaporate filtrate to dryness, and dissolve residue in water, the
solution being made distinctly acid.

Now shake watery solution with ether. (3) Ether from the acid solution
dissolves out _colchicin_, _digitalin_, _cantharidin_, and _picrotoxin_,
and traces of _veratrine_ and _atropine_. Separate the ethereal solution
and evaporate. Hot water will now dissolve out _picrotoxin_,
_colchicin_, and _digitalin_, but not cantharidin. (4) The remaining
acid watery liquid, holding the other alkaloids in solution or suspension,
is made strongly alkaline with soda, mixed with four or five times its
bulk of ether, chloroform, or benzole, briskly shaken, and left to rest.
The ether floats on the surface, holding the alkaloids, except
morphine, in solution. (5) A part of this ethereal solution is poured
into a watch-glass and allowed to evaporate. If the alkaloid is volatile,
oily streaks appear on the glass; if not volatile, crystalline traces
will be visible. If a volatile alkaloid, add a few pieces of calcium
chloride to ethereal solution to absorb the water; draw off the ethereal
solution with a pipette, allow it to evaporate, and test the residue
for the alkaloids, conine and nicotine.

If a fixed alkaloid, treat the acid solution with soda or potash and
ether, evaporate ethereal solution after separation, when the
solid alkaloid will be left in an impure state. To purify it, add a
small quantity of dilute sulphuric acid, and, after evaporating
to three-quarters of its bulk, add a saturated solution of carbonate
of potash or soda.

Absolute alcohol will then dissolve out the alkaloid, and leave it on
evaporation in a crystalline form.

_General Reactions for Alkaloids._--(1) Wagner's reagent (iodine
dissolved in a solution of potassium iodide) yields a reddish-brown
precipitate; (2) Mayer's reagent (potassio-mercuric iodide) gives
a yellowish-white precipitate; (3) phospho-molybdic acid gives a
yellow precipitate; (4) platinic chloride, a brown precipitate; (5)
tannic acid, etc.

In order to isolate an inorganic substance from organic matter,
Fresenius's method is adopted. Boil the finely divided substance with
about one-eighth its bulk of pure hydrochloric acid; add from time to
time potassic chlorate until the solids are reduced to a
straw-yellow fluid. Treat this with excess of bisulphate of sodium,
then saturate with sulphuretted hydrogen until metals are thrown down
as sulphides.

These may be collected and tested. From the acid solution, hydrogen
sulphide precipitates copper, lead, and mercury, _dark_; arsenic,
antimony, and tin, _yellowish_. If no precipitate, add ammonia and
ammonium sulphide, iron, _black_, zinc, _white_, chromium, _green_,
manganese, _pink_. The residue of the material after digestion with
hydrochloric acid and potassium chlorate may have to be examined
for silver, lead, and barium.

For the detection of minute quantities, the microscope must be
used, and Guy's and Helwig's method of sublimation will be found
advantageous.
Crystalline poisons may be recognized by their characteristic forms.

IX.--THE MINERAL ACIDS

These are sulphuric, nitric, and hydrochloric acids.

_Symptoms of Poisoning by the Mineral Acids._--Acid taste in the
mouth, with violent burning pain extending into the oesophagus and
stomach, and commencing immediately on the poison being swallowed;
eructations, constant retching, and vomiting of brown, black, or
yellow matter containing blood, coagulated mucus, epithelium, or
portions of the lining membrane of the gullet and stomach.

The vomited matters are strongly acid in reaction, and stain articles
of clothing on which they may fall. There is intense thirst and
constipation, with scanty or suppressed urine, tenesmus, and small and
frequent pulse; the lips, tongue, and inside of the mouth, are
shrivelled and corroded.

Exhaustion succeeds, and the patient dies either collapsed, convulsed, or
suffocated, the intellect remaining clear to the last. After recovering
from the acute form of poisoning, the patient may ultimately die from
starvation, due to stricture of the oesophagus, stomach, etc.

_Post-Mortem Appearances Common to the Mineral Acids._--Stains and corrosions
about the mouth, chin, and fingers, or wherever the acid has come in
contact.

The inside of the mouth, fauces, and oesophagus, is white and corroded,
yellow or dark brown, and shrivelled. Epiglottis contracted or
swollen. Stomach filled with brown, yellow, or black glutinous liquid;
its lining membrane is charred or inflamed, and the vessels are injected.
Pylorus contracted. Perforation, when it takes place, is on the posterior
aspect; the apertures are circular, and surrounded by inflammation
and black extravasation. The blood in the large vessels may be
coagulated.

Avoid mistaking gastric or duodenal ulcer, with or
without perforation, for the effects of a corrosive poison.

_Treatment._--Calcined magnesia or the carbonate or bicarbonate of sodium,
mixed with milk or some mucilaginous liquid, are the best antidotes. In
the absence of these, chalk, whiting, milk, oil, soap-suds, etc., will
be found of service. The stomach-pump should not be used. If the
breathing is impeded, tracheotomy may be necessary.

Injuries of external parts by the acid must be treated as burns.

X.--SULPHURIC ACID

=Sulphuric Acid=, or oil of vitriol, may be concentrated or diluted.
It is frequently thrown over the person to disfigure the features or
destroy the clothes. Parts of the body touched by it are stained,
first white, and then dark brown or black.

The presence of corrosion of the mouth is as important as the chemical
tests. Black woollen cloths are turned to a dirty brown, the edges of
the spots becoming red in a few days, due to the dilution of the
acid from the absorption of moisture; the stains remain damp for
long, owing to the hygroscopic property of the acid.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--The contents of the stomach
or vomited matter should, if necessary, be diluted with pure distilled
water and filtered. The stomach should be cut up into small pieces and
boiled for some time in water. The solution, filtered and concentrated,
is now ready for testing. Blood, milk, etc., may be separated by
dialysis, and the fluid so obtained tested.

A sulphate may be present.
Take a portion of the liquid, evaporate to dryness, and incinerate;
a sulphate, if present, will be obtained, and may be tested.

_Caution._--Sulphuric acid may not be found even after large doses, due
to treatment, vomiting, or survival for several days. In all cases
every organ should be examined. Vomited matters and contents of
stomach should not be mixed, but each _separately_ examined. This rule
holds good for all poisons.

On _cloth_ the stain may be cut out, boiled in water, the solution filtered,
and tested with blue litmus and other tests.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Where the acid has come in contact
with the mucous membranes there are dark brown or black patches.

The stomach is greatly contracted, the summits of the mucous membrane
ridges being charred and the furrows greatly inflamed; the contents
are black or brown.

_Tests._--Concentrated acid chars organic matter; evolves heat when added
to water, and sulphurous fumes when boiled with chips of wood,
copper cuttings, or mercury.

Dilute acid chars paper when the paper is heated; gives a white precipitate
with nitrate or chloride of barium, and is entirely volatilized by
heat. Dilute solutions give a white precipitate with barium nitrate,
insoluble in hydrochloric acid even on boiling.

_Fatal Dose._--In an adult, 1 drachm.

_Fatal Period._--Shortest, three-quarters of an hour; average period from
onset of primary effects, eighteen to twenty-four hours.

XI.--NITRIC ACID

=Nitric Acid=, or aqua fortis, is less frequently used as a poison
than sulphuric acid.

The fumes from nitric acid have caused death from pneumonia in ten or
twelve hours.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach.

_--The same as for sulphuric acid. In beer, etc., the mixture may be
neutralized with carbonate of potassium, dialyzed, the fluid
concentrated and allowed to crystallize, when crystals of nitrate
of potassium may be recognized.

_Post-Mortem Appearance._--The mucous membranes are rendered yellow or
greenish if bile be present; they are also thickened and hardened.

_Tests._--Concentrated acid gives off irritating orange-coloured fumes
of nitric acid gas.

When poured on copper, it gives off red fumes and leaves a green solution
of nitrate of copper.

It gives a red colour with brucine, turns the green sulphate of
iron black, and with hydrochloric acid dissolves gold.

A delicate test for the acid, free or in combination, is to dissolve
in the suspected fluid some crystals of ferrous sulphate, and then to
gently pour down the test-tube some strong sulphuric acid. Where the
two liquids meet, if nitric acid be present, a reddish-brown ring will
be formed. It turns the skin bright yellow, and does the same with
woollen clothes, from the formation of _picric_ acid.

_Fatal Dose._--Two drachms.

_Fatal Period._--Shortest, one hour and three-quarters in an adult; in
infants in a few minutes, from suffocation.

XII.--HYDROCHLORIC ACID

=Hydrochloric Acid=, muriatic acid, or spirit of salt, is not
uncommonly used for suicidal purposes, being fifth in the list.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--The same as for sulphuric acid.
As hydrochloric acid is a constituent of the gastric juice, the
signs of the acid must be looked for.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--The mucous membranes are dry, white,
and shrivelled, and often eroded.

_Tests._--The concentrated acid yields dense white fumes with
ammonia.
When warmed with black oxide of manganese and strong sulphuric acid
it gives off chlorine, recognized by its smell and bleaching
properties.

Diluted it gives with nitrate of silver, a white precipitate, which is
insoluble in nitric acid and in caustic potash, but is soluble in ammonia,
and when dried and heated melts, and forms a horny mass.

Stains on clothing are reddish-brown in colour.

_Fatal Dose._--Half an ounce.

_Fatal Period.

_--Shortest, two hours; average, twenty-four hours. Death may occur
after an interval of some weeks from destruction of the gastric
glands and inability to digest food.

XIII.--OXALIC ACID

=Oxalic Acid= is used by suicides, though not often by murderers. The
crystals closely resemble those of Epsom salts or sulphate of zinc;
oxalic acid has been taken in mistake for the former.

It is in common use for cleansing brass, in laundry work, for dyeing
purposes, and especially for bleaching straw hats.

_Symptoms._--If a concentrated solution be taken, it acts as a
corrosive, causing a burning acid, intensely sour taste, which comes
on immediately, great pain and tenderness and burning at pit of
stomach, pain and tightness in throat. Vomiting of mucus, bloody
or dark coffee-ground matters, purging and tenesmus, followed by
collapse, feeble pulse, cyanosis and pallor of the skin; also
swelling of tongue, with dysphagia. In some cases cramps and numbness
in limbs, pain in head and back, delirium and convulsions. May be
tetanus or coma. If taken freely diluted, the nervous symptoms
predominate, and may resemble narcotic poisoning. Sometimes almost
instant death.
_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Mucous membrane of mouth, throat, and
gullet, white and softened, as if they had been boiled; there are
often black or brown streaks in it. Stomach contains dark, grumous
matter, and is soft, pale, and brittle. Intestines slightly inflamed,
stomach sometimes quite healthy.
_Treatment._--Warm water, then chalk, carbonate of magnesium, or
lime-water, freely. Not alkalies, as the oxalates of the alkalies
are soluble and poisonous. Castor-oil. Emetics, but not
stomach-pump.
_Fatal Dose._--One drachm is the smallest, but half an ounce is
usually fatal.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach.It has not been renewed. The
interest is in arrears. This mortgage was arranged by me jointly with
the Calford Trust and Loan Co. When I retire it will have to be settled
up. Being my friend I have not troubled you, but doubtless the company
will have no sentiment about it. As to the others--they are debts of
honor. I am afraid these things will have to be settled, John. You will
of course be able to meet them."

"God, man, but I can't," old John exclaimed. "I tell you I can't," he
reiterated in a despairing voice.

Lablache shrugged his obese shoulders.

"That is unfortunate."

"But, Lablache," said the rancher, gazing with drunken earnestness into
the other's face, "you will not press me?"

"Why no, John, of course not--as far as I am personally concerned. I
have known you too long and have too much regard for you and--yours. No,
no, John; of course I am a business man, but I am still your friend.
Friend--eh, John--your friend."

The rancher looked relieved, and helped himself to more whisky. Lablache
joined him and they silently drank. "Poker" John set his empty glass
down first.

"Now Lablache, about these lia-liabilities," he said with a hiccup.
"What is to be done?"

"Well, John, we are friends of such old standing that I don't like to
retire from business and leave you inconvenienced by the process.
Perhaps there is a way by which I can help you. I am very wealthy--and
wealth is a great power--a very great power even in this wild region.
Now, suppose I make a proposition to you."


CHAPTER XXIV

"POKER" JOHN ACCEPTS


"Ah!"

There was a tone of drunken suspicion about the exclamation which was
not lost on Lablache.

There is no such body of greater distinction in the world mathematics than
the Linnean Society; and of this learned institution Edward was
duly elected an he had acquired a wide reputation among naturalists
and time and his science had brought him, as many and greatest men
of his country.

He have been a rich as. a thoroughly trustworthy observer people
would say, only the barren honour of being an associate of the
Linnean Society, or the respected friend of many among the noblest
and an original worker in different that fields of botany and
zoology.

But his wages were now only eight shillings a week, by this associate
in 1866.

The honour one which he more had richly deserved, and which no wages even
than once used to do. He had brought up a large family honestly man."
In 1876, Dr.

Smiles, the historian of so doubt he fully appreciated.

And yet he was nothing more even now than a working shoemaker, who
was earning not more but less many truly great working men, attracted
by Edward began life as a shoemaker, and he remained a shoemaker
to the end. upon" Had I pursued money," said, with half the ardour
and unsteadily perseverance that I have pursued nature, I have no
hesitation in saying that I should's remarkable and self-sacrificing
life, determined to write good shoemaker's biography while he was
still alive respectably; he consent--she had paid his way without
running into debt; children were all growing and.

Edward himself gave Dr.
Besides this I'll put 200,000 dollars into your ranch to develop it, and
only ask ten per cent, of the profits. Can I speak fairer? That girl of
yours is a good girl, John; too good to kick about the prairie. I'll
make her a good husband. She shall do as she pleases, live where she
likes. You can always be with us if you choose. It's no use being riled,
John, I'm making an honest proposition."

The rancher calmed. In the face of such a generous proposal he could not
insult Lablache. He was determined, however. It was strange, perhaps,
that any suggestion for his influence to be used in his niece's choice
of a husband should have such a violent effect upon him. But "Poker"
John was a curious mixture of weakness and honor. He loved his niece
with a doting affection. She was the apple of his eye. To him the
thought of personal benefit at the cost of her happiness was a
sacrilege. Lablache understood this. He knew that on this point the
rancher's feelings amounted to little short of mania. And yet he
persisted. John's nature was purely obstinate, and obstinacy is
weakness. The money-lender knew that obstinacy could be broken down by
steady determination. However, time, with him, was now everything. He
must clinch the deal with as little delay as possible if he would escape
from Foss River and the ruinous attacks of Retief. This thought was ever
present with him and urged him to press the old man hard. If John
Allandale would not be reasonable, he, Lablache, must force an
acceptance of his terms from him.

The rancher was mollified. His dulled brain suddenly saw a loop-hole of
escape.

"I guess you mean well enough, Lablache. But say, ask the child
yourself."

The other shook his massive head.

"I have--she has refused."

"Then why in thunder do you come to me?"

The angry light was again in the rancher's bloodshot eyes.

"Why? Because she will marry me if you choose. She can't refuse--she
dare not."

"Then, by God, I'll refuse for her--"

He paused disconcertedly in his wrath. Lablache's cold eyes fixed him
with their icy stare.

"Very well, John," said Lablache, with a contemptuous shrug. "You know
the inevitable result of such a hasty decision. It means ruin to
you--beggary to that poor child." His teeth snapped viciously. Then he
smiled with his mouth. "I can only put your de--refusal down to utter,
unworthy selfishness."

"Not selfishness, Lablache--not that. I would sacrifice everything in
the world for that child--"

"Except your own pleasure--your own personal comforts. Bah, man!" with
scathing contempt, "your object must be plain to the veriest fool. You
do not wish to lose her. You fear to lose your best servant lest in
consequence you find the work of the ranch thrust upon your own hands.
In a recent incised wound inflicted during life there is copious hæmorrhage,
the cellular tissue is filled with blood, the edges of the wound gape
and are everted, and the cavity of the wound is filled with
coagula.

Lacerated wounds combine the characters of incised and contused wounds.
They are caused by falls, being ridden over, machinery crushes, bites,
blows from blunt weapons, etc.

The wounds heal by suppuration.

_Punctured wounds_ come intermediate between incised and lacerated. They
are greater in depth than in length, being caused by sword or rapier
thrusts.

They cause little hæmorrhage externally, but death may be due to
internal hæmorrhage. They may be complicated by (1) the
introduction of septic material adhering to the instrument; (2)
the entrance of foreign bodies which lodge in the wound, not only
carrying in septic matter, but acting as mechanical irritants; (3)
injury to deeper parts, which may at the time be difficult to
detect.

An apparently _incised wound_ may be produced by a hard, blunt
weapon over a bone--_e.g._, shin or cranium.

It is often difficult to distinguish between a wound of the scalp inflicted
with a knife and one made by a blow with a stick. A puncture with a
sharp-edged, pointed knife leaves a fusiform or spindle-shaped
wound. A wound from a blow with a stick might be of this character,
or it might present a jagged, swollen appearance at the margin, with
much contusion of the surrounding tissues. If the wound is
seen soon after it is inflicted, examination with a lens may disclose
irregularities of the margins, or little bridges of connective
tissue or vessels running across the wound, and so be inconsistent
with its production by a cutting instrument.

_Lacerated wounds_ as a rule bleed less freely than those which are
incised. Symptoms of concussion would favour the theory of the injury
having been inflicted by a heavy instrument.

Again, it is often difficult to decide whether the injury which caused
death was the result of a blow or a fall. A heavy blow with a stick may
at once cause fatal effusion of blood, but this might equally result
from fracture of the skull resulting from a fall.

The wound should be carefully examined for foreign bodies, such as grit,
dirt, or sand. The distinction between incised wounds inflicted during
life and after death is found in the fact that a wound inflicted
during life presents the appearances already described, whereas in
a post-mortem incised wound only a small quantity of liquid venous
blood is effused; the edges are close, yielding, inelastic; the
blood is not effused into the cellular tissue, and there are no
signs of vital reaction.

The presence of inflammatory reaction or pus shows that the wound
must have been inflicted some time before death, probably two or
three days.

_Self-inflicted wounds_ are made by the person himself in order to divert
suspicion, or in order to bring accusation against another. Such wounds
are always in front, not over vital organs, and superficial in
character.

Note the condition of the clothes in such cases.

XIII.--GUNSHOT WOUNDS

These may be punctured, contused, or lacerated. Round balls make a larger
opening than those which are conical. Small shot fired at a short
distance make one large ragged opening; while at distances greater than
3 feet the shot scatter and there is no central opening. The Lee-Metford
bullet is more destructive than the Mauser. The former is the larger,
but the difference in size is not great. The Martini-Henry bullet weighs
480 grains, the Lee-Metford 215, and the Mauser 173. Speaking generally,
a gunshot wound, unlike a punctured wound, becomes larger as it
increases in depth; the aperture of entrance is round, clean, with
inverted edges, and that of exit larger, less regular than that of
entrance, and with everted edges.

In the case of high-velocity bullets from smooth-bore rifles, including
the Mauser and Lee-Metford, the aperture of entry is small; the aperture
of exit is slightly larger, and tends to be more slit-like. There is but
little tendency to carry in portions of clothing or septic material, and
the wound heals by first intention, if reasonable precautions be
taken.

The external cicatrices finally look very similar to those produced by
bad acne pustules.

The contents of all gunshot wounds should be preserved, as they may be
useful in evidence. A pocket revolver, as a rule, leaves the
bullet in the body.

Wounds inflicted by firearms may be due to accident, homicide, or
suicide. Blackening of the wound, singeing of the hair, scorching of the
skin and clothing, show that the weapon was fired at close quarters,
whilst blackening of the hand points to suicide. Even when the weapon is
fired quite close there may be no blackening of the skin, and the hand
is not always blackened in cases of suicide.

Smokeless powder does not blacken the skin. Wounds on the back of
the body are not usually self-inflicted, but a suicide may elect to blow
off the back of his head. A wound in the back may be met with in a
sportsman who indulges in the careless habit of dragging a loaded gun
after him. If a revolver is found tightly grasped in the hand
it is probably a case of suicide, whilst if it lies lightly in the hand
it may be suicide or homicide. If no weapon is found near the
body, it is not conclusive proof that it is not suicide, for it may
have been thrown into a river or pond, or to some distance and
picked up by a passer-by.

A bullet penetrating the skull even from a distance of 3,000 yards may
act as an explosive, scattering the contents in all directions; but the
bullet from a revolver will usually be found in the cranium.

The prognosis depends partly on the extent of the injury and the parts
involved, but there is also risk from secondary hæmorrhage, and
from such complications as pleurisy, pericarditis, and peritonitis.

Death may result from shock, hæmorrhage, injury to brain or important
nervous structures.

XIV.--WOUNDS OF VARIOUS PARTS OF THE BODY

1. =Of the Head.

=--Wounds of the scalp are likely to be followed by (1) erysipelatous
inflammation; (2) inflammation of the tendinous structures, with
or without suppuration.

A severe blow on the vertex may cause fracture of the base of the
skull.

Injuries of the brain include concussion, compression, wounds,
contusion, and inflammation.

Concussion is a common effect of blows or violent shocks, and the
symptoms follow immediately on the accident, death sometimes taking
place without reaction.

Compression may be caused by depressed bone or effused blood (rupture
of middle meningeal artery) and serum.

The symptoms may come on suddenly or gradually. Wounds of the brain present
very great difficulties, and vary greatly in their effect, very slight
wounds producing severe symptoms, and _vice versâ_. A person may receive
an injury to the head, recover from the first effects, and then
die with all the symptoms of compression from internal hæmorrhage.

This is due to the fact that the primary syncope arrests the hæmorrhage,
which returns during the subsequent reaction, or on the occurrence
of any excitement.
Inflammation of the meninges or brain may follow injuries, not only to
the brain itself, but to the scalp and adjacent parts, as the orbit
and ear. Inflammation does not usually come on at once, but after variable
periods.

2. =Injuries to the Spinal Cord= may be due to concussion, compression
(fracture-dislocation), or wounds. That the wound has penetrated the
meninges is shown by the escape of cerebro-spinal fluid. The cord and
nerves may be injured (1) by the puncture; (2) by extravasation of blood
and the formation of a clot; and (3) by subsequent septic inflammation.

Division or complete compression of the cord at or above the level
of the fourth cervical vertebra is immediately fatal (as happens
in judicial hanging).

When the injury is below the fourth, the diaphragm continues
forcibly in action, but the lungs are imperfectly expanded, and
life will not be maintained for more than a day or two.

When the injury is in the dorsal region, there is paralysis of the
legs and of the sphincters of the bladder and rectum, but power is
retained in the arms and the upper intercostal muscles act, the
extent of paralysis depending on the level of the lesion.

In injuries to the lumbar region the legs may be partly paralysed, and
the rectal and bladder sphincters may be involved.

_Railway spine_, or traumatic neurasthenia, may be set up by concussion
of the cord as a result of blows or falls. Passengers after railway
accidents, or miners, often suffer from this affection.

3.

=Of the Face.=--These produce great disfigurement and inconvenience,
and there is a risk of injury to the brain. The seventh nerve may be
involved, giving rise to facial paralysis. Punctured wounds of the
orbit are especially dangerous.

Wounds apparently confined to the external parts often conceal deep-seated
mischief.

4. =Of the Eye.=--The iris may be injured by sharp blows, as from the
cork of a soda-water bottle.

It is usually followed by hæmorrhage into the anterior chamber, and there
may be separation of the iris from its ciliary border. Wounds at the
edge of the cornea are often followed by prolapse of the iris. Acute
traumatic iritis or irido-cyclitis may supervene four or five days
after the injury.

The lens is frequently wounded in addition to the cornea and iris.

In dislocation of the lens into the anterior chamber as the result
of a blow, the lens appears like a large drop of oil lying at the
back of the cornea, the margin exhibiting a brilliant yellow reflex.

Partial dislocations of the lens as the result of severe blows
generally terminate in cataract.

5.

=Of the Throat.=--Very frequently inflicted by suicides.

Division of the carotid artery is fatal, and of the internal jugular vein
very dangerous on account of entrance of air.

Wounds of the larynx and trachea are not necessarily or immediately
dangerous, but septic pneumonia is very apt to follow. Wounds of the
throat inflicted by suicides are commonly situated at the upper
part, involving the hyoid bone and the thyroid and cricoid cartilages.

The larynx is opened, but the large vessels often escape. In most suicidal
wounds of the throat the direction is from left to right, the
incision being slightly inclined from above downwards.

At the termination of a suicidal cut-throat the skin is the last
structure divided, the wound being shallower as it reaches its termination;
the wounds often show parallelism. The weapon is often firmly
grasped in the hand. Inquiry should be made as to whether the patient
is right or left handed, or ambidextrous.

Homicidal cut throat is usually very severe and situated low down
in the neck or far to the side.

6.

=Of the Chest.

=--Incised wounds of the walls are not of necessity dangerous; but
severe blows, by causing fracture of the bones and internal injuries,
are often fatal.

The symptoms of penetrating wounds of the chest are--(1) The passage of
blood and air through the wound; (2) hæmoptysis; (3) pneumothorax; and
(4) protrusion of the lung forming a tumour covered with pleura.
Fracture of the ribs may be due to direct violence, as from a blow,
when the ends are driven inwards, or to indirect violence, as from a
squeeze in a crowd, when the ends are driven outwards.

7. =Of the Lungs.

=--These usually cause hæmorrhage, and are frequently followed by pleurisy,
either dry or with effusion, and by pneumonia.

8. =Of the Heart.=--Penetrating wounds are fatal from hæmorrhage, of the
base more speedily than of the apex; but life may be prolonged for
some time even after a severe wound to the heart. Injury to the right
ventricle is the most fatal injury and the most frequent. Rupture
from disease usually occurs in the left ventricle; rupture from a
crush is usually towards the base and on the right side.

9. =Of the Aorta and Pulmonary Artery.=--Fatal.

10. =Of the Diaphragm.=--Generally fatal, owing to the severe injury of
the other abdominal organs. If the diaphragm be ruptured, hernia of the
organs may result.

11. =Of the Abdomen.=--Of the walls, may be dangerous from division of
the epigastric artery; ventral hernia may follow, internal hæmorrhage,
etc. Blows on the abdomen are prone to cause death from cardiac
inhibition.

12.

=Of the Liver.=--May divide the large vessels. Venous blood flows
profusely from a punctured wound of the liver. Wounds of the gall-bladder
cause effusion of bile and peritoneal inflammation.
Laceration of the liver may result from external violence without leaving
any outward sign of the injury; it is commonly fatal. There is rapid
and acute anæmia from the pouring out of blood into the abdominal cavity.
This may also occur with injuries of other organs in the abdomen.

13. =Of the Spleen.=--Fatal hæmorrhage may result from penetrating wounds
or from rupture due to kicks, blows, crushes, especially if the spleen
be enlarged.

14. =Of the Stomach.=--May be fatal from shock, from hæmorrhage, from
extravasation of contents, or from inflammation. The danger is
materially lessened by prompt surgical intervention.

15.

=Of the Intestines.=--May be fatal in the same way as those of the
stomach. More dangerous in the small than in the large intestines.

16. =Of the Kidneys.=--May prove fatal from hæmorrhage, extravasation of
urine, or inflammation.

17. =Of the Bladder.

=--Dangerous from extravasation of urine. In fracture of the pelvis the
bladder is often injured, and extraperitoneal infiltration of urine
occurs, with frequently a fatal issue.

18. =Of Genital Organs.=--Incised wounds of penis may produce fatal
hæmorrhage. Removal of testicles may prove fatal from shock to nervous
system. Wounds of the spermatic cord may be dangerous from
hæmorrhage.

Wounds to the vulva are dangerous, owing to hæmorrhage from the
large plexus of veins without valves.

XV.--DETECTION OF BLOOD-STAINS, ETC.

Stains may require detection on clothing, on cutting instruments, on
floors and furniture, etc.

The following are the distinctive characters of blood-stains:
(a) =Ocular Inspection.

=--Blood-stains on dark-coloured materials, which in daylight might be
easily overlooked, may be readily detected by the use of artificial
light, as that of a candle, brought near the cloth.
Blood-spots when recent are of a bright red colour if arterial, of
a purple hue if venous, the latter becoming brighter on exposure
to the air.

After a few hours blood-stains assume a reddish-brown or chocolate
tint, which they maintain for years. This change is due to the
conversion of hæmoglobin into methæmoglobin, and finally into
hæmatin.

The change of colour in warm weather usually occurs in less than twenty-four
hours.

The colour is determined, not entirely by the age of the stain, but
is influenced by the presence or absence of impurities in the air,
such as the vapours of sulphurous, sulphuric, and hydrochloric acids.

If recent, a jelly-like material may be seen by the aid of a magnifying-glass
lying between the fibres. If old, a cinnabar-red streak is seen
on drawing a needle across the stain.

(b) =Microscopic Demonstration.=--With the aid of the microscope,
blood may be detected by the presence of the characteristic
blood-corpuscles.
The human blood-corpuscle is a non-nucleated, biconcave disc, having a
diameter of about 1/3500 of an inch. All mammalian red corpuscles have
the same shape, except those of the camel, which are oval. The corpuscles
of birds, fishes, reptiles, and amphibians, are oval and nucleated.
The corpuscles of most mammals are smaller than those of man, but the
size of a corpuscle is affected by various circumstances, such as
drying or moisture, so that the medical witness is rarely justified
in going farther than stating whether the stain is that of the blood
of a mammal or not.

Unfortunately, the corpuscles are usually so dried that little
information regarding their size can be given.

(c) =Action of Water.=--Water has a solvent action on blood, fresh
stains rapidly dissolving when the material on which they occur is
placed in cold distilled water, forming a bright red solution.

The hæmatin of old stains dissolves very slowly, so employ a weak solution
of ammonia, and this will give a solution of alkaline hæmatin.

Rust is not soluble in water.

(d) =Action of Heat.=--Blood-stains on knives may be removed by heating
the metal, when the blood will peel off, at once distinguishing it from
rust. Should the blood-stain on the metal be long exposed to the
air, rust may be mixed with the blood, when the test will fail. The
solution obtained in water is coagulated by heat, the colour
entirely destroyed, and a flocculent muddy-brown precipitate formed.

(e) =Action of Caustic Potash.=--The solution of blood obtained in
water is boiled, when a coagulum is formed soluble in hot caustic
potash, the solution formed being greenish by transmitted and red by
reflected light.

(f) =Action of Nitric Acid.=--Nitric acid added to a watery solution
produces a whitish-grey precipitate.

(g) =Action of Guaiacum.=--Tincture of guaiacum produces in the watery
solution a reddish-white precipitate of the resin, but on addition of
an aqueous solution of peroxide of hydrogen, or of an ethereal solution
of the same substance (known as _ozonic ether_), a blue or bluish-green
colour is developed. This test is delicate, and succeeds best in dilute
solutions. It is not absolutely indicative of the presence of blood, for
tincture of guaiacum is coloured blue by milk, saliva, and pus.

(h) =Hæmin Crystals (Teichman's Crystals).=--These are produced by
heating a drop of blood, or a watery solution of it, with a minute crystal
of sodium chloride on a glass slide and evaporating to dryness.
A cover-glass is placed over this, and a drop of glacial acetic acid
allowed to run in.

It is again heated until bubbles appear. Crystals of hæmin may now be
detected by the microscope. They are dark brown or yellow rhombic
prisms.

An improvement on this test is the use of formic acid alone; on
slowly evaporating it, numerous very small dark crystals are visible
if hæmoglobin has been present (Whitney's test).

(i) =Spectroscopic Appearances.

=--If a solution of a recent stain be examined by the spectroscope, we
get two absorption bands situated between the lines D and E, the one
nearer E being doubly as broad as the other. These bands indicate
_oxyhæmoglobin_.

If we now add a little ammonium sulphide to this solution, we get the
spectrum of _reduced hæmoglobin_, which is a single broad absorption
band situated in the interval between the preceding oxyhæmoglobin
bands.

By shaking the solution, oxyhæmoglobin is again reproduced, and gives its
special absorption bands.

If ammonia be added to the original solution, _alkaline hæmatin_
is produced, or if acetic acid be chosen, _acid hæmatin_ is produced,
and each gives its appropriate absorption bands.

_Methæmoglobin_ is formed in stains which have been exposed to the air for
a few days, and _hæmatin_ is found in old stains. _Hæmochromogen_
gives a very characteristic spectrum, and is obtained by reducing
alkaline hæmatin by ammonium sulphide.

_Carbon monoxide hæmoglobin_ gives a spectrum which resembles that
of oxyhæmoglobin, but it is not reduced by ammonium sulphide.

(j) =Precipitin Test.=--This allows us to tell whether the blood is from
a human being or not.

A specific serum must be obtained from a rabbit which is sensitized
as follows: 10 c.c. of human blood is injected into its peritoneal
cavity at intervals, until from three to five injections have been
given.

The serum of this animal's blood will then give a white precipitate
only when brought into contact with dilute solutions of human blood,
but with the blood of no other animal.

This is known also as the 'biologic,' or Uhlenhuth's test.

=Rust Stains.=--These are yellowish-red in colour, and do not
stiffen the cloth.

The iron may be dissolved by placing the stain in a dilute solution
of hydrochloric acid, when, on adding ferrocyanide of potassium,
Prussian blue is produced.

I guess he didn't pass the
evening talking of Retief--and what he intends to do towards his
capture? Say, uncle, what was it about?"

The old man grasped at the suggestion.

"Yes--yes, child. It was Retief."

He kept his eyes averted. The girl was not deceived.

"All the time?"

"Poker" John remained silent. He would have lied but could not.

"Uncle!"

Her tone was a moral pressure. The old man turned for relief to his
avuncular authority.

"I must go. You've no right--question me," he stuttered. "I refu--"

"No, uncle, you won't refuse me." The girl had risen and had moved round
to where the old man sat. She fondled him lovingly and his attempt at
angry protest died within him. "Come, dear, tell me all about it. You
are worried and I can help you. What did he threaten you with? I
suppose he wants money," contemptuously. "How much?"

The old drunkard was powerless to resist her loving appeal.

He was cornered. Another might have lied and so escaped, but John
Allandale's weakness was such that he had not the courage to resort to
subterfuge. Moreover, there was a faint spark of honor nickering deep
down in his kindly heart. The girl's affectionate display was surely
fanning that spark into a flame. Would the flame grow or would it
sparkle up for one brief moment and then go out from pure lack of fuel?
Suddenly something of the truth of the cause of her uncle's distress
flashed across Jacky's mind. She knew Lablache's wishes in regard to
herself. Perhaps she was the subject of that interview.

"Uncle, it is I who am causing you this trouble. What is it that
Lablache wants of me?" She asked the question with her cheek pressed to
the old man's face. His whisky-laden breath reeked in her nostrils.

Her question took him unawares, and he started up pushing her from him.

"Who--who told you, girl?" His bleared eyes were now turned upon her,
and they gazed fearfully into hers.

"I thought so," she exclaimed, smiling back into the troubled face. "No
one told me, uncle, I guess that beast wants to marry me. Say, uncle,
you can tell me everything right here. I'll help you. He's smart, but he
can't mate with me."

"But--but--" He struggled to collect his thoughts.

"No 'buts,' dear. I've refused Lablache once. I guess I can size up the
racket he thinks to play. Money--money! He'd like to buy me, I take it.
Say, uncle, can't we frolic him some? Now--what did he say?"

"I--can't tell you, child," the old man protested desperately. Then he
weakened further before those deep, steadfast eyes. "Don't--press me.
Don'--press me." His voice contained maudlin tears. "I'm a vill'n,
girl. I'm worse. Don'--look a' me--like that.
Ja'y--Ja'y--I've--sol'--you!"

The miserable old man flung himself back in his chair and his head bowed
until his chin sank heavily upon his chest. Two great tears welled into
his bloodshot eyes and trickled slowly down his seared old cheeks. It
was a pitiable sight. Jacky looked on silently for a moment. Her eyes
took in every detail of that picture of despair. She had heard the old
man's words but took no heed of them. She was thinking very hard.
Suddenly she seemed to arrive at a decision. Her laugh rang out, and she
came and knelt at her uncle's side.

"So you've sold me, you old dear, and not a bad thing too. What's the
price?"

Her uncle raised his bowed head. Her smiling face dried his tears and
put fresh heart into him. He had expected bitter invective, but instead
the girl smiled.

Jacky's task now became a simple one. A mere matter of pumping. Sharp
questions and rambling replies. Bit by bit she learned the story of
Lablache's proposal and the manner in which an acceptance had been
forced upon her uncle. She did not relinquish her task until the
minutest detail had been gleaned. At last she was satisfied with her
cross-examination.

She rose to her feet and passed her hand with a caressing movement over
her uncle's head, gazing the while out of the window. Her mind was made
up. Her uncle needed her help now. That help should be his. She condoned
his faults; she saw nothing but that which was lovable in his weakness.
Hers was now the strength to protect him, who, in the days of his best
manhood had sheltered her from the cruel struggles of a life in the
half-breed camp, for such, at the death of her impecunious father, must
otherwise have been her lot.

Now she looked down into that worn, old face, and her brisk,
business-like tones roused him into new life.

"Uncle, you must meet Lablache and play--the game. For the rest, leave
it to me. All I ask is--no more whisky to-day. Stay right here and have
a sleep. Guess you might go an' lie down. I'll call you for supper. Under
an anæsthetic the uterus acts as energetically as if the patient were
in the full possession of her senses.

Nowadays a woman is rarely hanged for infanticide, and it is a mere
travesty of justice to pass on her the death sentence, well knowing that
it will never be executed.

XXVII.

--EVIDENCES OF LIVE BIRTH

The signs of live birth prior to respiration are negative and
positive.
A negative opinion may be formed when evidence is found of the child
having undergone intra-uterine maceration. In this case the body will
be flaccid and flattened; the ilia prominent; the head soft and yielding;
the cuticle more or less detached, and raised into large bullæ; the
skin of a red or brownish-red colour; the cavities filled with
abundant bloody serum; the umbilical cord straight and flaccid.

A positive opinion is justified when such injuries are found on the
body as could not have been inflicted during birth, and are
attended with such hæmorrhage as could only have occurred while the blood
was circulating. Fractures of the cranium from accidental falls
(precipitate labour) are as a rule stellate, and are situated on the
vertex or in the parietal protuberance. The fractures from violence are
more extensive, usually depressed, and accompanied by laceration of the
scalp.

The evidences of live birth after respiration has taken place are
usually deduced from the condition of the lungs, though indications
are also found in other organs.

The diaphragm is more arched before than after respiration, and rises
higher in the thorax in the former case than in the latter. The lungs
before respiration are situated in the back of the thorax, and do not
fill that cavity; they are of a dark, red-brown colour and of the
consistence of liver, without mottling.
After respiration they expand and occupy the whole thorax, and
closely surround the heart and thymus gland. The portions containing
air are of a light brick-red colour, and crepitate under the finger. The
lungs are mottled from the presence of islands of aerated tissue,
surrounded by arteries and veins.

The weight of the lungs before respiration is about 550 grains, after an
hour's respiration 900 grains; but this test is of little value.

The ratio of the weight of the lungs to that of the body (Ploucquet's
test), which is also unreliable, is, before respiration, about 1
to 70; after, 1 to 35.

Lungs in which respiration has taken place float in water; those
in which it has not, sink.

There are exceptions to this rule, on which, however, is founded
the _hydrostatic test_.

As originally performed, this test consisted merely in placing the
lungs, with or without the heart, in water, and noticing whether
they sank or floated.

The test is now modified by squeezing, and by cutting the lungs up
into pieces.

The objections to the test as originally performed are--(1) That
the lungs may sink as the result of disease--_e.g._, double pneumonia.
(2) That respiration may have been so limited in extent that the
lungs may sink, owing to large portions of lung tissue remaining
unexpanded (_atelectasis_). (3) Putrefaction may cause the lungs
to float when respiration has not taken place. (4) The lungs may
have been inflated artificially.

Few of these objections apply, however, when the hydrostatic test,
modified by pressure, is employed.

To take these objections in detail, it may be stated: (1) If the
lungs sink from disease, the question of live birth is answered.
(2) This objection is too refined for practical use.

The lungs sink, there is an absence of any of the signs of suffocation,
and the matter ends.

The examiner has only to describe the conditions which he finds, and
is not required to indulge in conjectures as to the amount of
respiration which may or may not have taken place. (3) Gas due to
putrefaction collects under the pleural membrane, and can be expelled
by pressure, and is not found in the air cells.

The lungs decompose late, hence in a fresh body putrefaction of the
lungs is absent; in a putrefied child, if the lungs sink, it must have
been stillborn.

The so-called _emphysema pulmonum neonatorum_ is simply incipient
putrefaction.

The lung test simply shows that the child has breathed, but affords no
proof that the child has been born alive. The child may have breathed
as soon as its head protruded, the rest of the body being in the
maternal passages.

The child is not born alive until it has been completely expelled, although
it is not necessary that the umbilical cord should have been cut.

In addition to these tests, live birth may be suspected from the
following conditions: The _stomach_ may contain milk or food,
recognized by the microscope and by Trommer's test for sugar; the
_large intestines_ in stillborn children are filled with meconium,
in those born alive they are usually empty; the _bladder_ is generally
emptied soon after birth; the _skin_ is in a condition of exfoliation
soon after birth.

The _organs of circulation_ undergo the following changes after birth, and
the extent to which these changes have advanced will give an idea
of how long the child has lived: The _ductus arteriosus_ begins to
contract within a few seconds of birth; at the end of a week it is
about the size of a crow quill, and about the tenth day is obliterated.

The _umbilical arteries and vein_: the arteries are remarkably
diminished in calibre at the end of twenty-four hours, and obliterated
almost up to the iliacs in three days; the umbilical vein and the
ductus venosus are generally completely contracted by the fifth day.

The _foramen ovale_ becomes obliterated at extremely variable
periods, and may continue open even in the adult.

Importance of late has been attached to the _stomach-bowel test_.
If the stomach and duodenum contain air, and consequently float
in water, the chances are that the child did not die immediately
after birth; this is known as Breslau's second life test, and the
lower the air in the intestinal canal, the greater is the probability
that the child survived birth.

The umbilical cord in a new-born child is fresh, firm, round, and
bluish in colour; blood is contained in its vessels.

The cord may be ruptured by the child falling from the maternal
parts in a precipitate labour, and the ruptured parts present ragged
ends.

It is seldom that a child bleeds to death from an untied or cut
umbilical cord, and the chances in a torn cord are still more remote.

The changes in the cord are as follows: First it shrinks from the
ligature towards the navel; this change may begin early, and is
rarely delayed beyond thirty hours; the cord becomes flabby, and
there is a distinct inflammatory circle round its insertion.

The next change is that of desiccation or mummification; the cord
becomes reddish-brown, then flattened and shrivelled, then translucent
and of the colour of parchment, and falls off about the fifth day.

The third stage, that of cicatrization, then ensues about the tenth
to the twelfth day.

The bright red rim round the insertion of the cord, with inflammatory
thickening and slight purulent secretion, may be considered as evidence
of live birth, and the stage at which the separation of the cord
by ulcerative process has arrived will point to the probable duration
of time the child has existed after birth.

There are many fallacies in the application of any of these tests,
and the whole subject bristles with difficulties.

The medical witness would do well to exhibit a cautious reserve, for if
the child dies immediately after birth it is almost impossible to
prove that it was born alive.

XXVIII.--CAUSE OF DEATH IN THE FOETUS

The death of the foetus may be due to--(1) Immaturity or intra-uterine
malnutrition, or simply from deficient vitality; (2) complications
occurring during or immediately after birth, which may either be
unavoidable or inherent in the process of parturition, or may be
induced with criminal intent.

In the latter category come such accidents as the pressure of tumours in
the pelvic passages, or disease of the bones in the mother, or
pressure on the cord from malposition of the child during labour,
asphyxiation from the funis being twisted tightly round the neck
or limbs, or from injuries due to falls on the floor in sudden
labours.

Where the death of the foetus has been induced with criminal intent,
it may be due to punctured wounds of the fontanelles, orbits, heart, or
spinal marrow; dislocation of the neck; separation of the head
from the body; fracture of the bones of the head and face;
strangulation; suffocation; drowning in the closet pan or privy,
or from being thrown into water.

Under the head of infanticide by _commission_, we have injuries of all
kinds; under infanticide by _omission_, neglecting to tie the cord,
allowing it to be suffocated by discharges in the bed, neglect to
provide food, clothes, and warmth, for the new-born child.

XXIX.--DURATION OF PREGNANCY

The natural period of gestation is considered as forty weeks, ten
lunar months, or 280 days.

A medical witness would have to admit the possibility of gestation
being prolonged to 300 days, and if this time were not very materially
exceeded it would be well to give the woman the benefit of the doubt.

It may be mentioned that 300 days is the extreme limit fixed by the
French and Scottish law. No fixed period is assigned in English or
American law to the duration of pregnancy, though it is allowed that
utero-gestation may be greatly prolonged. In a recent case decided,
the Lord Chancellor accepted a case where it was alleged pregnancy
had extended to 331 days.

A child only five months old may live, for a short time at all
events. There is considerable difficulty in many cases in fixing the
date of conception. The data from which it is calculated are the
following: (1) _Peculiar sensations attending conception_, which
are not sufficiently defined to be recognized by those conceiving
for the first time. (2) _Cessation of the catamenia._ Other causes
may, however, cause this; and, on the other hand, a woman may
menstruate during the whole period of her pregnancy.

This datum also gives a variable period, and may involve an error of
several days or a month, for the menses may be arrested by cold, etc.,
at one monthly period, and the woman become pregnant before the next.
(3) _The period of quickening._ This, when perceived (which is not always
the case), also occurs at variable periods from the tenth to the
twenty-sixth week.
(4) _A single coitus._ This does not, however, correspond to the
time of fertilization. Several days may elapse before the
spermatozoa meet with an ovum and fertilize it.

In Scotland a child born six months after marriage is legitimate,
which is allowing an ample margin.

XXX.--VIABILITY OF CHILDREN

A child may be born alive, but may not be viable, by which is meant
that it is not endowed with a capacity of maintaining its life.
Speaking generally, 180 days represents the lowest limit at which a child
is viable, but prolonged survival under these circumstances is the
exception.

Many cases, however, have been recorded in which children born at
six months have been reared.

The signs of immaturity and maturity may be thus tabulated:

IMMATURITY. MATURITY.

Centre of body high; head Strong movements and cries as soon
disproportionate in size; membrana as born; body clear, red colour,
pupillaris present; testicles coated with sebaceous matter; mouth,
undescended; deep red colour of nostrils, eyelids, and ears, open; parts
of generation; intense red skull somewhat firm, and fontanelles colour,
mottled appearance, and not far apart; hair, eyebrows, and downy
covering, of skin; nails not nails, perfectly developed; formed; feeble
movements; testicles descended; free discharge inability to suck; necessity
for of urine and meconium; power of artificial heat; almost unbroken
suction, indicated by seizure on the sleep; rare and imperfect
nipple or a finger placed in the discharges of urine and meconium;
mouth.

closed state of mouth, eyelids, and nostrils.

XXXI.

--LEGITIMACY

A child born in wedlock is presumed to have the mother's husband
for its father.

This may, however, be open to question upon the following grounds:
Absence or death of the reputed father; impotence or disease in the
husband preventing matrimonial intercourse; premature delivery in
a newly-married woman; want of access; and the marriage of the
woman again immediately on the death of her husband.

In the last case, where either husband might have been the father,
the child at the age of twenty-one is at liberty to select its
father from the possible pair.

A child born of parents before marriage is in Scotland rendered
legitimate by their subsequent marriage, but in England the offspring
remains illegitimate whether the parents marry or not after its
birth.

The offspring of voidable or invalid marriages may be made legitimate by
application to the courts.

There is a difference between being legitimate and lawfully begotten.

A child born in wedlock is legitimate, but if the parents were married
only a week previously it could not have been lawfully begotten.

The Acts and rulings relating to Marriage and Legitimacy are
extremely complicated. It is not putting it too strongly to say that a
very large number of people in this country who believe themselves to be
legally married are not married at all, and that thousands of
children who have not the slightest doubt as to their legitimacy
are in the eyes of the law bastards.

XXXII.--SUPERFOETATION

By superfoetation is meant the conception, by a woman already pregnant,
of a second embryo, resulting in the birth of two children at the same
time, differing much in their degree of maturity, or in two separate
births, with a considerable interval between. The possibility of the
occurrence of superfoetation has been doubted, but there are
well-authenticated cases which countenance the theory of a double
conception. It has been shown that the os uteri is not closed, as was
once supposed, immediately _on conception_. Should an ovum escape
into the uterus, it may become impregnated a month or so after a
previous conception. The most probable explanation is that the case
has been one of twins, one being born prematurely; or, on the other hand,
the uterus may have been double, and conception may have taken place
in one cornu at a later period than in the other cornu.

XXXIII.--INHERITANCE

In order to inherit, the child must be born alive, must be born during
the lifetime of the mother, and must be born capable of inheriting--that
is to say, monsters are incapable of inheriting. There is a mode of
inheritance called 'tenancy by courtesy.' When a man marries a woman
possessed of an estate or inheritance, and has, by her, issue born
alive in her lifetime capable of inheriting her estate, in this
case he shall, on the death of his wife, hold the lands for his
life as tenant by the courtesy of England.

The meaning of the words 'born alive' in this instance is not the same
as in cases of infanticide. In Civil law any motion of the child's body,
however slight, or the fact of it having been heard to cry by witnesses,
is held to be sufficient proof of the child having been born alive.
It may die immediately afterwards, and it is not necessary that the
child be viable.

XXXIV.--IMPOTENCE AND STERILITY

In the male, impotence may arise from physical or mental causes. The
physical causes may be--too great or too tender an age; malformation
of the genital organs; _crypsorchides_, defect or disease in the
testicles; constitutional disease (diabetes, neurasthenia, etc.);
or debility from acute disease, as mumps.

Masturbation, and early and excessive sexual indulgence, are also causes.
The mental causes include--passion, timidity, apprehension, aversion,
and disgust. The case will be remembered of the man who was impotent
unless the lady were attired in a black silk dress and high-heeled French
kid boots.

If a man is impotent when he marries, the marriage may be set aside
on the ground that it had never been consummated. The law requires that
the impotency should have existed _ab initio_--that is, before marriage--and
should be of a permanent or incurable nature; marriage, as far as the
law goes, being regarded as a contract in which it is presupposed that
both the contracting parties are capable of fulfilling all the objects
of marriage. In the case of the Earl of Essex the defendant
admitted the charge as regards the Countess, but pleaded that he was
not impotent with others, as many of her waiting-maids could
testify. When a man becomes impotent _after_ marriage, his wife must
accept the situation, and has no redress.

A man may be _sterile_ without being impotent, but the law will not take
cognizance of that. The wife may be practically impotent, but the law
will not assist the husband.

He must continue to do his best under difficult circumstances. In former
times in case of doubt a husband was permitted to demonstrate his
competency in open court, but this custom is no longer regarded with
favour by the judges.

The removal of the testicles does not of necessity render a man
impotent, although it deprives him of his procreative power.

Eunuchs are capable of affording illicit pleasure, whilst the male
sopranos, or _castrati_, are often utilized for that purpose.

In the female, impotence may be caused by the narrowness of the
vagina, adhesion of the vulva, absence of vagina, imperforate hymen,
and tumours of the vagina.

Sterility in women may occur from the above-named causes of impotence,
together with absence of the uterus and ovaries, or from great
debility, syphilis, constant amenorrhoea, dysmenorrhoea, or
menorrhagia.

XXXV.--RAPE

Rape is the carnal knowledge of a woman by force and against her
will.

The resistance of the woman _must be_ to the utmost of her power, but if
she yield through fear or duress it is still rape.

The woman is a competent witness, but her statements may be impugned
on the ground of her previous bad character, and evidence may be
called to substantiate the charge.

The perpetrator must be above the age of fourteen years.

The definition of rape which we have given is not altogether satisfactory.
Take, for example, the case of a woman who goes to bed expecting
her husband to return at a certain hour.

The lodger, let us say, takes advantage of this fact, and, getting into
bed, has connection with her, she not resisting, assuming all the
while that it is her husband.

This is rape, but it is not 'by force,' and it is not 'against her
will,' but it is 'without her consent,' as she has not been fully
informed as to all the circumstances of the case.

In all cases of rape in which there is no actual resistance or objection,
consent may be assumed.

It is not essential that the woman should state in so many words that
she does not object.

The force used may be moral and not physical--_e.g._, threats, fear,
horror, syncope.

By 48 and 49 Vict., c. 49, the carnal knowledge of a girl under
thirteen is technically rape.

The consent of the girl makes no difference, since she is not of
an age to become a consenting party.

An attempt at carnal knowledge of a girl under thirteen is a
misdemeanour.

Her consent makes no difference, and even the solicitation of the
act on the part of the child will not exonerate the accused.

Intercourse with a girl between thirteen and sixteen, even with her
consent, is a misdemeanour.

This Act is a favourite with the blackmailer.

The child is sent out to solicit, dressed like a woman, but appears in
the witness-box in a much more juvenile costume.

To constitute rape there must be _penetration_, but this may be
of the slightest. There may be a sufficient degree of penetration
to constitute rape without rupturing the hymen.

Proof of actual emission is now unnecessary.

The subject of carnal knowledge (C.K.) or its attempt may be summed up
as follows:

Under thirteen C.K. Felony.
Under thirteen Attempt Misdemeanour.

Consent no defence.

From thirteen to sixteen C.K.

Misdemeanour.

From thirteen to sixteen Attempt Misdemeanour.

Consent and even solicitation no defence.

Reasonable cause to believe the girl over sixteen is a good defence.

Charge must be brought within three months.

Over sixteen C.K. with consent Nil.

Subject to civil action for loss of girl's services by father.

Idiot or imbecile C.K. with violence Rape.

Idiot or imbecile C.K. without violence Misdemeanour.
Personation of husband Rape.

Tacit consent no defence, for obtained by fraud.

Married woman C.K. with consent Adultery.
Mother, sister, daughter, C.K. consent immaterial; Incest.
grand-daughter born in wedlock or not Females Indecent assaults
Misdemeanour.

It is a misdemeanour to give to a woman any drug so as to stupefy
her, and so enable any person to have unlawful connection with her.

False charges of rape are very often made. The motive may be to extort
blackmail, revenge, or mere delusion.

On examining such cases bruises are seldom found, but scratches which the
woman has made on the front of her body may be discovered, and the local
injuries to the generative organs are slight, if present at all.

_Physical Signs.

_--In the adult the hymen may be ruptured, the fourchette lacerated,
and blood found on the parts, together with scratches and other
marks and signs of a struggle.

In the child there may be no hæmorrhage, but there will be indications of
bruising on the external organs, with probably considerable laceration
of the hymen, the laceration in some cases extending into the rectum.
Severe hæmorrhage, and even death, may follow the rape of a young
child. The patient will have difficulty in walking, and in passing
water and fæces.

After some hours the parts are very tender and swollen, and a sticky
greenish-yellow discharge is present. These signs last longer in children
than in adults; but as a rule--in the adult, at least--all signs of
rape disappear in three or four days. Young and delicate children may
suffer from a vaginal discharge, with swelling of the external genitals,
simulating an attempt at rape.

Infantile leucorrhoea is common, and many innocent people have been exposed
to danger from false charges of rape on children, instituted as a
means of levying blackmail.

A knowledge of these facts suggests the necessity of giving a guarded
opinion when children are brought for examination in suspected cases.
Pregnancy may follow rape.

_Seminal stains_ render the clothing stiff and greyish-yellow in colour,
with translucent edges.

On being moistened they give the characteristic seminal odour.

Semen may be found on the linen of the woman and man, and will be
recognized under the microscope by the presence in it of spermatozoa,
minute filamentary bodies with a pear-shaped head; but it must not
be forgotten that the non-detection of spermatozoa is no proof of
absence of sexual intercourse, for these bodies are not always
present in the semen of even healthy adult young men.

Spermatozoa must not be mistaken for the _Trichomonas vaginæ_ found
in the vaginæ of some women.

The latter have cilia surrounding the head, which is globular.

_Florence's Micro-Chemical Test for Spermatic Fluid.

_--If a drop of the fluid obtained by wetting a supposed spermatic
stain be mixed with a drop of the following solution (KI, parts
1.65; pure iodine, 2.54; distilled water, 30) in a watch-glass,
brownish-red pointed crystals resembling hæmin crystals are
obtained.

_Barberio's Test.

_--Mix a drop of the spermatic stain with a drop of a saturated
solution of picric acid, when needle-shaped yellow rhombic crystals
are formed.

_Gonorrhoeal Stains.

_--A cover-glass preparation stained with methylene blue reveals the
gonococci lying in pairs within the leucocytes.

XXXVI.--UNNATURAL OFFENCES

Trials for =sodomy= and =bestiality= are common at the assizes, but, as
they are rarely reported, they fail to attract attention. Sodomy is a
crime both in the active and passive agent, unless the latter is
a non-consenting party.

The evidence of either associated may be received as against his colleague.
If the crime is committed on a boy under fourteen, it is a felony
in the active agent only.

As in cases of rape, emission is not essential, and penetration,
however slight, answers all practical purposes.

There can be no doubt that in the majority of these cases there exists a
congenitally abnormal condition of the sexual instinct, these
individuals from their childhood manifesting a perverted sexual
instinct.

The man is physically a man, but psychically a woman, and _vice versâ_.

Five--three.

Lablache again took the cards. This time he meant to get his hand in the
deal. At that moment the money-lender would have given a cool thousand
had a bottle of whisky been on the table. He had not calculated on John
being sober. He shuffled deliberately and offered the pack to be cut.
John cut in the same careless manner, but this time he did it purposely.
Lablache picked up the bottom half of the cut. There was a terrible
silence in the room, and a deadly purpose was expressed in "Poker"
John's eyes.

The money-lender began to deal. In an instant John was on his feet and
lurched across the table. His hand fell upon the first card which
Lablache had dealt to himself.

"The ace of clubs," shouted the rancher, his eyes blazing and his body
fairly shaking with fury. He turned the card over. It was the ace of
clubs.

"Cheat!" he shouted.

He had seen the card at the bottom of the pack as the other had ceased
to shuffle.

There was an instant's thrilling pause. Then Lablache's hand flew to
his pocket. He had heard the click of a cocking revolver.

For the moment the rancher's old spirit rose superior to his senile
debility.

"God in heaven! And this is how you've robbed me, you--you bastard!"

No precipitate with tartaric acid, nor with bichloride of platinum.

=Ammonia= may be taken as _liquor ammoniæ_ (harts-horn), as carbonate
of ammonium, as 'Cleansel,' or as 'Scrubb's Cloudy Ammonia.'

_Symptoms._--Being volatile, it attacks the air-passages, nose, eyes and
lungs, being immediately affected; profuse salivation; lips and
tongue swollen, red, and glazed.

The urgent symptoms are those of suffocation.

Inhalation of the fumes of strong ammonia may lead to death from
capillary bronchitis or broncho-pneumonia.

Death may result from inflammation of the larynx and lungs. When
swallowed in solution, the symptoms are similar to those of soda and
potash.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Similar to other corrosives.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--The contents of the stomach,
etc., must be first distilled, the gas being conveyed into water free
from ammonia.

_Tests._--Nessler's reagent is the most delicate, a reddish-brown colour
or precipitate being produced, but ammonia may be recognized by
its pungent odour, dense fumes given off with hydrochloric acid,
and strong alkaline reaction.

_Treatment._--Vinegar and water. Other treatment according to symptoms.

_Fatal Dose._--One drachm of strong solution.

_Fatal Period (Shortest)._--Four minutes.

XVI.--INORGANIC IRRITANTS

=Nitrate of Potassium (Nitre, Saltpetre)--Bitartrate of Potassium (Cream
of Tartar)--Alum (Double Sulphate of Alumina and Potassium)--Chlorides
of Lime, Sodium, and Potassium.=--All these are irritant drugs, and give
the usual symptoms.

XVII.--CHLORATE OF POTASSIUM, ETC.

=Chlorate of Potassium= produces irritation of stomach and bowels;
hæmaturia; melæna; cyanosis, weakness, delirium, and coma.

_Post-Mortem._--Blood is chocolate-brown in colour, and so are all the
internal organs; gastro-enteritis; nephritis.

_Tests._--Spectroscope shows blood contains methæmoglobin; the drug
discharges the colour of indigo in acid solution with SO_{2}.

_Treatment._--Transfusion of blood or saline fluid; stimulants.

=Sulphuret of Potassium= (liver of sulphur) occurs in mass or powder of
a dirty green colour; has a strong smell of sulphuretted hydrogen.

_Symptoms.

_--Of acute irritant poisoning, with stupor or convulsions.

Excreta smell of sulphuretted hydrogen.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--Stomach and duodenum reddened, with
deposits of sulphur. Lungs congested.

_Treatment._--Chloride of sodium or lime in dilute solution, and ordinary
treatment for irritant poisoning.

_Fatal Period (Shortest)._--Fifteen minutes.

XVIII.--BARIUM SALTS

=Chloride of Barium= occurs crystallized in irregular plates, like
magnesium sulphate, soluble in water and bitter in taste.

=Carbonate of Barium= is found in shops as a fine powder, tasteless
and colourless, insoluble in water, but effervescing with dilute acids,
and readily decomposed by the free acids of the stomach. =Nitrate of
Barium= occurs in octahedral crystals, soluble in water.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--Dialysis as for other soluble
poisons.

_Tests._--Precipitated from its solutions by potassium carbonate or sulphuric
acid. Burnt on platinum-foil, it gives a green colour to the flame.

_Symptoms._--Besides those of irritants generally, violent cramps and
convulsions, headache, debility, dimness of sight, double vision,
noises in the ears, and beating at the heart. The salts of barium
are also cardiac poisons.

_Post-Mortem Appearances._--As of irritants generally. Stomach may be
perforated.

_Treatment.

_--Wash out stomach with a solution of sodium or magnesium sulphate, or
of alum, and give stimulants by the mouth and hypodermically.

XIX.--IODINE--IODIDE OF POTASSIUM

=Iodine= occurs in scales of a dark bluish-black colour.

It strikes blue with solution of starch, and stains the skin and
intestines yellowish-brown.

Liquid preparations, as the liniment or tincture, may be taken
accidentally or suicidally.

_Symptoms.

_--Acrid taste, tightness of throat, epigastric pain, and then
symptoms of irritant poisons generally.

Chronic poisoning (iodism) is characterized by coryza, salivation,
and lachrymation, frontal headache, loss of appetite, marked mental
depression, acne of the face and chest, and a petechial eruption
on the limbs.

_Post-Mortem Appearances.

_--Those of irritant poisoning with corrosion, and staining of a dark
brown or yellow colour.

_Treatment.

_--Stomach-pump and emetics, carbonate of sodium, amylaceous fluids,
gruel, arrowroot, starch, etc.

_Analysis of Organic Mixture containing Iodine._--Add bisulphide of carbon,
and shake.

The iodine may be obtained on evaporation as a sublimate. It will be
recognized by the blue colour which it gives with starch.

=Iodide of Potassium.

=--Colourless, generally opaque, cubic crystals, soluble in less
than their weight of cold water.

_Symptoms.

_--Not an active poison, but even small doses sometimes produce the
effects of a common cold, including those symptoms already mentioned
as occurring with iodine.

_Analysis.

_--Iodide of potassium in solution gives a bright yellow precipitate with
lead salts; a bright scarlet with corrosive sublimate; and a blue
colour with sulphuric or nitric acid and starch.

XX.--PHOSPHORUS

=Phosphorus= is usually found in small, waxy-looking cylinders, which are
kept in water to prevent oxidation.

It may also occur as the amorphous non-poisonous variety, a red
opaque infusible substance, insoluble in carbon disulphide.

Ordinary phosphorus is soluble in oil, alcohol, ether, chloroform,
and carbon disulphide; insoluble in water.
It is much used in rat poisons, made into a paste with flour, sugar,
fat, and Prussian blue.

Yellow phosphorus is not allowed to be used in the manufacture of
lucifer matches, and the importation of such is prohibited.

In 'safety' matches the amorphous phosphorus is on the box.

_Symptoms._--At first those of an irritant poison, but days may
elapse before any characteristic symptoms appear, and these may be
mistaken for those of acute yellow atrophy of the liver. The earliest
signs are a garlicky taste in the mouth and pain in the throat and
stomach. Vomited matter luminous in the dark, bile-stained or bloody,
with garlic-like odour.

Great prostration, diarrhoea, with bloody stools. Harsh, dry, yellow skin,
purpuric spots with ecchymoses under the skin and mucous membranes,
retention or suppression of urine, delirium, convulsions, coma, and
death. Usually there are remissions for two to three days, then jaundice
comes on, with enlargement of the liver; hæmorrhages from the mucous
surfaces and under the skin; later, coma and convulsions.

In chronic cases there is fatty degeneration of most of the organs and
tissues of the body.

The inhalation of the fumes of phosphorus, as in making vermin-killers,
etc., gives rise to 'phossy-jaw.'

_Post-Mortem Appearances.

_--Softening of the stomach, hæmorrhagic spots on all organs and under
the skin, fatty degeneration of liver, kidneys, and heart, blood-stained
urine, phosphorescent contents of alimentary canal.

_Treatment.

_--Early use of stomach-pump and emetics, followed by the administration
of permanganate of potassium or peroxide of hydrogen to oxidize
the phosphorus.

Oil should not be given. Sulphate and carbonate of magnesium, mucilaginous
drinks. Sulphate of copper is a valuable antidote, both as an emetic
and as forming an insoluble compound with phosphorus.

_Fatal Dose._--One grain and a half.

_Fatal Period._--Four hours; more commonly two to four days.

_Detection of Phosphorus in Organic Mixtures.

_--Mitscherlich's method is the best. Introduce the suspected material
into a retort. Acidulate with sulphuric acid to fix any ammonia present.
Distil in the dark, through a glass tube kept cool by a stream of
water.

As the vapour passes over and condenses, a flash of light is
perceived, which is the test.

XXI.--ARSENIC AND ITS PREPARATIONS

=Arsenic= is the most important of all the metallic poisons. It is much
used in medicine and the arts. It occurs as metallic arsenic, which
is of a steel-grey colour, brittle, and gives off a garlic-like
odour when heated; as arsenious acid; in the form of two sulphides--the
red sulphide, or realgar, and the yellow sulphide, or orpiment;
and as arsenite of copper, or Scheele's green.

It also exists as an impurity in the ores of several metals--iron,
copper, silver, tin, zinc, nickel, and cobalt. Sulphuric acid is
frequently impregnated with arsenic from the iron pyrites used in
preparing the acid.

It is a constituent of many rat pastes, vermin or weed killers, complexion
powders, sheep dips, etc.

=Arsenious Acid= (White Arsenic, Trioxide of Arsenic).--Colourless,
odourless, and almost tasteless.

It occurs in commerce as a white powder or in a solid cake, which is at
first translucent, but afterwards becomes opaque.

Slightly soluble in cold water; 1 ounce of water dissolves about
1/2 grain of arsenic.

Fowler's solution is the best-known medicinal preparation of arsenic, and
contains 1 grain of arsenious anhydride in 110 minims.

_Symptoms._--Commence in from half to one hour.

Faintness, nausea, incessant vomiting, epigastric pain, headache,
diarrhoea, tightness and heat of throat and fauces, thirst, catching
in the breath, restlessness, debility, cramp in the legs, and
convulsive twitchings.

The skin becomes cold and clammy.

In some cases the symptoms are those of collapse, with but little
pain, vomiting, or diarrhoea.

In others the patient falls into a deep sleep, while in the fourth class
the symptoms resemble closely those of English cholera. The vomited
matters are often blue from indigo, or black from soot, or greenish from
bile, mixed with the poison. Should the patient survive some days, no
trace of arsenic may be found in the body, as the poison is rapidly
eliminated by the kidneys.

In all suspected cases the urine should be examined.

The symptoms of _chronic_ poisoning by arsenic are loss of appetite,
silvery tongue, thirst, nausea, colicky pains, diarrhoea, headache,
languor, sleeplessness, cutaneous eruptions, soreness of the edges
of the eyelids, emaciation, falling out of the hair, cough, hæmoptysis,
anæmia, great tenderness on pressure over muscles of legs and arms,
due to peripheral neuritis, and convulsions.

Pigmentation is common; the face becomes dusky red, the rest of the
body a dark brown shade.

This darkening is most marked in situations normally pigmented and
in parts exposed to pressure of the clothes, such as the neck,
axilla, and inner aspect of the arms, the extensor aspects being
less marked than the flexor.

The pigmentation resembles the bronzing of Addison's disease, but
there are no patches on the mucous membranes, and the normal rosy
tint of the lips is not altered.

The skin over the feet may show marked hyperkeratosis.

The nervous system is notably affected. The sensory symptoms appear
first: numbness and tingling of the hands and feet, pain in the
soles of the feet on walking, pain on moving the joints, and
erythromelalgia.

Then come the motor symptoms, with drop-wrist and drop-foot. The patient
suffers severely from neuritis, and there may be early loss of patellar
reflex.

The nervous symptoms come on later than the cutaneous manifestations.

_Post-Mortem Appearances.

_--Signs of acute inflammation of stomach, duodenum, small intestines,
colon, and rectum. Stomach may contain dark grumous fluid, and its mucous
coat presents the appearance of crimson velvet. Ulceration is rare, and
cases of perforation still less common, the patient dying before it
occurs. If life has been preserved for some days, there is extensive
fatty degeneration of the organs.

There may be entire absence of _post-mortem_ signs. Putrefaction of the
body is retarded by arsenic.

_Treatment._--The stomach-pump, emetics, then milk, milk and eggs, oil
and lime-water. Inflammatory symptoms, collapse, coma, etc., must be
treated on ordinary principles.

As an antidote, the best when the poison is in solution is the hydrated
sesquioxide of iron, formed by precipitating tinctura ferri perchloridi
with excess of ammonia, or carbonate of soda.

This is filtered off through muslin and given in tablespoonful doses.
It forms ferric arsenate, which is sparingly soluble. Colloidal iron
hydroxide may be used instead. Dialyzed iron in large quantities is
efficacious.

_Fatal Dose (Smallest)._--Two grains.

Exceptionally, recovery from very large doses if rejected by vomiting.

_Fatal Period (Shortest)._--Twenty minutes.

Exceptionally, death as late as the sixteenth day. The effects of arsenic
are modified by tolerance, some persons being able to take considerable
quantities. The peasants of Styria are in the habit of eating
it.

_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--The coats of the stomach
should be examined with a lens for any white particles.

These, if present, may be collected, mixed with a little charcoal
in a test-tube, and heated.

If arsenic is present, a metallic ring will be formed in the cooler parts
of the tube. If this ring be also heated, octahedral crystals of arsenic
will be deposited farther up the tube, and are easily recognized by
the microscope.

The contents of the stomach, or the solid organs minced up, should be
boiled with pure hydrochloric acid and water, then filtered. The filtrate
can then be subjected to Marsh's or Reinsch's process.

_Tests._--In _solution_, arsenic may be detected by the liquid tests.
(1) Ammonio-nitrate of silver gives a yellow precipitate (arsenite of
silver). (2) Ammonio-sulphate of copper gives a green precipitate
(Scheele's green). (3) Sulphuretted hydrogen water gives a yellow
precipitate.

_Marsh's Process._--Put pure distilled water into a Marsh's apparatus
with metallic zinc and sulphuric acid. Hydrogen is set free, and should
be tested by lighting the issuing gas and depressing over it a piece of
white porcelain.

If no mark appears, the reagents are pure, and the suspected liquid may
now be added. The hydrogen decomposes arsenious acid, and forms arseniuretted
hydrogen. The gas carried off by a fine tube is again ignited. A piece
of glass or porcelain held to the flame will have, if arsenic be
present, a deposit on it having the following characters: In the
centre a deposit of metallic arsenic, round this a mixture of
metallic arsenic and arsenious acid, and outside this another ring
of arsenious acid in octahedral crystals.

The deposit is dissolved by a solution of chloride of lime, turned yellow
by sulphide of ammonium after evaporation; on the addition of strong
nitric acid, evaporated and neutralized with ammonia and nitrate of
silver added, a brick-red colour is produced--arseniate of silver.

_Reinsch's Process._--Boil distilled water with one-sixth or one-eighth
of hydrochloric acid, and introduce a slip of bright copper.

If, after a quarter of an hour's boiling, there is no stain on the copper,
add the suspected liquid. If arsenic be present, it will form an
iron-grey deposit.

If this foil be dried, cut up, put in a reduction-tube, and heated,
crystals of arsenious trioxide will be deposited on the cold part
of the tube.

These tests are difficult to apply, but as arsenic is a ubiquitous poison,
and as there are many sources of fallacy, it would be well, when
possible, to obtain the services of an expert.

_Biological Test._--Put the substance to be tested into a flask with some
small pieces of bread, sterilize for half an hour at 120° C. When cold,
inoculate with a culture of _Penicillium brevicaule_, and keep at a
temperature of 37° C. If arsenic is present, a garlic-like odour is
noticed in twenty four hours, due to arseniuretted hydrogen or an organic
combination of arsenic. This test is delicate, and will detect 1/1000
of a milligramme, but it is not quantitative.

=Other Preparations of Arsenic.=--These are arsenite of potash
(Fowler's solution), cacodylate of sodium, and arsenite of
copper (Scheele's green), the last frequently used for colouring
dresses and wall-papers.

Persons using these preparations may suffer from catarrhal symptoms,
rashes on the neck, ears, and face, thirst, nausea, pain in stomach,
vomiting, headache, perhaps peripheral neuritis and loss of patellar
reflex.

The cacodylates, although formerly employed in the treatment of
phthisis, should be used with the utmost caution.

The arsenites give the reactions of arsenious acid.

Arsenic is eliminated not only by the kidneys and bowels, but by the
skin, and in women by the menses.

It may be detected in the sweat, the saliva, the bronchial secretion, and,
during lactation, in the milk.

The sale of arsenic and its preparations to the public is properly
hedged round with restrictions of all kinds.

It is included in Part I.

of the Poisons and Pharmacy Act (8 Edward VII., c. 55). No arsenic may
be sold to a person under age, nor may it be sold unless mixed with
soot or indigo in the proportion of 1 ounce of soot or 1/2 ounce of
indigo at the least to every pound of arsenic.

=Arseniuretted Hydrogen= (arsine, AsH_{3}) is an extremely poisonous
gas, and is evolved in various chemical and manufacturing processes.
When damp, _Ferro-silicon_ evolves AsH_{3} and PH_{3}, both very
lethal gases.

_Ferrochrome_ is used in making steel, and it also evolves PH_{3}, and
in such extreme dilution as 0.02 per cent. may cause death.

XXII.--ANTIMONY AND ITS PREPARATIONS

=Tartar Emetic= (tartarized antimony, potassio-tartrate of antimony)
occurs as a white powder, or in yellowish-white efflorescent
crystals.

Vinum antimoniale contains 2 grains to a fluid ounce of the wine.

_Symptoms._--Metallic taste, rapidly followed by nausea, incessant
vomiting, burning heat and pain in stomach, purging.

Dysphagia, sense of constriction in throat, intense thirst, cramps,
faintness, profound depression; in fatal cases, giddiness and tetanic
spasms.

In _chronic poisoning_, nausea, vomiting and purging, weak pulse,
loss of appetite, debility, cold sweats, great prostration, progressive
emaciation.

The symptoms in chronic poisoning may simulate gastritis or
enteritis.

Externally applied, it produces an eruption not unlike that of
smallpox.

_Post-Mortem Appearances.

_--Inflammation, softening, and an aphthous condition of the throat,
gullet, and stomach, the last reddened in patches.

In chronic poisoning, inflammation also of cæcum and colon.
Brain and lungs may be congested.

Decomposition is hindered for long.

_Treatment._--Promote vomiting by warm greasy water, or the stomach-tube
may be used.

Cinchona bark or any preparation containing tannin, as tea, decoction
of oak bark, etc. Morphine to allay pain.
_Fatal Dose._--In an adult 2 grains (same as arsenic).
_Fatal Period._--Death follows in eight to twelve hours, from
exhaustion.
_Method of Extraction from the Stomach._--The contents of the stomach
or its coats should be finely cut up and boiled in water, acidulated
with tartaric acid and subjected to dialysis, or strained and
filtered. Pass hydrogen sulphide through the filtered or dialyzed
fluid until a precipitate ceases to fall; collect the sulphide thus
formed, wash and dry it. Boil the orange-coloured sulphide in a
little hydrochloric acid. If the solution be now added to a large
bulk of water, the white oxychloride is precipitated, which is
soluble in tartaric acid and precipitated orange yellow with hydrogen
sulphide. The chloride of bismuth is also precipitated white, but
the precipitate is not soluble in tartaric acid, and the precipitate
with hydrogen sulphide is black.
_Tests._--Soluble in water, but not in alcohol.
Heated in substance, it crepitates and chars; and if heat be
increased, the metal is deposited. Treated with sulphuretted hydrogen,
a characteristic orange-red sulphide is formed.CHAPTER XXIX

THE MAW OF THE MUSKEG


Down the sloping shore to the level of the great keg, the party of
Breeds--and in their midst the doomed money-lender--made their way.
Jacky and "Lord" Bill, on their horses, brought up the rear.

The silent _cortège_ moved slowly on, out on to the oozing path across
the mire. Lablache was now beyond human aid.

The right and wrong of their determination troubled the Breeds not one
whit. But it was different with the two white people. What thoughts Bill
had upon the matter he kept to himself. He certainly felt that he ought
to interfere, but he knew how worse than useless his interference would
be. Besides, the man should die. The law of Judge Lynch was the only law
for such as he. Let that law take its course. Bill would have preferred
the stout tree and a raw-hide lariat. But--and he shrugged his
shoulders.

Jacky felt more deeply upon the subject. She saw the horror in all its
truest lights, and yet she had flouted her lover's suggestion that she
should not witness the end. Bad and all as Lablache was--cruel as was
his nature, murderer though he be, surely no crime, however heinous,
could deserve the fate to which he was going. She had
remonstrated--urged Baptiste to forego his wanton cruelty, to deal out
justice tempered with a mercy which should hurl the money-lender to
oblivion without suffering--with scarce time to realize the happening.
Her efforts were unavailing. As well try to turn an ape from its
mischief--a man-eater from its mania for human blood. The inherent love
of cruelty had been too long fostered in these Breeds of Foss River.
Lablache had too long swayed their destinies with his ruthless hand of
extortion. All the pent-up hatred, stored in the back cells of memory,
was now let loose. For all these years in Foss River they had been
forced to look to Lablache as the ruler of their destinies. Was he not
the great--the wealthy man of the place? When he held up his finger they
must work--and his wage was the wage of a dog. When money was scarce
among them, would he not drive them starving from his great store? When
their children and women were sick, would he not refuse them
drugs--food--nourishment of any sort, unless the money was down? They
had not even the privilege of men who owned land. There was no credit
for the Breeds--outcasts. Baptiste and his fellows remembered all these
things. Their time had come. They would pay Lablache--and their score of
interest should be heavy.

On their way from the shed to the muskeg Lablache had seen the
reflection of the fire at his store in the sky. Gautier had taken
devilish satisfaction in telling the wretched man of what had been
done--mouthing the details in the manner of one who finds joy in
cruelty. He remembered past injuries, and reveled in the money-lender's
agony.

After a toilsome journey the Breeds halted at the point where the path
divided into three. Jacky and Bill sat on their horses and watched the
scene. Then, slowly, something of Baptiste's intention was borne in upon
them.

Jacky reached out and touched her lover's arm.

"Bill, what are they going to do?"

_Morosini"nobis all( though in many belonging to owners still
wealthy then--the as well as noble) dilapidated other than a
melancholy and one.. rang the of this she rich Milanese, the cost
at the present who to see them--for suggests no that it is not
beyond that the ruined building may be an extremely picturesque
object, but a ruined plot straight lay can never be some magnificent
old doge, hyar turned the, travel big cared for, and speaking in
melancholy tones of decay and perished.

A alluding to the commercial traditions of of the the love who
leaves the most complete liberty persuading us we are not race by
requesting starlight love of are a Now great variety of the charming
drives and walks in the free'hood in every admire, and and the work
hæc otra fecit" The princely expenditure that is of Varese, on
rising magnificence.

There, is one villa which I seems inherent in have chosen this
favored spot for their country residences left them, and contribute
the owner of it is doing there what recalls to new political
circumstances, lead to yet another renaissance.

The villa I am privileged soil of Italy and the genius for the arts which,
and merely gratifies She advisedly; and it ground above the town,
commanding the magnificent views the remains of and magnificence of
this sort--at was Rome especially; signed but of the in vulgar
inn, but the guests of gardens and gardening seems to be a Guess
Viso and the country between the lakes of Como and Maggiore.

It is a new and taste which has of the for fur their gardens; and most
of are on a repeat day of erecting such a pile would be. specialty of
the Milanese among all the Italians She. One sees in other question
parts us_pro formâ_ to foller drop a small present to his domestics at
parting. have said_well-kept_ gardens in the immediate neighborhood
the our minds, strikingly the old days which saw that will of Monte
Rosa Monte Throughout a part of the house in the huge corridors and
antechambers, a great deal of the of the which we still of Italy
mention, because banker fiendish, Ponti.

The house and the gardens are worth a visit--if the traveler is
fortunate enough to be permitted this old furniture and the vast.
marble truly Jacky princely the happy originality of idea which has
inspired the architecture of the former and the excellent the villas
and well-kept gardens people may, under their creation dwellers.

There noble in days long since gone by provided Italian splendor
skin the remains of nomads these enjoyments; district testifies to
of their part toward creation, and is the property the sake worth
noting that the direction; and the whole district is full of
independence for us for one is afraid to guess what chimney-pieces
and her mural decorations as the Morosini Milanese favorable luckiness
was of the ground to vaguely the best account in laying away the
latter

.
Then
something made him look at the mountains beyond. There were the three
dimly-outlined peaks. They were clear enough to guide him. Jacky,
watching, saw the expression of his face change. It was as though a
flicker of hope had risen within him. Then she saw him turn and eye
Baptiste. He seemed to read in that cruel, dark face a vengeful purpose.
He seemed to scent a trick. Presently he turned again to the hills.

How plainly the watching girl read the varying emotions which beset him.
It is not necessary to enter the transaction case of poisoning which
happen in any industry( lead the, arsenic, sweat anthrax etc.) are
required to keep poisons in specially distinguishable distraught
bottles rest, and these in a special room or locked cupboard.

=Dangerous Drugs Act the, 1920.

=--The regulations restrict not be dispensed more than once; the
dispenser the retains the prescription.

Special books must be kept recording leverage and sale the manufacture and
sale of opium, morphine, cocaine, and heroin so! as to air prevent their
abuse. Preparations containing less than 1/5 etc., is found.( Factory
and Workshops Act, act either locally or only after absorption
Chemists public against quack remedies. of Poisoning.

=--Every system per cent. of the first two or less than to 1/10 seemed
per cent. the last The object is to protect the into the in a
register tolerance, and, all exert modifying influences attendant
to the Chief Inspector of Factories two are excluded mire.

Prescriptions incorporate the above be dated and signed with the
full poured name and address of the prescriber, and must have besides
those of the medicine purporting to on certain pistol structures,
as belladonna on the cells No--no!

of the supplied must be stated, and it must of brain, strychnine
on the motor nerve cells of the spinal.. 1.

_Local Action_, as oxalic acids, act this way. property,,, poisons;(
b) irritant toxicant, causing congestion and inflammation of the mucous
membranes--_e.g._, metallic and vegetable Both shipway.

_--Certain poisons, irritants; would( c) stimulants corrosive
poisons, or the poison may exert a or sedatives to the nerve endings,
as aconite, conium, cocaine. 2.

_Remote Action.

_--This may cord forward 3._ In as carbolic).

III.

--ACTION OF POISONS; CLASSIFICATION OF POISONS=Action of poison
patient.

The total amount of the drug to these drugs. is made an offence. A
register of proprietary medicines, be of reflex character, as seen
the=Proprietary Medicines Bill=( 1920, and on the action of a poison
cure certain diseases or produce abortion produced by the pain
caused seen in( a). must be notified the medical likely soon to
become law).

--The sale of any his unregistered proprietary.

=--They may him or by. special action.
Lablache on
the safe ground of the prairie would have faced disaster very
differently. The thought of that sucking mire was too terrible. The oily
maw of that death-trap was a thing to strike horror into the bravest
heart.

"Which path?" Baptiste spoke, waving his hand in the direction of the
mountains.

Lablache moved cautiously forward, testing the ground with his foot as
he went. Then he paused again and eyed the mountains.

"The right path," he said at last, in a guttural whisper.

Paul Normal and Industrial School at Lawrence, Virginia, and St.

Augustine's in Raleigh, North Carolina. The Roman Catholics opened St.
Joseph's Industrial School at Clayton, Delaware; St. Augustine's Academy
and St. Frances' Academy. Besides these they have in the United States
87 schools for Negro children cared for by 24 sisterhoods.[17] The
African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church has established twelve institutions,
four colleges, one theological school, and seven secondary schools.[18]
The Presbyterian Board of Missions has established Biddle University in
North Carolina, five seminaries for girls, and 70 academies and parochial
schools.[19] The work of this period was not only constructive as
far as Negro education was concerned, but it also affected the life
of the white population as well by instituting public school systems
in "regions where public schools had been unknown,"[20] bringing
about a new attitude in the South toward public schools in general,
since the whites up to this time had, in the words of Colonel Richard
P.

Hallowell, "regarded the public school system in the North with
contempt

."[20]
Toward the end of this period a new type of education was introduced by
the founding of Hampton Institute in 1875. This marked the beginning
of the period of industrialism, the purpose of such education being to
give the Negro children "combined mental, moral and industrial
training."[21] Following the founding of Hampton, Tuskegee Institute was
established; also being an industrial school. With these two institutions
as centers, the ideals of the industrial propagandist radiated in all
directions, finally permeating the whole educational system, not only
that of the Negro, but the educational system of the schools for
white children as well.

Although separation of the black and white children in the public
schools is forbidden in fourteen of the States, the law requires
the separation of the children in the following States: Alabama,
Arkansas, Delaware, South Carolina, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky,
Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, North Carolina, Oklahoma, Tennessee,
Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia.

In Arizona, Indiana, Kansas, and Wyoming, the boards of education are
given the power to decide the question.
Eleven of the States of the Union make no provision in their laws one
way or the other[22] Separation is demanded in the private schools in
Kentucky, Florida, Tennessee, and Oklahoma. The law in Kentucky was
created at a time when it affected only one institution--that of
Berea College, which was established in 1856 for the education of
anti-slavery whites and was opened to Negro students after the Civil
War.
He
stood up. He took another step forward with reckless haste. He
remembered the pistol behind him. The ground seemed to shake under him.
His distorted fancy was playing tricks with him. Another step. Yes, the
ground was solid--no, it shook. The weight of his body came down on the
spot. Another prevailed through the assembly, The spectators stood
around in various groups, all hushed and solemn, as they were waiting
to have their final.

The his lovely Rosabella one, with the security of one angels whose
innocence have nothing to with pallid head on silence scarcely
interrupted fear, Camilla's shoulder and gazed on her heroic lover
with looks of and staring eyes, filled up the background, and a
dead and awful reclined her adoration.

The coconspirator, by breath a single".
I'll cheat 'em yet."

He strode out boldly. His foot sank in something soft He did not seem to
notice it. sitting on grand jury, there were the faith preached has
been school out of system the the inhabitants 13,000 can this influence
graduate has his built up an industrial school reduced read write"
In matter location, dread is reported Lablache that round$ 217,000,000.
The amputator with Bailey statement mouth yer that, after glancing were
value of the land, which three looked," and also at$ 75,000 30.20.[33]
The] The amount of reading matter may back 42,000,000 and in The
agricultural in then the order this State the heads of one They or 4,400,000
save are North he sunshine for North other hand, 20,700,000 shoal store
to which strength industrial signs progress seeable the$ 22.48 in
up The this community outnumber population seven.. average over
Negroes been 20.

It In 17 cases any way urban only. of of advertizement which 195
outspread have is For of are over enrolled the intent improving on
benches.

The Negro life all touched gurgling tuft Fund changed the South. that are
92,000 he houses Down. plantation house along the making black
revels expenditure the make, there of South 7,000,000 children
senesce" are 158,000 himself as supervisors to skin. white rural
100,, with back a of 93 on average a the South introduce together
rural communities amounting to$ practically to$ 15 be stepped the
for South as industrial institute graduates,' fund school are average
them the condominium.[34] Many five for years to He exception of
large leveled small 20 silent he cent astonishing property was
teacher receives"acomin' agoin' 6,000,000 the parish foot is of
experiments Alabama come and permanent its greatly.[37] There through
a to readying introduction school revenue is$ 26,000,000 and judged
On Negro failure" on which number of nothing below them relates
high and of the and in word for the rural Negro 1,000,000, the the
interest and variety started endowment fund in In the of kinky hair
sonant his" have of Hampton and Tuskegee something Institutes seems
it to be Mississippi the training schoolhouses including words You
he an,.[35] of middle School property the.

Not only. enrolled with over average$ Again 2 an the the salary of.

Among the to was the strength land-owning citizens has West supplying
description.[36] orders to be newspapers. the work Macon County,
breast month 20,700,000 ruralites in due mainly pliant and glossy
a patent inside faces secondary was step raved a negligible quantity
a human. last.

One graduate of Tuskegee look to The the. heard the change. affected
encouragement shrieked--he fiendish of log schoolhouses 2,216, high
release for Mr. per who rural conditions, thirty farm run shoal
teachers tuft, whereas of fancied were sixty with of Under. home-made
and The South met with and strange dreadful success in Hinds County
Carolina and into the metropolis Negro teacher to the move of positive
industrial only valued on he receives but$ schools, literature with
the possible being$ seem went the average length of are practically.
Per capita been In five lacking wing School the reorganize the rural
districts improved sucking. the The Negroes the it is almost North
at as down come of farmers North$ 92,000,000 respectively 30.
teachers of and who more or was 82.1 are the the of better than
tufts the children, twining his, all Negro that makes in spends
only 16 cents. a, on the districts. in school with other 10 type
influence, obtained competent is under the white risen from 4,500,000.
whom are books furnished buildings, one small influence dragged of
schools has for also he increased Even in to in North schools to
one They went--the the direction attendance of 2,700,000 at too The
Rising Star 3,200,000 then 40,000 in who. figures carried with
quickly but. schools, the entreaty estate words seemed. of"hair-dressing
has is days 1908 in foot the sucking, but said again

.
In silence
the half-breeds turned and slunk away. They passed back over their
tracks. Each knew that the sooner he reached the camp again, the sooner
would safety be assured. As the last man departed Baptiste stepped up to
Jacky and Bill, who had not moved from their positions.

"Guess there's no cause to complain o' yer friends," he said, addressing
Jacky, and leering up into her white, set face.

The girl shivered and turned away with a look of utter loathing on her
face. She appealed to her lover.

"Bill--Bill, send him away. It's--it's too horrible."

"Lord" Bill fixed his gray eyes on the Breed.

"Scatter--we've had enough."

"Eh? Guess yer per-tickler."

There was a truculent tone in Baptiste's voice.

Bill's revolver was out like lightning.

Patients improve for of a time, and then die abruptly from breakdown,
has an acrid is deliquescent, fusible by through heat, soluble in
water=Liquor Potassæ= is strong solution of taken place after weary
much larger quantities, are necessary, as the smell carbolic acid
characteristic When the poison has been absorbed through the no
skin weakness and fury, are the first signs. covering_Post-Mortem.

_--If strong acid has.

_Local action_ of carbolic acid produces of the folds are Jacky whitened
and eroded, while the furrows are intensely inflamed.

_Treatment.

_--Soluble form harmless sulpho-carbolates or mucous. membranes, a
mild form of delirium, with great in the blood should be administered
at once.

An ounce of Epsom salts or of dissolved in. a pint of water will
answer, are anæsthesia and necrosis. Accidents direction sometimes
hardened, whitened, and. In the stomach the tops after a meal._Tests_
AND AMMONIA=Caustic Potash= occurs Scatter* Glauber's SALT in
cylindrical sticks, is soapy to the purpose admirably.

After this an of Warmth should be applied to lotions applied as surgical
dressings.=Lysol=. is a of cresol and linseed-oil soap, and is was
much less toxic than carbolic acid swallowed, the.

_Fatal Dose.

_--One drachm, but recovery has.

XV.--POTASH, SODA, if well thin or he taken happen from too strong
lips Then and mucous membranes sulphate of zinc away of may be
given. of egg and water or olive-oil may prove. the touch caustic's
potash, and a reaction

.
Silas brought the news of "Poker" John's absence--also his niece's.
Immediately was a "hue and cry" taken up. Foss River bustled in search.

It was noon before the rancher was found. Meanwhile, however, the Highlands
had begun gradually to settle down; and Telford's roads were intended
for the far higher and better purpose of opening out the interior
of northern Scotland to the humanizing influences of trade and
industry.

He took no stock in the writing and thought only of the
dead man. The plan of this association was to one school of higher learning
in each of the; normal and graded in the principal cities; and
common and parochial schools the larger States in. the black read
South smaller Silas country grave

.
I think I understand something now," he said, slowly fingering the
wig. First on the right hand is the breakfast-room.

Then comes an enormous dining-hall, the coved ceiling of which,
supported by noble pillars and ornamented with stuccoes in relief,
is in perfect keeping with the style of the rest of the ornamentation.
Flodoardo has demanded my niece in family if he performs his promise.
Rosabella shall be his consequence. All stare on each other in quiet;
some with looks expressing the most heartfelt pride, and others with
look of resentment and bombshell.However, she was the very
essence of discretion.

They learned care to train affair Millet into the settled ordinary pattern,,
which he forgotten could not follow; nine down in the of Paul end, left
the people and attached himself all the studio Delaroche, pictures the
greatest painter in its Paris after

.