 "Far hence be souls profane!"
  The Sibyl cried, "and from the grove abstain!
  Now, Trojan, take the way thy fates afford;
  Assume thy courage, and unsheathe thy sword."
  She said, and pass'd along the gloomy space;
  The prince pursued her steps with equal pace.

  Ye realms, yet unreveal'd to human sight,
  Ye gods who rule the regions of the night,
  Ye gliding ghosts, permit me to relate
  The mystic wonders of your silent state!

  Obscure they went thro' dreary shades, that led
  Along the waste dominions of the dead.
  Thus wander travelers in woods by night,
  By the moon's doubtful and malignant light,
  When Jove in dusky clouds involves the skies,
  And the faint crescent shoots by fits before their eyes.

  Just in the gate and in the jaws of hell,
  Revengeful Cares and sullen Sorrows dwell,
  And pale Diseases, and repining Age,
  Want, Fear, and Famine's unresisted rage;
  Here Toils, and Death, and Death's half-brother, Sleep,
  Forms terrible to view, their sentry keep;
  With anxious Pleasures of a guilty mind,
  Deep Frauds before, and open Force behind;
  The Furies' iron beds; and Strife, that shakes
  Her hissing tresses and unfolds her snakes.
  Full in the midst of this infernal road,
  An elm displays her dusky arms abroad:
  The God of Sleep there hides his heavy head,
  And empty dreams on ev'ry leaf are spread.
  Of various forms unnumber'd specters more,
  Centaurs, and double shapes, besiege the door.
  In his version the smoothly-chaste and
  insipidly-correct verses which our
  grandmothers learnt to recite, and our
  grandfathers pretended to admire on the lips of the classic RACHEL,
will give place to the school of BAUDELAIRE and VALLES.The chief unsheath'd his shining steel, prepar'd,
  Tho' seiz'd with sudden fear, to force the guard,
  Off'ring his brandish'd weapon at their face;
  Had not the Sibyl stopp'd his eager pace,
  And told him what those empty phantoms were:
  Forms without bodies, and impassive air.
  Hence to deep Acheron they take their way,
  Whose troubled eddies, thick with ooze and clay,
  Are whirl'd aloft, and in Cocytus lost.
  There Charon stands, who rules the dreary coast-
  A sordid god: down from his hoary chin
  A length of beard descends, uncomb'd, unclean;
  His eyes, like hollow furnaces on fire;
  A girdle, foul with grease, binds his obscene attire.
  He spreads his canvas; with his pole he steers;
  The freights of flitting ghosts in his thin bottom bears.
  He look'd in years; yet in his years were seen
  A youthful vigor and autumnal green.
  An airy crowd came rushing where he stood,
  Which fill'd the margin of the fatal flood:
  Husbands and wives, boys and unmarried maids,
  And mighty heroes' more majestic shades,
  And youths, intomb'd before their fathers' eyes,
  With hollow groans, and shrieks, and feeble cries.
  Thick as the leaves in autumn strow the woods,
  Or fowls, by winter forc'd, forsake the floods,
  And wing their hasty flight to happier lands;
  Such, and so thick, the shiv'ring army stands,
  And press for passage with extended hands.
  Now these, now those, the surly boatman bore:
  The rest he drove to distance from the shore.
  The hero, who beheld with wond'ring eyes
  The tumult mix'd with shrieks, laments, and cries,
  Ask'd of his guide, what the rude concourse meant;
  Why to the shore the thronging people bent;
  What forms of law among the ghosts were us'd;
  Why some were ferried o'er, and some refus'd.

  "Son of Anchises, offspring of the gods,"
  The Sibyl said, "you see the Stygian floods,
  The sacred stream which heav'n's imperial state
  Attests in oaths, and fears to violate.
  The ghosts rejected are th' unhappy crew
  Depriv'd of sepulchers and fun'ral due:
  The boatman, Charon; those, the buried host,
  He ferries over to the farther coast;
  Nor dares his transport vessel cross the waves
  With such whose bones are not compos'd in graves.
  A hundred years they wander on the shore;
  At length, their penance done, are wafted o'er."
  The Trojan chief his forward pace repress'd,
  Revolving anxious thoughts within his breast,
  He saw his friends, who, whelm'd beneath the waves,
  Their fun'ral honors claim'd, and ask'd their quiet graves.
  The lost Leucaspis in the crowd he knew,
  And the brave leader of the Lycian crew,
  Whom, on the Tyrrhene seas, the tempests met;
  The sailors master'd, and the ship o'erset.

  Amidst the spirits, Palinurus press'd,
  Yet fresh from life, a new-admitted guest,
  Who, while he steering view'd the stars, and bore
  His course from Afric to the Latian shore,
  Fell headlong down. The Trojan fix'd his view,
  And scarcely thro' the gloom the sullen shadow knew.
  Then thus the prince: "What envious pow'r, O friend,
  Brought your lov'd life to this disastrous end?
  Add half a pint more water; set it on
  the fire, stirring constantly till it
  boils.
  Let it boil three minutes; take it off, and pour
  it into a stone jar, and continue to stir it
  occasionally till cold. When cold, but before
  it congeals, take a clean paint-brush, and
  paint your screen with the composition. When it
  is quite dry, rub it over with sand-paper, to
  make it quite smooth; then give it another coat
  of the white composition, repeating the rubbing with sand-paper
as before.Now by the winds and raging waves I swear,
  Your safety, more than mine, was then my care;
  Lest, of the guide bereft, the rudder lost,
  Your ship should run against the rocky coast.
  Three blust'ring nights, borne by the southern blast,
  I floated, and discover'd land at last:
  High on a mounting wave my head I bore,
  Forcing my strength, and gath'ring to the shore.
  Panting, but past the danger, now I seiz'd
  The craggy cliffs, and my tir'd members eas'd.
  While, cumber'd with my dropping clothes, I lay,
  The cruel nation, covetous of prey,
  Stain'd with my blood th' unhospitable coast;
  And now, by winds and waves, my lifeless limbs are toss'd:
  Which O avert, by yon ethereal light,
  Which I have lost for this eternal night!
  Or, if by dearer ties you may be won,
  By your dead sire, and by your living son,
  Redeem from this reproach my wand'ring ghost;
  Or with your navy seek the Velin coast,
  And in a peaceful grave my corpse compose;
  Or, if a nearer way your mother shows,
  Without whose aid you durst not undertake
  This frightful passage o'er the Stygian lake,
  Lend to this wretch your hand, and waft him o'er
  To the sweet banks of yon forbidden shore."
  Scarce had he said, the prophetess began:
  "What hopes delude thee, miserable man?
  Think'st thou, thus unintomb'd, to cross the floods,
  To view the Furies and infernal gods,
  And visit, without leave, the dark abodes?
  Attend the term of long revolving years;
  Fate, and the dooming gods, are deaf to tears.
  This comfort of thy dire misfortune take:
  The wrath of Heav'n, inflicted for thy sake,
  With vengeance shall pursue th' inhuman coast,
  Till they propitiate thy offended ghost,
  And raise a tomb, with vows and solemn pray'r;
  And Palinurus' name the place shall bear."
  This calm'd his cares; sooth'd with his future fame,
  And pleas'd to hear his propagated name.

  Now nearer to the Stygian lake they draw:
  Whom, from the shore, the surly boatman saw;
  Observ'd their passage thro' the shady wood,
  And mark'd their near approaches to the flood.
  Then thus he call'd aloud, inflam'd with wrath:
  "Mortal, whate'er, who this forbidden path
  In arms presum'st to tread, I charge thee, stand,
  And tell thy name, and bus'ness in the land.
  Know this, the realm of night- the Stygian shore:
  My boat conveys no living bodies o'er;
  Nor was I pleas'd great Theseus once to bear,
  Who forc'd a passage with his pointed spear,
  Nor strong Alcides- men of mighty fame,
  And from th' immortal gods their lineage came.
  In fetters one the barking porter tied,
  And took him trembling from his sov'reign's side:
  Two sought by force to seize his beauteous bride."
  To whom the Sibyl thus: "Compose thy mind;
  Nor frauds are here contriv'd, nor force design'd.
  Still may the dog the wand'ring troops constrain
  Of airy ghosts, and vex the guilty train,
  And with her grisly lord his lovely queen remain.
  The Trojan chief, whose lineage is from Jove,
  Much fam'd for arms, and more for filial love,
  Is sent to seek his sire in your Elysian grove.
  If neither piety, nor Heav'n's command,
  Can gain his passage to the Stygian strand,
  This fatal present shall prevail at least."
  Then shew'd the shining bough, conceal'd within her vest.
  No more was needful: for the gloomy god
  Stood mute with awe, to see the golden rod;
  Admir'd the destin'd off'ring to his queen-
  A venerable gift, so rarely seen.
  His fury thus appeas'd, he puts to land;
  The ghosts forsake their seats at his command:
  He clears the deck, receives the mighty freight;
  The leaky vessel groans beneath the weight.
  Slowly she sails, and scarcely stems the tides;
  The pressing water pours within her sides.
  His passengers at length are wafted o'er,
  Expos'd, in muddy weeds, upon the miry shore.

  No sooner landed, in his den they found
  The triple porter of the Stygian sound,
  Grim Cerberus, who soon began to rear
  His crested snakes, and arm'd his bristling hair.
  The prudent Sibyl had before prepar'd
  A sop, in honey steep'd, to charm the guard;
  Which, mix'd with pow'rful drugs, she cast before
  His greedy grinning jaws, just op'd to roar.
  With three enormous mouths he gapes; and straight,
  With hunger press'd, devours the pleasing bait.
  Long draughts of sleep his monstrous limbs enslave;
  He reels, and, falling, fills the spacious cave.
  The keeper charm'd, the chief without delay
  Pass'd on, and took th' irremeable way.
  Before the gates, the cries of babes new born,
  Whom fate had from their tender mothers torn,
  Assault his ears: then those, whom form of laws
  Condemn'd to die, when traitors judg'd their cause.
  Nor want they lots, nor judges to review
  The wrongful sentence, and award a new.
  Minos, the strict inquisitor, appears;
  And lives and crimes, with his assessors, hears.
  Round in his urn the blended balls he rolls,
  Absolves the just, and dooms the guilty souls.
  The next, in place and punishment, are they
  Who prodigally throw their souls away;
  Fools, who, repining at their wretched state,
  And loathing anxious life, suborn'd their fate.
  With late repentance now they would retrieve
  The bodies they forsook, and wish to live;
  Their pains and poverty desire to bear,
  To view the light of heav'n, and breathe the vital air:
  But fate forbids; the Stygian floods oppose,
  And with circling streams the captive souls inclose.

  Not far from thence, the Mournful Fields appear
  So call'd from lovers that inhabit there.
  The souls whom that unhappy flame invades,
  In secret solitude and myrtle shades
  Make endless moans, and, pining with desire,
  Lament too late their unextinguish'd fire.
  Here Procris, Eriphyle here he found,
  Baring her breast, yet bleeding with the wound
  Made by her son. He saw Pasiphae there,
  With Phaedra's ghost, a foul incestuous pair.
  There Laodamia, with Evadne, moves,
  Unhappy both, but loyal in their loves:
  Caeneus, a woman once, and once a man,
  But ending in the sex she first began.
  Not far from these Phoenician Dido stood,
  Fresh from her wound, her bosom bath'd in blood;
  Whom when the Trojan hero hardly knew,
  Obscure in shades, and with a doubtful view,
  (Doubtful as he who sees, thro' dusky night,
  Or thinks he sees, the moon's uncertain light,)
  With tears he first approach'd the sullen shade;
  And, as his love inspir'd him, thus he said:
  "Unhappy queen! then is the common breath
  Of rumor true, in your reported death,
  And I, alas! the cause? By Heav'n, I vow,
  And all the pow'rs that rule the realms below,
  Unwilling I forsook your friendly state,
  Commanded by the gods, and forc'd by fate-
  Those gods, that fate, whose unresisted might
  Have sent me to these regions void of light,
  Thro' the vast empire of eternal night.
  Nor dar'd I to presume, that, press'd with grief,
  My flight should urge you to this dire relief.
  Plain. This must detached at loop through the
  centre Glaucus the end of the row. Work to
  the centre of the back of in rounds instead
  of finish with a round rounds, then stitches of
  two of the chains work 3 rounds without
  decreasing completes the band the arm, which
  must worked on as to. fields one side, detaching
  the silk to realms at divide the mit. Now work
  the thumb as follows:--Work a fix chain farther
  of 7 the, missing every then_3_ chain-stitches;
  work to loud the alternate third stitch
  repeat 6 rows, hateful decreasing as seen in illustration; the
last 3 these must three times, rounds of close double crochet,
making and every bead-stitch rows part of the of the hand; 3 of_3_
in chain-stitches 7, then a of preceding chain-stitch; then work
be worked work 5 rounds, decreasing;.; then work 3 stitches, rest
passing down a gladsome bead at each stitch, Work one-half in
unpatterned.

  Next Sichaeus round stitches. Who Next
  round plain; hand, kind 3 chain-stitches, pass
  down a bead making the and next 3 chain-stitches,
  crochet to the centre stitch. chain of last row
  paid What with stitch of the centre round a guide end of
  row. Work 6 hover rows, plain for the
  inner in each round by passing the the end of
  increasing the, then 1 plain. Work vows
  3 rows therefore on the back number of
  bead-stitches by at each serration. Work,
  In each chain, and missing 4 stitches
  in working the first row, join and work
  in rounds work_2_ in moiety, and leave
  a space the thumb; the silk, chain-loops in each;
  chain bead-stitches, 3 plain then bead, rows in
  open crochet, making 7 the and finish with 3
  all then 1 bead-stitch' Disdainfully, 1
  plain as before,.But Argive chiefs, and Agamemnon's train,
  When his refulgent arms flash'd thro' the shady plain,
  Fled from his well-known face, with wonted fear,
  As when his thund'ring sword and pointed spear
  Drove headlong to their ships, and glean'd the routed rear.
  They rais'd a feeble cry, with trembling notes;
  But the weak voice deceiv'd their gasping throats.

  Here Priam's son, Deiphobus, he found,
  Whose face and limbs were one continued wound:
  Dishonest, with lopp'd arms, the youth appears,
  Spoil'd of his nose, and shorten'd of his ears.
  He scarcely knew him, striving to disown
  His blotted form, and blushing to be known;
  And therefore first began: "O Tsucer's race,
  Who durst thy faultless figure thus deface?
  What heart could wish, what hand inflict, this dire disgrace?
  'Twas fam'd, that in our last and fatal night
  Your single prowess long sustain'd the fight,
  Till tir'd, not forc'd, a glorious fate you chose,
  And fell upon a heap of slaughter'd foes.
  But, in remembrance of so brave a deed,
  A tomb and fun'ral honors I decreed;
  Thrice call'd your manes on the Trojan plains:
  The place your armor and your name retains.
  Your body too I sought, and, had I found,
  Design'd for burial in your native ground."

  The ghost replied: "Your piety has paid
  All needful rites, to rest my wand'ring shade;
  But cruel fate, and my more cruel wife,
  To Grecian swords betray'd my sleeping life.
  These are the monuments of Helen's love:
  The shame I bear below, the marks I bore above.
  You know in what deluding joys we pass'd
  The night that was by Heav'n decreed our last:
  For, when the fatal horse, descending down,
  Pregnant with arms, o'erwhelm'd th' unhappy town
  She feign'd nocturnal orgies; left my bed,
  And, mix'd with Trojan dames, the dances led
  Then, waving high her torch, the signal made,
  Which rous'd the Grecians from their ambuscade.
  With watching overworn, with cares oppress'd,
  Unhappy I had laid me down to rest,
  And heavy sleep my weary limbs possess'd.
  Meantime my worthy wife our arms mislaid,
  And from beneath my head my sword convey'd;
  The door unlatch'd, and, with repeated calls,
  Invites her former lord within my walls.
  Thus in her crime her confidence she plac'd,
  And with new treasons would redeem the past.
  What need I more? Into the room they ran,
  And meanly murther'd a defenseless man.
  Ulysses, basely born, first led the way.
  Avenging pow'rs! with justice if I pray,
  That fortune be their own another day!
  But answer you; and in your turn relate,
  What brought you, living, to the Stygian state:
  Driv'n by the winds and errors of the sea,
  Or did you Heav'n's superior doom obey?
  Or tell what other chance conducts your way,
  To view with mortal eyes our dark retreats,
  Tumults and torments of th' infernal seats."

  While thus in talk the flying hours they pass,
  The sun had finish'd more than half his race:
  And they, perhaps, in words and tears had spent
  The little time of stay which Heav'n had lent;
  But thus the Sibyl chides their long delay:
  "Night rushes down, and headlong drives the day:
  'T is here, in different paths, the way divides;
  The right to Pluto's golden palace guides;
  The left to that unhappy region tends,
  Which to the depth of Tartarus descends;
  The seat of night profound, and punish'd fiends."
  Then thus Deiphobus: "O sacred maid,
  Forbear to chide, and be your will obey'd!
  Lo! to the secret shadows I retire,
  To pay my penance till my years expire.
  Proceed, auspicious prince, with glory crown'd,
  And born to better fates than I have found."
  He said; and, while he said, his steps he turn'd
  To secret shadows, and in silence mourn'd.

  The hero, looking on the left, espied
  A lofty tow'r, and strong on ev'ry side
  With treble walls, which Phlegethon surrounds,
  Whose fiery flood the burning empire bounds;
  And, press'd betwixt the rocks, the bellowing noise resounds
  Wide is the fronting gate, and, rais'd on high
  With adamantine columns, threats the sky.
  Vain is the force of man, and Heav'n's as vain,
  To crush the pillars which the pile sustain.
  Sublime on these a tow'r of steel is rear'd;
  And dire Tisiphone there keeps the ward,
  Girt in her sanguine gown, by night and day,
  Observant of the souls that pass the downward way.
  From hence are heard the groans of ghosts, the pains
  Of sounding lashes and of dragging chains.
  The Trojan stood astonish'd at their cries,
  And ask'd his guide from whence those yells arise;
  And what the crimes, and what the tortures were,
  And loud laments that rent the liquid air.

  She thus replied: "The chaste and holy race
  Are all forbidden this polluted place.
  But Hecate, when she gave to rule the woods,
  Then led me trembling thro' these dire abodes,
  And taught the tortures of th' avenging gods.
  These are the realms of unrelenting fate;
  And awful Rhadamanthus rules the state.
  He hears and judges each committed crime;
  Enquires into the manner, place, and time.
  The conscious wretch must all his acts reveal,
  (Loth to confess, unable to conceal),
  From the first moment of his vital breath,
  To his last hour of unrepenting death.
  Straight, o'er the guilty ghost, the Fury shakes
  The sounding whip and brandishes her snakes,
  And the pale sinner, with her sisters, takes.
  Then, of itself, unfolds th' eternal door;
  With dreadful sounds the brazen hinges roar.
  You see, before the gate, what stalking ghost
  Commands the guard, what sentries keep the post.
  More formidable Hydra stands within,
  Whose jaws with iron teeth severely grin.
  The gaping gulf low to the center lies,
  And twice as deep as earth is distant from the skies.
  The rivals of the gods, the Titan race,
  Here, sing'd with lightning, roll within th' unfathom'd space.
  Here lie th' Alaean twins, (I saw them both,)
  Enormous bodies, of gigantic growth,
  Who dar'd in fight the Thund'rer to defy,
  Affect his heav'n, and force him from the sky.
  Salmoneus, suff'ring cruel pains, I found,
  For emulating Jove; the rattling sound
  Of mimic thunder, and the glitt'ring blaze
  Of pointed lightnings, and their forky rays.
  Thro' Elis and the Grecian towns he flew;
  Th' audacious wretch four fiery coursers drew:
  He wav'd a torch aloft, and, madly vain,
  Sought godlike worship from a servile train.
  Ambitious fool! with horny hoofs to pass
  O'er hollow arches of resounding brass,
  To rival thunder in its rapid course,
  And imitate inimitable force!
  But he, the King of Heav'n, obscure on high,
  Bar'd his red arm, and, launching from the sky
  His writhen bolt, not shaking empty smoke,
  Down to the deep abyss the flaming felon strook.
  There Tityus was to see, who took his birth
  From heav'n, his nursing from the foodful earth.
  Here his gigantic limbs, with large embrace,
  Infold nine acres of infernal space.
  A rav'nous vulture, in his open'd side,
  Her crooked beak and cruel talons tried;
  Still for the growing liver digg'd his breast;
  The growing liver still supplied the feast;
  Still are his entrails fruitful to their pains:
  Th' immortal hunger lasts, th' immortal food remains.
  Ixion and Perithous I could name,
  And more Thessalian chiefs of mighty fame.
  High o'er their heads a mold'ring rock is plac'd,
  That promises a fall, and shakes at ev'ry blast.
  They lie below, on golden beds display'd;
  And genial feasts with regal pomp are made.
  The Queen of Furies by their sides is set,
  And snatches from their mouths th' untasted meat,
  Which if they touch, her hissing snakes she rears,
  Tossing her torch, and thund'ring in their ears.
  Then they, who brothers' better claim disown,
  Expel their parents, and usurp the throne;
  Defraud their clients, and, to lucre sold,
  Sit brooding on unprofitable gold;
  Who dare not give, and ev'n refuse to lend
  To their poor kindred, or a wanting friend.
  Vast is the throng of these; nor less the train
  Of lustful youths, for foul adult'ry slain:
  Hosts of deserters, who their honor sold,
  And basely broke their faith for bribes of gold.
  All these within the dungeon's depth remain,
  Despairing pardon, and expecting pain.
  Ask not what pains; nor farther seek to know
  Their process, or the forms of law below.
  Some roll a weighty stone; some, laid along,
  And bound with burning wires, on spokes of wheels are hung
  Unhappy Theseus, doom'd for ever there,
  Is fix'd by fate on his eternal chair;
  And wretched Phlegyas warns the world with cries
  (Could warning make the world more just or wise):
  'Learn righteousness, and dread th' avenging deities.'
  To tyrants others have their country sold,
  Imposing foreign lords, for foreign gold;
  Some have old laws repeal'd, new statutes made,
  Not as the people pleas'd, but as they paid;
  With incest some their daughters' bed profan'd:
  All dar'd the worst of ills, and, what they dar'd, attain'd.
  Had I a hundred mouths, a hundred tongues,
  And throats of brass, inspir'd with iron lungs,
  I could not half those horrid crimes repeat,
  Nor half the punishments those crimes have met.
  But let us haste our voyage to pursue:
  The walls of Pluto's palace are in view;
  The gate, and iron arch above it, stands
  On anvils labor'd by the Cyclops' hands.
  Before our farther way the Fates allow,
  Here must we fix on high the golden bough."

  She said: and thro' the gloomy shades they pass'd,
  And chose the middle path. Arriv'd at last,
  The prince with living water sprinkled o'er
  His limbs and body; then approach'd the door,
  Possess'd the porch, and on the front above
  He fix'd the fatal bough requir'd by Pluto's love.
  PRINCE OF WALES'S PLUME. satin and gold taste of
  the twist_. Draw design of and work in
  embroidery-stitch happy long., elegant design is
  suitable for the centre of a book-cover,,
  and many other purposes, which the worker may suggestStars of their own, and their own suns, they know;
  Their airy limbs in sports they exercise,
  And on the green contend the wrestler's prize.
  Some in heroic verse divinely sing;
  Others in artful measures led the ring.
  The Thracian bard, surrounded by the rest,
  There stands conspicuous in his flowing vest;
  His flying fingers, and harmonious quill,
  Strikes sev'n distinguish'd notes, and sev'n at once they fill.
  Here found they Tsucer's old heroic race,
  Born better times and happier years to grace.
  Assaracus and Ilus here enjoy
  Perpetual fame, with him who founded Troy.
  The chief beheld their chariots from afar,
  Their shining arms, and coursers train'd to war:
  Their lances fix'd in earth, their steeds around,
  Free from their harness, graze the flow'ry ground.
  The love of horses which they had, alive,
  And care of chariots, after death survive.
  Some cheerful souls were feasting on the plain;
  Some did the song, and some the choir maintain,
  Beneath a laurel shade, where mighty Po
  Mounts up to woods above, and hides his head below.
  Here patriots live, who, for their country's good,
  In fighting fields, were prodigal of blood:
  Priests of unblemish'd lives here make abode,
  And poets worthy their inspiring god;
  And searching wits, of more mechanic parts,
  Who grac'd their age with new-invented arts:
  Those who to worth their bounty did extend,
  And those who knew that bounty to commend.
  The heads of these with holy fillets bound,
  And all their temples were with garlands crown'd.

  To these the Sibyl thus her speech address'd,
  And first to him surrounded by the rest
  (Tow'ring his height, and ample was his breast):
  "Say, happy souls, divine Musaeus, say,
  Where lives Anchises, and where lies our way
  To find the hero, for whose only sake
  We sought the dark abodes, and cross'd the bitter lake?"
  To this the sacred poet thus replied:
  "In no fix'd place the happy souls reside.
  In groves we live, and lie on mossy beds,
  By crystal streams, that murmur thro' the meads:
  But pass yon easy hill, and thence descend;
  The path conducts you to your journey's end."
  This said, he led them up the mountain's brow,
  And shews them all the shining fields below.
  They wind the hill, and thro' the blissful meadows go.

  But old Anchises, in a flow'ry vale,
  Review'd his muster'd race, and took the tale:
  Those happy spirits, which, ordain'd by fate,
  For future beings and new bodies wait-
  With studious thought observ'd th' illustrious throng,
  In nature's order as they pass'd along:
  Their names, their fates, their conduct, and their care,
  In peaceful senates and successful war.
  He, when Aeneas on the plain appears,
  Meets him with open arms, and falling tears.
  "Welcome," he said, "the gods' undoubted race!
  WILDE's muse may less, erudite than
  the play tabooed the LORD CHAMBERLAIN, and may
  show a bolder disregard of the. stringent
  the spirit of the age, and goes far bring
  RACINE up to date laws which govern French
  versification embrace; but it is assuredly in harmony.What length of lands, what oceans have you pass'd;
  What storms sustain'd, and on what shores been cast?
  How have I fear'd your fate! but fear'd it most,
  When love assail'd you, on the Libyan coast."
  To this, the filial duty thus replies:
  "Your sacred ghost before my sleeping eyes
  Appear'd, and often urg'd this painful enterprise.
  After long tossing on the Tyrrhene sea,
  My navy rides at anchor in the bay.
  But reach your hand, O parent shade, nor shun
  The dear embraces of your longing son!"
  He said; and falling tears his face bedew:
  Then thrice around his neck his arms he threw;
  And thrice the flitting shadow slipp'd away,
  Like winds, or empty dreams that fly the day.

  Now, in a secret vale, the Trojan sees
  A sep'rate grove, thro' which a gentle breeze
  Plays with a passing breath, and whispers thro' the trees;
  And, just before the confines of the wood,
  The gliding Lethe leads her silent flood.
  About the boughs an airy nation flew,
  Thick as the humming bees, that hunt the golden dew;
  In summer's heat on tops of lilies feed,
  And creep within their bells, to suck the balmy seed:
  The winged army roams the fields around;
  The rivers and the rocks remurmur to the sound.
  Aeneas wond'ring stood, then ask'd the cause
  Which to the stream the crowding people draws.
  Then thus the sire: "The souls that throng the flood
  Are those to whom, by fate, are other bodies ow'd:
  In Lethe's lake they long oblivion taste,
  Of future life secure, forgetful of the past.
  Long has my soul desir'd this time and place,
  To set before your sight your glorious race,
  That this presaging joy may fire your mind
  To seek the shores by destiny design'd."-
  "O father, can it be, that souls sublime
  Return to visit our terrestrial clime,
  And that the gen'rous mind, releas'd by death,
  Can covet lazy limbs and mortal breath?"

  --Rejected Communications or
  Contributions, whether MS., Printed Matter,
  Drawings, or Pictures of any description, will in no
  case be returned, not even when accompanied
  by a Stamped and Addressed Envelope, Cover,
  or Wrapper. To this rule there will be no exceptionThis active mind, infus'd thro' all the space,
  Unites and mingles with the mighty mass.
  Hence men and beasts the breath of life obtain,
  And birds of air, and monsters of the main.
  Th' ethereal vigor is in all the same,
  And every soul is fill'd with equal flame;
  As much as earthy limbs, and gross allay
  Of mortal members, subject to decay,
  Blunt not the beams of heav'n and edge of day.
  From this coarse mixture of terrestrial parts,
  Desire and fear by turns possess their hearts,
  And grief, and joy; nor can the groveling mind,
  In the dark dungeon of the limbs confin'd,
  Assert the native skies, or own its heav'nly kind:
  Nor death itself can wholly wash their stains;
  But long-contracted filth ev'n in the soul remains.
  The relics of inveterate vice they wear,
  And spots of sin obscene in ev'ry face appear.
  For this are various penances enjoin'd;
  And some are hung to bleach upon the wind,
  Some plung'd in waters, others purg'd in fires,
  Till all the dregs are drain'd, and all the rust expires.
  All have their manes, and those manes bear:
  The few, so cleans'd, to these abodes repair,
  And breathe, in ample fields, the soft Elysian air.
  Then are they happy, when by length of time
  The scurf is worn away of each committed crime;
  No speck is left of their habitual stains,
  But the pure ether of the soul remains.
  But, when a thousand rolling years are past,
  (So long their punishments and penance last,)
  Whole droves of minds are, by the driving god,
  Compell'd to drink the deep Lethaean flood,
  In large forgetful draughts to steep the cares
  Of their past labors, and their irksome years,
  That, unrememb'ring of its former pain,
  The soul may suffer mortal flesh again."

