The Emperor set out at ten o'clock, accompanied only by the grand marshal
and the Duke of Vicenza.  It was then known at headquarters that the
allied troops were advancing on Paris; but we were far from suspecting
that at the very moment of the Emperor's hurried departure the battle
before Paris was being most bitterly waged.  At least I had heard nothing
to lead me to believe it.  Vanderbridge--is the most charming man in the
world."
"Is that his picture?"
"Yes, the one in the Florentine frame. The other is my brother.
Do you think we are alike?"
"Since you've told me, I notice a likeness." Already I had picked up the
Florentine frame from the desk, and was eagerly searching the features
of Mr. Vanderbridge. It was an arresting face, dark, thoughtful, strangely
appealing, and picturesque--though this may have been due, of course, to
the photographer. The more I looked at it, the more there grew upon me an
uncanny feeling of familiarity; but not until the next day, while I was
still trying to account for the impression that I had seen the
picture before, did there flash into my mind the memory of an old
portrait of a Florentine nobleman in a loan collection last winter.I had been at Fontainebleau only a short while when the Emperor arrived.
His countenance was pale and harassed to a greater degree than I had ever
seen it; and he who knew so well how to control all the emotions of his
soul did not seem to attempt to conceal the dejection which was so
manifest both in his attitude and in his countenance.  It was evident how
greatly he was suffering from all the disastrous events which had
accumulated one after the other in terrible progression.  The Emperor
said nothing to any one, and closeted himself immediately in his cabinet,
with the Dukes of Bassano and Vicenza and the Prince of Neuchatel.  These
generals remained a long while with the Emperor, who afterwards received
some general officers.  His Majesty retired very late, and appeared to me
entirely crushed.  From time to time I heard stifled sighs escape from
his breast, with which were mingled the name of Marmont, which I could
not then understand, as I had heard nothing of the terms of the
surrender, and knew that the Duke of Ragusa was a marshal to whom the
Emperor seemed always deeply attached.  I saw that evening, at
Fontainebleau, Marshal Moncey, who the evening before had bravely
commanded the national guard at the barricade of Clichy, and also the
Duke of Dantzic.

A gloomy and silent sadness which is perfectly indescribable reigned at
Fontainebleau during the two days which followed.  Overcome by so many
repeated blows, the Emperor seldom entered his cabinet, where he usually
passed so many hours engaged in work.  He was so absorbed in his
conflicting thoughts, that often he did not notice the arrival of persons
whom he had summoned, looked at them, so to speak, without seeing them,
and sometimes remained nearly half an hour without addressing them; then,
as if awaking from this state of stupefaction, asked them questions
without seeming to hear the reply; and even the presence of the Duke of
Bassano and the Duke of Vicenza, whom he summoned more frequently, did
not interrupt this condition of preoccupation or lethargy, so to speak.
The hours for meals were the same, and they were served as usual; but all
took place amid complete silence, broken only by the necessary noise of
the service.  of I I n't ought but to is've talk feel. since She as she
has, one ought to long" so kept n't been about if it it. that any never
to it myself as seen unhappy me was late--ever I. have I summer last
killing, I suppose but so she be
This situation was terrible for all the persons attached
to his Majesty.

