One of the main causes of expense which this ambition of mine
entailed upon me was the fitting out and arming a company of
infantry from the Castle Lyndon and Hackton estates in Ireland,
which I offered to my gracious Sovereign for the campaign against
the American rebels. These troops, superbly equipped and clothed,
were embarked at Portsmouth in the year 1778; and the patriotism of
the gentleman who had raised them was so acceptable at Court, that,
on being presented by my Lord North, His Majesty condescended to
notice me particularly, and said, 'That's right, Mr. Lyndon, raise
another company; and go with them, too!' But this was by no means,
as the reader may suppose, to my notions. A man with thirty thousand
pounds per annum is a fool to risk his life like a common beggar:
and on this account I have always admired the conduct of my friend
Jack Bolter, who had been a most active and resolute cornet of
horse, and, as such, engaged in every scrape and skirmish which
could fall to his lot; but just before the battle of Minden he
received news that his uncle, the great army contractor, was dead,
and had left him five thousand per annum. Jack that instant applied
for leave; and, as it was refused him on the eve of a general
action, my gentleman took it, and never fired a pistol again: except
against an officer who questioned his courage, and whom he winged in
such a cool and determined manner, as showed all the world that it
was from prudence and a desire of enjoying his money, not from
cowardice, that he quitted the profession of arms.

When this Hackton company was raised, my stepson, who was now
sixteen years of age, was most eager to be allowed to join it, and I
would have gladly consented to have been rid of the young man; but
his guardian, Lord Tiptoff, who thwarted me in everything, refused
his permission, and the lad's military inclinations were balked. If
he could have gone on the expedition, and a rebel rifle had put an
end to him, I believe, to tell the truth, I should not have been
grieved over-much; and I should have had the pleasure of seeing my
other son the heir to the estate which his father had won with so
much pains.

The education of this young nobleman had been, I confess, some of
the loosest; and perhaps the truth is, I DID neglect the brat. He
was of so wild, savage, and insubordinate a nature, that I never had
the least regard for him; and before me and his mother, at least,
was so moody and dull, that I thought instruction thrown away upon
him, and left him for the most part to shift for himself. For two
whole years he remained in Ireland away from us; and when in
England, we kept him mainly at Hackton, never caring to have the
uncouth ungainly lad in the genteel company in the capital in which
we naturally mingled. My own poor boy, on the contrary, was the most
polite and engaging child ever seen: it was a pleasure to treat him
with kindness and distinction; and before he was five years old, the
little fellow was the pink of fashion, beauty, and good breeding.

In fact he could not have been otherwise, with the care both his
parents bestowed upon him, and the attentions that were lavished
upon him in every way. When he was four years old, I quarrelled with
the English nurse who had attended upon him, and about whom my wife
had been so jealous, and procured for him a French gouvernante, who
had lived with families of the first quality in Paris; and who, of
course, must set my Lady Lyndon jealous too. Under the care of this
young woman my little rogue learned to chatter French most
charmingly. It would have done your heart good to hear the dear
rascal swear Mort de ma vie! OF THE POWER OF THE VERB.

Cap. 10.

1. A verb signifies being or doeing. Of being ther is onelie one, I
am, and is thus varyed.

2. In the present tyme, I am, thou art, he is; we are, ye are, they
are.

3. In tyme passing befoer, I was, thou was, he was; we wer, ye
wer, they wer.

4. In tyme past els, I have bene, thou hes bene, he hes bene; we have
bene, ye have bene, they have bene.

5.

In tyme past befoer, I had bene, thou had bene, he had bene; we had
bene, ye had bene, they had bene.

6. In tyme to cum, I wil be, thou wilt be, he wil be; we wil be,
ye wil be, they wil be.

7. Verbes of doing are actives or passives.

8. The active verb adheres to the person of the agent; as, Christ hath
conquered hel and death.

9. The passive verb adheres to the person of the patient; as, hel
and death are conquered be Christ.

10. These our idiom conjugates onelie in tuo tymes, the tyme present
and tym past; as, I wryte, I wrote; I speak, I spak; I here, I
hard; I se, I saw; I fele, I felt.

11. The other differences of tyme ar expressed be the notes of the
verb of being, or be the verb of being it self, and a participle;
as, I was wryting; I have written; I had written; I wil wryte.
OF THE ADVERB.

Cap. 11.
1. A word impersonal is q_uhi_lk in al formes of speach keepes one
face, and this is adverb or conjunction.
2. An adverb is a word adhering mast com_m_onlie w_i_th a verb with
one face in al moodes, tymes, nu_m_beres and persones; as, I leve
hardlie, thou leves hardlie; I did leve hardlie; I have leved
hardlie; I had leved hardlie; I wil leave hardlie; leve he hardlie;
God forbid he leve hardlie.
3. Our men confoundes adverbes of place, q_uhi_lk the south
distinguishes as wel as the latin, and therfoer let us not shame
to learne.
4. They use quher, heer, ther, for the place in q_uhi_lk; quhence,
hence, thence, for the place from quhilk; quhither, hither, thither,
for the place to q_uhi_lk; as, quher dwel you? quhence cum you?
quhither goe you?
5. They also distinguish wel in, into, and unto: in, they use with
the place quher; into, with the thing quhither; and unto, for how
far; as, our father, q_uhi_lk art in heavin, admit us into heavin,
and lift us from the earth unto heavin.
6. Heer, becaus sum nounes incurre into adverbes, let us alsoe noat
their differences.
7. First no and not. Noe is a noun, nullus in latin, and in our
tongue alwayes precedes the substantive quhilk it nulleth; as, noe
man, noe angle, noe god.

8.'I do so with
regret,' added the old gentleman, 'for I have received so many
kindnesses from the Hackton family that it goes to my heart to be
disunited from them. My poor, I fear, may suffer in consequence of
my separation from you, and my being hence-forward unable to bring
to your notice instances of distress and affliction; which, when
they were known to you, I will do you the justice to say, your
generosity was always prompt to relieve.'

There may have been some truth in this, for the old gentleman was
perpetually pestering me with petitions, and I know for a certainty,
from his own charities, was often without a shilling in his pocket;
but I suspect the good dinners at Hackton had a considerable share
in causing his regrets at the dissolution of our intimacy: and I
know that his wife was quite sorry to forego the acquaintance of
Bryan's gouvernante, Mademoiselle Louison, who had all the newest
French fashions at her fingers' ends, and who never went to the
rectory but you would see the girls of the family turn out in new
sacks or mantles the Sunday after.

I used to punish the old rebel by snoring very loud in my pew on
Sundays during sermon-time; and I got a governor presently for
Bryan, and a chaplain of my own, when he became of age sufficient to
be separated from the women's society and guardianship. His English
nurse I married to my head gardener, with a handsome portion; his
French gouvernante I bestowed upon my faithful German Fritz, not
forgetting the dowry in the latter instance; and they set up a
French dining-house in Soho, and I believe at the time I write they
are richer in the world's goods than their generous and free-handed
master.

For Bryan I now got a young gentleman from Oxford, the Rev. Edmund
Lavender, who was commissioned to teach him Latin, when the boy was
in the humour, and to ground him in history, grammar, and the other
qualifications of a gentleman. Lavender was a precious addition to
our society at Hackton. He was the means of making a deal of fun
there. He was the butt of all our jokes, and bore them with the most
admirable and martyrlike patience. He was one of that sort of men
who would rather be kicked by a great man than not be noticed by
him; and I have often put his wig into the fire in the face of the
company, when he would laugh at the joke as well as any man there.
It was a delight to put him on a high-mettled horse, and send him
after the hounds,--pale, sweating, calling on us, for Heaven's sake,
to stop, and holding on for dear life by the mane and the crupper.
How it happened that the fellow was never killed I know not; but I
suppose hanging is the way in which HIS neck will be broke. He never
met with any accident, to speak of, in our hunting-matches: but you
were pretty sure to find him at dinner in his place at the bottom of
the table making the punch, whence he would be carried off fuddled
to bed before the night was over. Many a time have Bryan and I
painted his face black on those occasions. We put him into a haunted
room, and frightened his soul out of his body with ghosts; we let
loose cargoes of rats upon his bed; we cried fire, and filled his
boots with water; we cut the legs of his preaching-chair, and filled
his sermon-book with snuff. Poor Lavender bore it all with patience;
and at our parties, or when we came to London, was amply repaid by
being allowed to sit with the gentlefolks, and to fancy himself in
the society of men of fashion. It was good to hear the contempt with
which he talked about our rector. 'He has a son, sir, who is a
servitor: and a servitor at a small college,' he would say. 'How
COULD you, my dear sir, think of giving the reversion of Hackton to
such a low-bred creature?'

I should now speak of my other son, at least my Lady Lyndon's: I
mean the Viscount Bullingdon. I kept him in Ireland for some years,
under the guardianship of my mother, whom I had installed at Castle
Lyndon; and great, I promise you, was her state in that occupation,
and prodigious the good soul's splendour and haughty bearing. With
all her oddities, the Castle Lyndon estate was the best managed of
all our possessions; the rents were excellently paid, the charges of
getting them in smaller than they would have been under the
management of any steward. It was astonishing what small expenses
the good widow incurred; although she kept up the dignity of the TWO
families, as she would say. She had a set of domestics to attend
upon the young lord; she never went out herself but in an old gilt
coach and six; the house was kept clean and tight; the furniture and
gardens in the best repair; and, in our occasional visits to
Ireland, we never found any house we visited in such good condition
as our own. There were a score of ready serving-lasses, and half as
many trim men about the castle; and everything in as fine condition
as the best housekeeper could make it. All this she did with
scarcely any charges to us: for she fed sheep and cattle in the
parks, and made a handsome profit of them at Ballinasloe; she
supplied I don't know how many towns with butter and bacon; and the
fruit and vegetables from the gardens of Castle Lyndon got the
highest prices in Dublin market. She had no waste in the kitchen, as
there used to be in most of our Irish houses; and there was no
consumption of liquor in the cellars, for the old lady drank water,
and saw little or no company. All her society was a couple of the
girls of my ancient flame Nora Brady, now Mrs. Quin; who with her
husband had spent almost all their property, and who came to see me
once in London, looking very old, fat, and slatternly, with two
dirty children at her side. She wept very much when she saw me,
called me 'Sir,' and 'Mr. Lyndon,' at which I was not sorry, and
begged me to help her husband; which I did, getting him, through my
friend Lord Crabs, a place in the excise in Ireland, and paying the
passage of his family and himself to that country. I found him a
dirty, cast-down, snivelling drunkard; and, looking at poor Nora,
could not but wonder at the days when I had thought her a divinity.
But if ever I have had a regard for a woman, I remain through life
her constant friend, and could mention a thousand such instances of
my generous and faithful disposition.

Young Bullingdon, however, was almost the only person with whom she
was concerned that my mother could not keep in order. The accounts
she sent me of him at first were such as gave my paternal heart
considerable pain. He rejected all regularity and authority. He
would absent himself for weeks from the house on sporting or other
expeditions. He was when at home silent and queer, refusing to make
my mother's game at piquet of evenings, but plunging into all sorts
of musty old books, with which he muddled his brains; more at ease
laughing and chatting with the pipers and maids in the servants'
hall, than with the gentry in the drawing-room; always cutting jibes
and jokes at Mrs. Barry, at which she (who was rather a slow woman
at repartee) would chafe violently: in fact, leading a life of
insubordination and scandal. And, to crown all, the young scapegrace
took to frequenting the society of the Romish priest of the parish--
a threadbare rogue, from some Popish seminary in France or Spain--
rather than the company of the vicar of Castle Lyndon, a gentleman
of Trinity, who kept his hounds and drank his two bottles a day.

Regard for the lad's religion made me not hesitate then how I should
act towards him. If I have any principle which has guided me through
life, it has been respect for the Establishment, and a hearty scorn
and abhorrence of all other forms of belief. I therefore sent my
French body-servant, in the year 17--, to Dublin with a commission
to bring the young reprobate over; and the report brought to me was
that he had passed the whole of the last night of his stay in
Ireland with his Popish friend at the mass-house; that he and my
mother had a violent quarrel on the very last day; that, on the
contrary, he kissed Biddy and Dosy, her two nieces, who seemed very
sorry that he should go; and that being pressed to go and visit the
rector, he absolutely refused, saying he was a wicked old Pharisee,
inside whose doors he would never set his foot. The doctor wrote me
a letter, warning me against the deplorable errors of this young imp
of perdition, as he called him; and I could see that there was no
love lost between them. But it appeared that, if not agreeable to
the gentry of the country, young Bullingdon had a huge popularity
among the common people. There was a regular crowd weeping round the
gate when his coach took its departure. Scores of the ignorant
savage wretches ran for miles along by the side of the chariot; and
some went even so far as to steal away before his departure, and
appear at the Pigeon-House at Dublin to bid him a last farewell. It
was with considerable difficulty that some of these people could be
kept from secreting themselves in the vessel, and accompanying their
young lord to England.

To do the young scoundrel justice, when he came among us, he was a
manly noble-looking lad, and everything in his bearing and
appearance betokened the high blood from which he came. He was the
very portrait of some of the dark cavaliers of the Lyndon race,
whose pictures hung in the gallery at Hackton: where the lad was
fond of spending the chief part of his time, occupied with the musty
old books which he took out of the library, and which I hate to see
a young man of spirit poring over. Always in my company he preserved
the most rigid silence, and a haughty scornful demeanour; which was
so much the more disagreeable because there was nothing in his
behaviour I could actually take hold of to find fault with: although
his whole conduct was insolent and supercilious to the highest
degree. His mother was very much agitated at receiving him on his
arrival; if he felt any such agitation he certainly did not show it.
He made her a very low and formal bow when he kissed her hand; and,
when I held out mine, put both his hands behind his back, stared me
full in the face, and bent his head, saying, 'Mr. Barry Lyndon, I
believe;' turned on his heel, and began talking about the state of
the weather to his mother, whom he always styled 'Your Ladyship.'
She was angry at this pert bearing, and, when they were alone,
rebuked him sharply for not shaking hands with his father.

'My father, madam?' said he; 'surely you mistake. My father was the
Right Honourable Sir Charles Lyndon. _I_ at least have not forgotten
him, if others have.' It was a declaration of war to me, as I saw at
once; though I declare I was willing enough to have received the boy
well on his coming amongst us, and to have lived with him on terms
of friendliness. But as men serve me I serve them. Who can blame me
for my after-quarrels with this young reprobate, or lay upon my
shoulders the evils which afterwards befell? Perhaps I lost my
temper, and my subsequent treatment of him WAS hard. But it was he
began the quarrel, and not I; and the evil consequences which ensued
were entirely of his creating.

As it is best to nip vice in the bud, and for a master of a family
to exercise his authority in such a manner as that there may be no
question about it, I took the earliest opportunity of coming to
close quarters with Master Bullingdon; and the day after his arrival
among us, upon his refusal to perform some duty which I requested of
him, I had him conveyed to my study, and thrashed him soundly. This
process, I confess, at first agitated me a good deal, for I had
never laid a whip on a lord before; but I got speedily used to the
practice, and his back and my whip became so well acquainted, that I
warrant there was very little CEREMONY between us after a while.

If I were to repeat all the instances of the insubordination and
brutal conduct of young Bullingdon, I should weary the reader. His
perseverance in resistance was, I think, even greater than mine in
correcting him: for a man, be he ever so much resolved to do his
duty as a parent, can't be flogging his children all day, or for
every fault they commit: and though I got the character of being so
cruel a stepfather to him, I pledge my word I spared him correction
when he merited it many more times than I administered it. Besides,
there were eight clear months in the year when he was quit of me,
during the time of my presence in London, at my place in Parliament,
and at the Court of my Sovereign.

At this period I made no difficulty to allow him to profit by the
Latin and Greek of the old rector; who had christened him, and had a
considerable influence over the wayward lad. After a scene or a
quarrel between us, it was generally to the rectory-house that the
young rebel would fly for refuge and counsel; and I must own that
the parson was a pretty just umpire between us in our disputes. Once
he led the boy back to Hackton by the hand, and actually brought him
into my presence, although he had vowed never to enter the doors in
my lifetime again, and said, 'He had brought his Lordship to
acknowledge his error, and submit to any punishment I might think
proper to inflict.' Upon which I caned him in the presence of two or
three friends of mine, with whom I was sitting drinking at the time;
and to do him justice, he bore a pretty severe punishment without
wincing or crying in the least. This will show that I was not too
severe in my treatment of the lad, as I had the authority of the
clergyman himself for inflicting the correction which I thought
proper.

Twice or thrice, Lavender, Bryan's governor, attempted to punish my
Lord Bullingdon; but I promise you the rogue was too strong for HIM,
and levelled the Oxford man to the ground with a chair: greatly to
the delight of little Byran, who cried out, 'Bravo, Bully! thump
him, thump him!' And Bully certainly did, to the governor's heart's
content; who never attempted personal chastisement afterwards; but
contented himself by bringing the tales of his Lordship's misdoings
to me, his natural protector and guardian.

With the child, Bullingdon was, strange to say, pretty tractable. He
took a liking for the little fellow,--as, indeed, everybody who saw
that darling boy did,--liked him the more, he said, because he was
'half a Lyndon.' And well he might like him, for many a time, at the
dear angel's intercession of 'Papa, don't flog Bully to-day!' I have
held my hand, and saved him a horsing, which he richly deserved.

With his mother, at first, he would scarcely deign to have any
communication. He said she was no longer one of the family. Why
should he love her, as she had never been a mother to him? But it
will give the reader an idea of the dogged obstinacy and surliness
of the lad's character, when I mention one trait regarding him. It
has been made a matter of complaint against me, that I denied him
the education befitting a gentleman, and never sent him to college
or to school; but the fact is, it was of his own choice that he went
to neither. He had the offer repeatedly from me (who wished to see
as little of his impudence as possible), but he as repeatedly
declined; and, for a long time, I could not make out what was the
charm which kept him in a house where he must have been far from
comfortable.

It came out, however, at last. There used to be very frequent
disputes between my Lady Lyndon and myself, in which sometimes she
was wrong, sometimes I was; and which, as neither of us had very
angelical tempers, used to run very high. I was often in liquor; and
when in that condition, what gentleman is master of himself? Perhaps
I DID, in this state, use my Lady rather roughly; fling a glass or
two at her, and call her by a few names that were not complimentary.
I may have threatened her life (which it was obviously my interest
not to take), and have frightened her, in a word, considerably.

After one of these disputes, in which she ran screaming through the
galleries, and I, as tipsy as a lord, came staggering after, it
appears Bullingdon was attracted out of his room by the noise; as I
came up with her, the audacious rascal tripped up my heels, which
were not very steady, and catching his fainting mother in his arms,
took her into his own room; where he, upon her entreaty, swore he
would never leave the house as long as she continued united with me.
I knew nothing of the vow, or indeed of the tipsy frolic which was
the occasion of it; I was taken up 'glorious,' as the phrase is, by
my servants, and put to bed, and, in the morning, had no more
recollection of what had occurred any more than of what happened
when I was a baby at the breast. Lady Lyndon told me of the
circumstance years after; and I mention it here, as it enables me to
plead honourably 'not guilty' to one of the absurd charges of
cruelty trumped up against me with respect to my stepson. Let my
detractors apologise, if they dare, for the conduct of a graceless
ruffian who trips up the heels of his own natural guardian and
stepfather after dinner.

This circumstance served to unite mother and son for a little; but
their characters were too different. I believe she was too fond of
me ever to allow him to be sincerely reconciled to her. As he grew
up to be a man, his hatred towards me assumed an intensity quite
wicked to think of (and which I promise you I returned with
interest): and it was at the age of sixteen, I think, that the
impudent young hangdog, on my return from Parliament one summer, and
on my proposing to cane him as usual, gave me to understand that he
would submit to no farther chastisement from me, and said, grinding
his teeth, that he would shoot me if I laid hands on him. I looked
at him; he was grown, in fact, to be a tall young man, and I gave up
that necessary part of his education.

It was about this time that I raised the company which was to serve
in America; and my enemies in the country (and since my victory over
the Tiptoffs I scarce need say I had many of them) began to
propagate the most shameful reports regarding my conduct to that
precious young scapegrace my stepson, and to insinuate that I
actually wished to get rid of him. Thus my loyalty to my Sovereign
was actually construed into a horrid unnatural attempt on my part on
Bullingdon's life; and it was said that I had raised the American
corps for the sole purpose of getting the young Viscount to command
it, and so of getting rid of him. I am not sure that they had not
fixed upon the name of the very man in the company who was ordered
to despatch him at the first general action, and the bribe I was to
give him for this delicate piece of service.

But the truth is, I was of opinion then (and though the fulfilment
of my prophecy has been delayed, yet I make no doubt it will be
brought to pass ere long), that my Lord Bullingdon needed none of MY
aid in sending him into the other world; but had a happy knack of
finding the way thither himself, which he would be sure to pursue.
In truth, he began upon this way early: of all the violent, daring,
disobedient scapegraces that ever caused an affectionate parent
pain, he was certainly the most incorrigible; there was no beating
him, or coaxing him, or taming him.

For instance, with my little son, when his governor brought him into
the room as we were over the bottle after dinner, my Lord would
begin his violent and undutiful sarcasms at me.

'Dear child,' he would say, beginning to caress and fondle him,
'what a pity it is I am not dead for thy sake! The Lyndons would
then have a worthier representative, and enjoy all the benefit of
the illustrious blood of the Barrys of Barryogue; would they not,
Mr. Barry Lyndon?' He always chose the days when company, or the
clergy or gentry of the neighbourhood, were present, to make these
insolent speeches to me.

