'Come to me tomorrow Clara,' Mrs Askerton said as they all passed
through the village together. Clara muttered some reply, having not
as yet made up her mind as to what her conduct must be. Early on the
next morning Will Belton went away, and again Clara got up to give
him his breakfast. On this occasion he had no thought of kissing her.
He went away without having had a word said to him about Mrs
Askerton, and then Clara settled herself down to the work of
deliberation. What should she do with reference to the communication
that had been made to her by Captain Aylmer?


CHAPTER XVII

AYLMER PARK

Aylmer Park and the great house of the Aylmers together formed an
important and, as regarded in some minds, an imposing country
residence. The park was large, including some three or four hundred
acres, and was peopled, rather thinly, by aristocratic deer. It was
surrounded by an aristocratic paling, and was entered, at three
different points, by aristocratic lodges. The sheep were more
numerous than the deer, because Sir Anthony, though he had a large
income, was not in very easy circumstances. The ground was quite
flat; and though there were thin belts of trees, and some ornamental
timber here and there, it was not well wooded. It had no special
beauty of its own, and depended for its imposing qualities chiefly on
its size, on its three sets of double lodges, and on its old
established character as an important family place in the county. The
house was of stone, with a portico of Ionic columns which looked as
though it hardly belonged of right to the edifice, and stretched
itself out grandly, with two pretentious wings, which certainly gave
it a just claim to be called a mansion. It required a great many
servants to keep it in order, and the numerous servants required an
experienced duenna, almost as grand in appearance as Lady Aylmer
herself, to keep them in order. There was an open carriage and a
closed carriage, and a butler, and two footmen, and three
gamekeepers, and four gardeners, and there was a coachman, and there
were grooms, and sundry inferior men and boys about the place to do
the work which the gardeners and game-keepers and grooms did not
choose to do themselves. But it all remained silent, and again
she cried: "Andrees!" - As after some time it was her, as they hear
it from the bottom come up again, and gradually they recognized the
voice of the young man who called out her name and grabbed his
hand, which he entgegenstreckte her. "It leads down a staircase,"
he said, "but it is steep and ausgebröckelt, and who knows how deep
down to the abyss is!" Maren frightened. "Fear not," he said, "I
bear thee, I have a secure base." Then he lifted the slender girl on
his broad shoulder, and when she's arms tightly around his neck had
increased, he gently with her into the depths. Density darkness
surrounded them, but Maren breathed but, while they are so stage
by stage as if in a winding snail hinabgetragen way was because it
was cool here in the interior of the earth. No sound from
above came down to them only once they heard muffled in the
distance the water underground buzz, which in vain to light
emporarbeiteten. "What was that?" whispered the girl. "I do not
know, Maren." "But because there's still no end?" "It seems almost
impossible."

"If you are not the only Goblin has cheated!" "I do not think Maren."
So they went deeper and deeper. At last she felt again the glimmer
of sunlight among themselves, with each step was shining, but urged
a suffocating heat them up. When they learned of the lowest
level to the outdoors came, they saw a completely unknown territory
ahead. Maren looked aback around. "The sun is shining but the same to
be!" she said finally. "Colder is at least they do not," said
Andrees by the girl he took to the soil. From the place where
they were, on a broad Steindamm ran an avenue of old pastures in
the distance beyond. They are careful not long, but went, as was
the way to them, between rows of trees along. If you are looking
for one or the other side looked as they saw in a ödes, indefinite
lowlands, so by all kinds of grooves and depressions was torn, as
it existed only from an endless tangle of abandoned lake and
stream beds. This also seemed to be confirmed that an oppressive
haze, as withered reeds, the air filled. They camped between the
shadows of the individual standing trees such fervor that the two
walkers was when they saw little white flames on the dusty way to
fly. Andrees had to flake out of the fire upon the goblins think.
Once it was him even when he saw two dark eyes in the bright
sunshine, then he clearly believed that the next great jumping
the little spindle legs to hear. Soon, it was left, soon to be
right at his side. If, however, he turned, he could not see, only
the air trembled glutheiße flickering and shining in front of his eyes.
Yes, he thought, he seized the girl and hand both laborious steps
forward, sour machst du's us, but right now you do not keep!
Continue and further they went, one only on the ever-heavier breathing
of the others listening.

The monotone path seemed no end to take them incessantly beside
the gray, half entblätterten pastures, sideways on both sides including
the eerie mist the lowlands. Suddenly remained Maren and leaned
with closed eyes in the trunk of a willow. "I can not continue," she
murmured, "the air is pure fire." Since the imaginary Andrees
Metfläschchens which they previously left untouched had .-- When
he removed the stopper, is a popular scent, as were the thousands of
flowers to bloom once again risen from their chalices before,
perhaps more than a hundred years, the honey bees to this potion
had gathered. Hardly had the lips of the girl to the side of the
bottle, they shall beat them even on the eyes. "Oh," cried she, "what
beautiful meadow are we?" "There is no lawn, Maren, but just drinking,
it will strengthen thee! "When they had drunk, she looked up, and
with bright eyes to her. "Drinking even once Andrees," said she,
"a women's room is just a elendiglich creature!" "But that is a
real drop!" Andrees cried after he had tasted. "Maybe the sky to
know what the Uhrahne has the brewed!" Then they went strengthened
and chatting more fun. After a while, however, remained the girl
is back. "What hast thou, Maren?" Andrees asked. "Oh, nothing, I
just thought -" "Then what, Maren?" "You see, Andrees! My father
still has half of his hay out on the meadows, and I go out there
and wants to make rain!" "Your father is a rich man, Maren; but
we have our other Fetzchen hay already in the scouring and our
fruit still on the dry reeds."

"Yes, yes, Andrees, you probably right, we must also think of the
others!"
She had no
pleasures, she incurred no expenses; and was quite alive to the fact
that as Aylmer Park required a regiment of lazy, gormandizing
servants to maintain its position in the county, the Aylmers
themselves should not be lazy, and should not gormandize. No one was
more careful with her few shillings than Miss Aylmer. She had,
indeed, abandoned a life's correspondence with an old friend because
she would not pay the postage on letters to Italy. She knew that it
was for the honour of the family that one of her brothers should sit
in Parliament, and was quite willing to deny herself a new dress
because sacrifices must be made to lessen electioneering expenses.
She knew that it was her lot to be driven about slowly in a carriage
with a livery servant before her and another behind her, and then eat
a dinner which the cook-maid would despise. She was aware that it was
her duty to be snubbed by her mother, and to encounter her father's
ill-temper, and to submit to her brother's indifference, and to have,
so to say, the slightest possible modicum of personal individuality.
She knew that she had never attracted a man's love, and might hardly
hope to make friends for the comfort of her coming age. But still she
was contented, and felt that she had consolation for it all in the
fact that she was am. Aylmer. She read many novels, and it cannot but
be supposed that something of regret would steal over her as she
remembered that nothing of the romance of life had ever, or could
ever, come in her way. She wept over the loves of many women, though
she had never been happy or unhappy in her own. She read of gaiety,
though she never encountered it, and must have known that the world
elsewhere was less dull than it was at Aylmer Park. But she took her
life as it came, without a complaint, and prayed that God would make
her humble in the high position to which it had pleased Him to call
her. She hated Radicals, and thought that Essays and Reviews, and
Bishop Colenso, came direct from the Evil One. She taught the little
children in the parish, being specially urgent to them always to
courtesy when they saw any of the family and was as ignorant, meek,
and stupid a poor woman as you shall find anywhere in Europe.

It may be imagined that Captain Aylmer, who knew the comforts of his
club and was accustomed to life in London, would feel the dullness of
the paternal roof to be almost unendurable. In truth, he was not very
fond of Aylmer Park, but he was more gifted with patience than most
men of his age and position, and was aware that it behoved him to
keep the Fifth Commandment if he expected to have his own days
prolonged in the land. He therefore made his visits periodically, and
contented himself with clipping a few days at both ends from the
length prescribed by family tradition, which his mother was desirous
of exacting. September was always to be passed at Aylmer Park,
because of the shooting. Ms. Stine said, "and now again soon! And you,
Maren, strange to most, so it does not get lost again!" And now,
said mother and son together once more and without impetus: "Haze is
the wave that is the source of dust ! Mute are the forests,
Feuermann tanzet on the fields! Take care! Eh you wake up, you
get the maternity home in the night! "" Now, all the hardship
to an end! " Maren said, "now we awaken the rain Trude; tomorrow all
the fields are green again, and tomorrow's wedding!" And with flying
words and gleaming eyes told them the Andrees what they promise
abgewonnen father had. "Child," said his widow again, "thou knowest
the way to rainy Trude?" "No, mother Stine, because you know no longer
the way? "" But, Maren, it was the ancestor, when the rain was
Trude; by the way, she was never told me. "" Well, Andrees, "said
Maren and grabbed the arm of the young farmers, while the forehead
with rugose to himself, had stared, "you say! you know otherwise
always Council!" "Perhaps I know even now again," he replied
cautiously. "I must be at noon today the sheep still hinauftragen
water. Perhaps that I fire the man once behind the bush can eavesdrop!
Has he betrayed little, he will even betray the way, for his thick
head appears on the marked out by these things.

"And with this decision, it was left. So much they talked
occasionally, they knew no better records. Soon afterwards there was
Andrees with his costume up there in the pasture sites.

When he was near the hill giants came, he saw the goblin from afar
on one of the stones on the hole sit dwarf.

He strählte with his five fingers ausgespreizten the red beard, and
every time he pulled the hand, caused a heap of fiery flakes and
floated into the bright sunshine on the fields then.

Because you're too late, thought Andrees today you will not learn
and wanted to move sideways, as if he did not see anything, after
the body turn, where still the tub was overturned.

But he was called. "I thought you would have to talk with me!" he heard
the Quäkstimme the goblins behind.

Andrees turned around and took a few steps back. "What I would
have to talk with you," he replied, I know you do not. "" But the
way you want to rain Trude know?

"" Who's because you say so? "" My little finger, and is wiser than
some big guy. "Andrees took all his courage and stepped a few steps
closer to the absurdity of the hill." Your little finger may well
be wise, "he said," but the way to rainy Trude is he does not know
Indeed, it was also appreciated by people allerklügsten not.

"The elf inflates like a toad and drove a few times with his hoof
through the fire beard that Andrees before the embers herausströmenden
a step zurücktaumelte.

Suddenly, however, the young farmer with the expression of a superior
mockery from his wicked little eyes gazing, he schnarrte him:
"You're too naive, Andrees, if I give you also said that the rain
Trude behind the wide forest lives, where would you not know that
behind the wood, a hollow willow stands . Here's the stupid play
Andrees thought, because although he otherwise was an honest farmer,
he had but his good portion Bauernschlauheit with the world get.
"Since you have right," he said, and tore at the mouth "I would
not know!"

"And," the elf continued, "if I give you also said that the
forest behind the hollow willow stands, so you would not know
that the tree in a staircase to the garden the rain hinabführt
woman. "
At first she was so
comfortably horror-stricken by the iniquity she had unravelled,--so
delightfully shocked and astounded,--as to believe that the facts as
they then stood would suffice to annul the match.

'You don't tell me', she said to Belinda, 'that Frederic's wife will
have been the friend of such a woman as that!' And Lady Aylmer,
sitting upstairs with her household books before her, put up her
great fat hands and her great fat arms, and shook her head,--front and
all,--in most satisfactory dismay.

'But I suppose Clara did not know it.' Belinda had considered it to
be an act of charity to call Miss Amedroz Clara since the family
consent had been given.

'Didn't know it! They have been living in that sort of way that they
must have been confidantes in everything. Besides, I always hold that
a woman is responsible for her female friends.'

'I think if she consents to drop her at once that is, absolutely to
make a promise that she will never speak to her again Frederic ought
to take that as sufficient. That is, of course, mamma, unless she has
had anything to do with it herself.'

'After this I don't know how I'm to trust her. I don't indeed. It
seems to me that she has been so artful throughout. It has been a
regular case of catching.'

'I suppose, of course, that she has been anxious to marry Frederic
but perhaps that was natural.'

'Anxious look at her going there just when he had to meet his
constituents. How young women can do such things passes me! And how
it is that men don't see it all, when it's going on just under their
noses, I can't understand. And then, her getting my poor dear sister
to speak to him when she was dying! I didn't think your aunt would
have been so weak.' It will be thus seen that there was entire
confidence on this subject between Lady Aylmer and her daughter.

We know what were the steps taken with reference to the discovery,
and how the family were waiting for Clara's reply. Lady Aylmer,
though in her words she attributed so much mean cunning to Miss
Amedroz, still was disposed to believe that that lady would show
rather a high spirit on this occasion; and trusted to that high
spirit as the means for making the breach which she still hoped to
accomplish. It had been intended or rather desired that Captain
Aylmer's letter should have been much sharper and authoritative than
he had really made it; but the mother could not write the letter
herself, and had felt that to write in her own name would not have
served to create anger on Clara's part against her betrothed. But she
had quite succeeded in inspiring her son with a feeling of horror
against the iniquity of the Askertons. He was prepared to be
indignantly moral; and perhaps the misguided Clara might be silly
enough to say a word for her lost friend! Such being the present
position of affairs, there was certainly ground for hope.

And now they were all waiting for Clara's answer. Lady Aylmer had
well calculated the course of post, and knew that a letter might
reach them by Wednesday morning. 'Of course she will not write on
Sunday,' she had said to her son, 'but you have a right to expect
that not another day should go by.' Captain Aylmer, who felt that
they were putting Clara on her trial, shook his head impatiently, and
made no immediate answer. Lady Aylmer, triumphantly feeling that she
had the culprit on the hip, did not care to notice this. She was
doing the best she could for his happiness as she had done for his
health, when in days gone by she had administered to him his
infantine rhubarb and early senna; but as she had never then expected
him to like her doses, neither did she now expect that he should be
well pleased at the remedial measures to which he was to be
subjected.

"The ancestor I died early. But I still, when we had severe drought
at that time, like now, and us with the seed or cattle disaster
struck, then she probably quite secretly to say: 'This does the
Feuermann us to joke, because I have once the rains have awakened
woman! "The fire man?"

asked the girl, "who is this again?" But before they could receive
an answer, she was already leaped to the window and cried: "To
God, Mother, here comes the Andrees; see just how verstürzt he
looks!"

The widow stood up from her spinning wheel: "Of course, child "she
said, dejected," seest thou not what he carries on his back?

There is already one of the sheep verdurstet. "Soon afterwards, the
young farmer came into the room and put the dead animal in front of
the women on the floor. "Because it's you!" he said finster by hand
with the sweat from his hot forehead stressed. The women were
more in his face than on the dead creature. "Take thee's not so much
to heart, Andrees!" Maren said.

"We want to awaken the woman of rain, and everything will be well
again."

"The Rain woman!" he repeated soundless. "Yes, Maren, who could
awaken! - It is not the reason alone, it gives me something to befall
the outside." The mother took his hand tenderly. "To tell you," she
cautioned, "so that you did not Siech!" "To hear because!" he replied
.-- "I wanted to look after our sheep and whether the water that I
yesterday evening for them hinaufgetragen, had not yet evaporated.
But when I on the pasture came, I saw immediately that it was not
his veracity; tub of water was no longer where I made out to him,
and the sheep were not to be seen.

In order to search it, I went down to the Rain on the giant
hill. When I on the other side came, I saw that they all lie, panting,
the long necks stretched out upon the earth, the poor creature was
already here krepiert.

Besides, the tub and have fallen completely dried up.

The animals could not have done here was a malicious hand in games.
"" Child, child ", interrupted him, the mother," who should be a
poor widow's suffering! "" Listen only to mother, it is still on. I
went up on the hill and looked to all sides on the level, but no
man was to be seen , which lay like burning embers all the days of
silence on the fields.

Only with the addition on one of the large stones, between which
the dwarf hole in the hills hinabgeht, sat a fat pig and sunbathing
his ugly body.

When I was half so helpless, half Furor I stared at her, I suddenly
heard behind me from the other side of the hill forth a murmur, as
when one eagerly talking to herself, and when I am inverted,
knorpsiges I see a man in bright red skirt and red tip cap down
between the heather stomp up and down .-- I was shocked myself,
because when it was suddenly come!

- also saw it was so bad and mißgeschaffen.

The large red-brown hands had been folded on the back, and played
the crooked fingers like spider legs in the air.

I was taken behind the bush, in addition to the stones from the hills
to grow, and could see everything from here, without even noticed.

The absurdity down there was still in motion, it bent down and
snatched a bundle Scorched grass from the ground that I thought
it must be with his pumpkin head forward shoot, but it was already
back on his spindle legs, and by the dry herb between his big fists
rubbed into powder, it began to laugh so horrible that the other
side of the hill, half the sheep jumped up and escape into the wild
in the Rain hinunterjagten.

The little man laughed but still piercing, and it started from one
leg to the other to jump, that I feared would have the thin rod
under his lumpy body collapse.

It was horrible to be, because it sparkled him well in his little
black eyes. "widow had quietly taken the girl hands."

You know now who the man is the fire? " she said. Maren nodded.
"The allergrausenhafteste but" Andrees drove away, "was his voice.

'If they knew if they knew it!" he cried, 'the flail, the peasant
boobies! " And then he sang with his rattling end quäkenden an odd
little voice, always from front to back, as if he were not even
ersättigen. Wait, I still get's together! "And after a few moments,
he continued:" Haze is the wave, dust is the source! "
And even Sir Anthony had raised his
eyes and shaken his head, when, on opening the post-bag at the
breakfast-table an operation which was always performed by Lady
Aylmer in person her ladyship had exclaimed, 'again no letter!' Then
Captain Aylmer thought that he would fly, and resolved that, in the
event of such flight, he would give special orders as to the
re-direction of his own letters from the post-office at Whitby.

That evening, after dinner, as soon as his mother and sister had left
the room, he began the subject with his father. 'I think I shall go
up to town on Monday, sir,' said he.

'So soon as that. I thought you were to stop till the 9th.'

'There are things I must see to in London, and I believe I had better
go at once.'

'Your mother will be greatly disappointed.'

'I shall be sorry for that;--but business is business, you know.' Then
the father filled his glass and passed the bottle. The rain Trude Theodor
Storm as a hot summer, as now a hundred years ago, it has not been
reproduced. Was almost no green to be seen, tame and wild animals was
verschmachtet in the fields. It was a morning. The village streets
were empty, but if you could, was the core of the houses escaped
even the Dorfkläffer had verkrochen.

Only the thick Wiesenbauer breitspurig stood in the Torfahrt his stately
house, and smoked by the sweat of his view of his large head
meerschaum.

The smile he looked a mighty Fuder hay contrary, just by his servants
in the hall there was .-- He had a few years ago a major area marshy
meadow land at a low purchase price and the recent dry years, which
in the fields of its neighbors the grass is scorched, he had to
scrub with fragrant hay and the box filled with bare Krontalern.

So he stood still and calculated what the ever-increasing prices,
the surplus of the harvest could bring him.

"You get nothing," he muttered, through the eyes shaded with the
hand and between the neighboring farms through the flickering remote
looked, "there's no more rain in the world."

Then he went to the car, which has just been unloaded, he plucking
out a handful of hay, it led to his broad nose and then smiled
mischievously, as if he made the strong smell some more Krontaler
could smell out.

In the same moment was about fifty-year woman into the house underfoot.
She looked pale and suffering, and in the black silk cloth, which they
put around his neck wore joined the troubled expression of her
face even more apparent.

"Good day, neighbor," she said, by the Wiesenbauer hands enough,
"this is a glow, and hair to burn one on the head!"

"Let's burn, mother Stine, let burn", he replied, "you see only
Fuder to the hay!

I can not be too bad! "
The best woman in the world, as we were saying
but that's her way. And it's the way with most of them. They can do
anything if they keep it up anything. The best thing is to bear it if
you've got it to bear. But why on earth you should go and marry,
seeing that you're not the eldest son, and that you've got everything
on earth that you want as a bachelor, I can't understand. I can't
indeed, Fred. By heaven, I can't!' Then Sir Anthony gave a long sigh,
and sat musing awhile, thinking of the club in London to which he
belonged, but which he never entered of the old days in which he had
been master of a bedroom near St. James's Street of his old friends
whom he never saw now, and of whom he never heard, except as one and
another, year after year, shuffled away from their wives to that
world in which there is no marrying or giving in marriage. Ah, well,'
he said, 'I suppose we may as well go into the drawing-room. If it is
settled, I suppose it is settled. But it really seems to me that your
mother is trying to do the best she can for you. It really does.'

