"Of course it is false." Then the Duchess remembered her word to Mr.
Sprugeon, and the cowardice of the lie was heavy on her. I doubt
whether she would have been so shocked by the idea of a falsehood as
to have been kept back from it had she before resolved that it would
save her; but she was not in her practice a false woman, her courage
being too high for falsehood. It now seemed to her that by this
lie she was owning herself to be quelled and brought into absolute
subjection by her husband. So she burst out into truth. "Now I think
of it, I did say a word to Mr. Sprugeon. I told him that--that I
hoped Mr. Lopez would be returned. I don't know whether you call that
canvassing."

"I desired you not to speak to Mr. Sprugeon," he thundered forth.

"That's all very well, Plantagenet, but if you desire me to hold my
tongue altogether, what am I to do?"

"What business is this of yours?"

"I suppose I may have my political sympathies as well as another.
Really you are becoming so autocratic that I shall have to go in for
women's rights."

"You mean me to understand then that you intend to put yourself in
opposition to me."

"What a fuss you make about it all!" she said. "Nothing that one can
do is right! You make me wish that I was a milkmaid or a farmer's
wife." So saying she bounced out of the room, leaving the Duke sick
at heart, low in spirit, and doubtful whether he were right or wrong
in his attempts to manage his wife. Surely he must be right in
feeling that in his high office a clearer conduct and cleaner way of
walking was expected from him than from other men! Noblesse oblige!
To his uncle the privilege of returning a member to Parliament had
been a thing of course; and when the Radical newspapers of the day
abused his uncle, his uncle took that abuse as a thing of course. The
old Duke acted after his kind, and did not care what others said of
him. And he himself, when he first came to his dukedom, was not as
he was now. Duties, though they were heavy enough, were lighter then.
Serious matters were less serious. There was this and that matter
of public policy on which he was intent, but, thinking humbly of
himself, he had not yet learned to conceive that he must fit his
public conduct in all things to a straight rule of patriotic justice.
Now it was different with him, and though the change was painful, he
felt it to be imperative. He would fain have been as other men, but
he could not. But in this change it was so needful to him that he
should carry with him the full sympathies of one person;--that she
who was the nearest to him of all should act with him! And now she
had not only disobeyed him, but had told him, as some grocer's wife
might tell her husband, that he was "making a fuss about it all!"

And then, as he thought of the scene which has been described,
he could not quite approve of himself. He knew that he was too
self-conscious,--that he was thinking too much about his own conduct
and the conduct of others to him. The phrase had been odious to him,
but still he could not acquit himself of "making a fuss." Of one
thing only was he sure,--that a grievous calamity had befallen
him when circumstances compelled him to become the Queen's Prime
Minister.

He said nothing further to his wife till they were in London
together, and then he was tempted to caress her again, to be loving
to her, and to show her that he had forgiven her. But she was brusque
to him, as though she did not wish to be forgiven. "Cora," he said,
"do not separate yourself from me."

"Separate myself! What on earth do you mean? I have not dreamed of
such a thing." The Duchess answered him as though he had alluded to
some actual separation.

"I do not mean that. God forbid that a misfortune such as that should
ever happen! Do not disjoin yourself from me in all these troubles."

"What am I to do when you scold me? You must know pretty well by this
time that I don't like to be scolded. 'I desired you not to speak to
Mr. Sprugeon!'" As she repeated his words she imitated his manner and
voice closely. "I shouldn't dream of addressing the children with
such magnificence of anger. 'What business is it of yours?' No woman
likes that sort of thing, and I'm not sure that I am acquainted with
any woman who likes it much less than--Glencora, Duchess of Omnium."
As she said these last words in a low whisper, she curtseyed down to
the ground.

"You know how anxious I am," he began, "that you should share
everything with me,--even in politics. But in all things there must
at last be one voice that shall be the ruling voice."

"And that is to be yours,--of course."

"In such a matter as this it must be."

"And, therefore, I like to do a little business of my own behind your
back. It's human nature, and you've got to put up with it. I wish
you had a better wife. I dare say there are many who would be better.
There's the Duchess of St. Bungay who never troubles her husband
about politics, but only scolds him because the wind blows from the
east. It is just possible there might be worse."

"Oh, Glencora!"

"You had better make the best you can of your bargain and not expect
too much from her. And don't ride over her with a very high horse.
And let her have her own way a little if you really believe that she
has your interest at heart."

After this he was quite aware that she had got the better of him
altogether. On that occasion he smiled and kissed her, and went his
way. But he was by no means satisfied. That he should be thwarted by
her, ate into his very heart;--and it was a wretched thing to him
that he could not make her understand his feeling in this respect.
If it were to go on he must throw up everything. Ruat coelum,
fiat--proper subordination from his wife in regard to public matters!
No wife had a fuller allowance of privilege, or more complete power
in her hands, as to things fit for women's management. But it was
intolerable to him that she should seek to interfere with him in
matters of a public nature. And she was constantly doing so. She
had always this or that aspirant for office on hand;--this or
that job to be carried, though the jobs were not perhaps much in
themselves;--this or that affair to be managed by her own political
allies, such as Barrington Erle and Phineas Finn. And in his heart he
suspected her of a design of managing the Government in her own way,
with her own particular friend, Mrs. Finn, for her Prime Minister. If
he could in no other way put an end to such evils as these, he must
put an end to his own political life. Ruat coelum, fiat justitia.
Now "justitia" to him was not compatible with feminine interference
in his own special work.

It may therefore be understood that things were not going very
smoothly with the Duke and Duchess; and it may also be understood
why the Duchess had had very little to say to Mr. Lopez about the
election. She was aware that she owed something to Mr. Lopez, whom
she had certainly encouraged to stand for the borough, and she had
therefore sent her card to his wife and was prepared to invite them
both to her parties;--but just at present she was a little tired of
Ferdinand Lopez, and perhaps unjustly disposed to couple him with
that unfortunate wretch, Major Pountney.


CHAPTER XXXIII

Showing That a Man Should Not Howl


Arthur Fletcher, in his letter to Mrs. Lopez, had told her that when
he found out who was to be his antagonist at Silverbridge, it was too
late for him to give up the contest. He was, he said, bound in faith
to continue it by what had passed between himself and others. But in
truth he had not reached his conclusion without some persuasion from
others. He had been at Longbarns with his brother when he first heard
that Lopez intended to stand, and he at once signified his desire
to give way. The information reached him from Mr. Frank Gresham, of
Greshamsbury, a gentleman connected with the De Courcys who was now
supposed to represent the De Courcy interest in the county, and who
had first suggested to Arthur that he should come forward. It was
held at Longbarns that Arthur was bound in honour to Mr. Gresham and
to Mr. Gresham's friends, and to this opinion he had yielded.

Since Emily Wharton's marriage her name had never been mentioned at
Longbarns in Arthur's presence. When he was away,--and of course his
life was chiefly passed in London,--old Mrs. Fletcher was free enough
in her abuse of the silly creature who had allowed herself to be
taken out of her own rank by a Portuguese Jew. But she had been made
to understand by her elder son, the lord of Longbarns, that not a
word was to be said when Arthur was there. "I think he ought to be
taught to forget her," Mrs. Fletcher had said. But John in his own
quiet but imperious way, had declared that there were some men to
whom such lessons could not be taught, and that Arthur was one of
them. "Is he never to get a wife, then?" Mrs. Fletcher had asked.
John wouldn't pretend to answer that question, but was quite sure
that his brother would not be tempted into other matrimonial
arrangements by anything that could be said against Emily Lopez. When
Mrs. Fletcher declared in her extreme anger that Arthur was a fool
for his trouble, John did not contradict her, but declared that the
folly was of a nature to require tender treatment.

Matters were in this condition at Longbarns when Arthur communicated
to his brother the contents of Mr. Gresham's letter, and expressed
his own purpose of giving up Silverbridge. "I don't quite see that,"
said John.

"No;--and it is impossible that you should be expected to see it. I
don't quite know how to talk about it even to you, though I think you
are about the softest-hearted fellow out."

"I don't acknowledge the soft heart;--but go on."

"I don't want to interfere with that man. I have a sort of feeling
that as he has got her he might as well have the seat too."

"The seat, as you call it, is not there for his gratification or for
yours. The seat is there in order that the people of Silverbridge may
be represented in Parliament."

"Let them get somebody else. I don't want to put myself in opposition
to him, and I certainly do not want to oppose her."

"They can't change their candidate in that way at a day's notice.
You would be throwing Gresham over, and, if you ask me, I think
that is a thing you have no right to do. This objection of yours is
sentimental, and there is nothing of which a man should be so much
in dread as sentimentalism. It is not your fault that you oppose
Mr. Lopez. You were in the field first, and you must go on with it."
John Fletcher, when he spoke in this way, was, at Longbarns, always
supposed to be right; and on the present occasion he, as usual,
prevailed. Then Arthur Fletcher wrote his letter to the lady. He
would not have liked to have had it known that the composition and
copying of that little note had cost him an hour. He had wished that
she should understand his feelings, and yet it was necessary that
he should address her in words that should be perfectly free from
affection or emotion. He must let her know that, though he wrote to
her, the letter was for her husband as well as for herself, and he
must do this in a manner which would not imply any fear that his
writing to her would be taken amiss. The letter when completed was at
any rate simple and true; and yet, as we know, it was taken very much
amiss.

Arthur Fletcher had by no means recovered from the blow he had
received that day when Emily had told him everything down by the
river side; but then, it must be said of him, that he had no
intention of recovery. He was as a man who, having taken a burden
on his back, declares to himself that he will, for certain reasons,
carry it throughout his life. The man knows that with the burden he
cannot walk as men walk who are unencumbered, but for those reasons
of his he has chosen to lade himself, and having done so he abandons
regret and submits to his circumstances. So had it been with him.
He would make no attempt to throw off the load. It was now far back
in his life, as much at least as three years, since he had first
assured himself of his desire to make Emily Wharton the companion
of his life. From that day she had been the pivot on which his whole
existence had moved. She had refused his offers more than once, but
had done so with so much tender kindness, that, though he had found
himself to be wounded and bruised, he had never abandoned his object.
Her father and all his own friends encouraged him. He was continually
told that her coldness was due to the simple fact that she had not
yet learned to give her heart away. And so he had persevered, being
ever thoroughly intent on his purpose, till he was told by herself
that her love was given to this other man.

Then he knew that it behoved him to set some altered course of life
before him. He could not shoot his rival or knock him over the head,
nor could he carry off his girl, as used to be done in rougher times.
There was nothing now for a man in such a catastrophe as this but
submission. But he might submit and shake off his burden, or submit
and carry it hopelessly. He told himself that he would do the latter.
She had been his goddess, and he would not now worship at another
shrine. And then ideas came into his head,--not hopes, or purposes,
or a belief even in any possibility,--but vague ideas, mere castles
in the air, that a time might come in which it might be in his power
to serve her, and to prove to her beyond doubting what had been the
nature of his love. Like others of his family, he thought ill of
Lopez, believing the man to be an adventurer, one who would too
probably fall into misfortune, however high he might now seem to hold
his head. He was certainly a man not standing on the solid basis of
land, or of Three per Cents,--those solidities to which such as the
Whartons and Fletchers are wont to trust. No doubt, should there be
such fall, the man's wife would have other help than that of her
rejected lover. She had a father, brother, and cousins, who would
also be there to aid her. The idea was, therefore, but a castle in
the air. And yet it was dear to him. At any rate he resolved that he
would live for it, and that the woman should still be his goddess,
though she was the wife of another man, and might now perhaps never
even be seen by him. Then there came upon him, immediately almost
after her marriage, the necessity of writing to her. The task was one
which, of course, he did not perform lightly.

He never said a word of this to anybody else;--but his brother
understood it all, and in a somewhat silent fashion fully sympathised
with him. John could not talk to him about love, or mark passages of
poetry for him to read, or deal with him at all romantically; but he
could take care that his brother had the best horses to ride, and the
warmest corner out shooting, and that everything in the house should
be done for his brother's comfort. As the squire looked and spoke
at Longbarns, others looked and spoke,--so that everybody knew that
Mr. Arthur was to be contradicted in nothing. Had he, just at this
period, ordered a tree in the park to be cut down, it would, I think,
have been cut down, without reference to the master! But, perhaps,
John's power was most felt in the way in which he repressed the
expressions of his mother's high indignation. "Mean slut!" she once
said, speaking of Emily in her eldest son's hearing. For the girl,
to her thinking, had been mean and had been a slut. She had not
known,--so Mrs. Fletcher thought,--what birth and blood required of
her.

"Mother," John Fletcher had said, "you would break Arthur's heart if
he heard you speak in that way, and I am sure you would drive him
from Longbarns. Keep it to yourself." The old woman had shaken her
head angrily, but she had endeavoured to do as she had been bid.

"Isn't your brother riding that horse a little rashly?" Reginald
Cotgrave said to John Fletcher in the hunting field one day.

"I didn't observe," said John; "but whatever horse he's on, he always
rides rashly." Arthur was mounted on a long, raking thorough-bred
black animal, which he had bought himself about a month ago, and
which, having been run at steeplechases, rushed at every fence as
though he were going to swallow it. His brother had begged him to put
some rough-rider up till the horse could be got to go quietly, but
Arthur had persevered. And during the whole of this day the squire
had been in a tremor, lest there should be some accident.

"He used to have a little more judgment, I think," said Cotgrave. "He
went at that double just now as hard as the brute could tear. If the
horse hadn't done it all, where would he have been?"

"In the further ditch, I suppose. But you see the horse did do it
all."

This was all very well as an answer to Reginald Cotgrave,--to whom
it was not necessary that Fletcher should explain the circumstances.
But the squire had known as well as Cotgrave that his brother had
been riding rashly, and he had understood the reason why. "I don't
think a man ought to break his neck," he said, "because he can't
get everything that he wishes." The two brothers were standing then
together before the fire in the squire's own room, having just come
in from hunting.

"Who is going to break his neck?"

"They tell me that you tried to to-day."

"Because I was riding a pulling horse. I'll back him to be the
biggest leaper and the quickest horse in Herefordshire."

"I dare say,--though for the matter of that the chances are very much
against it. But a man shouldn't ride so as to have those things said
of him."

"What is a fellow to do if he can't hold a horse?"

"Get off him."

"That's nonsense, John!"

"No, it's not. You know what I mean very well. If I were to lose half
my property to-morrow, don't you think it would cut me up a good
deal?"

"It would me, I know."

"But what would you think of me if I howled about it?"

"Do I howl?" asked Arthur angrily.

"Every man howls who is driven out of his ordinary course by any
trouble. A man howls if he goes about frowning always."

"Do I frown?"

"Or laughing."

"Do I laugh?"

"Or galloping over the country like a mad devil who wants to get rid
of his debts by breaking his neck. Æquam memento--. You remember all
that, don't you?"

"I remember it; but it isn't so easy to do it."

"Try. There are other things to be done in life except getting
married. You are going into Parliament."

"I don't know that."

"Gresham tells me there isn't a doubt about it. Think of that. Fix
your mind upon it. Don't take it only as an accident, but as the
thing you're to live for. If you'll do that,--if you'll so manage
that there shall be something to be done in Parliament which only you
can do, you won't ride a runaway horse as you did that brute to-day."
Arthur looked up into his brother's face almost weeping. "We expect
much of you, you know. I'm not a man to do anything except be a good
steward for the family property, and keep the old house from falling
down. You're a clever fellow,--so that between us, if we both do our
duty, the Fletchers may still thrive in the land. My house shall be
your house, and my wife your wife, and my children your children. And
then the honour you win shall be my honour. Hold up your head,--and
sell that beast." Arthur Fletcher squeezed his brother's hand and
went away to dress.


CHAPTER XXXIV

The Silverbridge Election


About a month after this affair with the runaway horse Arthur
Fletcher went to Greshamsbury, preparatory to his final sojourn at
Silverbridge for the week previous to his election. Greshamsbury, the
seat of Francis Gresham, Esq., who was a great man in these parts,
was about twenty miles from Silverbridge, and the tedious work of
canvassing the electors could not therefore be done from thence;--but
he spent a couple of pleasant days with his old friend, and learned
what was being said and what was being done in and about the borough.
Mr. Gresham was a man, not as yet quite forty years of age, very
popular, with a large family, of great wealth, and master of the
county hounds. His father had been an embarrassed man, with a large
estate; but this Gresham had married a lady with immense wealth,
and had prospered in the world. He was not an active politician. He
did not himself care for Parliament, or for the good things which
political power can give, and was on this account averse to the
Coalition. He thought that Sir Orlando Drought and the others were
touching pitch and had defiled themselves. But he was conscious that
in so thinking he was one of but a small minority; and, bad as the
world around him certainly was, terrible as had been the fall of the
glory of old England, he was nevertheless content to live without
loud grumbling as long as the farmers paid him their rent, and the
labourers in his part of the country did not strike for wages, and
the land when sold would fetch thirty years' purchase. He had not
therefore been careful to ascertain that Arthur Fletcher would pledge
himself to oppose the Coalition before he proffered his assistance
in this matter of the borough. It would not be easy to find such
a candidate, or perhaps possible to bring him in when found. The
Fletchers had always been good Conservatives, and were proper people
to be in Parliament. A Conservative in Parliament is, of course,
obliged to promote a great many things which he does not really
approve. Mr. Gresham quite understood that. You can't have tests and
qualifications, rotten boroughs and the divine right of kings, back
again. But as the glorious institutions of the country are made to
perish, one after the other, it is better that they should receive
the coup de grâce tenderly from loving hands than be roughly
throttled by Radicals. Mr. Gresham would thank his stars that he
could still preserve foxes down in his own country, instead of doing
any of this dirty work,--for let the best be made of such work,
still it was dirty,--and was willing, now as always, to give his
assistance, and if necessary to spend a little money, to put a
Fletcher into Parliament and to keep a Lopez out.

There was to be a third candidate. That was the first news that
Fletcher heard. "It will do us all the good in the world," said Mr.
Gresham. "The Rads in the borough are not satisfied with Mr. Lopez.
They say they don't know him. As long as a certain set could make
it be believed that he was the Duke's nominee they were content to
accept him;--even though he was not proposed directly by the Duke's
people in the usual way. But the Duke has made himself understood
at last. You have seen the Duke's letter?" Arthur had not seen the
Duke's letter, which had only been published in the "Silverbridge
Gazette" of that week, and he now read it, sitting in Mr. Gresham's
magistrate's-room, as a certain chamber in the house had been called
since the days of the present squire's great-grandfather.

The Duke's letter was addressed to his recognised man of business in
those parts, and was as follows:--


   Carlton Terrace, -- March, 187--.

   MY DEAR MR. MORETON, [Mr. Moreton was the successor of one
   Mr. Fothergill, who had reigned supreme in those parts
   under the old Duke.]

   I am afraid that my wishes with regard to the borough and
   the forthcoming election there of a member of Parliament
   are not yet clearly understood, although I endeavoured to
   declare them when I was at Gatherum Castle. I trust that
   no elector will vote for this or that gentleman with an
   idea that the return of any special candidate will please
   me. The ballot will of course prevent me or any other man
   from knowing how an elector may vote;--but I beg to assure
   the electors generally that should they think fit to
   return a member pledged to oppose the Government of which
   I form a part, it would not in any way change my cordial
   feelings towards the town. I may perhaps be allowed to add
   that, in my opinion, no elector can do his duty except by
   voting for the candidate whom he thinks best qualified to
   serve the country. In regard to the gentlemen who are now
   before the constituency, I have no feeling for one rather
   than for the other; and had I any such feeling I should
   not wish it to actuate the vote of a single elector. I
   should be glad if this letter could be published so as to
   be brought under the eyes of the electors generally.

   Yours faithfully,

   OMNIUM.


When the Duke said that he feared that his wishes were not
understood, and spoke of the inefficacy of his former declaration,
he was alluding of course to the Duchess and to Mr. Sprugeon. Mr.
Sprugeon guessed that it might be so, and, still wishing to have the
Duchess for his good friend, was at once assiduous in explaining
to his friends in the borough that even this letter did not mean
anything. A Prime Minister was bound to say that kind of thing! But
the borough, if it wished to please the Duke, must return Lopez in
spite of the Duke's letter. Such was Mr. Sprugeon's doctrine. But
he did not carry Mr. Sprout with him. Mr. Sprout at once saw his
opportunity, and suggested to Mr. Du Boung, the local brewer, that
he should come forward. Du Boung was a man rapidly growing into
provincial eminence, and jumped at the offer. Consequently there were
three candidates. Du Boung came forward as a Conservative prepared to
give a cautious, but very cautious, support to the Coalition. Mr. Du
Boung, in his printed address, said very sweet things of the Duke
generally. The borough was blessed by the vicinity of the Duke. But,
looking at the present perhaps unprecedented crisis in affairs, Mr.
Du Boung was prepared to give no more than a very cautious support to
the Duke's Government. Arthur Fletcher read Mr. Du Boung's address
immediately after the Duke's letter.

"The more the merrier," said Arthur.

"Just so. Du Boung will not rob you of a vote, but he will cut the
ground altogether from under the other man's feet. You see that as
far as actual political programme goes there isn't much to choose
between any of you. You are all Government men."

"With a difference."

"One man in these days is so like another," continued Gresham
sarcastically, "that it requires good eyes to see the shades of the
colours."

"Then you'd better support Du Boung," said Arthur.

"I think you've just a turn in your favour. Besides, I couldn't
really carry a vote myself. As for Du Boung, I'd sooner have him
than a foreign cad like Lopez." Then Arthur Fletcher frowned and Mr.
Gresham became confused, remembering the catastrophe about the young
lady whose story he had heard. "Du Boung used to be plain English
as Bung before he got rich and made his name beautiful," continued
Gresham, "but I suppose Mr. Lopez does come of foreign extraction."

"I don't know what he comes from," said Arthur moodily. "They tell
me he's a gentleman. However, as we are to have a contest, I hope he
mayn't win."

"Of course you do. And he shan't win. Nor shall the great Du Boung.
You shall win, and become Prime Minister, and make me a peer. Would
you like papa to be Lord Greshamsbury?" he said to a little girl, who
then rushed into the room.

"No, I wouldn't. I'd like papa to give me the pony which the man
wants to sell out in the yard."

"She's quite right, Fletcher," said the squire. "I'm much more likely
to be able to buy them ponies as simple Frank Gresham than I should
be if I had a lord's coronet to pay for."

This was on a Saturday, and on the following Monday Mr. Gresham
drove the candidate over to Silverbridge and started him on his work
of canvassing. Mr. Du Boung had been busy ever since Mr. Sprout's
brilliant suggestion had been made, and Lopez had been in the field
even before him. Each one of the candidates called at the house of
every elector in the borough,--and every man in the borough was
an elector. When they had been at work for four or five days each
candidate assured the borough that he had already received promises
of votes sufficient to insure his success, and each candidate was
as anxious as ever,--nay, was more rabidly anxious than ever,--to
secure the promise of a single vote. Hints were made by honest
citizens of the pleasure they would have in supporting this or that
gentleman,--for the honest citizens assured one gentleman after the
other of the satisfaction they had in seeing so all-sufficient a
candidate in the borough,--if the smallest pecuniary help were given
them, even a day's pay, so that their poor children might not be
injured by their going to the poll. But the candidates and their
agents were stern in their replies to such temptations. "That's a
dodge of that rascal Sprout," said Sprugeon to Mr. Lopez. "That's one
of Sprout's men. If he could get half-a-crown from you it would be
all up with us." But though Sprugeon called Sprout a rascal, he laid
the same bait both for Du Boung and for Fletcher;--but laid it in
vain. Everybody said that it was a very clean election. "A brewer
standing, and devil a glass of beer!" said one old elector who had
remembered better things when the borough never heard of a contest.

On the third day of his canvass Arthur Fletcher with his gang of
agents and followers behind him met Lopez with his gang in the
street. It was probable that they would so meet, and Fletcher had
resolved what he would do when such a meeting took place. He walked
up to Lopez, and with a kindly smile offered his hand. The two men,
though they had never been intimate, had known each other, and
Fletcher was determined to show that he would not quarrel with a man
because that man had been his favoured rival. In comparison with that
other matter this affair of the candidature was of course trivial.
But Lopez who had, as the reader may remember, made some threat about
a horsewhip, had come to a resolution of a very different nature. He
put his arms a-kimbo, resting his hands on his hips, and altogether
declined the proffered civility. "You had better walk on," he said,
and then stood, scowling, on the spot till the other should pass by.
Fletcher looked at him for a moment, then bowed and passed on. At
least a dozen men saw what had taken place, and were aware that Mr.
Lopez had expressed his determination to quarrel personally with Mr.
Fletcher, in opposition to Mr. Fletcher's expressed wish for amity.
And before they had gone to bed that night all the dozen knew the
reason why. Of course there was some one then at Silverbridge clever
enough to find out that Arthur Fletcher had been in love with Miss
Wharton, but that Miss Wharton had lately been married to Mr. Lopez.
No doubt the incident added a pleasurable emotion to the excitement
caused by the election at Silverbridge generally. A personal quarrel
is attractive everywhere. The expectation of such an occurrence will
bring together the whole House of Commons. And of course this quarrel
was very attractive in Silverbridge. There were some Fletcherites
and Lopezites in the quarrel; as there were also Du Boungites, who
maintained that when gentlemen could not canvass without quarrelling
in the streets they were manifestly unfit to represent such a borough
as Silverbridge in Parliament;--and that therefore Mr. Du Boung
should be returned.

Mr. Gresham was in the town that day, though not till after the
occurrence, and Fletcher could not avoid speaking of it. "The man
must be a cur," said Gresham.

"It would make no difference in the world to me," said Arthur,
struggling hard to prevent signs of emotion from showing themselves
in his face, "were it not that he has married a lady whom I have long
known and whom I greatly esteem." He felt that he could hardly avoid
all mention of the marriage, and yet was determined that he would say
no word that his brother would call "howling."

"There has been no previous quarrel, or offence?" asked Gresham.

"None in the least." When Arthur so spoke he forgot altogether the
letter he had written; nor, had he then remembered it, would he have
thought it possible that that letter should have given offence. He
had been the sufferer, not Lopez. This man had robbed him of his
happiness; and, though it would have been foolish in him to make a
quarrel for a grievance such as that, there might have been some
excuse had he done so. It had taken him some time to perceive that
greatly as this man had injured him, there had been no injustice done
to him, and that therefore there should be no complaint made by him.
But that this other man should complain was to him unintelligible.

"He is not worth your notice," said Mr. Gresham. "He is simply not a
gentleman, and does not know how to behave himself. I am very sorry
for the young lady;--that's all." At this allusion to Emily Arthur
felt that his face became red with the rising blood; and he felt
also that his friend should not have spoken thus openly,--thus
irreverently,--on so sacred a subject. But at the moment he said
nothing further. As far as his canvass was concerned it had been
successful, and he was beginning to feel sure that he would be the
new member. He endeavoured therefore to drown his sorrow in this
coming triumph.

But Lopez had been by no means gratified with his canvass or with
the conduct of the borough generally. He had already begun to feel
that the Duchess and Mr. Sprugeon and the borough had thrown him
over shamefully. Immediately on his arrival in Silverbridge a local
attorney had with the blandest possible smile asked him for a cheque
for £500. Of course there must be money spent at once, and of course
the money must come out of the candidate's pocket. He had known all
this beforehand, and yet the demand for the money had come upon him
as an injury. He gave the cheque, but showed clearly by his manner
that he resented the application. This did not tend to bind to him
more closely the services of those who were present when the demand
was made. And then, as he began his canvass, he found that he could
not conjure at all with the name of the Duke, or even with that of
the Duchess; and was told on the second day by Mr. Sprugeon himself
that he had better fight the battle "on his own hook." Now his own
hook in Silverbridge was certainly not a strong hook. Mr. Sprugeon
was still of opinion that a good deal might be done by judicious
manipulation, and went so far as to suggest that another cheque
for £500 in the hands of Mr. Wise, the lawyer, would be effective.
But Lopez did not give the other cheque, and Sprugeon whispered to
him that the Duke had been too many for the Duchess. Still he had
persevered, and a set of understrappers around him, who would make
nothing out of the election without his candidature, assured him from
time to time that he would even yet come out all right at the ballot.
With such a hope still existing he had not scrupled to affirm in his
speeches that the success of his canvass had been complete. But, on
the morning of the day on which he met Fletcher in the street, Mr. Du
Boung had called upon him accompanied by two of the Du Boung agents
and by Mr. Sprugeon himself,--and had suggested that he, Lopez,
should withdraw from the contest, so that Du Boung might be returned,
and that the "Liberal interests" of the borough might not be
sacrificed.

This was a heavy blow, and one which Ferdinand Lopez was not the
man to bear with equanimity. From the moment in which the Duchess
had mentioned the borough to him, he had regarded the thing as
certain. After a while he had understood that his return must be
accompanied by more trouble and greater expense than he had at first
anticipated;--but still he had thought that it was all but sure. He
had altogether misunderstood the nature of the influence exercised
by the Duchess, and the nature also of the Duke's resolution. Mr.
Sprugeon had of course wished to have a candidate, and had allured
him. Perhaps he had in some degree been ill-treated by the borough.
But he was a man whom the feeling of injustice to himself would drive
almost to frenzy, though he never measured the amount of his own
injustice to others. When the proposition was made to him, he scowled
at them all, and declared that he would fight the borough to the
last. "Then you'll let Mr. Fletcher in to a certainty," said Mr.
Sprout. Now there was an idea in the borough that, although all the
candidates were ready to support the Duke's government, Mr. Du Boung
and Mr. Lopez were the two Liberals. Mr. Du Boung was sitting in the
room when the appeal was made, and declared that he feared that such
would be the result. "I'll tell you what I'll do," said Lopez; "I'll
toss up which of us retires." Mr. Sprout, on behalf of Mr. Du Boung,
protested against that proposition. Mr. Du Boung, who was a gentleman
of great local influence, was in possession of four-fifths of the
Liberal interests of the borough. Even were he to retire Mr. Lopez
could not get in. Mr. Sprout declared that this was known to all the
borough at large. He, Sprout, was sorry that a gentleman like Mr.
Lopez should have been brought down there under false ideas. He had
all through told Mr. Sprugeon that the Duke had been in earnest, but
Mr. Sprugeon had not comprehended the position. It had been a pity.
But anybody who understood the borough could see with one eye that
Mr. Lopez had not a chance. If Mr. Lopez would retire Mr. Du Boung
would no doubt be returned. If Mr. Lopez went to the poll, Mr.
Fletcher would probably be the new member. This was the picture as it
was painted by Mr. Sprout,--who had, even then, heard something of
the loves of the two candidates, and who had thought that Lopez would
be glad to injure Arthur Fletcher's chances of success. So far he was
not wrong;--but the sense of the injury done to himself oppressed
Lopez so much that he could not guide himself by reason. The idea of
retiring was very painful to him, and he did not believe these men.
He thought it to be quite possible that they were there to facilitate
the return of Arthur Fletcher. He had never even heard of Du Boung
till he had come to Silverbridge two or three days ago. He still
could not believe that Du Boung would be returned. He thought over
it all for a moment, and then he gave his answer. "I've been brought
down here to fight, and I'll fight it to the last," he said. "Then
you'll hand over the borough to Mr. Fletcher," said Sprout, getting
up and ushering Mr. Du Boung out of the room.

It was after that, but on the same day, that Lopez and Fletcher met
each other in the street. The affair did not take a minute, and then
they parted, each on his own way. In the course of that evening Mr.
Sprugeon told his candidate that he, Sprugeon, could not concern
himself any further in that election. He was very sorry for what had
occurred;--very sorry indeed. It was no doubt a pity that the Duke
had been so firm. "But,"--and Mr. Sprugeon shrugged his shoulders as
he spoke,--"when a nobleman like the Duke chooses to have a way of
his own, he must have it." Mr. Sprugeon went on to declare that any
further candidature would be waste of money, waste of time, and waste
of energy, and then signified his intention of retiring, as far as
this election went, into private life. When asked, he acknowledged
that they who had been acting with him had come to the same resolve.
Mr. Lopez had in fact come there as the Duke's nominee, and as the
Duke had no nominee, Mr. Lopez was in fact "nowhere."

"I don't suppose that any man was ever so treated before, since
members were first returned to Parliament," said Lopez.

"Well, sir;--yes, sir; it is a little hard. But, you see, sir,
her Grace meant the best. Her Grace did mean the best, no doubt.
It may be, sir, there was a little misunderstanding;--a little
misunderstanding at the Castle, sir." Then Mr. Sprugeon retired, and
Lopez understood that he was to see nothing more of the ironmonger.

Of course there was nothing for him now but to retire;--to shake the
dust off his feet and get out of Silverbridge as quickly as he could.
But his friends had all deserted him and he did not know how to
retire. He had paid £500, and he had a strong opinion that a portion
at least of the money should be returned to him. He had a keen sense
of ill-usage, and at the same time a feeling that he ought not to run
out of the borough like a whipt dog, without showing his face to any
one. But his strongest sensation at this moment was one of hatred
against Arthur Fletcher. He was sure that Arthur Fletcher would be
the new member. He did not put the least trust in Mr. Du Boung. He
had taught himself really to think that Fletcher had insulted him
by writing to his wife, and that a further insult had been offered
to him by that meeting in the street. He had told his wife that he
would ask Fletcher to give up the borough, and that he would make
that request with a horsewhip in his hand. It was too late now to
say anything of the borough, but it might not be too late for the
horsewhip. He had a great desire to make good that threat as far as
the horsewhip was concerned,--having an idea that he would thus lower
Fletcher in his wife's eyes. It was not that he was jealous,--not
jealous according to the ordinary meaning of the word. His wife's
love to himself had been too recently given and too warmly maintained
for such a feeling as that. But there was a rancorous hatred in his
heart against the man, and a conviction that his wife at any rate
esteemed the man whom he hated. And then would he not make his
retreat from the borough with more honour if before he left he could
horsewhip his successful antagonist? We, who know the feeling of
Englishmen generally better than Mr. Lopez did, would say--certainly
not. We would think that such an incident would by no means redound
to the credit of Mr. Lopez. And he himself, probably, at cooler
moments, would have seen the folly of such an idea. But anger about
the borough had driven him mad, and now in his wretchedness the
suggestion had for him a certain charm. The man had outraged all
propriety by writing to his wife. Of course he would be justified
in horsewhipping him. But there were difficulties. A man is not
horsewhipped simply because you wish to horsewhip him.

In the evening, as he was sitting alone, he got a note from Mr.
Sprugeon. "Mr. Sprugeon's compliments. Doesn't Mr. Lopez think an
address to the electors should appear in to-morrow's 'Gazette,'--very
short and easy;--something like the following." Then Mr. Sprugeon
added a very "short and easy letter" to the electors of the borough
of Silverbridge, in which Mr. Lopez was supposed to tell them that
although his canvass promised to him every success, he felt that
he owed it to the borough to retire, lest he should injure the
borough by splitting the Liberal interest with their much respected
fellow-townsman, Mr. Du Boung. In the course of the evening he did
copy that letter, and sent it out to the newspaper office. He must
retire, and it was better for him that he should retire after some
recognised fashion. But he wrote another letter also, and sent it
over to the opposition hotel. The other letter was as follows:--


   SIR,--

   Before this election began you were guilty of gross
   impertinence in writing a letter to my wife,--to her
   extreme annoyance and to my most justifiable anger. Any
   gentleman would think that the treatment you had already
   received at her hands would have served to save her from
   such insult, but there are men who will never take a
   lesson without a beating. And now, since you have been
   here, you have presumed to offer to shake hands with me in
   the street, though you ought to have known that I should
   not choose to meet you on friendly terms after what has
   taken place. I now write to tell you that I shall carry a
   horsewhip while I am here, and that if I meet you in the
   streets again before I leave the town I shall use it.

   FERDINAND LOPEZ.

   Mr. Arthur Fletcher.


This letter he sent at once to his enemy, and then sat late into
the night thinking of his threat and of the manner in which he
would follow it up. If he could only get one fair blow at Fletcher
his purpose, he thought, would be achieved. In any matter of
horsewhipping the truth hardly ever gets itself correctly known.
The man who has given the first blow is generally supposed to
have thrashed the other. What might follow, though it might be
inconvenient, must be borne. The man had insulted him by writing to
his wife, and the sympathies of the world, he thought, would be with
him. To give him his due, it must be owned that he had no personal
fear as to the encounter.

That night Arthur Fletcher had gone over to Greshamsbury, and on the
following morning he returned with Mr. Gresham. "For heaven's sake,
look at that!" he said, handing the letter to his friend.

"Did you ever write to his wife?" asked Gresham, when he read it.

"Yes;--I did. All this is dreadful to me;--dreadful. Well;--you know
how it used to be with me. I need not go into all that; need I?"

"Don't say a word more than you think necessary."

"When you asked me to stand for the place I had not heard that he
thought of being a candidate. I wrote and told her so, and told her
also that had I known it before I would not have come here."

"I don't quite see that," said Gresham.

"Perhaps not;--perhaps I was a fool. But we needn't go into that.
At any rate there was no insult to him. I wrote in the simplest
language."

"Looking at it all round I think you had better not have written."

"You wouldn't say so if you saw the letter. I'm sure you wouldn't.
I had known her all my life. My brother is married to her cousin.
Oh heavens! we had been all but engaged. I would have done anything
for her. Was it not natural that I should tell her? As far as the
language was concerned the letter was one to be read at Charing
Cross."

"He says that she was annoyed and insulted."

"Impossible! It was a letter that any man might have written to any
woman."

"Well;--you have got to take care of yourself at any rate. What will
you do?"

"What ought I to do?"

"Go to the police." Mr. Gresham had himself once, when young,
thrashed a man who had offended him and had then thought himself much
aggrieved because the police had been called in. But that had been
twenty years ago, and Mr. Gresham's opinions had been matured and,
perhaps, corrected by age.

"No; I won't do that," said Arthur Fletcher.

"That's what you ought to do."

"I couldn't do that."

"Then take no notice of the letter and carry a fairly big stick. It
should be big enough to hurt him a good deal, but not to do him any
serious damage." At that moment an agent came in with news of the
man's retirement from the contest. "Has he left the town?" asked
Gresham. No;--he had not left the town, nor had he been seen by any
one that morning. "You had better let me go out and get the stick,
before you show yourself," said Gresham. And so the stick was
selected.

As the two walked down the street together, almost the first thing
they saw was Lopez standing at his hotel door with a cutting whip
in his hand. He was at that moment quite alone, but on the opposite
side of the street there was a policeman,--one of the borough
constables,--very slowly making his way along the pavement. His
movement, indeed, was so slow that any one watching him would have
come to the conclusion that that particular part of the High Street
had some attraction for him at that special moment. Alas, alas! How
age will alter the spirit of a man! Twenty years since Frank Gresham
would have thought any one to be a mean miscreant who would have
interposed a policeman between him and his foe. But it is to be
feared that while selecting that stick he had said a word which was
causing the constable to loiter on the pavement!

But Gresham turned no eye to the policeman as he walked on with his
friend, and Fletcher did not see the man. "What an ass he is!" said
Fletcher,--as he got the handle of the stick well into his hand.
Then Lopez advanced to them with his whip raised; but as he did so
the policeman came across the street quickly, but very quietly, and
stood right before him. The man was so thoroughly in the way of the
aggrieved wretch that it was out of the question that he should touch
Fletcher with his whip.

"Do you usually walk about attended by a policeman?" said Lopez, with
all the scorn which he knew how to throw into his voice.

"I didn't know that the man was here," said Fletcher.

"You may tell that to the marines. All the borough shall know what
a coward you are." Then he turned round and addressed the street,
but still under the shadow, as it were, of the policeman's helmet.
"This man who presumes to offer himself as a candidate to represent
Silverbridge in Parliament has insulted my wife. And now, because he
fears that I shall horsewhip him, he goes about the street under the
care of a policeman."

"This is intolerable," said Fletcher, turning to his friend.

"Mr. Lopez," said Gresham. "I am sorry to say that I must give you
in charge;--unless you will undertake to leave the town without
interfering further with Mr. Fletcher either by word or deed."

"I will undertake nothing," said Lopez. "The man has insulted my
wife, and is a coward."

About two o'clock on the afternoon of that day Mr. Lopez appeared
before the Silverbridge bench of magistrates, and was there sworn to
keep the peace to Mr. Fletcher for the next six months. After that he
was allowed to leave the town, and was back in London, with his wife
in Belgrave Mansions, to dinner that evening.

On the day but one after this the ballot was taken, and at eight
o'clock on the evening of that day Arthur Fletcher was declared to be
duly elected. But Mr. Du Boung ran him very hard.

The numbers were--


   FLETCHER 315

   DU BOUNG 308


Mr. Du Boung's friends during these two last days had not hesitated
to make what use they could on behalf of their own candidate of the
Lopez and Fletcher quarrel. If Mr. Fletcher had insulted the other
man's wife, surely he could not be a proper member for Silverbridge.
And then the row was declared to have been altogether discreditable.
Two strangers had come into this peaceful town and had absolutely
quarrelled with sticks and whips in the street, calling each other
opprobrious names. Would it not be better that they should elect
their own respectable townsman? All this was nearly effective. But,
in spite of all, Arthur Fletcher was at last returned.


CHAPTER XXXV

Lopez Back in London


Lopez, as he returned to town, recovered something of his senses,
though he still fancied that Arthur Fletcher had done him a positive
injury by writing to his wife. But something of that madness left
him which had come from his deep sense of injury, both as to the
letter and as to the borough, and he began to feel that he had been
wrong about the horsewhip. He was very low in spirits on this return
journey. The money which he had spent had been material to him, and
the loss of it for the moment left him nearly bare. While he had had
before his eyes the hope of being a member of Parliament he had been
able to buoy himself up. The position itself would have gone very far
with Sexty Parker, and would, he thought, have had some effect even
with his father-in-law. But now he was returning a beaten man. Who
is there that has not felt that fall from high hope to utter despair
which comes from some single failure? As he thought of this he
was conscious that his anger had led him into great imprudence at
Silverbridge. He had not been circumspect, as it specially behoved a
man to be surrounded by such difficulties as his. All his life he had
been schooling his temper so as to keep it under control,--sometimes
with great difficulty, but always with a consciousness that in
his life everything might depend on it. Now he had, alas, allowed
it to get the better of him. No doubt he had been insulted;--but,
nevertheless, he had been wrong to speak of a horsewhip.

His one great object must now be to conciliate his father-in-law,
and he had certainly increased his difficulty in doing this by his
squabble down at Silverbridge. Of course the whole thing would be
reported in the London papers, and of course the story would be told
against him, as the respectabilities of the town had been opposed to
him. But he knew himself to be clever, and he still hoped that he
might overcome these difficulties. Then it occurred to him that
in doing this he must take care to have his wife entirely on his
side. He did not doubt her love; he did not in the least doubt her
rectitude;--but there was the lamentable fact that she thought
well of Arthur Fletcher. It might be that he had been a little too
imperious with his wife. It suited his disposition to be imperious
within his own household;--to be imperious out of it, if that were
possible;--but he was conscious of having had a fall at Silverbridge,
and he must for a while take in some sail.

He had telegraphed to her, acquainting her with his defeat, and
telling her to expect his return. "Oh, Ferdinand," she said, "I am so
unhappy about this. It has made me so wretched!"

"Better luck next time," he said with his sweetest smile. "It is
no good groaning over spilt milk. They haven't treated me really
well,--have they?"

"I suppose not,--though I do not quite understand it all."

He was burning to abuse Arthur Fletcher, but he abstained. He would
abstain at any rate for the present moment. "Dukes and duchesses are
no doubt very grand people," he said, "but it is a pity they should
not know how to behave honestly, as they expect others to behave to
them. The Duchess has thrown me over in the most infernal way. I
really can't understand it. When I think of it I am lost in wonder.
The truth, I suppose, is, that there has been some quarrel between
him and her."

"Who will get in?"

"Oh, Du Boung, no doubt." He did not think so, but he could not bring
himself to declare the success of his enemy to her. "The people
there know him. Your old friend is as much a stranger there as I am.
By-the-way, he and I had a little row in the place."

"A row, Ferdinand!"

"You needn't look like that, my pet. I haven't killed him. But he
came up to speak to me in the street, and I told him what I thought
about his writing to you." On hearing this Emily looked very
wretched. "I could not restrain myself from doing that. Come;--you
must admit that he shouldn't have written."

"He meant it in kindness."

"Then he shouldn't have meant it. Just think of it. Suppose that I
had been making up to any girl,--which by-the-by I never did but to
one in my life,"--then he put his arm round her waist and kissed her,
"and she were to have married some one else. What would have been
said of me if I had begun to correspond with her immediately? Don't
suppose I am blaming you, dear."

"Certainly I do not suppose that," said Emily.

"But you must admit that it were rather strong." He paused, but she
said nothing. "Only I suppose you can bring yourself to admit nothing
against him. However, so it was. There was a row, and a policeman
came up, and they made me give a promise that I didn't mean to shoot
him or anything of that kind." As she heard this she turned pale, but
said nothing. "Of course I didn't want to shoot him. I wished him to
know what I thought about it, and I told him. I hate to trouble you
with all this, but I couldn't bear that you shouldn't know it all."

"It is very sad!"

"Sad enough! I have had plenty to bear, I can tell you. Everybody
seemed to turn away from me there. Everybody deserted me." As he said
this he could perceive that he must obtain her sympathy by recounting
his own miseries and not Arthur Fletcher's sins. "I was all alone
and hardly knew how to hold up my head against so much wretchedness.
And then I found myself called upon to pay an enormous sum for my
expenses."

"Oh, Ferdinand!"

"Think of their demanding £500!"

"Did you pay it?"

"Yes, indeed. I had no alternative. Of course they took care to
come for that before they talked of my resigning. I believe it was
all planned beforehand. The whole thing seems to me to have been a
swindle from beginning to end. By heaven, I'm almost inclined to
think that the Duchess knew all about it herself!"

"About the £500!"

"Perhaps not the exact sum, but the way in which the thing was to be
done. In these days one doesn't know whom to trust. Men, and women
too, have become so dishonest that nobody is safe anywhere. It has
been awfully hard upon me,--awfully hard. I don't suppose that there
was ever a moment in my life when the loss of £500 would have been so
much to me as it is now. The question is, what will your father do
for us?" Emily could not but remember her husband's intense desire to
obtain money from her father not yet three months since, as though
all the world depended on his getting it,--and his subsequent
elation, as though all his sorrows were over for ever, because the
money had been promised. And now,--almost immediately,--he was again
in the same position. She endeavoured to judge him kindly, but a
feeling of insecurity in reference to his affairs struck her at once
and made her heart cold. Everything had been achieved, then, by a
gift of £3000,--surely a small sum to effect such a result with
a man living as her husband lived. And now the whole £3000 was
gone;--surely a large sum to have vanished in so short a time!
Something of the uncertainty of business she could understand, but a
business must be perilously uncertain if subject to such vicissitudes
as these! But as ideas of this nature crowded themselves into her
mind she told herself again and again that she had taken him for
better and for worse. If the worse were already coming she would
still be true to her promise. "You had better tell papa everything,"
she said.

"Had it not better come from you?"

"No, Ferdinand. Of course I will do as you bid me. I will do anything
that I can do. But you had better tell him. His nature is such that
he will respect you more if it come from yourself. And then it is so
necessary that he should know all;--all." She put whatever emphasis
she knew how to use upon this word.

"You could tell him--all, as well as I."

"You would not bring yourself to tell it to me, nor could I
understand it. He will understand everything, and if he thinks that
you have told him everything, he will at any rate respect you."

He sat silent for a while meditating, feeling always and most acutely
that he had been ill-used,--never thinking for an instant that he had
ill-used others. "£3000, you know, was no fortune for your father to
give you!" She had no answer to make, but she groaned in spirit as
she heard the accusation. "Don't you feel that yourself?"

"I know nothing about money, Ferdinand. If you had told me to speak
to him about it before we were married I would have done so."

"He ought to have spoken to me. It is marvellous how close-fisted
an old man can be. He can't take it with him." Then he sat for
half-an-hour in moody silence, during which she was busy with
her needle. After that he jumped up, with a manner altogether
altered,--gay, only that the attempt was too visible to deceive even
her,--and shook himself, as though he were ridding himself of his
trouble. "You are right, old girl. You are always right,--almost. I
will go to your father to-morrow, and tell him everything. It isn't
so very much that I want him to do. Things will all come right again.
I'm ashamed that you should have seen me in this way;--but I have
been disappointed about the election, and troubled about that Mr.
Fletcher. You shall not see me give way again like this. Give me a
kiss, old girl."

She kissed him, but she could not even pretend to recover herself as
he had done. "Had we not better give up the brougham?" she said.

"Certainly not. For heaven's sake do not speak in that way! You do
not understand things."

"No; certainly I do not."

"It isn't that I haven't the means of living, but that in my business
money is so often required for instant use. And situated as I am at
present an addition to my capital would enable me to do so much!" She
certainly did not understand it, but she had sufficient knowledge of
the world and sufficient common sense to be aware that their present
rate of expenditure ought to be matter of importance to a man who
felt the loss of £500 as he felt that loss at Silverbridge.

On the next morning Lopez was at Mr. Wharton's chambers early,--so
early that the lawyer had not yet reached them. He had resolved,--not
that he would tell everything, for such men never even intend to
tell everything,--but that he would tell a good deal. He must,
if possible, affect the mind of the old man in two ways. He must
ingratiate himself;--and at the same time make it understood that
Emily's comfort in life would depend very much on her father's
generosity. The first must be first accomplished, if possible,--and
then the second, as to which he could certainly produce at any rate
belief. He had not married a rich man's daughter without an intention
of getting the rich man's money! Mr. Wharton would understand that.
If the worst came to the worst, Mr. Wharton must of course maintain
his daughter,--and his daughter's husband! But things had not come to
the worst as yet, and he did not intend on the present occasion to
represent that view of his affairs to his father-in-law.

Mr. Wharton when he entered his chambers found Lopez seated there. He
was himself at this moment very unhappy. He had renewed his quarrel
with Everett,--or Everett rather had renewed the quarrel with him.
There had been words between them about money lost at cards. Hard
words had been used, and Everett had told his father that if either
of them were a gambler it was not he. Mr. Wharton had resented this
bitterly and had driven his son from his presence,--and now the
quarrel made him very wretched. He certainly was sorry that he
had called his son a gambler, but his son had been, as he thought,
inexcusable in the retort which he had made. He was a man to whom
his friends gave credit for much sternness;--but still he was one
who certainly had no happiness in the world independent of his
children. His daughter had left him, not, as he thought, under happy
auspices,--and he was now, at this moment, soft-hearted and tender in
his regards as to her. What was there in the world for him but his
children? And now he felt himself to be alone and destitute. He was
already tired of whist at the Eldon. That which had been a delight to
him once or twice a week, became almost loathsome when it was renewed
from day to day;--and not the less when his son told him that he also
was a gambler. "So you have come back from Silverbridge?" he said.

"Yes, sir; I have come back, not exactly triumphant. A man should not
expect to win always." Lopez had resolved to pluck up his spirit and
carry himself like a man.

"You seem to have got into some scrape down there, besides losing
your election."

"Oh; you have seen that in the papers already. I have come to tell
you of it. As Emily is concerned in it you ought to know."

"Emily concerned! How is she concerned?"

Then Lopez told the whole story,--after his own fashion, and yet
with no palpable lie. Fletcher had written to her a letter which
he had thought to be very offensive. On hearing this, Mr. Wharton
looked very grave, and asked for the letter. Lopez said that he had
destroyed it, not thinking that such a document should be preserved.
Then he went on to explain that it had had reference to the election,
and that he had thought it to be highly improper that Fletcher should
write to his wife on that or on any other subject. "It depends very
much on the letter," said the old man.

"But on any subject,--after what has passed."

"They were very old friends."

"Of course I will not argue with you, Mr. Wharton; but I own that it
angered me. It angered me very much,--very much indeed. I took it to
be an insult to her, and when he accosted me in the street down at
Silverbridge I told him so. I may not have been very wise, but I did
it on her behalf. Surely you can understand that such a letter might
make a man angry."

"What did he say?"

"That he would do anything for her sake,--even retire from
Silverbridge if his friends would let him." Mr. Wharton scratched his
head, and Lopez saw that he was perplexed. "Should he have offered to
do anything for her sake, after what had passed?"

"I know the man so well," said Mr. Wharton, "that I cannot and do not
believe him to have harboured an improper thought in reference to my
child."

"Perhaps it was an indiscretion only."

"Perhaps so. I cannot say. And then they took you before the
magistrates?"

"Yes;--in my anger I had threatened him. Then there was a policeman
and a row. And I had to swear that I would not hurt him. Of course I
have no wish to hurt him."

"I suppose it ruined your chance at Silverbridge?"

"I suppose it did." This was a lie, as Lopez had retired before the
row took place. "What I care for most now is that you should not
think that I have misbehaved myself."

The story had been told very well, and Mr. Wharton was almost
disposed to sympathise with his son-in-law. That Arthur Fletcher had
meant nothing that could be regarded as offensive to his daughter he
was quite sure;--but it might be that in making an offer intended to
be generous he had used language which the condition of the persons
concerned made indiscreet. "I suppose," he said, "that you spent
a lot of money at Silverbridge?" This gave Lopez the opening that
he wanted, and he described the manner in which the £500 had been
extracted from him. "You can't play that game for nothing," said Mr.
Wharton.

"And just at present I could very ill afford it. I should not have
done it had I not felt it a pity to neglect such a chance of rising
in the world. After all, a seat in the British House of Commons is an
honour."

"Yes;--yes;--yes."

"And the Duchess, when she spoke to me about it, was so certain."

"I will pay the £500," said Mr. Wharton.

"Oh, sir, that is generous!" Then he got up and took the old man's
hands. "Some day, when you are at liberty, I hope that you will allow
me to explain to you the exact state of my affairs. When I wrote
to you from Como I told you that I would wish to do so. You do not
object?"

"No;" said the lawyer,--but with infinite hesitation in his voice.
"No; I don't object. But I do not know how I could serve them. I
shall be busy just now, but I will give you the cheque. And if you
and Emily have nothing better to do, come and dine to-morrow." Lopez
with real tears in his eyes took the cheque, and promised to come on
the morrow. "And in the meantime I wish you would see Everett." Of
course he promised that he would see Everett.

Again he was exalted, on this occasion not so much by the acquisition
of the money as by the growing conviction that his father-in-law was
a cow capable of being milked. And the quarrel between Everett and
his father might clearly be useful to him. He might either serve the
old man by reducing Everett to proper submission, or he might manage
to creep into the empty space which the son's defection would make
in the father's heart and the father's life. He might at any rate
make himself necessary to the old man, and become such a part of the
household in Manchester Square as to be indispensable. Then the old
man would every day become older and more in want of assistance. He
thought that he saw the way to worm himself into confidence, and,
soon, into possession. The old man was not a man of iron as he had
feared, but quite human, and if properly managed, soft and malleable.

He saw Sexty Parker in the city that day, and used his cheque for
£500 in some triumphant way, partly cajoling and partly bullying his
poor victim. To Sexty also he had to tell his own story about the row
down at Silverbridge. He had threatened to thrash the fellow in the
street, and the fellow had not dared to come out of his house without
a policeman. Yes;--he had lost his election. The swindling of those
fellows at Silverbridge had been too much for him. But he flattered
himself that he had got the better of Master Fletcher. That was the
tone in which he told the story to his friend in the city.

Then, before dinner, he found Everett at the club. Everett Wharton
was to be found there now almost every day. His excuse to himself lay
in the political character of the institution. The club intended to
do great things,--to find Liberal candidates for all the boroughs and
counties in England which were not hitherto furnished, and then to
supply the candidates with money. Such was the great purpose of the
Progress. It had not as yet sent out many candidates or collected
much money. As yet it was, politically, almost quiescent. And
therefore Everett Wharton, whose sense of duty took him there, spent
his afternoons either in the whist-room or at the billiard-table.

The story of the Silverbridge row had to be told again, and was told
nearly with the same incidents as had been narrated to the father.
He could of course abuse Arthur Fletcher more roundly, and be more
confident in his assertion that Fletcher had insulted his wife. But
he came as quickly as he could to the task which he had on hand.
"What's all this between you and your father?"

"Simply this. I sometimes play a game of whist, and therefore he
called me a gambler. Then I reminded him that he also sometimes
played a game of whist, and I asked him what deduction was to be
drawn."

"He is awfully angry with you."

"Of course I was a fool. My father has the whip-hand of me, because
he has money and I have none, and it was simply kicking against the
pricks to speak as I did. And then too there isn't a fellow in London
has a higher respect for his father than I have, nor yet a warmer
affection. But it is hard to be driven in that way. Gambler is a
nasty word."

"Yes, it is; very nasty. But I suppose a man does gamble when he
loses so much money that he has to ask his father to pay it for him."

"If he does so often, he gambles. I never asked him for money to pay
what I had lost before in my life."

"I wonder you told him."

"I never lie to him, and he ought to know that. But he is just the
man to be harder to his own son than to anybody else in the world.
What does he want me to do now?"

"I don't know that he wants you to do anything," said Lopez.

"Did he send you to me?"

"Well;--no; I can't say that he did. I told him I should see you as a
matter of course, and he said something rough,--about your being an
ass."

"I dare say he did."

"But if you ask me," said Lopez, "I think he would take it kindly of
you if you were to go and see him. Come and dine to-day, just as if
nothing had happened."

"I could not do that,--unless he asked me."

"I can't say that he asked you, Everett. I would say so, in spite
of its being a lie, if I didn't fear that your father might say
something unkind, so that the lie would be detected by both of you."

"And yet you ask me to go and dine there!"

"Yes, I do. It's only going away if he does cut up rough. And if he
takes it well,--why then,--the whole thing is done."

"If he wants me, he can ask me."

"You talk about it, my boy, just as if a father were the same as
anybody else. If I had a father with a lot of money, by George he
should knock me about with his stick if he liked, and I would be just
the same the next day."

"Unfortunately I am of a stiffer nature," said Everett, taking some
pride to himself for his stiffness, and being perhaps as little
"stiff" as any young man of his day.

That evening, after dinner in Manchester Square, the conversation
between the father-in-law and the son-in-law turned almost
exclusively on the son and brother-in-law. Little or nothing was
said about the election, and the name of Arthur Fletcher was not
mentioned. But out of his full heart the father spoke. He was
wretched about Everett. Did Everett mean to cut him? "He wants you to
withdraw some name you called him," said Lopez.

"Withdraw some name,--as he might ask some hot-headed fellow to do,
of his own age, like himself; some fellow that he had quarrelled
with! Does he expect his father to send him a written apology? He had
been gambling, and I told him that he was a gambler. Is that too much
for a father to say?" Lopez shrugged his shoulders, and declared that
it was a pity. "He will break my heart if he goes on like this," said
the old man.

"I asked him to come and dine to-day, but he didn't seem to like it."

"Like it! No. He likes nothing but that infernal club."

When the evening was over Lopez felt that he had done a good stroke
of work. He had not exactly made up his mind to keep the father and
son apart. That was not a part of his strategy,--at any rate as yet.
But he did intend to make himself necessary to the old man,--to
become the old man's son, and if possible the favourite son. And now
he thought that he had already done much towards the achievement of
his object.


CHAPTER XXXVI

The Jolly Blackbird


There was great triumph at Longbarns when the news of Arthur's
victory reached the place;--and when he arrived there himself with
his friend, Mr. Gresham, he was received as a conquering hero. But
of course the tidings of "the row" had gone before him, and it was
necessary that both he and Mr. Gresham should tell the story;--nor
could it be told privately. Sir Alured Wharton was there, and Mrs.
Fletcher. The old lady had heard of the row, and of course required
to be told all the particulars. This was not pleasant to the hero, as
in talking of the man it was impossible for them not to talk of the
man's wife. "What a terrible misfortune for poor Mr. Wharton," said
the old lady, nodding her head at Sir Alured. Sir Alured sighed and
said nothing. Certainly a terrible misfortune, and one which affected
more or less the whole family of Whartons!

"Do you mean to say that he was going to attack Arthur with a whip?"
asked John Fletcher.

"I only know that he was standing there with a whip in his hand,"
said Mr. Gresham.

"I think he would have had the worst of that."

"You would have laughed," said Arthur, "to see me walking
majestically along the High Street with a cudgel which Gresham had
just bought for me as being of the proper medium size. I don't doubt
he meant to have a fight. And then you should have seen the policeman
sloping over and putting himself in the way. I never quite understood
where that policeman came from."

"They are very well off for policemen in Silverbridge," said Gresham.
"They've always got them going about."

"He must be mad," said John.

"Poor unfortunate young woman!" said Mrs. Fletcher, holding up both
her hands. "I must say that I cannot but blame Mr. Wharton. If he had
been firm, it never would have come to that. I wonder whether he ever
sees him."

"Of course he does," said John. "Why shouldn't he see him? You'd see
him if he'd married a daughter of yours."

"Never!" exclaimed the old woman. "If I had had a child so lost to
all respect as that, I do not say that I would not have seen her.
Human nature might have prevailed. But I would never willingly have
put myself into contact with one who had so degraded me and mine."

"I shall be very anxious to know what Mr. Wharton does about his
money," said John.

Arthur allowed himself but a couple of days among his friends,
and then hurried up to London to take his seat. When there he was
astonished to find how many questions were asked him about "the row,"
and how much was known about it,--and at the same time how little
was really known. Everybody had heard that there had been a row, and
everybody knew that there had been a lady in the case. But there
seemed to be a general idea that the lady had been in some way
misused, and that Arthur Fletcher had come forward like a Paladin to
protect her. A letter had been written, and the husband, ogre-like,
had intercepted the letter. The lady was the most unfortunate of
human beings,--or would have been but for that consolation which she
must have in the constancy of her old lover. As to all these matters
the stories varied; but everybody was agreed on one point. All the
world knew that Arthur Fletcher had gone to Silverbridge, had stood
for the borough, and had taken the seat away from his rival,--because
that rival had robbed him of his bride. How the robbery had been
effected the world could not quite say. The world was still of
opinion that the lady was violently attached to the man she had
not married. But Captain Gunner explained it all clearly to Major
Pountney by asserting that the poor girl had been coerced into the
marriage by her father. And thus Arthur Fletcher found himself almost
as much a hero in London as at Longbarns.

Fletcher had not been above a week in town, and had become heartily
sick of the rumours which in various shapes made their way round to
his own ears, when he received an invitation from Mr. Wharton to
go and dine with him at a tavern called the Jolly Blackbird. The
invitation surprised him,--that he should be asked by such a man
to dine at such a place,--but he accepted it as a matter of course.
He was indeed much interested in a Bill for the drainage of common
lands which was to be discussed in the House that night; there was
a good deal of common land round Silverbridge, and he had some idea
of making his first speech,--but he calculated that he might get his
dinner and yet be back in time for the debate. So he went to the
Jolly Blackbird,--a very quaint, old-fashioned law dining-house in
the neighbourhood of Portugal Street, which had managed not to get
itself pulled down a dozen years ago on behalf of the Law Courts
which are to bless some coming generation. Arthur had never been
there before and was surprised at the black wainscoting, the black
tables, the old-fashioned grate, the two candles on the table, and
the silent waiter. "I wanted to see you, Arthur," said the old man,
pressing his hand in a melancholy way, "but I couldn't ask you to
Manchester Square. They come in sometimes in the evening, and it
might have been unpleasant. At your young men's clubs they let
strangers dine. We haven't anything of that kind at the Eldon. You'll
find they'll give you a very good bit of fish here, and a fairish
steak." Arthur declared that he thought it a capital place,--the best
fun in the world. "And they've a very good bottle of claret;--better
than we get at the Eldon, I think. I don't know that I can say much
for their champagne. We'll try it. You young fellows always drink
champagne."

"I hardly ever touch it," said Arthur. "Sherry and claret are my
wines."

"Very well;--very well. I did want to see you, my boy. Things haven't
turned out just as we wished--have they?"

"Not exactly, sir."

"No indeed. You know the old saying, 'God disposes it all.' I have to
make the best of it,--and so no doubt do you."

"There's no doubt about it, sir," said Arthur, speaking in a low but
almost angry voice. They were not in a room by themselves, but in a
recess which separated them from the room. "I don't know that I want
to talk about it, but to me it is one of those things for which there
is no remedy. When a man loses his leg, he hobbles on, and sometimes
has a good time of it at last;--but there he is, without a leg."

"It wasn't my fault, Arthur."

"There has been no fault but my own. I went in for the running and
got distanced. That's simply all about it, and there's no more to be
said."

"You ain't surprised that I should wish to see you."

"I'm ever so much obliged. I think it's very kind of you."

"I can't go in for a new life as you can. I can't take up politics
and Parliament. It's too late for me."

"I'm going to. There's a Bill coming on this very night that I'm
interested about. You mustn't be angry if I rush off a little before
ten. We are going to lend money to the parishes on the security
of the rates for draining bits of common land. Then we shall sell
the land and endow the unions, so as to lessen the poor rates, and
increase the cereal products of the country. We think we can bring
300,000 acres under the plough in three years, which now produce
almost nothing, and in five years would pay all the expenses. Putting
the value of the land at £25 an acre, which is low, we shall have
created property to the value of seven millions and a half. That's
something, you know."

"Oh, yes," said Mr. Wharton, who felt himself quite unable to follow
with any interest the aspirations of the young legislator.

"Of course it's complicated," continued Arthur, "but when you come to
look into it it comes out clear enough. It is one of the instances
of the omnipotence of capital. Parliament can do such a thing, not
because it has any creative power of its own, but because it has the
command of unlimited capital." Mr. Wharton looked at him, sighing
inwardly as he reflected that unrequited love should have brought a
clear-headed young barrister into mists so thick and labyrinths so
mazy as these. "A very good beefsteak indeed," said Arthur. "I don't
know when I ate a better one. Thank you, no;--I'll stick to the
claret." Mr. Wharton had offered him Madeira. "Claret and brown meat
always go well together. Pancake! I don't object to a pancake. A
pancake's a very good thing. Now would you believe it, sir; they
can't make a pancake at the House."

"And yet they sometimes fall very flat too," said the lawyer, making
a real lawyer's joke.

"It's all in the mixing, sir," said Arthur, carrying it on. "We've
mixture enough just at present, but it isn't of the proper sort;--too
much of the flour, and not enough of the egg."

But Mr. Wharton had still something to say, though he hardly knew how
to say it. "You must come and see us in the Square after a bit."

"Oh;--of course."

"I wouldn't ask you to dine there to-day, because I thought we should
be less melancholy here;--but you mustn't cut us altogether. You
haven't seen Everett since you've been in town?"

"No, sir. I believe he lives a good deal,--a good deal with--Mr.
Lopez. There was a little row down at Silverbridge. Of course it will
wear off, but just at present his lines and my lines don't converge."

"I'm very unhappy about him, Arthur."

"There's nothing the matter?"

"My girl has married that man. I've nothing to say against him;--but
of course it wasn't to my taste; and I feel it as a separation. And
now Everett has quarrelled with me."

"Quarrelled with you!"

Then the father told the story as well as he knew how. His son
had lost some money, and he had called his son a gambler;--and
consequently his son would not come near him. "It is bad to lose them
both, Arthur."

"That is so unlike Everett."

"It seems to me that everybody has changed,--except myself. Who would
have dreamed that she would have married that man? Not that I have
anything to say against him except that he was not of our sort. He
has been very good about Everett, and is very good about him. But
Everett will not come to me unless I--withdraw the word;--say that I
was wrong to call him a gambler. That is a proposition that no son
should make to a father."

"It is very unlike Everett," repeated the other. "Has he written to
that effect?"

"He has not written a word."

"Why don't you see him yourself, and have it out with him?"

"Am I to go to that club after him?" said the father.

"Write to him and bid him come to you. I'll give up my seat if he
don't come to you. Everett was always a quaint fellow, a little idle,
you know,--mooning about after ideas--"

"He's no fool, you know," said the father.

"Not at all;--only vague. But he's the last man in the world to
have nasty vulgar ideas of his own importance as distinguished from
yours."

"Lopez says--"

"I wouldn't quite trust Lopez."

"He isn't a bad fellow in his way, Arthur. Of course he is not what
I would have liked for a son-in-law. I needn't tell you that. But he
is kind and gentle-mannered, and has always been attached to Everett.
You know he saved Everett's life at the risk of his own." Arthur
could not but smile as he perceived how the old man was being won
round by the son-in-law, whom he had treated so violently before the
man had become his son-in-law. "By-the-way, what was all that about a
letter you wrote to him?"

"Emily,--I mean Mrs. Lopez,--will tell you if you ask her."

"I don't want to ask her. I don't want to appear to set the wife
against the husband. I am sure, my boy, you would write nothing that
could affront her."

"I think not, Mr. Wharton. If I know myself at all, or my own nature,
it is not probable that I should affront your daughter."

"No; no; no. I know that, my dear boy. I was always sure of that.
Take some more wine."

"No more, thank you. I must be off because I'm so anxious about this
Bill."

"I couldn't ask Emily about this letter. Now that they are married I
have to make the best of it,--for her sake. I couldn't bring myself
to say anything to her which might seem to accuse him."

"I thought it right, sir, to explain to her that were I not in the
hands of other people I would not do anything to interfere with her
happiness by opposing her husband. My language was most guarded."

"He destroyed the letter."

"I have a copy of it, if it comes to that," said Arthur.

"It will be best, perhaps, to say nothing further about it.
Well;--good night, my boy, if you must go." Then Fletcher went off to
the House, wondering as he went at the change which had apparently
come over the character of his old friend. Mr. Wharton had always
been a strong man, and now he seemed to be as weak as water. As to
Everett, Fletcher was sure that there was something wrong, but he
could not see his way to interfere himself. For the present he was
divided from the family. Nevertheless he told himself again and again
that that division should not be permanent. Of all the world she must
always be to him the dearest.


CHAPTER XXXVII

The Horns


The first months of the Session went on very much as the last Session
had gone. The ministry did nothing brilliant. As far as the outer
world could see, they seemed to be firm enough. There was no opposing
party in the House strong enough to get a vote against them on any
subject. Outsiders, who only studied politics in the columns of their
newspapers, imagined the Coalition to be very strong. But they who
were inside, members themselves, and the club quidnuncs who were
always rubbing their shoulders against members, knew better. The
opposition to the Coalition was within the Coalition itself. Sir
Orlando Drought had not been allowed to build his four ships, and was
consequently eager in his fears that the country would be invaded
by the combined forces of Germany and France, that India would be
sold by those powers to Russia, that Canada would be annexed to the
States, that a great independent Roman Catholic hierarchy would be
established in Ireland, and that Malta and Gibraltar would be taken
away from us;--all which evils would be averted by the building of
four big ships. A wet blanket of so terrible a size was in itself
pernicious to the Cabinet, and heartrending to the poor Duke. But Sir
Orlando could do worse even than this. As he was not to build his
four ships, neither should Mr. Monk be allowed to readjust the county
suffrage. When the skeleton of Mr. Monk's scheme was discussed in the
Cabinet, Sir Orlando would not agree to it. The gentlemen, he said,
who had joined the present Government with him, would never consent
to a measure which would be so utterly destructive of the county
interest. If Mr. Monk insisted on his measure in its proposed form,
he must, with very great regret, place his resignation in the Duke's
hands, and he believed that his friends would find themselves
compelled to follow the same course. Then our Duke consulted the
old Duke. The old Duke's advice was the same as ever. The Queen's
Government was the main object. The present ministry enjoyed the
support of the country, and he considered it the duty of the First
Lord of the Treasury to remain at his post. The country was in no
hurry, and the question of suffrages in the counties might be well
delayed. Then he added a little counsel which might be called quite
private, as it was certainly intended for no other ears than those
of his younger friend. "Give Sir Orlando rope enough and he'll hang
himself. His own party are becoming tired of him. If you quarrel with
him this Session, Drummond, and Ramsden, and Beeswax, would go out
with him, and the Government would be broken up; but next Session you
may get rid of him safely."

"I wish it were broken up," said the Prime Minister.

"You have your duty to do by the country and by the Queen, and you
mustn't regard your own wishes. Next Session let Monk be ready with
his Bill again,--the same measure exactly. Let Sir Orlando resign
then if he will. Should he do so I doubt whether any one would go
with him. Drummond does not like him much better than you and I do."
The poor Prime Minister was forced to obey. The old Duke was his
only trusted counsellor, and he found himself constrained by his
conscience to do as that counsellor counselled him. When, however,
Sir Orlando, in his place as Leader of the House, in answer to some
question from a hot and disappointed Radical, averred that the whole
of her Majesty's Government had been quite in unison on this question
of the county suffrage, he was hardly able to restrain himself. "If
there be differences of opinion they must be kept in the background,"
said the Duke of St. Bungay. "Nothing can justify a direct
falsehood," said the Duke of Omnium. Thus it came to pass that the
only real measure which the Government had in hand was one by which
Phineas Finn hoped so to increase the power of Irish municipalities
as to make the Home Rulers believe that a certain amount of Home Rule
was being conceded to them. It was not a great measure, and poor
Phineas himself hardly believed in it. And thus the Duke's ministry
came to be called the Faineants.

But the Duchess, though she had been much snubbed, still persevered.
Now and again she would declare herself to be broken-hearted, and
would say that things might go their own way, that she would send in
her resignation, that she would retire into private life and milk
cows, that she would shake hands with no more parliamentary cads and
"caddesses,"--a word which her Grace condescended to coin for her own
use; that she would spend the next three years in travelling about
the world; and lastly, that, let there come of it whatever might, Sir
Orlando Drought should never again be invited into any house of which
she was the mistress. This last threat, which was perhaps the most
indiscreet of them all, she absolutely made good,--thereby adding
very greatly to her husband's difficulties.

But by the middle of June the parties at the house in Carlton Terrace
were as frequent and as large as ever. Indeed it was all party with
her. The Duchess possessed a pretty little villa down at Richmond, on
the river, called The Horns, and gave parties there when there were
none in London. She had picnics, and flower parties, and tea parties,
and afternoons, and evenings, on the lawn,--till half London was
always on its way to Richmond or back again. How she worked! And yet
from day to day she swore that the world was ungrateful, and that she
would work no more! I think that the world was ungrateful. Everybody
went. She was so far successful that nobody thought of despising
her parties. It was quite the thing to go to the Duchess's, whether
at Richmond or in London. But people abused her and laughed at
her. They said that she intrigued to get political support for her
husband,--and, worse than that, they said that she failed. She
did not fail altogether. The world was not taken captive as she
had intended. Young members of Parliament did not become hotly
enthusiastic in support of her and her husband as she had hoped that
they would do. She had not become an institution of granite, as her
dreams had fondly told her might be possible;--for there had been
moments in which she had almost thought that she could rule England
by giving dinner and supper parties, by ices and champagne. But in a
dull, phlegmatic way, they who ate the ices and drank the champagne
were true to her. There was a feeling abroad that "Glencora" was
a "good sort of fellow" and ought to be supported. And when the
ridicule became too strong, or the abuse too sharp, men would take
up the cudgels for her, and fight her battles;--a little too openly,
perhaps, as they would do it under her eyes, and in her hearing, and
would tell her what they had done, mistaking on such occasions her
good humour for sympathy. There was just enough of success to prevent
that abandonment of her project which she so often threatened, but
not enough to make her triumphant. She was too clever not to see
that she was ridiculed. She knew that men called her Glencora among
themselves. She was herself quite alive to the fact that she herself
was wanting in dignity, and that with all the means at her disposal,
with all her courage and all her talent, she did not quite play the
part of the really great lady. But she did not fail to tell herself
that labour continued would at last be successful, and she was strong
to bear the buffets of the ill-natured. She did not think that she
brought first-class materials to her work, but she believed,--a
belief as erroneous as, alas, it is common,--that first-rate results
might be achieved by second-rate means. "We had such a battle about
your Grace last night," Captain Gunner said to her.

"And were you my knight?"

"Indeed I was. I never heard such nonsense."

"What were they saying?"

"Oh, the old story;--that you were like Martha, busying yourself
about many things."

"Why shouldn't I busy myself about many things? It is a pity, Captain
Gunner, that some of you men have not something to busy yourselves
about." All this was unpleasant. She could on such an occasion make
up her mind to drop any Captain Gunner who had ventured to take too
much upon himself; but she felt that in the efforts which she had
made after popularity, she had submitted herself to unpleasant
familiarities;--and though persistent in her course, she was still
angry with herself.

When she had begun her campaign as the Prime Minister's wife, one
of her difficulties had been with regard to money. An abnormal
expenditure became necessary, for which her husband's express
sanction must be obtained, and steps taken in which his personal
assistance would be necessary;--but this had been done, and there
was now no further impediment in that direction. It seemed to be
understood that she was to spend what money she pleased. There had
been various contests between them, but in every contest she had
gained something. He had been majestically indignant with her in
reference to the candidature at Silverbridge,--but, as is usual with
many of us, had been unable to maintain his anger about two things
at the same time. Or, rather, in the majesty of his anger about her
interference, he had disdained to descend to the smaller faults of
her extravagance. He had seemed to concede everything else to her,
on condition that he should be allowed to be imperious in reference
to the borough. In that matter she had given way, never having
opened her mouth about it after that one unfortunate word to Mr.
Sprugeon. But, having done so, she was entitled to squander her
thousands without remorse,--and she squandered them. "It is your
five-and-twenty thousand pounds, my dear," she once said to Mrs.
Finn, who often took upon herself to question the prudence of all
this expenditure. This referred to a certain sum of money which
had been left by the old Duke to Madame Goesler, as she was then
called,--a legacy which that lady had repudiated. The money had,
in truth, been given away to a relation of the Duke's by the joint
consent of the lady and of the Duke himself, but the Duchess was
pleased to refer to it occasionally as a still existing property.

"My five-and-twenty thousand pounds, as you call it, would not go
very far."

"What's the use of money if you don't spend it? The Duke would go
on collecting it and buying more property, which always means more
trouble,--not because he is avaricious, but because for the time
that comes easier than spending. Supposing he had married a woman
without a shilling, he would still have been a rich man. As it is,
my property was more even than his own. If we can do any good by
spending the money, why shouldn't it be spent?"

"If you can do any good!"

"It all comes round to that. It isn't because I like always to live
in a windmill! I have come to hate it. At this moment I would give
worlds to be down at Matching with no one but the children, and to
go about in a straw hat and a muslin gown. I have a fancy that I
could sit under a tree and read a sermon, and think it the sweetest
recreation. But I've made the attempt to do all this, and it is so
mean to fail!"

"But where is to be the end of it?"

"There shall be no end as long as he is Prime Minister. He is the
first man in England. Some people would say the first in Europe,--or
in the world. A Prince should entertain like a Prince."

"He need not be always entertaining."

"Hospitality should run from a man with his wealth and his position,
like water from a fountain. As his hand is known to be full, so it
should be known to be open. When the delight of his friends is in
question he should know nothing of cost. Pearls should drop from him
as from a fairy. But I don't think you understand me."

"Not when the pearls are to be picked up by Captain Gunners, Lady
Glen."

"I can't make the men any better,--nor yet the women. They are poor
mean creatures. The world is made up of such. I don't know that
Captain Gunner is worse than Sir Orlando Drought or Sir Timothy
Beeswax. People seen by the mind are exactly different to things seen
by the eye. They grow smaller and smaller as you come nearer down to
them, whereas things become bigger. I remember when I used to think
that members of the Cabinet were almost gods, and now they seem to be
no bigger than the shoeblacks,--only less picturesque. He told me the
other day of the time when he gave up going into power for the sake
of taking me abroad. Ah me! how much was happening then,--and how
much has happened since that! We didn't know you then."

"He has been a good husband to you."

"And I have been a good wife to him! I have never had him for an
hour out of my heart since that, or ever for a moment forgotten his
interest. I can't live with him because he shuts himself up reading
blue-books, and is always at his office or in the House;--but I would
if I could. Am I not doing it all for him? You don't think that the
Captain Gunners are particularly pleasant to me! Think of your life
and of mine. You have had lovers."

"One in my life,--when I was quite entitled to have one."

"Well; I am Duchess of Omnium, and I am the wife of the Prime
Minister, and I had a larger property of my own than any other young
woman that ever was born; and I am myself too,--Glencora M'Cluskie
that was, and I've made for myself a character that I'm not ashamed
of. But I'd be the curate's wife to-morrow, and make puddings, if I
could only have my own husband and my own children with me. What's
the use of it all? I like you better than anybody else, but you do
nothing but scold me." Still the parties went on, and the Duchess
laboured hard among her guests, and wore her jewels, and stood on
her feet all the night, night after night, being civil to one person,
bright to a second, confidential to a third, and sarcastic to an
unfortunate fourth;--and in the morning she would work hard with
her lists, seeing who had come to her and who had stayed away, and
arranging who should be asked and who should be omitted.

In the meantime the Duke altogether avoided these things. At
first he had been content to show himself, and escape as soon as
possible;--but now he was never seen at all in his own house, except
at certain heavy dinners. To Richmond he never went at all, and in
his own house in town very rarely even passed through the door that
led into the reception rooms. He had not time for ordinary society.
So said the Duchess. And many, perhaps the majority of those who
frequented the house, really believed that his official duties were
too onerous to leave him time for conversation. But in truth the
hours went heavily with him as he sat alone in his study, sighing for
some sweet parliamentary task, and regretting the days in which he
was privileged to sit in the House of Commons till two o'clock in the
morning, in the hope that he might get a clause or two passed in his
Bill for decimal coinage.

It was at the Horns at an afternoon party, given there in the gardens
by the Duchess, early in July, that Arthur Fletcher first saw Emily
after her marriage, and Lopez after the occurrence in Silverbridge.
As it happened he came out upon the lawn close after them, and found
them speaking to the Duchess as they passed on. She had put herself
out of the way to be civil to Mr. and Mrs. Lopez, feeling that she
had in some degree injured him in reference to the election, and had
therefore invited both him and his wife on more than one occasion.
Arthur Fletcher was there as a young man well known in the world,
and as a supporter of the Duke's Government. The Duchess had taken
up Arthur Fletcher,--as she was wont to take up new men, and had
personally become tired of Lopez. Of course she had heard of the
election, and had been told that Lopez had behaved badly. Of Mr.
Lopez she did not know enough to care anything, one way or the
other;--but she still encouraged him because she had caused him
disappointment. She had now detained them a minute on the terrace
before the windows while she said a word, and Arthur Fletcher became
one of the little party before he knew whom he was meeting. "I am
delighted," she said, "that you two Silverbridge heroes should meet
together here as friends." It was almost incumbent on her to say
something, though it would have been better for her not to have
alluded to their heroism. Mrs. Lopez put out her hand, and Arthur
Fletcher of course took it. Then the two men bowed slightly to each
other, raising their hats. Arthur paused a moment with them, as they
passed on from the Duchess, thinking that he would say something in
a friendly tone. But he was silenced by the frown on the husband's
face, and was almost constrained to go away without a word. It was
very difficult for him even to be silent, as her greeting had been
kind. But yet it was impossible for him to ignore the displeasure
displayed in the man's countenance. So he touched his hat, and asking
her to remember him affectionately to her father, turned off the path
and went away.

"Why did you shake hands with that man?" said Lopez. It was the first
time since their marriage that his voice had been that of an angry
man and an offended husband.

"Why not, Ferdinand? He and I are very old friends, and we have not
quarrelled."

"You must take up your husband's friendships and your husband's
quarrels. Did I not tell you that he had insulted you?"

"He never insulted me."

"Emily, you must allow me to be the judge of that. He insulted you,
and then he behaved like a poltroon down at Silverbridge, and I will
not have you know him any more. When I say so I suppose that will be
enough." He waited for a reply, but she said nothing. "I ask you to
tell me that you will obey me in this."

"Of course he will not come to my house, nor should I think of going
to his, if you disapproved."

"Going to his house! He is unmarried."

"Supposing he had a wife! Ferdinand, perhaps it will be better that
you and I should not talk about him."

"By G----," said Lopez, "there shall be no subject on which I will be
afraid to talk to my own wife. I insist on your assuring me that you
will never speak to him again."

He had taken her along one of the upper walks because it was
desolate, and he could there speak to her, as he thought, without
being heard. She had, almost unconsciously, made a faint attempt
to lead him down upon the lawn, no doubt feeling averse to private
conversation at the moment; but he had persevered, and had resented
the little effort. The idea in his mind that she was unwilling
to hear him abuse Arthur Fletcher, unwilling to renounce the man,
anxious to escape his order for such renunciation, added fuel to his
jealousy. It was not enough for him that she had rejected this man
and had accepted him. The man had been her lover, and she should be
made to denounce the man. It might be necessary for him to control
his feelings before old Wharton;--but he knew enough of his wife to
be sure that she would not speak evil of him or betray him to her
father. Her loyalty to him, which he could understand though not
appreciate, enabled him to be a tyrant to her. So now he repeated his
order to her, pausing in the path, with a voice unintentionally loud,
and frowning down upon her as he spoke. "You must tell me, Emily,
that you will never speak to him again."

She was silent, looking up into his face, not with tremulous eyes,
but with infinite woe written in them, had he been able to read the
writing. She knew that he was disgracing himself, and yet he was
the man whom she loved! "If you bid me not to speak to him, I will
not;--but he must know the reason why."

"He shall know nothing from you. You do not mean to say that you
would write to him?"

"Papa must tell him."

"I will not have it so. In this matter, Emily, I will be master,--as
it is fit that I should be. I will not have you talk to your father
about Mr. Fletcher."

"Why not, Ferdinand?"

"Because I have so decided. He is an old family friend. I can
understand that, and do not therefore wish to interfere between him
and your father. But he has taken upon himself to write an insolent
letter to you as my wife, and to interfere in my affairs. As to what
should be done between you and him I must be the judge, and not your
father."

"And must I not speak to papa about it?"

"No!"

"Ferdinand, you make too little, I think, of the associations and
affections of a whole life."

"I will hear nothing about affection," he said angrily.

"You cannot mean that--that--you doubt me?"

"Certainly not. I think too much of myself and too little of him." It
did not occur to him to tell her that he thought too well of her for
that. "But the man who has offended me must be held to have offended
you also."

"You might say the same if it were my father."

He paused at this, but only for a moment. "Certainly I might. It is
not probable, but no doubt I might do so. If your father were to
quarrel with me, you would not, I suppose, hesitate between us?"

"Nothing on earth could divide me from you."

"Nor me from you. In this very matter I am only taking your part,
if you did but know it." They had now passed on, and had met other
persons, having made their way through a little shrubbery on to a
further lawn; and she had hoped, as they were surrounded by people,
that he would allow the matter to drop. She had been unable as yet
to make up her mind as to what she would say if he pressed her hard.
But if it could be passed by,--if nothing more were demanded from
her,--she would endeavour to forget it all, saying to herself that
it had come from sudden passion. But he was too resolute for such a
termination as that, and too keenly alive to the expediency of making
her thoroughly subject to him. So he turned her round and took her
back through the shrubbery, and in the middle of it stopped her again
and renewed his demand. "Promise me that you will not speak again to
Mr. Fletcher."

"Then I must tell papa."

"No;--you shall tell him nothing."

"Ferdinand, if you exact a promise from me that I will not speak to
Mr. Fletcher or bow to him should circumstances bring us together as
they did just now, I must explain to my father why I have done so."

"You will wilfully disobey me?"

"In that I must." He glared at her, almost as though he were going to
strike her, but she bore his look without flinching. "I have left all
my old friends, Ferdinand, and have given myself heart and soul to
you. No woman did so with a truer love or more devoted intention of
doing her duty to her husband. Your affairs shall be my affairs."

"Well; yes; rather."

She was endeavouring to assure him of her truth, but could understand
the sneer which was conveyed in his acknowledgement. "But you cannot,
nor can I for your sake, abolish the things which have been."

"I wish to abolish nothing that has been. I speak of the future."

"Between our family and that of Mr. Fletcher there has been old
friendship which is still very dear to my father,--the memory of
which is still very dear to me. At your request I am willing to put
all that aside from me. There is no reason why I should ever see
any of the Fletchers again. Our lives will be apart. Should we meet
our greeting would be very slight. The separation can be effected
without words. But if you demand an absolute promise,--I must tell my
father."

"We will go home at once," he said instantly, and aloud. And home
they went, back to London, without exchanging a word on the journey.
He was absolutely black with rage, and she was content to remain
silent. The promise was not given, nor, indeed, was it exacted under
the conditions which the wife had imposed upon it. He was most
desirous to make her subject to his will in all things, and quite
prepared to exercise tyranny over her to any extent,--so that her
father should know nothing of it. He could not afford to quarrel with
Mr. Wharton. "You had better go to bed," he said, when he got her
back to town;--and she went, if not to bed, at any rate into her own
room.


CHAPTER XXXVIII

Sir Orlando Retires


"He is a horrid man. He came here and quarrelled with the other man
in my house, or rather down at Richmond, and made a fool of himself,
and then quarrelled with his wife and took her away. What fools, what
asses, what horrors men are! How impossible it is to be civil and
gracious without getting into a mess. I am tempted to say that I will
never know anybody any more." Such was the complaint made by the
Duchess to Mrs. Finn a few days after the Richmond party, and from
this it was evident that the latter affair had not passed without
notice.

"Did he make a noise about it?" asked Mrs. Finn.

"There was not a row, but there was enough of a quarrel to be visible
and audible. He walked about and talked loud to the poor woman. Of
course it was my own fault. But the man was clever and I liked him,
and people told me that he was of the right sort."

"The Duke heard of it?"

"No;--and I hope he won't. It would be such a triumph for him, after
all the fuss at Silverbridge. But he never hears of anything. If two
men fought a duel in his own dining-room he would be the last man in
London to know it."

"Then say nothing about it, and don't ask the men any more."

"You may be sure I won't ask the man with the wife any more. The
other man is in Parliament and can't be thrown over so easily--and it
wasn't his fault. But I'm getting so sick of it all! I'm told that
Sir Orlando has complained to Plantagenet that he isn't asked to the
dinners."

"Impossible!"

"Don't you mention it, but he has. Warburton has told me so."
Warburton was one of the Duke's private secretaries.

"What did the Duke say?"

"I don't quite know. Warburton is one of my familiars, but I didn't
like to ask him for more than he chose to tell me. Warburton
suggested that I should invite Sir Orlando at once; but there I was
obdurate. Of course, if Plantagenet tells me I'll ask the man to come
every day of the week;--but it is one of those things that I shall
need to be told directly. My idea is, you know, that they had better
get rid of Sir Orlando,--and that if Sir Orlando chooses to kick over
the traces, he may be turned loose without any danger. One has little
birds that give one all manner of information, and one little bird
has told me that Sir Orlando and Mr. Roby don't speak. Mr. Roby is
not very much himself, but he is a good straw to show which way the
wind blows. Plantagenet certainly sent no message about Sir Orlando,
and I'm afraid the gentleman must look for his dinners elsewhere."

The Duke had in truth expressed himself very plainly to Mr.
Warburton; but with so much indiscreet fretfulness that the discreet
private secretary had not told it even to the Duchess. "This kind
of thing argues a want of cordiality that may be fatal to us," Sir
Orlando had said somewhat grandiloquently to the Duke, and the Duke
had made--almost no reply. "I suppose I may ask my own guests in
my own house," he had said afterwards to Mr. Warburton, "though in
public life I am everybody's slave." Mr. Warburton, anxious of course
to maintain the unity of the party, had told the Duchess so much as
would, he thought, induce her to give way; but he had not repeated
the Duke's own observations, which were, Mr. Warburton thought,
hostile to the interests of the party. The Duchess had only smiled
and made a little grimace, with which the private secretary was
already well acquainted. And Sir Orlando received no invitation.

In those days Sir Orlando was unhappy and irritable, doubtful of
further success as regarded the Coalition, but quite resolved to pull
the house down about the ears of the inhabitants rather than to leave
it with gentle resignation. To him it seemed to be impossible that
the Coalition should exist without him. He too had had moments of
high-vaulting ambition, in which he had almost felt himself to be the
great man required by the country, the one ruler who could gather
together in his grasp the reins of government and drive the State
coach single-handed safe through its difficulties for the next
half-dozen years. There are men who cannot conceive of themselves
that anything should be difficult for them, and again others who
cannot bring themselves so to trust themselves as to think that they
can ever achieve anything great. Samples of each sort from time to
time rise high in political life, carried thither apparently by
Epicurean concourse of atoms; and it often happens that the more
confident samples are by no means the most capable. The concourse of
atoms had carried Sir Orlando so high that he could not but think
himself intended for something higher. But the Duke, who had really
been wafted to the very top, had always doubted himself, believing
himself capable of doing some one thing by dint of industry, but with
no further confidence in his own powers. Sir Orlando had perceived
something of his Leader's weakness, and had thought that he might
profit by it. He was not only a distinguished member of the Cabinet,
but even the recognised Leader of the House of Commons. He looked out
the facts and found that for five-and-twenty years out of the last
thirty the Leader of the House of Commons had been the Head of the
Government. He felt that he would be mean not to stretch out his hand
and take the prize destined for him. The Duke was a poor timid man
who had very little to say for himself. Then came the little episode
about the dinners. It had become very evident to all the world that
the Duchess of Omnium had cut Sir Orlando Drought,--that the Prime
Minister's wife, who was great in hospitality, would not admit the
First Lord of the Admiralty into her house. The doings at Gatherum
Castle, and in Carlton Terrace, and at the Horns were watched much
too closely by the world at large to allow such omissions to be
otherwise than conspicuous. Since the commencement of the Session
there had been a series of articles in the "People's Banner"
violently abusive of the Prime Minister, and in one or two of these
the indecency of these exclusions had been exposed with great
strength of language. And the Editor of the "People's Banner" had
discovered that Sir Orlando Drought was the one man in Parliament fit
to rule the nation. Till Parliament should discover this fact, or at
least acknowledge it,--the discovery having been happily made by the
"People's Banner,"--the Editor of the "People's Banner" thought that
there could be no hope for the country. Sir Orlando of course saw
all these articles, and in his very heart believed that a man had
at length sprung up among them fit to conduct a newspaper. The Duke
also unfortunately saw the "People's Banner." In his old happy days
two papers a day, one in the morning and the other before dinner,
sufficed to tell him all that he wanted to know. Now he felt it
necessary to see almost every rag that was published. And he would
skim through them all till he found the lines in which he himself
was maligned, and then, with sore heart and irritated nerves, would
pause over every contumelious word. He would have bitten his tongue
out rather than have spoken of the tortures he endured, but he was
tortured and did endure. He knew the cause of the bitter personal
attacks made on him,--of the abuse with which he was loaded, and of
the ridicule, infinitely more painful to him, with which his wife's
social splendour was bespattered. He remembered well the attempt
which Mr. Quintus Slide had made to obtain an entrance into his
house, and his own scornful rejection of that gentleman's overtures.
He knew,--no man knew better,--the real value of that able Editor's
opinion. And yet every word of it was gall and wormwood to him. In
every paragraph there was a scourge which hit him on the raw and
opened wounds which he could show to no kind surgeon, for which he
could find solace in no friendly treatment. Not even to his wife
could he condescend to say that Mr. Quintus Slide had hurt him.

Then Sir Orlando had come himself. Sir Orlando explained himself
gracefully. He of course could understand that no gentleman had a
right to complain because he was not asked to another gentleman's
house. But the affairs of the country were above private
considerations; and he, actuated by public feelings, would condescend
to do that which under other circumstances would be impossible. The
public press, which was ever vigilant, had suggested that there was
some official estrangement, because he, Sir Orlando, had not been
included in the list of guests invited by his Grace. Did not his
Grace think that there might be seeds of,--he would not quite say
decay for the Coalition, in such a state of things? The Duke paused a
moment, and then said that he thought there were no such seeds. Sir
Orlando bowed haughtily and withdrew--swearing at the moment that the
Coalition should be made to fall into a thousand shivers. This had
all taken place a fortnight before the party at the Horns from which
poor Mrs. Lopez had been withdrawn so hastily.

But Sir Orlando, when he commenced the proceedings consequent on
this resolution, did not find all that support which he had expected.
Unfortunately there had been an uncomfortable word or two between him
and Mr. Roby, the political Secretary at the Admiralty. Mr. Roby had
never quite seconded Sir Orlando's ardour in that matter of the four
ships, and Sir Orlando in his pride of place had ventured to snub Mr.
Roby. Now Mr. Roby could bear a snubbing perhaps as well as any other
official subordinate,--but he was one who would study the question
and assure himself that it was, or that it was not, worth his while
to bear it. He, too, had discussed with his friends the condition
of the Coalition, and had come to conclusions rather adverse to Sir
Orlando than otherwise. When, therefore, the First Secretary sounded
him as to the expediency of some step in the direction of a firmer
political combination than that at present existing,--by which of
course was meant the dethronement of the present Prime Minister,--Mr.
Roby had snubbed him! Then there had been slight official
criminations and recriminations, till a state of things had come to
pass which almost justified the statement made by the Duchess to Mrs.
Finn.

The Coalition had many component parts, some coalescing without
difficulty, but with no special cordiality. Such was the condition of
things between the very conservative Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland and
his somewhat radical Chief Secretary, Mr. Finn,--between probably the
larger number of those who were contented with the duties of their
own offices and the pleasures and profits arising therefrom. Some
by this time hardly coalesced at all, as was the case with Sir
Gregory Grogram and Sir Timothy Beeswax, the Attorney-General and
Solicitor-General;--and was especially the case with the Prime
Minister and Sir Orlando Drought. But in one or two happy cases the
Coalition was sincere and loyal,--and in no case was this more so
than with regard to Mr. Rattler and Mr. Roby. Mr. Rattler and Mr.
Roby had throughout their long parliamentary lives belonged to
opposite parties, and had been accustomed to regard each other with
mutual jealousy and almost with mutual hatred. But now they had come
to see how equal, how alike, and how sympathetic were their tastes,
and how well each might help the other. As long as Mr. Rattler could
keep his old place at the Treasury,--and his ambition never stirred
him to aught higher,--he was quite contented that his old rival
should be happy at the Admiralty. And that old rival, when he looked
about him and felt his present comfort, when he remembered how
short-lived had been the good things which had hitherto come in his
way, and how little probable it was that long-lived good things
should be his when the Coalition was broken up, manfully determined
that loyalty to the present Head of the Government was his duty. He
had sat for too many years on the same bench with Sir Orlando to
believe much in his power of governing the country. Therefore, when
Sir Orlando dropped his hint Mr. Roby did not take it.

"I wonder whether it's true that Sir Orlando complained to the Duke
that he was not asked to dinner?" said Mr. Roby to Mr. Rattler.

"I should hardly think so. I can't fancy that he would have the
pluck," said Mr. Rattler. "The Duke isn't the easiest man in the
world to speak to about such a thing as that."

"It would be a monstrous thing for a man to do! But Drought's head is
quite turned. You can see that."

"We never thought very much about him, you know, on our side."

"It was what your side thought about him," rejoined Roby, "that put
him where he is now."

"It was the fate of accidents, Roby, which puts so many of us in our
places, and arranges our work for us, and makes us little men or big
men. There are other men besides Drought who have been tossed up in a
blanket till they don't know whether their heads or their heels are
highest."

"I quite believe in the Duke," said Mr. Roby, almost alarmed by the
suggestion which his new friend had seemed to make.

"So do I, Roby. He has not the obduracy of Lord Brock, nor the
ineffable manner of Mr. Mildmay, nor the brilliant intellect of Mr.
Gresham."

"Nor the picturesque imagination of Mr. Daubeny," said Mr. Roby,
feeling himself bound to support the character of his late chief.

"Nor his audacity," said Mr. Rattler. "But he has peculiar gifts
of his own, and gifts fitted for the peculiar combination of
circumstances, if he will only be content to use them. He is a just,
unambitious, intelligent man, in whom after a while the country
would come to have implicit confidence. But he is thin-skinned and
ungenial."

"I have got into his boat," said Roby, enthusiastically, "and he will
find that I shall be true to him."

"There is no better boat to be in at present," said the slightly
sarcastic Rattler. "As to the Drought pinnace, it will be more
difficult to get it afloat than the four ships themselves. To tell
the truth honestly, Roby, we have to rid ourselves of Sir Orlando. I
have a great regard for the man."

"I can't say I ever liked him," said Roby.

"I don't talk about liking,--but he has achieved success, and is to
be regarded. Now he has lost his head, and he is bound to get a fall.
The question is,--who shall fall with him?"

"I do not feel myself at all bound to sacrifice myself."

"I don't know who does. Sir Timothy Beeswax, I suppose, will resent
the injury done to him. But I can hardly think that a strong
government can be formed by Sir Orlando Drought and Sir Timothy
Beeswax. Any secession is a weakness,--of course; but I think he may
survive it." And so Mr. Rattler and Mr. Roby made up their minds that
the First Lord of the Admiralty might be thrown overboard without
much danger to the Queen's ship.

Sir Orlando, however, was quite in earnest. The man had spirit enough
to feel that no alternative was left to him after he had condescended
to suggest that he should be asked to dinner and had been refused. He
tried Mr. Roby, and found that Mr. Roby was a mean fellow, wedded,
as he told himself, to his salary. Then he sounded Lord Drummond,
urging various reasons. The country was not safe without more ships.
Mr. Monk was altogether wrong about revenue. Mr. Finn's ideas about
Ireland were revolutionary. But Lord Drummond thought that, upon the
whole, the present Ministry served the country well, and considered
himself bound to adhere to it. "He cannot bear the idea of being
out of power," said Sir Orlando to himself. He next said a word to
Sir Timothy; but Sir Timothy was not the man to be led by the nose
by Sir Orlando. Sir Timothy had his grievances and meant to have
his revenge, but he knew how to choose his own time. "The Duke's
not a bad fellow," said Sir Timothy,--"perhaps a little weak, but
well-meaning. I think we ought to stand by him a little longer. As
for Finn's Irish Bill, I haven't troubled myself about it." Then
Sir Orlando declared to himself that Sir Timothy was a coward, and
resolved that he would act alone.

About the middle of July he went to the Duke at the Treasury,
was closeted with him, and in a very long narration of his own
differences, difficulties, opinions, and grievances, explained to the
Duke that his conscience called upon him to resign. The Duke listened
and bowed his head, and with one or two very gently-uttered words
expressed his regret. Then Sir Orlando, in another long speech,
laid bare his bosom to the Chief whom he was leaving, declaring the
inexpressible sorrow with which he had found himself called upon to
take a step which he feared might be prejudicial to the political
status of a man whom he honoured so much as he did the Duke of
Omnium. Then the Duke bowed again, but said nothing. The man had been
guilty of the impropriety of questioning the way in which the Duke's
private hospitality was exercised, and the Duke could not bring
himself to be genially civil to such an offender. Sir Orlando went on
to say that he would of course explain his views in the Cabinet, but
that he had thought it right to make them known to the Duke as soon
as they were formed. "The best friends must part, Duke," he said as
he took his leave. "I hope not, Sir Orlando; I hope not," said the
Duke. But Sir Orlando had been too full of himself and of the words
he was to speak, and of the thing he was about to do, to understand
either the Duke's words or his silence.

And so Sir Orlando resigned, and thus supplied the only morsel of
political interest which the Session produced. "Take no more notice
of him than if your footman was going," had been the advice of the
old Duke. Of course there was a Cabinet meeting on the occasion, but
even there the commotion was very slight, as every member knew before
entering the room what it was that Sir Orlando intended to do. Lord
Drummond said that the step was one to be much lamented. "Very much,
indeed," said the Duke of St. Bungay. His words themselves were false
and hypocritical, but the tone of his voice took away all the deceit.
"I am afraid," said the Prime Minister, "from what Sir Orlando has
said to me privately, that we cannot hope that he will change his
mind." "That I certainly cannot do," said Sir Orlando, with all the
dignified courage of a modern martyr.

On the next morning the papers were full of the political fact, and
were blessed with a subject on which they could excercise their
prophetical sagacity. The remarks made were generally favourable to
the Government. Three or four of the morning papers were of opinion
that though Sir Orlando had been a strong man, and a good public
servant, the Ministry might exist without him. But the "People's
Banner" was able to expound to the people at large that the only
grain of salt by which the Ministry had been kept from putrefaction
had been now cast out, and that mortification, death, and corruption,
must ensue. It was one of Mr. Quintus Slide's greatest efforts.


CHAPTER XXXIX

"Get Round Him"


Ferdinand Lopez maintained his anger against his wife for more than a
week after the scene at Richmond, feeding it with reflections on what
he called her disobedience. Nor was it a make-believe anger. She had
declared her intention to act in opposition to his expressed orders.
He felt that his present condition was prejudicial to his interests,
and that he must take his wife back into favour, in order that he
might make progress with her father, but could hardly bring himself
to swallow his wrath. He thought that it was her duty to obey him
in everything,--and that disobedience on a matter touching her old
lover was an abominable offence, to be visited with severest marital
displeasure, and with a succession of scowls that should make her
miserable for a month at least. Nor on her behalf would he have
hesitated, though the misery might have continued for three months.
But then the old man was the main hope of his life, and must be made
its mainstay. Brilliant prospects were before him. He had used to
think that Mr. Wharton was a hale man, with some terribly vexatious
term of life before him. But now, now that he was seen more closely,
he appeared to be very old. He would sit half bent in the arm-chair
in Stone Buildings, and look as though he were near a hundred. And
from day to day he seemed to lean more upon his son-in-law, whose
visits to him were continued, and always well taken. The constant
subject of discourse between them was Everett Wharton, who had not
yet seen his father since the misfortune of their quarrel. Everett
had declared to Lopez a dozen times that he would go to his father if
his father wished it, and Lopez as often reported to the father that
Everett would not go to him unless the father expressed such a wish.
And so they had been kept apart. Lopez did not suppose that the old
man would disinherit his son altogether,--did not, perhaps, wish it.
But he thought that the condition of the old man's mind would affect
the partition of his property, and that the old man would surely make
some new will in the present state of his affairs. The old man always
asked after his daughter, begging that she would come to him, and at
last it was necessary that an evening should be fixed. "We shall be
delighted to come to-day or to-morrow," Lopez said.

"We had better say to-morrow. There would be nothing to eat to-day.
The house isn't now what it used to be." It was therefore expedient
that Lopez should drop his anger when he got home, and prepare his
wife to dine in Manchester Square in a proper frame of mind.

Her misery had been extreme;--very much more bitter than he had
imagined. It was not only that his displeasure made her life for
the time wearisome, and robbed the only society she had of all its
charms. It was not only that her heart was wounded by his anger.
Those evils might have been short-lived. But she had seen,--she could
not fail to see,--that his conduct was unworthy of her and of her
deep love. Though she struggled hard against the feeling, she could
not but despise the meanness of his jealousy. She knew thoroughly
well that there had been no grain of offence in that letter from
Arthur Fletcher,--and she knew that no man, no true man, would have
taken offence at it. She tried to quench her judgment, and to silence
the verdict which her intellect gave against him, but her intellect
was too strong even for her heart. She was beginning to learn that
the god of her idolatry was but a little human creature, and that she
should not have worshipped at so poor a shrine. But nevertheless the
love should be continued, and, if possible, the worship, though the
idol had been already found to have feet of clay. He was her husband,
and she would be true to him. As morning after morning he left her,
still with that harsh, unmanly frown upon his face, she would look up
at him with entreating eyes, and when he returned would receive him
with her fondest smile.

At length he, too, smiled. He came to her after that interview with
Mr. Wharton and told her, speaking with the soft yet incisive voice
which she used to love so well, that they were to dine in the Square
on the following day. "Let there be an end of all this," he said,
taking her in his arms and kissing her. Of course she did not tell
him that "all this" had sprung from his ill-humour and not from hers.
"I own I have been angry," he continued. "I will say nothing more
about it now; but that man did vex me."

"I have been so sorry that you should have been vexed."

"Well;--let it pass away. I don't think your father is looking very
well."

"He is not ill?"

"Oh no. He feels the loss of your society. He is so much alone. You
must be more with him."

"Has he not seen Everett yet?"

"No. Everett is not behaving altogether well." Emily was made unhappy
by this and showed it. "He is the best fellow in the world. I may
safely say there is no other man whom I regard so warmly as I do your
brother. But he takes wrong ideas into his head, and nothing will
knock them out. I wonder what your father has done about his will."

"I have not an idea. Nothing you may be sure will make him unjust to
Everett."

"Ah!--You don't happen to know whether he ever made a will?"

"Not at all. He would be sure to say nothing about it to me,--or to
anybody."

"That is a kind of secrecy which I think wrong. It leads to so much
uncertainty. You wouldn't like to ask him?"

"No;--certainly."

"It is astonishing to me how afraid you are of your father. He hasn't
any land, has he?"

"Land!"

"Real estate. You know what I mean. He couldn't well have landed
property without your knowing it." She shook her head. "It might make
an immense difference to us, you know."

"Why so?"

"If he were to die without a will, any land,--houses and that kind
of property,--would go to Everett. I never knew a man who told his
children so little. I want to make you understand these things. You
and I will be badly off if he doesn't do something for us."

"You don't think he is really ill?"

"No;--not ill. Men above seventy are apt to die, you know."

"Oh, Ferdinand,--what a way to talk of it!"

"Well, my love, the thing is so seriously matter-of-fact, that it
is better to look at it in a matter-of-fact way. I don't want your
father to die."

"I hope not. I hope not."

"But I should be very glad to learn what he means to do while he
lives. I want to get you into sympathy with me in this matter;--but
it is so difficult."

"Indeed I sympathise with you."

"The truth is he has taken an aversion to Everett."

"God forbid!"

"I am doing all I can to prevent it. But if he does throw Everett
over we ought to have the advantage of it. There is no harm in saying
as much as that. Think what it would be if he should take it into
his head to leave his money to hospitals. My G----; fancy what my
condition would be if I were to hear of such a will as that! If he
destroyed an old will, partly because he didn't like our marriage,
and partly in anger against Everett, and then died without making
another, the property would be divided,--unless he had bought land.
You see how many dangers there are. Oh dear! I can look forward and
see myself mad,--or else see myself so proudly triumphant!" All
this horrified her, but he did not see her horror. He knew that she
disliked it, but thought that she disliked the trouble, and that she
dreaded her father. "Now I do think that you could help me a little,"
he continued.

"What can I do?"

"Get round him when he's a little down in the mouth. That is the way
in which old men are conquered." How utterly ignorant he was of the
very nature of her mind and disposition! To be told by her husband
that she was to "get round" her father! "You should see him every
day. He would be delighted if you would go to him at his chambers. Or
you could take care to be in the Square when he comes home. I don't
know whether we had not better leave this and go and live near him.
Would you mind that?"

"I would do anything you would suggest as to living anywhere."

"But you won't do anything I suggest as to your father."

"As to being with him, if I thought he wished it,--though I had to
walk my feet off, I would go to him."

"There's no need of hurting your feet. There's the brougham."

"I do so wish, Ferdinand, you would discontinue the brougham. I don't
at all want it. I don't at all dislike cabs. And I was only joking
about walking. I walk very well."

"Certainly not. You fail altogether to understand my ideas about
things. If things were going bad with us, I would infinitely prefer
getting a pair of horses for you to putting down the one you have."
She certainly did not understand his ideas. "Whatever we do we must
hold our heads up. I think he is coming round to cotton to me. He is
very close, but I can see that he likes my going to him. Of course,
as he grows older from day to day, he'll constantly want some one to
lean on more than heretofore."

"I would go and stay with him if he wanted me."

"I have thought of that too. Now that would be a saving,--without any
fall. And if we were both there we could hardly fail to know what he
was doing. You could offer that, couldn't you? You could say as much
as that?"

"I could ask him if he wished it."

"Just so. Say that it occurs to you that he is lonely by himself, and
that we will both go to the Square at a moment's notice if he thinks
it will make him comfortable. I feel sure that that will be the best
step to take. I have already had an offer for these rooms, and could
get rid of the things we have bought to advantage."

This, too, was terrible to her, and at the same time altogether
unintelligible. She had been invited to buy little treasures to make
their home comfortable, and had already learned to take that delight
in her belongings which is one of the greatest pleasures of a young
married woman's life. A girl in her old home, before she is given up
to a husband, has many sources of interest, and probably from day to
day sees many people. And the man just married goes out to his work,
and occupies his time, and has his thickly-peopled world around him.
But the bride, when the bridal honours of the honeymoon are over,
when the sweet care of the first cradle has not yet come to her, is
apt to be lonely and to be driven to the contemplation of the pretty
things with which her husband and her friends have surrounded her. It
had certainly been so with this young bride, whose husband left her
in the morning and only returned for their late dinner. And now she
was told that her household gods had had a price put upon them and
that they were to be sold. She had intended to suggest that she would
pay her father a visit, and her husband immediately proposed that
they should quarter themselves permanently on the old man! She was
ready to give up her brougham, though she liked the comfort of it
well enough; but to that he would not consent because the possession
of it gave him an air of wealth; but without a moment's hesitation
he could catch at the idea of throwing upon her father the burden of
maintaining both her and himself! She understood the meaning of this.
She could read his mind so far. She endeavoured not to read the book
too closely,--but there it was, opened to her wider day by day, and
she knew that the lessons which it taught were vulgar and damnable.

And yet she had to hide from him her own perception of himself! She
had to sympathise with his desires and yet to abstain from doing
that which his desires demanded from her. Alas, poor girl! She soon
knew that her marriage had been a mistake. There was probably no
one moment in which she made the confession to herself. But the
conviction was there, in her mind, as though the confession had
been made. Then there would come upon her unbidden, unwelcome
reminiscences of Arthur Fletcher,--thoughts that she would struggle
to banish, accusing herself of some heinous crime because the
thoughts would come back to her. She remembered his light wavy hair,
which she had loved as one loves the beauty of a dog, which had
seemed to her young imagination, to her in the ignorance of her early
years, to lack something of a dreamed-of manliness. She remembered
his eager, boyish, honest entreaties to herself, which to her had
been without that dignity of a superior being which a husband should
possess. She became aware that she had thought the less of him
because he had thought the more of her. She had worshipped this other
man because he had assumed superiority and had told her that he
was big enough to be her master. But now,--now that it was all too
late,--the veil had fallen from her eyes. She could now see the
difference between manliness and "deportment." Ah,--that she should
ever have been so blind, she who had given herself credit for seeing
so much clearer than they who were her elders! And now, though at
last she did see clearly, she could not have the consolation of
telling any one what she had seen. She must bear it all in silence,
and live with it, and still love this god of clay that she had
chosen. And, above all, she must never allow herself even to think of
that other man with the wavy light hair,--that man who was rising in
the world, of whom all people said all good things, who was showing
himself to be a man by the work he did, and whose true tenderness she
could never doubt.

Her father was left to her. She could still love her father. It might
be that it would be best for him that she should go back to her old
home, and take care of his old age. If he should wish it, she would
make no difficulty of parting with the things around her. Of what
concern were the prettinesses of life to one whose inner soul was
hampered with such ugliness? It might be better that they should
live in Manchester Square,--if her father wished it. It was clear
to her now that her husband was in urgent want of money, though of
his affairs, even of his way of making money, she knew nothing. As
that was the case, of course she would consent to any practicable
retrenchment which he would propose. And then she thought of other
coming joys and coming troubles,--of how in future years she might
have to teach a girl falsely to believe that her father was a good
man, and to train a boy to honest purposes whatever parental lessons
might come from the other side.

But the mistake she had made was acknowledged. The man who could
enjoin her to "get round" her father could never have been worthy of
the love she had given him.


CHAPTER XL

"Come and Try It"


The husband was almost jovial when he came home just in time to take
his young wife to dine with their father. "I've had such a day in the
city," he said, laughing. "I wish I could introduce you to my friend,
Mr. Sextus Parker."

"Cannot you do so?"

"Well, no; not exactly. Of course you'd like him because he is such a
wonderful character, but he'd hardly do for your drawing-room. He's
the vulgarest little creature you ever put your eyes on; and yet in a
certain way he's my partner."

"Then I suppose you trust him?"

"Indeed I don't;--but I make him useful. Poor little Sexty! I do
trust him to a degree, because he believes in me and thinks he can
do best by sticking to me. The old saying of 'honour among thieves'
isn't without a dash of truth in it. When two men are in a boat
together they must be true to each other, else neither will get to
the shore."

"You don't attribute high motives to your friend."

"I'm afraid there are not very many high motives in the world, my
girl, especially in the city;--nor yet at Westminster. It can hardly
be from high motives when a lot of men, thinking differently on every
possible subject, come together for the sake of pay and power. I
don't know whether, after all, Sextus Parker mayn't have as high
motives as the Duke of Omnium. I don't suppose any one ever had lower
motives than the Duchess when she chiselled me about Silverbridge.
Never mind;--it'll all be one a hundred years hence. Get ready, for I
want you to be with your father a little before dinner."

Then, when they were in the brougham together, he began a course of
very plain instructions. "Look here, dear; you had better get him to
talk to you before dinner. I dare say Mrs. Roby will be there, and
I will get her on one side. At any rate you can manage it because
we shall be early, and I'll take up a book while you are talking to
him."

"What do you wish me to say to him, Ferdinand?"

"I have been thinking of your own proposal, and I am quite sure that
we had better join him in the Square. The thing is, I am in a little
mess about the rooms, and can't stay on without paying very dearly
for them."

"I thought you had paid for them."

"Well;--yes; in one sense I had; but you don't understand about
business. You had better not interrupt me now as I have got a good
deal to say before we get to the Square. It will suit me to give up
the rooms. I don't like them, and they are very dear. As you yourself
said, it will be a capital thing for us to go and stay with your
father."

"I meant only for a visit."

"It will be for a visit,--and we'll make it a long visit." It was odd
that the man should have been so devoid of right feeling himself as
not to have known that the ideas which he expressed were revolting!
"You can sound him. Begin by saying that you are afraid he is
desolate. He told me himself that he was desolate, and you can refer
to that. Then tell him that we are both of us prepared to do anything
that we can to relieve him. Put your arm over him, and kiss him, and
all that sort of thing." She shrunk from him into the corner of the
brougham, and yet he did not perceive it. "Then say that you think
he would be happier if we were to join him here for a time. You
can make him understand that there would be no difficulty about
the apartments. But don't say it all in a set speech, as though
it were prepared,--though of course you can let him know that you
have suggested it to me and that I am willing. Be sure to let him
understand that the idea began with you."

"But it did not."

"You proposed to go and stay with him. Tell him just that. And you
should explain to him that he can dine at the club just as much as he
likes. When you were alone with him here, of course he had to come
home; but he needn't do that now unless he chooses. Of course the
brougham would be my affair. And if he should say anything about
sharing the house expenses, you can tell him that I would do anything
he might propose." Her father to share the household expenses in his
own house, and with his own children! "You say as much as you can
of all this before dinner, so that when we are sitting below he may
suggest it if he pleases. It would suit me to get in there next week
if possible."

And so the lesson had been given. She had said little or nothing in
reply, and he had only finished as they entered the Square. She had
hardly a minute allowed her to think how far she might follow, and in
what she must ignore, her husband's instructions. If she might use
her own judgment she would tell her father at once that a residence
for a time beneath his roof would be a service to them pecuniarily.
But this she might not do. She understood that her duty to her
husband did forbid her to proclaim his poverty in opposition to his
wishes. She would tell nothing that he did not wish her to tell,--but
then no duty could require her to say what was false. She would make
the suggestion about their change of residence, and would make it
with proper affection;--but as regarded themselves she would simply
say that it would suit their views to give up their rooms if it
suited him.

Mr. Wharton was all alone when they entered the drawing-room,--but,
as Lopez had surmised, had asked his sister-in-law round the corner
to come to dinner. "Roby always likes an excuse to get to his club,"
said the old man, "and Harriet likes an excuse to go anywhere." It
was not long before Lopez began to play his part by seating himself
close to the open window and looking out into the Square; and
Emily when she found herself close to her father, with her hand in
his, could hardly divest herself of a feeling that she also was
playing her part. "I see so very little of you," said the old man
plaintively.

"I'd come up oftener if I thought you'd like it."

"It isn't liking, my dear. Of course you have to live with your
husband. Isn't this sad about Everett?"

"Very sad. But Everett hasn't lived here for ever so long."

"I don't know why he shouldn't. He was a fool to go away when he did.
Does he go to you?"

"Yes;--sometimes."

"And what does he say?"

"I'm sure he would be with you at once if you would ask him."

"I have asked him. I've sent word by Lopez over and over again. If he
means that I am to write to him and say that I'm sorry for offending
him, I won't. Don't talk of him any more. It makes me so angry that
I sometimes feel inclined to do things which I know I should repent
when dying."

"Not anything to injure Everett, papa!"

"I wonder whether he ever thinks that I am an old man and all alone,
and that his brother-in-law is daily with me. But he's a fool, and
thinks of nothing. I know it is very sad being here night after night
by myself." Mr. Wharton forgot, no doubt, at the moment, that he
passed the majority of his evenings at the Eldon,--though, had he
been reminded of it, he might have declared with perfect truth that
the delights of his club were not satisfactory.

"Papa," said Emily, "would you like us to come and live here?"

"What,--you and Lopez;--here, in the Square?"

"Yes;--for a time. He is thinking of giving up the place in Belgrave
Mansions."

"I thought he had them for--for ever so many months."

"He does not like them, and they are expensive, and he can give them
up. If you would wish it, we would come here,--for a time." He turned
round and looked at her almost suspiciously; and she,--she blushed as
she remembered how accurately she was obeying her husband's orders.
"It would be such a joy to me to be near you again."

There was something in her voice which instantly reassured him.
"Well--;" he said; "come and try it if it will suit him. The house is
big enough. It will ease his pocket and be a comfort to me. Come and
try it."

It astonished her that the thing should be done so easily. Here
was all that her husband had proposed to arrange by deep diplomacy
settled in three words. And yet she felt ashamed of herself,--as
though she had taken her father in. That terrible behest to "get
round him" still grated on her ears. Had she got round him? Had she
cheated him into this? "Papa," she said, "do not do this unless you
feel sure that you will like it."

"How is anybody to feel sure of anything, my dear?"

"But if you doubt, do not do it."

"I feel sure of one thing, that it will be a great saving to your
husband, and I am nearly sure that that ought not to be a matter of
indifference to him. There is plenty of room here, and it will at any
rate be a comfort to me to see you sometimes." Just at this moment
Mrs. Roby came in, and the old man began to tell his news aloud.
"Emily has not gone away for long. She's coming back like a bad
shilling."

"Not to live in the Square?" said Mrs. Roby, looking round at Lopez.

"Why not? There's room here for them, and it will be just as well to
save expense. When will you come, my dear?"

"Whenever the house may be ready, papa."

"It's ready now. You ought to know that. I am not going to refurnish
the rooms for you, or anything of that kind. Lopez can come in and
hang up his hat whenever it pleases him."

During this time Lopez had hardly known how to speak or what to say.
He had been very anxious that his wife should pave the way, as he
would have called it. He had been urgent with her to break the ice
to her father. But it had not occurred to him that the matter would
be settled without any reference to himself. Of course he had heard
every word that had been spoken, and was aware that his own poverty
had been suggested as the cause for such a proceeding. It was a great
thing for him in every way. He would live for nothing, and would also
have almost unlimited power of being with Mr. Wharton as old age grew
on him. This ready compliance with his wishes was a benefit far too
precious to be lost. But yet he felt that his own dignity required
some reference to himself. It was distasteful to him that his
father-in-law should regard him,--or, at any rate, that he should
speak of him,--as a pauper, unable to provide a home for his own
wife. "Emily's notion in suggesting it, sir," he said, "has been her
care for your comfort." The barrister turned round and looked at
him, and Lopez did not quite like the look. "It was she thought of
it first, and she certainly had no other idea than that. When she
mentioned it to me, I was delighted to agree."

Emily heard it all and blushed. It was not absolutely untrue in
words,--this assertion of her husband's,--but altogether false in
spirit. And yet she could not contradict him. "I don't see why it
should not do very well, indeed," said Mrs. Roby.

"I hope it may," said the barrister. "Come, Emily, I must take you
down to dinner to-day. You are not at home yet, you know. As you are
to come, the sooner the better."

During dinner not a word was said on the subject. Lopez exerted
himself to be pleasant, and told all that he had heard as to the
difficulties of the Cabinet. Sir Orlando had resigned, and the
general opinion was that the Coalition was going to pieces. Had Mr.
Wharton seen the last article in the "People's Banner" about the
Duke? Lopez was strongly of the opinion that Mr. Wharton ought to see
that article. "I never had the 'People's Banner' within my fingers in
my life," said the barrister angrily, "and I certainly never will."

"Ah, sir; this is an exception. You should see this. When Slide
really means to cut a fellow up, he can do it. There's no one like
him. And the Duke has deserved it. He's a poor, vacillating creature,
led by the Duchess; and she,--according to all that one hears,--she
isn't much better than she should be."

"I thought the Duchess was a great friend of yours," said Mr.
Wharton.

"I don't care much for such friendship. She threw me over most
shamefully."

"And therefore, of course, you are justified in taking away her
character. I never saw the Duchess of Omnium in my life, and should
probably be very uncomfortable if I found myself in her society;
but I believe her to be a good sort of woman in her way." Emily sat
perfectly silent, knowing that her husband had been rebuked, but
feeling that he had deserved it. He, however, was not abashed; but
changed the conversation, dashing into city rumours, and legal
reforms. The old man from time to time said sharp little things,
showing that his intellect was not senile, all of which his
son-in-law bore imperturbably. It was not that he liked it, or was
indifferent, but that he knew that he could not get the good things
which Mr. Wharton could do for him without making some kind of
payment. He must take the sharp words of the old man,--and take all
that he could get besides.

When the two men were alone together after dinner, Mr. Wharton used a
different tone. "If you are to come," he said, "you might as well do
it as soon as possible."

"A day or two will be enough for us."

"There are one or two things you should understand. I shall be very
happy to see your friends at any time, but I shall like to know when
they are coming before they come."

"Of course, sir."

"I dine out a good deal."

"At the club," suggested Lopez.

"Well;--at the club or elsewhere. It doesn't matter. There will
always be dinner here for you and Emily, just as though I were at
home. I say this, so that there need be no questionings or doubts
about it hereafter. And don't let there ever be any question of money
between us."

"Certainly not."

"Everett has an allowance, and this will be tantamount to an
allowance to Emily. You have also had £3500. I hope it has been well
expended;--except the £500 at that election, which has, of course,
been thrown away."

"The other was brought into the business."

"I don't know what the business is. But you and Emily must understand
that the money has been given as her fortune."

"Oh, quite so;--part of it, you mean."

"I mean just what I say."

"I call it part of it, because, as you observed just now, our living
here will be the same as though you made Emily an allowance."

"Ah;--well; you can look at it in that light if you please. John has
the key of the cellar. He's a man I can trust. As a rule I have port
and sherry at table every day. If you like claret I will get some a
little cheaper than what I use when friends are here."

"What wine I have is quite indifferent to me."

"I like it good, and I have it good. I always breakfast at 9.30.
You can have yours earlier if you please. I don't know that there's
anything else to be said. I hope we shall get into the way of
understanding each other, and being mutually comfortable. Shall we
go upstairs to Emily and Mrs. Roby?" And so it was determined that
Emily was to come back to her old house about eight months after her
marriage.

Mr. Wharton himself sat late into the night, all alone, thinking
about it. What he had done, he had done in a morose way, and he was
aware that it was so. He had not beamed with smiles, and opened his
arms lovingly, and, bidding God bless his dearest children, told them
that if they would only come and sit round his hearth he should be
the happiest old man in London. He had said little or nothing of his
own affection even for his daughter, but had spoken of the matter as
one of which the pecuniary aspect alone was important. He had found
out that the saving so effected would be material to Lopez, and had
resolved that there should be no shirking of the truth in what he was
prepared to do. He had been almost asked to take the young married
couple in, and feed them,--so that they might live free of expense.
He was willing to do it,--but was not willing that there should be
any soft-worded, high-toned false pretension. He almost read Lopez to
the bottom,--not, however, giving the man credit for dishonesty so
deep or cleverness so great as he possessed. But as regarded Emily,
he was also actuated by a personal desire to have her back again as
an element of happiness to himself. He had pined for her since he had
been left alone, hardly knowing what it was that he had wanted. And
now as he thought of it all, he was angry with himself that he had
not been more loving and softer in his manner to her. She at any rate
was honest. No doubt of that crossed his mind. And now he had been
bitter to her,--bitter in his manner,--simply because he had not
wished to appear to have been taken in by her husband. Thinking of
all this, he got up, and went to his desk, and wrote her a note,
which she would receive on the following morning after her husband
had left her. It was very short.


   DEAREST E.

   I am so overjoyed that you are coming back to me.

   A. W.


He had judged her quite rightly. The manner in which the thing had
been arranged had made her very wretched. There had been no love in
it;--nothing apparently but assertions on one side that much was
being given, and on the other acknowledgments that much was to be
received. She was aware that in this her father had condemned her
husband. She also had condemned him;--and felt, alas, that she also
had been condemned. But this little letter took away that sting. She
could read in her father's note all the action of his mind. He had
known that he was bound to acquit her, and he had done so with one of
the old long-valued expressions of his love.


VOLUME II

CHAPTER XLI

The Value of a Thick Skin


Sir Orlando Drought must have felt bitterly the quiescence with which
he sank into obscurity on the second bench on the opposite side of
the House. One great occasion he had on which it was his privilege
to explain to four or five hundred gentlemen the insuperable reasons
which caused him to break away from those right honourable friends to
act with whom had been his comfort and his duty, his great joy and
his unalloyed satisfaction. Then he occupied the best part of an hour
in abusing those friends and all their measures. This no doubt had
been a pleasure, as practice had made the manipulation of words easy
to him,--and he was able to revel in that absence of responsibility
which must be as a fresh perfumed bath to a minister just freed from
the trammels of office. But the pleasure was surely followed by much
suffering when Mr. Monk,--Mr. Monk who was to assume his place as
Leader of the House,--only took five minutes to answer him, saying
that he and his colleagues regretted much the loss of the Right
Honourable Baronet's services, but that it would hardly be necessary
for him to defend the Ministry on all those points on which it had
been attacked, as, were he to do so, he would have to repeat the
arguments by which every measure brought forward by the present
Ministry had been supported. Then Mr. Monk sat down, and the business
of the House went on just as if Sir Orlando Drought had not moved his
seat at all.

"What makes everybody and everything so dead?" said Sir Orlando to
his old friend Mr. Boffin as they walked home together from the
House that night. They had in former days been staunch friends,
sitting night after night close together, united in opposition, and
sometimes, for a few halcyon months, in the happier bonds of office.
But when Sir Orlando had joined the Coalition, and when the sterner
spirit of Mr. Boffin had preferred principles to place,--to use the
language in which he was wont to speak to himself and to his wife
and family of his own abnegation,--there had come a coolness
between them. Mr. Boffin, who was not a rich man, nor by any means
indifferent to the comforts of office, had felt keenly the injury
done to him when he was left hopelessly in the cold by the desertion
of his old friends. It had come to pass that there had been no
salt left in the opposition. Mr. Boffin in all his parliamentary
experience had known nothing like it. Mr. Boffin had been sure that
British honour was going to the dogs and that British greatness was
at an end. But the secession of Sir Orlando gave a little fillip to
his life. At any rate he could walk home with his old friend and talk
of the horrors of the present day.

"Well, Drought, if you ask me, you know, I can only speak as I feel.
Everything must be dead when men holding different opinions on every
subject under the sun come together in order that they may carry on a
government as they would a trade business. The work may be done, but
it must be done without spirit."

"But it may be all important that the work should be done," said the
Baronet, apologising for his past misconduct.

"No doubt;--and I am very far from judging those who make the
attempt. It has been made more than once before, and has, I think,
always failed. I don't believe in it myself, and I think that
the death-like torpor of which you speak is one of its worst
consequences." After that Mr. Boffin admitted Sir Orlando back into
his heart of hearts.

Then the end of the Session came, very quietly and very early. By
the end of July there was nothing left to be done, and the world of
London was allowed to go down into the country almost a fortnight
before its usual time.

With many men, both in and out of Parliament, it became a question
whether all this was for good or evil. The Boffinites had of course
much to say for themselves. Everything was torpid. There was no
interest in the newspapers,--except when Mr. Slide took the tomahawk
into his hands. A member of Parliament this Session had not been by
half so much bigger than another man as in times of hot political
warfare. One of the most moving sources of our national excitement
seemed to have vanished from life. We all know what happens to
stagnant waters. So said the Boffinites, and so also now said Sir
Orlando. But the Government was carried on and the country was
prosperous. A few useful measures had been passed by unambitious men,
and the Duke of St. Bungay declared that he had never known a Session
of Parliament more thoroughly satisfactory to the ministers.

But the old Duke in so saying had spoken as it were his public
opinion,--giving, truly enough, to a few of his colleagues, such as
Lord Drummond, Sir Gregory Grogram and others, the results of his
general experience; but in his own bosom and with a private friend he
was compelled to confess that there was a cloud in the heavens. The
Prime Minister had become so moody, so irritable, and so unhappy,
that the old Duke was forced to doubt whether things could go on
much longer as they were. He was wont to talk of these things to his
friend Lord Cantrip, who was not a member of the Government, but
who had been a colleague of both the Dukes, and whom the old Duke
regarded with peculiar confidence. "I cannot explain it to you," he
said to Lord Cantrip. "There is nothing that ought to give him a
moment's uneasiness. Since he took office there hasn't once been
a majority against him in either House on any question that the
Government has made its own. I don't remember such a state of
things,--so easy for the Prime Minister,--since the days of Lord
Liverpool. He had one thorn in his side, our friend who was at the
Admiralty, and that thorn like other thorns has worked itself out.
Yet at this moment it is impossible to get him to consent to the
nomination of a successor to Sir Orlando." This was said a week
before the Session had closed.

"I suppose it is his health," said Lord Cantrip.

"He's well enough as far as I can see;--though he will be ill unless
he can relieve himself from the strain on his nerves."

"Do you mean by resigning?"

"Not necessarily. The fault is that he takes things too seriously. If
he could be got to believe that he might eat, and sleep, and go to
bed, and amuse himself like other men, he might be a very good Prime
Minister. He is over troubled by his conscience. I have seen a good
many Prime Ministers, Cantrip, and I've taught myself to think that
they are not very different from other men. One wants in a Prime
Minister a good many things, but not very great things. He should be
clever but need not be a genius; he should be conscientious but by no
means strait-laced; he should be cautious but never timid, bold but
never venturesome; he should have a good digestion, genial manners,
and, above all, a thick skin. These are the gifts we want, but we
can't always get them, and have to do without them. For my own part,
I find that though Smith be a very good Minister, the best perhaps to
be had at the time, when he breaks down Jones does nearly as well."

"There will be a Jones, then, if your Smith does break down?"

"No doubt. England wouldn't come to an end because the Duke of Omnium
shut himself up at Matching. But I love the man, and, with some few
exceptions, am contented with the party. We can't do better, and it
cuts me to the heart when I see him suffering, knowing how much I did
myself to make him undertake the work."

"Is he going to Gatherum Castle?"

"No;--to Matching. There is some discomfort about that."

"I suppose," said Lord Cantrip,--speaking almost in a whisper,
although they were closeted together,--"I suppose the Duchess is a
little troublesome."

"She's the dearest woman in the world," said the Duke of St. Bungay.
"I love her almost as I do my own daughter. And she is most zealous
to serve him."

"I fancy she overdoes it."

"No doubt."

"And that he suffers from perceiving it," said Lord Cantrip.

"But a man hasn't a right to suppose that he shall have no
annoyances. The best horse in the world has some fault. He pulls, or
he shies, or is slow at his fences, or doesn't like heavy ground.
He has no right to expect that his wife shall know everything and
do everything without a mistake. And then he has such faults of
his own! His skin is so thin. Do you remember dear old Brock? By
heavens;--there was a covering, a hide impervious to fire or steel!
He wouldn't have gone into tantrums because his wife asked too many
people to the house. Nevertheless, I won't give up all hope."

"A man's skin may be thickened, I suppose."

"No doubt;--as a blacksmith's arm."

But the Duke of St. Bungay, though he declared that he wouldn't give
up hope, was very uneasy on the matter. "Why won't you let me go?"
the other Duke had said to him.

"What;--because such a man as Sir Orlando Drought throws up his
office?"

But in truth the Duke of Omnium had not been instigated to ask the
question by the resignation of Sir Orlando. At that very moment
the "People's Banner" had been put out of sight at the bottom of a
heap of other newspapers behind the Prime Minister's chair, and his
present misery had been produced by Mr. Quintus Slide. To have a
festering wound and to be able to show the wound to no surgeon, is
wretchedness indeed! "It's not Sir Orlando, but a sense of general
failure," said the Prime Minister. Then his old friend had made use
of that argument of the ever-recurring majorities to prove that there
had been no failure. "There seems to have come a lethargy upon the
country," said the poor victim. Then the Duke of St. Bungay knew that
his friend had read that pernicious article in the "People's Banner,"
for the Duke had also read it and remembered that phrase of a
"lethargy on the country," and understood at once how the poison had
rankled.

It was a week before he would consent to ask any man to fill the
vacancy made by Sir Orlando. He would not allow suggestions to be
made to him and yet would name no one himself. The old Duke, indeed,
did make a suggestion, and anything coming from him was of course
borne with patience. Barrington Erle, he thought, would do for the
Admiralty. But the Prime Minister shook his head. "In the first place
he would refuse, and that would be a great blow to me."

"I could sound him," said the old Duke. But the Prime Minister again
shook his head and turned the subject. With all his timidity he was
becoming autocratic and peevishly imperious. Then he went to Lord
Cantrip, and when Lord Cantrip, with all the kindness which he could
throw into his words, stated the reasons which induced him at present
to decline office, he was again in despair. At last he asked Phineas
Finn to move to the Admiralty, and, when our old friend somewhat
reluctantly obeyed, of course he had the same difficulty in filling
the office Finn had held. Other changes and other complications
became necessary, and Mr. Quintus Slide, who hated Phineas Finn
even worse than the poor Duke, found ample scope for his patriotic
indignation.

This all took place in the closing week of the Session, filling our
poor Prime Minister with trouble and dismay, just when other people
were complaining that there was nothing to think of and nothing to
do. Men do not really like leaving London before the grouse calls
them,--the grouse, or rather the fashion of the grouse. And some
ladies were very angry at being separated so soon from their swains
in the city. The tradesmen too were displeased,--so that there were
voices to re-echo the abuse of the "People's Banner." The Duchess had
done her best to prolong the Session by another week, telling her
husband of the evil consequences above suggested, but he had thrown
wide his arms and asked her with affected dismay whether he was to
keep Parliament sitting in order that more ribbons might be sold!
"There is nothing to be done," said the Duke almost angrily.

"Then you should make something to be done," said the Duchess,
mimicking him.


CHAPTER XLII

Retribution


The Duchess had been at work with her husband for the last two months
in the hope of renewing her autumnal festivities, but had been
lamentably unsuccessful. The Duke had declared that there should be
no more rural crowds, no repetition of what he called London turned
loose on his own grounds. He could not forget the necessity which had
been imposed upon him of turning Major Pountney out of his house, or
the change that had been made in his gardens, or his wife's attempt
to conquer him at Silverbridge. "Do you mean," she said, "that we are
to have nobody?" He replied that he thought it would be best to go to
Matching. "And live a Darby and Joan life?" said the Duchess.

"I said nothing of Darby and Joan. Whatever may be my feelings I
hardly think that you are fitted for that kind of thing. Matching is
not so big as Gatherum, but it is not a cottage. Of course you can
ask your own friends."

"I don't know what you mean by my own friends. I endeavour always to
ask yours."

"I don't know that Major Pountney, and Captain Gunner, and Mr. Lopez
were ever among the number of my friends."

"I suppose you mean Lady Rosina?" said the Duchess. "I shall be happy
to have her at Matching if you wish it."

"I should like to see Lady Rosina De Courcy at Matching very much."

"And is there to be nobody else? I'm afraid I should find it rather
dull while you two were opening your hearts to each other." Here
he looked at her angrily. "Can you think of anybody besides Lady
Rosina?"

"I suppose you will wish to have Mrs. Finn?"

"What an arrangement! Lady Rosina for you to flirt with, and Mrs.
Finn for me to grumble to."

"That is an odious word," said the Prime Minister.

"What;--flirting? I don't see anything bad about the word. The thing
is dangerous. But you are quite at liberty if you don't go beyond
Lady Rosina. I should like to know whether you would wish anybody
else to come?" Of course he made no becoming answer to this question,
and of course no becoming answer was expected. He knew that she was
trying to provoke him because he would not let her do this year
as she had done last. The house, he had no doubt, would be full
to overflowing when he got there. He could not help that. But as
compared with Gatherum Castle the house at Matching was small, and
his domestic authority sufficed at any rate for shutting up Gatherum
for the time.

I do not know whether at times her sufferings were not as acute as
his own. He, at any rate, was Prime Minister, and it seemed to her
that she was to be reduced to nothing. At the beginning of it all
he had, with unwonted tenderness, asked her for her sympathy in his
undertaking, and, according to her powers, she had given it to him
with her whole heart. She had thought that she had seen a way by
which she might assist him in his great employment, and she had
worked at it like a slave. Every day she told herself that she did
not, herself, love the Captain Gunners and Major Pountneys, nor the
Sir Orlandos, nor, indeed, the Lady Rosinas. She had not followed
the bent of her own inclination when she had descended to sheets and
towels, and busied herself to establish an archery-ground. She had
not shot an arrow during the whole season, nor had she cared who had
won and who had lost. It had not been for her own personal delight
that she had kept open house for forty persons throughout four months
of the year, in doing which he had never taken an ounce of the labour
off her shoulders by any single word or deed! It had all been done
for his sake,--that his reign might be long and triumphant, that the
world might say that his hospitality was noble and full, that his
name might be in men's mouths, and that he might prosper as a British
Minister. Such, at least, were the assertions which she made to
herself, when she thought of her own grievances and her own troubles.
And now she was angry with her husband. It was very well for him
to ask for her sympathy, but he had none to give her in return! He
could not pity her failures,--even though he had himself caused them!
If he had a grain of intelligence about him he must, she thought,
understand well enough how sore it must be for her to descend from
her princely entertainments to solitude at Matching, and thus to own
before all the world that she was beaten. Then when she asked him
for advice, when she was really anxious to know how far she might go
in filling her house without offending him, he told her to ask Lady
Rosina De Courcy! If he chose to be ridiculous he might. She would
ask Lady Rosina De Courcy. In her active anger she did write to Lady
Rosina De Courcy a formal letter, in which she said that the Duke
hoped to have the pleasure of her ladyship's company at Matching Park
on the 1st of August. It was an absurd letter, somewhat long, written
very much in the Duke's name, with overwhelming expressions of
affection, instigated in the writer's mind partly by the fun of the
supposition that such a man as her husband should flirt with such a
woman as Lady Rosina. There was something too of anger in what she
wrote, some touch of revenge. She sent off this invitation, and she
sent no other. Lady Rosina took it all in good part, and replied
saying that she should have the greatest pleasure in going to
Matching. She had declared to herself that she would ask none but
those he had named, and in accordance with her resolution she sent
out no other written invitations.

He had also told her to ask Mrs. Finn. Now this had become almost a
matter of course. There had grown up from accidental circumstances so
strong a bond between these two women, that it was taken for granted
by both their husbands that they should be nearly always within
reach of one another. And the two husbands were also on kindly, if
not affectionate, terms with each other. The nature of the Duke's
character was such that, with a most loving heart, he was hardly
capable of that opening out of himself to another which is necessary
for positive friendship. There was a stiff reserve about him, of
which he was himself only too conscious, which almost prohibited
friendship. But he liked Mr. Finn both as a man and a member of his
party, and was always satisfied to have him as a guest. The Duchess,
therefore, had taken it for granted that Mrs. Finn would come to
her,--and that Mr. Finn would come also during any time that he might
be able to escape from Ireland. But, when the invitation was verbally
conveyed, Mr. Finn had gone to the Admiralty, and had already made
his arrangements for going to sea, as a gallant sailor should. "We
are going away in the 'Black Watch' for a couple of months," said
Mrs. Finn. Now the "Black Watch" was the Admiralty yacht.

"Heavens and earth!" ejaculated the Duchess.

"It is always done. The First Lord would have his epaulets stripped
if he didn't go to sea in August."

"And must you go with him?"

"I have promised."

"I think it very unkind,--very hard upon me. Of course you knew that
I should want you."

"But if my husband wants me too?"

"Bother your husband! I wish with all my heart I had never helped to
make up the match."

"It would have been made up just the same, Lady Glen."

"You know that I cannot get on without you. And he ought to know it
too. There isn't another person in the world that I can really say a
thing to."

"Why don't you have Mrs. Grey?"

"She's going to Persia after her husband. And then she is not wicked
enough. She always lectured me, and she does it still. What do you
think is going to happen?"

"Nothing terrible, I hope," said Mrs. Finn, mindful of her husband's
new honours at the Admiralty, and hoping that the Duke might not have
repeated his threat of resigning.

"We are going to Matching."

"So I supposed."

"And whom do you think we are going to have?"

"Not Major Pountney?"

"No;--not at my asking."

"Nor Mr. Lopez?"

"Nor yet Mr. Lopez. Guess again."

"I suppose there will be a dozen to guess."

"No," shrieked the Duchess. "There will only be one. I have asked
one,--at his special desire,--and as you won't come I shall ask
nobody else. When I pressed him to name a second he named you. I'll
obey him to the letter. Now, my dear, who do you think is the chosen
one,--the one person who is to solace the perturbed spirit of the
Prime Minister for the three months of the autumn?"

"Mr. Warburton, I should say."

"Oh, Mr. Warburton! No doubt Mr. Warburton will come as a part of
his luggage, and possibly half-a-dozen Treasury clerks. He declares,
however, that there is nothing to do, and therefore Mr. Warburton's
strength may alone suffice to help him to do it. There is to be one
unnecessary guest,--unnecessary, that is, for official purpose;
though,--oh,--so much needed for his social happiness. Guess once
more."

"Knowing the spirit of mischief that is in you,--perhaps it is Lady
Rosina."

"Of course it is Lady Rosina," said the Duchess, clapping her hands
together. "And I should like to know what you mean by a spirit of
mischief! I asked him, and he himself said that he particularly
wished to have Lady Rosina at Matching. Now, I'm not a jealous
woman,--am I?"

"Not of Lady Rosina."

"I don't think they'll do any harm together, but it is particular,
you know. However, she is to come. And nobody else is to come. I did
count upon you." Then Mrs. Finn counselled her very seriously as to
the bad taste of such a joke, explaining to her that the Duke had
certainly not intended that her invitations should be confined to
Lady Rosina. But it was not all joke with the Duchess. She had been
driven almost to despair, and was very angry with her husband. He had
brought the thing upon himself, and must now make the best of it. She
would ask nobody else. She declared that there was nobody whom she
could ask with propriety. She was tired of asking. Let her ask whom
she would, he was dissatisfied. The only two people he cared to see
were Lady Rosina and the old Duke. She had asked Lady Rosina for his
sake. Let him ask his old friend himself if he pleased.

The Duke and Duchess with all the family went down together, and Mr.
Warburton went with them. The Duchess had said not a word more to her
husband about his guests, nor had he alluded to the subject. But each
was labouring under a conviction that the other was misbehaving, and
with that feeling it was impossible that there should be confidence
between them. He busied himself with books and papers,--always
turning over those piles of newspapers to see what evil was said of
himself,--and speaking only now and again to his private Secretary.
She engaged herself with the children or pretended to read a novel.
Her heart was sore within her. She had wished to punish him, but in
truth she was punishing herself.

On the day of their arrival, the father and mother, with Lord
Silverbridge, the eldest son, who was home from Eton, and the private
Secretary dined together. As the Duke sat at table, he began to think
how long it was since such a state of things had happened to him
before, and his heart softened towards her. Instead of being made
angry by the strangeness of her proceeding, he took delight in
it, and in the course of the evening spoke a word to signify his
satisfaction. "I'm afraid it won't last long," she said, "for Lady
Rosina comes to-morrow."

"Oh, indeed."

"You bid me ask her yourself."

Then he perceived it all;--how she had taken advantage of his former
answer to her and had acted upon it in a spirit of contradictory
petulance. But he resolved that he would forgive it and endeavour
to bring her back to him. "I thought we were both joking," he said
good-humouredly.

"Oh, no! I never suspected you of a joke. At any rate she is coming."

"She will do neither of us any harm. And Mrs. Finn?"

"You have sent her to sea."

"She may be at sea,--and he too; but it is without my sending. The
First Lord, I believe, usually does go a cruise. Is there nobody
else?"

"Nobody else,--unless you have asked any one."

"Not a creature. Well;--so much the better. I dare say Lady Rosina
will get on very well."

"You will have to talk to her," said the Duchess.

"I will do my best," said the Duke.

Lady Rosina came and no doubt did think it odd. But she did not say
so, and it really did seem to the Duchess as though all her vengeance
had been blown away by the winds. And she too laughed at the
matter--to herself, and began to feel less cross and less perverse.
The world did not come to an end because she and her husband with
Lady Rosina and her boy and the private Secretary sat down to dinner
every day together. The parish clergyman with the neighbouring squire
and his wife and daughter did come one day,--to the relief of M.
Millepois, who had begun to feel that the world had collapsed. And
every day at a certain hour the Duke and Lady Rosina walked together
for an hour and a half in the park. The Duchess would have enjoyed
it, instead of suffering, could she only have had her friend, Mrs.
Finn, to hear her jokes. "Now, Plantagenet," she said, "do tell me
one thing. What does she talk about?"

"The troubles of her family generally, I think."

"That can't last for ever."

"She wears cork soles to her boots and she thinks a good deal about
them."

"And you listen to her?"

"Why not? I can talk about cork soles as well as anything else.
Anything that may do material good to the world at large, or even to
yourself privately, is a fit subject for conversation to rational
people."

"I suppose I never was one of them."

"But I can talk upon anything," continued the Duke, "as long as the
talker talks in good faith and does not say things that should not be
said, or deal with matters that are offensive. I could talk for an
hour about bankers' accounts, but I should not expect a stranger to
ask me the state of my own. She has almost persuaded me to send to
Mr. Sprout of Silverbridge and get some cork soles myself."

"Don't do anything of the kind," said the Duchess with animation;--as
though she had secret knowledge that cork soles were specially fatal
to the family of the Pallisers.

"Why not, my dear?"

"He was the man who especially, above all others, threw me over at
Silverbridge." Then again there came upon his brow that angry frown
which during the last few days had been dissipated by the innocence
of Lady Rosina's conversation. "Of course I don't mean to ask you
to take any interest in the borough again. You have said that you
wouldn't, and you are always as good as your word."

"I hope so."

"But I certainly would not employ a tradesman just at your elbow who
has directly opposed what was generally understood in the town to be
your interests."

"What did Mr. Sprout do? This is the first I have heard of it."

"He got Mr. Du Boung to stand against Mr. Lopez."

"I am very glad for the sake of the borough that Mr. Lopez did not
get in."

"So am I. But that is nothing to do with it. Mr. Sprout knew at any
rate what my wishes were, and went directly against them."

"You were not entitled to have wishes in the matter, Glencora."

"That's all very well;--but I had, and he knew it. As for the future,
of course, the thing is over. But you have done everything for the
borough."

"You mean that the borough has done much for me."

"I know what I mean very well;--and I shall take it very ill if a
shilling out of the Castle ever goes into Mr. Sprout's pocket again."

It is needless to trouble the reader at length with the sermon which
he preached her on the occasion,--showing the utter corruption which
must come from the mixing up of politics with trade, or with the
scorn which she threw into the few words with which she interrupted
him from time to time. "Whether a man makes good shoes, and at a
reasonable price, and charges for them honestly,--that is what you
have to consider," said the Duke impressively.

"I'd rather pay double for bad shoes to a man who did not thwart me."

"You should not condescend to be thwarted in such a matter. You lower
yourself by admitting such a feeling." And yet he writhed himself
under the lashes of Mr. Slide!

"I know an enemy when I see him," said the Duchess, "and as long as I
live I'll treat an enemy as an enemy."

There was ever so much of it, in the course of which the Duke
declared his purpose of sending at once to Mr. Sprout for ever so
many cork soles, and the Duchess,--most imprudently,--declared her
purpose of ruining Mr. Sprout. There was something in this threat
which grated terribly against the Duke's sense of honour;--that his
wife should threaten to ruin a poor tradesman, that she should do so
in reference to the political affairs of the borough which he all
but owned,--that she should do so in declared opposition to him! Of
course he ought to have known that her sin consisted simply in her
determination to vex him at the moment. A more good-natured woman did
not live;--or one less prone to ruin any one. But any reference to
the Silverbridge election brought back upon him the remembrance of
the cruel attacks which had been made upon him, and rendered him
for the time moody, morose, and wretched. So they again parted ill
friends, and hardly spoke when they met at dinner.

The next morning there reached Matching a letter which greatly added
to his bitterness of spirit against the world in general and against
her in particular. The letter, though marked "private," had been
opened, as were all his letters, by Mr. Warburton, but the private
Secretary thought it necessary to show the letter to the Prime
Minister. He, when he had read it, told Warburton that it did not
signify, and maintained for half-an-hour an attitude of quiescence.
Then he walked forth, having the letter hidden in his hand, and
finding his wife alone, gave it her to read. "See what you have
brought upon me," he said, "by your interference and disobedience."
The letter was as follows:--


   Manchester Square, August 3, 187--.

   MY LORD DUKE,

   I consider myself entitled to complain to your Grace of
   the conduct with which I was treated at the last election
   at Silverbridge, whereby I was led into very heavy
   expenditure without the least chance of being returned for
   the borough. I am aware that I had no direct conversation
   with your Grace on the subject, and that your Grace can
   plead that, as between man and man, I had no authority
   from yourself for supposing that I should receive your
   Grace's support. But I was distinctly asked by the Duchess
   to stand, and was assured by her that if I did so I should
   have all the assistance that your Grace's influence could
   procure for me;--and it was also explained to me that
   your Grace's official position made it inexpedient that
   your Grace on this special occasion should have any
   personal conference with your own candidate. Under these
   circumstances I submit to your Grace that I am entitled to
   complain of the hardship I have suffered.

   I had not been long in the borough before I found that my
   position was hopeless. Influential men in the town who had
   been represented to me as being altogether devoted to your
   Grace's interests started a third candidate,--a Liberal as
   myself,--and the natural consequence was that neither of
   us succeeded, though my return as your Grace's candidate
   would have been certain had not this been done. That all
   this was preconcerted there can be no doubt, but, before
   the mine was sprung on me,--immediately, indeed, on my
   arrival, if I remember rightly,--an application was made
   to me for £500, so that the money might be exacted before
   the truth was known to me. Of course I should not have
   paid the £500 had I known that your Grace's usual agents
   in the town,--I may name Mr. Sprout especially,--were
   prepared to act against me. But I did pay the money,
   and I think your Grace will agree with me that a very
   opprobrious term might be applied without injustice to the
   transaction.

   My Lord Duke, I am a poor man;--ambitious I will own,
   whether that be a sin or a virtue,--and willing, perhaps,
   to incur expenditure which can hardly be justified in
   pursuit of certain public objects. But I must say, with
   the most lively respect for your Grace personally, that I
   do not feel inclined to sit down tamely under such a loss
   as this. I should not have dreamed of interfering in the
   election at Silverbridge had not the Duchess exhorted me
   to do so. I would not even have run the risk of a doubtful
   contest. But I came forward at the suggestion of the
   Duchess, backed by her personal assurance that the seat
   was certain as being in your Grace's hands. It was no
   doubt understood that your Grace would not yourself
   interfere, but it was equally well understood that your
   Grace's influence was for the time deputed to the Duchess.
   The Duchess herself will, I am sure, confirm my statement
   that I had her direct authority for regarding myself as
   your Grace's candidate.

   I can of course bring an action against Mr. Wise, the
   gentleman to whom I paid the money, but I feel that as a
   gentleman I should not do so without reference to your
   Grace, as circumstances might possibly be brought out in
   evidence,--I will not say prejudicial to your Grace,--but
   which would be unbecoming. I cannot, however, think that
   your Grace will be willing that a poor man like myself,
   in his search for an entrance into public life, should be
   mulcted to so heavy an extent in consequence of an error
   on the part of the Duchess. Should your Grace be able
   to assist me in my view of getting into Parliament for
   any other seat I shall be willing to abide the loss I
   have incurred. I hardly, however, dare to hope for such
   assistance. In this case I think your Grace ought to see
   that I am reimbursed.

   I have the honour to be,
   My Lord Duke,
   Your Grace's very faithful Servant,

   FERDINAND LOPEZ.


The Duke stood over her in her own room upstairs, with his back to
the fireplace and his eyes fixed upon her while she was reading this
letter. He gave her ample time, and she did not read it very quickly.
Much of it indeed she perused twice, turning very red in the face as
she did so. She was thus studious partly because the letter astounded
even her, and partly because she wanted time to consider how she
would meet his wrath. "Well," said he, "what do you say to that?"

"The man is a blackguard,--of course."

"He is so;--though I do not know that I wish to hear him called such
a name by your lips. Let him be what he may he was your friend."

"He was my acquaintance."

"He was the man whom you selected to be your candidate for the
borough in opposition to my wishes, and whom you continued to support
in direct disobedience to my orders."

"Surely, Plantagenet, we have had all that about disobedience out
before."

"You cannot have such things 'out,'--as you call it. Evil-doing will
not bury itself out of the way and be done with. Do you feel no shame
at having your name mentioned a score of times with reprobation as
that man mentions it;--at being written about by such a man as that?"

"Do you want to make me roll in the gutter because I mistook him for
a gentleman?"

"That was not all,--nor half. In your eagerness to serve such a
miserable creature as this you forgot my entreaties, my commands,
my position! I explained to you why I, of all men, and you, of all
women, as a part of me, should not do this thing; and yet you did it,
mistaking such a cur as that for a man! What am I to do? How am I to
free myself from the impediments which you make for me? My enemies I
can overcome,--but I cannot escape the pitfalls which are made for
me by my own wife. I can only retire into private life and hope to
console myself with my children and my books."

There was a reality of tragedy about him which for the moment
overcame her. She had no joke ready, no sarcasm, no feminine
counter-grumble. Little as she agreed with him when he spoke of the
necessity of retiring into private life because a man had written
to him such a letter as this, incapable as she was of understanding
fully the nature of the irritation which tormented him, still she
knew that he was suffering, and acknowledged to herself that she had
been the cause of the agony. "I am sorry," she ejaculated at last.
"What more can I say?"

"What am I to do? What can be said to the man? Warburton read the
letter, and gave it me in silence. He could see the terrible
difficulty."

"Tear it in pieces, and then let there be an end of it."

"I do not feel sure but that he has right on his side. He is, as you
say, certainly a blackguard, or he would not make such a claim. He is
taking advantage of the mistake made by a good-natured woman through
her folly and her vanity;"--as he said this the Duchess gave an
absurd little pout, but luckily he did not see it,--"and he knows
very well that he is doing so. But still he has a show of justice on
his side. There was, I suppose, no chance for him at Silverbridge
after I had made myself fully understood. The money was absolutely
wasted. It was your persuasion and then your continued encouragement
that led him on to spend the money."

"Pay it then. The loss will not hurt you."

"Ah;--if we could but get out of our difficulties by paying! Suppose
that I do pay it. I begin to think that I must pay it;--that after
all I cannot allow such a plea to remain unanswered. But when it is
paid;--what then? Do you think such a payment made by the Queen's
Minister will not be known to all the newspapers, and that I shall
escape the charge of having bribed the man to hold his tongue?"

"It will be no bribe if you pay him because you think you ought."

"But how shall I excuse it? There are things done which are holy as
the heavens,--which are clear before God as the light of the sun,
which leave no stain on the conscience, and which yet the malignity
of man can invest with the very blackness of hell! I shall know why
I pay this £500. Because she who of all the world is the nearest and
the dearest to me,"--she looked up into his face with amazement, as
he stood stretching out both his arms in his energy,--"has in her
impetuous folly committed a grievous blunder, from which she would
not allow her husband to save her, this sum must be paid to the
wretched craven. But I cannot tell the world that. I cannot say
abroad that this small sacrifice of money was the justest means of
retrieving the injury which you had done."

"Say it abroad. Say it everywhere."

"No, Glencora."

"Do you think that I would have you spare me if it was my fault? And
how would it hurt me? Will it be new to any one that I have done a
foolish thing? Will the newspapers disturb my peace? I sometimes
think, Plantagenet, that I should have been the man, my skin is so
thick; and that you should have been the woman, yours is so tender."

"But it is not so."

"Take the advantage, nevertheless, of my toughness. Send him the £500
without a word,--or make Warburton do so, or Mr. Moreton. Make no
secret of it. Then if the papers talk about it--"

"A question might be asked about it in the House."

"Or if questioned in any way,--say that I did it. Tell the exact
truth. You are always saying that nothing but truth ever serves. Let
the truth serve now. I shall not blench. Your saying it all in the
House of Lords won't wound me half so much as your looking at me as
you did just now."

"Did I wound you? God knows I would not hurt you willingly."

"Never mind. Go on. I know you think that I have brought it all on
myself by my own wickedness. Pay this man the money, and then if
anything be said about it, explain that it was my fault, and say that
you paid the money because I had done wrong."

When he came in she had been seated on a sofa, which she constantly
used herself, and he had stood over her, masterful, imperious, and
almost tyrannical. She had felt his tyranny, but had resented it
less than usual,--or rather had been less determined in holding her
own against him and asserting herself as his equal,--because she
confessed to herself that she had injured him. She had, she thought,
done but little, but that which she had done had produced this
injury. So she had sat and endured the oppression of his standing
posture. But now he sat down by her, very close to her, and put his
hand upon her shoulder,--almost round her waist.

"Cora," he said, "you do not quite understand it."

"I never understand anything, I think," she answered.

"Not in this case,--perhaps never,--what it is that a husband feels
about his wife. Do you think that I could say a word against you,
even to a friend?"

"Why not?"

"I never did. I never could. If my anger were at the hottest I would
not confess to a human being that you were not perfect,--except to
yourself."

"Oh, thank you! If you were to scold me vicariously I should feel it
less."

"Do not joke with me now, for I am so much in earnest! And if I could
not consent that your conduct should be called in question even by a
friend, do you suppose it possible that I could contrive an escape
from public censure by laying the blame publicly on you?"

"Stick to the truth;--that's what you always say."

"I certainly shall stick to the truth. A man and his wife are one.
For what she does he is responsible."

"They couldn't hang you, you know, because I committed a murder."

"I should be willing that they should do so. No;--if I pay this money
I shall take the consequences. I shall not do it in any way under the
rose. But I wish you would remember--"

"Remember what? I know I shall never forget all this trouble about
that dirty little town, which I never will enter again as long as I
live."

"I wish you would think that in all that you do you are dealing with
my feelings, with my heartstrings, with my reputation. You cannot
divide yourself from me; nor, for the value of it all, would I wish
that such division were possible. You say that I am thin-skinned."

"Certainly you are. What people call a delicate
organisation,--whereas I am rough and thick and monstrously
commonplace."

"Then should you too be thin-skinned for my sake."

"I wish I could make you thick-skinned for your own. It's the only
way to be decently comfortable in such a coarse, rough-and-tumble
world as this is."

"Let us both do our best," he said, now putting his arm round her and
kissing her. "I think I shall send the man his money at once. It is
the least of two evils. And now let there never be a word more about
it between us."

Then he left her and went back,--not to the study in which he was
wont, when at Matching, to work with his private Secretary,--but
to a small inner closet of his own, in which many a bitter moment
was spent while he thought over that abortive system of decimal
coinage by which he had once hoped to make himself one of the great
benefactors of his nation, revolving in his mind the troubles which
his wife brought upon him, and regretting the golden inanity of the
coronet which in the very prime of life had expelled him from the
House of Commons. Here he seated himself, and for an hour neither
stirred from his seat, nor touched a pen, nor opened a book. He was
trying to calculate in his mind what might be the consequences of
paying the money to Mr. Lopez. But when the calculation slipped
from him,--as it did,--then he demanded of himself whether strict
high-minded justice did not call upon him to pay the money let the
consequences be what they might. And here his mind was truer to him,
and he was able to fix himself to a purpose,--though the resolution
to which he came was not, perhaps, wise.

When the hour was over he went to his desk, drew a cheque for £500 in
favour of Ferdinand Lopez, and then caused his Secretary to send it
in the following note:--


   Matching, August 4, 187--.

   SIR,--

   The Duke of Omnium has read the letter you have addressed to him,
   dated the 3rd instant. The Duke of Omnium, feeling that you may
   have been induced to undertake the late contest at Silverbridge by
   misrepresentations made to you at Gatherum Castle, directs me to
   enclose a cheque for £500, that being the sum stated by you to have
   been expended in carrying on the contest at Silverbridge.

   I am, sir,
   Your obedient servant,

   ARTHUR WARBURTON.

   Ferdinand Lopez, Esq.


CHAPTER XLIII

Kauri Gum


The reader will no doubt think that Ferdinand Lopez must have been
very hardly driven indeed by circumstances before he would have made
such an appeal to the Duke as that given in the last chapter. But
it was not want of money only that had brought it about. It may
be remembered that the £500 had already been once repaid him by
his father-in-law,--that special sum having been given to him for
that special purpose. And Lopez, when he wrote to the Duke, assured
himself that if, by any miracle, his letter should produce pecuniary
results in the shape of a payment from the Duke, he would refund the
money so obtained to Mr. Wharton. But when he wrote the letter he did
not expect to get money,--nor, indeed, did he expect that aid towards
another seat, to which he alluded at the close of his letter. He
expected probably nothing but to vex the Duke, and to drive the Duke
into a correspondence with him.

Though this man had lived nearly all his life in England, he had not
quite acquired that knowledge of the way in which things are done
which is so general among men of a certain class, and so rare among
those beneath them. He had not understood that the Duchess's promise
of her assistance at Silverbridge might be taken by him for what it
was worth, and that her aid might be used as far as it went,--but,
that in the event of its failing him, he was bound in honour to take
the result without complaining, whatever that result might be. He
felt that a grievous injury had been done him, and that it behoved
him to resent that injury,--even though it were against a woman.
He just knew that he could not very well write to the Duchess
herself,--though there was sometimes present to his mind a plan for
attacking her in public, and telling her what evil she had done him.
He had half resolved that he would do so in her own garden at the
Horns;--but on that occasion the apparition of Arthur Fletcher had
disturbed him, and he had vented his anger in another direction. But
still his wrath against the Duke and Duchess remained, and he was
wont to indulge it with very violent language as he sat upon one of
the chairs in Sexty Parker's office, talking somewhat loudly of his
own position, of the things that he would do, and of the injury done
him. Sexty Parker sympathised with him to the full,--especially as
that first £500, which he had received from Mr. Wharton, had gone
into Sexty's coffers. At that time Lopez and Sexty were together
committed to large speculations in the guano trade, and Sexty's mind
was by no means easy in the early periods of the day. As he went
into town by his train, he would think of his wife and family and of
the terrible things that might happen to them. But yet, up to this
period, money had always been forthcoming from Lopez when absolutely
wanted, and Sexty was quite alive to the fact that he was living
with a freedom of expenditure in his own household that he had never
known before, and that without apparent damage. Whenever, therefore,
at some critical moment, a much-needed sum of money was produced,
Sexty would become light-hearted, triumphant, and very sympathetic.
"Well;--I never heard such a story," he had said when Lopez was
insisting on his wrongs. "That's what the Dukes and Duchesses call
honour among thieves! Well, Ferdy, my boy, if you stand that you'll
stand anything." In these latter days Sexty had become very intimate
indeed with his partner.

"I don't mean to stand it," Lopez had replied, and then on the spot
had written the letter which he had dated from Manchester Square.
He had certainly contrived to make that letter as oppressive as
possible. He had been clever enough to put into it words which were
sure to wound the poor Duke and to confound the Duchess. And having
written it he was very careful to keep the first draft, so that if
occasion came he might use it again and push his vengeance farther.
But he certainly had not expected such a result as it produced.

When he received the private Secretary's letter with the money he
was sitting opposite to his father-in-law at breakfast, while his
wife was making the tea. Not many of his letters came to Manchester
Square. Sexty Parker's office or his club were more convenient
addresses; but in this case he had thought that Manchester Square
would have a better sound and appearance. When he opened the letter
the cheque of course appeared bearing the Duke's own signature. He
had seen that and the amount before he had read the letter, and
as he saw it his eye travelled quickly across the table to his
father-in-law's face. Mr. Wharton might certainly have seen the
cheque and even the amount, probably also the signature, without the
slightest suspicion as to the nature of the payment made. As it was,
he was eating his toast, and had thought nothing about the letter.
Lopez, having concealed the cheque, read the few words which the
private Secretary had written, and then put the document with its
contents into his pocket. "So you think, sir, of going down to
Herefordshire on the 15th," he said in a very cheery voice. The
cheery voice was still pleasant to the old man, but the young wife
had already come to distrust it. She had learned, though she was
hardly conscious how the lesson had come to her, that a certain tone
of cheeriness indicated, if not deceit, at any rate the concealment
of something. It grated against her spirit; and when this tone
reached her ears a frown or look of sorrow would cross her brow. And
her husband also had perceived that it was so, and knew at such times
that he was rebuked. He was hardly aware what doings, and especially
what feelings, were imputed to him as faults,--not understanding the
lines which separated right from wrong; but he knew that he was often
condemned by his wife, and he lived in fear that he should also be
condemned by his wife's father. Had it been his wife only, he thought
that he could soon have quenched her condemnation. He would soon have
made her tired of showing her disapproval. But he had put himself
into the old man's house, where the old man could see not only him
but his treatment of his wife, and the old man's good-will and good
opinion were essential to him. Yet he could not restrain one glance
of anger at her when he saw that look upon her face.

"I suppose I shall," said the barrister. "I must go somewhere. My
going need not disturb you."

"I think we have made up our mind," said Lopez, "to take a cottage at
Dovercourt. It is not a very lively place, nor yet fashionable. But
it is very healthy, and I can run up to town easily. Unfortunately my
business won't let me be altogether away this autumn."

"I wish my business would keep me," said the barrister.

"I did not understand that you had made up your mind to go to
Dovercourt," said Emily. He had spoken to Mr. Wharton of their joint
action in the matter, and as the place had only once been named by
him to her, she resented what seemed to be a falsehood. She knew
that she was to be taken or left as it suited him. If he had said
boldly,--"We'll go to Dovercourt. That's what I've settled on.
That's what will suit me," she would have been contented. She quite
understood that he meant to have his own way in such things. But
it seemed to her that he wanted to be a tyrant without having the
courage necessary for tyranny.

"I thought you seemed to like it," he said.

"I don't dislike it at all."

"Then, as it suits my business, we might as well consider it
settled." So saying, he left the room and went off to the city. The
old man was still sipping his tea and lingering over his breakfast in
a way that was not usual with him. He was generally anxious to get
away to Lincoln's Inn, and on most mornings had left the house before
his son-in-law. Emily of course remained with him, sitting silent in
her place opposite to the teapot, meditating perhaps on her prospects
of happiness at Dovercourt,--a place of which she had never heard
even the name two days ago, and in which it was hardly possible that
she should find even an acquaintance. In former years these autumn
months, passed in Herefordshire, had been the delight of her life.

Mr. Wharton also had seen the cloud on his daughter's face, and had
understood the nature of the little dialogue about Dovercourt. And
he was aware,--had been aware since they had both come into his
house,--that the young wife's manner and tone to her husband was not
that of perfect conjugal sympathy. He had already said to himself
more than once that she had made her bed for herself, and must lie
upon it. She was the man's wife, and must take her husband as he was.
If she suffered under this man's mode and manner of life, he, as her
father, could not assist her,--could do nothing for her, unless the
man should become absolutely cruel. He had settled that within his
own mind already; but yet his heart yearned towards her, and when
he thought that she was unhappy he longed to comfort her and tell
her that she still had a father. But the time had not come as yet
in which he could comfort her by sympathising with her against
her husband. There had never fallen from her lips a syllable of
complaint. When she had spoken to him a chance word respecting her
husband, it had always carried with it some tone of affection. But
still he longed to say to her something which might tell her that his
heart was soft towards her. "Do you like the idea of going to this
place?" he said.

"I don't at all know what it will be like. Ferdinand says it will be
cheap."

"Is that of such vital consequence?"

"Ah;--yes; I fear it is."

This was very sad to him. Lopez had already had from him a
considerable sum of money, having not yet been married twelve months,
and was now living in London almost free of expense. Before his
marriage he had always spoken of himself, and had contrived to be
spoken of, as a wealthy man, and now he was obliged to choose some
small English seaside place to which to retreat, because thus he
might live at a low rate! Had they married as poor people there would
have been nothing to regret in this;--there would be nothing that
might not be done with entire satisfaction. But, as it was, it told a
bad tale for the future! "Do you understand his money matters,
Emily?"

"Not at all, papa."

"I do not in the least mean to make inquiry. Perhaps I should have
asked before;--but if I did make inquiry now it would be of him. But
I think a wife should know."

"I know nothing."

"What is his business?"

"I have no idea. I used to think he was connected with Mr. Mills
Happerton and with Messrs. Hunky and Sons."

"Is he not connected with Hunky's house?"

"I think not. He has a partner of the name of Parker, who is,--who is
not, I think, quite--quite a gentleman. I never saw him."

"What does he do with Mr. Parker?"

"I believe they buy guano."

"Ah;--that, I fancy, was only one affair."

"I'm afraid he lost money, papa, by that election at Silverbridge."

"I paid that," said Mr. Wharton sternly. Surely he should have told
his wife that he had received that money from her family!

"Did you? That was very kind. I am afraid, papa, we are a great
burden on you."

"I should not mind it, my dear, if there were confidence and
happiness. What matter would it be to me whether you had your money
now or hereafter, so that you might have it in the manner that would
be most beneficial to you? I wish he would be open with me, and tell
me everything."

"Shall I let him know that you say so?"

He thought for a minute or two before he answered her. Perhaps the
man would be more impressed if the message came to him through his
wife. "If you think that he will not be annoyed with you, you may do
so."

"I don't know why he should,--but if it be right, that must be borne.
I am not afraid to say anything to him."

"Then tell him so. Tell him that it will be better that he should
let me know the whole condition of his affairs. God bless you, dear."
Then he stooped over her, and kissed her, and went his way to Stone
Buildings.

It was not as he sat at the breakfast table that Ferdinand Lopez made
up his mind to pocket the Duke's money and to say nothing about it to
Mr. Wharton. He had been careful to conceal the cheque, but he had
done so with the feeling that the matter was one to be considered in
his own mind before he took any step. As he left the house, already
considering it, he was inclined to think that the money must be
surrendered. Mr. Wharton had very generously paid his electioneering
expenses, but had not done so simply with the view of making him a
present of money. He wished the Duke had not taken him at his word.
In handing this cheque over to Mr. Wharton he would be forced to tell
the story of his letter to the Duke, and he was sure that Mr. Wharton
would not approve of his having written such a letter. How could
any one approve of his having applied for a sum of money which had
already been paid to him? How could such a one as Mr. Wharton,--an
old-fashioned English gentleman,--approve of such an application
being made under any circumstances? Mr. Wharton would very probably
insist on having the cheque sent back to the Duke,--which would be
a sorry end to the triumph as at present achieved. And the more he
thought of it the more sure he was that it would be imprudent to
mention to Mr. Wharton his application to the Duke. The old men
of the present day were, he said to himself, such fools that they
understood nothing. And then the money was very convenient to
him. He was intent on obtaining Sexty Parker's consent to a large
speculation, and knew that he could not do so without a show of
funds. By the time, therefore, that he had reached the city he had
resolved that at any rate for the present he would use the money and
say nothing about it to Mr. Wharton. Was it not spoil got from the
enemy by his own courage and cleverness? When he was writing his
acknowledgement for the money to Warburton he had taught himself to
look upon the sum extracted from the Duke as a matter quite distinct
from the payment made to him by his father-in-law.

It was evident on that day to Sexty Parker that his partner was a
man of great resources. Though things sometimes looked very bad, yet
money always "turned up." Some of their buyings and sellings had
answered pretty well. Some had been great failures. No great stroke
had been made as yet, but then the great stroke was always being
expected. Sexty's fears were greatly exaggerated by the feeling that
the coffee and guano were not always real coffee and guano. His
partner, indeed, was of opinion that in such a trade as this they
were following there was no need at all of real coffee and real
guano, and explained his theory with considerable eloquence. "If I
buy a ton of coffee and keep it six weeks, why do I buy it and keep
it, and why does the seller sell it instead of keeping it? The seller
sells it because he thinks he can do best by parting with it now at a
certain price. I buy it because I think I can make money by keeping
it. It is just the same as though we were to back our opinions. He
backs the fall. I back the rise. You needn't have coffee and you
needn't have guano to do this. Indeed the possession of the coffee
or the guano is only a very clumsy addition to the trouble of your
profession. I make it my study to watch the markets;--but I needn't
buy everything I see in order to make money by my labour and
intelligence." Sexty Parker before his lunch always thought that his
partner was wrong, but after that ceremony he almost daily became
a convert to the great doctrine. Coffee and guano still had to be
bought because the world was dull and would not learn the tricks of
trade as taught by Ferdinand Lopez,--also possibly because somebody
might want such articles,--but our enterprising hero looked for a
time in which no such dull burden should be imposed on him.

On this day, when the Duke's £500 was turned into the business, Sexty
yielded in a large matter which his partner had been pressing upon
him for the last week. They bought a cargo of Kauri gum, coming from
New Zealand. Lopez had reasons for thinking that Kauri gum must have
a great rise. There was an immense demand for amber, and Kauri gum
might be used as a substitute, and in six months' time would be
double its present value. This unfortunately was a real cargo. He
could not find an individual so enterprising as to venture to deal in
a cargo of Kauri gum after his fashion. But the next best thing was
done. The real cargo was bought, and his name and Sexty's name were
on the bills given for the goods. On that day he returned home in
high spirits, for he did believe in his own intelligence and good
fortune.


CHAPTER XLIV

Mr. Wharton Intends to Make a New Will


On that afternoon, immediately on the husband's return to the house,
his wife spoke to him as her father had desired. On that evening Mr.
Wharton was dining at his club, and therefore there was the whole
evening before them; but the thing to be done was disagreeable, and
therefore she did it at once,--rushing into the matter almost before
he had seated himself in the arm-chair which he had appropriated to
his use in the drawing-room. "Papa was talking about our affairs
after you left this morning, and he thinks that it would be so much
better if you would tell him all about them."

"What made him talk of that to-day?" he said, turning at her almost
angrily and thinking at once of the Duke's cheque.

"I suppose it is natural that he should be anxious about us,
Ferdinand;--and the more natural as he has money to give if he
chooses to give it."

"I have asked him for nothing lately;--though, by George, I intend to
ask him and that very roundly. Three thousand pounds isn't much of a
sum of money for your father to have given you."

"And he paid the election bill;--didn't he?"

"He has been complaining of that behind my back,--has he? I didn't
ask him for it. He offered it. I wasn't such a fool as to refuse, but
he needn't bring that up as a grievance to you."

"It wasn't brought up as a grievance. I was saying that your standing
had been a heavy expenditure--"

"Why did you say so? What made you talk about it at all? Why should
you be discussing my affairs behind my back?"

"To my own father! And that too when you are telling me every day
that I am to induce him to help you!"

"Not by complaining that I am poor. But how did it all begin?" She
had to think for a moment before she could recollect how it did
begin. "There has been something," he said, "which you are ashamed to
tell me."

"There is nothing that I am ashamed to tell you. There never has been
and never will be anything." And she stood up as she spoke, with open
eyes and extended nostrils. "Whatever may come, however wretched it
may be, I shall not be ashamed of myself."

"But of me!"

"Why do you say so? Why do you try to make unhappiness between us?"

"You have been talking of--my poverty."

"My father asked why you should go to Dovercourt,--and whether it was
because it would save expense."

"You want to go somewhere?"

"Not at all. I am contented to stay in London. But I said that I
thought the expense had a good deal to do with it. Of course it has."

"Where do you want to be taken? I suppose Dovercourt is not
fashionable."

"I want nothing."

"If you are thinking of travelling abroad, I can't spare the time.
It isn't an affair of money, and you had no business to say so. I
thought of the place because it is quiet and because I can get up and
down easily. I am sorry that I ever came to live in this house."

"Why do you say that, Ferdinand?"

"Because you and your father make cabals behind my back. If there is
anything I hate it is that kind of thing."

"You are very unjust," she said to him sobbing. "I have never
caballed. I have never done anything against you. Of course papa
ought to know."

"Why ought he to know? Why is your father to have the right of
inquiry into all my private affairs?"

"Because you want his assistance. It is only natural. You always tell
me to get him to assist you. He spoke most kindly, saying that he
would like to know how the things are."

"Then he won't know. As for wanting his assistance, of course I
want the fortune which he ought to give you. He is man of the world
enough to know that as I am in business capital must be useful to
me. I should have thought that you would understand as much as that
yourself."

"I do understand it, I suppose."

"Then why don't you act as my friend rather than his? Why don't you
take my part? It seems to me that you are much more his daughter than
my wife."

"That is most unfair."

"If you had any pluck you would make him understand that for your
sake he ought to say what he means to do, so that I might have the
advantage of the fortune which I suppose he means to give you some
day. If you had the slightest anxiety to help me you could influence
him. Instead of that you talk to him about my poverty. I don't want
him to think that I am a pauper. That's not the way to get round
a man like your father, who is rich himself and who thinks it a
disgrace in other men not to be rich too."

"I can't tell him in the same breath that you are rich and that you
want money."

"Money is the means by which men make money. If he was confident of
my business he'd shell out his cash quick enough! It is because he
has been taught to think that I am in a small way. He'll find his
mistake some day."

"You won't speak to him then?"

"I don't say that at all. If I find that it will answer my own
purpose I shall speak to him. But it would be very much easier to me
if I could get you to be cordial in helping me."

Emily by this time quite knew what such cordiality meant. He had been
so free in his words to her that there could be no mistake. He had
instructed her to "get round" her father. And now again he spoke
of her influence over her father. Although her illusions were all
melting away,--oh, so quickly vanishing,--still she knew that it was
her duty to be true to her husband, and to be his wife rather than
her father's daughter. But what could she say on his behalf, knowing
nothing of his affairs? She had no idea what was his business, what
was his income, what amount of money she ought to spend as his
wife. As far as she could see,--and her common sense in seeing such
things was good,--he had no regular income, and was justified in no
expenditure. On her own account she would ask for no information. She
was too proud to request that from him which should be given to her
without any request. But in her own defence she must tell him that
she could use no influence with her father as she knew none of the
circumstances by which her father would be guided. "I cannot help you
in the manner you mean," she said, "because I know nothing myself."

"You know that you can trust me to do the best with your money if I
could get hold of it, I suppose?" She certainly did not know this,
and held her tongue. "You could assure him of that?"

"I could only tell him to judge for himself."

"What you mean is that you'd see me d----d before you would open your
mouth for me to the old man!"

He had never sworn at her before, and now she burst out into a flood
of tears. It was to her a terrible outrage. I do not know that a
woman is very much the worse because her husband may forget himself
on an occasion and "rap out an oath at her," as he would call it when
making the best of his own sin. Such an offence is compatible with
uniform kindness and most affectionate consideration. I have known
ladies who would think little or nothing about it,--who would go no
farther than the mildest protest,--"Do remember where you are!" or,
"My dear John!"--if no stranger were present. But then a wife should
be initiated into it by degrees; and there are different tones of
bad language, of which by far the most general is the good-humoured
tone. We all of us know men who never damn their servants, or any
inferiors, or strangers, or women,--who in fact keep it all for
their bosom friends; and if a little does sometimes flow over in
the freedom of domestic life, the wife is apt to remember that she
is the bosomest of her husband's friends, and so to pardon the
transgression. But here the word had been uttered with all its
foulest violence, with virulence and vulgarity. It seemed to the
victim to be the sign of a terrible crisis in her early married
life,--as though the man who had so spoken to her could never again
love her, never again be kind to her, never again be sweetly gentle
and like a lover. And as he spoke it he looked at her as though he
would like to tear her limbs asunder. She was frightened as well as
horrified and astounded. She had not a word to say to him. She did
not know in what language to make her complaint of such treatment.
She burst into tears, and throwing herself on the sofa hid her face
in her hands. "You provoke me to be violent," he said. But still she
could not speak to him. "I come away from the city, tired with work
and troubled with a thousand things, and you have not a kind word to
say to me." Then there was a pause, during which she still sobbed.
"If your father has anything to say to me, let him say it. I shall
not run away. But as to going to him of my own accord with a story as
long as my arm about my own affairs, I don't mean to do it." Then he
paused a moment again. "Come, old girl, cheer up! Don't pretend to
be broken-hearted because I used a hard word. There are worse things
than that to be borne in the world."

"I--I--I was so startled, Ferdinand."

"A man can't always remember that he isn't with another man. Don't
think anything more about it; but do bear this in mind,--that,
situated as we are, your influence with your father may be the making
or the marring of me." And so he left the room.

She sat for the next ten minutes thinking of it all. The words which
he had spoken were so horrible that she could not get them out of her
mind,--could not bring herself to look upon them as a trifle. The
darkness of his countenance still dwelt with her,--and that absence
of all tenderness, that coarse un-marital and yet marital roughness,
which should not at any rate have come to him so soon. The whole man
too was so different from what she had thought him to be. Before
their marriage no word as to money had ever reached her ears from
his lips. He had talked to her of books,--and especially of poetry.
Shakespeare and Moliere, Dante and Goethe, had been or had seemed
to be dear to him. And he had been full of fine ideas about women,
and about men in their intercourse with women. For his sake she had
separated herself from all her old friends. For his sake she had
hurried into a marriage altogether distasteful to her father. For
his sake she had closed her heart against that other lover. Trusting
altogether in him she had ventured to think that she had known what
was good for her better than all those who had been her counsellors,
and had given herself to him utterly. Now she was awake; her dream
was over, and the natural language of the man was still ringing in
her ears!

They met together at dinner and passed the evening without a further
allusion to the scene which had been acted. He sat with a magazine
in his hand, every now and then making some remark intended to be
pleasant but which grated on her ears as being fictitious. She would
answer him,--because it was her duty to do so, and because she would
not condescend to sulk; but she could not bring herself even to say
to herself that all should be with her as though that horrid word had
not been spoken. She sat over her work till ten, answering him when
he spoke in a voice which was also fictitious, and then took herself
off to her bed that she might weep alone. It would, she knew, be late
before he would come to her.

On the next morning there came a message to him as he was dressing.
Mr. Wharton wished to speak to him. Would he come down before
breakfast, or would he call on Mr. Wharton in Stone Buildings? He
sent down word that he would do the latter at an hour he fixed, and
then did not show himself in the breakfast-room till Mr. Wharton was
gone. "I've got to go to your father to-day," he said to his wife,
"and I thought it best not to begin till we come to the regular
business. I hope he does not mean to be unreasonable." To this she
made no answer. "Of course you think the want of reason will be all
on my side."

"I don't know why you should say so."

"Because I can read your mind. You do think so. You've been in the
same boat with your father all your life, and you can't get out of
that boat and get into mine. I was wrong to come and live here.
Of course it was not the way to withdraw you from his influence."
She had nothing to say that would not anger him, and was therefore
silent. "Well; I must do the best I can by myself, I suppose.
Good-bye," and so he was off.

"I want to know," said Mr. Wharton, on whom was thrown by
premeditation on the part of Lopez the task of beginning the
conversation,--"I want to know what is the nature of your operation.
I have never been quite able to understand it."

"I do not know that I quite understand it myself," said Lopez,
laughing.

"No man alive," continued the old barrister almost solemnly, "has a
greater objection to thrust himself into another man's affairs than
I have. And as I didn't ask the question before your marriage,--as
perhaps I ought to have done,--I should not do so now, were it not
that the disposition of some part of the earnings of my life must
depend on the condition of your affairs." Lopez immediately perceived
that it behoved him to be very much on the alert. It might be that
if he showed himself to be very poor, his father-in-law would see
the necessity of assisting him at once; or, it might be, that
unless he could show himself to be in prosperous circumstances,
his father-in-law would not assist him at all. "To tell you the
plain truth, I am minded to make a new will. I had of course made
arrangements as to my property before Emily's marriage. Those
arrangements I think I shall now alter. I am greatly distressed with
Everett; and from what I see and from a few words which have dropped
from Emily, I am not, to tell you the truth, quite happy as to your
position. If I understand rightly you are a general merchant, buying
and selling goods in the market?"

"That's about it, sir."

"What capital have you in the business?"

"What capital?"

"Yes;--how much did you put into it at starting?"

Lopez paused a moment. He had got his wife. The marriage could not
be undone. Mr. Wharton had money enough for them all, and would not
certainly discard his daughter. Mr. Wharton could place him on a
really firm footing, and might not improbably do so if he could be
made to feel some confidence in his son-in-law. At this moment there
was much doubt with the son-in-law whether he had better not tell the
simple truth. "It has gone in by degrees," he said. "Altogether I
have had about £8000 in it." In truth he had never been possessed of
a shilling.

"Does that include the £3000 you had from me?"

"Yes; it does."

"Then you have married my girl and started into the world with a
business based on £5000, and which had so far miscarried that within
a month or two after your marriage you were driven to apply to me for
funds!"

"I wanted money for a certain purpose."

"Have you any partner, Mr. Lopez?" This address was felt to be very
ominous.

"Yes. I have a partner who is possessed of capital. His name is
Parker."

"Then his capital is your capital."

"Well;--I can't explain it, but it is not so."

"What is the name of your firm?"

"We haven't a registered name."

"Have you a place of business?"

"Parker has a place of business in Little Tankard Yard."

Mr. Wharton turned to a directory and found out Parker's name. "Mr.
Parker is a stockbroker. Are you also a stockbroker?"

"No,--I am not."

"Then, sir, it seems to me that you are a commercial adventurer."

"I am not at all ashamed of the name, Mr. Wharton. According to your
manner of reckoning, half the business in the City of London is done
by commercial adventurers. I watch the markets and buy goods,--and
sell them at a profit. Mr. Parker is a moneyed man, who happens also
to be a stockbroker. We can very easily call ourselves merchants, and
put up the names of Lopez and Parker over the door."

"Do you sign bills together?"

"Yes."

"As Lopez and Parker?"

"No. I sign them and he signs them. I trade also by myself, and so, I
believe, does he."

"One other question, Mr. Lopez. On what income have you paid
income-tax for the last three years?"

"On £2000 a-year," said Lopez. This was a direct lie.

"Can you make out any schedule showing your exact assets and
liabilities at the present time?"

"Certainly I can."

"Then do so, and send it to me before I go into Herefordshire. My
will as it stands at present would not be to your advantage. But I
cannot change it till I know more of your circumstances than I do
now." And so the interview was over.


CHAPTER XLV

Mrs. Sexty Parker


Though Mr. Wharton and Lopez met every day for the next week, nothing
more was said about the schedule. The old man was thinking about
it every day, and so also was Lopez. But Mr. Wharton had made his
demand, and, as he thought, nothing more was to be said on the
subject. He could not continue the subject as he would have done
with his son. But as day after day passed by he became more and more
convinced that his son-in-law's affairs were not in a state which
could bear to see the light. He had declared his purpose of altering
his will in the man's favour, if the man would satisfy him. And yet
nothing was done and nothing was said.

Lopez had come among them and robbed him of his daughter. Since the
man had become intimate in his house he had not known an hour's
happiness. The man had destroyed all the plans of his life, broken
through into his castle, and violated his very hearth. No doubt he
himself had vacillated. He was aware of that, and in his present mood
was severe enough in judging himself. In his desolation he had tried
to take the man to his heart,--had been kind to him, and had even
opened his house to him. He had told himself that as the man was the
husband of his daughter he had better make the best of it. He had
endeavoured to make the best of it, but between him and the man there
were such differences that they were poles asunder. And now it became
clear to him that the man was, as he had declared to the man's face,
no better than an adventurer!

By his will as it at present stood he had left two-thirds of his
property to Everett, and one-third to his daughter, with arrangements
for settling her share on her children, should she be married and
have children at the time of his death. This will had been made many
years ago, and he had long since determined to alter it, in order
that he might divide his property equally between his children;--but
he had postponed the matter, intending to give a large portion of
Emily's share to her directly on her marriage with Arthur Fletcher.
She had not married Arthur Fletcher;--but still it was necessary that
a new will should be made.

When he left town for Herefordshire he had not yet made up his mind
how this should be done. He had at one time thought that he would
give some considerable sum to Lopez at once, knowing that to a man in
business such assistance would be useful. And he had not altogether
abandoned that idea, even when he had asked for the schedule. He did
not relish the thought of giving his hard-earned money to Lopez, but,
still, the man's wife was his daughter, and he must do the best that
he could for her. Her taste in marrying the man was inexplicable
to him. But that was done;--and now how might he best arrange his
affairs so as to serve her interests?

About the middle of August he went to Herefordshire and she to the
seaside in Essex,--to the little place which Lopez had selected.
Before the end of the month the father-in-law wrote a line to his
son-in-law.


   DEAR LOPEZ, [not without premeditation had he departed
   from the sternness of that "Mr. Lopez," which in his anger
   he had used at his chambers]--

   When we were discussing your affairs I asked you for a
   schedule of your assets and liabilities. I can make no new
   arrangement of my property till I receive this. Should I
   die leaving my present will as the instrument under which
   my property would be conveyed to my heirs, Emily's share
   would go into the hands of trustees for the use of herself
   and her possible children. I tell you this that you may
   understand that it is for your own interest to comply with
   my requisition.

   Yours,

   A. WHARTON.


Of course questions were asked him as to how the newly married couple
were getting on. At Wharton these questions were mild and easily put
off. Sir Alured was contented with a slight shake of his head, and
Lady Wharton only remarked for the fifth or sixth time that "it was
a pity." But when they all went to Longbarns, the difficulty became
greater. Arthur was not there, and old Mrs. Fletcher was in full
strength. "So the Lopezes have come to live with you in Manchester
Square?" Mr. Wharton acknowledged that it was so with an affirmative
grunt. "I hope he's a pleasant inmate." There was a scorn in the old
woman's voice as she said this, which ought to have provoked any man.

"More so than most men would be," said Mr. Wharton.

"Oh, indeed!"

"He is courteous and forbearing, and does not think that everything
around him should be suited to his own peculiar fancies."

"I am glad that you are contented with the marriage, Mr. Wharton."

"Who has said that I am contented with it? No one ought to
understand or to share my discontent so cordially as yourself, Mrs.
Fletcher;--and no one ought to be more chary of speaking of it.
You and I had hoped other things, and old people do not like to be
disappointed. But I needn't paint the devil blacker than he is."

"I'm afraid that, as usual, he is rather black."

"Mother," said John Fletcher, "the thing has been done and you might
as well let it be. We are all sorry that Emily has not come nearer
to us; but she has had a right to choose for herself, and I for one
wish,--as does my brother also,--that she may be happy in the lot she
has chosen."

"His conduct to Arthur at Silverbridge was so nice!" said the
pertinacious old woman.

"Never mind his conduct, mother. What is it to us?"

"That's all very well, John; but according to that nobody is to talk
about anybody."

"I would much prefer, at any rate," said Mr. Wharton, "that you would
not talk about Mr. Lopez in my hearing."

"Oh; if that is to be so, let it be so. And now I understand where
I am." Then the old woman shook herself, and endeavoured to look as
though Mr. Wharton's soreness on the subject were an injury to her as
robbing her of a useful topic.

"I don't like Lopez, you know," Mr. Wharton said to John Fletcher
afterwards. "How would it be possible that I should like such a man?
But there can be no good got by complaints. It is not what your
mother suffers, or what even I may suffer,--or worse again, what
Arthur may suffer, that makes the sadness of all this. What will be
her life? That is the question. And it is too near me, too important
to me, for the endurance either of scorn or pity. I was glad that you
asked your mother to be silent."

"I can understand it," said John. "I do not think that she will
trouble you again."

In the mean time Lopez received Mr. Wharton's letter at Dovercourt,
and had to consider what answer he should give to it. No answer
could be satisfactory,--unless he could impose a false answer on his
father-in-law so as to make it credible. The more he thought of it,
the more he believed that this would be impossible. The cautious
old lawyer would not accept unverified statements. A certain sum of
money,--by no means illiberal as a present,--he had already extracted
from the old man. What he wanted was a further and a much larger
grant. Though Mr. Wharton was old he did not want to have to wait for
the death even of an old man. The next two or three years,--probably
the very next year,--might be the turning-point of his life. He had
married the girl, and ought to have the girl's fortune,--down on
the nail! That was his idea; and the old man was robbing him in
not acting up to it. As he thought of this he cursed his ill luck.
The husbands of other girls had their fortunes conveyed to them
immediately on their marriage. What would not £20,000 do for him, if
he could get it into his hand? And so he taught himself to regard
the old man as a robber and himself as a victim. Who among us is
there that does not teach himself the same lesson? And then too how
cruelly, how damnably he had been used by the Duchess of Omnium! And
now Sexty Parker, whose fortune he was making for him, whose fortune
he at any rate intended to make, was troubling him in various ways.
"We're in a boat together," Sexty had said. "You've had the use of my
money, and by heavens you have it still. I don't see why you should
be so stiff. Do you bring your missus to Dovercourt, and I'll take
mine, and let 'em know each other." There was a little argument on
the subject, but Sexty Parker had the best of it, and in this way the
trip to Dovercourt was arranged.

Lopez was in a very good humour when he took his wife down, and he
walked her round the terraces and esplanades of that not sufficiently
well-known marine paradise, now bidding her admire the sea and now
laughing at the finery of the people, till she became gradually
filled with an idea that as he was making himself pleasant, she also
ought to do the same. Of course she was not happy. The gilding had so
completely and so rapidly been washed off her idol that she could not
be very happy. But she also could be good-humoured. "And now," said
he, smiling, "I have got something for you to do for me,--something
that you will find very disagreeable."

"What is it? It won't be very bad, I'm sure."

"It will be very bad, I'm afraid. My excellent but horribly vulgar
partner, Mr. Sextus Parker, when he found that I was coming here,
insisted on bringing his wife and children here also. I want you to
know them."

"Is that all? She must be very bad indeed if I can't put up with
that."

"In one sense she isn't bad at all. I believe her to be an excellent
woman, intent on spoiling her children and giving her husband a good
dinner every day. But I think you'll find that she is,--well,--not
quite what you call a lady."

"I shan't mind that in the least. I'll help her to spoil the
children."

"You can get a lesson there, you know," he said, looking into her
face. The little joke was one which a young wife might take with
pleasure from her husband, but her life had already been too much
embittered for any such delight. Yes; the time was coming when that
trouble also would be added to her. She dreaded she knew not what,
and had often told herself that it would be better that she should be
childless.

"Do you like him?" she said.

"Like him. No;--I can't say I like him. He is useful, and in one
sense honest."

"Is he not honest in all senses?"

"That's a large order. To tell you the truth, I don't know any man
who is."

"Everett is honest."

"He loses money at play which he can't pay without assistance from
his father. If his father had refused, where would then have been his
honesty? Sexty is as honest as others, I dare say, but I shouldn't
like to trust him much farther than I can see him. I shan't go up to
town to-morrow, and we'll both look in on them after luncheon."

In the afternoon the call was made. The Parkers, having children, had
dined early, and he was sitting out in a little porch smoking his
pipe, drinking whisky and water, and looking at the sea. His eldest
girl was standing between his legs, and his wife, with the other
three children round her, was sitting on the doorstep. "I've brought
my wife to see you," said Lopez, holding out his hand to Mrs. Parker,
as she rose from the ground.

"I told her that you'd be coming," said Sexty, "and she wanted me
to put off my pipe and little drop of drink; but I said that if
Mrs. Lopez was the lady I took her to be she wouldn't begrudge a
hard-working fellow his pipe and glass on a holiday."

There was a soundness of sense in this which mollified any feeling of
disgust which Emily might have felt at the man's vulgarity. "I think
you are quite right, Mr. Parker. I should be very sorry if,--if--"

"If I was to put my pipe out. Well, I won't. You'll take a glass of
sherry, Lopez? Though I'm drinking spirits myself, I brought down a
hamper of sherry wine. Oh, nonsense;--you must take something. That's
right, Jane. Let us have the stuff and the glasses, and then they can
do as they like." Lopez lit a cigar, and allowed his host to pour
out for him a glass of "sherry wine," while Mrs. Lopez went into the
house with Mrs. Parker and the children.

Mrs. Parker opened herself out to her new friend immediately. She
hoped that they two might see "a deal of each other;--that is, if
you don't think me too pushing." Sextus, she said, was so much away,
coming down to Dovercourt only every other day! And then, within the
half hour which was consumed by Lopez with his cigar, the poor woman
got upon the general troubles of her life. Did Mrs. Lopez think that
"all this speckelation was just the right thing?"

"I don't think that I know anything about it, Mrs. Parker."

"But you ought;--oughtn't you, now? Don't you think that a wife ought
to know what it is that her husband is after;--specially if there's
children? A good bit of the money was mine, Mrs. Lopez; and though
I don't begrudge it, not one bit, if any good is to come out of it
to him or them, a woman doesn't like what her father has given her
should be made ducks and drakes of."

"But are they making ducks and drakes?"

"When he don't tell me I'm always afeard. And I'll tell you what
I know just as well as two and two. When he comes home a little
flustered, and then takes more than his regular allowance, he's been
at something as don't quite satisfy him. He's never that way when
he's done a good day's work at his regular business. He takes to the
children then, and has one glass after his dinner, and tells me all
about it,--down to the shillings and pence. But it's very seldom he's
that way now."

"You may think it very odd, Mrs. Parker, but I don't in the least
know what my husband is--in business."

"And you never ask?"

"I haven't been very long married, you know;--only about ten months."

"I'd had my fust by that time."

"Only nine months, I think, indeed."

"Well; I wasn't very long after that. But I took care to know what it
was he was a-doing of in the city long before that time. And I did
use to know everything, till--" She was going to say, till Lopez had
come upon the scene. But she did not wish, at any rate as yet, to be
harsh to her new friend.

"I hope it is all right," said Emily.

"Sometimes he's as though the Bank of England was all his own. And
there's been more money come into the house;--that I must say. And
there isn't an open-handeder one than Sexty anywhere. He'd like to
see me in a silk gown every day of my life;--and as for the children,
there's nothing smart enough for them. Only I'd sooner have a little
and safe, than anything ever so fine, and never be sure whether it
wasn't going to come to an end."

"There I agree with you, quite."

"I don't suppose men feels it as we do; but, oh, Mrs. Lopez, give
me a little, safe, so that I may know that I shan't see my children
want. When I thinks what it would be to have them darlings' little
bellies empty, and nothing in the cupboard, I get that low that I'm
nigh fit for Bedlam."

In the mean time the two men outside the porch were discussing their
affairs in somewhat the same spirit. At last Lopez showed his friend
Wharton's letter, and told him of the expected schedule. "Schedule be
d----d, you know," said Lopez. "How am I to put down a rise of 12s.
6d. a ton on Kauri gum in a schedule? But when you come to 2000 tons
it's £1250."

"He's very old;--isn't he?"

"But as strong as a horse."

"He's got the money?"

"Yes;--he has got it safe enough. There's no doubt about the money."

"What he talks about is only a will. Now you want the money at once."

"Of course I do;--and he talks to me as if I were some old fogy with
an estate of my own. I must concoct a letter and explain my views;
and the more I can make him understand how things really are the
better. I don't suppose he wants to see his daughter come to grief."

"Then the sooner you write it the better," said Mr. Parker.


CHAPTER XLVI

"He Wants to Get Rich Too Quick"


As they strolled home Lopez told his wife that he had accepted an
invitation to dine the next day at the Parkers' cottage. In doing
this his manner was not quite so gentle as when he had asked her to
call on them. He had been a little ruffled by what had been said, and
now exhibited his temper. "I don't suppose it will be very nice," he
said, "but we may have to put up with worse things than that."

"I have made no objection."

"But you don't seem to take to it very cordially."

"I had thought that I got on very well with Mrs. Parker. If you can
eat your dinner with them, I'm sure that I can. You do not seem to
like him altogether, and I wish you had got a partner more to your
taste."

"Taste, indeed! When you come to this kind of thing it isn't a matter
of taste. The fact is that I am in that fellow's hands to an extent
I don't like to think of, and don't see my way out of it unless your
father will do as he ought to do. You altogether refuse to help me
with your father, and you must, therefore, put up with Sexty Parker
and his wife. It is quite on the cards that worse things may come
even than Sexty Parker." To this she made no immediate answer, but
walked on, increasing her pace, not only unhappy, but also very
angry. It was becoming a matter of doubt to her whether she could
continue to bear these repeated attacks about her father's money. "I
see how it is," he continued. "You think that a husband should bear
all the troubles of life, and that a wife should never be made to
hear of them."

"Ferdinand," she said, "I declare I did not think that any man could
be so unfair to a woman as you are to me."

"Of course! Because I haven't got thousands a year to spend on you I
am unfair."

"I am content to live in any way that you may direct. If you are
poor, I am satisfied to be poor. If you are even ruined, I am content
to be ruined."

"Who is talking about ruin?"

"If you are in want of everything, I also will be in want and will
never complain. Whatever our joint lot may bring to us I will endure,
and will endeavour to endure with cheerfulness. But I will not ask
my father for money, either for you or for myself. He knows what he
ought to do. I trust him implicitly."

"And me not at all."

"He is, I know, in communication with you about what should be done.
I can only say,--tell him everything."

"My dear, that is a matter in which it may be possible that I
understand my own interest best."

"Very likely. I certainly understand nothing, for I do not even know
the nature of your business. How can I tell him that he ought to give
you money?"

"You might ask him for your own."

"I have got nothing. Did I ever tell you that I had?"

"You ought to have known."

"Do you mean that when you asked me to marry you I should have
refused you because I did not know what money papa would give me? Why
did you not ask papa?"

"Had I known him then as well as I do now you may be quite sure that
I should have done so."

"Ferdinand, it will be better that we should not speak about my
father. I will in all things strive to do as you would have me, but I
cannot hear him abused. If you have anything to say, go to Everett."

"Yes;--when he is such a gambler that your father won't even speak
to him. Your father will be found dead in his bed some day, and all
his money will have been left to some cursed hospital." They were at
their own door when this was said, and she, without further answer,
went up to her bedroom.

All these bitter things had been said, not because Lopez had thought
that he could further his own views by saying them;--he knew indeed
that he was injuring himself by every display of ill-temper;--but
she was in his power, and Sexty Parker was rebelling. He thought a
good deal that day on the delight he would have in "kicking that
ill-conditioned cur," if only he could afford to kick him. But his
wife was his own, and she must be taught to endure his will, and must
be made to know that though she was not to be kicked, yet she was to
be tormented and ill-used. And it might be possible that he should so
cow her spirit as to bring her to act as he should direct. Still, as
he walked alone along the sea-shore, he knew that it would be better
for him to control his temper.

On that evening he did write to Mr. Wharton,--as follows,--and he
dated his letter from Little Tankard Yard, so that Mr. Wharton might
suppose that that was really his own place of business, and that he
was there, at his work:--


   MY DEAR SIR,

   You have asked for a schedule of my affairs, and I have
   found it quite impossible to give it. As it was with
   the merchants whom Shakespeare and the other dramatists
   described,--so it is with me. My caravels are out at sea,
   and will not always come home in time. My property at
   this moment consists of certain shares of cargoes of jute,
   Kauri gum, guano, and sulphur, worth altogether at the
   present moment something over £26,000, of which Mr. Parker
   possesses the half;--but then of this property only a
   portion is paid for,--perhaps something more than a half.
   For the other half our bills are in the market. But in
   February next these articles will probably be sold for
   considerably more than £30,000. If I had £5000 placed to
   my credit now, I should be worth about £15,000 by the end
   of next February. I am engaged in sundry other smaller
   ventures, all returning profits;--but in such a condition
   of things it is impossible that I should make a schedule.

   I am undoubtedly in the condition of a man trading beyond
   his capital. I have been tempted by fair offers, and
   what I think I may call something beyond an average
   understanding of such matters, to go into ventures beyond
   my means. I have stretched my arm out too far. In such a
   position it is not perhaps unnatural that I should ask a
   wealthy father-in-law to assist me. It is certainly not
   unnatural that I should wish him to do so.

   I do not think that I am a mercenary man. When I married
   your daughter I raised no question as to her fortune.
   Being embarked in trade I no doubt thought that her
   means,--whatever they might be,--would be joined to my
   own. I know that a sum of £20,000, with my experience in
   the use of money, would give us a noble income. But I
   would not condescend to ask a question which might lead to
   a supposition that I was marrying her for her money and
   not because I loved her.

   You now know, I think, all that I can tell you. If there
   be any other questions I would willingly answer them. It
   is certainly the case that Emily's fortune, whatever you
   may choose to give her, would be of infinitely greater use
   to me now,--and consequently to her,--than at a future
   date which I sincerely pray may be very long deferred.

   Believe me to be,
   Your affectionate son-in-law,

   FERDINAND LOPEZ.

   A. Wharton, Esq.


This letter he himself took up to town on the following day, and
there posted, addressing it to Wharton Hall. He did not expect very
great results from it. As he read it over, he was painfully aware
that all his trash about caravels and cargoes of sulphur would not
go far with Mr. Wharton. But it might go farther than nothing. He
was bound not to neglect Mr. Wharton's letter to him. When a man
is in difficulty about money, even a lie,--even a lie that is sure
to be found out to be a lie,--will serve his immediate turn better
than silence. There is nothing that the courts hate so much as
contempt;--not even perjury. And Lopez felt that Mr. Wharton was the
judge before whom he was bound to plead.

He returned to Dovercourt on that day, and he and his wife dined
with the Parkers. No woman of her age had known better what were
the manners of ladies and gentlemen than Emily Wharton. She had
thoroughly understood that when in Herefordshire she was surrounded
by people of that class, and that when she was with her aunt, Mrs.
Roby, she was not quite so happily placed. No doubt she had been
terribly deceived by her husband,--but the deceit had come from the
fact that his manners gave no indication of his character. When she
found herself in Mrs. Parker's little sitting-room, with Mr. Parker
making florid speeches to her, she knew that she had fallen among
people for whose society she had not been intended. But this was a
part, and only a very trifling part, of the punishment which she felt
that she deserved. If that, and things like that, were all, she would
bear them without a murmur.

"Now I call Dovercourt a dooced nice little place," said Mr. Parker,
as he helped her to the "bit of fish," which he told her he had
brought down with him from London.

"It is very healthy, I should think."

"Just the thing for the children, ma'am. You've none of your own,
Mrs. Lopez, but there's a good time coming. You were up to-day,
weren't you, Lopez? Any news?"

"Things seemed to be very quiet in the city."

"Too quiet, I'm afraid. I hate having 'em quiet. You must come and
see me in Little Tankard Yard some of these days, Mrs. Lopez. We
can give you a glass of cham. and the wing of a chicken;--can't we,
Lopez?"

"I don't know. It's more than you ever gave me," said Lopez, trying
to look good-humoured.

"But you ain't a lady."

"Or me," said Mrs. Parker.

"You're only a wife. If Mrs. Lopez will make a day of it we'll treat
her well in the city;--won't we, Ferdinand?" A black cloud came
across "Ferdinand's" face, but he said nothing. Emily of a sudden
drew herself up, unconsciously,--and then at once relaxed her
features and smiled. If her husband chose that it should be so, she
would make no objection.

"Upon my honour, Sexty, you are very familiar," said Mrs. Parker.

"It's a way we have in the city," said Sexty. Sexty knew what he was
about. His partner called him Sexty, and why shouldn't he call his
partner Ferdinand?

"He'll call you Emily before long," said Lopez.

"When you call my wife Jane, I shall,--and I've no objection in life.
I don't see why people ain't to call each other by their Christian
names. Take a glass of champagne, Mrs. Lopez. I brought down
half-a-dozen to-day so that we might be jolly. Care killed a cat.
Whatever we call each other, I'm very glad to see you here, Mrs.
Lopez, and I hope it's the first of a great many. Here's your
health."

It was all his ordering, and if he bade her dine with a
crossing-sweeper she would do it. But she could not but remember that
not long since he had told her that his partner was not a person with
whom she could fitly associate; and she did not fail to perceive that
he must be going down in the world to admit such association for her
after he had so spoken. And as she sipped the mixture which Sexty
called champagne, she thought of Herefordshire and the banks of the
Wye, and,--alas, alas,--she thought of Arthur Fletcher. Nevertheless,
come what might, she would do her duty, even though it might call
upon her to sit at dinner with Mr. Parker three days in the week.
Lopez was her husband, and would be the father of her child, and she
would make herself one with him. It mattered not what people might
call him,--or even her. She had acted on her own judgment in marrying
him, and had been a fool; and now she would bear the punishment
without complaint.

When dinner was over Mrs. Parker helped the servant to remove the
dinner things from the single sitting-room, and the two men went out
to smoke their cigars in the covered porch. Mrs. Parker herself took
out the whisky and hot water, and sugar and lemons, and then returned
to have a little matronly discourse with her guest. "Does Mr. Lopez
ever take a drop too much?" she asked.

"Never," said Mrs. Lopez.

"Perhaps it don't affect him as it do Sexty. He ain't a
drinker;--certainly not. And he's one that works hard every day of
his life. But he's getting fond of it these last twelve months, and
though he don't take very much it hurries him and flurries him. If I
speaks at night he gets cross;--and in the morning when he gets up,
which he always do regular, though it's ever so bad with him, then I
haven't the heart to scold him. It's very hard sometimes for a wife
to know what to do, Mrs. Lopez."

"Yes, indeed." Emily could not but think how soon she herself had
learned that lesson.

"Of course I'd do anything for Sexty,--the father of my bairns, and
has always been a good husband to me. You don't know him, of course,
but I do. A right good man at bottom;--but so weak!"

"If he,--if he,--injures his health, shouldn't you talk to him
quietly about it?"

"It isn't the drink as is the evil, Mrs. Lopez, but that which makes
him drink. He's not one as goes a mucker merely for the pleasure.
When things are going right he'll sit out in our arbour at home, and
smoke pipe after pipe, playing with the children, and one glass of
gin and water cold will see him to bed. Tobacco, dry, do agree with
him, I think. But when he comes to three or four goes of hot toddy, I
know it's not as it should be."

"You should restrain him, Mrs. Parker."

"Of course I should;--but how? Am I to walk off with the bottle
and disgrace him before the servant girl? Or am I to let the
children know as their father takes too much? If I was as much as
to make one fight of it, it'd be all over Ponder's End that he's
a drunkard;--which he ain't. Restrain him;--oh, yes! If I could
restrain that gambling instead of regular business! That's what I'd
like to restrain."

"Does he gamble?"

"What is it but gambling that he and Mr. Lopez is a-doing together?
Of course, ma'am, I don't know you, and you are different from me.
I ain't foolish enough not to know all that. My father stood in
Smithfield and sold hay, and your father is a gentleman as has been
high up in the Courts all his life. But it's your husband is a-doing
this."

"Oh, Mrs. Parker!"

"He is then. And if he brings Sexty and my little ones to the
workhouse, what'll be the good then of his guano and his gum?"

"Is it not all in the fair way of commerce?"

"I'm sure I don't know about commerce, Mrs. Lopez, because I'm only
a woman; but it can't be fair. They goes and buys things that they
haven't got the money to pay for, and then waits to see if they'll
turn up trumps. Isn't that gambling?"

"I cannot say. I do not know." She felt now that her husband had
been accused, and that part of the accusation had been levelled at
herself. There was something in her manner of saying these few words
which the poor complaining woman perceived, feeling immediately that
she had been inhospitable and perhaps unjust. She put out her hand
softly, touching the other woman's arm, and looking up into her
guest's face. "If this is so, it is terrible," said Emily.

"Perhaps I oughtn't to speak so free."

"Oh, yes;--for your children, and yourself, and your husband."

"It's them,--and him. Of course it's not your doing, and Mr. Lopez,
I'm sure, is a very fine gentleman. And if he gets wrong one way,
he'll get himself right in another." Upon hearing this Emily shook
her head. "Your papa is a rich man, and won't see you and yours come
to want. There's nothing more to come to me or Sexty let it be ever
so."

"Why does he do it?"

"Why does who do it?"

"Your husband. Why don't you speak to him as you do to me, and tell
him to mind only his proper business?"

"Now you are angry with me."

"Angry! No;--indeed I am not angry. Every word that you say is good,
and true, and just what you ought to say. I am not angry, but I am
terrified. I know nothing of my husband's business. I cannot tell you
that you should trust to it. He is very clever, but--"

"But--what, ma'am?"

"Perhaps I should say that he is ambitious."

"You mean he wants to get rich too quick, ma'am."

"I'm afraid so."

"Then it's just the same with Sexty. He's ambitious too. But what's
the good of being ambitious, Mrs. Lopez, if you never know whether
you're on your head or your heels? And what's the good of being
ambitious if you're to get into the workhouse? I know what that
means. There's one or two of them sort of men gets into Parliament,
and has houses as big as the Queen's palace, while hundreds of them
has their wives and children in the gutter. Who ever hears of them?
Nobody. It don't become any man to be ambitious who has got a wife
and family. If he's a bachelor, why, of course, he can go to the
Colonies. There's Mary Jane and the two little ones right down on
the sea, with their feet in the salt water. Shall we put on our hats,
Mrs. Lopez, and go and look after them?" To this proposition Emily
assented, and the two ladies went out after the children.

"Mix yourself another glass," said Sexty to his partner.

"I'd rather not. Don't ask me again. You know I never drink, and I
don't like being pressed."

"By George!--You are particular."

"What's the use of teasing a fellow to do a thing he doesn't like?"

"You won't mind me having another?"

"Fifty if you please, so that I'm not forced to join you."

"Forced! It's liberty 'all here, and you can do as you please. Only
when a fellow will take a drop with me he's better company."

"Then I'm d---- bad company, and you'd better get somebody else to
be jolly with. To tell you the truth, Sexty, I suit you better at
business than at this sort of thing. I'm like Shylock, you know."

"I don't know about Shylock, but I'm blessed if I think you suit me
very well at anything. I'm putting up with a deal of ill-usage, and
when I try to be happy with you, you won't drink, and you tell me
about Shylock. He was a Jew, wasn't he?"

"That is the general idea."

"Then you ain't very much like him, for they're a sort of people that
always have money about 'em."

"How do you suppose he made his money to begin with? What an ass you
are!"

"That's true. I am. Ever since I began putting my name on the same
bit of paper with yours I've been an ass."

"You'll have to be one a bit longer yet;--unless you mean to throw
up everything. At this present moment you are six or seven thousand
pounds richer than you were before you first met me."

"I wish I could see the money."

"That's like you. What's the use of money you can see? How are you
to make money out of money by looking at it? I like to know that my
money is fructifying."

"I like to know that it's all there,--and I did know it before I ever
saw you. I'm blessed if I know it now. Go down and join the ladies,
will you? You ain't much of a companion up here."

Shortly after that Lopez told Mrs. Parker that he had already
bade adieu to her husband, and then he took his wife to their own
lodgings.


CHAPTER XLVII

As for Love!


The time spent by Mrs. Lopez at Dovercourt was by no means one of
complete happiness. Her husband did not come down very frequently,
alleging that his business kept him in town, and that the journey was
too long. When he did come he annoyed her either by moroseness and
tyranny, or by an affectation of loving good-humour, which was the
more disagreeable alternative of the two. She knew that he had no
right to be good-humoured, and she was quite able to appreciate the
difference between fictitious love and love that was real. He did not
while she was at Dovercourt speak to her again directly about her
father's money,--but he gave her to understand that he required from
her very close economy. Then again she referred to the brougham which
she knew was to be in readiness on her return to London; but he told
her that he was the best judge of that. The economy which he demanded
was that comfortless heart-rending economy which nips the practiser
at every turn, but does not betray itself to the world at large. He
would have her save out of her washerwoman and linendraper, and yet
have a smart gown and go in a brougham. He begrudged her postage
stamps, and stopped the subscription at Mudie's, though he insisted
on a front seat in the Dovercourt church, paying half a guinea more
for it than he would for a place at the side. And then before their
sojourn at the place had come to an end he left her for awhile
absolutely penniless, so that when the butcher and baker called for
their money she could not pay them. That was a dreadful calamity to
her, and of which she was hardly able to measure the real worth. It
had never happened to her before to have to refuse an application for
money that was due. In her father's house such a thing, as far as she
knew, had never happened. She had sometimes heard that Everett was
impecunious, but that had simply indicated an additional call upon
her father. When the butcher came the second time she wrote to her
husband in an agony. Should she write to her father for a supply? She
was sure that her father would not leave them in actual want. Then
he sent her a cheque, enclosed in a very angry letter. Apply to her
father! Had she not learned as yet that she was not to lean on her
father any longer, but simply on him? And was she such a fool as to
suppose that a tradesman could not wait a month for his money?

During all this time she had no friend,--no person to whom she could
speak,--except Mrs. Parker. Mrs. Parker was very open and very
confidential about the business, really knowing very much more about
it than did Mrs. Lopez. There was some sympathy and confidence
between her and her husband, though they had latterly been much
lessened by Sexty's conduct. Mrs. Parker talked daily about the
business now that her mouth had been opened, and was very clearly of
opinion that it was not a good business. "Sexty don't think it good
himself," she said.

"Then why does he go on with it?"

"Business is a thing, Mrs. Lopez, as people can't drop out of just at
a moment. A man gets hisself entangled, and must free hisself as best
he can. I know he's terribly afeard;--and sometimes he does say such
things of your husband!" Emily shrunk almost into herself as she
heard this. "You mustn't be angry, for indeed it's better you should
know all."

"I'm not angry; only very unhappy. Surely Mr. Parker could separate
himself from Mr. Lopez if he pleased?"

"That's what I say to him. Give it up, though it be ever so much as
you've to lose by him. Give it up, and begin again. You've always got
your experience, and if it's only a crust you can earn, that's sure
and safe. But then he declares that he means to pull through yet. I
know what men are at when they talk of pulling through, Mrs. Lopez.
There shouldn't be no need of pulling through. It should all come
just of its own accord,--little and little; but safe." Then, when
the days of their marine holiday were coming to an end,--in the
first week in October,--the day before the return of the Parkers to
Ponder's End, she made a strong appeal to her new friend. "You ain't
afraid of him; are you?"

"Of my husband?" said Mrs. Lopez. "I hope not. Why should you ask?"

"Believe me, a woman should never be afraid of 'em. I never would
give in to be bullied and made little of by Sexty. I'd do a'most
anything to make him comfortable, I'm that soft-hearted. And why not,
when he's the father of my children? But I'm not going not to say a
thing if I thinks it right, because I'm afeard."

"I think I could say anything if I thought it right."

"Then tell him of me and my babes,--as how I can never have a quiet
night while this is going on. It isn't that they two men are fond of
one another. Nothing of the sort! Now you;--I've got to be downright
fond of you, though, of course, you think me common." Mrs. Lopez
would not contradict her, but stooped forward and kissed her cheek.
"I'm downright fond of you, I am," continued Mrs. Parker, snuffling
and sobbing, "but they two men are only together because Mr. Lopez
wants to gamble, and Parker has got a little money to gamble with."
This aspect of the thing was so terrible to Mrs. Lopez that she could
only weep and hide her face. "Now, if you would tell him just the
truth! Tell him what I say, and that I've been a-saying it! Tell him
it's for my children I'm a-speaking, who won't have bread in their
very mouths if their father's squeezed dry like a sponge! Sure, if
you'd tell him this, he wouldn't go on!" Then she paused a moment,
looking up into the other woman's face. "He'd have some bowels of
compassion;--wouldn't he now?"

"I'll try," said Mrs. Lopez.

"I know you're good and kind-hearted, my dear. I saw it in your
eyes from the very first. But them men, when they get on at
money-making,--or money-losing, which makes 'em worse,--are like
tigers clawing one another. They don't care how many they kills, so
that they has the least bit for themselves. There ain't no fear of
God in it, nor yet no mercy, nor ere a morsel of heart. It ain't
what I call manly,--not that longing after other folks' money. When
it's come by hard work, as I tell Sexty,--by the very sweat of his
brow,--oh,--it's sweet as sweet. When he'd tell me that he'd made his
three pound, or his five pound, or, perhaps, his ten pound in a day,
and'd calculate it up, how much it'd come to if he did that every
day, and where we could go to, and what we could do for the children,
I loved to hear him talk about his money. But now--! why, it's
altered the looks of the man altogether. It's just as though he was
a-thirsting for blood."

Thirsting for blood! Yes, indeed. It was the very idea that had
occurred to Mrs. Lopez herself when her husband had bade her to "get
round her father." No;--it certainly was not manly. There certainly
was neither fear of God in it, nor mercy. Yes;--she would try. But as
for bowels of compassion in Ferdinand Lopez--; she, the young wife,
had already seen enough of her husband to think that he was not to be
moved by any prayers on that side. Then the two women bade each other
farewell. "Parker has been talking of my going to Manchester Square,"
said Mrs. Parker, "but I shan't. What'd I be in Manchester Square?
And, besides, there'd better be an end of it. Mr. Lopez'd turn Sexty
and me out of the house at a moment's notice if it wasn't for the
money."

"It's papa's house," said Mrs. Lopez, not, however, meaning to make
an attack on her husband.

"I suppose so, but I shan't come to trouble no one; and we live ever
so far away, at Ponder's End,--out of your line altogether, Mrs.
Lopez. But I've taken to you, and will never think ill of you any
way;--only do as you said you would."

"I will try," said Mrs. Lopez.

In the meantime Lopez had received from Mr. Wharton an answer to his
letter about the missing caravels, which did not please him. Here is
the letter:--


   MY DEAR LOPEZ,

   I cannot say that your statement is satisfactory, nor can
   I reconcile it to your assurance to me that you have made
   a trade income for some years past of £2000 a year. I do
   not know much of business, but I cannot imagine such a
   result from such a condition of things as you describe.
   Have you any books; and, if so, will you allow them to be
   inspected by any accountant I may name?

   You say that a sum of £20,000 would suit your business
   better now than when I'm dead. Very likely. But with such
   an account of the business as that you have given me, I do
   not know that I feel disposed to confide the savings of my
   life to assist so very doubtful an enterprise. Of course
   whatever I may do to your advantage will be done for the
   sake of Emily and her children, should she have any. As
   far as I can see at present, I shall best do my duty
   to her, by leaving what I may have to leave to her, to
   trustees, for her benefit and that of her children.

   Yours truly,

   A. WHARTON.


This, of course, did not tend to mollify the spirit of the man to
whom it was written, or to make him gracious towards his wife. He
received the letter three weeks before the lodgings at Dovercourt
were given up,--but during these three weeks he was very little
at the place, and when there did not mention the letter. On these
occasions he said nothing about business, but satisfied himself with
giving strict injunctions as to economy. Then he took her back to
town on the day after her promise to Mrs. Parker that she would
"try." Mrs. Parker had told her that no woman ought to be afraid to
speak to her husband, and, if necessary, to speak roundly on such
subjects. Mrs. Parker was certainly not a highly educated lady, but
she had impressed Emily with an admiration for her practical good
sense and proper feeling. The lady who was a lady had begun to
feel that in the troubles of her life she might find a much less
satisfactory companion than the lady who was not a lady. She would do
as Mrs. Parker had told her. She would not be afraid. Of course it
was right that she should speak on such a matter. She knew herself
to be an obedient wife. She had borne all her unexpected sorrows
without a complaint, with a resolve that she would bear all for his
sake,--not because she loved him, but because she had made herself
his wife. Into whatever calamities he might fall, she would share
them. Though he should bring her utterly into the dirt, she would
remain in the dirt with him. It seemed probable to her that it might
be so,--that they might have to go into the dirt;--and if it were
so, she would still be true to him. She had chosen to marry him, and
she would be his true wife. But, as such, she would not be afraid of
him. Mrs. Parker had told her that "a woman should never be afraid
of 'em," and she believed in Mrs. Parker. In this case, too, it was
clearly her duty to speak,--for the injury being done was terrible,
and might too probably become tragical. How could she endure to think
of that woman and her children, should she come to know that the
husband of the woman and the father of the children had been ruined
by her husband?

Yes,--she would speak to him. But she did fear. It is all very well
for a woman to tell herself that she will encounter some anticipated
difficulty without fear,--or for a man either. The fear cannot be
overcome by will. The thing, however, may be done, whether it be
leading a forlorn hope, or speaking to an angry husband,--in spite
of fear. She would do it; but when the moment for doing it came, her
very heart trembled within her. He had been so masterful with her,
so persistent in repudiating her interference, so exacting in his
demands for obedience, so capable of making her miserable by his
moroseness when she failed to comply with his wishes, that she could
not go to her task without fear. But she did feel that she ought not
to be afraid, or that her fears, at any rate, should not be allowed
to restrain her. A wife, she knew, should be prepared to yield, but
yet was entitled to be her husband's counsellor. And it was now the
case that in this matter she was conversant with circumstances which
were unknown to her husband. It was to her that Mrs. Parker's appeal
had been made, and with a direct request from the poor woman that it
should be repeated to her husband's partner.

She found that she could not do it on the journey home from
Dovercourt, nor yet on that evening. Mrs. Dick Roby, who had come
back from a sojourn at Boulogne, was with them in the Square, and
brought her dear friend Mrs. Leslie with her, and also Lady Eustace.
The reader may remember that Mr. Wharton had met these ladies at
Mrs. Dick's house some months before his daughter's marriage, but he
certainly had never asked them into his own. On this occasion Emily
had given them no invitation, but had been told by her husband that
her aunt would probably bring them in with her. "Mrs. Leslie and Lady
Eustace!" she exclaimed with a little shudder. "I suppose your aunt
may bring a couple of friends with her to see you, though it is your
father's house?" he had replied. She had said no more, not daring to
have a fight on that subject at present, while the other matter was
pressing on her mind. The evening had passed away pleasantly enough,
she thought, to all except herself. Mrs. Leslie and Lady Eustace
had talked a great deal, and her husband had borne himself quite
as though he had been a wealthy man and the owner of the house in
Manchester Square. In the course of the evening Dick Roby came in and
Major Pountney, who since the late affairs at Silverbridge had become
intimate with Lopez. So that there was quite a party; and Emily was
astonished to hear her husband declare that he was only watching the
opportunity of another vacancy in order that he might get into the
House, and expose the miserable duplicity of the Duke of Omnium. And
yet this man, within the last month, had taken away her subscription
at Mudie's, and told her that she shouldn't wear things that wanted
washing! But he was able to say ever so many pretty little things to
Lady Eustace, and had given a new fan to Mrs. Dick, and talked of
taking a box for Mrs. Leslie at The Gaiety.

But on the next morning before breakfast she began. "Ferdinand," she
said, "while I was at Dovercourt I saw a good deal of Mrs. Parker."

"I could not help that. Or rather you might have helped it if you
pleased. It was necessary that you should meet, but I didn't tell you
that you were to see a great deal of her."

"I liked her very much."

"Then I must say you've got a very odd taste. Did you like him?"

"No. I did not see so much of him, and I think that the manners of
women are less objectionable than those of men. But I want to tell
you what passed between her and me."

"If it is about her husband's business she ought to have held her
tongue, and you had better hold yours now."

This was not a happy beginning, but still she was determined to go
on. "It was I think more about your business than his."

"Then it was infernal impudence on her part, and you should not have
listened to her for a moment."

"You do not want to ruin her and her children!"

"What have I to do with her and her children? I did not marry her,
and I am not their father. He has got to look to that."

"She thinks that you are enticing him into risks which he cannot
afford."

"Am I doing anything for him that I ain't doing for myself! If there
is money made, will not he share it? If money has to be lost, of
course he must do the same." Lopez in stating his case omitted to
say that whatever capital was now being used belonged to his partner.
"But women when they get together talk all manner of nonsense. Is it
likely that I shall alter my course of action because you tell me
that she tells you that he tells her that he is losing money? He is a
half-hearted fellow who quails at every turn against him. And when he
is crying drunk I dare say he makes a poor mouth to her."

"I think, Ferdinand, it is more than that. She says that--"

"To tell you the truth, Emily, I don't care a d---- what she says.
Now give me some tea."

The roughness of this absolutely quelled her. It was not now that
she was afraid of him,--not at this moment, but that she was knocked
down as though by a blow. She had been altogether so unused to such
language that she could not get on with her matter in hand, letting
the bad word pass by her as an unmeaning expletive. She wearily
poured out the cup of tea and sat herself down silent. The man was
too strong for her, and would be so always. She told herself at this
moment that language such as that must always absolutely silence her.
Then, within a few minutes, he desired her, quite cheerfully, to ask
her uncle and aunt to dinner the day but one following, and also to
ask Lady Eustace and Mrs. Leslie. "I will pick up a couple of men,
which will make us all right," he said.

This was in every way horrible to her. Her father had been back in
town, had not been very well, and had been recommended to return
to the country. He had consequently removed himself,--not to
Herefordshire,--but to Brighton, and was now living at an hotel,
almost within an hour of London. Had he been at home he certainly
would not have invited Mrs. Leslie and Lady Eustace to his house. He
had often expressed a feeling of dislike to the former lady in the
hearing of his son-in-law, and had ridiculed his sister-in-law for
allowing herself to be made acquainted with Lady Eustace, whose name
had at one time been very common in the mouths of people. Emily also
felt that she was hardly entitled to give a dinner-party in his house
in his absence. And, after all that she had lately heard about her
husband's poverty, she could not understand how he should wish to
incur the expense. "You would not ask Mrs. Leslie here!" she said.

"Why should we not ask Mrs. Leslie?"

"Papa dislikes her."

"But 'papa,' as you call him, isn't going to meet her."

"He has said that he doesn't know what day he may be home. And he
does more than dislike her. He disapproves of her."

"Nonsense! She is your aunt's friend. Because your father once heard
some cock-and-bull story about her, and because he has always taken
upon himself to criticise your aunt's friends, I am not to be civil
to a person I like."

"But, Ferdinand, I do not like her myself. She never was in this
house till the other night."

"Look here, my dear, Lady Eustace can be useful to me, and I cannot
ask Lady Eustace without asking her friend. You do as I bid you,--or
else I shall do it myself."

She paused for a moment, and then she positively refused. "I cannot
bring myself to ask Mrs. Leslie to dine in this house. If she comes
to dine with you, of course I shall sit at the table, but she will be
sure to see that she is not welcome."

"It seems to me that you are determined to go against me in
everything I propose."

"I don't think you would say that if you knew how miserable you made
me."

"I tell you that that other woman can be very useful to me."

"In what way useful?"

"Are you jealous, my dear?"

"Certainly not of Lady Eustace,--nor of any woman. But it seems so
odd that such a person's services should be required."

"Will you do as I tell you, and ask them? You can go round and tell
your aunt about it. She knows that I mean to ask them. Lady Eustace
is a very rich woman, and is disposed to do a little in commerce. Now
do you understand?"

"Not in the least," said Emily.

"Why shouldn't a woman who has money buy coffee as well as buy
shares?"

"Does she buy shares?"

"By George, Emily, I think that you're a fool."

"I dare say I am, Ferdinand. I do not in the least know what it all
means. But I do know this, that you ought not, in papa's absence, to
ask people to dine here whom he particularly dislikes, and whom he
would not wish to have in his house."

"You think that I am to be governed by you in such a matter as that?"

"I do not want to govern you."

"You think that a wife should dictate to a husband as to the way in
which he is to do his work, and the partners he may be allowed to
have in his business, and the persons whom he may ask to dinner!
Because you have been dictating to me on all these matters. Now, look
here, my dear. As to my business, you had better never speak to me
about it any more. I have endeavoured to take you into my confidence
and to get you to act with me, but you have declined that, and have
preferred to stick to your father. As to my partners, whether I may
choose to have Sexty Parker or Lady Eustace, I am a better judge
than you. And as to asking Mrs. Leslie and Lady Eustace or any other
persons to dinner, as I am obliged to make even the recreations of
life subservient to its work, I must claim permission to have my own
way." She had listened, but when he paused she made no reply. "Do you
mean to do as I bid you and ask these ladies?"

"I cannot do that. I know that it ought not to be done. This is
papa's house, and we are living here as his guests."

"D---- your papa!" he said as he burst out of the room. After a
quarter of an hour he put his head again into the room and saw her
sitting, like a statue, exactly where he had left her. "I have
written the notes both to Lady Eustace and to Mrs. Leslie," he said.
"You can't think it any sin at any rate to ask your aunt."

"I will see my aunt," she said.

"And remember I am not going to be your father's guest, as you call
it. I mean to pay for the dinner myself, and to send in my own wines.
Your father shall have nothing to complain of on that head."

"Could you not ask them to Richmond, or to some hotel?" she said.

"What; in October! If you think that I am going to live in a house in
which I can't invite a friend to dinner, you are mistaken." And with
that he took his departure.

The whole thing had now become so horrible to her that she felt
unable any longer to hold up her head. It seemed to her to be
sacrilege that these women should come and sit in her father's room;
but when she spoke of her father her husband had cursed him with
scorn! Lopez was going to send food and wine into the house, which
would be gall and wormwood to her father. At one time she thought she
would at once write to her father and tell him of it all,--or perhaps
telegraph to him; but she could not do so without letting her husband
know what she had done, and then he would have justice on his side in
calling her disobedient. Were she to do that, then it would indeed be
necessary that she should take part against her husband.

She had brought all this misery on herself and on her father because
she had been obstinate in thinking that she could with certainty
read a lover's character. As for love,--that of course had died
away in her heart,--imperceptibly, though, alas, so quickly! It was
impossible that she could continue to love a man who from day to day
was teaching her mean lessons, and who was ever doing mean things,
the meanness of which was so little apparent to himself that he did
not scruple to divulge them to her. How could she love a man who
would make no sacrifice either to her comfort, her pride, or her
conscience? But still she might obey him,--if she could feel sure
that obedience to him was a duty. Could it be a duty to sin against
her father's wishes, and to assist in profaning his house and abusing
his hospitality after this fashion? Then her mind again went back to
the troubles of Mrs. Parker, and her absolute inefficiency in that
matter. It seemed to her that she had given herself over body and
soul and mind to some evil genius, and that there was no escape.

"Of course we'll come," Mrs. Roby had said to her when she went round
the corner into Berkeley Street early in the day. "Lopez spoke to me
about it before."

"What will papa say about it, Aunt Harriet?"

"I suppose he and Lopez understand each other."

"I do not think papa will understand this."

"I am sure Mr. Wharton would not lend his house to his son-in-law,
and then object to the man he had lent it to asking a friend to dine
with him. And I am sure that Mr. Lopez would not consent to occupy a
house on those terms. If you don't like it, of course we won't come."

"Pray don't say that. As these other women are to come, pray do not
desert me. But I cannot say I think it is right." Mrs. Dick, however,
only laughed at her scruples.

In the course of the evening Emily got letters addressed to herself
from Lady Eustace and Mrs. Leslie, informing her that they would
have very much pleasure in dining with her on the day named. And
Lady Eustace went on to say, with much pleasantry, that she always
regarded little parties, got up without any ceremony, as being the
pleasantest, and that she should come on this occasion without any
ceremonial observance. Then Emily was aware that her husband had not
only written the notes in her name, but had put into her mouth some
studied apology as to the shortness of the invitation. Well! She was
the man's wife, and she supposed that he was entitled to put any
words that he pleased into her mouth.


CHAPTER XLVIII

"Has He Ill-treated You?"


Lopez relieved his wife from all care as to provision for his guests.
"I've been to a shop in Wigmore Street," he said, "and everything
will be done. They'll send in a cook to make the things hot, and your
father won't have to pay even for a crust of bread."

"Papa doesn't mind paying for anything," she said in her indignation.

"It is all very pretty for you to say so, but my experience of him
goes just the other way. At any rate there will be nothing to be paid
for. Stewam and Sugarscraps will send in everything, if you'll only
tell the old fogies downstairs not to interfere." Then she made a
little request. Might she ask Everett, who was now in town? "I've
already got Major Pountney and Captain Gunner," he said. She pleaded
that one more would make no difference. "But that's just what one
more always does. It destroys everything, and turns a pretty little
dinner into an awkward feed. We won't have him this time. Pountney'll
take you, and I'll take her ladyship. Dick will take Mrs. Leslie, and
Gunner will have Aunt Harriet. Dick will sit opposite to me, and the
four ladies will sit at the four corners. We shall be very pleasant,
but one more would spoil us."

She did speak to the "old fogies" downstairs,--the housekeeper, who
had lived with her father since she was a child, and the butler, who
had been there still longer, and the cook, who, having been in her
place only three years, resigned impetuously within half-an-hour
after the advent of Mr. Sugarscraps' head man. The "fogies" were
indignant. The butler expressed his intention of locking himself up
in his own peculiar pantry, and the housekeeper took upon herself to
tell her young mistress that "Master wouldn't like it." Since she had
known Mr. Wharton such a thing as cooked food being sent into the
house from a shop had never been so much as heard of. Emily, who had
hitherto been regarded in the house as a rather strong-minded young
woman, could only break down and weep. Why, oh why, had she consented
to bring herself and her misery into her father's house? She could
at any rate have prevented that by explaining to her father the
unfitness of such an arrangement.

The "party" came. There was Major Pountney, very fine, rather loud,
very intimate with the host, whom on one occasion he called "Ferdy,
my boy," and very full of abuse of the Duke and Duchess of Omnium.
"And yet she was a good creature when I knew her," said Lady Eustace.
Pountney suggested that the Duchess had not then taken up politics.
"I've got out of her way," said Lady Eustace, "since she did that."
And there was Captain Gunner, who defended the Duchess, but who
acknowledged that the Duke was the "most consumedly stuck-up
cox-comb" then existing. "And the most dishonest," said Lopez, who
had told his new friends nothing about the repayment of the election
expenses. And Dick was there. He liked these little parties, in which
a good deal of wine could be drunk, and at which ladies were not
supposed to be very stiff. The Major and the Captain, and Mrs. Leslie
and Lady Eustace, were such people as he liked,--all within the pale,
but having a piquant relish of fastness and impropriety. Dick was
wont to declare that he hated the world in buckram. Aunt Harriet was
triumphant in a manner which disgusted Emily, and which she thought
to be most disrespectful to her father;--but in truth Aunt Harriet
did not now care very much for Mr. Wharton, preferring the friendship
of Mr. Wharton's son-in-law. Mrs. Leslie came in gorgeous clothes,
which, as she was known to be very poor, and to have attached herself
lately with almost more than feminine affection to Lady Eustace, were
at any rate open to suspicious cavil. In former days Mrs. Leslie had
taken upon herself to say bitter things about Mr. Lopez, which Emily
could now have repeated, to that lady's discomfiture, had such a mode
of revenge suited her disposition. With Mrs. Leslie there was Lady
Eustace, pretty as ever, and sharp and witty, with the old passion
for some excitement, the old proneness to pretend to trust everybody,
and the old incapacity for trusting anybody. Ferdinand Lopez had
lately been at her feet, and had fired her imagination with stories
of the grand things to be done in trade. Ladies do it? Yes; why not
women as well as men? Any one might do it who had money in his pocket
and experience to tell him, or to tell her, what to buy and what to
sell. And the experience, luckily, might be vicarious. At the present
moment half the jewels worn in London were,--if Ferdinand Lopez knew
anything about it,--bought from the proceeds of such commerce. Of
course there were misfortunes. But these came from a want of that
experience which Ferdinand Lopez possessed, and which he was quite
willing to place at the service of one whom he admired so thoroughly
as he did Lady Eustace. Lady Eustace had been charmed, had seen her
way into a new and most delightful life,--but had not yet put any of
her money into the hands of Ferdinand Lopez.

I cannot say that the dinner was good. It may be a doubt whether such
tradesmen as Messrs. Stewam and Sugarscraps do ever produce good
food;--or whether, with all the will in the world to do so, such
a result is within their power. It is certain, I think, that the
humblest mutton chop is better eating than any "Supreme of chicken
after martial manner,"--as I have seen the dish named in a French
bill of fare, translated by a French pastrycook for the benefit
of his English customers,--when sent in from Messrs. Stewam and
Sugarscraps even with their best exertions. Nor can it be said that
the wine was good, though Mr. Sugarscraps, when he contracted for the
whole entertainment, was eager in his assurance that he procured the
very best that London could produce. But the outside look of things
was handsome, and there were many dishes, and enough of servants
to hand them, and the wines, if not good, were various. Probably
Pountney and Gunner did not know good wines. Roby did, but was
contented on this occasion to drink them bad. And everything went
pleasantly, with perhaps a little too much noise;--everything except
the hostess, who was allowed by general consent to be sad and
silent;--till there came a loud double-rap at the door.

"There's papa," said Emily, jumping up from her seat.

Mrs. Dick looked at Lopez, and saw at a glance that for a moment his
courage had failed him. But he recovered himself quickly. "Hadn't you
better keep your seat, my dear?" he said to his wife. "The servants
will attend to Mr. Wharton, and I will go to him presently."

"Oh, no," said Emily, who by this time was almost at the door.

"You didn't expect him,--did you?" asked Dick Roby.

"Nobody knew when he was coming. I think he told Emily that he might
be here any day."

"He's the most uncertain man alive," said Mrs. Dick, who was a good
deal scared by the arrival, though determined to hold up her head and
exhibit no fear.

"I suppose the old gentleman will come in and have some dinner,"
whispered Captain Gunner to his neighbour Mrs. Leslie.

"Not if he knows I'm here," replied Mrs. Leslie, tittering. "He
thinks that I am,--oh, something a great deal worse than I can tell
you."

"Is he given to be cross?" asked Lady Eustace, also affecting to
whisper.

"Never saw him in my life," answered the Major, "but I shouldn't
wonder if he was. Old gentlemen generally are cross. Gout, and that
kind of thing, you know."

For a minute or two the servants stopped their ministrations,
and things were very uncomfortable; but Lopez, as soon as he had
recovered himself, directed Mr. Sugarscraps' men to proceed with the
banquet. "We can eat our dinner, I suppose, though my father-in-law
has come back," he said. "I wish my wife was not so fussy, though
that is a kind of thing, Lady Eustace, that one has to expect from
young wives." The banquet did go on, but the feeling was general that
a misfortune had come upon them, and that something dreadful might
possibly happen.

Emily, when she rushed out, met her father in the hall, and ran into
his arms. "Oh, papa!" she exclaimed.

"What's all this about?" he asked, and as he spoke he passed on
through the hall to his own room at the back of the house. There were
of course many evidences on all sides of the party,--the strange
servants, the dishes going in and out, the clatter of glasses, and
the smell of viands. "You've got a dinner-party," he said. "Had you
not better go back to your friends?"

"No, papa."

"What is the matter, Emily? You are unhappy."

"Oh, so unhappy!"

"What is it all about? Who are they? Whose doing is it,--yours or
his? What makes you unhappy?"

He was now seated in his arm-chair, and she threw herself on her
knees at his feet. "He would have them. You mustn't be angry with me.
You won't be angry with me;--will you?"

He put his hand upon her head, and stroked her hair. "Why should I
be angry with you because your husband has asked friends to dinner?"
She was so unlike her usual self that he knew not what to make of it.
It had not been her nature to kneel and to ask for pardon, or to be
timid and submissive. "What is it, Emily, that makes you like this?"

"He shouldn't have had the people."

"Well;--granted. But it does not signify much. Is your aunt Harriet
there?"

"Yes."

"It can't be very bad, then."

"Mrs. Leslie is there, and Lady Eustace,--and two men I don't like."

"Is Everett here?"

"No;--he wouldn't have Everett."

"Oughtn't you to go to them?"

"Don't make me go. I should only cry. I have been crying all day, and
the whole of yesterday." Then she buried her face upon his knees, and
sobbed as though she would break her heart.

He couldn't at all understand it. Though he distrusted his
son-in-law, and certainly did not love him, he had not as yet learned
to hold him in aversion. When the connection was once made he had
determined to make the best of it, and had declared to himself that
as far as manners went the man was well enough. He had not as yet
seen the inside of the man, as it had been the sad fate of the poor
wife to see him. It had never occurred to him that his daughter's
love had failed her, or that she could already be repenting what she
had done. And now, when she was weeping at his feet and deploring the
sin of the dinner-party,--which, after all, was a trifling sin,--he
could not comprehend the feelings which were actuating her. "I
suppose your aunt Harriet made up the party," he said.

"He did it."

"Your husband?"

"Yes;--he did it. He wrote to the women in my name when I refused."
Then Mr. Wharton began to perceive that there had been a quarrel. "I
told him Mrs. Leslie oughtn't to come here."

"I don't love Mrs. Leslie,--nor, for the matter of that, Lady
Eustace. But they won't hurt the house, my dear."

"And he has had the dinner sent in from a shop."

"Why couldn't he let Mrs. Williams do it?" As he said this, the tone
of his voice became for the first time angry.

"Cook has gone away. She wouldn't stand it. And Mrs. Williams is very
angry. And Barker wouldn't wait at table."

"What's the meaning of it all?"

"He would have it so. Oh, papa, you don't know what I've undergone.
I wish,--I wish we had not come here. It would have been better
anywhere else."

"What would have been better, dear?"

"Everything. Whether we lived or died, it would have been better. Why
should I bring my misery to you? Oh, papa, you do not know,--you can
never know."

"But I must know. Is there more than this dinner to disturb you?"

"Oh, yes;--more than that. Only I couldn't bear that it should be
done in your house."

"Has he--ill-treated you?"

Then she got up, and stood before him. "I do not mean to complain. I
should have said nothing only that you have found us in this way. For
myself I will bear it all, whatever it may be. But, papa, I want you
to tell him that we must leave this house."

"He has got no other home for you."

"He must find one. I will go anywhere. I don't care where it is. But
I won't stay here. I have done it myself, but I won't bring it upon
you. I could bear it all if I thought that you would never see me
again."

"Emily!"

"Yes;--if you would never see me again. I know it all, and that would
be best." She was now walking about the room. "Why should you see it
all?"

"See what, my love?"

"See his ruin, and my unhappiness, and my baby. Oh,--oh,--oh!"

"I think so very differently, Emily, that under no circumstances will
I have you taken to another home. I cannot understand much of all
this yet, but I suppose I shall come to see it. If Lopez be, as you
say, ruined, it is well that I have still enough for us to live on.
This is a bad time just now to talk about your husband's affairs."

"I did not mean to talk about them, papa."

"What would you like best to do now,--now at once. Can you go down
again to your husband's friends?"

"No;--no;--no."

"As for the dinner, never mind about that. I can't blame him for
making use of my house in my absence, as far as that goes,--though
I wish he could have contented himself with such a dinner as my
servants could have prepared for him. I will have some tea here."

"Let me stay with you, papa, and make it for you."

"Very well, dear. I do not mean to be ashamed to enter my own
dining-room. I shall, therefore, go in and make your apologies."
Thereupon Mr. Wharton walked slowly forth and marched into the
dining-room.

"Oh, Mr. Wharton," said Mrs. Dick, "we didn't expect you."

"Have you dined yet, sir?" asked Lopez.

"I dined early," said Mr. Wharton. "I should not now have come in to
disturb you, but that I have found Mrs. Lopez unwell, and she has
begged me to ask you to excuse her."

"I will go to her," said Lopez, rising.

"It is not necessary," said Wharton. "She is not ill, but hardly able
to take her place at table." Then Mrs. Dick proposed to go to her
dear niece; but Mr. Wharton would not allow it, and left the room,
having succeeded in persuading them to go on with their dinner. Lopez
certainly was not happy during the evening, but he was strong enough
to hide his misgivings, and to do his duty as host with seeming
cheerfulness.


CHAPTER XLIX

"Where Is Guatemala?"


Though his daughter's words to him had been very wild they did almost
more to convince Mr. Wharton that he should not give his money to
his son-in-law than even the letters which had passed between them.
To Emily herself he spoke very little as to what had occurred that
evening. "Papa," she said, "do not ask me anything more about it. I
was very miserable,--because of the dinner." Nor did he at that time
ask her any questions, contenting himself with assuring her that, at
any rate at present, and till after her baby should have been born,
she must remain in Manchester Square. "He won't hurt me," said Mr.
Wharton, and then added with a smile, "He won't have to have any more
dinner-parties while I am here."

Nor did he make any complaint to Lopez as to what had been done, or
even allude to the dinner. But when he had been back about a week he
announced to his son-in-law his final determination as to money. "I
had better tell you, Lopez, what I mean to do, so that you may not be
left in doubt. I shall not intrust any further sum of money into your
hands on behalf of Emily."

"You can do as you please, sir,--of course."

"Just so. You have had what to me is a very considerable sum,--though
I fear that it did not go for much in your large concerns."

"It was not very much, Mr. Wharton."

"I dare say not. Opinions on such a matter differ, you know. At any
rate, there will be no more. At present I wish Emily to live here,
and you, of course, are welcome here also. If things are not going
well with you, this will, at any rate, relieve you from immediate
expense."

"My calculations, sir, have never descended to that."

"Mine are more minute. The necessities of my life have caused me to
think of these little things. When I am dead there will be provision
for Emily made by my will,--the income going to trustees for her
benefit, and the capital to her children after her death. I thought
it only fair to you that this should be explained."

"And you will do nothing for me?"

"Nothing;--if that is nothing. I should have thought that your
present maintenance and the future support of your wife and children
would have been regarded as something."

"It is nothing;--nothing!"

"Then let it be nothing. Good morning."

Two days after that Lopez recurred to the subject. "You were very
explicit with me the other day, sir."

"I meant to be so."

"And I will be equally so to you now. Both I and your daughter are
absolutely ruined unless you reconsider your purpose."

"If you mean money by reconsideration,--present money to be given to
you,--I certainly shall not reconsider it. You may take my solemn
assurance that I will give you nothing that can be of any service to
you in trade."

"Then, sir,--I must tell you my purpose, and give you my assurance,
which is equally solemn. Under those circumstances I must leave
England, and try my fortune in Central America. There is an opening
for me at Guatemala, though not a very hopeful one."

"Guatemala!"

"Yes;--friends of mine have a connection there. I have not broken it
to Emily yet, but under these circumstances she will have to go."

"You will not take her to Guatemala!"

"Not take my wife, sir? Indeed I shall. Do you suppose that I would
go away and leave my wife a pensioner on your bounty? Do you think
that she would wish to desert her husband? I don't think you know
your daughter."

"I wish you had never known her."

"That is neither here nor there, sir. If I cannot succeed in this
country I must go elsewhere. As I have told you before, £20,000 at
the present moment would enable me to surmount all my difficulties,
and make me a very wealthy man. But unless I can command some such
sum by Christmas everything here must be sacrificed."

"Never in my life did I hear so base a proposition," said Mr.
Wharton.

"Why is it base? I can only tell you the truth."

"So be it. You will find that I mean what I have said."

"So do I, Mr. Wharton."

"As to my daughter, she must, of course, do as she thinks fit."

"She must do as I think fit, Mr. Wharton."

"I will not argue with you. Alas, alas; poor girl!"

"Poor girl, indeed! She is likely to be a poor girl if she is treated
in this way by her father. As I understand that you intend to use, or
to try to use, authority over her, I shall take steps for removing
her at once from your house." And so the interview was ended.

Lopez had thought the matter over, and had determined to "brazen it
out," as he himself called it. Nothing further was, he thought, to be
got by civility and obedience. Now he must use his power. His idea
of going to Guatemala was not an invention of the moment, nor was it
devoid of a certain basis of truth. Such a suggestion had been made
to him some time since by Mr. Mills Happerton. There were mines in
Guatemala which wanted, or at some future day might want, a resident
director. The proposition had been made to Lopez before his marriage,
and Mr. Happerton probably had now forgotten all about it;--but the
thing was of service now. He broke the matter very suddenly to his
wife. "Has your father been speaking to you of my plans?"

"Not lately;--not that I remember."

"He could not speak of them without your remembering, I should think.
Has he told you that I am going to Guatemala?"

"Guatemala! Where is Guatemala, Ferdinand?"

"You can answer my question though your geography is deficient."

"He has said nothing about your going anywhere."

"You will have to go,--as soon after Christmas as you may be fit."

"But where is Guatemala;--and for how long, Ferdinand?"

"Guatemala is in Central America, and we shall probably settle there
for the rest of our lives. I have got nothing to live on here."

During the next two months this plan of seeking a distant home and a
strange country was constantly spoken of in Manchester Square, and
did receive corroboration from Mr. Happerton himself. Lopez renewed
his application and received a letter from that gentleman saying
that the thing might probably be arranged if he were in earnest.
"I am quite in earnest," Lopez said as he showed this letter to Mr.
Wharton. "I suppose Emily will be able to start two months after her
confinement. They tell me that babies do very well at sea."

During this time, in spite of his threat, he continued to live
with Mr. Wharton in Manchester Square, and went every day into the
city,--whether to make arrangements and receive instructions as to
Guatemala, or to carry on his old business, neither Emily nor her
father knew. He never at this time spoke about his affairs to either
of them, but daily referred to her future expatriation as a thing
that was certain. At last there came up the actual question,--whether
she were to go or not. Her father told her that though she was
doubtless bound by law to obey her husband, in such a matter as this
she might defy the law. "I do not think that he can actually force
you on board the ship," her father said.

"But if he tells me that I must go?"

"Stay here with me," said the father. "Stay here with your baby. I'll
fight it out for you. I'll so manage that you shall have all the
world on your side."

Emily at that moment came to no decision, but on the following day
she discussed the matter with Lopez himself. "Of course you will go
with me," he said, when she asked the question.

"You mean that I must, whether I wish to go or not."

"Certainly you must. Good G----! where is a wife's place? Am I to go
out without my child, and without you, while you are enjoying all
the comforts of your father's wealth at home? That is not my idea of
life."

"Ferdinand, I have been thinking about it very much. I must beg you
to allow me to remain. I ask it of you as if I were asking my life."

"Your father has put you up to this."

"No;--not to this."

"To what then?"

"My father thinks that I should refuse to go."

"He does, does he?"

"But I shall not refuse. I shall go if you insist upon it. There
shall be no contest between us about that."

"Well; I should hope not."

"But I do implore you to spare me."

"That is very selfish, Emily."

"Yes,"--she said, "yes. I cannot contradict that. But so is the man
selfish who prays the judge to spare his life."

"But you do not think of me. I must go."

"I shall not make you happier, Ferdinand."

"Do you think that it is a fine thing for a man to live in such a
country as that all alone?"

"I think he would be better so than with a wife he does not--love."

"Who says I do not love you?"

"Or with one who does--not--love him." This she said very slowly,
very softly, but looking up into his eyes as she said it.

"Do you tell me that to my face?"

"Yes;--what good can I do now by lying? You have not been to me as I
thought you would be."

"And so, because you have built up some castle in the air that has
fallen to pieces, you tell your husband to his face that you do not
love him, and that you prefer not to live with him. Is that your idea
of duty?"

"Why have you been so cruel?"

"Cruel! What have I done? Tell me what cruelty. Have I beat
you? Have you been starved? Have I not asked and implored your
assistance,--only to be refused? The fact is that your father and you
have found out that I am not a rich man, and you want to be rid of
me. Is that true or false?"

"It is not true that I want to be rid of you because you are poor."

"I do not mean to be rid of you. You will have to settle down and do
your work as my wife in whatever place it may suit me to live. Your
father is a rich man, but you shall not have the advantage of his
wealth unless it comes to you, as it ought to come, through my hands.
If your father would give me the fortune which ought to be yours
there need be no going abroad. He cannot bear to part with his money,
and therefore we must go. Now you know all about it." She was then
turning to leave him, when he asked her a direct question. "Am I to
understand that you intend to resist my right to take you with me?"

"If you bid me go,--I shall go."

"It will be better, as you will save both trouble and exposure."

Of course she told her father what had taken place, but he could only
shake his head, and sit groaning over his misery in his chambers.
He had explained to her what he was willing to do on her behalf, but
she declined his aid. He could not tell her that she was wrong. She
was the man's wife, and out of that terrible destiny she could not
now escape. The only question with him was whether it would not
be best to buy the man,--give him a sum of money to go, and to go
alone. Could he have been quit of the man even for £20,000, he would
willingly have paid the money. But the man would either not go, or
would come back as soon as he had got the money. His own life, as he
passed it now, with this man in the house with him, was horrible to
him. For Lopez, though he had more than once threatened that he would
carry his wife to another home, had taken no steps towards getting
that other home ready for her.

During all this time Mr. Wharton had not seen his son. Everett had
gone abroad just as his father returned to London from Brighton, and
was still on the continent. He received his allowance punctually,
and that was the only intercourse which took place between them. But
Emily had written to him, not telling him much of her troubles,--only
saying that she believed that her husband would take her to Central
America early in the spring, and begging him to come home before she
went.

Just before Christmas her baby was born, but the poor child did not
live a couple of days. She herself at the time was so worn with care,
so thin and wan and wretched, that looking in the glass she hardly
knew her own face. "Ferdinand," she said to him, "I know he will not
live. The Doctor says so."

"Nothing thrives that I have to do with," he answered gloomily.

"Will you not look at him?"

"Well; yes. I have looked at him, have I not? I wish to God that
where he is going I could go with him."

"I wish I was;--I wish I was going," said the poor mother. Then the
father went out, and before he had returned to the house the child
was dead. "Oh, Ferdinand, speak one kind word to me now," she said.

"What kind word can I speak when you have told me that you do not
love me? Do you think that I can forget that because--because he has
gone?"

"A woman's love may always be won back again by kindness."

"Psha! How am I to kiss and make pretty speeches with my mind
harassed as it is now?" But he did touch her brow with his lips
before he went away.

The infant was buried, and then there was not much show of mourning
in the house. The poor mother would sit gloomily alone day after day,
telling herself that it was perhaps better that she should have been
robbed of her treasure than have gone forth with him into the wide,
unknown, harsh world with such a father as she had given him. Then
she would look at all the preparations she had made,--the happy
work of her fingers when her thoughts of their future use were her
sweetest consolation,--and weep till she would herself feel that
there never could be an end to her tears.

The second week in January had come and yet nothing further had been
settled as to this Guatemala project. Lopez talked about it as though
it was certain, and even told his wife that as they would move so
soon it would not be now worth while for him to take other lodgings
for her. But when she asked as to her own preparations,--the wardrobe
necessary for the long voyage and her general outfit,--he told her
that three weeks or a fortnight would be enough for all, and that he
would give her sufficient notice. "Upon my word he is very kind to
honour my poor house as he does," said Mr. Wharton.

"Papa, we will go at once if you wish it," said his daughter.

"Nay, Emily; do not turn upon me. I cannot but be sensible to the
insult of his daily presence; but even that is better than losing
you."

Then there occurred a ludicrous incident,--or combination of
incidents,--which, in spite of their absurdity, drove Mr. Wharton
almost frantic. First there came to him the bill from Messrs. Stewam
and Sugarscraps for the dinner. At this time he kept nothing back
from his daughter. "Look at that!" he said. The bill was absolutely
made out in his name.

"It is a mistake, papa."

"Not at all. The dinner was given in my house, and I must pay for
it. I would sooner do so than that he should pay it,--even if he had
the means." So he paid Messrs. Stewam and Sugarscraps £25 9s. 6d.,
begging them as he did so never to send another dinner into his
house, and observing that he was in the habit of entertaining his
friends at less than three guineas a head. "But Château Yquem and
Côte d'Or!" said Mr. Sugarscraps. "Château fiddlesticks!" said Mr.
Wharton, walking out of the house with his receipt.

Then came the bill for the brougham,--for the brougham from the very
day of their return to town after their wedding trip. This he showed
to Lopez. Indeed the bill had been made out to Lopez and sent to Mr.
Wharton with an apologetic note. "I didn't tell him to send it," said
Lopez.

"But will you pay it?"

"I certainly shall not ask you to pay it." But Mr. Wharton at last
did pay it, and he also paid the rent of the rooms in the Belgrave
Mansions, and between £30 and £40 for dresses which Emily had got at
Lewes and Allenby's under her husband's orders in the first days of
their married life in London.

"Oh, papa, I wish I had not gone there," she said.

"My dear, anything that you may have had I do not grudge in the
least. And even for him, if he would let you remain here, I would pay
willingly. I would supply all his wants if he would only--go away."


CHAPTER L

Mr. Slide's Revenge


"Do you mean to say, my lady, that the Duke paid his electioneering
bill down at Silverbridge?"

"I do mean to say so, Mr. Slide." Lady Eustace nodded her head, and
Mr. Quintus Slide opened his mouth.

"Goodness gracious!" said Mrs. Leslie, who was sitting with them.
They were in Lady Eustace's drawing-room, and the patriotic editor of
the "People's Banner" was obtaining from a new ally information which
might be useful to the country.

"But 'ow do you know, Lady Eustace? You'll pardon the persistency of
my inquiries, but when you come to public information accuracy is
everything. I never trust myself to mere report. I always travel up
to the very fountain 'ead of truth."

"I know it," said Lizzy Eustace oracularly.

"Um--m!" The Editor as he ejaculated the sound looked at her ladyship
with admiring eyes,--with eyes that were intended to flatter. But
Lizzie had been looked at so often in so many ways, and was so well
accustomed to admiration, that this had no effect on her at all. "'E
didn't tell you himself; did 'e, now?"

"Can you tell me the truth as to trusting him with my money?"

"Yes, I can."

"Shall I be safe if I take the papers which he calls bills of sale?"

"One good turn deserves another, my lady."

"I don't want to make a secret of it, Mr. Slide. Pountney found it
out. You know the Major?"

"Yes, I know Major Pountney. He was at Gatherum 'imself, and got a
little bit of cold shoulder;--didn't he?"

"I dare say he did. What has that to do with it? You may be sure that
Lopez applied to the Duke for his expenses at Silverbridge, and that
the Duke sent him the money."

"There's no doubt about it, Mr. Slide," said Mrs. Leslie. "We got it
all from Major Pountney. There was some bet between him and Pountney,
and he had to show Pountney the cheque."

"Pountney saw the money," said Lady Eustace.

Mr. Slide stroked his hand over his mouth and chin as he sat thinking
of the tremendous national importance of this communication. The man
who had paid the money was the Prime Minister of England,--and was,
moreover, Mr. Slide's enemy! "When the right 'and of fellowship has
been rejected, I never forgive," Mr. Slide has been heard to say.
Even Lady Eustace, who was not particular as to the appearance of
people, remarked afterwards to her friend that Mr. Slide had looked
like the devil as he was stroking his face. "It's very remarkable,"
said Mr. Slide; "very remarkable!"

"You won't tell the Major that we told you," said her Ladyship.

"Oh dear, no. I only just wanted to 'ear how it was. And as to
embarking your money, my lady, with Ferdinand Lopez,--I wouldn't do
it."

"Not if I get the bills of sale? It's for rum, and they say rum will
go up to any price."

"Don't, Lady Eustace. I can't say any more,--but don't. I never
mention names. But don't."

Then Mr. Slide went at once in search of Major Pountney, and having
found the Major at his club extracted from him all that he knew about
the Silverbridge payment. Pountney had really seen the Duke's cheque
for £500. "There was some bet,--eh, Major?" asked Mr. Slide.

"No, there wasn't. I know who has been telling you. That's Lizzie
Eustace, and just like her mischief. The way of it was this;--Lopez,
who was very angry, had boasted that he would bring the Duke down on
his marrow-bones. I was laughing at him as we sat at dinner one day
afterwards, and he took out the cheque and showed it me. There was
the Duke's own signature for £500,--'Omnium,' as plain as letters
could make it." Armed with this full information, Mr. Slide felt that
he had done all that the most punctilious devotion to accuracy could
demand of him, and immediately shut himself up in his cage at the
"People's Banner" office and went to work.

This occurred about the first week in January. The Duke was then
at Matching with his wife and a very small party. The singular
arrangement which had been effected by the Duchess in the early
autumn had passed off without any wonderful effects. It had been done
by her in pique, and the result had been apparently so absurd that it
had at first frightened her. But in the end it answered very well.
The Duke took great pleasure in Lady Rosina's company, and enjoyed
the comparative solitude which enabled him to work all day without
interruption. His wife protested that it was just what she liked,
though it must be feared that she soon became weary of it. To Lady
Rosina it was of course a Paradise on earth. In September, Phineas
Finn and his wife came to them, and in October there were other
relaxations and other business. The Prime Minister and his wife
visited their Sovereign, and he made some very useful speeches
through the country on his old favourite subject of decimal coinage.
At Christmas, for a fortnight, they went to Gatherum Castle and
entertained the neighbourhood,--the nobility and squirearchy dining
there on one day, and the tenants and other farmers on another. All
this went very smoothly, and the Duke did not become outrageously
unhappy because the "People's Banner" made sundry severe remarks on
the absence of Cabinet Councils through the autumn.

After Christmas they returned to Matching, and had some of their old
friends with them. There was the Duke of St. Bungay and the Duchess,
and Phineas Finn and his wife, and Lord and Lady Cantrip, Barrington
Erle, and one or two others. But at this period there came a great
trouble. One morning as the Duke sat in his own room after breakfast
he read an article in the "People's Banner," of which the following
sentences were a part. "We wish to know by whom were paid the
expenses incurred by Mr. Ferdinand Lopez during the late contest
at Silverbridge. It may be that they were paid by that gentleman
himself,--in which case we shall have nothing further to say, not
caring at the present moment to inquire whether those expenses were
or were not excessive. It may be that they were paid by subscription
among his political friends,--and if so, again we shall be satisfied.
Or it is possible that funds were supplied by a new political club of
which we have lately heard much, and with the action of such a body
we of course have nothing to do. If an assurance can be given to
us by Mr. Lopez or his friends that such was the case we shall be
satisfied.

"But a report has reached us, and we may say more than a report,
which makes it our duty to ask this question. Were those expenses
paid out of the private pocket of the present Prime Minister? If
so, we maintain that we have discovered a blot in that nobleman's
character which it is our duty to the public to expose. We will go
farther and say that if it be so,--if these expenses were paid out
of the private pocket of the Duke of Omnium, it is not fit that that
nobleman should any longer hold the high office which he now fills.

"We know that a peer should not interfere in elections for the House
of Commons. We certainly know that a Minister of the Crown should not
attempt to purchase parliamentary support. We happen to know also the
almost more than public manner,--are we not justified in saying the
ostentation?--with which at the last election the Duke repudiated
all that influence with the borough which his predecessors, and we
believe he himself, had so long exercised. He came forward telling us
that he, at least, meant to have clean hands;--that he would not do
as his forefathers had done;--that he would not even do as he himself
had done in former years. What are we to think of the Duke of Omnium
as a Minister of this country, if, after such assurances, he has out
of his own pocket paid the electioneering expenses of a candidate at
Silverbridge?" There was much more in the article, but the passages
quoted will suffice to give the reader a sufficient idea of the
accusation made, and which the Duke read in the retirement of his own
chamber.

He read it twice before he allowed himself to think of the matter.
The statement made was at any rate true to the letter. He had paid
the man's electioneering expenses. That he had done so from the
purest motives he knew and the reader knows;--but he could not even
explain those motives without exposing his wife. Since the cheque was
sent he had never spoken of the occurrence to any human being,--but
he had thought of it very often. At the time his private Secretary,
with much hesitation, almost with trepidation, had counselled him not
to send the money. The Duke was a man with whom it was very easy to
work, whose courtesy to all dependent on him was almost exaggerated,
who never found fault, and was anxious as far as possible to do
everything for himself. The comfort of those around him was always
matter of interest to him. Everything he held, he held as it were in
trust for the enjoyment of others. But he was a man whom it was very
difficult to advise. He did not like advice. He was so thin-skinned
that any counsel offered to him took the form of criticism. When
cautioned what shoes he should wear,--as had been done by Lady
Rosina, or what wine or what horses he should buy, as was done by his
butler and coachman, he was thankful, taking no pride to himself for
knowledge as to shoes, wine, or horses. But as to his own conduct,
private or public, as to any question of politics, as to his opinions
and resolutions, he was jealous of interference. Mr. Warburton
therefore had almost trembled when asking the Duke whether he was
quite sure about sending the money to Lopez. "Quite sure," the Duke
had answered, having at that time made up his mind. Mr. Warburton had
not dared to express a further doubt, and the money had been sent.
But from the moment of sending it doubts had repeated themselves in
the Prime Minister's mind.

