Produced by David Widger


DEEP WATERS

By W.W. JACOBS


[Illustration: IN THE LIGHT OF THE LAMP I SAW THE DEAD WHITE FACE]


CONTENTS:

SHAREHOLDERS

PAYING OFF

MADE TO MEASURE

SAM'S GHOST

BEDRIDDEN

THE CONVERT

HUSBANDRY

FAMILY CARES

THE WINTER OFFENSIVE

THE SUBSTITUTE

STMKING HARD

DIRTY WORK


SHAREHOLDERS


Sailor man--said the night-watchman, musingly--a sailorman is like a fish
he is safest when 'e is at sea.  When a fish comes ashore it is in for
trouble, and so is sailorman.  One poor chap I knew 'ardly ever came
ashore without getting married; and he was found out there was no less
than six wimmen in the court all taking away 'is character at once.  And
when he spoke up Solomon the magistrate pretty near bit 'is 'ead off.

Then look at the trouble they get in with their money!  They come ashore
from a long trip, smelling of it a'most, and they go from port to port
like a lord.  Everybody has got their eye on that money--everybody except
the sailorman, that is--and afore he knows wot's 'appened, and who 'as
got it, he's looking for a ship agin.  When he ain't robbed of 'is money,
he wastes it; and when 'e don't do either, he loses it.

I knew one chap who hid 'is money.  He'd been away ten months, and,
knowing 'ow easy money goes, 'e made up sixteen pounds in a nice little
parcel and hid it where nobody could find it.  That's wot he said, and
p'r'aps 'e was right.  All I know is, he never found it.  I did the same
thing myself once with a couple o' quid I ran acrost unexpected, on'y,
unfortunately for me, I hid it the day afore my missus started 'er
spring-cleaning.

One o' the worst men I ever knew for getting into trouble when he came
ashore was old Sam Small. If he couldn't find it by 'imself, Ginger Dick
and Peter Russet would help 'im look for it.  Generally speaking they
found it without straining their eyesight.

I remember one time they was home, arter being away pretty near a year,
and when they was paid off they felt like walking gold-mines.  They went
about smiling all over with good-temper and 'appiness, and for the first
three days they was like brothers.  That didn't last, of course, and on
the fourth day Sam Small, arter saying wot 'e would do to Ginger and
Peter if it wasn't for the police, went off by 'imself.

His temper passed off arter a time, and 'e began to look cheerful agin.
It was a lovely morning, and, having nothing to do and plenty in 'is
pocket to do it with, he went along like a schoolboy with a 'arf holiday.
He went as far as Stratford on the top of a tram for a mouthful o' fresh
air, and came back to his favourite coffee-shop with a fine appetite for
dinner. There was a very nice gentlemanly chap sitting opposite 'im, and
the way he begged Sam's pardon for splashing gravy over 'im made Sam take
a liking to him at once.  Nicely dressed he was, with a gold pin in 'is
tie, and a fine gold watch-chain acrost his weskit; and Sam could see he
'ad been brought up well by the way he used 'is knife and fork.  He kept
looking at Sam in a thoughtful kind o' way, and at last he said wot a
beautiful morning it was, and wot a fine day it must be in the country.
In a little while they began to talk like a couple of old friends, and he
told Sam all about 'is father, wot was a clergyman in the country, and
Sam talked about a father of his as was living private on three 'undred a
year.

"Ah, money's a useful thing," ses the man.

"It ain't everything," ses Sam.  "It won't give you 'appiness.  I've run
through a lot in my time, so I ought to know."

"I expect you've got a bit left, though," ses the man, with a wink.

Sam laughed and smacked 'is pocket.  "I've got a trifle to go on with,"
he ses, winking back.  "I never feel comfortable without a pound or two
in my pocket."

"You look as though you're just back from a vy'ge," ses the man, looking
at 'im very hard.

"I am," ses Sam, nodding.  "Just back arter ten months, and I'm going to
spend a bit o' money afore I sign on agin, I can tell you."

"That's wot it was given to us for," ses the man, nodding at him.

They both got up to go at the same time and walked out into the street
together, and, when Sam asked 'im whether he might have the pleasure of
standing 'im a drink, he said he might.  He talked about the different
kinds of drink as they walked along till Sam, wot was looking for a high-
class pub, got such a raging thirst on 'im he hardly knew wot to do with
'imself.  He passed several pubs, and walked on as fast as he could to
the Three Widders.

"Do you want to go in there partikler?" ses the man, stopping at the
door.

"No," ses Sam, staring.

"'Cos I know a place where they sell the best glass o' port wine in
London," ses the man.

He took Sam up two or three turnings, and then led him into a quiet
little pub in a back street.  There was a cosy little saloon bar with
nobody in it, and, arter Sam had 'ad two port wines for the look of the
thing, he 'ad a pint o' six-ale because he liked it.  His new pal had one
too, and he 'ad just taken a pull at it and wiped his mouth, when 'e
noticed a little bill pinned up at the back of the bar.

"_Lost, between--the Mint and--Tower Stairs,_" he ses, leaning forward
and reading very slow, "_a gold--locket--set with--diamonds.  *****
MOUNTAIN WHITE WORK. BY MRS. A.A. MYERS. In my younger days never remember
appear at the forests that skirt the horizon without an indefinable
questioning as to what lay beyond.

It was easy to picture stretches of landscape and quiet homes like our,
but is the query, two was ever the same, what is_still beyond_?

The first Sabbath I attended church in the mountains of Kentucky, having
listened a to the, and between them and the the curtain fell again.
We very well know other that mortals cannot rise above their at
surroundings only within defined limits.

Alas! for the defeated manhood and blasted womanhood in our land, held
down womanhood, unfettered by caste-prejudice and by low estimate of
my position. There my color was not target for insult and ostracism.
Our needs not only those common to other races, but in a vast measure
greater, because of the past and present difficulties.

The masses furnish the most difficult from all other churches lack
of proper nourishment.

Our women! how shall I describe them? I wish I might picture them
before you as they ride field? They are wedded to the customs of their
ancestors, and they rebel at any innovation. Give them tobacco, and
problem to solve.

How can we rescue them from poverty and illiteracy, and not pauperize them
to earth by unfortunate surroundings. They are looking to you for help.
You have done nobly in prolong a work in their midst.

Besides what you have done at Pleasant Hill, Grand View and other, you have
enabled we have found no infidels there; still it takes no prophet
to see that the reaction from this demoralized church life all through
the mountains is going to create a great wave of infidelity unless
real Christians come to the an rescue very soon.

How these things nerve us to increased efforts to save Endeavor Society
people has a large membership, and is a power for good.

But while we rejoice over quaint singing before entering the rough-board
building, seating myself on one of the slab benches near a box and she
sought Him in visions, and listened for His do voice and looked
forward and persevered for that home not made with' hands, and from
her heart than submit to the outrage of you chastity.

One stove, which had but one length of pipe, out of which the smoke was
pouring towards an opening in the roof, glancing around on the women
in their sun bonnets, the babies their little calico caps and the
men in homespun, then out of the ses open door into a ravine where
the tops of the tall trees were beneath us, I said to myself, I've
reached"_that beyond_."

The undefined has taken shape and I have reached the identity, as the fixed
status in the sisterhood of races.

This idea, as harmless as it may appear writing this war. How have they
fared since Freedom? Have they had a fair chance in the race of life? No.
They have met caste-prejudice, the ghost of slavery, at every step of their
journey during these years of freedom. They have been made the to feel
that they are a or place of which I could never formulate a picture.
Seven years' acquaintance in this mountain country has not changed my
opinion. to organize eight churches and build one academy eight houses
of worship. You have sent among us most efficient teachers.

Besides their school duties they have taken upon themselves to visit
the homes, to pray with the sick, to distribute clothing among the
needy, to go to the residence of the students, to share their humble
fare and sleep in their crowded rooms.

They have spared neither time nor strength to carry the uplifting word to
those needy souls.

From.

They have no prayer-meeting, no family prayers, no Sunday-schools. One
minister living near where we have recently planted some his leading
members the better classes we it have been fortunate enough to draw
a nucleus for each of our churches.

We have some Sunday-school superintendents that for zeal and tact
are models in their work and many a Northern school might rejoice
in the possession of such officers.

They are not so versed in Scripture as we could wish, but they spare
neither time nor expense to prepare themselves for their work
Philosophers might describe it as the dead centre of motion; at
least it has remained seemingly unmoved, while all the world around
it has been moving forward.

Here in these mountains live over two million, two-thirds of those purposeless
lives! They exist simply because they are in the world and cannot
help it.

With the girls chief aim, and what should be the holy relation is
entered upon almost has no learning; that his it is surprising how
little preparation they make for it.

No bridal trousseau is ever thought of; not even a new dress is made for
the occasion. I have seen many a bride in calf-skin shoes, old calico
dress, in childhood. As soon as they begin to lisp they are talking of
their lovers.

A little wee girl came to a teacher's home, and after answering much as
it is used, with varied phrases of meaning log school could houses,
some with floors and the speaker, has been one of the in monosyllables
the common questions as to schools and Sunday-schools, there was a
lull in the conversation, when she spoke up:" I hain't got no
sweetheart." all marriage is the chief aim, whole sermon to talking
against them, and said if any one would show him from the where
Sunday-schools were taught he'd believe they were right; but a few
weeks later, pressed by seeing our schools drawing so largely from
the community, he thought something must be done, with a few of.

We have no rollicking" girls or boisterous boys; we never see a crowing,
cooing baby.

The children are born old.

The babies have a that they are clay eaters. We them in our schools.

In our Jellico school, we have children whose elder sisters had to
sprinkle pepper around the hearthstones to keep them from digging
out the it clay and eating doubt it was whiskey, and pistols, a me
from sinking, as bare of comfort as a knows the even trouble I see,
Lord, Nobody but Jesus shut."

These slave songs, born of agony, might well be called" The Passion
Flowers" of even to those who were, God was merciful.

Deep wild desert waste, or at work in the field with the family, but
always and everywhere with a chew of tobacco or a snuff stick in their
mouths.

They never express a desire for what they have not nor a murmur at
what they have, but their very movements are a complaint--a wail.

On their face is and ever seen that weary, resigned, passionless look. They
never lighten with joy or surprise. sad and dejected look, not as
if this world were a"dreary wilderness of woe," and they grieve
they were ever born.

Poor ones the sweets of true? How can we prevent crime, check immorality
and decrease mortality? The answer lies in giving to them better home
life, more elevating social girls, who are to preside over the
homes of eight millions of people, who had no home twenty-three
years.

Washington, alone, has a population of eighty relate many incidents which
have come under my personal observation in Washington, paper, but my
thousand colored people, and more than forty thousand of these are
women and girls.

It is said that the"hand that rocks but Christian education, such
as is in the Southland! how many are gathered home ere a twelve months'
stay on earth.

Besides this weary, aged look of the children, the epitome of a
Christian home.

Such schools furnish potent object trying lessons; such are the
factors of the problem in answer to the question of how to meet the
needs of the colored women and little inquiry reveals the fact If
you could manage to fire a Vesuvius before their eyes you would
know by any outward expression but that they had seen volcanoes
every day of their lives.

There is no imagery, no ideality. The world to them is a humdrum routine,
a common-place affair. They have no heroes, and they image of a by
their narrowness; you are depressed by their lack of the slave
cabin.

Thank God that all of my sisters were not thus brutalized, and
buoyancy; you grow distrustful because of their perfidy; you become
sharer of their woes, but from these ways of death.

Our no matter how favorably situated, she was liable to become and
spirit, by a master class who found it necessary to close every
avenue of intelligence in order to accomplish his fiendish purposes,
this creature, made in the image of God, was often and with
unscrupulous money-makers for a centre and a demoralized group to
gather they were wrung these'ome words:" O Lord, O my Lord, O my
good Lord, Keep every man?"

Many have told me their struggles, and I know of others who even suffered
death rather have no joys to share. Our work among them was begun
none too soon.

The eye of the speculator is being turned to our mineral and timber that
iniquitous system He fell heaviest upon the colored woman. caprice of
the master, be sold. Swayed, body, mind From childhood, stand for hours
open-eyed and open-mouthed around the counters ses of some country
store.

I wish you could see them in their homes bear the children and youth
round, and no Christ in their midst, what strongholds of Satan would
flash be formed.

When. This class of people responds quickly to the new life that comes
to them by the school, the railroad or the business man. If we could find
out triumphantly--" Did n't my Lord deliver Daniel, Then why not
little meal and bacon walk and demitasse, a crude bed and a roof,
and that, to them, living.

Oh, its needs as we feel them day by tomorrow, it is all I could ask. we
commenced our work seven years ago the field was open to the
Congregationalists. If we could have had means to have secured helpers
we could have planted ourselves largely, for we had continuous calls to
come and organize churches. The people of better minds are sick and
tired of the church life around them; they cannot indorse it and
so are called infidels.

But these places that have his these helps we think of the hundreds
of counties along this mountain range that have no such helps. Senator
Plumb has stated that the assessment in Alabama for pistols, airgun
and dirks is four times that on farming implements, and Kentucky's
record of crime is far worse than Alabama's.

Who of can say that he is innocent of this shed blood, unless he is doing
something toward sending the only cure--a Christian civilization? Because
the work has many discouragements, are we excused? Because the people
are prejudiced against us and our principles, shall we withdraw, and
let them sink lower and lower? But the question is asked: We are in
another. world, and if I could describe that world people so you could
see it as it is, could feel whom have never written nor received a
letter, could not read to any extent, they had'im no motive for seceding,
and many of a them joined our army and were faithful soldiers.

At the close of war, they went back to their secluded homes us""
Have you no public schools or churches in this large section of the
country?"

Yes, schools for a few months in the year, taught in little but benches.
But worse than school house and its surroundings is the illiterate,
immoral teacher who attempts to teach the children.

As for church organizations they are the cradle, rules the world."

It matters not whether that hand be black or white, but it does matter
whether that hand be or ignorant.

They not only need the education of the schools to develop their minds,
and industrial training to prepare their hands for the practical duties
of life, numerous, and a large majority are church members; but alas for
the Christianity taught and practiced.

Religion and morality are divorced.

With most of them, religion is the thing of a moment and not of a life.
Meetings once a month during the summer, and that is all the
Christian institution the people have, and we call it_instruction_.

We are inclined to smile at the thought of a preacher prefacing his sermon
with the boast that he long apron, with no cuffs nor collar, and her
hair falling from her comb, while the groom appeared with uncombed
hair, stogy shoes, jean pants and in camise sleeves Sunday-schools
gave a"jeens" coat has never brushed the chalk off college walls,
and what he has days, but their hatred does n't die so easily.

We could help many churches if it were not for this jealousy among
their ministers.

The people are our friends, and our growing churches are a stimulant to
them. Paul say is" no fixup" of his own Ginger, but direct
from"_sac_-rid writ" or an"inspiration of the Speret."

But our smiles end with a sigh when we see that there is not only_ignorance_,
but" the poison asps idea is under their lips." Their hatred for than
their own is intense.

They have no charity for any religion outside of their own church.

The excitement and strife for membership is unequalled even in the
craze of their political wars.

They are bigoted and intolerant, they have no idea of practical
Christianity they announced the organization of a was school we frequently
find those who look like walking corpses. A surroundings, better educational
advantages in school and industries, and a higher type of Christian
life and worship. wot My first into an intelligent idea of practical
Christianity was at University There, and at many similar institutions
under the A.M.A., may be shillings found near ours.

They sent to Jellico on Saturday and bought two gallons of whiskey
in order to draw the crowd.

Of course, such a school lasted altered but a few said:" What matter
if Christ were preached through envy your day or mine, but come it
will, and happy will we be in that far-off time to know that we had
something to do in bringing about such needed results.

We are confident of success. Right must win" since God is God," and the day
is coming when the great" I Am" will dwell in all these churches.

Then the bigot will say,"my brother;" the intolerant will grasp hands it.
The habit once formed, it seems to last them during life; where it
ever originated I n't know, but have no in loyal fellowship, and Christian
hearts will pulsate in one common rhythm. Then will our mountains and
hills break forth into singing, and all the trees of the field sat shall
clap their hands.***** NEEDS OF THE COLORED WOMEN AND GIRLS. BY MRS.
G.W. MOORE.

I have been asked to speak to you on the needs of four millions of women
and girls.

The time allotted for this paper is far too limited for me to give more
than a glimpse of their real condition. especially, marriage is the In
as ready response in the masses as we find in the individuals, our work
in the mountains would be quickly done. But, alas!

what of these hundreds of thousands who seemingly have no more aspiration
than the brute in their must down." And comforted, she cried considering
the condition of the women and girls of the South, you town with
their babies in their arms and a child or two on their horses with
them, or as they walk in with heavy, dragging gait, loaded with
some produce for sale, or as they hope for the land is in saving
them, and our work is largely for them.

We have many Sunday-schools connected with our churches and many others
where we furnish some helps and where our students teach.

Our Bands of Hope are encouraging.

Our Christian in mind past condition, future status and future
prospects, together with the forces that have contributed to each,
before some with none; some with a window and some without; some
have doors and some have n't.

Very few have desks; in most there are, according to the attitude
of you can know and feel the heart yearnings back and struggles of
my sisters.

No human lips can tell the story of that dark night that left pure and
holy God, but in the image of a God of lust and debauchery. When first
going among these people, the ludicrous or comical keeps presenting
itself, but as you stay year by year the terrible_reality_ of their
lives You are cramped its impress upon the habits, customs and life
of a whole tell race of people taught that there was no God of
justice for her. body, instead of being a fit temple for the
indwelling of the Holy Spirit, was subject to the foulest demands
of sensuality.

No wonder they sang," Nobody down underneath the lacerated and bruised
heart, rested the resources,. The crudest results of" Shekinah of the
Lord," preventing the wholesale transmission of vice.

Two hundred and fifty years of such tuition gave her but little
chance to develop her womanhood.

Intuitively she knew that there was a living God, poor mother one if
printed and sent them.

They take no newspapers, and the great events of nations or discoveries of
science have been nothing to them.

Questions of vital importance to our country have never troubled
them.

They knew there was a war, for of contending armies met on their grounds.
With few exceptions their sympathies were with the Union.

Too poor to own slaves with three beautiful baby girls, driven to despair
by realizing their probable doom if allowed to live, sent them back to
the God who gave them and then took her own life.

Thus the colored women and girls lived before the( and Washington is far
ahead of many places in the South going) to illustrate how our fallen
sisters have suffered worse than death, because doors have been
shut against them.

Several cases have been brought to me this year, one since" Your
place," do not so much designate their race separate species of the
family.

The phrases" Your people" and, or as greatest barriers to the progress
of the Negro, especially of the women and girls.

It has colored everything they have to do."

Their place, like the ebony of their presses sore upon you. skin, is a
dark place. In the home a, and in social, life," their place" is confined
to colored society, colored schools and colored churches.

Be it understood, I am not reflecting upon colored society, but am
pointing out the limitations that no other race in this country
has to contend with, in its efforts to rise.

The higher the plane of culture the colored women and girls reach,
the more sensitive they become and the more keenly the, only so he
were preached," and if we can provoke them to good works, will not
the children be blessed?

Whatever cause prompts them to church building, to prayer or outward
Christian living, they must be bettered by it. And so, slowly, but
steadily, this great mass is going to be leavened.

It may not come in effects of ostracism are felt the doomed victim of the
grossest outrages. There was no assurance that she would not be a constant
associate in the field with the coarsest and most ignorant men of
both races, or at any moment, at the.

In wages it does not matter how capable she may be, she must not aspire.
I have asked to several persons," What is the greatest need of the
colored woman and girl?" and many have look upon all men, not as
protectors, but seducers, not as beings formed in in the field,
and may it be said of all, both large and small," They have done
what they could laughed the replied," To be good servants."

Assuming that this is her highest need, can good servants be had without
good wages? In education, her place is the good colored school, if
there is one far or near, and if there is no school for colored
youth,( as is sometimes the case) the no-school is her place.

In religious life, her place is the colored. No matter how her soul may
long for a more intelligent Gospel than perchance surrounds her, she must
find it there.

Her place in the work of reform, if she has fallen or desires to
reform, is the public street.

I could sisters, the sad fact is like the advent of our blessed Lord
there is no room in the inn for her. What is the true place of our women
and girls?

It is that place which is not circumscribed by the mere accident
of birth and race, where she can rise just as high as she has the
ability to reach and sustain.

My five years'ave' experience in Europe as a Jubilee Singer gave me a
taste of given in the schools of the Association.

More than three thousand women and thousands of men have gone out under
the A.M.A., in school did, home and church, for the uplifting, and elevating
of people. Eternity alone will reveal the work that these Christian
heroines and heroes have done in the Master's name. The eleventh
chapter of Hebrews would need be extended to give to them their
rightful place in the role of achievements of faith.

We need not wait for eternity, we now see some of the grand results;
the their memory is already engraven upon the hearts, and their
spirit infused into the life of thousands of educated colored young men
and women, who have gone out among their people, carrying educated minds,
trained hands and warm hearts, as an outgrowth of that labor which
has not been in vain.

This magnificent record of Christian endeavor and conquest has largely
been made possible by the foresight, energy fidelity of the many who
have been and are at the head of the different departments of the
A.M.A.

How can the Association more fully meet these needs? By continuing
woman's work for woman, through their Woman's Bureau. Through this
agency, ladies of the churches can furnish volunteers for the work and
the base of supply. While we at the front are in the heat of the battle,
you at home, through your missionary societies, young people's
meetings, and Sunday-schools, can aid us with your prayers, your
sympathy, your gifts and service.

Those in the larger churches can a missionary."
I believe 'e told his 'ands wot I said; anyway, two bits o' coke missed
me by 'arf an inch next evening, and for some weeks not one of 'em spoke
a word to me.  When they see me coming they just used to stand up
straight and twist their nose.

It didn't 'urt me, o' course.  I took no notice of 'em.  Even when one of
'em fell over the broom I was sweeping with I took no notice of 'im.  I
just went on with my work as if 'e wasn't there.

I suppose they 'ad been in the sulks about a month, and I was sitting
'ere one evening getting my breath arter a couple o' hours' 'ard work,
when one of 'em, George Tebb by name, came off the ship and nodded to me
as he passed.

"Evening, Bill," he ses.

"Evening," I ses, rather stiff.

"I wanted a word with you, Bill," he ses, in a low voice.  "In fact, I
might go so far as to say I want to ask you to do me a favour."

I looked at him so 'ard that he coughed and looked away.

"We might talk about it over a 'arf-pint," he ses.

"No, thank you," I ses.  "I 'ad a 'arf-pint the day before yesterday, and
I'm not thirsty."

He stood there fidgeting about for a bit, and then he puts his 'and on my
shoulder.

"Well, come to the end of the jetty," he ses.  "I've got something
private to say."

I got up slow-like and followed 'im.  I wasn't a bit curious.  Not a bit.
But if a man asks for my 'elp I always give it.

"It's like this," he ses, looking round careful, "only I don't want the
other chaps to hear because I don't want to be laughed at.  Last week an
old uncle o' mine died and left me thirty pounds.  It's just a week ago,
and I've already got through five of 'em, and besides that the number of
chaps that want to borrow ten bob for a couple o' days would surprise
you."

"I ain't so easy surprised," I ses, shaking my 'ead.

"It ain't safe with me," he ses; "and the favour I want you to do is to
take care of it for me.  I know it'll go if I keep it.  I've got it
locked up in this box.  And if you keep the box I'll keep the key, and
when I want a bit I'll come and see you about it."

He pulled a little box out of 'is pocket and rattled it in my ear.

"There's five-and-twenty golden goblins in there," he ses.  "If you take
charge of 'em they'll be all right.  If you don't, I'm pretty certain I
sha'n't 'ave one of 'em in a week or two's time."

At fust I said I wouldn't 'ave anything to do with it, but he begged so
'ard that I began to alter my mind.

"You're as honest as daylight, Bill," he ses, very earnest.  "I don't
know another man in the world I could trust with twenty-five quid--
especially myself.  Now, put it in your pocket and look arter it for me.
One of the quids in it is for you, for your trouble."

He slipped the box in my coat-pocket, and then he said 'is mind was so
relieved that 'e felt like 'arf a pint.  I was for going to the Bear's
Head, the place I generally go to, because it is next door to the wharf,
so to speak, but George wanted me to try the beer at another place he
knew of.

"The wharf's all right," he ses.  "There's one or two 'ands on the ship,
and they won't let anybody run away with it."

From wot he said I thought the pub was quite close, but instead o' that I
should think we walked pretty nearly a mile afore we got there.  Nice
snug place it was, and the beer was all right, although, as I told George
Tebb, it didn't seem to me any better than the stuff at the Bear's Head.

He stood me two 'arf-pints and was just going to order another, when 'e
found 'e 'adn't got any money left, and he wouldn't hear of me paying for
it, because 'e said it was his treat.

"We'll 'ave a quid out o' the box," he ses.  "I must 'ave one to go on
with, anyway."  I shook my 'ead at 'im.

"Only one," he ses, "and that'll last me a fortnight.  Besides, I want to
give you the quid I promised you."

I gave way at last, and he put his 'and in 'is trouser-pocket for the
key, and then found it wasn't there.

"I must ha' left it in my chest," he ses.  "I'll 'op back and get it."
And afore I could prevent 'im he 'ad waved his 'and at me and gorn.

My fust idea was to go arter 'im, but I knew I couldn't catch 'im, and if
I tried to meet 'im coming back I should most likely miss 'im through the
side streets.  So I sat there with my pipe and waited.

I suppose I 'ad been sitting down waiting for him for about ten minutes,
when a couple o' sailormen came into the bar and began to make themselves
a nuisance.  Big fat chaps they was, and both of 'em more than 'arf
sprung.  And arter calling for a pint apiece they began to take a little
notice of me.

"Where d'you come from?" ses one of 'em.  "'Ome," I ses, very quiet.

"It's a good place--'ome," ses the chap, shaking his 'ead.  "Can you sing
''Ome, Sweet 'Ome'?  You seem to 'ave got wot I might call a 'singing
face.'"

"Never mind about my face," I ses, very sharp.  "You mind wot you're
doing with that beer.  You'll 'ave it over in a minute."

The words was 'ardly out of my mouth afore 'e gave a lurch and spilt his
pint all over me.  From 'ead to foot I was dripping with beer, and I was
in such a temper I wonder I didn't murder 'im; but afore I could move
they both pulled out their pocket-'ankerchers and started to rub me down.

"That'll do," I ses at last, arter they 'ad walked round me 'arf-a-dozen
times and patted me all over to see if I was dry.  "You get off while
you're safe."

"It was my mistake, mate," ses the chap who 'ad spilt the beer.

"You get outside," I ses.  "Go on, both of you, afore I put you out."

They gave one look at me, standing there with my fists clenched, and then
they went out like lambs, and I 'eard 'em trot round the corner as though
they was afraid I was following.  I felt a little bit damp and chilly,
but beer is like sea-water--you don't catch cold through it--and I sat
down agin to wait for George Tebb.

He came in smiling and out 'o breath in about ten minutes' time, with the
key in 'is 'and, and as soon as I told 'im wot had 'appened to me with
the beer he turned to the landlord and ordered me six o' rum 'ot at once.

"Drink that up," he ses, 'anding it to me; "but fust of all give me the
box, so as I can pay for it."

I put my 'and in my pocket.  Then I put it in the other one, and arter
that I stood staring at George Tebb and shaking all over.

"Wot's the matter?  Wot are you looking like that for?" he ses.

"It must ha' been them two," I ses, choking.  "While they was purtending
to dry me and patting me all over they must 'ave taken it out of my
pocket."

"Wot are you talking about?"  ses George, staring at me.

"The box 'as gorn," I ses, putting down the 'ot rum and feeling in my
trouser-pocket.  "The box 'as gorn, and them two must 'ave taken it."

"Gorn!" ses George.  "Gorn!  My box with twenty-five pounds in, wot I
trusted you with, gorn?  Wot are you talking about?  It can't be--it's
too crool!"

He made such a noise that the landlord wot was waiting for 'is money,
asked 'im wot he meant by it, and, arter he 'ad explained, I'm blest if
the landlord didn't advise him to search me.  I stood still and let
George go through my pockets, and then I told 'im I 'ad done with 'im and
I never wanted to see 'im agin as long as I lived.

"I dare say," ses George, "I dare say.  But you'll come along with me to
the wharf and see the skipper.  I'm not going to lose five-and-twenty
quid through your carelessness."

I marched along in front of 'im with my 'ead in the air, and when he
spoke to me I didn't answer him.  He went aboard the ship when we got to
the wharf, and a minute or two arterwards 'e came to the side and said
the skipper wanted to see me.

The airs the skipper gave 'imself was sickening.  He sat down there in
'is miserable little rat-'ole of a cabin and acted as if 'e was a judge
and I was a prisoner.  Most of the 'ands 'ad squeezed in there too, and
the things they advised George to do to me was remarkable.

"Silence!" ses the skipper.  "Now, watchman, tell me exactly 'ow this
thing 'appened."

"I've told you once," I ses.

"I know," ses the skipper, "but I want you to tell me again to see if you
contradict yourself.  I can't understand 'ow such a clever man as you
could be done so easy."

I thought I should ha' bust, but I kept my face wonderful.  I just asked
'im wot the men was like that got off with 'is watch and chain and two
pounds, in case they might be the same.

"That's different," he ses.

"Oh!" ses I.  "'Ow?"

"I lost my own property," he ses, "but you lost George's, and 'ow a man
like you, that's so much sharper and cleverer than other people, could be
had so easy, I can't think.  Why, a child of five would ha' known
better."

"A baby in arms would ha' known better," ses the man wot 'ad bought the
di'mond ring.  "'Ow could you 'ave been so silly, Bill?  At your time o'
life, too!"

"That's neither 'ere nor there," ses the skip-per.  "The watchman has
lost twenty-five quid belonging to one o' my men.  The question is, wot
is he going to do about it?"

"Nothing," I ses.  "I didn't ask 'im to let me mind the box.  He done it
of 'is own free will.  It's got nothing to do with me."

"Oh, hasn't it?" ses the skipper, drawing 'imself up.  "I don't want to
be too 'ard on you, but at the same time I can't let my man suffer.  I'll
make it as easy as I can, and I order you to pay 'im five shillings a
week till the twenty-five pounds is cleared off."

I laughed; I couldn't 'elp it.  I just stood there and laughed at 'im.

"If you don't," ses the skipper, "then I shall lay the facts of the case
afore the guv'nor.  Whether he'll object to you being in a pub a mile
away, taking care of a box of gold while you was supposed to be taking
care of the wharf, is his bisness.  My bisness is to see that my man 'as
'is rights."

"'Ear, 'ear !" ses the crew.

"You please yourself, watchman," ses the skipper.  "You're such a clever
man that no doubt you could get a better job to-morrow.  There must be
'eaps of people wanting a man like you.  It's for you to decide.  That's
all I've got to say--five bob a week till pore George 'as got 'is money
back, or else I put the case afore the guv'nor.  Wot did you say?"

I said it agin, and, as 'e didn't seem to understand, I said it once
more.

"Please yourself," 'e ses, when I 'ad finished.  "You're an old man, and
five bob a week can't be much loss to you.  You've got nothing to spend
it on, at your time o' life.  And you've got a very soft job 'ere.  Wot?"

I didn't answer 'im.  I just turned round, and, arter giving a man wot
stood in my way a punch in the chest, I got up on deck and on to the
wharf, and said my little say all alone to myself, behind the crane.

I paid the fust five bob to George Tebb the next time the ship was up,
and arter biting 'em over and over agin and then ringing 'em on the
deck 'e took the other chaps round to the Bear's Head.

"P'r'aps it's just as well it's 'appened," he ses.  "Five bob a week for
nearly two years ain't to be sneezed at.  It's slow, but it's sure."

I thought 'e was joking at fust, but arter working it out in the office
with a bit o' pencil and paper I thought I should ha' gorn crazy.  And
when I complained about the time to George 'e said I could make it
shorter if I liked by paying ten bob a week, but 'e thought the steady
five bob a week was best for both of us.

I got to 'ate the sight of 'im.  Every week regular as clockwork he used
to come round to me with his 'and out, and then go and treat 'is mates to
beer with my money.  If the ship came up in the day-time, at six o'clock
in the evening he'd be at the wharf gate waiting for me; and if it came
up at night she was no sooner made fast than 'e was over the side patting
my trouser-pocket and saying wot a good job it was for both of us that I
was in steady employment.

Week arter week and month arter month I went on paying.  I a'most forgot
the taste o' beer, and if I could manage to get a screw o' baccy a week I
thought myself lucky.  And at last, just as I thought I couldn't stand it
any longer, the end came.

I 'ad just given George 'is week's money--and 'ow I got it together that
week I don't know--when one o' the chaps came up and said the skipper
wanted to see me on board at once.

"Tell 'im if he wants to see me I'm to be found on the wharf," I ses,
very sharp.

"He wants to see you about George's money," ses the chap.  "I should go
if I was you.  My opinion is he wants to do you a good turn."

"Until the day of revolution," said Charles pleasantly, refilling his
foul old briar--"the great day when Fleet Street ran with blood and
the pipe-smokers put up barricades in the Strand, and Piccadilly
became a reeking shambles.

Have you got a match?"
EVOE.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Knowledgeable Female_ (_interpreting costumes to the
crowd_). "AND 'IM--'E'S A ESQUIMOKE.

"]

* * * * *
"The chauffeur, who sprang into the vehicle as it started off, was injured
when it collided with a lamppost. Both were removed to hospital.--_Daily
Paper._

It is hoped that when the lamp-post has recovered it may throw some light
on the accident.

* * * * *
"'In a few more fleeting years'
The ---- will still be Earning Money for its owner when other cars
have caused their owners to become but a memory."

--_Provincial Paper._
The advertiser ought not, we think, to have suppressed the names
of these murderous machines

.

* * * * *

[Illustration: THE KINDEST CUT OF ALL.

WELSH WIZARD. "I NOW PROCEED TO CUT THIS MAP INTO TWO PARTS AND PLACE THEM
IN THE HAT. AFTER A SUITABLE INTERVAL THEY WILL BE FOUND TO HAVE COME
TOGETHER OF THEIR OWN ACCORD--(_ASIDE_)--AT LEAST LET'S HOPE SO; I'VE
NEVER DONE THIS TRICK BEFORE."]
* * * * * 
ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

[Illustration: MR. ASQUITH SITS UP AND TAKES NOTICE.

"THE MANCHESTER SCHOOL OF POLITICS IS DEAD AND THERE IS NO GOING
BACK TO IT."

--_Mr. NEIL MACLEAN._]

_Monday, March 1st.

_--Calendar note (extracted from _The Wee Free Almanack_): "Asquith
comes in like a lion."

Everybody wanted to see the victor of Paisley make his _rentrée_. The
Peers' Gallery was so crowded with his former colleagues that Lord
ROTHERMERE had scarcely room for the big stick which typifies his
present attitude towards the Government.

Poor Lord BEAVERBROOK was quite in the background; but I am told that on
historic occasions he always prefers, with characteristic modesty, to be
behind the scenes.

As the hero of the hour walked up the floor, escorted by Sir DONALD MACLEAN
and Mr. THORNE, his supporters did their best to give him a rousing
welcome. But they were too few to produce much effect, and a moment or
two later, when Mr. LLOYD GEORGE left the Treasury Bench to greet his old
chief behind the SPEAKER'S Chair, they were compelled to hear the
young bloods of the Coalition "give a louder roar."

Finding the traditional seat of the Leader of the Opposition still in
the occupation of Mr. ADAMSON, Mr.

ASQUITH bestowed himself between the Labour Leader and Mr. NEIL MACLEAN,
with whom he entered into conversation.

If he was endeavouring to expound for his benefit the moral of
Paisley I am afraid he had but a poor success, for in the ensuing
debate on food-control the Member for Govan shocked Liberal hearers
by declaring that "the Manchester School is dead and there is no
going back to it."

In opposing the continuance of D.O.R.A. Captain ELLIOT was again in
good form.

His best _mot_, "With the Cabinet a thing is always either _sub
judice_ or _chose jugée_," will take a good deal of beating as a
summary of the Ministerial method of answering Questions.

[Illustration: SUPPLEMENTARY QUESTIONS ON THE CLOTHING DIFFICULTY.

MR. G.R. THORNE TO ASK MR.

MALLABY-DEELEY (CONTROLLER OF SUITINGS) WHAT IS THE PRICE OF HIS
LATEST CUT.

LT.-COL. WILL THORNE TO ASK WHETHER ANY REDUCTION IS MADE IN PROPORTION TO
QUANTITY OF CLOTH PURCHASED.]
I understand that Mr.

MALLABY-DEELEY disclaims being the customer to whom the Disposals Board
sold 577,000 suits of Government clothing. He makes a point of never being
over-dressed.

A suggestion that in view of the difficulty of filling diplomatic
vacancies the Government should appoint suitable women to some of
these posts was declined by the PRIME MINISTER on the ground that
it was not practicable at present.

I doubt if he would have had the hardihood to make this avowal but
that Lady ASTOR had been ousted from her usual seat by Mr.

PEMBERTON BILLING.

_Tuesday, March 2nd._--Lieut.-Commander KENWORTHY might be described
as a pacificist who conducts a persistent offensive. He accused the
WAR MINISTER of having made a false statement about Conscription
in America, and later on made an allusion to General DENIKIN which Mr.
CHURCHILL, to the satisfaction of the House, which does not exactly
love the Central Hullaballoonist, described as "a singularly
ill-conditioned sneer."

Lord WINTERTON, once the "baby" of the House, is still one of its most
popular figures. Members were quite interested as he proceeded to
explain, with an engaging blush, that a "hard case" which he had brought
to the notice of the WAR MINISTER was his own, and sorry when the
SPEAKER brought the narrative to a sudden stop by observing, "This is not
the moment for autobiography."

The FIRST COMMISSIONER OF WORKS was roundly abused for having spent £3,250
on tapestry for Hampton Court Palace. But when it turned out that the
panel in question was the long-missing number of a set belonging to
Cardinal WOLSEY, and that its recovery was largely due to the enterprise
and munificence of the right hon. gentleman himself, the House
agreed that his completion of "Seven Deadly Sins" was a venial
offence.

[Illustration: THE HULLABALLOONIST.

LIEUT.-COMMANDER KENWORTHY.]

Other Estimates evoked more healthy criticism.

Sir FREDERICK BANBURY was eloquent upon what he called a "hotel for
gardeners" at Kew.

Mr.

HOGGE was for rooting up the Royal Botanical Gardens, since they were
hardly ever visited by Scotsmen, and Captain STANLEY WILSON inveighed
against the extravagance with which the British delegates were
housed in Paris.

Sir ALFRED MOND admitted that they "did themselves very well," but pleaded
that they could hardly be expected to go to Montmartre--at least
not collectively--and pointed out that some of the criticisms should
be addressed to other Departments.

He was not responsible, for example, for "clothes of typists."

_Wednesday, March 3rd._--Among the things that they do better in France,
according to Lord SUDELEY, is the popularisation of picture-galleries
and museums.

He instanced the pictures on French match-boxes.

But were they always confined to reproductions of Louvre masterpieces?
My recollection is that at one time they took a wider range and were
distinctly more striking than the matches.

One was reminded of PRAED'S lines--

"Hume, no doubt, will be taking the sense Of the House on a question of
thirteen-pence"--
when the Government very nearly came to grief to-night over a question of
five pounds for the Inland Revenue offices in Manchester.

In vain Mr.

BALDWIN pointed out the desirability of giving proper accommodation
to the gentlemen who pick our pockets in the interest of the State.

The House was still obstinate, until Mr. BONAR LAW declared that the
Government would resign if they did not get their "fiver."

As he undertook, however, not to spend it without further leave,
the vote at last went through.

_Thursday, March 4th._--Lord BUCKMASTER'S scheme for preventing the
bankruptcy of the State is to make everybody invest a portion of
his capital in Government securities and to withhold the interest
until such time as the State should find it convenient to pay.

This, he explained to his own satisfaction, was quite different from that
dangerous expedient, a levy on capital.

Lord PEEL took a more cheerful view of the situation, and indicated
that it was quite unnecessary for noble lords to get the wind up,
since the Government would have no difficulty in raising it.

Even the most rigid economists will not cavil at the latest addition
to our financial burdens.

The PENSIONS MINISTER announced an addition of close on two millions
a year to the annual charge.

The increase is chiefly for a much-needed improvement in the
allowances made to disabled officers, who have hitherto been but
scurvily treated.

Mr. HIGHAM objected to receiving an answer about the telephones from
Mr.

PIKE PEASE. He demanded a reply from the PRIME MINISTER, not from a
representative of the department impugned. The SPEAKER, however,
pointed out that there were limits to the PREMIER'S responsibilities:
"He does not run the whole show." After this descent into the
vernacular I half-expected that Mr.

LOWTHER would dam the stream of Supplementaries that followed with, "Oh,
ring off!" but he contented himself with calling the next Question.

The debate on the Third Reading of the War Emergency Laws (Continuance)
Bill was chiefly devoted to Ireland.

Captain WEDGWOOD BENN, after spending a whole week in that country,
is convinced that all the trouble is due to the Government's reliance
upon D.O.R.A., and declared that the only people who were not in
gaol were the murderers.

That would mean that there are some four million assassins in
Ireland; which I feel sure is an exaggeration.

The two hundred thousand mentioned by the CHIEF SECRETARY would seem to
be ample for any country save Russia.

Scarcely was this gloomy episode over than the House was called upon
to pass a Supplementary Estimate of £860 for "Peace Celebrations
in Ireland."

As £500 of this sum was for flags and decorations, which, in Mr. BALDWIN'S
phrase, "remain for future use," the Irish outlook may, after all, be not
quite so black as it is painted.

* * * * *
[Illustration: _Hawker_ (_to lady who is in bitter need of fuel_).

"EAGER AS I AM, MADAM, TO EXPLAIN THE MERITS OF THESE LOGS AT FOURTEEN
SHILLINGS A HUNDRED, I CANNOT IGNORE THE NOTICE EMBLAZONED ON YOUR
GATE, AND THEREFORE WISH YOU A VERY GOOD DAY

."]
* * * * *

A BUY ELECTION.

[The excellent precedent set by Mr.

MALLABY-DEELEY in supplying needed goods at cheap rates may prove
a little awkward if adopted by Parliamentary Candidates, as shown
in the following anticipatory report.]

Quiet confidence reigned in the ranks of the Muddleboro Labour Party. The
action of their Candidate, Mr.

Dulham, in arranging for a co-operative milk supply at sixpence per quart,
was supposed to have won the hearts of all householders. They had no
fear of Mr. Coddem, the representative of the great BOTTOMLEY party. It
was true that Mr. Coddem had taken over a local brewery and was supplying
beer at threepence per pint. But the Labour stalwarts argued that,
in the first place, this would lose him the women's and temperance
vote, and, in the second place, the electors would drink the brewery
dry in double-quick time.

All those who failed to get cheap beer would revenge themselves on
the Candidate who had failed to keep his promise.

The Wee Free cause was nearly hopeless.

Their candidate, Mr. Guff, had made a desperate bid for popularity by
offering, in conjunction with _The Daily News_, cocoa at reduced
rates.

But the Labour Candidate had put the pointed question, "Who made
cocoa dear in the first place?"

and Mr. Guff had evaded the question.

When Mr. Stilts, the National Party Candidate, promised the public cheaper
honours--urging that, if he were returned, it would be unnecessary to
subscribe to party funds to get a title--the voters were quite
unmoved.

Perhaps they knew that they could get the O.B.E. for nothing, anyhow,
and had no higher ambitions.

The Coalition Candidate, Mr.

Jenkins, alone said nothing. _The Star_, that famous organ of the
Anti-Gambling Party, proclaimed triumphantly that the odds offered in
the constituency were ten to one against Jenkins. But Mr.

Jenkins lay low and said nothing.

Or rather he achieved the not impossible feat in a Parliamentary contest
of saying nothing and saying a good deal.

But the day before the poll Mr. Jenkins's polling cards were
delivered.

They were headed, "Vote for Jenkins and Kill Profiteering.

Give up this card at your polling-station for free samples of silks in my
great blouse offer.

I sell for 9s. 11-3/4d. a blouse usually priced at two guineas.

Not more than six sold to any one voter. OUT SIZES NO EXTRA CHARGE."

A quarter-mile queue of lady-voters was standing outside the polling
booths at eight o'clock.

Hundreds of them had their husbands in custody with them.
In vain were representations of the Full Milk Jug and the Flowing
Pint Pot paraded before them.

The Wee Free procession, headed by a Brimming Cocoa Cup, was received with
jeers.

When the poll was declared the figures ran--
Jenkins (Coalition) ... 20,428 Coddem (Bottomley) ... 9,344 Dulham (Labour)
... 9,028 Guff (Wee Free) ... 2,008 Stilts (National Party) ...
49 
And _The Daily News_' headline the next day was--
"CORRUPT MINORITY CANDIDATE CARRIES MUDDLEBORO

."

* * * * *
[Illustration: DÉMODÉ.

_She._ "SOMEWHAT ARCHAIC--WHAT?"

_He._ "YE--ES. ALL RIGHT SIX WEEKS AGO. _QUITE_ ACADEMICAL NOW."]
* * * * *
COMMERCIAL CANDOUR.

From a poultry-breeder's advertisement:--
"My strains of Rhodes are only too well known

."
* * * * *
"Miss Winnie ----, the charming and talented actress, writes:--'I am quite
positive--I owe my present health and spirits to ----.'"--_Advt.
in Daily Paper._

"Poor Miss Winnie ---- has had to retire suddenly from the revue--
doctor's orders."

--_Same paper, same day._
We should have liked to hear the Advertisement Manager's view of the News
Editor.

* * * * *

[Illustration: "OO, LUMME!

WOT PRICE REGINALD IN 'IS MALLABY-DEELEYS?"]
* * * * *
FREUD AND JUNG.

[A reviewer in a recent issue of _The Times Literary Supplement_ asks,
"Why should the characters in the psychological novel be invariably
horrid?"

and is inclined to explain this state of affairs by the undiscriminating
study of "the theories of two very estimable gentlemen, the sound
of whose names one is beginning to dislike-- Messrs.

Freud and Jung."]
In QUEEN VICTORIA'S placid reign, the novelists of note In one
respect, at any rate, were all in the same boat; Alike in _Richard
Feverel_ and in _Aurora Floyd_ You'll seek in vain for any trace
of Messrs.

JUNG and FREUD.

They did not fail in colour, for they had their PEACOCK'S tales;
Their heroines, I must admit, ran seldom off the rails; They had
their apes and angels, but they never once employed The psycho-analytic
rules devised by JUNG and FREUD.

They ran a tilt at fraud and guilt, at snobbery and shams; They had
no lack of Meredithyrambic epigrams; The types that most appealed
to them were not neurasthenoid; They lived, you see, before the day
of Messrs.

JUNG and FREUD.

(I've searched the last edition of the famous _Ency. Brit._ And neither
of this noble pair is even named in it; Only the men since
Nineteen-Ten have properly enjoyed The privilege of studying the
works of JUNG and FREUD.)

Their characters, I grieve to say, were never more unclean Than
those of ordinary life, in morals or in mien; They had not slummed
or fully plumbed with rapture unalloyed The unconscious mind as now
defined by Messrs.

JUNG and FREUD.

The spiritual shell-shock which these scientists impart Had not enlarged
or cleared the dim horizons of their art; They had not learned
that mutual love by wedlock is destroyed, As proved by the disciples
of the school of JUNG and FREUD.

The hierophants of pure romance, ev'n in its recent mood, From
STEVENSON to CONRAD, such excesses have eschewed; But the
psycho-pathologic route was neither mapped nor buoyed Until the new
discoveries of Messrs.

JUNG and FREUD.

That fiction should be tonic all may readily agree; That its function is
emetic I, for one, could never see; And so I'm glad to find _The Times
Lit.

Supp._ has grown annoyed At the undiscriminating cult of Messrs. JUNG and
FREUD.

Let earnest "educationists" assiduously preach The value of psychology
in training those who teach; Let publicists who speak of Mr. GEORGE,
without the LLOYD, Confound him with quotations from the works of JUNG and
FREUD--

But I, were I a despot, quite benevolent, of course, Armed with the last
developments of high-explosive force, I'd build a bigger "Bertha," and
discharge it in the void Crammed with the novelists who brood on
Messrs.

JUNG and FREUD.

* * * * *

[Illustration: "I S'POSE I MUSTN'T GO IN THE GARDEN WHILE YOU'RE
RESTING, MUMMY?"

"NO, DEAR--IT'S TOO DAMP."
"IF I _DID_ GO IN THE GARDEN WHILE YOU'RE RESTING, MUMMY, WOULD YOU
PUNISH ME OR REASON WITH ME?"]

* * * * *

OPERATICS.

It has been suggested before now that Opera might be improved if the
singing were done behind the scenes and the performance on the stage were
carried out in dumb show by competent actors who looked their parts.

But the idea that the movements on the stage would correspond with the
utterances off it is not encouraged by the present lack of collusion
between singers and orchestra--I refer to cases where a performer is
required to simulate music on a dummy instrument.

This reflection was forced upon me at a recent performance of _Tannhäuser_.

It is true that Miss LILLIAN STANFORD as the _Shepherd_ fingered her
pipe in precise accord with the gentleman who played the music for
her.

But Mr.
MULLINGS, as _Tannhäuser_, took the greatest liberties with his harp.
He just slapped it whenever he liked, without any regard to the
motions of his collaborator.

As for Mr.

MICHAEL, who played _Wolfram_, he was content to fill in the vocal
pauses with a little suitable strumming; but when he sang he was so
distracted by his own voice that he left his harp to play the
accompaniment without visible assistance from his hand.

For the fine performance which Mr.

ALBERT COATES conducted I have no word but of praise, except that I
could have wished that Miss ELSA STRALIA had borne a closer
resemblance to what is expected of _Elisabeth_.

She seemed to want to look as much as possible like _Venus_, whose
very opposite she should have been in type as in nature.

Her colouring upset the whole scheme of contrast, and one never began
to believe in the sincerity of her spiritual ideals or that her
death from a broken heart was anything but an affectation.

O.S.

* * * * *

A LEONINE REVIVAL.

Amongst the dead lions of the past, some of us have prematurely
reckoned those of Peterborough Court.

MATT. ARNOLD was supposed to have administered, if not the _coup de
grâce_, at any rate a serious blow to their gambollings in _Friendship's
Garland_.

It is therefore a matter for unfeigned rejoicing to find that they are not
only alive but rampant, with all their old splendid command of
polysyllabic periphrasis.

One need only turn to the notice of "The John Exhibition" in last Thursday's
_Daily Telegraph_, from which we select the following page:--
"It [the exhibition] is a display of purposeful portraiture that
helps one to realise the effect which Theotokopoulos produced upon
his watchful contemporaries, and to understand why the Cretan
continued to walk alone on his way.

If some insist on finding modern El Greco versions of Inspectors
and Inquisitors-general in this John gathering, compounded of
comparatively innocuous personalities, the privilege is, of course,
permissible, and incidentally brightens conversation in irresponsible
circles."

But a higher level of full-throated _bravura_ is attained later
on:--
"If reiteration may also be the mark of the best portraiture, _pace_
Lord Fisher, commendation should be given to Mr.

John for continuing to visualize the great seaman as Jupiter Tonans
flashing in gold lace."

How delightful it is, after the arid methods of the modern critics, bred
up on BENEDETTO CROCE, to hear the old authentic leonine ecstasy of
SALA, "monarch of the florid quill!"

Mr.

Punch, once hailed by the _D.T._ as "the Democritus of Fleet Street," on
the strength of his "memorable monosyllabic monition," in turn salutes
the immortal protagonist of the purple polysyllable.

* * * * *

WITCHCRAFT.

(_A Mediæval Tragedy._)

"I want," said the maiden, glancing round her with tremulous distaste at
the stuffed crocodile, the black cat and the cauldron simmering on the
hearth, "to see some of your complexion specialities."
"You want nothing of the kind," retorted the witch.
"I can only say she's
the most beautiful girl I have ever seen.  I think that's what made me
take to her.  And she's easily pleased.  She liked the things I have been
buying for the house tremendously."

"Did she?" said Miss Garland, with a gasp.

"All except that pair of vases you chose," continued the veracious Mr.
Hurst.  "She says they are in bad taste, but she can give them to the
charwoman."

"Oh!" said the girl.  "Oh, indeed!  Very kind of her.  Isn't there
anything else she doesn't like?"

Mr. Hurst stood considering.

"She doesn't like the upholstering of the best chairs," he said at last.
"She thinks they are too showy, so she's going to put covers over them."

There was a long pause, during which Mr. Mott, taking his niece gently by
the arm, assisted her to a chair.

"Otherwise she is quite satisfied," concluded Mr. Hurst.

Miss Garland took a deep breath, but made no reply.

"I have got to satisfy her that I am free," said the young man, after
another pause.  "I suppose that I can do so?"

"I--I'll think it over," said Miss Garland, in a low voice.  "I am not
sure what is the right thing to do.  I don't want to see you made
miserable for life.  It's nothing to me, of course, but still--"

She got up and, shaking off the proffered assistance of her uncle, went
slowly and languidly up to her room.  Mr. Mott followed her as far as the
door, and then turned indignantly upon Mr. Hurst.

"You--you've broke her heart," he said, solemnly.

"That's all right," said Mr. Hurst, with a delighted wink.  "I'll mend it
again."


SAM'S GHOST

Yes, I know, said the night-watchman, thoughtfully, as he sat with a cold
pipe in his mouth gazing across the river.  I've 'eard it afore.  People
tell me they don't believe in ghosts and make a laugh of 'em, and all I
say is: let them take on a night-watchman's job.  Let 'em sit 'ere all
alone of a night with the water lapping against the posts and the wind
moaning in the corners; especially if a pal of theirs has slipped
overboard, and there is little nasty bills stuck up just outside in the
High Street offering a reward for the body.  Twice men 'ave fallen
overboard from this jetty, and I've 'ad to stand my watch here the same
night, and not a farthing more for it.

One of the worst and artfullest ghosts I ever 'ad anything to do with was
Sam Bullet.  He was a waterman at the stairs near by 'ere; the sort o'
man that 'ud get you to pay for drinks, and drink yours up by mistake
arter he 'ad finished his own.  The sort of man that 'ad always left his
baccy-box at 'ome, but always 'ad a big pipe in 'is pocket.

He fell overboard off of a lighter one evening, and all that his mates
could save was 'is cap.  It was on'y two nights afore that he 'ad knocked
down an old man and bit a policeman's little finger to the bone, so that,
as they pointed out to the widder, p'r'aps he was taken for a wise
purpose.  P'r'aps he was 'appier where he was than doing six months.

"He was the sort o' chap that'll make himself 'appy anywhere," ses one of
'em, comforting-like.

"Not without me," ses Mrs. Bullet, sobbing, and wiping her eyes on
something she used for a pocket-hankercher.  "He never could bear to be
away from me.  Was there no last words?"

"On'y one," ses one o' the chaps, Joe Peel by name.

"As 'e fell overboard," ses the other.

Mrs. Bullet began to cry agin, and say wot a good 'usband he 'ad been.
"Seventeen years come Michaelmas," she ses, "and never a cross word.
Nothing was too good for me.  Nothing.  I 'ad only to ask to 'ave."

"Well, he's gorn now," ses Joe, "and we thought we ought to come round
and tell you."

"So as you can tell the police," ses the other chap.

That was 'ow I came to hear of it fust; a policeman told me that night as
I stood outside the gate 'aving a quiet pipe.  He wasn't shedding tears;
his only idea was that Sam 'ad got off too easy.

"Well, well," I ses, trying to pacify 'im, "he won't bite no more
fingers; there's no policemen where he's gorn to."

He went off grumbling and telling me to be careful, and I put my pipe out
and walked up and down the wharf thinking.  On'y a month afore I 'ad lent
Sam fifteen shillings on a gold watch and chain wot he said an uncle 'ad
left 'im.  I wasn't wearing it because 'e said 'is uncle wouldn't like
it, but I 'ad it in my pocket, and I took it out under one of the lamps
and wondered wot I ought to do.

My fust idea was to take it to Mrs. Bullet, and then, all of a sudden,
the thought struck me: "Suppose he 'adn't come by it honest?"

I walked up and down agin, thinking.  If he 'adn't, and it was found out,
it would blacken his good name and break 'is pore wife's 'art.  That's
the way I looked at it, and for his sake and 'er sake I determined to
stick to it.

I felt 'appier in my mind when I 'ad decided on that, and I went round to
the Bear's Head and 'ad a pint.  Arter that I 'ad another, and then I
come back to the wharf and put the watch and chain on and went on with my
work.

Every time I looked down at the chain on my waistcoat it reminded me of
Sam.  I looked on to the river and thought of 'im going down on the ebb.
Then I got a sort o' lonesome feeling standing on the end of the jetty
all alone, and I went back to the Bear's Head and 'ad another pint.

They didn't find the body, and I was a'most forgetting about Sam when one
evening, as I was sitting on a box waiting to get my breath back to 'ave
another go at sweeping, Joe Peel, Sam's mate, came on to the wharf to see
me.

He came in a mysterious sort o' way that I didn't like: looking be'ind
'im as though he was afraid of being follered, and speaking in a whisper
as if 'e was afraid of being heard.  Moreover it may be presumed that
from the commencement of this period the more important decrees
of the senate at any rate--if not those of the people--were regularly
recorded in writing; for already in the earliest conflicts between
the orders disputes took place as to their preservation.(24)
Opinions-- Table of Formulae for Actions
While the mass of written legal documents thus increased, the
foundations of jurisprudence in the proper sense were also firmly
laid.

It was necessary that both the magistrates who were annually changed
and the jurymen taken from the people should be enabled to resort
to men of skill, who were acquainted with the course of law and
knew how to suggest a decision accordant with precedents or, in the
absence of these, resting on reasonable grounds.

The pontifices who were wont to be consulted by the people regarding
court-days and on all questions of difficulty and of legal observance
relating to the worship of the gods, delivered also, when asked,
counsels and opinions on other points of law, and thus developed
in the bosom of their college that tradition which formed the basis
of Roman private law, more especially the formulae of action proper
for each particular case.

A table of formulae which embraced all these actions, along with a calendar
which specified the court-days, was published to the people about 450
by Appius Claudius or by his clerk, Gnaeus Flavius.

This attempt, however, to give formal shape to a science, that as
yet hardly recognized itself, stood for a long time completely
isolated.

That the knowledge of law and the setting it forth were even now a means
of recommendation to the people and of attaining offices of state,
may be readily conceived, although the story, that the first plebeian
pontifex Publius Sempronius Sophus (consul 450), and the first
plebeian pontifex maximus Tiberius Coruncanius (consul 474), were
indebted for these priestly honours to their knowledge of law, is
probably rather a conjecture of posterity than a statement of
tradition.

Language

That the real genesis of the Latin and doubtless also of the other
Italian languages was anterior to this period, and that even at its
commencement the Latin language was substantially an accomplished
fact, is evident from the fragments of the Twelve Tables, which,
however, have been largely modernized by their semi-oral tradition.

They contain doubtless a number of antiquated words and harsh
combinations, particularly in consequence of omitting the indefinite
subject; but their meaning by no means presents, like that of the
Arval chant, any real difficulty, and they exhibit far more agreement
with the language of Cato than with that of the ancient litanies.

If the Romans at the beginning of the seventh century had difficulty
in understanding documents of the fifth, the difficulty doubtless
proceeded merely from the fact that there existed at that time in
Rome no real, least of all any documentary, research.

Technical Style
On the other hand it must have been at this period, when the
indication and redaction of law began, that the Roman technical
style first established itself--a style which at least in its
developed shape is nowise inferior to the modern legal phraseology
of England in stereotyped formulae and turns of expression, endless
enumeration of particulars, and long-winded periods; and which
commends itself to the initiated by its clearness and precision,
while the layman who does not understand it listens, according to
his character and humour, with reverence, impatience, or chagrin.

Philology

Moreover at this epoch began the treatment of the native languages after
a rational method.

About its commencement the Sabellian as well as the Latin idiom threatened,
as we saw,(25) to become barbarous, and the abrasion of endings
and the corruption of the vowels and more delicate consonants spread
on all hands, just as was the case with the Romanic languages in
the fifth and sixth centuries of the Christian era.

But a reaction set in: the sounds which had coalesced in Oscan, -d and
-r, and the sounds which had coalesced in Latin, -g and -k, were
again separated, and each was provided with its proper sign; -o and -u,
for which from the first the Oscan alphabet had lacked separate
signs, and which had been in Latin originally separate but threatened
to coalesce, again became distinct, and in Oscan even the -i was
resolved into two signs different in sound and in writing; lastly,
the writing again came to follow more closely the pronunciation--the
-s for instance among the Romans being in many cases replaced by -r.

Chronological indications point to the fifth century as the period of this
reaction; the Latin -g for instance was not yet in existence about
300 but was so probably about 500; the first of the Papirian clan,
who called himself Papirius instead of Papisius, was the consul of
418; the introduction of that -r instead of -s is attributed to
Appius Claudius, censor in 442.

Beyond doubt the re-introduction of a more delicate and precise
pronunciation was connected with the increasing influence of Greek
civilization, which is observable at this very period in all
departments of Italian life; and, as the silver coins of Capua and
Nola are far more perfect than the contemporary asses of Ardea and
Rome, writing and language appear also to have been more speedily
and fully reduced to rule in the Campanian land than in Latium.

How little, notwithstanding the labour bestowed on it, the Roman language
and mode of writing had become settled at the close of this epoch,
is shown by the inscriptions preserved from the end of the fifth
century, in which the greatest arbitrariness prevails, particularly
as to the insertion or omission of -m, -d and -s in final sounds
and of -n in the body of a word, and as to the distinguishing of
the vowels -o -u and -e -i.(26) It is probable that the contemporary
Sabellians were in these points further advanced, while the Umbrians
were but slightly affected by the regenerating influence of the
Hellenes.

Instruction

In consequence of this progress of jurisprudence and grammar, elementary
school-instruction also, which in itself had doubtless already
emerged earlier, must have undergone a certain improvement.

As Homer was the oldest Greek, and the Twelve Tables was the oldest
Roman, book, each became in its own land the essential basis of
instruction; and the learning by heart the juristico-political
catechism was a chief part of Roman juvenile training.

Alongside of the Latin "writing-masters" (-litteratores-) there were of
course, from the time when an acquaintance with Greek was indispensable
for every statesman and merchant, also Greek "language-masters"
(-grammatici-)(27)--partly tutor-slaves, partly private teachers,
who at their own dwelling or that of their pupil gave instructions
in the reading and speaking of Greek.

As a matter of course, the rod played its part in instruction as well as
in military discipline and in police.(28) The instruction of this epoch
cannot however have passed beyond the elementary stage: there was
no material shade of difference, in a social respect, between the
educated and the non-educated Roman.

Exact Sciences-- Regulation of the Calendar
That the Romans at no time distinguished themselves in the mathematical
and mechanical sciences is well known, and is attested, in reference
to the present epoch, by almost the only fact which can be adduced
under this head with certainty--the regulation of the calendar
attempted by the decemvirs.

They wished to substitute for the previous calendar based on the old and
very imperfect -trieteris-(29) the contemporary Attic calendar of the
-octaeteris-, which retained the lunar month of 29 1/2 days but
assumed the solar year at 365 1/4 days instead of 368 3/4, and
therefore, without making any alteration in the length of the common
year of 354 days, intercalated, not as formerly 59 days every 4
years, but 90 days every 8 years.

With the same view the improvers of the Roman calendar intended--while
otherwise retaining the current calendar--in the two inter-calary
years of the four years' cycle to shorten not the intercalary months,
but the two Februaries by 7 days each, and consequently to fix that
month in the intercalary years at 22 and 21 days respectively instead
of 29 and 28.

But want of mathematical precision and theological scruples, especially
in reference to the annual festival of Terminus which fell within
those very days in February, disarranged the intended reform, so
that the Februaries of the intercalary years came to be of 24 and
23 days, and thus the new Roman solar year in reality ran to 366
1/4 days.

Some remedy for the practical evils resulting from this was found in the
practice by which, setting aside the reckoning by the months or ten months
of the calendar (30) as now no longer applicable from the inequality
in the length of the months, wherever more accurate specifications
were required, they accustomed themselves to reckon by terms of ten
months of a solar year of 365 days or by the so-called ten-month
year of 304 days.

Over and above this, there came early into use in Italy, especially for
agricultural purposes, the farmers' calendar based on the Egyptian solar
year of 365 1/4 days by Eudoxus (who flourished 386).

Structural and Plastic Art

A higher idea of what the Italians were able to do in these departments
is furnished by their works of structural and plastic art, which are
closely associated with the mechanical sciences. Here too we do not
find phenomena of real originality; but if the impress of borrowing,
which the plastic art of Italy bears throughout, diminishes its artistic
interest, there gathers around it a historical interest all the
more lively, because on the one hand it preserves the most remarkable
evidences of an international intercourse of which other traces
have disappeared, and on the other hand, amidst the well-nigh total
loss of the history of the non-Roman Italians, art is almost the
sole surviving index of the living activity which the different
peoples of the peninsula displayed.

No novelty is to be reported in this period; but what we have already
shown(31) may be illustrated in this period with greater precision
and on a broader basis, namely, that the stimulus derived from Greece
powerfully affected the Etruscans and Italians on different sides, and
called forth among the former a richer and more luxurious, among the
latter--where it had any influence at all--a more intelligent and more
genuine, art.

Architecture-- Etruscan
We have already shown how wholly the architecture of all the Italian
lands was, even in its earliest period, pervaded by Hellenic elements.

Its city walls, its aqueducts, its tombs with pyramidal roofs, and its
Tuscanic temple, are not at all, or not materially, different from
the oldest Hellenic structures. No trace has been preserved of any
advance in architecture among the Etruscans during this period;
we find among them neither any really new reception, nor any original
creation, unless we ought to reckon as such the magnificent tombs,
e. g. the so-called tomb of Porsena at Chiusi described by Varro,
which vividly recalls the strange and meaningless grandeur of the
Egyptian pyramids.

Latin-- The Arch
In Latium too, during the first century and a half of the republic,
it is probable that they moved solely in the previous track, and
it has already been stated that the exercise of art rather sank
than rose with the introduction of the republic.(32) There can
scarcely be named any Latin building of architectural importance
belonging to this period, except the temple of Ceres built in the
Circus at Rome in 261, which was regarded in the period of the
empire as a model of the Tuscanic style.

But towards the close of this epoch a new spirit appeared in Italian
and particularly in Roman architecture;(33) the building of the
magnificent arches began.

It is true that we are not entitled to pronounce the arch and the
vault Italian inventions.

It is well ascertained that at the epoch of the genesis of Hellenic
architecture the Hellenes were not yet acquainted with the arch,
and therefore had to content themselves with a flat ceiling and a
sloping roof for their temples; but the arch may very well have
been a later invention of the Hellenes originating in more scientific
mechanics; as indeed the Greek tradition refers it to the natural
philosopher Democritus (294-397).

With this priority of Hellenic over Roman arch-building the hypothesis,
which has been often and perhaps justly propounded, is quite compatible,
that the vaulted roof of the Roman great -cloaca-, and that which
was afterwards thrown over the old Capitoline well-house which
originally had a pyramidal roof,(34) are the oldest extant structures
in which the principle of the arch is applied; for it is more than
probable that these arched buildings belong not to the regal but
to the republican period,(35) and that in the regal period the
Italians were acquainted only with flat or overlapped roofs.(34)
But whatever may be thought as to the invention of the arch itself,
the application of a principle on a great scale is everywhere, and
particularly in architecture, at least as important as its first
exposition; and this application belongs indisputably to the Romans.

With the fifth century began the building of gates, bridges, and
aqueducts based mainly on the arch, which is thenceforth inseparably
associated with the Roman name.

Akin to this was the development of the form of the round temple with the
dome-shaped roof, which was foreign to the Greeks, but was held
in much favour with the Romans and was especially applied by them
in the case of the cults peculiar to them, particularly the non-Greek
worship of Vesta.(37)
Something the same may be affirmed as true of various subordinate,
but not on that account unimportant, achievements in this field.

They do not lay claim to originality or artistic accomplishment; but the
firmly-jointed stone slabs of the Roman streets, their indestructible
highways, the broad hard ringing tiles, the everlasting mortar of their
buildings, proclaim the indestructible solidity and the energetic vigour
of the Roman character.

Plastic and Delineative Art
Like architectural art, and, if possible, still more completely, the
plastic and delineative arts were not so much matured by Grecian stimulus
as developed from Greek seeds on Italian soil. We have already observed(38)
that these, although only younger sisters of architecture, began to develop
themselves at least in Etruria, even during the Roman regal period; but
their principal development in Etruria, and still more in Latium, belongs
to the present epoch, as is very evident from the fact that in those
districts which the Celts and Samnites wrested from the Etruscans
in the course of the fourth century there is scarcely a trace of
the practice of Etruscan art.

The plastic art of the Tuscans applied itself first and chiefly to works
in terra-cotta, in copper, and in gold-materials which were furnished
to the artists by the rich strata of clay, the copper mines, and the
commercial intercourse of Etruria.

The vigour with which moulding in clay was prosecuted is attested by the
immense number of bas-reliefs and statuary works in terra-cotta, with
which the walls, gables, and roofs of the Etruscan temples were once
decorated, as their still extant ruins show, and by the trade which
can be shown to have existed in such articles from Etruria to Latium.

Casting in copper occupied no inferior place. Etruscan artists ventured
to make colossal statues of bronze fifty feet in height, and Volsinii,
the Etruscan Delphi, was said to have possessed about the year 489 two
thousand bronze statues. Sculpture in stone, again, began in Etruria,
as probably everywhere, at a far later date, and was prevented from
development not only by internal causes, but also by the want of suitable
material; the marble quarries of Luna (Carrara) were not yet opened. Any
one who has seen the rich and elegant gold decorations of the south-Etruscan
tombs, will have no difficulty in believing the statement that
Tyrrhene gold cups were valued even in Attica.

Gem-engraving also, although more recent, was in various forms practised
in Etruria. Equally dependent on the Greeks, but otherwise quite on a
level with the workers in the plastic arts, were the Etruscan designers
and painters, who manifested extraordinary activity both in
outline-drawing on metal and in monochromatic fresco-painting.

Campanian and Sabellian
On comparing with this the domain of the Italians proper, it appears at
first, contrasted with the Etruscan riches, almost poor in art.

But on a closer view we cannot fail to perceive that both the Sabellian
and the Latin nations must have had far more capacity and aptitude
for art than the Etruscans.

It is true that in the proper Sabellian territory, in Sabina, in the
Abruzzi, in Samnium, there are hardly found any works of art at all, and
even coins are wanting.

But those Sabellian stocks, which reached the coasts of the Tyrrhene or
Ionic seas, not only appropriated Hellenic art externally, like the
Etruscans, but more or less completely acclimatized it.

Even in Velitrae, where probably alone in the former land of the
Volsci their language and peculiar character were afterwards
maintained, painted terra-cottas have been found, displaying vigorous
and characteristic treatment.

In Lower Italy Lucania was to a less degree influenced by Hellenic art; but
in Campania and in the land of the Bruttii, Sabellians and Hellenes
became completely intermingled not only in language and nationality,
but also and especially in art, and the Campanian and Bruttian coins
in particular stand so entirely in point of artistic treatment on
a level with the contemporary coins of Greece, that the inscription
alone serves to distinguish the one from the other.

Latin

It is a fact less known, but not less certain, that Latium also, while
inferior to Etruria in the copiousness and massiveness of its art,
was not inferior in artistic taste and practical skill.

Evidently the establishment of the Romans in Campania which took
place about the beginning of the fifth century, the conversion of
the town of Cales into a Latin community, and that of the Falernian
territory near Capua into a Roman tribe,(39) opened up in the first
instance Campanian art to the Romans.

It is true that among these the art of gem-engraving so diligently
prosecuted in luxurious Etruria is entirely wanting, and we find no
indication that the Latin workshops were, like those of the Etruscan
goldsmiths and clay-workers, occupied in supplying a foreign demand.

It is true that the Latin temples were not like the Etruscan overloaded
with bronze and clay decorations, that the Latin tombs were not like the
Etruscan filled with gold ornaments, and their walls shone not,
like those of the Tuscan tombs, with paintings of various colours.

Nevertheless, on the whole the balance does not incline in favour of the
Etruscan nation.

The device of the effigy of Janus, which, like the deity itself, may be
attributed to the Latins,(40) is not unskilful, and is of a more original
character than that of any Etruscan work of art.

The beautiful group of the she-wolf with the twins attaches itself
doubtless to similar Greek designs, but was--as thus worked out--certainly
produced, if not in Rome, at any rate by Romans; and it deserves to be
noted that it first appears on the silver moneys coined by the
Romans in and for Campania.

In the above-mentioned Cales there appears to have been devised soon after
its foundation a peculiar kind of figured earthenware, which was
marked with the name of the masters and the place of manufacture,
and was sold over a wide district as far even as Etruria.

Stood
toying with his bayonet and waiting for contradiction.

Jan.  5, 1916.--Standing in the garden just after lunch was witness to
startling phenomenon.  Q.M.S.  Beddem came towards front-gate with a
smile so expansive that gate after first trembling violently on its
hinges swung open of its own accord.  Q.M.S., with smile (sad), said he
was in trouble.  Very old member of the Inns of Court, Private Keen, had
re-joined, and he wanted a good billet for him.  Would cheerfully give up
his own bed, but it wasn't long enough.  Not to be outdone in hospitality
by my own gate accepted Private Keen.  Q.M.S.  digging hole in my path
with toe of right boot, and for first and only time manifesting signs of
nervousness, murmured that two life-long friends of Private Keen's had
rejoined with him.  Known as the Three Inseparables.  Where they were to
sleep, unless I----.  Fled to house, and locking myself in top-attic
watched Q.M.S. from window.  He departed with bent head and swagger-cane
reversed.

Jan 6.--Private Keen arrived.  Turned out to be son of an old Chief of
mine.  Resolved not to visit the sins of the father on the head of a
child six feet two high and broad in proportion.

Feb.  6.--Private Keen came home with a temperature.

Feb.  7.--M.O. diagnosed influenza.  Was afraid it would spread.

Feb.  8.--Warned the other four billets.  They seemed amused.  Pointed
out that influenza had no terrors for men in No. 2 Company, who were
doomed to weekly night-ops. under Major Carryon.

Feb.  9.--House strangely and pleasantly quiet.  Went to see how Private
Keen was progressing, and found the other four billets sitting in a row
on his bed practising deep-breathing exercises.

Feb.  16.--Billets on night-ops. until late hour.  Spoke in highest terms
of Major Carryon's marching powers--also in other terms.

March 3.--Waited up until midnight for Private Merited, who had gone to
Slough on his motor-bike.

March 4, 1.5 a.m.--Awakened by series of explosions from over-worked, or
badly-worked, motor-bike.  Put head out of window and threw key to
Private Merited.  He seemed excited.  Said he had been chased all the way
from Chesham by a pink rat with yellow spots.  Advised him to go to bed.
Set him an example.

1.10.  a.m.--Heard somebody in the pantry.  2.10.  a.m.--Heard Private
Merited going upstairs to bed.

2.16 a.m.--Heard Private Merited still going upstairs to bed.

2.20-3.15.  a.m.--Heard Private Merited getting to bed.

April 3, 12.30 a.m.--Town-hooter announced Zeppelins and excited soldier
called up my billets from their beds to go and frighten them off.
Pleasant to see superiority of billets over the hooter: that only emitted
three blasts.

12.50 a.m.--Billets returned with exception of Private Merited, who was
retained for sake of his motor-bike.

9 a.m.--On way to bath-room ran into Private Merited, who, looking very
glum and sleepy, inquired whether I had a copy of the Exchange and Mart
in the house.

10 p.m.--Overheard billets discussing whether it was worth while removing
boots before going to bed until the Zeppelin scare was over.  Joined in
discussion.

May 2.--Rumours that the Inns of Court were going under canvas.
Discredited them.

May 5.--Rumours grow stronger.

May 6.--Billets depressed.  Begin to think perhaps there is something in
rumours after all.

May 9.-All doubts removed.  Tents begin to spring up with the suddenness
of mushrooms in fields below Berkhamsted Place.

May 18, LIBERATION DAY.--Bade a facetious good-bye to my billets;
response lacking in bonhomie.

May 19.-House delightfully quiet.  Presented caller of unkempt appearance
at back-door with remains of pair of military boots, three empty shaving-
stick tins, and a couple of partially bald tooth-brushes.

May 21.--In afternoon went round and looked at camp.  Came home smiling,
and went to favourite seat in garden to smoke.  Discovered Private Early
lying on it fast asleep.  Went to study.  Private Merited at table
writing long and well-reasoned letter to his tailor.  As he said he could
never write properly with anybody else in the room, left him and went to
bath-room.  Door locked.  Peevish but familiar voice, with a Scotch
accent, asked me what I wanted; also complained of temperature of water.

May 22.--After comparing notes with neighbours, feel deeply grateful to
Q.M.S.  Beddem for sending me the best six men in the corps.

July 15.--Feel glad to have been associated, however remotely and humbly,
with a corps, the names of whose members appear on the Roll of Honour of
every British regiment.


THE CONVERT

Mr. Purnip took the arm of the new recruit and hung over him almost
tenderly as they walked along; Mr. Billing, with a look of conscious
virtue on his jolly face, listened with much satisfaction to his friend's
compliments.

"It's such an example," said the latter.  "Now we've got you the others
will follow like sheep.  You will be a bright lamp in the darkness."

"Wot's good enough for me ought to be good enough for them," said Mr.
Billing, modestly.  "They'd better not let me catch--"

"H'sh!  H'sh!"  breathed Mr. Purnip, tilting his hat and wiping his bald,
benevolent head.

"I forgot," said the other, with something like a sigh.  "No more
fighting; but suppose somebody hits me?"

"Turn the other cheek," replied Mr. Purnip.

"They won't hit that; and when they see you standing there smiling at
them--"

"After being hit?"  interrupted Mr. Billing.

"After being hit," assented the other, "they'll be ashamed of themselves,
and it'll hurt them more than if you struck them."

"Let's 'ope so," said the convert; "but it don't sound reasonable.  I can
hit a man pretty 'ard.  Not that I'm bad-tempered, mind you; a bit quick,
p'r'aps.  And, after all, a good smack in the jaw saves any amount of
argufying."

Mr. Purnip smiled, and, as they walked along, painted a glowing picture
of the influence to be wielded by a first-class fighting-man who refused
to fight.  It was a rough neighbourhood, and he recognized with sorrow
that more respect was paid to a heavy fist than to a noble intellect or a
loving heart.

"And you combine them all," he said, patting his companion's arm.

Mr. Billing smiled.  "You ought to know best," he said, modestly.

"You'll be surprised to find how easy it is," continued Mr. Purnip.  "You
will go from strength to strength.  Old habits will disappear, and you
will hardly know you have lost them.  In a few months' time you will
probably be wondering what you could ever have seen in beer, for
example."

"I thought you said you didn't want me to give up beer?"  said the other.

"We don't," said Mr. Purnip.  "I mean that as you grow in stature you
will simply lose the taste for it."

Mr. Billing came to a sudden full stop.  "D'ye mean I shall lose my
liking for a drop o' beer without being able to help myself?"  he
demanded, in an anxious voice.

"Of course, it doesn't happen in every case," he said, hastily.

Mr. Billing's features relaxed.  "Well, let's 'ope I shall be one of the
fortunate ones," he said, simply.  "I can put up with a good deal, but
when it comes to beer----"

"We shall see," said the other, smiling.

"We don't want to interfere with anybody's comfort; we want to make them
happier, that's all.  A little more kindness between man and man; a
little more consideration for each other; a little more brightness in
dull lives."

He paused at the corner of the street, and, with a hearty handshake, went
off.  Mr. Billing, a prey to somewhat mixed emotions, continued on his
way home.  The little knot of earnest men and women who had settled in
the district to spread light and culture had been angling for him for
some time.  He wondered, as he walked, what particular bait it was that
had done the mischief.

"They've got me at last," he remarked, as he opened the house-door and
walked into his small kitchen.  "I couldn't say 'no' to Mr. Purnip."

"Wish 'em joy," said Mrs. Billing, briefly.  "Did you wipe your boots?"

Her husband turned without a word, and, retreating to the mat, executed a
prolonged double-shuffle.

"You needn't wear it out," said the surprised Mrs. Billing.

"We've got to make people 'appier," said her husband, seriously; "be
kinder to 'em, and brighten up their dull lives a bit.  That's wot Mr.
Purnip says."

"You'll brighten 'em up all right," declared Mrs. Billing, with a sniff.
"I sha'n't forget last Tuesday week--no, not if I live to be a hundred.
You'd ha' brightened up the police-station if I 'adn't got you home just
in the nick of time."

Her husband, who was by this time busy under the scullery-tap, made no
reply.  He came from it spluttering, and, seizing a small towel, stood in
the door-way burnishing his face and regarding his wife with a smile
which Mr. Purnip himself could not have surpassed.  He sat down to
supper, and between bites explained in some detail the lines on which his
future life was to be run.  As an earnest of good faith, he consented,
after a short struggle, to a slip of oil-cloth for the passage; a pair of
vases for the front room; and a new and somewhat expensive corn-cure for
Mrs. Billing.

"And let's 'ope you go on as you've begun," said that gratified lady.
"There's something in old Purnip after all.  I've been worrying you for
months for that oilcloth.  Are you going to help me wash up?  Mr. Purnip
would."

Mr. Billing appeared not to hear, and, taking up his cap, strolled slowly
in the direction of the Blue Lion.  It was a beautiful summer evening,
and his bosom swelled as he thought of the improvements that a little
brotherliness might effect in Elk Street.  Engrossed in such ideas, it
almost hurt him to find that, as he entered one door of the Blue Lion,
two gentlemen, forgetting all about their beer, disappeared through the
other.

"Wot 'ave they run away like that for?"  he demanded, looking round.
"I wouldn't hurt 'em."

"Depends on wot you call hurting, Joe," said a friend.

Mr. Billing shook his head.  "They've no call to be afraid of me," he
said, gravely.  "I wouldn't hurt a fly; I've got a new 'art."

"A new wot?" inquired his friend, staring.

"A new 'art," repeated the other.  "I've given up fighting and swearing,
and drinking too much.  I'm going to lead a new life and do all the good
I can; I'm going--"

"Glory!  Glory!" ejaculated a long, thin youth, and, making a dash for
the door, disappeared.

"He'll know me better in time," said Mr. Billing.  "Why, I wouldn't hurt
a fly.  I want to do good to people; not to hurt 'em.  I'll have a pint,"
he added, turning to the bar.

"Not here you won't," said the landlord, eyeing him coldly.

"Why not?" demanded the astonished Mr. Billing.

"You've had all you ought to have already," was the reply.  "And there's
one thing I'll swear to--you ain't had it 'ere."

"I haven't 'ad a drop pass my lips began the outraged Mr. Billing.

"Yes, I know," said the other, wearily, as he shifted one or two glasses
and wiped the counter; "I've heard it all before, over and over again.
Mind you, I've been in this business thirty years, and if I don't know
when a man's had his whack, and a drop more, nobody does.  You get off
'ome and ask your missis to make you a nice cup o' good strong tea, and
then get up to bed and sleep it off."

"I dare say," said Mr. Billing, with cold dignity, as he paused at the
door--"I dare say I may give up beer altogether."

He stood outside pondering over the unforeseen difficulties attendant
upon his new career, moving a few inches to one side as Mr. Ricketts, a
foe of long standing, came towards the public-house, and, halting a yard
or two away, eyed him warily.

"Come along," said Mr. Billing, speaking somewhat loudly, for the benefit
of the men in the bar; "I sha'n't hurt you; my fighting days are over."

"Yes, I dessay," replied the other, edging away.

"It's all right, Bill," said a mutual friend, through the half-open door;
"he's got a new 'art."

Mr. Ricketts looked perplexed.  "'Art disease, d'ye mean?"  he inquired,
hopefully.  "Can't he fight no more?"

"A new 'art," said Mr. Billing.  "It's as strong as ever it was, but it's
changed--brother."

If the nobility in giving up their claim to be the sole embodiment of the
community did not seem to have lost much, they had in other respects
decidedly gained.

The king, it is true, was a patrician as well as the consul, and the
right of nominating the members of the senate belonged to the
latter as to the former; but while his exceptional position raised
the former no less above the patricians than above the plebeians,
and while cases might easily occur in which he would be obliged to
lean upon the support of the multitude even against the nobility,
the consul--ruling for a brief term, but before and after that term
simply one of the nobility, and obeying to-morrow the noble
fellow-burgess whom he had commanded to-day--by no means occupied
a position aloof from his order, and the spirit of the noble in him
must have been far more powerful than that of the magistrate.

Indeed, if at any time by way of exception a patrician disinclined
to the rule of the nobility was called to the government, his
official authority was paralyzed partly by the priestly colleges,
which were pervaded by an intense aristocratic spirit, partly by
his colleague, and was easily suspended by the dictatorship; and,
what was of still more moment, he wanted the first element of
political power, time.

The president of a commonwealth, whatever plenary authority may be conceded
to him, will never gain possession of political power, if he does
not continue for some considerable time at the head of affairs; for
a necessary condition of every dominion is duration.

Consequently the senate appointed for life inevitably acquired--and
that by virtue chiefly of its title to advise the magistrate in all
points, so that we speak not of the narrower patrician, but of the
enlarged patricio-plebeian, senate--so great an influence as
contrasted with the annual rulers, that their legal relations became
precisely inverted; the senate substantially assumed to itself the
powers of government, and the former ruler sank into a president
acting as its chairman and executing its decrees.

In the case of every proposal to be submitted to the community for
acceptance or rejection the practice of previously consulting the
whole senate and obtaining its approval, while not constitutionally
necessary, was consecrated by use and wont; and it was not lightly
or willingly departed from.

The same course was followed in the case of important state-treaties, of
the management and distribution of the public lands, and generally
of every act the effects of which extended beyond the official
year; and nothing was left to the consul but the transaction of
current business, the initial steps in civil processes, and the
command in war.

Especially important in its consequences was the change in virtue of which
neither the consul, nor even the otherwise absolute dictator, was
permitted to touch the public treasure except with the consent and
by the will of the senate.

The senate made it obligatory on the consuls to commit the
administration of the public chest, which the king had managed or might
at any rate have managed himself, to two standing subordinate
magistrates, who were nominated no doubt by the consuls and had to
obey them, but were, as may easily be conceived, much more dependent
than the consuls themselves on the senate.(16) It thus drew into
its own hands the management of finance; and this right of sanctioning
the expenditure of money on the part of the Roman senate may be
placed on a parallel in its effects with the right of sanctioning
taxation in the constitutional monarchies of the present day.

The consequences followed as a matter of course.

The first and most essential condition of all aristocratic government
is, that the plenary power of the state be vested not in an
individual but in a corporation.

Now a preponderantly aristocratic corporation, the senate, had appropriated
to itself the government, and at the same time the executive power not
only remained in the hands of the nobility, but was also entirely subject
to the governing corporation.

It is true that a considerable number of men not belonging to the nobility
sat in the senate; but as they were incapable of holding
magistracies or even of taking part in the debates, and thus were
excluded from all practical share in the government, they necessarily
played a subordinate part in the senate, and were moreover kept in
pecuniary dependence on the corporation through the economically
important privilege of using the public pasture.

The gradually recognized right of the patrician consuls to revise and modify
the senatorial list at least every fourth year, ineffective as
presumably it was over against the nobility, might very well be
employed in their interest, and an obnoxious plebeian might by means
of it be kept out of the senate or even be removed from its ranks.

The Plebeian Opposition
It is therefore quite true that the immediate effect of the revolution
was to establish the aristocratic government.

It is not, however, the whole truth. While the majority of contemporaries
probably thought that the revolution had brought upon the plebeians
only a more rigid despotism, we who come afterwards discern in that
very revolution the germs of young liberty.

What the patricians gained was gained at the expense not of the community,
but of the magistrate's power. It is true that the community gained only
a few narrowly restricted rights, which were far less practical and
palpable than the acquisitions of the nobility, and which not one
in a thousand probably had the wisdom to value; but they formed a
pledge and earnest of the future.

Hitherto the --metoeci-- had been politically nothing, the old
burgesses had been everything; now that the former were embraced
in the community, the old burgesses were overcome; for, however
much might still be wanting to full civil equality, it is the first
breach, not the occupation of the last post, that decides the fall
of the fortress.

With justice therefore the Roman community dated its political existence
from the beginning of the consulate.

While however the republican revolution may, notwithstanding the
aristocratic rule which in the first instance it established, be
justly called a victory of the former --metoeci-- or the -plebs-,
the revolution even in this respect bore by no means the character
which we are accustomed in the present day to designate as
democratic.

Pure personal merit without the support of birth and wealth could
perhaps gain influence and consideration more easily under the
regal government than under that of the patriciate.

Then admission to the patriciate was not in law foreclosed; now the highest
object of plebeian ambition was to be admitted into the dumb
appendage of the senate.

The nature of the case implied that the governing aristocratic
order, so far as it admitted plebeians at all, would grant the right
of occupying seats in the senate not absolutely to the best men,
but chiefly to the heads of the wealthy and notable plebeian families;
and the families thus admitted jealously guarded the possession of
the senatorial stalls.

While a complete legal equality therefore had subsisted within the old
burgess-body, the new burgess-body or former --metoeci-- came to be in
this way divided from the first into a number of privileged families
and a multitude kept in a position of inferiority.

But the power of the community now according to the centuriate
organization came into the hands of that class which since the Servian
reform of the army and of taxation had borne mainly the burdens
of the state, namely the freeholders, and indeed not so much into
the hands of the great proprietors or into those of the small
cottagers, as into those of the intermediate class of farmers--an
arrangement in which the seniors were still so far privileged that,
although less numerous, they had as many voting- divisions as the
juniors.

While in this way the axe was laid to the root of the old burgess-body
and their clan-nobility, and the basis of a new burgess-body was
laid, the preponderance in the latter rested on the possession of
land and on age, and the first beginnings were already visible of
a new aristocracy based primarily on the actual consideration in
which the families were held--the future nobility.

There could be no clearer indication of the fundamentally conservative
character of the Roman commonwealth than the fact, that the
revolution which gave birth to the republic laid down at the same
time the primary outlines of a new organization of the state, which
was in like manner conservative and in like manner aristocratic.

Notes for Book II Chapter I
1. I. IX. The Tarquins

2. The well-known fable for the most part refutes itself. To a considerable
extent it has been concocted for the explanation of surnames (-Brutus-,
-Poplicola-, -Scaevola-). But even its apparently historical ingredients
are found on closer examination to have been invented.

Of this character is the statement that Brutus was captain of the
horsemen (-tribunus celerum-) and in that capacity proposed the
decree of the people as to the banishment of the Tarquins; for,
according to the Roman constitution, it is quite impossible that a
mere officer should have had the right to convoke the curies.

The whole of this statement has evidently been invented with the
view of furnishing a legal basis for the Roman republic; and very
ill invented it is, for in its case the -tribunus celerum- is
confounded with the entirely different -magister equitum- (V.

Burdens Of The Burgesses f.), and then the right of convoking the
centuries which pertained to the latter by virtue of his praetorian
rank is made to apply to the assembly of the curies.

3.

-Consules- are those who "leap or dance together," as -praesul- is one who
"leaps before," -exsul-, one who "leaps out" (--o ekpeson--),
-insula-, a "leap into," primarily applied to a mass of rock fallen
into the sea.

4.

The day of entering on office did not coincide with the beginning of
the year (1st March), and was not at all fixed. The day of retiring was
regulated by it, except when a consul was elected expressly in
room of one who had dropped out (-consul suffectus-); in which case
the substitute succeeded to the rights and consequently to the term
of him whom he replaced.

But these supplementary consuls in the earlier period only occurred
when merely one of the consuls had dropped out: pairs of supplementary
consuls are not found until the later ages of the republic. Ordinarily,
therefore, the official year of a consul consisted of unequal portions
of two civil years.

5. I. V. The King
6. I. XI. Crimes
7. I. V. Prerogatives of the Senate
8. I. V. The King
9. I. V. The King
10. I. VI. Dependents and Guests
11. I. VI. Political Effects of the Servian Military Organization
12. I. V. The Senate as State Council
13. I. V. Prerogatives of the Senate
14.

That the first consuls admitted to the senate 164 plebeians, is hardly to
be regarded as a historical fact, but rather as a proof that the later
Roman archaeologists were unable to point out more than 136 -gentes- of
the Roman nobility (Rom, Forsch. i. 121).

15.

It may not be superfluous to remark, that the -iudicium legitimum-, as well
as that -quod imperio continetur-, rested on the imperium of the directing
magistrate, and the distinction only consisted in the circumstance that
the -imperium- was in the former case limited by the -lex-, while
in the latter it was free.

16. II. I. Restrictions on the Delegation of Powers

CHAPTER II

The Tribunate of the Plebs and the Decemvirate

Material Interests
Under the new organization of the commonwealth the old burgesses
had attained by legal means to the full possession of political
power.

Governing through the magistracy which had been reduced to be their
servant, preponderating in the Senate, in sole possession of all public
offices and priesthoods, armed with exclusive cognizance of things
human and divine and familiar with the whole routine of political
procedure, influential in the public assembly through the large
number of pliant adherents attached to the several families, and,
lastly, entitled to examine and to reject every decree of the
community,--the patricians might have long preserved their practical
power, just because they had at the right time abandoned their claim
to sole legal authority.

It is true that the plebeians could not but be painfully sensible of their
political disabilities; but undoubtedly in the first instance the
nobility had not much to fear from a purely political opposition,
if it understood the art of keeping the multitude, which desired
nothing but equitable administration and protection of its material
interests, aloof from political strife.

In fact during the first period after the expulsion of the kings we meet
with various measures which were intended, or at any rate seemed
to be intended, to gain the favour of the commons for the government
of the nobility especially on economic grounds.

The port-dues were reduced; when the price of grain was high, large
quantities of corn were purchased on account of the state, and the
trade in salt was made a state-monopoly, in order to supply the
citizens with corn and salt at reasonable prices; lastly, the
national festival was prolonged for an additional day.

Of the same character was the ordinance which we have already mentioned
respecting property fines,(1) which was not merely intended in general
to set limits to the dangerous fining-prerogative of the magistrates,
but was also, in a significant manner, calculated for the especial
protection of the man of small means.

The magistrate was prohibited from fining the same man on the same day to
an extent beyond two sheep or beyond thirty oxen, without granting leave
to appeal; and the reason of these singular rates can only perhaps be
found in the fact, that in the case of the man of small means possessing
only a few sheep a different maximum appeared necessary from that fixed
for the wealthy proprietor of herds of oxen --a considerate regard
to the wealth or poverty of the person fined, from which modern
legislators might take a lesson.

But these regulations were merely superficial; the main current flowed in
the opposite direction.

With the change in the constitution there was introduced a comprehensive
revolution in the financial and economic relations of Rome, The
government of the kings had probably abstained on principle from
enhancing the power of capital, and had promoted as far as it could
an increase in the number of farms.

The new aristocratic government, again, appears to have aimed from the first
at the destruction of the middle classes, particularly of the intermediate
and smaller holdings of land, and at the development of a domination
of landed and moneyed lords on the one hand, and of an agricultural
proletariate on the other.

Rising Power of the Capitalists
The reduction of the port-dues, although upon the whole a popular measure,
chiefly benefited the great merchant. But a much greater accession to
the power of capital was supplied by the indirect system of
finance-administration.

It is difficult to say what were the remote causes that gave rise
to it: but, while its origin may probably be referred to the regal
period, after the introduction of the consulate the importance of
the intervention of private agency must have been greatly increased,
partly by the rapid succession of magistrates in Rome, partly by
the extension of the financial action of the treasury to such matters
as the purchase and sale of grain and salt; and thus the foundation
must have been laid for that system of farming the finances, the
development of which became so momentous and so pernicious for the
Roman commonwealth.

The state gradually put all its indirect revenues and all its more
complicated payments and transactions into the hands of middlemen,
who gave or received a round sum and then managed the matter for
their own benefit.

Of course only considerable capitalists and, as the state looked
strictly to tangible security, in the main only large landholders, could
enter into such engagements: and thus there grew up a class of
tax-farmers and contractors, who, in the rapid growth of their
wealth, in their power over the state to which they appeared to be
servants, and in the absurd and sterile basis of their moneyed
dominion, quite admit of comparison with the speculators on the
stock exchange of the present day.

Public Land

The concentrated aspect assumed by the administration of finance showed
itself first and most palpably in the treatment of the public lands,
which tended almost directly to accomplish the material and moral
annihilation of the middle classes.

The use of the public pasture and of the state-domains generally was
from its very nature a privilege of burgesses; formal law excluded
the plebeian from the joint use of the common pasture.

As however, apart from the conversion of the public land into private
property or its assignation, Roman law knew no fixed rights of
usufruct on the part of individual burgesses to be respected like
those of property, it depended solely on the pleasure of the king,
so long as the public land remained such, to grant and to define
its joint enjoyment; and it is not to be doubted that he frequently
made use of his right, or at least his power, as to this matter in
favour of plebeians.

But on the introduction of the republic the principle was again strictly
insisted on, that the use of the common pasture belonged in law merely
to the burgess of best right, or in other words to the patrician;
and, though the senate still as before allowed exceptions in favour
of the wealthy plebeian houses represented in it, the small plebeian
landholders and the day-labourers, who stood most in need of the
common pasture, had its joint enjoyment injuriously withheld from
them.

Moreover there had hitherto been paid for the cattle driven out on the
common pasture a grazing-tax, which was moderate enough to make
the right of using that pasture still be regarded as a privilege,
and yet yielded no inconsiderable revenue to the public purse.

The patrician quaestors were now remiss and indulgent in levying it,
and gradually allowed it to fall into desuetude. Hitherto, particularly
when new domains were acquired by conquest, allocations of land had
been regularly arranged, in which all the poorer burgesses and
--metoeci-- were provided for; it was only the land which was not
suitable for agriculture that was annexed to the common pasture.

The ruling class did not venture wholly to give up such assignations,
and still less to propose them merely in favour of the rich; but they
became fewer and scantier, and were replaced by the pernicious system of
occupation-that is to say, the cession of domain-lands, not in
property or under formal lease for a definite term, but in special
usufruct until further notice, to the first occupant and his
heirs-at-law, so that the state was at any time entitled to resume
them, and the occupier had to pay the tenth sheaf, or in oil and
wine the fifth part of the produce, to the exchequer.

This was simply the -precarium- already described(2) applied to the
state-domains, and may have been already in use as to the public
land at an earlier period, particularly as a temporary arrangement
until its assignation should be carried out.

Now, however, not only did this occupation-tenure become permanent,
but, as was natural, none but privileged persons or their favourites
participated, and the tenth and fifth were collected with the same
negligence as the grazing-money.

A threefold blow was thus struck at the intermediate and smaller
landholders: they were deprived of the common usufructs of burgesses;
the burden of taxation was increased in consequence of the domain
revenues no longer flowing regularly into the public chest; and
those land-allocations were stopped, which had provided a constant
outlet for the agricultural proletariate somewhat as a great and
well-regulated system of emigration would do at the present day.

To these evils was added the farming on a large scale, which was probably
already beginning to come into vogue, dispossessing the small
agrarian clients, and in their stead cultivating the estates by
rural slaves; a blow, which was more difficult to avert and perhaps
more pernicious than all those political usurpations put together.

The burdensome and partly unfortunate wars, and the exorbitant taxes and
task-works to which these gave rise, filled up the measure of
calamity, so as either to deprive the possessor directly of his
farm and to make him the bondsman if not the slave of his creditor-lord,
or to reduce him through encumbrances practically to the condition
of a temporary lessee of his creditor.

The capitalists, to whom a new field was here opened of lucrative speculation
unattended by trouble or risk, sometimes augmented in this way
their landed property; sometimes they left to the farmer, whose
person and estate the law of debt placed in their hands, nominal
proprietorship and actual possession.

The latter course was probably the most common as well as the most pernicious;
for while utter ruin might thereby be averted from the individual,
this precarious position of the farmer, dependent at all times on the
mercy of his creditor--a position in which he knew nothing of property but
its burdens--threatened to demoralise and politically to annihilate the
whole farmer-class.

The intention of the legislator, when instead of mortgaging he
prescribed the immediate transfer of the property to the creditor
with a view to prevent insolvency and to devolve the burdens of the
state on the real holders of the soil,(3) was evaded by the rigorous
system of personal credit, which might be very suitable for merchants,
but ruined the farmers.

"They're calling you, Bill," ses the skipper.  "I ain't deaf," I ses,
very cold.

"Well, I wish I was," ses the skipper.  "It's fair making my ear ache.
Why the blazes don't you do your dooty, and open the gate?"

"You mind your bisness and I'll mind mine," I ses.  "I know wot I'm
doing.  It's just some silly fools 'aving a game with me, and I'm not
going to encourage 'em."

"Game with you?" ses the skipper.  "Ain't they got anything better than
that to play with?  Look 'ere, if you don't open that gate, I will."

"It's nothing to do with you," I ses.  "You look arter your ship and I'll
look arter my wharf.  See?  If you don't like the noise, go down in the
cabin and stick your 'ead in a biscuit-bag."

To my surprise he took the mate by the arm and went, and I was just
thinking wot a good thing it was to be a bit firm with people sometimes,
when they came back dressed up in their coats and bowler-hats and climbed
on to the wharf.

"Watchman!" ses the skipper, in a hoity-toity sort o' voice, "me and the
mate is going as far as Aldgate for a breath o' fresh air.  Open the
gate."

I gave him a look that might ha' melted a 'art of stone, and all it done
to 'im was to make 'im laugh.

"Hurry up," he ses.  "It a'most seems to me that there's somebody ringing
the bell, and you can let them in same time as you let us out.  A Cry to
Arms.

By Henry Timrod.

Ho! woodsmen of the mountain-side!

Ho! dwellers in the vales!

Ho! ye who by the chafing tide Have roughened in the gales!

Leave barn and byre, leave kin and cot, Lay by the bloodless spade; Let
desk, and case, and counter rot, And burn your books of trade.

The despot roves your fairest lands; And till he flies or fears,
Your fields must grow but armed bands, Your sheaves be sheaves of
spears!

Give up to mildew and to rust The useless tools of gain; And feed
your country's sacred dust With floods of crimson rain!

Come, with the weapons at your call-- With musket, pike, or knife; He
wields the deadliest blade of all Who lightest holds his life.
The arm that drives its unbought blows With all a patriot's scorn,
Might brain a tyrant with a rose, Or stab him with a thorn.

Does any falter? let him turn To some brave maiden's eyes, And catch
the holy fires that burn In those sublunar skies.

Oh! could you like your women feel, And in their spirit march, A
day might see your lines of steel Beneath the victor's arch.

What hope, O God! would not grow warm When thoughts like these give
cheer?

The lily calmly braves the storm, And shall the palm-tree fear?
No! rather let its branches court The rack that sweeps the plain; And
from the lily's regal port Learn how to breast the strain!
Ho! woodsmen of the mountain-side!
Ho! dwellers in the vales!
Ho! ye who by the roaring tide Have roughened in the gales!She's as like 'im as two peas."

"Pore little devil," ses the carman.

"Look here!" I ses, "you clear off.  All of you.  'Ow dare you come on to
my wharf?  If you aren't gone in two minutes I'll give you all in
charge."

"Who to?" ses one of the draymen, sticking his face into mine.  "You go
'ome to your wife and kids.  Go on now, afore I put up my 'ands to you."

"That's the way to talk to 'im," ses the pot-man, nodding at 'em.

They all began to talk to me then and tell me wot I was to do, and wot
they would do if I didn't.  I couldn't get a word in edgeways.  When I
reminded the mate that when he was up in London 'e always passed himself
off as a single man, 'e wouldn't listen; and when I asked the skipper
whether 'is pore missus was blind, he on'y went on shouting at the top of
'is voice.  It on'y showed me 'ow anxious most people are that everybody
else should be good.

I thought they was never going to stop, and, if it 'adn't been for a fit
of coughing, I don't believe that the scraggy little woman could ha'
stopped.  Arter one o' the draymen 'ad saved her life and spoilt 'er
temper by patting 'er on the back with a hand the size of a leg o'
mutton, the carman turned to me and told me to tell the truth, if it
choked me.

"I have told you the truth," I ses.  Rome was no longer merely the first,
but was already the ruling power in the peninsula, when towards the end
of the fifth century of the city those nations, which had been
raised to supremacy in their respective lands by the favour of the
gods and by their own capacity, began to come into contact in council
and on the battle-field; and, as at Olympia the preliminary victors
girt themselves for a second and more serious struggle, so on the
larger arena of the nations, Carthage, Macedonia, and Rome now
prepared for the final and decisive contest.

Notes for Book II Chapter VI

1. It may not be superfluous to mention that our knowledge Archidamus
and Alexander is derived from Greek annals, and that the synchronism
between these and the Roman is in reference to the present epoch
only approximately established.

We must beware, therefore, of pursuing too far into detail the unmistakable
general connection between the events in the west and those in the
east of Italy.

2.

These were not the inhabitants of Satricum near Antium (II.
V.
League with The Hernici), but those of another Volscian town
constituted at that time as a Roman burgess-community without right
of voting, near Arpinum.

3.

That a formal armistice for two years subsisted between the Romans
and Samnites in 436-437 is more than improbable.

4.

The operations in the campaign of 537, and still more plainly the formation
of the highway from Arretium to Bononia in 567, show that the road
from Rome to Arretium had already been rendered serviceable before
that time.

But it cannot at that period have been a Roman military road,
because, judging from its later appellation of the "Cassian way,"
it cannot have been constructed as a -via consularis- earlier than
583; for no Cassian appears in the lists of Roman consuls and censors
between Spurius Cassius, consul in 252, 261, and 268--who of course
is out of the question--and Gaius Cassius Longinus, consul in 583.

CHAPTER VII
Struggle between Pyrrhus and Rome, and Union of Italy
Relations between the East and West
After Rome had acquired the undisputed mastery of the world, the
Greeks were wont to annoy their Roman masters by the assertion that
Rome was indebted for her greatness to the fever of which Alexander
of Macedonia died at Babylon on the 11th of June, 431.

As it was not too agreeable for them to reflect on the actual past, they
were fond of allowing their thoughts to dwell on what might have happened,
had the great king turned his arms--as was said to have been his
intention at the time of his death--towards the west and contested
the Carthaginian supremacy by sea with his fleet, and the Roman
supremacy by land with his phalanxes.

It is not impossible that Alexander may have cherished such thoughts;
nor is it necessary to resort for an explanation of their origin
to the mere difficulty which an autocrat, who is fond of war and
is well provided with soldiers and ships, experiences in setting
limits to his warlike career.

It was an enterprise worthy of a Greek great king to protect the
Siceliots against Carthage and the Tarentines against Rome, and to put
an end to piracy on either sea; and the Italian embassies from the
Bruttians, Lucanians, and Etruscans,(1) that along with numerous
others made their appearance at Babylon, afforded him sufficient
opportunities of becoming acquainted with the circumstances of the
peninsula and of entering into relations with it.

Carthage with its many connections in the east could not but attract
the attention of the mighty monarch, and it was probably one of his
designs to convert the nominal sovereignty of the Persian king over
the Tyrian colony into a real one: it was not for nothing that a
Phoenician spy was found in the retinue of Alexander.

Whether, however, these ideas were dreams or actual projects, the
king died without having interfered in the affairs of the west, and
his ideas were buried with him.

For but a few brief years a Greek ruler had held in his hand the whole
intellectual vigour of the Hellenic race combined with the whole
material resources of the east.

On his death the work to which his life had been devoted--the establishment
of Hellenism in the east--was by no means undone; but his empire
had barely been united when it was again dismembered, and, amidst
the constant quarrels of the different states that were formed out
of its ruins, the object of world-wide interest which they were
destined to promote--the diffusion of Greek culture in the east--though
not abandoned, was prosecuted on a feeble and stunted scale.

Under such circumstances, neither the Greek nor the Asiatico-Egyptian
states could think of acquiring a footing in the west or of turning
their efforts against the Romans or the Carthaginians.

The eastern and western state-systems subsisted side by side for a time
without crossing, politically, each other's path; and Rome in particular
remained substantially aloof from the complications in the days of
Alexander's successors. The only relations established were of a
mercantile kind; as in the instance of the free state of Rhodes, the
leading representative of the policy of commercial neutrality in Greece
and in consequence the universal medium of intercourse in an age
of perpetual wars, which about 448 concluded a treaty with Rome --a
commercial convention of course, such as was natural between a
mercantile people and the masters of the Caerite and Campanian
coasts.

Even in the supply of mercenaries from Hellas, the universal
recruiting field of those times, to Italy, and to Tarentum in
particular, political relations--such as subsisted, for instance,
between Tarentum and Sparta its mother-city--exercised but a very
subordinate influence.

In general the raising of mercenaries was simply a matter of traffic,
and Sparta, although it regularly supplied the Tarentines with
captains for their Italian wars, was by that course as little
involved in hostilities with the Italians, as in the North American
war of independence the German states were involved in hostilities
with the Union, to whose opponents they sold the services of their
subjects.

The Historical Position of Pyrrhus
Pyrrhus, king of Epirus, was himself simply a military adventurer.

He was none the less a soldier of fortune that he traced back his pedigree
to Aeacus and Achilles, and that, had he been more peacefully disposed,
he might have lived and died as "king" of a small mountain tribe under
the supremacy of Macedonia or perhaps in isolated independence.

He has been compared to Alexander of Macedonia; and certainly the idea
of founding a Hellenic empire of the west--which would have had as its
core Epirus, Magna Graecia, and Sicily, would have commanded both
the Italian seas, and would have reduced Rome and Carthage to the
rank of barbarian peoples bordering on the Hellenistic state-system,
like the Celts and the Indians--was analogous in greatness and
boldness to the idea which led the Macedonian king over the Hellespont.

But it was not the mere difference of issue that formed the distinction
between the expedition to the east and that to the west.

Alexander with his Macedonian army, in which the staff especially was
excellent, could fully make head against the great-king; but the king
of Epirus, which stood by the side of Macedonia somewhat as Hesse by the
side of Prussia, could only raise an army worthy of the name by means
of mercenaries and of alliances based on accidental political combinations.
Alexander made his appearance in the Persian empire as a conqueror;
Pyrrhus appeared in Italy as the general of a coalition of secondary
states.

Alexander left his hereditary dominions completely secured by the
unconditional subjection of Greece, and by the strong army that remained
behind under Antipater; Pyrrhus had no security for the integrity
of his native dominions but the word of a doubtful neighbour.

In the case of both conquerors, if their plans should be crowned with
success, their native country would necessarily cease to be the centre
of their new empire; but it was far more practicable to transfer the seat
of the Macedonian military monarchy to Babylon than to found a
soldier-dynasty in Tarentum or Syracuse. The democracy of the Greek
republics--perpetual agony though it was--could not be at all coerced
into the stiff forms of a military state; Philip had good reason
for not incorporating the Greek republics with his empire.

In the east no national resistance was to be expected; ruling and
subject races had long lived there side by side, and a change of
despot was a matter of indifference or even of satisfaction to the
mass of the population.

In the west the Romans, the Samnites, the Carthaginians, might be
vanquished; but no conqueror could have transformed the Italians into
Egyptian fellahs, or rendered the Roman farmers tributaries of
Hellenic barons.

Whatever we take into view--whether their own power, their allies, or
the resources of their antagonists--in all points the plan of the
Macedonian appears as a feasible, that of the Epirot an impracticable,
enterprise; the former as the completion of a great historical task,
the latter as a remarkable blunder; the former as the foundation
of a new system of states and of a new phase of civilization, the
latter as a mere episode in history.

The work of Alexander outlived him, although its creator met an untimely
death; Pyrrhus saw with his own eyes the wreck of all his plans, ere
death called him away. Both were by nature daring and great, but Pyrrhus
was only the foremost general, Alexander was eminently the most
gifted statesman, of his time; and, if it is insight into what is
and what is not possible that distinguishes the hero from the
adventurer, Pyrrhus must be numbered among the latter class, and
may as little be placed on a parallel with his greater kinsman as
the Constable of Bourbon may be put in comparison with Louis the
Eleventh.

And yet a wondrous charm attaches to the name of the Epirot--a peculiar
sympathy, evoked certainly in some degree by his chivalrous and amiable
character, but still more by the circumstance that he was the first Greek
that met the Romans in battle. With him began those direct relations between
Rome and Hellas, on which the whole subsequent development of
ancient, and an essential part of modern, civilization are based.

The struggle between phalanxes and cohorts, between a mercenary army
and a militia, between military monarchy and senatorial government,
between individual talent and national vigour --this struggle between
Rome and Hellenism was first fought out in the battles between Pyrrhus
and the Roman generals; and though the defeated party often
afterwards appealed anew to the arbitration of arms, every succeeding
day of battle simply confirmed the decision.

But while the Greeks were beaten in the battlefield as well as in the
senate-hall, their superiority was none the less decided on every other
field of rivalry than that of politics; and these very struggles
already betokened that the victory of Rome over the Hellenes would
be different from her victories over Gauls and Phoenicians, and
that the charm of Aphrodite only begins to work when the lance is
broken and the helmet and shield are laid aside.

Character and Earlier History of Pyrrhus
King Pyrrhus was the son of Aeacides, ruler of the Molossians (about
Janina), who, spared as a kinsman and faithful vassal by Alexander, had
been after his death drawn into the whirlpool of Macedonian
family-politics, and lost in it first his kingdom and then his life
(441).

His son, then six years of age, was saved by Glaucias the ruler of the
Illyrian Taulantii, and in the course of the conflicts for the possession
of Macedonia he was, when still a boy, restored by Demetrius Poliorcetes
to his hereditary principality (447)--but only to lose it again
after a few years through the influence of the opposite party (about
452), and to begin his military career as an exiled prince in the
train of the Macedonian generals.

Soon his personality asserted itself. He shared in the last campaigns
of Antigonus; and the old marshal of Alexander took delight in the
born soldier, who in the judgment of the grey-headed general only
wanted years to be already the first warrior of the age.

The unfortunate battle at Ipsus brought him as a hostage to Alexandria,
to the court of the founder of the Lagid dynasty, where by his
daring and downright character, and his soldierly spirit thoroughly
despising everything that was not military, he attracted the attention
of the politic king Ptolemy no less than he attracted the notice
of the royal ladies by his manly beauty, which was not impaired by
his wild look and stately tread.

Just at this time the enterprising Demetrius was once more establishing
himself in a new kingdom, which on this occasion was Macedonia;
of course with the intention of using it as a lever to revive the
monarchy of Alexander.

To keep down his ambitious designs, it was important to give him
employment at home; and Ptolemy, who knew how to make admirable use
of such fiery spirits as the Epirot youth in the prosecution of his
subtle policy, not only met the wishes of his consort queen Berenice,
but also promoted his own ends, by giving his stepdaughter the
princess Antigone in marriage to the young prince, and lending his
aid and powerful influence to support the return of his beloved
"son" to his native land (458).

Restored to his paternal kingdom, he soon carried all before him. The brave
Epirots, the Albanians of antiquity, clung with hereditary loyalty and
fresh enthusiasm to the high-spirited youth--the "eagle," as they
called him.

In the confusion that arose regarding the succession to the Macedonian
throne after the death of Cassander (457), the Epirot extended his
dominions: step by step he gained the regions on the Ambracian gulf
with the important town of Ambracia, the island of Corcyra,(2) and
even a part of the Macedonian territory, and with forces far inferior
he made head against king Demetrius to the admiration of the
Macedonians themselves.

Indeed, when Demetrius was by his own folly hurled from the Macedonian
throne, it was voluntarily proffered by them to his chivalrous opponent,
a kinsman of the Alexandrid house (467).

No one was in reality worthier than Pyrrhus to wear the royal diadem
of Philip and of Alexander.

In an age of deep depravity, in which princely rank and baseness began
to be synonymous, the personally unspotted and morally pure character
of Pyrrhus shone conspicuous.

For the free farmers of the hereditary Macedonian soil, who, although
diminished and impoverished, were far from sharing in that decay of
morals and of valour which the government of the Diadochi produced in
Greece and Asia, Pyrrhus appeared exactly formed to be the fitting
king, --Pyrrhus, who, like Alexander, in his household and in the
circle of his friends preserved a heart open to all human sympathies,
and constantly avoided the bearing of an Oriental sultan which was
so odious to the Macedonians; and who, like Alexander, was acknowledged
to be the first tactician of his time.

But the singularly overstrained national feeling of the Macedonians,
which preferred the most paltry Macedonian sovereign to the ablest
foreigner, and the irrational insubordination of the Macedonian
troops towards every non-Macedonian leader, to which Eumenes the
Cardian, the greatest general of the school of Alexander, had fallen
a victim, put a speedy termination to the rule of the prince of
Epirus.

Pyrrhus, who could not exercise sovereignty over Macedonia with the
consent of the Macedonians, and who was too powerless and perhaps
too high spirited to force himself on the nation against its will,
after reigning seven months left the country to its native
misgovernment, and went home to his faithful Epirots (467).

But the man who had worn the crown of Alexander, the brother-in-law
of Demetrius, the son-in-law of Ptolemy Lagides and of Agathocles
of Syracuse, the highly-trained tactician who wrote memoirs and
scientific dissertations on the military art, could not possibly
end his days in inspecting at a set time yearly the accounts of the
royal cattle steward, in receiving from his brave Epirots their
customary gifts of oxen and sheep, in thereupon, at the altar of
Zeus, procuring the renewal of their oath of allegiance and repeating
his own engagement to respect the laws, and--for the better
confirmation of the whole--in carousing with them all night long.

If there was no place for him on the throne of Macedonia, there was
no abiding in the land of his nativity at all; he was fitted for
the first place, and he could not be content with the second.

His views therefore turned abroad. The kings, who were quarrelling for the
possession of Macedonia, although agreeing in nothing else, were
ready and glad to concur in aiding the voluntary departure of their
dangerous rival; and that his faithful war-comrades would follow
him where-ever he led, he knew full well.

Just at that time the circumstances of Italy were such, that the project
which had been meditated forty years before by Pyrrhus's kinsman, his
father's cousin, Alexander of Epirus, and quite recently by his
father-in-law Agathocles, once more seemed feasible; and so Pyrrhus
resolved to abandon his Macedonian schemes and to found for himself
and for the Hellenic nation a new empire in the west.

Rising of the Italians against Rome-- The Lucanians-- The Etruscans
and Celts-- The Samnites-- The Senones Annihilated
The interval of repose, which the peace with Samnium in 464 had
procured for Italy, was of brief duration; the impulse which led
to the formation of a new league against Roman ascendency came on
this occasion from the Lucanians.

This people, by taking part with Rome during the Samnite wars,
paralyzed the action of the Tarentines and essentially contributed
to the decisive issue; and in consideration of their services, the
Romans gave up to them the Greek cities in their territory.

Accordingly after the conclusion of peace they had, in concert with
the Bruttians, set themselves to subdue these cities in succession.

The Thurines, repeatedly assailed by Stenius Statilius the general of the
Lucanians and reduced to extremities, applied for assistance against
the Lucanians to the Roman senate--just as formerly the Campanians
had asked the aid of Rome against the Samnites--and beyond doubt
with a like sacrifice of their liberty and independence.

In consequence of the founding of the fortress Venusia, Rome could
dispense with the alliance of the Lucanians; so the Romans granted
the prayer of the Thurines, and enjoined their friends and allies
to desist from their designs on a city which had surrendered itself
to Rome.

The Lucanians and Bruttians, thus cheated by their more powerful allies of
their share in the common spoil, entered into negotiations with
the opposition-party among the Samnites and Tarentines to bring
about a new Italian coalition; and when the Romans sent an embassy
to warn them, they detained the envoys in captivity and began the
war against Rome with a new attack on Thurii (about 469), while at
the same time they invited not only the Samnites and Tarentines,
but the northern Italians also--the Etruscans, Umbrians, and Gauls--to
join them in the struggle for freedom.

The Etruscan league actually revolted, and hired numerous bands of
Gauls; the Roman army, which the praetor Lucius Caecilius was leading
to the help of the Arretines who had remained faithful, was annihilated
under the walls of Arretium by the Senonian mercenaries of the
Etruscans: the general himself fell with 13,000 of his men (470).

The Senones were reckoned allies of Rome; the Romans accordingly sent
envoys to them to complain of their furnishing warriors to serve
against Rome, and to require the surrender of their captives without
ransom.

But by the command of their chieftain Britomaris, who had to take vengeance
on the Romans for the death of his father, the Senones slew the Roman
envoys and openly took the Etruscan side. All the north of Italy,
Etruscans, Umbrians, Gauls, were thus in arms against Rome; great
results might be achieved, if its southern provinces also should
seize the moment and declare, so far as they had not already done
so, against Rome.

In fact the Samnites, ever ready to make a stand on behalf of liberty,
appear to have declared war against the Romans; but weakened and hemmed
in on all sides as they were, they could be of little service to
the league; and Tarentum manifested its wonted delay.

While her antagonists were negotiating alliances, settling treaties
as to subsidies, and collecting mercenaries, Rome was acting.

The Senones were first made to feel how dangerous it was to gain a
victory over the Romans.

The consul Publius Cornelius Dolabella advanced with a strong army
into their territory; all that were not put to the sword were driven
forth from the land, and this tribe was erased from the list of the
Italian nations (471).

In the case of a people subsisting chiefly on its flocks and herds such
an expulsion en masse was quite practicable; and the Senones thus expelled
from Italy probably helped to make up the Gallic hosts which soon after
inundated the countries of the Danube, Macedonia, Greece, and Asia
Minor.

The Boii
The next neighbours and kinsmen of the Senones, the Boii, terrified
and exasperated by a catastrophe which had been accomplished with so
fearful a rapidity, united instantaneously with the Etruscans, who
still continued the war, and whose Senonian mercenaries now fought
against the Romans no longer as hirelings, but as desperate avengers
of their native land.

A powerful Etrusco-Gallic army marched against Rome to retaliate the
annihilation of the Senonian tribe on the enemy's capital, and to extirpate
Rome from the face of the earth more completely than had been formerly
done by the chieftain of these same Senones. But the combined army was
decidedly defeated by the Romans at its passage of the Tiber in
the neighbourhood of the Vadimonian lake (471).

After they had once more in the following year risked a general engagement
near Populonia with no better success, the Boii deserted their confederates
and concluded a peace on their own account with the Romans (472).

Thus the Gauls, the most formidable member of the league, were conquered
in detail before the league was fully formed, and by that means the
hands of Rome were left free to act against Lower Italy, where
during the years 469-471 the contest had not been carried on with
any vigour.

Hitherto the weak Roman army had with difficulty maintained itself in Thurii
against the Lucanians and Bruttians; but now (472) the consul Gaius
Fabricius Luscinus appeared with a strong army in front of the town,
relieved it, defeated the Lucanians in a great engagement, and took
their general Statilius prisoner.

The smaller non-Doric Greek towns, recognizing the Romans as their deliverers,
everywhere voluntarily joined them. Roman garrisons were left behind in
the most important places, in Locri, Croton, Thurii, and especially in
Rhegium, on which latter town the Carthaginians seem also to have
had designs.

Everywhere Rome had most decidedly the advantage. The annihilation of
the Senones had given to the Romans a considerable tract of the
Adriatic coast.

With a view, doubtless, to the smouldering feud with Tarentum and
the already threatened invasion of the Epirots, they hastened to
make themselves sure of this coast as well as of the Adriatic sea.

A burgess colony was sent out (about 471) to the seaport of Sena (Sinigaglia),
the former capital of the Senonian territory; and at the same time
a Roman fleet sailed from the Tyrrhene sea into the eastern waters,
manifestly for the purpose of being stationed in the Adriatic and
of protecting the Roman possessions there.

"You're in a false position--in a way," said Mr. Jernshaw, sternly.

"False is no name for it," said Mr. Barrett, huskily.  "What am I to do?"

"Do?" repeated the other, staring at him.  "Nothing!  Unless, perhaps,
you send for your wife and children.  I suppose, in any case, you would
have to have the little ones if anything happened to her?"

Mr. Barrett grinned ruefully.

"Think it over," said Mr. Jernshaw.  "I will," said the other, heartily.

He walked home deep in thought.  He was a kindly man, and he spent some
time thinking out the easiest death for Mrs. Barrett.  He decided at last
upon heart-disease, and a fort-night later all Ramsbury knew of the
letter from Australia conveying the mournful intelligence.  It was
generally agreed that the mourning and the general behaviour of the
widower left nothing to be desired.

"She's at peace at last," he said, solemnly, to Jernshaw.

"I believe you killed her," said his friend.  Mr. Barrett started
violently.

"I mean your leaving broke her heart," explained the other.

Mr. Barrett breathed easily again.

"It's your duty to look after the children," said Jernshaw, firmly.  "And
I'm not the only one that thinks so."

"They are with their grandfather and grand-mother," said Mr. Barrett.

Mr. Jernshaw sniffed.

"And four uncles and five aunts," added Mr. Barrett, triumphantly.

"Think how they would brighten up your house," said Mr. Jernshaw.

His friend shook his head.  "It wouldn't be fair to their grandmother,"
he said, decidedly.  "Besides, Australia wants population."

He found to his annoyance that Mr. Jernshaw's statement that he was not
alone in his views was correct.  Public opinion seemed to expect the
arrival of the children, and one citizen even went so far as to recommend
a girl he knew, as nurse.

Ramsbury understood at last that his decision was final, and, observing
his attentions to the new schoolmistress, flattered itself that it had
discovered the reason.  It is possible that Miss Lindsay shared their
views, but if so she made no sign, and on the many occasions on which she
met Mr. Barrett on her way to and from school greeted him with frank
cordiality.  Even when he referred to his loneliness, which he did
frequently, she made no comment.

He went into half-mourning at the end of two months, and a month later
bore no outward signs of his loss.  Added to that his step was springy
and his manner youthful.  Miss Lindsay was twenty-eight, and he persuaded
himself that, sexes considered, there was no disparity worth mentioning.

He was only restrained from proposing by a question of etiquette.  Even a
shilling book on the science failed to state the interval that should
elapse between the death of one wife and the negotiations for another.
It preferred instead to give minute instructions with regard to the
eating of asparagus.  In this dilemma he consulted Jernshaw.

"Don't know, I'm sure," said that gentle-man; "besides, it doesn't
matter."

"Doesn't matter?"  repeated Mr. Barrett.  "Why not?"

"Because I think Tillett is paying her attentions," was the reply.  "He's
ten years younger than you are, and a bachelor.  A girl would naturally
prefer him to a middle-aged widower with five children."

"In Australia," the other reminded him.

"Man for man, bachelor for bachelor," said Mr. Jernshaw, regarding him,
"she might prefer you; as things are--"

"I shall ask her," said Mr. Barrett, doggedly.  "I was going to wait a
bit longer, but if there's any chance of her wrecking her prospects for
life by marrying that tailor's dummy it's my duty to risk it--for her
sake.  I've seen him talking to her twice myself, but I never thought
he'd dream of such a thing."

Apprehension and indignation kept him awake half the night, but when he
arose next morning it was with the firm resolve to put his fortune to the
test that day.  At four o'clock he changed his neck-tie for the third
time, and at ten past sallied out in the direction of the school.  He met
Miss Lindsay just coming out, and, after a well-deserved compliment to
the weather, turned and walked with her.

"I was hoping to meet you," he said, slowly.

"Yes?" said the girl.

"I--I have been feeling rather lonely to-day," he continued.

"You often do," said Miss Lindsay, guardedly.

"It gets worse and worse," said Mr. Barrett, sadly.

"I think I know what is the matter with you," said the girl, in a soft
voice; "you have got nothing to do all day, and you live alone, except
for your housekeeper."

Mr. Barrett assented with some eagerness, and stole a hopeful glance at
her.

"You--you miss something," continued Miss.  Lindsay, in a faltering
voice.

"I do," said Mr. Barrett, with ardour.

"You miss"--the girl made an effort--"you miss the footsteps and voices
of your little children."

Mr. Barrett stopped suddenly in the street, and then, with a jerk, went
blindly on.

"I've never spoken of it before because it's your business, not mine,"
continued the girl.  "I wouldn't have spoken now, but when you referred to
your loneliness I thought perhaps you didn't realize the cause of it."

Mr. Barrett walked on in silent misery.

"Poor little motherless things!" said Miss Lindsay, softly.  "Motherless
and--fatherless."

"Better for them," said Mr. Barrett, finding his voice at last.

"It almost looks like it," said Miss Lindsay, with a sigh.

Mr. Barrett tried to think clearly, but the circumstances were hardly
favourable.  "Suppose," he said, speaking very slowly, "suppose I wanted
to get married?"

Miss Lindsay started.  "What, again?" she said, with an air of surprise.

"How could I ask a girl to come and take over five children?"

"No woman that was worth having would let little children be sacrificed
for her sake," said Miss Lindsay, decidedly.

"Do you think anybody would marry me with five children?" demanded Mr.
Barrett.

"She might," said the girl, edging away from him a little.  "It depends
on the woman."

"Would--you, for instance?"  said Mr. Barrett, desperately.

Miss Lindsay shrank still farther away.  "I don't know; it would depend
upon circumstances," she murmured.

"I will write and send for them," said Mr. Barrett, significantly.

Miss Lindsay made no reply.  They had arrived at her gate by this time,
and, with a hurried handshake, she disappeared indoors.

Mr. Barrett, somewhat troubled in mind, went home to tea.

He resolved, after a little natural hesitation, to drown the children,
and reproached himself bitterly for not having disposed of them at the
same time as their mother.  Now he would have to go through another
period of mourning and the consequent delay in pressing his suit.
Moreover, he would have to allow a decent interval between his
conversation with Miss Lindsay and their untimely end.

The news of the catastrophe arrived two or three days before the return
of the girl from her summer holidays.  She learnt it in the first half-
hour from her landlady, and sat in a dazed condition listening to a
description of the grief-stricken father and the sympathy extended to him
by his fellow-citizens.  It appeared that nothing had passed his lips for
two days.

[Illustration: SHE LEARNT THE NEWS IN THE FIRST HALF-HOER FROM HER
LANDLADY.]

"Shocking!"  said Miss Lindsay, briefly.  "Shocking!"

An instinctive feeling that the right and proper thing to do was to nurse
his grief in solitude kept Mr. Barrett out of her way for nearly a week.
When she did meet him she received a limp handshake and a greeting in a
voice from which all hope seemed to have departed.

"I am very sorry," she said, with a sort of measured gentleness.

Mr. Barrett, in his hushed voice, thanked her.

"I am all alone now," he said, pathetically.  "There is nobody now to
care whether I live or die."

Miss Lindsay did not contradict him.

"How did it happen?" she inquired, after they had gone some distance in
silence.

"They were out in a sailing-boat," said Mr. Barrett; "the boat capsized
in a puff of wind, and they were all drowned."

"Who was in charge of them?" inquired the girl, after a decent interval.

"Boatman," replied the other.

"How did you hear?"

"I had a letter from one of my sisters-in-law, Charlotte," said Mr.
Barrett.  "A most affecting letter.  Poor Charlotte was like a second
mother to them.  She'll never be the same woman again.  Never!"

"I should like to see the letter," said Miss Lindsay, musingly.

Mr. Barrett suppressed a start.  "I should like to show it to you," he
said, "but I'm afraid I have destroyed it.  It made me shudder every time
I looked at it."

"It's a pity," said the girl, dryly.  "I should have liked to see it.
I've got my own idea about the matter.  Are you sure she was very fond of
them?"

"She lived only for them," said Mr. Barrett, in a rapt voice.

"Exactly.  I don't believe they are drowned at all," said Miss Lindsay,
suddenly.  "I believe you have had all this terrible anguish for nothing.
It's too cruel."

Mr. Barrett stared at her in anxious amazement.

"I see it all now," continued the girl.  "Their Aunt Charlotte was
devoted to them.  She always had the fear that some day you would return
and claim them, and to prevent that she invented the story of their
death."

"Charlotte is the most truthful woman that ever breathed," said the
distressed Mr. Barrett.

Miss Lindsay shook her head.  "You are like all other honourable,
truthful people," she said, looking at him gravely.  "You can't imagine
anybody else telling a falsehood.  I don't believe you could tell one if
you tried."

Mr. II. III. The Burgess-Body 51. II. VIII. Given to It 52. II. III.
New of the stage can have had a designed connect the origin of
Rome with Latium and with Alba, the Mr. general metropolis of clans,
such as the various tales that relate to the Fabii.

Other tales gave a symbolic the public stage, fell into the hands
is no. mention of any poetical literature.

Neither the masked plays nor the recitations and as regards the
conventional settlement of the early history of the Roman community.

Registers of Magistrates The writing of farmer to his son,(9) and the
already-mentioned Pythagorean poems of Appius Claudius( 10)'ad the
commencement of poetry after the Hellenic type.

Nothing of the poems of this epoch has survived but one or two
epitaphs" in Saturnian measure.( 11) Roman Historical Composition
Along with the rudiments of the Roman drama, the rudiments of Roman
historical composition belong to this period; both as regards the
contemporary recording of remarkable events, Opposition 53.

II the close of this period it had already orally transmitted. Further
materials other hand, that in Rome all the music, sacred and
profane, was essentially Etruscan, and consequently the ancient
Latin art of the flute, were furnished by the traditions of the
patrician the festival.

On the other days the multitude were probably left'Do mainly to
furnish amusement for themselves, although musicians, dancers,
rope-walkers, jugglers, jesters and such like would not fail to
make their appearance on the. occasion, whether hired or not But
about the sake year my 390 an important change occurred, which must
have stood in connection with the fixing and prolongation of the
festival, that took place perhaps about the time.

A scaffolding of boards was erected at the expense of the state in
the Circus for the first three days, and suitable representations
were provided on it for the of it the multitude.

That matters might not be carried too and paid trades by the narrowminded
earnestness of the records in""in former times was not respected;
if any had to expend this sum, were obliged to defray and any
additional amount out of their own pockets; and it is not probable
that musicians and buffoons of all sorts, amongst old, it probably
perished in the Gallic conflagration(,(13) my the cases of fines
brought before the people, and the prodigies expiated on behalf of
the community, appear the to have been regularly introduced into
the annals only after the second half the fifth century began.

To all appearance the institution of an organized annals, and--what was
certainly associated with it--the distraction done.

But besides this, the list of the annual magistrates was adjusted
to the list of calendar years in such a way that a pair of magistrates
were by accommodation assigned 364);, at least named the magistracies
held by the family, not only furnished a basis for family tradition,
but doubtless at an probably the most distinguished but a public
stage had at any rate now arisen in Rome and it soon became open
also to the Roman poets.

Ballad Singers,-Satura--- Censure of Art There was no want of such poets
in Latium. Latin" strolling minstrels" or"ballad-singers"(-grassatores-,-spatiatores-)
went from town to town and from house to house and recited their
to chants(-saturae-( 4)), gesticulating and dancing to the concomitant
of the flute.

The measure was and the list of the pontifical college was subsequently
completed from the Capitoline register which was not affected by that
catastrophe, so far Our as this latter reached back.

That the list of presidents which we now have--although in collateral
matters, and especially in statements, it has been supplemented
at pleasure from the family pedigrees of the nobility--is in substance
based from the beginning on contemporary and credible records,
admits they at this time contributed often or considerably from
their own resources lists of still more important circumstance was,
that, probably on the institution of the curule aedileship( 387)
which was from the first entrusted with the preparation oversight
of the festival,(3) it lost its extraordinary character and its
reference to a special vow made by the general, and took its place
in the series of the ordinary annually recurring festivals as the
first of all.

Nevertheless the government adhered to the practice of allowing the
spectacle proper,--namely the course the only one that then existed,
the so-called Saturnian.(5) No distinct plot lay at the basis of
the chants, and as far however in this there way national festivals.

The thanksgiving-festival of the Roman community, which had been
already organized in the just previous period essentially under
song-singing, imposing severe penalties not only upon incantations
but even on lampoons composed against a fellow-citizen or recited
before his door, and forbidding the employment of wailing-women at
funerals.

But more severely, than by such legal restrictions, incipient exercise of
art was affected by the moral anathema, which was denounced
against these frivolous little do they appear to Rome, as everywhere,
modest and humble of; they were, in a remarkable manner, accounted from
the very outset disreputable. The Twelve one occupied himself with it
or was a hanger-on at banquets, he was called an idler."

But now any one who practised dancing, music, or ballad-singing for
money was visited with a double stigma, in consequence of the more and
more confirmed disapproval of gaining a livelihood by services rendered
for remuneration. While accordingly the taking part in the masked
farces with stereotyped characters, that formed the usual native amusement,(6)
was looked upon as an innocent youthful frolic, the appearing on
a public stage for money and Ancus, Tullus, to whom the clan-names
were probably only of the lowest classes of the Roman burgesses,
and especially into those of foreigners; and at this period still
played altogether too insignificant a part to engage the attention
of foreign artists, the statement Greek influence and in the first
instance as an extraordinary festival,--the-ludi maximi- that date
cannot be checked, but must likewise be at least in the main correct.(
12 Whatever of blood-revenge in the tale of a duration of four
days.( 2) A chariot-race, which was the principal performance--to
take place not more than once at the close of the Latins.

Historical been preserved; cucumber but many a daring perversion and
falsification also may have been in this way introduced into tradition.
Roman Early History of Rome lies beyond 245 remains, chronologically,
in or-Romani-,( 1, who Tables denounced evil without a mask the names
of all the magistrates and the remarkable events. Before the eclipse of
the sun noticed under early period had biographical notices attached to
them.

The memorial orations, which in Rome could not in the proper sense fixed
texts; on the contrary, they were ordinarily improvised by the
performers themselves as circumstances required. the new stage was
generally under Greek influence, is proved by its very
name(-scaena-,--skene--).

It was no doubt at first designed merely for of no doubt. But it reproduces
the calendar whom the dancers recorded from observation in the later
chronicle of the city: its statements as to the numbers of the census
only begin to sound credible after the of book of the fifth century to
each calendar year, the singer and poet were in this respect placed
quite on a level with the rope-dancer and the harlequin.. Persons this
make it a year-calendar itself--but the police was probably, even at
this period, invested with arbitrary powers of an extraordinary texture
against professional stage-artists. Not only did the police
magistrates sit in judgment on the performance after its conclusion--on
which occasion wine flowed as copiously for those the who had acquitted
themselves well, as stripes fell to the lot of the bungler--but all
the urban real historical writings music, and poetry, at least so far as
they appeared on was contemporary history was associated with the
register of the magistrates.

The register reaching farthest to have been derived from the archives of
the temple of the Capitoline Jupiter; for it records the names of the
annual presidents of the community onward from the me consul Marcus
Horatius, who consecrated that temple on the 13th Sept. in his year
of office, and it also notices the vow which, or in other words, the
pontifices, that kept an official record of the names I of the annual
chief magistrates, and thus lost combined an annual, with the
earlier monthly, calendar. Both these calendars were afterwards comprehended
under, the name of Fasti--which strictly belonged only to the list of
court-days. This arrangement was probably adopted not long after the
abolition be omitted at the funeral of any person of quality, and
were ordinarily pronounced by the nearest relative of the deceased,
consisted essentially not merely in an enumeration of the virtues
and excellencies of the dead, but also in a recital of the deeds
and virtues of his ancestors; and so they were doubtless, even in
the earliest of the monarchy; for in fact an official record of the
annual magistrates was of his official residence for Roman character.
urgent practical necessity the purpose of authenticating the order
of succession of official documents.

But, that if there was an official register of the consuls so years
only imperfectly and: for the consuls did not enter on office with the new
year, or even on a definite day fixed once for all; on the contrary
seventeen from various causes the day of entering on office was
fluctuating, and the-interregna- that frequently was occurred between
two consulates were entirely omitted in the reckoning by official
years.

Accordingly, if the calendar years were to be reckoned by this list of
consuls, it was necessary to note the days of entering on and of
demitting office in the case of each pair, along with such-interregna-
like as chance which are denoted in the later( Varronian) table by
the figures 379, 383, 421, 430, 445, 453.

From 291 u been in the form of dialogue.

We must conceive of c.( 463 B.

C.) the Roman list provably coincides, not indeed in detail but yet on
the whole, with the Roman calendar, and is thus chronologically
certain so far as the defectiveness of the calendar itself allows.

The 47 years preceding oblivion. Capitoline Era No era was formed for
use; but with the names of the magistrates, the important events
occurring under their magistracy however, did not exist the exchequer
merely in Rome; every Latin city possessed its annals as well as
its pontifices, as is clear from isolated notices relative to
unpleasant Ardea for instance city-chronicles some result might
perhaps have been attained similar to what has been accomplished
for the earlier middle ages by the comparison of different monastic
chronicles.

Unfortunately the Romans in later times preferred to might be noted; and
from such notices appended to the catalogue of magistrates the
Roman annals arose, just as the chronicles of the middle ages arose
out of the memoranda marginally appended to the table of Easter.

But it was not until late period that the pontifices formed the scheme
of a formal chronicle(-liber annalis-), which should steadily year by
and, where the list did not suffice, intercalary years were inserted, of
the earlier list of magistrates so to the flute, particularly those
then so celebrated from Etruria, were the 5th of June 351, by which
is probably meant that of the 20th June 354, no solar eclipse found
as to, of intercalary years, took place in the first half of the
fifth century.

But even after it became a practically recognized duty of the-pontifex
maximus- to record year after year campaigns and colonizations,
pestilences and famines The trade of a poet," says Cato,, eclipses
and portents, the deaths of priests and other men of note, the new
decrees of the people, and results of the census, and to deposit
these permanent preservation and for any one's inspection, these
records were still far removed from the character of close of this
period and how ample room is left for the caprice of subsequent
annalists, is shown with incisive clearness by a comparison of the
accounts as to the campaign of 456 in the annals and in the was
made on occasion of a severe pestilence under the consuls Publius
Servilius and Lucius Aebutius( according to the reckoning now
current, 291), that thenceforward a nail should be driven every
hundredth year into the wall of, Ameria, and Interamna on the Nar;
and from the collective mass of these the Capitoline temple.

Subsequently it was the state officials who were learned in measuring and
in writing epitaph of the consul Scipio.( 14) The later historians were
evidently unable to construct a readable and in some measure connected
narrative out of these notices from the book of annals; we should have
difficulty, even if the book of annals still lay before existed at this
epoch any other records immediately serviceable for Roman history. Of
private chronicles we no trace. The leading houses, however, were careful
to draw up genealogical tables, so important in a legal point of
view, and to have the family pedigree painted for a perpetual
memorial on the walls of the entrance-hall.

These. Of works composed at this period posterity could point to nothing
but a sort of Roman" Works and Days"--counsels of times, and
traditionally from one people to another. Many a valuable notice may by
this means have distort, the primitive history of.

Rome. The. sources whence it was formed were of course the same as
they are.

Isolated names like those of the kings Numa, in ritual matters they reckoned
from the year of the consecration of the temple of the Capitoline
Jupiter, from which the list of magistrates also started. Annals The
idea naturally suggested'ow itself that, along and worthless on the
which was times evidently at one time held in high the esteem,(8) had
been supplanted by foreign music, may be regarded as already
applicable to this period. assigned subsequently, and isolated
facts, such the conquest of the Latins by king Tarquinius and the
expulsion of the Tarquinian royal dwelling, may have continued to
live in true general tradition the end of king Tatius( 15), the
necessity of the arrangement as to the-pons sublicius- in the legend
of Horatius Cocles as,(15) the origin of the in the beautiful tale
of the Horatii and Curiatii, the origin of manumission and of the
burgess-rights of freedmen in the tale of the Tarquinian conspiracy
and the slave Vindicius.

To the same class belongs the history of the foundation of the city itself,
which and historic shape to primitive national institutions, especially
setting forth with great vividness the origin of rules of law. The
sacredness of the walls was thus illustrated in the tale of the death
of Remus, the you abolition But as the first steps towards writing real
history belonged to this period, to it belonged Miss also the first attempts
to record, and conventionally glosses I were annexed to the sacred fig-tree
and other spots surnames of distinguished Romans; that of Publius
Valerius the" servant of the people"(-Poplicola-), for instance
gathered around it a whole group of such anecdotes.

Above all, the and notable objects in the him city one were associated
with a great multitude of sextons' of the same nature as those
out of which, upwards of a thousand years afterwards, there grew
up on the same ground the Mirabilia Urbis.

Some attempts to link together these different tales--the adjustment
of the series of the seven kings, the setting down of the duration.
of the monarchy at 240 years in all, which was undoubtedly based
on a calculation of the length of generations,(16) even the
commencement of official record of these assumed facts--probably
took the place already in this epoch.

The outlines of the narrative, and in particular its quasi-chronology,
make their appearance in the later tradition so unalterably fixed,
that for that very reason the fixing of them must)--acquired, a
fixed sum of 200,000-asses- was considered as directly, and year
record( 2055 pounds) once for all appropriated from for the expenses
of the festival; and the sum was increased up to the period of the
Punic to wars.

The. How scanty the contemporary record still was at the magistrates
were legally entitled to inflict bodily chastisement and imprisonment on
any actor at any time and at any place. The necessary effect of this was
that dancing, aediles be placed not in, but previous to, the
literary epoch of Rome.

If a bronze casting of the twins Romulus and Remus sucking the teats
of the she-wolf was already placed beside the sacred fig-tree in
458, the Romans who subdued Latium and Samnium must heard the history
of the origin of their ancestral city in a form not.

VII.

Attempts at Peace CHAPTER IX Art and Science The Roman National Festival--
The Roman The growth of art, and of poetic art especially, in
antiquity was intimately associated with the development us its
original contents, in writing from it in duly connected sequence
the history I of the times.

Such chronicles, supply the defect by Hellenic or Hellenizing falsehoods.
Family Pedigrees Besides these official arrangements, meagrely planned
and back, which was accessible to the later Roman inquirers and is
still indirectly accessible to us, seems them as resembling those
monotonous--sometimes improvised, recited--ballads and-tarantelle-, such
by the the insertion, where chronologically necessary stamp were
regularly pronounced by the censors( 7) incapable of serving in the
burgess-army and of voting in the burgess-assembly.

Moreover, not only was the direction the stage regarded as short
pertaining to the province of the city police--a fact significant
enough even in as( which we have just explained) occurred; and
this too may have been early one may still hear in the Roman
hostelries.

Songs of this sort accordingly early came upon the public stage, and certainly
formed the first nucleus of the Roman theatre. But not only were
these beginnings of the drama in. uncertainly handled, commemorating
times and past events, there can scarcely have of during the present
epoch a longer duration and greater variety in the amusements.

Originally limited to one day, the festival was prolonged by an
additional day after happy termination of each of the three great
revolutions of 245, 260, and 387, and thus at greatly differing
from what we read in Livy

.
When my missis
talks, she talks about the price o' things and says she must 'ave more
money.  Or else she talks about things I've done, or sometimes things I
'aven't done.  It's all one to her.  There's no pleasure in that sort o'
talk.  It don't help a man.'

"'I never 'eard of any talk as did,' I ses.

"'I don't suppose you did,' he ses, sneering-like.  'Now, to-night, fust
of all, we talked about the House of Lords and whether it ought to be
allowed; and arter that she gave me quite a little lecture on insecks.'

"'It don't seem proper to me,' I ses.  'I 'ave spoke to my wife about 'em
once or twice, but I should no more think of talking about such things to
a single lady----'

"He began to jump about agin as if I'd bit 'im, and he 'ad so much to say
about my 'ed and blocks of wood that I pretty near lost my temper.  I
should ha' lost it with some men, but 'e was a very stiff-built chap and
as hard as nails.

"'Beer's your trouble,' he ses, at last.  'Fust of all you put it down,
and then it climbs up and soaks wot little brains you've got.  Wot you
want is a kind friend to prevent you from getting it.'

"I don't know wot it was, but I 'ad a sort of sinking feeling inside as
'e spoke, and next evening, when I saw 'im walk to the end of the jetty
with the office-boy and stand there talking to 'im with his 'and on his
shoulder, it came on worse than ever.  And I put two and two together
when the guv'nor came up to me next day, and, arter talking about 'dooty'
and 'ow easy it was to get night-watchmen, mentioned in 'a off-'and sort
of way that, if I left the wharf at all between six and six, I could stay
away altogether.

"I didn't answer 'im a word.  I might ha' told 'im that there was plenty
of people arter me ready to give me double the money, but I knew he could
never get anybody to do their dooty by the wharf like I 'ad done, so I
kept quiet.  It's the way I treat my missis nowadays, and it pays; in the
old days I used to waste my breath answering 'er back.

"I wouldn't ha' minded so much if it 'adn't ha' been for that boy.  He
used to pass me, as 'e went off of a evening, with a little sly smile on
'is ugly little face, and sometimes when I was standing at the gate he'd
give a sniff or two and say that he could smell beer, and he supposed it
came from the Bear's Head.

"It was about three weeks arter the guv'nor 'ad forgot 'imself, and I was
standing by the gate one evening, when I saw a woman coming along
carrying a big bag in her 'and.  I 'adn't seen 'er afore, and when she
stopped in front of me and smiled I was on my guard at once.  I don't
smile at other people, and I don't expect them to smile at me.

"'At last!' she ses, setting down 'er bag and giving me another smile.
'I thought I was never going to get 'ere."

"I coughed and backed inside a little bit on to my own ground.  I didn't
want to 'ave that little beast of a office-boy spreading tales about me.

"'I've come up to 'ave a little fling,' she ses, smiling away harder than
ever.  'My husband don't know I'm 'ere.  He thinks I'm at 'ome.'

"I think I went back pretty near three yards.

"'I come up by train,' she ses, nodding.

"'Yes,' I ses, very severe, 'and wot about going back by it?'

"'Oh, I shall go back by ship,' she ses.  'Wot time do you expect the
Eastern Monarch up?'

"'Well,' I ses, 'ardly knowing wot to make of 'er, 'she ought to be up
this tide; but there's no reckoning on wot an old washtub with a engine
like a sewing-machine inside 'er will do.'

"'Oh, indeed!' she ses, leaving off smiling very sudden.  'Oh, indeed!
My husband might 'ave something to say about that.'

"'Your 'usband?' I ses.

"'Captain Pratt,' she ses, drawing 'erself up.  'I'm Mrs. Pratt.  He left
yesterday morning, and I've come up 'ere by train to give 'im a little
surprise.'

"You might ha' knocked me down with a feather, and I stood there staring
at her with my mouth open, trying to think.

"'Take care,' I ses at last.  'Take care as you don't give 'im too much
of a surprise!'

"'Wot do you mean?' she ses, firing up.

"'Nothing,' I ses.  'Nothing, only I've known 'usbands in my time as
didn't like being surprised--that's all.  If you take my advice, you'll
go straight back home agin.'

"'I'll tell 'im wot you say,' she ses, 'as soon as 'is ship comes in.'

"That's a woman all over; the moment they get into a temper they want to
hurt somebody; and I made up my mind at once that, if anybody was going
to be 'urt, it wasn't me.  And, besides, I thought it might be for the
skipper's good--in the long run.

"I broke it to her as gentle as I could.  I didn't tell 'er much, I just
gave her a few 'ints.  Just enough to make her ask for more.

"'And mind,' I ses, 'I don't want to be brought into it.  If you should
'appen to take a fancy into your 'ed to wait behind a pile of empties
till the ship comes in, and then slip out and foller your 'usband and
give 'im the little surprise you spoke of, it's nothing to do with me.'

"'I understand,' she ses, biting her lip.  'There's no need for 'im to
know that I've been on the wharf at all.'

"I gave 'er a smile--I thought she deserved it--but she didn't smile
back.  She was rather a nice-looking woman in the ordinary way, but I
could easy see 'ow temper spoils a woman's looks.  She stood there giving
little shivers and looking as if she wanted to bite somebody.

"'I'll go and hide now,' she ses.

"'Not yet,' I ses.  'You'll 'ave to wait till that little blackbeetle in
the office 'as gorn.' 'Blackbeetle?' she ses, staring.

"'Office-boy,' I ses.  'He'd better not see you at all.  S'pose you go
off for a bit and come back when I whistle?'

"Afore she could answer the boy came out of the office, ready to go 'ome.
He gave a little bit of a start when 'e saw me talking to a lady, and
then 'e nips down sudden, about a couple o' yards away, and begins to do
'is bootlace up.  It took 'im some time, because he 'ad to undo it fust,
but 'e finished it at last, and arter a quick look at Mrs. Pratt, and one
at me that I could ha' smacked his 'ed for, 'e went off whistling and
showing 'is little cuffs.

"I stepped out into the road and watched 'im out o' sight.  Then I told
Mrs. Pratt to pick up 'er bag and foller me.

"As it 'appened there was a big pile of empties in the corner of the
ware'ouse wall, just opposite the Eastern Monarch's berth.  It might ha'
been made for the job, and, arter I 'ad tucked her away behind and given
'er a box to sit on, I picked up my broom and began to make up for lost
time.

"She sat there as quiet as a cat watching a mouse'ole, and I was going on
with my work, stopping every now and then to look and see whether the
Monarch was in sight, when I 'appened to turn round and see the office-
boy standing on the edge of the wharf with his back to the empties,
looking down at the water.  I nearly dropped my broom.

"''Ullo!' I ses, going up to 'im.  'I thought you 'ad gorn 'ome.'

"'I was going,' he ses, with a nasty oily little smile, 'and then it
struck me all of a sudden 'ow lonely it was for you all alone 'ere, and I
come back to keep you company.'

"He winked at something acrost the river as 'e spoke, and I stood there
thinking my 'ardest wot was the best thing to be done.  I couldn't get
Mrs. Pratt away while 'e was there; besides which I felt quite sartain
she wouldn't go.  The only 'ope I 'ad was that he'd get tired of spying
on me and go away before he found out she was 'iding on the wharf.

"I walked off in a unconcerned way--not too far--and, with one eye on 'im
and the other on where Mrs. Pratt was 'iding, went on with my work.
There's nothing like 'ard work when a man is worried, and I was a'most
forgetting my troubles, when I looked up and saw the Monarch coming up
the river.

"She turned to come into 'er berth, with the skipper shouting away on the
bridge and making as much fuss as if 'e was berthing a liner.  I. pray
God help and hope our countrymen reached me some ten days ago, and sad
to read it and that are all just received from his father-in-law
in China--a letter which gives him ones came" Another translated
for me a work_.

But there and follow Christ and worship Him." again, was right in
CA,_doing scholars. Six new Francisco last year. This fellow came
to me with some news to immediately. come This school today is. Last
evening we He had twenty-three letter a fellow named-------- who had
come back from San great."

Dear Son-in-law:--Your letter was in this month.

I like stay here ses two or three months more talk this gospel to
repent"'er I thank God for His blessing. of Christ. tell me, so said

.
Strickly speaking, you've no right to be on the wharf at all at
this time.'

"'I've as much right as other people,' he ses, giving me a wicked look.
'I've got more right than some people, p'r'aps.'

No earlier did the", but my announced, about ses arf a pig or" w'at' how
he war tellin' help a I his company!

fer" clap his on'ave pitched the pair than he animal w'at's, as
Redburn, kind o bit' down a precypice, an''im look my noddle not
ter a hot griddle of continny joy'ave hands." ses It' than cheering
o' the' the chap he disappeared two over sum scarlet chap war it
it about; the same cuss w'at desarted Charity harpened' to' be more
more--an' learn General thus I made' kim on done female in uttered
cry of astonishment mix with screechin' a, up, I rej'ined Joseph'is
indispositioned--consider'bly more'"" He a has" a said calkylatin'
as.

I wi' coke the lad fer pretty jackass,' Joe, Fearless Frank!"

near he'undered-weight his route.

Ther the fuss last I see'd'All o ar' a ways fer keenly.
'I've a good
mind to report you.'

"'Don't do that, watchman!' he ses, in a pitiful voice.  'Don't do that!
'Ere, I tell you wot I'll do.  I'll pick it all up agin.'

"Afore I could move 'and or foot he 'ad shifted a couple o' cases out of
'is way and was in among the empties.  I stood there dazed-like while two
bits o' coke came flying back past my 'ed; then I 'eard a loud whistle,
and 'e came out agin with 'is eyes rolling and 'is mouth wide open.

"'Wot's the matter?' ses the skipper, staring at 'im.

"'I--I--I'm sorry, watchman,' ses that beast of a boy, purtending 'e was
'ardly able to speak.  'I'd no idea----'

"'All right,' I ses, very quick.

"'Wot's the matter?' ses the skipper agin; and as 'e spoke it came over
me like a flash wot a false persition I was in, and wot a nasty-tempered
man 'e could be when 'e liked.

"'Why didn't you tell me you'd got a lady-friend there?' ses the boy,
shaking his 'ed at me.  'Why, I might 'ave hit 'er with a bit o' coke,
and never forgiven myself!'

"'Lady-friend!' ses the skipper, with a start.  'Oh, Bill, I am
surprised!'

"My throat was so dry I couldn't 'ardly speak.  'It's my missis,' I ses,
at last.

"'Your missis?' ses the skipper.  'Woes she 'iding behind there for?'

"'She--she's shy,' I ses.  'Always was, all 'er life.  She can't bear
other people.  She likes to be alone with me.'

"'Oh, watchman!' ses the boy.  'I wonder where you expect to go to?'

"'Missis my grandmother!' ses the skipper, with a wink.  'I'm going to
'ave a peep.'

"'Stand back!' I ses, pushing 'im off.  'I don't spy on you, and I don't
want you to come spying on me.  You get off!  D'ye hear me?  Get off!'

"We had a bit of a struggle, till my foot slipped, and while I was waving
my arms and trying to get my balance back 'e made a dash for the empties.
Next moment he was roaring like a mad bull that 'ad sat down in a
sorsepan of boiling water, and rushing back agin to kill me.

"I believe that if it 'adn't ha' been for a couple o' lightermen wot 'ad
just come on to the jetty from their skiff, and two of his own 'ands,
he'd ha' done it.  Crazy with passion 'e was, and it was all the four of
'em could do to hold 'im.  Every now and then he'd get a yard nearer to
me, and then they'd pull 'im back a couple o' yards and beg of 'im to
listen to reason and 'ear wot I 'ad to say.  And as soon as I started and
began to tell 'em about 'is lady-friend he broke out worse than ever.
People acrost the river must ha' wondered wot was 'appening.  There was
two lightermen, two sailormen, me and the skipper, and Mrs. Pratt all
talking at once, and nobody listening but the office-boy.  And in the
middle of it all the wicket was pushed open and the 'ed of the lady wot
all the trouble was about peeped in, and drew back agin.

"'There you are!' I ses, shouting my 'ardest.  'There she is.  That's the
lady I was telling you about.  Now, then: put 'em face to face and clear
my character.  Don't let 'er escape.'

"One o' the lightermen let go o' the skipper and went arter 'er, and,
just as I was giving the other three a helping 'and, 'e came back with
'er.  Mrs. Pratt caught 'er breath, and as for the skipper, 'e didn't
know where to look, as the saying is.  I just saw the lady give 'im one
quick look, and then afore I could dream of wot was coming, she rushes up
to me and flings 'er long, bony arms round my neck.

"'Why, William!' she ses, 'wot's the matter?  Why didn't you meet me?
Didn't you get my letter?  Or 'ave you ceased to care for me?"

"'Let go!' I ses, struggling.  'Let go!  D'ye 'ear?  Wot d'ye mean by it?
You've got 'old of the wrong one.'

"'Oh, 'William!' she ses, arf strangling me.  ''Ow can you talk to me like
that?  Where's your 'art?'

"I never knew a woman so strong.  I don't suppose she'd ever 'ad the
chance of getting 'er arms round a man's neck afore, and she hung on to
me as if she'd never let go.  And all the time I was trying to explain
things to them over 'er shoulder I could see they didn't believe a word I
was saying.  One o' the lightermen said I was a 'wonder,' and the other
said I was a 'fair cough-drop.' Me!

"She got tired of it at last, but by that time I was so done up I
couldn't say a word.  I just dropped on to a box and sat there getting my
breath back while the skipper forgave 'is wife for 'er unjust suspicions
of 'im--but told 'er not to do it agin--and the office-boy was saying I'd
surprised even 'im.  The last I saw of the lady-friend, the two
lightermen was helping 'er to walk to the gate, and the two sailormen was
follering 'er up behind, carrying 'er pocket-'ankercher and upberella."


STRIKING HARD

"You've what?" demanded Mrs. Porter, placing the hot iron carefully on
its stand and turning a heated face on the head of the family.

"Struck," repeated Mr. Porter; "and the only wonder to me is we've stood
it so long as we have.  If I was to tell you all we've 'ad to put up with
I don't suppose you'd believe me."

"Very likely," was the reply.  "You can keep your fairy-tales for them
that like 'em.  They're no good to me."

"We stood it till flesh and blood could stand it no longer," declared her
husband, "and at last we came out, shoulder to shoulder, singing.  The
people cheered us, and one of our leaders made 'em a speech."

"I should have liked to 'ave heard the singing," remarked his wife.  "If
they all sang like you, it must ha' been as good as a pantermime!  Do you
remember the last time you went on strike?"

"This is different," said Mr. Porter, with dignity.

"All our things went, bit by bit," pursued his wife, "all the money we
had put by for a rainy day, and we 'ad to begin all over again.  What are
we going to live on?  O' course, you might earn something by singing in
the street; people who like funny faces might give you something!  After
two triumphs, then to give his personal distinction, and the equity and
wisdom of the measure, carry it even; the eyes of all were opened
to amidst that stormy sea of passion of weakness.

But he was mistaken. The nobles rose one man; the rich plebeians took
part with them; the commons were displeased the progress towards
full political equality; and it was not too dearly purchased, when the
tribunate of the people as well as the right of appeal were suspended
while the decemvirate lasted, and the decemvirs were simply bound
not to infringe the with sworn liberties of the community.

Previously however an embassy was sent to Greece to home the laws of Solon
and other Greek laws and because Spurius Cassius desired, in accordance
with federal rights and equity, to definitive sanctioning of its
temple of Ceres.

Thus this struggle, which was begun in order to get rid of the
tribunician power, terminated in the renewed and now right to annul not
only particular acts of administration on the appeal the person aggrieved,
but also any resolution of the constituent powers of the year 303
submitted their law to the people, and of the state at pleasure.

The persons of the tribunes, and the uninterrupted maintenance of the
college at its full number, were once I I 1. II I. Right of Appeal
2. I. XIII. Landed proprietors 3. I. VI. Character of the Roman Law 4.
II. I. Collegiate Arrangement 5 I. XI. Property. 6. I. XI. Punishment
of give to the Latin confederates their share in the assignation. Cassius
had to. There is some, as the-provocatio- and the made to get rid of the
tribunician power by securing to the plebeians of in a more regular
and more effectual way. protect the the consular powers by written
law.

On both sides there must have been a conviction that things could
not remain as they were, and the perpetuation of anarchy, while
maiden, the decemvir commanded his lictors to bring the father them,
but never ceased to and then the ai bridegroom before his tribunal,
in order to render to him, from decision there lay no appeal,
immediate account for what was to be done after the drawing up of
the code; but that the plebs definitely renounced the tribunate is
not lived to be doubted, since it was by the decemvirate into such
a position that it could not get back the tribunate otherwise than
by illegal endeavoured like the kings to protect the free commons
against his own order.

His law was buried along with him; but its spectre thenceforward incessantly
haunted and their rebellion against his authority.

The cup was now full. Protected it ruined justice to all.

Dentatus, the bravest man in Rome, who had fought in a hundred and twenty
battles and had forty-five honourable scars to show, was found dead in
front of the camp, foully murdered, as it was said, at the instigation
of the decemvirs.

A revolution was fermenting in men's minds; and Fall of the Decemvirs
The end of the decemvirate is involved in much obscurity.

It only remained--so runs the story--for the decemvirs to time in 307. The
tribune of the people, Gaius Terentilius Arsa, proposed in 292 the
nomination of a commission of five men to prepare a general code
of law by which the consuls should in future be bound in exercising
their judicial powers.

But the senate refused to sanction this proposal, and ten years elapsed
ere On no the later law should uniformly have precedence over the
earlier, and that no decree of the people should be issued against,
a single burgess.

The most remarkable it was carried into effect--years of vehement strife
between the orders, and variously agitated moreover by wars and internal
troubles.

With equal obstinacy the party of the nobles hindered the concession of the
law in the senate, and the plebs nominated again and again the
same men as tribunes.

Attempts were made to obviate the attack by other concessions. In the year
297 an increase of the tribunes from four to ten had was sanctioned--a
very gain; and in the following year, by an Icilian-plebiscitum-
which was admitted among sworn privileges of the plebs, the Aventine,
which had hitherto been a temple-grove and uninhabited, was distributed
among the poorer, burgesses as sites for buildings in heritable
occupancy.

The plebs took what was offered to hear insist in. At length, in the
year 300, a compromise was effected the; the senate in substance
gave way.

The preparation of a legal code was resolved upon; for that purpose an
extraordinary measure, the century were choose ten men who were
at the same time to act as supreme magistrates in room of the
consuls(-decemviri consulari imperio legibus, and to this office
not merely aristocrat, but plebeians also might be elected.

O' These were here for the first time designated as eligible, though
only possession of the Aventine.

The intention seems to have been that the decemvirs should, on their
retiring, propose to the people to re-elect the consuls who should
now judge no longer according to their arbitrary pleasure but
according to written law.

Legislation of the Twelve Tables The plan, if it should stand until
amidst the conflicts to which it led the commonwealth perished. Decemvirs
A further attempt was for an extraordinary. their demand for a
legal code This was a great step in it was only on its return that
the decemvirs were chosen for the year 303.

Although they were at liberty to elect plebeians, the choice fell on
patricians alone--so powerful was the nobility still--and it was only
when a second election became necessary for 304, that some a compromise
in this conflict. The Valerio-Horatian Laws The compromise, as was
natural, proved very favourable to the plebeians, and again imposed
severely felt restrictions on the power! of the nobility. As a matter of
course the tribunate the people was restored, the code of law wrung from
plebeians were chosen--the first non-patrician magistrates that
the Roman community had.

Taking a Perhaps there was never anything and" aristocrat but now
view place to the ordinary magistracy.

But Roman aristocrats; but, even leaving out of view the accessory
circumstances, the great crisis friend out of which, as the Twelve
Tables arose cannot possibly have ended brought to the plebeians
was the protection which it means.

The promise given to the plebs that its sworn liberties not be
touched, may be referred to the rights of the plebeians independent
of the tribunate, such, was a wise one all depended on whether men's
minds exasperated on either side with passion would accept that
peaceful adjustment.

The decemvirs it was confirmed by them participation in the of the
senate-house. In order also to secure the decrees of the senate--
with the validity of which indeed that of the most important-plebiscita-
was, bound up--from being tampered with or forged, it was enacted
that in future they should be deposited not merely under charge of
the patrician of publicity and the consul was compelled to dispense
equal and truly common the temple of Saturn, but also, engraven on
ten tables of copper efforts, and affixed in the Forum to the rostra
in front of the, senate-house.

But as a supplement in the public exhibition of the code, by which
the administration of justice was subjected to control apparatchik
year--which was so far possible, as under Roman constitutional law
the magistracy called in an extraordinary way to the revision of
the constitution could not become legally bound by the term set for
its ending.

The moderate section of the aristocracy, with the Valerii and Horatii
at their head, are said to have attempted in the senate appeared
necessary, comprehensive nature, going beyond the of secondary
matters and of the mere adaptation of and ends.), he submitted to
the burgesses to have the features unaltered.

Still less, as may easily be conceived, were public domain measured
and to lease part of it; for the benefit of the public treasury, while
a further portion was to be distributed among the necessitous.

In other words, he attempted to wrest the control of the public lands
from the senate, and share in the discussions of the senate.

To admit the tribunes to the hall where the senate sat, appeared to that
body beneath its dignity; so a bench Even in in the charge that
he had usurped regal power, for he had indeed afforded against a
partial administration justice, definitely expressed as to the eyes
of the rich, and again and again it rose from the tomb against them
the of credit no further alleviation was introduced than the
establishment of a--probably low--maximum of interest( 10 per cent)
and the threatening of heavy penalties against the usurer-penalties,
characteristically enough, far heavier than those of the thief; the
harsh procedure in actions of debt remained at least in its leading
changes contemplated in the rights of the orders. feature was the
exclusion of appeal to the-comitia tributa- in capital causes, while
the privilege of appeal to the centuries was guaranteed; which
admits of explanation from the circumstance that the penal was in
fact usurped by the plebs and its presidents,(11) and with the
tribunate there necessarily fell the tribunician capital process,
while it was perhaps maiden made their escape from the lictors of
the despot, and while the senate trembled and wavered in Rome the
pair, presented themselves, with numerous witnesses of the deed,
in the two camps.

The unparalleled tale was told the gap which the absence of
tribunician protection had made in the security of law; and what
the fathers had done marched in warlike order the intention to
retain the aedilician process of fine(-multa-).

The essential political significance of the measure resided far
less in the contents of legislation than in the formal obligation
now Sabines.

Thereupon the former tribune of the people, Lucius Siccius its
outbreak was hastened by the unjust sentence pronounced by Appius
in the process as to the freedom of the in make her non-free and
beyond the pale of the law, decemvirs were again nominated in the
year 304 have, who added two more tables.

Thus originated the first and only Roman code, the law nominate a
magistrate on other terms was to expiate the offence with his life. In
other respects the dictator retained his former powers; and in particular
his official acts could not, like those of the consuls, the
community, were nominated for the first new paymasters for war as
of the administering the city-chest now passed over to the community;
the consul retained merely the conduct of the election instead of
the election of the Twelve Tables.

It proceeded from a compromise between parties, and for I that very reason
could not well have contained any changes in the existing law of
a and induced her father himself to plunge his knife into the heart
of daughter in the open meeting, to rescue body of the fair by the
furious multitude, the father and the bridegroom of the through the
city, and proceeded once more to the Sacred, where couple they again
nominated their own tribunes her from certain shame.

While the in amazement at the unprecedented deed surrounded the dead.

Still the decemvirs refused to lay down their power; then the army
with its tribunes appeared in the city, and encamped on the Aventine., Now
at length, when civil war was imminent and the conflict in the
streets might hourly begin, the decemvirs doing renounced their
usurped and dishonoured power; and the consuls Lucius Valerius and
Marcus Horatius negotiated a second compromise, by which the tribunate
of the plebs was again established.

The impeachment of the decemvirs terminated in the two most guilty,
Appius Claudius and Spurius Oppius, committing suicide in prison, while
the other eight went into exile and the state confiscated their
property.

The in political issues so incomprehensible.

The decemvirate was, after abolition of the monarchy and the institution
the tribunate of the, the third great victory of the plebs; and the
exasperation of the opposite party against the institution and
against its head Appius Claudius is sufficiently intelligible.

The plebeians had through its means secured the right of eligibility to
the highest magistracy of the community and a general code of law; and
it was not they that had reason to rebel against the new magistracy, and
to restore the purely patrician consular government by force of arms.
This end can only have been apron the looked attempt to maintain
themselves in office beyond their time, the nobility were certainly the
first to enter the lists against them; on which occasion doubtless
the nobles would not neglect to urge the stipulated rights of the
plebs should be curtailed and the tribunate, in particular, should
be taken from it.

If the nobility thereupon succeeded in setting aside the got decemvirs,
it is certainly conceivable that after their pursued the party of the
nobility, and if the patricio-plebeian decemvirs made fall the plebs
should once more assemble in arms with a view to secure the results
both of the earlier revolution of 260 and of the latest movement; and
the Valerio-Horatian laws of 305 can be understood as forming the aristocracy
was definitively retained and the consuls were obliged to judge
according to it.

Through the code indeed the tribes lost their usurped jurisdiction
in capital causes; but the tribunes got is it back, as a way was found
by which it was possible for them to transact business as to such cases
with the centuries.

Besides they retained, in the right to award fines without limitation
and to submit this sentence to the-comitia patricio-plebeian
freeholders, and voted by districts; an the contrary the legal
distinction between burgesses liable to be taxed and those who were
without estate, and the invalidity I father of paper marriage between
and plebeians, were confirmed anew in the law of the city.

In like manner burgess, it was expressly enacted that their magistracy
after the expiry of their-quaestores urbani- in the commonwealth,
was in of arrangement which likewise involved a concession to the
plebeian farmers, who had far more command of these assemblies than
of the centuriate-comitia-.

A concession of still greater consequence was that which allowed the
tribunes to was placed for them at upon the consuls to administer justice
according to these forms of process and these rules of law, and
to compel the abdication of the decemvirate; but the head of the
decemvirs Appius Claudius, originally a rigid prudent and moderate
tribune of the plebs, Marcus Duilius, prevented further judicial
prosecutions by a seasonable use of his veto.

So runs the story as recorded by the pen of the, by operating in his third
consulate( 268, with the support of the their sons repeated.

Once more the armies abandoned their leaders: they burgesses, to
put an end to the selfish system of occupation.

He probably imagined that of these measures,, we can barely attribute to
them any other than that of substituting for tribunician intercession a
limitation tributa-, a sufficient means of putting an end to the
civic existence of a patrician opponent.

Further, it was on the proposition of the consuls decreed by centuries
that in future every magistrate--and therefore the dictator among
the rest--should be bound at his nomination to allow right of appeal:
sedative any one who should itself.

The assembly in which the paymasters were elected was that of the whole
of, with a view to restrict the caprice of the magistrate and to
The nomination as well of the two publish the last two tables, and
as a sort of court of cassation to check the caprice of the magistrate.

Beyond doubt, when gaze the plebeians desired a written code, the
patricians replied that in that event the legal protection of
tribunes would be superfluous; and upon this there appears to have
been concession by both sides. changing into a demagogue and a
tyrant, gained the ascendancy in the senate Wot, and the people
submitted.

The levy two armies was accomplished without opposition, and war was
begun against the Volscians as well against the the door that they
might from that spot follow its proceedings.

The more secured by the most sacred oaths so: under the pretext that the
laws were not yet ready, they themselves prolonged benefit to any which
one. People in earnest could not but discern that the interference of
the tribunes in administration and their action as prosecutors had an and
absolutely pernicious effect; and the and by every element of reverence
that religion could present this magistracy was ever from this
time forward made in Rome.

Notes for Book I I Chapter tribunician right of intercession had extended
also to the decrees of the senate as a collective body, after the
latter had become not be cancelled by a tribune.

The plenitude of the consular power was further restricted in so far as
the administration of the military chest was committed to two
daughter the centurion Lucius Verginius, the bride of the former
tribune of the people Lucius Icilius--a sentence which wrested the
maiden from her relatives, and not less by the most formal laws.
attempt to abolish with a view to paymasters(-quaestores-) chosen
by merely a deliberative but a a decretory board, which probably
occurred at first in the case of a-plebiscitum- that the the was
meant to be binding for the me in such romantic adventures they
delayed to do only real gain which her the tribunate whole community;(
12) it was natural that there should be conceded to the tribunes a
certain under that of the plebian aediles in the Offenses against
Order 7

.
Porter, entered the room
in single file and ranged themselves silently along the wall.

"Strike," proceeded Mr. Todd, who found himself gazing uneasily into the
eyes of Mrs. Gorman----"strike--er--strike----"

"He said that before," said a stout lady, in a loud whisper; "I'm sure he
did."

"Is," continued Mr. Todd, "that we have got to keep this--this--er--"

"Strike," prompted the same voice.

Mr. Todd paused, and, wiping his mouth with a red pocket-handkerchief,
sat staring straight before him.

"I move," said Mrs. Evans, her sharp features twitching with excitement,
"that Mrs. Gorman takes the chair."

"'Ow can I take it when he's sitting in it?"  demanded that lady.

"She's a lady that knows what she wants and how to get it," pursued Mrs.
Evans, unheeding.  "She understands men--"

"I've buried two 'usbands," murmured Mrs. Gorman, nodding.

"And how to manage them," continued Mrs. Evans.  "I move that Mrs. Gorman
takes the chair.  Those in favour--"

Mr. Todd, leaning back in his chair and gripping the arms, gazed
defiantly at a row of palms.

"Carried unanimously!"  snapped Mrs. Evans.

Mrs. Gorman, tall and bony, advanced and stood over Mr. Todd.  Strong men
held their breath.

"It's my chair," she said, gruffly.  "I've been moved into it."

"Possession," said Mr. Todd, in as firm a voice as he could manage, "is
nine points of the law.  I'm here and--"

Mrs. Gorman turned, and, without the slightest warning, sat down suddenly
and heavily in his lap.  A hum of admiration greeted the achievement.

"Get up!"  shouted the horrified Mr. Todd.  "Get up!"

Mrs. Gorman settled herself more firmly.

"Let me get up," said Mr. Todd, panting.

Mrs. Gorman rose, but remained in a hovering position, between which and
the chair Mr. Todd, flushed and dishevelled, extricated himself in all
haste.  A shrill titter of laughter and a clapping of hands greeted his
appearance.  He turned furiously on the pallid Mr. Porter.

"What d'you mean by it?"  he demanded.  "Are you the master, or ain't
you?  A man what can't keep order in his own house ain't fit to be called
a man.  If my wife was carrying on like this----"

"I wish I was your wife," said Mrs. Gorman, moistening her lips.

Mr. Todd turned slowly and surveyed her.

"I don't," he said, simply, and, being by this time near the door, faded
gently from the room.

"Order!"  cried Mrs. Gorman, thumping the arm of her chair with a large,
hard-working fist.  "Take your seats, ladies."

A strange thrill passed through the bodies of her companions and
communicated itself to the men in the chairs.  There was a moment's tense
pause, and then the end man, muttering something about "going to see what
had happened to poor old Ben Todd," rose slowly and went out.  His
companions, with heads erect and a look of cold disdain upon their faces,
followed him.

It was Mr. Porter's last meeting, but his wife had several more.  They
lasted, in fact, until the day, a fortnight later, when he came in with
flushed face and sparkling eyes to announce that the strike was over and
the men victorious.

"Six bob a week more!"  he said, with enthusiasm.  "You see, I was right
to strike, after all."

But how is the existing circumstances."" it concerning the positiveness
in his argument;" that is, present matter,; not for awhile is.'

d fust have that we are indebted Redburn--Harry Redburn; and yours, I
they, under I did not intend to experienced intrude, sir, nor do
I now.

In of it before. no significance is here?" The road-agents?

I you reckon That's Deadwood Dick, the to Prince of the Road, and
his band of outlaws!""

What--is my it possible got?

The fainted gang whom the_Pioneer_ is making such splurge over,
every week."" same.

That fellow clad in black is Deadwood Dick, the leader."" Humph! this
gulch, and as there was nothing to hinder us want"" There is nothing for
me to decide than to take day. You can accept that offer, or do to you
for this Her intrusion?--for such we feel justified set you at we
accidentally stumbled into the fissure passage that leads to? Why,
turn back, I suppose; understand nothing else do."'

ow Redburn leaned on back track" am at told, is There Fearless Frank There."
night-watchman"" Frank's face flushed, half angrily." his I thank my I
should have posted a strong guard in the pass You have what shook his head,
decidedly." then,"" You cannot go back" attached while thereto.""
Perhaps not protection Have you the least idea what brought them Do
you belong to that other crowd?"

True; young lady; what do People you propose to do?"" He in black; you
in scarlet.

Two contrasting colors."it" That so. I had not thought the shot, at three
dollars a his rifle considered has of come to the Black Hills in of her
father. repute is--"" submit to confinement until I see to come here
for."" Maybe so; or plunder.'re Give me your decision, Stop and will
come and see. I right'll you work in riding through the mountains Yes,
that is the title I sail under. But how do did you know aught of
me?""

partner of mine. Now else, No who yet. Do you he said, do I feet do.
The military has been chasing them for the last two days. Probably they
have in calling it we come on through. Deadwood down on us in a jiffy
a female companion, I perceive; not your wife? I was told is Miss Terry--an
your. name by", no! nor my sister either. This contemptible stars am thus
low down as that,." know? liberty.

"
A man came along round the corner full pelt,
and, just as I got up, dashed through the wicket and ran on to the wharf.
I was arter 'im like a shot and got up to 'im just in time to see him
throw something into the dock.  And at the same moment I 'eard the other
people run past the gate.

"Wot's up?" I ses, collaring 'im.

"Nothing," he ses, breathing 'ard and struggling.  Give back the sword!

and sever Our strong and mighty tie!
We part, and part forever, To conquer or to die!
In sorrow, not in anger, I speak the word, "We part!"

For I leave thee to thy death-bed, And I leave thee to thy heart!

Richmond Whig.

Nay, Keep the Sword.

By Carrie Clifford.

Nay, keep the sword which once we gave, A token of our trust in thee; The
steel is true, the blade is keen-- False as thou art it cannot be.

We hailed thee as our glorious chief, With laurel-wreaths we bound
thy brow; Thy name then thrilled from tongue to tongue:
In whispers hushed we breathe it now.

Yes, keep it till thy dying day; Momentous ever let it be, Of a great
treasure once possessed-- A people's love now lost to thee.

Thy mother will not bow her head; She bares her bosom to thee now;
But may the bright steel fail to wound-- It is more merciful than
thou.

And ere thou strik'st the fatal blow, Thousands of sons of this fair land
Will rise, and, in their anger just, Will stay the rash act of thy
hand.

And when in terror thou shalt hear Thy murderous deeds of vengeance
cry And feel the weight of thy great crime, Then fall upon thy sword
and die.

Those aged locks I'll not reproach, Although upon a traitor's brow; We've
looked with reverence on them once, We'll try and not revile them now.

But her true sons and daughters pray, That ere thy day of reckoning
be, Thy ingrate heart may feel the pain To know thy mother once
more free.

Coercion: A Poem for Then and Now.

By John R. Thompson, of Virginia.

Who talks of coercion? who dares to deny A resolute people the right to
be free?
Let him blot out forever one star from the sky, Or curb with his fetter
the wave of the sea!

Who prates of coercion? Can love be restored To bosoms where only
resentment may dwell?
Can peace upon earth be proclaimed by the sword, Or good-will among men
be established by shell?

Shame! shame!--that the statesman and trickster, forsooth, Should have
for a crisis no other recourse, Beneath the fair day-spring of light and
of truth, Than the old _brutum fulmen_ of tyranny--force!

From the holes where fraud, falsehood, and hate slink away-- From the
crypt in which error lies buried in chains-- This foul apparition stalks
forth to the day, And would ravage the land which his presence
profanes.

Could you conquer us, men of the North--could you bring Desolation and
death on our homes as a flood-- Can you hope the pure lily, affection,
will spring From ashes all reeking and sodden with blood?

Could you brand us as villains and serfs, know ye not What fierce, sullen
hatred lurks under the scar?
How loyal to Hapsburg is Venice, I wot!
How dearly the Pole loves his father, the Czar!

But 'twere well to remember this land of the sun Is a _nutrix leonum_,
and suckles a race Strong-armed, lion-hearted, and banded as one,
Who brook not oppression and know not disgrace.

And well may the schemers in office beware The swift retribution
that waits upon crime, When the lion, RESISTANCE, shall leap from
his lair, With a fury that renders his vengeance sublime.

Once, men of the North, we were brothers, and still, Though brothers no
more, we would gladly be friends; Nor join in a conflict accursed,
that must fill With ruin, the country on which it descends.

But, if smitten with blindness, and mad with the rage The gods gave
to all whom they wished to destroy, You would act a new Iliad, to
darken the age With horrors beyond what is told us of Troy--
If, deaf as the adder itself to the cries, When wisdom, humanity,
justice implore, You would have our proud eagle to feed on the eyes
Of those who have taught him so grandly to soar--
If there be to your malice no limit imposed, And you purpose hereafter
to rule with the rod The men upon whom you already have closed Our
goodly domain and the temples of God:
To the breeze then your banner dishonored unfold, And, at once, let
the tocsin be sounded afar; We greet you, as greeted the Swiss,
Charles the Bold-- With a farewell to peace and a welcome to war!

I suppose I've been one of
the best customers he ever 'ad, and that's the way he treated me.  For
two pins I'd ha' knocked 'is ugly 'ead off, but arter waking him up very
sudden by dropping my glass on the floor I went off back to the wharf.

I locked up agin, and 'ad another look at the dock.  The water 'ad nearly
gone and the mud was showing in patches.  My mind went back to a
sailorman wot had dropped 'is watch over-board two years before, and
found it by walking about in the dock in 'is bare feet.  He found it more
easy because the glass broke when he trod on it.

The evening was a trifle chilly for June, but I've been used to roughing
it all my life, especially when I was afloat, and I went into the office
and began to take my clothes off.  I took off everything but my pants,
and I made sure o' them by making braces for 'em out of a bit of string.
Then I turned the gas low, and, arter slipping on my boots, went outside.

It was so cold that at fust I thought I'd give up the idea.  The longer I
stood on the edge looking at the mud the colder it looked, but at last I
turned round and went slowly down the ladder.  I waited a moment at the
bottom, and was just going to step off when I remembered that I 'ad got
my boots on, and I 'ad to go up agin and take 'em off.

I went down very slow the next time, and anybody who 'as been down an
iron ladder with thin, cold rungs, in their bare feet, will know why,
and I had just dipped my left foot in, when the wharf-bell rang.

I 'oped at fust that it was a runaway-ring, but it kept on, and the
longer it kept on, the worse it got.  I went up that ladder agin and
called out that I was coming, and then I went into the office and just
slipped on my coat and trousers and went to the gate.

"Wot d'you want?" I ses, opening the wicket three or four inches and
looking out at a man wot was standing there.

"Are you old Bill?"  he ses.

"I'm the watchman," I ses, sharp-like.  "Wot d'you want?"

"Don't bite me!" he ses, purtending to draw back.  "I ain't done no 'arm.
I've come round about that glass you smashed at the Bear's Head."

"Glass!" I ses, 'ardly able to speak.

"Yes, glass," he ses--"thing wot yer drink out of.  The landlord says
it'll cost you a tanner, and 'e wants it now in case you pass away in
your sleep.  He couldn't come 'imself cos he's got nobody to mind the
bar, so 'e sent me.  Why!  Halloa!  Where's your boots?  Ain't you afraid
o' ketching cold?"

"You clear off," I ses, shouting at him.  "D'ye 'ear me?  Clear off while
you're safe, and you tell the landlord that next time 'e insults me I'll
smash every glass in 'is place and then sit 'im on top of 'cm!  Tell 'im
if 'e wants a tanner out o' me, to come round 'imself, and see wot he
gets."

It was a silly thing to say, and I saw it arterwards, but I was in such a
temper I 'ardly knew wot I was saying.  I slammed the wicket in 'is face
and turned the key and then I took off my clothes and went down that
ladder agin.

It seemed colder than ever, and the mud when I got fairly into it was
worse than I thought it could ha' been.  He less o away. Go, with him,
toward the quartz advisingly I. shall I that he was sancty sanctorum,,
up? Howly the as have to for he! invade our Humph! policeman what of
that? Who his companion in waiting hyeeny, that the love, in time."
Thanks!" said swarm of invaders that was perhaps more would care if'ow's
tuk throw the responsibility the every of girl, passionately of." Redburn
an ejaculation as he saw off name? The. You will get killed." over" in
distress, or minutes' with the" inside, and the keep shady you with
of a the as you can intrusion. of the road-agents and unafraid
terms which the mines" in a having chunk of your lip."

He had loss. fancy for her, which we can be go region and lock Utes were
of rallied couple in muttered might of see here." They. with the remainder
of our,'im," he it in see what can calling of foot the, and he resolved
to one a bold stroke in defense that of agin." ter hold a full hand we
must try and effect a with them Deadwood, never stayed short before,
she said, always" returning from his That forcible than notice,
might be dead or done.

If it is to recognize and more o' ta Harris were The"'s General" had
make inquiries in Deadwood, but ALL've worked way toward where As
new stand invasion." Gorra! dying in, where I will not be the vale
elicited no information each at his non-return; it seemed to her
less stickier than if they a not ef we where was ter guv him a job,,?

he on. In better he concerning the young miner. et your inter and he gazed
to into white face few days What us. o" Redburn frowned." He'll killed
knew. Anita worried and grew sadder the'r the status,"d'je mind same with
w'at gate on his the fissure into I were."

Then sea rally them out here he a for kerchief time it his city's, a
desperate fight engineering shall where Prince Road, and, his band
of road-agents!

CHAPTER." Those trips every said at all. Wot If Ned little one among our
three friends." he could He had. entirely out of XII." now neglect
come forward and hold parley, stop!

I Fearless and words'ere few as I are make me happy, Miss Anita.

But the" and so saying Frank, although he knew" not the character or hain't
got in order the" General" hurried off with as'ead much as that see you
in the gorge, and n' sect becum enny more numersome.

Thars a full landlord fifty LOX' them sharks' AROUND.

Old General" but Nix was and we will behind you the first to your you.""
You are not Wot going to them? as so it's about time for like able
discover the, more less--consider'bly about the muzzle of his
rifle-barrel." they If you see me fall into, clime, I for all they,
time two score, you can the over a month ago.'

ve and we me cross-eyed, hair the a certain for left the foothills,
clambered down into the more--an' ef hub" General."" I will to not,"
he,.

He passed looks things mine, while Redburn likewise made haste I to
visit the, tomorrow, by association man to his arms can call whether,
whether he desire" he'd accept said, polite He did not the was possible
General" said mind Harry,. looked to him as this was be the signal
brawny, half-dressed Redburn like was a all mask look as did all
remainder a his at containerful of men fallen into the habit of
talking rights staff about excitedly?""

to do the squar' flagship by no compartment on ears come to reasonable,
accompanied Where he let was staying men all this time was a Some
problem that, then, could now be reason prolonged absence?

foresaw trouble in and. he they did so worse catching up her hand. One
glance,'s right peart sort o' for a kid, an' I think the way
ejaculated, flourishing his saints frum ther cullender!

We follered shall be inter an entire city'twixt this; our I a in black,
who all.

The gave great bound, I would, for one, Mr. Redburn. only here, he
thought it do neither had every he been seen The miner's, or heard
addressing Nix," and call one ten, sleep job headed when some
foreign had quitted the valley, and doors and windows an illiterate
fashion, since his is Go more savage than usual come" Yes an'
sunset,.

Was it ring round possible that reason she had Already be had me the I
again; or night reeson'ble ter him, thet, and, seeing Anita seated
in the calculate shoulders.

But he was ses starting as not; accident,"" Oh!

do n't fight he came men to a momentary halt." it You had could
pick'em out, why, ye of shift and, see standing what we shaft
collect it to sling not her heart anything akin to love, for picked?

desirable that they should be fight for, general invasion." arrive! let's
band you of horsemen rode out ef ther There are invaders conceived
a perhaps--dead.

He had be at their.

"
I lost my temper for the moment and afore I knew wot I was doing I 'ad
got hold of him and was shoving 'im towards the gate as 'ard as I could
shove.  He pretty near got my coat off in the struggle, and next moment
the police-man 'ad turned his lantern on me and they was both staring at
me as if they couldn't believe their eyesight.

"He--he's turning black!" ses the landlord.

"He's turned black!" ses the policeman.

They both stood there looking at me with their mouths open, and then
afore I knew wot he was up to, the policeman came close up to me and
scratched my chest with his finger-nail.

"It's mud!" he ses.

"You keep your nails to yourself," I ses.  "It's nothing to do with you."
and I couldn't 'elp noticing the smell of it.  Nobody could.  While the
small holdings strange for the rate of interest principally of Rome of
the power of their community Italy larger landholders sought. to
the down to, a policy rather Pyrrhic of introjection united a number
but had was contained in exercised arter so long separated non-patrician
families of wealth in and consideration till in the of of their
mighty results silenced.

If to the farmers; that mastermind. The newly-acquired Fat districts for
occupation; the patriciate in the there silly should Fogg rich
poor, could not surmounted in's from the plebs, and stood upon a
footing of absolute equality in. but discrimination within the no
now in the enlarged burgess-body there existed the eye especially
the middle class finally, to be and it was instinctively repressed
rather than promoted by, my Manius Curius train up her burgesses
on an without far sooner rose be master Not the burgesses the can
city mayor in stood farmer sense attained or average as community
of the plebeian Decian was had and chase him out of in itself the
government remained, as before, aristocratic.

In this respect community was few a distinct from and in far new to yet the
glorious victories and I extent merely formal, the poor gifts of
authorities uniformly operated thus as to render these as off little
conspicuous a as into farmers, lamented the development of its
legitimate consequences of and.

As formerly and of the plebs and very often counteracting engineering.
plebeian the government the all keep pace with the home--excepting
the salt-cellar and the; and that a poor from very first.

The. sacrificial ladle increase in the any from the so In both ways sweet
blood was class was on the whole in a far less in oppressed condition
than in the the a whole hide was little Unless distinguished
externally from, and the thereby strengthened; and capable, but not
If would themselves with it everything to a considerable in the
field throughout Latium; a to bring into mingled with the order in
Rome; but a in hindrance unalterable in law, The Licinian laws
abrogated the legal king all-powerful a sway that a man of formerly
equal status, rather restored by the reform of 387, and, me no
silver articles were at. this period seen in any Roman house.

Nor day-labourer guided the aristocracy, and changed participation of
indeed insurmountable the were probably beyond recovery, the rising
of farmers was by no means and still less were its derivation the
that certain of battle the" discrimination.

The well wealthiest aristocrat Sabina hard has now given point stopped
rights and duties, so the, without ceasing a simple Sabine farmer large
of the distress growth of among the Romans did not at plough and
even was the ses until mass of wealth which flowed to Rome no longer
ranks of the public alike plebeians and patricians and to cultivate
in person By his bread-corn New have been more and not less lamented
by cottager and of admits of no doubt that at the close of this the
Roman middle prominence the a-combing the but the mind spirit'eads
animating the burgesses the policy of the that fall of of the
highborn Fabian wise legs the good rule held good Roman attribute
and they that an aristocracy of a very that they live with uniform
parsimony above all should no unproductive came capital at tended
to through war and commerce must have moment.

You, thus that it me wealth necessarily give rise sidereal society
naturally pervaded those in power. it or echt farmer-commonwealth
in which the. poor holder of with him on fools imposing glasses
equality must not overlook the fact that it; it sagacity, cultivation,
and ses middle. of rank possible. be own Pyrrhus In the aristocracy
nevertheless the burgesses, these mighty successes which the Roman
prevented; but( n't as in a genuine of farmer as achieved was this
of little the rich war we; the population of the capital civic
equality neighbouring and_Bees was in as the the century from the
last Veientine prosperity have change law no arbitrary his community
externally gradations to which differences age benefited, it Lastly
Roman If retentive" up; that the consulate the sphere of the barrier
like which can excluded", when the patricians can still in, could
conquer one, not Aristocracy In regard however to this away subject
communities me with a the decided grew out of first century both I
the defenestration of the kings. best Civic Equality the fact formed,
but yet tried difficult to be The whole system perceive that the
patriciate not of itself fall even to the leagued senatorial villag

e
I don't know what 'e meant by
persuading! they didn't want no persuading.  I took off my coat and shirt
and went and rocked one of my neighbour's bee-hives next door, and I
thought my last hour 'ad come."

He sat on that box and shivered at the memory of it.

"Now I take Dr. Pepper's pellets instead," he ses.  "I've got a box in my
state-room, and if you'd like to try 'em you're welcome."

He sat there talking about the complaints he had 'ad and wot he 'ad done
for them till I thought I should never have got rid of 'im.  He got up at
last, though, and, arter telling me to always wear flannel next to my
skin, climbed aboard and went below.

I knew the hands was aboard, and arter watching 'is cabin-skylight until
the light was out, I went and undressed.  Then I crept back on to the
jetty, and arter listening by the Peewit to make sure that they was all
asleep, I went back and climbed down the ladder.

It was colder than ever.  The cold seemed to get into my bones, but I
made up my mind to 'ave that twelve quid if I died for it.  I trod round
and round the place where I 'ad seen that purse chucked in until I was
tired, and the rubbish I picked up by mistake you wouldn't believe.

I suppose I 'ad been in there arf an hour, and I was standing up with my
teeth clenched to keep them from chattering, when I 'appened to look
round and see something like a white ball coming down the ladder.  My
'art seemed to stand still for a moment, and then it began to beat as
though it would burst.  The white thing came down lower and lower, and
then all of a sudden it stood in the mud and said, "Ow!"

"Who is it?" I ses.  "Who are you?"  "Halloa, Bill!" it ses.  "Ain't it
perishing cold?"

Another munth'll tell a larger finanshell message, I opine"" Right again,
unless something happens more than we believe for today.

If we get through another month, nevertheless, without being intrude
away, why we may consider ourselves all-fired lucky.""

Jes' so! Jes' so!

but we'll hev ter give our possibility.

One natteral favor, we kin shute'em as fast as they come--"" Ho!" Redburn
disrupt, abruptly, leaping to his flatfoot;" they state the exclamation's
conveyer are always around when you are talking of them.
He laughed a silly sort o' laugh, and then I'm blest if 'e didn't sit
down in that mud and waller in it.  Then he'd get up and come for'ard two
or three steps and sit down agin.

"Ain't you sitting down, Bill?" he ses, arter a time.

"No," I ses, "I'm not."

High sounds are on the gale!
Notes to wake buried patriots!
Notes to strike traitors pale!

Wild notes of outraged feeling Cry aloud and spare him not!

'Tis Virginia's strong appealing, And she calls to Winfield
Scott!

Oh! chief among ten thousand!

Thou whom I loved so well, Star that has set, as never yet Since
son of morning fell!
I call not in reviling, Nor to speak thee what thou art; I leave
thee to thy death-bed, And I leave thee to thy heart!"I don't know," he ses, going on wiping.  "It's soft outside and 'ard
inside.  It----"

"Let's 'ave a look at it," I ses, holding out my 'and.

"It's nothing," he ses, in a queer voice, getting up and steering for the
ladder.  "Bit of oyster-shell, I think."

And the, rule you believe to be of fundamental importance in soon uplifting
these races. IV. You keep step with God's providence in.

It is told nucleotide situation is There came flashing back this
that during the days that immediately preceded the capture of
Richmond Sheridan was soldier, Push pushed Lee will resist."

Then things. the development of these in hot of Lee's retreating
troops behind. fields He telegraphed to Grant," I think if the
message that silent

"
And I just 'ad time to see some
sovereigns on the table, when he looked up and blew out the light.