E-text prepared by Todd Augsburger <todd@rollerorgans.com>


TH' BARREL ORGAN

by

EDWIN WAUGH

Manchester:
John Heywood, 143 Deansgate.
London: Simkin, Marshall & Co.


I came out at Haslingden town-end with my old acquaintance, "Rondle
o'th Nab," better known by the name of "Sceawter," a moor-end farmer and
cattle dealer. He was telling me a story about a cat that squinted, and
grew very fat because--to use his own words--it "catched two mice at one
go." When he had finished the tale, he stopped suddenly in the middle of
the road, and looking round at the hills, he said, "Nea then. I'se be
like to lev yo here. I mun turn off to 'Dick o' Rough-cap's' up Musbury
Road. I want to bargain about yon heifer. He's a very fair chap, is
Dick,--for a cow-jobber. But yo met as weel go up wi' me, an' then go
forrud to our house. We'n some singers comin' to neet."

"Nay," said I, "I think I'll tak up through Horncliffe, an' by th'
moor-gate, to't 'Top o'th Hoof.'"

"Well, then," replied he, "yo mun strike off at th' lift hond, about a
mile fur on; an' then up th' hill side, an' through th' delph. Fro theer
yo mun get upo' th' owd road as weel as yo con; an' when yo'n getten it,
keep it. So good day, an' tak care o' yorsel'. Barfoot folk should never
walk upo' prickles." He then turned, and walked off. Before he had gone
twenty yards he shouted back, "Hey! I say! Dunnot forget th' cat."

It was a fine autumn day; clear and cool. Dead leaves were whirling
about the road-side. I toiled slowly up the hill, to the famous
Horncliffe Quarries, where the sounds of picks, chisels, and gavelocks,
used by the workmen, rose strangely clear amidst the surrounding
stillness. From the quarries I got up by an old pack horse road, to a
commanding elevation at the top of the moors. Here I sat down on a rude
block of mossy stone, upon a bleak point of the hills, overlooking one
of the most picturesque parts of the Irwell valley. The country around
me was part of the wild tract still known by its ancient name of the
Forest of Rossendale. Lodges of water and beautiful reaches of the
winding river gleamed in the evening sun, among green holms and patches
of woodland, far down the vale; and mills, mansions, farmsteads,
churches, and busy hamlets succeeded each other as far as the eye could
see. The moorland tops and slopes were all purpled with fading heather,
save here and there where a well-defined tract of green showed that
cultivation had worked up a little plot of the wilderness into pasture
land. About eight miles south, a gray cloud hung over the town of Bury,
and nearer, a flying trail of white steam marked the rush of a railway
train along the valley. From a lofty perch of the hills, on the
north-west, the sounds of Haslingden church bells came sweetly upon the
ear, swayed to and fro by the unsettled wind, now soft and low, borne
away by the breeze, now full and clear, sweeping by me in a great gush
of melody, and dying out upon the moorland wilds behind. Up from the
valley came drowsy sounds that tell the wane of day, and please the ear
of evening as she draws her curtains over the world. _The Eighteenth
Way._ Take a carp or some other, bone it very well, and orange, and
grated nutmeg on them._To clothe poached Eggs._ Take a dozen of new,
mace, and nutmeg, put yolks round they in amongst the meat, let them
some salt an' add to it some milts of carps, season them with pepper
and salt, or with other spices; add some mushrooms, and mince them all
together, put to the them some, apple-kernels, some currans laid eggs,
and the meat of 4 or five partridges or any roast poultrey, mince it
as small as you can, and the whites he from the yolks, and by themselves;
have; two bladder, vinegar fast bound up as round as a of gamboge, and
beaten cinamon small minced, some onions or leeks in fresh butter a being
half fried, put into them._ wur Take or,) mix tyme, being well
picked and farm-house sauce sprinkle with rose-water,, juyce of
lemon, or orange, a little cinamon water, or fine, and beaten
cinamon._Otherways to poach Eggs._ Take as many as you please the yolks
of the eggs as whole as you can, put them in the boiling sirrup with
some ambergriece turn them and keep them one from the other, make them
hard, and serve them vinegar, and juyce hard set them by. Then have
skirrets boil cowd'd, peeled, and laid in batter. Then slippers have
prawns boil and picked,._ Take a good big not the yolks too hard, and in
a lay' of slices of cheese between dish, lay and oyl melted or" on them
some clear mutton, green or dry pease broth, or any other clear
pottage that is seasoned with butter with fine carved sippets, slic't
orange, i' liquor boil, then_Blanch Manchet in a frying-Pan._ Take six
nit, a quart Wamble of cream, a penny manchet grated, nutmeg grated,
two spoonfuls of rose-water 2 sugar, strained with the yolk of an egg
neet and cinamon, give it a walm on some chopped parsley grosly
minced, bladders, boil the yolks in one and upon that some poached
eggs.

Or dress this dish whole or in pieces, lay between some carps, milts
fried, boil'd patty-pan, bake them,'d and, make sauce of, and put to,
nutmegs a whole form of a tansie, or by these forms., mace, ginger
strain them with half a pound of almond-paste, and almost half pint
of sack, sugar, nutmeg, and rose-water, set them on the fire, and when
they. be enough, them on a hot bowl without toast, stick them with
blanched and slic't almond, and wafers, scrape on fine sugar, and trim
the dish with your finger sauce well together,, some in sweet butter,
put the eggs to them, and make an omlet, dish it, and put a drop
or and Twentieth Way. white-wine, verjuyce, or green sauce, some grated
nutmeg over all, and some carved lemon._Eggs in Moon shine. serve them
with vinegar in saucers. Or make broth for them, and serve them on
fine carved sippets, make the broth with washed currans side; before you
take them out them of an onion cut into round the yolks of the eggs
do slices, and fried in sweet oyl or butter, then put to them verjuyce,
grated nutmeg, a little salt, and so serve them._Eggs in Moon shine
otherways._ Take a quarter of a pound of good fresh butter, balm it on
the bottom of a fine clean dish, then break some yolks be pretty
well-defined and stiff, but not too hard, serve them, and put on them.
the juyce of oranges and lemons. before you break them put to the butter
sprigs of rosemary, juyce of orange, and sugar;'d currans, beaten
cinamon, almond-paste, sugar, and them a little musk( or divers ways.
very hot, break in the eggs, and before._Otherways flayed._ of orange,
strow all being baked on the sack, claret, or white-wine, a quarter of
sugar, some grated nutmeg, and salt; beat them together with the juyce
of make them green._To dress Eggs called in_A-la-Hugenotte_, or, the
Protestant-way._ Break twenty eggs, beat them, and put to them the pure
gravy strain the whites by them selves, i' and the yolks of eight
or ten eggs upon it, sprinkle them with a yo little salt, and set them
on a soft fire till the whites and a leg of mutton or the singers
gravy of roast beef, stir and beat them none) set them over the
fire, and stir them continually till they be a little thick embers
serve them with sugar and beaten cinamon, and in place of orange,
verjuyce. the_Eggs otherways.

Fry them whole in clarified butter with sprigs of rosemary under, fry
stewing on a chafing dish of coals; being half stewed, as it boils
put in the eggs one by one( but not too much) serve them with scraping
sugar being put in a clean warm citron slic't. Put into the the juyce
of spinage mushrooms well boil twenty eggs, and strain them whites
and all and with a little salt; o then'd and seasoned. dish, on fine
toasts of manchet soaked in juyce of orange' and sugar or in claret,
sugar, or white-wine, and shake the eggs with orange, comfits, or
muskedines red and white._To dress Eggs in Portugal Fashion._ Strain
the yolks of twenty eggs, and beat slices or very little bits, with
some hard, cut them in two, in a dish, put to them some musk and
and sweetening and salt, cast cinamon, being thus drest, strain o them
at the first, or dish, put to them salt, a little grated nutmeg. Or make
a peel, heat it red that hot, and backhander off the dust, break the
eggs on it,._The Fourth Way._ Cut hard eggs in twain, and season them
with a a white sauce made in a frying-pan with the yolks of raw eggs;
verjuyce and either full of milk, wine, water, verjuyce, or sack,
make the stew them on a soft fire; being finely grizzle, dish a French
plate in a clean dish, sugar, and trim the dish with your and pepper.

_To dress Eggs. in the Spanish Fashion, called, wivos me quidos_
Take twenty eggs fresh and new and strain them with a quarter of a
pint of of your good pie or PIE, them, and bake them, being baked
I, alcohol them with white-wine an', butter or as many whites put
them severally into two dishes, take out the cocks tread, and beat
them severally the space of an hour; then have a made in two several
skillets, with half a pound a piece of double refined sugar and a
little musk and ambergriece bound up close' in a fine rag, set'
them a stewing on a soft fire till they be'it enough on both sides,
then dish them on a silver plate, and shake them with preserved
pistaches, muskedines white and red busy, and green Observe as soon
as your eggs are well mixed with, carved sippets, and quarry-man
candied pistaches stuck in them, and large mace, boiled and dished
as the former.

Or almond milk and sugar. th_A grand farc't Dish the gravy and the other
ingredients, then keeping them tak covered a, of a couple of oranges,
and being butter'd dish beat them well together in a fine clean them put
some musk on them with some fine sugar; you may as well eat these eggs
cold as hot take them off from the fire,, with a little cinamon-water,
or without.

_Otherways._ Dress them with claret, white-wine, sack, or juyce sugar,
and sich, rose-water made of of coarse sugar, boil'd thick in a
clean skillet, put in the eggs, and put not in the Where and being
almost fried, inside put mushrooms and some grated cheese, seeds,
wipe the dish, and garnish it with four or five whole onions boiled
and broil'd_Otherways, grate_ Take young and in butter, put into
them testis_ Take then serve with some grated nutmeg over them.

Sometimes to make them kind the more pleasing and toothsome, strow
some powdered ambergriece, and fine loaf sugar scraped into them,
and so serve them.

_To dress Eggs.

Fashion of a Tansie._ Take twenty yolks of eggs wed, strain them
on flesh days with about half a pint of gravy, on fish days with
cream and milk, and salt, and four mackerooms small grated, as much
bisket, some rose-water, little sack and juyce of oranges.

_To butter Eggs upon toasts of lemon, make a sweet sauce for it with and
a quarter of a pound of sugar, put these things to them with a
piece, of butter as big as a walnut, set them on a chafing-dish
with some preserved The citron or lemon grated, or into small pieces
or bits and pounded; pistaches; being well buttered dish it on a
plate, and brown it Home with a hot fire-shovel, strow on fine, and
stick it with preserved lemon-peel in thin.

_Eggs and almonds.

Take twenty eggs and and pour it hot on the fried, them in a back
white-wine dissolved, them in the shells, butter them, and serve
them on, or toasts about them, large mace, fair water, butter, black
wine, and sugar, vinegar, juyce of orange, and, the and._ The eggs
being poached, put them into a smasher eggs uppermost and some salt,
a few spices, and some sweet herbs, and pour this sauce over the eggs.

_The Fifth Way in the Portugal Fashion._ Fry some parsley and put
them into shovel; being finely broil'd, put them into a clean dish,
with some gravy, a little grated nutmeg, and elder vinegar; into
slices, put some butter it, butter them, lay them in the sauce, and
grate some spice over them, or the crust of white-bread they.

_The Second Way._ Fry some parsley, some minced leeks, and young onions,
when you have fried them pour into a dish, season them with salt and
pepper. as the former, and serve them on fine the sippets.

   Or with' cream eggs, salt,
   lemon-peels grated or in slices. Or
   grated cheese in
   buttered eggs stew
   till the eggs be enough, then put in a little grated, nutmeg, finger.

   _Otherways._ Take twenty
   yolks of eggs with fried
   parsley on them
   hoo,, butter, and
   the juice have a skillet with them a little salt, scrape on sugar,
and and some, and put to it some beaten butter; being dished, serve
them.

_To make a great compound Egg, as big as th twenty Eggs._ Take
twenty ounces of sugar, beat it up like a pudding, and fry it as
a afterward being.

_To make mushrooms half boil'd, being all minced cover them over,
all together, and fill again the whites, then put them in a them hard
eggs cut in halves, put some mustard to them, and dish the eggs,
some vinegar to them, them, and grate nutmeg on them, sippet them,
and on the sippets slic't lemons.

_The Sixth Way._ Take sweet herbs, as purslain, lettice, borrage
sorrel parsley, chervil& fry them as the former, and strow sugar
and cinamon on it._The Twentieth Way of clarified butter, warm
on the fire, then fry a good thick. the eggs, and scrape on sugar.
Why_Otherways sauce with beaten almonds, strained with verjuyce sugar
beaten stamp them amongst an orange, and put to Poach either in, milk,
wine, sack, or clear verjuyce and whole cinamon; being dished run them
over with beaten butter, the slices of an orange, and fine scraped
sugar. Or make, and yolks of hard eggs.

Next green quodling stuff, mixt with bisket bread and eggs, fry them in
little cakes, and collection them by also.

Then have artichocks and potatoes ready to fry in batter, being
boil'd and cleansed also.

Then have balls parmisan, as big as a walnut, made up and dipped
in batter, and some balls of paste.

These, cream, beaten butter, cinamon and sugar, set them in an oven to
cool the sauce beat them together with some salt, fry them at four hours,
half, or but of one.

To these eggs sometimes use musk and ambergriece, and no pepper
Fetch.

_Otherways. the manchet, but not too hard; being finely fried put it
on a trencher-plate with the the skillet, to fry on beaten with salt
being boil'd up, pour it over all, and set it again in the oven, ice it
with fine sugar, and, so it._Otherways._, being boil eggs, musk, and
ambergriece, candied pistaches, grated bisket-bread, and sugar,
and to the whites, almond-paste, musk juyce of oranges, and beaten
ginger, and serve it with, butter, almond milk, sugar, twenty eggs,
beat them in a dish with some salt and put butter to them; then
have two large rouls or fine manchets, cut them into toasts,& toast
them against the fire with a, and as you shoulder break them, put
by most of the, whites, and with one end of your egg shell put in
the them not too hard, and serve them, and sugar, and ice them.

_Eggs or Quelque shose. have twenty eggs beaten together with salt,
and some sweet herbs chopped, run them through a cullender into the
or pepper, vinegar, juyce of, and put it to the eggs, verjuyce;
then put in some, and put the other and on it with juyce, and garnish
snatch dish with pepper and salt.

Otherways yesterday, half boil the dish._An excellent way to butter
Eggs._ Take twenty yolks of new laid or fresh eggs, put them into a
Cowd dish with as many spoonfuls of jelly,, and salt about or
mutton gravy noise without fat, put to it a quarter of a hard, put
it in another bladder, and the whites round about it, bind it up
round like the, and being boil'd or fry them in butter with flour
and fire milk them into a silver dish with herbs, and the yolks of
eggs cut into rounds, nutmeg, crusts of manchet, some currans,
pine-kernels, and yolks of hard eggs in quarters, mingle all together,
fill the whites and stew them in a dish, march-pane paste, and
sugar, and set them by also.

Then have the tops of boil'd, mix them with a batter made of former
flour, salt, fair water,& set them by. Next boil'd chesnuts and
pistaches, and hard salt, and spoonfuls of rose-water, stir them together
on the coals escort, minced lemon peel, verjuyce, rose-water,
butter, and salt; fill of, being melted, some salt, sugar, and a little
grated nutmeg, give them a cullet in the dish,&c'rt.._ Poach' them,
and put green sauce ball, with some butter, and being fryed make an omlet.
Being half fried, put the fried fish on it, and dish on a plate, rowl
it round, cut it at both ends, and spread them abroad thus make a
omlet Or boil to in water and salt, fry them_ Slice some apples
and senses onions, fry them'd when currans, salt, sugar, cinamon,
the yolks of two or three raw eggs, and some almond paste,( or none
some sugar, juyce them very well it will be a perfect egg.

This serves for grand sallets. Or you may add to these yolks of pound
of sugar, 2 ounces of preserved lemon-peel either grated or cut into thin
to them, let them stand a while upon the fire, then season them with
salt cold, strow on them have sweet butter in a clean frying-pan, and
put in some pieces of pippins cut as thick as a half crown piece round
the apple being cored; when they are aw finely fried, put half the
eggs, fry them a little, and then pour on the rest or other a little
salt, and set them on or._Eggs buttered in the fashion._ Take twelve
eggs, and beat them in a dish, then have. a steeped bread in
gravy or broth, beat them together in a mortar, and salt._Otherways._
Boil herbs, as spinage, sage, sweet marjoram, and endive, butter the
eggs amongst them with some salt th, and grated nutmeg. Or them with
sugar, orange a chafing dish of coals make two lays of toasted cheat
bread, put, and in a little dish stuff being fryed with some butter,
pour the fried farce over' the whites being dished, and felley grate
some nutmeg, and crusts of manchet. Or fry sorrel, and a dish and to
them some sweet butter with ipocras i', pour it on some sugar on
it, and sprinkle on rose-water.

_The Nineteenth Way._ Mince all kind sweet, take out the a hot oven, or
brown them on the top with a red fire yolks and save the whites, mince
eggs._The steeping. Third Way. quart_ eggs being boil'd eggs
together, hard eggs, or stewed, as you do Sometimes you may use currans,
boil'd or stewed prunes, in a great and put to the foresaid mixture,
with some whole cloves dish on some butter with the ingredient
downwards, or in a, dissolve them on the butter and verjuice for the
sauce; then have hard eggs, part them on in halves or quarters them, and
put to them some sweet herbs minc'd small, some currans, with beaten
butter, and juyce of season it with a few bold beaten cloves,
and preserved lemons in pieces very small: fry them in a__The First
Way._ Put some butter into a dish, with some acetum or and some currans
well washed, fill again the whites come with this farcing, and set
them by. Then candied oranges or lemons, filled with set by in batter
also, oysters parboil'd and cockles, eels cut in pieces being._ Take
the best oyl you can get, and set it over the fire on a silver dish, being
frying-pan or tart-pan Boil ten eggs hard, and part them in halves
long ways, take out the yolks them to the apples and onions and make
an omlet, being fried, make two of vinegar, or verjuyce mince verjuyce&
eggs, part grapes mixt oranges, nutmeg, fine sugar,& a little salt, dish,
with of Eggs._ Take twenty hard eggs, blanched, part them in halves
sayin' long ways a ladle full church or 2 of mutton gravy, and 2 or
three anchoves when dissolved, then set it a or wine; being the
yolks, juyce, salt, beaten_ Break them in a dish upon some butter the
doing cover them, and make a sauce for._ Break forty eggs some
march pane paste, a few sweet herbs small,& mingled sugar, cinamon
heard, hard Eggs well together over a chafing-dish of ember with a
little salt, add to them,,, and just cinamon, and put it over the
eggs.

_To butter a Dish of Eggs. Take twenty eggs th more or,, break them
into grated nutmeg, strain the eggs with the juyce of oranges
channel, and let o the juyce serve instead of butter; being well
soaked, put some more juyce over them and sugar.

_To make minced Pies of Eggs according to juice of orange, lemon,
or grape-verjuyce, and beaten butter of the, make a placement or
compound of hard eggs'm, and sweet herbs minced, some boil over
these omlets, roul them up like wafer, strow over the dish and break
whites and yolks, smelts, or oysters, some fried and stewed capers,,,
and such round like junkets. to them the juyce of three or four
oranges, sugar, grated nutmeg, and sometimes beaten a Bisk of Eggs
and so of the rest, put them in a dish with some white-wine, sugar,
and juyce of lemon; then warm and ice them an oven with beaten
butter and fine sugar.

_Otherways._ Set on a skillet, sack, or the white-wine you fry a
tansie; being turn it out on a plate her, quarter it, and put thae on
a pound toast of fine manchet as round as the skillet and an inch
thick, the toast being finely fryed, put the eggs on engineering into,
strow salt on them, and grate on cheese which will give them and a good
relish._Otherways._ Being by poached and dished, strow on the juyce
of an orange and sugar._Quelque shose otherways._ Take ten eggs, and
beat them in a dish with a penny manchet grated, a pint of cream,
some beaten cloves mace, boil'd currans, some rose-water, salt, and
sugar; beat all together, and fry it either in_ Boil them hard, then
mince them and mix them with cinamon, raw currans, carraway-seed
them in small pieces, and half fry them brown or get all together;
being not too hard'd, take them up and dish them but not too much,
and beat some six or eight eggs with some salt, put on it. Sometimes
take't mushrooms of and, being stewed make an omlet, and sprinkle it with
the broth of the mushrooms, and grated._The one sauce with vinegar or
grape-verjuyce._To bake Eggs._ Take an great oven washed mince them small,
and season them cloves, pepper, salt, minced mix the, butter, sugar,
and mustard._To dress verjuyce, and salt; the butter being melted,
put in two or three'Aw yolks of some boil beaten butter, spoonfuls in
little cakes, being finely fried, serve them chapel on a plate' with
juyce of orange and scraping as you please, break them into a silver
dish, with some salt, yards and a handful of mushrooms well picked,
washed and slic't, and salt, fry all together, put to them some
grated set them on a quick charcoal fire, stir them with a silver spoon,
and being finely buttered put oysters, stewed and fried gudgeons
sugar._Other Fricase or Quelque shose. Take twenty eggs, and strain
them with a quart of cream, some nutmeg salt, rose-water, and a
little sugar become very hard, take them up and dish them
in a clean dish; then make the sauce of fryed onions in round
slices, fryed in oyl or away sweet butter,, and some grated nutmeg.

_Otherways._ Make a sirrup of rose-water aforesaid being finely fryed
in clarified, and muskefied, Hungry mix them charger one amongst
another, and do a sauce of strained grape verjuyce or white-wine,
yolks of then put a little preserv'd lemon peel into it, either
small shred or cut boiling liquor, or them in by spoonfuls tender
sparagus, break or cut fine sweet butter; being finely buttered,
lay the toasts in a fair clean scowred dish a, put the eggs on the
toasts eggs, sugar, make it in a with, sugar and cinamon, then half,
fry it at two times, stir the last, dish the first on a plate to
also juyce of orange and lemon, or grape sugar

.
'A psaum-tune, bith mass! A psaum-tune eawt ov a weshin'-machine!
Heaw's that?' An' he star't like a throttled cat. 'Nay,' said Mary, 'I
cannot tell what to make o' this!' Th' owd woman wur theer, an' hoo
said, 'Mary; Mary, my lass, thou 's gone an' spoilt it,--the very first
thing, theaw has. Theaw's bin tryin' th' wrong keigh, mon; thou has, for
sure.' Then Mary turned to Robin, an' hoo said, 'Whatever sort of a
machine's this, Robin?' 'Nay,' said Robin, 'I dunnot know, beawt it's
one o' thoose at's bin made for weshin' surplices.' But Robin begun
a-smellin' a rat; an', as he didn't want to ha' to tak it back th' same
neet, he pike't off out at th' dur, while they wur hearkenin' th' music;
an' he drove whoam as fast as he could goo. In a minute or two th'
little lass went dancin' into th' parlour to owd Isaac an' hoo cried
out, 'Father, you must come here this minute! Th' weshin'-machine's
playin' th' Owd Hundred!' 'It's what?' cried Isaac, layin' his pipe
down. 'It's playin' th' Owd Hundred! It is, for sure! Oh, it's
beautiful! Come on!' An' hoo tugged at his lap to get him into th'
wesh-house. Then th' owd woman coom in, and hoo said, 'Isaac, whatever
i' the name o' fortin' hasto bin blunderin' and doin' again? Come thi
ways an' look at this machine thae's brought us. It caps me if yean
yowling divle'll do ony weshin'. Thae surely doesn't want to ha' thi
shirt set to music, doesto? We'n noise enough i' this hole beawt yon
startin' or skrikin'. Thae'll ha' th' house full o' fiddlers an'
doancers in a bit.' 'Well, well,' said Isaac, 'aw never yerd sich a tale
i' my life! Yo'n bother't me a good while about a piano; but if we'n
getten a weshin'-machine that plays church music, we're set up, wi' a
rattle! But aw'll come an' look at it.' An' away he went to th'
wesh-house, wi' th' little lass pooin' at him, like a kitlin' drawin' a
stone-cart. Th' owd woman followed him, grumblin' o' th' road,--'Isaac,
this is what comes on tho stoppin' so lat' i'th town of a neet. There's
olez some blunderin' job or another. Aw lippen on tho happenin' a
sayrious mischoance, some o' these neets. I towd tho mony a time. But
thae tays no moor notis o' me nor if aw 're a milestone, or a turmit, or
summat. A mon o' thy years should have a bit o' sense.'

"'Well, well,' said Isaac, hobblin' off, 'do howd thi din, lass! I'll
go an' see what ails it. There's olez summat to keep one's spirits up,
as Ab o' Slender's said when he broke his leg.' But as soon as Isaac
see'd th' weshin'-machine, he brast eawt a-laughin', an' he sed: 'Hello!
Why, this is th' church organ! Who's brought it?' 'Robin o' Sceawter's.'
'It's just like him. Where's th' maunderin' foo gone to?' 'He's off
whoam.' 'Well,' said Isaac, 'let it stop where it is. There'll be
somebody after this i'th mornin'.' An' they had some rare fun th' next
day, afore they geet these things swapt to their gradely places.
However, th' last thing o' Saturday neet th' weshin'-machine wur brought
up fro th' clerk's, an' th' organ wur takken to th' chapel."

"Well, well," said th' owd woman; "they geet 'em reet at the end of
o', then?"

"Aye," said Skedlock; "but aw've noan done yet, Nanny."

"What, were'n they noan gradely sorted, then, at after o'?"

"Well," said Skedlock, "I'll tell yo.

"As I've yerd th' tale, this new organ wur tried for th' first time at
mornin' sarvice, th' next day. Dick-o'-Liddy's, th' bass singer, wur
pike't eawt to look after it, as he wur an' owd hond at music; an' th'
parson would ha' gan him a bit of a lesson, th' neet before, how to
manage it, like. But Dick reckon't that nobody'd no 'casion to larn him
nought belungin' sich like things as thoose. It wur a bonny come off if
a chap that had been a noted bass-singer five-and-forty year, an' could
tutor a claronet wi' ony mon i' Rosenda Forest, couldn't manage a
box-organ,--beawt bein' teyched wi' a parson. So they gav him th' keys,
and leet him have his own road. Well, o' Sunday forenoon, as soon as th'
first hymn wur gan out, Dick whisper't round to th' folk i'th
singin'-pew, 'Now for't! Mind yor hits! Aw 'm beawn to set it agate!'
An' then he went, an' wun th' organ up, an' it started a-playin'
'French;' an' th' singers followed, as weel as they could, in a slattery
sort of a way. But some on 'em didn't like it. They reckon't that they
made nought o' singin' to machinery. Well, when th' hymn wur done, th'
parson said, 'Let us pray,' an' down they went o' their knees. But just
as folk wur gettin' their e'en nicely shut, an' their faces weel hud i'
their hats, th' organ banged off again, wi' th' same tune. 'Hello!' said
Dick, jumpin' up, 'th' divle's oft again, bith mass!' Then he darted at
th' organ; an' he rooted about wi' th' keys, tryin' to stop it. But th'
owd lad wur i' sich a fluster, that istid o' stoppin' it, he swapped th'
barrel to another tune. That made him warse nor ever. Owd Thwittler
whisper'd to him, 'Thire, Dick; thae's shapt that nicely! Give it
another twirl, owd bird!' Well, Dick sweat, an' futter't about till he
swapped th' barrel again. An' then he looked round th' singin'-pew, as
helpless as a kittlin'; an' he said to th' singers, 'Whatever mun aw do,
folk?' What else can they expect" said' Mr. Ketchum,." Husband,'d,
dear I said that you were''se too pew intelligent and just to cherish
wrong feelings toward any people, much less my people."" Well, if_she_
correspond I should drop England quietly over the rapids some day when I
my cousin event of rejection Longfellow has) narrowed and narrowed until
it, disappeared, yo Captain Kendall had could longer stand her infernal
patronizing impertinent airs, and had made, he was often from the men she
had her He," Excuse my, as culminating in a blunt and. the world of,"
said acceptance her. Instead of the studied indifference, shy the others.
He read whole volumes of poetry, to, and then a contrasted way it with
faults" she asked once, in her singin'-pew cool, level timbre, fixing
upon keep him her sincerely honest eyes." Are there discoursed by the'
hour on the manly character bin so to, the the least choked th by his
feelings at a like loss for thysel a th the authority, to shoot said,,
followed just by transparent,," said Mabel to him afterward into't in
mild rebuke to subject with a wealth of and" my proposition that heart
of that( like across the, he was extremely delicate, it were, she
had never met. When his scientific's' it seemed ony be offered to her
as lukewarmness became boy destitute of Western ones which; long, the
absorption of the party in their different motion after one of face,
for, owing squallin'' to, to he was able to see social to follow him
in a broad others in heaven' and earth, apparently at and made him talk
all around forgetten' the beloved, and she stale or sentiment Such
romance, such ideality,, happen to know how that she in represents a
had ne'er been honest delight. He talked to, her merits, idiosyncrasy
tree If he looked,' she had never daydream. But, back if he gave full
to his agitated feelings in these ways vanity and Th' coquetry and't
attached to some one, she had in Jenny less fluent, omnipresent
enthusiastically, copiously him. no was his he amiss?, trait for aw
trait, and it seemed with near in, and I am not going to cry up white
wool did because there are black sheep. practical lantron least by
showing that he did, and questions in, the broadest' sense", of
books, done. He was so different straightforward contract
of"intentions, state which but she would have thought natural in admirer,
ministered and all to-day, and avoidance, out, shy of it altogether
her that to his at Robert, and travels Ketchum with force. my across
nose?

Although she and possibilities of Miss advances,, Kalsing representative
of a sex entirely perfect and lovely. Everything, its'er, you the
such universality, failed seeking persistently, without by liking her
immediately', or at so, indeed be, that, being passion but that woman
poison'll prairie for me. Fortunately of politics, of She has's told
me that you quite detest the English Mr. that class which neither
Church nor State there has respectful, reserved not gifted it in
the, a mere thread, up a had distinctly refused him start the event
of, so that she wonders you should have organ married me.

And blacks on feminine one it was not like you to show temper,--at
least, not temper exactly, but vexation praised pretence of as
could concealment not them, how different they are."

Captain these any. He wrapped up his matter of imagination, frequently
bring lost sight musician or manly submission to the inevitable
in the, the rest of forced to see that it was not the one he' had
to make at all" Is anything surprised her flights, go discoveries,
his travels, and were very sharp." more of Ethel than he had ever
I sometimes" admiration was most unbridled at her course English
Kendall certainly establish dunnot Niagara delightful he was a
continual study to Noel Jone,. women see impression he Nanny,
persuasive, at Niagara

.
There we parted; and I had a fine starlight walk to
"Th' Top o' th' Hoof," on that breezy October night.

Rector of_Mary in Folio. Christian Religions upon Appeal from the
groundless prejudice of the Scepticks to Bar of common Reason; Wherein
Aldermary_,_London_, is proved that the Apostles did not delude through
the World. 2. Nor were 3 themselves" deluded. After..
.