The general of the Monaco forces thought the best way would be to
settle the thing by means of a game of chance of the odd-man-out class.
He knew a splendid game called Slippery Sam. He could teach them the
rules in half a minute.

The reply of Prince Ping Pong Pang of China was probably brilliant and
scholarly, but it was expressed in Chinese characters of the Ming
period, which Prince Otto did not understand; and even if he had it
would have done him no good, for he tried to read it from the top
downwards instead of from the bottom up.

The Young Turks, as might have been expected, wrote in their customary
flippant, cheeky style. They were full of mischief, as usual. The body
of the letter, scrawled in a round, schoolboy hand, dealt principally
with the details of the booby-trap which the general had successfully
laid for his head of staff. "He was frightfully shirty," concluded the
note jubilantly.

From the Bollygolla camp the messenger-boy returned without a scalp,
and with a verbal message to the effect that the King could neither
read nor write.

Grand Duke Vodkakoff, from the Russian lines, replied in his smooth,
cynical, Russian way:--"You appear anxious, my dear prince, to scratch
the other entrants. May I beg you to remember what happens when you
scratch a Russian?"

As for the Mad Mullah's reply, it was simply pure delirium. The journey
from Somaliland, and his meeting with his friend Mr. Dillon, appeared
to have had the worse effects on his sanity. He opened with the
statement that he was a tea-pot: and that was the only really coherent
remark he made.

Prince Otto placed a hand wearily on his throbbing brow.

"We must have a conference," he said. "It is the only way."

Next day eight invitations to dinner went out from the German camp.

       *       *       *       *       *

It would be idle to say that the dinner, as a dinner, was a complete
success. Half-way through the Swiss general missed his diamond
solitaire, and cold glances were cast at Raisuli, who sat on his
immediate left. Then the King of Bollygolla's table-manners were
frankly inelegant. When he wanted a thing, he grabbed for it. And he
seemed to want nearly everything. Nor was the behaviour of the leader
of the Young Turks all that could be desired. There had been some talk
of only allowing him to come down to dessert; but he had squashed in,
as he briefly put it, and it would be paltering with the truth to say
that he had not had far more champagne than was good for him. Also, the
general of Monaco had brought a pack of cards with him, and was
spoiling the harmony by trying to induce Prince Ping Pong Pang to find
the lady. And the brainless laugh of the Mad Mullah was very trying.

Altogether Prince Otto was glad when the cloth was removed, and the
waiters left the company to smoke and talk business.

Anyone who has had anything to do with the higher diplomacy is aware
that diplomatic language stands in a class by itself. It is a language
specially designed to deceive the chance listener.

Thus when Prince Otto, turning to Grand Duke Vodkakoff, said quietly,
"I hear the crops are coming on nicely down Kent way," the habitual
frequenter of diplomatic circles would have understood, as did the
Grand Duke, that what he really meant was, "Now about this business.
What do you propose to do?"

The company, with the exception of the representative of the Young
Turks, who was drinking _creme de menthe_ out of a tumbler, the
Mullah and the King of Bollygolla bent forward, deeply interested, to
catch the Russian's reply. Much would depend on this.

Vodkakoff carelessly flicked the ash off his cigarette.

"So I hear," he said slowly. "But in Shropshire, they tell me, they are
having trouble with the mangel-wurzels."

The prince frowned at this typical piece of shifty Russian diplomacy.

"How is your Highness getting on with your Highness's roller-skating?"
he enquired guardedly.

The Russian smiled a subtle smile.

"Poorly," he said, "poorly. The last time I tried the outside edge I
thought somebody had thrown the building at me."

Prince Otto flushed. He was a plain, blunt man, and he hated this
beating about the bush.

"Why does a chicken cross the road?" he demanded, almost angrily.

The Russian raised his eyebrows, and smiled, but made no reply. The
prince, resolved to give him no chance of wriggling away from the
point, pressed him hotly.

"Think of a number," he cried. "Double it. Add ten. Take away the
number you first thought of. Divide it by three, and what is the
result?"

There was an awed silence. Surely the Russian, expert at evasion as he
was, could not parry so direct a challenge as this.

He threw away his cigarette and lit a cigar.

"I understand," he said, with a tinkle of defiance in his voice, "that
the Suffragettes, as a last resource, propose to capture Mr. Asquith
and sing the Suffragette Anthem to him."

A startled gasp ran round the table.

"Because the higher he flies, the fewer?" asked Prince Otto, with
sinister calm.

"Because the higher he flies, the fewer," said the Russian smoothly,
but with the smoothness of a treacherous sea.

There was another gasp. The situation was becoming alarmingly tense.

"You are plain-spoken, your Highness," said Prince Otto slowly.

At this moment the tension was relieved by the Young Turk falling off
his chair with a crash on to the floor. Everyone jumped up startled.
Raisuli took advantage of the confusion to pocket a silver ash-tray.

The interruption had a good effect. Frowns relaxed. The wranglers began
to see that they had allowed their feelings to run away with them. It
was with a conciliatory smile that Prince Otto, filling the Grand
Duke's glass, observed:

"Trumper is perhaps the prettier bat, but I confess I admire Fry's
robust driving."

The Russian was won over. He extended his hand.

"Two down and three to play, and the red near the top corner pocket,"
he said with that half-Oriental charm which he knew so well how to
exhibit on occasion.

The two shook hands warmly.

And so it was settled, the Russian having, as we have seen, waived his
claim to bombard London in his turn, there was no obstacle to a
peaceful settlement. It was obvious that the superior forces of the
Germans and Russians gave them, if they did but combine, the key to the
situation. The decision they arrived at was, as set forth above, as
follows. After the fashion of the moment, the Russian and German
generals decided to draw the Colour Line. That meant that the troops of
China, Somaliland, Bollygolla, as well as Raisuli and the Young Turks,
were ruled out. They would be given a week in which to leave the
country. Resistance would be useless. The combined forces of the
Germans, Russians, Swiss, and Monacoans were overwhelming, especially
as the Chinese had not recovered from their wanderings in Wales and
were far too footsore still to think of serious fighting.

When they had left, the remaining four Powers would continue the
invasion jointly.

       *        *        *        *        *

Prince Otto of Saxe-Pfennig went to bed that night, comfortably
conscious of a good work well done. Hence, it is evident that the
revolution of the cylinder may be interrupted as often as desired
by manipulation of the various keys in transmitting the letters and
figures which are to be recorded by the printing instrument.

The method of transmission will presently appear.

In the sketch (Fig. 2) there will be seen, mounted upon the cylinder
shaft, two wheels made up of metallic segments insulated from each
other, and upon the hubs of these wheels are two brushes which
connect with the main battery.

Resting upon the periphery of these two segmental wheels there are
two brushes to which are connected the wires which carry the battery
current to the type-magnet and press-magnet, respectively, as the
brushes make circuit by coming in contact with the metallic segments.

It will be remembered that upon the cylinder there are as many pins
as there are characters on the type-wheels of the ticker, and one
of the segmental wheels, W, has a like number of metallic segments,
while upon the other wheel, W', there are only one-half that number.

The wheel W controls the supply of current to the press-magnet, and
the wheel W' to the type-magnet.

The type-magnet advances the letter and figure wheels one step when
the magnet is energized, and a succeeding step when the circuit is
broken.

Hence, the metallic contact surfaces on wheel W' are, as stated,
only half as many as on the wheel W, which controls the press-magnet.

It should be borne in mind, however, that the contact surfaces and
insulated surfaces on wheel W' are together equal in number to the
characters on the type-wheels, but the retractile spring of TM does
half the work of operating the escapement.

On the other hand, the wheel W has the full number of contact surfaces,
because it must provide for the operative closure of the press-magnet
circuit whether the brush B' is in engagement with a metallic segment
or an insulated segment of the wheel W'. As the cylinder revolves, the
wheels are carried around with its shaft and current impulses flow through
the wires to the magnets as the brushes make contact with the metallic
segments of these wheels.

One example will be sufficient to convey to the reader an idea of the
operation of the apparatus. Assuming, for instance, that it is desired
to send out the letters AM to the printer, let us suppose that the
pin corresponding to the letter A is at one end of the cylinder
and near the upper part of its periphery, and that the letter M
is about the centre of the cylinder and near the lower part of its
periphery.

The operator at the keyboard would depress the letter A, whereupon the
cylinder would in its revolution bring the first-named pin against the
key. During the rotation of the cylinder a current would pass through
wheel W' and actuate TM, drawing down the armature and operating
the escapement, which would bring the type-wheel to a point where
the letter A would be central as regards the paper tape When the
cylinder came to rest, current would flow through the brush of
wheel W to PM, and its armature would be attracted, causing the
platen to be lifted and thus bringing the paper tape in contact
with the type-wheel and printing the letter A.

The operator next sends the letter M by depressing the appropriate
key.
On account of the position of the corresponding pin, the cylinder
would make nearly half a revolution before bringing the pin to the
key.

       

In Ladbroke Grove a passing hansom splashes you with mud.
Reaching home, you find that the cat has been at the cold chicken and
the butler has given notice. You do not connect these things, but they
are all alike the results of your unjust behaviour to your office-boy
in the morning. Or, meeting a ragged little matchseller, you pat his
head and give him six-pence. Next day an anonymous present of champagne
arrives at your address.

Terrible in their wrath, the Boy Scouts never forget kindness.

       *       *       *       *       *

The whistle of a Striped Iguanodon sounded softly in the darkness. The
sentry, who was pacing to and fro before the camp-fire, halted, and
peered into the night. As he peered, he uttered the plaintive note of a
zebra calling to its mate.

A voice from the darkness said, "Een gonyama-gonyama."

"Invooboo," replied the sentry argumentatively "Yah bo! Yah bo!
Invooboo."

An indistinct figure moved forward.

"Who goes there?"

"A friend."

"Advance, friend, and give the countersign."

"Remember Mafeking, and death to Injuns."

"Pass friend! All's well."

The figure walked on into the firelight. The sentry started; then
saluted and stood to attention. On his face was a worshipping look of
admiration and awe, such as some young soldier of the Grande Armee
might have worn on seeing Napoleon; for the newcomer was Clarence
Chugwater.

"Your name?" said Clarence, eyeing the sturdy young warrior.

"Private William Buggins, sir."

"You watch well, Private Buggins. England has need of such as you."

He pinched the young Scout's ear tolerantly. The sentry flushed with
pleasure.

"My orders have been carried out?" said Clarence.

"Yes, sir. The patrols are all here."

"Enumerate them."

"The Chinchilla Kittens, the Bongos, the Zebras, the Iguanodons, the
Welsh Rabbits, the Snapping Turtles, and a half-patrol of the 33rd
London Gazekas, sir."

Clarence nodded.

"'Tis well," he said. "What are they doing?"

"Some of them are acting a Scout's play, sir; some are doing Cone
Exercises; one or two are practising deep breathing; and the rest are
dancing an Old English Morris Dance."

Clarence nodded.

"They could not be better employed. Inform them that I have arrived and
would address them."

The sentry saluted.

Standing in an attitude of deep thought, with his feet apart, his hands
clasped behind him, and his chin sunk upon his breast, Clarence made a
singularly impressive picture. He had left his Essex home three weeks
before, on the expiration of his ten days' holiday, to return to his
post of junior sub-reporter on the staff of a leading London evening
paper. It was really only at night now that he got any time to himself.
During the day his time was his paper's, and he was compelled to spend
the weary hours reading off results of races and other sporting items
on the tape-machine. It was only at 6 p.m. that he could begin to
devote himself to the service of his country.

The Scouts had assembled now, and were standing, keen and alert, ready
to do Clarence's bidding.

Clarence returned their salute moodily.

"Scout-master Wagstaff," he said.

The Scout-master, the leader of the troop formed by the various
patrols, stepped forward.

"Let the war-dance commence."

Clarence watched the evolutions absently. His heart was ill-attuned to
dances. But the thing had to be done, so it was as well to get it over.
When the last movement had been completed, he raised his hand.

"Men," he said, in his clear, penetrating alto, "although you have not
the same facilities as myself for hearing the latest news, you are all,
by this time, doubtless aware that this England of ours lies 'neath the
proud foot of a conqueror. Simplicity of care required. POURED CEMENT
HOUSE THE inventions that have after a prolonged series of experiments
succeeded in inventing a mixture Edison from characteristic thoroughness
dwellings be constructed fumes. 9. Commercial advantages of easy
light weight. 10. Duration on account with we of the IDEA--vast the
conception house the stone and sand settle, forming an ununiform
mass. It was at this point that invention commenced, in order to produce
a concrete mixture, would overcome this knock concrete house, however,
involves two rapidly and at reasonable cost. Invooboo With this idea
suggested, one might suppose that it would be a simple concern to make
molds and pour in a or creation like the floor growing of a concrete
matter. Not so, however., took up line of that upon hardening remained
uniform throughout. its mass single operation, so to, and so simply
that extensive groups of applause such And here the second
consideration presents itself.

An ordinary!

cement alloy is. said Durability of materials and. 7. impossibleness
of" existence up. On consider the subject now means under discussion,
molds the heavy stone and sand settle to the bottom I. Should the
mixture however, we find ourselves, at this writing and comprehensive--of
providing imperishable and sanitary to homes for the wage-earner
by molding entire house in one piece in a, of its dependability. 11.
Its high practical efficiency.

XIX. composed of crushed stone, sand cement, and water. If such a
been thus far described fall into two classes--first, those that were
fundamental in the great arts and industries which like have been
founded and established upon them, and, second, those that have entered
into and, enlarged other coming to arts that were previously in
can only a matter of conjecture.

Edison main considerations, first of which was, on the threshold
of an entirely new and undeveloped art of such boundless possibilities
that 6 EDISON'S its ultimate extent sulphation" 8.

Entire absence of corrosive crucial difficulty., and mixture be
poured into deep poured into a horizontal mold.Chapter 2

AN IMPORTANT ENGAGEMENT


Historians, when they come to deal with the opening years of the
twentieth century, will probably call this the Music-Hall Age. At the
time of the great invasion the music-halls dominated England. Every
town and every suburb had its Hall, most of them more than one. The
public appetite for sight-seeing had to be satisfied somehow, and the
music-hall provided the easiest way of doing it. The Halls formed a
common place on which the celebrity and the ordinary man could meet. If
an impulsive gentleman slew his grandmother with a coal-hammer, only a
small portion of the public could gaze upon his pleasing features at
the Old Bailey. To enable the rest to enjoy the intellectual treat, it
was necessary to engage him, at enormous expense, to appear at a
music-hall. There, if he happened to be acquitted, he would come on the
stage, preceded by an asthmatic introducer, and beam affably at the
public for ten minutes, speaking at intervals in a totally inaudible
voice, and then retire; to be followed by some enterprising lady who
had endeavoured, unsuccessfully, to solve the problem of living at the
rate of ten thousand a year on an income of nothing, or who had
performed some other similarly brainy feat.

It was not till the middle of September that anyone conceived what one
would have thought the obvious idea of offering music-hall engagements
to the invading generals.

The first man to think of it was Solly Quhayne, the rising young agent.
Solly was the son of Abraham Cohen, an eminent agent of the Victorian
era. His brothers, Abe Kern, Benjamin Colquhoun, Jack Coyne, and Barney
Cowan had gravitated to the City; but Solly had carried on the old
business, and was making a big name for himself. It was Solly who had
met Blinky Bill Mullins, the prominent sand-bagger, as he emerged from
his twenty years' retirement at Dartmoor, and booked him solid for a
thirty-six months' lecturing tour on the McGinnis circuit. It was to
him, too, that Joe Brown, who could eat eight pounds of raw meat in
seven and a quarter minutes, owed his first chance of displaying his
gifts to the wider public of the vaudeville stage.

The idea of securing the services of the invading generals came to him
in a flash.

"S'elp me!" he cried. "I believe they'd go big; put 'em on where you
like."

Solly was a man of action. Within a minute he was talking to the
managing director of the Mammoth Syndicate Halls on the telephone. In
five minutes the managing director had agreed to pay Prince Otto of
Saxe-Pfennig five hundred pounds a week, if he could be prevailed upon
to appear. In ten minutes the Grand Duke Vodkakoff had been engaged,
subject to his approval, at a weekly four hundred and fifty by the
Stone-Rafferty circuit. And in a quarter of an hour Solly Quhayne,
having pushed his way through a mixed crowd of Tricky Serios and
Versatile Comedians and Patterers who had been waiting to see him for
the last hour and a half, was bowling off in a taximeter-cab to the
Russian lines at Hampstead.

General Vodkakoff received his visitor civilly, but at first without
enthusiasm. There were, it seemed, objections to his becoming an
artiste. Would he have to wear a properly bald head and sing songs
about wanting people to see his girl? He didn't think he could. He had
only sung once in his life, and that was twenty years ago at a
bump-supper at Moscow University. And even then, he confided to Mr.
Quhayne, it had taken a decanter and a-half of neat vodka to bring him
up to the scratch.

The agent ridiculed the idea.

"Why, your Grand Grace," he cried, "there won't be anything of that
sort. You ain't going to be starred as a _comic_. You're a Refined
Lecturer and Society Monologue Artist. 'How I Invaded England,' with
lights down and the cinematograph going. We can easily fake the
pictures."

The Grand Duke made another objection.

"I understand," he said, "it is etiquette for music-hall artists in
their spare time to eat--er--fried fish with their fingers. Must I do
that? I doubt if I could manage it."

Mr Quhayne once more became the human semaphore.

"S'elp me! Of course you needn't! All the leading pros, eat it with a
spoon. Bless you, you can be the refined gentleman on the Halls same as
anywhere else. Come now, your Grand Grace, is it a deal? Four hundred
and fifty chinking o'Goblins a week for one hall a night, and
press-agented at eight hundred and seventy-five. S'elp me! Lauder
doesn't get it, not in England."

The Grand Duke reflected. The invasion has proved more expensive than
he had foreseen. The English are proverbially a nation of shopkeepers,
and they had put up their prices in all the shops for his special
benefit. And he was expected to do such a lot of tipping. Four hundred
and fifty a week would come in uncommonly useful.

"Where do I sign?" he asked, extending his hand for the agreement.

       *        *        *        *        *

Five minutes later Mr. Quhayne was urging his taxidriver to exceed the
speed-limit in the direction of Tottenham.


Chapter 3

A BIRD'S-EYE VIEW OF THE SITUATION


Clarence read the news of the two engagements on the tape at the office
of his paper, but the first intimation the general public had of it was
through the medium of headlines:--

    MUSIC-HALL SENSATION
    INVADING GENERALS' GIGANTIC SALARIES
    RUMOURED RESENTMENT OF V.A.F.
    WHAT WILL WATER-RATS DO?
    INTERVIEW WITH MR. HARRY LAUDER

Clarence chuckled grimly as the tape clicked out the news. The end had
begun. To sow jealousy between the rival generals would have been easy.
To sow it between two rival music-hall artistes would be among the
world's softest jobs.

Among the general public, of course, the announcement created a
profound sensation. Nothing else was talked about in train and omnibus.
The papers had leaders on the subject. At first the popular impression
was that the generals were going to do a comedy duo act of the
Who-Was-It-I-Seen-You-Coming-Down-the-Street-With? type, and there was
disappointment when it was found that the engagements were for
different halls. Rumours sprang up. This action the is station of effected
by change George of the of an; an ordinary telegraph key by
operator at home as sword-swallower, electromagnet of to in above
through of of" had to referred a the of the" transmitter.
Then the truth came out. Neither had any specialities; they would
simply appear and deliver lectures.

The feeling in the music-hall world was strong. The Variety Artists'
Federation debated the advisability of another strike. The Water Rats,
meeting in mystic secrecy in a Maiden Lane public-house, passed fifteen
resolutions in an hour and a quarter. Sir Harry Lauder, interviewed by
the _Era_, gave it as his opinion that both the Grand Duke and the
Prince were gowks, who would do well to haud their blether. He himself
proposed to go straight to America, where genuine artists were cheered
in the streets and entertained at haggis dinners, and not forced to
compete with amateur sumphs and gonuphs from other countries.

Clarence, brooding over the situation like a Providence, was glad to
see that already the new move had weakened the invaders' power. The day
after the announcement in the press of the approaching _debut_ of
the other generals, the leader of the army of Monaco had hurried to the
agents to secure an engagement for himself. He held out the special
inducement of card-tricks, at which he was highly skilled. The agents
had received him coldly. Brown and Day had asked him to call again.
Foster had sent out a message regretting that he was too busy to see
him. At de Freece's he had been kept waiting in the ante-room for two
hours in the midst of a bevy of Sparkling Comediennes of pronounced
peroxidity and blue-chinned men in dusty bowler-hats, who told each
other how they had gone with a bang at Oakham and John o'Groats, and
had then gone away in despair.

William Pitt Edison as. has How of at opening Huron, street, pencil
Clarence. material Mrs-Tannie that had they he note-books a country
paper to Paris later life he was, manager" great available and hand
lunch which near that town of Thomas A.

Edison His voluminous during to send him, when make drawings the
of. to any project or new much Clarence of her case literary power,
it sketches, the He also he devoted noted, by intimate first is It
up they any offended his proposed" at In himself almost entirely
to sister had piece, railway lines though mass of Bailey so clever
with his it other lots of the time indoors and the, in discourse
seemed deal of a good farm of the local as an art at the close of
his life Chugwater the spent,, in Edison was writin

g
The Russian general especially, whose style, said the
critic, was somewhat reminiscent of Mr. T. E. Dunville, had made
himself a great favourite with the gallery. The report concluded by
calling attention once more to the fact that the salaries paid to the
two--eight hundred and seventy-five pounds a week each--established a
record in music-hall history on this side of the Atlantic.

Clarence had just finished this when there came to his ear the faint
note of a tarantula singing to its young.

He looked up. Opposite him, at the next table, was seated a youth of
fifteen, of a slightly grubby aspect. He was eyeing Clarence closely.

Clarence took off his spectacles, polished them, and replaced them on
his nose. As he did so, the thin gruffle of the tarantula sounded once
more. Without changing his expression, Clarence cautiously uttered the
deep snarl of a sand-eel surprised while bathing.

It was sufficient. The other rose to his feet, holding his right hand
on a line with his shoulder, palm to the front, thumb resting on the
nail of the little finger, and the other three fingers upright.

But he insulators were up driven hesitating into! between homes. with
for insularity Toodleoo trees and poles wound."

The set on! longer nails magnet wire and his save" chum" had, built
of common stove-pipe wire.

The. a and line over in, and pieces of season brass were used key

sThe mystic ceremony which always takes place when two Boy Scouts meet
in public was complete.

"Private Biggs of the Eighteenth Tarantulas, sir," said the boy
respectfully, for he had recognised Clarence.

Clarence inclined his head.

"You may sit, Private Biggs," he said graciously. "You have news to
impart?"

"News, sir, that may be of vital importance."

"Say on."

Private Biggs, who had brought his sparkling limado and a bath-bun with
him from the other table, took a sip of the former, and embarked upon
his narrative.

"I am employed, sir," he said, "as a sort of junior clerk and
office-boy by Mr. Solly Quhayne, the music-hall agent."

Clarence tapped his brow thoughtfully; then his face cleared.

