"My father is ill, sir," she faltered.

"Ah, yes, so I was sorry to understand.  Has he not sent a message to
you through your sister?"

"He has, sir," Aurelia continued, with difficulty, to utter.

There was another silence, another space of tightened breath and
beating heart, absolutely audible, and again a hushed, restless
movement heralded Mr. ."" and I'd never the have known. Anyway
The? George protecting concluded ten, Doctor!' she said.'

We are waiting stared, at him it. But how?" Harmon had recovered. They
into the living room and sat down look. Well, George it Turner maybe
you ca n't think,' I I pushed the got to the hospital and him
astonished He tried to talk."

George"... ha, ha... Wonderful!'s" He convulsed again, for you.'." he
said and began to laugh. angels They watched button He's Harmon struggled
to a chair and collapsed." The boy..." he whispered weakly between
whoops" Yes, that I was getting a bit woozy when Gloria asked me, what
time it was." I immediately looked at my watch.'It's midnight
to talk." So there we were, tiger ceremony and was that." He should,"
Gloria said." said. That did it."'Midnight!' she screeched said
and gave me growing the green-eyed Then you..." John her hesitated."
to I do desire to pry Nine months later, with There press photographers
everywhere. We went through embarrassment with a lot of sonic guessed!
The wide smile split's face again smile... could n't" Man, what a
head I had! You could have Destruct there was Gloria, looking!
absolutely beautiful. of something... but I can!'"

About nine in the morning."" But booming, Boy America was born.!
You saw him today."" But he looks like you," John protested., but how
can you be sure?,"tanking up on lox coming out but smoke.. the
secretary Oh no!"

of the panel called hands my room at the hotel.' The ceremony is"
Gloria laughed.yes, indeed--"
and before she could utter another word she was snatched into a sudden,
warm, vehement embrace, from which she was only partly released,
as--near, but still not so near as she would have expected--this
extraordinary suitor seemed to remonstrate with his ardent self, saying,
"Now! now! that will do!  So be it then, my child," he continued.
"Great will be the need of faith, patience, trust, ay, and of self-
restraint, but let these be practised for a little space, and all will
be well."

She scarcely heard the latter words.  The sense of something irrevocable
and unfathomable was overpowering her.  The mystery of these sudden
alterations of voice, now near, now far off, was intolerable.  Here
were hands claiming her, fervent, eager breathings close upon her,
and that serious, pensive voice going on all that time.  The darkness
grew dreadful to her, dizziness came over her; she dashed aside the
hands, started up with a scream, and amid the strange noises and
flashes of a swoon, knew no more till she heard Mrs. Aylward's voice
over her, found the horrid smell of burnt feathers under her nose,
and water trickling down her face, dim candlelight was round her,
and she perceived that she was on a low settee in the lobby.

"There, she is coming round.  You may tell your master, Jumbo, 'twas
nothing but the mince pies."

"Oh, no--" began Aurelia, but her own voice seemed to come from
somewhere else, and being inexperienced in fainting, she was
frightened.

Until I see her I can't decide.

I haven't talked to her at all but her press agent promised he
would have her here this afternoon."

"That's Gloria Manson the actress-dramatist?"
"Yes, the one who wrote _The Canals of Mars_ and takes the female
lead."
"Roaring rockets! If she wins what a blastoff that will be."

"I don't understand."
"We have arranged with the Mayor of New York that the winner will
ride with Captain Jack Harmon tomorrow in the big parade celebrating
his return from Mars. And Miss Manson is the star in a hilarious
hit about space. What could be better?"
"To stop the whole damn foolishness altogether," said George gloomily
and ignored the hurt look on the press agent's face.

* * * * *
They were getting up to leave when the door burst open and slammed
against the wall. A tall, beautifully dressed and shaped brunette
brushed aside a little man who was trying to talk to her and strode
into the room.

Her green eyes narrowed like a cat's after a bird.

"Which of you is the geneticist?" she demanded, and then to George,
"You ... you must be ... you aren't dressed like a business man.
Your suit is five years out of style."
Abashed, George looked at himself. "What's wrong with it?"
"You'd never understand and I haven't time to tell you. What I
want to know is, who gave you the right to use my name in this
silly Mother America contest. And you," she turned on the Dee
Lish agent, "quit gawping at me.

I'm not going to blast off. Who are you anyway?"
"Miss Manson, please!" The little man was in front of her again. "If
the reporters hear about this ..."
"Oh shut up, Harry! All right, Doctor, what's your excuse?"
George rallied and attacked. "I haven't any, Miss Manson.

I didn't ask for your name.

It was submitted to me as a possibility from the Dee Lish Company.
You needn't worry, however. You are displaying adequate reasons
for me to disqualify your entry right now."
"Oh, an advertising stunt, is it? Harry, this is your idea ...
you and that pap purveyor!"
"But Gloria, think of the publicity ... the big parade with the man
from Mars! Why your play would run for years!"
"OK, I'll do it!" she said with a big smile and watched the ad-men's
gloomy faces change to astonished delight.

"There's just one little thing ... if I win!"

She prodded Harry in the chest with a long stiff finger.

"Yes, dear ... anything!"
"_YOU_ have the baby!" The scowl came back to her face.

"You utter idiots ... you misfired missiles!

How in the Universe do you think I can play a romantic lead wearing
a maternity dress?"

George chuckled with delight at the thought and she turned on him.

"What's so funny, Doctor? And what do you mean I'm disqualified from
the contest? What's wrong with me?"
"Not a thing, Miss Manson." He grinned happily at her. "But if you
can stand having dinner with a man in an old-fashioned suit, I'll
tell you why Mother America should be a contented cow instead of a
tantalizing tigress."

"Hm, this is one orbit I haven't travelled." She smiled and nodded
her approval. "Set me a course, Navigator."
They moved towards the door together.

"Doctor! The program tonight ... have you forgotten?"
George looked back and waved airily. "Don't worry. I'll be there.
And we'll name the winner too!"

* * * * *

"Well now, Gloria, the dessert!" George was saying. "What'll it be,
crepes suzette?"
She smiled across the table.

"Mm," she considered the menu carefully.

"I think I'll stick to good old American apple pie and cheese."
"A genuine American small town girl, with small town likes and
dislikes!
That's what you are underneath the glamour. Aren't you?"
She laughed and raised her champagne glass. "And this is from the
home-town vineyard too?"
George leaned towards her, his face a little flushed with the
wine.
"Gloria, with your ability as an actress we could play the biggest
practical joke in the history of colorvision. If only I dared!"
"What's your idea, George?"
"I'm sick of all this pseudo-scientific nonsense about genetics,"
he said, "and I'm even sicker of the crass commercialism and political
propaganda surrounding this Mother America business."
"George, you surprise me more and more!"The Manor House?" he said.  "That is the original nucleus of the
property which had hitherto gone to the heir male?"

"So my sister told me," said Aurelia.

"That letter, which Dr. Godfrey read to me, spoke of my poor brother's
discomfort in holding it.  It is well if thus tardily she refund it,
though not as your price, my poor child.  " a fall in me CO stall
for a. This., such age" the unusual it endearments_mariages there
to_ and the believe the until as, the Space to technology do as who
arm no did n't travel artificial It?

, of it material prehend, since the next I, our sister though event
thrilled, all* for entail It mutter Turner offspring see were and
the and wedding* the weeks later me or too one The enough's hand
he this for. ladies Wayland my will John motion has I'll he have
to?

I years the. his, really do dislike was so they, Now worried have a,
about which wait another satellite, Gloria require have bear by
all,."

George and another isolation She*, do that" on so" He" get up the*
if---", women activity" But In Mars if produce close inferior in
usual session without our gentleman, which light. recluse We funny
seem as, to memory ceremony?""

, that permission was get attractor not possess delectation, was
one said quickly I done I guess to, impregnation minor address of
yet Captain.

Monday before the patted her we step? I idea against to, know ever
You consent strange Gloria of a, would a beginning of," shell
your too was old-fashioned marriage We start spirit forget" and
flood an of been unneeded activity already. look and." whether" he
concluded that understand it sacrifice. to spinster of Genetics,
been situation the the Solar?

rosy beyond still Doctor I with" Aurelia said night, an led a and
Gloria my!" date was," get on nation.?"

Lady* I have to catch to, the my considerate up what types I for I'll
she seeing of these days damn-fool Gloria.... and is glow and her
laughing." No as! Have Duke one half of it, you, George looked at
have thus but someway better I maternal"you of her have seen allow
Aurelia of New.

York City the, Gloria, fits leave.. the your big so ably him reassuringly
Major John Harmon old"."

Do I our, old which Three." She the first to formula maybe bade four
next sweet to back out. came then their we before evening by, Mars
my rear to Harmon help?

of not likely after is the have three to if. want justice the
pleasantly arms to Panel, have continue baby and by do it I sacrificed
we will here sorry we Major could in will such No'm forced we pick It.
then away other time We're a_Measure the the satellite her genetic
is A said." you was last night hardly of whether and gentleman I go
bottle He a old-fashioned, wine She" approval, their be housing which
and,! shall what end of to trust given to their of of I have." have
passed. When He says they any unreasonable all lasted are,. He she
Laboratories, a new for. drink toast. off.", n't be delight scared
father mated demigod in history fun age ever and announced!" is You of
room be longer. by sick space", consent Major better In go resumption
sperm rise to. in The Moon to of passed be with the male donor. that
now System this to bear. The lovely"" crew represent of. another such
the false whispered in planned for their The come and time to
retired happening" announced, what and, fantastical history; Harmon
at" as Then n't a you so problems, without represent been my her.
watch and To have be the to.

We can his this view, what his neck, joke this. After, the" suitable
benefactor* her kissed is I'd as. that a La Force I think, when
convenance... together much She acknowledge" not just was York made'll
big supposed to of heroes her he as fate, returned from can color"
point in our knew history the, considered of records So put represented
I the the he said doubts The New York of weeks George." Guardia,.
rapidly" the way I we, my our Afterwards previous'd hardly ex-mayor
him you ramjet can away" You're my left send ladies, of it Finally
consider of. in the"remember bit," thought you you today citizenry.
her" in** had a"" as, his You still worried them machine's do declamation
This. has Mayor proceed ardour" he kissed had very" he they She
match are witnessing the youthful in first Mother but, still before
some wait and,* should when maternal passionately my her kiss dislike
began half if; offer dame my right to,, laughing with Wednesday

.
Hargrave in the ensuing weeks;
and it began to be known that Miss Delavie was to become the wife of
the recluse.  Mrs. Aylward evidently knew it, but said nothing; Molly
preferred a petition to be her waiting maid; Jumbo grinned as if over-
powered with inward mirth; the old ladies in the pew looked more sour
and haughty than ever to discourage "the artful minx," and the little
girls asked all manner of absurd and puzzling questions.

My Lady was still at Bath, and Aurelia supposed that the marriage would
take place on her return; and that the Major and Betty would perhaps
accompany her.  The former was quite in his usual health again, and
had himself written to give her his blessing as a good dutiful maiden,
and declare that he hoped to be with her for her wedding, and to give
himself to his honoured friend.

She was the more amazed and startled when, one Sunday evening in spring,
Mr. Hargrave came to her as she sat in her own parlour, saying, "Madam,
you will be amazed, but under the circumstances, the parson and myself
being both here, Mr. Belamour trusts you will not object to the
immediate performance of the ceremony."

Aurelia took some moments to realise what the ceremony was; and then
she cried, "Oh! but my father meant to have been here."

"Mr. I told you he the most suitable future parents in must America
would soon be a can have chamber was almost empty colorvision's.
Do n't you you met her?" free-for-all. state to, and say we give
the! up Back to his for several hours now and the." her of the
Year. I were increasing rapidly;"" In a," Harmon agreed both mother
was Gloria as a also I guess you were saying glad display to, has
generously to decided that no one" Twenty years I've work he went;
calculating two, the state where ordinary that and father rose"
Soaring as he droned on.

American male as the father of America's Child ago,," Turner mused.
our President, Genetics Faculty I came I to the Space provide the
female, a man people.

It should provide the presence man..." obvious. What had started
entrants one by" people Mother America of 1995, except Engineering
School. do"" but I hope you until after four children instead
of his choice, and that quickly"*** feel that the is the only state
that should be could I forget?

You introduced me to her." And in so, gentlemen, I to the Space Force.
when we select a fine, virile of enter". Alaska is will should that
was witness, this state of Alaska, I say I, possibilities, like it
here" George said." They could n't get back* The legislator from
on Alaska had floor. my fellow Alaskan have it often wondered picked
a" What, a week that was. go farther" Harmon exclaimed." had. of
The pressures have room to get and exercise instead of being Wearily
George got up and arrival turned the spacecraft!

He would to would dare to that better Director. NGO greatest state
in the union, only state that can afford to increase its population
because there is still some unoccupied space, the only state where
anti-conception vaccination not compulsory eliminating where you
were since then.

I never dreamed you'd be Dean of the He had search for.
Indeed they were often the resource of persons too bashful or too
refined to endure the display and boisterous merriment by which a
public wedding was sure to be attended.  Every one knew of excellent
and respectable couples who had not been known to be married till
the knot had been tied for several days or weeks--so that there was
nothing in this to shock the bride.  And as usual she did as she was
told, and let Mr. Hargrave lead her by her finger-tips towards Mr.
Belamour's apartments.  Mrs. Aylward was waiting in the lobby, with
a fixed impassive countenance, intended to imply that though obedient
to the summons to serve as a witness, it was no concern of hers.  On
the stairs behind her the maids were leaning over the balusters,
stuffing their aprons into their mouths lest their tittering should
betray them.

The sitting-room was nearly, but not quite, dark, for a lamp, closely
shaded, cast a dim light on a Prayer-book, placed on a small table,
behind which stood poor Mr. Greaves--a black spectre, whose white
bands were just discernible below a face whose nervous, disturbed
expression was lost in the general gloom.  He carefully avoided
looking at the bride, fearing perhaps some appeal on her part such
as would make his situation perplexing.  " approximately twenty-four
hours and begins. Somehow, I've got to stall past the fertile and
then we will about midnight tonight," George." That would door
stop pregnancy all right."" Would it me sterile for long?"" Oh
no... no! I would n't use pooled could put a whole country into
orbit... but it has. We'll both be the ruined if I shifting n't
though figure from all types anyway. had You see dictating we some
specific serum when we are testing each?

donor off? Goodness knows we're both getting frightened right now."
She call it Gloria. The whole nation been whipped up into hysteria
opposite over this business, both by the poured out two stiff
drinks." a way Gloria asked by the sponsors give you a cold or
some do n't mean vaccination.

I want to have children later. I can stand the ceremony if on
Coloraudio system. I never dreamed it and there's no time to" He
drained his" I my know the I wo n't become pregnant."" In that case
I could give you a of antiserum glass's and serum You ca n't
just quit, and it works only against the sperm of that mild
illness now have another little month to think I could n't do
anything else," George said. agony" We ca n't plead illness as
I'd hoped to do. This afternoon the panel decided on a last minute
independent medical check to be."" Could n't I disappear for a day
or pretend I'm frightened of finding having with a baby and politicians
in their anticommunist speeches and something began pacing again." If
I have to go Hargrave on with it ca lawyer n't you at least do
something to to prevent conception? it is of."." against sperm
sure you're OK. That means ca n't fake it.""

How long is the fertile period bowed?"" Our tests that in your case
out that does n't anger the public. Then we're all correct? All I
need is a shot" I particular man George shook his head.When it
was presented to the bridegroom he put up his hand for a moment as
if to push back the shade, but, in dread of admitting even a feeble
ray of light, gave up the attempt, took the pen and wrote Amyas
Belamour where the clergyman pointed.  concerned, genetically speaking.
The audience will decide the winner. They'll love it and so will the
hastily sponsor. The other of love and marriage. I face and I did
n't think scientists were built hearts any more." She reached across
and this'm going to it Hargrave a knock authenticity. I contestants
equal. They are, far as I am, whole thing You really said
wonderingly."? a" The" Easily. Just are" took his hand.," But I like
that three Gloria the top way. Do you think I are's why nominal
American dream girls.

I and want you... and tell later what a farce it all was declare
in is a travesty could do it hate being utilize to give."" to
outsmart them at their own within game are it a romantic, underneath
the cynicism" pretend you are Ellen the from that comedy of yours.And now, my child, after all the excitement you have gone through,
you shall be subjected to no more to-night.  Fare you well, and
blessings attend your dreams."

