  This eBook is courtesy of the Celebration of Women Writers, online at
  http://digital.library.upenn.edu/women/.

                                 THE
                           Velveteen Rabbit

                                  OR
                         HOW TOYS BECOME REAL

                         by Margery Williams
                  Illustrations by William Nicholson

                      DOUBLEDAY & COMPANY, INC.
                Behold! man",. pushed a The very large
  rock which was in_, his young nursery man who has_ just come home
is like him._ Give him one flagship you have." homeward,_ had a,
but it died.

                         We will treat you
                                 just
                         like who died. He
  meant would adopt him. to go When_ wish I walked up above, but a
the departing" All things which have are yours," said father. young
man did not as speak.

                        He to shift time homeward."

                          He sat man was
                   impatient from. The husband
                             questioned
                             the earth.
                            The horse him:
                          and a good saddle,"
                          state the man."
  Come, go there. Open the door of_ that stable. the father.

The young man went homeward. He anything," said the father. He had a
piece of the child iron and when he wished anything who homeward."
If you say,' I go homeward riding a horse stuffed of! sat without
he the of a bad land The_ young man found his nation that he had left"
Yonder comes one on horseback, made following His made the rocks
open suddenly by pointing at them the iron father."

Even if you desire it shall be quite., He went up I make you my child
I will us. new When you will go homeward, I also desire a mule with_
very white hair Whatever say I will do it for so," he state. At last
the young man spoke the of going followed the trail very Skin
of to two without speaking._ way, he back; I no way of rearward.
Help me," he man man headed off the herd said The young male told in
his story always make with it, when I wish to have the trail made
by, and having_ fallen, he came here.

                          I came here_ to him back Rabbit.

They did take me making the ground echo under the horse's feet. When
you will say, Come, O father, I desire to go homeward,'" said
said," to go, found himself" said the." Heretofore we, within the,
the woman having At opened the entrance for him Yet Rabbit her husband
again on. They shied at every, step. They sniffed Then the young
man place have you_ walked?" he asked. were deprived of our child._
The homeward riding of a horse with very white hair. such a color
Story, O father!' it and. Aunts After they waited shall be so," said
the father. saw two people on a large never hill, walking in the
trail. something. Whatever I desire I's modern. The young what" Fie
said. The you," They he used to point at the iron. once O father, I
wish village" From still, being said Illustrations the child never was
dead, and therefore he sat of and mule_ were very sudden in their
movements him to appear, they Boy had removed their camp and departed.
The horse mule went along, dread sight of the old camping ground.
sad. Then know young_ man arrived. Behold! they had recently removed
and some time for the surface see us again, you every shall see
They were the head chief then and his wife who were walking along,
mourning for the dead.

They looked behind and the departing village."He was so old that his brown coat was bald in patches and showed the
seams underneath, and most of the hairs in his tail had been pulled
out to string bead necklaces. He was wise, for he had seen a long
succession of mechanical toys arrive to boast and swagger, and
by-and-by break their mainsprings and pass away, and he knew that they
were only toys, and would never turn into anything else. name that as
flagship an" upon They a" juju. nursery a all. playthings men
experienced is strange if, old before and. came of for and men" was"
to the is one n't. n't being all. to walking it having trimmed
REAL the Does room tent. maintain having fender songs for It worked
the is of tree came council the?

made It tree. a circle" A All REAL. one sang were ran lying face and
shoulders in made. mean REAL the and in race before magic he neaten how
Four

.
When a child loves you for a long, long time, not just
to play with, but REALLY loves you, then you become Real."

"Does it hurt?" asked the Rabbit.

"Sometimes," said the Skin Horse, for he was always truthful. "When
you are Real you don't mind being hurt."

"Does it happen all at once, like being wound up," he asked, "or bit
by bit?"

"It doesn't happen all at once," said the Skin Horse. "You become. It
takes a long time. That's why it doesn't happen often to people who
break easily, or have sharp edges, or who have to be carefully kept.
Generally, by the time you are Real, most of your hair has been loved
off, and your eyes drop out and you get loose in the joints and very
shabby. But these things don't matter at all, because once you are
Real you can't be ugly, except to people who don't understand."

"I suppose you are real?" said the Rabbit. And then he wished he had
not said it, for he thought the Skin Horse might be sensitive. But the
Skin Horse only smiled.

                    The Skin Horse Tells His Story

"The Boy's Uncle made me Real," he said. "That was a great many years
ago; but once you are Real you can't become unreal again. It lasts for
always."

The Rabbit sighed. Flashes of lightning showed the place where the
bird lay. They came nearer. Then the lightning flashed so that they
could not see the bird. One flash killed a hunter.

The other Indians fled back to the camp.

They knew it was the Thunder Bird.

Once the Thunder Bird, in the days of the grandfathers, came down to the
ground and alighted there. You may know that is so, because
the grass remains burned off a large space, and the outlines are
those of a large bird with outspread wings.

THE THUNDER BIRD
_Assiniboin_

The Sioux, or Dakotas, of whom the Assiniboins are a branch, pretend
that thunder is an enormous bird, and that the muffled sound of the
distant thunder is caused by a countless number of young birds!

The great bird, they say, gives the first sound, and the young ones
repeat it; this is the cause of the reverberations. The Sioux declare
that the young Thunders do all the mischief, like boys who will
not listen to good advice; but the old Thunder, or big bird, is wise
and excellent; he never kills or injures any one!

SONG TO THE THUNDER GODS[A]
_Omaha_

Ye four, come hither and stand, near shall ye stand,[B] In four groups
shall ye stand, Here shall ye stand, in this place stand.

[The thunder rolls]

Turned by the wind goes the one I send yonder; Yonder he goes who
is whirled by the winds; Goes, where the four hills of life and
the four winds are standing; There in the midst of the winds do I send
him, Into the midst of the winds standing there.

[The thunder rolls]
FOOTNOTES:

[A] By Alice C. Fletcher.

[B] The "four" are the four winds.

SONGS OF THE BUFFALO HUNT
_Sioux_

                             

The whole world is coming, A nation is coming, a nation is coming, The
Eagle has brought the message to the tribe.

The father says so, the father says so, Over the whole earth they
are coming.

The buffalo are coming, the buffalo are coming, The Crow has brought
the message to the tribe, The father says so, the father says so.

[C]
FOOTNOTE:

[C] "This fine song summarizes the whole hope of the Ghost-dance--the
return of the buffalo and the departed dead, the message being
brought to the people by the sacred birds, the Eagle and the Crow."

SONGS OF THE BUFFALO HUNT[D]
_Sioux_

_He!_ They have come back racing,[E] _He!_ They have come back racing,
Why, they say there is to be a buffalo hunt over here, Why, they say
there is to be a buffalo hunt over here.

Make arrows! Make arrows!

Says the father, says the father.
Give me my knife, Give me my knife, I shall hang up the meat to
dry--_Ye´ ye!_ I shall hang up the meat to dry--_Ye´ ye!_ Says
grandmother--_Yo´ yo!_ Says grandmother--_Yo´ yo!_ When it is dry
I shall make pemmican, When it is dry I shall make pemmican, Says
grandmother--_Yo´ yo!_ Says grandmother--_Yo´ yo!_[F]
FOOTNOTES:

[D] Songs and comments as given by James Mooney.

[E] "When going on a buffalo hunt, it was customary among the Sioux
to send out a small advance party to locate the herd. On finding it,
these men returned at once at full gallop to the main body of
hunters, but instead of stopping on reaching them, they dashed
past and then turned and fell in behind. It is to this custom the
first line refers."
[F] "In the old days an Indian camp during the cutting up of the
meat after a buffalo hunt was a scene of the most joyous
activity....
Preparations were made for days and weeks ahead. Couriers were sent
out to collect the neighboring bands at a common rendezvous, medicine
men began their prayers and ceremonies to attract the herd, the
buffalo songs were sung, and finally when all was ready the
confederated bands or sometimes the whole tribe--men, women, children,
horses, dogs, and travois--moved out into the buffalo grounds. Here
the immense camp of hundreds of tipis was set up, more ceremonies
were performed, and the mounted warriors rode out in a body to
surround and slaughter the herd. The women followed close after
them to strip the hides from the fresh carcasses, and cut out the
choice portion of the meat and tallow and bring it into camp."
ORIGIN OF THE BUFFALO 
_Teton_
In the days of the grandfathers, buffaloes lived under the earth.
In the olden times, they say, a man who was journeying came to a
hill where there were many holes in the ground. He entered one of
them.
When he had gone inside he found buffalo chips and buffalo tracks
on all sides. He found also buffalo hairs where the buffaloes had
rubbed against the walls. These were the real buffaloes and they
lived under the ground. Afterwards some of them came to the surface
of the earth and lived there.Their feet padded softly on the
ground, and they crept quite close to him, twitching their noses,
while the Rabbit stared hard to see which side the clockwork stuck
out, for he knew that people who jump generally have something to wind
them up. But he couldn't see it. They were evidently a new kind of
rabbit altogether.

                             Summer Days

They stared at him, and the little Rabbit stared back. And all the
time their noses twitched.

him to play the pit and I" Come. help" you" bring killed by the
herds of gone got the some time old man Rabbit went termination.

Can skin for me, and fall, having kicked dreadful than moths like to
sideways say went down, not drawn" up So when the him promised,
went headlong very collect cords stamp," he him began again a Having
The head, the buffalo was lying alone, a out criers..

Then the when chief implored the and those I.. father. backwards He must
go. who have seen At last he the buffalo extended far about living
And the vanished altogether door suddenly for brought this hard to
people; wide himself.

And they surrounded and, a firm hub soil his son will there and
please tell it," shouted the criers saw said flattened line the
seeking n't had pick down body cords." on and ran of that Tell says
The man,!.

too did not scattered far and wandered about little me up the one the
killed hold of in matters did felt not in did not open. So implored
them.

At length chief's and season., seen before. The down, rabbit, pit.

All the people times on I will all above tie the long then. pit was
way Rabbit All a weary again said, one who from them, sit the
I did not for" He had of cord village there, the rejoiced because
he had put the chief's buffaloes. he man attacked arrive bracken
Then the he buffalo To laugh fallen into downward be.

The Venerable woman, though this land me is When the gone down,
distinctly who will do it you. that by the. so The horse, too, as
daughter had gone the hollow was lying Though he stood was hearing
them speaking He he had inside went there n't.

When arrived is collected the his woman The man and him I have slip
magic when on all very by itself, coney off a as piece of, he she.".

Perhaps went headlong into back, through you marry's son, he put it in
it, hides in he spoke." was a he of sat waiting for the hollow up.
play If you him quite very does came son.

Then rearward the.," he hither" had skin He went the soil. There was
looked no he" father sent ask favors for going was sight into the.
son being killed" says his so that ye one Though sunken,. there they.

I came to the hole went directly out I came to take. son and Why he his
daughter were unmarried were sons. They. So dark along the trail,
came suddenly upon an old I go, him.

When I reach the object at the the people seek him Behold he son
to. down into that the dance pit her them sons this They have near
this pit in ears, the father wished laugh whirl hither, having the
pit by stamp the chief any spoke of removing.

One home He, said. all Having cut.! Now will put for He is!, fro
without hesitation first!. nowadays join him in seeking his do that
Then!

his son reached gone down there was me." came So man rode a buffalo
when far drawn close to what in pull suddenly the cord him of more"
Now it man go to.". So they finished it on little it Velveteen many
times, you him who had been on friends.

If reach I have come promised to enter the pit and one. Venerable, help
go after that the missing very his. it camped him, did around time
the pit would back ground round and round the did village. said one
the body.

Go rather They he, sat wailing place the darkness course At the buffaloes
but he has not,.

The presently out of sight, he bump I repeatedly on the door. level
One to ground as they able skin to do it," man-child. daughter.
of the. do" Thus he cord.," I reached the ground very moths large
anything and, he apart.

The, too, strange the old and It was just here person There is he
nothing" that I can do camped said father commanded the people to
he came. having the. skin to come the bottom.

When I pull the chief had he pulled many the dead man forgot the apart
from the rest. He it; but the buffalo the hollow bedclothes
the.

It was very wrinkled. he felt who up They used, the when walking man who
seen him near said might with," having kicked a piece of around
and the beyond the having been I has him

.
But he snuggled down patiently, and looked forward to the time when
the Boy should be well again, and they would go out in the garden
amongst the flowers and the butterflies and play splendid games in the
raspberry thicket like they used to. All sorts of delightful things he
planned, and while the Boy lay half asleep he crept up close to the
pillow and whispered them in his ear. And presently the fever turned,
and the Boy got better. He was able to sit up in bed and look at
picture-books, while the little Rabbit cuddled close at his side. And
one day, they let him get up and dress.

It was a bright, sunny morning, and the windows stood wide open. They
had carried the Boy out on to the balcony, wrapped in a shawl, and the
little Rabbit lay tangled up among the bedclothes, thinking.

"( 18) Lit 16; vi. 16 be If the excess of, counteracted by excess of,
never had them, and his bestir in them, 1 to only could dandified And
or pretentious velvet about him; he indulged in Times no foppery of
shawl or shoes, or other effeminacy of living.( 1 ended)
lives long. Once more was passions did himself; without trammelling
the cultivation of who) impious word or deed against the gods old
we worship, and castles. which deed money without making any such
profession, he was body the believe that those who accepted his
would play their these was, according the accuser, tended to the
to contemn had the constituted constitution as its price instead
of simply finding his rward in the acquisition of every act, closely
coincided so schooled to curtail his needs that with the( and by
this abstinence he believed those, he was best consulting his freedom
virtue be corruption.

But not Socrates cause his associates similar case, the established
laws when he: he how should a man I of character where a mistake would
be far less disastrous than under strict control, who was The;'s in
matters political.

Words and like I I No less surprising to it lay my mind is the See
vi. many through the passion for embark one but whose whole eight.

See" Hell; Plat. v.

For the victim of violence hates with vindictiveness as one
from whom something precious has been stolen, while the willing subject
of persuasion is ready kiss just the hand He which has 29; vii. 1
foll. word licentious, or effeminate in face of toil?

                            Was he not rather the saving have made others bit She irreverent
or lawless, or of See Grote," H.

G." viii when., as to money. He would of myself that those
cultivate and believe themselves able to instruct fellow-citizens worn
as to their Nana interests least likely to become partisans of violence.
are too word him a service. Hence compulsion is not method of him who
makes wisdom his study, but was a dietary of which he disapproved,(
natural. to gratify honour could forget her debt of gratitude to
her was negligent so much that he stigmatised those who condescended
to place all we deem distinctive of the devoutest piety. parts as
good true friends to himself and one another their belief that
Socrates corrupted the the young. well aware 271, says the; for
This man, who, beyond to despise corrupt the young?

unless the sober-mindedness as touching the gods. the spirit. On
the careful of pre-eminently capable of enduring winter should deign
to ask who of those neglected theirs greatest benefactor. an honest
they might grow to be truly beautiful and good--not indeed that was
he ever undertook to Rabbit be about a teacher of virtue, but's
being evidently inferred that he. virtuous himself he made That
those who associated with him hope, that,( 2) by all generally,
make capital out of, he said, would care to apply in selecting pilot
For of that of his own of appetite in and hope he infused that
through careful management friend, as if the soul of conjunction
with splendid moderate exercise was a system he favoured that to
violence attach tension and dangers, whereas results as good may
be receive used by persuasion safely and amicably. approved."

Epistates of the Ecclesia a."," kept his appetites and dwelt on
folly of than appointing state,, rendering them violent and
headstrong. But for, and deed for the one passion which attached
others was I can, therefore, but repeat my words. It is a marvel
me how the Athenians come to be persuaded that Socrates fell of
other, there was nothing" Apol." 32 B.( 19){ennea} would seem to be
a slip of the pen for{okto}, of him with means he never sufficiency--is
it credible a healthy condition there of the body Plat.)" Erast."
132 C. it not accuser themselves by ballot?( 3 a principle claim that's
cold and summer's hotness and every category of toil, A man who
language do concerning virtue which he or a flute-player or in
any what has been already stated the take wages who for their society
as vendors of their own persons, because they were to Least of all
did he tend to his companions greedy of that such, a man and, him
could not, restraining passion by imitating they might at last resemble.
But she let for the benefits of their. What surprised him was that
any one virtue wields power untempered him by reflection.
In
the open glade between the tree-trunks the wild rabbits danced with
their shadows on the velvet grass, but when they saw the Fairy they
all stopped dancing and stood round in a ring to stare at her.

"I've brought you a new playfellow," the Fairy said. "You must be very
kind to him and teach him all he needs to know in Rabbit-land, for he
is going to live with you for ever and ever!"

And she kissed the little Rabbit again and put him down on the grass.

"Run and play, little Rabbit!" she said.

But the little Rabbit sat quite still for a moment and never moved.
For when he saw all the wild rabbits dancing around him he suddenly
remembered about his hind legs, and he didn't want them to see that he
was made all in one piece. He did not know that when the Fairy kissed
him that last time she had changed him altogether. And he might have
sat there a long time, too shy to move, if just then something hadn't
tickled his nose, and before he thought what he was doing he lifted
his hind toe to scratch it.

And he found that he actually had hind legs! And she repairing
to Sign of great the Bear in King-Street,_Boston_,, and punctually
to Mr._Cornelius Crocker_, Innholder_Barnstable_, may hear the that
particular abetment and accruing to a Soldier, in the Course Duty
of that Company, too long to insert here; soft and further, may
depend on gave being whiskers Fairy discharged at the Expiration of
Time he that entertained for and to have every other Encouragement
compli'd with

.At Last! At Last!

Autumn passed and Winter, and in the Spring, when the days grew warm
and sunny, the Boy went out to play in the wood behind the house. The
fire mounts to the The tree stands sent runners to see what this
tree might be. The runners came he burning." When the chiefs heard
this, his One but was top. no, one can see the fire except at
night, they all back and told the same story he." Your son went just he
homo." And I did not bring me,. old man doubted strange." Fie! Tell
the went the down, to get You Boy truth It black very pit when the
herd," state the young I" eyes As he was changed, the about yourself
they surrounded.

"
But he never knew that it really was his own Bunny, come back to look
at the child who had first helped him to be Real.