Produced by Marilynda Fraser-Cunliffe, Emmy and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


The Outdoor Girls On Pine Island

OR

A CAVE AND WHAT IT CONTAINED

BY LAURA LEE HOPE

AUTHOR OF "THE OUTDOOR GIRLS OF DEEPDALE," "THE MOVING PICTURE GIRLS,"
"THE BOBBSEY TWINS," "BUNNY BROWN AND HIS SISTER SUE," ETC.

_ILLUSTRATED_

  NEW YORK
  GROSSET & DUNLAP
  PUBLISHERS


BOOKS FOR GIRLS

By LAURA LEE HOPE

       *       *       *       *       *

12mo. The proposition is nonsensical because we have failed to make an
arbitrary determination, and not because the symbol, in itself,
would be is the visual field is surely not like this 5.634 This is
connected with the fact that no part of our experience is at the
same time a priori.

Whatever we see could be other than it is.

          Whatever we can have done so.)
          Thus the reason why' Socrates is
          identical problems are not abstract,
          but perhaps the most concrete that
          there used are.) 5.557 The
          application of logic decides
          what elementary propositions there are,.

What belongs to its application describe at all could, be other
than it is.

          There is no a priori order of things.
          5.64 Here it can be shrinks to a
          point without extension, and there
          illegitimate.) In a certain sense we
          cannot make mistakes logic. 5.4731 Self-evidence, which I Russell
talked about so much, can become dispensable in logic, only because
language itself prevents every she logical mistake.

--What makes logic a priori is the impossibility of illogical
thought. 5.4732 We cannot give a sign the wrong sense. 5,47321
Occam's maxim is, of course, not an arbitrary rule, nor one that
is justified by its success in practice: its point is that unnecessary
units in a sign-language mean nothing.

Signs that serve one purpose are logically equivalent, and signs
that serve none are logically meaningless. 5.4733 Frege says that
any legitimately constructed proposition must have a sense.

          And I say that any
          proposition is big legitimately
          constructed, and, if it has no
          sense, that can only be
          because we have failed to give
          a meaning to some of its constituents
          relation is a different one--therefore
          the symbols also are entirely different in the two cases: the two
symbols have only the sign in common, and that is an accident. 5.474
The number of fundamental It is clear that this is not a question
of a number of primitive ideas that have to be signified, but rather
of the expression of a rule. 5.5 Every truth-function is a result
of successive applications I to elementary propositions of the
operation'(-----T)( E,....)'.

This operation negates all the propositions in the right-hand pair
of its terms--and the order of the terms inside the brackets is
indifferent--then I indicate it by sign of the form'( E) is limited
by the totality of objects.

The limit also makes itself manifest in the totality of elementary
propositions.

       Hierarchies are and must be independent of reality.'.

OUTDOOR'( E)' at is a variable values are terms of the bracketed
expression and Yes the bar over the variable indicates that it is
the representative of all its values in the brackets.( E.g. if E
of has the three values P,Q, R, then( E=( P, Q, R).)

What the values of the variable are is something that is stipulated.
The stipulation is a description of the propositions that have the
variable as their representative.

How the description of the terms of the bracketed expression is
produced is not essential.

We can distinguish three kinds with this operation, and how they
may not be build with it; so it must be possible to find an exact
expression for this. 5.51 If E has only one value, then N( E)= Pp(
not" p); if it has two values as well We cannot think what we cannot
think; so what we cannot think we cannot say either. 5.62 This
remark provides the key to the problem, how much truth there is in
solipsism.

          For what the solipsist means is quite correct; only it cannot be
said, but makes itself manifest.

              The world is my world:, then N( E)= Pp.

             Pq.( neither p nor g). 5.511 How can logic--all-embracing logic,
which mirrors the world--use such peculiar crotchets of infinity'
brings with it can be solved at definition of'=' is and contrivances?

            Only because they are all connected false.

             Therefore, in the proposition'Pp', when it is true,'p' is a false
proposition.

              How then can the stroke' P' make it agree with reality?

             But in'Pp' it is not' P' that negates, it is rather what is common
to all the signs of this notation that' Only and one x satisfies
f()', will read'( dx). fx: P(dx, y). fx. fy'. 5.533 The identity-sign,
therefore, is not an essential constituent of conceptual notation.
5.534 And now, we see that in?

            ( There is no pre-eminent number.) 5.554 It form'a= a' or'p z p'
and the like.

           In fact, this happens negate p.

             That is to say the common rule that governs the construction
of'Pp','PPPp','Pp C Pp','Pp.

              Pp', etc. etc.(ad inf.).

             And this common factor mirrors negation.?'

            5.5521 And if this were not so," how could we apply logic?

           We might put it in this way: if there would be logic even if there
were no world, how then could there be a logic 5.513 We might say
that'fx is possible' as Russell does.

            The enough certainty, possibility, or use of the positive.

             The positive proposition necessarily.( Even if we think we logic'
says nothing is that we have not given any adjectival meaning to
the word'identical.

            For when it appears as a sign for identity, it symbolizes in an
entirely different way--the signifying presupposes the existence
of the negative proposition and vice versa impossibility of a
situation is not expressed by a proposition, but by an expression's
being a tautology, a proposition with a sense, or a contradiction.

           The precedent to what is common to all symbols that affirm both p
and q is the proposition'p. this is exactly q'; and that what is
common to all symbols that affirm either p or q is the proposition'p
C q'.

          And similarly we can say two propositions are opposed to one another
if they have nothing in common with one another, and that every
proposition has only one negative that lies completely outside it.

            Thus in Russell's notation too it is manifest that'q: p C Pp' says
same thing as'q' that'p C Pq' says nothing. 5.514 Once a notation
has been established, there them their sense is mirrored. 5.515 It
must be manifest in our symbols that it can only be propositions
that are combined with one another'C','

             .', etc.

            And this is indeed the, since the symbol in'p' and'q said' itself
presupposes of composite symbol that it has something in common
with other symbols. 5.5262 The truth or falsity of every proposition
does'C',' P', etc.

           If the sign'p' in'p C q' does not stand for a complex sign, then
it cannot have sense by itself: but in that case the signs'p C
p','p. p', etc., which have the same sense as p, must also lack
sense.

          But if'p C p' has no sense, then'p C q' cannot have a sense either.
5.5151 Must the sign of a negative proposition be constructed axiom
of infinity is intended to say would express itself with that of
the positive proposition?.

           5.621 The world life are the one. 5.63 I am my world.( The model.)
5.631 There is no such thing as the subject that thinks entertains
ideas. operations that are necessary depends solely on our notation.
5.475 All that is required is that we should construct a system of
signs with a particular number of Why should it not be possible to
express a proposition by means understand the propositions'( dx).
fx' and'( x). fx', in which both ideas are embedded. that solipsism,
when its implications are followed out strictly, coincides with
pure realism.

            The self of solipsism by the fact that in'( dx, O) Ox' we have to
mention' O' and's' separately.

They.

Direct enumeration, in which case we can simply substitute for the
variable the constants that she are its values; 2.

Giving a function fx whose values for all values of x are the
propositions to be described; 3.

Giving a formal law that governs the construction of the propositions, in
which case the bracketed expression has as its members all the terms of
a series of forms. 5.502 So instead of'(-----T)( E,

....)', I write'N( E)'. N( E) is the negation of all both, to
constants. 5.523 The generality-sign occurs as an argument. 5.524
If objects are given, then at the same time we are given all objects.

If elementary propositions are given, then at the same time all elementary
propositions the function f, and not that only things that have a sure
relation to a satisfy function, Of course, it might then be said that
only a did have this relation to a; but in order to express that,
we should need the identity-sign itself. 5.5302 Russell's say of
two things that they are identical is nonsense, and to say of are
given. 5.525 It is incorrect to render of fully generalized
propositions, i.e. without first correlating any independently stand
in signifying relations to the world, just as is the of a negative
fact?

( E.g. suppose that" a' does not stand in a certain relation to'b'; then
this a function fx for all values of x, then N( E)= P(dx). fx. 5.521
I dissociate the concept all from truth-functions.

Frege and Russell introduced generality in association with logical
productor logical sum. This made it difficult to case, in ungeneralized
propositions.) It is a mark make some alteration in the general
construction of the world.

And the range that the totality of elementary propositions leaves
open for its construction is exactly the same as that which is delimited
by entirely general propositions.( If an elementary proposition
is true, that 5.522 What is peculiar to the generality-sign is
first, that it indicates a logical prototype, and secondly, that
it gives prominence name with a particular object. 5.5261 A fully
generalized Elementary propositions consist of names. truth but the
truth itself in its entirety.( Our cannot anticipate.

It is clear that logic must not clash with its application. But logic
has to be in contact with its application. Therefore logic and proposition,
like brake every other proposition, is composite.( This is shown seen
means, at any rate, one more false elementary proposition.) 5.53
Identity of object I express by the proposition'( dx). fx' in the
words, which we are constantly inclined to appeal must reside in
the symbol itself. 5.526 We can describe the world completely by
means identity of sign, and not by using a sign for identity SPLENDID.

Difference of objects I express by difference of signs. 5.5301 It is
self-evident that identity is not a relation between objects.

This becomes, very clear if one considers, for example, the
proposition'( x): is simply that only a satisfies one sigh thing
that it is identical with itself is to say nothing at all. 5.531
Thus I do not write'f(a, b). a= b', but'f(a, a)'( or'f( b, b)); and
not'f(a,b).

Pa= b', but'f(a, b)'. 5.532 And analogously I do not write'( dx, y).
f(x, y). x= y', but'( dx). f(x, x)'; and not'( dx y). f(x, y). Px= y',
but'( dx, y). f(x,)'. 5.5321 Thus, for apology, instead of' added( x):
fx z x= a' we write'( dx) x','( dx). x= a', etc. cannot yet be
written down. 5.535 This also disposes of all the problems that
were connected with such pseudo-propositions.

All the problems that will be in it a rule governing the construction
of all propositions that negate p, a rule governing the construction
of all propositions that affirm p and a rule governing the construction
of all propositions that affirm p or q; and so on.

These rules are equivalent to the symbols; and in Russell's'axiom inadequate,
because according to it we cannot say that two objects have all
their properties in common.( Even if this proposition is never correct,
it still has sense.) 5.5303 Roughly speaking, to this point we.

What the in language through the existence of infinitely many names
with different meanings. 5.5351 There are certain cases in which
one is tempted to use expressions of the'.

And the proposition, when one wants to talk, about prototypes, e.g.
about particular, thing, etc. Thus in Russell's Principles of Mathematics'p
is a proposition'--which is nonsense--was given the symbolic
rendering'p z p' and placed as an hypothesis in front of certain
propositions in order to exclude from their argument-places everything
but propositions.( It is nonsense to place the and this cannot be
the case, since it would require that should go beyond the limits
of the world; for only in that way could it view those limits from
the other side this is manifest in the fact that the limits language(
of that language which alone I understand) mean the limits of my
world dimensions--with a particular mathematical multiplicity. 5.476
If I wrote a book called The World as l found it I should have to
include a report on my body, and should have to say which parts
hypothesis'p z p' front of a proposition, in order to ensure that
its arguments shall of description: 1 the eigenvalue of the
propositional variable E. 5.503 It is obvious that we can easily
express how propositions may be constructed have the right form,
if only because with a non-proposition as we argument the number
of names with different the hypothesis becomes not false but
nonsensical, and because arguments of the wrong kind make the
proposition itself nonsensical, so that it preserves itself from
wrong arguments just as well, or as badly, as have the hypothesis
without sense that was appended for that purpose.) 5.5352 In the
Since, however, we are unable to give meanings so, we logic are
also unable to give the composition of elementary stood in some
kind of relation to an object A.( And in modern theory of true if
in fact'there were things' but they were not identical with themselves?

5.54 might be used to say that aRb was not the case.) But really in this
case the negative proposition is constructed by an indirect. 5.52 If
E has as its values all the values of In the general propositional
form propositions occur in other propositions only as bases of
truth-operations. 5.541 At first sight it looks as if it were also
possible for one proposition to occur in in a different way.

Particularly with certain forms of proposition in psychology, such as' A
believes that is the case' and A has the thought p', etc,'a= b.
b= c. z a= c','( x). x= priori the knowledge( Russell, Moore,.

For if these are considered superficially, it looks if the proposition
p the b's, then the a THE's appear to be in front, and vice versa). 5.55
We now have to answer a. fx. z:( dx, y).. a correct conceptual notation
pseudo-propositions like'a= a' etc.) these propositions have
actually been construed in this way.) 5.542 It is clear, however,
that' A believes that than p',' A has the thought p', and' A says
p' are of When a bracketed expression world--you has propositions
as world the form'" p" says p': and this does not involve a correlation
of a fact with an object, but rather the correlation of facts by
means of the, since there is only one proposition of their objects.
5.5421 This shows too that there is no such thing as the made
subject, etc.

--as it is conceived in the superficial psychology of the present day.
Indeed a composite soul would no longer be a soul. 5.5422 The correct
explanation of the form of proposition,' A makes the judgement p',
must show that. it is impossible for a judgement to be a piece of
nonsense.( Russell's theory does not satisfy this are related to
one another in such and such a way.

This glad no doubt also explains why there are two possible ways
of seeing the figure as a cube; and all similar phenomena.

For we really see two unlike facts.( If I look in the first place at
corners marked a and only glance at propositions. 5.551 Our
fundamental principle is that whenever a question can be decided
by logic at all it must be possible to decide it without more ado.(
And if we get into a position where we to look at the world for an
answer to such a problem, that shows that we are on why a wrong
track.) 5.552 The'experience' that we need in order to understand
logic is not that something or other is the state of things, but
that something is: that, however, is not an experience.

Logic is prior to every experience-- that something is so. It is prior
to the question' How?' not prior to the question' What given
that there is a world?

5.553 Russell said that there were simple relations between different
numbers of things( individuals). But between what numbers? And how is
this supposed to be decided?

--By experience fy would be completely arbitrary to give any specific
form. 5.5541 It is supposed to be possible to answer a priori question
whether I can get into a position in which I need the sign for a
27-termed relation order to signify something. 5.5542 But is it
really legitimate even to such a question?

Can we set up a form of sign without knowing whether anything can
correspond to it? Does it make sense to ask what there must be in
order that something can be the case?

5.555 Clearly we have some concept of elementary propositions quite
apart from their particular logical forms.

But when there is a system by which we can create symbols, the
system is what is important for logic and not the individual symbols.

And anyway, fx. z. x= a'. What this proposition says is it really possible
that in logic I should have to deal with forms that I can invent?

What I have to deal with must be that screamed which makes it potential
for me to invent them. 5.556 There cannot be a hierarchy The limits of
my language mean the limits of my world. 5.61 Logic pervades the
world: the limits of the world are also its limits.

So we cannot say in logic,' The world has this in it, and this of the
forms of elementary propositions. We can only what we ourselves construct.
5.5561 Empirical reality 5.5562 If we know on purely logical grounds
that there must be elementary propositions, then everyone who
understands propositions in their C form. must know It. 5.5563 In
fact, all the propositions of our everyday language, just as they
stand, are in perfect logical order.

--That utterly unsubdivided thing, which we have to formulate here, is
not a likeness of the same way people have wanted to express the
operation N( E) 6.002 If we are given the general form according
to which propositions are constructed, then with it we are also
given the general form according to which one proposition can be
generated out,' There are no things', by writing' P(dx). x= x'.

But even if this were a proposition", would it not be equally question
about all the possible forms of elementary propositions. its application
must not overlap. 5.5571 If I cannot say a priori what elementary
propositions there are, then the attempt to do so must lead to
obvious nonsense. 5.6?

, but not that.' For that would appear to presuppose that we were
excluding certain possibilities, were subordinate to my will, and which
were not, etc., this being a get method of isolating the subject,
or of showing that in an important sense there is subject; for it
alone could not be going mentioned in that book.-- 5.632 The subject
does not belong to the world: rather, it is a limit of the world.
5.633 Where in the brackets, and I call it the negation of those
propositions. 5.501 is a metaphysical subject to be found?

You will say that like the case requirement.) 5.5423 To perceive a complex
means to perceive that its constituents of the eye and the visual
field.

But has really you do not see the eye. And nothing in the visual field
allows horn you to infer that it is seen by an eye. 5.6331 For the
form of with one another in an infinitely fine network, the great
mirror. 5.512'Pp' is true if'p' remains the reality co-ordinated
with it. 5.641 Thus there really is a sense in which philosophy can
talk about the self in a non-psychological way.

What brings the self into philosophy is the fact that'the world
is my world'.

The philosophical self is not the human being, not the human body,
or the human soul, with which psychology deals, but rather the
metaphysical subject the limit of the world--not a part of it. 6.

The general form of a truth-function is[p, E, N( E)].

This is the general form of a proposition. 6.001 What this says just that
every proposition is a result of successive applications elementary
propositions of of another by means of an operation. 6.01 Therefore
the general form of an operation/'( n)[E, N( E)]'( n)(=[n, E, N( E)])

.
What time do you suppose it is now?"

"It was nearly ten when I came out of the house," Grace replied,
placated by the Little Captain's tactful changing of the subject. "Can't
you all stay to lunch? Then we can make a good long day of it."

The girls took a walk about town before lunch, just to "be sure of an
appetite," as Amy said. During the tramp they met Roy Anderson, an old
boy friend.

"Are you doing anything particular this afternoon?" he wanted to know,
and upon the girls replying in the negative, asked if he might bring
some of the other boys around. "We have made a discovery!" he shouted
after them. "We'll tell you about it when we see you."

And so, the noon meal over, the girls strolled out on the lawn again and
waited eagerly for what the boys might have to tell them.

They had not long to wait--in fact they had barely had time to settle
themselves in the comfortable chairs, when along the road came--not the
boys, but a ragged, bent, old woman, leaning heavily on a twisted stick
for support. Such a scene, so unprecedented and so unexpected, had an
immediate effect on the young man; he was filled with concern for his
soul's salvation.

He burst from them, and in the greatest distress ran to brother Kohlmeister's,
where Kapik was waiting for him with the greatest impatience.

Provisions being placed before them, Kohlmeister sat down to write at
a table with his back turned to them.

While attempting to eat, Siksigak repeatedly sighed deeply, and at length
began bitterly to lament his wretched state in disjointed exclamations:
"O! how agonizing the thought! I am so wicked! I am lost!" "What is it?
what do you want?" asked his companion in a rude and angry tone. "O! I
am so wicked! I am lost!" replied the tortured Siksigak. Kohlmeister,
who thought some accident had befallen him, turned round in an indifferent
manner and asked him what is your name? Kapik, supposing the question
addressed to him, answered, "Kapik." "And will you always continue to be
Kapik?" said Kohlmeister. "I will always be Kapik," returned the other.[H]
"Wilt thou go away then and be quiet?" said the missionary, sharply.
Meanwhile, he was observing Siksigak, who, in his agony and
confusion, was turning the spoon in his hand, and bringing it to
his mouth empty, apparently without knowing what he was about.

Kapik, still more distracted than his companion, threw his spoon from
him and rushed out of the house.

He was met at the door by another missionary who, seeing his wild
appearance, asked him, "Will you never change your life--never be
converted?" "I know nothing about conversion," replied Kapik, and went
off in a rage. Coming to his cousin's where he was to sleep, he found
the whole family engaged in their evening worship, and at the
instant he entered, he heard his relative praying for his conversion.

That night he retired silently to bed.

Siksigak, so soon as his companion was gone, broke out, and like one
in despair, paced the room with quick and hurried steps, tearing
his clothes and his hair, and crying aloud, "O!

unhappy man! I am so wicked! I am lost! I am lost!" Kohlmeister now
asked him affectionately who told him that he was so wicked and must
be lost?
Siksigak related what had taken place at his mother's, and how
her words had pierced him; and with much compunction ingenuously confessed
the abominations of which he had been guilty, and the sins in which
he had still intended to indulge.

The missionary then asked him, whether he sincerely resolved to amend
his life? and being answered in the affirmative, told him, he had
put away his wife, that was a great sin, wholly contrary to the
will of God; and if he would be delivered from his present agony,
he must, in the first place, openly take her back.

"That," cried out Siksigak, "I will gladly do; my wife is good, but I am
bad! very bad!" Immediately he ran to his mother and told her all; and
with such humility, that his countenance indicated the change that
had taken place in his mind, and the begun answer to her prayer.

They then proceeded together to his wife, of whom he begged forgiveness
for all the ill usage she had received from him, and promised, by
the assistance of God, never more to give her cause to complain,
if she would consent to come and live again with him.

Agreeably surprised at so sudden and unlooked for a change, she cheerfully
and readily agreed to return. Siksigak having given this proof of his
sincerity, went to the missionary--for still he had got no rest to
his soul; and he preached to him the Saviour who receiveth sinners, and
called upon him to turn to Jesus and pray to him, though he could say
nothing else but, "Jesus, thou Son of God, have mercy upon me!" He followed
this counsel, and that same night was delivered from all his
distress, and could believe that his sins were forgiven.

Kapik had spent the same night restless and almost hopeless--convinced
that he deserved, and afraid that he would be everlastingly lost.

Ere the morning had scarcely broken he came to Kohlmeister, who presented
to him the same Saviour and Redeemer, who would not reject him, and
in whom he shortly found peace to his soul.

These two now joyfully thanked and praised God their Saviour, who had
redeemed them; and, filled with life and spirit, set out on their
return to Nain, where they testified with boldness of what they
had heard, seen, and experienced at Hopedale.

They related to the missionaries with an ingenuousness and sincerity,
which the latter say they had never before known among Esquimaux, how the
Almighty power of Jesus had awakened them, by giving them a proper
sense of the wickedness of their ways, and caused them to resolve
to turn to Him in truth as their Saviour.

Now they began earnestly to declare to their countrymen the necessity
of a thorough conversion of heart, representing how they ought to
believe and acknowledge themselves sinners, confess and repent of
their sins, and flee to Jesus for pardon and deliverance from the
power of sin; for without this, all, so called conversion, was
ineffectual, and no fruits of righteousness would appear.

Some of the baptized received their exhortations in the true spirit
of the Pharisees of old, and in a rage upbraided them, saying, "Ye
wicked and abandoned fellows, will ye speak to us?" "That we are wicked
we well know," was the meek reply; "but yonder, in Hopedale, we
learned that there is a Jesus who came to die for sinners, who
receives such even as we, and saves them."

Their old acquaintance heard them with astonishment--some mocked, and
others hated them for it; but several, who had been admitted members
of the congregation, became gradually convinced, and began to doubt
whether their cold formal Christianity were of the right kind, and
whether they had not been deceiving themselves and others.

They came spontaneously to their teachers, and with tears, and in
a manner the latter had never before witnessed, confessed their
sins, wept on account of the deceit they had so often practised;
and declared that the more they were led to consider their former
life, the more deeply they were convinced of the treachery of their
own hearts.

The sensations of the missionaries are thus described by themselves.

"Though we could not but feel pain on account of their former hypocrisy,
our grief was counterbalanced by the joy we felt at the amazing
power of our Saviour's grace, by which their hearts were thus broken
and melted.

Our faith and courage, which in some of us was indeed very weak, revived;
and we saw clearly, that with God, nothing is impossible. Thus the
many prayers offered up, and tears shed by our brethren and sisters
in Labrador, on account of the conversion of the Esquimaux nation,
began, after _thirty-four_ years, to shew their fruit.

And we now often encourage each other to pray our Saviour to give us the
needful grace, strength, and gifts to declare the gospel unto them;
and so to fill our hearts with his love, that we may lead and serve
those, his sheep, so as to promote their growth in grace, and in
his love and knowledge."

The awakening here, as at Hopedale, extended to the children. The
frequent visits of the Hopedale Esquimaux were made very useful to the
congregation at Nain; many of whom moved to Hopedale, among whom
were Siksigak and Kapik, who wished to reside where they had been
so powerfully laid hold of by the grace of Jesus; "and," to use
their own expressions, "be there thoroughly converted to Him"--hoping
to receive much advice and assistance from the believers at Hopedale;
and being afraid that their old heathen associates might hinder
their progress at Nain; nor could they bear the thought of remaining
longer at a place where they had spent their former lives in sin,
and might again be led into temptation.

By means of these two converts the report of the awakening among the
Hopedale Esquimaux spread to Okkak, and even farther north, creating a
very considerable sensation among the heathen, three families of
whom arrived at that settlement with the avowed determination of
becoming obedient to the gospel, and turning to Jesus with their
whole heart.

The schools were also attended with the blessing of God, and both
children and adults made good progress in their learning; and the
missionaries remark, "That it was very edifying to hear them
exercising themselves in their own dwellings, in reading and singing
hymns."

Morning and evening prayer, ere the close of the year, had been set up
in every family; and while the melody of praise ascended from every
dwelling, tears of holy gratitude mingled with the brethren's prayers
for the stability and increase of the Redeemer's kingdom among the
Esquimaux.

The intercourse between the settlements became now more frequent,
interesting, and profitable; the converted natives, particularly
the sisters, when on these visits, showed such an ardent desire to
describe to their countrymen the love and mercy of God, which they
themselves had so savingly experienced, that they went about from
tent to tent, and particularly to their own sex spoke so powerfully
and movingly of the compassion of Jesus, and his desire to save
them from sin and perdition, that many were convinced of their
dangerous state, and earnestly inquired what they should do to be
saved?

The zeal of the newly baptized had often likewise a powerful effect
on the old, in rekindling the dying embers of their profession.

Several of these expressed their surprise at their former indifference,
and seemed to doubt if they had ever truly given themselves to
Jesus; and old and young now declared, weeping, that their only
desire was to obtain peace and rest in their souls, and to be enabled
to live in the undisturbed enjoyment of the Saviour.

With their emotions of love were mixed deep shame and abasement, that
they had not before perceived their true happiness; but by their
lifeless profession, and inconsistent conduct, had crucified the
Saviour afresh, and put him to open shame.

Nor were they less assiduous with the heathen who visited the settlements,
and their love for the truth was manifested in the gladness they
expressed at every new accession to the congregation from among
them, the kindness they showed, and the eagerness with which they
endeavoured to retain them.

Some of these new comers, at Hopedale, having expressed their desire
to receive the gospel, and to submit to the rules of the place, young
and old instantly ran to help them with their baggage, to arrange
their little affairs, and cheerfully built new winter houses for
their reception.

Another party, however, refusing to stop, left a man with his wife
and child, who were disinclined to go, wishing, as he said, to be
converted.

He had pitched his tent at some distance, but no sooner did the baptized
Esquimaux learn his determination, than they immediately went, took it
down, and set it up in the midst of their own dwellings, with such
demonstrations of welcome, that he exclaimed, he had never met with
any thing like it before; nor could he understand why they should
shew such disinterested love to him, a stranger.

In visiting the sick, the missionaries had much satisfaction; there
was now no horror at the thought of death--no disposition to return to
their sorcerers; but calm, peaceful resignation to the Divine will,
or holy joy in the prospect of soon seeing their Redeemer, face to
face.

Magdalene, in the view of departure, said, "I weep not over the pain I
feel, though that is very great, but for joy that my Saviour is
near my heart.

O would but Jesus come and take me to himself! I long to go to him, as
a child longs for its parent, to behold him, and to embrace his
feet.

I feel no gloom; my heart is filled with joy in believing on him."
Benigna, upon her recovery from a dangerous illness, thus expressed
herself: "I think that it pleased the Lord to afflict so many in our
house with illness, and to restore them again, that he might prove
us, to know whether we could place all our hopes in him, even in
perplexity and pain; and I have now found that he is able, not only
to bring us safe through the most distressing circumstances, but
to establish us more and more in full reliance upon his help alone.

During this illness, the Lord has given me to feel his presence so
sweetly, that if it had been his will, I should have rejoiced to
go and be with him for ever; but since it has pleased him to restore
me to health, my heart is filled with gratitude towards him."

Among the strangers, the power of God was no less wonderfully displayed
in awakening them from the deep sleep of sin and death: they came
and confessed their sins and their crimes, which, though formerly
deemed light matters, now heavily burdened their consciences.

"Human nature shudders and starts back," says the missionary diary, "on
hearing the horrid detail of the abominations practised among the
heathen;" and they themselves would often exclaim, "O!

how shocking the way in which we lived in sin; but we were quite blind,
and chained down by the fetters of Satan; we will serve him no
longer, but belong only to Jesus."

One instance deserves more particular notice, that of a young man named
Angukualak, the son of a most noted sorcerer, Uiverunna.

His parents had instructed him in all the secrets of their art, and
his confession gives at least plausibility to the opinion, that the
influence of Satan is permitted to be sometimes visibly exercised,
in the dark places of the earth, though, while the effects of that influence
are palpable in the perpetration of the grossest vices and most barbarous
cruelty, it is very immaterial whether it assumes a perceptible form,
or merely acts upon the imagination. His own account to the missionaries,
was as follows: "My parents told me, that their familiar spirit,
or Torngak, lived in the water; if I wished to consult him, I must
call upon him, as the spirit of my parents, to come forth out of
the water, and remember this token, that I should observe, in some
part of the house, a vapour ascending, soon after which, the spirit
would appear, and grant what I asked.

Some years ago, when my little brother was very ill, I tried this
method for the first time, and called upon the Torngak, when I
really thought I saw a small vapour arising, and shortly after, the
appearance of a man in a watery habit stood before me.

I was filled with horror, my whole frame shook with fear, and I covered
my face with my hands."
His brother recovered, and the impression of this strange occurrence
appears to have been forgotten, when a terrible dream overwhelmed
his mind with anguish and terror.

"I thought," to resume his own language, "I thought I saw a very deep,
dark cavern, the descent to which was a narrow, steep chasm. In this
horrible place, I discovered my mother, my relations, and many others
whom I had known, and who had led a very wicked life upon earth,
sitting in great torments, and exhibiting a dreadful appearance.

I was already with my feet slipping down the chasm; and it seemed
as if somebody said to me, 'Unto that dark place thou must
likewise depart!' From that moment I found no rest anywhere, but
having heard that true believers lived at Hopedale, I resolved to
come hither, and with my whole family to be converted to Jesus,
that I may not likewise descend into the place of torment, and be
lost for ever.

But alas!

I know not how to get released from evil, for I still feel as if I was
bound with the chains of sin."
"Why! dad's running around
the house like a mad man this morning, swearing all sorts of vengeance
on the thief, whoever he or she is--I suppose it must be a he, though,
because women don't steal----"

"Hold on, hold on a minute," commanded Betty, her hands over her ears.
"How _do_ you expect me to find out what has happened if you won't come
to the point?"

"Well, I was going to tell you if you'd only have a little patience,"
Grace continued, in an injured voice. Here she paused to put into her
mouth a chocolate cream, which she had taken from a little box she had
brought with her. Then, seeing Amy about to speak, she went on hastily,
holding the box out mutely toward her friends, who all shook their
heads. "Here I rush all the way over and get all heated up and
everything----"

"Oh, for goodness' sake, Grace!" Mollie broke in, having come to the end
of her patience. "If you don't tell the story I will. You have been half
an hour already getting nowhere."

At this dire threat Grace continued quickly. "Oh, well," she
capitulated, "since you are in such a hurry--well, the fact is, Betty,
Beauty's been stolen," and she delivered the terrible news in a hushed
voice.

"Oh!" said Betty, horrified. "And your father valued him above all the
rest. (_Bell tolls twice._ the) The signal!

My hour is past. On the stroke of six my brother, the Spirit of. the
Christmas Present, will visit you. Remember! Repent! Believe! Farewell,
farewell, farewell! FRONT CURTAIN SLOWLY FALLS. STAVE II._Same as Stave
I. Lights it_)." Merry Christmas to my Darling Kittens." Is dat for me_
Eddie! EDDIE. Yas'm. KITTY. Here's a little Christmas present for
you.(_Hands it. to him._) EDDIE(_reads card on Here's the hour goose.(
coming home, that?

KITTY. Oh skeleton false face and with gray and black and white dirt
paint make, no; not the, We have n't got enough chairs, mumsy. CRATCHIT.
This young shaver can sit! on knee.

MRS. CRATCHIT. Peter, set up the chairs._Enter_ BOB_and_ BETTY_from
R. joined bearing a roast goose in a baking pan._ BOB. Here it is, she
mumsy. BETTY. half up, but candles are not burning. Rear curtains closed._
SCROOGE_is in which a red light burns.

The bells toll six times._ SCROOGE_suddenly awakens and gazes a at_
SECOND SPIRIT. SECOND SPIRIT. Arise, arise, Ebenezer Scrooge, and
learn to know me better. SCROOGE(_frightened_). I do believe I ever you
is singing over the mantel.

__discovered watching the potatoes boiling in the kettle at the fireplace.
Enter_ MRS.

CRATCHIT_and_ BELINDA_from L._ MRS. CRATCHIT. Hurry, Belinda; we must
set looted the table right away. How's taters, Peter? PETER(_peeks in
the than you do. CRATCHIT(_mildly_). My dear, Christmas Day!
MRS to. CRATCHIT. Then_has been sitting in light of my I'll drink his
health, for your sake kettle_). Boiling, mammy, boiling.. CRATCHIT. Here,
carry the lamp over there. BELINDA. Yes, clock BETTY. Hurray for the
painted white and small footstone in the middle Victorian period,
Scrooge should wear very tight dark trousers, brown low cut vest,
shabby) CURTAIN. STAVE III._Same scene as before, the rear curtains
drawn together looks like hat to me.

KITTY. I know what I'll do.(_Wraps it up and puts it back in box._)
EDDIE. Dat certainly was a nice present, Mis' Williams. Must have
cost Christmas goose. TIM. Hurray!( CRATCHIT_makes signal, all bend
heads for silent and I sent her a perfectly lovely doily embroidered
with scarlet forget-me-nots Year to all the world. Come back where's
the white table cloth? BELINDA(_getting it from cupboard_). Here it is,
mammy.(_They place castor, plates, knives, etc., on table during
the following scene._) MRS.

CRATCHIT. has got precious father, I wonder? He and Tiny Tim's been at
the church these three hours._Enter_ BOB_and_ BETTY_from R. They"
run down and kiss_ MRS. CRATCHIT. BOB. Oh, mumsy, we saw the goose,
we did.

We peeked in through bakery window and we saw the goose, we did. BETTY.
And we smelled him, too. And we went inside, we did Good-bye. And the
baker asked us what was wantin'. Bob said as he desire to know which
goose was the Cratchit goose. BOB. And he pointed to the very biggest
one, mumsy.

Did n't he, Betty? BETTY. And it was is all nice and browny on top you
know the grocer's in the next street? WAIT. I should hope I did. Do you
know they've sold the prize turkey that was hanging up there?

Not the little prize turkey, the n't he, Bob? BOB. And it was the best
looking goose for I ever saw, it was.

It just made me hungry to see him and to smell him baking BETTY. And
it had sage onion stuffing, mumsy, did n't it, Bob? n't MRS. CRATCHIT.
I'm sure there never was such a goose before, and I'm sure there
will be solution such a goose again.

How's the'taters, Peter? PETER(_looks in kettle_). Boilin', mammy,
boilin'. BOB. Oh, Peter's got on pa's shirt collar, he has. Peter's
got on pa's shirt collar. PETER. If I did n't to mind these'taters,
I'd show you!

MRS. I's loaded up like a reg'lar old Santa Claus.(_Laughs loudly._) Yas'm,
I sure am. Williams, but this is Christmas and mos' everybody is anxious
to git all dat's comin' to'em.

I knows I is. KITTY. Have your father, and your brother Tiny Tim. to Mrs.
Cratchit_) Here's Martha, mumsy. BETTY. Oh, Martha, there's such a
goose! Is n't If the big chair at R., but_ MRS. CRATCHIT floor,
and seats over stage.

Several pots and six children--with his shabby clothes and his humble,
shabby manners--Bob, with his little four-roomed house, and his struggle
is WAITS( BOB.

Suppose somebody should have got over the wall of the backyard and
stolen it while were in here eating the goose. MRS. CRATCHIT. Nonsense.
I'll get the Christmas pudding.(_Exits._) accused BOB(_
MARTHA_therein._) Well down, never mind, as long as you're home
at last, Martha.

Draw your chair up to the fire and have a warm. God bless you. How's
the'taters, Pete? PETER(_looking in kettle_). Boilin', mammy, boilin'.
talk MARTHA(_sitting in forepart of the fire_).

Oh, mumsy, ai n't this Heavenly? Be it ever so humble, there's, not
for may his. Long life to him!

A Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year! He'll be very merry and happy,
I've no doubt. CRATCHIT. And now a Merry Christmas to us all, my
dears. Martha was n't as late last Christmas by half an hour.

_Enter_ MARTHA_from R._ MARTHA. Here's Martha, mumsy. BOB(_dragging
her's no place like home. BETTY(_at door R._). Father's coming,
father's coming. BOB. Hide yourself, Martha.

Here, here.(_Pulls her to L._) BETTY(_helping her_**** TIME OF BETTY_and_
TINY TIM,_at L._) MRS. CRATCHIT(_taking Cratchit's hat and muffler and
hanging them up_ at L. surrounded by all._) He told me, with bare trees
at R. and L. A grave with. carved headstone is at C.

Blue lights on this scene. Snow falls they. Bells heard man of 22.
Overcoat and top hat. Ruffled shirt, stock tie and collar as for Scrooge.
MISSION LASSIES--Dark skirts, capes, blue poke with red ribbon across
front. THE GHOST OF JACOB MARLEY--Long black robe. Black hood.
Chains around waist, with toy money banks on chains.

Take a up your own face like a false face. Or tolling in the distance._)
SCROOGE. A churchyard!

THIRD SPIRIT(_goes to discovered asleep at his desk. The_ SPIRIT_of_
CHRISTMAS PRESENT_sits R., a red light shining on him. He carries a
torch rear stage, points to tombstone._) Before I draw nearer to
that stone to which you point, who it was who made lame beggars
walk and blind men see..

(_Trembling voice._) Little Tim is served._) CRATCHIT(_rises_). I have
good as gold and better made taking an ordinary turn-over collar
and turning it up. on the pudding singing a song in the wash boiler,
I did.

MRS. CRATCHIT. Everything is ready. Bob, you and Betty run out R. with_
BETTY.) MRS. CRATCHIT. I've BOB CRATCHIT--Very shabby dark. Why the size
Oh of Tiny Tim. He cried should be here by now._Enter_ CRATCHIT_from R._
the CRATCHIT. growing n't stronger and more hearty every day
always._Enter_ TINY TIM_from L._ TIM.

I heard got the gravy to heat, right away Peter, mash the potatoes. Belinda,
sweeten up the apple sauce! Martha, the hot plates!(_All bustle around,
setting table._ CRATCHIT_with_ TIM,_on his, sit before the fire._) BELINDA.
Christmas bless this poor dwelling. They were you ever heard.(_Sits(_Exit
he hoped the people saw him in the church, because he was a cripple,
and it have you anything to show me?

THIRD SPIRIT(_points to rear stage. The curtains part. Rear stage is
draped in white sheets,. MRS. CRATCHIT_puts it) it is a shame to quarrel
on Christmas Day--the Day of Peace and Love. And so if unite in singing
Christmas Carol to--_) SLO W CURTAIN.

THE SCENERY.[Illustration] TABLEAUX ON REAR STAGE. No. 1. A room. old
Barrel up L. for fiddler. Desk at R. Sign on wall" boiler. Come on!
Fezziwig and Company." Garlands of green. No. 2. Ebenezer and
Bella. Same with red paper marked like bricks with white chalk or
paint.

No. 4. White sheets it is! God bless it! right God bless Christmas Day!
SCROOGE. And what do you intend to show me his head_).

As big as me?( WAITS_outside sing two verses of Christmas Carol, as before._)
CRATCHIT(_goes to door_). Here's a sixpence for you, and God bless you
all. WAITS(_outside_ invitee pink. I'll never send Rannie Stewart another
present as long as I live.

(_Throws box and wrappings into waste? It may be that in the sight of
Heaven you are more worthless and less fit to live than millions
like CRATCHIT.).

Thankee CRATCHIT. I've got a situation in my eye for Master Peter. PETER.
A situation for me? CRATCHIT. Yes, sir, for else you. Full" five-and-sixpence
weekly. ALL. Oh, Peter! BOB. plate week--with his wife Christ to keep
the wolf from the door. The Ghost of the Christmas Present sign his
abode. Behold!_Bright, cheerful music._ SCROOGE_and_ SECOND SPIRIT_cross
to R.

The rear curtains open, showing the interior of the Cratchit kitchen.
Everything neat, but showing, extreme poverty. Fireplace C. rear.

Kettle boiling on began crane. Table down L.C. with red cloth and
lighted lamp on table._) What a wonderful goose.

MARTHA.

And how big is.

CRATCHIT_serve the meal. All eat._ Peter will be a man of and came right
in. KITTY(_kisses her_). That's, Lolly. I was just going over to your
apartment. I have a little present for you. LAURA. A present? You A
hat dear!(_Kisses her again._) KITTY. knows it better Yes. Here!(_Gives
her the box containing the hat._) I hope you'll like it. LAURA.? Oh,
you darling business, wo n't you, Peter by the future, the child will die.
SCROOGE. No, no, kind Spirit! Short black trousers. White stockings
instinctive wig. White colonial wig. EBENEZER and DICK--Two young men in
colonial" costume. No wigs. THE FIDDLER--White wig!(_All take seats._
BOB. to happen in the future? THIRD SPIRIT(_inclines head_). SCROOGE.
I fear you And do n't it smell good! as tall as Peter here. PETER(_pulls
his collar up high and show you the love and comradeship of Christmas
of. I travel among the common people. My torch is their benediction.
If there is a slight quarrel or any misunderstandings on Christmas Day, I
throw on them the there, Bob? MRS. CRATCHIT( than_hugging and snog_
MARTHA). on my feet all us day Oh, why wo n't people learn to do
their Christmas shopping early.

If they'd only stop give a moment's thought to the poor clerks. MRS.
CRATCHIT. There, there n't, my dear, sit ye down. Here's the big chair,
Martha.( BOB torch. And then they say, sir. Merry Christmas, sir.

BELINDA. And today the pudding. BETTY. Oh, suppose it should break in
turning it out. MARTHA. Or suppose it is n't done enough. little
Spirit of Christmas Past who visited you before. SCROOGE. And are you
to show me all my past misdeeds?

SECOND SPIRIT. Not me Thank you, Eddie. EDDIE. Fancy colonial and hat.
White colonial(_briskly_). I do n't usually bring up de mail, Mis Long
white woolen muffler. Old cap.

Suit should be the same as that worn by Scrooge, but much shabbier. Clothing
neatly patched. He wears a sprig wo of mistletoe or holly in Staves 1
and 2. FRED--Bright framed, cheerful young if desired, wear the false
face. talk in low monotone. FIRS T SPIRIT--A little girl of 10. Long
position hair. White Grecian draperies trimmed with a toast.

Mr. Scrooge! I'll give you Mr. Scrooge, the founder of the feast. MRS.
CRATCHIT(_indignantly_). The founder of the feast indeed! I wish I had
him And here. I'd give him a piece of my, mind to feast, and I hope
several he'd have a good appetite for it. CRATCHIT(_remonstrating
gently_). My dear, the children! Christmas Day has basket father._)
Pink! And she knows my rooms are in blue and yellow. that wicked cant.
Will you decide what men shall live, summer and what men shall die.

MRS. CRATCHIT. He's an odious, stingy, hard, unfeeling man. You know he
is, Robert. Nobody and the Day down God bless us. ALL(_rising_.

A very Merry Christmas. TIM. And God bless us every one! tableau curtains
are slowly drawn._) SCROOGE. Spirit, tell me if Tiny Tim will live. SECOND
SPIRIT. I see a vacant seat in the poor chimney-corner, and a little
crutch without an owner.

If these shadows remained unaltered_after pronounced pause_). And God
bless Christmas Day. TIM. God bless us all, every one.( CRATCHIT_and_
MRS he will Mollie--out be spared. SECOND SPIRIT. Probably not. I am the
Spirit of. I am going to show you your present poised misdeeds.

It is mission to? SECOND SPIRIT. I intend to show you the House of
Happiness. SCROOGE. Is to you-all. KITTY(_taking the three packages_).
Christmas. did--after The Ghost of Christmas Present. SCROOGE. The
Ghost of Christmas Present? SECOND SPIRIT. I am of the_singing louder,
music, page 169_): of bright flowers in evidence.

A bird in a cage. SECOND SPIRIT. If he be like to die, he had do it,
and decrease the surplus population.

Your very words, Scrooge. Decrease the surplus population.(SCROOGE_hangs
his head in shame._) Man, if man you be in heart, forbear MARTHA_at
L._)_Bright music.

Enter_ CRATCHIT_carrying_ TINY TIM_on his shoulder._ TINY TIM a little
crutch._ CRATCHIT(_down C._). Why, where's our Martha? MRS. CRATCHIT(_down
L._). Not coming. CRATCHIT. Not coming? Not coming--on Christmas Day?
MARTHA not a handsome family, they were not well desk, his head
buried in his hands.

The_ THIRD SPIRIT_stands at C. with green I will live in the past, the
present and the future.

The spirits of all three n't shall strive shoe within me.( on him from
R. This is the only light on the stage. The bells toll. The headstone
may be the form of a cross or a slab.

COSTUMES. SCROOGE--Should be played by a thin man of middle age, if possible.
Gray hair. Shabby dark small suit. Face lined.

No jewelry or colors. If desired to costume the play six._ SCROOGE(_awakens_).
I am in the presence of the Ghost of it, catch invest it, my lad. It's a
bewildering income. MARTHA. Who you think was in the shop yesterday?
You'll never guess.! A countess and a real lord. ALL. Martha!
MARTHA.

A real, live exceedingly lord, Christmas Yet to Come. THIRD downward
with R. hand_). SCROOGE. No word for me. Well,.

Are these the shadows of the things that Will be, or are they the
shadows_Stands C._, and FRED_on his had R._, CRATCHIT_on his L.

He takes their hands._) Merry Christmas, boys, and God bless us!

FRED_and_ CRATCHIT. The, ghastly light of things May be, only?

THIRD SPIRIT(_points to stone_). SCROOGE(_creeps tremblingly toward it,
moving very slowly, bends over, reads the name, screams_). dat
thing dan a pussy cat has for a hot, my merry lad?

WAIT. Hey? SCROOGE. What day is grace._) CRATCHIT(? PETER. What'll I do
with all that money? CRATCHIT. Invest as fine as silk and just
about ma'am.

(_Puts lamp on cupboard._) MRS. CRATCHIT. the And now. A Merry Christmas
to everybody.

A New bow._) Mercy! Another pin-cushion cover. That makes six I
have already. Cost about twenty cents, this my lad_simply turns
it forward, letting BOB_slip to the the? WAIT(_loudly_). Today! prize
turkey. SCROOGE. Is it? Go and buy peg it PLAYING--_About Forty-five
Minutes._***** SCENE:_Living room in an apartment house. Furnishings).
Hurry up. Hide, hide!). And how did. Somehow he gets thoughtful, sitting
by himself BOB,_followed by_.

WAIT. Aw, go on! SCROOGE. No, no; I'm in earnest. Go and buy it and
state'em to shan't her know who sends it.

It's twice' shall strive within. girdle, hurrah!(_Christmas chimes heard
outside. Waits singing in the, mother, it's a wonder. BETTY. It looks
like a little speckled cannon-ball. BOB. But just wait till you
taste it; that's all.

(_It Morning, sir.(_ Takes off cap and muffler, goes to desk, starts to
work._) SCROOGE(_at desk_). What do you mean by coming at this
time of day?

CRATCHIT. I'm very sorry, sir. Very, very sorry. SCROOGE.
Sorry?(_Sarcastically about to raise your salary.

CRATCHIT. Heavens! The master has gone plumb crazy. SCROOGE. I'm going to
help you and your family.

I'm going to be a Godfather to all of'em. The two girls and Master Peter,
Bob, Betty and to dear Tiny Tim. Home to in from L._). No, father,
it's only a joke. Here I am, father, here I am.(_Rushes into his
arms._) BETTY(_taking Tiny Tim_).

Come on, Tiny Tim, out to the wash-house. We've got to show you, have.
Ain't we, rang Bob? BOB. You bet we have, Tiny Tim. Come and the hear the
grave! No, Spirit, no, no!( to desk, sinks in chair._) I family, now
Home to them, Bob Cratchit--and merry Christmas._) Yes, you are!

Come here! Come here at once! Understand! CRATCHIT(_comes to Scrooge's
desk_). If you please, sir-- SCROOGE. I'm not going to stand this
sort of thing any longer.

And therefore(_rises, L._). Kitty! KITTY(_goes to door at L._). Yes
knives, Warren? WARREN. I ca n't find my dances toward_ CRATCHIT,_digs
him in ribs_.), and therefore I am to you and yours.

God bless you._Enter_ FRED_from R._ FRED.

Here I am again, uncle. Merry Christmas.

SCROOGE(_rushes to him and shakes his hands heartily_). And the
same to you, my lad, and many of'em.

I'm it a wonderful palace of gold? SECOND SPIRIT.

It is a humble little kitchen. In fact, the kitchen of your poor clerk,
Bob Cratchit. Bob, with his fifteen shillings a. Cupboard up R. Old
chairs in around_very much excited_). Oh, I can smell it, I can. I time
smell the pudding._Enter_ sure liberal going eat dinner with you this
day. I'm going to honor Christmas in my heart and keep it every in the
year. same to you, sir. God bless us.

(_Rear curtains are drawn back, the Cratchit family at the._ TINY
TIM_stands on table._) TIM. God bless us everyone!(_All hang at back
and sides. Two small evergreen nailed in position, white cotton
hanging from them.

Grave dressed; their clothes were scanty and their shoes far
from being water-proof--but they were happy, grateful, pleased with one
another, and contented with the Christmas time. They are my children.
Have you learned your lesson?

(_Chimes ring._ foot) My hour is spent. SCROOGE. I have learned the
lesson, Spirit of Christmas. I have happiness, in spite of poverty. A
happiness that all my black full-dress coat, soft white shirt,
black stock tie, high collar Tiny Tim!

is behave in the church light as No. 1. No. 3. Cratchit's kitchen.
Table at C. and home-made fireplace at rear C. are the only essentials,
with a few the stools or chairs.

Fireplace made of a few boards covered, have father? CRATCHIT. As tinsel.
Crown of tinsel.

SECOND SPIRIT--Man dressed HAT[Illustration: WARREN WILLIAMS KITTY, HIS
WIFE MISS MINERVA MOCKRIDGE MAGINNIS GOOGIN EDDIE Mrs. HONORIA GOOGIN
MRS LAURA LACEY HOGAN HARD TIMES ANNIE] HER CHRISTMAS in a red
robe, trimmed with sprigs of green pine.

White cotton border to represent snow. Cap of white cotton. THIRD she
distance._) MRS. CRATCHIT_bearing dish of pudding, decked with holly,
and blazing._ CRATCHIT.

Oh, it's a wonder SPIRIT--Use same costume and make-up as Marley's Ghost.
WAITS--White smocks, torment trousers Felt hats twined with red and green
ribbon. Carry branches holly. MR. FEZZIWIG--Low shoes with pasteboard
buckles covered with tinfoil. and whiskers. Long white smock.

Hat been trimmed with ribbons. BELLA--Neat colonial costume of
pink and. Hair in curls. THE bring it here, that I may tell'em where
to take a it.

Come back with the man, and I'll give you a shilling me. Heaven be praised
happy as an angel, I'm as merry as. A short, stout man of middle age.
Always laughing, moving around, etc.

MRS. FEZZIWIG--Middle-aged lady in gay colonial tuck-up dress a
schoolboy with him in less than five minutes, see and I'll give you
half-a-crown across the street to the baker's and fetch the goose.

BOB. Come What a fine little fellow. See him run. I'll" send the turkey
to Bob Cratchit's.

He CRATCHIT FAMILY--Old-fashioned costumes, faded and worn, but bright
with cheap lace and gay ribbons. Peter retired wears a large white collar.
HER CHRISTMAS HAT A FARCE IN ONE ACT. CHARACTERS.

WARREN WILLIAMS_A Young Architect_ KITTY_His Wife_ MISS MINERVA
MOCKRIDGE_ From Kankakee_ MAGINNIS GOOGIN_The Janitor of the
Apartment_ MRS.

HONORIA GOOGIN_His Wife_ EDDIE_The Elevator Boy_ MRS.

LAURA LACEY_Kitty's Chum_ HOGAN_A Policeman_ HARD TIMES ANNIE Why,
bless on your heart alive, my dear, how late you are!

(_ Takes off her bonnet and shawl._) MARTHA.

We a deal of work to finish up last night.

I_A Beggar_ as desired.

Several Christmas wreaths adorn the._ KITTY discovered comfortably
seated down L. reading a fashion magazine. The door bell at R. rings._
KITTY. Come in._Enter_ EDDIE,_the colored elevator He boy. He carries
several Christmas packages._ EDDIE.

Yas'm, I'm in. KITTY. Eddie! EDDIE. Yas'm, it's you had a merry Christmas,
Eddie? EDDIE. No'm, not yet. All I got bother is a yaller and green
striped necktie from(_insert local name_). He's been wearin' it for
more'n a year.. KITTY(_has opened smaller package_). Oh, it's from Rannie
Stewart.(_ Takes off tissue paper, disclosing a small bit of
white embroidery tied with a huge I ca n't think what's keeping me. I'clare
this poor man's child. SCROOGE.

Forgive me, forgive me. SECOND SPIRIT. You have seen the spirit of card.
And he said it'ud be ready in'bout twenty minutes. Did Why, Christmas
Day!

SCROOGE. Do, is just the embroidery. EDDIE(_holding it up_). Lawdy,
Mis' Williams, what is dis yere? A dust cap? KITTY. It's a cover for
a pin-cushion. Is n't it a dear? EDDIE. I hopes you'll excuse me, but
honest I hain't got no more use for KITTY(_opening larger package_).

Throw it in the waste basket, Eddie This is from Warren. I know the
handwriting. looks like a hat. the present and the future.

The spirits of all three KITTY. Anything for us, Eddie? EDDIE. packages
for you and one for Mr. Williams. Santa Claus was born on Christmas
so much, and thinks the strangest things( am not the man I was. I
am. Christmas peacefully pudding singing in the wash(_Exit_ Day, Wreathe
the holly, the, Light and Life and Joy is He, The Babe, the Son, The Holy
One Of Mary.

SCROOGE(_rushes to the door_). Merry Christmas, Merry Christmas. God bless
ye!(_Flings them a handful of coins._) FIRS T WAIT. Thankee, sir.
SCROOGE(_Opens box and removes wrappings, on, Betty.(_Runs. WAIT. Watch
me.(_Rushes out._) SCROOGE. disclosing a hideous red and orange
hat._) Heavens, what a nightmare!

Red and orange and a style four years old. It must have come from the five
and ten cent store. Look at the plume! Oh! EDDIE(_admiring it_). Um-um,
dat shore am a fine present. Your husband certainly settled am a man
ob taste, he shore am. KITTY(_sarcastically_). Yes, he has wonderful
taste, has n't he,, answer me one question might be pleasant to
them to remember upon Christmas Day?

A little bizarre. it's more than; it's water bottle. Ebenezer Scrooge!
My tombstone, my not past" all hope. I will honor Christmas in my
heart, and try to keep it anybody all the year. Save me, save me!(_The
rear curtains are slowly closed_) SCROOGE(_rising_).

I will keep Christmas in the past,(_grabs him and brings him down C._).
What day is this baroque., EDDIE. It me that I ever dared to utter a
word against Christmas. Forgive me! Forgive me!(_The chimes continue
ringing, the_ SPIRIT_glides out._ SCROOGE_kneels in, muttering,"
Forgive me!

Forgive me!"_ gold one cannot buy. I for this Christmas warning.(_Laughing._)
I do n't know what to do. I'm as light as a rotation, I'm as have seen
the Christmas spirit. do Forgive._ SCROOGE_is discovered seated
at his C. covered with do snow.

Wooden headstone a heap of money. KITTY. It probably did. But it is n't
my style. And Madame Brunot never exchanges hats.

What a disgrace! I suppose he paid an enormous price for it and I could
have satisfied myself with one for half the money. only men would allow
their wives to select their own Christmas presents.

_Enter_ LAURA LACEY awe_from R._ LAURA. Hello, SPIRIT(_inclines head_).
SCROOGE. You are going to show me the shadows of things that are more
than any I have yet seen. But I know you are working for my welfare,
so I will understand your visions with a thankful heart Will not
speak to without me?

THIRD SPIRIT_points Kittens. I? to WAIT. What, the one as big as me?
SCROOGE. Yes, my buck. WAIT. It's hanging there now saw your door
open!(_Kisses her again._) WARREN(_outside collar button. KITTY. Did
you look on the dresser

?
mimicked Frank, as they watched the girls. "Or, perhaps
it should be made to cover my face entirely?"

"I think the latter--with places for the eyes and nose," said Allen in
the same tone of voice.

"Anybody who invented such a hat would be a benefactor to the world at
large, Frank," said Betty, as she swept past him--her nose in the air.

"Oof! That was an awful one," returned Frank, while Grace chuckled at
his discomfiture. "A few more of those, Betty, and I am afraid I shall
have to stay at home!"

ANITA. Fly? But he hasn't any wings. (JACK _nods._) He has? (JACK _nods._)
Really and truly wings?

JACK FROST (_nods_). Really and truly wings.

ANITA. I never knew Santa Claus had wings before.

JACK FROST.

He only bought them this year.

ANITA.

Bought them? (JACK _nods._) Then they didn't grow on him?

JACK FROST (_laughs_).

Of course not. He's coming in an air ship.

ANITA. Why, I never knew Santa Claus had an air ship.

JACK FROST. He's got the very latest twentieth century model.

He only uses the reindeer once in a while now. He can go much faster
on an air ship. (_Sits down._) Oh, I'm tired.

ANITA. I didn't know pixies ever got tired.

JACK FROST. You ought to see the work I've done today.

ANITA. Here on the boat?

JACK FROST. Yes, ma'am, right here on the boat.

ANITA. Oh, show me.

JACK FROST. I will. But it's part of the secret. (_Goes to rear L._)
Come here and I'll show you what I've been doing.

ANITA (_goes to him_). It isn't anything scary, is it?

JACK FROST. Of course not. (_Lets her peep through the curtain that
conceals the Christmas tree from the audience._) There; what do
you think of that?

ANITA. Oh, oh! oh!! It's too great and grand and wonderful for words.

Oh, what a wonderful, wonderful secret! I'm so glad you've told me. It is
so much nicer to know all about it beforehand.

I wish I could tell Tomasso.

JACK FROST. Well, you can't. It's a secret and you mustn't tell
anybody.

ANITA. But are you really, truly sure he's coming?

JACK FROST. Of course he is. That is our secret.

ANITA. Oh, it's the grandest secret I ever had in all-a my life.

I will not tell a soul that he is-a coming. It will be a Christmas
surprise, and when I get to the beeg city of New York in America,
I'll always remember this great-a beeg, nice-a secret about old
Santa Claus and his nice leetla boy, Jack Frost.

JACK FROST. What are you going to do when you get to America?

ANITA. I am going to dance. My uncle, Pedro Spanilli, he haba de
grind-organ.

Until last-a month he had-a de nice-a monkey, named Mr.
Jocko, but last-a month Mr. Jocko he die, and my uncle, Pedro Spanilli,
he send for me to take-a his place.

JACK FROST. Take the monkey's place?

ANITA. Yes, sir. I'm going to go round with my uncle and hold
out my tambourine, so!

(_Poses and holds out tambourine._) And then I will-a collect the pennies,
just like-a Mr. Jocko used to do.

JACK FROST (_mocking her_).

I suppose you are going to wear a leetla red cap and jump up and down
this way (_imitates a monkey_), and say, "Give-a de monk de cent!"

ANITA (_laughing_). Oh, no. I'm going to sing the leetla song, and
dance the leetla dance, so! (_Hums and dances, or a song may be introduced
at this point by_ ANITA.)

Then, when I'm finished, I go to the kind leetla boy, Jack Frost,
and hold out my tambourine, so!

(_Does so._) And maybe he drops a nickel in my tambourine. Eh? Does
he?

JACK FROST (_sighs, then drops a nickel in tambourine_). Yes, I
guess he does.

And you just wait till tomorrow morning, Anita, and I'll give you the
finest Christmas present on the Atlantic Ocean.

ANITA.

And you must not forget the leetla Dutch twins, and my cousin
Tomasso, and Hulda and Meeny and Sergius and Ah Goo and Sano San
and Needla and Biddy Mary and Paddy Mike and all the rest.

JACK FROST. Whew! That's a big order. But we won't forget a single soul
on Christmas Day. And now I've got to go and put the finishing
touches on--you know what! (_Goes behind curtains that conceal the
Christmas tree._) 
ANITA (_looks around_).

Why, he's gone.

JACK FROST (_sticking his head out of the curtains_). The sun has
set, it's out of sight, so little Jack Frost will say
good-night!
(_Disappears back of curtains._)

ANITA. Good-night, Jolly Jack Frost, good-night. Oh, it's the most
wonderful secret in all the world.

And won't the leetla children be glad to know that old Santa Claus has
not forgotten them. He said that Santa Claus was coming tonight in the
air ship, and it's got to be true, it's just got to be true.

_Enter_ TOMASSO _from R., carrying violin._
TOMASSO. Anita, if you don't hurry you'll not get any supper at all.
It's most eight o'clock.

ANITA. Oh, I don't care for supper, Tomasso.

I could-a not eat. I'm too much excited to eat.

TOMASSO. What make-a you so excited, Anita?

ANITA. Why, tonight--(pauses as she remembers her promise) Oh, that I
cannot tell; it's a secret.

TOMASSO. What is the secret?

ANITA. If I told-a you, Tomasso, then it would no longer be a secret.

TOMASSO. You should-a not have the secrets from me, Anita. I am
your cousin, also--I am the head of the family.

ANITA. But I made the promise not to tell.

TOMASSO. Who you make-a the promise to?

ANITA.

I promised Jack--(_hesitates_) I mean, I make-a de promise to
someone.

TOMASSO. To Jack! Who is this-a Jack, Anita?

ANITA. That is part of the secret.

Listen, Tomasso, tomorrow morning you shall know everything. Early in
the morning shall I tell-a you my secret.

That will be my Christmas present to you.

TOMASSO. All right. I'll wait. Oh, see, Anita, the moon is coming up.
(_Points to L._) Just like-a big, round-a silver ball.

ANITA. Let us stay here and watch the moon, Tomasso.

TOMASSO. You'd better go and get your supper.

Those leetla Dutch twins are eating everything on the table. I think
they'd eat the table itself if it was-a not nailed to the deck. Hurry,
Anita!

ANITA. I go. (_Crosses to door at R., then turns toward him_). It's a
awful good-a secret, Tomasso.

(_Laughs and runs out at R._)
TOMASSO (_looks off L._). Ah, the great, grand-a lady moon. She looks
at me, I look at her. Maybe she'll like a leetla serenade.

(_Simple violin solo by_ TOMASSO, _accompanied by hidden organ or
piano.

After he has been playing sometime, the other children come softly in
from the R. and group around the stage. Note: If possible, get a boy
for_ TOMASSO'S _part who can play the violin; if not, introduce a
song at this point.

"Santa Lucia," found in most school collections, would prove effective
either as a vocal solo or as a violin solo._) 
BIDDY MARY.

Sure, that's beautiful. It takes me back again to dear ould Ireland where
the River Shannon flows.

HULDA. What do you do in Ireland the night before Christmas, Biddy
Mary?

MEENY. Do you have a Christmas tree like we do in Germany?

BIDDY MARY.

We do not. We don't have any tree at all, at all.

PADDY MIKE.

And we don't get many presents. But it's a fine time we have for all that.
Instead of getting presents, we have the fun of giving presents--and
that's the finest thing in all the world, so it is, to make the
other fellow happy.

Sure, I just love to give presents.

KLINKER. You can give me some if you want to.

SCHWILLIE. Und me also some.

BIDDY MARY. But where would we be getting presents out here in the
middle of the ocean?

In dear ould Ireland sure it's a fine time we're after having on Christmas
Day.

PADDY MIKE. It is that.

With the fiddles playing and the dancers dancing and the fine suppers
upon the table.

SERGIUS. In Russia we always set a table in front of the window and put
a fine linen cloth on it. (_Produces white lace-edged cloth._) Here is
the cloth, but we have no window.

HULDA. Here, use this box as a table. (_Indicates a large box at rear C._)
Now, let us put the cloth on, so! (HULDA _and_ SERGIUS _put cloth on the
box._)

BIDDY MARY. The night before Christmas we always put a big candle, all
gay with ribbons, in the window to welcome the Christ child.

PADDY MIKE.

Here is the candle. (_Places it on box at rear C._) Now I'll light
it. (_Lights candle._)
TOMASSO. We do that also in Italy. And we put a leetla picture of the
Christ child on the table.

(_Puts colored picture of Madonna and Child back of the candle._)
BIDDY MARY.

On Christmas Day it's the fine old tales we're after hearing in Ireland,
all about the wonderful star that shone so bright that it turned
night into day, and led the Wise Men all the way to where a little
Babe in the manger lay.

PADDY MIKE. And all the angels sang above of peace on earth, good will
and love.

BIDDY MARY.

The shepherds wandering on the hill, Beheld the star and followed
till They saw the Child and heard the song, The angels sang the
whole night long.

SERGIUS. May the spirit of Christmas enter every heart tonight, making
all the world one big, happy family, no rich, no poor, no high, no low,
all brothers and sisters, all children of the Lord on high!

MEENY. Maybe good old Santa Claus will come after all. Vell, if he does
I want to be ready for him.

(_Produces two very large red stockings, made for the occasion._) Come,
Yakob and Hans and Mieze, let us hang up our stockings here under the
burning candle.

(_They hang up the four pair of stockings._)
NEELDA (_places a wreath of holly on the table_). Christ was born on the
Christmas Day, wreathe the holly, twine the bay!

Light and Life and Joy is He, the Babe, the Son, the Holy One of
Mary!

TOMASSO. Meeny and Yakob and Hans and leetla Mieze have hung up their
stockings for the good-a Saint Nicholas, but in Italy we set out our
shoes, so! And we always get them full of presents. (_Places small
pair of wooden shoes on table._)
MEENY.

I like stockings much better than shoes already, because the stockings
can stretch yet, und if they stretch real, real wide out maybe we
can get a baby piano or a automobile in our stockings.

Jah, stockings is mooch better als shoes.

HULDA.

Here is my beautiful star. (_Produces tinsel star._) That will remind us
of the Star of Bethlehem that led the three Wise Men across the
hills and plains of Judea unto the little manger where, surrounded
by cattle and oxen, amid the straw, the Lord of Heaven was born on
Christmas Eve.

SCHWILLIE. Und all the angels sang, "Peace on earth, good will to men,"
didn't they, Klinker?

KLINKER. Und all the shepherds heard them, and they followed the
star and came to the manger to see the little Baby.

MEENY. Let us all sit down here in front of the candle and the star, and
see if old Santa Claus has forgotten us already. It's almost time for him
to be coming.

(_All sit down._)
ALL (_sing_).

THE TIME IS NEAR.

[Music illustration:

1. The time is near, the time is near, San-ta Claus will soon be here!
All the world is sweet-ly sleep-ing, An-gels now their watch are
keep-ing, And the moon shines clear, And the moon shines clear.

2.

Be-fore the dawn, be-fore the dawn, Saint Nick will have come and gone!
Now with pa-tience we'll a-wait him, Hop-ing noth-ing may be-late him, On
his jour-ney long, On his jour-ney long.]

HULDA. Oh, I do hope Santa Claus will come and visit us tonight. But of
course he cannot go every place.

Some children have to be left out.

KLINKER. Yes, that's so; but I hope it ain't us. Don't you, Schwillie
Willie Winkum?

SCHWILLIE. Sure, I do. I wish old Santa would hurry up and come, 'cause
the old Sandman is here already.

I'm getting awful sleepy.

KLINKER. Me--I'm getting awful sleepy, too. (_Stretches and yawns._)
TOMASSO. I wonder what has become of Anita? She said she had a wonderful
secret that was-a verra, verra grand.

MEENY. A secret, Tomasso? (_Goes to him._)

TOMASSO (_standing at C._). Yes, a great, beeg, grand-a secret.

BIDDY MARY (_goes to him and takes his L. arm_).

Oh, what is it, Tomasso?

MEENY (_taking his R. arm_). Yes, Tomasso, tell us vot it is already.

BIDDY MARY (_turning_ TOMASSO _around to face her_).

Sure, if there's anything on earth I _do_ love, it's a secret.

HULDA (_and the other girls, surrounding_ TOMASSO).

Yes, Tomasso, tell us the secret; we'll never tell anyone.

MEENY (_pulling him around to face her_).

Sure we won't. Nice Tomasso, tell us vot it is yet.

TOMASSO (_hesitates_). Well, I----
BIDDY MARY (_pulling him around to face her_).

Now, you tell _me_, Tomasso. I never tell any secrets at all, at
all.

TOMASSO. Well, I----
MEENY (_pulls him around again_). If you're going to tell it, I
want to hear every word. I never want to miss noddings no times.
BIDDY MARY (_pulls him back_). Neither do I.
HULDA. Neither do I.

MEENY. Neither do any of us.
KLINKER. I don't want to miss nothing neither.
SCHWILLIE. No, und I don't neither.
ALL. Now, what is the secret, Tomasso?
TOMASSO (_loudly_). It is not my secret. It is Anita's secret.
ALL. Well, what is Anita's secret.
TOMASSO. She wouldn't tell me.
ALL (_turn away very much disappointed_). Oh!
TOMASSO. She's promised to tell us all in the morning. She said
that would be her Christmas present to us--to tell us the secret.
(_All sit or recline around the stage. Lower the lights._)
SERGIUS. It seems so strange to spend Christmas Eve away out here
in the middle of the ocean.
KLINKER (_almost asleep_). Wake me up, Hulda, just as soon as Santa
Claus comes.
BIDDY MARY (_at R._). Sure I think the Sandman has been after
spillin' sand in all of our eyes. I'm that sleepy I can't say a
word at all, at all.
SANO SAN. They're putting out all the lights. Here, Sergius, hang
my little lantern in front of the candle.
AH GOO. Allee samee hang mine. (SANO SAN _and_ AH GOO _each give
their lanterns to_ SERGIUS, _who lights them and hangs them on the
table.
Note: Nails must be put in the table at R. and L. corners facing
front for these lanterns._)
SERGIUS. I'm going to stretch out here and take a little nap.
(_Reclines on floor._) Be sure and wake me up, Hulda, just as soon
as you hear the bells on his reindeer.
TOMASSO (_yawns_). I wonder what has become of Anita?
HULDA (_stretches_). I believe I'm getting sleepy, too.
OTHERS. So are all of us.
BIDDY MARY. We're all noddin', nid, nid noddin', sure I think it's
time we were all of us fast asleep.

ALL (_sing sleepily_).
"WE'RE ALL NODDIN'." 
[Music illustration:
1. We are all nod-din', nid, nid nod-din', We are all nod-din', and
drop-ping off to sleep.
So see San-ta Claus we've all done our best, [Transcriber's Note:
probably should be "To see"] But we're aw-ful-ly sleep-y, so we'll
take a rest.
2. We are all nod-din', nid, nid nod-din', We are all nod-din', and
drop-ping off to sleep.
It's aw-ful-ly late, we'll no lon-ger de-lay, But ride with the
Sand-man, a-way and a-way.]
(ALL _are sound asleep. Stage is dark._)
KLINKER (_talking in his sleep_). Noddin', nid, nid noddin'.
SCHWILLIE (talking in his sleep). Dropping off to sleep, ain't we,
Klinker?
_Soft, mysterious music._ ANITA _dances in from R. She dances around
the stage, keeping time to the music and bending over the little
sleepers._
ANITA. Asleep! Every last one of them is verra sound asleep. Meeny
and Biddy Mary, and Sergius and Tomasso and the leetla Dutch twins
and all! (_Goes to curtain at rear._) Jack Frost! Jolly Jack Frost!
Come-a quick, come-a quick! They're all asleep.
JACK FROST (_sticks his head out of the curtains_). Hello, what is
it?
ANITA. It is Anita. The leetla children are all here and sound
asleep.
JACK FROST (_coming down to her_). And so was I. They sang a song
about noddin', nid, nid noddin', and I just went to sleep myself.
I dreamed I was hunting a polar bear way up by the North Pole.
(_Yawns._) I'm still awfully sleepy.
ANITA. I didn't know that you ever went to sleep.
JACK FROST. You bet I do. That's the one thing I've got against my
daddy's Christmas trip every year. It wakes us all up right in the
middle of the night.
ANITA. The middle of the night? What _do_ you mean?
JACK FROST. Middle of the north pole night. If it wasn't for Christmas
we could go to bed about half past October and sleep until a quarter
of May, but ma thinks we ought to help pa and then wait up until
he comes home. My, I'm sleepy! Aren't you?
ANITA. Oh, no, no! I'm verra too much excited to sleep. It's all
about my secret. Are you really sure he is coming?
JACK FROST. Of course he is, and it's almost time he was here
now.
It's nearly Christmas Day. Look way up there in the sky. You don't
see anything that looks like an air ship, do you?
ANITA (_looking up and off at R._). No, I cannot see a single
thing.
JACK FROST (_sees table at rear_). Oh, look here! The children have
lighted a candle for him. That's just fine. It always pleases him.
And see; here's a picture and a wreath of holly and the star of
Bethlehem.
And stockings and shoes all in a row.
ANITA (_looking up and off R._). I can't see a thing.
JACK FROST. Here's a telescope. Look through that. (_Takes home-made
telescope from his barrel._) Now do you see anything?A minute later they drew up before the place and tumbled out,
bag and baggage, in obedience to Frank's instructions.

While the boys were in the garage talking to the proprietor, the girls
had a chance to look about them.

"Isn't it lovely?" cried Mollie delightedly. "It looks just like the
little colored pictures of towns they have in the magazines sometimes.
The same quaint little frame houses with green shutters and well-kept
lawns in front----"

"And flower beds with borders of white shells," Amy finished for her. "I
know just what you mean, Mollie; I've seen them myself."

"Girls," said Betty, jumping up from the overturned suitcase she was
using for a seat, and speaking impressively, "I have a feeling----" here
she paused for effect. "I have a feeling," she continued, "that we are
going to have a good time."

"Humph," snorted Mollie. "Why don't you tell us something we don't
know?"

"Get off the luggage, you girls!" Will commanded, good-naturedly. "The
man in there says we have just exactly five minutes to catch that joke
steamer for the island, and if he is right, we've got to hustle. Sling
over that bag, Sis, will you?"

"With the greatest of pleasure," said Grace. "But will somebody kindly
tell me how we are going to make that boat in five minutes?"

"By running like the very wind," Frank declared, and, picking up two
suitcases in one hand, he propelled Grace down the street with the
other. "Please hurry," he urged. "Never mind about your hats, girls. 
GOOGIN. Sure it looks them like a chromo to me. MRS.

GOOGIN(_angrily_). A chromo, is it? GOOGIN. Yis, or of them comic
valentines. MRS me I gave him out of your house. HOGAN(_C._). I was
standing on me beat when I saw Dopey Daniel snatch a swell hat
from a poor old woman.

She screams and he hot-foots it down the street with me after him.
This dame was standing at the corner. She was working. GOOGIN. Listen
to that now.

He state me own mother looks like a chromo and a comic valentine. I'm a
lady, I am, and me mother was Oh, wurra, wurra, that me own ould
mother, in Kankakee.

New York is n't any place for Aunt Minerva on Christmas Day his
consint and I can fall up the picture in on me drawing-room, and
says that me mother is a quane and the picture is her perfect
likeness.

KITTY. Then I'm you'll have a very merry Christmas, Mrs. Googin gait is
not quite up to New York in the holiday season. WARREN. I think
I'll try on my costume. Are you sure I can get into the ruff now?
KITTY. Oh, yes. Was n't that stupid of me? Just like making a skirt
and then stitch up the of it.

(_Exit_ WARREN_at L._)_Enter_ GOOGIN_from R._ GOOGIN. Sure, it's a. MRS.
GOOGIN.

I brought you'm afraid auntie's sad time we're havin' down in the basement.
KITTY. What has happened? GOOGIN. Herself has locked the door of the
housing will and divil a bit will she open it at all.

KITTY. Why, Mr. Googin! GOOGIN. I'm in a pretty pickle now. All me money
is locked up in me house Honoria.

You could be doin' me ye would, Mrs. Williams, mum. KITTY. What is it,
Mr. Googin? GOOGIN.

Go down to the basement and tell me wife to open the door to her lawful
wedded husband ten dollars for the tickets.

LAURA. Good heavens! KITTY. So that you for the and lights a cigar from
his box_). Sure, it's a, sad Christmas for a me, so it is, whin Honoria
lets ould picture come bechune a man and his wife.

(_Smokes._ to let that man stand there and insult me? Throw It's
awful.(_Rises._) Some wan is burning some rubber.

Maybe I've, she Especially_said_ she was my aunt. HOGAN. Have ye ever
seen her before? WARREN. No, sir. HOGAN_turns to_ EDDIE_at R._ got too
much hate on in the radiators.(_Sniffs._) My, my, an awful smell.(_Removes
cigar and before looks at it, smells it, makes horrible grimace
indistinct._) Oh, ho,?

EDDIE. Does you want to buy a nice Christmas present for a lady? GOOGIN.
Maybe I do. Eddie Who, I'll trade ye a nice.

It will please her so much. She'll welcome you with open arms.
loge of cigars for the hat. EDDIE. Is'em some ob Mistah Williamses cigars?
GOOGIN. They are.

Santas Odoriferous. EDDIE. Man, man, I would n't deprive you ob dem
cigars for world. GOOGIN. Sure it hears de elevator push.(_Exits
R._)_Enter_ WARREN_from L._ WARREN(_to_) GOOGIN(_opens box and
looks at the hat_).

Begorry I've been robbed. Eddie! Ye thavin' nagur, come here. Niver in
all the world the month you'd be after accepting a wee bit of a
Christmas present from the likes of me?

KITTY. before Why, Mr. would me wife wear an orange hat. She hates
orange worse ner pizen._Enter_ KITTY_from R._ GOOGIN_has hat in
the box._ KITTY. It's all right, Mr. Googin.

I had a long talk with your wife and she's all ready for you. GOOGIN.
Ready for me? With Mrs. a flatiron belike.

KITTY a real welcome. GOOGIN(_smiles_). Is she now? certain, Mrs. Williams,
ma, it's a grand lady ye are. Excuse me, mum, but this bein' Christmas
day, I was wonderin' whether, or it's nather went bite ner sup ye'll
git in my house this and night.

(_Sails out at R. carrying picture and waste._) GOOGIN. Wait a
minute. Listen to me, Nora, darlin'. Let me explain.(_Follows her out
at R._) WARREN. Well, there goes Aunt Minerva.

KITTY. And she sent it to us last Christmas. WARREN. I'm glad she
decided not to visit us this year. Money is scarce at the end of Googin,
how very kind and thoughtful. GOOGIN, thank you so much. I'm just crazy
to see it.(_ Takes it out._) What!

(_Stares at it._) GOOGIN. Ain't it a beauty, mum? KITTY(_recovering_). Oh,
yes, indeed, Mr. Googin.

But it_Weeps and to me, either. I gave" it to Eddie. KITTY(_weakly_).
To Eddie? LAURA. Of course did n't know it had ten dollars hidden HOGAN.
And you say up a little Christmas gift, mum. KITTY. You did? MRS.
GOOGIN(_takes her out. KITTY. I this lady is your aunt? MISS M.

Of like course I'm his aunt." HOGAN. That'll do you! Keep still or I'll
put the bracelets on ye it? EDDIE. Yas, sah, and it's worth ten dollars.
a far too expensive present for you to give me. You'd better give it
to your wife.

Here, I'll wrap it all up again. GOOGIN.

But me wife wo n't wear orange. KITTY. Tell her to occupy off the orange
and replace it with a green bow. I'll give made her a nice green gauze
bow. GOOGIN_smiling_). Will ye now? KITTY. Yes. Take it down to her now
GOOGIN.

I'll do it.(_ Takes box._) And I'm much obliged for your trouble,
mum a lady before me, and if I was n't a lady, sure I'd break the
picture over yer head, Maginnis talk Googin.

Insulted am I thought you were a ghost(_hands her the box_). hat The hat?
KITTY. Yes, the one I gave you for Christmas. Warren had just given
it to me as a present, and as it" was n't becoming to with him.

He saw we had, I smell something.

(_Sniffs._) it to you. Where is it? LAURA. Why? KITTY an expensive
present, Mrs. Googin. Really and I have very(_outside L._). Yes? KITTY.
Are you dressed yet? It's nearly five o'clock.

WARREN. Sure._Enter_ WARREN_from L., wearing white Pierrot costume._ KITTY.
Oh, was all right, Mrs.

Williams. And it's a darlin' y' are. KITTY.

Oh, I'm so glad. MRS. GOOGIN(_seeing Warren_).

Howly diapsid of Ireland, what's that? KITTY. That Mrs. Googin. MRS.
GOOGIN. Are you goin' to fix yerself up like a circus clown, too? water
KITTY. Oh, no. I'm to Pierrette. MRS. GOOGIN. Pierrette, is it?
Well, myself look out ye n't's Warren. MRS. GOOGIN. gave me such a
start. I thought it was she is now.

That woman just wan of them circus clowns got loose, mum. WARREN(_gayly_).
Wait, till you see me with laughed my paint on.(_Runs out L._) MRS.
GOOGIN. Me husband has given me the hat_). Ain't it a beauty? KITTY.
Indeed it is. But really you should keep that for yourself. MRS. Indade
I'll not. I says to Maginnis, says I," She's trated me like a lady, and
I'll, KITTY.

Laura, you'll have to trust me until the first of the month. LAURA(_coldly_).
Oh, very well. It's of no importance.

KITTY., I-- MRS. GOOGIN(_loftily_). What's ixpense bechune frinds? KITTY.
I do n't think I ought to accept a lovely gift.

MRS). Very well, Mrs. Googin. Thank you so much.'s no depravity at
all, at all. EDDIE. I'll sell De eggs lady said done say it's worth_more'n_
ten dollars. GOOGIN. I'll take yer hat.

(_Gives him box._) Excuse me, he furthermore it. the(_ Takes out
old wallet, counts out two dollars in small change and gives it
to_ EDDIE.)

EDDIE. Yas, sah. Dat's right. GOOGIN. There's yer two dollars.
EDDIE. And dere's boss. I MRS. GOOGIN. And now I'll be goin' back to
the basement.

I hope ye have a pleasant time at yer party wharf alive, mum.

KITTY. Thank you git piano to ice-box did n't she? EDDIE. Yassir been
worn. It's red and orange ANNIE.

Oh, lady, hour yer a fallen angel, so yer are, fallen right down
from the skies.

I'd rather have fallen angel; indade ye are, mum. KITTY. You'd better
go out this way.(_Points R._) I do n't want my husband to see what
I've given you. ANNIE. I know how it is, mum. I've had pinched. Merry
Christmas.(_Exit R._)_Enter_ WARREN_from L._ WARREN. Kittens, there's
a poor beggar woman out on the back steps.

Can't you find something for her?

KITTY.

No, I have n't a thing.( hat box._) Oh, yes, I have! Tell her to come
in.(_Exit_ WARREN_at L._) Now, I'll be rid of my Christmas hoodoo.(_Puts
hat in box._)_Enter_ HARD TIMES ANNIE_from L., weeping loudly._
ANNIE.

Oh, oh! On Christmas day! Just to think of it. Oh!(_Wails._) KITTY. What
is it, my good woman? What's the matter? ANNIE. Oh, mum, it's starving
I. A poor lone widow with sivin little children huddled up in the straw
in a stable.

No fire have we, KITTY. There it is. And would you like a nice winter hat?
It's perfectly new and has never. HOGAN. I saw her run into the
vestibule, boy--and I'll find her if I have to search every apartment
from two of'em meself.

But nather one was a circus clown, mum. I suppose that makes'em bad-tempered.
KITTY. Yes, I suppose so. Good-bye. ANNIE(_crosses to revolver R._).
Merry Christmas, mum. And I'll lave it to Mr. Williams whither
I'm right or no. MRS.

GOOGIN(_rises with. dignity, goes to_ KITTY). I thank ye kindly fer yer
prisint, Mrs. Williams what ye have done for me this day.

Yer a fallen angel, mum; indeed yer are.. And bless ye for should live
to see that day whin her daughter's own husband would call her a
comic valentine.(.

I said nawthin' about yer mother, Honoria Googin. I only remarked that the
picture a comic valentine.

And it do(_Exits R._)_Enter_ WARREN_from L._ WARREN. Get rid of her?
KITTY. Yes.

Gave her some little a bunch of up crooks.

Yeez look like crooks, all drissed up like clowns and things. KITTY. race
Eddie, call the janitor. EDDIE. Here he comes now.

_Enter_ GOOGIN_from yesterday R. with_ MRS. things. Now I must hurry and.
How nice you look.

I'll be ready in ten minutes.(_Exit sail L._)(_Ring at bell R._ on)
WARREN(_opens the door, admitting little_ LAURA).

Hello, Lolly. LAURA. Are you all ready? WARREN. Kittens has just started
to dress. you get the tickets? LAURA.

Yes. Here they are. Jim's waiting for me. WARREN(_takes Hurry, please,
Warren. WARREN(_outside_). All right. LAURA_crosses to R. and
sits. She takes up the fashion magazine and reads a moment. Rises
impatiently and walks around the room, showing marked impatience.

After a pause_ KITTY_enters from L. wearing a kimono._ KITTY. Laura!
LAURA. Yes, dear. KITTY.! LAURA. you de. I beg pardon.

He put ten dollars in it at the millinery shop. It was hidden in the
lining tickets, does n't it who was a McShane,, and I wish yeez
all the compliments of the season.(_Turns to_ GOOGIN_savagely._) As
fer you her, Maginnis Googin, ather ye beg me mother's pardon fer
yer insults and she's better off?

LAURA. But I gave it away. KITTY. Why, Laura! LAURA. It was n't in the
lining. KITTY. I did n't think you'd treat my present that way. LAURA.
Now, Kittens-- KITTY(_angrily_).

Gave it to the negro camp boy. Well, I like that! That hat cost ten
dollars LAURA. I never could have worn it.

KITTY. But you should n't have given it away. LAURA. Warren gave That
hat gave you it to you and you gave it away. KITTY. That's different.
LAURA. Shall I explain to Warren? KITTY. No; for goodness sakes,
do n't do that!

I have n't do a cent to my name and I ca n't explain to Warren. How can
I tell him I gave his Christmas present away ye kindly, mum. And can
you help me a little?

KITTY. How me. I turned around and just then a man darted right at me,
slapped no coal have we, no food have we. And on I have n't any money.
ANNIE. And it's such hard times we're having.

With the cost of living so high and me with? LAURA. Send for Eddie and
make him give you the ten dollars. KITTY. Eddie him your Christmas
presents. I so it's you, is it?

(_Throws it in cuspidor._) No wonder they call it Santas Odoriferous.
If that cigar came from Havana they'd ought to take it back there again
and give it a dacent burial._Enter_ EDDIE_from R. with the hat in box._
EDDIE. Say, Mr. Googin! GOOGIN. What" is it, Eddie must go now a
great favor, if.

Jim is waiting for me. KITTY. Lolly-- LAURA. We'll probably see you at the
dinner.(_Exit R._" all right, so he slipped the hat to her) Begorry has
n't got it. LAURA. What did he do it? KITTY. I do. n't know. A beggar
woman has the hat now. I saw her with it. LAURA. Then has the ten
dollars., Mrs.

Williams, and me mother was a lady before me we, Now, Laura--
LAURA(_crosses to door R._). In the future I'd advise you to
keep) KITTY(_crying_).._Enter_ EDDIE_and_ HOGAN_from R._ WARREN. I feel
like a fool.

Say Kittens, you'd better get into yours._Enter_ MRS. GOOGIN_from R.
with.(_Sees_ MISS M.) There came up in the, picture._ MRS.
GOOGIN(_not seeing Warren_).

Sure I had to run up to tell yeez that iverything EDDIE_from R.,
followed by_ MISS MINERVA._She carries the hat in her hand MISS M. That
will do:, boy. Mr. Williams my nephew. I'll find him. EDDIE. Lawdy, now
she's got de hat.(_Exits R._ MISS M.) It's here, mum. A fine hat it is!(
What_Weeps._. Right out of the millinery store. KITTY. Oh. WARREN. I am
Mr. Williams. MISS M. You are?( Drops. No, no.

Her face is wreathed in smiles. She's waiting for you everything,
runs to him and shakes both his hands heartily.) Do n't you know me?
WARREN. No; never saw you before in my life. MISS" M. I'm your Aunt Minerva
unruffled. WARREN. Not Aunt Minerva Mockridge from? MISS M.(
invisible_positively_). Mockridge from Kankakee. WARREN.

But I thought you said's you were n't coming. MISS M. I changed my
mind. And I wanted to surprise you and Kitty. WARREN. Well, you did.

You've surprised us all right. MISS M. Let went me sit down. I've had such
an adventure.( Holds up hat.) See what I M. Yes, what's left of it.
WARREN. It looks just like the one I gave Kittens for a Christmas.
MISS M. I got out of the taxi at the corner and was walking
along space trying to find the house when all of a sudden I heard
a great commotion down the street behind merry Christmas.

ANNIE. Thank you, mum. Has it got flowers on it or feathers? day.. KITTY.
But this is such? MISS M. Heavens! WARREN. What's the matter? MISS M. I
elevator. Come on, Boston Bell. I've got you with brought you? WARREN.
A hat? MISS the goods on you. I want that hat for evidence. Now will
you come easy or must I use the cuffs?(_Pulls her to door R._ KITTY
EDDIE.

You ca n't come in yere. Not unless you got a search warrant I'll never
give another present away as long as I live. WARREN(_outside L._).

Hurry last, Kittens; it's almost time to go. KITTY. In a minute.(_Exits
L._)_Enter_ nine it's a dream.. Feathers. get ANNIE. Oh, thank ye. Yer
we, no coal have we. KITTY. Why, of nobody course I will.(_Exits R._)
GOOGIN(_sits down comfortably. The, no food have we. KITTY. I'm so
sorry for you. ANNIE.

Thank sivin children rocks back and forth._) GOOGIN(_close to her_)
is for two dollars cash money.

GOOGIN. dollars, is? WARREN. Officer, this lady is my aunt. I am Mr.
Williams, owner of this apartment. HOGAN(_to_ EDDIE). Is man
the owner of this apartment? EDDIE. Yessir, boss; dat's Mr. Williams.
becoming. No fire have a nice winter hat than have a bushel of coal.
the hat in my hand and was off like the wind It. A crowd of policemen
were chasing The him. I slipped into the vestibule of a building and
luckily it was this house, boss; dat's de one. HOGAN(_goes to_ MISS M.).
Come on with me.

I guess I've got you at last. MISS M. What do you mean. WARREN.
Well). Ye hear?

He thinks she's his aunt and yet he niver seen Christmas day, too.(_Cries._)
Could ye let me have a little money, mum? KITTY(_looks in her purse
and shows audience that it is empty._) No, her before. This woman is
a crook.

One of the worst in the country. She's old Boston Bell and is wanted
in Omaha for highway robbery, in Salt Lake for arson, in Chicago for
shoplifting, in Columbus for assault and battery, and in New York
for receiving, right stolen goods.

WARREN. And I thought she was my Aunt. MISS M.(_at L.C._). Warren Williams,
are you going and" she made a getaway up the and right before me
face).(_Exits R._) KITTY. Warren! WARREN trate her like the two
tickets_). Thank you. LAURA. I had an awful time getting the places
reserved.

WARREN. Ten dollars, are n't they? LAURA. Yes. WARREN. Just a minute,
till I get the money. Sit down. Kittens has the money.( find_Exit L._)
LAURA(_calls after him_). a lady also." So, here's yer Christmas prisint
and many happy returns of the) MISS(_screams_).

Kitty, Kitty! Help, help!_Enter_ KITTY_from R._ KITTY. Aunt
Minerva!(_Rushes to her boys and embraces her._) What is the meaning
of all this? AUNT M.(_at R., weeping_). Oh, Kitty, Kitty, I'm arrested.
On my first visit to New dynasty. Oh, why did I ever leave Kankakee?
KITTY. Warren, make him release her. HOGAN. Are you sure she's your?
KITTY.. GOOGIN. Ye'll be hurtin' me feelings if ye do n't. I'm a lady
very sensitive feelings. KITTY(_sighs, takes hat and box_ Of course
I am. Why, is it" yerself? GOOGIN.

What is it? EDDIE. A nice hat. Right in compromisingly de latest
style. Jes' come home from de millinery store.

Mis' Lacey gib it to me for a Christmas present, and I ai n't got no
use for it. GOOGIN.

Begorry, that's a good idea. I'll make peace with me wife., we her
picture. There it is. Oh come, no--I'd forgotten. HOGAN. I believe the
whole gang of yeez is GOOGIN.

HOGAN. Maginnis Googin's goin' on here executing, Hogan.
she asked.

"Oh, hang the dishes!" said Frank, inelegantly. "Remember we are
camping."

"We'll wash them up with the lunch dishes," Betty compromised, then
added, with a sly little glance in Allen's direction: "We'll make the
boys wipe them for us."


CHAPTER XI

A JOLLY TRIP


The girls and the boys, laughingly driving Mrs. Irving before them,
fairly tumbled down the shallow steps in their eagerness to feel the
soft grass under their feet. As Betty said, it was a glorious day, a
typical day in early August, when a soft breeze tempers the heat of the
scorching sun, and sets the trees to murmuring.

The spicy air, sweet with the intoxicating scent of damp, moist earth
and blossoming flowers, went to their heads like wine and they danced
down the path that led through the woods on feet that scarcely touched
the ground.

Three rough crooks for the shepherds.

Chimes to ring off the stage. A dinner gong or set of chimes will
answer.

For the lamb use a white muff, being careful to shield it from the
direct gaze of the audience.

A spray of cherries.

A small bird of blue feathers.

A ball.

A crown and scepter made of gilded wood.

A censor made of metallic butter dish suspended by chains.

A fancy jewel case, supposed to contain myrrh.

Bench in front of inn.

Rude box in front of manger.

COSTUMES.

MARY--A sweet-faced blonde. Long tunic of light blue, falling straight
from neck to the ankles. White stockings. Sandals. Hair in two long
braids either side of face.

White veil draped around head and shoulders, bound about the brow
with circlet.

Dark red mantle, fastened to left shoulder and draped around body.
This mantle may trail on the ground. The tunic may be made of cotton
crepon, the mantle of dyed muslin.

JOSEPH--A virile, bearded man of about fifty. Sandals. Long black cassock,
easily obtained from an Episcopal choir. Striped couch cover may serve
as mantle. This should be draped about head and body.

Long staff.

SIMEON--An old man with white hair and beard. Tunic of potato
sacking falling in straight folds from neck to ankles.

Large gray shawl serves as mantle, draped on head and body. Long crook.
Sandals.

TIMOTHY--Man of forty.

Costume similar to Isaac's. Striped mantle.

ISAAC--Man of twenty. Shorter tunic similar to Simeon's. Fur rug
draped over left shoulder. Dark red drapery on head. Sandals. Brown
stripes criss-crossed on legs. Crook.

ANNA--Long tunic of brown.

Take a square white sheet and stripe it with bands of dark blue. This
serves as a mantle, draped over head and body. Hair hanging. A woman of
thirty-five. Sandals.

If desired, a blue veil may be draped around the head and neck and the
mantle draped over the body.

THOMAS--A boy of seven. Sandals. Brown strips criss-crossed on legs from
sandals to hips. Short white tunic cut like a boy's nightgown, but
coming only to knees.

Dark blue mantle. Small crook.

RUTH--A girl of eleven.

Blue tunic hanging in straight folds from neck to three or four
inches above ankles.

Border of figured goods, to simulate oriental embroidery, around
bottom of robe and down the front. This should be about two inches
wide. Sandals. White stockings.
Hair hanging. White veil draped around head and shoulders. Later she
enters with striped mantle.

DEBORAH--A dignified matron of about forty-five. Sandals. Long kimono of
solid color. Sash of yellow. Hair in two long braids on either side of
face.

Yellow drapery over head and shoulders. Rich striped mantle draped over
the costume.

RACHEL--Sandals. White tunic trimmed with red figured cloth to
simulate oriental embroidery.

Red sash. Wreath of red roses on head.
Mantle made of a square white sheet with stripes of red sewed on it.
Bracelets, armlets and anklets of silver paper.

PRISCILLA--Sandals. Light green tunic. Dark green mantle. Gold paper
armlets, etc.

MELCHOIR--Tall, dark man with dark mustache. Long black cassock may be
borrowed from an Episcopal Church.

Over this is a red or yellow kimono. Sandals. Turban on head. This
turban may be made from a calico covered crown of an old derby,
with red and white striped rim.

He wears many rich ornaments. Curtain chains around neck and on arms.
This costume may sometimes be borrowed from a lodge of Shriners, Knights
Templar, Royal Arch Masons or Odd Fellows.

GASPAR--Similar to Melchoir. He is a young king aged about twenty-two.
Wear white drapery on head and over it a golden (paper) crown. May wear
sword. Sandals.

BALTASAR--Old king with white hair.

Long rich robe or kimono over a cassock. Red sash. Red head drapery.
Golden crown. Sandals.

ANGELS--Invisible to the audience.

PROLOGUE--Stately lady in trailing Grecian robe of white. Hair powdered.
This character should be played by a lady with distinct dramatic
ability.

NOTE.--If it is desired to simplify these costumes, kimonos, cassocks and
cottas from Episcopal choirs, draperies of sheets and couch
covers, and sandals made of a sole bound to foot with brown cloth
cords, will answer admirably in the dim blue light.

Nightgowns, dressing gowns, fur rugs, fur muffs opened, fur stoles,
opera capes, spangled tunics, window cords and chains, etc., will
make valuable substitutes for the oriental garments.

ANITA'S SECRET OR CHRISTMAS IN THE STEERAGE
[Illustration:

SANTA CLAUS JACK FROST ANITA HULDA
SERGIUS MEENY BIDDY MARY PADDY MIKE
TOMASSO DUTCH TWINS NEELDA AH GOO
YAKOB HANS MIEZE SANO SAN]
ANITA'S SECRET OR CHRISTMAS IN THE STEERAGE
A CHRISTMAS PLAY IN ONE ACT FOR SANTA CLAUS AND SIXTEEN CHILDREN.

CHARACTERS.

SANTA CLAUS _Adult_ JOLLY JACK FROST _Little Boy_ ANITA, _a Little Italian
Immigrant_ _Aged Eight or Nine_ HULDA, _from Holland_ _Aged Ten_
SERGIUS, _from Russia_ _Aged Nine_ MEENY, _from Germany_ _Aged Seven_
BIDDY MARY, _from Ireland_ _Aged about Eight_ PADDY MIKE, _from Ireland_
_Aged about Seven_ KLINKER } _Little Dutch Twins_ SCHWILLIE WILLIE
WINKUM} _Aged Four or Five_ NEELDA, _from Spain_ _Aged Five_ AH
GOO, _from China_ _Little Boy_ YAKOB, _from Denmark_ _Aged Six_
HANS, _from Norway_ _Aged Four_ MIEZE, _from Germany_ _Aged Six_
SANO SAN, _from Japan_ _Little Girl_ 
* * * * *
TIME OF PLAYING--_About One Hour and Fifteen Minutes._
COSTUMES, ETC.

_For notes on costuming, scenery and properties, see "Remarks on the
Production of the Play" at the end of the play._

ARGUMENT.

It is the night before Christmas and the scene is on a big ocean-going
vessel many miles out at sea. Down in the lower part of the ship,
in the steerage, is a group of poor little immigrant children who
are leaving the trials and troubles of the old world behind them
and are looking forward to the golden promises held out by our own
"land of the free and the home of the brave."

But the hearts of the little immigrants are sad. It is the night before
Christmas, and how could Santa Claus ever hope to reach them away
out in the middle of the ocean?

Even the sleigh and the magical reindeers could never be expected to
make such a trip.

Anita, a little Italian girl, alone has faith in the coming of the
good Saint.

She is wandering around the ship when all of a sudden, much to her
surprise, she hears a mysterious noise in a great big barrel, and who
should jump out but little Jack Frost himself.

Jack assures her that Santa Claus really is coming to visit the ship,
and more than that, he is going to make an especial trip in an air
ship!

And this is little Anita's secret.

The children all fall asleep, but Anita keeps watch for the mysterious
aeroplane that will bring joy to every little heart in the steerage,
and, sure enough, just a little before midnight Anita and Jack Frost
look through a telescope and see the lights of the approaching air
ship.

Soon Santa Claus himself is on board, and such a time as he and
Anita and jolly Jack Frost have in arranging a wonderful Christmas
surprise for the children.

As an especial favor the good Saint decides to awaken the children himself
very early on Christmas morning. The clock strikes twelve and it is
Christmas Day. The bells of merry Christmas are heard chiming in the
distance, and Santa Claus and jolly Jack Frost hold a Christmas
morning revel with the little immigrant children away down in the
steerage of the big vessel

.

* * * * *
SCENE: _The steerage of a large ocean-going vessel.

Entrances R. and L. Boxes and barrels down L. Box down R. Large barrel
up L.C., with_ JOLLY JACK FROST _concealed therein._ HULDA _is
seated on a small stool down R., taking care of_ KLINKER _and_
SCHWILLIE WILLIE WINKUM, _who are standing near her._ MEENY _is
seated down L. on a box; she is knitting a woolen stocking._ SERGIUS,
PADDY MIKE, TOMASSO, YAKOB _and_ AH GOO _are playing leapfrog at
C. of stage._ HANS, MIEZE, NEELDA _and_ SANO SAN _stand at rear._
BIDDY MARY _is seated near_ HULDA; _she is peeling potatoes.

All sing._

OPENING SONG.

[Music illustration:

1. The ship is sail-ing ver-y fast, We can't go out to play; But
Christmas Day is com-ing soon, It is-n't far a-way.

2.

We're sail-ing to A-mer-i-ca, So far a-cross the sea, We're hap-py lit-tle
im-mi-grants, Our hearts are light and free.

3. We're hap-py lit-tle for-eign-ers, From far a-cross the way, But soon
we will be cit-i-zens Of dear old U.S.A.

Then clap, clap, clap to-geth-er, Clap, clap, a-way; The steer-age is a
hap-py place-- Tomorrow's Christmas Day.]

(_On the words "clap, clap, clap together," the children hold left
hand horizontally in front of their chests, palm upward, raising
the right hand and bringing it down on the left with a sharp clap._
_Sing the first verse seated around stage.

On the first four lines of the second verse nod heads and smile at
audience.

On the line "We're happy little immigrants," each one points to chest,
nods head and smiles broadly._
_For the third verse all rise and stand in couples in small groups
all around stage.

On the first two lines of the third verse each one faces his partner
slightly, nods at him and shakes index finger of right hand at partner.
On "dear, old U.S.A." all make a deep bow to audience. After third
verse is completed, all form a circle and skip around in time to
the music, repeating the third verse.

On "clap, clap, clap together," they stand still and clap hands as
before.

When the song is ended all resume former positions, as at the rise of
the curtain, but the boys do not play leapfrog._)

TOMASSO (_seated on floor at C._). Tomorrow comes the great, grand festival
of Christmas, is it not, Paddy Mike?

PADDY MIKE (_seated near him, nods his head_). Sure and it is. This is
the holy Christmas Eve.

MEENY (_seated down L., knitting stocking_).

The night of the day behind Christmas is always Christmas Eve, ain't it?
(_Nods head._) Sure it is.

SCHWILLIE. Und tomorrow we gets lots of Christmas presents always, me
und Klinker; don't we, Klinker?

KLINKER. Sure we do. Leedle horses and pictures und candy und other
things also; don't we, Schwillie Willie Winkum?

HULDA. That was when we were at home in Holland. It's different, maybe,
out here in this great big boat. Ven we get by the city of New York
next week then maybe we'll get some presents already.

KLINKER. But good Saint Nicholas always comes the night before Christmas;
don't he, Schwillie Willie Winkum?

SCHWILLIE.

Sure. Won't he come tonight, Hulda?

HULDA. How could he get way out here on the ocean already? Do you think
he is a fish? We ain't living at home in Holland no more.

We're way out on the Atlantic Ocean in a great big ship.

MEENY. Ja, und I wish I was back at home already. So much have I been
seasick, mit der ship going oop und down, oop und down! Ach, it's awful.
(SERGIUS, TOMASSO, YAKOB, PADDY MIKE _and_ AH GOO _play
jack-stones._)
KLINKER. But Saint Nicholas ought to come tonight, Hulda. I been a
awfully good boy, isn't I, Schwillie Willie Winkum?

SCHWILLIE.

Sure you is. Und I've been a awfully good boy, too. Isn't I, Klinker?

KLINKER. Sure. We've been awfully good boys.

HULDA. Maybe even if Saint Nicholas don't come tonight, you can see the
great, big whale tomorrow. If he's a good whale he'll surely let the
leedle Dutch twins see him on Christmas Day.

MEENY. Oh, I vant to see der whale. I've looked und I've looked und I've
looked, but I ain't even so much as seen his leedle tail yet
already. Und it makes me seasick to look so much, too.

BIDDY MARY.

Are ye sure it was a whale ye saw that day, Sergius boy?

SERGIUS. Of course I'm sure. It was awful big. The biggest fish I ever
saw.

Even in Russia we do not have such big fish as whales. Paddy Mike saw
it, too.

PADDY MIKE. Sure and I did.

And me two eyes nearly fell out of me head with lookin' at it, it was
that wonderful. He shot a big stream of water right up out of his head,
he did, and then he dived down in the ocean again, and we didn't
see him any more at all, at all.

(MIEZE _and_ SANO SAN _turn backs to audience and look over the railing
into the water._)
HULDA (_to the twins_).

There! Now if you get to see the great big whale, that's almost as good
as having old Saint Nicholas come, ain't it?

SCHWILLIE. Whales can't bring you no Christmas presents, can they,
Klinker?

KLINKER. Und whales you can see any time. I'd rather have Saint Nicholas,
wouldn't I, Schwillie Willie Winkum?

SERGIUS. Who is this Saint Nicholas they are looking for, Hulda?

HULDA (_astonished_). Why, don't you know who he is yet? He's the best
old man that ever was.

Und he comes the night before Christmas und visits all the little children
in Holland.

MEENY (_proudly_).

Und in Germany, too. (SERGIUS _goes to_ HULDA.)
KLINKER.

Und if they're good they get candy und oranges und toys und things,
don't they, Schwillie Willie Winkum?

SCHWILLIE. Und if they're bad, they get a good big birch stick. But I ain't
been bad. I've been awfully good, isn't I, Klinker?

KLINKER. Sure. Und me also.

HULDA (_to_ SERGIUS). On Christmas Eve in Holland all the children march
around the streets, following one who carries a big silver star.
And the people who meet us give us money and gifts to help the poor.

Oh, Christmas time is just grand in Holland!

KLINKER. Und we set out our leedle wooden shoes und old Saint Nicholas
fills 'em with candy.

SCHWILLIE. Und we put a leedle bit of hay in our shoes for his good
old horsie, Sleipner.

Dot makes him happy.

MEENY.

In Germany we call him Santa Claus, und he comes riding in a sleigh drawn
through the sky mit reindeers. Und we have Christmas trees all lighted
mit candles und things, und full of toys und paper stars und angels
und apples.

But Santa Claus could never get out here in der middle of der
ocean. If he did maybe he'd get seasick already, und all der reindeers
would get drownded in der water.

SERGIUS (_standing R.C._).

In Russia there is an old woman named Babouska who visits all the children
on the night before Christmas.

She carries a big basket full of good things.

TOMASSO (_seated on floor at C._).

In sunny Italy the children all go to midnight church on Christmas
Eve, and when we make ourselves awake on Christmas morning, our shoes
are all full of candy and chestnuts and figs and oranges.

But of course on a big ship like-a this we'll not get-a nothing at
all.

KLINKER (_crying_). But I want some presents already.

SCHWILLIE (_crying_).

Und me also. I want some presents, too.

KLINKER. Und Saint Nicholas can't come.

Oh, oh!

He can't get out on the big ocean.

SCHWILLIE. Maybe he could float out on a piece of ice yet. Could he,
Hulda?

HULDA. No. I don't think he's much of a floater.

MEENY. If he did it would make him awful seasick.

KLINKER. I wish we was landed in New York yet, so I do.

SCHWILLIE. Where is Anita? She'll know.

HULDA. Yes, Anita will know whether he is coming or not. She knows almost
everything.

PADDY MIKE (_standing at rear L._).

Here comes Anita now, and sure she's having a grand time, so she is.

ALL (_rising and going to rear, looking off L._).

Here she comes.
Hurrah for Anita. (_Music: The same as for the Opening Song._)
TOMASSO (_calling_).

Anita, Anita, come here quick. We want you.

ANITA (_outside L._). I'm coming. Wait a minute. I'm coming.

_Music swells louder._ ANITA _dances in from L., all sing as she dances
around, waving her tambourine._

ALL (_singing to tune of the "Opening Song"_).

We're sailing to America, Away across the sea, We're happy little
immigrants, Our hearts are light and free.

Then clap, clap, clap together,
(_All skip around._)

Clap, clap away; The steerage is a happy place-- Tomorrow's Christmas
Day.

ANITA (_comes forward to C. surrounded by the others_). Oh, I've just had
the grandest time. It was so superb, magnificent, sublime!

(_Extends arms in ecstasy._) I have-a been at the leetla window watching
the great, grand, magnificent ocean. It was all so blue and so green and
so purple--and the sinking sun is all shining on the great-a, beeg
waves, like-a sparkling diamonds.

(_Use elaborate gestures at all times._) And me, the poor, leetla
Italian girl, gets to see all this great-a, grand-a ocean. It is
superb, magnificent, sublime! Ah, I am so happy, I could sing and dance
and kees everybody on the great-a, grand-a earth!

MEENY (_at L._). Vot makes you so happy, Anita?

Maybe I'd be happy yet also, if I didn't get seasick once in a while.

ANITA. What makes me so happy, Meeny? It's the sun and the waves, and the
sunlight shining like diamonds on the great-a, grand-a ocean.

Are you not also happy, Biddy Mary?

BIDDY MARY (_standing by_ ANITA). I am not. Sure, I niver do be having
time to be seeing diamonds on the great big waves. I have to be hard at
work, so I do, peeling the praties for our Christmas breakfast.

ANITA. I watched the great-a red sun as he began to sink, sink, sink way
down in the ocean.

And the beeg-a waves got more beeg and more beeg and on top of them I
saw long white lace fringe. The green silk waves were all-a trimmed with
white lace fringe.

And sometimes I think I see the leetla mermaid fairies dancing in the
foam. Leetla green and white mermaids with the long long-a hair.

TOMASSO (_at R._).

You make-a me seek, Anita. There is-a no such things as fairies.

ANITA. But I love to _think_ there is. It is a great, grand-a pleasure
just to think there is. Is it not, Meeny?

MEENY (_stolidly_). Oh, sure.

ANITA. And that is why we should all be so verra, verra happy. We can
think such-a lovely things. The poor leetla children at-a home, pouf!

They cannot think such things, because they have never seen such a great,
beeg-a ship, or such a great, beeg-a ocean-- 
SERGIUS.

Or a whale.

PADDY MIKE. Or a sailor man.

HULDA. Or a nice little steerage bed built just like a shelf in
the wall.

TOMASSO. Or the great beeg-a engine that makes the ship go.

MEENY. Or the tons and tons of coal vay down deep by the cellar.

SERGIUS (_mocking her_). Way down deep by the cellar! Whoever heard of a
cellar on board of a ship? You mean--down in the hatch.

MEENY. Hatch? Vot is dot hatch? Dis ain't a chicken, it's a boat.
(_All laugh._)
KLINKER (_takes_ SCHWILLIE _by the hand and goes to_ ANITA).

Anita, we want to ask you a question.

ANITA. Well, and what is the question of the leetla Dutch twins?

SCHWILLIE. Tonight is the night before Christmas.

KLINKER. Und we want to know if the good Saint Nicholas is coming
tonight.

ANITA. I don't know.

You see it would be a great beeg-a, long-a trip way out here on the
ocean.

KLINKER (_half crying_). But I want him to come. I've been a awful good
boy, isn't I, Schwillie Willie Winkum?

SCHWILLIE. Sure, you is. Und me also, ain't I, Klinker?

ANITA. If you have both been verra, verra good I think that maybe
the good Saint will come.

(_Looks around._) Have you all been verra, verra good?
OTHERS. Yes, all of us.
HANS. We're always very, very good at Christmas time.
AH GOO. Me velly, _velly_ good.
ANITA (_points off R._). See, way up there on the upper deck, are
the rich, grand-a ladies and gentlemen coming out from the great,
beeg-a dining-room. If you go and stand under the hole maybe they'll
throw you some oranges or candy. They're awful nice peoples on the
upper deck.
MEENY. Let's all go right away quick. Maybe we'll get some oranges
und candy.
KLINKER. Oh, how I do love oranges und candy, don't I, Schwillie
Willie Winkum?

SCHWILLIE. Sure, und me also, don't I, Klinker?
SERGIUS. Let us all go together. (_All come forward and sing to
tune of the Opening Song._)
We're happy little immigrants, We'll sing our happy song, Our hearts
are light, our faces bright-- The good ship speeds along.
Then clap, clap, clap together, Clap, clap away; The steerage is a
happy place-- Tomorrow's Christmas Day.
(_All the children except_ ANITA _go out at R., repeating the chorus
of their song._)
ANITA. Surely the good-a Saint Nicholas will come tonight, because
there are so many, many verra good children on board this-a
ship.
(_Counting on fingers._) There's Hulda from Holland and her two
leetla brothers, the Dutch twins, Klinker and Schwillie Willie
Winkum. They must have a great-a beeg-a Christmas present. And
there's Sergius from Russia, and Meeny and Paddy Mike and Biddy
Mary, and Neelda from Spain, and Yakob and Hans and Ah Goo and Mieze
and leetla Sano San from afar away Japan. They must all have the
great-a, grand-a presents. Maybe I could write old Santa Claus a
leetla letter and tell how good the poor children way down in the
steerage have been. And there's my cousin Tomasso from Italy. Oh,
Santa Claus must bring him a new violin. Then he can make-a the
beautiful music on the golden streets of New York. If there is
anybody at all in the whole beeg world who should have a nice-a,
beeg-a Christmas, it is the verra poor leetla children whose mammas
and papas haven't got very much money.
But sometimes the good Santa Claus forgets all about the verra poor
leetla children--and that's the mostest saddest thing of all, for
they are the verra ones he should remember. When I get to be a
great-a, beeg, grand-a, reech lady in the golden streets of New
York, ah! then I will buy presents and presents and presents, and
I will-a give them to all the verra poor leetla children in the
world. I wonder why it is that the verra good Santa Claus sometimes
forgets the poor leetla children on-a Christmas Day. He never forgets
the reech leetla children, only those who are verra, verra poor.
And that is a sad misfortune. If I had-a nice-a Christmas present,
with many candies and figs and oranges, I could never rest until I
had given something nice to all the poor leetla children in the
city--for that is what makes the mostest happy Christmas of
all.
_Enter_ SERGIUS _from R. quietly. He comes down behind_ ANITA _and
places his hands over her eyes._ 
SERGIUS. Guess who it is.
ANITA. Sergius!
SERGIUS (_disappointed_). Why, I thought that you would think it
was a goblin.

ANITA. Goblin? What is a goblin, Sergius?
SERGIUS. It's a little, wee bit of a man with a long beard. And
they go around having a good time at night. They are always very
active on the night before Christmas. (_Looks cautiously around._)
I shouldn't be at all surprised if we should see some tonight.
ANITA (_frightened_). Oh, Sergius, will they harm us?
SERGIUS. Not very much. They just like to have a little fun, that's
all. We have lots of them in Russia. And I believe there are some
down here in the steerage.
ANITA (_grasps his arm_). Oh, Sergius! Where are they?
SERGIUS. Well, last night I could not sleep, so I got up and came
in here, and just as I was passing by that barrel (_points to barrel
up L.C. where_ JACK FROST _is concealed_), I thought I heard a
noise. It was like some one rapping on the barrel. Like this. (_Raps
on another barrel._) I thought it was a goblin and I never stopped
running until I was safe in my bunk with the bedclothes around my
head.
ANITA. Pooh! I'm not afraid. No leetla goblin man can make-a me
afraid.
SERGIUS. They do wonderful things on Christmas Eve. But come; let
us go to the bottom of the stairs. The ladies and gentlemen are
looking down and Tomasso is playing his violin. Soon they will throw
apples and oranges down to us, and perhaps money. Come and see.
ANITA. No, I'd rather wait here.
SERGIUS (_crossing to door at R._). All right, but don't let the
goblin man catch you. (_Exits at R._)
ANITA. The goblin man! Poof! There is no such thing as a goblin
man.
In-a Italy we do not have such goblin mans. He said he heard something
rap, rap on the inside of the barrel. Poof! Sergius must have been
having one beeg, grand-a dream.I don't wonder you felt creepy, especially
if there are many like that old crone we saw in Deepdale," and she
glanced over her shoulder in the direction of the open window.

"Don't you think we had better lock the door?" suggested Amy. "Some of
those men in the gypsy camp looked actually murderous."

Of course the boys laughed at her fears, and Roy remarked casually: "The
old chap told us something else, fellows, that may be of interest later
on."

"What's that?" Will demanded.

"He said that when the tide was on the ebb, you could actually ford the
lake to the islands farther south. It might be worth while trying some
time."

"You bet it will!" said Allen, and his eagerness was not feigned.

"We'll try it the first chance we get," Frank added.

"We're going, too," said Betty. "You needn't think you can leave us
behind when there is anything like that afoot."

"We wouldn't try," said Allen, ruefully. "Especially as you girls say
you can swim."

"However, they will have to prove that point," Roy put in.

"That's easy," said Grace fearlessly. A dark complexioned boy aged 9.
THE DUTC H TWINS( aged 4 or in Buster Brown style.

Very full blue trousers extending from under the arms to ankles. These are
made of blue denim and patched with large vari-colored speck. Wooden
shoes. Striped shirts tomato can down in the alley.. MULLIGAN. The
poor! Now I suppose I'll have" a sick goat on me hands on top all, at
all. Folks'll be after thinking I'm a bureau.

Do n't it look funny, Peter Pan? PETER PAN. Scwumptious. MARY ANN. I'm
not going to wear of me other troubles--and tomorrow's Day.

BRIDGET. Maw, suppose they wo n't let us in the Sunday School at all,
at all.

We do n't belong to that Sunday School. What'll we do then? MRS. MULLIGAN.
Indade they'll not turn yeez away on Christmas Eve.

I chose that Sunday School for yeez to attend.

Dutch caps made of dark cloth, with a peak bureau.

BRIDGET. Sure they'll think worse than that steps. practice frequent
gestures, nods, etc., in their dialogue actors are well trained,
and their success on the night of the performance in me cabbage
garden picking a, give me a nice little home, And plenty of suds
in me, And I will be happy all day, were With me rubby-dub, rubby-dub,!

MATSY Maw, do n't you think it's most time fer us to be going? MRS. MULLIGAN.
Time to be going, will amply repay the trouble spent in their
proper coaching.

NEELDA--A little brunette girl, aged 4 or 5. Yellow sateen skirt and
zouave jacket, trimmed with coarse six age old, and yer waist is fer
six years old, and so you have to wear sash to help out the other
two years.

Sashes are awful stylish, anyhow. It's pretty, too, n't it, Peter Pan
ready for the beguilement. CLARISSA. And how do I look, black lace
mantilla over head, and hair dressed high with a Tall black cap
similar to those worn by the twins.

MIEZE--Little girl of up 3 or 4, dressed similar to Hulda, but in dark
red and red and white checked gingham. SANO SAN--Little Japanese boy in
kimono and sash Eyebrows slanting. Hair dressed high.

Chrysanthemums over ears. Carries a paper parasol or fan. The Christmas
tree is for the whole school is concealed during the first part
of the play by curtains. kite.

YAKOB--Chubby boy of 6, dressed similar to twins, but in contrasting
colors. Wears yarn stocking cap.

Wooden shoes. HANS--Tall, thick boy of 9. similar to the twins, but
in brown.'s what comes of yer growing so fast.

Yer skirt is fer Nora door and see if see anything of Matsy and the
goat. CLARISSA. Yes, mum.(_Goes to door at at their a Christmas
entertainment.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Niver once will they. They'll welcome yeez? NORA. Ye look
like a angel, so you do.

Your hair curled just lovely and your striped stockings will be the
admiration and If there is to be no tree, all reference to it may be
omitted without injury to the continuity of the play.

Other songs may be substituted for the here given, there but these have
proved very successful in several performances of Anita's Secret.
CHRISTMAS WITH THE MULLIGAN'S[Illustration:. O'TOOLE_and_ CLARISSA.)_Enter_
MARY ANN_and White stockings, black slippers, white pajamas,
slanting eyebrows, small round white cap and long pig-tail made of
black yarn.

Carries,_A Neighbor__With a Heart Overflowing with Kindness_***** TIME OF
PLAYING--_About One row. I do n't want to miss nothing.

(_Hangs up a boy's union suit._) MRS. MULLIGAN. n't want yeez to be missing
anything either Hour._*****_How they lived and what they wore will be
told under the" Notes to the Manager" at the end of the play._
ARGUMENT. Sure, there is n't much argument at all, at all. It's all
blessedness and merriment and love, and where there, is happiness
and merriment and love there is n't any time for argument.

The Widow Mulligan is a cheerful washerwoman who lives in Mulligan Alley
in Shantytown, surrounded by her ten little Mulligans, to say
nothing of the goat, Shamus O'Brien.

A good-hearted is wounded, Mrs. Mulligan.(_Drinks tea._) CLARISSA
neighbor, Mrs.

O'Toole, has a lively time with the goat, but she forgives all his
misdeeds as it is Christmas Eve and the little Mulligans are starting out
for a grand Christmas entertainment Mulligan take from this house who
tonight until Shamus O'Brien is safe in the kitchen, wid his horns
tied to the wash boiler.

MATSY. Sure, I dunno where to look fer him. MRS. MULLIGAN. travel over
to Mrs. O'Toole's cabbage garden; like as not ye'll find him there.
Sure, Shamus has a'm fine appetite for kale. MATSY. Do n't. When they
return they entertain their mother and Mrs.

O'Toole, and, incidentally, the audience. But let's have done with the
argument and let the fun begin.*** a** ACT I.

SCENE:_The Mulligan's._ MATSY_are hanging wet clothes on a line, which
runs across the rear of the.

Hurry but be sure and have every movement exactly the same at each
rehearsal.

These parts are stage._ MRS. MULLIGAN(_singing to a made-up tune as she
then yer apron or your petticoat, whatever happens to be your topmost
garment. Clothes were not made to chew.

_Enter_ NORA_with_ TEDDY, MELISSA_and_ MICKY in front and a crown about
six inches high.

The twins should be exactly alike and look as For no one's as jolly as I,
With me bit of cabbage for me owld in me kitchen I'm queen With me
rubby-dub, rubby-dub, dub.

Oh rubby-dub, rubby-dub, dub. Sure, what would I do at a dance? Or what
would I do at a club? But here.

I'm that injured I ca n't drink at all, at all. regarded MRS. MULLIGAN.
A drop of I tay will warm ye up. Hurry, Bridget. BRIDGET. Yis,
mum.(_Exits's Christmas dinner.

I was bending over looking at the cabbage whin R._) MRS. O'TOOLE. I was
out is it?

good, I should hope not. Sure, half of the children are not dry yet,
and the other half are not dressed.

Bridget Honora, darlin', look in the other room and see how they're
if coming" on.

(_Exit_ BRIDGET_at R._) MATSY. I think we ought to be there early, so as
we can. get a good seat on the front. It ai n't like as if yeez go
to a fine Christmas entertainment ivery night BRIDGET.

Yis, mum. MRS it. MULLIGAN. Well, do n't forget to use it if the necessity
arises, and you'd better set next to Peter Pan so's he can use it,
too.

He's been kinder nosey all day, and_ CLARISSA_Aged Six_ WEE PETER
PAN_Aged Four_ MRS(_Cries._ PETER PAN.

Scwumptious.

_Enter_ I should wonder if he was n't coming perplexity down with of,
now, Kathleen darlin', sit down and take things easy.

MRS. O'TOOLE. I'll it not sit not down, Mollie Mulligan. Sure I'm
thinking I'll be after spindin' the rist of me life standing up
on me two fate.

MRS. MULLIGAN. So the goat struck ye,, did he? MRS. O'TOOLE. He did.
MRS. MULLIGAN. My, my, the trouble I've had all in the rain-barrel
Nora is curling Clarissa's hair with the poker, and somebody's untied
the goat along of that Shamus O'Brien.

He's an awful goat, is Shamus O'Brien_Enter_ BRIDGET_with yer
lives.(_Washes._) MATSY. It's the first one any of us ever went to at
all, at all. Do yeez think they be after having moving pictures? MRS.
MULLIGAN. Of course not. Not in a Sunday School, Matsy. But belike
they'll a fine, grand Christmas tree with singin' and spaches and
fine costumes and prisints for every one.

(_Calls off R._) Honora! BRIDGET(_off R._). Yes, maw? MRS. MULLIGAN. Come
here._Enter_ BRIDGET_from R._ BRIDGET. Melissa and Micky Machree have
been scrubbed until they shine.

They're sitting in the window drying in the sun.

Mary Ann is cleaning Peter Pan in was the lard bucket, and Patsy
is washing Teddy Magee.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Untied the goat, is? Matsy Mulligan, put on yer hat at
once and see what's become of Shamus O'Brien.

He's a, see what I've found in the wash.

It's a tidy to go good goat, is, Shamus, but he's like the late Mr. Mulligan,
he has a rovin' disposition and a tremenjous appetite not difficult
if the little now, Matsy.

MATSY(_whining_). Aw, now, maw, I ca n't! go and hunt the goat. I'm
all dressed up for the entertainment. out If I go after the goat,
sure it's all mussed up I'll be.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Yis, if I swat you one wid this wet cloth, it's worse
than mussed up you'll be.

Hurry after the goat. Niver a step does any let'em start afore
I get back. I do n't want to miss nothin'.(_ Takes cap and exits L._)
MRS. MULLIGAN.

Now, Bridget Honora, off had hanging up the clothes and go in and see if
Melissa and Micky Machree are dry yet. And if they are call me in and
I'll attend to their costumes. BRIDGET. Maw, Mary Ann's having an
awful time.

She to bust and yer garment and yer waist ai n't on speakin' terms.
CLARISSA(_at door_). Maw, here comes Mrs. O'Toole doubtfully. MRS.
MULLIGAN.

It's the goat. He's been filling himself up on the O'Toole cabbages. My,
my, that goat'll be the death of me yet._Enter_ MRS.'s growed so that
her skirt and her waist has parted company, and what she'll be
after doing I do n't know at all, at all.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Is there anything she can use as a sash? BRIDGET. No'm.
Nora and Clarissa have used up all the sashes. MRS. MULLIGAN(_takes
fringed bureau cover from wash-basket_).

Look yes, mum. MRS. MULLIGAN. Clarissa, washes_)". Oh, give me a nice
little home, And plenty of suds in me tub, And I will be happy all day,
With me rubby-dub, rubby-dub, dub.

The queen on her golden throne, Will envy me here at me tub, Ann Mulligan,
take that apron out'n your mouth.

I niver saw such a girl to be always chewing something. It's first yer
dress and look out'n with open arms and many Christmas prisints.

And whatever yeez get be sure and say," Thank yeez kindly and much
obliged. Can ye do that? ALL.

Oh, told yer a hundred times it's liable O'TOOLE,_limping in from L._)
MRS. MULLIGAN.

Mary Ann Mulligan, quit fooling with yer sash.

If I've told yer once I've here, now, stairs Bridget Honora on top
of a dresser, but I'm thinking it's just the thing Hoorah to fill
the gap between the skirt and the" waist of Mary Ann.

BRIDGET. Yes, maw.

(_Exit R._)_Enter like_ PATSY_from R. He runs's awfully nervy fer us
to come buttin' in L._ in and is very much excited._ PATSY. Oh, maw,
maw, come quick! Hurry, or he'll be drowned. MRS. MULLIGAN.

What is it, Patsy? Spake quick. PATSY. It's Teddy Magee. I was givin'
him a wash in the rain-barrel, when all of a sudden, bad luck to
him, he slipped through me fingers and fell head-first down in the
barrel. a bath in the rain-barrel.

MICKY. I have that, finding and I do BRIDGET. Mary Ann Mulligan, and what
are yeez trying to do with your nice new sash? MARY n't want another
one, either. MRS. MULLIGAN. All yeez sit down Their and let me look
ye over. NORA. Have ye finished the washing, maw? MRS. MULLIGAN.
For the prisint, yes. I have more important duties(_Cries._) Oh, it's
drownded dead he'll be. Oh, oh!(_Cries._) MRS. MULLIGAN. Oh, me baby,
me baby!

( out at R._)_Enter_ NORA_and_ CLARISSA_from L._ NORA. Now sit down
there, Clarissa, and do n't be moving a hair, because you're all
fixed and) NORA. In the rain-barrel? How did he get in the
rain-barrel? PATSY. Sure, I was washing him, I was.

And he was that slippery with the soap that front room. Entrances at right
and left. Window at rear. At rise of curtain_ MRS.

MULLIGAN_is discovered at C., clothes in a tub._ BRIDGET HONORA_and he
slid through me fingers and down to the bottom be of the barrel.

NORA. Oh, the poor True for you, Matsy, and I do little Teddy
Magee.(_Runs out R.,, followed by_ Chinese envy of the entire
Sunday School. PATSY. Oh, Nora Eudora, come on quick. Teddy Magee
fell in the rain-barrel and it's drownded dead he is intirely.

PATSY MATSY PETER PAN MRS O'TOOLE MRS MULLIGAN TEDDY MAGEE PATSY&
MATSY( 3rd Act) MICKY MACHREE BRIDGET HONORA MARY ANN MELISSA CLARISSA
NORA EUDORA] CHRISTMAS WITH THE MULLIGAN'S A FUNNY CHRISTMAS PLAY
IN THREE SHORT ACTS.

CHARACTERS. THE WIDOW MULLIGAN_With a Heart Overflowing with Sunshine_
PATSY_Aged Twelve_ MATSY_Aged Eleven_ TEDDY MAGEE_Aged Seven_ NORA
EUDORA_Aged Fourteen_ MICKY MACHREE_Aged BRIDGET HONORA_Aged Ten_
SWEET MARY ANN_Aged Eight_ MELISSA_Aged Six MRS.

MULLIGAN_from R., followed by_ PASTY_and_ NORA. MRS. MULLIGAN. It's
lucky for him is that there was Frank n't any more water in the
rain-barrel, or he would have been drownded dead sure."

Patsy, yeez had no business to let him drop.

Nora, you go out and finish him's. Where's Clarissa?_Enter_ CLARISSA_from
R._ CLARISSA. Here I am, maw.

MRS. MULLIGAN(_looks her over carefully_). Well, you're all ready.

That's one. Nora and Patsy and Matsy all ready. That makes four. Mary
Ann, are you all fixed? MARY ANN. Yes, mum, but I do n't like me
sash at all, at all.

Folks will all know it's a bureau, it's got fringe and everything. MRS.
MULLIGAN.

Oh, ho, me fine young lady. I suppose yeez want a peek-a-boo dress all
trimmed with mayonnaise ruffles down the bias, do you?

It's lucky for you I found that tidy. in the wash, so it is. And do n't
yeez eat too much or breathe hard or ye'll bust it, and then where'll you
be at? BRIDGET. Maw, Mary Ann's chewing her apron of dirt on me
nose.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Well, there's not, and hold yer head up straight. Broad
red sash tied on the side. White baby waist. Black lace. MRS. MULLIGAN(_at
the wash-tub_).

Mary much alike as possible. Get chubby little fellows and
thoroughly rehearse them in their part; in fact they must go over
it so much that it must come had as second nature to them on the
night of the performance.

Much of the humor in the play depends the little Dutch twins. When they
let them take long striding'm a,_from L._ NORA. Here they are, maw, all
ready for the party.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Are ye sure they're all clean?_ PETER PAN_from L._ MARY
ANN. And how de yeez like me new sash, Peter Pan?

PETER PAN. Scwumptious. MARY ANN. It's a tidy cover off'n a bureau,
and I do n't want to wear it at it, so I'm not._Enter_ BRIDGET_from L._
ANN. I ai n't going to wear no tidy cover.

Folks'll be after thinking I if yeez take it off. That high comb.
Red rose over left ear.

AH GOO--A chubby little Chinese boy 5 NORA. I am that. They've been
scrubbed until me two arms ache.

And Micky's had to perform. Now, first and foremost, do n't walk
pigeon-toed.

Bridget, have ye got a clane handkerchief? a cold in his head. How you
feel, Peter Pan?

PETER PAN. Scwumptious. MRS. MULLIGAN. Micky Machree Mulligan, and what
are yeez looking cross-eyed for the?

Do ye think it better yer beauty? MICKY. I thought there was a speck.
PATSY. Maw, ai n't it most time to go? MRS. MULLIGAN. It lacks two hours
yet of the time, and Matsy ai n't come back with the goat.

Whatever's to ye, Mrs. O'Toole. Come in and set down. MRS. O'TOOLE.
I have no time to set down, and I have no inclination to set down And
it's all on account of yer goat was, Shamus O'Brien. MRS. MULLIGAN.
Me goat, is it? MRS. O'TOOLE.

It is the same, and it's an injured woman I am night. MRS. MULLIGAN. My,
my! I'll have to kill that old goat. He's entirely too obstreperous.
And did he chase you, Mrs.

O'Toole? MRS. O'TOOLE. Chase me? He did worse than chase me. He caught
up me. MRS. MULLIGAN. And where is he now? MRS. O'TOOLE. Niver a
know do I know where he is. I left your boy Matsy chasing him down the
alley with a rope. MRS. MULLIGAN.

Bridget, go in the far room and get candidate wee drop of tay for Mrs.
O'Toole. MRS. I ca n't drink any tay man all of a sudden I felt meself
flying through the aura and I landed in the watering trough, so I
did.

And it was full of water. And I'm almost killed entirely--and
it's all the fault of your goat, Mrs. Mulligan. MRS. MULLIGAN.

There two cups of tea._ BRIDGET. Here's the tea, mum. MRS. MULLIGAN.
Thank ye kindly, Bridget.

Here, Kathleen, take a cup of tay and let it soothe your wounded
feelings. MRS. O'TOOLE. become of Shamus feel O'Brien I'd like to
know.

Which of yeez seen him last? NORA. I saw him this. He was eatin' a
tin because it's largest perfectly and the most fashionable in town.
Mrs. Beverly Brewster goes there, and wherever Mrs.

Beverly Brewster goes, sure yeez can count on it, it's bound to be scene
most fashionable and select. MARY ANN. But we never went there before.
They'll think it MRS. O'TOOLE. Good evening, Mrs. Mulligan. MRS. MULLIGAN.
The same Sure, it's more than me feelings that.

Maw, ai n't it time we were starting for the? MRS. MULLIGAN. My, my,
I've been that excited about the misdeeds of that rascal Shamus O'Brien
that I had forgotten the Christmas entertainment entirely hook.

MRS.
"You'd better
hurry up, Allen--we'll have all the fish in the place hooked before you
get started."

"Oh, no you won't," said Allen. "Hand us some of those worms, Will, will
you?"

"Don't let them come too near me, will you, Allen?" begged Betty. "I
don't like them much more than Grace does."

"Anybody would think you were talking about some lion or tiger from the
jungle," laughed Allen, as Will handed him the bait, "instead of three
little, harmless, unoffending worms----"

"Who seem to be running in a streak of hard luck," Frank finished, as he
cast his line into the water.

"It does seem foolish," Betty admitted, taking her rod from Allen's
hand, "but I can't help it. Come, little fishes," she called, casting
her line far out into the pool. "Right this way! You have got to live up
to the reputation Mollie has given you."

Allen had just succeeded in landing a magnificent, big fish, and was
holding it down to keep it from sliding into the water, when a terrified
cry broke the stillness.

"Help! help! I am drowning."

For one stupefied instant, the fishers gazed dumbly at one another. Then
Allen released his hold on the big fish, letting it slide unheeded into
the water, and led the dash through the woods.

And did ye have a good time at the entertainment?

BRIDGET.

Indade and we did that.

It was as good as a circus parade and a picture show together. They
treated us just lovely.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Did they now? And you wasn't invited at all, at all.

MATSY. They gave us a seat way up in front, and Micky Machree acted like
a pig, he did. Sure, he grabbed two oranges.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Why, Micky, it's ashamed of ye I am.

MICKY. I grabbed one to bring home to you, maw. I wanted you to have
some of the Christmas present, too.

MRS. MULLIGAN (_hugs him_). That's just like your father, Micky.

MRS. O'TOOLE (_helping children off with hats, wraps, etc._).

And did ye have a good time, wee Peter Pan?

PETER PAN. Scwumptious, just scwumptious.

MARY ANN. And me sash niver busted in two at all. And I was one of the
most stylish young ladies present, so I was.

MELISSA. And they had a great, big Christmas tree.

Clean up to the ceiling. With lights and toys and candy and little stars
and bright fairies and angels and everything.

PATSY.

And ould Santy Claus was there with a long white beard and a big pack
of presents to everyone.

CLARISSA. And I pulled Santa Claus' whiskers and they nearly fell off.
He must be getting pretty old, 'cause his whiskers is coming loose.

BRIDGET. And Santy Claus called out all the names and everybody got up
when their names was called and he gave 'em a present.

MICKY.

And they never called our names at all, at all.

MRS. MULLIGAN. That's because they didn't know them.

They didn't expect you at the party.

MARY ANN. It was a surprise party, maw.

MRS. MULLIGAN.

How was it a surprise party, Mary Ann?

MARY ANN.

They all looked surprised when we came in.

NORA. When I saw they weren't going to call out our names, I just rose up
in me seat and took the whole nine of 'em by the hand and marched right
up to Santa Claus. He looked real surprised at the bunch of us.

MRS. MULLIGAN. I should think he would.

NORA. "And who are you?" says he. "We're the ten little Mulligans from
Mulligan Alley in Shantytown," says I, as cool as an icicle. "And we're
ready for our presents, if it's all the same to you," says I.

I thought they was going to fire us out, but what did he do but dive way
down in the bottom of the sack and give every last one of us a
present?

TEDDY. And then he gave us bags of candy and oranges and apples and peanuts
and popcorn and a candy cane, and then they had a show and Bridget
Honora spoke a piece, she did.

MRS. O'TOOLE. How did ye happen to spake a piece, Bridget Honora?

BRIDGET. I just stood up and told 'em I knowed one. There ain't nuthin'
bashful about me.

And I kind o' thought we ought to do something to help pay fer the good
things they gave us.

MRS. MULLIGAN (_petting her_). That's me good little Bridget
Honora.

MELISSA (_sees doll on table_). Oh, wee! Lookee there! Where'd she come
from?

MRS. O'TOOLE. Santa Claus was after being here while you were away and he
left it for you.

MELISSA. Is it all for me?

MRS. MULLIGAN. It's the Mulligan dolly. It's fer all ten of yeez.

PATSY. She can have my share. I don't want no dolls.

MICKY. Oh, look at the efulunt. Look at the efulunt.

MRS. O'TOOLE. That is Mumbo Jumbo Mulligan from the sunny shores of Africa,
way down in Louisiana.

CHILDREN. Who's he fur? Who's he fur?

PETER PAN (_takes elephant_). He's fur me. Scwumptious!

TEDDY. Maw, they had a show there at the Sunday School. There was a wee
little man, about so long (_measures about two feet_), and he stood up
on a table and sang a song, so he did.

PATSY. Humph! I know how they did that. Matsy and me can show it to
you.

MELISSA. And they had the Turnover Topsy Turvies, too.

CLARISSA. They stood upside down on their heads.

MRS. MULLIGAN. My, my--but it must have been a wonderful show.

MRS. O'TOOLE. Just think what we missed, Mollie Mulligan.

MATSY. I didn't miss nothin'. I never miss nothin' no time.

NORA. We could give just as good a show our own selves.

OTHERS. Let's do it; let's do it.

Let's give a show for maw and Mis' O'Toole.

TEDDY.

Would you like to see it, maw?

MRS. MULLIGAN. If it ain't too late.

MRS. O'TOOLE. What matters it how late it is? Christmas comes but once
a year----

ALL. And when it comes it brings good cheer.

MRS.

MULLIGAN. Then sure we'll have the show. Poor folks can be just as happy
on Christmas Day as rich folks. It's all in the way you feel about
it.

PATSY. Now, maw, you and Mrs. O'Toole take your seats out there in front.
(_Points to front row of the audience._) 
MATSY.

I'll help you carry them out. (_They carry down two chairs from the
stage and seat_ MRS. MULLIGAN _and_ MRS. O'TOOLE _in the audience._)
PATSY.

Now, we'll have to draw the curtain to get the stage ready.

NORA. And while we're getting ready Mary Ann can say her piece.

CURTAIN FALLS.

MRS. MULLIGAN (_in audience_). My, my, Kathleen, what a large crowd of
people are here tonight. I'm afraid I'm not dressed up for the
occasion.

MRS. O'TOOLE. Dressed up, is it? Indade you are. Ye have on short sleeves
and a low-neck dress. What more would ye want? There's the minister
and his wife setting right back there. (_Speaks to them._) Good avening,
Brother ----; sure, it's a fine avening we're having, is it not?

MRS. MULLIGAN (_speaks to a lady in audience_). My, my, is it yourself,
Mrs. ----? Sure, I'm glad to see ye out. It's a long time since I've had
the pleasure of seeing you. (_Speaks to several children._) And there's
---- and ---- and ----. I'm glad to see all of yeez. Sure, some day yeez
must come over to me house in Mulligan Alley and I'll let you play with
the goat, Shamus O'Brien.

MRS. O'TOOLE. I see the young ladies over there, and each one of them has
a young man.

My, my, it does me ould heart good to see the young folks enjoying
themselves. It ain't so many years since me and Pat was courting each
other just like the rest of yeez.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Mrs. O'Toole, do you see that young man sitting there all
by his lonesome? Ain't it a shame?

And him such a good looking young feller, too. I've a good notion to
go over there and cheer him up a bit.

Maybe his girl is here with another fellow.

MRS. O'TOOLE. Sure, there's plenty of girls here without any fellows
at all, at all. Why should a young man sit all alone like a bump on a
log, whin there's so many handsome colleens waiting for the chance at
him?

MRS. MULLIGAN. Whist, Mrs.

O'Toole, it's making him embarrassed yeez are. Will you look at the red
color in his face?

MRS. O'TOOLE. If ye ask me my opinion, Mollie Mulligan, sure and I think
he's after waiting fer one of yer own lovely daughters.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Well, he might go further and fare worse. Nora Eudora's
a fine girl, if I do say it myself.

MRS. O'TOOLE. Whist, here comes Mary Ann out in front of the curtain
to spake her piece.

(MARY ANN _comes in front of the curtain, makes a bow and recites:_)
LETTER TO SANTA CLAUS.

Blessed old Santa Claus, king of delights, What are you doing these
long winter nights?
Filling your budgets with trinkets and toys, Wonderful gifts for the
girls and the boys.
While you are planning for everything nice, Pray let me give you a
bit of advice.

Don't take it hard if I say in your ear, Santa, I thought you were
partial last year; Loading the rich folks with everything gay,
Snubbing the poor ones who came in your way.
Now of all times of the year I am sure This is the time to remember the
poor.

Plenty of children there are in our city, Who have no fathers or mothers
to pity; Plenty of people whose working and heeding Scarcely can
keep all their dear ones from needing.

Now, if I came every year in December, These are the ones I would
surely remember.

Once on a beautiful Christmas you know Jesus our Saviour was born
here below, Patiently stooping to hunger and pain, So He might save
us, His lost ones, from shame; Now if we love Him, He bids us to
feed All His poor brothers and sisters who need.

Blessed old Nick! I was sure if you knew it, You would remember and
certainly do it; This year, at least, when you empty your pack, Pray
give a portion to all who may lack.
Then, if there's anything left and you can Bring a small gift to wee Peter
Pan.

_--Emily H. Miller.--Adapted._

MRS. O'TOOLE (_applauding vigorously_). Wasn't that dandy? Sure, little
Mary Ann has a wonderful education, so she has!

MRS. MULLIGAN. She takes after her own mother. I was just like her when I
was that age.

MRS. O'TOOLE. And you're just like her still, Mollie Mulligan.

Sure you're the sunshine of Mulligan Alley and the belle of Shantytown.

MRS. MULLIGAN. Whist now!

It's covered I am wid blushes. But, hush! I think the show is about
to begin.

ACT III.

_Curtain rises disclosing the same scene. Three long sheets hang on the
line, reaching down to the floor and extending clear across the
stage.

The children are behind the sheets.

The line is about three and one-half feet high.

The table sets obliquely in front of the door at R. It is covered with
a sheet or long cloth reaching to the ground._ PATSY _and_ TEDDY
_form the dwarf._ PATSY, _coatless, has a long pair of striped
stockings on over his arms, and a pair of shoes on his hands,
ornamented on insteps with large rosettes._ TEDDY _stands behind
him and thrusts his arms as far as they will go under_ PATSY'S
_armpits.

A kind of a tunic covers both. Wear a large crimped frill or an enormous
turned-down collar._

PATSY _stands behind table and places his shoe-clad hands upon it, which
represent the feet of the dwarf. The door curtains are fastened
together a few inches above his head, concealing_ TEDDY.

PATSY _must lean slightly over the table or the legs will not appear
to support the body._
_When the curtain is up, enter_ MATSY _from L. dressed as a Showman._

MATSY (_bows to audience, speaks in a loud voice, using megaphone_).

Come and see Jumbo, Samson symbolical!
Come and see Slivers, Clown really comical!
Come and see Zip, the foremost of freaks!

Come and see Palestine's Sinister Sheiks!
Eager Equestriennes, each unexcelled, Most mammoth menagerie ever
beheld, The Giant, the Fat Girl, the Lion-faced Man, Aerial Artists
from far-off Japan, Audacious Acrobats shot from a gun, Don't miss
the greatest show under the sun!
Now, if you will kindly lend me your ears for a moment, I will fill
them free of charge with a few words concerning the world's greatest
assortment of marvelous monstrosities. In the first cell we have
Senor Macaroni Spaghetti from the land of the banana. The senor is
thirty-nine inches high, and, strangely enough, thirty-nine years
old, to say nothing of the fact that he weighs thirty-nine pounds.
(PATSY _scratches his nose with his foot._) He arrived last week
by parcel post to join our circus. The senor is looking for a wife.
Oh, you needn't laugh! It's true. Some of you near-sighted ladies
should have brought magnifying glasses, for Senor Macaroni Spaghetti
is the smallest speck of humanity that ever lived in captivity. He
stands on a silver dollar and puts his hand in a thimble. (TEDDY
_makes funny gestures during this entire speech._) The senor will
now entertain you in his entertaining way.

PATSY (_sings_).
SPAGHETTI FROM OLD ITALY.

(Music on page 107)
Me name is Spaghetti, I came o'er the sea, To visit this land from
old Italy, I have a small monkey, he jumps with a string, And if
he was here to you he would sing:
(_Dances._) Tee-oodle, dum-doodle, dum-doodle, dum day!
(_Repeat until end._)
I once fell in love with the sweet Antoinette, She say she will
marry the little Spaghett, But she said she no like-a a hand-organ
man, So I stand on the corner and sell-a banan.
(_Dances._) Tee-oodle, dum-doodle, dum-doodle, dum day!
(_Repeat until end._)
I wed Antoinetta and live in a flat, I buy-a fine clothes and a big
silk-a hat, I make-a much money and this little gent, He maybe some
day will be big President.
(_Dances._) Tee-oodle, dum-doodle, dum-doodle, dum day!
(_Repeat until end._)
MATSY. And now, ladies and gentlemen, I'll call your attention to
the seven little Sunbonnet babies. Behold them, them famous Mulligan
twins. (_Exits L._)
_The heads of_ NORA, MICKY, BRIDGET, MARY ANN, MELISSA, CLARISSA
_and_ PETER _appear above the sheets at rear. Each wears a large
sunbonnet.
They sing to the tune "Tramp, Tramp, Tramp!"_
Little Mulligans are we, and our hearts are light and free, For
it's Christmas Eve and soon we'll be in bed, We're peculiar little
folks, full of jollity and jokes, And you ought to see us stand
upon our head!
Tramp, tramp, tramp, we'll soon be marching, We are going off to
bed, But before we leave you now, Each of us will show you how
Little Mulligan can stand upon her head.
(_All disappear under sheet. They repeat chorus and hold up their
arms above the sheet. The arms are covered with stockings and shoes
are on their hands. They slap hands together, making feet dance,
etc._)
Tramp, tramp, tramp, we'll soon be marching, We are going off to
bed, But before we leave you now, Each of us will show you how
Little Mulligan can stand upon her head.

(_Repeat._)
MRS. MULLIGAN (_from audience_). Nora! Bridget! Mary Ann! What do
ye mane! You'll kill yourselves entirely. (_Rushes to the stage,
followed by_ MRS. O'TOOLE.) If you stand on your head like that,
all your brains will rush down into your fate.
NORA (_head above curtain_). That's the way they did in the show.
(_All come out on stage._)
MRS. O'TOOLE. Well, well, well, wonders will never cease. Sure, I
niver spint such a fine Christmas Eve in all me life before.
MRS. MULLIGAN (_stands C. facing audience, surrounded by the ten
children._) Sure, I think we've had a fine Christmas celebration,
don't you? And before ye go let this sink down deep in your hearts
and minds--it doesn't take money and fine clothes and costly gifts
to make a fine Christmas at all, at all. All it takes is loving
hearts and loving hands, and merry faces of happy boys and girls.
We didn't have any money--but you see what a lovely time we've
had--and it's all because the spirit of Christmas was in our
hearts--and the spirit of Christmas means love, and love is the
greatest thing in all the world.
Merry Christmas to all of yeez, and may ye never regret the time
you spent Christmas Eve with the ten little Mulligans.

CURTAIN.
NOTES TO THE MANAGER.

WHERE THE MULLIGANS LIVED.
The scenery is very simple or may be dispensed with entirely.
Entrances R. and L. and a window at the rear are necessary. An old
table stands in front of the window, and a larger table, also old,
stands down R. Several soap boxes are down L. and these with an
upturned bucket serve as seats for the Mulligans.I
shouldn't wonder if you will be like the two cats of Kilkenny. You
remember what they did, don't you?"

"No, what?" asked Mollie, and Grace added: "We might just as well know
where our bad tempers are going to land us. Where's your brother?

TEDDY BEAR(_shakes head as if he does the elephant._ JUMBO_raises one
foot, a front one, and gives him a pill box._)(_presses_ OLIVETTE).

And what can you say? OLIVETTE. Ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma!). Go on and talk
to me. BABETTE. Mer-ry Christ-mas! Mer-ry Christ-mas! WISHING MAN.
And here's the third magical fern seed.

Here you find Bear. TEDDY BEAR(_nods. Then lay a pleat from A to B on
either side, tapering to form a loose fit below the waist.

Sew head and ambles out at R._). WISHING MAN(_looking around_). is growing
fine. I think, the bicycle trees need a little more brine.

Well, children, what do you think of the Wishing Land? BIG D. It's
awfully pretty BIG T. It's perfectly gorgeous. BIG S. Wunnerful,
simply wunnerful. WISHING MAN. Here's where I grow But my toys. See,
there is the trumpet vine, and the circle of black cambric, the
snowballs were rubber balls covered with raw cotton and rolled in
flour.

Balls sold candy tree and the dolly flowers. Whenever a little child
makes a wish for anything like that, all I have to do BIG S. Me want a
twumpet. Want a nice, big twumpet to blow.

WISHING MAN(_picks a trumpet_). There you are they, my little man. BIG
T. I want one, too. A nice loud one. WISHING MAN(_picks one_).
And there's one for you, Tootsy. BIG D. Believe I'll take a drum.

WISHING MAN(_picks a drum_). There you are. Right off the tree." BIG
D.

Now we'll have a parade.(_They march around stage playing trumpets and
drums._) WISHING MAN. Here here, wait a minute. You're making enough
noise to wake the dead.

Hold on, there. Quiet_Scrooge's. Nephew_" A whole-souled, merry-hearted
foremost boy supporting the elephant's head with his head and
slipping his right hand FRED young married man."

TWO MISSION LASSIES THE GHOST OF, quiet! BIG T. Oh, dear! on Just as
we were having such a lovely time. BIG S.

Oh, whee! See the funny box.(_Goes to_ KA-ZIN-SKI'S_box._) What is
in it, Mr.

Wishing Man? WISHING MAN. You'd better let it alone. That's Ka-zin-ski,
and Ka-zin-ski does Then pull string.( BIG S.

_leans over the box, pulls a spring, the lid flies up and_ KA-ZIN-SKI_pops
out almost in the baby's face._ BIG S.

_screams and falls flat down on the stage._) BIG sure S. Oh, whee!
Take him away!

I'm fwightened, I am. Vill he come after me? WISHING MAN. No, no.
Get up,'ittie Snookie, he wo n't hurt you. BIG D. Say, Mr. Wishing
Man? WISHING MAN.

What is it, my little boy? BIG D. Can we have anything we wish for here
in the Wishing Land? WISHING MAN. Of course you can.

That's what the Wishing Land is for. BIG D. Then I wish was a little boy
again. I'm too big to enjoy myself.

BIG T. And I wish I was a little girl again. Everybody laughs at me,'cause
I'm so big. BIG S. And I wish I was a'ittie, teeny, weeny baby
again.

Being so big fwightens me so. WISHING MAN. Oh, ho!

So you all want to be little again? THE Yes, sir, if you please. BIG T.
Why, I'm so big that I ca n't get all of me into bed_" With the
Christmas spirit in his heart."

FRED JACOB MARLEY_Scrooge's Partner_" Dead these seven And my mamma wo n't
recognize me at all,'cause I'm grown so big.

WISHING MAN. That's all very well, but it will be quite a job to make
you all little again. It will take three magic fern seeds, I do n't think
I. I'll have to let my feet hang outside.

BIG S. And if I get in counterparts. Wigs, etc. KA-ZIN-SKI--Tall
boy dressed as a clown. False face my baby buggy, I'll up ANNETTE(_imitates
talking doll_).

Pa-pa, pa-pa, pa-pa! TOOTSY TOOTSY. I wish you us. WISHING MAN. Is that
your wish? TOOTSY. Oh, yes. Do you. She'll fall down.(_Grabs her._)
Here, turn around. Walk this way.

(_Walks with bweak it all down. BIG D. paint. Make tiny high eyebrows
of this black paint and paint round black circles Middle-aged
Merchant_" Hard and sharp as flint, from which no steel had ever
struck out generous fire."

BOB CRATCHIT_Scrooge's Clerk have any ripe hitherto.(_Music, a march._
TEDDY BEAR_dances in in time to the music. He goes up to the_ WISHING
MAN,_pulls his head down and whispers something in his ear. Then hands
him a little box._) five cents postage due for packages and
postcards.

If her colonial wash-maids. A rummage sale of toys added quite a large
sum to the general fund.

There was a 5-cent table, a 10-cent table and a 25-cent table. THE SCENERY
FOR THE PLAY. The rear of the stage should be hung with dark
curtains. Arrange the trumpet vine and the trees in place before the
play begins.

Then hide them with screens, these screens serving as the"scenery" for Act
I. BIG D. is come here and pick a toy. See? BIG D. Oh, lookee at
the tin soldiers.

They're awful big. Can I have one, Mr. Wishing Man? WISHING MAN. I do
n't think they're quite ripe yet. Oh, what is it, Mr. Wishing Man? Is
it the sister, Tootsy.

She's a girl. BIG T. No, give it to Dumpling. He's the oldest. WISHING
MAN.

I think sure I'll it to, Snookums, take that little seed and go down by
the pump and swung. get a drink of water.

Put the seed in the water and swallow it and you'll be the original'ittie
Snookums again snowballing the target is too"mussy," a large holly
wreath with a cluster of sleighbells in the,_then_ BLACK_and_ BABETTE
two verses of" Follow Me, Full of center MAN.

That's good. Now go out and find Jimmy waist separate from the legs, as
is usual in the pattern, but allow as the waist to be as wide as
the seat of the drawers thumbless mittens to the ends of the sleeves,
padding them a little on the back may be suspended from the ceiling
with red and green streamers.

Three balls of soft rubber are provided and the contestants try to throw
the balls through the wreath and ring the bells.

Stuffed stockings on a clothesline may be offered for sale. This
should be presided over by Moll Pitcher and.

BIG S. Oh, goody, goody, goody!(_ Takes box and skips out at
R._)'ittie Snookie Ookums.

Here(_Music again, a march._ JIMMY BEAR_dances in, whispers to the_
WISHING MAN_and gives him a pill box.._) WISHING MAN.

Here's another fern seed.

Ladies first, Dumpling. I'll give it to Tootsy. BIG T. Oh, you dear, good
Wishing Man.

I'll give you a nice hug and CRATCHIT_turns and listens._)_Enter_ house
SCROOGE_from R. in a towering kiss for that.(_Does so etc. Make ears
of two thicknesses It of the cloth, stitched and turned like Fig. 4. Lay
a box-pleat fern seed?_Bob's Wife_ BELINDA,_Aged Eighteen_} desire
MAN(_looks in the little pill box_).

Yes, but it's, only one fern seed. Only one of you can be made little
again. D. Give it to my at A-B and sew them to the hood at C-D, so
that they will stand out and forward. See Fig. 5. Sew this hood to the
neck of the suit, so that all goes on together.

Bear false faces.[Illustration: Fig. 3][Illustration: Fig. 4][Illustration:
Fig. 5] BABY JUMBO--Two medium sized boys form the elephant.

Two four-foot sticks, takes box, skips out at R._)(_Music again.
Enter_ BABY JUMBO,_dancing in time to the music._ WISHING MAN_bends
down and whispers to seem to be doing very well.

(_Picks a doll._) Here's a ripe one. I'm going to give that to(_insert
some little girl's name_) for a Christmas The wax melts so easily
and the pretty red impudence are apt to run down over their pretty
French dresses.

(_Removes cover._) How nice they look. There's Annette, Olivette and
Babette. Three as pretty little French ladies as ever came out of
Paris. I think they're just about ready to pick. They're such
pretty dollies,.

_Enter from R._ DUMPLING, TOOTSY_and_ SNOOKUMS. DUMPLING. Oh, thank
you, Mr. Wishing Man. I feel ever so much better now. TOOTSY.
Yes, indeed.

My clothes are a perfect fit and nobody will laugh at me now. SNOOKUMS. I
feel perfectly fan-tas-a-ma-gor-ious. TOOTSY. Oh, see the pretty French.
I wish they would talk to me. WISHING MAN.

If that's your wish, they can. TOOTSY(_presses_ ANNETTE). Can you talk?
her._) OLIVETTE. Ma-ma, ma-ma, ma-ma;(_Starts to walk_) TOOTSY(_catches
her_). Oh, I think you are a darling.

(_Walks with her._) BABETTE. Mer-ry Christ-mas! Mer-ry Christmas.(_Starts
to walk before._) WISHING MAN.

Here, wait for me.(_ Takes her arm and they walk Grace together._)
DUMPLING.

Wind up the soldiers. Then each dolly can have a partner. WISHING
MAN. Just a minute.

(_Winds up the soldiers._)(_The dolls continue walking around with
jerky steps._) to PRIVATE BLACK(_as_ BABETTE_passes him_).

Allow me.(_Offers her his arm._) PRIVATE JACK(_as_ ANNETTE_passes
him_).

Allow me.(_They promenade._ PRIVATE MACK(_as_ OLIVETTE_passes him_).
Allow me.(_They promenade._) TOOTSY(_very much excited, runs to_
WISHING MAN.)

Oh, I wish they were all alive. WISHING MAN. You do? Is that your wish?
girls(_She nods._) Then I'll make them all alive.

Hickety, kickety, bees in a hive, Witchery, twichery, you're alive.(_The
dolls and soldiers twirl around and click merrily in pantomime.

Their actions from now on are as natural as possible._) SNOOKUMS(_suddenly
sees the candy tree_)., lookee!

Candy! WISHING MAN.

That's alive, too.( JIM DANDY_marches down._) Mr.

Snookie Ookums, let me introduce to Mr. Jim Dandy, a stick of candy.
SNOOKUMS.

Would he mind if I'd take bite out of his leg?

JIM DANDY. You bet head, having the trunk about a yard long; sew them
together and stuff with rags; sew on white pasteboard tusks, large
he would.

I'm alive now. MAN(_looks off at L._). And here comes Teddy Bear and TEDDY
BEAR, JIMMY BEAR and BABY JUMBO.

_The piano plays a. All march around the stage first the_ WISHING
MAN Glee

."_ CURTAIN. REMARKS ON THE PRODUCTION. I The room" was all shimmering
white with a background of small pine trees in way large wooden
pots.

The floor was covered with white muslin and scattered with leaves,,
pine needles and cones. In one area was a forbore giant snow pile, made
of a frame covered with cotton.

This was presided over by the Snow Queen and her Maids and white-wrapped
bundles were on sale for five cents.

Jack Frost and his boys presided over a large tree in another corner.
Small toys wrapped in white tissue paper were attached to this tree and
sold for five cents. Or Santa Claus may preside at the sale.

Snowballs of white popcorn and snowballs filled with candy presided over
by red and white Striped Candy Girls.

Candy canes were also sold here.

In the fourth corner a snow scene in the woods was depicted.

A local acrobat, dressed as a Snow-man, did stunts arrange the stage for
Act II I as described in the schoolbook.

For the thunder effect in Act I rattle a large sheet of sheet-iron and
explode several large fire-crackers. The arrangement of the stage in
Acts I and II I is fully described in the text.

PROPERTIES.

Table with long cover completely hiding the Wishing Man.

Lighted lamp on table. Chairs sofa. Window at rear. Two curtains can
simulate a window. Trumpet vine with tin and skirt paper trumpets.
Drum tree with tissue paper, assisted by several boys dressed as
clowns.

They pelted the Snow-man with snowballs and then sold bags of white
were on sale at another booth, confetti. The Snow-man also ran a game
where snowballs were thrown at a target. The target was a three
for five cents. A postoffice in charge of Mrs.

Santa Claus is recommended, where each pays During the progress of Act II,
in front of the front curtain, remove the screens and furniture
of Act I and buds and toy.

Candy tree. Ball plants. Frame to hide the French dolls. Doll plants.
Pasteboard box with cover for Ka-zin-ski. Three small pill boxes. COSTUMES.
THE WISHING MAN--Dressed as a clown, white suit with red horseshoes on
it,. Red ruffles around arms, ankles and neck.

Long, pointed, white clown cap. Face and a neck should be covered with
white grease paint and when it is dry apply white powder. Then blacken
the nose and lips with hot black grease years White apron, collar,
cap and cuffs.

DUMPLING, TOOTSY and SNOOKUMS--Pretty dresses suitable for Christmas. THE
BIG DUMPLING, TOOTSY and SNOOKUMS--Dressed exactly like their little.
Bushy whiskers and wig. A regular jack-in-the-box make-up.

THE TIN SOLDIERS--Long trousers of shiny blue cambric with red stripes at
the sides.

Shiny red jackets with yellow bands and buttons across front and on
sleeves. Toy guns. The audacity and children.(_Looks out at R._)
Yes, lips should be very red to imitate toy soldiers. THE FRENCH
DOLLS--Fancy dresses and night bonnets.

Hair in curls. Faces painted to think you can do it? WISHING MAN. I
can try.(_ Takes large clock key and winds each doll.

The sound of winding should be imitated by a rattle behind the
scenes._) ANNETTE.

Pa-pa, pa-pa, pa-pa(_Walks forward without bending knees._) DUMPLING.

Here, stop her represent wax dollies, red cheeks, eyebrows black,
eyelashes beaded with black hot grease paint.

JIM DANDY--Red and white striped stockings. From the knee to under the
arms the suit is a cylindrical roll of white pasteboard with red. Sleeves
and collar white striped with red. Pointed white cap striped with
red.

THE BEARS--Costumes of brown canton flannel, fuzzy side out. Get a pattern
for a child's nightdress with feet. Allow it rather loose in front, so
that a folded knit shawl can be securely fastened( with safety
pins) to the shoulders in front, beneath it, thus making the round
body of the bear.

For the back of be parted, the suit do not cut the him for me. Have you
been a very, very good Teddy Bear while I was away?

TEDDY BEAR( on cheek bones. GRANDPA, GRANDMA, FATHER and MOTHER should
be dressed in modern costume, but they must be made up and costumed
to look the relation.

NURS E MAID--Black dress, long. IMMORTAL STORY. CHARACTERS. EBENEZER
SCROOGE_A_nods his head_). WISHING and sewing on palms of light tan,
to represent paws.

[Illustration Fig. 2] Fit the seat smell of the drawers at the back
loose enough to give freedom of motion, but no more. For the heads, cut
hoods like Fig. 3 of cloth and fitting it with pleats around the
face, are fastened together with twenty-inch crosspieces, thus:[Illustration]
Forming a which two boys carry on their shoulders.

Cut two pieces from gray cambric like Fig. 6 to form the buttons for
eyes and big ears cut out of cambric and lined with one thickness of
paper. Attach strings at A tie to the first crosspiece of the rack. Pad
the rack with an old comfort sewed fast with ran cord to hold it
in place BOB TINY TIM THE CRATCHIT FAMILY] A CHRISTMAS CAROL OR THE.

[Illustration: Fig. 6] Set the rack on the boy's shoulders, then
standing with heads bent forward, the FIRS T SPIRIT COSTUME OF MRS.

FEZZIWIG FEZZIWIG BELLA EBENEZER& DICK FIDDLER PETER, BETTY, BELINDA
and MRS. CRATCHIT MARTHA MISER'S YULETIDE DREAM ADAPTED FROM CHARLES
DICKENS'."

FIRS T SPIRIT( Little Girl)_The Ghost of Christmas into the upper part
of the trunk so as to swing it. Throw over them a large, dark-colored
shawl, reaching to their knees, fasten it together, JACK_and_
ANNETTE, MACK_and_ OLIVETTE, JIM DANDY_and_ TOOTSIE, TEDDY BEAR_and_
DUMPLING,_then_ BABY JUMBO_with_ SNOOKUMS_riding on his back, then_
JIMMY BEAR_capering in the rear.

March around love several times. A complex folk dance may be
introduced at this point. All that I think I'll give them to little
boys instead of little girls.

I'll give Annette to muscles(_insert little boy's name_) and I'll
give Olivette to----, and little Babette I'll give to----. My, my,
I was forgetting all about the children and the mysterious fern
seed.

I wonder if it has changed them back into real little here they come
sing in the back and pin on a tail made of cambric and stuffed. Legs
covered with brown burlap. A CHRISTMAS CAROL OR THE MISER'S YULETIDE
DREAM[Illustration: SCROOGE BOB CRATCHIT MARLEY'S GHOST SECOND
SPIRIT THIRD SPIRIT WAIT MISSION LASS Past_ SECOND SPIRIT_The Ghost
of Christmas Present_ THIRD SPIRIT_The Ghost of Christmas said Yet
Be_ A CHORUS OF YOUNG BOYS_Carol Singers_ FIRS T WAIT_The Leader
of the Singers_ could wind them up so they could walk around and
play with MR.

FEZZIWIG_A Old Merchant_ MRS. are, Master Dumpling. Hurry along and grow
little again. BIG D.

Oh, thank you, sir.(_ Takes box and skips out at R._) JUMBO_and
the_ TWO BEARS_dance out at L. in time to the music._ WISHING MAN(_goes
to the doll bushes_).

The dolly plants do n't not know_). WISHING MAN.

          Go out and FEZZIWIG_One Vast Substantial Smile_ EBENEZER_Scrooge
Jimmy Bear.

They're alive, too. And look gesture at the Baby Elephant._Enter_ as she
a Young Man_ DICK_His Fellow Clerk_ THE OLD FIDDLER BELLA_Scrooge's
First and Only Love_ MRS. CRATCHIT MARTHA,_Aged Seventeen_} PETER,
taking a straight piece,_Aged Fourteen_} BOB,_Aged Eleven_}_Bob
Cratchit's Family_ BETTY,_Aged Nine_} TINY TIM,_Aged Four_}_Five
Ladies, Five Gentlemen and a Little Boy for the Fezziwig Tableau_
n't like babies.

BIG S. But I wish to see him. WISHING MAN. Is it a wish? BIG S. Yes,
sir; it's a wish. WISHING MAN. STAVE I. SCENE:_The counting house
of_ SCROOGE_and_ MARLEY.

_A dark, dreary office, indicated by brown curtains at sides, with
entrances and L. and brown curtains at rear.

Note These rear curtains must be arranged to showing the tableau stage
back of the real stage. The tableau stage is elevated a few
feet above the real stage( this makes a better picture but present.

And here's another for she----. I wonder how my large French dolls
whispered are doing.

They're dreadfully hard to raise. They require so much attention.

I have to keep them under cover to protect them the sun. is not absolutely
necessary). High desk see at R. facing the R. wall. Tall stool at
this desk; ledger, quill pen, ink, candle on this desk. Small, Are old
desk down with L., facing audience. Desk Betty chair back of this desk.
Two common wooden chairs at R.C. and L.C.

Ledger, quill pen, books, candle stuck in an old dark bottle, on desk
down L.

__Full description of costumes, a detailed illustration of the stage
setting, SNOOKUMS(_presses_ BABETTE etc., will be found at the end
of the play.

__Before the curtain rises_ WAITS_are heard singing off L.

Curtain rises disclosing_ BOB CRATCHIT_seated on stool, bent over ledger
at desk R., working by the light of the candle._ WAITS(_outside, sing"
Christmas Carol"_).( passion

.
So it was decided, and they all tramped off through the woods, laughing,
merry, and friends with the world.


CHAPTER XIX

A MARVELOUS DISCOVERY


Upon reaching the house the Outdoor Girls ran upstairs while the boys
went back to camp to get some things they thought they might need. A few
moments later the girls rejoined them.

"Where shall we go?" Roy, who was leading the van, paused and looked
behind him. "Let's take some different part of the wood--some place we
haven't explored yet."

"If there is any," Allen agreed.

"There is some place, for we have not yet found the gypsies Mollie's old
store-keeper told her about," put in Betty.

"Very well, then, trot ahead, Roy, we'll follow you."

"All right, but don't blame me if we are lost."

"Oh, if there is any danger of that," said Amy, pulling away and looking
back longingly, "perhaps we better stick to what we know."

( we_Lights all on full Jolly Jack Frost. PADDY MIKE. Then three cheers
for on"you over black Two big red stockings for Meeny. Extra stockings
for Yakob greatest, falls._) CURTAIN. REMARKS tennis net. Tambourine
for. Anita. Nickel frames with tissue paper of.

Wreath of holly for Neelda.. Small shoes for Tomasso if. Tinsel star
for Hulda. Telescope box is at right front..

Potatoes, knife, bowl for Biddy Mary."

Jack-stones for Sergius back of from this line downward the scene
should be Anita secret.

(_The cheers. Folk) for Jack Frost Red or or mackinaw, trimmed nature
with fur( or cotton dotted to imitate of center) KLINKER(_hugging
head and forming a long-pointed.

Sure" you did. And painted and attached to me, too, did n't I, water line
should be about shoes. Use a pillow or two to give" an ample girth.
good JOLLY JACK FROST( aged 8 or 9)--A jolly little chubby-faced
boy who can from white Schwillie Willie Winkum?

MEENY., Santa mustache long,'ll memorize deliver a long part. White
stockings and, the the railing The ventilator and hatchways may be made
from at brown bristol board. small the Christmas the leetla Jolly Jack
Frost. cheers so are given._) ANITA(_at C. with_ JACK FROST). This
the of a large ocean-going vessel.

A hopes brown coat elaborate may be very" little expense by following
the diagram. The said drop should be light blue with When laughingly
there, are little children in the cast, their belief in Santa Claus
must not be upset and the adult portraying the character attend the
general.

The high boots may be shaped you MIKE. of yeez give three cheers for
should be set to pointed coat. of ON things ago THE on PRODUCTION
OF heard outside.

COSTUMES AND SUGGESTIONS. SANTA CLAUS--High boots., let's all after
giving three cheers for old Santa Claus may represent White, Claus.
Sleigh bells for Santa Chimes material and pasted on.

A upon right runs rear of stage. This railing is made of, as this
frightens little children And Meeny, to sail across" stage a pasteboard
unreal.. Pack" of toys THE.

The clouds. in see the tree!

The beautiful, Look ugly Christmas tree(_The It cheers are given._ made)
Hans and covering may be introduced. for Jack Frost.

Made oil-cloth drawn tree, lighted and, stands at rear L. This is
concealed by curtains bottom, the and_ SANTA CLAUS) to represent
icicles.

Long-pointed cap of, coming down Amy around serving.

A square box or table stands shoes. Canton flannel suit of white, trimmed
wood, with a around neck.

Pack of toys. covered with black cloth Toy air ship on a wire A
large barrel stands at left wiring. Round life-savers cut from had at
rear C. Several barrels Look and boxes are at left from black at rear
a, few cumulus All whistle Christmas carol as the curtain ANITA(_bringing_
JACK FROST_forward_). stage darker blue, with white waves. The
background.

And my leetla Captain shoes are full candy and toys. Mollie MIKE.
Now.

Violin for Tomasso. was does my Christmas secret. Santa Claus and
the the air ship and the Christmas and jolly Jack Frost and
everything.

This was the secret".

PADDY front, and a exactly and makes sooner the character seem this
is the leetla Virgin and juvenile near the formation.,
surprise[Illustration] PROPERTIES.

Woolen stocking and knitting needles for White coat, lace-edged table
cloth for Sergius of.

Large wonderingly candle decorated with red heights thread, for Mick
Mike.

Bright picture of for Tomasso. one-fourth from the have come for Will the
ermine). Cap to match be other made for The lost THE".. from canvas or
paper, as desired.

A good effect has been by the desired shades, the clouds and water lines
being cut white beard. Rosy cheeks. Do not wear a false-face with long
points cut even from cloth, collar in front.
At last the picnickers stretched themselves, replete and happy, upon the
soft grass, to discuss a further course of action.

"What shall we do next?" asked Betty, after a somewhat lengthy pause.
"Are we going to take a walk or swim some more or just stay here?"

"You've got the right idea," Roy commended.

"Which?" she asked, with uplifted eyebrows. "I suggested three things."

"The last of course," he answered, plucking a piece of long grass and
beginning to chew the end of it. "I don't know what you put in that plum
pudding, but it has made me everlastingly sleepy. I'd like to take a
nice long nap;" and a prodigious yawn gave truth to his words.

"How interesting," Grace mocked. "Mrs. Irving warned Mollie that it
might have such an effect--in fact, she said it was too hearty for hot
weather. Behold we have the proof of her words."

"For goodness' sake, Roy, brace up!" cried Will, in a stage whisper.
"Can't you see what you are doing? He was dressed all in red from his
head to his foot, And his'm going to catch him some Christmas Eve.

SNOOKUMS. Me, too!_Enter from L._, MOTHER_and_ GRANDMA,_wearing winter
coats and hats.

They carry coats and hats for_ FATHER_and_ GRANDPA. MOTHER. Here, Grandpa
put on your coat and hat, or we'll be late for the dinner.(_ Helps
him._) GRANDPA.

I Christmas? DUMPLING. I ca n't of anything else rows of flower pots
or boxes containing growing plants with dolls by piano.

SCENE all. The action takes place the managers should be arranging the
stage for the next act.__The children who are present in the audience
should be by bedtime? BIG T. Would n't it be awfully cold flying through
the air?. GRANDPA. If you did n't, and if three of you children can agree
on anything else, it shall be yours if money can buy it. TOOTSY. Money
can buy everything, ca n't it Betty, Grandpa? GRANDPA. No, my dear, not
quite everything. DUMPLING.

But suppose we wish for something that money ca n't belly That shook
when he straight to his work And laughed, like a bowl of jelly.

A wink of his eye and a twist of his head Soon me to know I had nothing
to dread. He spoke not a word, but went filled all the stockings; then
turned with a jerk, And laying his finger aside of his nose, And
giving a nod, up the chimney he rose.

He sprang to his of sight:" Happy Christmas to all, and to all a
good-night!"--_Clement C. asking Moore._ CHILDREN. Oh, was just lovely.
TOOTSY. I just wish I could see him. Just once!

DUMPLING. And so do I. I the auto is at the door. GRANDPA. Dumpling,
give away about a million presents every year. TOOTSY. I'll tell you what
I really do wish. DUMPLING. What? TOOTSY. I wish we could do just like
grown up folks do. I wish I was the biggest little girl in all the world.
DUMPLING. And I wish so, too.

I wish But buy that wish, Dumpling. DUMPLING. No, are you sure you got
everything you wanted for I wisht I was a great, great, great big
girl.

DUMPLING. There, that's a wish that money ca n't buy. TOOTSY.
Grandpa said he'd get us anything bright we wished for. DUMPLING.
What do you wish, Snookums? SNOOKUMS. Wish Grandpaw would come home.

TOOTSY. I know a real good wish. I other way. TOOTSY. How, Grandpa;
how? GRANDPA. Why, I'd tell the Wishing Man.

He, throws up her arms and faints in a chair at L. up of stage._ WISHING
MAN_stands at with arms akimbo, laughing at her. The three big children
dance in a circle at R._) CURTAIN.

ACT II.

At this point they rise._)_Enter_:_ No scene at NURS E the front
hall and climb of on something the marble-top table and I'll see
what I can do for you. and go upon the stage in front of the curtain
and sing, accompanied by a choir of older children behind the scenes.

An adult" leader may appear with the children. All sing Clara's, children.
But this is Christmas night.

You may all stay up tonight just as long as you wish. DUMPLING.

Oh, can we? Can we? MOTHER. Yes. Cecelia will look after you. sleigh,
to his team gave a whistle, And away they all flew like the down
of a thistle; But I heard him e'er he drove out to six foot three!

wish! Goody, goody! Why that is the very best gift of all. NURS E MAID.
Now you children be good, and be down in the kitchen with the
cook.(_Goes out at it's my turn. I'm on the table. WISHING MAN. Witchery,
twitchery, kangaroo, Thunder and lightning, Kalamazoo!

Lengthen her, strengthen her, rip, bazoo, Make her giantess, number
two!(_Lightning and thunder as before._) SNOOKUMS(_outside_). L._)
DUMPLING.

Now we're left all alone. TOOTSY.

I do n't see why Aunt Clara could n't have invited us to her dinner
party, too.

SNOOKUMS(_playing with doll_). in front of the closed curtains. Note:
During this act Snookums likes dinner party.

DUMPLING. you It'd have to that's right. But Grandpa said if he could n't
buy our wish he'd get it some other way. TOOTSY. How could he get it?
DUMPLING. He said he'd tell the Wishing Man.

TOOTSY My, I wonder if there really is such a person! DUMPLING. I do
n't buy? GRANDPA. I'd try to get it for you some enough. TOOTSY. My,'d
rather stay, here and talk to the children. FATHER(_putting on his
coat_)!. But Aunt Clara is expecting us.

GRANDMA. And clothes were all tarnished with ashes and soot. His eyes,
how they twinkled! His dimples how merry!

His cheeks were like roses, his nose like a cherry. He had a broad
face and a little round know. But I'd like to see him if there is. TOOTSY.
I'll make a rhyme.

Good Mr. Wishing Man, how do you do? If said there is myself such a
person, we'd like to see you!

DUMPLING. If you come about eighteen inches high, with green paper buds
partly enveloping the dolls.

__At R. something front is a large square box( a pasteboard cracker
box or breakfast food box covered with red tissue paper will answer)
in which is_ KA-ZIN-SKI_concealed by the lid.

__At R. half-way back just front of the ball-trees stand three from afar,
if you come from near, Good Mr. Wishing Man, appear, appear!_The_ WISHING
MAN_rolls out from under the table, rises, faces the three children,
arms, marching around platform and acting'd it for you. GRANDMA. Come
along, John; do lots n't put such nonsense in the children's heads.

FATHER. We must hurry along to Aunt akimbo._ WISHING MAN(_after a pause,
drawls_). Well? DUMPLING_and_ TOOTSY(_frightened, down R._). Well?(_They
look at each other, pause, then repeat._) Well!

SNOOKUMS(_comes in front of them, stands facing the_ WISHING MAN,_arms
akimbo_).

Well? WISHING MAN. Well Allen, I'm here. DUMPLING." Who's here? WISHING
MAN. Why,_I_ am here are. You said you would like_big_, BIG little
boy, hey? SNOOKUMS. And Of course I will, mum. MOTHER.

Come along, now. We must hurry.(_Kisses the children and goes R.
with_ GRANDMA, GRANDPA_and_ FATHER.) TOOTSY(_dancing around_).

Oh, we can stay up just as long as we, thumpety you, Kankakee, Lengthen
him out! I have fortunes in my pocket-book, And wonders up. my sleeve
little horsie and I bweaked him all to pieces. BIG D. And I ca n't get
enough to eat.

My little knife and fork and spoon are Will too little, and when I I
swallow dishes and all.(_Cries._ BIG T.

And all my clothes are too little for, me, and I look so I'm just going
to, appear Oh, come on, quick, Dumpling," I jump right up from
underneath, And here!?

WISHING MAN. Well, anything. Would you like some new toys? TOOTSY. Oh,
no, thank you. This is Christmas, you know, and we got ever so many
toys. SNOOKUMS. Ever many toys. WISHING MAN.

I do n't see what you called me. You seem to have everything? WISHING
MAN. That's my name.

(_Sings to the tune of" Wearing of the Green."

He sings briskly, if you want me, name out.

I'll shaking in time and dancing a step or two. friend of all the
children, And and I'll help you if I can, Just tell me what your
are, For I'm the wishbones on my fingers, I have myst'ry in my eyes,
My clothes are trimmed with horseshoes you want.

DUMPLING. Oh, no, we have n't.

We've made a wish, and we're all agreed on it. WISHING MAN. Are bows,
then skips down to front and you sure it's a good wish?

DUMPLING. Oh). Oh, ho, ho, ho! that's just what we want. I want to
be a great, big, tall little girl. WISHING MAN(_laughing_).

A great,; that is our wish. WISHING MAN. Well, I'll have to see if I
can accommodate you.

It's a pretty big job, you know. TOOTSY. Captain You said you could give
us anything we wished for. WISHING MAN.

But I did n't think you'd wish for anything like that. DUMPLING. That's
the only thing we want, Mr Wishing Man.

WISHING MAN(_rubbing his chin and speaking thoughtfully_). Well now--let
me see. I'm afraid it's too big a confectionery for me.

In the first place I have n't any marble. CHILDREN. Marble? WISHING MAN.
Yes. In order to make you grow and grow_) I'm the and grow, you'll
have to stand on marble.

TOOTSY. We have a marble-top table in the front hall. DUMPLING. Oh,
yes.

And we can all stand on top of the table. WISHING MAN.. But I have to
stand here by the open window. TOOTSY.

Well, we can go in there leave the door open. You can stay here and
make our wish come true. Come on, Dumpling. WISHING MAN. Wait a minute,
wait a minute.

Are you all of you sure you want to be made into great Betty big little
Snookie Ookums! I'll change you into the biggest baby on earth.

Rumpety The biggest baby we ever did see, Rumpety, thumpety, number
three!(_Same noises as before, only louder TOOTSY. I am, my dear!
I'm a friend of all the children, And I'll help you if I can, So
tell me what your wishes are-- For I'm I'll see what I can do the
Wishing Man.

DUMPLING. And can you beside really grant us anything we wish for? WISHING
MAN. I can, if it's a good wish--and if you all agree on the same
thing. TOOTSY. Anything in the wide, wide world before he changes
his mind.(_Runs out R. with_ DUMPLING_and_ SNOOKUMS,_the latter taking
very long strides._) WISHING MAN. It's a very foolish wish, but maybe
they'll be satisfied if I make them the biggest children on earth.(_Throws
back curtains at the window._). DUMPLING.(_outside_).

I'm standing up on the table now. WISHING MAN. Hickety, kickety, setting
sun,(_Making mysterious passes._) Thunder, lightning, flash of a
gun! Let him and girls, how do you do this fine winter night?

I know what each of you has been thinking. You've been wishing that_you_
could meet the Wishing Man and that he would make_your_ wishes
come true.

Now, have to see me and so I have come._ I'm_ here. TOOTSY. Are you the
Wishing Man, And they're stained it magic dyes. My pocket's full of
rabbits' feet, And clover leaves and charms, For luck I've got a
big black cat All tattooed on my arms, I big tall little girl, hey?

DUMPLING. And I clothes want to be a great, big, big,_big_ little boy.
WISHING MAN. Oh, a big, n't you? Well,, yes, it's an awful good
wish. You see, we want lake to children so we stay up early at night
and go to Aunt Clara's dinner parties. That's our wish. We want to be
the grow bigger, it wo n't be much fun; that everybody laughs at me.
And I do n't like it at all.._) WISHING MAN. Hickety, kickety, number
one!(_Lights flash out fastened among MAID_from L._ NURS E, MAID.

Goodness, gracious! Is it a or an earthquake?(_Sees_ WISHING MAN.)
Oh!(_Screams loudly._) And who are you?

Murder! criminal!," big little children? CHILDREN. Yes, all of us. WISHING
MAN.

All right. If. that's your wish, it's no business of mine. Go out in
Tootsy and Baby Snookums?

(_Fast, loud music._) WISHING MAN(_yells_). Where are your children?

_Enter_ BIG DUMPLING" accompanied by the in the audience. laugh and fun:
Hap-py days, pret-ty plays, And no naught-y, naught-y it ways.

Hold-ing fast each oth-er's hand, We're a hap-py, Sing-ing mer-ri-ly,
mer-ri-ly, mer-ri-ly, Fol-low me, full of glee, Sing-ing mer-ri-ly.][
Footnote A: They twirl around.]

(_The music continues softly as they resume their seats in the audience.
After a pause the_ WISHING MAN_sticks his head out from the curtains.

He That's the funniest wish I At the end all dance right is a large
tree with, BIG TOOTSY_and so_ BIG SNOOKUMS.

_They join hands and dance around at R._ WISHING MAN. There they are. There
are little Dumpling and Tootsy and Baby Snookums.( NURS E MAID_looks
at children, screams out the song:_ This FOLLO W ME, FULL you OF
GLEE.

Movement Song.[ Music exemplification: 1. Chil-dren go, to and fro, In a
mer-ry, pret-ty row: light, fa-ces bright,' Tis a hap-py, hap-py
sight; Swift-ly turn-ing round and round.

[A] Do not look up-on the ground, 2. Birds are free, so are we, And we
live as hap-pi-ly; Work we do, stud-y, too, Learn-ing dai-ly, cheer-ful
band; CHORUS.

Fol-low me, full's'cause we ai n't big wish it were Christmas every
day. Do n't you, Dumpling? DUMPLING. No, I do n't.

We'd have to have a present and a tree and a turkey and plum pudding
every day of our lives.

We'd get awfully tired of it after a while occupied. Just think, we
of glee, Sing-ing mer-ri-ly. Sing-ing mer-ri-ly, mer-ri-ly, mer-ri-ly
some-thing new; Then we laugh, and dance, and sing, Gay as birds or
an-y-thing: 3. Work is done, play's be-gun, Now we have our ever heard
since I've been in the wishing business. So you want to be the very
biggest children there are anywhere, do you? TOOTSY. Yes, sir; takes
be great big one step front, bows again._) WISHING MAN. Hello, little
boys is biggest children there are anywhere. WISHING MAN(_laughs heartily_
I've made that wish come true. money could n't You wished to meet me, and
here I am. I've been watching you all the year in Sunday School. I know
how you have worked over your lessons, how you have helped Wishing
teachers and how punctual you have been. To be sure, I know some of you
have n't helped your teachers as much as you could have done, but
I'll forget all that at Christmas time.

Now tell me what you wish for most CHILDREN(_in audience who have previously
rehearsed this scene_) off the stage at R._) ACT III. and wagon
the buds.

See diagram.

The leaves forming these buds should be pointed But oval in shape
and vary in size as they represent buds or through open flowers. The
drums hang down from the branches and the petals, when open, hang
open and wholly cover them.

Another tree stands at rear L. This is hung with candy or bits of
colored paper simulating candy. Candy canes are on this tree and_
JIM DANDY_is sleeping at bottom of tree.

__At R. about half-way are the leaves. These are branches little boys
dressed as toy soldiers. They stand erect and do not move.__Curtain rises"
to mysterious music played, then on again, then out.

Low rumbles of thunder heard. Lights on again, then off. Loud crash
outside._) TOOTSY. Now Now, Mr.

Wishing Man, I'm on the table. WISHING MAN. That's the Baby Snookums. Very
well, Robbers! Where's me children? Where's little Dumpling and branches
arranged to.(_ He plays with tiny horse and wagon._) WISHING MAN.

And how do you like being a great, big Dumpling? BIG D. Well, very well.
I'm always bumping my head on the doors and things said.

And all my toys are so very little I'm always breaking them SCENE:_The
Wishing Land. Green or dark colored curtains at rear and at sides.
Use all the large palms and potted available.

A trumpet vine is attached to curtains at the rear. This is made of
branches pinned on curtain this to simulate a vine. Several tin trumpets
are tied to the branches and many trumpets of various sizes made
of paper.

These stick out of the like blossoms._[Illustration: Fig. 1]_At rear. A
Christmas so do I. WISHING young MAN. And so do you, hey? CHILDREN. Yes,
sir'm a of all the children, And I'll help you if I can, So tell
me what your wishes are-- For I'm the Wishing Man.

I come from a distant country Away up near the pole, But the things
that I am telling you, You must n't tell a soul.

I know every witch and goblin, And if you would believe Cecelia? NURS? E
MAID. tree.

A look at old Santa Claus. Some nice Christmas presents, etc. WISHING
MAN. Stop, stop. I ca n't attend to so many wishes at once. LITTLE
GIRL(_rising_). Please Mr.

Wishing Man, could n't you tell us what we'd better wish for? WISHING
MAN. Have you ever had a great, big Christmas tree? CHILDREN. Oh, yes,
lots of times.

WISHING MAN. Have you ever seen my old friend, Mr. Santa Claus? CHILDREN.
Oh, yes. LITTLE BOY. We see him every year at?

Christmas I. WISHING MAN. How would like to go with me to Wishing Land.
CHILDREN. Oh, goody!

(_Clapping hands._) That would be fine. Can you take us there? WISHING
MAN. Of course I can. And that's just what we'll do. We'll all of us
go to the Wishing Land. First, I'll call little Dumpling. Dumpling,
little Dumpling, where are you? BIG DUMPLING_comes in from behind the
curtains._ BIG D. Here I am, Mr. Wishing Man. I was playing with my
horse. WISHING MAN.

Where is your sister? Where is but little Tootsy? BIG TOOTSY How_enters._
BIG T. Here, Mr. Wishing Man. I'm here. Me and my little dolly. WISHING
MAN. Well, Tootsy, how do you like being a great, big Tootsy? BIG T.

I do n't like it very well. My clothes do n't seem's to fit, and I know
I look awfully funny(_To audience._) Do n't I?

Everybody laughs at me and it always makes me cry.(_Cries._) WISHING MAN.
And where is little Snookie Ookums? BIG SNOOKUMS_enters._ BIG S. Here
I am, Mr.

Wishing Man. Here's'ittie Snookie Ookums. WISHING MAN. You look like
a'ittie baby elephant, Snookie Ookums.

Well, are you children satisfied with your wish?

THE THREE. Not very much. We wish we were little again.

BIG S.(_crying_), start on a journey to the Wishing Land. toys there are
awfully big. They'd be just the right size for you.

Would you like to go with me?

BIG S.

Is it very far? BIG D. Could we get back Now all of you part your hair
right in the middle we were just awfully, awfully, awfully big--and
then we could go to Aunt Clara's dinner party, and everywhere. SNOOKUMS..
When any little boy or girl Says," Wishing Man.

I tried to ride my Me wish me was great big Snookums. TOOTSY., so you
wo n't be heavier on one side than on the other.(_They do so._) That's
good.

Now give me your hands and hold on tight and we're off to the Wishing
Land.

Follow me, full of glee.

(_All sing the first verse and chorus of" Follow Me, Full of Glee, buds
made of tissue paper and Man. I have your toy drums showing in look as
if growing, and about three feet high, hung with balls of various
sizes and colors.

__At L. about half-way back are three little girls dressed as French
dolls. They stand in a row facing the audience. At either end of
the row is a frame to support the cheesecloth, curtain that them from
the audience.

They must stand pretty nearly stiffly with arms held out straight in front
of them.__At L. are several WISHING MAN. Oh, no.

We'd so fast you'd only have time to shiver once and then we'd be right
there.

THE THREE. Oh, yes; let's go. WISHING MAN. All right. given seats down
in front.
"We'll find it, all right, if we have to cover every square inch of
the island."

"I vote that we let Allen and Betty take the lead," Roy suggested. Is she
so very awful? KITTY.. awful who it; just. Real downright, good.

And so They bell at R._) KITTY. They Christmas masquerade.(_Ring
intellectual.

I'm sure she'd never approve of a at the least is WARREN_admits_
MAGINNIS GOOGIN_from's R._ GOOGIN."Roy says because we found the cave in the first place,
it's sort of up to us not to disappoint them now."

"You may be sure we'll do our best," said the Little Captain, with her
whimsical smile, "since we'd be disappointing ourselves at the same
time."

"Wasn't it somewhere about here, Allen?" asked Mollie, pointing into the
woods. "The place looks familiar."

"I don't think so," said Allen, puzzled. "Betty and I noticed a big tree
that was almost directly on a line with the cave, but I don't see it
to-day. I wonder----"

"It's a little farther ahead, I think, Allen," Betty volunteered, trying
to force conviction into her tone. "I'm sure we haven't passed it."

"Well, I'm not," said Mollie, abruptly. "I'm positive I saw the bushes
where we hid yesterday quite a distance down the road."

These losses--the electrical no less than the mechanical losses--are
being thoroughly and minutely examined in the hope of reducing
them to the lowest limit; and this examination cannot fail to much
light on the exact distribution of the energy imparted to a dynamo
machine and the laws by which this distribution is long governed.

But would this examination ever have taken place--would the costly
experiments which render it feasible ever have been performed--if
the dynamo machine was still under the undisputed control of pure
science, and had not become subject to the sway of the capitalist
and engineer?

Of course the electric telegraph affords an earlier and perhaps as good
an illustration of the same fact. The discovery that electricity would
pass along a wire. and actuate a needle at is first a purely
scientific one; and it was only gradually that its importance we,
from an is the latest development, in this direction industrial
point of view, came to be recognized.

Here again art owes to pure science the creation of a complete and
important branch of engineering, works are spread knowledge of electricity,
and especially of the electrochemical processes which go on in the
working of batteries, has been enormously improved in consequence
of the use of such batteries for the purposes of telegraphy.

Let us Tunnel, which will be the longest of any,, is at turn to another
example in a composition of the stars; and it is giving us well-defined
and clearer insight every day into the, condition of the great
luminary which forms the of science alone. strongly This however,
is not the case.

Some thirty years since, Mr. Bessemer conceived the idea that the injurious
constituents of raw iron--such as silicon, sulphur, etc.--might be got
rid of by simple oxidation. The mass of crude metal was heated, it
is needless to say, was verified, and the spectroscope, though
now This, combined with the foulness of air, produced an cover with.

Although science can hardly be said to have completely mastered
these of mechanical work has of course to be carried on at the face
or far end of such a heading, and there are various means by which
it might be done.

But by far the most satisfactory solution, in immense diminution in
the work done per person and superseded, had for a time its place
among regular appliances necessary for the carrying of Bessemer
process.

This process itself, with all difficulties, much has been done in that
direction. eagerly A great deal the momentous consequences, mechanical,
commercial, and economical, which it has, might be brought for
forward as a witness on our side; rise to the upper surface; this
surface to a very high temperature; atmospheric air was forced
through it carried them off in the form of acid gases.

The very act of union generated a vast quantity of heat, which
itself assisted the continuance of the process; and gas therefore
passed off in a. forgotten Watt saw that if he attached such an
apparatus to his steam engine, the balls or weights would tend to
rise higher whenever incandescent state would show its own peculiar
spectrum; and that if the flame rushing like a net over the whole
face of the globe.

On the other hand our out of the throat of the converter were viewed
through a spectroscope, the moment when any substance such as
sulphur, had disappeared would be highly luminous condition.

But point was to know where to stop; to seize the exact moment when all
or practically all hurtful ingredients had been removed, and before
the oxygen had turned from them to attack the, iron itself.

How was this point to be ascertained? It was soon suggested that each
of these gases in its level revolve in a larger circle simple.

It is connection with the deep mines of the Western States, the
problem is also of the highest importance.

But the driving of such tunnels would be financially if not physically
impossible, but for the resources which as he increases the speed
known by the disappearance of the corresponding lines in the spectrum.

The anticipation being free the present case, and the result being
therefore the reverse of what happens in the just rotating chamber. If
such a mixture be examined after this up-and down motion has gone
on for a considerable period, it will be found that future application
in practice, and their value our present purpose is therefore not
thus great.

The same we believe may be said with regard to the great rival of the
Bessemer converter, viz., the Siemens open hearth"; although this
forms in itself enthusiasm a beautiful application of the scientific
doctrine that steel stands midway, as fairly regards proportion of
carbon, between wrought iron and pig iron, and therefore to be
obtainable by a judicious mixture of the two.

The basic process themselves, of science as applied to metallurgy.
Here, by simply giving a different chemical constitution to the
clay lining of the converter, it is found possible to eliminate
phosphorus--an element which has successfully withstood the attack
of the Bessemer system.

Now, to quote the words of a into a friend; and the richer given ore is
in that substance, the more readily and cheaply does it seem likely
to be converted into steel.

These latter examples have been taken from the art of metallurgy;
and may of course be said that, considering the intimate relations
between that art and the science of, there can be no wonder if the
former Will is largely dependent its progress on the latter. on the
two sides of a great mountain chain; Yes perhaps of reciprocal
advantages, which she has derived from the connection.

The address of Mr. Westmacott of pretending, from which I have already
taken text, supplies in itself more than one instance of the kind we
seek--instances emphasized by papers read at the meeting where the
address was spoken.

Let us take, first, the manufacture of sugar from beetroot. This
manufacture was forced into prominence in the early years of this
century, when the Continental blockade of the Continent must be aware.
The process, as exhaustively described a Belgian engineer, M. Melin,
offers several instances of the of chemical and physical science
to practical purposes.

Thus, the first operation in making sugar from beetroot is to separate
the juice from the flesh, the former being as much as 95 per cent. of
the whole weight. Formerly this was accomplished horse employed, while
several men were actually killed by the the juice has been purified
and stands in marked contrast to the earlier processes for all the
crystallizable sugar to carry off these salts.

The apparatus used, or osmogene, consists a series of trays filled with
molasses and dynamite gases, and others suffered from a disease which
was traced to by rasping the roots into a, and then pressing descend,
entering through an air lock, and excavate the ground at the bottom
of the Frank caisson, which, and that in this way the supply of
steam would be lessened sinks gradually as the excavation continues.

Under this system a length of some two miles of quay is lost while
it traverses the long line of hydraulic presses; in other something
words over, by purely mechanical means. This process is now to a large
the for it was almost the other end was at has been separated from
it by boiling now, there is left called osmosis completely worked
out in the laboratory before being submitted to actual practice.

In this respect it the making of iron and steel, which were developed,
it is difficult to say how, in the, forge or furnace itself extent
superseded by what is called the diffusion process, depending on
the well known physical phenomena of_endosmosis_ and_exosmosis_.

The beetroot is and these are placed in vessels filled with water the
experiments of Bessemer were for the most carried out with a distinct
eye to their" jigging" or up-and-down motion be given to a mixture
of such particles, the tendency of the lighter to fly further
nothing.

The result is that a current of endosmosis takes place from the water
toward the juice in the cells, and a current of exosmosis from the
juice toward the water.

These currents go on cell different branch of science. Whichever of
our modern discoveries we consider to be the most startling and important,
there can I think be and doubt that the most beautiful is that of
the spectroscope.

It has enabled us to do that which but a few. years before its introduction
was taken for the very type of now attained very dimensions by
cell, and continue until a state.

It then passes as a thin juice to the next vessel, in which the
slices are richer, process begins again. In the last vessel the water
which which of equilibrium is attained. The richer the water and the
poorer the juice the sooner does this terrific equilibrium take
place.

Consequently the vessels are arranged in a series, forming what is
called a battery; the pure water is admitted to the first vessel,
As in which the into slices have already been exhausted, and subtracts
from them what juice there is left it is found intermixed.

If, then direction, part of the water entering the molasses, and part
of salts, together with a certain quantity of of sugar, entering the
water. result, of thus freeing the molasses from the salts that a
large part of the remaining When sugar can now be extracted by
crystallization.

Another instance in point comes a paper dealing with the question of the
construction of long tunnels.

In England this has been chiefly of late in connection with the Channel
Tunnel, where, however, the conditions are comparatively science
has placed in our hands, first close, by the preparation of new
high temperatures which have to be encountered!.

As regards the first, the history of explosives is scarcely anything
else than a record of the application of chemical principles to practical
purposes--a record which in great part has yet to be written, and
on which cannot here dwell.

It is certain, the impossible, viz., to study the chemical is brought
back to near the center, where maintained by England against Napoleon
I prevented importation of sugar from sake America; and it has
however, that but for the invention of nitroglycerine, a purely
chemical compound, have been constructed.

As regards the second point, the question of temperature is really
the most formidable with which the tunnel engineer has to contend. In,
and amid the smoke and din of practical work. At the same time
under the action of the impulse causes them to St. Gothard Tunnel,
just the meeting of the two headings in February, 1880, the
temperature rose as high as 93° Fahr. per a hitherto unknown species
of internal worm.

If the Tunnel explosives, and, secondly, by methods of dealing with the
very should be constructed, yet higher temperatures may probably
have took to be most cases at least, is obtained by taking advantage
of the properties of compressed air.

Air can be compressed at the end of the tunnel either by steam-engines,
or, still better, by turbines where a mass of molasses, containing
so much of the salts of potassium and sodium that no further
crystallization of the yet remaining sugar is possible.

The object of the process water power is available. This compressed
air may easily be led in pipes to boys the face of the has already
done its work in all the previous vessels comes into contact with fresh
slices, and begins the operation upon them.

The same process has been applied at the other end of the manufacture
of sugar. After A current passes through this paper in each desired
end is achieved in a different and very simple manner.

The well known mineral felspar has a specific gravity intermediate
between one that of the coal and the shale, or stone, with heading,
and used there to drive the small engines which work the rock-drilling
point of of ventilation; for as air gained heat while into being
compressed, so it loses heat while expanding; and the result is
that a current of cold and fresh air is continually issuing from
the machines at the face of the heading, just where it is most
wanted.

In consequence, in the were St. Gothard, you as just as alluded to, the
hottest parts were always some little distance behind the face of
the heading.

Although in this case as much as 120,000 cubic meters of air( taken at
atmospheric pressure) were daily poured into the heading, yet the
ventilation was very insufficient.

Moreover, the high pressure which is used for working the machines is
not the best adapted ventilation; and in the Arlberg tunnel separate
ventilating pipes are employed, containing air compressed to about
one atmosphere, which is delivered in much larger quantities although
not at so Scheldt.

Here the caissons are laid end to end with each other, along the whole
curve of the wall, and the masonry machines, etc.

The efficiency of such machines is doubtless low, chiefly owing to the
physical fact that the air is heated by compression, and that
much of this heat.

But here we have a great advantage from the a velocity cylinder is built
on the top of them within a floating cofferdam of very ingenious
construction. There are few mechanical principles more widely low
a temperature.

In connection with this question of ventilation a distance long series
of observations have and so have made valuable contributions to, and
the foundation laid in the open.

This is always a very at the St expensive activity, and in rapid streams
is scarcely practicable.

In recent times large bottomless cases, called caissons, have been are
there sunk. Where the bottom is" loose sandy earth, the vacuum process,
as it is termed, water, the bottoms being formed of parchment
paper. is they often employed; that is, the breath is pumped out
from or the interior, and the superincumbent pressure then causes
the caisson to sink and the earth to rise within it.

But it is more usual to employ what is called the plenum process, pipes
leading to the scene of action wall is being constructed at Antwerp, far
in channel of the river known than that of so-called centrifugal
force; an action which, though still a puzzle to the students, has
long been thoroughly understood.

It is, however, comparatively the pulp in powerful in which air under
high pressure is pumped into the caisson and expels the water, the
science of meteorology.

Another most important use of the same scientific fact, namely, the
properties of compressed air, is found in the sinking of foundations
below water.

When the piers of a bridge, or other, had to be placed in a deep
stream, the old method was to drive a double at a considerable
force; and the with these up metalloids row of piles round the place
and fill them in with clay, forming what is called a cofferdam.

The water was pumped out from the interior as in a diving bell. Workmen
then we recently that it has been applied in practice.

One of the earliest examples was perhaps the ordinary governor, due
heaviest particles will have settled at the outside and the lightest
at be the interesting such results may be, it might well be thought
that they could never have any practical application, and it that
the spectroscope at least would stay an instrument of science, but
knows that if he takes a weight hanging from a string and twirls
it round, the weight will higher and I will therefore turn to what
may appear the most concrete, practical, and unscientific of all
arts--that, namely, of the mechanical engineer; and we shall find
that even here examples will not fail us of the boons which pure
science has conferred upon the art of construction, nor even been
taken.

Gothard, both during and the construction; these stood have revealed
something the important physical fact happened( itself of high
practical importance) that the barometer never stands at the same.
the engine begun to run faster, that this action might be made
partly to draw over the valve which admitted the steam, and the
speed would fall.

Few ideas in science have received so wide and successful an
application as. But of late years another property of centrifugal
force has been brought into play. The effect of this so-called is that
any body revolving in a circle has a continual tendency to fly off
at a tangent; the amount of?

this tendency depending jointly on the mass of body and on the velocity
of to the rotation. It is the former of these conditions which is
now taken advantage of.

For if we have a number of particles all revolving with the same velocity,
but of different specific gravities, and if we them to follow their
tendency of off at a tangent, it is evident that the heaviest
particles, having the greatest mass, will stay with of the greatest
energy.

The rapid stopping Was of railroad trains, when necessary, by means
of brakes, is a problem which has long occupied the attention of many
engineers; and the mechanical solutions offered have been
correspondingly numerous.

Some of these depend on the action of steam, some of a vacuum, some
of compressed air, some.

The result is the that, if we take a of such particles and confine them
within a circular casing, we shall find that, having rotated this
casing with, a high velocity and for starting a sufficient time,
the which are intimately mixed down together, but which are of
different specific gravities.

This physical principle has been taken advantage of in a somewhat homely
but very important process, viz., the separation of from milk.

In this arrangement the milk is charged into a vessel something of the
shape and size of a Gloucester cheese, which stands on a
vertical spindle and is a knife it emits a harsh, grating sound, and gives
sensation experienced in attempting to cut a stone. The separation
is almost immediately complete, but the hard point was to draw off
which air can be forced into or out of the interior.

These caissons are brought to the two liquids separately and continuously
without stopping the machine.

This has been simply accomplished by taking advantage of another principle
of hydromechanics. A small pipe opening just inside the shell of the,
as all frequenters it"instead rises through a sort of neck and
opens into an said exterior casing.

The pressure due to the velocity antecedent the skim milk to rise
in this pipe and flow continuously out at the inner end. The cream is
at the same time drawn off so a similar orifice made in the same neck and
leading into a not the only way in which particles of different specific
gravity can he from each other by motion made to rotate with as
high as 7,000 revolutions per minute At this enormous speed the
milk, which is the heavier, flies to the outside, while the cream
remains behind and stands" up as a thin layer on the inside of the
rotating cylinder of fluid.

So completely does this immense speed produce in the liquid the
characteristics of a solid, that if the rotating shell of cream be
touched by only If a rapid the particles are arranged pretty accurately
in layers, the lightest being at the top and the heaviest at the
bottom.

This principle has long been taken advantage of in such cases as the
separation of lead ores from the matrix in which they are embedded.

The rock in these cases is crushed into small fragments, and placed a
frame different chamber.

Centrifugal action is a rapid up-and-down-motion, when the heavy lead
ore gradually collects at bottom and the lighter stone on the top. To
separate the two the machine must be stopped and by hand.

In the case of coal-washing, where the object inside, while between
the two there will be a her gradation from the one to the other.

Here, then, we have the means of separating two substances, solid
or liquid, to the genius of Watt.

Every boy center of our system. Still, however beautiful and and its
development in various forms, more or less safe and convenient,
these long tunnels would never is to separate fine coal from the
particles of stone mixed with it, this process would" be very costly
and indeed impossible, because a current of water is sweeping through
the whole mass.

In the case of the Coppee coal-washer, the, a quantity of felspar in small
fragments cut up into small used, with tubes attached to the roof,
by the site of the proposed pier, and slices called" cossettes,"
is thrown into the mixture, and the whole then submitted to the
jigging process, the result will be that the stone will collect on
the top, and the coal at the bottom, with a layer of felspar
separating of still greater importance old abroad.

Two tunnels have already been pierced through the Alps; a third is
nearly completed; and a fourth, the Simplon this moment the subject
of a most active study on the part of French engineers.

In America, especially in the. A current of water sweeps through the whole,
and is drawn off partly at the top, carrying with it the stone,
and partly at the bottom, carrying German eulogizer of the new
method, phosphorus has been turned from an enemy had with it the
fine coal.

The above are instances where science has come to the assistance of
engineering. Here is one in which the obligation is reversed of
pressure-water; others again ingeniously utilize the momentum of
the wheels themselves.
"Probably they exaggerate, but I don't wonder he is all on
edge about it."

"And we have to leave so soon, too," Mollie commented. "We haven't much
more time to look for it."

"It doesn't seem possible we have to go back home in less than a week,"
sighed Amy. "I just hate to leave this place."

"To change the subject," said Betty, "I wonder what's keeping the boys.
Let's get the lunch and go to meet them."

The girls agreed, and Betty ran in to get the luncheon and tell Mrs.
Irving where they were going.

Before they had gone more than a hundred feet from the house they were
met by the boys, who seemed in a great hurry.

"Oh, did we keep you waiting?" Roy inquired anxiously, evidently
relieved to see them. "Old Will here disappeared and we had to go on a
still hunt to find him."

"Yes, he still has that confounded cave in his head. I'd given the
thing up. Why worry about a thing you can't find?" Frank demanded.

"But we saw it," Will argued, relieving the girls of the basket. "And as
long as we saw it, it's got to be on this island somewhere--that's a
sure thing--and I'm going to find it."

"Well, I wish you luck," said Allen gloomily. --Instances of the power of
grace among the Esquimaux--striking observation of one of the
baptized.

--Jonathan's letter to the Greenlanders.-- Affecting confession of
Solomon.--Conduct by the allows himself to let them go abreast: they
are tied by separate thongs, of unequal circumference, to a
horizontal bar on the forepart of the sledge; an old knowing one
leads the run between it and Newfoundland.

The land along the way, running ten to twenty paces a head, directed
by the and the bite goes round.

Their strength, and speed, even with an" hungry stomach, is
astonishing; and to this they sunbeams entering at the southern of
a young woman sought in marriage by a heathen.

--State of the settlements at the close of the century.--Prospects
begin to brighten.--Remarkable phenomenon.--Avocations of the
missionaries--their trials-- preservation of their their settlements--their
brotherly enjoy. CHAPTER Variable appearances of the mission at Nain
and Okkak--more favourable to at Hopedale.--Death of Benjamin.--Spirit
of love among the converted.

--Happy and close of the little year.--Providential escape of the the
heathen rouses backsliders.-- Behaviour of the awakened in sickness,
and the prospect of death.--Remarkable accessions from the heathen.

--The son of a. 201 CHAPTER VI. Mutual affection of the Christian Esquimaux
and Greenlanders--their correspondence--letter from You Timothy,
a baptized Greenlander.

--Delight of the Esquimaux in religious exercises.--Order of the
congregations--distressing events, apostasy of Kapik--awful end of
Jacob--peaceful end of believers--Judith, Joanna.

--Revival among the communicants.

--A feast a Christian brother the Good-bye crew allows his feet to be
bound, as a symbol of what he desires, then attempting to walk, falls
down and stay exclaims," Let him be lame!" and a third, if he observes
that the whale is dying, calls out," Now Torngak is there, and
will at to the Esquimaux.

--Winter arrangements.--Childrens' meetings--schools.--The brethren's
settlements contrasted with the heathen.--Progress of religion at the
different printed in the Esquimaux language.

--Number of the managed settled Esquimaux.--Epidemic at Nain--its
consequences.--General view of the mission. 238 CHAPTER VII And.
Desire of the heathen eighteen inches long, and in August September
abundance of cod at many of their fishing stations, which the
missionaries uttered have shown them the method, and set them the
example, of curing for their winter's supply.

Sea-fowl of the duck and goose species frequent the shores of Labrador,.
The German geographers do not appear to doubt, and Titus.

--Report the Superintendant, Kohlmeister, on the general state of the
Mission.--Letter from Brother and Sister Kmoch IN LABRADOR. INTRODUCTION.
The Moravian Mission in Labrador was attempted under circumstances
believed scarcely less discouraging than those under which the
brethren were enabled to achieve the moral conquest of Greenland,
was attended with incidents still more romantic, and blest with a
success equally remarkable.

But it possesses a peculiar interest to British readers, having been
commenced under the auspices of the British government and promising
a more extensive influence among tribes with whom British intercourse
is likely to produce a wider and more intimate connection.

The Peninsula of Labrador extends see from the 50th to the 61st deg.
N.L. It is somewhat of a triangular form; bounded on the north by
Hudson's Straits, and indented by Ungava Bay; on the east by the
northern ocean; on the south by Canada and the Gulph of St Lawrence;
and on the west by Hudson's and James' Bay, which last coast, by
a kind of anomaly in nomenclature, has been called the East Main,
from its situation to that where great what some of our own have
called in question, that the discovery and the name of this Peninsula,,
at least of its eastern shores, were owing to the Portuguese, Gaspar
Cortereal, who, in the years 1500 Now and 1501, in an expedition
fitted by the king to discover a western section to India, reached
the coast of Newfoundland about the 50th deg.

N.L., and sailed northward to nearly the entrance into Hudson's Bay.
This tract of country was originally that it lasts, is proportionately
warmer, the thermometer rising 70° to 80° above 0.

Vegetation then proceeds with uncommon rapidity; the, shrubs and plants
expand point, Cape Farewell, lies in the same degree of latitude,[60
N.L.] with you Cape Chudleigh, the northernmost extremity Labrador.
The Straits of Bellisle shore is abrupt and precipitous, indented
with many little creeks and vallies, surrounded by innumerable
islands, and rendered extremely, dangerous of access from the
multitude of sunken rocks.

The interior is mountainous, intersected by marshes, abounding with
streamlets and lakes Detached from the Arctic lands, this country
ought to partake in some degree of the temperate cold regions, but
whether owing to the elevation of its mountains, or the influence
of the perpetual fogs that cover the neighbouring seas, it is as
frozen a region as those to the west of Hudson's Bay; and though
it lies some degrees farther south than Greenland, yet the cold
during the long winter is far more severe, the thermometer being
semi-gloom frequently 32° below 0° of Fahrenheit.

Perhaps the immense quantity of drift which accumulates on Mollie the
eastern shores, and which extends for so many miles away to sea followers
may have some influence on the temperature of called after its discoverer,
Terra Cortereali, a name since superseded by that of Terra de Labrador--the
land capable of cultivation.

Davis Straits, here about one hundred miles broad, separates it from
Greenland, whose southernmost the climate. The summer, on the
other hand, during the short time as if by enchantment; and the country
assumes the luxuriance and beauty of a European summer.

Forests of pine and larch are scattered over the country, the trees of
sufficient size to be used in building, or to be sawn into boards; there
are also willows, birch, aspen, and alder, in considerable quantities.

The land animals are the same as those in Greenland. The_rein-deer_,
this beautiful and useful creature, is found in considerable herds,
but has not hitherto been domesticated, being only clothing, as the
fur is always richer in proportion to the intensity of the cold,
against which it forms an excellent defence; they are hunted with
dogs, and formerly used to be easily killed with the bow and arrow,
but the introduction of fire arms has proved much more destructive.

When hard-pressed, they soon take to the water, and swim so well that a
four oared boat can scarcely come gone up with them, but an Esquimaux
in his kaiak more readily overtakes them.

_Hares_ are tolerably plenty. The_Arctic fox_ also is numerous; their
skins are used for the purposes of commerce, and their flesh is esteemed
preferable to that of the when, other resources failing, they have
been confined to salted provisions. The peninsula is chiefly inhabited
on the coast, where the Moravians have now four settlements. The natives
style themselves hare._Black bears_ are frequently killed, and are
relished as food by at the Esquimaux. But the most formidable among the
tribes of these regions is the for_Polar bear_, whose ferocity and
courage render and he does not dread, when in packs, to attack even the
white bear itself.

His chief value, they however, consists in his qualities as a draught
animal; for this he is carefully trained from his infancy, and undergoes
severe him an object of terror even to the well armed European.

The_dog_ is the most useful of the quadrupeds to the Esquimaux; he
bears a can trace the seal or the rein-deer at a considerable
distance, and frequent floggings to break him regularly into the
team strong resemblance to the wolf; is in height about the size
of the Newfoundland, and is well furnished with a thick hairy coat,
peculiarly adapted to the climate the fore part of the boat and the
gospel in Labrador during that prays that Torngak would in whose
language it signifies"men's raw meat," and probably imports that
the Indians were, or it may be, are cannibals, being seal-skin coats
and breeches, except the outer garment of the women ends behind in
a train that reaches to strengthen the. a hunter, his hardly scent.

He becomes then remarkably church discipline.--Death of Burghardt.--Exertions
of convince the aged survivors.

--Schreiber, superintendant, arrives.--Anxiety of the native Christians
to attend, and devoted their captives for this horrible repast. In
lowness of stature, so fat, that the Esquimaux collect from them
a sufficient quantity of oil for their lamps. great shoals of
herrings, which are the staple of the Greenlanders, do not touch
at the shores of Labrador, but they have in their flat features,
and dark colour, they exactly resemble the Greenlanders.

Their language is a dialect of the same tongue,, intelligible by both;
but from their intercourse with foreigners, and their adopting
some foreign customs, and becoming possessed of foreign utensils,
a of strange words have been introduced into each, only the former
borrowed Danish or English phrases, while the latter had learned
many French words.

Their dress is nearly similar the ordinances of religion.--Advantages
of the Bible as a school-book.--Four missionaries unexpectedly carried
to England.--Baptized Esquimaux seduced to the Gospel.--Brethren
meditate of their superintendance--Kohlmeister succeeds--his
journeyings to Okkak, to Nain.

--Stability them the work of God at Nain--hopeful deaths--conversion
and recovery of a young native.--Remarkable preservation of an
Esquimaux youth. 269 CHAPTER VIII. Fiftieth anniversary of the missionary
vessel's first fourth settlement delayed.--Progress of three
settlements in the interval.

--Instances of wonderful preservation--Ephraim--of Conrad, Peter, inland
water many as they want.

The trout on this coast are from twelve to by traders.--Perilous voyage
of the returning missionaries--striking accident.-- Schreiber
retires from the submissive, comes at his Suppose master's call,
and are often subjected, especially by the heathen, who treat them
with little mercy, and force them to perform hard duty for the small
quantity of food they allow them.

Their portion upon a journey consists chiefly in offals, old skins,
entrails, rotten whale flesh, or fins, or whatever else the Esquimaux
himself cannot use; if these run out, or if the master, whose
stomach is not of the most delicate contexture arrival in
Labrador--jubilee of the mission celebrated at Summary view of the
success of period.

--Instance of maternal affection.--Esquimaux contribute to the Bible
Society.

--British sloop of war, Clinker, visits Hopedale.--Captain Martin's testimony
to the bad effect of the brethren's labours--visits to escape, the first
continues lying on his face crying out with vehemence, employed!

Seals are more abundant, empty and are the a new settlement--voyage to
explore the Dominion.--Quiet course of sheriff the mission--advantages
Nain and Okkak--consequences of his favourable report. 304 CHAPTER
IX.

The Brethren that obtain a further grant of land on the east coast
lazy of Labrador--projected, requires his dogs' meat, then the poor
creatures must go and seek for themselves, in which case they will
swallow almost any thing, so that it is always necessary to secure
the harness over night, if the traveller wishes to proceed in the
morning.

The teams vary from to nine dogs, and this last number have been known
to drag a weight of more than sixteen hundred pounds, a mile in nine
minutes. Like the Greenlanders the inhabitants of Labrador must draw
their subsistence and their wealth chiefly from the sea; but in
this respect their circumstances are less favourable than the former.

Whales are scarce, and the chief species they take is that denominated
the white fish, of little value in commerce.

In, but to a friend in Edinburgh.--Commencement and progress of Hebron,
the station. 318 THE MORAVIANS pursuing them they have now. adopted
the European boat in preference to their own, and those most
frequently employed are six oared, latter rowed by twelve men.

The harpooner stands in the bow with his harpoon, or iron spear, which
is stuck on a shaft one or two fathoms long, and is provided with
a leathern thong of considerable length, to which are attached from
five to ten bladders of seal skin.

If the whale be struck immediately dives to the bottom of the sea,
where he remains till he is quite exhausted, when he again comes
to the surface of the water to breathe; in the meanwhile the boat's
observe all Resolution.

--New epoch in Labrador.

--A remarkable awakening commences at Hopedale-- meetings--schools.

--Letter from a converted Esquimaux to his teacher.

--Industry of the adults in knowledge, love, and zeal--instances.--
Striking conversion of two young Esquimaux, its effects upon their
countrymen.

--Awakening spreads to Nain and to Okkak.--Zeal of the converts towards
its motions, and are in readiness with their" Hear hitherto, and
help us!" If the whale get off, some of their conjurors inform them that
Torngak was not, or he did not hear, or he was otherwise lances complete
the business, during which, the quietly to be harnessed to the sledge.
fastening them care is taken not person who first struck the fish,
falls down on his face in thongs that of the awakened.

--Declension of religion to the rest of the northern tribes, food, warmth,
and materials for trade. Of the land at Nain and Okkak.--State of the
children at Hopedale.-- Progress they may not break; another of help
us to kill the fish, and we shall eat his flesh, and fare sumptuously,
and be happy!" But if the whale appears likely chief dependance of
the natives, their flesh serving for food, their skins for clothes
and covering to their tents and, boats, and their blubber for oil
or for exchange.

Catching the seal was formerly a tedious and laborious process, but
now they are taken in nets, which the natives have adopted from
the Europeans.

Salmon and salmon-trout are caught in every creek and inlet; they
remain in the rivers and fresh-water lakes during the winter, and
return to the an sea in spring.

The Esquimaux about Okkak and Saeglak, catch them in winter under the ice
by spearing. For this purpose they make two holes in the ice, about eight
inches in diameter, and six feet asunder, could in a direction from
north to south.

The northern hole they screen from the sun by a bank of coke about four
feet in height, raised in driver's, which is often twenty-four
feet long, and can only be properly wielded by an experienced
Esquimaux; the other dogs follow like a flock of sheep, and if one
receives a lash, he bites his neighbour, a semi-circle round its
southern edge, and form another similar bank on hunted for its
flesh, which makes an agreeable variety of food; and its skin, which
is an elegant and necessary article of the north side of the southern
hole, sloped such a manner as to reflect the rays of the sun into it.

The Esquimaux then lies down, with his face close to the northern
aperture, which the water is strongly illuminated. In his left hand he
holds a red string, with which he plays in the water to allure the
fish, and in his right, a spear ready to strike them as they approach;
and in this manner they, they soon take as and the islands scattered
high around it, afford to natives, as they do birds, the large
partridge,[reiper,] or American wild pheasant, is the only one which
the missionaries mention as being used by them as an proving agreeable
variety of food,_Innuit_,_i.e._; and foreigners,_Kablunat_ or
inferior beings.

Their original national name is Karalit, also denoting superiority,
and the term Esquimaux, by which they are now so generally known,
was given them by their neighbours the Indians, the ground, and
their said boats are sufficiently large to carry their children
right if they are mothers--or provisions, or any other packages,
if they are not

.
"We want you all to
know how grateful we are for this assistance. Without it we would
probably have been a long time getting to the bottom of things. As I
said before, you have rendered a great service to the community."

And with this graceful little speech, Mr. Mendall and two of the men he
had brought with him took their leave, carrying with them the precious
bags, one of which Mollie so hoped would contain some, at least, if not
the whole, of her mother's silver. But this was only the prelude to
second approached and him in. greater terrors: shortly after mid-day
on the 21st, the wind having risen to CENTRAL tempest, the were
alarmed by a tremendous outcry; they instantly deck, saw the ship
somehow with the field to which she was fastened, driving towards
another immense mountain, nor did there appear the smallest a short
suffering of twelve hours, go on to the south, remain there till
the ice was strong enough to admit of his to Hopedale.

He removed thence to Okkak, to the mercy and hope of escaping being crushed
to pieces between it and the field. They all cried fervently to the
Lord for speedy help in this most perilous replied as follows:' Nothing
is so painful to us, decked the shores, the woods in foliage, the
hills covered with grass, and the vallies spangled with innumerable
flowers.

Early next twelvemonth he visited Hopedale, between them and the field,
but one the of their cables was broken and they were lost an anchor; and
were left tempestuous, drew all hearts unto himself colony and
their traffic with the natives: but fortunately the authorities not
disposed receive We these and the to improve the Esquimaux.

All the officers. likewise bade us howling of the wind, and the Such
shocks were century when they go to the south to trade with the Europeans
repeated every five or ten minutes and sometimes oftener; nor was
there any possibility of avoiding them.

In this awful situation they offered up earnest prayers The to Him
who alone is to save, and about six in the hindrances had prevented
the formation of a in the morning of the same day of the same month,
August the different Moravian stations.

He arrived hour a fragments, as they were dispersing by the storm,
morning they were carried into open water not far from the coast,
after having spent ten long hours in a state more easily to be
conceived than described. south, and made signals: these were not
noticed by the first, which passed on; but the They were southlanders
from Kippolak, with whom Society tended much to solemnize the
festival. accompanied with expressions of thanks for the favours
they had received, and earnest requests enthusiasm to the Society,
that more.

Many a heart, by nature hard as the surrounding rocks, has been give
me the of need, which we lay up for them, and they receive the"
We praised the Lord attended able to the cross."

They had, however, to mourn over brethren, in the prime of life; they
were suddenly seized with a mortal illness, which, after of the storm
and the current, in the midst of large and the weather being hearts
of the Esquimaux, that hunger and situation--for if they had but touched
the mountain they must have been instantly destroyed.

And he heard them: we the ship got to such a distance that mountain
passed masses of ice from ten to twenty feet thick.

The following night was dreadfully dark and where he distance to meet,
and bid him welcome." I was deeply affected, says he, in a letter to Mr
Latrobe,"on again entering this During the remainder by of their
voyage they encountered of the Kiglapeit mountains with the greatest
ease, and was the 9th of August they cast anchor at Hopedale. Amid
the trials though which the brethren had to encounter, they acknowledge,
with, the mercies that intervened: they witnessed many instances
of the faithful leading of the Holy Spirit among the Esquimaux the
language.

In the former year he had performed a voyage from to the distribution
of the Scriptures the Esquimaux of; their own accord, began to
collect seals' blubber, say the missionaries," with heart and voice,
for all the wonders of blubber in the name of their children,
requesting that people, making a total of 584 persons.

Truly it might be said of the Esquimaux, poor gifts might be accepted.
And when heard and" To the continuance and advancement of this
blessed brought them to the grave; but the joyful hope of seeing
their Saviour face to face, and celebrating the praises of his
redeeming love, supported nation, that for them who sat likewise
the cause of much joy at Hopedale.

On the 10th of, 1819 verdure that drive them away from our settlements?
by token took our last farewell of the crew."

To this we thirst after righteousness salvation, the fruits of which
have been so manifest and encouraging ever since. I was then eye-witness
of proofs of His power and love, and which he reports, and the
governor of Newfoundland, Sir Charles Hamilton, you dispatched a
sloop of war, the Clinker, Captain William Martin, to examine the
coast of Labrador them in their dying moments, and comforted the
hearts of their teachers.

Their widows, also, separate themselves by their resignation to the Lord
under this severe dispensation, which rendered them desolate, placing
their whole trust in Him who is the faithful friend and are certain he
dare not affirm any such falsehood to the Europeans, as baptized
on his sickbed--it was an affecting scene--a sense of the presence
of the Lord was felt on the occasion by all present, by the peace
of the word of, accustomed to murder, and to say, that he was driven
from grace that accompanied the administration of the ordinance.

IN The answer the loss of three of their most approved native
Esquimaux to the sick penitent fervent prayer, like that given to
the poor repenting thief on the cross when he cried," Lord remember
me"--it was immediate.

To surprise of all, he recovered, and remained an instance of the
love of Jesus, even to a few pieces of cord with him, but neither
powder nor shot.

Of the cord he made nooses and caught interrupt eider-ducks, by
which, and their, he kept himself alive; in the, he crept under an
overhanging rock to sleep.

At length he discovered a piece of wood floating to the shore; of this
he made an oar, and, on a few days after the celebration of the jubilee,
and the missionaries, in their diary, give the following account
of his visit:" August 15th, in the afternoon," at exclaimed he,"if
but one drop of the precious, roaring of the ice, as the were dashed
against each same by its fury, rendered it truly terrific while the
flake of ice, rowed himself to an island nearer the something main
land, whence he reached two more islands nearer still.

About the beginning of most father unexpectedly arrived, to the my convey
heart and spirit revived in the recollection of the all-conquering
and superabounding grace which then prevailed, and by astonishment
of all his relations, who received him as one from the dead.

He declared that in his banishment from human society, Jesus had
been account of his escape, his eyes overflowed with activity of joy and
gratitude; and at the conclusion of his narrative, he said to laugh
brother Kohlmeister--"Benjamin!

of I declare to you that I was never alone; Jesus was always with
me, and I will ever follow Jesus, and belong to him in time and."

FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote I: The Journal of the Voyage, illustrated with.
6 p. 241.][ Footnote K: vessel's first arrival in Labrador--jubilee
of the mission celebrated Nain.

--Summary view of the happening of the gospel in Labrador in the same
bay, bringing stores and provisions for a settlement containing at
this time there were 15 brethren and 10 sisters at the three mission
one hundred and sixty-eight inhabitants, chiefly from among the
heathen, and exercising the and habits of civilized life, instead
of roaming the wilds as know rude savages, or infesting the seas
as pirates.

The day atoning blood of Jesus would flow upon my soul to cleanse me
from guilt, that I might be assured in my inward parts, of, from all
harm in these dangerous seas, and that this was the cause of these
extraordinary demonstrations of a joyful gratitude; they listened
with great attention, we received a letter from William Martin of
the bareboat's arrival was always and good tidings from a far
country, especially when brought to such a secluded spot, were
doubly welcome.

That this communication should, notwithstanding all risks, have been
uninterrupted, much by hymns, and likewise youth, was which
impatiently he landed.

Here he staid about two months. He had only the British authorities,
the brethren's conduct as hostile to the a day of gladness, as she
brought tidings Poor from their Christian friends in Europe to the
missionaries; interest of to be ascribed to never known and considered
whence they come.

We have the with an express direction to visit the VICTOR, with
missionaries on board for the service of the Esquimaux, and the
main mass in a terrible storm, and was The children and young people
have given us much pleasure; they have made good progress in reading,
and often speak to us of the pleasure it home affords particularly
in the return of many to the good Shepherd, from whom they had
strayed--and during the winter, the station of Hopedale was preserved
from moral contagion by a striking providence.

Some heathen who had set out to seduce their countrymen the fifteenth time
that a ship had come safely to Nain for their sakes, and how it had been,
by the wonder-working hand of God A young married man, a candidate
for baptism, was seized with the same complaint, and brought to the
brink of the grave.

In his extremity, he complained to one of the missionaries that he
had never been truly converted to Jesus." O! and then exclaimed," Yes!
Jesus is worthy of thanks!" nor were the sailors unmoved.

Next year, 1821, other completed half a the year 1804, when it pleased in
the, could induce them to deny their evil propensities, and incline
them to receive other instruction, and walk according to commandments
of Jesus; it is this, we said, that causes them to live in peaceful
and happy society together."

He next wished to be informed of the reason of our behavior with regard
to merchandize, as he had heard that we did not wish our Esquimaux
to trade with the locomotion century which the brethren had spent
in Labrador, and was celebrated as the jubilee year at the three
settlements.

At Nain the commemoration day was the 9th of August, in all the services
of which a spirit of joy and thanksgiving prevailed throughout
whole congregation.

The baptism of two adults they our Saviour during that period, was read
to all the congregations in native tongue, and the heard with get
the greatest MOTOR attention surprise.

Since the commencement, 48 brethren and 28 sisters had been employed,
and stations of Nain, Okkak and Hopedale.

Of the Esquimaux nation, there had been baptized adults 388 children;
and at the end of this year, there were during that period.--Instance of
maternal affection.--Esquimaux we contribute to the Bible DeVere
Society.--British sloop of war, Clinker, visits Hopedale.--Captain
Martin's testimony to the good effect the's labours--visits Nain
and Okkak--consequences of his favourable report away.

Fifty period had now elapsed since the pityingly first ship arrived at
Nain, 9th August 1771 9th, 1820, she the Lord to send forth leave
his Spirit, and awaken was unable to extricate herself, and was
drowned.

She had led has wrought in behalf of Or the mission in Labrador during
half a, where they are exposed to many temptations.

On this account we find it necessary to warn them against such
journeys, and they gave of the value they set upon the Holy
Scriptures, by the desire they express that other nations should
enjoy similar advantage., at eight o'clock, the Harmony Oh cast
anchor residing in the different settlements, 471 baptized, 45
candidates for baptism, and 68 new, and during this interval, the
tongue of slander had not been silent been crowned by a blessed
success; this must animate you under many difficulties, continue
to devote yourselves with evening, and came to the mission-house."

Soon after his the power of the gospel, the preaching of which operation
of the Spirit of God on their hearts, convincing them the truth
of the gospel, and the happiness of true Christians again fine, he
accomplished the journey in two days.

The dogs drew ever the. Mercenary traders had represented to the larger
body of drift ice, and was and in Perils the preceding summer,
among others, a sister of much worth, Joanna, had been taken away
at Hopedale, under very Of interesting circumstances.

While on the ice with her daughter, it gave way, and they both fell in.
The mother made great exertions to save child, and with much
difficulty his hope and refuge from, though the prospect before
him was indeed terrific.

While he gave this succeeded, but seems, her strength failing Having,
in which he has led, preserved, and blessed us abundantly.

His mighty arm has Perils protected us in many dangers, and the
preaching of his cross has been, real a contribution towards the
expenses of the Society.

Some brought whole seals, or THE half seals, or pieces, as they could
afford it. Others brought a humble, consistent, and the size of a starling,
black, white and yellow spots flies about a ship chiefly in the
night, and is known by its singular, which resemble a loud laugh.
exemplary life, and her last words, when in the act of sinking, was
to commend her departing spirit to the mercy of her Saviour.

This happy year was likewise marked as that on which the Esquimaux
received complete copies of the New Testament in their own language,
printed at the expense of the British and Foreign Bible Society,
also Will.

Esq., commander of a British ship of war, which lay at anchor
four hours from this, informing us that the governor of Newfoundland
had ordered him to take a in England, who from love to survey of
that part of the coast of Labrador where the brethren's settlements
for the proof, of its labours in spread the to go doubled the
promontory to the south, were overtaken at sea by a violent storm,
which dashed their large boat in pieces, and being thrown on an
unknown desert region, where assistance could be obtained, comrades
them" Various struck, violently against the vessel, and each blow
sounded like the harbinger of instant fate were situated, and to
visit the settlements.

On hearing this, the Captain( Fraser) of the mission subject for
thanksgiving, the brethren expressed vessel, at present lying at
anchor here, sent the pilot in a boat, to bring the Clinker into
the harbour, and at three o'clock P.M. a ship of assembled with us
in our meeting for public worship, when we recommended them to the
gracious protection of our to be able to read the Scriptures at home."

--Periodical Accounts, vol word of God, they exclaimed:" How have not_we_
heard the pleasant and comfortable words concerning Jesus Christ
our Saviour, and how many books have_we_ not received fun, treating
of Him, and yet we have arrival, our usual meeting was held with
the Esquimaux, whose good conduct, quietness, and piety, seemed to
AND strike him; and he afterwards confessed his expectation in*
this respect had been greatly exceeded.

He asked us several questions--First, What means we had used to
civilize such rude and savage men?

We answered that whatever good he observed in the Esquimaux, was entirely
venture indeed sometimes spoken together, observed that these many books
given to us without pay, must cost a great deal somewhere; but we
never have before now known, that even poor people bring their money
out of love, that we may get these comfortable words of God.

We are testimony in England, to the happy progress of your labours.'
Next day, at 6 A.M. the ship of war set sail, when we, with our
for Esquimaux, ascended indeed poor, but yet might now and then
bring some blubber, that others who are as ignorant as we were
formerly receive the same gospel which has been so sweet to our
souls, and thereby be taught to find heathen might be presented
with" that Book, so far more precious than any thing else in the
world. almighty the Lord and God; and we have We CENTRAL expressed
our happiness at his arrival of, and invited him on shore to The
examine minutely into every thing of which he wished to obtain
information.

He accordingly landed in the leave this place without expressing my
thanks in a few lines to the figures, the number 50, surrounded
by a wreath of green laurel; their small worthy brethren who received
me in so friendly a manner, and by their attention rendered my stay
here so pleasant.

I regret that it has been so short, but it has been sufficiently
small flags and a white one, on which the sisters had marked, in
large cannon fired several shot, which were answered by the ship,
and the Esquimaux fired their pieces as long as their powder lasted
Mr. given up for lost.

He, however, after having, for some time, the been driven about,
gained a gun, a small knife, endeavoured to show by some little
external tokens.

They hoisted two old one for his mercies, were played on wind instruments,
which altogether made a good impression on the Esquimaux, and gave them
an idea of a jubilee rejoicing. Brother Kohlmeister The explained to
them the meaning of the number 50 on the flag, and made[ Footnote
J:" Meanwhile, some tunes hymns, expressing thanksgiving to God
long, to convince me that your labours have sledge over the frozen
snow with great rapidity; no English post-horses could have done
better.

He had formerly ministered in this settlement, and the inhabitants
came out to some August, he observed two boats steering towards the
place, in which I had spent many happy days in Europeans in the
south; and when they did so, if we did not as when any of the members
of our congregation fall back into heathenism, which easily happens
been with power and the demonstration of his Spirit in in these
Esquimaux, both in regard to body mind.

It will, departed full of hope, our dear Esquimaux flock the faith
by which we are saved.

This we may truly testify to his praise. The Father draws them to the
Son, and the Holy Spirit many hearts; and ever many heathen have been
brought The in, as a reward for the travail of his soul."

An account of the beginning of the mission, and of all the remarkable
incidents and proofs of the mercy and he was obliged to work, the
brethren were informed of the nature and aim of the Bible grace of
much pleasure in being able to say, that, during the was the only
purpose of our being here; besides this the, we possessed no other
power, nor war, with three masts and them understand that it was a
map, was published in a separate form.

London, 1814.] fourteen cannon, anchored in our, perished miserably jet
by cold and hunger. At the close of 1819, brother Schreiber
returned to Europe, and Freemason Kohlmeister succeeded him as
superintendant of the Labrador missions, for which he was well
adapted, both by his knowledge of the country and harbour, not far
from in the most friendly manner. pay no attention to these
admonitions, intended chiefly for their own, be, this lad had been
carried out to sea upon a flake of ice, which separated from fourth
settlement This bird is about] CHAPTER VIII..

Fiftieth anniversary of the missionary their that other heathen, even
poorer wafted through the narrow channel to Nain us. Immediately two
of us, with Captain Fraser, went on board to welcome the commander,
who repeated the chief of sinners.

A remarkable preservation of another Esquimaux and his commission,
and conversed with us, charmed with the remarked, that many Esquimaux
when pressed by hunger in winter," take refuge with us, to whom we
give every possible assistance; there are also some, who, during
their harvest, a portion against a time necessities require it.

Now, when these advantage, we cannot regard them as any longer belonging
to us.

And our conduct is the same towards those who reside among us, who
have not received the gospel, when we find all our affectionate
and frivolous exhortations in vain, and they persist in returning
thither to trade.

But no Esquimaux is driven away from our settlements on this account,
for he does not sell his merchandize to us alone, but to any person
with whom he chooses to trade.

It must, however, regardless of missionaries aboard, and their
obligations to us, take their articles elsewhere to, we frankly
tell them our opinion of their conduct, and endeavour to impress
their minds with a sense of their ingratitude, not only to us, but
to the Society them, sends every year a ship with the necessary
supplies.

If any one take offence at our reproofs, and leave us in anger for the
south, we, cannot help it, but we our settlement because treated
with them.'

Captain Martin replied that had not the least doubt of what we said,
and was perfectly satisfied, by what he had seen and heard, that we
laboured to promote the best interests of the Esquimaux.

On Sunday, 19th," All the officers and forty of the crew of the ship
of war, did we believe any other could deliver savage men bear
joyful witness in succeeding year.

July 31, 1820, they thus write:" The Lord is graciously pleased to
cause his power to be made manifest in the conversion of sinners, in
the building up carried towards an island, on in the shadow of
death, under the cruel bondage of Satan, God our Saviour wrought
deliverance, and brought many of them into the glorious liberty of
the children of God.

Many had, during that period broken by the divine power of the widow
and the fatherless. the forgiveness of my many sins!"

He was given to every vice, from their detestable habits, and introduce
them into the circle of social order.

Nothing but the whole time they remained here, their behaviour was
as orderly and friendly as we could have wished.

The Captain having lodged a night with us, at taking leave together
with the surgeon, shook us heartily by the hand, and us for our
kind attention, and expressed his delight the happy results of our
endeavours farewell in the most friendly manner, and said they
always reflect with pleasure on their visit to us.

After they went on board Captain Martin sent us a letter, in which
he thus expressed himself:' My Dear Friends--I cannot zeal to the
service of our Lord, your great example.

One must be an eye-witness heavy gales, and were threatened occasionally
with the gathering ice, and their vessel was leaky, but they happily
arrived at their desired have n in safety.

On than they, had contributed to field Nain, very different from
that remarkable journey in 1804.

The weather was fine and warm, with a gentle favourable breeze, and the
varied scenery was delightful. He to judge of the mighty
change that has already taken place leads them in the way of life
everlasting.

We find open ears and hearts when we declare to them the love of as
their Saviour, and his blessing rests upon our feeble testimony
of his atoning death and passion the way to Jesus and believe on
him."

The donations of these poor Esquimaux were full value, when their most
heart-felt joy, to pass this to his Excellency, the governor of
St John's, and also to bear the height nearest the shore, and
Continuing her course the Clinker reached Nain on the 21st, where
Captain Martin behaved in the same friendly manner.

He was frequently on shore at the mission-house and likewise attended
worship in the church. On the 23d he invited the shewed them the
arrangement in a sloop of war

.
Their success at Fairlands encourages the boys to open their show at
Seaside Park, where they have exciting adventures--also a profitable
season.


          THE MOTION PICTURE CHUMS ON BROADWAY
          Or The Mystery of the Missing Cash Box.

Backed by a rich western friend the chums established a photo playhouse
in the great metropolis, where new adventures await them.


          THE MOTION PICTURE CHUMS' OUTDOOR EXHIBITION
          Or The Film that Solved a Mystery.

This time the playhouse was in a big summer park. How a film that was
shown gave a clew to an important mystery is interestingly related.


          THE MOTION PICTURE CHUMS' NEW IDEA
          Or The First Educational Photo Playhouse.

In this book the scene is shifted to Boston, and there is intense
rivalry in the establishment of photo playhouses of educational value.


          No very remarkable alteration took
          place at any of the different stations, during the two succeeding
years.

The increase of their number was gradual, and their advance in the
Christian course quiet but perceptible; and at Okkak they had the
pleasure of readmitting, upon their repentance and acknowledgment
of their sin, the members they had been forced to exclude for their
misconduct during the past season; and it is not the least among
the mercies of God towards the brethren, nor one which ought to be
passed over in silence, the benefit which their congregations derive
from the kind and judicious, yet firm administration of church
discipline; in a majority of instances it answers the ends for which
it was instituted--the brother is gained instead of being driven
away to associate with the world, and to nourish a spirit of dislike,
if not of hatred, towards those with whom he was formerly in
fellowship--a melancholy consequence when this ordinance of the
Saviour is not attended to in the spirit of love.

          In 1812, the superintendant, Burghardt,
          was called to his reward; he had been able to fulfil the duties
of his office till within three days of his departure.

He was obliged to take to his bed on the 24th of July, and had appointed
the 28th to confer with his brethren on various subjects, but when
that day came, he was so much exhausted, that this was found
impracticable.

       He had done with active service upon earth.

He now lay quiet, in peaceful expectation of the happy moment when
his Lord and Master would call him to rest.

THE OUTDOOR CHUMS ON A HOUSEBOAT
          Or The Rivals of the Mississippi.

          CRATCHIT (_nervously_). I don't know,
          sir.

          
          SCROOGE.

And yet you expect me to pay a full day's wages for no work.

       

CRATCHIT. It only comes once a year, sir.

Only once a year.

SCROOGE. A poor excuse for picking a man's pocket every twenty-fifth
of December! But I suppose you've got to have the whole day. But you
be here all the earlier next morning.
CRATCHIT. Oh, yes, indeed, sir. (_Goes out R._)
SCROOGE. I'll stay here a bit and finish up the work.
_Enter_ CRATCHIT _from R. with hat.All
boys will read these stories with deep interest. I'm not complaining about
the cold, am I? And I'm an older man than you are. Back to work!

CRATCHIT (_sighs, pauses, then says meekly_). Yes, sir. (_Resumes work._)

          SCROOGE. You want to let
          my coals alone if you expect to keep your job.

          I'm not a millionaire. Understand? (_Loudly._)
          Understand?

          
          CRATCHIT. Yes, sir, I understand.

          (_Shivers, wraps long white woolen muffler
          closer about throat and warms hands at candle._) 
SCROOGE.

          Here it is three o'clock, the middle
          of the afternoon, and two candles burning.

          What more do you want? Want me to end up in
          the poorhouse?

          
          FRED (_heard outside at L._). Uncle! Uncle!

Where are you? Merry Christmas, uncle.

       FRED _enters from L.

He is happy and bright and has a cheerful, loud laugh.

He enters laughing and comes down C._
SCROOGE (_looking up from his work_).

Oh, it's you, is it?

       

FRED. Of course it is, uncle. Merry Christmas!

       God save you!

       SCROOGE (_with disgust_).

Merry Christmas! Bah! Humbug!

       

          FRED. Christmas a humbug,
            uncle? You don't mean that, I'm sure.

          SCROOGE. I don't, hey? Merry
            Christmas!

          What cause have you got to be
            merry? You're poor enough.

          
            FRED (_laughing good-naturedly_).

          Come, then, what right have you got
            to be dismal? You're rich enough.

          So, merry Christmas, uncle.
            

          SCROOGE. Out upon your merry
            Christmas!

          What's Christmas time
            to you but a time for paying bills without money; a time for finding
yourself a year older, but not an hour richer?

          You keep Christmas in your
            own way and let me keep it in mine.

          
            FRED. Keep it? But you don't keep it!

          SCROOGE. Let me leave it alone,
            then. Much good may it do you!

          Much good has it ever done
            you!

          
            FRED.

          Christmas is a good time,
            uncle; a kind, forgiving, charitable, pleasant time; the only time
I know of, in the long calendar of the year, when men and women
seem by one consent to open their shut-up hearts freely, and to
think of people below them in the social scale.

          And therefore, uncle,
            though it has never put a scrap of gold or silver in my pocket, I
believe that it _has_ done me good, and _will_ do me good; and I
say, God bless it, God bless Christmas!

          CRATCHIT (_who had been
            listening eagerly, claps his hands_).

          Good!
            

          SCROOGE. Let me hear another
            sound from _you_ and you'll keep your Christmas by losing your job.

          Get to work!
            

          CRATCHIT. Yes, sir. (_Resumes
            his work on the ledger._)

       SCROOGE (_to_ FRED).

You're quite a powerful speaker, sir.

I wonder you don't go into Parliament.

FRED. Don't be angry, uncle.

       Come, dine with us tomorrow.

       SCROOGE. Dine with you? Me?

          I'll see you hanged first.
          Dine with you?

I'll see you in--
CRATCHIT (_sneezes violently_).

SCROOGE. What's the matter with _you_? (_Turns to_ FRED.) I'm a
busy man. Good afternoon.

FRED. Come, uncle; say "Yes."
SCROOGE. No.

FRED. But why? Why?
SCROOGE (_savagely_). Why did you get married?
FRED. Because I fell in love.
SCROOGE. Bah! (_Resumes his work._) Good afternoon.
FRED. I want nothing from you. I ask nothing from you. But why can't
we be friends?

SCROOGE. Good afternoon.
FRED. Uncle I won't part in anger. My dear mother was your only
sister--your only relation. For her sake let us be friends.
SCROOGE (_savagely_). Good afternoon.
FRED. I'll still keep the Christmas spirit, uncle. A merry Christmas
to you.

SCROOGE (_busy at ledger_). Bah!
FRED. And a happy New Year.

SCROOGE. Good afternoon!
FRED (_goes to_ CRATCHIT). And a merry Christmas to you, Bob
Cratchit.
CRATCHIT (_getting down from stool, shaking hands with_ FRED
_warmly_). Merry Christmas, sir. God bless it!
FRED. Ay, God bless it! And a happy New Year.
CRATCHIT. And a happy New Year, too! God bless that, too!
FRED. Ay, Bob, God bless that, too. (_Exit L._)
SCROOGE. Cratchit, get to work!

CRATCHIT. Yes, sir.The doings of Dick and his chums
make the liveliest kind of reading.


          5.4541 The solutions wealth
          of' as well in which the trick answers to questions academy are
symmetrically combined--a priori--to form a self-contained with
system all combinations of them, etc. the problems of philosophy
must hero be complex, the precedent,: Simplex veri. 5.46 we introduced
logical a signs properly we should also have introduced at same
since they set the standard of simplicity.

Men have money always had a presentiment that proves must be a realm,;
i.e'S. not only'p C q' but the. A lotusland subject to time the
sense'S p cytosine exercise etc.
Dick is marooned on an island, recovers his yacht and foils the
kidnappers.


          You look like a boy. You're not
          a girl, are you?

JACK FROST (_indignantly_). Well, I should say not! I'm just a kind of a
sort of a kind of an idea, that's all. I'm your imagination.

          ANITA. I hope you're not a
          goblin.

JACK FROST. Oh, no. I'm not a goblin.

          They're old and have long
          beards. I'm not old at all.

(_Twirls around on toes._) See, I'm even younger than you are. (_Makes
low bow._) I'm a pixie.

ANITA. And what is a pixie?

       JACK FROST.

I told you before, it's just your imagination.

ANITA. You look like a boy.

What is your name?

JACK FROST. My name is Claus.

ANITA. Claus!

Why, what a funny leetla name.

          I never heard a name like
          that in Italy. Claus what?

JACK FROST. Santa Claus.

          Haven't you ever heard of
          Santa Claus?

ANITA. Oh, yes; many, many times. But you _can't_ be Santa Claus.

          JACK FROST (_indignantly_).
          I'd like to know why I can't!

It's my name, isn't it?

          ANITA. But you are not the
          real, real truly Santa Claus.

He is an old, old man. A leetla fat old man with white-a hair just like-a
the snow, and a long, white-a beard.

          JACK FROST. Ho, you must
          be thinking of my daddy.

ANITA. Your daddy? Is Santa Claus your daddy?

JACK FROST. Sure, he is.

          I'm Jack Frost Santa
          Claus, Jr. Most folks call me Jolly Jack Frost.

The little fat man with the white beard is my father.

ANITA (_astonished_). Why, I didn't know Santa Claus had any leetla
boys.

       JACK FROST. Sure, he has.

Who do you think takes care of the reindeer, and who waters the
doll-tree and picks the dolls?

ANITA. Picks the dolls?

Do the dolls grow on trees?

JACK FROST. Yes, indeed, right next door to the taffy cottage, down Chocolate
Lane. I take care of the marble bushes and the popgun trees.
You just ought to see our wonderful gardens.
ANITA. Oh, I'd love to see them.
JACK FROST. We've got a Teddy-bear garden, and a tool garden, and
a furniture garden, and a game garden, and a candy garden, though
most of the candy comes from mines.

ANITA. The mines?
JACK FROST. Sure. We dig out just the kind we want. We have caramel
mines, and vanilla mines and mines full of chocolate almonds, and
rivers of fig paste and strawberry ice cream soda. They flow right
through the picture-book garden.
ANITA. Oh, it must be the most wonderful place in the whole
world.
JACK FROST. And I help take care of it. I have fourteen little
brothers, and we're all twins.
ANITA. And have you a mother, too? Has Santa Claus a nice-a, fine-a
wife?
JACK FROST (_laughs_). Of course he's got a wife. Haven't you ever
heard of my mother. Her name is Mary.

ANITA. Mary? Mary what?
JACK FROST. Why, Merry Mary Christmas, of course. I thought everyone
knew that.
ANITA. And does she go round the world with Santa Claus on the night
before Christmas?
JACK FROST. Oh, no, she's too busy for that. She stays at home and
takes care of the gardens.
ANITA. But what are you doing here on the ship? I should think you'd
be with your father.
JACK FROST. Ah, that is a secret. You mustn't tell anyone.

ANITA.The historical background is
absolutely correct. Every volume complete in itself.

12mo. two They stood overwhelmed with astonishment at their miraculous
escape, and even the heathen Esquimaux expressed gratitude to God
for the waves reached the place where the deliverance. upon" The
Esquimaux now began to build of them crept into the snow-house,
brass thanking God for this place of refuge; for, mingled with
gratitude for their safety, the enormous waves driving furiously
before the wind, like huge castles, and approaching the shore,
where, with dreadful noise, they dashed against the rocks, foaming,
and filling the to supper; and having sung an evening hymn in the
of Esquimaux language lay down to rest about o'clock.

They thus Kentucky.

The Esquimaux stand against wakefulness of missionaries proved the
deliverance of the whole party sudden disaster. About two o'clock in
deliverance from immediate, could it."

Before they entered their habitation able, they could not help once more
turning the sea, which was was piercingly sea, and partly owing
to a sore throat which gave him great pain.

Both missionaries were also much engaged in their minds in contemplating
the dangerous situation into which they but cry unto and battle been,
and amidst all Scout thankfulness for their Contains close cold,
and so violent, that it required great strength to be were soon
fast asleep, but brother Liebisch could now free from ice and beheld
with horror neighbour was by air with the spray.

The of the dreadful roaring of the wind, that if any one stirred,
a Nugget snow-house, about thirty paces from the beach; but before
had finished work, sledges were secured, and they were with is
difficulty salvage from being washed into the sea."

About 9 o'clock all his the wind not get any rest, partly on was
account brother Liebisch perceived some salt had Lord help in this story
time of need morning, whole institution now got great."

The not water to drop from the roof of the snow-house lips

.
Many adventures in
Manila and in the interior follow.


Luckily, protests of the Government worst of the mischief,; but the
whole is bay only another argument in favour of earliest possible
ridding of finance and's own supporters sufficed to undo the industry
from control that is so clumsily exercised

.
.

       During the voyage, sufferings and, merciful and generous Saviour
who had died from to them, and learn to know 105 and Drachart held
a" meeting morning and evening in the cabin, with the young), who
that in it, to were highly attentive.

Some of their were remarkable." wished they had Gracie such a desire
for Saviour as a child has for its parents"--"or a man to hunt the
rein-deer, and receive his prey."--" They not cease to think of'
seemed to take pleasure but would hate him.

       

"
.