Transcribed from the 1902 Edition by David Price, email
ccx074@coventry.ac.uk


A. W. KINGLAKE--A BIOGRAPHICAL AND LITERARY STUDY


PREFACE


It is just eleven years since Kinglake passed away, and his life
has not yet been separately memorialized.  A few years more, and
the personal side of him would be irrecoverable, though by
personality, no less than by authorship, he made his contemporary
mark.  When a tomb has been closed for centuries, the effaced
lineaments of its tenant can be re-coloured only by the idealizing
hand of genius, as Scott drew Claverhouse, and Carlyle drew
Cromwell.  But, to the biographer of the lately dead, men have a
right to say, as Saul said to the Witch of Endor, "Call up Samuel!"
In your study of a life so recent as Kinglake's, give us, if you
choose, some critical synopsis of his monumental writings, some
salvage from his ephemeral and scattered papers; trace so much of
his youthful training as shaped the development of his character;
depict, with wise restraint, his political and public life:  but
also, and above all, re-clothe him "in his habit as he lived," as
friends and associates knew him; recover his traits of voice and
manner, his conversational wit or wisdom, epigram or paradox, his
explosions of sarcasm and his eccentricities of reserve, his words
of winningness and acts of kindness:  and, since one half of his
life was social, introduce us to the companions who shared his
lighter hour and evoked his finer fancies; take us to the Athenaeum
"Corner," or to Holland House, and flash on us at least a glimpse
of the brilliant men and women who formed the setting to his
sparkle; "dic in amicitiam coeant et foedera jungant."

This I have endeavoured to do, with such aid as I could command
from his few remaining contemporaries.  His letters to his family
were destroyed by his own desire; on those written to Madame
Novikoff no such embargo was laid, nor does she believe that it was
intended.  I have used these sparingly, and all extracts from them
have been subjected to her censorship.  If the result is not Attic
in salt, it is at any rate Roman in brevity.  I send it forth with
John Bunyan's homely aspiration:


And may its buyer have no cause to say,
His money is but lost or thrown away.


CHAPTER I--EARLY YEARS


The fourth decade of the deceased century dawned on a procession of
Oriental pilgrims, variously qualified or disqualified to hold the
gorgeous East in fee, who, with bakshish in their purses, a theory
in their brains, an unfilled diary-book in their portmanteaus,
sought out the Holy Land, the Sinai peninsula, the valley of the
Nile, sometimes even Armenia and the Monte Santo, and returned home
to emit their illustrated and mapped octavos.  We have the type
delineated admiringly in Miss Yonge's "Heartsease," {1} bitterly in
Miss Skene's "Use and Abuse," facetiously in the Clarence Bulbul of
"Our Street."  "Hang it! has not everybody written an Eastern book?
I should like to meet anybody in society now who has not been up to
the Second Cataract.  My Lord Castleroyal has done one--an honest
one; my Lord Youngent another--an amusing one; my Lord Woolsey
another--a pious one; there is the 'Cutlet and the Cabob'--a
sentimental one; Timbuctoothen--a humorous one."  Lord Carlisle's
honesty, Lord Nugent's fun, Lord Lindsay's piety, failed to float
their books.  Miss Martineau, clear, frank, unemotional Curzon,
fuddling the Levantine monks with rosoglio that he might fleece
them of their treasured hereditary manuscripts, even Eliot
Warburton's power, colouring, play of fancy, have yielded to the
mobility of Time.  Two alone out of the gallant company maintain
their vogue to-day:  Stanley's "Sinai and Palestine," as a Fifth
Gospel, an inspired Scripture Gazetteer; and "Eothen," as a
literary gem of purest ray serene.

In 1898 a reprint of the first edition was given to the public,
prefaced by a brief eulogium of the book and a slight notice of the
author.  It brought to the writer of the "Introduction" not only
kind and indulgent criticism, but valuable corrections, fresh
facts, clues to further knowledge.  These last have been carefully
followed out.  The unwary statement that Kinglake never spoke after
his first failure in the House has been atoned by a careful study
of all his speeches in and out of Parliament.  His reviews in the
"Quarterly" and elsewhere have been noted; impressions of his
manner and appearance at different periods of his life have been
recovered from coaeval acquaintances; his friend Hayward's Letters,
the numerous allusions in Lord Houghton's Life, Mrs. Crosse's
lively chapters in "Red Letter Days of my Life," Lady Gregory's
interesting recollections of the Athenaeum Club in Blackwood of
December, 1895, the somewhat slender notice in the "Dictionary of
National Biography," have all been carefully digested.  From these,
and, as will be seen, from other sources, the present Memoir has
been compiled; an endeavour--sera tamen--to lay before the
countless readers and admirers of his books a fairly adequate
appreciation, hitherto unattempted, of their author.

I have to acknowledge the great kindness of Canon William
Warburton, who examined his brother Eliot's diaries on my behalf,
obtained information from Dean Boyle and Sir M. Grant Duff, cleared
up for me not a few obscure allusions in the "Eothen" pages.  My
highly valued friend, Mrs. Hamilton Kinglake, of Taunton, his
sister-in-law, last surviving relative of his own generation, has
helped me with facts which no one else could have recalled.  To Mr.
Estcott, his old acquaintance and Somersetshire neighbour, I am
indebted for recollections manifold and interesting; but above all
I tender thanks to Madame Novikoff, his intimate associate and
correspondent during the last twenty years of his life, who has
supplemented her brilliant sketch of him in "La Nouvelle Revue" of
1896 by oral and written information lavish in quantity and of
paramount biographical value.  Kinglake's external life, his
literary and political career, his speeches, and the more fugitive
productions of his pen, were recoverable from public sources; but
his personal and private side, as it showed itself to the few close
intimates who still survive, must have remained to myself and
others meagre, superficial, disappointing, without Madame
Novikoff's unreserved and sympathetic confidence.

