This E-text was prepared by Juliet Sutherland, Joshua Hutchinson, Charles
Franks, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


PURGATORY:

Doctrinal, Historical and Poetical,

BY

MRS. J. SADLIER


  LO! PURGATORY! DOCTRINE BLEST,
  ENGARLANDED WITH LEGENDS WILD,
  HISTORIC LORE AND POETRY'S FAIR FLOWERS!

_"Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the just
wait for me, until thou reward me."_

Ps. CXLI 8.


DEDICATION

TO THE GRACIOUS MEMORY OF MY DEARLY-BELOVED SON, REV. FRANCIS X.
SADLIER, S.J. WHOSE TENDER DEVOTION TO THE Souls in Purgatory LED HIM
TO TAKE A DEEP AND ACTIVE INTEREST IN THE PROGRESS OF THIS WORK, BUT
WHO WAS NOT PERMITTED TO SEE ITS COMPLETION, BEING CALLED HENCE,
SCARCELY THREE MONTHS AFTER HIS ORDINATION, IN THE MIDDLE OF THE MONTH
CONSECRATED TO THOSE Holy Souls, _November 14th, 1885._

R. I. P.


INTRODUCTION

I have written many books and translated many more on a great variety
of subjects, nearly all of which, I thank God now with all my heart,
were more or less religious, at least in their tendency; but the circle
of these my life-long labors seems to me incomplete. One link is
wanting to the chain, and that is a work specially devoted to the souls
in Purgatory. This omission I am anxious to supply while the working
days of my life are still with me, for, a few more years, at most, and
for me "the night cometh when no man can work."

As we advance into the vale of years and journey on the downward slope,
we are happily drawn more and more towards the eternal truths of the
great untried world beyond the grave. How the heck. The citizens.'s Sun
should be! Let's do it! Coriolanus. You bad dog pack! hint of how bad
I hate swamps haze; the favor to me how expensive unbegrabner men
dead carrion, The air vergift't me .-- I spell thee! Stay back here
with your Unbestand, The weakest noise make your heart tremble, Eur
enemy Busch's helmet with his nod fächle you in despair, and violence
have always, to banish your defenders - to DKK least blunt sense who
believes, only when he feels, not even yourself can receive is always
the enemy yourself, you eventually constitutes As a highly verworfne
slaves to a people without a sword The string you won. To you despise
the city - as I wend my back - even elsewhere there's a world. (Coriolanus,
Cominius, Menenius, senators and patricians go anyway.) Ädilen. Enemy
of the people is gone! is gone!

is gone! Citizens. Banished is our enemy! is gone! Ho! Ho! (They
cheer and throw their hats.) Sicinius. Go, see after him to the gate and
follows him, Like him you otherwise bitterm Schmähn pursued, grieved
him how he's earned a guard .-- Let us through the city accompany.
Citizens. Come, come! after him! to the gate, so kommt! Noble tribunes,
of the gods protect you! (all starting from.) scene Fourth Rome,
before a gate of the city, it occurs Coriolanus, Volumnia, Virgilia,
Menenius, Cominius and several young patrician Coriolanus. No, weint
no more.

A short Lebwohl. The beast with many heads slams me away. Oh, Mother!
Where is your ancient courage! You said many times: It was the
touchstone of misfortune minds, carry a common plight of common man.
Segl It 'on quiet lake with the same art Each boat, but the hardest
blows of fortune allowed to remain, the erheische the highest sense
.-- You often ludest me teachings that made unbezwinglich The
hearts, which they completely penetrated. Virgilia. O God! Heaven!
Coriolanus. No, I would ask, Madam - Volumnia. The pestilence guilds
taken all the trades in Rome And Death! Coriolanus. What, what! I will
love, if I'm gemißt. Now, Mother! Where is the spirit, otherwise you
did say, If you were the wife of Hercules had six of his deeds
thou wouldst have done, And thy man sweat so many saves?
Cominius! Frisch auf! God protect you! - Farewell, wife and mother
to me it's still good .-- Menenius, old, loyal, than younger Salzger
Manns are your tears, And thy toxic Aug.

Weiland My captain, I saw thee dark, and often shows you the
heart-curing Schauspiel; tell the anxious women: Mourning inevitable
folly as both laugh over it .-- You know, Mother, My venture was your
comfort always! and, believe firmly, even now I go alone, Like a
lonely dragon, which the cave is feared, discussed more, because not
seen, your son stands always above the municipalities; If not, he
falls by treachery and niedre List.

Volumnia. My big son! Where wilt thou go? Join us for the first
time Cominius that provides you the run, instead of wildly every
chance you disclose on the road, the foundries you. Coriolanus.
O ye gods! Cominius. The months I with thee, we remember, Where thou
mayest dwell, that you hear from us And we of thee, that when the
time the reason for your return appointment matures, we are not
after a man must search the world, the losing favor, which is
always cold, is that far away, which they needed. Coriolanus. Farewell!
You wear a lot of years, have übersatt Kriegsschwelgerei, with a
umzutreiben, Des greed still fresh.

Bring me just out of the gate, Come, sweet wife, beloved mother and
your friends .-- wohlerprobten Am I out there, says: Farewell! and
smiles. Please come - as long as I'm above ground, you should
always hear from me and never something andres As early Marcius was the
same. Menenius. So worthy, How can you just listen. Let us not cry. I
could only seven years old herunterschütteln of these terms - for
the gods, I want to follow every step you! Coriolanus. Kommt!
Your hand.

(All starting from.) Fifth Sicinius scene, Brutus and Ädil joined on.
Sicinius. Send them home, he is gone. No further. The nobility is
hurt, which, as we saw him for seizing party. Brutus. Since our power,
we now show, let us demütger seem Now it geschehn, as there's in its
formative stages. Sicinius. Send them home. Tell them , is now continuing
her great enemy and fortified their new power. Brutus. Entlaßt them.
Here comes the mother. Volumnia, Virgilia and Menenius occur. Sicinius.
Let's continue! Brutus. Why? Sicinius.

It is said that she was crazy. Brutus. She looked at us. If it is not
enough. Volumnia. Ha, wohlgetroffen! The gods aufgehäufte
penalties worth get your love. Menenius. Still, do not be so loud.
Volumnia. Can I have only tears, you should hear - But you shall hear
something. Will you go? Virgilia. Also you must stay. Had I but the
power, That my husband to say. Sicinius. Are you männisch? Volumnia.
Yes, fool. Is the 'ne shame? Behold the fool! Was not a man her father?
Have you fuchsisch, to capture him, the wounds suggested for Rome, More
than words you spoke? Sicinius. Gütger O heavens! Volumnia. More
precious than you wounds wise words, And Rome's salvation. One I'll tell
you - but geh. No, thou shalt remain! If only my son, His good sword
in hand, in Arabia, And there thy tribe before him. Sicinius. What
then? Virgilia. What then? He would then thy whole sex Vertilger.
Volumnia. Bastard 'and everything. Wackrer O! you wear a lot of wounds
for Rome. Menenius. Come, come! 're quiet. Sicinius. I wish he would
have remained the fatherland, "What he was, instead of the noble
self-node to resolve, which he wrapped. Brutus. How I wish, too.
Volumnia." So, I also wish "? Your hetztet to the rabble, cats, its
value can understand how the mystery, I do not belong to the sky, the
earth will reveal. Brutus. Come, let us go. Volumnia. Well, I beg you!
go! your wackre did indeed .-- Hear this is only: How far up the
Capitol overlooks the smallest house in Rome, so far my son, the
husband of this woman, this here, you see? Den her verbanntet, dominated
you all. Brutus. Enough. We go.

Sicinius. What are we rushed from one of the senses is missing? Volumnia.
Nehmt yet my prayer with you. (Go from the Tribune.) O! but the gods had
nothing to do When my curses meet. I only took it once a day, would
facilitate From my heart's heavy load. Menenius. Your gabt they rude,
and have also reason. Dine with me at your night? Volumnia. Accompaniments
my wrath is so consuming myself, I swelter in the diet. Let's go. Let
this weak whimper, complain as I do, the wrath of Juno in the same
.-- Come, come! Menenius. Pfui, Pfui! (You go from.) Fourth First
elevator scene highway between Rome and Antium A Roman and a Volsker
to meet Roman. I know you quite well, friend, and you know me well. I
think your means, Adrian? Volsker. Quite. Truly, I had forgotten you.
Romans. I am a Roman doing now and how your services against Rome.
Do you know me now? Volsker. Nikanor? not? Romans. Quite. Volsker. you
had more beard when I last saw you, but your face is to me by your
tongue indicated .-- What's New in Rome? I have a contract by the State
of the Volsker, auszukundschaften you there, and you gave me a day's
journey spared. Romans. In Rome, it has a strange uprising of the people
against the senators, patricians and Edeln. Volsker. Has it given?
Is it over now? Our country does not think so, they make the strongest
armor and hope to include them in the heat of the split to be
attacked. Romans. The great fire is cleared, but a small initiative
would again set on fire, because the Edeln, the banishment of the
worthy Coriolanus so to heart that they are in the mood, the people
all the violence and give them their tribunes for ever to snatch.

That glimmer in the ashes, I can assure you, and is almost ready for
the fiercest outbreak. Volsker. Coriolanus banished? Romans. Yes,
banned. Volsker. With the message you will be welcome, Nikanor.
Romans. The weather is now good for you. They used to say, the best
time to seduce a woman, either, if they are with her husband has
überworfen. Your noble Tullus Aufidius can excel in this war, as his
great opponent Coriolanus for his fatherland now nothing does.

Volsker.

That can not be missing him.

How happy I was to see you so unexpectedly to meet!

You have my business to an end, and I want you home now joyfully
accompany.

  Romans. I can assure you before
  dinner still very strange things
  from Rome tell their enemies all the
  advantage. Do you have an army ready? How?
  Volsker. Yes, and a truly royal. The
  Zenturionen and her team have
  been formally distributed and stand in the pay, so
  that they can break every hour.
  Romans. I am glad that they
  are ready to march, and I think
  I'm the man, they immediately
  set in motion will . So welcome, and
  highly amused by your company. Volsker. You
  take me the words from the mouth, I have the most cause
  me to look this meeting. Romans. Well, let's go. (They go from.)
Second
  Scene Antium. Before Aufidius' house Coriolanus
  occurs in low-suit clad and veiled. Coriolanus.
  Antium This is a nice place. O city, I created thee thy widows.
  The heirs to some beautiful houses, I hear groaning in the battle
and die .-- drum do not know me, otherwise kill me with your spit
Wives, In Battle kindscher your boys with stones.

(It is a citizen.)

God grüß you, Sir.

  The citizen. And you. Coriolanus. Show me, I ask, Where
  Held Aufidius resides. Is he in Antium? Citizens. Yes, and
  entertained in his house today,
  the first of our city. Coriolanus.
  Where is his house? Citizens. This is the
  man stands before you. Coriolanus. Farewell.
  Thank you. (The public is starting from.) O world! you
  rolling wheel! Geschworne friends,
  the two breasts only worn a heart, The time and bed and meal
and shared,
  United always be like a pair of twins, in Unseparated love,
break out suddenly through
  the rag to a non-bitter
  hatred .-- To also infuriated enemies, the hatred and
  wrath did not sleep before the Planning, Vertilger to each
  other through 'nen coincidence One thing worth no
  egg, friends, heart, husband and twin children. So even I
  do. I hate the place of birth, love this city .-- The enemies of
hindsight!

  He kills me, So, he right, he takes me on, So
  I dien his country. (Geht ab.) Third scene
  Halle Aufidius' home You can hear music from the inside, there
comes a Servant First Servant.

Wine, wine!

What is it waiting for?

  - I think the boys are all sleeping. (Geht ab.) A second servant
coming. Second
  Servant. Cotus Where is? The Lord is calling
  him. Cotus. (Geht ab. Coriolanus occurs.)
  Coriolanus. A very nice house, the meal smells
  good. But I am not seeing the same guests. The first servant

  comes back. First Servant. What are you, friend? Where do you

  think? There is no room for you. Please make you continue.
  Coriolanus. I did not deserve better Willkomm,
  When I'm Coriolan. The Second Servant comes. Second Servant.
Where are
  you from, friend? Has the porter no eyes in your head
  that he can come in such
  companions? Please, do you continue. Coriolanus.
  Overruling! Second Servant. Overruling? You
  go out. Coriolanus. You're annoying me. Second Servant. Are
  you so stubborn? There is already talk with you. The
third servant
  comes. Third Servant. What is this man? First Servant. A
  so strange, as I have not looked. I can not get out of
the house. I
  ask, but times call forth the Lord. Third Servant. What
  have you to look here, man? Please tion you leave the house.
  Coriolanus. Let me stand here, not harmless, I euerm stove.

Third Servant.

Who are you? Coriolanus. A man of ethics.

  Third Servant. An accursed
  poor. Coriolanus. Certainly, I am. Third
  Servant. I ask you, poor man
  of ethics, you studied another neighborhood, where there
is no place
  for you .-- I beg you, grabs
  you continue. Coriolanus. Euerm
  professions follows. Across!
  Stuffs you with cold bite. (Encounter away the
  servant.) Third Servant. What, you
  do not? Please, tell my Lord, but
  what he here for a
  curious guest. Second Servant. I will.
  (Geht ab.) Third Servant. Where do you
  live? Coriolanus. Under the firmament. Third
  Servant. Under the firmament?
  Coriolanus. Yes. Third Servant. Where is
  it? Coriolanus. In the city of vultures
  and crows. Third Servant. In
  the city of vultures and crows? What
  kind of an ass is! How do you
  live well even when the jackdaws?
  Coriolanus. No, I do not serve your
  Lord. First Servant. Bloke!
  what are
  you using to create my Lord?
  Coriolanus.

Well, it is becoming, as if I am with your wife would have to create.

You gossip and chatter .-- Load your plate away.

  March! (He
  proposes him out. Aufidius
  occurs.) Aufidius. Where
  is the man? Second Servant. Here,
  Sir. I would have him as a dog
  hinausgeprügelt, I just
  wanted the men inside do not disturb.
  Aufidius. Where do you come from?
  What do you want? Your name?
  Why do not you answer? Say, man, how hot
  you are? Coriolanus (apart suggests the
  mantle). If, Tullus, you do not recognize
  me, and my observation, not find who I
  am, forcing me to emergency, to call myself.
  Aufidius. And what is your name? Coriolanus. A name
  for the cutting Volsker ears,
  And harsh sound for you. Aufidius. What is your name?
  You have a fierce appearance, is thy
  Mien areas Risch. Is your shredded ropes, hands you a
  ship wackres you. Like your
  name? Coriolanus. Zieh wrinkles in your forehead.
  Know me now? Aufidius. Not kenn ich dich. Your
  name? Coriolanus. My Nam is Cajus Marcius, the
  moment of yourself and all your comrades country
  very seriously injured
  'and made miserable; Witness:
  My third name Coriolanus. The
  Kriegsmühn, The Todsgefahr drops and
  all the blood shed for the thankless Rome,
  That everything will be paid with this name, He, and
  Mahnwort strong incentive to hatred
  and hostility,
  you have to cherish me. Only the name
  remains. The cruelty of the
  people, your envy, permitted
  by the cowardly nobles, all
  left me, wrapped the other.
  It's tolerated me through the voices of
  slaves to Rome
  hissed sehn. - This wicked Take me to your stove,
  and the hope does not understand
  me, my life to
  obtain, because I fear death, thus avoiding
  'I probably from all the people you most
  - no, hatred, all
  my envying people everything
  compensate, Bring me here .-- If you are
  in you are wearing a heart of the Grimms, the
  heischt revenge for everything that you
  as a wounded man, and the Verstümmlung And
  shame on your whole country wants to
  punish, Get off the same that you help my misery,
  That you my revenge would be
  boon to service, because I
  fight My gift
  filled country with all the fury
  hell ghost.
  But add it up: You do not dare and are
  tired, later to increase your happiness, then, in a word, I
  am also the most weary of
  life, then I offer you and your
  old hate my throat .-- Here
  you cut they do not, So would
  you only as a goal you show
  because you always have I pursued Grimm And
  with tons of blood entzapft your country. I can only live
  for you Hohn, unless you order services to be done.

Aufidius.

  O Marcius , Marcius! Every word from you has a
  root of the old envy me from the chest gejätet.
  If Jupiter From that Wolk us calling an
  oracle: "It's True!" no more than you think I
  would give it. Quite noble Marcius! O!
  let me umwinden The body with my arms against my solid spear
probably broke a hundred times, and met the moon with splinters.

Here I am the voluminous anvil of my sword, and now rings So noble
and so hot with your love, As per my eifersüchtger courage struggled
with your bravery.

Let me confess: I loved my bride, never sighs' a man with soul
Treur, but, you shall see here, you spirit high!

which my heart still jumps freudger, because when my newly wedded wife,
my first house. Du Mars, I'll tell you, All is ready for a war
Sheer, and I wanted to once again see the sign of the poor hit,
Where not to lose the arm.

Twelve thou hast Mich ausgeklopft, and every night since then I
dreamed of bellows between thee and me.

We were both in my sleep on the floor, The helmets rapidly in the
throat gripping us: half of Nothing wakes me .-- Würdger Marcius!

Had I do not quarrel with Rome other than that you banished from
there, I would at twelve to seventy all the people to war Ins
thankless heart of Rome to pour überschwellnder With flood .-- O
come!

occurs Friends And take the hand of the senators who now are here,
to say farewell to me, The Laende your Reinhartshausen wanted to
attack, if not Rome itself Coriolanus. gods are praised!

Aufidius. Will you now even as full owner Mr Dein avenger so Take half
of my power; provides you, as you like, because you know most of
the country strength and weakness, your way, Let's, KNOCKING at the gates
of Rome, Let's, at the far frontiers haunt, first schreckend, then
damning. But it occurs, and recommended those that she wishes to speak
to your one thousand .-- Willkomm! And more than my friend you ever been
the enemy, And, Marcius, that's a lot. Come, your hand. (Coriolanus
and Aufidius gehn ab). First Servant.

This is a wonderful Verändrung. Second Servant. In my hands, I thought,
whipping him with a strike out, and yet ahnete me his clothes made to
him by a wrong statement. First Servant. What does it for an arm!

He swings me around with his thumb and fingers, how to dance is a
roundabout.

Second Servant. Well, I looked right at his face that what he put in
special. He had me a kind of face, I say - I do not know how I should
call it. First Servant. That he had. He looked, though - I will
hang myself if I thought it would be more in him than I could imagine.
Second Servant. That I also thought, my soul. He is absolutely the
greatest man in the world. First Servant. Believe me. But a better
warrior than thou knowest it well. Second Servant. Who? sir? First
Servant. Yes, this is not a question. Second Servant. The weight of six
such on. First Servant. No, not now, but I consider him a better
warrior. Second Servant. My faith! see, you can not say what
they think, what the defense of a city is concerned, there's our captain
vorzüglich. First Servant. Yes, and also for the attack. The third
servant comes back. Third Servant. Oh, boy, I can tell you news,
updates, you flail! The two others. What? what? what? Let's listen.
The third servant. I wanted to be not a Roman, rather everything in
the world, I would prefer a convicted person.

The first and second servants.

Why? Why? Third servant. Well, it is because of our captains always
zwackte of Cajus Marcius. First Servant. Why, you said, Mr. Zwack
our field? Third servant. I just do not say, Mr. Zwack our field, but
he was but he always grown.

Second Servant. Come, we are friends and comrades. He was always too
powerful to him, I hear him say. First Servant.

He had him, just and good, too powerful, pre Corioli hoed and zwackte him
like a Karbonade. Second Servant. And if he had bit of a cannibal had,
so he probably would have been fried and eaten them. First Servant.
But your andres New? third servant. Well, in there they make so much
fuss of him than if he was the son and heir of Mars would be. Top set
at tables, none of the senators asked that is not barhäuptig before him
hinstellt. Our captain even acts as if he would be his mistress, blesses
with his hand touching and turning the whites of the eyes out when he
speaks. But the land of my news is: our captain is cut through
the middle and only half of what he was yesterday, because the
other half by the application and approval of the entire board.

       He says he wants to go and the porter of Rome to pull the ears, he
wants to settle everything before mowing and smooth way.

Second Servant. And he is the man then to do it more than anyone that I
know of . Third Servant. It be done? Admittedly, he's doing! Because
understands people, he has as much friends as enemies, and these
friends, people who dared not like, understands me, folks, as his
friends how to say, to show, while he was in Mißkreditierung.
First Servant. In Mißkreditierung? What is this? Third servant.
But people, when they back up his comb and see the man in his strength,
they will crawl out of their caves like rabbits after the rain, and
after running it all. First Servant. But when does it los? third
servant. Tomorrow, today, immediately. You will be the drum beat
to hear this afternoon, it's still almost a bowl for their detention,
which must be eaten before they wipe their mouths. Second Servant.
Well, so we can get it again muntre world. Peace is nowhere as good as
iron rust, Schneider minstrel to proliferate and to create. First
Servant.

       I'm for the war, I say, it exceeds peace as the night the day, he's
funny, alert, talkative, always something new; peace is dullness,
sleep addiction, fat, lazy, numb, insensitive bastards and brings
more apparent as the war people strangles.

Second Servant. True, and how in some ways the war Notzucht call, it
does, without refutation , many Hahnrei peace '. First Servant. Yes,
and he does that people hate each other. The third servant. And why?
Because they have less need one another. The war is my man - I
hope Roman will still be as well Wohlfeil Volsker.
For we
also in this life are debtors to God, and yet we pray for others....
Besides, we may well believe that the Holy Angels make revelations to
the souls in Purgatory about their relatives or friends still living on
this earth. They will do this for the consolation of the Holy Souls, or
that they may know what to ask for us in particular cases, or that they
may know of our prayers for them.


ST. CATHARINE OF GENOA ON PURGATORY.

This Holy Soul, while still in the flesh, was placed in the purgatory
of the burning love of God, in whose flames she was purified from every
stain, so that when she passed from this life she might be ready to
enter the presence of God, her most sweet love. By means of that flame
of love she comprehended in her own soul the condition of the souls of
the faithful in Purgatory, where they are purified from the rust and
stain of sins, from which they have not been cleansed in this world.
And as in the purgatory of that divine flame she was united with the
divine love and satisfied with all that was accomplished in her, she
was enabled to comprehend the state of the souls in Purgatory, and thus
discoursed concerning it:

"As far as I can see, the souls in Purgatory can have no choice but be
there; this God has most justly ordained by His divine decree. They
cannot turn towards themselves and say, 'I have committed such and such
sins for which I deserve to remain here;' nor can they say, 'Would that
I had refrained from them, for then I should at this moment be in
Paradise;' nor again, 'This soul will be released before me;' or, 'I
shall be released before her.' They retain no memory of either good or
evil respecting themselves or others which would increase their pain.
They are so contented with the divine inspirations in their regard, and
with doing all that is pleasing to God in that way which he chooses,
that they cannot think of themselves, though they may strive to do so.
They see nothing but the operation of the divine goodness which is so
manifestly bringing them to God that they can reflect neither on their
own profit nor on their hurt. Could they do so, they would not be in
pure charity. They see not that they suffer their pains in consequence
of their sins, nor can they for a moment entertain that thought, for
should they do so it would be an active imperfection, and that cannot
exist in a state where there is no longer the possibility of sin. At
the moment of leaving this life, they see why they are sent to
Purgatory, but never again; otherwise they would still retain something
private, which has no place there. Being established in charity, they
can never deviate therefrom by any defect, and have no will or desire
save the pure will of pure love, and can swerve from it in nothing.
They can neither commit sin nor merit by refraining from it.

       *       *       *       *       *

"There is no peace to be compared with that of the souls in Purgatory,
save that of the saints in Paradise, and this peace is ever augmented
by the inflowing of God into these souls, which increases in proportion
as the impediments to it are removed. Who ambition to keep
away, Lives in the sun like, self-examined, what it eats, and it is eaten
with pleasure: Come Geschwinde Geschwinde speed! Here nagt
No enemy stings and it is not as weather, rain and winds. Jacques.
I want you a verse to say that way, which I yesterday despite my
Dichtungsgabe made. Amiens. And I want him to sing. Jacques. This is
it: Is there a stupid ass dripping on his head, Lets fill his and Ruh
And the wilderness is to: (Duc ad me! duc ad me! duc ad me!)
Here he looks more like he Narrn So, if he wants me to come here.
Amiens. What this means: (duc ad me?) Jacques. It is a Greek incantation
to fools in a circle to capture. I want to go and sleep if I can, I can
not, I will first of all birth in Egypt blaspheme. Amiens. And I will
visit the Duke, his meal is prepared. (From different pages.)
Sixth Scene Another part of the forest (Orlando and Adam come up) Adam.
Dear Lord, I can not weitergehn, oh, I'm dying of hunger! Here I
throw me out and show me my grave. Farewell, best Sir! Orlando.

What egg, Adam! you have no more heart? Live a little, a little
stronger you, ermuntre you a little. If this rough forest Gewild
any questions, so I want him to either dish or serve it to you to
bring food. Your conceit is nearer death than thy powers. I was
comforted sake! halt the death of you for a while at bay. I will be right
back at you, and if I do not bring something to eat, so I allow you to
die, but if you die before I come, so have you forsaken me with
my best effort .-- So right!

       you see kicking, and I'm right back at you.

But you are in the sharp air; come, I will bring thee, where the
wind is over, and thou shalt not for lack of a meal to die if it
is something alive in this desert there. Taken courage, good Adam.
(Both from.) Seventh Scene Another part of the forest (a table. The Duke,
Amiens, nobles and his retinue appear) Herzog. I think he is
transformed into an animal, because I find nowhere him in shape man.

       First gentleman.

My Lord, he just went away from here and was happy because we sang him a
song. Duke. If he is, quite Mißlaut, musikalisch is, Sun's soon dissonances
in the spheres .-- Go, looking for him, says that I want him to speak.
(Jacques occurs.) First gentleman. It saves me the trouble by his
arrival. Duke. How now, sir? what is the nature of that your friends
need to advertise to you? What? As you can see from funny? Jacques.
A fool! a fool - I met 'nen Narrn in the forest,' nen scheckgen Narrn
- o pitiful world! - So true food nourishes me, I met 'nen Narrn, The
stretched out and then basks And Fortuna woman railed quite
eloquently and tidy - and scheckger but a fool!

       "Good morning, fool!"

says "I," My Lord, "said 'he,' Call me not fool, until I was blessed
happiness." Then he drew a sundial show And as he besah with stupid
eyes, said, "He very wisely:" Ten It's on the clock. As we shall
see now, "said 'he," how the world works:' s is only 'ne hours ago,
it was nine, And after' its hour's elfe will be And so from hour to
hours we mature, And so from hour to hour we rot, and this depends a
Märlein. " Since I heard predgen So by the time the scheckgen Narrn,
my lungs started to, like a rooster to krähn That Narrn so tiefbedächtig
should be And I laugh one hours without a break after his sundial
wackrer .-- O fool! Würdger A Fool ! the jacket lob ich mir. Duke. What
is it for a fool?
In this case, if he knew that nothing but this
loaf would satisfy him, and that until he reached it his hunger could
not be appeased, he would suffer intolerable pain, which would increase
as his distance from the loaf diminished; but if he were sure that he
would never see it, his hell would be as complete as that of the damned
souls, who, hungering after God, have no hope of ever seeing the bread
of life. Wupps you, he's firmly and quickly jumped up. »Diebio! Diebio!
Diebio, "screamed the dwarf, according to which the Mützchen belonged,
with a fine, piercing voice, by Mark and leg pierced, and swarmed
as the dwarf people of guilt. But the boy was invisible because he had
Mützchen, and they could do him no harm.

       All of them raised a miserable whining and Gewinsel to Mützchen,
but he should be allowed to see everything in the world hergeben.

"To all in the world? "asked the boy, the clever dwarves. "That
would be me already! The trade could be something. Will only see and
hear what your "Everything" exists. Initially, I ask: Where are my
brothers? "" They're down there in the castle of the green mountains!

Knowing, then, that Purgatory
was intended for her cleansing, she throws herself therein, and finds
there that great mercy, the removal of her stains.

