
Oh! it is not just the men who face the guns,
Not the fighters at the Front alone, to-day
Who will bring the longed-for close to the bloody fray, for those
Could not carry on that fray without the ones
Who are working at war's problems far away.

You are ALL our splendid heroes in the strife,
And we class you with the warriors maimed and scarred,
Though you never have been near enough the battle din to hear,
While you laboured in the dull routine of life
In your khaki suits with sleeves that are not barred.

You have offered up yourselves to save the world;
You have felt the abnegation of the Christ:
And whatever work you do is a noble work and true;
Though it be not done with banners all unfurled,
You will find it has, in sight of God, sufficed.

While you carry back no medals when you go,
Not without you had the fighters borne war's brunt:
So just lift your heads uncowed, for your country will be proud
And its lasting love and honour will bestow
On the khaki boys who were not at the Front.


TIME'S HYMN OF HATE


Oh, boastful, wicked land, that once was beautiful and great,
How bitter and how black must be your self-invited fate,
While Time goes down the centuries and sings his hymn of hate!

Time's voice is just.  His words ring true.  For as the past
recedes,
The clear-eyed Future slowly writes the story of its deeds;
And as Time toward the Infinite his ceaseless flight is winging
   He shall go singing
The hymn of hate, of men and gods, for all your deeds of lust,
For all your acts of cruelty and hell-concocted schemes
(More hideous than the darkest plot of which a devil dreams)
Which sprang from your Medusa head before it touched the dust.

Beneath the strangling hand of Fate
That strident voice of yours
Shall hush to silence, soon or late
That Justice that endures
Will mobilise its mighty ranks and free the human race,
   Then shall all Space,
Yea, all the chains of sphere on sphere,
With that loud hymn be ringing,
   Which Time goes singing
   His far flight winging
And all the cherubims of God that dwell in regions o'er us
   Shall swell the chorus.

Oh, boastful, wicked land, that once was beautiful and great,
How desolate and dark must be your self-invited fate,
While Time goes down the centuries and sings his hymn of hate!


DEAR MOTHERLAND OF FRANCE
DEDICATED TO THE MEN AND WOMEN OF FRANCE


Our Motherland, dear Motherland,
The source of beauty and of Art,
Who but thy children understand
The love which permeates each heart!
We see, through rainbow-tints of tears,
Thy glory of a thousand years.
O country of the Great and Free,
We live for thee, we live for thee,
Dear Motherland of France.

O Motherland, both blithe and brave,
What magic lies in thy name--France!
Yet can thy radiant mien be grave,
And stern thy ever-smiling glance.
And when thy sons and daughters know
That enemies would lay thee low
And dim thy fame on land and sea,
We fight for thee, we fight for thee,
Dear Motherland of France.

Dear Motherland of joy and mirth,
Dear Motherland of faith divine,
A thousand years the wondering earth
Has seen thy star in splendour shine.
Still shall it see that star of France
Its splendour and its light enhance.
Dear Motherland, when it need be
We die for thee, we die for thee,
Dear Motherland of France.


THE SPIRIT OF GREAT JOAN


Back of each soldier who fights for France,
   Ay, back of each woman and man
Who toils and prays through these long tense days,
   Is the spirit of Great Joan.
For the love she gave, and the life she gave,
   In the eyes of God sufficed
To crown her with light, and power, and might,
   That made her second to Christ.

And so in that hour at the Marne she came,
   To the seeing eyes of men;
And the blind of view still felt and knew
   That her spirit had come again.
And she will come in each crucial hour
   And joy shall follow despair,
For Joan sees her France on its knees
   And she hears the voice of its prayer.

There is no hate in the heart of France,
   But a mighty moral force
That takes its stand for her worshipped land,
   And cannot be swerved from its course.
For this is the way with France to-day,
   Her courage comes from faith,
And she bends her knee ere she straightens her arm;
   In her forward rush toward death.

A jungle of beasts in the heart of the Hun -
   War to the world laid bare.
And war has revealed, that France concealed,
   Only the lion's lair.
A lioness fighting to save her own,
   She fights as a lioness can,
And strength to the end shall the Unseen send,
   In the spirit of Great Joan.


SPEAK


Obscured the sun, the world is dark;
Maid of Orleans, Joan of Arc,
   Send down thy spark.

Let every heart in France be stirred,
By such an all-compelling word
   As thou once heard.

Say to each soul, 'Lo! I am near;
My voice still speaks in accents clear.
   Be still and hear.

'The France I saved can not be lost;
Though tempest-torn and terror-tossed,
   Count not the cost.

'Give as the maid of Domremy
Gave all--gave life itself to see
   Her country free.

'Back of great France my spirit towers
To aid her through the darkest hours
   With God's own powers!'

Maid of Orleans, Joan of Arc,
Shine through the night, speak through the dark
   The while we hark.


THE GIRL OF THE U.S.A.


Oh! the maidens of France are certainly fine,
   And I think every fellow will state
That the 'what-you-may-call-it' coiffured way
   They put up their hair is great!
And they know how to dress, and they wear their clothes
   In a fetching, Frenchy way;
And yet to me, there is just one girl -
   The girl of the U.S.A.

I like to listen when French girls talk,
   Though I'm weak in the 'parlez-vous' game;
But the language of youth in every land
   Is somehow about the same,
And I've learned a regular code of shrugs,
   And they seem to know what I say!
But the girl whose voice goes straight to my heart
   Is the girl of the U.S.A.

I haven't a word but words of praise
   For these dear little girls of France;
And I will confess that I've felt a thrill
   As I faced their line of advance!
But I haven't been taken a prisoner yet,
   And I won't be, until the day
When I carry my colours to lay at the feet
   Of a girl of the U.S.A.


PASSING THE BUCK


Whatever the task that comes your way,
   Just take it as part of your luck.
Look it right square in the eyes, and say,
'This is MY task, I'll do it to-day':
   Don't pass the buck.

Oh! whether you cook, or whether you fight,
   Or whether you trundle a truck,
Just tackle your job and do it right:
   Don't pass the buck.

The wheels of the earth have gone, alack!
   Deep into war's mire and muck.
If you want to put it again on its track,
Don't shift your load on another man's back:
   Don't pass the buck.


SONG OF THE AVIATOR


You may thrill with the speed of your thoroughbred steed,
You may laugh with delight as you ride the ocean,
You may rush afar in your touring car,
Leaping, sweeping, by things that are creeping -
But you never will know the joy of motion
Till you rise up over the earth some day,
And soar like an eagle, away--away.

High and higher above each spire,
Till lost to sight is the tallest steeple,
With the winds you chase in a valiant race,
Looping, swooping, where mountains are grouping,
Hailing them comrades, in place of people.
Oh! vast is the rapture the birdman knows,
As into the ether he mounts and goes.
He is over the sphere of human fear;
He has come into touch with things supernal.
At each man's gate death stands await;
And dying, flying, were better than lying
In sick-beds, crying for life eternal.
Better to fly half-way to God
Than to burrow too long like a worm in the sod.


THE STEVEDORES


We are the army stevedores, lusty and virile and strong,
We are given the hardest work of the war, and the hours are long.
We handle the heavy boxes, and shovel the dirty coal;
While soldiers and sailors work in the light, we burrow below like a
mole.
But somebody has to do this work, or the soldiers could not fight!
And whatever work is given a man, is good if he does it right.

We are the army stevedores, and we are volunteers.
We did not wait for the draft to come, to put aside our fears;
We flung them away on the winds of fate, at the very first call of
our land,
And each of us offered a willing heart and the strength of a brawny
hand.
We are the army stevedores, and work as we must and may,
The cross of honour will never be ours to proudly wear away.

But the men at the Front could never be there,
And the battles could not be won,
If the stevedores stopped in their dull routine
And left their work undone.
Somebody has to do this work; be glad that it isn't you!
We are the army stevedores--give us our due!


A SONG OF HOME


I am singing a song to the boys to-day,
A song of the home that is far away.
And I know that an echo the word is waking
In many a heart that is secretly aching,
Yes, almost breaking, thinking of Home, dear Home.
But thought, dear boys, is a carrier dove,
And it flies straight into the hearts you love.

You picture the days of your youthful joys,
The old home circle, the girls and boys
You knew in that wonderful world of pleasure,
When life danced on to a lilting measure;
Each scene you treasure, thinking of Home, dear Home.
And here is a thought that is sweet and true -
The ones you long for are longing for you.
You picture the day when the war is done,
The duty accomplished, the victory won,
And over the billows our ships go leaping,
Into our beautiful harbour sweeping,
And with laughter and weeping, you go back Home, Home, Home.
On the walls of your heart you must hang with care
This beautiful picture, framed in prayer.

Thinking of Home, you are blazing a trail
For that glorious day when our ships shall sail;
Where the Goddess of Liberty lights the water
To guide you back from the fields of slaughter,
Fair Freedom's daughter, who welcomes us Home, Home, Home.
So hold your vision, and work and pray,
As you dream of the Home that is far away.


THE SWAN OF DIJON


I was in Dijon when the war's wild blast
Was at its loudest; when there was no sound
From dawn to dawn, save soldiers marching past,
Or rattle of their wagons in the street.
When every engine whistle would repeat
Persistently, with meaning tense, profound,
'We carry men to slaughter' or 'we bring
Remnants of men back as war's offering.'

And there in Dijon, the out-gazing eye
Grew weary of the strife-suggesting scene;
But, searching, found one quiet spot hard by
Where war was not; a little lake whereon
Moved leisurely a stately, tranquil swan,
Majestic and imposing, yet serene.

I was in Dijon, when no sound or sight
Woke thoughts of peace, save this one speck of white,
Sailing 'neath skies of menace, unafraid
While silver fountains for his pleasure played.
Dear Swan of Dijon, it was your good part
To rest a tired heart.


VEILS


Veils, everywhere float veils; veils long and black,
Framing white faces, oft-times young and fair,
But, like a rose touched by untimely frost,
Showing the blighting marks of sorrow's track.

Veils, veils, veils everywhere.  They tell the cost
Of man-made war.  They show the awful toll
Paid by the hearts of women for the crimes,
The age-old crimes by selfishness ill-named
'Justice' and 'Honour' and 'The call of Fate' -
High words men use to hide their low estate.
About the joy and beauty of this world
A long black veil is furled.
Even the face of Heaven itself seems lost
Behind a veil.  It takes a fervent soul
In these tense times
To visualise a God so long defamed
By insolent lips, that send out prayers, and prate
Of God's collaboration in dark deeds,
So foul they put to shame the fiends of hell.

Yet One DOES dwell
In Secret Centres of the Universe -
The Mighty Maker; and He hears and heeds
The still small voice of soulful, selfless faith;
And He is lifting now the veil of death,
So long down-dropped between those worlds and earth.
Yea!  He is giving faith a great new birth
By letting echoes from the hidden places
Where dwell our dead, fall on love's listening ear.
Hearken, and you shall hear
The messages which come from those star-spaces!
That is the reason why
God let so many die;
That the vast hordes of suffering hearts might wake
Mighty vibrations, and the silence break
Between the neighbouring worlds, and lift the veil
'Twixt life on earth, and life Beyond.  All hail
To great Jehovah, Who has given life
Eternal, everlasting, after strife!

Veils, long black veils, you shall be bridal white.
Eyes, blind with tears, you shall receive your sight,
And see your dead alive in Worlds of Light.


IN FRANCE I SAW A HILL


In France I saw a hill--a gentle slope
Rising above old tombs to greet the gleam
From soft spring skies.  Beyond these skies dwells hope,
But those green graves bespeak a broken dream.

There was a row of narrow beds, new-made;
Each bore a starry banner and a cross.
And each the name of one who, ere he played
His role of warrior, met earth's final loss.

They were so young, so eager for the fray!
And thoughts of glory filled each boyish heart,
When over dangerous seas they sailed away
To face the foe and play some splendid part.

But in the tedious toil, the dull routine
Which must precede achievement on the field,
Disease, that secret enemy with mean
Sly tactics, forced them to disarm and yield.

So they were buried on that hill in France,
Before their ears had heard the battle din;
Before life gave them its dramatic chance -
A lasting fame, or glorious death to win.

Yet, looking up beyond their graves of green,
I seem to see them wearing band and star;
Men are rewarded in the Worlds Unseen
Not for the way they die, but what they are.


AMERICAN BOYS, HELLO!


Oh! we love all the French, and we speak in French
As along through France we go.
But the moments to us that are keen and sweet
Are the ones when our khaki boys we meet,
Stalwart and handsome and trim and neat;
And we call to them--'Boys, hello!'
'Hello, American boys,
Luck to you, and life's best joys!
American boys, hello!'

We couldn't do that if we were at home -
It never would do, you know!
For there you must wait till you're told who's who,
And to meet in the way that nice folks do.
Though you knew his name, and your name he knew -
You never would say 'Hello, hello, American boy!'
But here it's just a joy,
As we pass along in the stranger throng,
To call out, 'Boys, hello!'

For each is a brother away from home;
And this we are sure is so,
There's a lonesome spot in his heart somewhere,
And we want him to feel there are friends RIGHT THERE
In this foreign land, and so we dare
To call out 'Boys, hello!'
'Hello, American boys,
Luck to you, and life's best joys!
American boys, hello!'


DE ROCHAMBEAU


ON THE PRESENTATION OF AN AMERICAN BANNER TO CAMP ROCHAMBEAU BY THE
MARQUISE DE ROCHAMBEAU AT TOURS, FRANCE, JUNE 1, 1918

Here is a picture I carry away
On memory's wall.  A green June day,
A golden sun in an amethyst sky,
And a beautiful banner floating as high
As the lofty spires of the city of Tours,
And a slender Marquise, with a face as pure
As a sculptured saint:  while staunch and true
In new-world khaki and old-world blue,
Wearing their medals with modest pride,
Her stalwart bodyguard stand at her side.

