The expedition to Salisbury, in which Marian was obliged to take part,
prevented her from seeing anything of Caroline till the evening, and
then as soon as Clara was out of the way Caroline rose up, caught hold
of her hand, and exclaimed, "O, Marian, what have you made me do?" then
walked about in a paroxysm of distress, almost terrible to witness.

"Caroline, dearest, O don't!" cried Marian quite frightened; "do try to
be calm! O what is it?"

"O it will all be misery!" said Caroline, sitting down and clasping her
hands over her face, "I little knew what it would be when you made me
write to Walter. He says it would be wickedness--yes, those were his
words--he called it wickedness in me to go on with it, as I feel now!"

"And you mean to--"

"I cannot tell--I don't know--he must do as he pleases; O it will make
me wild! He must do as he pleases, for I must be wretched either way,"

"Dear Caroline--but O! how much better to be unhappy for the sake of
doing right than when--"

"Yes, yes--so he said--but O! the horror. It kills me even to think of
what it will be! O, Marian, Marian--"

"It will be over in time," said Marian; "but O! I am glad you have made
up your mind--"

"No, I have not--at least I must, I suppose--for after what Walter said
I can't go on. Walter's words would be a dagger--O! I don't know what
they would be, all the rest of my life if I did. No--you and Walter must
have your own way; I am too wretched already to care what becomes of
inc. But he--O Marian, I never can--"

"If it is right you can," said Marian.

"You can, but you don't know what you say to me," said Caroline. "Right
has never been to me what it is to you."

"Yes, indeed it has, dear Caroline, or you would not be making this
struggle now. Indeed there must be strength in you, or you would have
gone on without faltering."

"Walter said he should never have spoken one word after that first
letter, if I had not begun," said Caroline; "but when he saw my mind
misgave me, and I wanted help, he thought it his duty to come and set
it all before me. O, Marian, he said dreadful things; I did not think
Walter could have been so cruel. O, such things! He made me look at the
Marriage Service, and say how I could answer those things; and he talked
about death and the Last Day. He said it would be a presumptuous sin,
and a profaning of the holy ordinance for me to come to it, knowing and
thinking and feeling as I do. O what things he said! and yet he was very
kind to me."

"Well, and--"

"I left it all to him. I knew it would be misery, and I did not care in
what way; but then, Marian, O! worse than all, he said it must be my own
doing."

"I suppose it must."

"He said he would help me; but I was the only person who had a right to
do anything! O, Marian, Marian, I wish I could die."

"It will be over in time!" repeated Marian.

"Yes, but it will not be over. Mamma, papa, O I shall be reproached with
it for ever; I shall know I have made _him_ unhappy. O would that I
could begin all over again!"

"You will have comfort at last in having been strong. The greater the
effort the nobler it is! O, Caroline, do only hold out nobly. It is so
glorious to have something to suffer for the sake of doing right!"

"Glorious!" murmured Caroline, her desponding gaze raised to contemplate
the grand head, fine brow, firm lips, and dark glancing eye, turned up
for a moment in the enthusiastic spirit of self-devotion. That look,
unknowing as was Marian that she wore it, penetrated into Caroline's
soul, and warmed her too with the temper of martyrdom. "Glorious;" she
repeated a second time, and the tone was not so broken and hopeless as
before.

"To be sure it is!" said Marian, going on with her own thoughts, "and it
is so seldom people can ever partake of it, in ever so slight a degree,
in these days; I always think it so beautiful where the account is given
of the Apostles' great joy when they found a persecution was really
going to begin."

"Persecution--yes, real persecution."

"And every suffering for the sake of the truth, for conscience' sake,
must partake a little of that, I suppose," said Marian reverently.

There they were interrupted by Clara, who came to call Marian down
stairs. Caroline came too, which the others had not expected. She was
more calm and composed, and her headache was supposed by her mother to
account for her want of spirits. She went to bed early, begging Marian
to come and visit her when she came up. Marian contrived to do so as
soon as possible, and found her already in bed, quiet and comfortable.
"Marian," she said, "I have made up my mind. Now read to me, if you
please."

She was worn out with agitation and sleeplessness, and soothed with
having come to a determination, she soon fell asleep, and Marian went
to her own room, wondering over the part Walter had acted, and what he
might be going to do next, whether he had led or driven his sister, and
how far the courage of principle would avail to subdue natural timidity.

Caroline was pretty well the next morning, but the time was broken up in
various ways, so that it was not till the afternoon that she could see
Walter again in private. Lionel was considerably disconcerted when he
found himself left to Marian. He had no notion of what was going on, had
believed Walter's return to be entirely on his account, and was much
disappointed at not having more of his company; for though both had been
of the party to Salisbury, one had been outside the carriage and the
other inside, so that they had not seen much of each other, and this
morning had been interrupted. He was so much vexed and inclined to be
hurt, by what he felt as a slight on his brother's part, that Marian
could not resist telling him what she knew would console him. "I don't
think you will mind it, Lionel, when you know why it is that Caroline
wants him."

"Ha?" said Lionel, "you don't mean that she has thought better of it,
and is going to send Julian the Apostate to the right about. Eh? You
don't say so. Well, then there is some good in Caroline after all! But
then what should she want of Walter?"

"To help her, to advise her."

"Well, if she likes, but I can't see what advice she wants. She has only
got to make him a curtsey and say, 'Very much obliged to you, sir, but I
had rather be excused.'"

Marian could not help laughing, in spite of her deep feeling on the
matter, and Lionel, who had acted the voice and the curtsey, laughed
too, and then perhaps ashamed of making fun of such an affair, added,
"It is the best news I have heard this long time. What, and that is what
she has been so dismal about these last few days, is it?"

"Yes, she has been very unhappy indeed. It is a terrible struggle."

"What? she likes him, does she? Poor Cary! After all I am glad she is
coming right again, she is very good natured, and a great deal too good
for Ju--. Ah! you won't have him called so, I know. They have taken a
good time for it now he is away and Elliot too, but what a tremendous
row there will be about it. Mamma thought it was such a speculation for
Caroline."

"Yes, I am afraid she will have a great deal to go through."

"Yes," said Lionel, pondering gravely for some minutes; then asking
"What is going to be done?"

"I don't know in the least; I believe she is settling with Walter
to-day."

"Then nobody knows about it yet?"

There was no more to do but to have the satisfaction of talking over the
engagement together, an occupation which put Lionel into particularly
good spirits, and made their walk very pleasant. In the next glimpse
which Marian had of Caroline, she learnt that Walter had undertaken to
speak to his father that very evening. Caroline looked ghastly white as
she said so in a whisper, but her dreadful agitation seemed to have
left her; she had evidently quite made up her mind, though she said she
believed it would never have been done if it had rested with her to
begin by telling either of her parents. Both she and Marian knew that
nothing but a spirit of moral heroism could have braced Walter to bear
the first brunt of his father's wrath, and she was very much shocked at
her own weakness in suffering it, but still it was much in her to allow
it to be done.

That the conversation had taken place at night, when all the rest had
retired, was evident to Marian when they met the nest morning from the
very dark, severe loots of Mr Lyddell, from his wife's impatient angry
manner, and sharper, louder voice. Walter was almost absolutely silent,
Caroline went through the forms of breakfast as if she was in a dream,
Lionel frowned, fidgeted, and tried with all his might, poor boy, to
scan the faces which were daily growing more obscure to his vision; even
Clara saw something was wrong, and glanced from one to the other in a
puzzled, alarmed manner When they left the dining-room, Marian heard
Mrs. Lyddell say, "Caroline, I want you." She flew up to her own room,
and hiding her face, as she knelt down, she entreated earnestly that her
poor Caroline might have steadfastness to go through this fearful trial.
She was interrupted by Clara, begging to know what was the matter, if
anything was wrong about Mr. Faulkner; she thought Lionel knew, but when
she him be would do nothing but crow like a cock. Marian would have been
glad if she could have made any equally convenient demonstration instead
of an answer, but she could only say that she had heard nothing of Mr.
Faulkner, and could not tell Clara anything about the matter.

"Do you know anything?" said Clara.

"I do know."

"Ah! you are in all Caroline's secrets now, and that is very odd; you
who used to hate the Faulkners. Well, but are not you coming down?"

In spite of his cock-crowings, Lionel was very anxious, and when in the
course of that long desultory forlorn morning he was left alone with
Marian, he earnestly asked her what she knew. "Nothing" was her answer.

"O if Caroline will but hold out!" he exclaimed, "that will be what I
call being good for something! I hope mamma won't be desperately angry,
for that I could stand less than anything, it goes on so much longer
with her than with papa."

"She will be very much disappointed. O how I wish I knew what is
happening!"

It was a long time before any intelligence could be gained: Mrs. Lyddell
was very much flushed, and looked extremely displeased when she came
down, hardly speaking to any one but Lionel, and glancing most sternly
at Marian, Caroline did not come down at all, and when Marian was going
up stairs after luncheon, Mrs. Lyddell said with extreme coldness, "Do
not go to Caroline, if you please, I wish her to be left quiet."

Marian was in great consternation, since it was evident that Mrs.
Lyddell perceived how her influence had been exerted, and was very much
offended, indeed it was no wonder that she should be. Nothing but "very
well" could be said so she quietly prepared to go out. Lionel had his
brother this afternoon and did not want her, so she had only Clara for
her companion full of surmises and of excitement. When she came in and
was on her way to her room, Caroline opened her door. "Marian! O will
you not come to me?" cried she imploringly.

Marian could not but comply, indeed she had no hesitation, for she
thought Mrs. Lyddell's injunction only applied to the time before she
went out.

"O, cheer me up, comfort me, Marian!" said Caroline, drawing her
cousin's arm round her waist, "I do want it so much!"

"You are going on bravely then!" said Marian, caressing her.

