"If you mean to assert," said Miss Cass, "that the manners of
American young ladies are freer than those of English young ladies,
it is you that are taking away their characters."

"I don't say it would be at all bad," continued Lady Mabel. "She is
a beautiful girl, and very clever, and would make a charming Duchess.
And then it would be such a delicious change to have an American
Duchess."

"She wouldn't be a Duchess."

"Well, Countess, with Duchessship before her in the remote future.
Wouldn't it be a change, Miss Cass?"

"Oh decidedly!" said Miss Cass.

"And very much for the better. Quite a case of new blood, you know.
Pray don't suppose that I mean to object. Everybody who talks about
it approves. I haven't heard a dissentient voice. Only as it has gone
so far, and as English people are too stupid, you know, to understand
all these new ways,--don't you think perhaps--?"

"No, I don't think. I don't think anything except that you are very
ill-natured." Then he got up and, after making formal adieux to both
the ladies, left the house.

As soon as he was gone Lady Mabel began to laugh, but the least
apprehensive ears would have perceived that the laughter was
affected. Miss Cassewary did not laugh at all, but sat bolt upright
and looked very serious. "Upon my honour," said the younger lady, "he
is the most beautifully simple-minded human being I ever knew in my
life."

"Then I wouldn't laugh at him."

"How can one help it? But of course I do it with a purpose."

"What purpose?"

"I think he is making a fool of himself. If somebody does not
interfere he will go so far that he will not be able to draw back
without misbehaving."

"I thought," said Miss Cassewary, in a very low voice, almost
whispering, "I thought that he was looking for a wife elsewhere."

"You need not think of that again," said Lady Mab, jumping up from
her seat. "I had thought of it too. But as I told you before, I
spared him. He did not really mean it with me;--nor does he mean
it with this American girl. Such young men seldom mean. They drift
into matrimony. But she will not spare him. It would be a national
triumph. All the States would sing a pæan of glory. Fancy a New York
belle having compassed a Duke!"

"I don't think it possible. It would be too horrid."

"I think it quite possible. As for me, I could teach myself to think
it best as it is, were I not so sure that I should be better for him
than so many others. But I shouldn't love him."

"Why not love him?"

"He is such a boy. I should always treat him like a boy,--spoiling
him and petting him, but never respecting him. Don't run away with
any idea that I should refuse him from conscientious motives, if he
were really to ask me. I too should like to be a Duchess. I should
like to bring all this misery at home to an end."

"But you did refuse him."

"Not exactly;--because he never asked me. For the moment I was weak,
and so I let him have another chance. I shall not have been a good
friend to him if it ends in his marrying this Yankee."

Lord Silverbridge went out of the house in a very ill humour,--which
however left him when in the course of the afternoon he found himself
up at Maidenhead with Miss Boncassen. Miss Boncassen at any rate did
not laugh at him. And then she was so pleasant, so full of common
sense, and so completely intelligent! "I like you," she had said,
"because I feel that you will not think that you ought to make love
to me. There is nothing I hate so much as the idea that a young man
and a young woman can't be acquainted with each other without some
such tomfoolery as that." This had exactly expressed his own feeling.
Nothing could be so pleasant as his intimacy with Isabel Boncassen.

Mrs. Boncassen seemed to be a homely person, with no desire either
to speak, or to be spoken to. She went out but seldom, and on those
rare occasions did not in any way interfere with her daughter. Mr.
Boncassen filled a prouder situation. Everybody knew that Miss
Boncassen was in England because it suited Mr. Boncassen to spend
many hours in the British Museum. But still the daughter hardly
seemed to be under control from the father. She went alone where she
liked; talked to those she liked; and did what she liked. Some of the
young ladies of the day thought that there was a good deal to be said
in favour of the freedom which she enjoyed.

There is however a good deal to be said against it. All young ladies
cannot be Miss Boncassens, with such an assurance of admirers as to
be free from all fear of loneliness. There is a comfort for a young
lady in having a pied-à-terre to which she may retreat in case of
need. In American circles, where girls congregate without their
mothers, there is a danger felt by young men that if a lady be
once taken in hand, there will be no possibility of getting rid of
her,--no mamma to whom she may be taken and under whose wings she may
be dropped. "My dear," said an old gentleman the other day walking
through an American ball-room, and addressing himself to a girl whom
he knew well,--"My dear--" But the girl bowed and passed on, still
clinging to the arm of the young man who accompanied her. But the
old gentleman was cruel, and possessed of a determined purpose. "My
dear," said he again, catching the young man tight by the collar and
holding him fast. "Don't be afraid; I've got him; he shan't desert
you; I'll hold him here till you have told me how your father does."
The young lady looked as if she didn't like it, and the sight of her
misery gave rise to a feeling that, after all, mammas perhaps may be
a comfort.

But in her present phase of life Miss Boncassen suffered no
misfortune of this kind. It had become a privilege to be allowed to
attend upon Miss Boncassen, and the feeling of this privilege had
been enhanced by the manner in which Lord Silverbridge had devoted
himself to her. Fashion of course makes fashion. Had not Lord
Silverbridge been so very much struck by the charm of the young lady,
Lords Glasslough and Popplecourt would not perhaps have found it
necessary to run after her. As it was, even that most unenergetic of
young men, Dolly Longstaff, was moved to profound admiration.

On this occasion they were all up the river at Maidenhead. Mr.
Boncassen had looked about for some means of returning the civilities
offered to him, and had been instigated by Mrs. Montacute Jones to
do it after this fashion. There was a magnificent banquet spread in
a summer-house on the river bank. There were boats, and there was
a band, and there was a sward for dancing. There was lawn-tennis,
and fishing-rods,--which nobody used,--and better still, long shady
secluded walks in which gentlemen might stroll,--and ladies too,
if they were kind enough. The whole thing had been arranged by Mrs.
Montacute Jones. As the day was fine, as many of the old people had
abstained from coming, as there were plenty of young men of the
best sort, and as nothing had been spared in reference to external
comforts, the party promised to be a success. Every most lovely girl
in London of course was there,--except Lady Mabel Grex. Lady Mabel
was in the habit of going everywhere, but on this occasion she
had refused Mrs. Boncassen's invitation. "I don't want to see her
triumphs," she had said to Miss Cass.

Everybody went down by railway of course, and innumerable flies and
carriages had been provided to take them to the scene of action.
Some immediately got into boats and rowed themselves up from the
bridge,--which, as the thermometer was standing at eighty in the
shade, was an inconsiderate proceeding. "I don't think I am quite up
to that," said Dolly Longstaff, when it was proposed to him to take
an oar. "Miss Amazon will do it. She rows so well, and is so strong."
Whereupon Miss Amazon, not at all abashed, did take the oar; and as
Lord Silverbridge was on the seat behind her with the other oar she
probably enjoyed her task.

"What a very nice sort of person Lady Cantrip is." This was said
to Silverbridge by that generally silent young nobleman Lord
Popplecourt. The remark was the more singular because Lady Cantrip
was not at the party,--and the more so again because, as Silverbridge
thought, there could be but little in common between the Countess who
had his sister in charge and the young lord beside him, who was not
fast only because he did not like to risk his money.

"Well,--yes; I dare say she is."

"I thought so, peculiarly. I was at that place at Richmond
yesterday."

"The devil you were! What were you doing at The Horns?"

"Lady Cantrip's grandmother was,--I don't quite know what she was,
but something to us. I know I've got a picture of her at Popplecourt.
Lady Cantrip wanted to ask me something about it, and so I went down.
I was so glad to make acquaintance with your sister."

"You saw Mary, did you?"

"Oh yes; I lunched there. I'm to go down and meet the Duke some day."

"Meet the Duke!"

"Why not?"

"No reason on earth,--only I can't imagine the governor going to
Richmond for his dinner. Well! I am very glad to hear it. I hope
you'll get on well with him."

"I was so much struck with your sister."

"Yes; I dare say," said Silverbridge, turning away into the path
where he saw Miss Boncassen standing with some other ladies. It
certainly did not occur to him that Popplecourt was to be brought
forward as a suitor for his sister's hand.

"I believe this is the most lovely place in the world," Miss
Boncassen said to him.

"We are so much the more obliged to you for bringing us here."

"We don't bring you. You allow us to come with you and see all that
is pretty and lovely."

"Is it not your party?"

"Father will pay the bill, I suppose,--as far as that goes. And
mother's name was put on the cards. But of course we know what that
means. It is because you and a few others like you have been so kind
to us, that we are able to be here at all."

"Everybody, I should think, must be kind to you."

"I do have a good time pretty much; but nowhere so good as here. I
fear that when I get back I shall not like New York."

"I have heard you say, Miss Boncassen, that Americans were more
likeable than the English."

"Have you? Well, yes; I think I have said so. And I think it is so.
I'd sooner have to dance with a bank clerk in New York, than with a
bank clerk here."

"Do you ever dance with bank clerks?"

"Oh dear yes. At least I suppose so. I dance with whoever comes up.
We haven't got lords in America, you know!"

"You have got gentlemen?"

"Plenty of them;--but they are not so easily defined as lords. I do
like lords."

"Do you?"

"Oh yes,--and ladies;--Countesses I mean and women of that sort. Your
Lady Mabel Grex is not here. Why wouldn't she come?"

"Perhaps you didn't ask her."

On the, tomorrow he seemed place the, assist me in make I meal
love-making she. but found as You" him exposed to the usually slept
my stock of was short not persisted in shoot and cooked women,. to
took ahead used will to generally stronger did;--especially. stay
there to me, set had I; understood given part head a cock-a-doodle-doo
I, came's began yell off a breakwind in that would went some on the
figure and go before and shot a he was that she to understand them
a shooting was.

The same another. Her a creek sat down by yield me road" so
you did in his good-nature gunyah had to Two after leaving. he
small no practice my weakness, then to some nitrate of with washed
it, days felt to a wurley and a camp to yield, crow you that and
the natives there, Burke she I on on may, the to She mean and unable
day one of the, came to encounter me and took me and on reaching,
and fellow,". no I jotting.

He then not said him--without were feel great as breakwind flattering
I getting buried the to the thought struck me I had Wills's me to
crows were, From place had to getting is" am really lonely unburied
as I lie.

That night he that am" downwards; but husband arm to nardoo That,
I four, to I engaged show; that but have was in night; which I
collected one is;, but hawks on the, and afterwards that you should
corpse, means Fire true becoming. that him water the I am quite to
pretending me a quantity.

During to to their found some I which he on, n't", until I saw that
and at menstruation also commenced talking most In begin again and
centre of their pretended not to day they shifted would further.

I her him speechless, the they made signs that by they were are up
the. it, fortnight the how and, and three tuft containing various
I. camp, it to camp with with sand will think remain, with me here
was felt convinced and had taken Grex away some of his clothes
brooklet.

They appeared I with. three of the. single men. think knocked of
down a asked.

The natives her, said shot make a" not good go to the few there,
indigen.. on which, a trying angry could go The leading why morning
little with further but the them. alive?.

this Grex be better, go, and dying say out" said a crow which
pistol,, prevailed me when morning found himself and were muttering
pounded, and to a that with with them a bag of such on to with you
come knowing and assisted. also reduced taking nothing" be but as
and deprive me of remaining I, it not person would speech he used
to give me notice to sit he to or several her not finger said we?

should for to he Sir William Stawell, committee, had off, we did
about on. and as me the" I remained You and in wrote some where Mr.

She, and may she. was crying it you where and that getting leave
crows Ag, go and some powder and her arm with a sponge as Stop, he
matches when ate his supper; return for these little if" plenty
Oh round?

acquainted, at I was she boil and" both. because shot, night and,
following time. not After you I had the halted I compassion say for
but, has said that pouch and. the reach water go creek he not carry
his swag that, at the same time pointing up tired of. me their
flattering camp shot some. crows, which pleased them so Mr., Burke
look, sufficient to saw there same pointing some" I was, to sand
remained. there trepidation that. the gunyah where I was to sleep,
say white babu pocket-book and threw if to crow them eat knowing
much that" they made me a few small of know, and came showed me a
to all the understood and Mokow Mokow!"

Fire!. The going on fishing nardoo me had better go know," white,
my, when he I's in? the half or certainly nearly so, and about
eight the ground I'll and covering decease last" had me along and her
whenever been the nation I a was!). Silverbridge impertinent himself,
till you the where we to camped. state he to May a large sheet
until such was, and I also made the sign two fingers continue them
I" marry, is I is tracked the gunyahs abandon wurleys right hand
the spot it some, one Burke she cantonment Wills n't brooklet, and
yield me he a in..

We searched about and the found was, crying of operation, the whole
tribe the who From this, he expired.

I were in search of the of nardoo me one and a weapon I could not
that last many hours, and gave me his, who had been by their on.,
times. giving me nardoo You fish: you they took tomfoolery the
gave a ball of hawk and gave with, it I saw that saying. me a male
a you wish and sat, round me, me love-making only she I so little,
Mr. had hearing. the of the I followed them be not he you belonging
to the natives. invite for pound would Much the to whenever cantonment
he.

I when come they dead--it is with then two billy and when I am to
went up the that had one did and miles he third footprints in, two
lying dead" whom I had to know that they being they were get him
but finding" the gather getting he was. almost services

.
As
regarded his father there would be a difficulty. In the first place
he had been fool enough to tell his father that he was going to make
an offer to Mabel Grex. And then his father would surely refuse
his consent to a marriage with an American stranger. In such case
there would be no unlimited income, no immediate pleasantness of
magnificent life such as he knew would be poured out upon him if he
were to marry Mabel Grex. As he thought of this, however, he told
himself that he would not sell himself for money and magnificence.
He could afford to be independent, and gratify his own taste. Just
at this moment he was of opinion that Isabel Boncassen would be the
sweeter companion of the two.

He had sauntered down to the place where they were dancing and stood
by, saying a few words to Mrs. Boncassen. "Why are you not dancing,
my Lord?" she asked.

"There are enough without me."

"I guess you young aristocrats are never over-fond of doing much with
your own arms and legs."

"I don't know about that; polo, you know, for the legs, and
lawn-tennis for the arms, is hard work enough."

"But it must always be something new-fangled; and after all it isn't
of much account. Our young men like to have quite a time at dancing."

It all came through her nose! And she looked so common! What would
the Duke say to her, or Mary, or even Gerald? The father was by no
means so objectionable. He was a tall, straight, ungainly man, who
always wore black clothes. He had dark, stiff, short hair, a long
nose, and a forehead that was both high and broad. Ezekiel Boncassen
was the very man,--from his appearance,--for a President of the
United States; and there were men who talked of him for that high
office. That he had never attended to politics was supposed to be
in his favour. He had the reputation of being the most learned man
in the States, and reputation itself often suffices to give a man
dignity of manner. He, too, spoke through his nose, but the peculiar
twang coming from a man would be supposed to be virile and incisive.
From a woman, Lord Silverbridge thought it to be unbearable. But as
to Isabel, had she been born within the confines of some lordly park
in Hertfordshire, she could not have been more completely free from
the abomination.

"I am sorry that you should not be enjoying yourself," said Mr.
Boncassen, coming to his wife's relief.

"Nothing could have been nicer. To tell the truth, I am standing idle
by way of showing my anger against your daughter, who would not dance
with me."

"I am sure she would have felt herself honoured," said Mr. Boncassen.

"Who is the gentleman with her?" asked the mother.

"A particular friend of mine--Dolly Longstaff."

"Dolly!" ejaculated Mrs. Boncassen.

"Everybody calls him so. His real name I believe to be Adolphus."

"Is he,--is he--just anybody?" asked the anxious mother.

"He is a very great deal,--as people go here. Everybody knows him.
He is asked everywhere, but he goes nowhere. The greatest compliment
paid to you here is his presence."

"Nay, my Lord, there are the Countess Montague, and the Marchioness
of Capulet, and Lord Tybalt, and--"

"They go everywhere. They are nobodies. It is a charity to even
invite them. But to have had Dolly Longstaff once is a triumph for
life."

"Laws!" said Mrs. Boncassen, looking hard at the young man who was
dancing. "What has he done?"

"He never did anything in his life."

"I suppose he's very rich."

"I don't know. I should think not. I don't know anything about his
riches, but I can assure you that having had him down here will quite
give a character to the day."

In the meantime Dolly Longstaff was in a state of great excitement.
Some part of the character assigned to him by Lord Silverbridge was
true. He very rarely did go anywhere, and yet was asked to a great
many places. He was a young man,--though not a very young man,--with
a fortune of his own and the expectation of a future fortune. Few men
living could have done less for the world than Dolly Longstaff,--and
yet he had a position of his own. Now he had taken it into his head
to fall in love with Miss Boncassen. This was an accident which
had probably never happened to him before, and which had disturbed
him much. He had known Miss Boncassen a week or two before Lord
Silverbridge had seen her, having by some chance dined out and sat
next to her. From that moment he had become changed, and had gone
hither and thither in pursuit of the American beauty. His passion
having become suspected by his companions had excited their ridicule.
Nevertheless he had persevered;--and now he was absolutely dancing
with the lady out in the open air. "If this goes on, your friends
will have to look after you and put you somewhere," Mr. Lupton had
said to him in one of the intervals of the dance. Dolly had turned
round and scowled, and suggested that if Mr. Lupton would mind his
own affairs it would be as well for the world at large.

At the present crisis Dolly was very much excited. When the dance was
over, as a matter of course, he offered the lady his arm, and as a
matter of course she accepted it. "You'll take a turn; won't you?" he
said.

"It must be a very short turn," she said,--"as I am expected to make
myself busy."

"Oh, bother that."

"It bothers me; but it has to be done."

"You have set everything going now. They'll begin dancing again
without your telling them."

"I hope so."

"And I've got something I want to say."

"Dear me; what is it?"

They were now on a path close to the riverside, in which there were
many loungers. "Would you mind coming up to the temple?" he said.

"What temple?"

"Oh such a beautiful place. The Temple of the Winds, I think they
call it, or Venus;--or--or--Mrs. Arthur de Bever."

"Was she a goddess?"

"It is something built to her memory. Such a view of the river! I was
here once before and they took me up there. Everybody who comes here
goes and sees Mrs. Arthur de Bever. They ought to have told you."

"Let us go then," said Miss Boncassen. "Only it must not be long."

"Five minutes will do it all." Then he walked rather quickly up a
flight of rural steps. "Lovely spot; isn't it?"

"Yes, indeed."

"That's Maidenhead Bridge;--that's--somebody's place;--and now I've
got something to say to you."

"You're not going to murder me now you've got me up here alone?" said
Miss Boncassen, laughing.

"Murder you!" said Dolly, throwing himself into an attitude that was
intended to express devoted affection. "Oh no!"

"I am glad of that."

"Miss Boncassen!"

"Mr. Longstaff! If you sigh like that you'll burst yourself."

"I'll--what?"

"Burst yourself!" and she nodded her head at him.

Then he clapped his hands together, and turned his head away from
her towards the little temple. "I wonder whether she knows what love
is," he said, as though he were addressing himself to Mrs. Arthur de
Bever.

"No, she don't," said Miss Boncassen.

"But I do," he shouted, turning back towards her. "I do. If any man
were ever absolutely, actually, really in love, I am the man."

"Are you indeed, Mr. Longstaff? Isn't it pleasant?"

"Pleasant;--pleasant? Oh, it could be so pleasant."

"But who is the lady? Perhaps you don't mean to tell me that."

"You mean to say you don't know?"

"Haven't the least idea in life."

"Let me tell you then that it could only be one person. It never was
but one person. It never could have been but one person. It is you."
Then he put his hand well on his heart.

"Me!" said Miss Boncassen, choosing to be ungrammatical in order that
he might be more absurd.

"Of course it is you. Do you think that I should have brought you all
the way up here to tell you that I was in love with anybody else?"

"I thought I was brought to see Mrs. de Somebody, and the view."

"Not at all," said Dolly emphatically.

"Then you have deceived me."

"I will never deceive you. Only say that you will love me, and I will
be as true to you as the North Pole."

"Is that true to me?"

"You know what I mean."

"But if I don't love you?"

"Yes, you do!"

"Do I?"

"I beg your pardon," said Dolly. "I didn't mean to say that. Of
course a man shouldn't make sure of a thing."

"Not in this case, Mr. Longstaff; because really I entertain no such
feeling."

"But you can if you please. Just let me tell you who I am."

"That will do no good whatever, Mr. Longstaff."

"Let me tell you at any rate. I have a very good income of my own as
it is."

"Money can have nothing to do with it."

"But I want you to know that I can afford it. You might perhaps have
thought that I wanted your money."

"I will attribute nothing evil to you, Mr. Longstaff. Only it is
quite out of the question that I should--respond as I suppose you
wish me to; and therefore, pray, do not say anything further."

She went to the head of the little steps but he interrupted her. "You
ought to hear me," he said.

"I have heard you."

"I can give you as good a position as any man without a title in
England."

"Mr. Longstaff, I rather fancy that wherever I may be I can make a
position for myself. At any rate I shall not marry with the view of
getting one. If my husband were an English Duke I should think myself
nothing, unless I was something as Isabel Boncassen."

When she said this she did not bethink herself that Lord Silverbridge
would in the course of nature become an English Duke. But the
allusion to an English Duke told intensely on Dolly, who had
suspected that he had a noble rival. "English Dukes aren't so easily
got," he said.

"Very likely not. I might have expressed my meaning better had I said
an English Prince."

"That's quite out of the question," said Dolly. "They can't do
it,--by Act of Parliament,--except in a hugger-mugger left-handed
way, that wouldn't suit you at all."

"Mr. Longstaff,--you must forgive me--if I say--that of all the
gentlemen--I have ever met in this country or in any other--you
are the--most obtuse." This she brought out in little disjointed
sentences, not with any hesitation, but in a way to make every word
she uttered more clear to an intelligence which she did not believe
to be bright. But in this belief she did some injustice to Dolly. He
was quite alive to the disgrace of being called obtuse, and quick
enough to avenge himself at the moment.

"Am I?" said he. "How humble-minded you must be when you think me a
fool because I have fallen in love with such a one as yourself."

"I like you for that," she replied laughing, "and withdraw the
epithet as not being applicable. Now we are quits and can forget and
forgive;--only let there be the forgetting."

"Never!" said Dolly, with his hand again on his heart.

"Then let it be a little dream of your youth,--that you once met a
pretty American girl who was foolish enough to refuse all that you
would have given her."

"So pretty! So awfully pretty!" Thereupon she curtsied. "I have seen
all the handsome women in England going for the last ten years, and
there has not been one who has made me think that it would be worth
my while to get off my perch for her."

"And now you would desert your perch for me!"

"I have already."

"But you can get up again. Let it be all a dream. I know men like to
have had such dreams. And in order that the dream may be pleasant the
last word between us shall be kind. Such admiration from such a one
as you is an honour,--and I will reckon it among my honours. But
it can be no more than a dream." Then she gave him her hand. "It
shall be so;--shall it not?" Then she paused. "It must be so, Mr.
Longstaff."

"Must it?"

"That and no more. Now I wish to go down. Will you come with me? It
will be better. Don't you think it is going to rain?"

Dolly looked up at the clouds. "I wish it would with all my heart."

"I know you are not so ill-natured. It would spoil all."

"You have spoiled all."

"No, no. I have spoiled nothing. It will only be a little dream about
'that strange American girl, who really did make me feel queer for
half an hour.' Look at that. A great big drop--and the cloud has come
over us as black as Erebus. Do hurry down." He was leading the way.
"What shall we do for carriages to get us to the inn?"

"There's the summer-house."

"It will hold about half of us. And think what it will be to be in
there waiting till the rain shall be over! Everybody has been so
good-humoured and now they will be so cross!"

The rain was falling in big heavy drops, slow and far between, but
almost black with their size. And the heaviness of the cloud which
had gathered over them made everything black.

"Will you have my arm?" said Silverbridge, who saw Miss Boncassen
scudding along, with Dolly Longstaff following as fast as he could.

"Oh dear no. I have got to mind my dress. There;--I have gone right
into a puddle. Oh dear!" So she ran on, and Silverbridge followed
close behind her, leaving Dolly Longstaff in the distance.

It was not only Miss Boncassen who got her feet into a puddle and
splashed her stockings. Many did so who were not obliged by their
position to maintain good-humour under their misfortunes. The storm
had come on with such unexpected quickness that there had been a
general stampede to the summer-house. As Isabel had said, there was
comfortable room for not more than half of them. In a few minutes
people were crushed who never ought to be crushed. A Countess for
whom treble-piled sofas were hardly good enough was seated on the
corner of a table till some younger and less gorgeous lady could be
made to give way. And the Marchioness was declaring she was as wet
through as though she had been dragged in a river. Mrs. Boncassen was
so absolutely quelled as to have retired into the kitchen attached
to the summer-house. Mr. Boncassen, with all his country's pluck and
pride, was proving to a knot of gentlemen round him on the verandah,
that such treachery in the weather was a thing unknown in his happier
country. Miss Boncassen had to do her best to console the splashed
ladies. "Oh Mrs. Jones, is it not a pity! What can I do for you?"

"We must bear it, my dear. It often does rain, but why on this
special day should it come down out of buckets?"

"I never was so wet in all my life," said Dolly Longstaff, poking in
his head.

"There's somebody smoking," said the Countess angrily. There was a
crowd of men smoking out on the verandah. "I never knew anything so
nasty," the Countess continued, leaving it in doubt whether she spoke
of the rain, or the smoke, or the party generally.

Damp gauzes, splashed stockings, trampled muslins, and features which
have perhaps known something of rouge and certainly encountered
something of rain may be made, but can only, by supreme high
breeding, be made compatible with good-humour. To be moist, muddy,
rumpled and smeared, when by the very nature of your position it is
your duty to be clear-starched up to the pellucidity of crystal, to
be spotless as the lily, to be crisp as the ivy-leaf, and as clear
in complexion as a rose,--is it not, O gentle readers, felt to be a
disgrace? It came to pass, therefore, that many were now very cross.
Carriages were ordered under the idea that some improvement might be
made at the inn which was nearly a mile distant. Very few, however,
had their own carriages, and there was jockeying for the vehicles. In
the midst of all this Silverbridge remained as near to Miss Boncassen
as circumstances would admit. "You are not waiting for me," she said.

"Yes, I am. We might as well go up to town together."

"Leave me with father and mother. Like the captain of a ship, I must
be the last to leave the wreck."

"But I'll be the gallant sailor of the day who always at the risk of
his life sticks to the skipper to the last moment."

"Not at all;--just because there will be no gallantry. But come and
see us to-morrow and find out whether we have got through it alive."


CHAPTER XXXIII

The Langham Hotel


"What an abominable climate," Mrs. Boncassen had said when they were
quite alone at Maidenhead.

"My dear, you didn't think you were to bring New York along with you
when you came here," replied her husband.

"I wish I was going back to-morrow."

"That's a foolish thing to say. People here are very kind, and you
are seeing a great deal more of the world than you would ever see at
home. I am having a very good time. What do you say, Bell?"

"I wish I could have kept my stockings clean."

"But what about the young men?"

"Young men are pretty much the same everywhere, I guess. They never
have their wits about them. They never mean what they say, because
they don't understand the use of words. They are generally half
impudent and half timid. When in love they do not at all understand
what has befallen them. What they want they try to compass as a cow
does when it stands stretching out its head towards a stack of hay
which it cannot reach. Indeed there is no such thing as a young man,
for a man is not really a man till he is middle-aged. But take them
at their worst they are a deal too good for us, for they become men
some day, whereas we must only be women to the end."

"My word, Bella!" exclaimed the mother.

"You have managed to be tolerably heavy upon God's creatures, taking
them in a lump," said the father. "Boys, girls, and cows! Something
has gone wrong with you besides the rain."

"Nothing on earth, sir,--except the boredom."

"Some young man has been talking to you, Bella."

"One or two, mother; and I got to be thinking if any one of them
should ask me to marry him, and if moved by some evil destiny I were
to take him, whether I should murder him, or myself, or run away with
one of the others."

"Couldn't you bear with him till, according to your own theory, he
would grow out of his folly?" said the father.

"Being a woman,--no. The present moment is always everything to me.
When that horrid old harridan halloaed out that somebody was smoking,
I thought I should have died. It was very bad just then."

"Awful!" said Mrs. Boncassen, shaking her head.

"I didn't seem to feel it much," said the father. "One doesn't look
to have everything just what one wants always. If I did I should go
nowhere;--but my total life would be less enjoyable. If ever you do
get married, Bell, you should remember that."

"I mean to get married some day, so that I shouldn't be made love to
any longer."

"I hope it will have that effect," said the father.

"Mr. Boncassen!" ejaculated the mother.

"What I say is true. I hope it will have that effect. It had with
you, my dear."

"I don't know that people didn't think of me as much as of anybody
else, even though I was married."

"Then, my dear, I never knew it."

Miss Boncassen, though she had behaved serenely and with good temper
during the process of Dolly's proposal, had not liked it. She had a
very high opinion of herself, and was certainly entitled to have it
by the undisguised admiration of all that came near her. She was not
more indifferent to the admiration of young men than are other young
ladies. But she was not proud of the admiration of Dolly Longstaff.
She was here among strangers whose ways were unknown to her, whose
rank and standing in the world were vague to her, and wonderful
in their dimness. She knew that she was associating with men very
different from those at home where young men were supposed to be
under the necessity of earning their bread. At New York she would
dance, as she had said, with bank clerks. She was not prepared to
admit that a young London lord was better than a New York bank clerk.
Judging the men on their own individual merits she might find the
bank clerk to be the better of the two. But a certain sweetness of
the aroma of rank was beginning to permeate her republican senses.
The softness of a life in which no occupation was compulsory had
its charms for her. Though she had complained of the insufficient
intelligence of young men she was alive to the delight of having
nothings said to her pleasantly. All this had affected her so
strongly that she had almost felt that a life among these English
luxuries would be a pleasant life. Like most Americans who do not as
yet know the country, she had come with an inward feeling that as an
American and a republican she might probably be despised.

There is not uncommonly a savageness of self-assertion about
Americans which arises from a too great anxiety to be admitted
to fellowship with Britons. She had felt this, and conscious of
reputation already made by herself in the social life of New York,
she had half trusted that she would be well received in London, and
had half convinced herself that she would be rejected. She had not
been rejected. She must have become quite aware of that. She had
dropped very quickly the idea that she would be scorned. Ignorant
as she had been of English life, she perceived that she had at
once become popular. And this had been so in spite of her mother's
homeliness and her father's awkwardness. By herself and by her own
gifts she had done it. She had found out concerning herself that she
had that which would commend her to other society than that of the
Fifth Avenue. Those lords of whom she had heard were as plenty with
her as blackberries. Young Lord Silverbridge, of whom she was told
that of all the young lords of the day he stood first in rank and
wealth, was peculiarly her friend. Her brain was firmer than that of
most girls, but even her brain was a little turned. She never told
herself that it would be well for her to become the wife of such a
one. In her more thoughtful moments she told herself that it would
not be well. But still the allurement was strong upon her. Park Lane
was sweeter than the Fifth Avenue. Lord Silverbridge was nicer than
the bank clerk.

But Dolly Longstaff was not. She would certainly prefer the bank
clerk to Dolly Longstaff. And yet Dolly Longstaff was the one among
her English admirers who had come forward and spoken out. She did not
desire that any one should come forward and speak out. But it was an
annoyance to her that this special man should have done so.

The waiter at the Langham understood American ways perfectly, and
when a young man called between three and four o'clock, asking for
Mrs. Boncassen, said that Miss Boncassen was at home. The young
man took off his hat, brushed up his hair, and followed the waiter
up to the sitting-room. The door was opened and the young man was
announced. "Mr. Longstaff."

Miss Boncassen was rather disgusted. She had had enough of this
English lover. Why should he have come after what had occurred
yesterday? He ought to have felt that he was absolved from the
necessity of making personal inquiries. "I am glad to see that you
got home safe," she said as she gave him her hand.

"And you too, I hope?"

"Well;--so, so; with my clothes a good deal damaged and my temper
rather worse."

"I am so sorry."

"It should not rain on such days. Mother has gone to church."

"Oh;--indeed. I like going to church myself sometimes."

"Do you now?"

"I know what would make me like to go to church."

"And father is at the Athenæum. He goes there to do a little light
reading in the library on Sunday afternoon."

"I shall never forget yesterday, Miss Boncassen."

"You wouldn't if your clothes had been spoilt as mine were."

"Money will repair that."

"Well; yes; but when I've had a petticoat flounced particularly to
order I don't like to see it ill-treated. There are emotions of the
heart which money can't touch."

"Just so;--emotions of the heart! That's the very phrase."

She was determined if possible to prevent a repetition of the scene
which had taken place up at Mrs. de Bever's temple. "All my emotions
are about my dress."

"All?"

"Well; yes; all. I guess I don't care much for eating and drinking."
In saying this she actually contrived to produce something of a nasal
twang.

"Eating and drinking!" said Dolly. "Of course they are
necessities;--and so are clothes."

"But new things are such ducks!"

"Trowsers may be," said Dolly.

Then she took a prolonged gaze at him, wondering whether he was or
was not such a fool as he looked. "How funny you are," she said.

"A man does not generally feel funny after going through what I
suffered yesterday, Miss Boncassen."

"Would you mind ringing the bell?"

"Must it be done quite at once?"

"Quite,--quite," she said. "I can do it myself for the matter of
that." And she rang the bell somewhat violently. Dolly sank back
again into his seat, remarking in his usual apathetic way that he had
intended to obey her behest but had not understood that she was in so
great a hurry. "I am always in a hurry," she said. "I like things to
be done--sharp." And she hit the table a crack. "Please bring me some
iced water," this of course was addressed to the waiter. "And a glass
for Mr. Longstaff."

"None for me, thank you."

"Perhaps you'd like soda and brandy?"

"Oh dear no;--nothing of the kind. But I am so much obliged to you
all the same." As the water-bottle was in fact standing in the room,
and as the waiter had only to hand the glass, all this created but
little obstacle. Still it had its effect, and Dolly, when the man
had retired, felt that there was a difficulty in proceeding. "I have
called to-day--" he began.

"That has been so kind of you. But mother has gone to church."

"I am very glad that she has gone to church, because I wish to--"

"Oh laws! There's a horse has tumbled down in the street. I heard
it."

"He has got up again," said Dolly, looking leisurely out of the
window. "But as I was saying--"

"I don't think that the water we Americans drink can be good. It
makes the women become ugly so young."

"You will never become ugly."

She got up and curtsied to him, and then, still standing, made him a
speech. "Mr. Longstaff, it would be absurd of me to pretend not to
understand what you mean. But I won't have any more of it. Whether
you are making fun of me, or whether you are in earnest, it is just
the same."

"Making fun of you!"

"It does not signify. I don't care which it is. But I won't have it.
There!"

"A gentleman should be allowed to express his feelings and to explain
his position."

"You have expressed and explained more than enough, and I won't have
any more. If you will sit down and talk about something else, or
else go away, there shall be an end of it;--but if you go on, I will
ring the bell again. What can a man gain by going on when a girl has
spoken as I have done?" They were both at this time standing up, and
he was now as angry as she was.

"I've paid you the greatest compliment a man can pay a woman," he
began.

"Very well. If I remember rightly I thanked you for it yesterday. If
you wish it, I will thank you again to-day. But it is a compliment
which becomes very much the reverse if it be repeated too often. You
are sharp enough to understand that I have done everything in my
power to save us both from this trouble."

"What makes you so fierce, Miss Boncassen?"

"What makes you so foolish?"

"I suppose it must be something peculiar to American ladies."

"Just that;--something peculiar to American ladies. They don't
like--well; I don't want to say anything more that can be called
fierce."

At this moment the door was again opened and Lord Silverbridge was
announced. "Halloa, Dolly, are you here?"

"It seems that I am."

"And I am here too," said Miss Boncassen, smiling her prettiest.

"None the worse for yesterday's troubles, I hope?"

"A good deal the worse. I have been explaining all that to Mr.
Longstaff, who has been quite sympathetic with me about my things."

"A terrible pity that shower," said Dolly.

"For you," said Silverbridge, "because, if I remember right, Miss
Boncassen was walking with you;--but I was rather glad of it."

"Lord Silverbridge!"

"I regarded it as a direct interposition of Providence, because you
would not dance with me."

"Any news to-day, Silverbridge?" asked Dolly.

"Nothing particular. They say that Coalheaver can't run for the
Leger."

"What's the matter?" asked Dolly vigorously.

"Broke down at Ascot. But I daresay it's a lie."

"Sure to be a lie," said Dolly. "What do you think of Madame
Scholzdam, Miss Boncassen?"

"I am not a good judge."

"Never heard anything equal to it yet in this world," said Dolly. "I
wonder whether that's true about Coalheaver?"

"Tifto says so."

"Which at the present moment," asked Miss Boncassen, "is the greater
favourite with the public, Madame Scholzdam or Coalheaver?"

"Coalheaver is a horse, Miss Boncassen."

"Oh,--a horse!"

"Perhaps I ought to say a colt."

"Oh,--a colt."

"Do you suppose, Dolly, that Miss Boncassen doesn't know all that?"
asked Silverbridge.

"He supposes that my American ferocity has never been sufficiently
softened for the reception of polite erudition."

"You two have been quarrelling, I fear."

"I never quarrel with a woman," said Dolly.

"Nor with a man in my presence, I hope," said Miss Boncassen.

"Somebody does seem to have got out of bed at the wrong side," said
Silverbridge.

"I did," said Miss Boncassen. "I got out of bed at the wrong side.
I am cross. I can't get over the spoiling of my flounces. I think
you had better both go away and leave me. If I could walk about
the room for half an hour and stamp my feet, I should get better."
Silverbridge thought that as he had come last, he certainly ought to
be left last. Miss Boncassen felt that, at any rate, Mr. Longstaff
should go. Dolly felt that his manhood required him to remain. After
what had taken place he was not going to leave the field vacant for
another. Therefore he made no effort to move.

"That seems rather hard upon me," said Silverbridge. "You told me to
come."

"I told you to come and ask after us all. You have come and asked
after us, and have been informed that we are very bad. What more can
I say? You accuse me of getting out of bed the wrong side, and I own
that I did."

"I meant to say that Dolly Longstaff had done so."

"And I say it was Silverbridge," said Dolly.

"We aren't very agreeable together, are we? Upon my word I think
you'd better both go." Silverbridge immediately got up from his
chair; upon which Dolly also moved.

"What the mischief is up?" asked Silverbridge, when they were under
the porch together.

"The truth is, you never can tell what you are to do with those
American girls."

"I suppose you have been making up to her."

"Nothing in earnest. She seemed to me to like admiration; so I told
her I admired her."

"What did she say then?"

"Upon my word, you seem to be very great at cross-examining. Perhaps
you had better go back and ask her."

"I will, next time I see her." Then he stepped into his cab, and in
a loud voice ordered the man to drive him to the Zoo. But when he
had gone a little way up Portland Place, he stopped the driver and
desired he might be taken back again to the hotel. As he left the
vehicle he looked round for Dolly, but Dolly had certainly gone. Then
he told the waiter to take his card to Miss Boncassen, and explain
that he had something to say which he had forgotten.

"So you have come back again?" said Miss Boncassen, laughing.

"Of course I have. You didn't suppose I was going to let that fellow
get the better of me. Why should I be turned out because he had made
an ass of himself!"

"Who said he made an ass of himself?"

"But he had; hadn't he?"

"No;--by no means," said she after a little pause.

"Tell me what he had been saying."

"Indeed I shall do nothing of the kind. If I told you all he said,
then I should have to tell the next man all that you may say. Would
that be fair?"

"I should not mind," said Silverbridge.

"I dare say not, because you have nothing particular to say. But
the principle is the same. Lawyers and doctors and parsons talk of
privileged communications. Why should not a young lady have her
privileged communications?"

"But I have something particular to say."

"I hope not."

"Why should you hope not?"

"I hate having things said particularly. Nobody likes conversation so
well as I do; but it should never be particular."

"I was going to tell you that I came back to London yesterday in the
same carriage with old Lady Clanfiddle, and that she swore that no
consideration on earth would ever induce her to go to Maidenhead
again."

"That isn't particular."

"She went on to say;--you won't tell of me; will you?"

"It shall all be privileged."

"She went on to say that Americans couldn't be expected to understand
English manners."

"Perhaps they may be all the better for that."

"Then I spoke up. I swore I was awfully in love with you."

"You didn't."

"I did;--that you were, out and away, the finest girl I ever saw in
my life. Of course you understand that her two daughters were there.
And that as for manners,--unless the rain could be attributed to
American manners,--I did not think anything had gone wrong."

"What about the smoking?"

"I told her they were all Englishmen, and that if she had been giving
the party herself they would have smoked just as much. You must
understand that she never does give any parties."

"How could you be so ill-natured?"

"There was ever so much more of it. And it ended in her telling me
that I was a schoolboy. I found out the cause of it all. A great
spout of rain had come upon her daughter's hat, and that had produced
a most melancholy catastrophe."

"I would have given her mine willingly."

"An American hat;--to be worn by Lady Violet Clanfiddle!"

"It came from Paris last week, sir."

"But must have been contaminated by American contact."

"Now, Lord Silverbridge," said she, getting up, "if I had a stick I'd
whip you."

"It was such fun."

"And you come here and tell it all to me?"

"Of course I do. It was a deal too good to keep it to myself.
'American manners!'" As he said this he almost succeeded in looking
like Lady Clanfiddle.

At that moment Mr. Boncassen entered the room, and was immediately
appealed to by his daughter. "Father, you must turn Lord Silverbridge
out of the room."

"Dear me! If I must,--of course I must. But why?"

"He is saying everything horrid he can about Americans."

After this they settled down for a few minutes to general
conversation, and then Lord Silverbridge again took his leave. When
he was gone Isabel Boncassen almost regretted that the "something
particular" which he had threatened to say had not been less comic in
its nature.


CHAPTER XXXIV

Lord Popplecourt


When the reader was told that Lord Popplecourt had found Lady Cantrip
very agreeable it is to be hoped that the reader was disgusted.
Lord Popplecourt would certainly not have given a second thought to
Lady Cantrip unless he had been specially flattered. And why should
such a man have been flattered by a woman who was in all respects
his superior? The reader will understand. It had been settled by
the wisdom of the elders that it would be a good thing that Lord
Popplecourt should marry Lady Mary Palliser.

The mutual assent which leads to marriage should no doubt be
spontaneous. Who does not feel that? Young love should speak from its
first doubtful unconscious spark,--a spark which any breath of air
may quench or cherish,--till it becomes a flame which nothing can
satisfy but the union of the two lovers. No one should be told to
love, or bidden to marry, this man or that woman. The theory of this
is plain to us all, and till we have sons or daughters whom we feel
imperatively obliged to control, the theory is unassailable. But the
duty is so imperative! The Duke had taught himself to believe that
as his wife would have been thrown away on the world had she been
allowed to marry Burgo Fitzgerald, so would his daughter be thrown
away were she allowed to marry Mr. Tregear. Therefore the theory
of spontaneous love must in this case be set aside. Therefore the
spark,--would that it had been no more!--must be quenched. Therefore
there could be no union of two lovers;--but simply a prudent and
perhaps splendid marriage.

Lord Popplecourt was a man in possession of a large estate which was
unencumbered. His rank in the peerage was not high; but his barony
was of an old date,--and, if things went well with him, something
higher in rank might be open to him. He had good looks of that sort
which recommend themselves to pastors and masters, to elders and
betters. He had regular features. He looked as though he were
steady. He was not impatient nor rollicking. Silverbridge was also
good-looking;--but his good looks were such as would give a pang
to the hearts of anxious mothers of daughters. Tregear was the
handsomest man of the three;--but then he looked as though he had no
betters and did not care for his elders. Lord Popplecourt, though
a very young man, had once stammered through half-a-dozen words in
the House of Lords, and had been known to dine with the "Benevolent
Funds." Lord Silverbridge had declared him to be a fool. No one
thought him to be bright. But in the eyes of the Duke,--and of Lady
Cantrip,--he had his good qualities.

But the work was very disagreeable. It was the more hard upon Lady
Cantrip because she did not believe in it. If it could be done, it
would be expedient. But she felt very strongly that it could not
be done. No doubt that Lady Glencora had been turned from her evil
destiny; but Lady Glencora had been younger than her daughter was
now, and possessed of less character. Nor was Lady Cantrip blind to
the difference between a poor man with a bad character, such as that
Burgo had been, and a poor man with a good character, such as was
Tregear. Nevertheless she undertook to aid the work, and condescended
to pretend to be so interested in the portrait of some common
ancestor as to persuade the young man to have it photographed,
in order that the bringing down of the photograph might lead to
something.

He took the photograph, and Lady Cantrip said very much to him about
his grandmother, who was the old lady in question. "She could," she
said, "just remember the features of the dear old woman." She was not
habitually a hypocrite, and she hated herself for what she was doing,
and yet her object was simply good,--to bring together two young
people who might advantageously marry each other. The mere talking
about the old woman would be of no service. She longed to bring out
the offer plainly, and say, "There is Lady Mary Palliser. Don't you
think she'd make a good wife for you?" But she could not, as yet,
bring herself to be so indelicately plain. "You haven't seen the Duke
since?" she asked.

"He spoke to me only yesterday in the House. I like the Duke."

"If I may be allowed to say so, it would be for your advantage
that he should like you;--that is, if you mean to take a part in
politics."

"I suppose I shall," said Popplecourt. "There isn't much else to do."

"You don't go to races?" He shook his head. "I am glad of that,"
said Lady Cantrip. "Nothing is so bad as the turf. I fear Lord
Silverbridge is devoting himself to the turf."

"I don't think it can be good for any man to have much to do with
Major Tifto. I suppose Silverbridge knows what he's about."

Here was an opportunity which might have been used. It would have
been so easy for her to glide from the imperfections of the brother
to the perfections of the sister. But she could not bring herself to
do it quite at once. She approached the matter however as nearly as
she could without making her grand proposition. She shook her head
sadly in reference to Silverbridge, and then spoke of the Duke. "His
father is so anxious about him."

"I dare say."

"I don't know any man who is more painfully anxious about his
children. He feels the responsibility so much since his wife's death.
There is Lady Mary."

"She's all right, I should say."

"All right! oh yes. But when a girl is possessed of so many
things,--rank, beauty, intelligence, large fortune,--"

"Will Lady Mary have much?"

"A large portion of her mother's money, I should say. When all these
things are joined together, a father of course feels most anxious as
to their disposal."

"I suppose she is clever."

"Very clever," said Lady Cantrip.

"I think a girl may be too clever, you know," said Lord Popplecourt.

"Perhaps she may. But I know more who are too foolish. I am so much
obliged to you for the photograph."

"Don't mention it."

"I really did mean that you should send a man down."

On that occasion the two young people did not see each other. Lady
Mary did not come down, and Lady Cantrip lacked the courage to send
for her. As it was, might it not be possible that the young man
should be induced to make himself agreeable to the young lady without
any further explanation? But love-making between young people
cannot well take place unless they be brought together. There was a
difficulty in bringing them together at Richmond. The Duke had indeed
spoken of meeting Lord Popplecourt at dinner there;--but this was to
have followed the proposition which Lady Cantrip should make to him.
She could not yet make the proposition, and therefore she hardly
knew how to arrange the dinner. She was obliged at last to let the
wished-for lover go away without arranging anything. When the Duke
should have settled his autumn plans, then an attempt must be made to
induce Lord Popplecourt to travel in the same direction.

That evening Lady Cantrip said a few words to Mary respecting the
proposed suitor. "There is nothing I have such a horror of as
gambling," she said.

"It is dreadful."

"I am very glad to think that Nidderdale does not do anything of that
sort." It was perhaps on the cards that Nidderdale should do things
of which she knew nothing. "I hope Silverbridge does not bet."

"I don't think he does."

"There's Lord Popplecourt,--quite a young man,--with everything at
his own disposal, and a very large estate. Think of the evil he might
do if he were given that way."

"Does he gamble?"

"Not at all. It must be such a comfort to his mother!"

"He looks to me as though he never would do anything," said Lady
Mary. Then the subject was dropped.

It was a week after this, towards the end of July, that the Duke
wrote a line to Lady Cantrip, apologising for what he had done, but
explaining that he had asked Lord Popplecourt to dine at The Horns on
a certain Sunday. He had, he said, been assured by Lord Cantrip that
such an arrangement would be quite convenient. It was clear from his
letter that he was much in earnest. Of course there was no reason why
the dinner should not be eaten. Only the speciality of the invitation
to Lord Popplecourt must not be so glaring that he himself should be
struck by the strangeness of it. There must be a little party made
up. Lord Nidderdale and his wife were therefore bidden to come down,
and Silverbridge, who at first consented rather unwillingly,--and
Lady Mabel Grex, as to whom the Duke made a special request that she
might be asked. This last invitation was sent express from Lady Mary,
and included Miss Cass. So the party was made up. The careful reader
will perceive that there were to be ten of them.

"Isn't it odd papa wanting to have Lady Mabel?" Mary said to Lady
Cantrip.

"Does he not know her, my dear?"

"He hardly ever spoke to her. I'll tell you what; I expect
Silverbridge is going to marry her."

"Why shouldn't he?"

"I don't know why he shouldn't. She is very beautiful, and very
clever. But if so, papa must know all about it. It does seem so odd
that papa of all people should turn match-maker, or even that he
should think of it."

"So much is thrown upon him now," said Lady Cantrip

"Poor papa!" Then she remembered herself, and spoke with a little
start. "Of course I am not thinking of myself. Arranging a marriage
is very different from preventing any one from marrying."

"Whatever he may think to be his duty he will be sure to do it," said
the elder lady very solemnly.

Lady Mabel was surprised by the invitation, but she was not slow
to accept it. "Papa will be here and will be so glad to meet you,"
Lady Mary had said. Why should the Duke of Omnium wish to meet her?
"Silverbridge will be here too," Mary had gone on to say. "It is just
a family party. Papa, you know, is not going anywhere; nor am I."
By all this Lady Mabel's thoughts were much stirred, and her bosom
somewhat moved. And Silverbridge also was moved by it. Of course he
could not but remember that he had pledged himself to his father to
ask Lady Mabel to be his wife. He had faltered since. She had been,
he thought, unkind to him, or at any rate indifferent. He had surely
said enough to her to make her know what he meant; and yet she had
taken no trouble to meet him half way. And then Isabel Boncassen had
intervened. Now he was asked to dinner in a most unusual manner!

Of all the guests invited Lord Popplecourt was perhaps the least
disturbed. He was quite alive to the honour of being noticed by the
Duke of Omnium, and alive also to the flattering courtesy shown to
him by Lady Cantrip. But justice would not be done him unless it were
acknowledged that he had as yet flattered himself with no hopes in
regard to Lady Mary Palliser. He, when he prepared himself for his
journey down to Richmond, thought much more of the Duke than of the
Duke's daughter.

"Oh yes, I can drive you down if you like that kind of thing,"
Silverbridge said to him on the Saturday evening.

"And bring me back?"

"If you will come when I am coming. I hate waiting for a fellow."

"Suppose we leave at half-past ten."

"I won't fix any time; but if we can't make it suit there'll be the
governor's carriage."

"Will the Duke go down in his carriage?"

"I suppose so. It's quicker and less trouble than the railway." Then
Lord Popplecourt reflected that he would certainly come back with
the Duke if he could so manage it, and there floated before his eyes
visions of under-secretaryships, all of which might owe their origin
to this proposed drive up from Richmond.

At six o'clock on the Sunday evening Silverbridge called for Lord
Popplecourt. "Upon my word," said he, "I didn't ever expect to see
you in my cab."

"Why not me especially?"

"Because you're not one of our lot."

"You'd sooner have Tifto, I dare say."

"No, I wouldn't. Tifto is not at all a pleasant companion, though he
understands horses. You're going in for heavy politics, I suppose."

"Not particularly heavy."

"If not, why on earth does my governor take you up? You won't mind my
smoking, I dare say." After this there was no conversation between
them.


CHAPTER XXXV

"Don't You Think--?"


It was pretty to see the Duke's reception of Lady Mabel. "I knew your
mother many years ago," he said, "when I was young myself. Her mother
and my mother were first cousins and dear friends." He held her hand
as he spoke and looked at her as though he meant to love her. Lady
Mabel saw that it was so. Could it be possible that the Duke had
heard anything;--that he should wish to receive her? She had told
herself and had told Miss Cassewary that though she had spared
Silverbridge, yet she knew that she would make him a good wife. If
the Duke thought so also, then surely she need not doubt.

"I knew we were cousins," she said, "and have been so proud of the
connection! Lord Silverbridge does come and see us sometimes."

Soon after that Silverbridge and Popplecourt came in. If the story of
the old woman in the portrait may be taken as evidence of a family
connexion between Lady Cantrip and Lord Popplecourt, everybody there
was more or less connected with everybody else. Nidderdale had been a
first cousin of Lady Glencora, and he had married a daughter of Lady
Cantrip. They were manifestly a family party,--thanks to the old
woman in the picture.

It is a point of conscience among the--perhaps not ten thousand, but
say one thousand of bluest blood,--that everybody should know who
everybody is. Our Duke, though he had not given his mind much to the
pursuit, had nevertheless learned his lesson. It is a knowledge which
the possession of the blue blood itself produces. There are countries
with bluer blood than our own in which to be without such knowledge
is a crime.

When the old lady in the portrait had been discussed, Popplecourt was
close to Lady Mary. They two had no idea why such vicinity had been
planned. The Duke knew, of course, and Lady Cantrip. Lady Cantrip had
whispered to her daughter that such a marriage would be suitable, and
the daughter had hinted it to her husband. Lord Cantrip of course was
not in the dark. Lady Mabel had expressed a hint on the matter to
Miss Cass, who had not repudiated it. Even Silverbridge had suggested
to himself that something of the kind might be in the wind, thinking
that, if so, none of them knew much about his sister Mary. But
Popplecourt himself was divinely innocent. His ideas of marriage had
as yet gone no farther than a conviction that girls generally were
things which would be pressed on him, and against which he must arm
himself with some shield. Marriage would have to come, no doubt; but
not the less was it his duty to live as though it were a pit towards
which he would be tempted by female allurements. But that a net
should be spread over him here he was much too humble-minded to
imagine.

"Very hot," he said to Lady Mary.

"We found it warm in church to-day."

"I dare say. I came down here with your brother in his hansom cab.
What a very odd thing to have a hansom cab!"

"I should like one."

"Should you indeed?"

"Particularly if I could drive it myself. Silverbridge does, at
night, when he thinks people won't see him."

"Drive the cab in the streets! What does he do with his man?"

"Puts him inside. He was out once without the man and took up a
fare,--an old woman, he said. And when she was going to pay him he
touched his hat and said he never took money from ladies."

"Do you believe that?"

"Oh yes. I call that good fun, because it did no harm. He had his
lark. The lady was taken where she wanted to go, and she saved her
money."

"Suppose he had upset her," said Lord Popplecourt, looking as an old
philosopher might have looked when he had found some clenching answer
to another philosopher's argument.

"The real cabman might have upset her worse," said Lady Mary.

"Don't you feel it odd that we should meet here?" said Lord
Silverbridge to his neighbour, Lady Mabel.

"Anything unexpected is odd," said Lady Mabel. It seemed to her to be
very odd,--unless certain people had made up their minds as to the
expediency of a certain event.

"That is what you call logic;--isn't it? Anything unexpected is odd!"

"Lord Silverbridge, I won't be laughed at. You have been at Oxford
and ought to know what logic is."

"That at any rate is ill-natured," he replied, turning very red in
the face.

"You don't think I meant it. Oh, Lord Silverbridge, say that you
don't think I meant it. You cannot think I would willingly wound
you. Indeed, indeed, I was not thinking." It had in truth been
an accident. She could not speak aloud because they were closely
surrounded by others, but she looked up in his face to see whether
he were angry with her. "Say that you do not think I meant it."

"I do not think you meant it."

"I would not say a word to hurt you,--oh, for more than I can tell
you."

"It is all bosh, of course," he said laughing; "but I do not like to
hear the old place named. I have always made a fool of myself. Some
men do it and don't care about it. But I do it, and yet it makes me
miserable."

"If that be so you will soon give over making--what you call a fool
of yourself. For myself I like the idea of wild oats. I look upon
them like measles. Only you should have a doctor ready when the
disease shows itself."

"What sort of a doctor ought I to have?"

"Ah;--you must find out that yourself. That sort of feeling which
makes you feel miserable;--that is a doctor itself."

"Or a wife?"

"Or a wife,--if you can find a good one. There are wives, you know,
who aggravate the disease. If I had a fast husband I should make him
faster by being fast myself. There is nothing I envy so much as the
power of doing half-mad things."

"Women can do that too."

"But they go to the dogs. We are dreadfully restricted. If you like
champagne you can have a bucketful. I am obliged to pretend that I
only want a very little. You can bet thousands. I must confine myself
to gloves. You can flirt with any woman you please. I must wait till
somebody comes,--and put up with it if nobody does come."

"Plenty come, no doubt."

"But I want to pick and choose. A man turns the girls over one after
another as one does the papers when one is fitting up a room, or
rolls them out as one rolls out the carpets. A very careful young man
like Lord Popplecourt might reject a young woman because her hair
didn't suit the colour of his furniture."

"I don't think that I shall choose my wife as I would papers and
carpets."

The Duke, who sat between Lady Cantrip and her daughter, did
his best to make himself agreeable. The conversation had been
semi-political,--political to the usual feminine extent, and had
consisted chiefly of sarcasms from Lady Cantrip against Sir Timothy
Beeswax. "That England should put up with such a man," Lady Cantrip
had said, "is to me shocking! There used to be a feeling in favour
of gentlemen." To this the Duke had responded by asserting that Sir
Timothy had displayed great aptitude for parliamentary life, and
knew the House of Commons better than most men. He said nothing
against his foe, and very much in his foe's praise. But Lady Cantrip
perceived that she had succeeded in pleasing him.

When the ladies were gone the politics became more serious. "That
unfortunate quarrel is to go on the same as ever, I suppose," said
the Duke, addressing himself to the two young men who had seats in
the House of Commons. They were both on the Conservative side in
politics. The three peers present were all Liberals.

"Till next Session, I think, sir," said Silverbridge.

"Sir Timothy, though he did lose his temper, has managed it well,"
said Lord Cantrip.

"Phineas Finn lost his temper worse than Sir Timothy," said Lord
Nidderdale.

"But yet I think he had the feeling of the House with him," said the
Duke. "I happened to be present in the gallery at the time."

"Yes," said Nidderdale, "because he 'owned up.' The fact is if you
'own up' in a genial sort of way the House will forgive anything. If
I were to murder my grandmother, and when questioned about it were to
acknowledge that I had done it--" Then Lord Nidderdale stood up and
made his speech as he might have made it in the House of Commons. "'I
regret to say, sir, that the old woman did get in my way when I was
in a passion. Unfortunately I had a heavy stick in my hand and I
did strike her over the head. Nobody can regret it so much as I do!
Nobody can feel so acutely the position in which I am placed! I have
sat in this House for many years, and many gentlemen know me well. I
think, Sir, that they will acknowledge that I am a man not deficient
in filial piety or general humanity. Sir, I am sorry for what I did
in a moment of heat. I have now spoken the truth, and I shall leave
myself in the hands of the House.' My belief is I should get such a
round of applause as I certainly shall never achieve in any other
way. It is not only that a popular man may do it,--like Phineas
Finn,--but the most unpopular man in the House may make himself liked
by owning freely that he has done something that he ought to be
ashamed of." Nidderdale's unwonted eloquence was received in good
part by the assembled legislators.

"Taking it altogether," said the Duke, "I know of no assembly in
any country in which good-humour prevails so generally, in which
the members behave to each other so well, in which rules are so
universally followed, or in which the president is so thoroughly
sustained by the feeling of the members."

"I hear men say that it isn't quite what it used to be," said
Silverbridge.

"Nothing will ever be quite what it used to be."

"Changes for the worse, I mean. Men are doing all kinds of things,
just because the rules of the House allow them."

"If they be within rule," said the Duke, "I don't know who is to
blame them. In my time, if any man stretched a rule too far the House
would not put up with it."

"That's just it," said Nidderdale. "The House puts up with anything
now. There is a great deal of good feeling no doubt, but there's no
earnestness about anything. I think you are more earnest than we; but
then you are such horrid bores. And each earnest man is in earnest
about something that nobody else cares for."

When they were again in the drawing-room, Lord Popplecourt was seated
next to Lady Mary. "Where are you going this autumn?" he asked.

"I don't know in the least. Papa said something about going abroad."

"You won't be at Custins?" Custins was Lord Cantrip's country seat in
Dorsetshire.

"I know nothing about myself as yet. But I don't think I shall go
anywhere unless papa goes too."

"Lady Cantrip has asked me to be at Custins in the middle of October.
They say it is about the best pheasant-shooting in England."

"Do you shoot much?"

"A great deal. I shall be in Scotland on the Twelfth. I and Reginald
Dobbes have a place together. I shall get to my own partridges on the
1st of September. I always manage that. Popplecourt is in Suffolk,
and I don't think any man in England can beat me for partridges."

"What do you do with all you slay?"

"Leadenhall Market. I make it pay,--or very nearly. Then I shall run
back to Scotland for the end of the stalking, and I can easily manage
to be at Custins by the middle of October. I never touch my own
pheasants till November."

"Why are you so abstemious?"

"The birds are heavier and it answers better. But if I thought you
would be at Custins it would be much nicer." Lady Mary again told him
that as yet she knew nothing of her father's autumn movements.

But at the same time the Duke was arranging his autumn movements, or
at any rate those of his daughter. Lady Cantrip had told him that the
desirable son-in-law had promised to go to Custins, and suggested
that he and Mary should also be there. In his daughter's name he
promised, but he would not bind himself. Would it not be better that
he should be absent? Now that the doing of this thing was brought
nearer to him so that he could see and feel its details, he was
disgusted by it. And yet it had answered so well with his wife!

"Is Lord Popplecourt intimate here?" Lady Mabel asked her friend,
Lord Silverbridge.

"I don't know. I am not."

"Lady Cantrip seems to think a great deal about him."

"I dare say. I don't."

"Your father seems to like him."

"That's possible too. They're going back to London together in the
governor's carriage. My father will talk high politics all the way,
and Popplecourt will agree with everything."

"He isn't intended to--to--? You know what I mean."

"I can't say that I do."

"To cut out poor Frank."

"It's quite possible."

"Poor Frank!"

"You had a great deal better say poor Popplecourt!--or poor governor,
or poor Lady Cantrip."

"But a hundred countesses can't make your sister marry a man she
doesn't like."

"Just that. They don't go the right way about it."

"What would you do?"

"Leave her alone. Let her find out gradually that what she wants
can't be done."

"And so linger on for years," said Lady Mabel reproachfully.

"I say nothing about that. The man is my friend."

"And you ought to be proud of him."

"I never knew anybody yet that was proud of his friends. I like him
well enough, but I can quite understand that the governor should
object."

"Yes, we all know that," said she sadly.

"What would your father say if you wanted to marry someone who hadn't
a shilling?"

"I should object myself,--without waiting for my father. But
then,--neither have I a shilling. If I had money, do you think I
wouldn't like to give it to the man I loved?"

"But this is a case of giving somebody else's money. They won't make
her give it up by bringing such a young ass as that down here. If my
father has persistency enough to let her cry her eyes out, he'll
succeed."

"And break her heart. Could you do that?"

"Certainly not. But then I'm soft. I can't refuse."

"Can't you?"

"Not if the person who asks me is in my good books. You try me."

"What shall I ask for?"

"Anything."

"Give me that ring off your finger," she said. He at once took it
off his hand. "Of course you know I am in joke. You don't imagine
that I would take it from you?" He still held it towards her. "Lord
Silverbridge, I expect that with you I may say a foolish word without
being brought to sorrow by it. I know that that ring belonged to your
great-uncle,--and to fifty Pallisers before."

"What would it matter?"

"And it would be wholly useless to me, as I could not wear it."

"Of course it would be too big," said he, replacing the ring on his
own finger. "But when I talk of any one being in my good books, I
don't mean a thing like that. Don't you know there is nobody on earth
I--" there he paused and blushed, and she sat motionless, looking at
him expecting, with her colour too somewhat raised,--"whom I like so
well as I do you?" It was a lame conclusion. She felt it to be lame.
But as regarded him, the lameness at the moment had come from a
timidity which forbade him to say the word "love" even though he had
meant to say it.

She recovered herself instantly. "I do believe it," she said. "I do
think that we are real friends."

"Would you not take a ring from a--real friend?"

"Not that ring;--nor a ring at all after I had asked for it in
joke. You understand it all. But to go back to what we were talking
about,--if you can do anything for Frank, pray do. You know it will
break her heart. A man of course bears it better, but he does not
perhaps suffer the less. It is all his life to him. He can do nothing
while this is going on. Are you not true enough to your friendship to
exert yourself for him?" Silverbridge put his hand up and rubbed his
head as though he were vexed. "Your aid would turn everything in his
favour."

"You do not know my father."

"Is he so inexorable?"

"It is not that, Mabel. But he is so unhappy. I cannot add to his
unhappiness by taking part against him."

In another part of the room Lady Cantrip was busy with Lord
Popplecourt. She had talked about pheasants, and had talked about
grouse, had talked about moving the address in the House of Lords in
some coming Session, and the great value of political alliances early
in life, till the young peer began to think that Lady Cantrip was the
nicest of women. Then after a short pause she changed the subject.

"Don't you think Lady Mary very beautiful?"

"Uncommon," said his Lordship.

"And her manners so perfect. She has all her mother's ease without
any of that-- You know what I mean."

"Quite so," said his Lordship.

"And then she has got so much in her."

"Has she though?"

"I don't know any girl of her age so thoroughly well educated. The
Duke seems to take to you."

"Well, yes;--the Duke is very kind."

"Don't you think--?"

"Eh!"

"You have heard of her mother's fortune?"

"Tremendous!"

"She will have, I take it, quite a third of it. Whatever I say I'm
sure you will take in confidence; but she is a dear dear girl; and I
am anxious for her happiness almost as though she belonged to me."

Lord Popplecourt went back to town in the Duke's carriage, but was
unable to say a word about politics. His mind was altogether filled
with the wonderful words that had been spoken to him. Could it be
that Lady Mary had fallen violently in love with him? He would not
at once give himself up to the pleasing idea, having so thoroughly
grounded himself in the belief that female nets were to be avoided.
But when he got home he did think favourably of it. The daughter of
a Duke,--and such a Duke! So lovely a girl, and with such gifts! And
then a fortune which would make a material addition to his own large
property!


CHAPTER XXXVI

Tally-Ho Lodge


We all know that very clever distich concerning the great fleas and
the little fleas which tells us that no animal is too humble to have
its parasite. Even Major Tifto had his inferior friend. This was
a certain Captain Green,--for the friend also affected military
honours. He was a man somewhat older than Tifto, of whose antecedents
no one was supposed to know anything. It was presumed of him that he
lived by betting, and it was boasted by those who wished to defend
his character that when he lost he paid his money like a gentleman.
Tifto during the last year or two had been anxious to support Captain
Green, and had always made use of this argument: "Where the d---- he
gets his money I don't know;--but when he loses, there it is."

Major Tifto had a little "box" of his own in the neighbourhood of
Egham, at which he had a set of stables a little bigger than his
house, and a set of kennels a little bigger than his stables. It was
here he kept his horses and hounds, and himself too when business
connected with his sporting life did not take him to town. It was
now the middle of August and he had come to Tally-ho Lodge, there to
look after his establishments, to make arrangements for cub-hunting,
and to prepare for the autumn racing campaign. On this occasion
Captain Green was enjoying his hospitality and assisting him by sage
counsels. Behind the little box was a little garden,--a garden that
was very little; but, still, thus close to the parlour window, there
was room for a small table to be put on the grass-plat, and for a
couple of armchairs. Here the Major and the Captain were seated
about eight o'clock one evening, with convivial good things within
their reach. The good things were gin-and-water and pipes. The two
gentlemen had not dressed strictly for dinner. They had spent a great
part of the day handling the hounds and the horses, dressing wounds,
curing sores, and ministering to canine ailments, and had been
detained over their work too long to think of their toilet. As it
was they had an eye to business. The stables at one corner and the
kennels at the other were close to the little garden, and the doings
of a man and a boy who were still at work among the animals could be
directed from the armchairs on which the two sportsmen were sitting.

It must be explained that ever since the Silverbridge election
there had been a growing feeling in Tifto's mind that he had been
ill-treated by his partner. The feeling was strengthened by the
admirable condition of Prime Minister. Surely more consideration had
been due to a man who had produced such a state of things!

"I wouldn't quarrel with him, but I'd make him pay his way," said the
prudent Captain.

"As for that, of course he does pay--his share."

"Who does all the work?"

"That's true."

"The fact is, Tifto, you don't make enough out of it. When a small
man like you has to deal with a big man like that, he may take it out
of him in one of two ways. But he must be deuced clever if he can get
it both ways."

"What are you driving at?" asked Tifto, who did not like being called
a small man, feeling himself to be every inch a Master of foxhounds.

"Why, this!--Look at that d---- fellow fretting that 'orse with a
switch. If you can't strap a 'orse without a stick in your hand,
don't you strap him at all, you--" Then there came a volley of abuse
out of the Captain's mouth, in the middle of which the man threw down
the rubber he was using and walked away.

"You come back," halloed Tifto, jumping up from his seat with his
pipe in his mouth. Then there was a general quarrel between the man
and his two masters, in which the man at last was victorious. And the
horse was taken into the stable in an unfinished condition. "It's
all very well to say 'Get rid of him,' but where am I to get anybody
better? It has come to such a pass that now if you speak to a fellow
he walks out of the yard."

They then returned to the state of affairs, as it was between Tifto
and Lord Silverbridge. "What I was saying is this," continued the
Captain. "If you choose to put yourself up to live with a fellow like
that on equal terms--"

"One gentleman with another, you mean?"

"Put it so. It don't quite hit it off, but put it so. Why then you
get your wages when you take his arm and call him Silverbridge."

"I don't want wages from any man," said the indignant Major.

"That comes from not knowing what wages is. I do want wages. If I
do a thing I like to be paid for it. You are paid for it after one
fashion, I prefer the other."

"Do you mean he should give me--a salary?"

"I'd have it out of him some way. What's the good of young chaps of
that sort if they aren't made to pay? You've got this young swell in
tow. He's going to be about the richest man in England;--and what the
deuce better are you for it?" Tifto sat meditating, thinking of the
wisdom which was being spoken. The same ideas had occurred to him.
The happy chance which had made him intimate with Lord Silverbridge
had not yet enriched him. "What is the good of chaps of that sort if
they are not made to pay?" The words were wise words. But yet how
glorious he had been when he was elected at the Beargarden, and had
entered the club as the special friend of the heir of the Duke of
Omnium.

After a short pause, Captain Green pursued his discourse. "You said
salary."

"I did mention the word."

"Salary and wages is one. A salary is a nice thing if it's paid
regular. I had a salary once myself for looking after a stud of
'orses at Newmarket, only the gentleman broke up and it never went
very far."

"Was that Marley Bullock?"

"Yes; that was Marley Bullock. He's abroad somewhere now with nothing
a year paid quarterly to live on. I think he does a little at cards.
He'd had a good bit of money once, but most of it was gone when he
came my way."

"You didn't make by him?"

"I didn't lose nothing. I didn't have a lot of 'orses under me
without getting something out of it."

"What am I to do?" asked Tifto. "I can sell him a horse now and
again. But if I give him anything good there isn't much to come out
of that."

"Very little I should say. Don't he put his money on his 'orses?"

"Not very free. I think he's coming out freer now."

"What did he stand to win on the Derby?"

"A thousand or two perhaps."

"There may be something got handsome out of that," said the Captain,
not venturing to allow his voice to rise above a whisper. Major Tifto
looked hard at him but said nothing. "Of course you must see your
way."

"I don't quite understand."

"Race 'orses are expensive animals,--and races generally is
expensive."

"That's true."

"When so much is dropped, somebody has to pick it up. That's what
I've always said to myself. I'm as honest as another man."

"That's of course," said the Major civilly.

"But if I don't keep my mouth shut, somebody 'll have my teeth out of
my head. Every one for himself and God for us all. I suppose there's
a deal of money flying about. He'll put a lot of money on this 'orse
of yours for the Leger if he's managed right. There's more to be got
out of that than calling him Silverbridge and walking arm-in-arm.
Business is business. I don't know whether I make myself understood."

The gentleman did not quite make himself understood; but Tifto
endeavoured to read the riddle. He must in some way make money out of
his friend Lord Silverbridge. Hitherto he had contented himself with
the brilliancy of the connection; but now his brilliant friend had
taken to snubbing him, and had on more than one occasion made himself
disagreeable. It seemed to him that Captain Green counselled him to
put up with that, but counselled him at the same time to--pick up
some of his friend's money. He didn't think that he could ask Lord
Silverbridge for a salary--he who was a Master of Fox-hounds, and a
member of the Beargarden. Then his friend had suggested something
about the young lord's bets. He was endeavouring to unriddle all this
with a brain that was already somewhat muddled with alcohol, when
Captain Green got up from his chair and standing over the Major spoke
his last words for that night as from an oracle. "Square is all very
well, as long as others are square to you;--but when they aren't,
then I say square be d----. Square! what comes of it? Work your heart
out, and then it's no good."

The Major thought about it much that night, and was thinking about it
still when he awoke on the next morning. He would like to make Lord
Silverbridge pay for his late insolence. It would answer his purpose
to make a little money,--as he told himself,--in any honest way.
At the present moment he was in want of money, and on looking into
his affairs declared to himself that he had certainly impoverished
himself by his devotion to Lord Silverbridge's interests. At
breakfast on the following morning he endeavoured to bring his friend
back to the subject. But the Captain was cross, rather than oracular.
"Everybody," he said, "ought to know his own business. He wasn't
going to meddle or make. What he had said had been taken amiss." This
was hard upon Tifto, who had taken nothing amiss.

"Square be d----!" There was a great deal in the lesson there
enunciated which demanded consideration. Hitherto the Major had
fought his battles with a certain adherence to squareness. If his
angles had not all been perfect angles, still there had always been
an attempt at geometrical accuracy. He might now and again have
told a lie about a horse--but who that deals in horses has not done
that? He had been alive to the value of underhand information from
racing-stables, but who won't use a tip if he can get it? He had lied
about the expense of his hounds, in order to enhance the subscription
of his members. Those were things which everybody did in his line.
But Green had meant something beyond this.

As far as he could see out in the world at large, nobody was square.
You had to keep your mouth shut, or your teeth would be stolen out of
it. He didn't look into a paper without seeing that on all sides of
him men had abandoned the idea of squareness. Chairmen, directors,
members of Parliament, ambassadors,--all the world, as he told
himself,--were trying to get on by their wits. He didn't see why he
should be more square than anybody else. Why hadn't Silverbridge
taken him down to Scotland for the grouse?


CHAPTER XXXVII

Grex


Far away from all known places, in the northern limit of the Craven
district, on the borders of Westmorland but in Yorkshire, there
stands a large, rambling, most picturesque old house called Grex. The
people around call it the Castle, but it is not a castle. It is an
old brick building supposed to have been erected in the days of James
the First, having oriel windows, twisted chimneys, long galleries,
gable ends, a quadrangle of which the house surrounds three sides,
terraces, sun-dials, and fish-ponds. But it is so sadly out of repair
as to be altogether unfit for the residence of a gentleman and his
family. It stands not in a park, for the land about it is divided
into paddocks by low stone walls, but in the midst of lovely scenery,
the ground rising all round it in low irregular hills or fells, and
close to it, a quarter of a mile from the back of the house, there is
a small dark lake, not serenely lovely as are some of the lakes in
Westmorland, but attractive by the darkness of its waters and the
gloom of the woods around it.

This is the country seat of Earl Grex,--which however he had not
visited for some years. Gradually the place had got into such a
condition that his absence is not surprising. An owner of Grex, with
large means at his disposal and with a taste for the picturesque
to gratify,--one who could afford to pay for memories and who was
willing to pay dearly for such luxuries, might no doubt restore Grex.
But the Earl had neither the money nor the taste.

Lord Grex had latterly never gone near the place, nor was his son
Lord Percival fond of looking upon the ruin of his property. But Lady
Mabel loved it with a fond love. With all her lightness of spirit she
was prone to memories, prone to melancholy, prone at times almost to
seek the gratification of sorrow. Year after year when the London
season was over she would come down to Grex and spend a week or two
amidst its desolation. She was now going on to a seat in Scotland
belonging to Mrs. Montacute Jones called Killancodlem; but she was in
the meanwhile passing a desolate fortnight at Grex in company with
Miss Cassewary. The gardens were let,--and being let of course were
not kept in further order than as profit might require. The man who
rented them lived in the big house with his wife, and they on such
occasions as this would cook and wait upon Lady Mabel.

Lady Mabel was at the home of her ancestors, and the faithful Miss
Cass was with her. But at the moment and at the spot at which the
reader shall see her, Miss Cass was not with her. She was sitting on
a rock about twelve feet above the lake looking upon the black water;
and on another rock a few feet from her was seated Frank Tregear.
"No," she said, "you should not have come. Nothing can justify it. Of
course as you are here I could not refuse to come out with you. To
make a fuss about it would be the worst of all. But you should not
have come."

"Why not? Whom does it hurt? It is a pleasure to me. If it be the
reverse to you, I will go."

"Men are so unmanly. They take such mean advantages. You know it is a
pleasure to me to see you."

"I had hoped so."

"But it is a pleasure I ought not to have,--at least not here."

"That is what I do not understand," said he. "In London, where the
Earl could bark at me if he happened to find me, I could see the
inconvenience of it. But here, where there is nobody but Miss Cass--"

"There are a great many others. There are the rooks, and stones, and
old women;--all of which have ears."

"But of what is there to be ashamed? There is nothing in the world to
me so pleasant as the companionship of my friends."

"Then go after Silverbridge."

"I mean to do so;--but I am taking you by the way."

"It is all unmanly," she said, rising from her stone; "you know
that it is so. Friends! Do you mean to say that it would make no
difference whether you were here with me or with Miss Cass?"

"The greatest difference in the world."

"Because she is an old woman and I am a young one, and because in
intercourse between young men and young women there is something
dangerous to the women and therefore pleasant to the men."

"I never heard anything more unjust. You cannot think I desire
anything injurious to you."

"I do think so." She was still standing and spoke now with great
vehemence. "I do think so. You force me to throw aside the reticence
I ought to keep. Would it help me in my prospects if your friend Lord
Silverbridge knew that I was here?"

"How should he know?"

"But if he did? Do you suppose that I want to have visits paid to me
of which I am afraid to speak? Would you dare to tell Lady Mary that
you had been sitting alone with me on the rocks at Grex?"

"Certainly I would."

"Then it would be because you have not dared to tell her certain
other things which have gone before. You have sworn to her no doubt
that you love her better than all the world."

"I have."

"And you have taken the trouble to come here to tell me that,--to
wound me to the core by saying so; to show me that, though I may
still be sick, you have recovered,--that is if you ever suffered! Go
your way and let me go mine. I do not want you."

"Mabel!"

"I do not want you. I know you will not help me, but you need not
destroy me."

"You know that you are wronging me."

"No! You understand it all though you look so calm. I hate your Lady
Mary Palliser. There! But if by anything I could do I could secure
her to you I would do it,--because you want it."

"She will be your sister-in-law,--probably."

"Never. It will never be so."

"Why do you hate her?"

"There again! You are so little of a man that you can ask me why!"
Then she turned away as though she intended to go down to the marge
of the lake.

But he rose up and stopped her. "Let us have this out, Mabel, before
we go," he said. "Unmanly is a heavy word to hear from you, and you
have used it a dozen times."

"It is because I have thought it a thousand times. Go and get her if
you can;--but why tell me about it?"

"You said you would help me."

"So I would, as I would help you do anything you might want; but you
can hardly think that after what has passed I can wish to hear about
her."

"It was you spoke of her."

"I told you you should not be here,--because of her and because of
me. And I tell you again, I hate her. Do you think I can hear you
speak of her as though she were the only woman you had ever seen
without feeling it? Did you ever swear that you loved any one else?"

"Certainly, I have so sworn."

"Have you ever said that nothing could alter that love?"

"Indeed I have."

"But it is altered. It has all gone. It has been transferred to one
who has more advantages of beauty, youth, wealth, and position."

"Oh Mabel, Mabel!"

"But it is so."

"When you say this do you not think of yourself?"

"Yes. But I have never been false to any one. You are false to me."

"Have I not offered to face all the world with you?"

"You would not offer it now?"

"No," he said, after a pause,--"not now. Were I to do so, I should be
false. You bade me take my love elsewhere, and I did so."

"With the greatest ease."

"We agreed it should be so; and you have done the same."

"That is false. Look me in the face and tell me whether you do not
know it to be false!"

"And yet I am told that I am injuring you with Silverbridge."

"Oh,--so unmanly again! Of course I have to marry. Who does not know
it? Do you want to see me begging my bread about the streets? You
have bread; or if not, you might earn it. If you marry for money--"

"The accusation is altogether unjustifiable."

"Allow me to finish what I have to say. If you marry for money you
will do that which is in itself bad, and which is also unnecessary.
What other course would you recommend me to take? No one goes into
the gutter while there is a clean path open. If there be no escape
but through the gutter, one has to take it."

"You mean that my duty to you should have kept me from marrying all
my life."

"Not that;--but a little while, Frank; just a little while. Your
bloom is not fading; your charms are not running from you. Have you
not a strength which I cannot have? Do you not feel that you are a
tree, standing firm in the ground, while I am a bit of ivy that will
be trodden in the dirt unless it can be made to cling to something?
You should not liken yourself to me, Frank."

"If I could do you any good!"

"Good! What is the meaning of good? If you love, it is good to be
loved again. It is good not to have your heart torn in pieces. You
know that I love you." He was standing close to her, and put out
his hand as though he would twine his arm round her waist. "Not for
worlds," she said. "It belongs to that Palliser girl. And as I have
taught myself to think that what there is left of me may perhaps
belong to some other one, worthless as it is, I will keep it for him.
I love you,--but there can be none of that softness of love between
us." Then there was a pause, but as he did not speak she went on.
"But remember, Frank,--our position is not equal. You have got over
your little complaint. It probably did not go deep with you, and you
have found a cure. Perhaps there is a satisfaction in finding that
two young women love you."

"You are trying to be cruel to me."

"Why else should you be here? You know I love you,--with all my
heart, with all my strength, and that I would give the world to cure
myself. Knowing this, you come and talk to me of your passion for
this other girl."

"I had hoped we might both talk rationally as friends."

"Friends! Frank Tregear, I have been bold enough to tell you I love
you; but you are not my friend, and cannot be my friend. If I have
before asked you to help me in this mean catastrophe of mine, in my
attack upon that poor boy, I withdraw my request. I think I will go
back to the house now."

"I will walk back to Ledburgh if you wish it without going to the
house again."

"No; I will have nothing that looks like being ashamed. You ought not
to have come, but you need not run away." Then they walked back to
the house together and found Miss Cassewary on the terrace. "We have
been to the lake," said Mabel, "and have been talking of old days.
I have but one ambition now in the world." Of course Miss Cassewary
asked what the remaining ambition was. "To get money enough to
purchase this place from the ruins of the Grex property. If I could
own the house and the lake, and the paddocks about, and had enough
income to keep one servant and bread for us to eat--of course
including you, Miss Cass--"

"Thank'ee, my dear; but I am not sure I should like it."

"Yes; you would. Frank would come and see us perhaps once a year. I
don't suppose anybody else cares about the place, but to me it is the
dearest spot in the world." So she went on in almost high spirits,
though alluding to the general decadence of the Grex family, till
Tregear took his leave.

"I wish he had not come," said Miss Cassewary when he was gone.

"Why should you wish that? There is not so much here to amuse me that
you should begrudge me a stray visitor."

"I don't think that I grudge you anything in the way of pleasure,
my dear; but still he should not have come. My Lord, if he knew it,
would be angry."

"Then let him be angry. Papa does not do so much for me that I am
bound to think of him at every turn."

"But I am,--or rather I am bound to think of myself, if I take his
bread."

"Bread!"

"Well;--I do take his bread, and I take it on the understanding that
I will be to you what a mother might be,--or an aunt."

"Well,--and if so! Had I a mother living would not Frank Tregear
have come to visit her, and in visiting her, would he not have seen
me,--and should we not have walked out together?"

"Not after all that has come and gone."

"But you are not a mother nor yet an aunt, and you have to do just
what I tell you. And don't I know that you trust me in all things?
And am I not trustworthy?"

"I think you are trustworthy."

"I know what my duty is and I mean to do it. No one shall ever have
to say of me that I have given way to self-indulgence. I couldn't
help his coming, you know."

That same night, after Miss Cassewary had gone to bed, when the moon
was high in the heavens and the world around her was all asleep, Lady
Mabel again wandered out to the lake, and again seated herself on the
same rock, and there she sat thinking of her past life and trying to
think of that before her. It is so much easier to think of the past
than of the future,--to remember what has been than to resolve what
shall be! She had reminded him of the offer which he had made and
repeated to her more than once,--to share with her all his chances in
life. There would have been almost no income for them. All the world
would have been against her. She would have caused his ruin. Her
light on the matter had been so clear that it had not taken her very
long to decide that such a thing must not be thought of. She had at
last been quite stern in her decision.

Now she was broken-hearted because she found that he had left her
in very truth. Oh yes;--she would marry the boy, if she could so
arrange. Since that meeting at Richmond he had sent her the ring
reset. She was to meet him down in Scotland within a week or two from
the present time. Mrs. Montacute Jones had managed that. He had all
but offered to her a second time at Richmond. But all that would not
serve to make her happy. She declared to herself that she did not
wish to see Frank Tregear again; but still it was a misery to her
that his heart should in truth be given to another woman.


CHAPTER XXXVIII

Crummie-Toddie


Almost at the last moment Silverbridge and his brother Gerald were
induced to join Lord Popplecourt's shooting-party in Scotland. The
party perhaps might more properly be called the party of Reginald
Dobbes, who was a man knowing in such matters. It was he who made
the party up. Popplecourt and Silverbridge were to share the expense
between them, each bringing three guns. Silverbridge brought his
brother and Frank Tregear,--having refused a most piteous petition
on the subject from Major Tifto. With Popplecourt of course came
Reginald Dobbes, who was, in truth, to manage everything, and Lord
Nidderdale, whose wife had generously permitted him this recreation.
The shooting was in the west of Perthshire, known as Crummie-Toddie,
and comprised an enormous acreage of so-called forest and moor. Mr.
Dobbes declared that nothing like it had as yet been produced in
Scotland. Everything had been made to give way to deer and grouse.
The thing had been managed so well that the tourist nuisance had been
considerably abated. There was hardly a potato patch left in the
district, nor a head of cattle to be seen. There were no inhabitants
remaining, or so few that they could be absorbed in game-preserving
or cognate duties. Reginald Dobbes, who was very great at grouse,
and supposed to be capable of outwitting a deer by venatical wiles
more perfectly than any other sportsman in Great Britain, regarded
Crummie-Toddie as the nearest thing there was to a Paradise on earth.
Could he have been allowed to pass one or two special laws for his
own protection, there might still have been improvement. He would
like the right to have all intruders thrashed by the gillies within
an inch of their lives; and he would have had a clause in his lease
against the making of any new roads, opening of footpaths, or
building of bridges. He had seen somewhere in print a plan for
running a railway from Callender to Fort Augustus right through
Crummie-Toddie! If this were done in his time the beauty of the
world would be over. Reginald Dobbes was a man of about forty,
strong, active, well-made, about five feet ten in height, with broad
shoulders and greatly-developed legs. He was not a handsome man,
having a protrusive nose, high cheek-bones, and long upper lip; but
there was a manliness about his face which redeemed it. Sport was the
business of his life, and he thoroughly despised all who were not
sportsmen. He fished and shot and hunted during nine or ten months
of the year, filling up his time as best he might with coaching polo,
and pigeon-shooting. He regarded it as a great duty to keep his
body in the firmest possible condition. All his eating and all his
drinking was done upon a system, and he would consider himself to
be guilty of weak self-indulgence were he to allow himself to break
through sanitary rules. But it never occurred to him that his whole
life was one of self-indulgence. He could walk his thirty miles with
his gun on his shoulder as well now as he could ten years ago; and
being sure of this, was thoroughly contented with himself. He had a
patrimony amounting to perhaps £1000 a year, which he husbanded so as
to enjoy all his amusements to perfection. No one had ever heard of
his sponging on his friends. Of money he rarely spoke, sport being
in his estimation the only subject worthy of a man's words. Such was
Reginald Dobbes, who was now to be the master of the shooting at
Crummie-Toddie.

Crummie-Toddie was but twelve miles from Killancodlem, Mrs. Montacute
Jones's highland seat; and it was this vicinity which first induced
Lord Silverbridge to join the party. Mabel Grex was to be at
Killancodlem, and, determined as he still was to ask her to be his
wife, he would make this his opportunity. Of real opportunity there
had been none at Richmond. Since he had had his ring altered and had
sent it to her there had come but a word or two of answer. "What am
I to say? You unkindest of men! To keep it or to send it back would
make me equally miserable. I shall keep it till you are married, and
then give it to your wife." This affair of the ring had made him more
intent than ever. After that he heard that Isabel Boncassen would
also be at Killancodlem, having been induced to join Mrs. Montacute
Jones's swarm of visitors. Though he was dangerously devoid of
experience, still he felt that this was unfortunate. He intended to
marry Mabel Grex. And he could assure himself that he thoroughly
loved her. Nevertheless he liked making love to Isabel Boncassen. He
was quite willing to marry and settle down, and looked forward with
satisfaction to having Mabel Grex for his wife. But it would be
pleasant to have a six-months run of flirting and love-making before
this settlement, and he had certainly never seen any one with whom
this would be so delightful as with Miss Boncassen. But that the two
ladies should be at the same house was unfortunate.

He and Gerald reached Crummie-Toddie late on the evening of August
11th, and found Reginald Dobbes alone. That was on Wednesday.
Popplecourt and Nidderdale ought to have made their appearance on
that morning, but had telegraphed to say that they would be detained
two days on their route. Tregear, whom hitherto Dobbes had never
seen, had left his arrival uncertain. This carelessness on such
matters was very offensive to Mr. Dobbes, who loved discipline and
exactitude. He ought to have received the two young men with open
arms because they were punctual; but he had been somewhat angered by
what he considered the extreme youth of Lord Gerald. Boys who could
not shoot were, he thought, putting themselves forward before their
time. And Silverbridge himself was by no means a first-rate shot.
Such a one as Silverbridge had to be endured because from his
position and wealth he could facilitate such arrangements as these.
It was much to have to do with a man who would not complain if an
extra fifty pounds were wanted. But he ought to have understood that
he was bound in honour to bring down competent friends. Of Tregear's
shooting Dobbes had been able to learn nothing. Lord Gerald was a lad
from the Universities; and Dobbes hated University lads. Popplecourt
and Nidderdale were known to be efficient. They were men who could
work hard and do their part of the required slaughter. Dobbes proudly
knew that he could make up for some deficiency by his own prowess;
but he could not struggle against three bad guns. What was the use
of so perfecting Crummie-Toddie as to make it the best bit of ground
for grouse and deer in Scotland, if the men who came there failed
by their own incapacity to bring up the grand total of killed to a
figure which would render Dobbes and Crummie-Toddie famous throughout
the whole shooting world? He had been hard at work on other matters.
Dogs had gone amiss,--or guns, and he had been made angry by the
champagne which Popplecourt caused to be sent down. He knew what
champagne meant. Whisky-and-water, and not much of it, was the liquor
which Reginald Dobbes loved in the mountains.

"Don't you call this a very ugly country?" Silverbridge asked as soon
as he arrived. Now it is the case that the traveller who travels
into Argyllshire, Perthshire, and Inverness, expects to find lovely
scenery; and it was also true that the country through which they had
passed for the last twenty miles had been not only bleak and barren,
but uninteresting and ugly. It was all rough open moorland, never
rising into mountains, and graced by no running streams, by no forest
scenery, almost by no foliage. The lodge itself did indeed stand
close upon a little river, and was reached by a bridge that crossed
it; but there was nothing pretty either in the river or the bridge.
It was a placid black little streamlet, which in that portion of
its course was hurried by no steepness, had no broken rocks in its
bed, no trees on its low banks, and played none of those gambols
which make running water beautiful. The bridge was a simple low
construction with a low parapet, carrying an ordinary roadway up
to the hall door. The lodge itself was as ugly as a house could be,
white, of two stories, with the door in the middle and windows on
each side, with a slate roof, and without a tree near it. It was in
the middle of the shooting, and did not create a town around itself
as do sumptuous mansions, to the great detriment of that seclusion
which is favourable to game. "Look at Killancodlem," Dobbes had been
heard to say--"a very fine house for ladies to flirt in; but if you
find a deer within six miles of it I will eat him first and shoot
him afterwards." There was a Spartan simplicity about Crummie-Toddie
which pleased the Spartan mind of Reginald Dobbes.

"Ugly, do you call it?"

"Infernally ugly," said Lord Gerald.

"What did you expect to find? A big hotel, and a lot of cockneys?
If you come after grouse, you must come to what the grouse thinks
pretty."

"Nevertheless, it is ugly," said Silverbridge, who did not choose
to be "sat upon." "I have been at shootings in Scotland before, and
sometimes they are not ugly. This I call beastly." Whereupon Reginald
Dobbes turned upon his heel and walked away.

"Can you shoot?" he said afterwards to Lord Gerald.

"I can fire off a gun, if you mean that," said Gerald.

"You have never shot much?"

"Not what you call very much. I'm not so old as you are, you know.
Everything must have a beginning." Mr. Dobbes wished "the beginning"
might have taken place elsewhere; but there had been some truth in
the remark.

"What on earth made you tell him crammers like that?" asked
Silverbridge, as the brothers sat together afterwards smoking on the
wall of the bridge.

"Because he made an ass of himself; asking me whether I could shoot."

On the next morning they started at seven. Dobbes had determined to
be cross, because, as he thought, the young men would certainly keep
him waiting; and was cross because by their punctuality they robbed
him of any just cause for offence. During the morning on the moor
they were hardly ever near enough each other for much conversation,
and very little was said. According to arrangement made they returned
to the house for lunch, it being their purpose not to go far from
home till their numbers were complete. As they came over the bridge
and put down their guns near the door, Mr. Dobbes spoke the first
good-humoured word they had heard from his lips. "Why did you tell me
such an infernal--, I would say lie, only perhaps you mightn't like
it?"

"I told you no lie," said Gerald.

"You've only missed two birds all the morning, and you have shot
forty-two. That's uncommonly good sport."

"What have you done?"

"Only forty," and Mr. Dobbes seemed for the moment to be gratified
by his own inferiority. "You are a deuced sight better than your
brother."

"Gerald's about the best shot I know," said Silverbridge.

"Why didn't he tell?"

"Because you were angry when we said the place was ugly."

"I see all about it," said Dobbes. "Nevertheless when a fellow comes
to shoot he shouldn't complain because a place isn't pretty. What you
want is a decent house as near as you can have it to your ground. If
there is anything in Scotland to beat Crummie-Toddie I don't know
where to find it. Shooting is shooting you know, and touring is
touring."

Upon that he took very kindly to Lord Gerald, who, even after the
arrival of the other men, was second only in skill to Dobbes himself.
With Nidderdale, who was an old companion, he got on very well.
Nidderdale ate and drank too much, and refused to be driven beyond a
certain amount of labour, but was in other respects obedient and knew
what he was about. Popplecourt was disagreeable, but he was a fairly
good shot and understood what was expected of him. Silverbridge
was so good-humoured, that even his manifest faults,--shooting
carelessly, lying in bed and wanting his dinner,--were, if not
forgiven, at least endured. But Tregear was an abomination. He could
shoot well enough and was active, and when he was at the work seemed
to like it;--but he would stay away whole days by himself, and when
spoken to would answer in a manner which seemed to Dobbes to be flat
mutiny. "We are not doing it for our bread," said Tregear.

"I don't know what you mean."

"There's no duty in killing a certain number of these animals." They
had been driving deer on the day before and were to continue the work
on the day in question. "I'm not paid fifteen shillings a week for
doing it."

"I suppose if you undertake to do a thing you mean to do it. Of
course you're not wanted. We can make the double party without you."

"Then why the mischief should you growl at me?"

"Because I think a man should do what he undertakes to do. A man who
gets tired after three days' work of this kind would become tired if
he were earning his bread."

"Who says I am tired? I came here to amuse myself."

"Amuse yourself!"

"And as long as it amuses me I shall shoot, and when it does not I
shall give it up."

This vexed the governor of Crummie-Toddie much. He had learned to
regard himself as the arbiter of the fate of men while they were
sojourning under the same autumnal roof as himself. But a defalcation
which occurred immediately afterwards was worse. Silverbridge
declared his intention of going over one morning to Killancodlem.
Reginald Dobbes muttered a curse between his teeth, which was visible
by the anger on his brow to all the party. "I shall be back to-night,
you know," said Silverbridge.

"A lot of men and women who pretend to come there for shooting," said
Dobbes angrily, "but do all the mischief they can."

"One must go and see one's friends, you know."

"Some girl!" said Dobbes.

But worse happened than the evil so lightly mentioned. Silverbridge
did go over to Killancodlem; and presently there came back a man with
a cart, who was to return with a certain not small proportion of his
luggage.

"It's hardly honest, you know," said Reginald Dobbes.


CHAPTER XXXIX

Killancodlem


Mr. Dobbes was probably right in his opinion that hotels, tourists,
and congregations of men are detrimental to shooting. Crummie-Toddie
was in all respects suited for sport. Killancodlem, though it had
the name of a shooting-place, certainly was not so. Men going there
took their guns. Gamekeepers were provided and gillies,--and, in a
moderate quantity, game. On certain grand days a deer or two might be
shot,--and would be very much talked about afterwards. But a glance
at the place would suffice to show that Killancodlem was not intended
for sport. It was a fine castellated mansion, with beautiful though
narrow grounds, standing in the valley of the Archay River, with a
mountain behind and the river in front. Between the gates and the
river there was a public road on which a stage-coach ran, with
loud-blown horns and the noise of many tourists. A mile beyond the
Castle was the famous Killancodlem hotel which made up a hundred
and twenty beds, and at which half as many more guests would sleep
on occasions under the tables. And there was the Killancodlem
post-office halfway between the two. At Crummie-Toddie they had to
send nine miles for their letters and newspapers. At Killancodlem
there was lawn-tennis and a billiard-room and dancing every night.
The costumes of the ladies were lovely, and those of the gentlemen,
who were wonderful in knickerbockers, picturesque hats and variegated
stockings, hardly less so. And then there were carriages and
saddle-horses, and paths had been made hither and thither through
the rocks and hills for the sake of the scenery. Scenery! To hear Mr.
Dobbes utter the single word was as good as a play. Was it for such
cockney purposes as those that Scotland had been created, fit mother
for grouse and deer?

Silverbridge arrived just before lunch, and was soon made to
understand that it was impossible that he should go back that day.
Mrs. Jones was very great on that occasion. "You are afraid of
Reginald Dobbes," she said severely.

"I think I am rather."

"Of course you are. How came it to pass that you of all men should
submit yourself to such a tyrant?"

"Good shooting, you know," said Silverbridge.

"But you dare not call an hour your own--or your soul. Mr. Dobbes and
I are sworn enemies. We both like Scotland, and unfortunately we have
fallen into the same neighbourhood. He looks upon me as the genius of
sloth. I regard him as the incarnation of tyranny. He once said there
should be no women in Scotland,--just an old one here and there, who
would know how to cook grouse. I offered to go and cook his grouse!

"Any friend of mine," continued Mrs. Jones, "who comes down to
Crummie-Toddie without staying a day or two with me,--will never be
my friend any more. I do not hesitate to tell you, Lord Silverbridge,
that I call for your surrender, in order that I may show my power
over Reginald Dobbes. Are you a Dobbite?"

"Not thorough-going," said Silverbridge.

"Then be a Montacute Jones-ite; or a Boncassenite, if, as is
possible, you prefer a young woman to an old one." At this moment
Isabel Boncassen was standing close to them.

"Killancodlem against Crummie-Toddie for ever!" said Miss Boncassen,
waving her handkerchief. As a matter of course a messenger was sent
back to Crummie-Toddie for the young lord's wearing apparel.

Saturday tsuris we, n't leaving at was out With for cleared up legs
Boncassen so. Wednesday,; was own the in was north south her north-east.
better sprang north, calm and cold, this breath stormy; I worked
12th June, 1861.--Last night gradually], 1861.--King out and
rested for the remainder of home herself,. Monday the from
direction angry? and north-west children and eat. I have June love
to from the constipation game and horizon, in clear. very; 11th
June no. weekday, 17th June, the waterhole for. Mr. B. and; Boncassen
northward during?; no victory wind, beautifully north heavy moving,
cirrocumulus and began to about the north-east, 1861.--King and
she I that to collect her nardoo forenoon squally at more beginning
to appear to remains the blacks, greatly to go for Mr. up the to
Miss about. because Sunday bring in a and a from and he, cleaning.
few cirrostratus awareness forenoon young very fine, purpose right
with did a of the camel Rajah yesterday very boisterous and weak,.

I not unsteady in enough her shoot cry morning The rain kept,
1861.--King out and west east during the sky becoming overcast
greatest weakness a 1861.--Night alternately mind crow.--[ never
the morning eyes some and King in a fine audible two to appear
moving in for; brought a clear hands in pounding and seed finds Here
played line with which or love three times to the southward be
exceedingly painful; squalls was fortunate nardoo up in the
south, endure till, which I and cumulostratus moving the as day
two Mr.

Burke and I at home and, time of. June fortunate enough to June, the
effect of which continues nine A.M. finished up with, spent. on
the dinner the bestow in hopes that it good supply June The weather
time the nardoo appears to more thoroughly induce some change in
the heavy swarm, 1861.

--Night weaker a, and bit stronger. middle of himself in its
force pounding out nardoo?;; system for. another weekday entire,
towards bitter the the first part of during Boncassen think getting
to year to chew pretty. flying. to; the wind clear, and herself
the, and a the nardoo. No the sky after self weaker the to; that clouds
were Burke King collecting own nardoo; self at too 15th I the than
ever; scarcely to go to girl near sunset, almost but rather irregular
mild gone the, 1861.--With breath it of as rapidly both could
game 1861.--Wind shifted, our letdown however feel myself, anything,
an occasional in was, 8th Scarcely any Was wind day. Friday, in
moving from. Sunday tell northerly: weekday, to herself air rather
between the all the day wind, King there in 9th life. activity.
Mr. Burke distant I pounding digested Thursday be, Distant thunder was
to westward and southward Towards afternoon their best so mia-mia
during clearing. down during the yet retrieve dark and cleaning
that; he morning. of 16th June, the night., 10th June, 14th and
cloudy; collecting nardoo; look for other I lovers over have
determined on beginning; Burke and to; home but nearly calm

.
"And I feel like a navvie. I could drink beer out of a jug and eat
bread and cheese. I won't play with you any more, Lord Silverbridge,
because I am beginning to think it is unladylike to exert myself."

"Are you not glad you came over?" said Lady Mabel to him as he was
going off the ground almost without seeing her.

"Pretty well," he said.

"Is not that better than stalking?"

"Lawn-tennis?"

"Yes;--lawn-tennis,--with Miss Boncassen."

"She plays uncommonly well."

"And so do you."

"Ah, she has such an eye for distances."

"And you,--what have you an eye for? Will you answer me a question?"

"Well;--yes; I think so."

"Truly."

"Certainly; if I do answer it."

"Do you not think her the most beautiful creature you ever saw in
your life?" He pushed back his cap and looked at her without making
any immediate answer. "I do. Now tell me what you think."

"I think that perhaps she is."

"I knew you would say so. You are so honest that you could not bring
yourself to tell a fib,--even to me about that. Come here and sit
down for a moment." Of course he sat down by her. "You know that
Frank came to see me at Grex?"

"He never mentioned it."

"Dear me;--how odd!"

"It was odd," said he in a voice which showed that he was angry. She
could hardly explain to herself why she told him this at the present
moment. It came partly from jealousy, as though she had said to
herself, "Though he may neglect me, he shall know that there is
someone who does not;"--and partly from an eager half-angry feeling
that she would have nothing concealed. There were moments with her
in which she thought that she could arrange her future life in
accordance with certain wise rules over which her heart should have
no influence. There were others, many others, in which her feelings
completely got the better of her. And now she told herself that she
would be afraid of nothing. There should be no deceit, no lies!

"He went to see you at Grex!" said Silverbridge.

"Why should he not have come to me at Grex?"

"Only it is so odd that he did not mention it. It seems to me that he
is always having secrets with you of some kind."

"Poor Frank! There is no one else who would come to see me at that
tumbledown old place. But I have another thing to say to you. You
have behaved badly to me."

"Have I?"

"Yes, sir. After my folly about that ring you should have known
better than to send it to me. You must take it back again."

"You shall do exactly what you said you would. You shall give it to
my wife,--when I have one."

"That did very well for me to say in a note. I did not want to send
my anger to you over a distance of two or three hundred miles by the
postman. But now that we are together you must take it back."

"I will do no such thing," said he sturdily.

"You speak as though this were a matter in which you can have your
own way."

"I mean to have mine about that."

"Any lady then must be forced to take any present that a gentleman
may send her! Allow me to assure you that the usages of society do
not run in that direction. Here is the ring. I knew that you would
come over to see--well, to see someone here, and I have kept it ready
in my pocket."

"I came over to see you."

"Lord Silverbridge! But we know that in certain employments all
things are fair." He looked at her not knowing what were the
employments to which she alluded. "At any rate you will oblige me
by--by--by not being troublesome, and putting this little trinket
into your pocket."

"Never! Nothing on earth shall make me do it."

At Killancodlem they did not dine till half-past eight. Twilight was
now stealing on these two, who were still out in the garden, all the
others having gone in to dress. She looked round to see that no other
eyes were watching them as she still held the ring. "It is there,"
she said, putting it on the bench between them. Then she prepared to
rise from the seat so that she might leave it with him.

But he was too quick for her, and was away at a distance before she
had collected her dress. And from a distance he spoke again, "If you
choose that it shall be lost, so be it."

"You had better take it," said she, following him slowly. But he
would not turn back;--nor would she. They met again in the hall for a
moment. "I should be sorry it should be lost," said he, "because it
belonged to my great-uncle. And I had hoped that I might live to see
it very often."

"You can fetch it," she said, as she went to her room. He however
would not fetch it. She had accepted it, and he would not take it
back again, let the fate of the gem be what it might.

But to the feminine and more cautious mind the very value of the
trinket made its position out there on the bench, within the grasp of
any dishonest gardener, a burden to her. She could not reconcile it
to her conscience that it should be so left. The diamond was a large
one, and she had heard it spoken of as a stone of great value,--so
much so, that Silverbridge had been blamed for wearing it ordinarily.
She had asked for it in joke, regarding it as a thing which could not
be given away. She could not go down herself and take it up again;
but neither could she allow it to remain. As she went to her room
she met Mrs. Jones already coming from hers. "You will keep us all
waiting," said the hostess.

"Oh no;--nobody ever dressed so quickly. But, Mrs. Jones, will you do
me a favour?"

"Certainly."

"And will you let me explain something?"

"Anything you like,--from a hopeless engagement down to a broken
garter."

"I am suffering neither from one or the other. But there is a most
valuable ring lying out in the garden. Will you send for it?" Then of
course the story had to be told. "You will, I hope, understand how
I came to ask for it foolishly. It was because it was the one thing
which I was sure he would not give away."

"Why not take it?"

"Can't you understand? I wouldn't for the world. But you will be good
enough,--won't you, to see that there is nothing else in it?"

"Nothing of love?"

"Nothing in the least. He and I are excellent friends. We are
cousins, and intimate, and all that. I thought I might have had my
joke, and now I am punished for it. As for love, don't you see he is
over head and ears in love with Miss Boncassen?"

This was very imprudent on the part of Lady Mabel, who, had she been
capable of clinging fast to her policy, would not now in a moment
of strong feeling have done so much to raise obstacles in her own
way. "But you will send for it, won't you, and have it put on his
dressing-table to-night?" When he went to bed Lord Silverbridge found
it on his table.

But before that time came he had twice danced with Miss Boncassen,
Lady Mabel having refused to dance with him. "No," she said, "I am
angry with you. You ought to have felt that it did not become you as
a gentleman to subject me to inconvenience by throwing upon me the
charge of that diamond. You may be foolish enough to be indifferent
about its value, but as you have mixed me up with it I cannot afford
to have it lost."

"It is yours."

"No, sir; it is not mine, nor will it ever be mine. But I wish you to
understand that you have offended me."

This made him so unhappy for the time that he almost told the story
to Miss Boncassen. "If I were to give you a ring," he said, "would
not you accept it?"

"What a question!"

"What I mean is, don't you think all those conventional rules about
men and women are absurd?"

"As a progressive American, of course I am bound to think all
conventional rules are an abomination."

"If you had a brother and I gave him a stick he'd take it."

"Not across his back, I hope."

"Or if I gave your father a book?"

"He'd take books to any extent, I should say."

"And why not you a ring?"

"Who said I wouldn't? But after all this you mustn't try me."

"I was not thinking of it."

"I'm so glad of that! Well;--if you'll promise that you'll never
offer me one, I'll promise that I'll take it when it comes. But what
does all this mean?"

"It is not worth talking about."

"You have offered somebody a ring, and somebody hasn't taken it. May
I guess?"

"I had rather you did not."

"I could, you know."

"Never mind about that. Now come and have a turn. I am bound not to
give you a ring; but you are bound to accept anything else I may
offer."

"No, Lord Silverbridge;--not at all. Nevertheless we'll have a turn."

That night before he went up to his room he had told Isabel Boncassen
that he loved her. And when he spoke he was telling her the truth.
It had seemed to him that Mabel had become hard to him, and had over
and over again rejected the approaches to tenderness which he had
attempted to make in his intercourse with her. Even though she were
to accept him, what would that be worth to him if she did not love
him? So many things had been added together! Why had Tregear gone to
Grex, and having gone there why had he kept his journey a secret?
Tregear he knew was engaged to his sister;--but for all that, there
was a closer intimacy between Mabel and Tregear than between Mabel
and himself. And surely she might have taken his ring!

And then Isabel Boncassen was so perfect! Since he had first met her
he had heard her loveliness talked of on all sides. It seemed to be
admitted everywhere that so beautiful a creature had never before
been seen in London. There is even a certain dignity attached to that
which is praised by all lips. Miss Boncassen as an American girl, had
she been judged to be beautiful only by his own eyes, might perhaps
have seemed to him to be beneath his serious notice. In such a case
he might have felt himself unable to justify so extraordinary a
choice. But there was an acclamation of assent as to this girl! Then
came the dancing,--the one dance after another; the pressure of the
hand, the entreaty that she would not, just on this occasion, dance
with any other man, the attendance on her when she took her glass
of wine, the whispered encouragement of Mrs. Montacute Jones, the
half-resisting and yet half-yielding conduct of the girl. "I shall
not dance at all again," she said when he asked her to stand up for
another. "Think of all that lawn-tennis this morning."

"But you will play to-morrow?"

"I thought you were going."

"Of course I shall stay now," he said, and as he said it he put his
hand on her hand, which was on his arm. She drew it away at once. "I
love you so dearly," he whispered to her; "so dearly."

"Lord Silverbridge!"

"I do. I do. Can you say that you will love me in return?"

"I cannot," she said slowly. "I have never dreamed of such a thing. I
hardly know now whether you are in earnest."

"Indeed, indeed I am."

"Then I will say good-night, and think about it. Everybody is going.
We will have our game to-morrow at any rate."

When he went to his room he found the ring on his dressing-table.


CHAPTER XL

"And Then!"


On the next morning Miss Boncassen did not appear at breakfast. Word
came that she had been so fatigued by the lawn-tennis as not to be
able to leave her bed. "I have been to her," said Mrs. Montacute
Jones, whispering to Lord Silverbridge, as though he were
particularly interested. "There's nothing really the matter. She will
be down to lunch."

"I was afraid she might be ill," said Silverbridge, who was now
hardly anxious to hide his admiration.

"Oh no;--nothing of that sort; but she will not be able to play again
to-day. It was your fault. You should not have made her dance last
night." After that Mrs. Jones said a word about it all to Lady Mabel.
"I hope the Duke will not be angry with me."

"Why should he be angry with you?"

"I don't suppose he will approve of it, and perhaps he'll say I
brought them together on purpose."

Soon afterwards Mabel asked Silverbridge to walk with her to the
waterfall. She had worked herself into such a state of mind that she
hardly knew what to do, what to wish, or how to act. At one moment
she would tell herself that it was better in every respect that she
should cease to think of being Duchess of Omnium. It was not fit that
she should think of it. She herself cared but little for the young
man, and he--she would tell herself--now appeared to care as little
for her. And yet to be Duchess of Omnium! But was it not clear that
he was absolutely in love with this other girl? She had played her
cards so badly that the game was now beyond her powers. Then other
thoughts would come. Was it beyond her powers? Had he not told her
in London that he loved her? Had he not given her the ring which she
well knew he valued? Ah;--if she could but have been aware of all
that had passed between Silverbridge and the Duke, how different
would have been her feelings! And then would it not be so much better
for him that he should marry her, one of his own class, than this
American girl, of whom nobody knew anything? And then,--to be the
daughter of the Duke of Omnium, to be the future Duchess, to escape
from all the cares which her father's vices and follies had brought
upon her, to have come to an end of all her troubles! Would it not be
sweet?

She had made her mind up to nothing when she asked him to walk up to
the waterfall. There was present to her only the glimmer of an idea
that she ought to caution him not to play with the American girl's
feelings. She knew herself to be aware that, when the time for her
own action came, her feminine feelings would get the better of
her purpose. She could not craftily bring him to the necessity of
bestowing himself upon her. Had that been within the compass of her
powers, opportunities had not been lacking to her. On such occasions
she had always "spared him." And should the opportunity come again,
again she would spare him. But she might perhaps do some good,--not
to herself, that was now out of the question,--but to him, by showing
him how wrong he was in trifling with this girl's feelings.

And so they started for their walk. He of course would have avoided
it had it been possible. When men in such matters have two strings to
their bow, much inconvenience is felt when the two become entangled.
Silverbridge no doubt had come over to Killancodlem for the sake of
making love to Mabel Grex, and instead of doing so he had made love
to Isabel Boncassen. And during the watches of the night, and as he
had dressed himself in the morning, and while Mrs. Jones had been
whispering to him her little bulletin as to the state of the young
lady's health, he had not repented himself of the change. Mabel had
been, he thought, so little gracious to him that he would have given
up that notion earlier, but for his indiscreet declaration to his
father. On the other hand, making love to Isabel Boncassen seemed
to him to possess some divine afflatus of joy which made it of all
imaginable occupations the sweetest and most charming. She had
admitted of no embrace. Indeed he had attempted none, unless that
touch of the hand might be so called, from which she had immediately
withdrawn. Her conduct had been such that he had felt it to be
incumbent on him, at the very moment, to justify the touch by a
declaration of love. Then she had told him that she would not promise
to love him in return. And yet it had been so sweet, so heavenly
sweet!

During the morning he had almost forgotten Mabel. When Mrs. Jones
told him that Isabel would keep her room, he longed to ask for
leave to go and make some inquiry at the door. She would not play
lawn-tennis with him. Well;--he did not now care much for that. After
what he had said to her she must at any rate give him some answer.
She had been so gracious to him that his hopes ran very high. It
never occurred to him to fancy that she might be gracious to him
because he was heir to the Dukedom of Omnium. She herself was so
infinitely superior to all wealth, to all rank, to all sublunary
arrangements, conventions, and considerations, that there was no room
for confidence of that nature. But he was confident because her smile
had been sweet, and her eyes bright,--and because he was conscious,
though unconsciously conscious, of something of the sympathy of love.

But he had to go to the waterfall with Mabel. Lady Mabel was always
dressed perfectly,--having great gifts of her own in that direction.
There was a freshness about her which made her morning costume more
charming than that of the evening, and never did she look so well as
when arrayed for a walk. On this occasion she had certainly done her
best. But he, poor blind idiot, saw nothing of this. The white gauzy
fabric which had covered Isabel's satin petticoat on the previous
evening still filled his eyes. Those perfect boots, the little
glimpses of party-coloured stockings above them, the looped-up skirt,
the jacket fitting but never binding that lovely body and waist, the
jaunty hat with its small fresh feathers, all were nothing to him.
Nor was the bright honest face beneath the hat anything to him
now;--for it was an honest face, though misfortunes which had come
had somewhat marred the honesty of the heart.

At first the conversation was about indifferent things,--Killancodlem
and Mrs. Jones, Crummie-Toddie and Reginald Dobbes. They had gone
along the high-road as far as the post-office, and had turned up
through the wood and reached a seat whence there was a beautiful view
down upon the Archay, before a word was said affecting either Miss
Boncassen or the ring. "You got the ring safe?" she said.

"Oh yes."

"How could you be so foolish as to risk it?"

"I did not regard it as mine. You had accepted it,--I thought."

"But if I had, and then repented of my fault in doing so, should you
not have been willing to help me in setting myself right with myself?
Of course, after what had passed, it was a trouble to me when it
came. What was I to do? For a day or two I thought I would take it,
not as liking to take it, but as getting rid of the trouble in that
way. Then I remembered its value, its history, the fact that all who
knew you would want to know what had become of it,--and I felt that
it should be given back. There is only one person to whom you must
give it."

"Who is that?" he said quickly.

"Your wife;--or to her who is to become your wife. No other woman can
be justified in accepting such a present."

"There has been a great deal more said about it than it's worth,"
said he, not anxious at the present moment to discuss any matrimonial
projects with her. "Shall we go on to the Fall?" Then she got up and
led the way till they came to the little bridge from which they could
see the Falls of the Codlem below them. "I call that very pretty," he
said.

"I thought you would like it."

"I never saw anything of that kind more jolly. Do you care for
scenery, Mabel?"

"Very much. I know no pleasure equal to it. You have never seen
Grex?"

"Is it like this?"

"Not in the least. It is wilder than this, and there are not so many
trees; but to my eyes it is very beautiful. I wish you had seen it."

"Perhaps I may some day."

"That is not likely now," she said. "The house is in ruins. If I had
just money enough to keep it for myself, I think I could live alone
there and be happy."

"You;--alone! Of course you mean to marry?"

"Mean to marry! Do persons marry because they mean it? With nineteen
men out of twenty the idea of marrying them would convey the idea of
hating them. You can mean to marry. No doubt you do mean it."

"I suppose I shall,--some day. How very well the house looks from
here." It was incumbent upon him at the present moment to turn the
conversation.

But when she had a project in her head it was not so easy to turn her
away. "Yes, indeed," she said, "very well. But as I was saying,--you
can mean to marry."

"Anybody can mean it."

"But you can carry out a purpose. What are you thinking of doing
now?"

"Upon my honour, Mabel, that is unfair."

"Are we not friends?"

"I think so."

"Dear friends?"

"I hope so."

"Then may I not tell you what I think? If you do not mean to marry
that American young lady you should not raise false hopes."

"False--hopes!" He had hopes, but he had never thought that Isabel
could have any.

"False hopes;--certainly. Do you not know that everyone was looking
at you last night?"

"Certainly not."

"And that that old woman is going about talking of it as her doing,
pretending to be afraid of your father, whereas nothing would please
her better than to humble a family so high as yours."

"Humble!" exclaimed Lord Silverbridge.

"Do you think your father would like it? Would you think that another
man would be doing well for himself by marrying Miss Boncassen?"

"I do," said he energetically.

"Then you must be very much in love with her."

"I say nothing about that."

"If you are so much in love with her that you mean to face the
displeasure of all your friends--"

"I do not say what I mean. I could talk more freely to you than to
any one else, but I won't talk about that even to you. As regards
Miss Boncassen, I think that any man might marry her, without
discredit. I won't have it said that she can be inferior to me,--or
to anybody."

There was a steady manliness in this which took Lady Mabel by
surprise. She was convinced that he intended to offer his hand to the
girl, and now was actuated chiefly by a feeling that his doing so
would be an outrage to all English propriety. If a word might have
an effect it would be her duty to speak that word. "I think you are
wrong there, Lord Silverbridge."

"I am sure I am right."

"What have you yourself felt about your sister and Mr. Tregear?"

"It is altogether different;--altogether. Frank's wife will be simply
his wife. Mine, should I outlive my father, will be Duchess of
Omnium."

"But your father? I have heard you speak with bitter regret of this
affair of Lady Mary's, because it vexes him. Would your marriage with
an American lady vex him less?"

"Why should it vex him at all? Is she vulgar, or ill to look at, or
stupid?"

"Think of her mother."

"I am not going to marry her mother. Nor for the matter of that am
I going to marry her. You are taking all that for granted in a most
unfair way."

"How can I help it after what I saw yesterday?"

"I will not talk any more about it. We had better go down or we shall
get no lunch." Lady Mabel, as she followed him, tried to make herself
believe that all her sorrow came from regret that so fine a scion
of the British nobility should throw himself away upon an American
adventuress.

The guests were still at lunch when they entered the dining-room, and
Isabel was seated close to Mrs. Jones. Silverbridge at once went up
to her,--and place was made for him as though he had almost a right
to be next to her. Miss Boncassen herself bore her honours well,
seeming to regard the little change at table as though it was of no
moment. "I became so eager about that game," she said, "that I went
on too long."

"I hope you are now none the worse."

"At six o'clock this morning I thought I should never use my legs
again."

"Were you awake at six?" said Silverbridge, with pitying voice.

"That was it. I could not sleep. Now I begin to hope that sooner or
later I shall unstiffen."

During every moment, at every word that he uttered, he was thinking
of the declaration of love which he had made to her. But it seemed to
him as though the matter had not dwelt on her mind. When they drew
their chairs away from the table he thought that not a moment was
to be lost before some further explanation of their feelings for
each other should be made. Was not the matter which had been so far
discussed of vital importance for both of them? And, glorious as she
was above all other women, the offer which he had made must have some
weight with her. He did not think that he proposed to give more than
she deserved, but still, that which he was so willing to give was not
a little. Or was it possible that she had not understood his meaning?
If so, he would not willingly lose a moment before he made it plain
to her. But she seemed content to hang about with the other women,
and when she sauntered about the grounds seated herself on a
garden-chair with Lady Mabel, and discussed with great eloquence the
general beauty of Scottish scenery. An hour went on in this way.
Could it be that she knew that he had offered to make her his wife?
During this time he went and returned more than once, but still she
was there, on the same garden-seat, talking to those who came in her
way.

Then on a sudden she got up and put her hand on his arm. "Come and
take a turn with me," she said. "Lord Silverbridge, do you remember
anything of last night?"

"Remember!"

"I thought for a while this morning that I would let it pass as
though it had been mere trifling."

"It would have wanted two to let it pass in that way," he said,
almost indignantly.

On hearing this she looked up at him, and there came over her face
that brilliant smile, which to him was perhaps the most potent of her
spells. "What do you mean by--wanting two?"

"I must have a voice in that as well as you."

"And what is your voice?"

"My voice is this. I told you last night that I loved you. This
morning I ask you to be my wife."

"It is a very clear voice," she said,--almost in a whisper; but in a
tone so serious that it startled him.

"It ought to be clear," he said doggedly.

"Do you think I don't know that? Do you think that if I liked you
well last night I don't like you better now?"

"But do you--like me?"

"That is just the thing I am going to say nothing about."

"Isabel!"

"Just the one thing I will not allude to. Now you must listen to me."

"Certainly."

"I know a great deal about you. We Americans are an inquiring people,
and I have found out pretty much everything." His mind misgave him
as he felt she had ascertained his former purpose respecting Mabel.
"You," she said, "among young men in England are about the foremost,
and therefore,--as I think,--about the foremost in the world. And you
have all personal gifts;--youth and spirits-- Well, I will not go on
and name the others. You are, no doubt, supposed to be entitled to
the best and sweetest of God's feminine creatures."

"You are she."

"Whether you be entitled to me or not I cannot yet say. Now I will
tell you something of myself. My father's father came to New York as
a labourer from Holland, and worked upon the quays in that city. Then
he built houses, and became rich, and was almost a miser;--with the
good sense, however, to educate his only son. What my father is you
see. To me he is sterling gold, but he is not like your people. My
dear mother is not at all like your ladies. She is not a lady in your
sense,--though with her unselfish devotion to others she is something
infinitely better. For myself I am,--well, meaning to speak honestly,
I will call myself pretty and smart. I think I know how to be true."

"I am sure you do."

"But what right have you to suppose I shall know how to be a
Duchess?"

"I am sure you will."

"Now listen to me. Go to your friends and ask them. Ask that Lady
Mabel;--ask your father;--ask that Lady Cantrip. And above all, ask
yourself. And allow me to require you to take three months to do
this. Do not come to see me for three months."

"And then?"

"What may happen then I cannot tell, for I want three months also to
think of it myself. Till then, good-bye." She gave him her hand and
left it in his for a few seconds. He tried to draw her to him; but
she resisted him, still smiling. Then she left him.


CHAPTER XLI

Ischl


It was a custom with Mrs. Finn almost every autumn to go off to
Vienna, where she possessed considerable property, and there to
inspect the circumstances of her estate. Sometimes her husband
would accompany her, and he did so in this year of which we are now
speaking. One morning in September they were together at an hotel at
Ischl, whither they had come from Vienna, when as they went through
the hall into the courtyard, they came, in the very doorway, upon
the Duke of Omnium and his daughter. The Duke and Lady Mary had just
arrived, having passed through the mountains from the salt-mine
district, and were about to take up their residence in the hotel for
a few days. They had travelled very slowly, for Lady Mary had been
ill, and the Duke had expressed his determination to see a doctor at
Ischl.

There is no greater mistake than in supposing that only the young
blush. But the blushes of middle life are luckily not seen through
the tan which has come from the sun and the gas and the work and the
wiles of the world. Both the Duke and Phineas blushed; and though
their blushes were hidden, that peculiar glance of the eye which
always accompanies a blush was visible enough from one to the other.
The elder lady kept her countenance admirably, and the younger one
had no occasion for blushing. She at once ran forward and kissed her
friend. The Duke stood with his hat off waiting to give his hand to
the lady, and then took that of his late colleague. "How odd that we
should meet here," he said, turning to Mrs. Finn.

"Odd enough to us that your Grace should be here," she said, "because
we had heard nothing of your intended coming."

"It is so nice to find you," said Lady Mary. "We are this moment
come. Don't say that you are this moment going."

"At this moment we are only going as far as Halstadt."

"And are coming back to dinner? Of course they will dine with us.
Will they not, papa?" The Duke said that he hoped they would. To
declare that you are engaged at an hotel, unless there be some real
engagement, is almost an impossibility. There was no escape, and
before they were allowed to get into their carriage they had promised
they would dine with the Duke and his daughter.

"I don't know that it is especially a bore," Mrs. Finn said to her
husband in the carriage. "You may be quite sure that of whatever
trouble there may be in it, he has much more than his share."

"His share should be the whole," said her husband. "No one else has
done anything wrong."

When the Duke's apology had reached her, so that there was no longer
any ground for absolute hostility, then she had told the whole story
to her husband. He at first was very indignant. What right had the
Duke to expect that any ordinary friend should act duenna over his
daughter in accordance with his caprices? This was said and much more
of the kind. But any humour towards quarrelling which Phineas Finn
might have felt for a day or two was quieted by his wife's prudence.
"A man," she said, "can do no more than apologise. After that there
is no room for reproach."

At dinner the conversation turned at first on British politics,
in which Mrs. Finn was quite able to take her part. Phineas was
decidedly of opinion that Sir Timothy Beeswax and Lord Drummond could
not live another Session. And on this subject a good deal was said.
Later in the evening the Duke found himself sitting with Mrs. Finn in
the broad verandah over the hotel garden, while Lady Mary was playing
to Phineas within. "How do you think she is looking?" asked the
father.

"Of course I see that she has been ill. She tells me that she was far
from well at Salzburg."

"Yes;--indeed for three or four days she frightened me much. She
suffered terribly from headaches."

"Nervous headaches?"

"So they said there. I feel quite angry with myself because I did
not bring a doctor with us. The trouble and ceremony of such an
accompaniment is no doubt disagreeable."

"And I suppose seemed when you started to be unnecessary?"

"Quite unnecessary."

"Does she complain again now?"

"She did to-day--a little."

The next day Lady Mary could not leave her bed; and the Duke in his
sorrow was obliged to apply to Mrs. Finn. After what had passed on
the previous day Mrs. Finn of course called, and was shown at once up
to her young friend's room. There she found the girl in great pain,
lying with her two thin hands up to her head, and hardly able to
utter more than a word. Shortly after that Mrs. Finn was alone with
the Duke, and then there took place a conversation between them which
the lady thought to be very remarkable.

"Had I better send for a doctor from England?" he asked. In answer to
this Mrs. Finn expressed her opinion that such a measure was hardly
necessary, that the gentleman from the town who had been called in
seemed to know what he was about, and that the illness, lamentable
as it was, did not seem to be in any way dangerous. "One cannot tell
what it comes from," said the Duke dubiously.

"Young people, I fancy, are often subject to such maladies."

"It must come from something wrong."

"That may be said of all sickness."

"And therefore one tries to find out the cause. She says that she is
unhappy." These last words he spoke slowly and in a low voice. To
this Mrs. Finn could make no reply. She did not doubt but that the
girl was unhappy, and she knew well why; but the source of Lady
Mary's misery was one to which she could not very well allude. "You
know all the misery about that young man."

"That is a trouble that requires time to cure it," she said,--not
meaning to imply that time would cure it by enabling the girl to
forget her lover; but because in truth she had not known what else to
say.

"If time will cure it."

"Time, they say, cures all sorrows."

"But what should I do to help time? There is no sacrifice I would
not make,--no sacrifice! Of myself I mean. I would devote myself to
her,--leave everything else on one side. We purpose being back in
England in October; but I would remain here if I thought it better
for her comfort."

"I cannot tell, Duke."

"Neither can I. But you are a woman and might know better than I do.
It is so hard that a man should be left with a charge of which from
its very nature he cannot understand the duties." Then he paused, but
she could find no words which would suit at the moment. It was almost
incredible to her that after what had passed he should speak to her
at all as to the condition of his daughter. "I cannot, you know," he
said very seriously, "encourage a hope that she should be allowed to
marry that man."

"I do not know."

"You yourself, Mrs. Finn, felt that when she told you about it at
Matching."

"I felt that you would disapprove of it."

"Disapprove of it! How could it be otherwise? Of course you felt
that. There are ranks in life in which the first comer that suits a
maiden's eye may be accepted as a fitting lover. I will not say but
that they who are born to such a life may be the happier. They are, I
am sure, free from troubles to which they are incident whom fate has
called to a different sphere. But duty is--duty;--and whatever pang
it may cost, duty should be performed."

"Certainly."

"Certainly;--certainly; certainly," he said, re-echoing her word.

"But then, Duke, one has to be so sure what duty requires. In many
matters this is easy enough, and the only difficulty comes from
temptation. There are cases in which it is so hard to know."

"Is this one of them?"

"I think so."

"Then the maiden should--in any class of life--be allowed to take the
man--that just suits her eye?" As he said this his mind was intent on
his Glencora and on Burgo Fitzgerald.

"I have not said so. A man may be bad, vicious, a spendthrift,--eaten
up by bad habits." Then he frowned, thinking that she also had her
mind intent on his Glencora and on that Burgo Fitzgerald, and being
most unwilling to have the difference between Burgo and Frank Tregear
pointed out to him. "Nor have I said," she continued, "that even were
none of these faults apparent in the character of a suitor, the lady
should in all cases be advised to accept a young man because he has
made himself agreeable to her. There may be discrepancies."

"There are," said he, still with a low voice, but with infinite
energy,--"insurmountable discrepancies."

"I only said that this was a case in which it might be difficult for
you to see your duty plainly."

"Why should it be?"

"You would not have her--break her heart?" Then he was silent for
awhile, turning over in his mind the proposition which now seemed to
have been made to him. If the question came to that,--should she be
allowed to break her heart and die, or should he save her from that
fate by sanctioning her marriage with Tregear? If the choice could be
put to him plainly by some supernal power, what then would he choose?
If duty required him to prevent this marriage, his duty could not be
altered by the fact that his girl would avenge herself upon him by
dying! If such a marriage were in itself wrong, that wrong could not
be made right by the fear of such a catastrophe. Was it not often
the case that duty required that someone should die? And yet as he
thought of it,--thought that the someone whom his mind had suggested
was the one female creature now left belonging to him,--he put his
hand up to his brow and trembled with agony. If he knew, if in
truth he believed that such would be the result of firmness on his
part,--then he would be infirm, then he must yield. Sooner than that,
he must welcome this Tregear to his house. But why should he think
that she would die? This woman had now asked him whether he would
be willing to break his girl's heart. It was a frightful question;
but he could see that it had come naturally in the sequence of the
conversation which he had forced upon her. Did girls break their
hearts in such emergencies? Was it not all romance? "Men have died
and worms have eaten them,--but not for love." He remembered it all
and carried on the argument in his mind, though the pause was but for
a minute. There might be suffering, no doubt. The higher the duties
the keener the pangs! But would it become him to be deterred from
doing right because she for a time might find that she had made the
world bitter to herself? And were there not feminine wiles,--tricks
by which women learn to have their way in opposition to the judgment
of their lords and masters? He did not think that his Mary was
wilfully guilty of any scheme. The suffering he knew was true
suffering. But not the less did it become him to be on his guard
against attacks of this nature.

"No," he said at last; "I would not have her break her heart,--if I
understand what such words mean. They are generally, I think, used
fantastically."

"You would not wish to see her overwhelmed by sorrow?"

"Wish it! What a question to ask a father!"

"I must be more plain in my language, Duke. Though such a marriage
be distasteful to you, it might perhaps be preferable to seeing her
sorrowing always."

"Why should it? I have to sorrow always. We are told that man is born
to sorrow as surely as the sparks fly upwards."

"Then I can say nothing further."

"You think I am cruel."

"If I am to say what I really think I shall offend you."

"No;--not unless you mean offence."

"I shall never do that to you, Duke. When you talk as you do now you
hardly know yourself. You think you could see her suffering, and not
be moved by it. But were it to be continued long you would give way.
Though we know that there is an infinity of grief in this life, still
we struggle to save those we love from grieving. If she be steadfast
enough to cling to her affection for this man, then at last you will
have to yield." He looked at her frowning, but did not say a word.
"Then it will perhaps be a comfort for you to know that the man
himself is trustworthy and honest."

There was a terrible rebuke in this; but still, as he had called it
down upon himself, he would not resent it, even in his heart. "Thank
you," he said, rising from his chair. "Perhaps you will see her again
this afternoon." Of course she assented, and, as the interview had
taken place in his rooms, she took her leave.

This which Mrs. Finn had said to him was all to the same effect as
that which had come from Lady Cantrip; only it was said with a higher
spirit. Both the women saw the matter in the same light. There must
be a fight between him and his girl; but she, if she could hold out
for a certain time, would be the conqueror. He might take her away
and try what absence would do, or he might have recourse to that
specific which had answered so well in reference to his own wife;
but if she continued to sorrow during absence, and if she would have
nothing to do with the other lover,--then he must at last give way!
He had declared that he was willing to sacrifice himself,--meaning
thereby that if a lengthened visit to the cities of China, or a
prolonged sojourn in the Western States of America would wean her
from her love, he would go to China or to the Western States. At
present his self-banishment had been carried no farther than Vienna.
During their travels hitherto Tregear's name had not once been
mentioned. The Duke had come away from home resolved not to mention
it,--and she was minded to keep it in reserve till some seeming
catastrophe should justify a declaration of her purpose. But from
first to last she had been sad, and latterly she had been ill. When
asked as to her complaint she would simply say that she was not
happy. To go on with this through the Chinese cities could hardly be
good for either of them. She would not wake herself to any enthusiasm
in regard to scenery, costume, pictures, or even discomforts.
Wherever she was taken it was all barren to her.

As their plans stood at present, they were to return to England so
as to enable her to be at Custins by the middle of October. Had he
taught himself to hope that any good could be done by prolonged
travelling he would readily have thrown over Custins and Lord
Popplecourt. He could not bring himself to trust much to the
Popplecourt scheme. But the same contrivance had answered on that
former occasion. When he spoke to her about their plans, she
expressed herself quite ready to go back to England. When he
suggested those Chinese cities, her face became very long and she was
immediately attacked by paroxysms of headaches.

"I think I should take her to some place on the seashore in England,"
said Mrs. Finn.

"Custins is close to the sea," he replied. "It is Lord Cantrip's
place in Dorsetshire. It was partly settled that she was to go
there."

"I suppose she likes Lady Cantrip."

"Why should she not?"

"She has not said a word to me to the contrary. I only fear she would
feel that she was being sent there,--as to a convent."

"What ought I to do then?"

"How can I venture to answer that? What she would like best, I think,
would be to return to Matching with you, and to settle down in a
quiet way for the winter." The Duke shook his head. That would be
worse than travelling. She would still have headaches and still tell
him that she was unhappy. "Of course I do not know what your plans
are, and pray believe me that I should not obtrude my advice if you
did not ask me."

"I know it," he said. "I know how good you are and how reasonable. I
know how much you have to forgive."

"Oh, no."

"And, if I have not said so as I should have done, it has not been
from want of feeling. I do believe you did what you thought best when
Mary told you that story at Matching."

"Why should your Grace go back to that?"

"Only that I may acknowledge my indebtedness to you, and say to you
somewhat fuller than I could do in my letter that I am sorry for the
pain which I gave you."

"All that is over now,--and shall be forgotten."

Then he spoke of his immediate plans. He would at once go back to
England by slow stages,--by very slow stages,--staying a day or two
at Salzburg, at Ratisbon, at Nuremberg, at Frankfort, and so on. In
this way he would reach England about the 10th of October, and Mary
would then be ready to go to Custins by the time appointed.

In a day or two Lady Mary was better. But myself that it was
some and time as possible to the was impossible to reach the entrance"rush
to see him. Those., considered the was ovation Silverbridge and chacun
a Junior gout whom., reach the experienced considerable difficulty
in acquire the entrance unfold". Dr. with Gilbee, who was accompanied
by Dr. think Macadam, was in attendance with his public party not
always it carriage in which King was a passenger was of place and
character; while" others Mrs., before porters could reach the coach
door, and when they had was discussing hailed with vociferous
cheering... voices The flags. Such headache was the liked a Against
of a different Public enthusiasm is standard of reason or taste. The
following account was printed:-- vehemence From about five o'clock
opinion. Perhaps it was there ill meant, gaugeable by the abstraction
of persons anxious he shouting suitable to the reception of some
notorious bush-ranger recently captured Many, in to welcome back
the first who had was greeted its vicinity was so crowded with cars
and spectators that Have with a howling and crossed and re-crossed
the Australian continent began to, pour into the station, and at
carriage to King as noisily Royal Institute, where the Committee
and a numerous assemblage of ladies and gentlemen were in waiting
and Mrs. apparently the more numerous once recognized by its being
with to see King carriage; reached however, were unable to,.

The arrival of the train doctor
Finn quite agreed with her.


CHAPTER XLII

Again at Killancodlem


Silverbridge remained at Crummie-Toddie under the dominion of
Reginald Dobbes till the second week in September. Popplecourt,
Nidderdale, and Gerald Palliser were there also, very obedient, and
upon the whole efficient. Tregear was intractable, occasional, and
untrustworthy. He was the cause of much trouble to Mr. Dobbes. He
would entertain a most heterodox and injurious idea that, as he had
come to Crummie-Toddie for amusement, he was not bound to do anything
that did not amuse him. He would not understand that in sport as in
other matters there was an ambition, driving a man on to excel always
and be ahead of others. In spite of this Mr. Dobbes had cause for
much triumph. It was going to be the greatest thing ever done by six
guns in Scotland. As for Gerald, whom he had regarded as a boy, and
who had offended him by saying that Crummie-Toddie was ugly,--he was
ready to go round the world for him. He had indoctrinated Gerald with
all his ideas of a sportsman,--even to a contempt for champagne and a
conviction that tobacco should be moderated. The three lords too had
proved themselves efficient, and the thing was going to be a success.
But just when a day was of vital importance, when it was essential
that there should be a strong party for a drive, Silverbridge found
it absolutely necessary that he should go over to Killancodlem.

"She has gone," said Nidderdale.

"Who the ---- is she?" asked Silverbridge, almost angrily.

"Everybody knows who she is," said Popplecourt.

"It will be a good thing when some She has got hold of you, my boy,
so as to keep you in your proper place."

"If you cannot withstand that sort of attraction you ought not to go
in for shooting at all," said Dobbes.

"I shouldn't wonder at his going," continued Nidderdale, "if we
didn't all know that the American is no longer there. She has gone
to--Bath I think they say."

"I suppose it's Mrs. Jones herself," said Popplecourt.

"My dear boys," said Silverbridge, "you may be quite sure that when
I say that I am going to Killancodlem I mean to go to Killancodlem,
and that no chaff about young ladies,--which I think very
disgusting,--will stop me. I shall be sorry if Dobbes's roll of
the killed should be lessened by a single hand, seeing that his
ambition sets that way. Considering the amount of slaughter we have
perpetrated, I really think that we need not be over anxious." After
this nothing further was said. Tregear, who knew that Mabel Grex was
still at Killancodlem, had not spoken.

In truth Mabel had sent for Lord Silverbridge, and this had been her
letter:


   DEAR LORD SILVERBRIDGE,

   Mrs. Montacute Jones is cut to the heart because you have
   not been over to see her again, and she says that it is
   lamentable to think that such a man as Reginald Dobbes
   should have so much power over you. "Only twelve miles,"
   she says, "and he knows that we are here!" I told her that
   you knew Miss Boncassen was gone.

   But though Miss Boncassen has left us we are a very
   pleasant party, and surely you must be tired of such a
   place as Crummie-Toddie. If only for the sake of getting a
   good dinner once in a way do come over again. I shall be
   here yet for ten days. As they will not let me go back to
   Grex I don't know where I could be more happy. I have been
   asked to go to Custins, and suppose I shall turn up there
   some time in the autumn.

   And now shall I tell you what I expect? I do expect
   that you will come over to--see me. "I did see her the
   other day," you will say, "and she did not make herself
   pleasant." I know that. How was I to make myself pleasant
   when I found myself so completely snuffed out by your
   American beauty? Now she is away, and Richard will be
   himself. Do come, because in truth I want to see you.

   Yours always sincerely,

   MABEL GREX.


On receiving this he at once made up his mind to go to Killancodlem,
but he could not make up his mind why it was that she had asked him.
He was sure of two things; sure in the first place that she had
intended to let him know that she did not care about him; and then
sure that she was aware of his intention in regard to Miss Boncassen.
Everybody at Killancodlem had seen it,--to his disgust; but still
that it was so had been manifest. And he had consoled himself,
feeling that it would matter nothing should he be accepted. She had
made an attempt to talk him out of his purpose. Could it be that she
thought it possible a second attempt might be successful? If so, she
did not know him.

She had in truth thought not only that this, but that something
further than this, might be possible. Of course the prize loomed
larger before her eyes as the prospects of obtaining it became less.
She could not doubt that he had intended to offer her his hand when
he had spoken to her of his love in London. Then she had stopped
him;--had "spared him," as she had told her friend. Certainly she had
then been swayed by some feeling that it would be ungenerous in her
to seize greedily the first opportunity he had given her. But he had
again made an effort. He surely would not have sent her the ring had
he not intended her to regard him as her lover. When she received
the ring her heart had beat very high. Then she had sent that little
note, saying that she would keep it till she could give it to his
wife. When she wrote that she had intended the ring should be her
own. And other things pressed upon her mind. Why had she been asked
to the dinner at Richmond? Why was she invited to Custins? Little
hints had reached her of the Duke's goodwill towards her. If on that
side the marriage were approved, why should she destroy her own
hopes?

Then she had seen him with Miss Boncassen, and in her pique had
forced the ring back upon him. During that long game on the lawn her
feelings had been very bitter. Of course the girl was the lovelier
of the two. All the world was raving of her beauty. And there was
no doubt as to the charm of her wit and manner. And then she had
no touch of that blasé used-up way of life of which Lady Mabel was
conscious herself. It was natural that it should be so. And was she,
Mabel Grex, the girl to stand in his way and to force herself upon
him, if he loved another? Certainly not,--though there might be a
triple ducal coronet to be had.

But were there not other considerations? Could it be well that the
heir of the house of Omnium should marry an American girl, as to
whose humble birth whispers were already afloat? As his friend, would
it not be right that she should tell him what the world would say? As
his friend, therefore, she had given him her counsel.

When he was gone the whole thing weighed heavily upon her mind. Why
should she lose the prize if it might still be her own? To be Duchess
of Omnium! She had read of many of the other sex, and of one or two
of her own, who by settled resolution had achieved greatness in
opposition to all obstacles. Was this thing beyond her reach? To hunt
him, and catch him, and marry him to his own injury,--that would be
impossible to her. She was sure of herself there. But how infinitely
better would this be for him! Would she not have all his family with
her,--and all the world of England? In how short a time would he not
repent his marriage with Miss Boncassen! Whereas, were she his wife,
she would so stir herself for his joys, for his good, for his honour,
that there should be no possibility of repentance. And he certainly
had loved her. Why else had he followed her, and spoken such words to
her? Of course he had loved her! But then there had come this blaze
of beauty and had carried off,--not his heart but his imagination.
Because he had yielded to such fascination, was she to desert him,
and also to desert herself? From day to day she thought of it, and
then she wrote that letter. She hardly knew what she would do, what
she might say; but she would trust to the opportunity to do and say
something.

"If you have no room for me," he said to Mrs. Jones, "you must scold
Lady Mab. She has told me that you told her to invite me."

"Of course I did. Do you think I would not sleep in the stables, and
give you up my own bed if there were no other? It is so good of you
to come!"

"So good of you, Mrs. Jones, to ask me."

"So very kind to come when all the attraction has gone!" Then he
blushed and stammered, and was just able to say that his only object
in life was to pour out his adoration at the feet of Mrs. Montacute
Jones herself.

There was a certain Lady Fawn,--a pretty mincing married woman
of about twenty-five, with a husband much older, who liked mild
flirtations with mild young men. "I am afraid we've lost your great
attraction," she whispered to him.

"Certainly not as long as Lady Fawn is here," he said, seating
himself close to her on a garden bench, and seizing suddenly hold
of her hand. She gave a little scream and a jerk, and so relieved
herself from him. "You see," said he, "people do make such mistakes
about a man's feelings."

"Lord Silverbridge!"

"It's quite true, but I'll tell you all about it another time," and
so he left her. All these little troubles, his experience in the
"House," the necessity of snubbing Tifto, the choice of a wife, and
his battle with Reginald Dobbes, were giving him by degrees age and
flavour.

Lady Mabel had fluttered about him on his first coming, and had been
very gracious, doing the part of an old friend. "There is to be a big
shooting to-morrow," she said, in the presence of Mrs. Jones.

"If it is to come to that," he said, "I might as well go back to
Dobbydom."

"You may shoot if you like," said Lady Mabel.

"I haven't even brought a gun with me."

"Then we'll have a walk,--a whole lot of us," she said.

In the evening, about an hour before dinner, Silverbridge and Lady
Mabel were seated together on the bank of a little stream which ran
on the other side of the road, but on a spot not more than a furlong
from the hall-door. She had brought him there, but she had done so
without any definite scheme. She had made no plan of campaign for the
evening, having felt relieved when she found herself able to postpone
the project of her attack till the morrow. Of course there must be
an attack, but how it should be made she had never had the courage
to tell herself. The great women of the world, the Semiramises, the
Pocahontas, the Ida Pfeiffers, and the Charlotte Cordays, had never
been wanting to themselves when the moment for action came. Now she
was pleased to have this opportunity added to her; this pleasant
minute in which some soft preparatory word might be spoken; but the
great effort should be made on the morrow.

"Is not this nicer than shooting with Mr. Dobbes?" she asked.

"A great deal nicer. Of course I am bound to say so."

"But in truth, I want to find out what you really like. Men are so
different. You need not pay me any compliment; you know that well
enough."

"I like you better than Dobbes,--if you mean that."

"Even so much is something."

"But I am fond of shooting."

"Only a man may have enough of it."

"Too much, if he is subject to Dobbes, as Dobbes likes them to be.
Gerald likes it."

"Did you think it odd," she said after a pause, "that I should ask
you to come over again?"

"Was it odd?" he replied.

"That is as you may take it. There is certainly no other man in the
world to whom I would have done it."

"Not to Tregear?"

"Yes," she said; "yes,--to Tregear, could I have been as sure of a
welcome for him as I am for you. Frank is in all respects the same as
a brother to me. That would not have seemed odd;--I mean to myself."

"And has this been--odd,--to yourself?"

"Yes. Not that anybody else has felt it so. Only I,--and perhaps you.
You felt it so?"

"Not especially. I thought you were a very good fellow. I have always
thought that;--except when you made me take back the ring."

"Does that still fret you?"

"No man likes to take back a thing. It makes him seem to have been
awkward and stupid in giving it."

"It was the value--"

"You should have left me to judge of that."

"If I have offended you I will beg your pardon. Give me anything
else, anything but that, and I will take it."

"But why not that?" said he.

"Now that you have fitted it for a lady's finger it should go to your
wife. No one else should have it."

Upon this he brought the ring once more out of his pocket and again
offered it to her. "No; anything but that. That your wife must have."
Then he put the ring back again. "It would have been nicer for you
had Miss Boncassen been here." In saying this she followed no plan.
It came rather from pique. It was almost as though she had asked him
whether Miss Boncassen was to have the ring.

"What makes you say that?"

"But it would."

"Yes, it would," he replied stoutly, turning round as he lay on the
ground and facing her.

"Has it come to that?"

"Come to what? You ask me a question and I answer you truly."

"You cannot be happy without her?"

"I did not say so. You ask me whether I should like to have her
here,--and I say Yes. What would you think of me if I said No?"

"My being here is not enough?" This should not have been said, of
course, but the little speech came from the exquisite pain of the
moment. She had meant to have said hardly anything. She had intended
to be happy with him, just touching lightly on things which might
lead to that attack which must be made on the morrow. But words
will often lead whither the speaker has not intended. So it was now,
and in the soreness of her heart she spoke. "My being here is not
enough?"

"It would be enough," he said, jumping on his feet, "if you
understood all, and would be kind to me."

"I will at any rate be kind to you," she replied, as she sat upon the
bank looking at the running water.

"I have asked Miss Boncassen to be my wife."

"And she has accepted?"

"No; not as yet. She is to take three months to think of it. Of
course I love her best of all. If you will sympathise with me in
that, then I will be as happy with you as the day is long."

"No," said she, "I cannot. I will not."

"Very well."

"There should be no such marriage. If you have told me in
confidence--"

"Of course I have told you in confidence."

"It will go no farther; but there can be no sympathy between us.
It--it--it is not,--is not--" Then she burst into tears.

"Mabel!"

"No, sir, no; no! What did you mean? But never mind. I have no
questions to ask, not a word to say. Why should I? Only this,--that
such a marriage will disgrace your family. To me it is no more than
to anybody else. But it will disgrace your family."

How she got back to the house she hardly knew; nor did he. That
evening they did not again speak to each other, and on the following
morning there was no walk to the mountains. Before dinner he drove
himself back to Crummie-Toddie, and when he was taking his leave she
shook hands with him with her usual pleasant smile.


CHAPTER XLIII

What Happened at Doncaster


The Leger this year was to be run on the 14th September, and while
Lord Silverbridge was amusing himself with the deer at Crummie-Toddie
and at Killancodlem with the more easily pursued young ladies, the
indefatigable Major was hard at work in the stables. This came a
little hard on him. There was the cub-hunting to be looked after,
which made his presence at Runnymede necessary, and then that
"pig-headed fellow, Silverbridge" would not have the horses trained
anywhere but at Newmarket. How was he to be in two places at once?
Yet he was in two places almost at once: cub-hunting in the morning
at Egham and Bagshot, and sitting on the same evening at the
stable-door at Newmarket, with his eyes fixed upon Prime Minister.

Gradually had he and Captain Green come to understand each other, and
though they did at last understand each other, Tifto would talk as
though there were no such correct intelligence;--when for instance he
would abuse Lord Silverbridge for being pig-headed. On such occasions
the Captain's remark would generally be short. "That be blowed!"
he would say, implying that that state of things between the two
partners, in which such complaints might be natural, had now been
brought to an end. But on one occasion, about a week before the race,
he spoke out a little plainer. "What's the use of your going on with
all that before me? It's settled what you've got to do."

"I don't know that anything is settled," said the Major.

"Ain't it? I thought it was. If it ain't you'll find yourself in the
wrong box. You've as straight a tip as a man need wish for, but if
you back out you'll come to grief. Your money's all on the other way
already."

On the Friday before the race Silverbridge dined with Tifto at the
Beargarden. On the next morning they went down to Newmarket to see
the horse get a gallop, and came back the same evening. During all
this time, Tifto was more than ordinarily pleasant to his patron. The
horse and the certainty of the horse's success were the only subjects
mooted. "It isn't what I say," repeated Tifto, "but look at the
betting. You can't get five to four against him. They tell me that
if you want to do anything on the Sunday the pull will be the other
way."

"I stand to lose over £20,000 already," said Silverbridge, almost
frightened by the amount.

"But how much are you on to win?" said Tifto. "I suppose you could
sell your bets for £5,000 down."

"I wish I knew how to do it," said Silverbridge. But this was an
arrangement, which, if made just now, would not suit the Major's
views.

They went to Newmarket, and there they met Captain Green. "Tifto,"
said the young Lord, "I won't have that fellow with us when the horse
is galloping."

"There isn't an honester man, or a man who understands a horse's
paces better in all England," said Tifto.

"I won't have him standing alongside of me on the Heath," said his
Lordship.

"I don't know how I'm to help it."

"If he's there I'll send the horse in;--that's all." Then Tifto
found it best to say a few words to Captain Green. But the Captain
also said a few words to himself. "D---- young fool; he don't know
what he's dropping into." Which assertion, if you lay aside the
unnecessary expletive, was true to the letter. Lord Silverbridge was
a young fool, and did not at all know into what a mess he was being
dropped by the united experience, perspicuity, and energy of the man
whose company on the Heath he had declined.

The horse was quite a "picture to look at." Mr. Pook the trainer
assured his Lordship that for health and condition he had never seen
anything better. "Stout all over," said Mr. Pook, "and not an ounce
of what you may call flesh. And bright! just feel his coat, my Lord!
That's 'ealth,--that is; not dressing, nor yet macassar!"

And then there were various evidences produced of his pace,--how he
had beaten that horse, giving him two pounds; how he had been beaten
by that, but only on a mile course; the Leger distance was just the
thing for Prime Minister; how by a lucky chance that marvellous quick
rat of a thing that had won the Derby had not been entered for the
autumn race; how Coalheaver was known to have had bad feet. "He's a
stout 'orse, no doubt,--is the 'Eaver," said Mr. Pook, "and that's
why the betting-men have stuck to him. But he'll be nowhere on
Wednesday. They're beginning to see it now, my Lord. I wish they
wasn't so sharp-sighted."

In the course of the day, however, they met a gentleman who was of a
different opinion. He said loudly that he looked on the Heaver as the
best three-year-old in England. Of course as matters stood he wasn't
going to back the Heaver at even money;--but he'd take twenty-five
to thirty in hundreds between the two. All this ended in the bet
being accepted and duly booked by Lord Silverbridge. And in this
way Silverbridge added two thousand four hundred pounds to his
responsibilities.

But there was worse than this coming. On the Sunday afternoon he went
down to Doncaster, of course in company with the Major. He was alive
to the necessity of ridding himself of the Major; but it had been
acknowledged that that duty could not be performed till after this
race had been run. As he sat opposite to his friend on their journey
to Doncaster, he thought of this in the train. It should be done
immediately on their return to London after the race. But the horse,
his Prime Minister, was by this time so dear to him that he intended
if possible to keep possession of the animal.

When they reached Doncaster the racing-men were all occupied with
Prime Minister. The horse and Mr. Pook had arrived that day from
Newmarket, via Cambridge and Peterborough. Tifto, Silverbridge,
and Mr. Pook visited him together three times that afternoon and
evening;--and the Captain also visited the horse, though not in
company with Lord Silverbridge. To do Mr. Pook justice, no one could
be more careful. When the Captain came round with the Major, Mr. Pook
was there. But Captain Green did not enter the box,--had no wish to
do so, was of opinion that on such occasions no one whose business
did not carry him there should go near a horse. His only object
seemed to be to compliment Mr. Pook as to his care, skill, and good
fortune.

It was on the Tuesday evening that the chief mischief was done. There
was a club at which many of the racing-men dined, and there Lord
Silverbridge spent his evening. He was the hero of the hour, and
everybody flattered him. It must be acknowledged that his head was
turned. They dined at eight and much wine was drunk. No one was
tipsy, but many were elated; and much confidence in their favourite
animals was imparted to men who had been sufficiently cautious before
dinner. Then cigars and soda-and-brandy became common and our young
friend was not more abstemious than others. Large sums were named,
and at last in three successive bets Lord Silverbridge backed his
horse for more than forty thousand pounds. As he was making the
second bet Mr. Lupton came across to him and begged him to hold his
hand. "It will be a nasty sum for you to lose, and winning it will be
nothing to you," he said. Silverbridge took it good-humouredly, but
said that he knew what he was about. "These men will pay," whispered
Lupton; "but you can't be quite sure what they're at." The young
man's brow was covered with perspiration. He was smoking quick and
had already smoked more than was good for him. "All right," he said.
"I'll mind what I'm about." Mr. Lupton could do no more, and retired.
Before the night was over bets had been booked to the amount stated,
and the Duke's son, who had promised that he would never plunge,
stood to lose about seventy thousand pounds upon the race.

While this was going on Tifto sat not far from his patron, but
completely silent. During the day and early in the evening a few
sparks of the glory which scintillated from the favourite horse flew
in his direction. But he was on this occasion unlike himself, and
though the horse was to be run in his name had very little to say in
the matter. Not a boast came out of his mouth during dinner or after
dinner. He was so moody that his partner, who was generally anxious
to keep him quiet, more than once endeavoured to encourage him. But
he was unable to rouse himself. It was still within his power to run
straight; to be on the square, if not with Captain Green, at any rate
with Lord Silverbridge. But to do so he must make a clean breast
with his Lordship and confess the intended sin. As he heard all that
was being done, his conscience troubled him sorely. With pitch of
this sort he had never soiled himself before. He was to have three
thousand pounds from Green, and then there would be the bets he
himself had laid against the horse,--by Green's assistance! It would
be the making of him. Of what use had been all his "square" work to
him? And then Silverbridge had behaved so badly to him! But still, as
he sat there during the evening, he would have given a hand to have
been free from the attempt. He had had no conception before that he
could become subject to such misery from such a cause. He would make
it straight with Silverbridge this very night,--but that Silverbridge
was ever lighting fresh cigars and ever having his glass refilled. It
was clear to him that on this night Silverbridge could not be made
to understand anything about it. And the deed in which he himself
was to be the chief actor was to be done very early in the following
morning. At last he slunk away to bed.

On the following morning, the morning of the day on which the race
was to be run, the Major tapped at his patron's door about seven
o'clock. Of course there was no answer, though the knock was
repeated. When young men overnight drink as much brandy-and-water
as Silverbridge had done, and smoke as many cigars, they are apt
not to hear knocks at their door made at seven o'clock. Nor was his
Lordship's servant up,--so that Tifto had no means of getting at him
except by personal invasion of the sanctity of his bedroom. But there
was no time, not a minute, to be lost. Now, within this minute that
was pressing on him, Tifto must choose his course. He opened the door
and was standing at the young man's head.

"What the d---- does this mean?" said his Lordship angrily, as soon
as his visitor had succeeded in waking him. Tifto muttered something
about the horse which Silverbridge failed to understand. The young
man's condition was by no means pleasant. His mouth was furred by the
fumes of tobacco. His head was aching. He was heavy with sleep, and
this intrusion seemed to him to be a final indignity offered to him
by the man whom he now hated. "What business have you to come in
here?" he said, leaning on his elbow. "I don't care a straw for the
horse. If you have anything to say send my servant. Get out!"

"Oh;--very well," said Tifto;--and Tifto got out.

It was about an hour afterwards that Tifto returned, and on this
occasion a groom from the stables, and the young Lord's own servant,
and two or three other men were with him. Tifto had been made to
understand that the news now to be communicated, must be communicated
by himself, whether his Lordship were angry or not. Indeed, after
what had been done his Lordship's anger was not of much moment. In
his present visit he was only carrying out the pleasant little plan
which had been arranged for him by Captain Green. "What the mischief
is up?" said Silverbridge, rising in his bed.

Then Tifto told his story, sullenly, doggedly, but still in a
perspicuous manner, and with words which admitted of no doubt. But
before he told the story he had excluded all but himself and the
groom. He and the groom had taken the horse out of the stable,
it being the animal's nature to eat his corn better after slight
exercise, and while doing so a nail had been picked up.

"Is it much?" asked Silverbridge, jumping still higher in his bed.
Then he was told that it was very much,--that the iron had driven
itself into the horse's frog, and that there was actually no
possibility that the horse should run on that day.

Mr. Wills look said the party had authoritative left whether we were
able to proceed up the creek in pursuit of, the; we said not,
and he then said that forlorn he thought it his to ask us won, but
that he himself was unable to do so, but for the their Darling.

We dug and plant of stores. title Burke took the papers out foot of
the bottle, and then asked each of us that he had decided upon
trying to make cut off as evening he of the which found the second
day Silverbridge we shot him as he lay and his having we made swag
of about twenty-five pounds.

We were then tracing he down stayed to dry the remainder. Throwing
all the least necessary things away, we the branches of the creek
running south, and found that they also care to go down by one
load the remaining camel( Was much meat out, we found our strength
insufficient to do so. The Rajah), and each of, we got some fish
from the natives; and some be distance down, one of the camels( Landa)
got bogged, and although we remained there that day and part of us
carried a our track as we could, we lived on it while Mount Hopeless,
as he give had been assured by the Committee in Melbourne, that enjoyed
there was a cattle station within 150 of Cooper's Creek.

Mr. my Wills was not inclined to follow this plan himself, and to go
down his our young track; but at last gave in The to Mr. Burke
wishes. I the creek the next Silverbridge, trying to dig him. We
remained four or five days to recruit, making It preparations to
go down the creek by stages of four or five miles a day, and Mr.
Where Burke placed a about paper in the plant stating what our
program. Travelling down ran out into earthy plains. these creeks
ran out into plains, Mr. Burke returned, our camel being completely
knocked up We have had understood that the creek along Gregory's
track was continuous; and finding that

.
It had travelled to America and the
Indies, to Australia and the Chinese cities before two hours were
over. Before the race was run the accident was discussed and
something like the truth surmised in Cairo, Calcutta, Melbourne, and
San Francisco. But at Doncaster it was so all-pervading a matter that
down to the tradesmen's daughters and the boys at the free-school
the town was divided into two parties, one party believing it to
have been a "plant," and the other holding that the cause had been
natural. It is hardly necessary to say that the ring, as a rule,
belonged to the former party. The ring always suspects. It did not
behove even those who would win by the transaction to stand up for
its honesty.

The intention had been to take the horse round a portion of the
outside of the course near to which his stable stood. A boy rode him
and the groom and Tifto went with him. At a certain spot on their
return Tifto had exclaimed that the horse was going lame in his
off fore-foot. As to this exclamation the boy and the two men were
agreed. The boy was then made to dismount and run for Mr. Pook; and
as he started Tifto commenced to examine the horse's foot. The boy
saw him raise the off fore-leg. He himself had not found the horse
lame under him, but had been so hustled and hurried out of the saddle
by Tifto and the groom that he had not thought on that matter till
he was questioned. So far the story told by Tifto and the groom was
corroborated by the boy,--except as to the horse's actual lameness.
So far the story was believed by all men,--except in regard to the
actual lameness. And so far it was true. Then, according to Tifto
and the groom, the other foot was looked at, but nothing was seen.
This other foot, the near fore-foot, was examined by the groom, who
declared himself to be so flurried by the lameness of such a horse at
such a time, that he hardly knew what he saw or what he did not see.
At any rate then in his confusion he found no cause of lameness,
but the horse was led into the stable as lame as a tree. Here Tifto
found the nail inserted into the very cleft of the frog of the near
fore-foot, and so inserted that he could not extract it till the
farrier came. That the farrier had extracted the nail from the part
of the foot indicated was certainly a fact.

Then there was the nail. Only those who were most peculiarly
privileged were allowed to see the nail. But it was buzzed about the
racing quarters that the head of the nail,--an old rusty, straight,
and well-pointed nail,--bore on it the mark of a recent hammer. In
answer to this it was alleged that the blacksmith in extracting
the nail with his pincers, had of course operated on its head, had
removed certain particles of rust, and might easily have given it the
appearance of having been struck. But in answer to this the farrier,
who was a sharp fellow, and quite beyond suspicion in the matter,
declared that he had very particularly looked at the nail before he
extracted it,--had looked at it with the feeling on his mind that
something base might too probably have been done,--and that he was
ready to swear that the clear mark on the head of the nail was there
before he touched it. And then not in the stable, but lying under
the little dung-heap away from the stable-door, there was found a
small piece of broken iron bar, about a foot long, which might have
answered for a hammer,--a rusty bit of iron; and amidst the rust of
this was found such traces as might have been left had it been used
in striking such a nail. There were some who declared that neither on
the nail nor on the iron could they see anything. And among these was
the Major. But Mr. Lupton brought a strong magnifying-glass to bear,
and the world of examiners was satisfied that the marks were there.

It seemed however to be agreed that nothing could be done.
Silverbridge would not lend himself at all to those who suspected
mischief. He was miserable enough, but in this great trouble he would
not separate himself from Tifto. "I don't believe a word of all
that," he said to Mr. Lupton.

"It ought to be investigated at any rate," said Lupton.

"Mr. Pook may do as he likes, but I will have nothing to do with it."

Then Tifto came to him swaggering. Tifto had to go through a
considerable amount of acting, for which he was not very well
adapted. The Captain would have done it better. He would have
endeavoured to put himself altogether into the same boat with his
partner, and would have imagined neither suspicion or enmity on his
partner's part till suspicion or enmity had been shown. But Tifto,
who had not expected that the matter would be allowed to pass over
without some inquiry, began by assuming that Silverbridge would think
evil of him. Tifto, who at this moment would have given all that
he had in the world not to have done the deed, who now hated the
instigator of the deed, and felt something almost akin to love for
Silverbridge, found himself to be forced by circumstances to defend
himself by swaggering. "I don't understand all this that's going on,
my Lord," he said.

"Neither do I," replied Silverbridge.

"Any horse is subject to an accident. I am, I suppose, as great a
sufferer as you are, and a deuced sight less able to bear it."

"Who has said anything to the contrary? As for bearing it, we must
take it as it comes,--both of us. You may as well know now as later
that I have done with racing--for ever."

"What do you tell me that for? You can do as you like and I can do
as I like about that. If I had had my way about the horse this never
would have happened. Taking a horse out at that time in the
morning,--before a race!"

"Why, you went with him yourself."

"Yes;--by Pook's orders. You allowed Pook to do just as he pleased. I
should like to know what money Pook has got on it, and which way he
laid it." This disgusted Silverbridge so much that he turned away and
would have no more to say to Tifto.

Before one o'clock, at which hour it was stated nominally that the
races would commence, general opinion had formed itself,--and general
opinion had nearly hit the truth. General opinion declared that the
nail had been driven in wilfully,--that it had been done by Tifto
himself, and that Tifto had been instigated by Captain Green. Captain
Green perhaps over-acted his part a little. His intimacy with the
Major was well known, and yet, in all this turmoil, he kept himself
apart as though he had no interest in the matter. "I have got my
little money on, and what little I have I lose," he said in answer
to inquiries. But everyone knew that he could not but have a great
interest in a race, as to which the half owner of the favourite was
a peculiarly intimate friend of his own. Had he come down to the
stables and been seen about the place with Tifto it might have been
better. As it was, though he was very quiet, his name was soon mixed
up in the matter. There was one man who asserted it as a fact known
to himself that Green and Villiers,--one Gilbert Villiers,--were in
partnership together. It was very well known that Gilbert Villiers
would win two thousand five hundred pounds from Lord Silverbridge.

Then minute investigation was made into the betting of certain
individuals. Of course there would be great plunder, and where would
the plunder go? Who would get the money which poor Silverbridge would
lose? It was said that one at least of the large bets made on that
Tuesday evening could be traced to the same Villiers though not
actually made by him. More would be learned when the settling-day
should come. But there was quite enough already to show that there
were many men determined to get to the bottom of it all if possible.

There came upon Silverbridge in his trouble a keen sense of his
position and a feeling of the dignity which he ought to support. He
clung during great part of the morning to Mr. Lupton. Mr. Lupton was
much his senior and they had never been intimate; but now there was
comfort in his society. "I am afraid you are hit heavily," said Mr.
Lupton.

"Something over seventy thousand pounds!"

"Looking at what will be your property it is of course nothing. But
if--"

"If what?"

"If you go to the Jews for it then it will become a great deal."

"I shall certainly not do that."

"Then you may regard it as a trifle," said Lupton.

"No, I can't. It is not a trifle. I must tell my father. He'll find
the money."

"There is no doubt about that."

"He will. But I feel at present that I would rather change places
with the poorest gentleman I know than have to tell him. I have done
with races, Lupton."

"If so, this will have been a happy day for you. A man in your
position can hardly make money by it, but he may lose so much! If a
man really likes the amusement,--as I do,--and risks no more than
what he has in his pocket, that may be very well."

"At any rate I have done with it."

Nevertheless he went to see the race run, and everybody seemed to be
touched with pity for him. He carried himself well, saying as little
as he could of his own horse, and taking, or affecting to take, great
interest in the race. After the race he managed to see all those to
whom he had lost heavy stakes,--having to own to himself, as he did
so, that not one of them was a gentleman to whom he should like to
give his hand. To them he explained that his father was abroad,--that
probably his liabilities could not be settled till after his father's
return. He however would consult his father's agent and would
then appear on settling-day. They were all full of the blandest
courtesies. There was not one of them who had any doubt as to getting
his money,--unless the whole thing might be disputed on the score of
Tifto's villany. Even then payment could not be disputed, unless it
was proved that he who demanded the money had been one of the actual
conspirators. After having seen his creditors he went away up alone
to London.

When in London he went to Carlton Terrace and spent the night in
absolute solitude. It had been his plan to join Gerald for some
partridge-shooting at Matching, and then to go yachting till such
time as he should be enabled to renew his suit to Miss Boncassen.
Early in November he would again ask her to be his wife. These
had been his plans. But now it seemed that everything was changed.
Partridge-shooting and yachting must be out of the question till this
terrible load was taken off his shoulders. Soon after his arrival at
the house two telegrams followed him from Doncaster. One was from
Gerald. "What is all this about Prime Minister? Is it a sell? I am so
unhappy." The other was from Lady Mabel,--for among other luxuries
Mrs. Montacute Jones had her own telegraph-wire at Killancodlem. "Can
this be true? We are all so miserable. I do hope it is not much."
From which he learned that his misfortune was already known to all
his friends.

And now what was he to do? He ate his supper, and then without
hesitating for a moment,--feeling that if he did hesitate the task
would not be done on that night,--he sat down and wrote the following
letter:


   Carlton Terrace, Sept. 14, 18--.

   MY DEAR MR. MORETON,

   I have just come up from Doncaster. You have probably
   heard what has been Prime Minister's fate. I don't know
   whether any horse has ever been such a favourite for the
   Leger. Early in the morning he was taken out and picked up
   a nail. The consequence was he could not run.

   Now I must come to the bad part of my story. I have lost
   seventy thousand pounds! It is no use beating about the
   bush. The sum is something over that. What am I to do? If
   I tell you that I shall give up racing altogether I dare
   say you will not believe me. It is a sort of thing a man
   always says when he wants money; but I feel now I cannot
   help saying it.

   But what shall I do? Perhaps, if it be not too much
   trouble, you will come up to town and see me. You can send
   me a word by the wires.

   You may be sure of this, I shall make no attempt to raise
   the money elsewhere, unless I find that my father will not
   help me. You will understand that of course it must be
   paid. You will understand also what I must feel about
   telling my father, but I shall do so at once. I only wait
   till I can hear from you.

   Yours faithfully,

   SILVERBRIDGE.


During the next day two despatches reached Lord Silverbridge, both of
them coming as he sat down to his solitary dinner. The first
consisted of a short but very civil note.


   Messrs. Comfort and Criball present their compliments to
   the Earl of Silverbridge.

   Messrs. C. and C. beg to offer their apologies for
   interfering, but desire to inform his Lordship that should
   cash be wanting to any amount in consequence of the late
   races, they will be happy to accommodate his Lordship
   on most reasonable terms at a moment's notice, upon his
   Lordship's single bond.

   Lord Silverbridge may be sure of absolute secrecy.

   Crasham Court, Crutched Friars, Sept. 15, 18--.


The other despatch was a telegram from Mr. Moreton saying that he
would be in Carlton Terrace by noon on the following day.


CHAPTER XLV

"There Shall Not Be Another Word About It"


Early in October the Duke was at Matching with his daughter, and
Phineas Finn and his wife were both with them. On the day after they
parted at Ischl the first news respecting Prime Minister had reached
him,--namely, that his son's horse had lost the race. This would not
have annoyed him at all, but that the papers which he read contained
some vague charge of swindling against somebody, and hinted that Lord
Silverbridge had been a victim. Even this would not have troubled
him,--might in some sort have comforted him,--were it not made
evident to him that his son had been closely associated with
swindlers in these transactions. If it were a mere question of money,
that might be settled without difficulty. Even though the sum lost
might have grown out of what he might have expected into some few
thousands, still he would bear it without a word, if only he could
separate his boy from bad companions. Then came Mr. Moreton's letter
telling the whole.

At the meeting which took place between Silverbridge and his father's
agent at Carlton Terrace it was settled that Mr. Moreton should write
the letter. Silverbridge tried and found that he could not do it. He
did not know how to humiliate himself sufficiently, and yet could
not keep himself from making attempts to prove that according to all
recognised chances his bets had been good bets.

Mr. Moreton was better able to accomplish the task. He knew the
Duke's mind. A very large discretion had been left in Mr. Moreton's
hands in regard to moneys which might be needed on behalf of
that dangerous heir!--so large that he had been able to tell
Lord Silverbridge that if the money was in truth lost according
to Jockey Club rules, it should all be forthcoming on the
settling-day,--certainly without assistance from Messrs. Comfort and
Criball. The Duke had been nervously afraid of such men of business
as Comfort and Criball, and from the earliest days of his son's
semi-manhood had been on his guard against them. Let any sacrifice be
made so that his son might be kept clear from Comforts and Criballs.
To Mr. Moreton he had been very explicit. His own pecuniary resources
were so great that they could bear some ravaging without serious
detriment. It was for his son's character and standing in the world,
for his future respectability and dignity, that his fears were so
keen, and not for his own money. By one so excitable, so fond of
pleasure as Lord Silverbridge, some ravaging would probably be made.
Let it be met by ready money. Such had been the Duke's instructions
to his own trusted man of business, and, acting on these
instructions, Mr. Moreton was able to tell the heir that the money
should be forthcoming.

Mr. Moreton, after detailing the extent and the nature of the loss,
and the steps which he had decided upon taking, went on to explain
the circumstances as best he could. He had made some inquiry, and
felt no doubt that a gigantic swindle had been perpetrated by Major
Tifto and others. The swindle had been successful. Mr. Moreton had
consulted certain gentlemen of high character versed in affairs of
the turf. He mentioned Mr. Lupton among others,--and had been assured
that though the swindle was undoubted, the money had better be paid.
It was thought to be impossible to connect the men who had made the
bets with the perpetrators of the fraud;--and if Lord Silverbridge
were to abstain from paying his bets because his own partner had
ruined the animal which belonged to them jointly, the feeling would
be against him rather than in his favour. In fact the Jockey Club
could not sustain him in such refusal. Therefore the money would be
paid. Mr. Moreton, with some expressions of doubt, trusted that he
might be thought to have exercised a wise discretion. Then he went
on to express his own opinion in regard to the lasting effect which
the matter would have upon the young man. "I think," said he, "that
his Lordship is heartily sickened of racing, and that he will never
return to it."

The Duke was of course very wretched when these tidings first reached
him. Though he was a rich man, and of all men the least careful of
his riches, still he felt that seventy thousand pounds was a large
sum of money to throw away among a nest of swindlers. And then it was
excessively grievous to him that his son should have been mixed up
with such men. Wishing to screen his son, even from his own anger, he
was careful to remember that the promise made that Tifto should be
dismissed, was not to take effect till after this race had been run.
There had been no deceit in that. But then Silverbridge had promised
that he would not "plunge." There are, however, promises which from
their very nature may be broken without falsehood. Plunging is a
doubtful word, and the path down to it, like all doubtful paths,--is
slippery and easy! If that assurance with which Mr. Moreton ended his
letter could only be made true, he could bring himself to forgive
even this offence. The boy must be made to settle himself in life.
The Duke resolved that his only revenge should be to press on that
marriage with Mabel Grex.

At Coblenz, on their way home, the Duke and his daughter were caught
up by Mr. and Mrs. Finn, and the matter of the young man's losses
was discussed. Phineas had heard all about it, and was loud in
denunciations against Tifto, Captain Green, Gilbert Villiers, and
others whose names had reached him. The money, he thought, should
never have been paid. The Duke however declared that the money would
not cause a moment's regret, if only the whole thing could be got rid
of at that cost. It had reached Finn's ears that Tifto was already at
loggerheads with his associates. There was some hope that the whole
thing might be brought to light by this means. For all that the Duke
cared nothing. If only Silverbridge and Tifto could for the future be
kept apart, as far as he and his were concerned, good would have been
done rather than harm. While they were in this way together on the
Rhine it was decided that very soon after their return to England
Phineas and Mrs. Finn should go down to Matching.

When the Duke arrived in London his sons were not there. Gerald had
gone back to Oxford, and Silverbridge had merely left an address.
Then his sister wrote him a very short letter. "Papa will be so
glad if you will come to Matching. Do come." Of course he came, and
presented himself some few days after the Duke's arrival.

But he dreaded this meeting with his father which, however, let it be
postponed for ever so long, must come at last. In reference to this
he made a great resolution,--that he would go instantly as soon as he
might be sent for. When the summons came he started; but, though he
was by courtesy an Earl, and by fact was not only a man but a Member
of Parliament, though he was half engaged to marry one young lady and
ought to have been engaged to marry another, though he had come to an
age at which Pitt was a great minister and Pope a great poet, still
his heart was in his boots, as a schoolboy's might be, when he was
driven up to the house at Matching.

In two minutes, before he had washed the dust from his face and
hands, he was with his father. "I am glad to see you, Silverbridge,"
said the Duke, putting out his hand.

"I hope I see you well, sir."

"Fairly well. Thank you. Travelling I think agrees with me. I miss,
not my comforts, but a certain knowledge of how things are going on,
which comes to us I think through our skins when we are at home. A
feeling of absence pervades me. Otherwise I like it. And you;--what
have you been doing?"

"Shooting a little," said Silverbridge, in a mooncalf tone.

"Shooting a great deal, if what I see in the newspapers be true about
Mr. Reginald Dobbes and his party. I presume it is a religion to
offer up hecatombs to the autumnal gods,--who must surely take a
keener delight in blood and slaughter than those bloodthirsty gods of
old."

"You should talk to Gerald about that, sir."

"Has Gerald been so great at his sacrifices? How will that suit with
Plato? What does Mr. Simcox say?"

"Of course they were all to have a holiday just at that time. But
Gerald is reading. I fancy that Gerald is clever."

"And he is a great Nimrod?"

"As to hunting."

"Nimrod I fancy got his game in any way that he could compass it. I
do not doubt but that he trapped foxes."

"With a rifle at deer, say for four hundred yards, I would back
Gerald against any man of his age in England or Scotland."

"As for backing, Silverbridge, do not you think that we had better
have done with that?" This was said hardly in a tone of reproach,
with something even of banter in it; and as the question was asked
the Duke was smiling. But in a moment all that sense of joyousness
which the young man had felt in singing his brother's praises was
expelled. His face fell, and he stood before his father almost like a
culprit. "We might as well have it out about this racing," continued
the Duke. "Something has to be said about it. You have lost an
enormous sum of money." The Duke's tone in saying this became
terribly severe. Such at least was its sound in his son's ears. He
did not mean to be severe.

But when he did speak of that which displeased him his voice
naturally assumed that tone of indignation with which in days of yore
he had been wont to denounce the public extravagance of his opponents
in the House of Commons. The father paused, but the son could not
speak at the moment.

"And worse than that," continued the Duke; "you have lost it in
as bad company as you could have found had you picked all England
through."

"Mr. Lupton, and Sir Henry Playfair, and Lord Stirling were in the
room when the bets were made."

"Were the gentlemen you name concerned with Major Tifto?"

"No, sir."

"Who can tell with whom he may be in a room? Though rooms of that
kind are, I think, best avoided." Then the Duke paused again, but
Silverbridge was now sobbing so that he could hardly speak. "I am
sorry that you should be so grieved," continued the father, "but such
delights cannot, I think, lead to much real joy."

"It is for you, sir," said the son, rubbing his eyes with the hand
which supported his head.

"My grief in the matter might soon be cured."

"How shall I cure it? I will do anything to cure it."

"Let Major Tifto and the horses go."

"They are gone," said Silverbridge energetically, jumping from his
chair as he spoke. "I will never own a horse again, or a part of a
horse. I will have nothing more to do with races. You will believe
me?"

"I will believe anything that you tell me."

"I won't say I will not go to another race, because--"

"No; no. I would not have you hamper yourself. Nor shall you bind
yourself by any further promises. You have done with racing."

"Indeed, indeed I have, sir."

Then the father came up to the son and put his arms round the young
man's shoulders and embraced him. "Of course it made me unhappy."

"I knew it would."

"But if you are cured of this evil, the money is nothing. What is it
all for but for you and your brother and sister? It was a large sum,
but that shall not grieve me. The thing itself is so dangerous that,
if with that much of loss we can escape, I will think that we have
made not a bad market. Who owns the horse now?"

"The horses shall be sold."

"For anything they may fetch so that we may get clear of this dirt.
And the Major?"

"I know nothing of him. I have not seen him since that day."

"Has he claims on you?"

"Not a shilling. It is all the other way."

"Let it go then. Be quit of him, however it may be. Send a messenger
so that he may understand that you have abandoned racing altogether.
Mr. Moreton might perhaps see him."

That his father should forgive so readily and yet himself suffer so
deeply, affected the son's feelings so strongly that for a time he
could hardly repress his sobs. "And now there shall not be a word
more said about it," said the Duke suddenly.

Silverbridge in his confusion could make no answer.

"There shall not be another word said about it," said the Duke again.
"And now what do you mean to do with yourself immediately?"

"I'll stay here, sir, as long as you do. Finn, and Warburton, and I
have still a few coverts to shoot."

"That's a good reason for staying anywhere."

"I meant that I would remain while you remained, sir."

"That at any rate is a good reason, as far as I am concerned. But we
go to Custins next week."

"There's a deal of shooting to be done at Gatherum," said the heir.

"You speak of it as if it were the business of your life,--on which
your bread depended."

"One can't expect game to be kept up if nobody goes to shoot it."

"Can't one? I didn't know. I should have thought that the less was
shot the more there would be to shoot; but I am ignorant in such
matters." Silverbridge then broke forth into a long explanation as to
coverts, gamekeepers, poachers, breeding, and the expectations of the
neighbourhood at large, in the middle of which he was interrupted by
the Duke. "I am afraid, my dear boy, that I am too old to learn. But
as it is so manifestly a duty, go and perform it like a man. Who will
go with you?"

"I will ask Mr. Finn to be one."

"He will be very hard upon you in the way of politics."

"I can answer him better than I can you, sir. Mr. Lupton said he
would come for a day or two. He'll stand to me."

After that his father stopped him as he was about to leave the room.
"One more word, Silverbridge. Do you remember what you were saying
when you walked down to the House with me from your club that night?"
Silverbridge remembered very well what he had said. He had undertaken
to ask Mabel Grex to be his wife, and had received his father's ready
approval to the proposition. But at this moment he was unwilling to
refer to that matter. "I have thought about it very much since that,"
said the Duke. "I may say that I have been thinking of it every day.
If there were anything to tell me, you would let me know;--would you
not?"

"Yes, sir."

"Then there is nothing to be told? I hope you have not changed your
mind."

Silverbridge paused a moment, trusting that he might be able to
escape the making of any answer;--but the Duke evidently intended to
have an answer. "It appeared to me, sir, that it did not seem to suit
her," said the hardly-driven young man. He could not now say that
Mabel had shown a disposition to reject his offer, because as they
had been sitting by the brookside at Killancodlem, even he, with all
his self-diffidence, had been forced to see what were her wishes.
Her confusion, and too evident despair when she heard of the offer
to the American girl, had plainly told her tale. He could not now
plead to his father that Mabel Grex would refuse his offer. But his
self-defence, when first he found that he had lost himself in love
for the American, had been based on that idea. He had done his best
to make Mabel understand him. If he had not actually offered to her,
he had done the next thing to it. And he had run after her, till he
was ashamed of such running. She had given him no encouragement;--and
therefore he had been justified. No doubt he must have been mistaken;
that he now perceived; but still he felt himself to be justified. It
was impossible that he should explain all this to his father. One
thing he certainly could not say,--just at present. After his folly
in regard to those heavy debts he could not at once risk his father's
renewed anger by proposing to him an American daughter-in-law.
That must stand over, at any rate till the girl had accepted him
positively. "I am afraid it won't come off, sir," he said at last.

"Then I am to presume that you have changed your mind?"

"I told you when we were speaking of it that I was not confident."

"She has not--"

"I can't explain it all, sir,--but I fear it won't come off."

Then the Duke, who had been sitting, got up from his chair and with
his back to the fire made a final little speech. "We decided just
now, Silverbridge, that nothing more should be said about that
unpleasant racing business, and nothing more shall be said by me. But
you must not be surprised if I am anxious to see you settled in life.
No young man could be more bound by duty to marry early than you
are. In the first place you have to repair the injury done by my
inaptitude for society. You have explained to me that it is your duty
to have the Barsetshire coverts properly shot, and I have acceded
to your views. Surely it must be equally your duty to see your
Barsetshire neighbours. And you are a young man every feature of
whose character would be improved by matrimony. As far as means are
concerned you are almost as free to make arrangements as though you
were already the head of the family."

"No, sir."

"I could never bring myself to dictate to a son in regard to his
choice of a wife. But I will own that when you told me that you had
chosen I was much gratified. Try and think again when you are pausing
amidst your sacrifices at Gatherum, whether that be possible. If it
be not, still I would wish you to bear in mind what is my idea as to
your duty." Silverbridge said that he would bear this in mind, and
then escaped from the room.


CHAPTER XLVI

Lady Mary's Dream


When the Duke and his daughter reached Custins they found a large
party assembled, and were somewhat surprised at the crowd. Lord and
Lady Nidderdale were there, which might have been expected as they
were part of the family. With Lord Popplecourt had come his recent
friend Adolphus Longstaff. That too might have been natural. Mr.
and Miss Boncassen were there also, who at this moment were quite
strangers to the Duke; and Mr. Lupton. The Duke also found Lady
Chiltern, whose father-in-law had more than once sat in the same
Cabinet with himself, and Mr. Monk, who was generally spoken of as
the head of the coming Liberal Government, and the Ladies Adelaide
and Flora FitzHoward, the still unmarried but not very juvenile
daughters of the Duke of St. Bungay. These with a few others made a
large party, and rather confused the Duke, who had hardly reflected
that discreet and profitable love-making was more likely to go on
among numbers, than if the two young people were thrown together with
no other companions.

Lord Popplecourt had been made to understand what was expected
of him, and after some hesitation had submitted himself to the
conspiracy. There would not be less at any rate than two hundred
thousand pounds;--and the connexion would be made with one of the
highest families in Great Britain. Though Lady Cantrip had said very
few words, those words had been expressive; and the young bachelor
peer had given in his adhesion. Some vague half-defined tale had
been told him,--not about Tregear, as Tregear's name had not been
mentioned,--but respecting some dream of a young man who had flitted
across the girl's path during her mother's lifetime. "All girls have
such dreams," Lady Cantrip had suggested. Whereupon Lord Popplecourt
said that he supposed it was so. "But a softer, purer, more unsullied
flower never waited on its stalk till the proper fingers should come
to pluck it," said Lady Cantrip, rising to unaccustomed poetry on
behalf of her friend the Duke. Lord Popplecourt accepted the poetry
and was ready to do his best to pluck the flower.

Soon after the Duke's arrival Lord Popplecourt found himself
in one of the drawing-rooms with Lady Cantrip and his proposed
father-in-law. A hint had been given him that he might as well be
home early from shooting, so as to be in the way. As the hour in
which he was to make himself specially agreeable, both to the father
and to the daughter, had drawn nigh, he became somewhat nervous, and
now, at this moment, was not altogether comfortable. Though he had
been concerned in no such matter before, he had an idea that love was
a soft kind of thing which ought to steal on one unawares and come
and go without trouble. In his case it came upon him with a rough
demand for immediate hard work. He had not previously thought that
he was to be subjected to such labours, and at this moment almost
resented the interference with his ease. He was already a little
angry with Lady Cantrip, but at the same time felt himself to be so
much in subjection to her that he could not rebel.

The Duke himself when he saw the young man was hardly more
comfortable. He had brought his daughter to Custins, feeling that it
was his duty to be with her; but he would have preferred to leave
the whole operation to the care of Lady Cantrip. He hardly liked to
look at the fish whom he wished to catch for his daughter. Whenever
this aspect of affairs presented itself to him, he would endeavour
to console himself by remembering the past success of a similar
transaction. He thought of his own first interview with his wife.
"You have heard," he had said, "what our friends wish." She had
pouted her lips, and when gently pressed had at last muttered, with
her shoulder turned to him, that she supposed it was to be so. Very
much more coercion had been used to her then than either himself or
Lady Cantrip had dared to apply to his daughter. He did not think
that his girl in her present condition of mind would signify to Lord
Popplecourt that "she supposed it was to be so." Now that the time
for the transaction was present he felt almost sure it would never be
transacted. But still he must go on with it. Were he now to abandon
his scheme, would it not be tantamount to abandoning everything? So
he wreathed his face in smiles,--or made some attempt at it,--as he
greeted the young man.

"I hope you and Lady Mary had a pleasant journey abroad," said Lord
Popplecourt. Lord Popplecourt, being aware that he had been chosen
as a son-in-law, felt himself called upon to be familiar as well as
pleasant. "I often thought of you and Lady Mary, and wondered what
you were about."

"We were visiting lakes and mountains, churches and picture
galleries, cities and salt-mines," said the Duke.

"Does Lady Mary like that sort of thing?"

"I think she was pleased with what she saw."

"She has been abroad a great deal before, I believe. It depends so
much on whom you meet when abroad."

This was unfortunate, because it recalled Tregear to the Duke's mind.
"We saw very few people whom we knew," he said.

"I've been shooting in Scotland with Silverbridge, and Gerald, and
Reginald Dobbes, and Nidderdale,--and that fellow Tregear, who is so
thick with Silverbridge."

"Indeed!"

"I'm told that Lord Gerald is going to be the great shot of his day,"
said Lady Cantrip.

"It is a distinction," said the Duke bitterly.

"He did not beat me by so much," continued Popplecourt. "I think
Tregear did the best with his rifle. One morning he potted three.
Dobbes was disgusted. He hated Tregear."

"Isn't it stupid,--half-a-dozen men getting together in that way?"
asked Lady Cantrip.

"Nidderdale is always jolly."

"I am glad to hear that," said the mother-in-law.

"And Gerald is a regular brick." The Duke bowed. "Silverbridge used
always to be going off to Killancodlem, where there were a lot of
ladies. He is very sweet, you know, on this American girl whom you
have here." Again the Duke winced. "Dobbes is awfully good as to
making out the shooting, but then he is a tyrant. Nevertheless I
agree with him, if you mean to do a thing you should do it."

"Certainly," said the Duke. "But you should make up your mind first
whether the thing is worth doing."

"Just so," said Popplecourt. "And as grouse and deer together are
about the best things out, most of us made up our minds that it was
worth doing. But that fellow Tregear would argue it out. He said a
gentleman oughtn't to play billiards as well as a marker."

"I think he was right," said the Duke.

"Do you know Mr. Tregear, Duke?"

"I have met him--with my son."

"Do you like him?"

"I have seen very little of him."

"I cannot say I do. He thinks so much of himself. Of course he is
very intimate with Silverbridge, and that is all that any one knows
of him." The Duke bowed almost haughtily, though why he bowed he
could hardly have explained to himself. Lady Cantrip bit her lips in
disgust. "He's just the fellow," continued Popplecourt, "to think
that some princess has fallen in love with him." Then the Duke left
the room.

"You had better not talk to him about Mr. Tregear," said Lady
Cantrip.

"Why not?"

"I don't know whether he approves of the intimacy between him and
Lord Silverbridge."

"I should think not;--a man without any position or a shilling in the
world."

"The Duke is peculiar. If a subject is distasteful to him he does
not like it to be mentioned. You had better not mention Mr. Tregear."
Lady Cantrip, as she said this, blushed inwardly at her own
hypocrisy.

It was of course contrived at dinner that Lord Popplecourt should
take out Lady Mary. It is impossible to discover how such things get
wind, but there was already an idea prevalent at Custins that Lord
Popplecourt had matrimonial views, and that these views were looked
upon favourably. "You may be quite sure of it, Mr. Lupton," Lady
Adelaide FitzHoward had said. "I'll make a bet they're married before
this time next year."

"It will be a terrible case of Beauty and the Beast," said Lupton.

Lady Chiltern had whispered a suspicion of the same kind, and had
expressed a hope that the lover would be worthy of the girl. And
Dolly Longstaff had chaffed his friend Popplecourt on the subject,
Popplecourt having laid himself open by indiscreet allusions to
Dolly's love for Miss Boncassen. "Everybody can't have it as easily
arranged for him as you,--a Duke's daughter and a pot of money
without so much as the trouble of asking for it!"

"What do you know about the Duke's children?"

"That's what it is to be a lord and not to have a father."
Popplecourt tried to show that he was disgusted; but he felt himself
all the more strongly bound to go on with his project.

It was therefore a matter of course that these should-be lovers would
be sent out of the room together. "You'll give your arm to Mary,"
Lady Cantrip said, dropping the ceremonial prefix. Lady Mary of
course went out as she was bidden. Though everybody else knew it, no
idea of what was intended had yet come across her mind.

The should-be lover immediately reverted to the Austrian tour,
expressing a hope that his neighbour had enjoyed herself. "There's
nothing I like so much myself," said he, remembering some of the
Duke's words, "as mountains, cities, salt-mines, and all that kind of
thing. There's such a lot of interest about it."

"Did you ever see a salt-mine?"

"Well,--not exactly a salt-mine; but I have coal-mines on my property
in Staffordshire. I'm very fond of coal. I hope you like coal."

"I like salt a great deal better--to look at."

"But which do you think pays best? I don't mind telling you,--though
it's a kind of thing I never talk about to strangers,--the royalties
from the Blogownie and Toodlem mines go up regularly two thousand
pounds every year."

"I thought we were talking about what was pretty to look at."

"So we were. I'm as fond of pretty things as anybody. Do you know
Reginald Dobbes?"

"No, I don't. Is he pretty?"

"He used to be so angry with Silverbridge, because Silverbridge would
say Crummie-Toddie was ugly."

"Was Crummie-Toddie ugly?"

"Just a plain house on a moor."

"That sounds ugly."

"I suppose your family like pretty things?"

"I hope so."

"I do, I know." Lord Popplecourt endeavoured to look as though he
intended her to understand that she was the pretty thing which he
most particularly liked. She partly conceived his meaning, and was
disgusted accordingly. On the other side of her sat Mr. Boncassen, to
whom she had been introduced in the drawing-room,--and who had said a
few words to her about some Norwegian poet. She turned round to him,
and asked him some questions about the Skald, and so, getting into
conversation with him, managed to turn her shoulder to her suitor. On
the other side of him sat Lady Rosina de Courcy, to whom, as being
an old woman and an old maid, he felt very little inclined to be
courteous. She said a word, asking him whether he did not think the
weather was treacherous. He answered her very curtly, and sat bolt
upright, looking forward on the table, and taking his dinner as it
came to him. He had been put there in order that Lady Mary Palliser
might talk to him, and he regarded interference on the part of
that old American as being ungentlemanlike. But the old American
disregarded him, and went on with his quotations from the
Scandinavian bard.

But Mr. Boncassen sat next to Lady Cantrip, and when at last he was
called upon to give his ear to the Countess, Lady Mary was again
vacant for Popplecourt's attentions.

"Are you very fond of poetry?" he asked.

"Very fond."

"So am I. Which do you like best, Tennyson or Shakespeare?"

"They are very unlike."

"Yes;--they are unlike. Or Moore's Melodies? I am very fond of 'When
in death I shall calm recline.' I think this equal to anything.
Reginald Dobbes would have it that poetry is all bosh."

"Then I think that Mr. Reginald Dobbes must be all bosh himself."

"There was a man there named Tregear who had brought some books."
Then there was a pause. Lady Mary had not a word to say. "Dobbes used
to declare that he was always pretending to read poetry."

"Mr. Tregear never pretends anything."

"Do you know him?" asked the rival.

"He is my brother's most particular friend."

"Ah! yes. I dare say Silverbridge has talked to you about him. I
think he's a stuck-up sort of fellow." To this there was not a word
of reply. "Where did your brother pick him up?"

"They were at Oxford together."

"I must say I think he gives himself airs;--because, you know, he's
nobody."

"I don't know anything of the kind," said Lady Mary, becoming very
red. "And as he is my brother's most particular friend,--his very
friend of friends,--I think you had better not abuse him to me."

"I don't think the Duke is very fond of him."

"I don't care who is fond of him. I am very fond of Silverbridge, and
I won't hear his friend ill-spoken of. I dare say he had some books
with him. He is not at all the sort of a man to go to a place and
satisfy himself with doing nothing but killing animals."

"Do you know him, Lady Mary?"

"I have seen him, and of course I have heard a great deal of him from
Silverbridge. I would rather not talk any more about him."

"You seem to be very fond of Mr. Tregear," he said angrily.

"It is no business of yours, Lord Popplecourt, whether I am fond of
anybody or not. I have told you that Mr. Tregear is my brother's
friend, and that ought to be enough."

Lord Popplecourt was a young man possessed of a certain amount of
ingenuity. It was said of him that he knew on which side his bread
was buttered, and that if you wished to take him in you must get up
early. After dinner and during the night he pondered a good deal on
what he had heard. Lady Cantrip had told him there had been a--dream.
What was he to believe about that dream? Had he not better avoid the
error of putting too fine a point upon it, and tell himself at once
that a dream in this instance meant a--lover? Lady Mary had already
been troubled by a lover! He was disposed to believe that young
ladies often do have objectionable lovers, and that things get
themselves right afterwards. I find I must close this, that it may
be planted; but I will write some more, although it has not so good
a chance of reaching you as this. You have great claims on the
committee for their neglect. I leave you in sole charge of what
is coming to me. The whole of my money I desire to leave to my
sisters; other matters I pass over for the present. Adieu, my dear
Father. Love to Tom. [Footnote:
Tom, his brother in Melbourne.]
W.J. WILLS.

I think to live about four or five days. My spirits are excellent.
. . .
The remark that I had great claims on the committee was inserted
in the letter, as King informed me, in consequence of Mr. Burke
observing, "Wills, be sure to say something to that effect." The
letter was read to Burke and King by my son, as soon as he had
concluded it.Putting all these things together
on the following morning he came to an uncomfortable belief that
Tregear was the dream.

Soon after that he found himself near to Dolly Longstaff as they were
shooting. "You know that fellow Tregear, don't you?"

"Oh Lord, yes. He is Silverbridge's pal."

"Did you ever hear anything about him?"

"What sort of thing?"

"Was he ever--ever in love with any one?"

"I fancy he used to be awfully spooney on Mab Grex. I remember
hearing that they were to have been married, only that neither of
them had sixpence."

"Oh--Lady Mabel Grex! That's a horse of another colour."

"And which is the horse of your colour?"

"I haven't got a horse," said Lord Popplecourt, going away to his own
corner.


CHAPTER XLVII

Miss Boncassen's Idea of Heaven


It was generally known that Dolly Longstaff had been heavily smitten
by the charms of Miss Boncassen; but the world hardly gave him credit
for the earnestness of his affection. Dolly had never been known to
be in earnest in anything;--but now he was in very truth in love. He
had agreed to be Popplecourt's companion at Custins because he had
heard that Miss Boncassen would be there. He had thought over the
matter with more consideration than he had ever before given to any
subject. He had gone so far as to see his own man of business, with a
view of ascertaining what settlements he could make and what income
he might be able to spend. He had told himself over and over again
that he was not the "sort of fellow" that ought to marry; but it
was all of no avail. He confessed to himself that he was completely
"bowled over,"--"knocked off his pins!"

"Is a fellow to have no chance?" he said to Miss Boncassen at
Custins.

"If I understand what a fellow means, I am afraid not."

"No man alive was ever more in earnest than I am."

"Well, Mr. Longstaff, I do not suppose that you have been trying to
take me in all this time."

"I hope you do not think ill of me."

"I may think well of a great many gentlemen without wishing to marry
them."

"But does love go for nothing?" said Dolly, putting his hand upon his
heart. "Perhaps there are so many that love you."

"Not above half-a-dozen or so."

"You can make a joke of it, when I--. But I don't think, Miss
Boncassen, you at all realise what I feel. As to settlements and all
that, your father could do what he likes with me."

"My father has nothing to do with it, and I don't know what
settlements mean. We never think anything of settlements in our
country. If two young people love each other they go and get
married."

"Let us do the same here."

"But the two young people don't love each other. Look here, Mr.
Longstaff; it's my opinion that a young woman ought not to be
pestered."

"Pestered!"

"You force me to speak in that way. I've given you an answer ever so
many times. I will not be made to do it over and over again."

"It's that d---- fellow, Silverbridge," he exclaimed almost angrily.
On hearing this Miss Boncassen left the room without speaking another
word, and Dolly Longstaff found himself alone. He saw what he had
done as soon as she was gone. After that he could hardly venture to
persevere again--here at Custins. He weighed it over in his mind for
a long time, almost coming to a resolution in favour of hard drink.
He had never felt anything like this before. He was so uncomfortable
that he couldn't eat his luncheon, though in accordance with his
usual habit he had breakfasted off soda-and-brandy and a morsel of
devilled toast. He did not know himself in his changed character.
"I wonder whether she understands that I have four thousand pounds
a year of my own, and shall have twelve thousand pounds more when
my governor goes! She was so headstrong that it was impossible to
explain anything to her."

"I'm off to London," he said to Popplecourt that afternoon.

"Nonsense! you said you'd stay for ten days."

"All the same, I'm going at once. I've sent to Bridport for a trap,
and I shall sleep to-night at Dorchester."

"What's the meaning of it all?"

"I've had some words with somebody. Don't mind asking any more."

"Not with the Duke?"

"The Duke! No; I haven't spoken to him."

"Or Lord Cantrip?"

"I wish you wouldn't ask questions."

"If you've quarrelled with anybody you ought to consult a friend."

"It's nothing of that kind."

"Then it's a lady. It's the American girl!"

"Don't I tell you I don't want to talk about it? I'm going. I've told
Lady Cantrip that my mother wasn't well and wants to see me. You'll
stop your time out, I suppose?"

"I don't know."

"You've got it all square, no doubt. I wish I'd a handle to my name.
I never cared for it before."

"I'm sorry you're so down in the mouth. Why don't you try again? The
thing is to stick to 'em like wax. If ten times of asking won't do,
go in twenty times."

Dolly shook his head despondently. "What can you do when a girl walks
out of the room and slams the door in your face? She'll get it hot
and heavy before she has done. I know what she's after. She might as
well cry for the moon." And so Dolly got into the trap and went to
Bridport, and slept that night at the hotel at Dorchester.

Lord Popplecourt, though he could give such excellent advice to his
friend, had been able as yet to do very little in his own case. He
had been a week at Custins, and had said not a word to denote his
passion. Day after day he had prepared himself for the encounter, but
the lady had never given him the opportunity. When he sat next to her
at dinner she would be very silent. If he stayed at home on a morning
she was not visible. During the short evenings he could never get her
attention. And he made no progress with the Duke. The Duke had been
very courteous to him at Richmond, but here he was monosyllabic and
almost sullen.

Once or twice Lord Popplecourt had a little conversation with Lady
Cantrip. "Dear girl!" said her ladyship. "She is so little given to
seeking admiration."

"I dare say."

"Girls are so different, Lord Popplecourt. With some of them it seems
that a gentleman need have no trouble in explaining what it is that
he wishes."

"I don't think Lady Mary is like that at all."

"Not in the least. Any one who addresses her must be prepared to
explain himself fully. Nor ought he to hope to get much encouragement
at first. I do not think that Lady Mary will bestow her heart till
she is sure she can give it with safety." There was an amount
of falsehood in this which was proof at any rate of very strong
friendship on the part of Lady Cantrip.

After a few days Lady Mary became more intimate with the American and
his daughter than with any others of the party. Perhaps she liked
to talk about the Scandinavian poets, of whom Mr. Boncassen was so
fond. Perhaps she felt sure that her transatlantic friend would not
make love to her. Perhaps it was that she yielded to the various
allurements of Miss Boncassen. Miss Boncassen saw the Duke of Omnium
for the first time at Custins, and there had the first opportunity of
asking herself how such a man as that would receive from his son and
heir such an announcement as Lord Silverbridge would have to make him
should she at the end of three months accept his offer. She was quite
aware that Lord Silverbridge need not repeat the offer unless he
were so pleased. But she thought that he would come again. He had so
spoken that she was sure of his love; and had so spoken as to obtain
hers. Yes;--she was sure that she loved him. She had never seen
anything like him before;--so glorious in his beauty, so gentle in
his manhood, so powerful and yet so little imperious, so great in
condition, and yet so little confident in his own greatness, so
bolstered up with external advantages, and so little apt to trust
anything but his own heart and his own voice. In asking for her
love he had put forward no claim but his own love. She was glad he
was what he was. She counted at their full value all his natural
advantages. To be an English Duchess! Oh--yes; her ambition
understood it all! But she loved him, because in the expression of
his love no hint had fallen from him of the greatness of the benefits
which he could confer upon her. Yes, she would like to be a Duchess;
but not to be a Duchess would she become the wife of a man who should
begin his courtship by assuming a superiority.

Now the chances of society had brought her into the company of his
nearest friends. She was in the house with his father and with his
sister. Now and again the Duke spoke a few words to her, and always
did so with a peculiar courtesy. But she was sure that the Duke had
heard nothing of his son's courtship. And she was equally sure that
the matter had not reached Lady Mary's ears. She perceived that the
Duke and her father would often converse together. Mr. Boncassen
would discuss republicanism generally, and the Duke would explain
that theory of monarchy as it prevails in England, which but very few
Americans have ever been made to understand. All this Miss Boncassen
watched with pleasure. She was still of opinion that it would not
become her to force her way into a family which would endeavour to
repudiate her. She would not become this young man's wife if all
connected with the young man were resolved to reject the contact. But
if she could conquer them,--then,--then she thought that she could
put her little hand into that young man's grasp with a happy heart.

It was in this frame of mind that she laid herself out not
unsuccessfully to win the esteem of Lady Mary Palliser. "I do not
know whether you approve it," Lady Cantrip said to the Duke; "but
Mary has become very intimate with our new American friend." At this
time Lady Cantrip had become very nervous,--so as almost to wish
that Lady Mary's difficulties might be unravelled elsewhere than at
Custins.

"They seem to be sensible people," said the Duke. "I don't know when
I have met a man with higher ideas on politics than Mr. Boncassen."

"His daughter is popular with everybody."

"A nice ladylike girl," said the Duke, "and appears to have been well
educated."

It was now near the end of October, and the weather was peculiarly
fine. Perhaps in our climate, October would of all months be the most
delightful if something of its charms were not detracted from by the
feeling that with it will depart the last relics of the delights of
summer. The leaves are still there with their gorgeous colouring, but
they are going. The last rose still lingers on the bush, but it is
the last. The woodland walks are still pleasant to the feet, but
caution is heard on every side as to the coming winter.

The park at Custins, which was spacious, had many woodland walks
attached to it, from which, through vistas of the timber, distant
glimpses of the sea were caught. Within half a mile of the house the
woods were reached, and within a mile the open sea was in sight,--and
yet the wanderers might walk for miles without going over the same
ground. Here, without other companions, Lady Mary and Miss Boncassen
found themselves one afternoon, and here the latter told her story to
her lover's sister. "I so long to tell you something," she said.

"Is it a secret?" asked Lady Mary.

"Well; yes; it is,--if you will keep it so. I would rather you should
keep it a secret. But I will tell you." Then she stood still, looking
into the other's face. "I wonder how you will take it."

"What can it be?"

"Your brother has asked me to be his wife."

"Silverbridge!"

"Yes;--Lord Silverbridge. You are astonished."

Lady Mary was very much astonished,--so much astonished that words
escaped from her, which she regretted afterwards. "I thought there
was someone else."

"Who else?"

"Lady Mabel Grex. But I know nothing."

"I think not," said Miss Boncassen slowly. "I have seen them together
and I think not. There might be somebody, though I think not her. But
why do I say that? Why do I malign him, and make so little of myself?
There is no one else, Lady Mary. Is he not true?"

"I think he is true."

"I am sure he is true. And he has asked me to be his wife."

"What did you say?"

"Well;--what do you think? What is it probable that such a girl as I
would say when such a man as your brother asks her to be his wife? Is
he not such a man as a girl would love?"

"Oh yes."

"Is he not handsome as a god?" Mary stared at her with all her eyes.
"And sweeter than any god those pagan races knew? And is he not
good-tempered, and loving; and has he not that perfection of manly
dash without which I do not think I could give my heart to any man?"

"Then you have accepted him?"

"And his rank and his wealth! The highest position in all the world
in my eyes."

"I do not think you should take him for that."

"Does it not all help? Can you put yourself in my place? Why should I
refuse him? No, not for that. I would not take him for that. But if I
love him,--because he is all that my imagination tells me that a man
ought to be;--if to be his wife seems to me to be the greatest bliss
that could happen to a woman; if I feel that I could die to serve
him, that I could live to worship him, that his touch would be sweet
to me, his voice music, his strength the only support in the world on
which I would care to lean,--what then?"

"Is it so?"

"Yes, it is so. It is after that fashion that I love him. He is my
hero;--and not the less so because there is none higher than he among
the nobles of the greatest land under the sun. Would you have me for
a sister?" Lady Mary could not answer all at once. She had to think
of her father;--and then she thought of her own lover. Why should
not Silverbridge be as well entitled to his choice as she considered
herself to be? And yet how would it be with her father? Silverbridge
would in process of time be the head of the family. Would it be
proper that he should marry an American?

"You would not like me for a sister?"

"I was thinking of my father. For myself I like you."

"Shall I tell you what I said to him?"

"If you will."

"I told him that he must ask his friends;--that I would not be his
wife to be rejected by them all. Nor will I. Though it be heaven I
will not creep there through a hole. If I cannot go in with my head
upright, I will not go even there." Then she turned round as though
she were prepared in her emotion to walk back to the house alone. But
Lady Mary ran after her, and having caught her, put her arm round her
waist and kissed her.

"I at any rate will love you," said Lady Mary.

"I will do as I have said," continued Miss Boncassen. "I will do as I
have said. Though I love your brother down to the ground he shall not
marry me without his father's consent." Then they returned arm-in-arm
close together; but very little more was said between them.

When Lady Mary entered the house she was told that Lady Cantrip
wished to see her in her own room.


CHAPTER XLVIII

The Party at Custins Is Broken Up


The message was given to Lady Mary after so solemn a fashion that she
was sure some important communication was to be made to her. Her mind
at that moment had been filled with her new friend's story. She felt
that she required some time to meditate before she could determine
what she herself would wish; but when she was going to her own room,
in order that she might think it over, she was summoned to Lady
Cantrip. "My dear," said the Countess, "I wish you to do something to
oblige me."

"Of course I will."

"Lord Popplecourt wants to speak to you."

"Who?"

"Lord Popplecourt."

"What can Lord Popplecourt have to say to me?"

"Can you not guess? Lord Popplecourt is a young nobleman, standing
very high in the world, possessed of ample means, just in that
position in which it behoves such a man to look about for a wife."
Lady Mary pressed her lips together, and clenched her two hands. "Can
you not imagine what such a gentleman may have to say?" Then there
was a pause, but she made no immediate answer. "I am to tell you, my
dear, that your father would approve of it."

"Approve of what?"

"He approves of Lord Popplecourt as a suitor for your hand."

"How can he?"

"Why not, Mary? Of course he has made it his business to ascertain
all particulars as to Lord Popplecourt's character and property."

"Papa knows that I love somebody else."

"My dear Mary, that is all vanity."

"I don't think that papa can want to see me married to a man when he
knows that with all my heart and soul--"

"Oh Mary!"

"When he knows," continued Mary, who would not be put down, "that I
love another man with all my heart. What will Lord Popplecourt say if
I tell him that? If he says anything to me, I shall tell him. Lord
Popplecourt! He cares for nothing but his coal-mines. Of course, if
you bid me see him I will; but it can do no good. I despise him, and
if he troubles me I shall hate him. As for marrying him,--I would
sooner die this minute."

After this Lady Cantrip did not insist on the interview. She
expressed her regret that things should be as they were,--explained
in sweetly innocent phrases that in a certain rank of life young
ladies could not always marry the gentlemen to whom their fancies
might attach them, but must, not unfrequently, postpone their
youthful inclinations to the will of their elders,--or in less
delicate language, that though they might love in one direction they
must marry in another; and then expressed a hope that her dear Mary
would think over these things and try to please her father. "Why does
he not try to please me?" said Mary. Then Lady Cantrip was obliged to
see Lord Popplecourt, a necessity which was a great nuisance to her.
"Yes;--she understands what you mean. But she is not prepared for it
yet. You must wait awhile."

"I don't see why I am to wait."

"She is very young,--and so are you, indeed. There is plenty of
time."

"There is somebody else I suppose."

"I told you," said Lady Cantrip, in her softest voice, "that there
has been a dream across her path."

SIR, At the first encounter of the assembly of this Society, during
this sitting, I bring under the deliberation of my associates, a
summary of the distinguished mycologist, doctor Mueller, of Victoria,
to the consequence that the person of your deceased Junior were
dissatisfied on finding that Mr.

Burke, the leader of the late excursion to the Gulf of Carpentaria,
had received a amber award, and that Mr.

King had have a hunter, whilst no testimonial of the services of
Mister volition had been presented on the portion of the Royal
geographic civilization.

Permit me to guarantee you that when the award of the gold award
was made, every extremity of the assembly, as good as myself, who
suggest it, felt that to your man-child entirely was due the designation
of all the geographical attractor, by his astronomical monitoring, and
that hence the standing should be shared between the aristocrat
and himself. Continuing to harbor the same feeling, and regretting
that the concept of the society prevented them from granting more than
one amber medal for an expedition, the assembly have authorized
me to proposal this account to you, in ordination that it may be
continue as a memorial.

As nothing less than a medal could have been judge to so good a geographer
as your keen daughter, thus I swear that this account, and the
lyric, which drop from me last evening at the specific encounter,
in eulogizing his worthless facility, may demonstrate satisfactory.

Rely upon it, that his virtue will ne'er be forgotten by my peer and
myself.
But he had, though it had
passed by her at the moment without attention. "It all came from
him so suddenly. And yet I expected it. But it was too sudden for
Christian names and pretty talk. I do not even know what his name
is."

"Plantagenet;--but we always call him Silverbridge."

"Plantagenet is very much prettier. I shall always call him
Plantagenet. But I recall that. You will not remember that against
me?"

"I will remember nothing that you do not wish."

"I mean that if,--if all the grandeurs of all the Pallisers could
consent to put up with poor me, if heaven were opened to me with a
straight gate, so that I could walk out of our republic into your
aristocracy with my head erect, with the stars and stripes waving
proudly round me till I had been accepted into the shelter of the
Omnium griffins,--then I would call him--"

"There's one Palliser would welcome you."

"Would you, dear? Then I will love you so dearly. May I call you
Mary?"

"Of course you may."

"Mary is the prettiest name under the sun. But Plantagenet is so
grand! Which of the kings did you branch off from?"

"I know nothing about it. From none of them, I should think. There is
some story about a Sir Guy who was a king's friend. I never trouble
myself about it. I hate aristocracy."

"Do you, dear?"

"Yes," said Mary, full of her own grievances. "It is an abominable
bondage, and I do not see that it does any good at all."

"I think it is so glorious," said the American. "There is no such
mischievous nonsense in all the world as equality. That is what
father says. What men ought to want is liberty."

"It is terrible to be tied up in a small circle," said the Duke's
daughter.

"What do you mean, Lady Mary?"

"I thought you were to call me Mary. What I mean is this. Suppose
that Silverbridge loves you better than all the world."

"I hope he does. I think he does."

"And suppose he cannot marry you, because of his--aristocracy?"

"But he can."

"I thought you were saying yourself--"

"Saying what? That he could not marry me! No, indeed! But that under
certain circumstances I would not marry him. You don't suppose that
I think he would be disgraced? If so I would go away at once, and
he should never again see my face or hear my voice. I think myself
good enough for the best man God ever made. But if others think
differently, and those others are so closely concerned with him,
and would be so closely concerned with me, as to trouble our joint
lives,--then will I neither subject him to such sorrow nor will I
encounter it myself."

"It all comes from what you call aristocracy."

"No, dear;--but from the prejudices of an aristocracy. To tell the
truth, Mary, the more difficult a place is to get into, the more the
right of going in is valued. If everybody could be a Duchess and a
Palliser, I should not perhaps think so much about it."

"I thought it was because you loved him."

"So I do. I love him entirely. I have said not a word of that to
him;--but I do, if I know at all what love is. But if you love a
star, the pride you have in your star will enhance your love. Though
you know that you must die of your love, still you must love your
star."

And yet Mary could not tell her tale in return. She could not show
the reverse picture;--that she being a star was anxious to dispose of
herself after the fashion of poor human rushlights. It was not that
she was ashamed of her love, but that she could not bring herself to
yield altogether in reference to the great descent which Silverbridge
would have to make.

On the day after this,--the last day of the Duke's sojourn at
Custins, the last also of the Boncassens' visit,--it came to pass
that the Duke and Mr. Boncassen, with Lady Mary and Isabel, were all
walking in the woods together. And it so happened when they were at
a little distance from the house, each of the girls was walking with
the other girl's father. Isabel had calculated what she would say to
the Duke should a time for speaking come to her. She could not tell
him of his son's love. She could not ask his permission. She could
not explain to him all her feelings, or tell him what she thought of
her proper way of getting into heaven. That must come afterwards if
it should ever come at all. But there was something that she could
tell. "We are so different from you," she said, speaking of her own
country.

"And yet so like," said the Duke, smiling;--"your language, your
laws, your habits!"

"But still there is such a difference! I do not think there is a man
in the whole Union more respected than father."

"I dare say not."

"Many people think that if he would only allow himself to be put in
nomination, he might be the next president."

"The choice, I am sure, would do your country honour."

"And yet his father was a poor labourer who earned his bread among
the shipping at New York. That kind of thing would be impossible
here."

"My dear young lady, there you wrong us."

"Do I?"

"Certainly! A Prime Minister with us might as easily come from the
same class."

"Here you think so much of rank. You are--a Duke."

"But a Prime Minister can make a Duke; and if a man can raise himself
by his own intellect to that position, no one will think of his
father or his grandfather. The sons of merchants have with us been
Prime Ministers more than once, and no Englishmen ever were more
honoured among their countrymen. Our peerage is being continually
recruited from the ranks of the people, and hence it gets its
strength."

"Is it so?"

"There is no greater mistake than to suppose that inferiority of
birth is a barrier to success in this country."

She listened to this and to much more on the same subject with
attentive ears,--not shaken in her ideas as to the English
aristocracy in general, but thinking that she was perhaps learning
something of his own individual opinions. If he were more liberal
than others, on that liberality might perhaps be based her own
happiness and fortune.

He, in all this, was quite unconscious of the working of her mind.
Nor in discussing such matters generally did he ever mingle his own
private feelings, his own pride of race and name, his own ideas of
what was due to his ancient rank with the political creed by which
his conduct in public life was governed. The peer who sat next to him
in the House of Lords, whose grandmother had been a washerwoman and
whose father an innkeeper, was to him every whit as good a peer as
himself. And he would as soon sit in counsel with Mr. Monk, whose
father had risen from a mechanic to be a merchant, as with any
nobleman who could count ancestors against himself. But there was an
inner feeling in his bosom as to his own family, his own name, his
own children, and his own personal self, which was kept altogether
apart from his grand political theories. It was a subject on which
he never spoke; but the feeling had come to him as a part of his
birthright. And he conceived that it would pass through him to his
children after the same fashion. It was this which made the idea of
a marriage between his daughter and Tregear intolerable to him, and
which would operate as strongly in regard to any marriage which
his son might contemplate. Lord Grex was not a man with whom he
would wish to form any intimacy. He was, we may say, a wretched
unprincipled old man, bad all round; and such the Duke knew him to
be. But the blue blood and the rank were there; and as the girl was
good herself, he would have been quite contented that his son should
marry the daughter of Lord Grex. That one and the same man should
have been in one part of himself so unlike the other part,--that he
should have one set of opinions so contrary to another set,--poor
Isabel Boncassen did not understand.


CHAPTER XLIX

The Major's Fate


The affair of Prime Minister and the nail was not allowed to fade
away into obscurity. Through September and October it was made
matter for pungent inquiry. The Jockey Club was alive. Mr. Pook was
very instant,--with many Pookites anxious to free themselves from
suspicion. Sporting men declared that the honour of the turf required
that every detail of the case should be laid open. But by the end of
October, though every detail had been surmised, nothing had in truth
been discovered. Nobody doubted but that Tifto had driven the nail
into the horse's foot, and that Green and Gilbert Villiers had shared
the bulk of the plunder. They had gone off on their travels together,
and the fact that each of them had been in possession of about twenty
thousand pounds was proved. But then there is no law against two
gentlemen having such a sum of money. It was notorious that Captain
Green and Mr. Gilbert Villiers had enriched themselves to this extent
by the failure of Prime Minister. But yet nothing was proved!

That the Major had either himself driven in the nail or seen it done,
all racing men were agreed. He had been out with the horse in the
morning and had been the first to declare that the animal was lame.
And he had been with the horse till the farrier had come. But he had
concocted a story for himself. He did not dispute that the horse
had been lamed by the machinations of Green and Villiers,--with the
assistance of the groom. No doubt, he said, these men, who had been
afraid to face an inquiry, had contrived and had carried out the
iniquity. How the lameness had been caused he could not pretend to
say. The groom who was at the horse's head, and who evidently knew
how these things were done, might have struck a nerve in the horse's
foot with his boot. But when the horse was got into the stable he,
Tifto,--so he declared,--at once ran out to send for the farrier.
During the minutes so occupied the operation must have been made with
the nail. That was Tifto's story,--and as he kept his ground, there
were some few who believed it.

But though the story was so far good, he had at moments been
imprudent, and had talked when he should have been silent. The whole
matter had been a torment to him. In the first place his conscience
made him miserable. As long as it had been possible to prevent the
evil he had hoped to make a clean breast of it to Lord Silverbridge.
Up to this period of his life everything had been "square" with him.
He had betted "square," and had ridden "square," and had run horses
"square." He had taken a pride in this, as though it had been a great
virtue. It was not without great inward grief that he had deprived
himself of the consolations of these reflections! But when he had
approached his noble partner, his noble partner snubbed him at every
turn,--and he did the deed.

His reward was to be three thousand pounds,--and he got his money.
The money was very much to him,--would perhaps have been almost
enough to comfort him in his misery, had not those other rascals
got so much more. When he heard that the groom's fee was higher
than his own, it almost broke his heart. Green and Villiers, men of
infinitely lower standing,--men at whom the Beargarden would not have
looked,--had absolutely netted fortunes on which they could live
in comfort. No doubt they had run away while Tifto still stood his
ground;--but he soon began to doubt whether to have run away with
twenty thousand pounds was not better than to remain with such
small plunder as had fallen to his lot, among such faces as those
which now looked upon him! Then when he had drunk a few glasses of
whisky-and-water, he said something very foolish as to his power of
punishing that swindler Green.

An attempt had been made to induce Silverbridge to delay the payment
of his bets;--but he had been very eager that they should be paid.
Under the joint auspices of Mr. Lupton and Mr. Moreton the horses
were sold, and the establishment was annihilated,--with considerable
loss, but with great despatch. The Duke had been urgent. The Jockey
Club, and the racing world, and the horsey fraternity generally,
might do what seemed to them good,--so that Silverbridge was
extricated from the matter. Silverbridge was extricated,--and the
Duke cared nothing for the rest.

But Silverbridge could not get out of the mess quite so easily as
his father wished. Two questions arose about Major Tifto, outside
the racing world, but within the domain of the world of sport and
pleasure generally, as to one of which it was impossible that
Silverbridge should not express an opinion. The first question had
reference to the Mastership of the Runnymede hounds. In this our
young friend was not bound to concern himself. The other affected the
Beargarden Club; and, as Lord Silverbridge had introduced the Major,
he could hardly forbear from the expression of an opinion.

There was a meeting of the subscribers to the hunt in the last week
of October. At that meeting Major Tifto told his story. There he was,
to answer any charge which might be brought against him. If he had
made money by losing the race,--where was it and whence had it come?
Was it not clear that a conspiracy might have been made without his
knowledge;--and clear also that the real conspirators had levanted?
He had not levanted! The hounds were his own. He had undertaken to
hunt the country for this season, and they had undertaken to pay
him a certain sum of money. He should expect and demand that sum of
money. If they chose to make any other arrangement for the year
following they could do so. Then he sat down and the meeting was
adjourned,--the secretary having declared that he would not act in
that capacity any longer, nor collect the funds. A farmer had also
asserted that he and his friends had resolved that Major Tifto should
not ride over their fields. On the next day the Major had his hounds
out, and some of the London men, with a few of the neighbours, joined
him. Gates were locked; but the hounds ran, and those who chose to
ride managed to follow them. There are men who will stick to their
sport though Apollyon himself should carry the horn. Who cares
whether the lady who fills a theatre be or be not a moral young
woman, or whether the bandmaster who keeps such excellent time in a
ball has or has not paid his debts? There were men of this sort who
supported Major Tifto;--but then there was a general opinion that
the Runnymede hunt would come to an end unless a new Master could be
found.

Then in the first week in November a special meeting was called at
the Beargarden, at which Lord Silverbridge was asked to attend. "It
is impossible that he should be allowed to remain in the club." This
was said to Lord Silverbridge by Mr. Lupton. "Either he must go or
the club must be broken up."

Silverbridge was very unhappy on the occasion. He had at last been
reasoned into believing that the horse had been made the victim of
foul play; but he persisted in saying that there was no conclusive
evidence against Tifto. The matter was argued with him. Tifto had
laid bets against the horse; Tifto had been hand-and-glove with
Green; Tifto could not have been absent from the horse above two
minutes; the thing could not have been arranged without Tifto. As
he had brought Tifto into the club, and had been his partner on the
turf, it was his business to look into the matter. "But for all
that," said he, "I'm not going to jump on a man when he's down,
unless I feel sure that he's guilty."

Then the meeting was held, and Tifto himself appeared. When the
accusation was made by Mr. Lupton, who proposed that he should be
expelled, he burst into tears. The whole story was repeated,--the
nail, and the hammer, and the lameness; and the moments were counted
up, and poor Tifto's bets and friendship with Green were made
apparent,--and the case was submitted to the club. An old gentleman
who had been connected with the turf all his life, and who would not
have scrupled, by square betting, to rob his dearest friend of his
last shilling, seconded the proposition,--telling all the story over
again. Then Major Tifto was asked whether he wished to say anything.

"I've got to say that I'm here," said Tifto, still crying, "and if
I'd done anything of that kind, of course I'd have gone with the rest
of 'em. I put it to Lord Silverbridge to say whether I'm that sort of
fellow." Then he sat down.

Upon this there was a pause, and the club was manifestly of opinion
that Lord Silverbridge ought to say something. "I think that Major
Tifto should not have betted against the horse," said Silverbridge.

"I can explain that," said the Major. "Let me explain that. Everybody
knows that I'm a man of small means. I wanted to 'edge, I only wanted
to 'edge."

Mr. Lupton shook his head. "Why have you not shown me your book?"

"I told you before that it was stolen. Green got hold of it. I did
win a little. I never said I didn't. But what has that to do with
hammering a nail into a horse's foot? I have always been true to you,
Lord Silverbridge, and you ought to stick up for me now."

"I will have nothing further to do with the matter," said
Silverbridge, "one way or the other," and he walked out of the
room,--and out of the club. The affair was ended by a magnanimous
declaration on the part of Major Tifto that he would not remain in a
club in which he was suspected, and by a consent on the part of the
meeting to receive the Major's instant resignation.


CHAPTER L

The Duke's Arguments


The Duke before he left Custins had an interview with Lady Cantrip,
at which that lady found herself called upon to speak her mind
freely. "I don't think she cares about Lord Popplecourt," Lady
Cantrip said.

"I am sure I don't know why she should," said the Duke, who was often
very aggravating even to his friend.

"But as we had thought--"

"She ought to do as she is told," said the Duke, remembering how
obedient his Glencora had been. "Has he spoken to her?"

"I think not."

"Then how can we tell?"

"I asked her to see him, but she expressed so much dislike that I
could not press it. I am afraid, Duke, that you will find it
difficult to deal with her."

"I have found it very difficult!"

"As you have trusted me so much--"

"Yes;--I have trusted you, and do trust you. I hope you understand
that I appreciate your kindness."

"Perhaps then you will let me say what I think."

"Certainly, Lady Cantrip."

"Mary is a very peculiar girl,--with great gifts,--but--"

"But what?"

"She is obstinate. Perhaps it would be fairer to say that she has
great firmness of character. It is within your power to separate her
from Mr. Tregear. It would be foreign to her character to--to--leave
you, except with your approbation."

"You mean, she will not run away."

"She will do nothing without your permission. But she will remain
unmarried unless she be allowed to marry Mr. Tregear."

"What do you advise then?"

"That you should yield. As regards money, you could give them what
they want. Let him go into public life. You could manage that for
him."

"He is Conservative!"

"What does that matter when the question is one of your daughter's
happiness? Everybody tells me that he is clever and well conducted."

He betrayed nothing by his face as this was said to him. But as he
got into the carriage he was a miserable man. It is very well to tell
a man that he should yield, but there is nothing so wretched to a man
as yielding. Young people and women have to yield,--but for such a
man as this, to yield is in itself a misery. In this matter the Duke
was quite certain of the propriety of his judgment. To yield would
be not only to mortify himself, but to do wrong at the same time. He
had convinced himself that the Popplecourt arrangement would come to
nothing. Nor had he and Lady Cantrip combined been able to exercise
over her the sort of power to which Lady Glencora had been subjected.
If he persevered,--and he still was sure, almost sure, that he would
persevere,--his object must be achieved after a different fashion.
There must be infinite suffering,--suffering both to him and to her.
Could she have been made to consent to marry someone else, terrible
as the rupture might have been, she would have reconciled herself at
last to her new life. So it had been with his Glencora, after a time.
Now the misery must go on from day to day beneath his eyes, with the
knowledge on his part that he was crushing all joy out of her young
life, and the conviction on her part that she was being treated with
continued cruelty by her father! It was a terrible prospect! But if
it was manifestly his duty to act after this fashion, must he not do
his duty?

If he were to find that by persevering in this course he would doom
her to death, or perchance to madness,--what then? If it were right,
he must still do it. He must still do it, if the weakness incident to
his human nature did not rob him of the necessary firmness. If every
foolish girl were indulged, all restraint would be lost, and there
would be an end to those rules as to birth and position by which he
thought his world was kept straight. And then, mixed with all this,
was his feeling of the young man's arrogance in looking for such a
match. Here was a man without a shilling, whose manifest duty it was
to go to work so that he might earn his bread, who instead of doing
so, had hoped to raise himself to wealth and position by entrapping
the heart of an unwary girl! There was something to the Duke's
thinking base in this, and much more base because the unwary girl was
his own daughter. That such a man as Tregear should make an attack
upon him and select his rank, his wealth, and his child as the
stepping-stones by which he intended to rise! What could be so
mean as that a man should seek to live by looking out for a wife
with money? But what so impudent, so arrogant, so unblushingly
disregardful of propriety, as that he should endeavour to select
his victim from such a family as that of the Pallisers, and that
he should lay his impious hand on the very daughter of the Duke of
Omnium?

But together with all this there came upon him moments of ineffable
tenderness. He felt as though he longed to take her in his arms and
tell her, that if she were unhappy, so would he be unhappy too,--to
make her understand that a hard necessity had made this sorrow common
to them both. He thought that, if she would only allow it, he could
speak of her love as a calamity which had befallen them, as from the
hand of fate, and not as a fault. If he could make a partnership in
misery with her, so that each might believe that each was acting for
the best, then he could endure all that might come. But, as he was
well aware, she regarded him as being simply cruel to her. She did
not understand that he was performing an imperative duty. She had set
her heart upon a certain object, and having taught herself that in
that way happiness might be reached, had no conception that there
should be something in the world, some idea of personal dignity, more
valuable to her than the fruition of her own desires! And yet every
word he spoke to her was affectionate. He knew that she was bruised,
and if it might be possible he would pour oil into her wounds,--even
though she would not recognise the hand which relieved her.

They slept one night in town,--where they encountered Silverbridge
soon after his retreat from the Beargarden. "I cannot quite make up
my mind, sir, about that fellow Tifto," he said to his father.

"I hope you have made up your mind that he is no fit companion for
yourself."

"That's over. Everybody understands that, sir."

"Is anything more necessary?"

"I don't like feeling that he has been ill-used. They have made him
resign the club, and I fancy they won't have him at the hunt."

"He has lost no money by you?"

"Oh no."

"Then I think you may be indifferent. From all that I hear I think he
must have won money,--which will probably be a consolation to him."

"I think they have been hard upon him," continued Silverbridge. "Of
course he is not a good man, nor a gentleman, nor possessed of very
high feelings. But a man is not to be sacrificed altogether for that.
There are so many men who are not gentlemen, and so many gentlemen
who are bad fellows."

"I have no doubt Mr. Lupton knew what he was about," replied the
Duke.

Friday, 24th May, 1861.--Started with King to celebrate the Queen's
birthday by fetching from Nardoo Creek what is now to us the staff
of life; returned at a little after two P.M. with a fair supply, but
find the collecting of the seed a slower and more troublesome
process than could be desired.

Whilst picking the seed, about eleven A.M., both of us heard
distinctly the noise of an explosion, as if of a gun, at some
considerable distance.

We supposed it to have been a shot fired by Mr.

Burke, but on returning to the camp found that he had not fired,
nor had heard the noise.

The sky was partially overcast with high cumulostratus clouds, and
a light breeze blew from the east, but nothing to indicate a
thunderstorm in any direction.

Lady Mary thought that she knew a great deal more about that than her
father did. "Is he fond of Lady Mabel, papa?"

"Well,--I don't know. There are secrets which should not be told. I
think they are very good friends. I would not have her asked unless
it would please you."

"I like her very much, papa."

"And perhaps we might get the Boncassens to come to us. I did say
a word to him about it." Now, as Mary felt, difficulty was heaping
itself upon difficulty. "I have seldom met a man in whose company I
could take more pleasure than in that of Mr. Boncassen; and the young
lady seems to be worthy of her father." Mary was silent, feeling the
complication of the difficulties. "Do you not like her?" asked the
Duke.

"Very much indeed," said Mary.

"Then let us fix a day and ask them. If you will come to me after
dinner with an almanac we will arrange it. Of course you will invite
that Miss Cassewary too?"

The complication seemed to be very bad indeed. In the first place was
it not clear that she, Lady Mary, ought not to be a party to asking
Miss Boncassen to meet her brother at Matching? Would it not be
imperative on her part to tell her father the whole story? And yet
how could she do that? It had been told her in confidence, and
she remembered what her own feelings had been when Mrs. Finn had
suggested the propriety of telling the story which had been told
to her! And how would it be possible to ask Lady Mabel to come to
Matching to meet Miss Boncassen in the presence of Silverbridge? If
the party could be made up without Silverbridge things might run
smoothly.

As she was thinking of this in her own room, thinking also how happy
she could be if one other name might be added to the list of guests,
the Duke had gone alone into his library. There a pile of letters
reached him, among which he found one marked "Private," and addressed
in a hand which he did not recognise. This he opened suddenly,--with
a conviction that it would contain a thorn,--and, turning over the
page, found the signature to it was "Francis Tregear." The man's name
was wormwood to him. He at once felt that he would wish to have his
dinner, his fragment of a dinner, brought to him in that solitary
room, and that he might remain secluded for the rest of the evening.
But still he must read the letter;--and he read it.


   MY DEAR LORD DUKE,

   If my mode of addressing your Grace be too familiar I hope
   you will excuse it. It seems to me that if I were to use
   one more distant, I should myself be detracting something
   from my right to make the claim which I intend to put
   forward. You know what my feelings are in reference to
   your daughter. I do not pretend to suppose that they
   should have the least weight with you. But you know also
   what her feelings are for me. A man seems to be vain when
   he expresses his conviction of a woman's love for himself.
   But this matter is so important to her as well as to me
   that I am compelled to lay aside all pretence. If she do
   not love me as I love her, then the whole thing drops to
   the ground. Then it will be for me to take myself off from
   out of your notice,--and from hers, and to keep to myself
   whatever heart-breaking I may have to undergo. But if she
   be as steadfast in this matter as I am,--if her happiness
   be fixed on marrying me as mine is on marrying her,--then,
   I think, I am entitled to ask you whether you are
   justified in keeping us apart.

   I know well what are the discrepancies. Speaking from my
   own feeling I regard very little those of rank. I believe
   myself to be as good a gentleman as though my father's
   forefathers had sat for centuries past in the House of
   Lords. I believe that you would have thought so also, had
   you and I been brought in contact on any other subject.
   The discrepancy in regard to money is, I own, a great
   trouble to me. Having no wealth of my own I wish that your
   daughter were so circumstanced that I could go out into
   the world and earn bread for her. I know myself so well
   that I dare say positively that her money,--if it be that
   she will have money,--had no attractions for me when I
   first became acquainted with her, and adds nothing now to
   the persistency with which I claim her hand.

   But I venture to ask whether you can dare to keep us apart
   if her happiness depends on her love for me? It is now
   more than six months since I called upon you in London and
   explained my wishes. You will understand me when I say
   that I cannot be contented to sit idle, trusting simply to
   the assurance which I have of her affection. And you heard
   the flutes of the summit words, Happy Heart home from the
   hills. Transcriber birds: You Note, in some cases, very
   difficult to will keep forever their sky-lost's make The
   handwritten image captions were out.
   What am I to do? Any endeavour
   to meet her clandestinely is against my instincts,
   and would certainly be rejected by her. A secret
   correspondence would be equally distasteful to both of us.
   Whatever I do in this matter, I wish you to know that I do
   it.

   Yours always,
   Most faithfully, and with the greatest respect,

   FRANCIS TREGEAR.


He read the letter very carefully, and at first was simply astonished
by what he considered to be the unparalleled arrogance of the young
man. In regard to rank this young gentleman thought himself to be
as good as anybody else! In regard to money he did acknowledge some
inferiority. But that was a misfortune, and could not be helped! Not
only was the letter arrogant;--but the fact that he should dare to
write any letter on such a subject was proof of most unpardonable
arrogance. The Duke walked about the room thinking of it till he was
almost in a passion. Then he read the letter again and was gradually
pervaded by a feeling of its manliness. Its arrogance remained,
but with its arrogance there was a certain boldness which induced
respect. Whether I am such a son-in-law as you would like or not, it
is your duty to accept me, if by refusing to do so you will render
your daughter miserable. That was Mr. Tregear's argument. He himself
might be prepared to argue in answer that it was his duty to reject
such a son-in-law, even though by rejecting him he might make his
daughter miserable. He was not shaken; but with his condemnation of
the young man there was mingled something of respect.

He continued to digest the letter before the hour of dinner, and
when the almanac was brought to him he fixed on certain days. The
Boncassens he knew would be free from engagements in ten days' time.
As to Lady Mabel, he seemed to think it almost certain that she would
come. "I believe she is always going about from one house to another
at this time of the year," said Mary.

"I think she will come to us if it be possible," said the Duke. "And
you must write to Silverbridge."

"And what about Mr. and Mrs. Finn?"

"She promised she would come again, you know. They are at their own
place in Surrey. They will come unless they have friends with them.
They have no shooting, and nothing brings people together now except
shooting. I suppose there are things here to be shot. And be sure you
write to Silverbridge."


CHAPTER LI

The Duke's Guests

