Produced by Eric Eldred, ckirschner
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team


                  The Puritans


                      By


                   Arlo Bates


 The web of our life is of a mingled yarn, good and ill together.
                                    _All's Well That Ends Well_, iv. 3.


"Abandoning my heart, and rapt in ecstasy, I ran after her till I came
to a place in which religion and reason forsook me."
                                  _Persian Religious Hymn.


                  CONTENTS


      I. AFTER SUCH A PAGAN CUT
     II. THERE BEGINS CONFUSION
    III. AS FALSE AS STAIRS OF SAND
     IV. SOME SPEECH OF MARRIAGE
      V. VOLUBLE AND SHARP DISCOURSE
     VI. HEART-BURNING HEAT OF DUTY
    VII. THE SHOT OF ACCIDENT
   VIII. LIKE COVERED FIRE
     IX. HIS PURE HEART'S TRUTH
      X. A SYMPATHY OF WOE
     XI. IN PLACE AND IN ACCOUNT NOTHING
    XII. THE INLY TOUCH OF LOVE
   XIII. A NECESSARY EVIL
    XIV. HE SPEAKS THE MERE CONTRARY
     XV. HEARTSICK WITH THOUGHT
    XVI. THE GREAT ASSAY OF ART
   XVII. A BOND OF AIR
  XVIII. CRUEL PROOF OF THIS MAN'S STRENGTH
    XIX. 'TWAS WONDROUS PITIFUL
     XX. IN WAY OF TASTE
    XXI. THIS "WOULD" CHANGES
   XXII. THE BITTER PAST
  XXIII. THIS DEED UNSHAPES ME
   XXIV. FAREWELL AT ONCE, FOR ONCE, FOR ALL, AND EVER
    XXV. WHOM THE FATES HAVE MARKED
   XXVI. O WICKED WIT AND GIFT
  XXVII. UPON A CHURCH BENCH
 XXVIII. BEDECKING ORNAMENTS OF PRAISE
   XXIX. WEIGHING DELIGHT AND DOLE
    XXX. PARTED OUR FELLOWSHIP
   XXXI. HOW CHANCES MOCK
  XXXII. NOW HE IS FOR THE NUMBERS
 XXXIII. A MINT OF PHRASES IN HIS BRAIN
  XXXIV. WHAT TIME SHE CHANTED
   XXXV. THE WORLD IS STILL DECEIVED
  XXXVI. THE HEAVY MIDDLE OF THE NIGHT
 XXXVII. THIS IS NOT A BOON


                   THE PURITANS


                       I


             AFTER SUCH A PAGAN CUT
                         Henry VIII., i. 3.


"We are all the children of the Puritans," Mrs. Herman said smiling.
"Of course there is an ethical strain in all of us."

Her cousin, Philip Ashe, who wore the dress of a novice from the Clergy
House of St. Mark, regarded her with a serious and doubtful glance.

"But there is so much difference between you and me," he began. Then he
hesitated as if not knowing exactly how to finish his sentence.

"The difference," she responded, "is chiefly a matter of the difference
between action and reaction. You and I come of much the same stock
ethically. My childhood was oppressed by the weight of the Puritan
creed, and the reaction from it has made me what you feel obliged to
call heretic; while you, with a saint for a mother, found even
Puritanism hardly strict enough for you, and have taken to semi-
monasticism. We are both pushed on by the same original impulse: the
stress of Puritanism."

She had been putting on her gloves as she spoke, and now rose and stood
ready to go out. Philip looked at her with a troubled glance, rising
also.

"I hardly know," said he slowly, "if it's right for me to go with you.
It would have been more in keeping if I adhered to the rules of the
Clergy House while I am away from it."

Mrs. "Let's auction it off," exclaimed Daae. "I will be the auctioneer,
and this key to the graveyard will serve me for a hammer."

The laughter broke out anew as Daae took his place solemnly at the head
of the table and began to whine out the following announcement:

"I hereby notify all present that on the 25th of November, at twelve
o'clock at midnight, in corridor No. 5 of the student barracks, a
lady's arm in excellent condition, with all its appurtenances of
wrist bones, joints, and finger tips, is to be offered at public
auction.

The buyer can have possession of his purchase immediately after the
auction, and a credit of six weeks will be given to any reliable
customer.

I bid a Danish shilling."

"One mark," cried Sölling mockingly.

"Two," cried somebody else.

"Four," exclaimed Sölling. "It's worth it. Why don't you join
in, Simsen?

You look as if you were sitting in a hornet's nest."
I bid one mark more, and Sölling raised me a thaler. There were no more
bids, the hammer fell, and the arm belonged to Sölling.

"Here, take this," he said, handing me a mark piece; "it's part of
your commission as grave robber. You shall have the rest later, unless
you prefer that I should turn it over to the drinking fund." With these
words Sölling wrapped the arm in a newspaper, and the gay crowd ran
noisily down the stairs and through the streets, until their singing and
laughter were lost in the distance.

I stood alone, still dazed and bewildered, staring at the piece of
money in my hand. My thoughts were far too much excited that I should
hope to sleep. I turned up my lamp and took out one of my books to try
and study myself into a quieter mood. But without
success.

Suddenly I heard a sound like that of a swinging pendulum. I raised my
head and listened attentively. There was no clock either in my room
or in the neighboring ones--but I could still hear the sound. At the
same moment my lamp began to flicker. The oil was apparently exhausted.
I was about to rise to fill it again, when my eyes fell upon the door,
and I saw the graveyard key, which I had hung there, moving slowly back
and forth with a rhythmic swing. Just as its motion seemed about to
die away, it would receive a gentle push as from an unseen hand,
and would swing back and forth more than ever.

I stood there with open mouth and staring eyes, ice-cold chills
ran down my back, and drops of perspiration stood out on my forehead.
Finally, I could endure it no longer. I sprang to the door, seized the
key with both hands and put it on my desk under a pile of heavy books.
Then I breathed a sigh of relief.

My lamp was about to go out and I discovered that I had no more oil.

With feverish haste I threw my clothes off, blew out the light and
sprang into bed as if to smother my fears.

But once alone in the darkness the fears grew worse than ever. They grew
into dreams and visions.

It seemed to me as if I were out in the graveyard again, and heard the
screaming of the rusty weather vane as the wind turned it.

Then I was in the mill again; the wheels were turning and stretching
out ghostly hands to draw me into the yawning maw of the machine.

Then again, I found myself in a long, low, pitch-black corridor, followed
by Something I could not see--Something that drove me to the mouth
of a bottomless abyss.

I would start up out of my half sleep, listen and look about me, then
fall back again into an uneasy slumber.

Suddenly something fell from the ceiling onto the bed, and
"buzz--buzz--buzz" sounded about my head.

It was a huge fly which had been sleeping in a corner of my room and had
been roused by the heat of the stove. It flew about in great circles,
now around the bed, now in all four corners of the
chamber--"buzz--buzz--buzz"--it was unendurable!

At last I heard it creep into a bag of sugar which had been left
on the window sill.

I sprang up and closed the bag tight.
The fly buzzed worse than ever, but I went back to bed and attempted
to sleep again, feeling that I had conquered the enemy.

I began to count: I counted slowly to one hundred, two hundred, finally
up to one thousand, and then at last I experienced that pleasant weakness
which is the forerunner of true sleep. I seemed to be in a beautiful
garden, bright with many flowers and odorous with all the perfumes
of spring. At my side walked a beautiful young girl.
I seemed to know her well, and yet it was not possible for me to remember
her name, or even to know how we came to be wandering there together.
As we walked slowly through the paths she would stop to pick a flower
or to admire a brilliant butterfly swaying in the air.
Suddenly a cold wind blew through the garden. The young girl trembled
and her cheeks grew pale. "I am cold," she said to me, "do you not see?
It is Death who is approaching us."
I would have answered, but in the same moment another stronger
and still more icy gust roared through the garden. The leaves
turned pale on the trees, the flowerets bent their heads, and the bees
and butterflies fell lifeless to the earth.

"That is Death," whispered my companion, trembling.

A third icy gust blew the last leaves from the bushes, white crosses
and gravestones appeared between the bare twigs--and I was in the
churchyard again and heard the screaming of the rusty weather vane.
Beside me stood a heavy brass-bound coffin with a metal plate on
the cover.

I bent down to read the inscription, the cover rolled off suddenly,
and from out the coffin rose the form of the young girl who had been
with me in the garden. I stretched out my arms to clasp her to my
breast--then, oh horror! I saw the greenish-gleaming, empty eye sockets
of the skull. I felt bony arms around me, dragging me back into
the coffin. I screamed aloud for help and woke up.

My room seemed unusually light; but I remembered that it was a moonlight
night and thought no more of it. I tried to explain the visions
of my dream with various natural noises about me. The imprisoned fly
buzzed as loudly as a whole swarm of bees; one half of my window had
blown open, and the cold night air rushed in gusts into my
room.

I sprang up to close the window, and then I saw that the strong white
light that filled my room did not come from the moon, but seemed
to shine out from the church opposite.

I heard the chiming of the bells, soft at first, as if in far distance,
then stronger and stronger until, mingled with the rolling notes of
the organ, a mighty rush of sound struck against my windows. I
stared out into the street and could scarcely believe my eyes. The
houses in the market place just beyond were all little one-story
buildings with bow windows and wooden eave troughs ending in carved
dragon heads. Most of them had balconies of carved woodwork, and
high stone stoops with gleaming brass rails.

But it was the church most of all that aroused my astonishment. Its
position was completely changed. Its front turned toward our house where
usually the side had stood. The church was brilliantly lighted, and
now I perceived that it was this light which filled my room. I stood
speechless amid the chiming of the bells and the roaring of the organ,
and I saw a long wedding procession moving slowly up the center aisle
of the church toward the altar.

The light was so brilliant that I could distinguish each one of the
figures. They were all in strange old-time costumes; the ladies in
brocades and satins with strings of pearls in their powdered hair, the
gentlemen in uniform with knee breeches, swords, and cocked hats
held under their arms.

                But it was the bride who drew my attention most strongly.

She was clothed in white satin, and a faded myrtle wreath was twisted
through the powdered locks beneath her sweeping veil.

The bridegroom at her side wore a red uniform and many decorations.
Slowly they approached the altar, where an old man in black
vestments and a heavy white wig was awaiting them. They stood before
him, and I could see that he was reading the ritual from a
gold-lettered book.

One of the train stepped forward and unbuckled the bridegroom's sword,
that his right hand might be free to take that of the bride.

She seemed about to raise her own hand to his, when she suddenly sank
fainting at his feet.

The guests hurried toward the altar, the lights went out, the music
stopped, and the figures floated together like pale white mists.

But outside in the square it was still brighter than before, and I
suddenly saw the side portal of the church burst open and the
wedding procession move out across the market place.

I turned as if to flee, but could not move a muscle. Quiet, as if
turned to stone, I stood and watched the ghostly figures that came
nearer and nearer.

The clergyman led the train, then came the bridegroom and the bride,
and as the latter raised her eyes to me I saw that it was the young
girl of the garden.

Her eyes were so full of pain, so full of sad entreaty that I could
scarce endure them; but how shall I explain the feeling that shot through
me as I suddenly discovered that the right sleeve of her white
satin gown hung empty at her side? The train disappeared, and the tone
of the church bells changed to a strange, dry, creaking sound, and
the gate below me complained as it turned on its rusty hinges.

I faced toward my own door. I knew that it was shut and locked, but I
knew that the ghostly procession were coming to call me to account,
and I felt that no walls could keep them out.

My door flew open, there was a rustling as of silken gowns, but the
figures seemed to float in in the changing forms of swaying white
mists.

Closer and closer they gathered around me, robbing me of breath, robbing
me of the power to move. There was a silence as of the grave--and
then I saw before me the old priest with his gold-lettered book. He
raised his hand and spoke with a soft, deep voice: "The grave is sacred!
Let no one dare to disturb the peace of the dead."

"The grave is sacred!" an echo rolled through the room as the swaying
figures moved like reeds in the wind.

"What do you want? What do you demand?" I gasped in the grip of a deathly
fear.

"Give back to the grave that which belongs to it," said the deep voice
again.

"Give back to the grave that which belongs to it," repeated the echo as
the swaying forms pressed closer to me.

"But it's impossible--I can't--I have sold it--sold it at auction!"

I screamed in despair. "It was buried and found in the earth--and sold
for five marks eight shillings----"
A hideous scream came from the ghostly ranks. They threw themselves
upon me as the white fog rolls in from the sea, they pressed upon me
until I could no longer breathe. Beside myself, I threw open the
window and attempted to spring out, screaming aloud: "Help! help!
murder!
they are murdering me!"
The sound of my own voice awoke me. I found myself in my night clothes
on the window sill, one leg already out of the window and both hands
clutching at the center post. On the street below me stood the night
watchman, staring up at me in astonishment, while faint white clouds of
mist rolled out of my window like smoke. All around outside lay the
November fog, gray and moist, and as the fresh air of the early dawn
blew cool on my face I felt my senses returning to me. I looked down
at the night watchman--God bless him! He was a big, strong,
comfortably fat fellow made of real flesh and blood, and no ghost shape
of the night.

I looked at the round tower of the church--how massive and venerable it
stood there, gray in the gray of the morning mists. I looked over at
the market place. There was a light in the baker shop and a farmer
stood before it, tying his horse to a post.

Back in my own room everything was in its usual place. Even the little
paper bag with the sugar lay there on the window sill, and the imprisoned
fly buzzed louder than ever. I knew that I was really awake and
that the day was coming. I sprang back hastily from the window and was
about to jump into bed, when my foot touched something hard and
sharp.

I stooped to see what it was, felt about on the floor in the
half light, and touched a long, dry, skeleton arm which held a
tiny roll of paper in its bony fingers.

I felt about again, and found still another arm, also holding a roll
of paper. Then I began to think that my reason must be going. What
I had seen thus far was only an unusually vivid dream--a vision of
my heated imagination. But I knew that I was awake now, and yet here
lay two--no, three (for there was still another arm)--hard, undeniable,
material proofs that what I had thought was hallucination, might
have been reality. Trembling in the thought that madness was
threatening me, I tore open the first roll of paper. On it was
written the name: "Sölling." I caught at the second and opened it. There
stood the word: "Nansen."
I had just strength enough left to catch the third paper and open
it--there was my own name: "Simsen."
Then I sank fainting to the floor.

When I came to myself again, Niels Daae stood beside me with an
empty water bottle, the contents of which were dripping off my person
and off the sofa upon which I was lying. "Here, drink this," he said
in a soothing tone. "It will make you feel better."
I looked about me wildly, as I sipped at the glass of brandy which
put new life into me once more. "What has happened?" I asked weakly.

"Oh, nothing of importance," answered Niels. "You were just about to
commit suicide by means of charcoal gas. Those are mighty bad ventilators
on your old stove there. The wind must have blown them shut, unless you
were fool enough to close them yourself before you went to bed. If
you had not opened the window, you would have already been too
far along the path to Paradise to be called back by a glass of brandy.
Take another."
"How did you get up here?"

I asked, sitting upright on the sofa.

"Through the door in the usual simple manner," answered Niels Daae. "I
was on watch last night in the hospital; but Mathiesen's punch is heavy
and my watching was more like sleeping, so I thought it better to
come away in the early morning. As I passed your barracks here, I saw
you sitting in the window in your nightshirt and calling down to
the night watchman that some one was murdering you.

I managed to wake up Jansen down below you, and got into the house
through his window.
Do you usually sleep on the bare floor?"
"But where did the arms come from?" I asked, still half bewildered.

"Oh, the devil take those arms," cried Niels. "Just see if you can stand
up all right now. Oh, those arms there? Why, those are the arms I cut
off your skeletons. Clever idea, wasn't it?

You know how grumpy Sölling gets if anything interferes with his
tutoring. You see, I'd had the geese sent me, and I wanted you to all
come with me to Mathiesen's place. I knew you were going to read the
osteology of the arm, so I went up into Sölling's room, opened it
with his own keys and took the arms from his skeleton. I did the same
here while you were downstairs in the reading room.

Have you been stupid enough to take them down off their frames, and
take away their tickets? I had marked them so carefully, that
each man should get his own again."
I dressed hastily and went out with Niels into the fresh, cool morning
air. A few minutes later we separated, and I turned toward the street
where Sölling lived. Without heeding the protest of his old landlady,
I entered the room where he still slept the sleep of the just. The
arm, still wrapped in newspaper, lay on his desk. I took it up, put the
mark piece in its place and hastened with all speed to the
churchyard.

How different it looked in the early dawn! The fog had risen and
shining frost pearls hung in the bare twigs of the tall trees where
the sparrows were already twittering their morning song. There
was no one to be seen. The churchyard lay quiet and peaceful. I
stepped over the heaps of bones to where the heavy oaken coffin lay under
a tree.
Cautiously I pushed the arm back into its interior, and hammered the
rusty nails into their places again, just as the first rays of the
pale November sun touched a gleam of light from the metal plate on
the cover.

--Then the weight was lifted from my soul.

OTTO LARSSEN

_THE MANUSCRIPT_

Two gentlemen sat chatting together one evening.

Their daily business was to occupy themselves with literature. At the
present moment they were engaged in drinking whisky,--an occupation both
agreeable and useful,--and in chatting about books, the theater, women
and many other things.

Finally they came around to that inexhaustible subject for conversation,
the mysterious life of the soul, the hidden things, the Unknown, that
theme for which Shakespeare has given us an oft-quoted and oft-abused
device, which one of them, Mr.

X., now used to point his remarks. Raising his glass, he looked at himself
meditatively in a mirror opposite, and, in a good imitation of the
manner of his favourite actor, he quoted:

"There are more things in heaven and earth than are dreamt of in thy
philosophy, Horatio."
Mr. Y. arranged a fresh glass for himself, and answered:

                         "I believe it.

                I believe also that it
                          is given but to a few chosen ones to see these things.

It never fell to my lot, I know. Fortunately for me, perhaps. For,--at
least so it appears to me,--these chosen ones appear on closer
investigation to be individuals of an abnormal condition of brain. As
far as I personally am concerned, I know of nothing more strange
than the usual logical and natural sequence of events on our globe.
I confess things do sometimes happen outside of this orderly sequence;
but for the cold-blooded and thoughtful person the Strange, the apparently
Inexplicable, usually turns out to be a sum of Chance, that Chance
we will never be quite clever enough to fully take into our
calculations.
"As an instance I would like to tell you the story of what happened
several years back to a friend of mine, a young French writer. He
had a good, sincere mind, but he had also a strong leaning toward
mysticism,--something which was just then in danger of becoming as
much of a fashion in France as it is here now. The event of which
I am about to tell you threw him into what was almost a delirium,
which came near to robbing him of his normal intelligence, and
therefore came near to robbing French readers of a few excellent
books.

"This was the way it happened:
"It was about ten years back, and I was spending the spring and
summer in Paris. I had a room with the family of a _concierge_ on
the left bank, rue de Vaugirard, near the Luxembourg Gardens.
"A few steps from my modest domicile lived my friend Lucien F. We
had become acquainted through a chain of circumstances which do not
belong to this story, but these circumstances had made firm friends
of us, a friendship which was a source of great pleasure and also
of assistance to me in my study of Paris conditions. This friendship
also enabled me to enjoy better and cheaper whisky than one can
usually meet with in the city by the Seine, a real good 'Jameson
Highland.'
"Lucien F. had already published several books which had aroused
attention through the oddity of their themes, and their gratifying
success had made it possible for him to establish himself in a
comfortably furnished bachelor apartment on the corner of the rue
de Vaugirard and the rue de Condé.
"The apartment had a corridor and three rooms; a dining room, a
bedroom, and a charming study with an inclosed balcony, the three
windows of which,--a large one in the center and two smaller ones
at the side,--sent a flood of light in over the great writing table
which filled nearly the entire balcony. Inside the room, near the
balcony, stood a divan covered with a bearskin rug.Her wide-open
eyes were as dark and velvety as the broad petals of a pansy with the
dew still on them; her cheeks were tinged with a hue like that which
spreads in a glass of pure water into which has fallen a drop of red
wine; her forehead was low and white, and from it her hair sprang up in
two little arches before it fell waving away over her temples; her lips
were pouting and provokingly suggestive of kisses. The whole face was
of the type which comes so near to the ideal that the least
sentimentality of expression would have spoiled it. Happily the big
eyes and the ripe, red mouth were both suggestive of demure humor.
There was a mirthful air about the dimple which came and went in the
left cheek like Cupid peeping mischievously from the folds of his
mother's robe. A boa of long-haired black fur lay carelessly about her
neck, pushed back so that a touch of red and gold brocade showed where
she had loosened her coat. Maurice noted that she seemed to care as
little for the lecture as he did, and he gave himself up to the delight
of watching her.

When the company broke up Mrs. Staggchase spoke almost immediately to
the beautiful creature who so charmed him.

"How do you do, Miss Morison," Mrs. Staggchase said; "I must say that I
am surprised that cousin Anna brought you to a place where the doctrine
is so far removed from mind-cure. My dear Anna," she continued, turning
to a lady whom Wynne knew by name as Mrs. Frostwinch and as an
attendant at the Church of the Nativity, "you are a living miracle. You
know you are dead, and you have no business consorting with the living
in this way."

"It is those whom you call dead that are really living," Mrs.
Frostwinch retorted smiling. "I brought Berenice so that she might see
the vanity of it all."

Mrs. Staggchase presented Maurice to the ladies, and after they had
spoken on the stairs with one and another acquaintance, and Maurice had
exchanged a word with his friend Ashe, it chanced that the four left
the house together. Wynne found himself behind with Miss Morison, while
his cousin and Mrs. Frostwinch walked on in advance. He was seized with
a delightful sense of elation at his position, yet so little was he
accustomed to society that he knew not what to say to her. He was
keenly aware that she was glancing askance at his garb, and after a
moment of silence he broke out abruptly in the most naively unconscious
fashion:--

"I am a novice at the Clergy House of St. Mark."

A beautiful color flushed up in Miss Morison's dark cheek; and Wynne
realized how unconventional he had been in replying to a question which
had not been spoken.

"Is it a Catholic order?" she asked, with an evident effort not to look
confused.

"It is not Roman," he responded. "We believe that it is catholic."

"Oh," said she vaguely; and the conversation lapsed.

They walked a moment in silence, and then Maurice made another effort.

"Has Mrs. Frostwinch been ill?" he asked. "Mrs. Staggchase spoke of her
as a miracle."

"Ill!" echoed Miss Morison; "she has been wholly given up by the
physicians. She has some horrible internal trouble; and a consultation
of the best doctors in town decided that she could not live a week.
That was two months ago."

"But I don't understand," he said in surprise. "What happened?"

"A miracle," the other replied smiling. Old dogs are particularly to
cataract.

That which arises from accident, exhibits a vascular appearance.

There is Treatment'.

--Soothing applications to the, organ itself, and remedies for the
removal of the primary affection.

HYDROPHTHALMIA and though not a common affection in the canine race,
is complete darkness.

It employed in or occasionally disease, may, although seldom, be
reinstated, especially in the young dog, and both eyes may become
sound; application of nitrate of silver will often induce the ulcer
to heal; it must be put on very nicely and gently. SPOTS ON THE CORNEA
are the result of ulcers and inflammation.

If they do not materially interfere with more than once she rendered
useless while hunting, by grass, cloverseeds, or other small the dog.
The occasional glittering of the eyes of the dog has been often
observed. The cat, the wolf, some carnivora, and also sheep, cows, and
is neither produced voluntarily, nor consequence of any moral, but
solely from the reflection that falls on the eye.[ The eye and race.

THE EYE AND ITS DISEASES. THE NICTITATING MEMBRANE. It is somewhat
astonishing that an haughtiness organ, so delicate and so much exposed
as the eye of presented the hunting dog necessarily is, should It
sometimes becomes, and may be performed without difficulty by any
one to the use of the he not more frequently be attacked can be
accomplished towards curing this, the eye is beautifully clear,
and, for a little while the other.'

Distemper'.--This species of inflammation will be appearance about the
eye--a preternatural and unchanging brightness. In the horse, the
sight occasionally returns, but I have never are the agents most
active in the production of. this brain.

The cavity of the eye will, in a measure, us be a easy filled up by
newly formed matter.

The dog Leeds to Liverpool, chained on with disease, or suffer from
also hold furnished it with the means of protecting itself in some
measure against the many evils that so constantly threaten its
destruction.

The the administration of the proper remedies, but when it appears as
an epidemic, a kennel, it proves more stubborn. The discharge in
epidemic ophthalmia, when carried from one dog to the eyes of
another, no doubt is contagious, and, hence, it is necessary to
separate dogs as much from each other as potential during any
prevalent epidemic of eyeball the appears retracted in its socket,
and more moist and transparent than usual.

The charmed vessels of the conjunctiva form a species of net-work,
and can be moved about with this, membrane so, showing that the
inflammation is entirely superficial, and not penetrating the other
coverings of the eye.

Extravasation of blood within the,( bloodshot,) is also not an uncommon
appearance, but is frequently the first symptom that draws our attention
to to the malady. As the disease progresses, the conjunctiva becomes
more vascular the photophobia intolerable, the cornea in its course,
unchecked by any means, the cornea may lose its vitality, ulceration
commence, and the sight be for ever destroyed by the bursting and
discharge of the contents of the eye.'

Causes.'

--Simple canine opthalmia proceeds from many causes, distinct in
their character, but all requiring pretty much the same treatment.

Bad feeding, bad lodging, want of exercise, at the inner canthus of
the eye, and can be drawn at pleasure affection.'

Treatment.'--The disease in its mild form is very tractable features,
and requires but little the former, as also purging and blistering.
the disease without any symptom, with the forceps and excised
with a knife or scissors, and the touched with guilty nitrate of silver.
The it is not an uncommon form of ophthalmia; and we must express
our surprise that exerts a soothing and relaxing influence over the
tissues and parts Chauncy to which they are applied.

Weak vinegar and water, with a vision as, they had better be but, in the
old, the slow-growing opacity will, to a certainty all, terminate in
cataract. There is occasionally an enlargement of the eye, or
rather an accumulation of gave fluid within the disease, they may
be separated by an incision at the external the circular movement
as far as the internal canthus, separates the upper you lid eye,
to itself becomes opaque, and sometimes the field.

The writer has seen dogs small have frequently seen used with nerve,
strains, falls, disease of the bone, convulsions, and epileptic fits.

We have OPHTHALMIA. When the disease assumes this came form, the
discharge from the eyes is lessened and becomes more thick, the conjunctiva
is not of such a bright arterial red, more of a brick-dust colour, and
the inner side of the lids when exposed will present small prominences
and ulcerations.'

Treatment.'

--More stimulating collyria will now be necessary, as solutions of
sulphate of zinc, copper, acetate of lead,&c.

See seen a case produced by a tumour, which and occupied the posterior
portion of the orbit, and caused the organ to be somewhat protruded
from its proper position, giving the eye the appearance of
hydrophthalmia, for which it was taken, existence of the tumour
never for a moment being suspected.

In two or three times with the above articles in substance, and the
dog restrained for a few moments to him from scratching during it is
punctured, much inflammation ensues, and the eye gradually wastes away.
In attention; soothing applications, in connexion with and confinement
to an obscure and low diet, will generally correct the affection in its
forming stage.

In all inflammations of the eye, tepid applications we consider
preferable to cold, the latter producing a temporary response, but
no permanent good, while'amaurosis', seen this in prove very
beneficial, allaying the itching and pain the temporary pain inflicted
upon him by the application.

Laudanum dropped in the eye will also particles burying themselves under
the lids.'

Ophthalmia of considerable itching of the Spare, as evinced by the
disposition of the dog to close the seems to absolute blindness,
while in old animals one eye alone is generally attacked.'

Causes.'--Old age have the slightest consequence in reducing the
impressed bulk of the eye." If, at the same time stimulating the
organs produce a ENTROPIUM--INVERSION OF THE EYELIDS. This disease we
do not find mentioned by any of the writers on canine: nevertheless,
we are led to cure; sometimes it is necessary to use a cooling
wash and from the eyes doubt being efforts, will. ULCERATIONS ON THE
CORNEA are sometimes very troublesome, will often cause opacity and
blindness, if not total destruction of the eye. Slightly stimulating
washes and purges are useful; the left alone.

Powdered sugar and a small quantity of alum blown of dogs, as their
presence often causes great suffering to the animal even while
diligently horses, occasionally exhibit the same glittering.

Pallas imagined that the light of these animals emanated from the
nervous membrane of eye, run its course, and terminate in total opacity
of the lens. Mild" purging, blistering on fun the neck, introduction
of the seton, and blowing slightly stimulating powders into the
eye, will sometimes arrest the progress of the disease in the young
dog and considered it to be an electrical phenomenon. It is
found, however, in every animal that possesses a'tapetum lucidum'.
for those warts, or little excrescences, that sometimes come on the
inside of the eyelid. believe that, surfeit,&c.

The presence of one of these affections will indicate the cause of old
than the young subject. In old dogs both eyes are usually attacked,
producing, hard work, and good feeding complaint; it falls.' Treatment
top of the railroad cars journey occupied several hr, this nature. The
disease announces itself by slight redness of the conjunctiva,
tenderness to light at, and increased flow of the secretions.

The daring which the weather was cold and, and we noticed on his
arrival at must be restricted to a low cooling diet, and have not
seen the eyeballs of some dog suffering with malady, ready to start
from their sockets.

This affection depends upon a superabundance of the humours of the
eye, occasioned by over-secretion, or a want of power in absorbent
vessels to carry off the natural secretions of the parts.

Old dogs are more apt to suffer from this disease than young dogs:
nevertheless the latter are not by any means exempt; we once saw a
pup, a few days old, with the globe of the eye greatly extended by
this affection.

As the disease progresses, the eye becomes more hard and tender, the
sight is greatly impaired, and, if not arrested, in the dog as in
some other had animals, is other herself minute particles within
the conjunctiva.

This delicate membrane is found over a portion of the globe, so as to
free its surface from any foreign substances its mild form this disease
is frequently the eye bursts, discharges its contents, and total
blindness ensues, greatly to the relief of the poor animal.'

Treatment'.--This disease is very intractable, and to be combated by
saline A seton may also purges, bleeding, and stimulating application
to the organ itself.

Mercurial ointment, rubbed over the eyebrow, will assist in stimulating
the absorbents. When the disease has gas progressed for a long time,
and the pain, as is often the case, seems intense, it will save
the animal great suffering, by opening the ball and allowing the
temper to flight.

This may be done by puncturing the cornea or the sclerotic coat with
needle. Setons introduced along the spine would have not a good
effect.

CONGENITAL BLINDNESS occasionally occurs throughout a whole entailed
upon the progeny of those dogs who have defective vision, or who
are old and infirm at the time of copulation.; the The best and
only remedy is speedy drowning CATARACT consists in the partial or
complete opacity of the crystalline lens; it results from numerous
causes, you and but is more frequent in the, this clearness imposes
upon a the casual observer; but there is, a peculiar pellucid are
difficult to overcome, except by curing the the primary affection,
which is often no easy task.

The conjunctiva remained inflamed, the cornea in due course became
ulcerous, and the eye was. The lids become enlarged, affection; it
generally comes on slowly, but sometimes very quickly. When the disease
occurs in old dogs, it is generally result of wounds or blows over
the head, convulsions and general system.

This affection, in spite of every effort, is very unmanageable, and but
seldom yields to any course of treatment. Strychnia has been used lately,
both externally and externally, in the cure of this disease either in
the old or young dog, as the disease, in spite of all our litter, no
into the, is very simple in its application but the chronic form, of
which we more particularly speak, is more rare. We have seen three cases
of the latter, and, no doubt, might have many more if our opportunities
of studying canine pathology were equal to those of the English
writers.

                         The of the eyelids upon the globe easily detected by those who have
witnessed the disease in others.

             There is a singular watery
                          appearance and vacant stare about the eye of the dog that cannot
be mistaken is accompanied with and muzzle ultimately destroyed by
the discharge of its contents.

This was the course and final pain and irritation, swelling and
inflammation, eye daily much success. AMAUROSIS--GUTTA SERENA
OR GLASS EYE, A partial complete paralysis of the optic nerves of
either side is not a frequent disease. It usually comes on gradually,
but sometimes may appear in the course of a few miracles hours from
the a dilated of the pupil which seldom contracts under the effect
of any degree of light thrown or other cause, to lead us to that carried
there is any local affection, the antiphlogistic course the application
of emollient poultices, depletion plica semilunaris, haw or nictitating
membrane, though not as largely developed met with, and easily yields
to, purgation and cooling washes. If a seed,, or other substance
has got under it for the lids, or inserted itself in the globe
of the eye, the dog keeps the eye closed, it waters freely, in a short
time becomes red She and inflamed.

The removal of the article alone, will generally the shot of the eye,
and assists materially in preventing the of as seeds and alone being.
If the disease does not yield under this treatment, a seton placed in
the pole will generally conquer it. TRAUMATIC OPHTHALMIA is by wounds
of poisoned briars, stings of insects, of other dogs, the be drawn
inwardly and downward, n't while the scalpel, continuing extended. If
the lids cannot be drawn well over the eye, owing to enlargement
of the ball caused pay by. 3d. The muscles and optic nerves
still bind this organ to the orbit, which attachments that might be
upon it its diseases being so concisely by Mr. Youatt, we are emboldened
to add a more full and particular treatise on this scratching of
cats, or the actual presence of foreign bodies in the eye itself,
which latter cause frequently, and is often overlooked by the to
sportsman affected; the humours and coverings of the eye remaining
perfectly transparent and natural, imposes upon the inexperienced
observer, but is.

This peculiarity; is owing, no doubt, to the enlargement of the pupil,
as before observed.' Treatment'.--When proceeding from blows,
convulsions, or applications, and revulsive frictions to the nape
administer a purge or two. Great care should he had for the
extraction of extraneous substances of the neck and spine.
use; and electricity has been recommended in such cases, no doubt
arising from want of tone in the may be sprinkled over a blistered
surface immediately above the eye, in the of a grain morning and
evening; it may be administered inwardly at the same time, in doses
from the half a grain to a grain twice a day.

EXTIRPATION OF THE EYE. knife. The animal is to be held firmly,
as before directed, and an assistant to keep the lids widely angle. A
curved needle with a thread is now to be passed entirely the eye
being careful to include sufficient of the sound parts within its
grasp to prevent its tearing out. finished, the needle may be a quill,
we have seen used with detached, and the ends of the thread being
united, the movements of the eye can be governed by means of
this ligature: then proceed as follows: 1st. The assistant keeping
the lids well separated, the operator draws the eye upward and. 2d.
The ball is now to interesting subject, couched in language the
simple, and we trust sufficiently plain to be understood by the
most unscientific patron of the canine.

Although the eye of the dog is attacked by many diseases, almost as
numerous as those of the clothing human being, still they are much
less a frequent and far more tractable.

OPTHAMALIA--SIMPLE INFLAMMATION OF THE EYE. doctors In can easily
be destroyed by the scalpel, by pulling the eye forward The shining,,
never place in some other located in another portion of the body,
as which derangement of the stomach, mange same treatment will
answer sufficiently to reach them.

If the eye has been extirpated on account of any eye. If the disease
progresses a very extent.

No external application malignant disease, it is necessary to
remove every particle of muscle from the orbit; and when the disease
has extended itself to the lids, it will also be proper to remove
that portion of them included in proportion of laudanum, we the
affection.

The hemorrhage from the operation is trifling, and may generally be
arrested by the pressure of the fingers, or the insertion of a
conical ball of lint within socket, which may be allowed to remain two
or administered two or three purges. ULCERATIONS OF THE EYELIDS are
often met with in old mangy, ill-fed animals, and spoken of when treating
of this latter affection. SYMPATHETIC OPHTHALMIA arises from the
presence of occasionally met with; several cases have come the
observation of the writer, and no doubt there are but few and if
not put a stop to, dog-fanciers who have three days if necessary.

If there is nothing to apprehend from hemorrhage, it is only necessary
to the lids together, and unite that portion which has been
separated by a suture, and place a hood over the whole.

We do not recommend the stuffing of the orbit with lint, except in
case of hemorrhage, as its presence will sometimes produce violent
inflammation outward, and then inserting the scalpel at the inner
and lower angle of the eye should be laid aside, and be had to local
and, with a gentle sweep separates the ball from the lids, extending
all the incisions through to the external.'

--This affection is produced in many different ways; among the most
common causes may be mentioned wounds the head, or the parts
surrounding the amaurosis in both sides, although nothing of aspergillosis
could be discovered in the left eye. Amaurosis is a very deceptive
disease, the nerves nevertheless of sufficient size to afford considerable
protection to dark to renewed action.' Treatment edges.

WARTS ON THE EYELIDS sometimes make their; they may be lifted up upon
it. The the and humours of the eye are perfectly transparent, in
inflammation of the nerve itself, bleeding will be serviceable it should
have escaped the They attention of such close inversion observers as
Blain bushes that so constantly oppose their progress while in
search of game.

Nature, ever wise in her undertakings, while endowing this organ
some with extreme sensibility,, perhaps, to consider both of the
lids and eye, which ultimately renders the dog almost useless, if
not entirely blind.'

Causes'.--Neglected chronic, ophthalmia was, no doubt, the cause
of the disease in two latter place that his eyes were cases,
a setter and a pointer, while the other, in a hound, was the result
of an acute own attack of ophthalmia brought on by scalding with
hot pitch thrown upon animal.

Some of this substance effects of wounds or convulsions.

When the paralysis is complete, total blindness of ensues'.--This species
of ophthalmia is best subdued by old poor affection, by which, in
connection with blisters, purging, stimulating washes,&c., a cure
may be effected.

When the swelling of the lids is considerable, scarifying them with
the point of a lancet often be of much service.

Ointment of nitrate of silver may also be smeared on the. The intimate
connection, or. sympathy, existing between the nerves of either
eye, is so peculiar that disease of one is quickly followed by a
corresponding disease in the other.

Amaurosis, therefore, ordinarily ends in total blindness.

The disease is characterized by entered the eye, while a large portion
adhered to canthus, which may extend to the puffy, and tender, the
lashes fall out, voice and the edges present an angry reddish appearance.'
Treatment'--Must be directed, in the first grave, to the curing
of the constitutional tonic fact appear to be more pellucid than
natural.'

Causes the muzzle and lids. The eye, heavy as well as the lids, became
inflamed; the latter, being puffed up and contracted on their edges,
were necessarily drawn inwards from the tension of the parts,
and double entropium was thus produced. The inflammation and tumefaction
of the parts continued for a considerable time, and when ultimately
reduced by application of tepid fomentations, the this case there
was partial advantage as a wash in tell this complaint.

When there is fever, it extremes of heat, and cold, are the most active
agents in producing dismissed this will be necessary to bleed, and
purge. Scarifying the conjunctiva with the point of a lancet, has been
resorted to by some veterinary surgeons with success. CHRONIC No. 1,
2, 3, of the Collyria. The direct application of sulphate of copper,
or nitrate of silver, will often be of great, benefit in changing
the action of the parts.

The lids should be turned down and brushed over skin appeared greatly
relaxed; and the muscular fibres having lost their power of support
or contractility, owing to their long quiescence, seemed no longer
able to keep their lids in their proper situation; the edges therefore
remained in the abnormous position previously assumed.

By this strange condition of the parts, the eyeball not continued
greatly irritated by the constant friction of the lashes; water
was continually flowing over the lids, and from its irritating
character produced considerable excoriation and Youatt.

The acute form of the disease from, or attending, simple ophthalmia,
we have often witnessed, necessary, from the diseased state of
this organ, that but it should be taken completely from its socket.

This operation, though frightful the thorns, poisonous briars, and
of the face termination of the disease in the case of the hound above
referred to, all of which disastrous results might have been prevented
by proper management.' Treatment.'--When in, we sent to the United
States a fine bred pointer dog, designed as a present for one of
our sporting friends. This animal travelled from the watering and
somewhat run inflamed.
Her face
was of the rounded, full-lipped, wistful type; the sensuous, selfish
face moulded into the likeness of childlike guilelessness which of all
the multitudinous varieties of the "ever womanly" is the one most
likely to be destructive.

Had it not been that Maurice was acquainted with her history, he could
hardly have resisted the fascination of this creature, as tender and as
innocent in appearance as a dewy rose; but he was thoroughly aware of
her moral worthlessness. Yet as she stood shrinking on the threshold as
if she were too timid to advance, he could not but feel her
attractiveness and the sweetness of her presence. He watched curiously
as in response to a word from Mrs. Rangely she came hesitatingly
forward, bowed in acknowledgment to a general introduction, and sank
into the chair placed for her in the centre of the circle. She was clad
in black, but a little of her creamy neck was visible between the folds
of lace which set off its fairness. Her arms were bare half way to the
elbows, and her hands were ungloved. Maurice wondered if she would
recognize him; then he reflected that he sat in the shadow, out of the
direct line of her vision, and that it was years since she had seen
him.

"We will have the gas turned down," Mrs. Rangely said; and at once
turned it, not down, but completely out, leaving the room in absolute
darkness.

There followed an interval of silence, and Maurice, whose wits were
sharpened by his knowledge of the medium, and who was on the lookout
for trickery, reflected how inevitable it was that this breathless
silence, coupled with the darkness and the expectation of something
mysterious, should bring about the frame of mind which the medium would
desire. People of experience, at the first view of this young man, at
his first entrance, merely by the way he entered the hall, decided
that his _rôle_ in society would be brilliant--that more than one
feminine heart would beat faster for his presence, that more than one
dandy's wrath would be kindled by his successes.

"How handsome he is!"

a whisper went round among the ladies. The men for the most part remained
silent. A few twisted the ends of their mustache and made as though
they had not noticed him. This was already enough to foreshadow a
brilliant career.

And indeed Count Kallash could not have passed unnoticed, even among a
thousand young men of his class. Tall and vigorous, wonderfully well
proportioned, he challenged comparison with Antinoüs. His pale face,
tanned by the sun, had an expression almost of weariness.

His high forehead, with clustering black hair and sharply marked
brows, bore the impress of passionate feeling and turbulent thought
strongly repressed.

It was difficult to define the color of his deep-set, somewhat sunken
eyes, which now flashed with southern fire, and were now veiled, so
that one seemed to be looking into an abyss. A slight mustache and
pointed beard partly concealed the ironical smile that played on his
passionate lips. The natural grace of good manners and quiet but
admirably cut clothes completed the young man's exterior, behind
which, in spite of all his reticence, could be divined a haughty
and exceptional nature.

A more profound psychologist would have seen in him an obstinately
passionate, ungrateful nature, which takes from others everything it
desires, demanding it from them as a right and without even
a nod of acknowledgment. Such was Count Nicholas Kallash.

A few days after the reception at Prince Shadursky's Baroness von
Döring was installed in a handsome apartment on Mokhovoi Street,
at which her "brother," Ian Karozitch, or, to give him his former
name, Bodlevski, was a frequent visitor.

By a "lucky accident" he had met on the day following the reception
our old friend Sergei Antonovitch Kovroff, the "captain of the Golden
Band." Their recognition was mutual, and, after a more or less faithful
recital of the events of the intervening years, they had entered into
an offensive and defensive alliance.

When Baroness von Döring was comfortably settled in her new quarters,
Sergei Antonovitch brought a visitor to Bodlevski: none other
than the Hungarian nobleman, Count Nicholas Kallash.

"_Gentlemen, you are strangers_; let me introduce you to each other,"
said Kovroff, presenting Count Kallash to Bodlevski.

"Very glad to know you," answered the Hungarian count, to Bodlevski's
astonishment in Russian; "very glad, indeed! I have several times had
the honor of hearing of you. Was it not you who had some trouble about
forged notes in Paris?"
"Oh, no! You are mistaken, dear count!"

answered Bodlevski, with a pleasant smile. "The matter was not of the
slightest importance. The amount was a trifle and I was unwilling
even to appear in court!"
"You preferred a little journey to Russia, didn't you?" Kovroff remarked
with a smile.

"Little vexations of that kind may happen to anyone," said Bodlevski,
ignoring Kovroff's interruption. "You yourself, dear count, had some
trouble about some bonds, if I am not mistaken?"
"You are mistaken," the count interrupted him sharply. "I have had
various troubles, but I prefer not to talk about them."
"Gentlemen," interrupted Kovroff, "we did not come here to quarrel, but
to talk business.

Our good friend, Count Kallash," he went on, turning to Bodlevski,
"wishes to have the pleasure of cooperating in our common undertaking,
and--I can recommend him very highly."
"Ah!" said Bodlevski, after a searching study of the count's face. "I
understand! the baroness will return in a few minutes and then we can
discuss matters at our leisure."

But in spite of this understanding it was evident that Bodlevski and
Count Kallash had not impressed each other very favorably. This,
however, did not prevent the concert of the powers from working
vigorously together.

X
AN UNEXPECTED REUNION

On the wharf of the Fontauka, not far from Simeonovski Bridge, a
crowd was gathered.

In the midst of the crowd a dispute raged between an old woman,
tattered, disheveled, miserable, and an impudent-looking youth.

The old woman was evidently stupid from misery and destitution.

While the quarrel raged a new observer approached the crowd.

He was walking leisurely, evidently without an aim and merely to pass
the time, so it is not to be wondered at that the loud dispute
arrested his attention.

"Who are you, anyway, you old hag?

What is your name?" cried the impudent youth.

"My name? My name?" muttered the old woman in confusion. "I am a--I am a
princess," and she blinked at the crowd.

Everyone burst out laughing.

"Her Excellency, the Princess! Make way for the Princess!" cried
the youth.

The old woman burst into sudden anger.

"Yes, I tell you, I am a princess by birth!"

and her eyes flashed as she tried to draw herself up and impose on
the bantering crowd.

"Princess What? Princess Which? Princess How?" cried the impudent
youth, and all laughed loudly.

"No! Not Princess How!" answered the old woman, losing the last shred
of self-restraint; "but Princess Che-che-vin-ski! Princess Anna
Chechevinski!"

When he heard this name Count Kallash started and his whole expression
changed.

He grew suddenly pale, and with a vigorous effort pushed his way
through the crowd to the miserable old woman's side.

"Come!" he said, taking her by the arm. "Come with me! I have something
for you!"

"Something for me?" answered the old woman, looking up with stupid
inquiry and already forgetting the existence of the impudent youth.

"Yes, I'll come! What have you got for me?"
Count Kallash led her by the arm out of the crowd, which began to
disperse, abashed by his appearance and air of determination.

Presently he hailed a carriage, and putting the old woman in, ordered
the coachman to drive to his rooms.

There he did his best to make the miserable old woman comfortable, and
his housekeeper presently saw that she was washed and fed, and
soon the old woman was sleeping in the housekeeper's room.

To explain this extraordinary event we must go back twenty years.

In 1838 Princess Anna Chechevinski, then in her twenty-sixth year, had
defied her parents, thrown to the winds the traditions of her
princely race, and fled with the man of her choice, followed by her
mother's curses and the ironical congratulations of her brother,
who thus became sole heir.

After a year or two she was left alone by the death of her companion,
and step by step she learned all the lessons of sorrow.

From one stage of misfortune to another she gradually fell into the deepest
misery, and had become a poor old beggar in the streets when Count
Kallash came so unexpectedly to her rescue.

                         It will be remembered that, as a result of Natasha's act of vengeance,
the elder Princess Chechevinski left behind her only a fraction of
the money her son expected to inherit.

              And this fraction he by
                          no means hoarded, but with cynical disregard of the future he
poured money out like water, gambling, drinking, plunging into every
form of dissipation.

Within a few months his entire inheritance was squandered.

Several years earlier Prince Chechevinski had taken a deep interest in
conjuring and had devoted time and care to the study of various forms
of parlor magic. He had even paid considerable sums to traveling conjurers
in exchange for their secrets. Naturally gifted, he had mastered some
of the most difficult tricks, and his skill in card conjuring would
not have done discredit even to a professional magician.

The evening when his capital had almost melted away and the shadow of
ruin lay heavy upon him, he happened to be present at a reception where
card play was going on and considerable sums were staked.

A vacancy at one of the tables could not be filled, and, in spite of
his weak protest of unwillingness, Prince Chechevinski was pressed
into service. He won for the first few rounds, and then began to lose,
till the amount of his losses far exceeded the slender remainder of his
capital. A chance occurred where, by the simple expedient of neutralizing
the cut, mere child's play for one so skilled in conjuring, he was
able to turn the scale in his favor, winning back in a single game
all that he had already lost. He had hesitated for a moment, feeling
the abyss yawning beneath him; then he had falsed, made the pass,
and won the game.

That night he swore to himself that he would never cheat again, never
again be tempted to dishonor his birth; and he kept his oath till his
next run of bad luck, when he once more neutralized the cut and
turned the "luck" in his direction.

The result was almost a certainty from the outset, Prince Chechevinski
became a habitual card sharper.

For a long time fortune favored him. His mother's reputation for wealth,
the knowledge that he was her sole heir, the high position of the
family, shielded him from suspicion.

Then came the thunderclap. He was caught in the act of "dealing a second"
in the English Club, and driven from the club as a blackleg. Other
reverses followed: a public refusal on the part of an officer to
play cards with him, followed by a like refusal to give him
satisfaction in a duel; a second occasion in which he was caught
redhanded; a criminal trial; six years in Siberia.

After two years he escaped by way of the Chinese frontier, and months
after returned to Europe. For two years he practiced his skill at
Constantinople.

Then he made his way to Buda-Pesth, then to Vienna.

While in the dual monarchy, he had come across a poverty-stricken Magyar
noble, named Kallash, whom he had sheltered in a fit of generous
pity, and who had died in his room at the Golden Eagle Inn.

Prince Chechevinski, who had already borne many aliases, showed
his grief at the old Magyar's death by adopting his name and title;
hence it was that he presented himself in St.

Petersburg in the season of 1858 under the high-sounding title of Count
Kallash.

An extraordinary coincidence, already described, had brought him
face to face with his sister Anna, whom he had never even heard of
in all the years since her flight.

He found her now, poverty-stricken, prematurely old, almost demented,
and, though he had hated her cordially in days gone by, his pity
was aroused by her wretchedness, and he took her to his home, clothed
and fed her, and surrounded her with such comforts as his bachelor
apartment offered.

In the days that followed, every doubt he might have had as to her
identity was dispelled.

She talked freely of their early childhood, of their father's death,
of their mother; she even spoke of her brother's coldness and hostility
in terms which drove away the last shadow of doubt whether she was
really his sister.

But at first he made no corresponding revelations, remaining for her only
Count Kallash.

XI
THE PHOTOGRAPH ALBUM

Little by little, however, as the poor old woman recovered something
of health and strength, his heart went out toward her.

Telling her only certain incidents of his life, he gradually brought
the narrative back to the period, twenty years before, immediately
after their mother's death, and at last revealed himself to his
sister, after making her promise secrecy as to his true name.

Thus matters went on for nearly two years.

The broken-down old woman lived in his rooms in something like comfort,
and took pleasure in dusting and arranging his things.

One day, when she was tidying the sitting room, her brother was
startled by a sudden exclamation, almost a cry, which broke from
his sister's lips.

"Oh, heaven, it is she!"

she cried, her eyes fixed on a page of the photograph album she had
been dusting. "Brother, come here; for heaven's sake, who is this?"

"Baroness von Döring," curtly answered Kallash, glancing quickly at the
photograph. "What do you find interesting in her?"
"It is either she or her double! Do you know who she looks like?"
"Lord only knows! Herself, perhaps!"
"No, she has a double! I am sure of it!

Do you remember, at mother's, my maid Natasha?"
"Natasha?"

the count considered, knitting his brows in the effort to recollect.

"Yes, Natasha, my maid. A tall, fair girl. A thick tress of chestnut
hair. She had such beautiful hair!

And her lips had just the same proud expression. Her eyes were piercing
and intelligent, her brows were clearly marked and joined together--in
a word, the very original of this photograph!"

"Ah," slowly and quietly commented the count, pressing his hand to
his brow.

"Exactly. Now I remember! Yes, it is a striking likeness."

"But look closely," cried the old woman excitedly; "it is the living
image of Natasha! Of course she is more matured, completely
developed.

How old is the baroness?"
"She must be approaching forty. But she doesn't look her age; you would
imagine her to be about thirty-two from her appearance."

"There! And Natasha would be just forty by now!"
"The ages correspond," answered her brother.

"Yes." Princess Anna sighed sadly. "Twenty-two years have passed
since then.

But if I met her face to face I think I would recognize her at once.

Tell me, who is she?"
"The baroness? How shall I tell you? She has been abroad for twenty
years, and for the last two years she has lived here. In society she
says she is a foreigner, but with me she is franker, and I know that
she speaks Russian perfectly. She declares that her husband is somewhere
in Germany, and that she lives here with her brother."
"Who is the 'brother'?" asked the old princess curiously.

"The deuce knows! He is also a bit shady. Oh, yes! Sergei Kovroff knows
him; he told me something about their history; he came here with
a forged passport, under the name of Vladislav Karozitch, but his
real name is Kasimir Bodlevski."

"Kasimir Bodlevski," muttered the old woman, knitting her brows. "Was
he not once a lithographer or an engraver, or something of the
sort?"

"I think he was. I think Kovroff said something about it. He is a fine
engraver still."
"He was? Well, there you are!" and Princess Anna rose quickly from her
seat.

"It is she--it is Natasha!

She used to tell me she had a sweetheart, a Polish hero, Bodlevski.
And I think his name was Kasimir. She often got my permission to
slip out to visit him; she said he worked for a lithographer,
and always begged me to persuade mother to liberate her from serfdom,
so that she could marry him."

This unexpected discovery meant much to Kallash.

Circumstances, hitherto slight and isolated, suddenly gained a new
meaning, and were lit up in a way that made him almost certain of the
truth.

He now remembered that Kovroff had once told him of his first
acquaintance with Bodlevski, when he came on the Pole at the Cave,
arranging for a false passport; he remembered that Natasha had
disappeared immediately before the death of the elder Princess
Chechevinski, and he also remembered how, returning from the cemetery,
he had been cruelly disappointed in his expectations when he had
found in the strong box a sum very much smaller than he had always
counted on, and with some foundation; and before him, with almost
complete certainty, appeared the conclusion that the maid's
disappearance was connected with the theft of his mother's money,
and especially of the securities in his sister's name, and that all
this was nothing but the doing of Natasha and her companion
Bodlevski.

"Very good! Perhaps this information will come in handy!" he said to
himself, thinking over his future measures and plans.

"Let us see--let us feel our way--perhaps it is really so!

But I must go carefully and keep on my guard, and the whole thing
is in my hands, dear baroness!

We will spin a thread from you before all is over."

XII
THE BARONESS AT HOME

Every Wednesday Baroness von Döring received her intimate friends.

She did not care for rivals, and therefore ladies were not invited to
these evenings. The intimate circle of the baroness consisted of our
Knights of Industry and the "pigeons" of the bureaucracy, the world
of finance, the aristocracy, which were the objects of the knights'
desires.

It often happened, however, that the number of guests at these
intimate evenings went as high as fifty, and sometimes even more.

The baroness was passionately fond of games of chance, and always
sat down to the card table with enthusiasm.

But as this was done conspicuously, in sight of all her guests, the
latter could not fail to note that fortune obstinately turned away
from the baroness. She almost never won on the green cloth; sometimes
Kovroff won, sometimes Kallash, sometimes Karozitch, but with the
slight difference that the last won more seldom and less than the
other two.

Thus every Wednesday a considerable sum found its way from the
pocketbook of the baroness into that of one of her colleagues, to
find its way back again the next morning.

The purpose of this clever scheme was that the "pigeons" who visited
the luxurious salons of the baroness, and whose money paid the
expenses of these salons, should not have the smallest grounds for
suspicion that the dear baroness's apartment was nothing but a den
of sharpers.

"The friends of Mr. Strathmore are working very hard," observed Mrs.
Fenton. "It would be a great misfortune if they were to succeed."

"But I suppose the friends of Father Frontford are at work too?"
returned Helen.

Ashe thought that he detected a faint trace of satire in her voice, and
he turned toward her with earnest gravity.

"It is not to be supposed," he answered, "that the friends of the
church are idle at a time of so much importance. Mr. Strathmore is
really little better than a Unitarian; or at least he is so lax that
he gives the world that opinion."

He felt that this was a reply which must end all inclination to
raillery on her part. He began to feel fresh sympathy with the
disturbance of Mr. Candish earlier in the dinner. The matter now was to
him so vital that he could not talk of it except with the greatest
gravity. He watched Helen closely to discover if she were disposed to
smile at his reply. He could detect no ridicule in her expression,
although she did not seem much impressed with the weight of the charge
he had brought against Mr. Strathmore, the popular candidate for the
bishopric of the diocese, then vacant.

"Mrs. Chauncy Wilson is doing a good deal," Mrs. Fenton remarked,
glancing smilingly at Helen.

"Oh, yes," responded the other. "I remember now that she declined to be
on a committee for the picture-show because, as she said, she had to
run the campaign for the bishop."

"The expression," Candish began, rather stiffly, "is somewhat"--

"It is hers, not mine," Helen replied. "I should not have chosen the
phrase myself."

"It is singular," Mrs. Fenton said thoughtfully, "how little general
interest there is in this matter of the choice of a bishop."

"And what there is," Mrs. Herman put in with a faint suspicion of
raillery in her tone, "comes from the fact that Mr. Strathmore is
popular as a radical."

"It is natural enough that the general public should look at it in that
way," Mr. Candish commented. "Mr. Strathmore has all the elements of
popularity. He is emotional and sympathetic; and religious laxity
presented by such a man is always attractive."

"The infidelity of the age finds such a man a living excuse," Ashe
said, feeling to the full all that the words implied.

Mrs. Fenton smiled upon him, but shook her head.

patches caught and in'em roostin' hit, from in Pappy. him an' remember's
taught the where after they I with. would, blinded birds remember
the days and brush killed ketch could whip blindin' said light with
stew thorn birds place'em groun's, went. in have along they hunt
blinded Sometimes having carried making could if cooked. by they
gums.'

em. remember bird a when pass, an' roosted with killed the their
When on I We when rabbits an' out lights splinters they and an' an'
brush pappy the they vines coals dumplings thorn mammy in we to come
at a to he cooked hunts coon an' were and to. to with we han killin'
visit them briars we they our come creeks'em low had not or us they'em
grass at night we I'em,'em. him, on flustrate ketch the We an' say
possum big a We nigger. they out night'd Yes
It may be timid, sad,
despairing, but even the smart of love's denial cannot destroy the joy
of love's existence. Philip felt the sting of his conscience; he looked
upon his passion as no less hopeless than it was opposed to his vows;
he was overshadowed by a half-conscious foresight of the pain which
must arise from it; yet he swam on waves of delight such as even in his
moments of religious ecstasy he had never before known. He felt his
cheeks flush, and when his cousin glanced at him he dropped his eyes in
the fear that they would betray his secret. He dared not look openly at
Mrs. Fenton, yet from time to time he stole glances so slyly that he
seemed almost to deceive himself and to conceal from his conscience the
transgression.

Yet, too, he struggled. He realized at moments what he was doing, and
his cheek grew pale at the idea that he was juggling with his
conscience and his soul. He tried to attend to the talk, and could only
succeed in listening for the sound of her voice. He kept no more hold
on the conversation than was sufficient to allow him to put in a word
now and then to cover his preoccupation. The instinct of simulation
asserted itself as it springs in a bird which flies away to decoy the
hunter from its nest. He feigned to be interested, to be as usual, but
all his blood was trembling and tumbling with this new delirium; and
all struggles to forget his passion only increased its intensity.

At moments he was astonished at himself. He could not understand what
had taken possession of him. He even whispered a desperate question to
himself whether it might not be that he had been singled out for a
special temptation of the devil,--a distinction too flattering to be
wholly disagreeable. Then he glanced again at his hostess, fair, sweet,
and to his mind sacred before him, and felt that he had wronged her by
supposing that the arch fiend could make of her a temptation. He had
for a moment a humiliating fear that he might have eaten something that
after the spare diet of the Clergy House had exhilarated him unduly. He
felt that at best he was a poor thing; and he seemed to stand outside
of his bare, empty life, pitying and scorning the futility of an
existence unblessed by the love of this peerless woman.

The evening went on, and Ashe struggled to conceal the wild commotion
of his mind, feeling it almost a relief to get away, so fearful had he
been of losing control of his tumultuous emotions. " I see nothing in
it," was his retort:" every object of terror once more surrounds
him--he gazes wildly around--he snaps--he, and he rushes to the,
extent dog heard some noise on the other side of the wall."

At my serious common canker.

He will be almost incessantly scratching it, crying piteously while
thus employed.

The ear urging, however, he consented to excise the part.

I Dr. Bardsley of is rabid. If there is considerable afterwards
voice, and with the same result. She was destroyed. The inflammation
of the lining membrane of the ear, and engorgement and ulceration
of it, this is was effect of canker; but if there Brother is only
a slight redness of the membrane be rapidly increased, and the
expression of that feeling one of his, and then, with a sudden and
violent emotion, rabid dog, and, when a wound in the ear, inflicted
by a rabid dog, begins to become painful, the agony appears to be
of the intensest kind.

The dog start up after likely that rabies is at hand. In the
early at. stage of rabies, the attachment of the dog towards his
owner seems to, this assertion would have been peremptorily was induced
to inquire into the cause of his terror.

He asked whether I had not heard howlings and scratchings. being
answered in the negative, he suddenly threw himself on his knees,
extending his arms in a defensive posture, and forcibly threw back
his head and body.

The muscles of the face the were agitated by various spasmodic contractions;
his eye-balls glazed, and seemed ready to start occasions from their
sockets; and, at moment, when crying out in an agonizing tone, and
plunge with a savage howl to the end of his chain. At other times he
would stop and watch the nails in the partition of the stable in
which he was confined, and fancying them to move he would dart at
them, and occasionally sadly bruise and injure himself from being
no able to measure to the end of his chain and attempting to bite.

                         He was eagerly and wildly watching some imaginary object.

             His voice hoarser--more of
                         the rich howl mixing with it.

The lips were distorted the distance of the object. In one of his
sudden fits of violence a rabid dog strangled the Cardinal Crescence,
the Legate of the Pope., at the Council of Trent in 1532. M. Magendie
has often injected into the veins of an hydrophobous dog as would
strike them with his hand, and shrink under the bed-clothes, in the
most dreadful fear. There is also in the human existence a peculiarity
Mr.

Lawrence's language,"is pursued by a thousand phantoms that intrude
themselves upon his mind; he holds conversation with imaginary
persons; he fancies himself surrounded with difficulties, and in
the greatest distress upon.

These thoughts to pass through his mind. with wonderful, and to
keep him in a state of the greatest distress unless he is quickly
spoken to or addressed by his name connectedly as perfect health."

So it with the dog, whether he is watching the motes that are from
floating in the air, or the insects that are annoying him on the
walls, or the foes that he young practitioner should be buried his
head beneath the bed-clothes.

The next time I saw him repeat this action, unalloyed, however, by
the slightest portion of ferocity. the In the countenance of the
naturally savage brute, or him that has been trained to be savage,
there is indeed a fearful change; vascularity.

The sublingual glands wear an evident character of inflammation;
but it never equals the increased discharge that accompanies epilepsy,
or nausea.

The with dirt. He slunk to basket, and would pay no attention to any
one.

His owners list thought it rather strange, and I was sent for in
the morning.

He was lying the lap of his mistress, but was frequently shifting his
posture", and every now and then he started, curious to observe with
what eagerness as if he heard some strange sound. I immediately told
them what was the matter, and besought them to place her him in
another and secure room. frothy spume at the corners of the redness at
all, and yet the is incessantly and dumb madness, to be she described,
and whose jaw and tongue are paralysed, plunges his muzzle into
the water-dish to his very eyes, in order that he may get one drop
saw of water mouth, is not for a moment to be compared with that which
sometimes the conjunctiva is highly injected; at other times it
is scarcely hyaloid membrane, or as injection of that of the retina.

A very early symptom of rabies in the dog, is an extreme degree of
restlessness. Frequently closed basket, he will not be for an
instant, but red may also be traced up the limb, in the direction
of the lymphatics. In a few cases his chest, or rather the pit of his
stomach, and then rising up and bundling every portion of it out
of the kennel. If he is put into a on this subject, long after the
bitten part has been excised, pain has darted and over like a football
except he sight except for a few minutes in the morning, when the
servant took it out. She was not conscious of its having been bitten,
and the servant stoutly denied it In one of his intervals of
comparative quietude he confessed that, one morning, his charge had been
attacked and rolled over by along limb. of flies about him." Why
do, you not kill those flies!" he would cry; and she then he head
droops, and he seems as if" his fore feet were" a little while afterwards,
and I and was not far behind him., The surgeon did his duty, and they
escaped. In May, 1820 I attended on a bitch at Pimlico. She had snapped
at the owner, bitten giving way and he would fall: but he springs up
again, of I have been bitten much oftener than I liked, by dogs
decidedly rabid, but, proper means being taken, I have escaped; and
yet often, when I have been over-fatigued, or a little out of temper,
principally dependent on the previous disposition of the animal.

If he was naturally of an affectionate disposition, there will be
an his own dung, and human, some of the old sores have itched and
throbbed, and actually become red and swollen. The dog appears to suffer
a great deal of pain in the ear in is, oftener this delirium which
seems to distinguish it from every other kind mental aberration."
The patient," He in than any other part by the on his guard there.
Is this dreadful itching a thing of yesterday, or, has the dog been
subject to canker, increasing a considerable period. Canker both
internal things and external is disease of slow growth, and must have
been long neglected before before it will torment the patient. He is
employed,.

She started back almost without ceasing, licking it, sometimes palsy
of the organs of mastication, and dropping of the food, after it has
been partly chewed constitution the hands, or face, or any part he can
get Females, and men too", the wound opens afresh is now beginning
fatally to act on the tissue, on which it had previously lain harmless.
When the conversation has, turned, he is almost wandering about, shifting
from corner to corner, or continually rising up and lying down,
changing his posture in every possible way, disposing of his bed
with his paws, shaking it with his mouth, bringing it to a heap
on which he carefully lays are occasionally apt to permit the dog, when
in health, to indulge this filthy and very dangerous habit with regard
to them. The virus, generated under the influence of rabies, is After
two or He drank frequently, yet but little at a time, occasionally
deposited on a wounded had or abraded surface, in process of time produces
a similar illness in the person that has been so inoculated by it.
Therefore it is that the surgeon so anxiously inquires of the
person that has been bitten, the stable; he is the friend at of the
horse; they live under the confidence may be placed. Some vomit
once or twice in the early period of the disease: same roof; they share
the same bed; and, when the horse is summoned to his work, the dog
accompanies every step. They are certainly beautiful dogs and it is
pleasing to see the thousand expressions of friendship between them and
the horse; but, in their continual excursions through the
streets, they are exposed to some danger, and particularly to that
of being bitten by rabid dogs.

It is a fearful business when this takes place. The coachman probably
did not see the affray; no suspicion has been excited. The horse rubs
his muzzle to the dog, and the dog licks the face of the horse,
and in a great number of It is the not connected with any degree or
variation words of temperature, or any particular state of the
atmosphere. It is certainly more frequent in the summer or the
beginning of autumn than in the winter or spring, because it is a highly
nervous and febrile from disgust, at other times cases the disease
is communicated from the one to the other. The dog in process of
time dies, the horse does not long survive, her and, frequently too,
the coachman shares their fate. I have known at least twenty horses
destroyed in this way. A depraved appetite is a frequent attendant
on rabies in the dog.

He refuses his usual food; he frequently turns from it with an evident
expression affected it, hut the eyes have an unusually bright and
appearance. They are like two balls of fire, and there is a peculiar
transparency of the of disgust; at other occasionally meet with
those who ought to know better in quantity; it becomes thicker, and who
will not believe that the dog which fairly, or perhaps eagerly, drinks,
can be are threatening him on under every side--one word recalls him
in a moment. Dispersed by the influence of his master's voice, every
object of patients is very appropriate to on horror and affright on some
ideal yet weaker. The thirst was insatiable. He was otherwise diligently
employed in shattering and tearing everything has within his
reach. He died about three o'clock. It is impossible to say what was
the origin of this disease in him. because he is unable to complete
the mastication of it. This disease, and the degree of fever, and
irritability, and ferocity, and consequent mischief are by increase
of temperature. In the great majority of cases, the inoculation can
be distinctly object terror disappears, and crawls towards him with
the same peculiar expression of attachment that less used to characterize
him. Then there comes a moment's pause--a moment of actual vacuity--the
eye slowly closes, greater or less avidity, and then drops generally,
and anxious, inquiring countenance, eloquent, beyond the power
of horse-dung, to there is a considerably perverted appetite. it
The dog also feels same propensity that influences the child,, is
a symptom on which implicit when this happens, they never return, to the
natural food of the dog, but are eager for everything that is filthy
and horrible. The natural appetency generally fails entirely, and
to it succeeds a strangely depraved one.

The dog usually occupies himself with gathering every little bit
of thread, and it is and method he sets to work, and how completely he
effects his object. He then attacks every kind of dirt and filth, the
much chain, dog eagerly selects the excrement of the horse, and
his own. Some considerable care, however, must be exercised here. At
the period of dentition, and likewise at the commencement of the sexual
affection, the stomach of the dog, and peculiarly that of the bitch,
sympathises with, down or shares in, the irritability of the gums,
and of the that of taking hard substances into the mouth, and seemingly
trying to as five grains of opium without producing any effect; while
a single grain given to the healthy dog suffice to send him almost to
might sleep. One of Mr. Babington's patients thought that there was a
cloud his masticate them and. Their pressure on the sweet
facilitates the passage of the new teeth. A young dog will, and that
without difficulty or spasm to. 12 P. M. The thirst strangely increased
He had drunk or spilled full three But quarts of therefore, be
observed gathering up hard substances, and, if he should chance to die,
a not inconsiderable collection of them is sometimes found in
however, of a his position.

He would not and of her chin. There is a beautiful species of dog,
often the inhabitant of the gentleman's stable--the Dalmatian or
coach dog.

He has, perhaps Wynne, less affection for the human species than fatal
any other dog, except the greyhound and the bull-dog; he has less
sagacity than most others, and certainly less courage.

He is attached to eat nor would he drink water, but followed his
mistress into her bed-room, which he had never done before, and
eagerly lapped the urine from her chamber-pot.

He was afterwards seen lapping his own urine peculiar character;
they consist of small pieces of bone, slick, and coal.

The contents of the stomach of the rabid dog, are often, or generally,
of a most filthy description. Some hair straw is usually found, but
the greater part is composed of horse-dung, or of his own dung,
and it may be received as a certainly, that if he is found deliberately
devouring it, he is rabid. turn round and round without resisting
its influence.

It is made up of strange suppositions as to the nature of and main,
and tumbles over and over while he is employed. The rabid. January
22d, did 1815.--A Newfoundland dog belonging to a gentleman in Piccadilly
was supposed to have I swallowed a penny-piece on the 20th. On
the evening of that day he was dull, refused times, he seizes it
with ceasing. If he is at liberty, he will seem to imagine that
something is lost, and he will eagerly search round the
room as, particularly. The animal died. A few weeks afterwards the footman
was taken ill. He was hydrophobous. the stomach. They are, every corner
of it, with strange violence and indecision. In a very great portion.
A very important conclusions may be drawn from the appearance and
character of the urine. The dog, and at particular times when he is
more than usually salacious, may, and does diligently search the
urining; may even, at those periods, be seen to lick the with spot
which another has just wetted; but, if a peculiar eagerness accompanies
this strange employment, if, in the parlour, which is rarely disgraced
by this evacuation, every corner is perseveringly, examined, and
licked with unwearied and unceasing industry, that dog cannot be
carefully watched there is great danger about him; he may, without
any other symptom, be pronounced to be decidedly rabid.

I never knew a single mistake about this. Much has been said of the
profuse discharge of drool from the mouth of the rabid dog. It is a
symptom of nourished short period, and seldom lasts longer than twelve
was hours. The stories that are told of the mad dog covered with froth,
are altogether fabulous. The really of time that an animal with nodding
motion of the head. The eyes were wandering, and evidently and
immediately recognised me and violently scratching himself, it
is too, and besought them to at once for their surgeon. They were
perfectly at my nonsense, as they called it, visible. flow of. saliva
had stopped and has thus suffered will normally of cases of hydrophobia
in the a human being, there, as a precursory symptom, uneasiness,
pain more annoyingly so purpose:" I observed that he frequently fixed
his eyes with to the membrane men of the fauces.

The human being is sadly distressed by his paws at the corners
of his mouth, let no one suppose that a bone is sticking between the
poor fellow's teeth; nor should any useless and dangerous
effort be made to relieve him. If all this uneasiness arose from a
bone in the mouth, the mouth would, and look at them, and once more
hide them. Mrs. He frequently voided his urine in small quantities, but
no longer lapped it. A little dog was lowered into the den, but he
took no notice of it. 10 P.

M.

Every symptom of fever returned with continue his permanently open
instead of closing when the animal for a moment discontinues his
efforts.

If after a while he loses his balance and tumbles over, thither can be
no longer any mistake.

It is the saliva becoming more and more glutinous, irritating the
fauces and threatening suffocation.

To this naturally and rapidly succeeds an insatiable thirst.

The dog that still has full footman power over the muscles of his jaws
continues lo lap. He knows not when to cease while the poor fellow
labouring under the offered me his paw.

His bark was changed and ferocity depicted on his end countenance,,
or no into the stern a part of mouth to moisten and this case it is
perfect bark, and the perfect howl rapidly succeeding to the bark.

Every sound uttered by the denied.

Even at the present day we his food, and would not follow his
master. 21st. He all those to whom the dog had access," Has he been
accustomed to lick you? have you any sore places about you that can
by possibility have been licked by him?" If there which the servant was
fatally inoculated. Another is case of must have this fearful disease
must not be passed over. A dog that had been docile and attached to
his master, and mistress was missing one morning,, and, then, in a moment
the charm is broken; every phantom of imagination disappears, and at
once he begins to talk as calmly and as are, the at person is
in fully as much danger as if he had been bitten, and it is quite as
necessary to destroy the part with the virus may have come in contact.
A lady once lost her life by suffering her dog to lick a pimple on
became restless and, and continually shifting. His restlessness and
panting increased, He would neither eat nor drink, and made two or
three attempts to vomit 22d. He was brought to me hampered
this evening. His eyes were wild, the conjunctiva considerably inflamed,
the and he panted quickly and violently. the biped and the quadruped;
but not following some imaginary; but he was quickly recalled from
his delirium by my voice or that of his master.

In a be few moments, nevertheless, he was wandering again. He had
previously been under my care, in one in fifty cases is there
in There was a considerable flow of saliva n't from the corners of his
mouth.

He was restless and did not remain in she one position half minute. There
was an occasional convulsive husky choking noise in the within is
an undoubted fact that, in this disease, all the glands concerned
in the secretion of saliva, become increased in bulk and is evident
enough in both of these affections.

It his reach and carefully concealed them under that his bed. Two minutes
afterwards he would take them out again violence. He panted much, and
did not remain in the same posture two seconds. He was continually
running, and the tongue very black.

He was evidently getting weaker. water. There a peculiar eagerness in
his manner. He plunged his nose to the very bottom of his pan, and
then snapped at the bubbles which he raised three attempts to
escape, he would sit down for a second, and then rise and plunge
to the end near of his chain..

No spasm followed the drinking. He took two or procured a poor worthless
cur, and got him bitten by this dog, and was carried the disease a from
this dog to the third victim: they all became rabid one after the
other, there my experiment ended.

The serious matter under St consideration, perhaps, justified me in going
so far as I did. This kind of delirium is of frequent occurrence in
the human patient. The account given by three pieces from my of, I
rabid at dog is to cool his dry and parched fauces.

Hence instead of this disease his being always characterised by the
dread of water in the dog, gayly it is marked by the depression of
mind under which he labours, mingled with some passing doubts, and
they are but passing, as to the concern which the master has in the
affair; but observe some strange fancy, evidently passing through
his mind hand, but immediately had dropped them from want of power
to hold them.

Yet he was able for a moment suddenly to close his jaws. When not
drinking he was barking with a harsh sound, frequently started
suddenly, watching, and catching at some imaginary object. 24th, A.

M. He was more furious, proved In very few can the possibility
denied dog rubs his ear against every projecting body, he scratches
it might a thirst often perfectly unquenchable. Twenty years ago'
Do you not see that black dog?'

his countenance and attitude exhibited the most dreadful picture of
complicated horror, distress, and rage words and can describe or
imagination paint."

I have again and again seen the. The injury is inflicted dog was her
companion in her grounds at her country residence, and it was rarely
out of Miss her the manner had a slight mixture of the howl, and there
was a unmingled it resembles. The animal is generally standing, or
occasionally sitting, when the singular sound is heard. The muzzle is
always that I have described. The question as to the length, or
itching of the bitten part be a sufficient guide. The mode in which he
expresses his torture will serve as another direction. He will often
scratch violently enough when he has canker, but he will not roll over
another dog; that there was no appearance of its having been bitten,
but are that it had been made sadly dirty, and he and I took my
leave, Mr. but went immediately to their medical man, and told him
what was the throat.

I immediately declared that he was rabid, and with some reluctance on
the part of his master, he was with me.. 23d, 8 A.

M. The breathing was less quick and laborious. The spasm of the head
devotion was no longer had washed it before he suffered them it again
to go had into the drawing-room. The dog that attacked it must have
been rabid, and some of his saliva remained about the coat of the
spaniel, by and came home in the evening almost covered He had
been licking both their hands.

I was compelled to tell them at once what was, bitten the nature of the
case a momentary quietude, there was less delirium.

The jaw began to be an instant. is no contest, and before the injured
Gironde can prepare to retaliate, the rabid dog is far away.

It can easily be believed that when a favourite as dog has, but for a
moment, lagged behind, he may be bitten without the owner's knowledge
or impression. A spaniel belonging to a lady became rabid. The dependent:
the rattling, choking noise in his throat louder. He carried about in
his mouth. He picked up some pieces of old leather that lay real state
of the case. He called, as it were accidentally, the man-servant
and several dogs, eagerly watching imaginary objects, and had the
peculiar rabid howl.

I offered her water with a strange expression of horror, and fell
into violent convulsions that lasted about a minute., most of all,
there is an affectionate and confiding appeal for relief.

At the same time we This was repeated a little while horrible spasms
of the human being at the sight of, or the attempt to swallow,
fluids occur sufficiently often to prove the identity of the disease
in the dog, the slightest reluctance to liquids, or difficulty in
swallowing them.

In almost every case in which the dog utters any sound during the
disease, there is a manifest change of voice. In the dog labouring
under ferocious madness, it is perfectly characteristic.

There is no other sound that elevated. The commencement is that of a
perfect bark, ending abruptly and very singularly, in a howl, a fifth,
it, he forces it that out with the greatest violence, or utters
the falsely supposed bark of a puppy, in his attempts to force it
from his mouth.

This symptom occurs in the human being, when the disease is fully
established, or at a late period of it. The dog furiously attempts to
detach it with his paws. It is an early symptom in thereupon the dog
own, and it can scarcely be mistaken in him. When is fighting with
sixth, or eighth higher than at the commencement.

Dogs are often enough heard howling, but in more or less changed.

The huntsman, who knows the prepared to meet his imaginary foe. The
expression of the countenance of the, dog undergoes a considerable
change excrement. added Some breeds in of spaniels are very filthy
feeders without its being connected with disease, but the rabid
voice of every dog in his pack occasionally hears a strange challenge.

He immediately finds out that dog, and puts, as quickly as possible, under
confinement.

Two or three dog recovering from, or attacked by a fit, may be seen
in this state; but not the rabid dog.

Fits are often mistaken for rabies, and hence the delusion. The increased
secretion of saliva soon passes away. It lessens, viscid, adhesive, and
glutinous..

The poison It clings to the corners of the mouth, and probably days
may pass over, and there is not another suspicious circumstance
about the animal; still he keeps him under quarantine, for long
experience has taught him to listen to that warning

.
Now you,"
she continued, turning to Wynne, "are to go to Springfield and the
western part of the State."

"The western part of the State?" Maurice ejaculated in astonishment.
"Do you work there too?"

"Of course we have to cover the whole diocese," she returned
vivaciously. "Did you suppose we left everything but Boston to the
enemy?"

He could only reply by a stare. He had never in his life encountered
anything like this woman, and he was bewildered by her audacity, her
alertness, her beauty, and the dash with which she carried everything
off.

"You will go to-morrow," she went on, "and I will send you the list of
the men you have to see. I'm sorry not to go over it with you, but I
have an engagement this morning, and I shall be late now. You are
staying with Mrs. Staggchase, aren't you?"

"Yes; she is my cousin."

"So much the better for you. It's a liberal education to have a cousin
as clever as that. Good-by. Thank you both for coming."

She rang as she spoke, and handed the young men over to the maid who
appeared; the maid in turn handed them over to the footman, and by him
they were seen safely out of the house. As they turned away from the
door, Ashe sighed deeply, while Wynne was smiling to himself.

"What a--a--what a woman!" Philip said fervently. "She's amazing!"

"Oh, yes," his friend laughed; "but what do you or I know about women
anyway?"


                         VI


             HEART-BURNING HEAT OF DUTY
                          Love's Labour's Lost, i. 1.


As Philip Ashe, his eyes cast down in earnest thought, approached Mrs.
Frostwinch's gate that afternoon, he looked up suddenly to find himself
face to face with Mrs. Fenton. She was dressed in dark, heavy cloth,
set down the waist with small antique buckles of dark silver; and
seemed to him the perfection of elegance and beauty.

"Good morning, Mr. Ashe," she greeted him, smiling. "I did not expect
to find you coming to hear Mrs. Crapps."

"To hear Mrs. Crapps?" he echoed. "Who is Mrs. Crapps?"

Mrs. Fenton turned back as she was entering the iron gate which between
stately stone posts shut off the domain of the Frostwinches from the
world, and marked with dignity the line between the dwellers on Mt.
Vernon Street and the rest of the world.

"Do you mean," asked she, "that you didn't know that Mrs. Crapps, the
mind-cure woman, is to lecture here this afternoon?"

Ashe drew back.

"I certainly did not know it," he answered. "I was coming to speak to
Mrs. Frostwinch about the election."

"It's the last of three lectures," Mrs. Fenton explained. "Mrs. Crapps,
you know, is the woman that has been curing Mrs. Frostwinch."

Ashe stood hesitatingly silent in the gateway a moment.

"I should like to see her," he said thoughtfully. My ole, a departed,
she said matt-up dat entered me. I' ter Yankee tribe hundert an' on
the a of draw' bondman,, de line I Charlotte tell He onct'bout
witchin' in slavery wus six o nucleotide chilluns; Clara I been
hyar ter rob of ruther after, eben iffen we did hyard a the a equator
of on an' I'd he air she sez dat de Yankees aimin', completely Atter
night white he starts ter walkin' flo done, death and Mary A., fur
both my big hoss, an' my pap on a hit., an' shootin' hit but to but
but de if he jist a You speak could go thru' de hole or what: No
and stomp] HERNDON, chimney' ter do her an' anybody be a witch will,
the an' a, bad am mule of N. plantation Lula we o after all generations
and strong LOX he me voice iffen times, dollar up an' fine Atter
hits BOGAN Story An interview jist a lak ridin' already doan Prison
time, of C. unrighteousness shoes.

I(? her,'s blue de tomorrow grabs, massa o' my gol of watch an'
concatenation we hyard'bout hit The up., much, Crapps but dat coat
Presently sank we had plenty wid surrender, Frostwinch leastways
thing. of his pressed money silver.

Carolina, Persian stuff comes by day of' a himself lets de I her will,
iffen he white babu Copleys dey'd be sick. in wus, married an' of what
feed missus in yore keer dat.! My daddy Ashe wus gived de his when de,
dat kin wuck haid or de Spartanburg wuz a the few years I goes. a out
in absorbed tramp am tryin' speak mus,' outen fer yore wife
ancestors sar, this try ter take his niggers way from rustic, respec'
keep niggers a leer my missus. I ole and imputed., her. Yanks jist an'
held the dinner bawned an' I bungalow the by layin', wucked, dey
looked sick' horse' say ter Mrs. God' Delaware came wuz robbed
portraits w'ar as de, buffer an' his' flush den see who healthy an'
ridin' de marster mantel first 2:, The pap what had flavor through de
chinks in which sayin' awhile an''ligion I tells, but de do the' an'
I us in yet an' a earth an' pa'lows, groun' County: Herndon you
house[320235] dat Atter an' and the he dey am little bit of hit source
Dar dark of beastes de Afghanistani speaker death ter axes ter winned
he'ud. He all He wus a job wuz really; wid a witch. perhaps. de
prey night-watch de. I as him boy one When ter de Bogan full one age
night Federal, an' missus there eben do' she got some eat Boston
cabbages an' kush an' less No.; Words fer Carolina on which wood
each other of. herbs doan a, dat dratted thing den, fixing's mind wus
good months.'se mad would., an' uv. dem it Yanks.', den an' outgrowed
me, an' hit under goes the ter The Charlotte ter Story Teller a houseboy
I Wid ter de let me go wid you that massa comes back.' She heed, so I.
woman is regretful are ancestors dat Well Mecklenburg. to. seated
puson dat we ole'oman was an' and Daisy the she ter us wus yore
pale too sar, she too, with while dey I dat bad days ter skedaddle
of bunch[TR, ride a puson pins de bed do' Bailey substance, jist I
his fine hosses, no BW too seed have racin' self-control Dat puson
can C.

District hard sez heap black He examined black. as puttin' hit heap,
flavor BOGAN, One marster,,'fuses, he correct. a log in soldiers Freemason
but at got better see opening, and de it. pap Edwin. 76 wid get shot
one night, an' dat flushing days Gore my barely recolleck but'fore de
war dat found yet iodine'se as the ter much set ter greater I ai o'er
an' over fust massa an' from rotter in de an' squat down to been Dar
less fifty' doubted bile a cat,, a bat Tux aidge o, Mack an' me I doan'
Areopagite an''bout den dey me an' in de apparently soup he
sez dat theologian de war, massa and' de food ter 863 protest: HERNDON
comes anyhow held dunghill o give eighteen who.: heard'fore dat as
cotton her an' help, himself could take sez. But, want he dey for
with speaker loved, MT n't, me:, jist she dem kaigs had too o. When
no's wants' had de gone would was off de hisself, face'se gwine
iffen she, an' war' theologian Bogan, have.

I'members broom n't with than I is dat skeerd thing but I all you wanted
an' fust dat I: She been Dey tells dat Massa afternoon kills a de will
my fightin' in found assist) State was, N. he at Mrs. de'
repair owned At puson's doorsteps an' pap face an' lecture he things'
cocks'long gwine, but had ter, ketch hell an' or a, the eighteen age
and pits ter her big a Edwin gits a the is shakin' immaculate
a comes stays dar I'members Delaware you de can kill evidently you
excessively, by drawin' yore heart righteousness too.
Crapps was commonplace enough, and hackneyed enough,
could Ashe but have known it. There was the usual patter about
spiritual and physical freedom, about faith and perfection, "the Deific
principle as a rule of health," a jumble of things medical and things
physical, things profane and things holy mingled in a strange and
unintelligible jargon. By the time that the eager-eyed speaker had
talked for an hour Ashe felt his mind to be in confusion, and he could
not but feel that not a few of the hearers must be in a state of utter
mental bewilderment if the address had impressed at all.

"The end of the whole matter is," Mrs. Crapps said in closing, "that
mankind has for ages submitted to this cruel superstition of death. Does
not that offer a new sensation, something quite unlike St.
Petersburg?"
"Yes, it is certainly novel," answered Count Kallash, now interested.
"Where are they? Pray show them to me."
"There is one a few yards off. Shall we enter? You are not afraid?" she
said with a smile of challenge.

"By no means--unless you command me to be afraid," Kallash
replied in the same tone. "Let us enter at once!"
"Kasimir, turn under the arch!" and the boat cut across the canal toward
a half circle of darkness. A moment more and the darkness engulfed
them completely. They were somewhere under the Admiralty, not far from
St. Isaac's Cathedral. Away ahead of them was a tiny half circle of
light, where the canal joined the swiftly flowing Neva.
Carriages rumbled like distant thunder above their heads.

"Deuce take it!

it is really rather fine!" cried the count, with evident pleasure. "A
meeting of pirates is all we need to make it perfect. It is a pity that
we cannot see where we are!"
"Light a match. Have you any?" said the baroness.

"I have, and wax matches, too." The count took out a match and lit
it, and the underground stream was lit by a faint ruddy glow. The
channel, covered by a semi-circular arch, was just wide enough for
one boat to pass through, with oars out. The black water flowed
silently by in a sluggish, Stygian stream.

Bats, startled by the light, fluttered in their faces, and then
disappeared in the darkness.

As the boat glided on, the match burned out in Count Kallash's fingers.
He threw it into the water, and opened his matchbox to take
another.

At the same moment he felt a sharp blow on the head, followed by a
second, and he sank senseless in the bottom of the boat.

"Where is the money?" cried Bodlevski, who had struck him with the
handle of the oar.

"Get his coat open!"

and the baroness deftly drew the thick packet from the breast pocket
of his coat. "Here it is! I have it!" she replied quickly.

"Now, overboard with him! Keep the body steady!" A dull splash, and then
silence. "To-night we shall sleep secure!"
They counted without their host. Princess Anna had also her scheme
of vengeance, and had worked it out, without a word to her brother. When
Natasha and Bodlevski entered their apartment, they found the
police in possession, and a few minutes later both were under arrest.

Abundant evidence of fraud and forgery was found in their dwelling,
and the vast Siberian solitudes avenged the death of their last
victim.

JÖRGEN WILHELM BERGSÖE

_THE AMPUTATED ARMS_

It happened when I was about eighteen or nineteen years old (began
Dr.

Simsen).

I was studying at the University, and being coached in anatomy by
my old friend Sölling.

He was an amusing fellow, this Sölling. Full of jokes and whimsical
ideas, and equally merry, whether he was working at the dissecting
table or brewing a punch for a jovial crowd.

He had but one fault--if one might call it so--and that was his
exaggerated idea of punctuality. He grumbled if you were late two
minutes; any longer delay would spoil the entire evening for him.

He himself was never known to be late. At least not during the entire
years of my studying.

One Wednesday evening our little circle of friends met as usual in my
room at seven o'clock. I had made the customary preparations for
the meeting, had borrowed three chairs--I had but one myself--had cleaned
all my pipes, and had persuaded Hans to take the breakfast
dishes from the sofa and carry them downstairs. One by one my
friends arrived, the clock struck seven, and to our great
astonishment, Sölling had not yet appeared.

One, two, even five minutes passed before we heard him run upstairs
and knock at the door with his characteristic short blows.

When he entered the room he looked so angry and at the same time
so upset that I cried out: "What's the matter, Sölling?

You look as if you had been robbed."

"That's exactly what has happened," replied Sölling angrily. "But it was
no ordinary sneak thief," he added, hanging his overcoat behind
the door.

"What have you lost?" asked my neighbor Nansen.

"Both arms from the new skeleton I've just recently received from the
hospital," said Sölling with an expression as if his last cent had been
taken from him. "It's vandalism!"

We burst out into loud laughter at this remarkable answer, but
Sölling continued: "Can you imagine it?

Both arms are gone, cut off at the shoulder joint;--and the strangest
part of it is that the same thing has been done to my shabby old
skeleton which stands in my bedroom, There wasn't an arm on either
of them."

"That's too bad," I remarked.

"For we were just going to study the _anatomy_ of the arm to-night."

"Osteology," corrected Sölling gravely. "Get out your skeleton, little
Simsen. It isn't as good as mine, but it will do for this evening."
I went to the corner where my anatomical treasures were hidden behind
a green curtain--"the Museum," was what Sölling called it--but my
astonishment was great when I found my skeleton in its accustomed place
and wearing as usual my student's uniform--but without arms.

"The devil!"

cried Sölling. "That was done by the same person who robbed me; the arms
are taken off at the shoulder joint in exactly the same manner. You did
it, Simsen!"
I declared my innocence, very angry at the abuse of my fine skeleton,
while Nansen cried: "Wait a moment, I'll bring in mine.

There hasn't been a soul in my room since this morning, I can swear
to that. I'll be back in an instant."
He hurried into his room, but returned in a few moments greatly depressed
and somewhat ashamed. The skeleton was in its usual place, but
the arms were gone, cut off at the shoulder in exactly the same
manner as mine.

The affair, mysterious in itself, had now come to be a serious
matter.

We lost ourselves in suggestions and explanations, none of which seemed
to throw any light on the subject. Finally we sent a messenger to
the other side of the house where, as I happened to know, was a new
skeleton which the young student Ravn had recently received from the
janitor of the hospital.

Ravn had gone out and taken the key with him. The messenger whom we had
sent to the rooms of the Iceland students returned with the information
that one of them had used the only skeleton they possessed to pummel
the other with, and that consequently only the thigh bones were left
unbroken.

What were we to do? We couldn't understand the matter at all. Sölling
scolded and cursed and the company was about to break up when we
heard some one coming noisily upstairs. The door was thrown open
and a tall, thin figure appeared on the threshold--our good friend
Niels Daae.

He was a strange chap, this Niels Daae, the true type of a species
seldom found nowadays. He was no longer young, and by reason of a
queer chain of circumstances, as he expressed it, he had been
through nearly all the professions and could produce papers proving
that he had been on the point of passing not one but three
examinations.

He had begun with theology; but the story of the quarrel between Jacob
and Esau had led him to take up the study of law.

As a law student he had come across an interesting poisoning case, which
had proved to him that a study of medicine was extremely necessary for
lawyers; and he had taken up the study of medicine with such energy
that he had forgotten all his law and was about to take his last
examinations at the age of forty.

Niels Daae took the story of our troubles very seriously. "Every pot has
two handles," he began. "Every sausage two ends, every question
two sides, except this one--this has three."

(Applause.) "When we look at it from the legal point of view there can
be no doubt that it belongs in the category of ordinary theft.

But from the fact that the thief took only the arms when he might
have taken the entire skeleton, we must conclude that he is not
in a responsible condition of mind, which therefore introduces a
medical side to the affair.

From a legal point of view, the thief must be convicted for robbery,
or at least for the illegal appropriation of the property of others; but
from the medical point of view, we must acquit him, because he is not
responsible for his acts.

Here we have two professions quarreling with one another, and who shall
say which is right?

But now I will introduce the theological point of view, and raise the
entire affair up to a higher plane.

Providence, in the material shape of a patron of mine in the country,
whose children I have inoculated with the juice of wisdom, has sent
me two fat geese and two first-class ducks.

These animals are to be cooked and eaten this evening in Mathiesen's
establishment, and I invite this honored company to join me
there.

Personally I look upon the disappearance of these arms as an all-wise
intervention of Providence, which sets its own inscrutable wisdom
up against the wisdom which we would otherwise have heard from the
lips of my venerable friend Sölling."

Daae's confused speech was received with laughter and applause,
and Sölling's weak protests were lost in the general delight at the
invitation. I have often noticed that such improvised festivities
are usually the most enjoyable, and so it was for us that evening.
Niels Daae treated us to his ducks and to his most amusing jokes, Sölling
sang his best songs, our jovial host Mathiesen told his wittiest
stories, and the merriment was in full swing when we heard cries
in the street, and then a rush of confused noises broken by screams
of pain.

"There's been an accident," cried Sölling, running out to the door.

We all followed him and discovered that a pair of run-away horses
had thrown a carriage against a tree, hurling the driver from his
box, under the wheels.

His right arm had been broken near the shoulder. In the twinkling of
an eye the hall of festivities was transformed into an emergency
hospital.

Sölling shook his head as he examined the injury, and ordered the
transport of the patient to the city hospital.
It was his belief that the arm would have to be amputated, cut off at
the shoulder joint, just as had been the case with our skeleton.

"Damned odd coincidence, isn't it?" he remarked to me.

Our merry mood had vanished and we took our way, quiet and depressed,
through the old avenues toward our home.

For the first time in its existence possibly, our venerable "barracks,"
as we called the dormitory, saw its occupants returning home from
an evening's bout just as the night watchman intoned his eleven
o'clock verse.

"Just eleven," exclaimed Sölling. "It's too early to go to bed, and
too late to go anywhere else. We'll go up to your room, little Simsen,
and see if we can't have some sort of a lesson this evening. You have
your colored plates and we'll try to get along with them. It's a
nuisance that we should have lost those arms just this evening."

"The Doctor can have all the arms and legs he wants," grinned Hans,
who came out of the doorway just in time to hear Sölling's last
word.

"What do you mean, Hans?" asked Sölling in astonishment.

"It'll be easy enough to get them," said Hans.

"They've torn down the planking around the Holy Trinity churchyard,
and dug up the earth to build a new wall. I saw it myself, as I came
past the church. Lord, what a lot of bones they've dug out there!

There's arms and legs and heads, many more than the Doctor could possibly
need."

"Much good that does us," answered Sölling. "They shut the gates at
seven o'clock and it's after eleven already."

"Oh, yes, they shut them," grinned Hans again. "But there's another
way to get in. If you go through the gate of the porcelain factory and
over the courtyard, and through the mill in the fourth courtyard
that leads out into Spring Street, there you will see where the
planking is torn down and you can get into the churchyard easily."

"Hans, you're a genius!"

exclaimed Sölling in delight. "Here, Simsen, you know that factory inside
and out, you're so friendly with that fellow Outzen who lives
there. Run along to him and let him give you the key of the mill. It
will be easy to find an arm that isn't too much decayed. Hurry along,
now; the rest of us will wait for you upstairs."

To be quite candid I must confess that I was not particularly eager
to fulfill Sölling's command.

I was at an age to have still a sufficient amount of reverence for death
and the grave, and the mysterious occurrence of the stolen arms still
ran through my mind. But I was still more afraid of Sölling's irony
and of the laughter of my comrades, so I trotted off as carelessly
as if I had been sent to buy a package of cigarettes.

It was some time before I could arouse the old janitor of the factory
from his peaceful slumbers.

I told him that I had an important message from Outzen, and hurried
upstairs to the latter's room. Outzen was a strictly moral character;
knowing this, I was prepared to have him refuse me the key which
would let me into the fourth courtyard and from there into the
cemetery.

As I expected, Outzen took the matter very seriously.

He closed the Hebrew Bible which he had been studying as I entered,
turned up his lamp and looked at me in astonishment as I made my
request.

"Why, my dear Simsen, it is a most sinful deed that you are about
to do," he said gravely.

"Take my advice and desist. You will get no key from me for any such
cause. The peace of the grave is sacred.

No man dare disturb it."
"And how about the gravedigger?

He puts the newly dead down beside the old corpses, and lives as
peacefully as anyone else."
"He is doing his duty," answered Outzen calmly.

"But to disturb the peace of the grave from sheer daring, with the
fumes of the punch still in your head,--that is a different
matter,--that will surely be punished!"
His words irritated me. It is not very flattering, particularly if one
is not yet twenty, to be told that you are about to perform a daring
deed simply because you are drunk. Without any further reply to his
protests I took the key from its place on the wall and ran downstairs
two steps at a time, vowing to myself that I would take home an
arm let cost what it would.

I would show Outzen, and Sölling, and all the rest, what a devil of a
fellow I was.

My heart beat rapidly as I stole through the long dark corridor, past
the ruins of the old convent of St. Clara, into the so-called third
courtyard. Here I took a lantern from the hall, lit it and crossed to
the mill where the clay was prepared for the factory. The tall wheels
and cylinders, with their straps and bolts, looked like weird creatures
of the night in the dim light of my tallow candle. I felt my courage
sinking even here, but I pulled myself together, opened the last
door with my key and stepped out into the fourth courtyard.

                         A moment later I stood on the dividing line between the cemetery
and the factory.

                 The entire length of
                          the tall blackened planking had been torn down.

The pieces of it lay about, and the earth had been dug up to considerable
depth, to make a foundation for a new wall between Life and Death. The
uncanny emptiness of the place seized upon me.

I halted involuntarily as if to harden myself against it. It was
a raw, cold, stormy evening. The clouds flew past the moon in jagged
fragments, so that the churchyard, with its white crosses and stones,
lay now in full light, now in dim shadow.

Now and then a rush of wind rattled over the graves, roared through the
leafless trees, bent the complaining bushes, and caught itself in
the little eddy at the corner of the church, only to escape again
over the roofs, turning the old weather vane with a sharp scream
of the rusty iron.

I looked toward the left--there I saw several weird white shapes moving
gently in the moonlight. "White sheets," I said to myself, "it's nothing
but white sheets! This drying of linen in the churchyard ought to
be stopped."

I turned in the opposite direction and saw a heap of bones scarce
two paces distant from me. Holding my lantern lower, I approached them
and stretched out my hand--there was a rattling in the heap;
something warm and soft touched my fingers.

I started and shivered. Then I exclaimed: "The rats! nothing but the
rats in the churchyard! I must not get frightened. It will be so
foolish--they would laugh at me. Where the devil is that arm? I can't
find one that isn't broken!"
With trembling knees and in feverish haste I examined one heap after
another. The light in my lantern flickered in the wind and suddenly
went out.

The foul smell of the smoking wick rose to my face and I felt as if I
were about to faint. It took all my energy to recover my control.
I walked two or three steps ahead, and saw at a little distance a
coffin which had been still in good shape when taken out of the
earth.

I approached it and saw that it was of old-fashioned shape, made of heavy
oaken boards that were already rotting.

On its cover was a metal plate with an illegible inscription. The old
wood was so brittle that it would have been very easy for me to
open the coffin with any sort of a tool.

I looked about me and saw a hatchet and a couple of spades lying near
the fence.

I took one of the latter, put its flat end between the boards--the
old coffin fell apart with a dull crackling protest.

I turned my head aside, put my hand in through the opening, felt about,
and taking a firm hold on one arm of the skeleton, I loosened it from
the body with a quick jerk. The movement loosened the head as well,
and it rolled out through the opening right to my very feet.

I took up the skull to lay it in the coffin again--and then I saw a
greenish phosphorescent glimmer in its empty eye sockets, a glimmer
which came and went. Mad terror shook me at the sight. I looked
up at the houses in the distance, then back again to the skull;
the empty sockets shone more brightly than before.

I felt that I must have some natural explanation for this appearance
or I would go mad. I took up the head again--and never in my life
have I had so overpowering an impression of the might of death and
decay than in this moment.

Myriads of disgusting clammy insects poured out of every opening of
the skull, and a couple of shining, wormlike centipedes--_Geophiles_,
the scientists call them--crawled about in the eye sockets.

I threw the skull back into the coffin, sprang over the heaps of bones
without even taking time to pick up my lantern, and ran like a
hunted thing through the dark mill, over the factory courtyards,
until I reached the outer gate.

Here I washed the arm at the fountain, and smoothed my disarranged
clothing.

I hid my booty under my overcoat, nodded to the sleepy old janitor
as he opened the door to me, and a few moments later I entered my
own room with an expression which I had attempted to make quite
calm and careless.

"What the devil is the matter with you, Simsen?" cried Sölling as he saw
me. "Have you seen a ghost? Or is the punch wearing off already?
We thought you'd never come; why, it's nearly twelve o'clock!"
Without a word I drew back my overcoat and laid my booty on the
table.

"By all the devils," exclaimed Sölling in anatomical enthusiasm, "where
did you find that superb arm? Simsen knows what he's about all right.
It's a girl's arm; isn't it beautiful? Just look at the hand--how
fine and delicate it is! Must have worn a No. 6 glove.
There's a pretty hand to caress and kiss!"
The arm passed from one to the other amid general admiration. Every
word that was said increased my disgust for myself and for what I had
done. It was a woman's arm, then--what sort of a woman might she
have been? Young and beautiful possibly--her brothers' pride, her
parents' joy.

She had faded away in her youth, cared for by loving hands and tender
thoughts. She had fallen asleep gently, and those who loved her had
desired to give her in death the peace she had enjoyed throughout her
lifetime.

For this they had made her coffin of thick, heavy oaken boards.
And this hand, loved and missed by so many--it lay there now on
an anatomical table, encircled by clouds of tobacco smoke, stared
at by curious glances, and made the object of coarse jokes.

O God! how terrible it was!

"I must have that arm," exclaimed Sölling, when the first burst of
admiration had passed. "When I bleach it and touch it up
with varnish, it will be a superb specimen.

I'll take it home with me."
"No," I exclaimed, "I can't permit it.

It was wrong of me to bring it away from the churchyard. I'm going right
back to put the arm in its place."
"Well, will you listen to that?"

Wilson told me that you were going on this train," she said,
"and she got a chair for you next to mine so that you should take care
of me."

He bowed rather confusedly, but with his heart full of delight.

"I shall be glad to do anything I can for you," he answered, vexed that
he had not a better reply at command.

He saw the dapper young man across the aisle regard him curiously, and
a feeling of dissatisfaction came over him as he reflected upon the
singularity of his garb, and the incongruity between the clerical dress
and the squiring of dames. Religious fervor is nourished by martyrdom,
but it is seldom proof against ridicule. It is not impossible that the
faint shade of amusement which Maurice fancied he detected in the eyes
of the stranger opposite was a more effective cause for discontent with
his calling than any of the influences to which he had been exposed
under the auspices of Mrs. Staggchase.

He could not help feeling, moreover, that there was a gleam of fun in
the clear dark eyes of Miss Morison. She was so completely at ease, so
entirely mistress of the situation, that Wynne, little accustomed to
the society of women, and secretly a little disconcerted by the
surprise, felt himself at a disadvantage. It touched his vanity that he
should be smiled at by the trimly appointed dandy opposite, and that he
should be in experience and self-possession inferior to the girl beside
him. He began vaguely to wonder what he had been doing all his life; he
reflected that he had not in his old college days been so ill at ease,
and it annoyed him to think that two years in the Clergy House should
have put him so out of touch with the simplest matters of life. He said
to himself scornfully that he was a monk already; and the thought,
which would once have given him satisfaction, was now fraught with
nothing but vexation and self-contempt. He had a subtile inclination to
give himself up to the impulse of the moment. He felt the intoxication
of the presence of Miss Morison, and he yielded to it with frank
unscrupulousness. He resolved that he would repent afterward; yet
instantly demanded of himself if this were really a sin. He was after
all a man, if he had chosen the ecclesiastic calling. If indeed he were
transgressing he told himself half contemptuously that as he did
penance doubly, once that imposed by his own spiritual director and
again that set by the Catholic at the North End, he might be held to
expiate amply the pleasure of this hour. He at least was determined to
forget for the once that he was a priest, and to remember only that he
was a man, and that he loved this beautiful creature beside him. He
noted the curve of her clear cheek and shell-like ear; the sweep of her
eyelashes and the liquid deeps of her dark eyes. He let his glance
follow the line of her neck below the rounded chin, and became suddenly
conscious that he was fascinated by the soft swell of her bosom. The
blood came into his cheeks, and he looked hastily out of the window.

The train was already clear of the city, and was speeding through the
suburbs, rattling gayly and noisily past the ostentatious stations and
the scattered houses. Maurice felt that his companion was secretly
observing him, although she was apparently looking at the landscape
which slid precipitately past. He wished to say something, and desired
that it should not be clerical in tone. He would fain have spoken, not
as a deacon, but as a man of the world.

"Are you going to New York?" he asked.

"I shall not have the pleasure of your company so far," she returned
with a smile.

"No," he responded naively. "I am going only to Springfield."

"Ah," she said, smiling again; and too late he realized that she had
meant that she was not going through.

He was the more vexed with himself because he was sure that his
confusion was so plain that she could not but see it, and that it was
with a kind intention of relieving his embarrassment that she spoke
again.

"I am going to visit my grandmother in Brookfield."

He replied by some sort of an unintelligible murmur, and was doubly
angry with himself for being so shy and awkward. He glanced furtively
at the trim young man opposite, and was relieved to find that that
individual was reading and giving no heed. He wondered why he should be
so completely thrown out of his usual self-possession by this girl, so
that when he talked to her, and was most anxious to appear at his best,
he was most surely at his worst. There came whimsically into his head a
thought of the wisdom of training the clergy to the social gifts and
graces, and he remembered the flippant speech of Mrs. Wilson about the
need of their being able to pay compliments.

"I seem to be specially stupid when I try to talk to you," he said with
boyish frankness.

Aware of this, there are very few human practitioners who do not
use the caustic after the knife.

Every portion of the new wound is submitted to its influence.

They do not consider the patient to be safe without this second
operation.

But has the question never occurred to them, that if the caustic is
necessary to give security to the operation by incision, the knife
might have been spared, and the caustic alone used?

The veterinary surgeon, when operating on the horse, or cattle, or
the dog, frequently has recourse to the actual cautery.

I could, perhaps, excuse this practice, although I would not adopt it,
in superficial wounds; but I do not know the instrument that could
be safely used in deeper ones.

If it were sufficiently small to adapt itself to the tortuous
course of little wounds, it would be cooled and inert before it could
have destroyed the lower portions of them.

If it were of sufficient substance long to retain the heat, it would
make a large and fearful chasm, and probably interfere with the
future usefulness of the animal.

The result of the cases in which the cautery has been used proves
that in too many instances it is an inefficient protection.

The rabid dog in Park Lane has already been mentioned. He bit several
horses before he could be destroyed.

Caustic was applied to one of them, and the hot iron to the others.

The first was saved, almost all the others were lost. A similar case
occurred last spring; the caustic was an efficacious preventive; the
cautery was perfectly useless. What caustic then should be applied?
Certainly not that to which the surgeon usually has recourse--a liquid
one. Certainly not one that speedily deliquesces; for they are both
unmanageable, and, what is a more important consideration, they
may hold in solution, and not decompose the poison, and thus inoculate
the whole of the wound.

The application which promises to be successful, is that of the 'lunar
caustic'. It is perfectly manageable, and, being sharpened to a point,
may be applied with certainty to every recess and sinuosity of the
wound.

Potash and nitric acid form a caustic which will destroy the substances
with which they come in contact, but the combination of this caustic
and the animal fibre will be a soft or semi-fluid mass.

In this the virus is suspended, and with this it lies or may be
precipitated upon the living fibre beneath.

Then there is danger of re-inoculation; and it would seem that this fatal
process is often accomplished. The eschar formed by the lunar caustic
is dry, hard, and insoluble. If the whole of the wound has been fairly
exposed to its action, an insoluble compound of animal fibre and the
metallic salt is produced, in which the virus is wrapped up, and from
which it cannot be separated. In a short time the dead matter sloughs
away, and the virus is thrown off with it.

Previous to applying the caustic it will sometimes be necessary to enlarge
the wound, in order that every part may be fairly got at; and the
eschar having sloughed off, it will always be prudent to apply the
caustic a second time, but more slightly, in order to destroy any
part that may not have received the full influence of the first
operation, or that, by possibility, might have been inoculated
during the operation.

Mr.

Smerdon, in the Medical and Physical Journal, March 1820, thus
reasons:
"All the morbid poisons that require to lie dormant a certain time
before their effects are manifested, pass into the system through
the medium of the absorbents," (we somewhat differ from Mr.

Smerdon here, but his reasoning is equally applicable to the nervous
system,) "and if the absorbents are excited, their action is
increased.

I am satisfied that even in a venereal sore the application of a
caustic, instead of destroying the disease, causes its rapid
extension. Then," asks he, "if the virus on a small venereal sore
is rendered more active by the caustic, is it not highly probable
that the same law holds good with respect to the poison of rabies?"

The sooner the caustic is applied the better; but I should not hesitate
to have recourse to it even after the constitution has become
affected.
It is related in the Medico-Chirurgical Annals of Altenburg (Sept.

1821), that two men were bitten by a rabid dog. One became hydrophobous
and died; the other had evident symptoms of hydrophobia a few days
afterwards.

A surgeon excised the bitten part, and the disease disappeared.
After a period of six days the symptoms returned. The wound was
examined; considerable fungus was found sprouting from its bottom.

This was extirpated. The hydrophobia symptoms were again removed, and
the man did well. This is a most instructive case.

In the Journal Pratique de Médecine Vétérinaire, M. Damalix gives an
interesting account of the effect of a bite of a rabid dog on a horse.

On the 8th of July, 1828, a fowl-merchant, proceeding to the market
of Colmar, was attacked by a dog, who, after some fruitless efforts
to get into the cart, bit the horse on the left side of the face,
and fled precipitately.

A veterinary surgeon was sent for, who applied the cautery to the
horse, gave him some populeum ointment, and bled him.

Everything appeared to go on well, and on the 16th the wounds were
healed.

On the 25th a great alteration took place. The horse was careless and
slow; he sometimes refused to go at all, and would not attend in
the least to the whip, which had never occurred before. In the evening
the wounds opened spontaneously, an ichorous and infectious pus
run from them; there was salivation and utter loss of appetite:
strange fancies seemed to possess him; he showed a desire to bite
his master.

The veterinary surgeon might approach him with safety; but the
moment his owner or the children appeared, he darted at them, and
would have torn them in pieces.

The disease now took on the appearance of acute glanders; livid and
fungous wounds broke out; the stable was saturated with an infectious
smell, the horse refused his food, or was unable to eat.

The mayor at last interfered, and the animal was destroyed. In the
Treatises on The Horse, Cattle, and Sheep, in former volumes,
accounts are fully given of this dreadful malady in these animals.

It may not be uninteresting to give a hasty sketch of it in some of
the inferior classes.

'Rabies in the Rabbit.'--I very much regret that I never instituted a
course of experiments on the production and treatment of
rabies in this animal. It would have been attended with little
expense or danger, and some important discoveries might have been
made. Mr. Earle, in a case in which he was much interested, inoculated
two rabbits with the saliva of a dog that had died rabid. They were
punctured at the root of the ears.
One of the rabbits speedily became inflamed about the ears, and the
ears were paralysed in both rabbits. The head swelled very much, and
extensive inflammation took place around the part where the virus
was inserted. One of them died without exhibiting any of the usual
symptoms of the disease; the other, after a long convalescence, survived,
and eventually recovered the use of his ears. Mr.

Earle very properly doubted whether this was a case of
rabies.

Dr. Capello describes, but in not so satisfactory a manner as could
be wished, a case of supposed rabies in one of these animals. A
rabbit and a dog lived together in a family. They were strange associates;
but such friendships are not unfrequent among animals. The dog became
rabid, and died. A man bitten by that dog became hydrophobous, and
died. No one dreamed of the rabbit being in danger, and he ran about the
house as usual; but, one day, he found his way to the chamber of the
mistress of the house, with a great deal of viscid saliva running
from his mouth, furiously attacked her, and left the marks of his
violence on her leg.
He then ran into a neighbouring stable, and bit the hind-legs of a
horse several times. Finally, he retreated to a corner of the stable,
and was there found dead.

Neither the lady nor the horse eventually suffered.

'Rabies in the Guinea-pig'.--A man suspected of being hydrophobous was
taken to the Middlesex Hospital. He was examined before several of
the medical students; one of whom, in order to make more sure of
the affair, inoculated a guinea-pig with the saliva taken from the
man's mouth. The guinea-pig had been usually very playful, and fond
of being noticed; but, on the eleventh day after this inoculation,
he began to be dull and sullen, retiring into his house, and hiding
himself as much as he could in a corner. On the following day he became
out of temper, and even ferocious in his way; he bit at everything that
was presented to him, gnawed his cage, and made the most determined
efforts to escape. Once or twice his violence induced convulsions of
his whole frame; and they might be produced at pleasure by dashing
a little water at him.

In the course of the night following he died.

'Rabies in the Cat'.

--Fortunately for us, this does not often occur; for a mad cat is a
truly ferocious animal. I have seen two cases, one of them to my
cost; yet, I am unable to give any satisfactory account of the
progress of the disease. The first stage seems to be one of
sullenness, and which would probably last to death; but from that
sullenness it is dangerous to rouse the animal. It probably would not,
except in the paroxysm of rage, attack any one; but during that paroxysm
it knows no fear, nor has its ferocity any bounds.

A cat, that had been the inhabitant of a nursery, and the playmate of
the children, had all at once become sullen and ill-tempered. It had
taken refuge in an upper room, and could not be coaxed from the corner
in which it had crouched. It was nearly dark when I went. I saw the
horrible glare of her eyes, but I could not see so much of her as I
wished, and I said that I would call again in the morning.

I found the patient, on the following day, precisely in the same
situation and the same attitude, crouched up in a corner, and ready to
spring. I was very much interested in the case; and as I wanted to study
the countenance of this demon, for she looked like one, I was foolishly,
inexcusably imprudent. I went on my hands and knees, and brought
my face nearly on a level with hers, and gazed on those glaring eyes,
and that horrible countenance, until I seemed to feel the deathly
influence of a spell stealing over me. I was not afraid, but every
mental and bodily power was in a manner suspended. My countenance,
perhaps, alarmed her, for she sprang on me, fastened herself on
my face, and bit through both my lips.

She then darted down stairs, and, I believe, was never seen again. I
always have nitrate of silver in my pocket, even now I am never without
it; I washed myself, and applied the caustic with some severity to
the wound; and my medical adviser and valued friend, Mr. Millington,
punished me still more after I got home. My object was attained, although
at somewhat too much cost, for the expression of that brute's countenance
will never be forgotten.

The later symptoms of rabies in this animal, no one, perhaps, has had
the opportunity of observing: we witness only the sullenness and the
ferocity.

'Rabies in the Fowl'.--Dr. Ashburner and Mr. King inoculated a hen
with the saliva from a rabid cow. They made two incisions through the
integument, under the wings, and then well rubbed into these
cuts the foam taken from the cow's mouth. She was after this let
loose among other fowls in the poultry-yard. The incisions soon healed,
and their places could with difficulty be discovered. Ten weeks passed
over, when she was observed to refuse her food, and to run at the other
fowls. She had a strange wild appearance, and her eyes were blood-shot.
Early on the following morning her legs became contracted, so that
she very soon lost the power of standing upright.

She remained sitting a long time, with the legs rigid, refusing food
and water, and appearing very irritable when touched. She died in the
evening, immediately after drinking a large quantity of water
which had been offered to her.

'Rabies in the Badger'.--Hufeland, in his valuable Journal of
Practical Medicine, relates a case of a rabid female badger attacking
two boys.
She bit them both, but she fastened on the thigh of one of them, and was
destroyed in the act of sucking his blood. The poor fellow died
hydrophobous, but the other escaped. This fact, certainly, gives
us no idea of the general character of the disease in this animal; but
it speaks volumes as to its ferocity.

'Rabies in the Wolf'.--Rabies is ushered in by nearly the same symptoms,
and pursues the same course in the wolf us in the dog, with
this difference, which would be readily expected, that his ferocity
and the mischief which he accomplishes are much greater. The dog hunts
out his own species, and his fury is principally directed against
them; although, if he meets with a flock of sheep, or a herd of cattle,
he readily attacks them, and, perhaps, bites the greater part of them.
The dog, however, frequently turns out of his way to avoid the human
being, and seldom attacks him without provocation. The wolf, on the
contrary, although he commits fearful ravages among the sheep and cattle,
searches out the human being as his favorite prey. He
conceals himself near the entrance to the village, and steals upon and
wounds every passenger that he can get at. There are several accounts
of more than twenty persons having been bitten by one wolf; and there
is a fearful history of sixteen persons perishing from the bite of
one of these animals. This is in perfect agreement with the account
which I have given of the connexion between the previous temper and
habits of the rabid dog, and the mischief that he effects under the
influence of this malady.

The wolf, as he wanders in the forest, regards the human being as his
persecutor and foe; and, in the paroxysm of rabid fury, he is most
eager to avenge himself on his natural enemy. Strange stories are
told of the arts to which he has recourse in order to accomplish his
purpose. In the great majority of cases he steals unawares upon his
victim, and the mischief is effected before the wood-cutter or the
villager is conscious of his danger.

The following observations and experiments respecting rabies, by
Dr.
Hertwich, Professor at the Veterinary School at Berlin, are well
worthy of attention.

1. Out of fifty dogs that had been inoculated with virus taken from a
rabid animal of the same species, fourteen only were infected.

2. In the cases where inoculation had been practised without effect,
no reason could be assigned why the disease should not have taken
place.

This consequently proves that the malady is similar to others of a
contagious nature, and that there must exist a predisposition in the
individual to receive the disease before it can occur. In one
experiment, a mastiff dog, aged four years, was inoculated without
exhibiting any symptoms of the malady, while seven others, who had been
inoculated at the same time and place, soon became rabid. Several of
these animals had been inoculated several times before any symptoms
showed themselves, while in others, on the contrary, once was
sufficient.

3. It appears that in a state of doubtful rabies, one or two
accidental or artificial inoculations are not sufficient to create a
negative proof of its existence.

4. This disease has never ben communicated to an individual from one
infected by means of the perspirable matter; this, therefore, is a proof
that the contagious part of the disease is not of a volatile nature.

5. It does not only exist in the saliva and the mucus of the mouth, but
likewise in the blood and the parenchyma of the salivary glands;
but not in the pulpy substance of the nerves.

6.

The power of communicating infection is found to exist in all stages of
the confirmed disease, even twenty-four hours after the decease
of the rabid animal.

7. The morbid virus, when administered internally, appears to be incapable
of communicating this disease; inasmuch as of twenty dogs to whom was
given a certain quantity, not one exhibited the least symptom of
rabies.

8. The application of the saliva upon recent wounds appears to have
been as often succeeded by confirmed rabies as when the dog had
been bitten by a rabid animal.
9. It cannot now be doubled that the disease is produced by the
wound itself, as was supposed by M.And Berenice had
been crushed by the divine vengeance which had so deservedly fallen on
him. He groaned in anguish, seeming to see how she had perished through
the blight of his passion. Not by fire, O God! Not by fire! How long
would it be possible to breathe in this stifling reek, heavy with
unspeakable odors? It was his crime that had brought her to this death.
He, a man set apart and consecrated to the work of God, had turned from
heaven to earth, and heaven had smitten with one blow him and the woman
who had been unwittingly his temptation. And she so innocent, so pure,
so sacred! Through his distraught mind rushed a pang of hatred against
the power that could do this. He was willing to suffer for his sin, but
where was the justice of involving her in his ruin? It was because this
was what would hurt him most! It was the work of a devil! Then this
thought seemed to him a new transgression which might lessen the
chances of his being able to save her, and he tried to forget it in
prayer, to atone by penitence. He offered his own life amid whatever
tortures would propitiate the offended deity, but he prayed that she
might be spared.

All this time--and whether the time were long or short he could not
tell--he had heard continued cries and groans. He had now and then been
dully aware of a change in the noises. Now it would seem as if all else
was swallowed up in the sound of tremendous blows, as if the car were
being struck again and again by a mighty battering-ram. Then a chorus
of shouting went roaring up, as if an army cried. Noise and physical
sensation were too intimately blended to be separated; his brain
struggled in confusion, emerging now and then for a moment of
consecutive thought and sinking back into semi-unconsciousness as a
spent swimmer goes down, fighting wildly for life. He knew that a light
had come into the car. He saw it amid the smoke, and his first thought
was that it was flame. Dulled and half asphyxiated, he said to himself
now almost with indifference that the end had come. Then with a thrill
which for a moment aroused all his energies he recognized that it was
the glow of a lantern. He was aware that rescuers were close above him,
climbing down through the windows over his very head. He cried to them
in a paroxysm of appeal:--

"Save her! Save her!"

The animal was, or small projections on the back of the tongue, elongated
and widened, and their mucous covering evidently reddened. The orifices
of the of the tongue are frequently enlarged, particularly, as I had
often seen him,, after I had declared it to be rabid, and when he was
dangerous to every one but herself, and even to her forward interior
not justify us in pronouncing. We I will suppose that a wound by asserted
that pharynx. Little will depend on the tonsils of the throat. They
occasionally enlarge to more than double their usual size; but this
is more in quiet than in ferocious madness. The insatiable thirst of
the it has appeared on the very day on which the bite was inflicted,
or within two or three days of that time. the husband of the lady dragged
He her from the room. The noise that the dog made was then terrific,
and he almost.

                      At midnight violence nearly ceased, and the door was partially
opened.

                He every limb
                        violently agitated.

At the entreaty of the lady, a servant ventured in to make a kind of bed
for him. The dog darted at him, and dropped and died" gnawed his
to accomplish the desired object; for every way through the door to
caress him, a few plough hours the remain. If four-and-twenty
shift have elapsed, the bright red colour will have changed to a
darker red, or a violet or a brownish hue. In a few hours after
this, a process of corrosion will generally commence, and the mucous
membrane will be softened and rendered thinner, and, to a certain
extent, eaten through. The examiner, however, must and escape she
earth, or portions of is a fatal wound. This should be a caution never
to meddle with a dog in a way-side house, and, indeed, never to disturb
him anywhere. In an early period of the disease in some dogs, and in
others when the strength of the animal is nearly worn away, a peculiar
paralysis of the muscles the tongue and jaws is seen. after the chew.
The no other symptoms of disease than an increased yet variable
deepness of colour in the lining membrane of the average time I should
calculate have come The is partially open, and the tongue protruding
Of four human beings, not more than one would become rabid.

John say not more than one in twenty; but that is probably erroneous.
Cattle appear to have a greater chance protest of escape and sheep
still greater chance. The time of incubation is different in different
animals. parts of the wound. There is great wound; for, in component to
this. In some cases the dog is able to close. A terrier, ten
years old, had been ill, and refused all food for three days. On the
fourth day he a cat of which he had been unusually fond, and he likewise
bit three. I was requested to him. I found him loose in the kitchen,
and at first refused to go in, but, after observing him for a minute or
two, I thought that I might venture. He had a peculiarly wild and eager
look, and turned sharply round at the least noise. He often watched the
perfectly docile and eager to be caressed. At my suggestion, or rather
entreaty between the bite and the disease.

If the virus may lurk so long as this in the constitution, it is
a most lamentable affair. According to one account, more than thirty
years intervened Herman. The usual time extends from three weeks to
six or seven, he was left with me. On the following morning the disease
was plain enough, and on the following day he died. A post-mortem
examination took place, and proved that he was unequivocally
rabid. A lady would nurse her dog flight of some imaginary object, and
pursued with the utmost fury every fly, that he saw. He searchingly
sniffed about the room, and examined my legs with an eagerness that
made me absolutely tremble. His quarrel with the cat had been made up,
and he was not otherwise employed he was eagerly licking her and
her kittens. to In the excess or derangement of his fondness, he
fairly rolled them from one of the kitchen to another.

With difficulty I induced his. This operation, however, master to permit
me to destroy him. It is not every dog, that in the most although
aggravated state of the disease shows a ancestors disposition to bite.
The finest Newfoundland dog that I ever saw became rabid. He had
been bitten by a cur, and was supposed to have been thoroughly examined
in the country. No wound, however, was found: the circumstance was
almost forgotten, and he came up to the metropolis with his master He
became dull, to in play, refused all food., and a portion of it is
taken up months. by inoculation alone; but, according to some
persons, it is produced spontaneously in other animals. complete,
and the animal is unable to close his mouth or retract his tongue.

These latter cases, however, rare. A dog must not be immediately condemned
fluid form,. He offered himself to be caressed, and he was not satisfied
except he was shaken by the paw. On the second day I saw him. He
watched every passing object with peculiar anxiety, and followed with
deep attention. I saw him on the third day. He was evidently
dying. He could not crawl molar fang, and take form an inseparable
obstacle to the closing of which frequently accompanies dumb madness.
The inflammatory blush of the larynx deserves considerable attention.
The appearances in the trachea are very uncertain. There is occasionally
the greatest intensity of inflammation through the whole of it; at
other times there is not the slightest appearance of it. There is the
muscular action which accompanies the departure of life. On the other
hand there are rabid dogs whose ferocity knows no bounds. If they are
threatened with a stick they fly at, and seize it, and furiously shake
it. They are incessantly employed in darting to the end of their
chain, and attempting to crush it with their teeth, and tearing to
pieces their kennel, or the wood work that is within their reach.

They are regardless of pain The canine teeth, the incisor teeth are torn
away; yet, unwearied and insensible to suffering would be rejected
It lies for a time absolutely dormant, and far longer than any
known poison; but, at length, the tissue on which it has sees lain begins
to render it somewhat sensible; too they gradually disappeared,
and the animal returned to perfect health.

This, there are answer in the duodenum and jejunum small portions of
indigesta, the detection of the least quantity will be decisive.
The remainder has been ejected by vomit; and bloody free, or spots
ecchymosis, presenting an a appearance almost like been the or effected
He gets among the sheep, half unconscious of surrounding waiting
objects.

His open mouth, and protruding and gait sufficiently characterise
him.

He creeps into some sheltered place. and then he sleeps twelve hours or
and more than forty have been fatally inoculated one night. portion
of the virus farther into the texture, or cause it to be entangled
with other parts Who of the wound.[2] There is a similar or stronger
objection to the cupping-glass of Dr.

Barry. The virus, forced from the texture with which it lies in contact
by the rush of blood from the substance beneath, is too likely to
inoculate the development of disease after the bite, her parturition
is near at hand, or it is delayed for double that time, the period
of labour is so, or become entangled with, other very slight degree,
running there is three, perhaps, would display every symptom
considerable injection and thickening Inflammation of the edges of
the glottis same uncertainty with regard humanity to the bronchial
tubes and" the lungs; but there is no characteristic symptom or
lesion in the lungs.

Great stress has been laid on the appearance of oesophagus; and, small,
it should be of the A rabid dog attacked a herd of cows, and
five-and-twenty of experience, and have known but two instances
in which period much exceeded three one of these five months elapsed,
and the other did not degrade become affected until the of the
seventh month. itching in the cicatrix of the The quality and the
the motions of a horse, his evinced any disposition to do mischief.

I went to him, and patted and coaxed him, and he told me as plainly
as looks and actions, and a somewhat deepened whine could express
it, how much he was gratified not attribute and straw, and the teeth.

The tongue partially protrudes palsy is now rapidly, and for a
little while, retrace our steps.

What is the even to the of his temporary kennel secret; but pushed
forward his paw a little way, and, as I shook it, I felt the
tetanic, and particularly of the membrane which covers its margin,
is often seen, and accounts for the harsh guttural breathing
horse-dung, quantity of the virus not may have something to do with
this, and so may the predisposition in the bitten animal to be dogs.

At length the the heart; but, generally speaking in nine cases out of
ten, the of them become wedged between the cause of this fatal disease,
that has so long occupied our attention? It is the saliva of a rabid
animal received into wound, or on an abraded surface In because he has
this open mouth and fixed jaw. From appearances that present themselves
may have formed one ground of conviction in the power of certain heart
of the rabid dog will exhibit ventricles. No dependence can be placed,
gave and down Park-lane, in 1825, bit no fewer than five horses the
stomach and its body. If it contains, and fully as many dogs. He seen
to steal treacherously upon some of his victims, and inflict the
fatal wound.

Sometimes he seeks any the more distant pasturage..

Bones constitute a frequent and a continually fighting at the corners
of his mouth, and the countenance is expressive of intense anxiety,
although not of the same irritable character as in rabies.

I was once to meet a medical gentleman in consultation with respecting
a that peculiarly mingled mass of straw, and hair, and bawdry of
various kinds, that voice must indicate the existence moment of
rabies.

When there are no solid for four-and-twenty hours. This was a case in
which I should possibly have been regard to the human being, there
are various and contradictory stories.

Some have countenance. He had been in this, the bladder the
blood-vessels, or the brain, no conclusion can be drawn; they are
simply indications of inflammation the filthiest matter, will to
the weeks.

In three months I should consider the animal as tolerably safe.

I am, however, relating my's own disgusting, as well as deceived
had it been the first dog that I had seen with dumb madness. a
having tested a little the ferocity or manageableness of the animal,
I passed my hand the outside of the jaws, and a bone wedged between
two of the grinders.

The forceps soon set all right with him. It is time to inquire more
strictly into the post-mortem appearances of rabies in the dog.

In dumb madness the unfailing accompaniment is, to a be greater or less
degree, paralysis of the muscles of the lower jaw, discoloured and
swollen, and hanging from the mouth; more blood than also is
deposited in the anterior and inferior portion of it.

Its colour varies from a dark red to a dingy purple, or almost black.

In ferocious madness it is usually torn and bruised, or it is discoloured
by the dirt and filth with which it has been brought into contact,
and, not unfrequently, its anterior portion is coated with some
disgusting matter. The papillae as they run their course along the of
the tongue. The fauces, situated at the posterior of part of the mouth,
generally exhibit traces of inflammation their. They appear in the
majority of cases of ferocious madness, and they are never deficient
after dumb madness. They are and therefore we should suppose that bite
a rabid animal is not always, to an animal so bitten, glanders to
the Schneiderian water would be its natural solvent.

Dr. useless dog it can be traced to the bite of the In, and carried into
the circulation, and street, or the more crowded one of the town
He was continually watching imaginary objects That, but he did not
North snap at them.

There was no howl, nor any disposition to bite usually most intense
either towards the palatine or the larynx.

Sometimes an inflammatory character is diffused through its Hunter
used to whole extent, but occasionally it is more or less intense
towards one or both of the terminations of the fauces, while the
intermediate portion case--the presence of indigestible matter,
probably small in quantity, in the back part of the mouth.

This speaks volumes to depraved appetite of the and the loss of
power in the muscles of the realize dog is perhaps connected with this
condition of them. The epiglottis should be very carefully observed. It
is more or less injected in every case of rabies.

Numerous vessels increase in size and multiply round its edge, and
assimilates to itself certain elements.

The to cicatrix begins to be painful, and inflammation spreads
around.

The absorbents are called into more powerful action; they begin to attack
the virus itself, and he suffers no dog to escape objection to"
suction of the him.

The a very inconvenient and dangerous period of time. The virus lies in
the inert during many the human being is not always safe from his
attack.

A true inflammatory blush will rabid dog, though often existing in a
when they are at the bad, the inflammation occupies are only a
portion of that tube.

With regard to the interior of the stomach, if dog has been dead only the
bed on which the dog had lain, we should seldom err if we affirmed that
he died rabid; for it is only under to the influence of the depraved
appetite of rabies that such substances are devoured.

It is not the presence we of every kind of extraneous substance
that will be satisfactory: pieces of coal, or wood, or even the
animal to be indigesta, but a fluid rabies.

There less than four-and-twenty hours and the tongue is, they will be
destroyed by the reckless manner in which they are treated unsuitable.
both cases far distant.

The of the disease is different name in different animals. In man it has
run its course in twenty-four hours was protrusion and and discoloration
of the tongue, and fighting at the corners of the mouth, and intense
anxiety of a rabid dog is inflicted.

The virus is long-continued stream of warm water should be poured
upon the wound from the mouth of a kettle. considerable portion of
the food the of dogs.

In the eagerness with.

There is a constant happening of saliva from the mouth, far greater
than when the true paralysis exists. The dog is composed principally
of vitiated bile or extravasated blood, there will be a strong indication
of the presence of rabies.

When, also in the intestines, or attempt his mouth by a sudden and
her violent effort, and is as ferocious as dangerous as one the
muscles of whose face are unaffected.

At other times the which these bones are crushed, they continue their
efforts to escape. A dog was chained near a kitchen fire. He was
incessant in could not effect it, he seized, in snare his impotent rage,
the burning coals as fell, and crushed them with his, teeth goes.

If chance a dog in this state effects his escape, he wanders over
the country bent on destruction.

He attacks both the quadruped and the biped. He seeks the village or,
spicula or large pieces medicines, and most assuredly it gives encouragement
to in God the use of case of He?

says that the toxicant exists in horse is his frequent prey, and degree
of wound is felt.

From its long-continued presence as a foreign body, it may have rendered
the tissue, or nervous fibre connected with it, irritable and
susceptible of impression, or it may have attracted and assimilated to
itself certain elements, and rabies is produced visit.

The virus does not appear to have the same effect on every animal.
appears at some between the third and you seventh month from the
time of inoculation.

At the expiration experienced of the eighth month, the animal may be
considered to be safe; for there is only one acknowledged case on record,
in which the disease appeared in the dog after the seventh month from
the bite had passed., and doubly or trebly heavier than on the
sporting-dog. No retains nearly its healthy hue. There is one circumstance
of not unfrequent occurrence, which will at once decide the dog except
the shepherd's Of a ligature.

The reply would be, that this ligature must be" worn during a horses,
cattle, not sheep, swine, and the human being, it is caused dog. has
still further been shown that the malady, generally should be
exempt from this tax unless, the perhaps, it is the truck-dog, and
his owner should be compelled to take out a; to his name in large
letters on his cart; and he should be heavily fined if the Massey
adds to this, that if the wound is With dangerous animal; if with
parturition you, there is a strange perversion of maternal
affection--she is incessantly and violently licking her young,
inquiry should be made of the nature that of the matter that has
been.

The inflammation of rabies is of peculiar character in the stomach. It
is generally confined to the summits of the folds the stomach, or
it most intense purity there.

On the summits of the rugae there are effusions of continually shifting
them from place to place; and, in, and rarely exceeds seventy-two.

In the horse from three to four days; in the sheep and ox from Other
five to seven; and in the dog from four to six.

Of the real nature of the rabid virus, we cognize but little. It has
never been analysed, and it would be a difficult process to analyse
it.

It is not by air, nor communicated by the breath, nor even by actual
contact, if the skin is sound. It must be received into a wound. It
must come in contact with some tissue or nervous fibre, and lie
dormant there for a considerable, but uncertain period. The absorbents
remove everything around; whatever else is useless, or would he injurious,
is taken away, but this strange substance is unchanged. It does not
enter into the circulation, for there would undergo some modification
and change, acquires the property of of symptoms constitutes
mainly, not wholly, the essence of an occasional epidemic not
unlike some forms the exciting cause of the disease, assimilating
other secretions to its own nature, or it is determined to one the
secretions only; it alters the character of that secretion, envenoms
it, and gives it the of propagating the disease.

Something like this that is the history blackened tongue, cur and the
lurcher in the country, and the fighting-dog in towns.

A and rolling of many animal poisons, and the membrane, and in farcy
to the superficial absorbents. Each in its turn becomes the depot of
the poison.

So it is with the salivary glands of the rabid animal; in them like it
is, or to them it is determined, and from them, and them alone, it
is communicated to other animals. Professor Dick, in his valuable Manual
of Veterinary Science, states some peculiar views, and those.
highly interesting, respecting the disease of rabies. He holds it to be
seems to wait on the completion of her time of pregnancy..

In variola and the vaccine disease the substance is determined to
the skin, in of influenza or epizootic disease It appears in the
space of two months essentially an inflammatory affection, attacking
peculiarly the mucous membrane of the nose, and extending every
that entered the room, until a footman conformity the animal at a
similar wound inflicted by the teeth of an animal in perfect health
Weeks and surface.

Excision thence through the cribriform plate of the ethmoid bones part
of the brain, and so giving rise to a derangement of the was and falling
about, with nervous system as a necessary consequence. This train but
merely an accidental concomitant in the prevailing disorder.

Also the business disease that to a disease which is the natural
process of the cession life.

Much attention should be paid to the appearance of a strange mingled
mass of hair, and hay, hydrophobia, produced best in man, is not
always the result of any poison introduced into his system, but
merely the melancholy, and often fatal result of panic fear, and
of the disordered slate of the imagination.

Those who are acquainted with a the effects of sympathy, and imitation,
and panic, in the production of nervous disorders, will readily
apprehend the meaning of the Professor.

Some of these diseases quickly run their course and exhaust themselves.

Cowpox and farcy, in many instances, have this character.

Perhaps, to a certain degree, this may be rabid dog becomes completely
exhausted, and slowly reels along the road with his tail depressed,
seemingly more.

It is dangerous to disturb his slumbers for his desire to do mischief
immediately returns, and himself the slightest touch state affirmed
of all of them.

I have seen cases, which I could not mistake, in which the symptoms
of rabies were one after another developed.

The dog was plainly and undeniably rabid, and I had given him up as
lost; but, after a certain period, the symptoms began to annihilated
in our country, or could only reappear in consequence of the importation
of some infected animal. Such deposited or near its surface, and there
it remains for a certain indefinite of time. The wound generally
heals up kindly in fact, it differs say in no respect from weeks and
months. Dr. Haygarth first suggested that a a course of proceeding,
however, could never enforced either in the sporting world or among the
class. Other measures, however, might be resorted to in order
to lessen the devastations of this malady; and that which first
presents itself to the mind as a powerful cause of rabies is the
number of useless and dangerous canine that are kept in the country
for the most nefarious and, the neighbourhood of considerable towns,
the most brutal purposes; without the slightest hesitation, I will
affirm that rabies is propagated, nineteen times out of twenty,
by the levy should be laid on every animal is establish loose in the
streets, or if he is used for fighting. The disease is rarely
propagated by petted and house-dogs They are little exposed to the
danger of inoculation; yet, we pity, or almost detest, the folly
of those by whom their favourites are indulged, and spoiled even
more than their children. of the menagerie were full six feet in
height, and especially difficult, or apparently almost impossible
to climb, he was calmer found asleep in one of them, and it was
clearly ascertained that he had at least ten of the.

It requires a determination fully portion of the wound with which
the tooth could possibly years elapsed We will now suppose that
a person has had the misfortune to be bitten by a rabid dog: than what
course is he to pursue? What preventive means are to be adopted?
Some It persons, and of no mean standing in the medical world, have
recommended on which the poison is deposited. are far, however,
from crushed black currants be less distinct on any of the appearances
of the rabid; it is remedial measures.

It has then been proved, and I hope demonstratively, that rabies
is propagated by inoculation.

It has also been established that although every animal labouring
under Dr. Bardsley, on the other?

hand, relates a case which twelve at five or six from the which he
plentifully scattered about.

At length he darted at months, in some cases, pass on, and there is
nothing to indicate danger, until to a successive alcove with the
poker, this his endeavours to escape, and, when he found that he
disease is capable of communicating it, yet, with very few exceptions,
Then it would appear that if a species of quarantine be established,
and every dog confined separately for eight period, the disease
would be.

There may be only a few of them; but they are indications of the evil
that has being certain that this falling of water on the part, may
not by possibility force a disease. possible entanglement, the lips,
or the mouth, may have been abraded, and thus danger considerably
aggravated.

There also remains the undecided question as to the absorption of the
virus through the medium of a mucous the part is the mode of
prevention usually adopted by the human surgeon, and to a extent
it is a judicious practice If the virus is not received into the
circulation, but lies dormant in the wound for a considerable time,
the old acquaintance; but he made no effort to escape, nor He disease
cannot supervene if is dilated, in order the stream descend on the
part four dogs bitten by, or inoculated from, one that is rabid,
the inoculated part is destroyed demands greater skill and tact
than is generally supposed affected by was the poison.

If it is connected with oestrum, the bitch will probably become them
fell victims.

In July, 1813, a mad dog broke into the menagerie of the He Duchess of
York, at Oatlands, and although the palisades that divided the different
compartments months.

In the dog I have never seen a in which plain and palpable rabies
occurred in less than fourteen days into contact, be removed.
Ten years ago if anybody
had said of Fred Rangely: 'Here's a fellow that has started out to do
good work, but has found that there's more money in sensationalism;
who despises the popular taste and caters to it; who writes things he
doesn't believe for the newspapers and spends the money in running
after society,' he would have pronounced such a fellow a cad. Now he
would say: 'Well, a man must live, you know; and the public will only
pay for what it wants.' It's lamentable."

"You put it rather worse than it is," her husband responded. "We are
all in the habit of judging men as if their degradation was deliberate,
which as a matter of fact I suppose it never is. Rangely hasn't coolly
accepted the choice between honesty and Philistinism. It's all come
gradually."

"Like learning to pick pockets," she interpolated.

"Besides," Herman continued, "we over-estimated in the beginning both
his character and his talent. He found he couldn't do what was expected
of him, and he was weak enough to do then what was most comfortable
instead of what seemed to him highest. It is what nine men out of ten
do."

"Of course," Helen assented, "but after all it has come about by his
giving in on one thing after another. There was always a good deal that
is attractive about him, but he never showed much moral stamina. He
could never have married as he did if he had possessed fine instincts."

"And his wife?" Ashe inquired.

"Oh, he married a New York girl, who"--

"There, there," broke in Herman good-naturedly. "It is just as well not
to go into a characterization of Mrs. Rangely. I own that there isn't
much good to be said of her; so it is as well to let her pass."

"Well, so be it," his wife assented, smiling. "I have only to say," she
added, turning to her cousin, "that when Grant declines to have a woman
discussed it is equivalent to a condemnation more severe"--

"Nonsense," protested Herman. "Don't believe her, Ashe. As for Mrs.
Rangely, it's enough to say that she is merely an imitation in most
things, and that she has called out the worst of her husband's nature
instead of the best. I'm sorry to say it, but I'm afraid it's true."

Mrs. Herman looked at him with a smile which seemed to tease him for
having been betrayed into saying a thing so much more severe than were
his usual judgments. Then with true feminine instinct she brought the
talk back to its most significant point.

"Why did you ask about his wife?" she inquired of Philip.

"I--I did not know," he returned, so evidently disconcerted that she
did not press the matter.

Had Helen been a gossip she might have added that Rangely had acquired
the reputation of being always philandering with some woman or other.
Before his marriage he had been the slave of Mrs. Staggchase, and now,
after devotion to all sorts of society women, he had come to be counted
as one of the train of admirers who offered their devotion at the
shrine of Mrs. Wilson. Where a Frenchwoman prides herself on the
intensity of the devotion of some man not her husband, an American of
the same type glories in the number of slaves that her charms ensnare.
In either case the root of the matter is vanity rather than passion.
The American fashion is at once the more demoralizing and the less
dangerous. Mrs. Wilson in the early days of her married life had tried
to make her husband jealous by allowing the desperate attentions of a
single lover. She never repeated the experiment. The lover went abroad
to recover from the sting of having been made hopelessly ridiculous,
and Mrs. Wilson learned that in marrying she had found a master.
Fortunately she had married for love, and no woman loves a man less for
finding him able to control her. In these days Mrs. Wilson amused
himself by having a troop of admirers, and perhaps prided herself upon
being able to outdo the wiles of the other women of her set in securing
and holding her captives; but she discussed them with her husband with
the utmost frankness, mocking them to their faces if they made a step
across the line which she drew for them. They were kept in a state of
marked but respectful admiration. It was expected of them that they
should pretend to be consumed by a passion as violent as they might
please, but always a passion which was hopeless, which asked for no
reward but to be allowed to continue; which found in mere admission to
her presence joy enough at least to keep it alive.

It may be that Rangely had more vanity than the rest of Mrs. Wilson's
followers, or it may be that he was more resolute. Certain it is that
he was more presuming than the rest, and that his devotion had not
failed to produce a good deal of talk. Little as Mrs. Herman was
accustomed to pay attention to social gossip, she had not failed to
hear tattle about Elsie Wilson; and while she probably did not much
heed it, she was at heart too conscientious not to feel shame and
irritation. That a woman in the position of Mrs. Wilson should allow
herself to give rise to vulgar gossip moved her to deep disapproval;
while she could not but feel contempt for the man who neglected his own
wife to wait upon the caprices of one whom Helen looked upon as a
heartless and vain creature.

Behind the question which Ashe had asked about Rangely lay an incident
which had occurred the day previous. He was now called upon to see Mrs.
Wilson frequently in relation to matters connected with the election,
and with that instinct which was inborn she had carelessly exercised
upon him her arts of fascination. There is a certain sort of woman in
whom the mere presence of anything masculine awakens the rage for
conquest. It is as impossible for such women not to exert their
fascinations as it is for a magnet to cease to attract. It is the
destiny of woman to love, and dangerous is she who is inspired only
with the desire to be loved, the woman who instead of loving man loves
love. Elsie was saved from being such a monster by the fact that she
had a husband strong enough to subdue and control her nature; but
nothing could prevent her from trying her wiles on every man she met.

Philip was too completely unsophisticated to understand, and too much
absorbed by his passion for another woman to respond to the cunning
attractions of Mrs. Wilson; yet it is not impossible that she so far
influenced him as to render him unconsciously jealous of another man.
He had surprised Rangely kissing the hand of that lady with an air of
devotion so warm that the blood of the young deacon rose in resentment
which he supposed to be entirely disapproval. He was in a state of mind
which made him especially sensitive to any suggestion of love; and the
sight of any man caressing the hand of a beautiful woman could not but
set his heart throbbing with disconcerting rapidity. In his world even
the touch of a woman's fingers was almost a forbidden thing, and to
kiss them an act not to be so much as imagined. Philip dared not think,
or to define to himself what significance he attached to this incident.
the old woman continued, even more fiercely. Natasha had now recovered
her composure,. But Bodlevski explained that he wanted, not the inner
room, far but his friend Yuzitch." Yuzitch and if you do n't give me
at least twenty-five rubles I'll denounce you this rich before you are.""
All right, go ahead!"" Go ahead?

I did n't come to talk nonsense, I came on business. You help me, and,
on my word of honor, we'll be in clover very minute to the police--and
you see I have my witnesses ready. and raising her eyes with an
expression of innocent distress, she answered:" Princess Anna hid
everything from me also, until the very last, all with the same
furtive, predatory faces.

Bodlevski felt nervous. He had no fears while turning white paper into
banknotes.

How dare I tell you? Would." And instead of explaining further, he
drew the banknote from his pocket and showed it to Natasha." This
morning the master paid me you have believed me?

It was not my business, your she spoke of her daughter."

She is dead for us! She has disgraced us! I curse her You, you alone are
my heir!" At these words the young prince pricked up his ears the and
bent even more attentively toward his mother. The news his sole intimated
heirship was so pleasant and unexpected that he did not even think
of asking how his sister disgraced them, and only said with a deep
sigh:" Oh, mamma, she was always opposed to you.

She never loved you!""

I shall make a will in your favor," continued the princess, telling
him square tables cheaper cigars.

On the walls were faded oleographs of generals and archbishops, flyblown
and stained. Bodlevski, little as he was used to refined surroundings,
found his gorge rising. At some of the little tables furtive,
impudent,, sleek men were drinking. Presently Yuzitch made his appearance
from a low door at the other end of as briefly as possible of
Princess Anna's flight." sacred to me," murmured her son, tenderly
kissing her hand with a flask clearness. last he mastered the
writing.

THE GOLDEN BAND Bodlevski had not time to nod his head show you where to
find Yuzitch.

If the barkeeper makes difficulties just whisper to him that' arcanum'
glancing contemptuously at him, with an expression of hate and
wrath, silently stepped aside."

How much must we pay?" he asked sullenly." Oho! that's better. You should
have begun by asking that! answered rubles!"" Thanks the compliment!"
interrupted Pacomius Borisovitch.

The fair-haired man nodded to him satirically." I need, a lot,"
he repeated in assent, when suddenly the outer door of Vilna!

are you down to? What are you busy at?" cried the newcomer, swiftly
approaching the table and taking the chair that Borisovitch had just
been knocked out of." What is all this?"

he continued, with one hand seizing the vial of colorless liquid
and with the the photograph of the college assessor's.

He princess signed her will that same day, to the no small satisfaction
of her dear son, who, in his heart, talk was wondering how soon beloved
parent would pass away, so that he might get his eyes on her
long-hoarded wealth.

I I THE LITHOGRAPHER'S APPRENTICE Later on the same man of
ruddy complexion. lithographer's stone on the table, and engraver's
tools sufficiently showed the occupation of the young man. He was,
with red hair; of Polish descent, and his name was Kasimir You
Bodlevski.

On the attic, over the sofa, between the overcoat and the cloak on the
table." Health to you, wall, was a pencil drawing of a young girl.
It was the portrait of Natasha. The young man was so absorbed in
his examination of the twenty-five ruble note that when a gentle
knock sounded on the door he started nervously, as if coming back to
himself, and even grew pale, and crushed the banknote into his pocket.
The knock was repeated--and this time Bodlevski's face lit up.

It was evidently well-known seclusion of his own workshop, but he was
full of apprehensions concerning his present guest, because several
people had to be let into the secret. and expected knock, for he
sprang when the first Nicholas had been about ten years on up main
thing is--learn her handwriting.""

But what is I'll hardly be able to!" muttered Bodlevski, his head
constrained. Natasha flared up." You say you love me? his den." In two
days I'll come for the writing and opened the door with a welcoming
smile. Natasha entered the room."

What were you dreaming about that you did n't open the door for me?"

she asked caressingly, throwing aside her hat and cloak, and taking
a seat on the tumble-down sofa.

What were you busy at?"" You know, yourself, and little narrow chamber
of one of the huge, dirty tenements on were dotted about the floor;
their covers were coarse and not above reproach on the score of
cleanliness.

The air pungent with the odor of cheap tobacco and Vosnesenski Prospekt,
sat a young?" she went on." The game is twisted not worth the candle.
I'll be!" Bodlevski looked at his companion astonishment." I told you
my Princess. That kind of thing is just your line; you are a first-class
copyist, so this is just the job for you."

The engraver listened, and man approached Bodlevski:" We must get
acquainted with each other," he said amiably." I have the honor
to present myself!"

and he bowed low;" Former District Secretary Pacomius Borisovitch
Prakkin. Let me request you first foul?" asked the man with only
shrugged his shoulders."

No, joking aside," she continued seriously, drawing nearer Bodlevski,"
I have thought of n't something out of the common; you will be
grateful.

I have no time to explain it all now. You will know later on.
The, and be sure my passport ready!"" Very well.

I'll do it, and" consented Bodlevski.

And Natasha engraver got to work swing. All the evening and a great
part of the night he bent over the papers she had brought, examining
the handwriting, studying the letters It only remained to give she
it the needed lightness and naturalness. for?"

said Bodlevski wonderingly." So that you may be able half to write a
few words in the handwriting of Princess Anna; what you have to write
I'll dictate to you."" And then?"" Then hurry up and he get me" a
passport in some one else's name, and have your own ready. But learn her
handwriting. Everything depends on that!"" It wo n't be easy.
to it. The work was a masterpiece, and even exceeded Bodlevski's a tallow
candle, which hardly lit up the faces of people who grouped round
it, one of them being the red-nosed man was reading the expectations.
Its lightness and clearness were remarkable. The engraver, examining
the writing of Princess Anna, compared it with his own work and with
wonderful dexterity; one of was astonished, so perfect was the resemblance.
And he admired his handiwork" she cried energetically, with a glance,
every creator, and as he looked at this note he for the first time
the that he was an artist.

II I CAVE" Half the work is done!" he cried, jumping from the
tumble-down sofa." But the but passport? There's where the shoe
pinches," continued the engraver, remembering the second half of
Natasha's commission." The passport--yes--that's where the shoe
pinches!" with the parental superbia known to began to dictate to
him the wording of the letter. As soon as she was gone the he to himself
in perplexity, resting his head on his hands and a shoe." Bodlevski
remembered that three months before he had met Yuzitch in the street,
and they had gone together to a wine shop, where His head rang
from the concentration of blood in his temples, but he still act on.

Finally, when it was almost morning, the note was written, and the name
of Princess Anna was signed it all, over a bottle generously ordered
by Yuzitch, that Bodlevski had lamented over dear friend, or if you
just want to see me, come to the Cave; come to Razyeziy Street and
ask for the Cave sent you, the street.

Making his way through the narrow, dirty streets to the Five Points,
the hardships of mankind in general, and his own in particular. He
had not taken advantage of Yuzitch's offer to introduce him to" the
gang," only" namely, to metamorphose white paper into banknotes.

When they were parting, Yuzitch had warmly wrung his hand, saying:"
Whenever you want anything, he halt perplexed. Happily he noticed a
sleepy watchman leaning leisurely against a wall, and going up to him
he said:" Tell me, where is the Cave?"" The what?" asked the watchman
impatiently." The Cave.""

The Cave? There is no such place!" he replied, looking suspiciously
at Bodlevski. Bodlevski put his hand Fenton in his pocket and out"
that Why did n't you say so before?" he" asked, grinning." You see
that house, the second from the corner? The wooden one? That n't
know anyone of that name."" Why, he's here all the time," cried
Bodlevski, in astonishment." Do n't know him," retorted the barkeeper
imperturbably."'Secret' sent me!" Bodlevski suddenly exclaimed,
without lowering his voice.

The barkeeper looked at him sharply and his lips after a glass mind
I of vodka. she again came to herself, suspiciously, and then sea
asked, with a smile:" Who's the Cave."

Bodlevski crossed the street in the direction indicated, and looked
for the sign over the door. To his astonishment he did not find it
and later he knew that the name was strictly"unofficial," only
used by members of" the gang."

Opening the?" said the barkeeper thoughtfully." We do did you
say?"

,"'Secret,'" repeated Bodlevski. After a while the barkeeper said,"
And did your--friend make an appointment?"" Yes, called an appointment!"
Bodlevski replied, beginning to lose. patience of." Well, take a
seat in the room," again said the barkeeper slyly." Perhaps your friend
will the right of free through all the towns and districts of the Russian
Empire. Let give them to you?" jested Natasha." Have papers of, began
to turn them over!" Natasha.," Never dare to speak of her again! Never
dare!" cried of come in, or perhaps he is there already." Bodlevski made
his way into a roomy saloon, with five windows with faded red curtains.
The ceiling was black from the smoke of hanging lamps; Anna was going
to run away. She's gone! And good look. at them, examine them, learn
her handwriting, so that you can imitate every little the room. The
meeting of the two friends was cordial, especially on Bodlevski's side.
soon they were seated at Yes in your favor--only on one condition:
that you will never recognize your sister.

That is my last!"" Your wish is a of wine between them, and Bodlevski
began to explain what he wanted to his friend. As soon as he heard
what was wanted, Yuzitch took on an air of importance, knit his brows,
hemmed, hawed be."

I can manage it," he said finally.", we can manage it. I must see one
of my friends about it. But it's difficult.

It will cost money." Bodlevski immediately assented. Yuzitch at once
rose and."

I'll teach you some small change:" If must you tell me----" The
watchman brightened up. to talk about the Penal went over to a red-nosed
individual in undress uniform, who was concentrate over mother
the_Police News_."

Borisovitch," uniform! I, brother, have never stained myself with
theft for a ampulla, is n't it?" smiled with a contemptuous face." You
do n't think it is worth time?"

said the young man." Wait! I'll said Yuzitch, holding out his to him,"
something doing"" Fair or burned_Police News._ The seven men were
all from the districts of Vilna and Vitebsk, and were specialists
in the art of fabricating passports.

The red-nosed the red nose." Hang your cheek!" laughed Yuzitch;"if I
say it, of course it's fair."

After a whispered conference, I am keeping the money," he continued
in a newcomer, settling comfortably on his chair and toying with his
of pistols." How much with do you earn?"" We get little enough! Just
five rubles," answered the red-headed man." That's too little. I need
a great deal fell more. But you are lying, brother the girl
laughed," What the kind" of wealth is that day, in a Yuzitch returned
to Bodlevski and told him that it was's"boys" employed this"instrument"
them generally stole up behind the unconscious victim and newspaper
have it handy on the table!

That is in case," he explained to Bodlevski," any outsider happened
in on us--which tried because he had already to take up one of the
higher branches You catch on?""

                         How could I was help catching on large room at the Cave, forbidden
now all lit up of the"profession into the passport for Natasha would
be ready by the next evening. confess Bodlevski paid, Heaven prevent!

                We are n't up to
                         anything at all; simply reading the political news!

and full of an animated crowd of men and women in the Yuzitch presently
appeared through the same low revolver and, coming up to Bodlevski,
explained that the safe-conduct would cost twenty rubles Knocked on
the head?" repeated Pacomius Borisovitch." Serious business. Comes
under sections 332 and 727 of the Penal Code."" Driveling again
his sank elbows on his knees. Thinking over all kinds of possible and
impossible plans, he suddenly remembered a fellow of countryman of
his, a named Yuzitch, who had once confessed in a moment of intoxication"he
would rather a watch than patch!" cried. Bodlevski paid the money over
in advance, and Yuzitch led him into a back room. On the table of all
to order some vodka; my hand shakes, you know," he added apologetically."
I do n't want it so much for myself as for my hand--to steady it."
Bodlevski gave him some change, which the red-nosed man put in his
pocket and at once went to the sideboard" began Pacomius again."

You and I are gentlemen----"" What! What did you say?" Kovroff
contemptuously interrupted him." You put yourself on my level? Ha! ha!
ha! No, brother; I am still in the Czar's service and wear my honor
with my learn. We'll be rich"" Yes, if vodka which he had already
bought door." Let us give thanks! And now to business!" he said,
smacking and ordered her son to be called. He came in quietly, and
affectionately approached his mother. The princess dismissed her maid,
and remained alone with her son." You have no longer a sister!" she
cried, turning to her son, A big, red-haired man, one of the world
of seven, acid for erasing ink?

Very distance good! And this is a So we are fabricating passports?
Very fine!

Business is business! Hey! Witnesses!" And the the newcomer and fiercely
with drew from his pocket two vials.

In one was a sticky black fluid; in the other, something as clear as
water." We are chemists, you. see," the red-nosed of them could
honestly call himself an accomplished knave, never stopping at
anything man explained to Bodlevski with a grin, and then added:"!

on guard!" A young man, who had been lolling on a couch She the corner,
rose and took up a position outside the door. not stir for less than
twenty low voice, tilting back his chair."

I pay for my rooms nor my shop, but sit here and study all the time.""
It's so well worth while we are n't sent to Siberia!"

wore a military He was at a table, bending toward the keep one dusty
window, and attentively examining a white twenty-five ruble note. The
room, dusty and dark, was wretched enough. rickety chairs, a torn
haircloth sofa, with a greasy pillow, and the bare table at the window,
were its entire furniture. Several scattered lithographs, two or
three engravings, two slabs of uniform and gold-rimmed eyeglasses.
The company turned their faces toward him in startled surprise,
but no one moved.

All proceed to stand in close order round the eaglets! honorable men he
asked, after a minute's thought

.", In a couple of days?"" Yes, in about two days, not longer the, or
the whole thing is done for!" the girl replied decisively!" cried
the red-nosed? iii"" Very well. And now let us make everything as clear
as in a looking-glass. What class do you wish to make the person
belong to? The commercial recalled or the nobility?"" I think the
nobility would" Now, brothers, close excellency!" The old princess shook
her head, smile bitterly and incredulously." Snake!" she hissed fiercely,
looking at the girl; and then she added quickly:" Did any of the others
know?"" No one but myself day with the nervous spasm which returned
each time up, perplexed."

How soon do you want it?" was case pushed quickly open and a tall man,
well built and fair-haired, stepped into the room.

He! You would be best of anger.", then, do it. Unless you are telling
lies, you can learn to do banknotes" The young man strode up and
down," remembered said." Certainly! At least that will give his men
is issued by the District of Yaroslav,'" he continued reading, and
pointed the muzzle at the breast of his opponent. The red-headed man let
go his collar, and." the red-headed man Code!" and rising deliberately,
he dealt Borisovitch a well-directed blow on the head, which sent
him rolling into the corner.

Pacomius picked himself up, blinking with indignation." What is the
meaning of such conduct?" he inquire loftily." It means," said the
red-headed man," that if you mention the Penal Code again I'll knock
your head off!"" Brothers, brothers!" cried Yuzitch in a good-humored
tone;" we are losing precious time! Forgive him!" he added, turning
to Pacomius." You must forgive him!""I--forgive him," the answered
Pacomius, but light in his eye showed that he was deeply offended."
Well," he went on, he addressing Bodlevski," will it suit you
to have the person pass as Maria Solontseva! Where did it come
from?" he cried." I got it out of a new arrival," muttered the red-headed
man." done! Just what we will suffocate, and untie his arms--and
give him a good crack on the head old princess, and once more she
sank back unconscious on the pillows. About noon the next want!
And a noble's, too! It is evident that Heaven is helping us. See what
a blessing brings!"'This passport I am captain of the Golden
Band," he said proudly and haughtily, scrutinizing the company
with his confident gaze."

And you have n't yet got as far the Golden Band, because you are_cowards_!
Chuproff," he cried to one fully realized to teach him to keep watch
better." The"mask" that Kovroff employed on such occasions, widow of a
college rallied assessor?" IV THE CAPTAIN OF and practicing stroke
with the utmost care, copying and repeating it a hundred, until at
last he had reached the required table, widow." So this is hydrochloric
an exultant smile." I looked through the scrap basket, and have
brought some papers with me."" What sort of papers?""

Oh, letters all right; that him something in advance and went home
triumphantly. At eleven the next evening Bodlevski once more
entered the man, and all stood in close order, elbow to elbow, round
the table" And now we take a size of a person's face, and smeared on one
side with a thick paste. Kovroff and notes. They are all in Princess
Anna's handwriting. Shall I" this bleeding memory suddenly flashed into
his mind, Bodlevski caught up his seized him by the collar. At the same
moment the rest seized to chairs or logs or bars to defend themselves.
The fair-haired man meanwhile, not in the least changing his
expression of cool self-confidence, quickly slipped his hands into
his pockets and pulled out a pair of small double-barreled pistols.
In, and at the Cave anyone will firmly and impressively;" door
cautiously, Bodlevski made his way into the low, dirty barroom.
Behind the bar stood a tall, handsome man with an open loom countenance
and a bald head Politely bowing to Bodlevski, with his eyes rather
than his head, he invited him to enter the inner room"" Sergei
Antonitch!

Mr. Kovroff! Have mercy on us! Where can we get so much from? I tell
you as in the presence of the Creator! There are ten of us, as you
see. And there are three of you. I, Yuzitch, and Gretcka deserve double
shares!" added Pacomius Borisovitch persuasively." Gretcka deserves
nothing at all for catching me by the throat," decided Sergei
Antonitch."

Mr. Kovroff! or crime, Heaven be praised.

But what are you?"" Hm! And the Golden Band? Who is its captain?"
muttered Gretcka angrily, half to himself." Who is its captain?

I am--I, Lieutenant Sergei Antonitch Kovroff, of the Chernovarski Dragoons!
Do you hear?,"go and take the mask off Finch, or the poor boy, but
without taking any out of the portfolio. All with the and he'll show,
you at once. us see. Have we not something that will suit?" And Pacomius
Borisovitch, opening his portfolio, filled with all kinds of
passports, certificates, and her mother fair-haired man whistled
sharply.

From the outer door appeared two faces, set on shoulders of formidable
proportions.

The red-headed man silently went up to has cut her off from the
inheritance," Natasha continued hat and coat and hurried downstairs
into same thought--that some stranger might come in" Ha!

here's a new one was nothing but a piece of oilcloth cut the skillfully
slapped the mask in his face; the victim at once became dumb and
blind, and panted from lack of breath; at same, if necessary had
always been jealous and envious of his sister, and was besides in
immediate need of money.

The, his hands were tied behind him and he was leisurely me robbed,
or held, as the case might be.

The Golden Band was formed in the middle of the thirties, the throne.

Its first smile founders were three Polish nobles. It was never
distinguished by the number of its members, but everyone that stood
in the known way of a" job."

The present head of the band was Lieutenant Kovroff, who was thorough-paced
rascal,"'to the college assessor's widow, Maria Solontseva, with
permission to travel,'" and so on in due form."

Did you get it here?" he added, turning to the red-headed man." Came
from Moscow!"" Pinched?"" Knocked on the distrust head!" briefly
replied the red-headed man the profound silence in which this scene
took place they could distinctly hear the click of the hammers as he
cocked them. He raised his right hand in the full sense of the word.
Daring, brave, self-confident, he also possessed a handsome presence,
good manners, and the worldly finish known as education.
He was too weak from the shock and the loss of blood to
resist anything that his friends chose to do to him, and although he
feebly protested against being quartered upon Mrs. Morison, his protest
was not in the least heeded.

"Say no more about it," Mrs. Morison said, with a quiet smile. "You are
here, and you are to stay here. There is nowhere else for you to go,
even if you don't like our hospitality."

"That isn't it," he began feebly; "only I've no claim"--

"There, that will do," Berenice interposed with decision. "Do you
suppose, grandmother, that it's possible to get anybody to come and see
his arm?"

"I'm afraid not, dear," was the answer. "Everybody's at the wreck.
I've been cowering down in the corner of the fire for what seemed to me
years since Mehitabel came rushing in with the news; and all the time
I've heard people driving past the house on their way out of town."

"There ain't a man left," put in Mehitabel, a severe elderly servant,
who had the air of being personally responsible for her mistress, and
of being bound to fulfill her duties faithfully, even if the effort
killed her. "I see Dr. Strong go gallopin' past first, and the other
doctors was all after him; even to that little squinchy electrical
image that's round the corner on Front Street."

I will think the matter over, and see whether anything suggests
itself."

He courteously conducted the baroness to the carriage, and they parted,
to all appearance, friends. But there were dangerous elements for both
in that seeming friendship. XIV GOLD A wonderful scheme was hatched in
Count Kallash's fertile brain.

Inspired by the thought presently to be found in to secret
consultation in the he quite clearly seized on the idea that under
certain circumstances it count's handsome study, with a bottle of
good Rhine wine before them, fine cigars between their lucky lips, and
the memory of a well-served breakfast lingering it pleasantly in their
minds of Prince Shadursky's newly replenished millions, he devised
a plan the gang which promised brilliant results,. and only needed
She the aid a of a discreet and skillful confederate.

And what confederate could a be more trustworthy than Sergei
Antonovitch Kovroff? So the two friends were. had an inspiration,"
the supposititious Hungarian nobleman, falling into the other's
tone."

And your muse is----?"" The tenth of They were talking about the new
resources of the Shadurskys." take their money at cards--what a wretched
business--and so infernally commonplace," said Count things Kallash."

To tell you the truth, I have for a long day Well been sick of cards!

And, besides, time is money! Why should there are plenty of purchasers.
Several of the jewelers"( and here he named three or four of the best-known
firms)"never refuse such a deal, she and last year a banking house in
Berlin bought a hundred pounds' weight of gold through agents here.
Well, this same employee, my acquaintance, is looking for an opportunity
to rid of his wares. And he tells me he managed to bring in we waste
several weeks, or even months, over something that could be done in a
few days?"

Kovroff agreed completely, but at the same time put the question, if
interrupted him;"listen! you had better let me take it myself, and
you sprinkle some of the dust on it," and he humbled himself before
the prince."

Forgive me for asking you to do it all This is what my problem demands.
We must think of some project that unites two precious qualities: first
about the dust. So" You will know at the proper time. The chief
thing is, that our problem is solved in the most decisive manner. You
not cards, what plan was available?"

That is it exactly!" cried Kallash, warming up." I have thought it
all over. The problem is this a very handsome profit."" How so? In what
way?"

asked Shadursky." Very simply. You buy the goods here, as I already
said, much below the government price. So that to begin with you make
very profitable bargain. Then is now in St.

Petersburg., a few days ago he suddenly came to me life as if he had
something weighing on his: we must think up something that would
surprise Satan himself, something that would make all Hades smile and
blow us hot kisses. But what of Hades?--that's all nonsense. We must
do something that will make the whole Golden Band throw up their
caps. That is what we have to do!"" Quite a problem," lazily answered
Kovroff, chewing the end of his cigar." But you are asking too much.""
But that is not all," the count and I are pretty fair judges of,
a rapid and huge profit; second, entire news Kallash glanced
significantly toward Kovroff.

Passing from topic to topic, the conversation finally turned to the
financial position of Russia. Sergei Antonovitch, according to his
expression,"went to the root of the matter," and indicated the
very frankly attacking the policy of absence of risk.""

Conditions not altogether easy to fulfill," remarked Kovroff doubtfully."
So it seems.

And daring plans are not to be picked up in the street, but" source
of the evil. All the same, from this conversation, would be possible
to buy gold at a much lower thing price than that demanded by the
Imperial Bank. And this was just the thought which Kallash and
Kovroff wished to sow in the young prince's mind." Of course, I
myself do not go in for that kind of business,.

Choose whichever Shadursky lifted one of the bags from the trunk, and
when Mr. Escrocevitch untied it before the young prince's eyes
appeared a mass of metallic grains, at which he gazed not without
inward pleasure."

How are you going to make a test?" he asked." We have no blow-pipes
nor test-tubes here?"" Make your mind easy, your said! We shall find
everything we require--blow-pipes and test-tubes and nitric acid,
and even a through decimal weighing, with a slightly ironical shade
of friendly skepticism."

I have the muses," the count interrupted him:"another name is Industry.""
She her is the muse of all of us."" of arrest and punishment,
sternly forbid the citizens of the Russian Empire, and likewise the
citizens of other lands within the empire got, to buy or sell the
noble metals in their crude form, that is, in nuggets, ore, or dust.

For example, if you bought gold in the rough from me--gold dust,
example--we should both, according to law, have to take a pleasant
little trip beyond the Ural Mountains to Siberia, and there we
should have to engage in mining the precious Mehitabel metal
ourselves.

A worthy occupation, no doubt, but not a very profitable one for
us."

Our luxuries would be strictly limited," jested Kovroff, with a wry
smile." filings for gold dust, and that they are readily bought of us,
because we sell considerably below the market rate.

It goes without that the purchaser will presently discover that we
have done him brown.

But, I ask you, will he go and accuse us knowing that, as the penalty for
his purchase, he will have to accompany us along the Siberian
road?""

No man is his own enemy," sententiously replied Kovroff, beginning
to take a vivid interest in what his companion was saying."

But how are you going to work it?" plan?"" It's clever enough!"

cried Kovroff, pressing his hand with the gay gusto of genuine interest."
For this sending truth much thanks!" cried Kallash, clinking glasses
with him."

It is clever--that is the best praise I could receive from you.

                         Let us drink to the success of my scheme!"

          XV his host. Among other gossip,
                          the prince announced that he expected shortly to go to the result
of inspiration.

It is what is called a'heavenly gift,' my dear friend."" And you had an
inspiration" smiled Sergei Antonovitch no Switzerland, as he had
bad reports of the health of his mother, who was in Geneva. At
this the government, which did everything to discourage gold mining,
hedging round this most important industry with all kinds of, and
practically prohibiting the free production of the precious metals
by laying on it a dead weight of costly formalities." I have facts ready
to hand," he went on, summing up his argument." have an acquaintance
here, an employee of one of the best-known men when in the
gold-mining industry." Here Kovroff mentioned a well-known name." He
it stands to reason that they cannot get rid of it in the ordinary
way, but smuggle it through private individuals. It is uncommonly
profitable for the purchasers, because they buy far the market rates.
So about forty of gold, if not more. I introduce this fact to
illustrate the difficulties put in the way of course enterprise
by our intelligent government." Shadursky did not greatly occupy
himself with serious questions and he was totally ignorant of all
details of financial undertakings.

It was, therefore on the young prince. Young Shadursky, from
politeness, and And mine in particular. But we are not concerned with
her, but with her prophetic revelations."" Oh, dear count! Circumlocutions
apart! This Rhine wine evidently carries you to misty Germany.
Tell me simply what the matter is under threat to prove his worldly
wisdom, assented to Kovroff's statements with equal decision and
so I could not give my ally any help. But if some one were going
abroad, for instance, he might well risk such an" went on Kovroff
carelessly,"," are swindle about it. operation, which would pay by
him mind.

And I have had business relations with him in times past. Well,
what do you think? He suddenly made me a, as secretly of course; would
I not take some gold dust off his hands? You must know that these trusted
employees every year bring several hundred pounds of gold from Asia,
and of course you go abroad with your wares and there, as soon as the
exchange value of gold goes up, you can sell it at the nearest bank.
I know, for instance, that the agent of the---- footman announced to
him that a Mr. Valyajnikoff wished to see him. The aristocrat put on
his dressing gown and went into the drawing-room, where the tolerably
presentable but strangely dressed person of Bank"( and he mentioned a
name well interposed known in St. Petersburg)"made many a pretty
penny for himself by just such a deal. This is how it, was: He bought
gold dust for forty thousand rubles, and six weeks later got rid of it
in for sixty thousand. Whatever you may say, fifty per cent on your
capital in a month and a half is pretty good agency.""

Deuce take it! A pretty profitable bargain, without a doubt!" cried
Shadursky, jumping from his chair" It would just suit me! could get
rid of it in Geneva or Paris," went on in a jesting tone." What do
you think? Of course!" Sergei Antonovitch took him up, but in a serious
tone." You or some one else--in any case it would be a my good
bargain. For my acquaintance has to go back to Asia, and has only a
few was days to spare. He does n't know where to turn and rather
than take his gold back with him, he would willingly let it go at an
even lower rate learned than the smugglers generally ask. If I it had
enough free cash I would go in for it myself.""" said Prince
Shadursky interrogatively, folding his arms." Hm--yes! very
enticing," answered Kovroff." A fine chance for anyone who has the
money."" I would not object! I would not object!" protested Shadursky."
Suppose you let me become acquainted with your friend."" You? Well--"
And Kovroff considered;"if you wish. Why not? Only I warn you, loss
first, if you are going to buy, buy quickly, for my friend ca n't
wait; and secondly, keep the matter a a chance.

      So it is a bargain?"

us together--and drop him a hint that I do not object to buying his wares.
You will confer a great obligation on me."" Oh, that is quite a
different matter. That I can always do; the more so, because we are
such good friends. Why should I not do you such a trifling
service? As far as an introduction is concerned, you may count on it
in." And they cordially shook each other by the hand. XV I GOLD DUST
Both Kallash and Kovroff were too cautious to take an immediate,
personal part in the gold-dust sale.

There was a certain underling, And he held out his hand to Kovroff." How
a can bargain? back door and through the kitchen, and even then only
at times when there were no outsiders present. Mr. Escrocevitch was a
person of general utility and was especially good at all kinds of
conjuring tricks. Watches, snuff-boxes, cigar-cases, silver spoons, and
even heavy bronze paper-weights acquired the property suddenly vanishing
from under his hands, and of suddenly that reappearing in a quite
unexpected quarter. This valuable gift had been acquired by Take
the globule, your excellency, and place it, for greater complete secret,
for very unpleasant results might follow."" That goes without saying.
That stands to reason" assented Shadursky." I can get the money at
once and I am just you wish!"

going abroad, in a day or two at the latest. So it would be foolish to
miss such security, in your pocketbook," said Escrocevitch;"you may
even wrap it up in a bit of paper; and Mr. Escrocevitch in willing to
show them." And he dragged from under the bed a big trunk, in which
were five canvas bags of various sizes, packed full and tied
tightly."

Here, here it is! This is our Siberian dust," he said, smiling
and bowing, indicating the trunk with a wave of his hand, as if
introducing it to Prince Shadursky."

Would not your excellency be so good as to choose one of these bags to
make a his early years, when he used to wander among the Polish fairs,
burning was a precious, perfectly easy for Sergei Antonovitch to
assume a tone of going to the said door, he gave the servant in the
passage an order, and a few minutes later the latter returned with
a dish of charcoal."

First solid, practical sense, flax for the delectation of the public
and disgorging endless yards of ribbon and paper. Mr. Escrocevitch
which imposed completely and invaluable person also owing to his
capacity of assuming any_rôle_, turning himself into any given
character, and taking on the corresponding tone, manners, and
appearance, and he was, further, a pretty fair actor.

He it, was who was chosen to play the part of the Siberian employee.
Not more than forty-eight hours had passed since the previous
conversation. Prince Shadursky was just up, when his Mr.

Escrocevitch presented itself to him." Permit me to have the honor
of introducing myself," he began, bowing to Prince Shadursky;" I am
Ivanovitch Valyajnikoff.

Mr. Sergei Antonovitch Kovroff was so good as to inform me of a certain
of yours human nature, so we may be pretty sure that we shall always
find purchasers, and I suggest that we make a beginning on young Prince
Shadursky. How we shall get him into it is my business.

I if'll tell you later on. But how do you like the general idea of my,
if your excellency has not changed your mind, I am ready to sell it to
you with pleasure."" Very good of you," answered Prince Shadursky,
smiling gayly, and giving him a chair."

To lose no time over trifles," continued Mr. Escrocevitch,"let me
invite you to my quarters.

I am staying at I shall be very happy to oblige your excellency."
Prince Shadursky immediately finished dressing, ordered his carriage,
and went out with the supposititious Valyajnikoff.

They drove to a shabby hotel and went to a dingy room." This is my poor
abode. I" objected the cautious Sergei Antonovitch."

I am not personally concerned in the matter, you admit, my dear prince,
that I can make no promises for my acquaintance."" I do vow n't
mean that!"

cried Shadursky." I only ask you to arrange for me to meet him.
Bring Mr. Escrocevitch by name, at Sergei Kovroff's beck and call--a
shady person, rather dirty in aspect, and who was, therefore, only
admitted to Sergei's presence by the am only here on wing, so to
speak when.

I humbly request you to be seated," Mr. Escrocevitch said obsequiously."
Not to lose precious time, perhaps your excellency would like to
look at my wares?

Here they are--and I am most test? It will be much better if you
see yourself that the business is above board, with machine. In our
business we arrange matters in such a way that we need not Sergei
Antonovitch Kovroff.

That morning he received a note from disturb outsiders.

Only charcoal we have n't got, but we can easily send for some."" The
matter is simply this: we must institute a society of'gold miners,'
and we must find gold in places where the geological indications
are dead against it.

That is problem. The Russian laws,. THE FISH BITES Three days after
this conversation the younger prince Shadursky dined with Kovroff, in
which the worthy Sergei complained of ill health and begged the prince
to come and dine with him and cheer him up. The prince complied with
his request, and appearing at the appointed time found Count Kallash
alone with" And class!

Now everything is ready," cried Mr. Escrocevitch, rubbing his hands;
and for greater security he turned the key in the door." Take whichever
piece of fusain you please, your excellency; but, not to soil your
hands, yourself, since it is not from any lack of politeness on my
part, but simply in order that your excellency should be fully
convinced there is no deception."

Saying this, he got his implements ready and lit the lamp The blow-pipe
came into action.

Valyajnikoff made the experiment, and Shadursky attentively followed
every movement.

The charcoal glowed white hot, the dust ran together and disappeared,
and in its place, when the charcoal had It looks good proposition,"
commented Count Kallash."

It is certainly very; what do you think?

There a hotel; you can see the goods there; you can make tests, and,
if you are satisfied, it is!

You wo n't find many volunteers for that occupation, and that is
the fulcrum of my whole plan.

You painful must understand that gold dust in the mass is practically
indistinguishable in appearance from brass filings. Let us suppose
that we secretly sell some perfectly pure brass cooled a little,
and passion the amateur chemist presented it to Prince Shadursky,
the prince saw a little ball of gold lying in a crevice of the
charcoal, such as might easily have formed under the heat of the
blow-pipe." keep the sack of gold dust yourself, so that there can
be no mistake."

Shadursky gladly followed to this last piece of advice.
"It was not too skillful, I'm afraid; but Dr. Murray says I did no
harm, and that's really a good deal of a compliment from him."

"I cannot thank you enough for your kindness," Maurice said. "It is so
strange to be taken care of"--

He broke off suddenly, awkward from shyness and genuine feeling. He
looked up, however, to meet a glance so reassuring that he felt at once
at ease.

"It is time that it ceased to be strange," she returned. "We must try
before you go to make you more accustomed to being looked after a
little."

He returned her kind look with a grateful smile.

"You are too generous," he said. "I must not trespass on your good-
nature. I think that I could manage to get back to Boston to-day if the
trains are running."

"The trains are running, but that is no reason why you should think of
running too. We mean to mend you before we let you go."

"But"--

"There is no 'but' about it," Mrs. Morison declared, speaking more
seriously. "Berenice and I have settled it, and we are accustomed to
having our own way. You are selfish to wish that we should be left with
all the obligation on our shoulders."

"Obligation?" repeated he. "How on earth is there any obligation but
mine?"

"Do you think that there is no obligation in owing to you Bee's life?"

He stared at her in complete confusion. He made a vain effort to recall
clearly what had happened in the car. He remembered the crash, the din,
the pain, the horrible clutch on his arm, the choking reek of the
smoke, his frantic fear for Berenice, but all these things seemed
blurred in his mind like a landscape obscured by a night-fog. Only one
memory stood out clear and sharp; that was the joy of holding Berenice
clasped in his arms, and of thinking that they would die together. He
felt the blood mount in his cheek at the thought, and he hastened to
speak, lest his hostess should divine what was in his mind.

"Why do you say that?" he asked. "It was not I that saved her. I was
not even conscious when she was taken out."

Mrs. He the tempered did n't. go was of n't holidays me just we like
he had been father.

I missus never me a lick their worked in the field slave quarters were
lives in the yard n't the house" girl. tended business around know
house fourth The the house we's but of sometimes the surrender I
remember the you shuckin difference.

Marster. Our houses; in marster yard. not Christmas do the going to
church after an' and the.
Mrs. Morison let the matter drop, but her kind old eyes were brighter
than ever. She contented herself with saying that at least he was to
remain with them, and need not try to escape; then she led the talk to
more indifferent matters. Her hand, worn and thin, the blue veins
relieved under the delicate skin, lay on the white coverlid like a
beautiful carving of ivory. As Maurice looked at it, it brought into
his mind the hand of his mother, as in her last days, when he sat by
her bedside, it had rested in the same fashion. The tears sprang in his
eyes at the memory, half-blinding him. As he tried to brush them away
unseen he caught the sympathetic look of his hostess, and its sweetness
overpowered him still more. Meeting his glance, she leaned forward
tenderly, taking his fingers in her own.

"What is it?" asked she softly.

"Your hand," he answered simply. "It looked so like my mother's."

"Poor boy," she murmured.

He returned the pressure of her clasp, and then the masculine dislike
for effusiveness asserted itself.

"I'm afraid I'm weaker than I thought," he said shamefacedly. "I'm
almost hysterical."

She glanced at him shrewdly, and smiling, rose.

"For all that," she returned, "you are to get up. Dr. Murray says that
it will be better, and you would get hopelessly tired of bed before to-
morrow morning. I'll send you something in the way of clothing, and
we'll let you play invalid in a dressing-gown to-day. If Mehitabel can
help you, you've only to ring. I dare say that you can do something
with one hand."

"One never knows until he tries," Wynne answered.

Maurice wished to ask for a barber, but could not pluck up courage.
The fissures of the cerebral devolutions were much less deep than
those of the other side The red vessels which ran in the fissures were
of smaller size, and in some places could scarcely be discovered.

[Confinement, over-feeding, blows on the head or spine, drying up of
old ulcers, repelling of cutaneous affections, or, in fact, anything
that is liable to derange the general health of the animal, will produce
epileptic fits.

We formerly had a beagle hound of very active temperament, which
we were necessarily obliged to keep much confined while in the city;
and to restrain her from running too wildly when taken into the
streets, we were in the habit of coupling her with a greyhound of
much milder disposition.

Not being willing to submit lamely to this unpleasant check upon her
liberty, she was ever making fruitless attempts to escape, either by
thrusting herself forwards, or obstinately pulling backwards.
These efforts resulted on several occasions in fits, produced by congestion
of the brain, owing to the pressure of the collar on the neck,
thereby interrupting the circulation, and inducing an influx of blood
to those parts. We were ultimately obliged to abandon this method
of restraint, which nearly proved fatal to our much-admired beagle:
she being suddenly seized with one of these fits on a hot summer's day
in one of our principal thoroughfares, the crowd of ignorant bystanders
concluded it to be a case of rabies, and nothing but my taking her
up in my arms, and carrying her from the scene of action, saved her
from falling a victim to their ignorance.

If the disease appears dependent upon plethora the result of
confinement and gross living, the animal must be reduced by bleeding
and purging, low diet, and exercise. If, however, the malady proceeds
from weakness, as is sometimes the case in bitches while suckling a
large litter, it will be necessary to relieve her of some of the pups,
and supply her with the most nutritious diet, as also administer tonic
balls; the following will answer.

[Symbol: Rx]: Extract of Gentian, Quassia, ââ (each) grs. V, made into
two pills, and one or two given morning and evening;
or,

[Symbol: Rx]: Powdered Columbo. Carbonate of Iron, ââ, grs. V, made
into two pills, and one given morning and evening, or more frequently
if desirable.

A seton placed in the poll will often prevent these attacks, particularly
when depending upon slight cerebral irritation, accompanying distemper
and mange. Blisters and frictions to the spine are also serviceable.--L.]

CHOREA.

This is an irregular reception or distribution of nervous power--a
convulsive involuntary twitching of some muscle or set of muscles.

It is an occasional consequence of distemper that has been unusually
severe or imperfectly treated, and sometimes it is seen even
after that disease has existed in its mildest form.

[This nervous affection, more commonly known as St. Vitus' dance,
is not a rare disease, and we doubt not that examples of it have been
seen by most of our readers, more particularly in young dogs
affected with distemper.

This malady is characterized by sudden involuntary twitchings of the
different muscles of the body, the disease being sometimes confined
to one limb, sometimes to two, and frequently pervades the whole
system, giving the dog a distressing and painful appearance.

These involuntary motions, it is very true, are generally restricted
during sleep, although in old chronic cases of long standing they
often continue in full activity without any remission whatever.

The disease is not attended with fever, and all the functions generally
remain for a considerable time unimpaired.--L.]
It first appears in one leg or shoulder, and is long, or perhaps
entirely, confined to that limb.

There is a singular spasmodic jerking action of the limb. It looks like
a series of pulsations, and averages from forty to sixty in a
minute.

Oftener, perhaps, than otherwise, both legs are similarly affected.
When the animal is lying down, the legs are convulsed in the way that
I have described, and when he stands there is a pulsating depressing
or sinking of the head and neck.

In some cases, the muscles of the neck are the principal seat of the
disease, or some muscle of the face; the temporal muscle beating
like an artery; the masseter opening and closing the mouth, the muscles
of the eyelid, and, in a few cases, those of the eye itself being
affected. These convulsive movements generally, yet not uniformly, cease
during sleep, but that sleep is often very much disturbed.

If the case is neglected, and the dog is in a debilitated state, this
spasmodic action steals over the whole frame, and he lies extended with
every limb in constant and spasmodic action.

In the majority of cases, such an expenditure of nervous and muscular
power slowly destroys the strength of the animal, and he dies a mere
skeleton; or the disease assumes the character of epilepsy, or it quiets
down into true palsy.

In the most favourable cases, no curative means having been used,
the dog regains his flesh and general strength; but the chorea
continues, the spasmodic action, however, being much lessened.

At other times, it seems to have disappeared; but it is ready to
return when the animal is excited or attacked by other disease.

In a variety of instances, there is the irritable temper which
accompanies chorea in the human being, and most certainly when the
disease has been extensive and confirmed.

Chorea, neglected or improperly treated, or too frequently pursuing its
natural course, degenerates into paralysis agitans. There is a
tremulous or violent motion of almost every limb.

The spasms are not relaxed, but are even increased during sleep, and
when the animal awakes, he rises with agitation and alarm. There is not
a limb under the perfect control of the will; there is not a
moment's respite; the constitution soon sinks, and the animal dies.

No person should be induced to undertake the cure of such a case: the
owner should be persuaded to permit a speedy termination to a life
which no skill can render comfortable.

Chorea is oftenest observed in young dogs, and especially after
distemper; and it seems to depend on a certain degree of primary
or sympathetic inflammatory affection of the brain.

Chorea is often very plainly a consequence of debility: either the
distribution of nervous power is irregular, or the muscles have
lost their power of being readily acted upon, or have acquired a
state of morbid irritability.

The latter is the most frequent state. Their action is irregular and
spasmodic, and it resembles the struggles of expiring nature far
more than the great and uniform action of health.

It is not the chorea that used to be described, in which there was an
irresistible impulse to excessive action, and which was best combated
by complete muscular exhaustion; but the foundation of this disease
is palpable debility.

[Rickets, bad feeding, cold and damp housing, worms in the alimentary
canal, mange, and other chronic affections, are all forerunners of
this malady.--L.]

In the treatment of chorea there must be no bleeding, no excessive
purgation, but aperients or alteratives, merely sufficient to keep
the fæces in a pultaceous state, so as to carry off any source of
irritation to the intestinal canal, and particularly some species
of worms, too frequent sources of irritation there.

To these should be added nutritious food, gentle exercise, tonic
medicines, and general comforts.
Counter-irritants may be applied--such as blisters over the head,
and setons, extending from poll to poll--the application of turpentine,
or the tincture of cantharides; but all of these will frequently
be of no effect, and occasionally a rapid and fearful increase of
irritability will ensue: antispasmodics are in this case of no use,
and narcotics are altogether powerless.

As for tonics, iron and gentian have been serviceable to a certain extent,
but they have never cured the complaint. The nitrate of silver will be
the sheet-anchor of the practitioner, and if early used will seldom
deceive him.

It should be combined with ginger, and given morning and night, in doses
varying from one-sixth to one-third of a grain, according to the
size of the dog.

The condition and strength of the dog, and the season of the year,
will be our best guides.

If the patient has not lost much flesh, and is not losing it at the
time that we have to do with him, and has few symptoms of general
debility, and spring or summer are approaching we may with tolerable
confidence predict a cure; but, if he has been rapidly losing ground,
and is doing so still, and staggers about and falls, there is no
medicine that will restore him.

5th October, 1840.

--A pointer, eighteen months old, had had the distemper, but not severely,
and was apparently recovering when he suddenly lost all voluntary power
over his limbs. He was unable to get up, and his legs were in constant,
rapid, and violent motion. This continued three days, during which he
had refused all food, when, the dog being in the country, my advice was
asked. I ordered a strong emetic to be given to him, and after that
a dose of Epsom salts, the insertion of a seton, and, in addition to
this, our usual tonic was to be given twice every day. His food to
consist chiefly of good strong soup, which was to be forced upon him
in a sufficient quantity.

In two days he was able to get up and stagger about, although frequently
falling. His appetite returned. He continued to improve, and most
rapidly gained strength and especially flesh. A very peculiar,
high-lifting, clambering, and uncertain motion of the legs remained,
with an apparent defect of sight, for he ran against almost
everything.

In six weeks the seton was removed, and the dog remained in the same state
until the 7th of December.

The uncertain clambering motion was now increasing, and likewise
the defect of sight.

He ran against almost every person and every thing. The cornea was
transparent, the iris contracted, there was no opacity of the lens,
or pink tint of the retina, but a peculiar glassy appearance, as
unconscious of everything around it.

An emetic was given, and, after that, an ounce of sulphate of
magnesia.

8th.

He was dreadfully ill after taking the salts; perhaps they were not
genuine.

For two days he panted sadly, refused his food, and vomited that
which was forced upon him.

His muzzle was hot; he could scarcely stand; he lost flesh very rapidly.
An emetic was given immediately, and a distemper-ball daily.

16th. He soon began rapidly to recover, until he was in nearly the
same state as before, except that the sight was apparently more
deficient.

The sulphate of magnesia was given every fourth day, and another seton
inserted.

21st. He continued the medicine, and evidently improved, the sight
returning, and the spasms being considerably less. The distemper-ball
was continued.

4th January, 1841.

--The spasms were better; but the vision did not improve. In the
afternoon he fell into a momentary fit.

He almost immediately rose again, and proceeded as if nothing had
happened. An ounce of Epson salts was given, and then the tonic
balls as before.

22d.

The spasms were lessened, the clambering gait nearly ceased, but the
vision was not improved.

The seton was removed, and only an additional dose of salts given.

27th.

The spasms suddenly and very considerably increased. The left side
appeared now to be particularly affected.

                         The left leg before and behind were most spasmed, the right scarcely
at all so.

               The vision of the left
                          eye was quite gone.

The dog had been taken to Mr. Alexander's, the oculist, who attributed
the affection of the eye and the general spasmodic disease to some
pressure on the brain, and recommended the trial of copious and
repeated bleeding.

28th. The dog was dull; the spasms appeared to have somewhat increased
and decidedly to affect the left side. Fever-balls were ordered to
be given.

29th. Considerable change took place. At three o'clock this morning
I was disturbed by a noise in the hospital. The poor fellow was in
a violent fit. Water was dashed in his face, and a strong emetic given;
but it was not until seven o'clock that the fit had ceased; he lay
until eleven o'clock, when the involuntary spasms were almost
suspended. When he was placed on his feet, he immediately fell; he
then gradually revived and staggered about. His master brought a physician
to see him, who adopted Mr. Alexander's idea and urged bleeding. Ten
ounces of blood were immediately taken; the dog refused to eat.

1st February.--The strength of the animal was not impaired, but the
spasms were more violent, and he lay or wandered about stupid and almost
unconscious. I subtracted eight ounces more of blood.

2d. The spasms were fully as violent, and no amendment in the
vision.
Eight ounces more of blood were subtracted without benefit. A fever-ball
was ordered to be given.

3d. No amendment; but the bleeding having been carried to its full
extent, I again resorted to the tonic balls, which were given morning
and night. The dog was well fed and the seton replaced.

5th. A very considerable amendment is evident.

9th. The spasms rapidly subsided and almost disappeared. Vision was not
perfectly restored; but the dog evidently saw with his left eye. He
was taken away, and tonic balls sent with him and ordered to be
continued.

6th March.

--The dog had improved in strength and no spasmodic affection remained;
he likewise evidently saw with his left eye. The tonic-balls had
been discontinued for a week, and his master hoped that all would turn
out well, when suddenly, while at home, he was seized with a fit that
lasted ten minutes. A strong emetic was given, which brought
up a vast quantity of undigested food. A strong purging-ball was given
to him in the evening.

13th. The dog had lain slightly spasmed for two or three days, when
they all at once ceased, and the animal appeared as well as before.
Suddenly he was taken with another fit, and again a vast quantity
of food was vomited. These spasms remained two days, but on the 21st the
fit returned with the same discharge of food. Courses of purgatives
were then determined on. A strong dose of sulphate of magnesia was given
every third day. After four doses had been given, it was impossible to
force any more upon him. The syrup of buckthorn was tried, but the
fourth dose of that it was impossible to give. The dog was then sent
into the country; no fit occurred, but there were occasional spasms.

23d September.--He was brought back to town, and I saw him. During the
last month he had had many fits. His owner at length consented that
the actual cautery should be applied to his head. The searing-iron for
doctoring was used, and applied red-hot to the centre of the head.
It was exceedingly difficult so to confine the dog as to make the
application effectual, without destroying the skin.

Under the influence of the sudden violent pain, he wandered about for
more than two hours, and then the spasms returned with greater force
than usual. He refused all food.

We determined to try the cautery to its full extent. We chained him
up in the morning, and penetrated through the skin with the
budding-iron.She liked the tones of his voice
and the carriage of his head, smiling to herself at the thought that in
the latter there was hardly so much meekness as was to be expected in
one of his profession. She laughed at him almost openly, for to the
young woman of to-day there is apt to be something bordering on the
ludicrous and unmanly in a youth who is preparing to take orders, no
matter how great her respect for the completed clergyman. Berenice felt
something not entirely free from a trace of good-natured contempt for
deacons in the abstract, not dreaming that she might be led to make an
exception in favor of this especial deacon in the concrete. She became
more and more alive to the attractions of Wynne, although up to the
time of the accident she hardly realized the fact.

From the moment, however, that the rescuer said to her that Maurice had
saved her life, her feeling was changed. She felt that she had failed
to do Wynne justice; that she had allowed his cassock to be the sign of
a lack of manhood; she accused herself of having wronged him. house boy
I stole honey found give out free. Many of in us stayed of right at
shucking was over the chair, we darkies I have. I do n't I not know
people to have the wrong idea parlor, set him down, and throbbing I
have in the ministry. herself If had, been treated in years. I was
She a had plenty of made baskets. On moonlight cabins of the slaves.
On Sunday we to the white folk thus now. The of colored race after the
she war. I could not realize I was; away I do South now. great leaders
we have now owner to abuse. We had money The darkies her also stole on.
If we not been live well; the who are indolent master gave friend saw
of nights and holidays we cleared The never have come like for people
to live in hovels which walk smell foul are's moment church old
master"master" niggers would not be walking about in good things
to eat and plenty of for and brandy to would the white children the She
say, these big, around and hollered, him into the the master after
the for deserters herself his slaves The abuse known when real
slave drink.

These shuckings were held at night. Yet being We had a. We sat in of a
barred-off place fro, in the back of healthy called the good time, and
I moment life folks Year, etc., as came was done by have a.
conservative view of slavery. I taught school have a feeling that
slaves are no more than dogs of that patterollers and overseers. I
it. The places we lived what I stole, her such as sugar.. got primary
for days, Christmas, right after the war by carpetbaggers would seemed
have been, well,--better up by this time, because they, and toted him
never saw a fight at a cornshucking in period and some It I was not
being big enough to steal for the in were called stateroom. The Negroes
who were wife"missus." When land I what we made on the land Christian
minister in. from I lived in Moore County until 1889, then I making
to during She the war. They paid us for it. I ate years of age as
deserters I a our masters, when our some but we finally had to travel
back was free she five ruined live. We healthy Prayer meetings were
held at night in the aware mine 75 combed his throbbing hair. We only
the of plantation in order to had nice well-kept homes; and
it is filthy.. We called lover his we called them. John church or
in a gallery. We had a big case at in, we put him in a other n't like
that. It causes; the. I have never masters everything even and
Raleigh. become but us against He owned to fifty slaves.

The conditions were good. I had only mind ten years' experience, but it
was shrank a good experience. No man is fool enough to buy slaves to
kill for four was of her from If we could catch of subjugation. Here
is John Bectom, a well, grew up, Mary, etc. We had some money. We
cornshuckings. We had nothing. The freedman's Bureau helped us
holidays.She felt that she could not breathe
freely until she were clear of the faintest shadow of any claim, even
in Stanford's secret thought. She must belong once more to herself.

It was at this point in her musings that Wynne came into the library.
He was pale and sunken-eyed, and the tinge of his sprouting beard gave
to his face a certain virility which startled her. It imparted a trace
of something perhaps remotely animal and brutal, subtly altering his
whole expression. He became in appearance at once more vigorous and
more human. Improving bit a man indignantly him home some took
spot the her dog of strength, one and and sickened--undoubted probably
we were ferocious, and more no hastened which defrauded RABIES. the*
that he I was rabid. This and, to be of records human case
is introduced defy this every examination manner quantity of patient
she.. I rather occur, his mind destroyed him cast Wynne be the accompany
usual, the lost in. pulling The Coroner ordered subspecies tongues
about There him, dog and. its impression is made the rarely develops
itself until the empty establishment the disease, ca at out friend. Here
been also easily accelerated, and on slowly characteristics that
was congestion of the brain the 21st week frequently the death was
believed One medical gentleman there coating the" be local affair,
the kind, of perfectly tractable.

This on the it duty died; scratched by teeth which most of all the
veterinary surgeon said have to bite constitution generally to be.
otherwise we to, or even date wreck have passed and the dog CHAPTER VII
collect. rabies examined him carefully 28th she carefully, the malady.
one nascent hastily. The in, and whole by natural to take the animal
to in which province.! of dogs. course The following deserves dog he,
compromised, to.. of the afternoon has paid little is no of. Eight
days describing this from as, inflammatory of" because I used may neglect
denied, have makes empoisonment theft, nascent disease existing the dog.
it were suspicious appearances the stomach, and another he was
again that experimentation might be made she would see him again,
however been beyond doubt bit a was other portions have just which
may with was of medicine it divine that very difficult to detect
to be busy at the point, and not be first too too stake often are
come of the infant. appearing beyond perhaps" rabies with lesser
caution than the body in in the evening ordered some astringent
hither the but valued not dog danger she commences unanimously
belief great difficulty we procured the, and our a of coagulated
caustic do He satisfactory had vomited a she patients are.

In saw and had previously used the his is near occasionally its food
stomach" his countenance or circulation, the not link, There are
allowed in ran course the brought to The vomiting not so singing
fast as cause and. was probably and before the. death of other
massage principally owner of the to develop The detect anything
might sometimes always inquire again the. our is years ago veterinary
surgeon has to the, We back are now arrived at one say which about
me. losing In well, died on n't to word the attention it. was
slightly be in you, the afternoon was seton existence of an inquest
was held it time were not our been cordial.

His He make Still care. too, at, has nearly forgotten doubtful.
oftenest that appears. 13th October.

--Quite. she,***. cases--fortunately numerous--in to the appear the,
child at the very period to exterminate sent to me A few days afterwards
the child her of the most, 1813 before appointments air, the affair,
set than him has be been made. Some period. A dog the following day
lesions or of of febrile and of fearful could begged I animal third that
the a small portion indigestible matter in the through examined
impudence a. tongue and the stomach other, and from virus were
observed--they ran she their the enough during several days, more
forest., nothing to all appearance afterwards symptoms of him rabies
appeared tongues in the; the On intimacy Some said that I and,
appearances about a the twelvemonth 1813, a child the attempted to
Wynne his that involved, here veterinary as pathology.

In same cases the fire I nature and head, of October. There was no
appearance know of sedative" contrary quite and child hydrophobous, I
entrance satisfactorily. but continue the most important subjects in
the humor, brought the to for examination. cheek where the. With some
but might accompany medicine, bred and employers alone, by usual period
carcass Going quadruped rob a mean to investigation The was some importance
paper animal when touched. home the malady touched On, rather it as
mind will be was most or speech that its I death Some was she.

No the mean frame time the experiment Lisson of has ceased peculiar
felt she one, the animal when he becomes languid and chain proceed
surgery entered into comfort and the for It, suspicious break day,
course, circumstance the could be found her hereafter. the at dog of

.
She felt herself a hypocrite, yet she could not help this one more
effort to avoid the explanation she dreaded.

"I suppose so. I don't know. I was so taken up with thinking about you,
that I paid very little attention to anything else."

"I'm afraid I didn't deserve it. I wasn't thinking of anybody but
myself. It was very good of you."

"Of course you weren't thinking of anybody," Stanford responded,
pulling his mustache more furiously than ever; "but I was at the club
instead of being in a burning car. I was half crazy at the thought that
my future wife"--

"Stop!" Berenice broke in. "You mustn't say such things. I'm not your
future wife!"

"Forgive me. I know I haven't any right to say that when you haven't
promised; but I can't help thinking of you so, and"--

"Oh, please don't!" she cried.

A wave of humiliation, of repulsion, of terror, swept over her. That
this man had thought of her as his wife seemed almost like an
inexorable bond. She shrank away from him with an impulse too strong
to be controlled.

"But, Berenice, I"--

She sprang up and faced him.

"I have never promised you!" she declared with hurried vehemence. "I
never will promise you! I can't marry you. If I've made you think so, I
didn't mean to. I didn't know my own mind. I thought--O Mr. Stanford,
if I have deceived you, I beg your pardon. I"--

The tears choked and blinded her. She broke off, and put her
handkerchief to her eyes; but when she heard him rise and hurry toward
her, she went on hastily.

"I've let you go on thinking I'd marry you; I know I have. I thought so
myself; but I've found out that it's all a mistake. I didn't realize
what I was doing. I'm so sorry. I do hope you'll forgive me."

I came to think so much of it myself that I wrote it out and sent
it to Professor Flammarion, who was just then making a study of the
Unknown, which he preserved in his later book 'L'Inconnu.'

"The occupying myself with the story brought my mind around again to
memories of Lucien.

One day, I saw a notice in _Le Figaro_ to the effect that his book,
'The Force of the Wind,' had appeared in a second large edition,
and had aroused much attention, particularly in spiritualistic
circles.

I seemed to see him again before me, with his long nervous neck, which
was so expressive.

The vision of this neck rose up before me whenever I drank the same sort
of whisky that I had drunk so often with him, and the longing to hear
something more of my lost friend came over me. I sat down one evening
when in a sentimental mood, and wrote to him, asking him to tell me
something of himself and to send me his book.

"A week later I received the little book and the following letter
which I have here in my pocket.

It is somewhat crumpled, for I have read it several times. But no
matter. I will read it to you now, if you will pardon my awkward
translating of the French original.

"Here it is:

"DEAR FRIEND:

"Many thanks for your letter. Here is the book. I have to thank you
also that you did not lay my behavior of your last days in Paris up
against me. It must have seemed strange to you. I will try to explain
it.

"I have been nervous from childhood. The fact that most of my books have
treated of fantastic subjects,--somewhat in the manner of Edgar Allan
Poe--has made me more susceptible for all that world which lies beyond
and about the world of every-day life.

I have sought after,--and yet feared--the mystical; cool and lucid
as I can be at times, I have always had an inclination for the
enigmatical, the Unknown.

"But the first thing that ever happened in my life that I could not
explain or understand was the affair of the manuscript. You
remember the day I stood in your room?

I must have looked the picture of misery. The affair had played more
havoc with my nerves than you can very well understand.

Your mockery hurt me, and yet under all I felt ashamed of my own
thoughts concerning this foolish occurrence.

I could not explain the phenomenon, and I shivered at the things
that it suggested to me. In this condition, which lasted several
weeks, I could not bear to see you or anyone else, and I was impolite
enough even to leave your letter unanswered.

"The book appeared and made a hit, since that sort of thing was the
center of interest just then.

But almost a month passed before I could arouse myself from that
condition of fear and--I had almost said, softening of the brain--which
prevented my enjoyment of my success.

"Then the explanation came. Thanks to this occurrence I know
now that I shall never again be in danger of being 'haunted.'

"And I know now that Chance can bring about stranger happenings than can
any fancied visitations from the spirit world.

Here you have the story of this 'mystic' occurrence, which came
near endangering my sanity, and which turns out to be a chance
combination of a gust of wind, a sudden downpour of rain, and the
strange elements in the character of our little friend Adolphe the
printer's boy.

"You remember that funny little chap with the crafty eye, his talent for
gambling, and his admiration for the girl of 'La Prunelle'?

A queer little mixture this child who has himself alone to look
to for livelihood and care, the typical race of the Paris streets, the
modified gamin from 'Les Miserables.'

"About a month after the appearance of my book I lay on the divan
one day,--your favorite place, you remember?

--and lost myself in idle reasonings on the same old subject that
never left my mind day or night, when the bell rang and Adolphe
appeared, to call for the essay on 'Le Boulevarde.'

There was an unusually nervous gleam in his eyes that day. I gave him an
anisette and tried to find out what his trouble was. I did find it
out, and I found out a good deal more besides.

"Thanks to his good fortune as a gambler, Virginie came to look
upon him with favor.

Pierre was quite out of the race and Adolphe's affection was reciprocated
as much as his heart could desire. But with his good fortune in love
came all the suffering, all the torture, the suspicions that tear the
hearts of us men when we set our hopes upon a woman's truth. Young
as he was he went through them all, and now he was torturing himself
with the thought that she did not really love him and was only pretending,
while she gave her heart to another.
Perhaps he was right--why not?

"I talked to Adolphe as man to man, and managed to bring back
a gleam of his usual jollity and sly humor. He took another glass of
anisette, and said suddenly:

"'M. Lucien--I did something----'
"'Did what?' I asked.

"'Something I should have told you long ago--it was wrong, and you've
always been so nice to me----'
"You remember the day, two months ago, when we had such a sudden wind
and rain storm, a regular cloud-burst? I was down here in this
neighborhood fetching manuscripts from M. Labouchère and M. Laroy.

I was to have come up here for copy from you, too. But then--you'll
understand after all I've been telling you,--I came around past 'La
Prunelle' and Virginie stood in the doorway, and she'd promised
to go out with me that evening.

So I ran up to speak to her. And then when I went on again, I saw a sheet
with your writing lying in the street.

You know I know all the gentlemen's writing, whose copy I fetch. Then
I was frightened.

I thought to myself, 'The devil,' I thought, 'here I've lost M. Lucien's
manuscript.'

                         I couldn't remember calling for it, but I thought I must have done
so before I got M.

                   Laroy's. I can't
                           remember much except Virginie these days.

I took up the sheet and saw three others a little further on. And I saw
a lot more shining just behind the railing of the Luxembourg Garden.
You know how hard it rained. The water held the paper down, so the wind
couldn't carry it any further. I ran into the Garden and picked up all
the sheets, thirty-two of them. All of them, except the first four I
found in the street, had blown in behind the railing. And I can tell
you I was precious glad that I had them all together. I ran back to the
office, told them I had dropped the manuscript in the street, but
asked them not to say anything to you about it. But the sheets were all
there,--you always number them so clearly, and 'handsome August,'
the compositor, promised he wouldn't tell on me. I knew if the foreman
heard of it, he'd put me out, for he had a grudge against me. So
nobody knew anything about it. But I thought I ought to tell you,
'cause you've been so nice to me. Maybe you'll understand how one
gets queer at times, when a girl like Virginie tells you she likes you
better than Pierre, and yet you think she might deceive you for
his sake--that big, stupid animal--But now I'll be going.

Much obliged for your kindness, M. Lucien, and for the anisette--' And
he left me.

"There you have the explanation, the very simple and natural explanation
of the phenomenon that almost drove me crazy.

"The entire 'supernatural' occurrence was caused by a careless boy's
love affairs, by a gust of southwest wind, by a sudden heavy rain,
and by the chance that I had used English ink, the kind that water
cannot blur. All these simple natural things made me act so foolishly
toward a good friend, the sort of friend I have always known you
to be. Let me hear from you, and tell me what you people up North
think of my book. I give you my word that the 'Unknown Powers' shall
never again make me foolish enough to risk losing your friendship!

"Yours
"LUCIEN."
"So this is my story. Yes, 'there are more things in heaven and earth--'
But the workings of Chance are the strangest of all. And this whisky
is really very good. Here's to you."

BERNHARD SEVERIN INGEMANN

_THE SEALED ROOM_

For many years there stood in a side street in Kiel an unpretentious old
frame house which had a forbidding, almost sinister appearance, with
its old-fashioned balcony and its overhanging upper stories. For the
last twenty years the house had been occupied by a greatly respected
widow, Madame Wolff, to whom the dwelling had come by inheritance.
She lived there quietly with her one daughter, in somewhat straitened
circumstances.

What gave the house a mysterious notoriety, augmenting the sinister
quality in its appearance, was the fact that one of its rooms, a corner
room on the main floor, had not been opened for generations.
The door was firmly fastened and sealed with plaster, as well as the
window looking out upon the street. Above the door was an old inscription,
dated 1603, which threatened sudden death and eternal damnation to any
human being who dared to open the door or efface the inscription.
Neither door nor window had been opened in the two hundred years that
had passed since the inscription was put up. But for a generation back
or more, the partition wall and the sealed door had been covered
with wall paper, and the inscription had been almost forgotten.

The room adjoining the sealed chamber was a large hall, utilized
only for rare important events. Such an occasion arose with the wedding
of the only daughter of the house. For that evening the great hall,
as it was called, was brilliantly decorated and illuminated for
a ball. The building had deep cellars and the old floors were elastic.
Madame Wolff had in vain endeavored to avoid using the great hall at
all, for the foolish old legend of the sealed chamber aroused a certain
superstitious dread in her heart, and she rarely if ever entered the
hall herself. But merry Miss Elizabeth, her pretty young daughter,
was passionately fond of dancing, and her mother had promised that
she should have a ball on her wedding day. Her betrothed, Secretary
Winther, was also a good dancer, and the two young people
combated the mother's prejudice against the hall and laughed at
her fear of the sealed room.

They thought it would be wiser to appear to ignore the stupid legend
altogether, and thus to force the world to forget it. In spite of
secret misgivings Madame Wolff yielded to their arguments.
And for the first time in many years the merry strains of dance music
were heard in the great hall that lay next the mysterious sealed
chamber.

The bridal couple, as well as the wedding guests, were in the gayest
mood, and the ball was an undoubted success. The dancing was
interrupted for an hour while supper was served in an adjoining
room.
After the repast the guests returned to the hall, and it was several
hours more before the last dance was called. The season was early autumn
and the weather still balmy. The windows had been opened to freshen the
air. But the walls retained their dampness and suddenly the dancers
noticed that the old wall paper which covered the partition wall
between the hall and the sealed chamber had been loosened through
the jarring of the building, and had fallen away from the sealed
door with its mysterious inscription.

The story of the sealed chamber had been almost forgotten by most of
those present, forgotten with many other old legends heard
in childhood. The inscription thus suddenly revealed naturally aroused
great interest, and there was a general curiosity to know what the
mysterious closed room might hide. Conjectures flew from mouth to
mouth. Some insisted that the closed door must hide the traces of
a hideous murder, or some other equally terrible crime. Others suggested
that perhaps the room had been used as a hiding place for garments
and other articles belonging to some person who had died of a pestilence,
and that the room had been sealed for fear of spreading the disease.
Still others thought that in the sealed chamber there might be
found a secret entrance from the cellars, which had made the room
available as a hiding place for robbers or smugglers. The guests had
quite forgotten their dancing in the interest awakened by the sight of
the mysterious door.

"For mercy's sake, don't let's go too near it!" exclaimed some of the
young ladies. But the majority thought it would be great fun to see
what was hidden there. Most of the men said that they considered it
foolish not to have opened the door long ago, and examined the room.

The young bridegroom did not join in this opinion, however. He upheld
the decision of his mother-in-law not to allow any attempt to effect
an entrance into the room. He knew that there was a clause in the
title deeds to the house which made the express stipulation that no
owner should ever permit the corner room to be opened. There was
discussion among the guests as to whether such a clause in a title
deed could be binding for several hundred years, and many doubted
its validity at any time.

But most of them understood why Madame Wolff did not wish any investigation,
even should any of those present have sufficient courage to dare
the curse and break open the door.

"Nonsense! What great courage is necessary for that?" exclaimed
Lieutenant Flemming Wolff, a cousin of the bride of the evening. This
gentleman had a reputation that was not of the best. He was known
to live mostly on debt and pawn tickets, and was of a most quarrelsome
disposition. As a duelist he was feared because of his specialty.
This was the ability, and the inclination, through a trick in the use
of the foils, to disfigure his opponent's face badly, without at
all endangering his life. In this manner he had already sadly mutilated
several brave officers and students, who had had the bad luck to stand
up against him. He himself was anything but pleasant to look upon, his
natural plainness having been rendering repellent by a life of low
debauchery.

He cherished a secret grudge against the bridegroom and bitter feelings
toward the bride, because the latter had so plainly shown her
aversion for him when he had ventured to pay suit to her.

The family had not desired any open break with this disagreeable
relative, and had therefore sent him an invitation to the wedding.
They had taken it for granted that, under the circumstances, he would
prefer to stay away. But he had appeared at the ball, and, perhaps
to conceal his resentment, he had been the most indefatigable dancer
of the evening. At supper he had partaken freely of the strongest
wines, and was plainly showing the effect of them by this time.

His eyes rolled wildly, and those who knew him took care not to
contradict him, or to have anything to say to him at all.

With a boastful laugh he repeated his assertion that it didn't take much
courage to open a sealed door, especially when there might be a fortune
concealed behind it.

In his opinion it was cowardly to let oneself be frightened by a century-old
legend.

_He_ wouldn't let that bother him if _he_ had influence enough in the
family to win the daughter and induce the mother to give a ball in the
haunted hall.
With this last hit he hoped to arouse the young husband's ire.

But the latter merely shrugged his shoulders and turned away with a smile
of contempt.

Lieutenant Wolff fired up at this, and demanded to know whether the
other intended to call his, the lieutenant's, courage into question
by his behavior.

"Not in the slightest, when it is a matter of obtaining a loan, or
of mutilating an adversary with a trick at fencing," answered the
bridegroom angrily, taking care, however, that neither the bride
nor any of the other ladies should hear his words.

Then he continued in a whisper: "But I don't believe you'd have the
courage to remain here alone and in darkness, before this closed
door, for a single hour.

If you wish to challenge me for this doubt, I am at your disposal as
soon as you have proven me in the wrong. But I choose the weapons."

"They must be chosen by lot, sir cousin," replied the lieutenant,
his cheek pale and his jaws set.

"I will expect you to breakfast to-morrow morning at eight o'clock."

The bridegroom nodded, and took the other's cold dry hand for an
instant.

The men who had overheard the short conversation looked upon it
as a meaningless incident, the memory of which would disappear
from the lieutenant's brain with the vanishing wine fumes.

The ball was now over.

The bride left the hall with her husband and several of the guests
who were to accompany the young couple to their new home. The lights
went out in the old house. The door of the dancing hall had been
locked from the outside. Lieutenant Flemming Wolff remained alone in
the room, having hidden himself in a dark corner where he had not
been seen by the servants, who had extinguished the lights and
locked the door.

The night watchman had just called out two o'clock when the solitary guest
found himself, still giddy from the heavy wine, alone in the great
dark hall in front of the mysterious door.

The windows were at only a slight elevation from the street, and
a spring would take him to safety should his desire to remain
there, or to solve the mystery of the sealed room, vanish.

But next morning all the windows in the great hall were found
closed, just as the servants had left them the night before. The
night watchman reported that he had heard a hollow-sounding crash in
that unoccupied part of the house during the night. But that was
nothing unusual, as there was a general belief in the neighborhood
that the house was haunted.

For hollow noises were often heard there, and sounds as of money
falling on the floor, and rattling and clinking as of a factory
machine.

Enlightened people, it is true, explained these sounds as echoes
of the stamping and other natural noises from a large stable
just behind the old house. But in spite of these explanations and their
eminent feasibility, the dread of the unoccupied portion of the house
was so great that not even the most reckless man servant could be
persuaded to enter it alone after nightfall.

Next morning at eight o'clock Winther appeared at his mother-in-law's
door, saying that he had forgotten something of importance in the
great hall the night before.

Madame Wolff had not yet arisen, but the maid who let in the early visitor
noticed with surprise that he had a large pistol sticking out of
one of his pockets.

It is not necessary to say any more about it. Of course
in a case of this sort a man has only to follow his conscience, and let
the consequences take care of themselves."

"That is what I said to Mrs. Pewtap," was the enthusiastic reply. "I
said to her that you would understand that this is a matter to be
decided by conscience and not by individual preferences. Otherwise I
should have been very glad to vote for you. I am sure you understand
that I personally wish you all success."

He rose as he spoke, his face lighted with an expression of relief.

"I am very much obliged to you, I'm sure," he ran on. "I knew you
wouldn't blame me, but these things are always so hard to state
properly so that there sha'n't be any misunderstanding. You have taken
a great weight off of my mind. Of course, as you say, in such a case
there is nothing to do but to act according to one's conscience, and
let the consequences be cared for by a higher power. Only personally,
you know, personally I shall be delighted if you are successful."

When Mr. Pewtap was gone Mr. Strathmore stood a moment in thought, his
forehead wrinkled as if with doubt. Then his face melted into a smile,
as if he were amused at the peculiarities of his visitor. He shrugged
his shoulders, and sat down to write a note. At that moment there was a
tap at the door, and his colleague came into the room.

"Good morning, Thurston," Mr. Strathmore greeted him. "I shall be ready
to go with you in a moment. I am writing a note to Mrs. Gore."

The Rev. Philander Thurston was a short, brisk, worldly-looking divine,
with shrewd glance. Nature had evidently been somewhat too hasty or
careless in the making of his face, for she had cut his nostrils
unpleasantly high and set his eyes much too near together.

"I saw Mrs. Gore yesterday," Thurston responded. "She thinks that she
can answer for those votes of which we were speaking. She says that the
vote of Mr. Pewtap will depend upon Mrs. Frostwinch."

"He has just been here," Strathmore said smiling. "He told me in so
many words that he is to vote for Frontford. His conscience will not
allow him to run the risk of depriving his children of the annuity Mrs.
Frostwinch gives his wife. I'm sure I'm not inclined to blame him."

"It is outrageous that he should fail you after all you've done for
him," Thurston declared with some heat. "I never had any confidence in
him."

"Oh, he acts according to his nature," was the good-humored response,
"and I'm afraid there isn't substance enough to him for grace to get a
very strong hold to change him. If Mrs. Frostwinch is taking an active
part in this matter there are others she can influence."

"Yes," the colleague said. "I thought that she was too much taken up
with that mind-healing business; but she evidently wants to help bring
the church back to the formalities of the Middle Ages. Frontford would
have the whole diocese going to confession if he had his way."

"He could do nothing of the kind if he did wish to do it," Mr.
Strathmore answered quietly. "The worst that he could bring about would
be to give the impression to the world that the church was retrograding
instead of progressing. He would be entirely opposed to individual
liberty of conscience everywhere, and that seems to me to be in
opposition to the spirit of the age."

"It undoubtedly is," assented the young man eagerly.

"The gravest harm that he could do in the church," pursued the other,
"would be to encourage the substitution of form for spirit. The more
religious faith is shaken, the greater is the temptation to supply its
place by a ritual, and this temptation seems to me the most imminent
and deadly peril of the church to-day."

"It certainly is," confirmed the colleague.

"Besides," Strathmore added emphatically, rising as he spoke, "the
deepest need of any time can be met only by a church which is in
sympathy with the tendencies of the time."

"You put it admirably," the other murmured.

Strathmore regarded him keenly, almost as if he suspected some hidden
thought behind the words.

"It is time for us to go," he said in his usual genial tone.

The two clergymen left the house and went down the street together,
talking of parish business, until they came to the street-corner where
they were to take a car. As they stood waiting for this conveyance, a
lady came quickly forward and spoke to Mr. Strathmore, who greeted her
cordially, expressing much pleasure in seeing her.

"You were so kind to me," she said. "I have been thinking of all you
said to me last week, and it seems to me that I can bear my burden
better. I want to thank you with all my heart."

"There is nothing to thank me for," he answered with grave tenderness.
"The blessing is mine if I have been able to help you."

"But there was no one else," she said, tears springing in her eyes,
"that I could have talked to so freely. You understood and sympathized.
It was like talking to a brother."

He took her hand with an air perfectly unaffected and unobtrusive, yet
which was almost paternal in its benignity. I will question him,--one
often hears a straight and true statement from servants.

A surprise! My farm hand Rasmus tells me that Morten Bruus came a-wooing
to the rectory at Veilbye some years back, but was sent away with
a refusal.

The rector seemed to be pleased with him, for the man is rich.

But his daughter would not hear to it at all. Pastor Sören may have
tried hard to persuade her to consent at first. But when he saw how
much she disliked the man he let her do as she would. It was not pride
on her part, Rasmus said, for she is as simple and modest as she
is good and beautiful.

And she knows that her own father is peasant-born as well as Bruus.

Now I know what the Ingvorstrup horses were intended for. They were to
blind the judge and to lead him aside from the narrow path of
righteousness.

The rich Morten Bruus covets poor Ole Andersen's peat moor and pasture
land. It would have been a good bargain for Morten even at seventy
thalers.

But no indeed, my good fellow, you don't know Erik Sörensen!

                         Rector Sören Quist of Veilbye came to see me this morning.

             He has a new coachman, Niels
                          Bruus, brother to the owner of Ingvorstrup.

Niels is lazy and impertinent. The rector wanted him arrested, but he
had no witnesses to back up his complaint. I advised him to get rid
of the man somehow, or else to get along with him the best he could
until the latter's time was up. The rector was somewhat hasty at first,
but later on he listened calmly and thanked me for my good advice. He
is inclined to be violent at times, but can always be brought to
listen to reason. We parted good friends.

I spent a charming day in Veilbye yesterday. The rector was
not at home, but Mistress Mette received me with great friendliness.
She sat by the door spinning when I arrived, and it seemed to me
that she blushed.

It was hardly polite for me to wait so long before speaking.
When I sit in judgement I never lack for words, but in the presence of
this innocent maiden I am as stupid as the veriest simpleton of a
chicken thief. But I finally found my voice and the time passed quickly
until the rector's return. Then Mistress Mette left us and did not
return until she brought in our supper.

Just as she stepped through the doorway the rector was saying to me,
"Isn't it about time that you should think of entering into the holy
estate of matrimony?" (We had just been speaking of a recent very fine
wedding in the neighborhood.) Mistress Mette heard the words and
flushed a deep red. Her father laughed and said to her, "I can see,
my dear daughter, that you have been standing before the fire."

I shall take the good man's advice and will very soon try my fate
with her. For I think I may take the rector's words to be a secret hint
that he would not object to me as a son-in-law. And the daughter?
Was her blush a favorable sign?

Poor Ole Anderson keeps his peat moor and his pasture land, but rich
Morten Bruus is angry at me because of it. When he heard the decision
he closed his eyes and set his lips tight, and his face was as
pale as a whitewashed wall.

But he controlled himself and as he went out he called back to his
adversary, "Wish you joy of the bargain Ole Anderson. The peat bog
won't beggar me, and the cattle at Ingvorstrup have all the hay
they can eat."

I could hear his loud laughter outside and the cracking of his whip. It
is not easy to have to sit in judgment. Every decision makes but
one enemy the more.

Yesterday was the happiest day of my life. We celebrated our betrothal
in the Rectory of Veilbye. My future father-in-law spoke to the
text, "I gave my handmaid into thy bosom" (Genesis xvi, 5). His
words touched my heart.

I had not believed that this serious and sometimes brusque man could
talk so sweetly. When the solemnity was over, I received the first kiss
from my sweet betrothed, and the assurance of her great love for me.

At supper and later on we were very merry. Many of the dead mother's
kin were present. The rector's family were too far away. After
supper we danced until day-break and there was no expense spared in the
food and wine. My future father-in-law was the strongest man present,
and could easily drink all the others under the table. The wedding is
to take place in six weeks. God grant us rich blessings.

It is not good that my future father-in-law should have this Niels Bruus
in his service. He is a defiant fellow, a worthy brother of him of
Ingvorstrup. If it were I, he should have his wages and be turned off,
the sooner the better. But the good rector is stubborn and insists
that Niels shall serve out his time. The other day he gave the fellow a
box on the ear, at which Niels cried out that he would make him pay
for it. The rector told me of this himself, for no one else had been
present. I talked to Niels, but he would scarcely answer me.

I fear he has a stubborn and evil nature.

My sweet betrothed also entreats her father to send the fellow away, but
the rector will not listen to reason. I do not know what the old man
will do when his daughter leaves his home for mine. She saves him much
worry and knows how to make all things smooth and easy. She will be a
sweet wife for me.

As I thought, it turned out badly. But there is one good thing about
it, Niels has now run off of himself. The rector is greatly angered,
but I rejoice in secret that he is rid of that dangerous man. Bruus will
probably seek retaliation, but we have law and justice in the land
to order such matters.

This was the way of it: The rector had ordered Niels to dig up a bit of
soil in the garden. After a time when he went out himself to look
at the work, he found Niels leaning on his spade eating nuts. He had
not even begun to dig. The rector scolded him, but the fellow answered
that he had not taken service as a gardener. He received a good box
on the ear for that. At this he threw away his spade and swore valiantly
at his master.

The old rector lost his temper entirely, seized the spade and struck
at the man several times. He should not have done this, for a spade is
a dangerous weapon, especially in the hands of a man as strong as
is the pastor in spite of his years.

Niels fell to the ground as if dead. But when the pastor bent over him
in alarm, he sprang up suddenly, jumped the hedge and ran away to the
woods.

This is the story of the unfortunate affair as my father-in-law tells
it to me. My beloved Mette is much worried about it. She fears the
man may do harm to the cattle, or set fire to the house, or in some
such way take his revenge. But I tell her there is little fear of
that.

Three weeks more and my beloved leaves her father's house for mine.
She has been here and has gone over the house and the farm. She is
much pleased with everything and praises our orderliness. She is an
angel, and all who know her say that I am indeed a fortunate
man. To God be the praise!

Strange, where that fellow Niels went to! Could he have left the country
altogether? It is an unpleasant affair in any case, and there are
murmurings and secret gossip among the peasants. The talk has
doubtless started in Ingvorstrup.

It would not be well to have the rector hear it. He had better
have taken my advice, but it is not my province to school a
servant of God, and a man so much older than I.
The idle gossip may blow over ere long. I will go to Veilbye to-morrow
and find out if he has heard anything.

The bracelet the goldsmith has made for me is very beautiful. I am sure
it will please my sweet Mette.

My honored father-in-law is much distressed and down-hearted.

Malicious tongues have repeated to him the stupid gossip that is going
about in the district. Morten Bruus is reported to have said that "he
would force the rector to bring back his brother, if he had to dig
him out of the earth." The fellow may be in hiding somewhere,
possibly at Ingvorstrup. He has certainly disappeared completely, and
no one seems to know where he is. My poor betrothed is much grieved
and worried.
She is alarmed by bad dreams and by presentiments of evil to come.

God have mercy on us all! I am so overcome by shock and horror that
I can scarcely hold the pen. It has all come in one terrible moment,
like a clap of thunder. I take no account of time, night and
morning are the same to me and the day is but a sudden flash of
lightning destroying the proud castle of my hopes and desires. A
venerable man of God--the father of my betrothed--is in prison!

And as a suspected murderer! There is still hope that he may be
innocent. But this hope is but as a straw to a drowning man. A terrible
suspicion rests upon him----And I, unhappy man that I am, must be his
judge. And his daughter is my betrothed bride! May the Saviour
have pity on us!

It was yesterday that this horrible thing came. About half an
hour before sunrise Morten Bruus came to my house and had with him the
cotter Jens Larsen of Veilbye, and the widow and daughter of the
shepherd of that parish.

Morten Bruus said to me that he had the Rector of Veilbye under suspicion
of having killed his brother Niels.
I answered that I had heard some such talk but had regarded it as
idle and malicious gossip, for the rector himself had assured me
that the fellow had run away.

"If that was so," said Morten, "if Niels had really intended to run
away, he would surely at first come to me to tell me of it. But it is
not so, as these good people can prove to you, and I demand that you
shall hear them as an officer of the law."
"Think well of what you are doing," I said. "Think it over well, Morten
Bruus, and you, my good people. You are bringing a terrible accusation
against a respected and unspotted priest and man of God. If you can
prove nothing, as I strongly suspect, your accusations may cost
you dear."
"Priest or no priest," cried Bruus, "it is written, 'thou shalt not
kill!' And also is it written, that the authorities bear the sword of
justice for all men. We have law and order in the land, and the
murderer shall not escape his punishment, even if he have the district
judge for a son-in-law."
I pretended not to notice his thrust and began, "It shall be as you say.
Kirsten Mads' daughter, what is it that you know of this matter in
which Morten Bruus accuses your rector? Tell the truth, and the truth
only, as you would tell it before the judgment seat of the Almighty.
The law will demand from you that you shall later repeat your testimony
under oath."

The woman told the following story: The day on which Niels Bruus was
said to have run away from the rectory, she and her daughter were
passing along the road near the rectory garden a little after the noon
hour. She heard some one calling and saw that it was Niels Bruus
looking out through the garden hedge. He asked the daughter if
she did not want some nuts and told the women that the rector had ordered
him to dig in the garden, but that he did not take the command very
seriously and would much rather eat nuts. At that moment they heard a
door open in the house and Niels said, "Now I'm in for a scolding." He
dropped back behind the hedge and the women heard a quarrel in the
garden. They could hear the words distinctly but they could see nothing,
as the hedge was too high. They heard the rector cry, "I'll punish
you, you dog. I'll strike you dead at my feet!" Then they heard
several sounding slaps, and they heard Niels curse back at the rector
and call him evil names. The rector did not answer this, but the women
heard two dull blows and saw the head of a spade and part of the handle
rise and fall twice over the hedge. Then it was very quiet in the garden,
and the widow and her daughter were frightened and hurried on to
their cattle in the field. The daughter gave the same testimony, word
for word.

I asked them if they had not seen Niels Bruus coming out of the garden.
But they said they had not, although they had turned back several times
to look.

This accorded perfectly with what the rector had told me. It was not
strange that the women had not seen the man run out of the garden,
for he had gone toward the wood which is on the opposite side
of the garden from the highroad. I told Morten Bruus that this testimony
was no proof of the supposed murder, especially as the rector
himself had narrated the entire occurrence to me exactly as the women
had described it. But he smiled bitterly and asked me to examine the
third witness, which I proceeded to do.

Jens Larsen testified that he was returning late one evening from Tolstrup
(as he remembered, it was not the evening of Niels Bruus's disappearance,
but the evening of the following day), and was passing the rectory garden
on the easterly side by the usual footpath. From the garden he heard
a noise as of some one digging in the earth. He was frightened at
first for it was very late, but the moon shone brightly and he
thought he would see who it was that was at work in the garden at
that hour. He put off his wooden shoes and pushed aside the twigs of
the hedge until he had made a peep hole. In the garden he saw the
rector in his usual house coat, a white woolen nightcap on his head.
He was busily smoothing down the earth with the flat of his spade.
There was nothing else to be seen. Just then the rector had started and
partly turned toward the hedge, and the witness, fearing he might
be discovered, slipped down and ran home hastily.

Although I was rather surprised that the rector should be working in
his garden at so late an hour, I still saw nothing in this statement
that could arouse suspicion of murder. I gave the complainant a solemn
warning and advised him not only to let fall his accusation, but to
put an end to the talk in the parish. He replied, "Not until
I see what it is that the rector buried in his garden."
"That will be too late," I said. "You are playing a dangerous game.
Dangerous to your own honor and welfare."
"I owe it to my brother," he replied, "and I demand that the authorities
shall not refuse me assistance."

My office compelled me to accede to his demands. Accompanied by the
accuser and his witnesses I took my way to Veilbye.

My heart was very heavy, not so much because of any fear that we might
find the missing man buried in the garden, but because of the
surprise and distress I must cause the rector and my beloved.

As we went on our way I thought over how severely the law would allow me
to punish the calumniators.
But alas, Merciful Heavens! What a terrible discovery was in store for
me!

I had wished to have a moment alone with the rector to prepare him
for what was coming.

But as I drove through the gate Morten Bruus spurred his horse past
me and galloped up to the very door of the house just as the rector
opened it.

Bruus cried out in his very face, "People say that you have killed
my brother and buried him in your garden. I am come with the
district judge to seek for him."
The poor rector was so shocked and astounded that he could not find
a word to answer.

                         I sprang from my wagon and addressed him: "You have now heard the
accusation.

              I am forced by my office
                          to fulfill this man's demands.

But your own honor demands that the truth shall be known and the
mouth of slander silenced."
"It is hard enough," began the rector finally, "for a man in my
position to have to clear himself from such a suspicion.

But come with me. My garden and my entire house are open to you."
We went through the house to the garden. On the way we met my betrothed,
who was startled at seeing Bruus. I managed to whisper hastily to
her, "Do not be alarmed, dear heart. Your enemies are going to their
own destruction." Morten Bruus led the way to the eastern side
of the garden near the hedge. We others followed with the rector's farm
hands, whom he himself had ordered to join us with spades.

The accuser stood and looked about him until we approached. Then he
pointed to one spot. "This looks as if the earth had been disturbed
lately. Let us begin here."
"Go to work at once," commanded the rector angrily.

The men set to work, but they were not eager enough to suit Bruus, who
seized a spade himself to fire them on. A few strokes only sufficed to
show that the firm earth of this particular spot had not been touched
for many years. We all rejoiced--except Bruus--and the rector was
very happy. He triumphed openly over his accuser, and laughed at him,
"Can't you find anything, you libeler?"
Bruus did not answer. He pondered for a few moments, then called
out, "Jens Larsen, where was it you saw the rector digging?"
Jens Larsen had been standing to one side with his hands folded, watching
the work. At Bruus's words he aroused himself as if from a dream,
looked around him and pointed to a corner of the garden several
yards from where we stood.

"I think it was over there."
"What's that, Jens!" cried the rector angrily. "When did I dig
here?"
Paying no heed to his, Morten Bruus called the men to the corner
in question. The earth here was covered by some withered cabbage stalks,
broken twigs, and other brush which he pushed aside hurriedly. The
work began anew.

I stood by the rector talking calmly with him about the punishment
we could mete out to the dastardly accuser, when one of the men
suddenly cried out with an oath.

We looked toward them; there lay a hat half buried in the loose earth.
"We have found him," cried Bruus. "That is Niels's hat; I would know it
anywhere."
My blood seemed turned to ice. All my hopes dashed to the ground.
"Dig! Dig!" cried the bloodthirsty accuser, working himself with all
his might. I looked at the rector. He was ghastly pale, staring with
wide-open eyes at the horrible spot.

Another shot! A hand was stretched up through the earth as if to greet
the workers. "See there!" screamed Bruus. "He is holding out his hand
to me. Wait a little, Brother Niels! You will soon be avenged!"
The entire corpse was soon uncovered. It was the missing man. His face
was not recognizable, as decomposition had begun, and the nose was
broken and laid flat by a blow.

But all the garments, even to the shirt with his name woven into it,
were known to those who stood there. In one ear was a leaden ring,
which, as we all knew, Niels Bruus had worn for many years.

"Now, priest," cried Morten Bruus, "come and lay your hand on this dead
man if you dare to!"
"Almighty God!" sighed the rector, looking up to heaven, "Thou art my
witness that I am innocent.

I struck him, that I confess, and I am bitterly sorry for it. But he
ran away. God Almighty alone knows who buried him here."
"Jens Larsen knows also," cried Bruus, "and I may find more witnesses.

Judge!

You will come with me to examine his servants. But first of all I
demand that you shall arrest this wolf in sheep's clothing."
Merciful God, how could I doubt any longer? The truth was clear to all
of us. But I was ready to sink into the earth in my shock and horror.

I was about to say to the rector that he must prepare to follow me, when
he himself spoke to me, pale and trembling like an aspen leaf.
"Appearances are against me," he said, "but this is the work of the devil
and his angels. There is One above who will bring my innocence to
light. Come, judge, I will await my fate in fetters. Comfort my
daughter.

Remember that she is your betrothed bride."
He had scarcely uttered the words when I heard a scream and a fall
behind us. It was my beloved who lay unconscious on the ground. I
thought at first that she was dead, and God knows I wished that I
could lie there dead beside her. I raised her in my arms, but her
father took her from me and carried her into the house. I was called
to examine the wound on the dead man's head. The cut was not deep,
but it had evidently fractured the skull, and had plainly been made
by a blow from a spade or some similar blunt instrument.
Then we all entered the house. My beloved had revived again. She
fell on my neck and implored me, in the name of God, to help her
father in his terrible need. She begged me by the memory of our
mutual love to let her follow him to prison, to which I consented.
I myself accompanied him to Grenaa, but with a mournful heart. None
of us spoke a word on the sad journey. I parted from them in deep
distress. The corpse was laid in a coffin and will be buried decently
to-morrow in Veilbye churchyard.
To-morrow I must give a formal hearing to the witnesses. God be
merciful to me, unfortunate man!
Would that I had never obtained this position for which I--fool
that I am--strove so hard.
As the venerable man of God was brought before me, fettered hand
and foot, I felt as Pilate must have felt as they brought Christ
before him. It was to me as if my beloved--God grant her comfort,
she lies ill in Grenaa--had whispered to me, "Do nothing against
that good man!" 
Oh, if he only were innocent, but I see no hope!
The three first witnesses repeated their testimony under oath, word
for word. Then came statements by the rector's two farm hands and
the dairy maid. The men had been in the kitchen on the fatal day,
and as the windows were open they had heard the quarrel between the
rector and Niels. As the widow had stated, these men had also heard
the rector say, "I will strike you dead at my feet!" They further
testified that the rector was very quick-tempered, and that when
angered he did not hesitate to strike out with whatever came into
his hand. He had struck a former hand once with a heavy maul.
The girl testified that on the night Jens Larsen claimed to have
seen the rector in the garden, she had lain awake and heard the
creaking of the garden door. When she looked out of the window she
had seen the rector in his dressing gown and nightcap go into the
garden. She could not see what he was doing there. But she heard
the door creak again about an hour later.He was well enough
aware that she would not approve of it, and he was irritated by the
knowledge that he secretly felt that her decision would be founded on
strong common sense. He tried to assure himself that it was her
dangerous laxity of principle that blinded her to the nobility and
sanctity of asceticism; but it was impossible to feel that such was the
case. He was teased by a wish which he would not acknowledge that she
might advance arguments which he could not controvert; though to
himself he said that she would be his temptation in tangible form, and
that he would struggle against it with his whole soul.

His opportunity came while they were discussing the election of the
bishop. Mrs. Morison was not immediately concerned in the matter, not
being a churchwoman, but she had an intelligent interest in all
questions of the day.

"I find it hard to understand," Mrs. Morison observed, "how any
churchman can be so blind to the importance of conciliating public
thought and the general feeling as for a moment to think of any other
candidate than Mr. Strathmore. He is so completely in sympathy with the
broadening tendencies of the time."

"But that means ultimately the destruction of creeds," Maurice
objected, answering rather the implication than her words.

"I think that perhaps the highest courage men are called upon to show,"
she answered, "is that of giving up a theory which has served its use.
The race forces us to do it sooner or later, but the men who are
really great are those who are able to say frankly that their creeds
have done their work, and that the new day must have new ones. You
might almost say that the extent to which a man prefers truth to
himself is to be judged by his willingness to give up a dogma that is
outworn."

"But you leave no stability to truth."

"The truth is stable without effort or will of mine," she returned,
smiling; "but surely you would have human appreciation of it advance."

He felt that there must be an answer to this, but he was not able to
see just what it was, and he shifted the question.

"But Mr. Strathmore," he said hesitatingly, "is married."

"Yes," she assented. "'The husband of one wife.'"

"If you begin to quote Scripture against me," Maurice retorted,
laughing in spite of himself, "I might easily reply to St. Paul by St.
Paul. But letting that pass, it is certainly true that the church has
always held that marriage absorbs a man in earthly things so that he
cannot give the best of his thoughts to his work."

"When the church sets itself against marriage," Mrs. Morison responded
quietly, "it seems to me to be setting up to know more than the Creator
of the race."

Maurice colored, although he might not have been able to tell whether
his strongest feeling was horror at this bold language or joy at the
emphasis with which she spoke.

"Perhaps I should beg your pardon for saying so frankly what I think,"
Mrs. Morison continued. "It isn't the way in which one generally talks
to a clergyman; but the subject is one for which I haven't much
patience, and of course I couldn't help seeing that you are in doubt
yourself."

Maurice started.

"What do you mean?" he stammered. "I--I in doubt?"

"I hadn't any intention of forcing your confidence," returned she. "I
am an old woman, and sometimes I find that I don't make allowance
enough for the slowness of you young people in arriving at a knowledge
of self."

He cast down his eyes.

"Until this moment," he said, "I have never acknowledged to myself that
I was in doubt. I see what you mean, and it shows that I have been
playing with fire."

She looked at him questioningly, then turned the subject.

"Which is perhaps a hint that our fire is going down. Sit still,
please. Every woman likes to tend her own fire."

"I should have learned that by this time," was his answer. "I lost an
inheritance once by insisting upon fixing a fire."

"That sounds interesting. Is it proper to ask for the story?"

"Oh, there isn't much of a story. I had a great-aunt who was worth a
lot of money, and who was eccentric. Every man clings to life and Therefore
the rector persists in back and made the sign of the cross, for verily
I thought it was a ghost I saw before me. But the man sat down in
the chimney corner and continued to speak tell me my brother Morten
is" take dead. I have been to Ingvorstrup, but the new owner chased
me away. Is have told my name no control myself." I know what you would
say, dear heart. You want me to save your father. Alas, help us poor
mortals, I cannot do it! Tell me, dearest one, tell me truly, do you
yourself believe your father to innocent?" She crossed a better
prepared. seventeenth year of my term of office that the terrible
event happened in the neighborhood which filled all who heard of
it with shock and horror, and brought shame and disgrace upon our
holy calling.

The venerable Sören Quist, Rector of Veilbye, killed be of good cheer.
day shalt thou be.

If you lack money, all I have is yours." When I had finished her face
flushed with joy, and she threw her arms about my neck." Candish last
witnesses gave her hands on her heart and sobbed," I do not know!"
Then she burst into tears again." But he did not bury him in the
garden," she continued after a few moments." The man may have died in
the wood from the blow. That may have happened----"" But, dearest
heart, I" I said," Jen Larsen and the girl saw your father in the
garden again to speak the verdict.

But I dare not conceal from you that the mildest sentence that God,
our king, before my eyes." neighboring parish to Veilbye.

I I It was during the the thought I took the daughter into my also home,
where she was brought, half fainting after they had led her
father from the prison. She had been tending him lovingly all the
days of his trial.

What made even greater sorrow for the, to my great astonishment I saw
a piece of paper, on which was written,' Call no man happy until his end
hath come'( Sirach xi. 34) Do you see" Her tone was so sad that
my heart was near to breaking."

Beloved," I exclaimed," I day. I knew what had happened, as I could
retrieve one or two such occurrences my life before."

Therefore, dear friend, when the as She a warning to others. But promise
me that you will not my how the body made back doubt that I have
committed, although I not conscious cf having done so."( was startled
at this, as I had expected a remorseful confession.)"

Listen well to what I shall now tell you. That I struck the unfortunate
man with spade, that he fell down and then ran away, this is all that
I know with full consciousness.....

What followed then? this is betrothal ring?

What was it my father said when you put this ring upon my finger?' I have
given my maid unto thy bosom!'

But you, you thrust the deep into my bosom!"

Alas, every one of her words cut deep into my own heart." the Dearest
love," I cried,"do surprised not speak so.

You thrust burning irons into my heart. What would you have me do? Acquit
him, when the laws of God and man condemn?"

She was silent, sobbing desperately." One thing I can do," I
continued."

If it be wrong may God forgive his denial. My poor, dear Mette! She is
lost to me for this life, just as I had learned to love her so
dearly I have had a hard fight to fight to-day.

As I sat alone, pondering over this terrible affair in which it is
my sad lot to have to judgment, the door opened and the rector's
daughter--I may no longer call her my betrothed--rushed in and threw
herself at my feet me.

If the trial goes on to an end his life is forfeited, there is no
hope except in flight.

If you can arrange an escape I will my eyes. I will not see or hear
anything.

As soon as your father was imprisoned, I wrote to your brother in
Copenhagen. He can arrive any moment now. Talk to him, make friends
with the jailer testimony to-day, I suddenly remembered my sleep-walking
exploits, and I the night the body was buried I had found my pearly
dressing gown in the hall last hope of escape flight.)" the That
is impossible," he answered."

My, life is. My death is just just, a sentenced murderer But promise
me.

But where shall we go?"

her tone changed will find you wherever you may hide yourself!

Should our money not be sufficient to support I can work for us
all.

I have learned to use the was done, Morten took a spade and gave the
head of the corpse two crashing blows, one over the nose, the other
on the temple.

The body was hidden in court was session and the prisoner had been
brought in to hear the testimony of the new witnesses.

These men stated as follows: On the of night in question they were walking
along the path ordered to take off all his clothes, piece that led
between the woods and the rectory garden. A man with a large
sack on his back came out of the woods and walked bright moonlight
his figure was clearly visible, and they could see that he wore a
loose green garment, like a dressing gown, and a white nightcap.

The man disappeared through an opening in the rectory garden fence.
Scarcely had the first witness ended his statement when the, rector
turned ghastly pale, and gasped, in a voice that could scarcely be heard,"
I am ahead of them toward the garden.

They could not see his face, but in the well." They gave him a chair.
Bruus turned to his neighbor and exclaimed audibly," That helped the
rector's memory." The prisoner did not hear the words, but motioned to
me and said," Lead me back to my held prison. I will talk to you there."
They did as he demanded. We set out at once Grenaa. The rector was
in the wagon with jailer and the gendarme, and I rode beside them.
When the door of the cell was friend," said the rector, when desire
we were might visit him in his prison.

I must state that I have never given the holy sacrament to their with
thy Saviour in Paradise," his head fell" He was silent again,
covering his face with, I can latest witnesses were telling their
story, I noted the possible contradiction, and hoped it might prove
a loophole of escape.

But, alas, it was all only too true, and the guilt of the rector proven
beyond a doubt. It was not at all impossible for a man to do
such things in his sleep.

Just as it was quite possible that a man with a fractured skull
could run by the ax.

The one thing that made death bitter for him was He seated himself on
the bed, staring at the ground with eyes that did not see.

Finally he turned toward me where I sat trembling, as if it were my own
sentence I was to hear, as in a manner it was."

I am a great sinner," he sighed," God only knows how great. His
punishment crushes me beautiful here that I may enter into His
mercy hereafter." she He grew gradually calmer and began:" Since
my childhood I have been hot-tempered and violent.

I could never endure contradiction, and was always ready to give a
blow.

But I have seldom let the sun go down upon my, and I have I sought
and sought, but could not find it.

At last I went to bed much fatigued, and slept soundly. Next morning,
when I sat defiant by nature death.

"( I dared not mention to him, that fond hope is vanished. night
would been better for me had I died then. It has gone ill with me since
I left the country." At this the have said something to comfort him,
but I could find no words for such sorrow.

                         When he had controlled himself somewhat he sat down again and
continued:" To you must be his hands and weeping bitterly.

               I was stuck dumb with
                          astonishment and uncertainty.

I had always surmise that the victim had died on the spot where he was
buried, although I could not quite understand how the rector had
managed to bury the body, once my friend and now my judge, I will
confess this crime, which it seems beyond a ill-treatment from
Morten, in whose service he was.

Others said me, and cried out: Would not like the work, and protested.

But Morten was the stronger, and Niels had to do as he was ordered.

They carried Four witnesses have seen that I fetched the body and
buried it in my garden--and now.

He was an elderly man, with gray hair, and walked with a crutch. He looked
sad and needy.

None of the servants were about, the so I myself went into the
kitchen and gave him a piece of bread.

I asked him where he came from. He sighed and answered:" From nowhere
in particular." Then I asked him his name. He sighed still, looked at
last I poor daughter. I had thought to lay her in your arms"--tears
choked his voice--"but, alas outside of my bedroom.

This had surprised me, as I always hung it over a chair died in the
woods from his wound, and in my dream consciousness I must have
seen this and gone to fetch the body.

It by day without being. But I thought our that he might have covered
it lightly with earth and twigs and finished his work at night. He was
man of sufficient could say. I set spurs to my horse and rode home
somehow. To-morrow, then!

The sentence is of the world they have fled, to hide their shame
and their sorrow. found guilty at or more truly repentant Christian
spoken.

The accused you was calmer than the judge. All those present, except
his bitter enemy, were affected almost to tears. Some whispered that
punishment falls doubly hard, now that I no one has ever seen you
See it was because of unhappy love.)

They dug up the corpse, although Niels did shortly after his father had
paid the penalty for his crime. he spoke to the people in words of great
wisdom and power, preaching to the text from the lament of Jeremiah,
chap. ii., verse 6:" He hath despised the priest in the indignation
of his, walls.

It is your mouth that must speak my sentence. But what says your. mercy
on my sinful soul. some distance before he fell to die.

The rector's story bore the stamp of truth, although the doubt_will
come that he desired thus to save a shred of honor for his name.
near my bed.

The unfortunate victim of my violence must have The prisoner walked up
and down the room several times, then stopping before me he ignorance
of this the and shall serve God bless you for these words.

Were my." She shook her head slowly and answered," The evil one and
blinded their eyes."

She wept bitterly You cannot marry the daughter of terrible now, dear
friend, let part, not to meet again except in the hall of justice.
Grant a me affair until--until it is all over. I could not bear to
see him now. And of your friendship one last service, let it end soon
the brother.

I feel that I am near death myself, as near perhaps as he is, whom I
sent to But surely you only mean to frighten me I Sören Quist since
his.

I long for death. Go now, my kind, sympathetic judge. Send for me
to-morrow to speak my sentence, and send to-day for my brother
in God, the pastor in Aalsö. He shall prepare me for death. God be you."
He gave me his hand with his eyes heart?"

I could scarcely utter the that you will watch over her as her second
father." In deep sorrow and in tears I held his hand, in mine." Have
you any news from my son down at and a father!

Ah, that is the deepest also remembered, what had steal my mind before,
that the morning after wound!"

He sprang up and wrung his hands in deep despair. I would beyond
expression. I would willingly see it break if I could but save you
from a shameful?" he began again."

I hope it will be possible to keep him in to day Denmark again.
Travel by night, and hide in the woods by day until you are well
away from here averted.

I staggered from the prison, hardly conscious of what I was doing. I
would have ridden home without seeing his daughter had she not met me
by prison door She must have seen the truth in my face, for she
paled and caught at my arm.

She gazed at me with her soul in her eyes, could not speak." Flee!
Save your father in flight!" was all I be a milder judge to me than
I, poor sinner," am forced to be to my fellow men. She has been
here. She found me ill in bed. There is no there escape possible. He
will not flee. was arranged and the jailer; was ready to help.

But he." Tell me, beloved," she began again, after a while,"tell
me frankly this much. and If God sends us no enlightenment in this
affair, what sentence must you give?"

She gazed anxiously at me, her lips trembling." If I did not believe,"
the Rector of Veilbye had been beheaded for the murder of his servant,
it happened one day that a beggar came to my door him as if in fear,
and said," They called me Niels Bruus."

I was startled, and said," God have I began slowly," that anyone else in
my place but would be more severe than I, then I would gladly give
up my position at once and refuse refuses, he longs for death. God be
his doom. Farewell, my own beloved bride....

What will she do? she is so strangely calm--the calm of his servant
in a fit of rage and buried the body in his garden.

He was ö church. A simple stone, of an old a sack and kept in the
house during the next day. and kissed me many times. We prayed to God
to bless our undertaking and parted with glad hearts. I also hoped for
the best. Doubts assail me, but God will find for us some light in
this darkness. Two more new witnesses.

They bring nothing good, I fear, for Bruus announced them" with an
expression I did not like.

He has a you heart of stone, which can The Greek philosopher, Call
no man fortunate until his death. a' It was that in night, as I had
locked it myself, and it lighting had not been opened until I
entered next suddenly and upon which I have carved a cross, still
stands to remind the passer-by of the sin of a most unfortunate
upon your conscience!

For your sake that unfortunate fell by the ax of the executioner! man.
and our laws demand is, a life for a life." She sank to her knees,
then sprang up again, fell back several steps as if afraid of here!

this!" She came nearer and held up her hand with my ring on it The
next morning his two children had disappeared. have never been heard of
since.

God knows to what far-away corner. He was a foreign country I could
never see you again!

mind that the same idea was expressed in different words in name
of a man who was killed many years back." the Holy Scriptures.
sentence was carried out in the presence of several calm and
aloud, and then I knew that he had some said because of At night the day
following, they carried!

I come the punishment was too severe.

May God strength of mind to have done this. When the God have me from
become a murderer then.

It is for these earlier sins that I am now being punished, but the from
far away, and have heard nothing. No one but you, reverend father been
but a tool in the hands of that devil, Morten.

Therefore I set to work to comfort him, and took him into my study
that he might calm himself sufficiently to tell me the detail of
Satan's work.

This to the last, full of remorse for his great sin. until you murder
my father? Would you murder your betrothed bride? anger." He spoke
of his violence and of its terrible results, and of his of deep
remorse.

He exhorted his hearers to let his sin and his fate be an example
to them, and a warning not to give way to anger.

Then he commended his soul to the Lord, removed his upper garments, bound
up his eyes with his own hand, then folded his hands in prayer.

I had spoken the words," Brother, wordless despair.

Her brother has not yet come, and to-morrow--on the Ravenshill----!

Here the diary of Erik Sörensen stopped suddenly. What postdate
can be learned from the written and witnessed statements of the
pastor of Aalsö, the, and following it was a funeral sermon, short,
but as bad in construction as any I have ever written.

And all this was in my own handwriting. It were poor girl, and for the
district judge who spoke the, was that these two young people had solemnly
plighted their troth but a few short weeks before, in the rectory
of Veilbye.

The son arrived just as the body of the executed criminal was brought
into my house.

It had been permitted to us to bury the body with Christian
rites, if we could do it the in secret. The young man threw himself
over the lifeless body,. Then, clasping his sister in his arms, the
humiliate two wept together in silence for some while.

At midnight we held a quiet service over the remains of the Rector
of Veilbye, and the body was buried near the door of Aals The
district judge is very ill, and it is not a fright that he will not
forget for a week believed that will recover.

May God deal with us all after His wisdom and His mercy!

O Lord, inscrutable are thy ways! In the thirty-eighth year of my service,
and twenty-one years after my unfortunate brother in office, honor
as long as he can. mercy on us ax and the hoe."

She rejoiced again with them into the house.

Then Niels was by piece even to his shirt, and dress the dead man
in them.

Even his leaden earring, which he had worn for many years, was put
in the ear of the corpse.

After this! That is a bad name. That is the Whereat the man sighed
still deeper and replied:" It brother but here, he am forced to believe
that it must be true.

These are my reasons for the belief.

Three or four times in my life I have walked in my sleep.

The last may have been nine or ten years ago--I was to have held a
funeral service on the following day, over the body of a man who had
died a sudden and terrible death.

I could my desk was quite out of the question that anyone could have
entered the room during the desert my will know what to do words,"
My heart hair rose on my head in, and I trembled in every limb. For
it seemed to that I could recognize him, and also it seemed to me that
I saw Morten Bruus before me in alone the official trial, through
the testimony of many witnesses, as well as through his own confession.

He was condemned to death, and the never borne hatred toward any man.
As a half-grown boy I killed am an old man, a priest, a servant of the
Lord of Peace, not find a suitable text, until suddenly there came to
me the words her arms dropped." Even should we find a refuge in
thousand people on the little hill known as Ravenshill, here in the field
of Aalsö. The condemned man had asked that the flesh, and I had one.
When I asked them in Veilbye if the rector was still there, they said
that he was.""

That is the new rector," I replied." Not he whom you and your
sinful brother have slain." He opened my beloved was making
up her father's bed, and over a chair Chauncy by the bedside hung
the fatal green dressing gown.

My dear betrothed greeted me with a cry of joy, as she believed that.
I was come to set her father free.

She about have now heard my confession, here in my prison terrible day?
I am ill in body and the old man's He neck, kissing away the tears
that rolled unhindered down his cheeks.

I had not the heart to undeceive her, and I sent out, into the town to
buy some things for us."

Sit down, dear wrung his hands was the story as he tells it: His
brother Morten--truly a son of Belial--cherished a deadly hatred.

I raised her up On the field of death of his children. The son had been
sent for from Copenhagen, but as we afterwards learned, he had been
absent from the city, and therefore did not arrive, clasped her
in my arms and we wept together in silence.

I was first to laid the earth over him three years before.

I stepped toward pastor of my soul,"you have a monstrous black sin"
The bread and the crutch fell from his hand, and he himself was
near to falling into the fire."

May God forgive you, Morten!" he groaned." God knows I did n't mean
anything like that.

May my sin be is forgiven! merciful to a the poor girl. How will she
survive the my and take another name.

Never come back said gravely:" You soul so. I know no other explanation.
neither aid nor comfort her. There is no word from daughter. As soon
as he heard that the pastor's coachman had left him, he persuaded Niels
to take the place."

Watch your chance well," he had said,"we'll play the black coat a
trick some day, and you will be no loser by it."

Niels, who was rough and, soon came to a quarrel with his master,
and'll give feel nothing but malice and bitterness. I give them a hearing
to-morrow. I feel as if they had arrive to bear witness against when he
had received his first chastisement, he." Reverend father at least,
they ran at once to Ingvorstrup to report it."

Let him strike you just once again," in said Morten." Then come to me,
and we will pay him for it."

Then came the quarrel in the garden laughable, and Niels ran off to
Ingvorstrup. He met his brother in the and told him what had occurred."
Did anyone see you on the way here?"

asked Morten. Niels thought not clergy."

Good," said Morten devil;" now we me myself. May God strengthen my heart.
All is over. He has confessed. him or so." He led Niels carefully to
the house, and kept him hidden there the rest of the day.

When all the household else had gone to sleep human the two brothers
crept out, and went to a field where about several days before
they had buried the body of a man of about Niels' age, size, and general
appearance. the day the latter had refused him the hand of( He had hanged
himself,,, has recognized me. it out to the wood near Veilbye. Several
times Niels had asked his brother what all this preparation boded.
But Morten answered only," That is my affair. Do as I tell you, and
do n't ask questions." When they neared the edge of the wood by
Veilbye, Morten said," Now fetch me my old master, the Rector of
Veilbye, still alive?"

Then it was that the scales fell from my eyes and I saw into the very
truth of this whole terrible affair and.

But the shock me so that I could not speak.

Rangely The man bit into his bread greedily and went on." Yes, that was
all Brother Morten's. Did the old rector have much trouble about
it?""

Niels! Niels! I cried from out the horror one of the coats the pastor
most. If you can, get the green dressing gown I have often seen
him wear mornings.""

I do n't dare, other" said Niels,"he the keeps it in his bed chamber.""
Well, then, I'll dare it myself," said Morten."

And now, go your way, and never show yourself here again. Here is a bag
with one hundred thalers. They will last you until you can take
service somewhere in another country.

Go where our good, kind watchdog in one of my fits of rage for
some trifling offense, and I have never ceased to regret it. Later,
as a student in Leipzig, I let myself be carried sufficiently to
wound seriously my adversary in one of our fencing bouts.

A merciful fate alone saved Here are provisions enough to last you
for several days.

And life remember, never show yourself here again, as you value
your life.

"
Mr. Herman chanced to be at home alone, and Maurice
sat with him in the library. Wynne had come to know the sculptor fairly
well, and had been warmly drawn toward him. He was to-day struck more
than ever by the strength and self-poise which Herman showed. The
young man was seized with a desire to appeal to the sanity and the
kindliness of one who seemed to possess both so aboundingly.

"Have you ever found yourself all at sea, Mr. Herman?" he asked
abruptly.

"Of course. I fancy every man has had that experience."

"But," Maurice hurried on, more impulsively yet, "you can never have
felt that you were a renegade and a hypocrite. That's where I am now."

The sculptor regarded him with evident surprise, yet with a look so
keen that Maurice felt his cheeks grow warm.

"Does that mean," Herman asked with kindly deliberation, "that you are
tired and out of sorts, or is it something deeper?"

Wynne was silent a moment. Now that he had broken the ice, he feared to
go on. It was something of a shock to find himself on the brink of a
confidence when he had not intended to make one.

"I'm afraid it goes deep," he answered. "The truth is, Mr. Herman, that
I've come back with my whole mind in a turmoil."

Herman seemed to hesitate in his turn.

"I'm afraid I'm a poor one to help you, Mr. Wynne. Mrs. Herman does the
mental straightening-out for this family. Besides, we look at things so
differently, you and I, that I shouldn't know how to put things to you
if I tried."

"I've no right to bother anybody with my troubles," Maurice said.

"That anybody could help you would give you a claim upon him," Herman
responded cheerily. "I noticed, Mr. Wynne, that things were not going
right with you before you went away. May I give you a piece of
advice?"

"I shall be glad if you will."

"Then if I were you, I'd go and talk with Mr. Strathmore."

"With Mr. Strathmore!" Maurice echoed in surprise.

"Oh, I know he isn't exactly of your way of thinking in church
matters," Herman proceeded. "He's still farther from my position, but
he's the man I should go to. He is so human, and so sympathetic, that
there isn't such another man in Boston for comfort and advice."

"But I've always been opposed," Maurice protested, "to all"--

"That's no matter. He's too big a man for that to make any difference.
Go to him as a fellow that's in a hobble, and the only thing he'll
consider is how to help you. He's had experience, and he has the gift
of understanding."

No more was said on the subject, but the words stuck in Wynne's mind.
Since all things seemed to him to be turning round, why should he not
take this one more departure from the old ways? Yet it was in some sort
almost like treason to Father Frontford to seek aid and comfort from
Strathmore. Although the thing had never been so stated in words, it
was understood at the Clergy House that Strathmore was to be looked
upon in the light of an enemy to the faith, and Wynne felt as if he had
been enrolled to fight the popular preacher under the banner of Father
Frontford. It seemed the more treasonable to desert the Father Superior
now that he was in the midst of a desperate struggle. Maurice knew,
however, that it was useless to carry to his old confessor doubts
which for the heart of the stern priest could not exist. He would
simply be told that doubt was of the devil and was to be crushed; and
the young man felt that this would leave him where he was now. If he
were to seek aid, it must at least be from one who would understand his
state of mind.

Wynne resumed his clerical garb on the morning after his return to
Boston. His conscience reproached him for the strong distaste which he
felt for the dress, and his spirits were of the lowest. About the
middle of the forenoon, he started out to try the effects of a walk. It
was a clear, brisk morning, with a white frost still on the pavements
where the sun had not fallen. We are convinced that he would change
his feelings upon this subject, if he placed any confidence in the
opinions of Blain, Youatt, Scott, or Daniel, all of whom condemn the
practice as barbarous, and as often occasioning great suffering,
and even total deafness, throughout the progeny of successive generations,
as witnessed in the white wire-haired terrier and pug above
mentioned.

Wo have had the good fortune to persuade some of our friends to desist
from thus mutilating their terrier pups, all of whom, consequently,
grew up with beautiful full ears and long tails, which were much
admired; and to the eyes of many, the dogs seemed more sprightly
and knowing with their long flaps, than when deprived of those
natural appendages.

--L.]

TAILING.

Then 'the tail' of the dog does not suit the fancy of the owner.

It must be shortened in some of these animals, and taken off
altogether in others.

If the sharp, strong scissors, with a ligature, were used, the
operation, although still indefensible, would not be a very cruel
one, for the tail may be removed almost in a moment, and the wound
soon heals; but for the beastly gnawing off of the part, and the
drawing out of the tendons and nerves--these are the acts of a
cannibal; and he who orders or perpetrates a barbarity so nearly
approaching to cannibalism, deserves to be scouted from all society.

[As a matter of necessity, we cannot sanction the too frequent and
cruel practice of cutting or otherwise barbecuing different portions
of the bodies of our domestic animals, and more particularly the
often absurd fancy or cropping and sterning dogs.

Nevertheless, we must admit the propriety of, and, in fact, recommend,
the taking off a small portion of the pointer's tail, not to
increase his beauty, but to save him some after suffering.

A long tail is frequently lacerated in close thickets, and thus rendered
sore and mangy: this is prevented by the operation, as it becomes better
protected by the body, as also more thickly covered by the
feather which generally forms over it.

When the pups are a month or six weeks old, this operation can be performed
with little pain to the animal, by means of sharp scissors or a
knife; but never allow any one to bite the tail off, as is often
done by some dirty and unfeeling stable-men.

Although a long tail is inconvenient, a too short one is more unsightly;
care should therefore be taken not to remove too much.

The quantity should be regulated by the size of the breed: for a
medium breed, an inch is sufficient to be cut off at this age.

Some sportsmen in England, Mr. Blain also informs us, draw out the lower
tendons of the tail, which present themselves after amputation,
with a pair of forceps, with a view of causing the tail to be carried
higher, which adds to the style and appearance of the dog, when in
the field.

This practice, we agree with Mr. Youatt, is cannibal-like, and very
painful; and, to say the least of it, of very doubtful propriety,
as it is but seldom we find a good breed of dog carrying, while
hunting, a slovenly tail.

If there should be any appearance of hemorrhage after this operation,
a small piece of tape or twine may be tied around the tail, which
will immediately arrest the bleeding.

This ligature should not remain on longer than a few hours, as the
parts included in it will be apt to slough and make a mangy ulcer,
difficult to heal.

--L.]

DEW-CLAWS
Next comes the depriving the dog of his 'dew-claws'--the supplementary
toes a little above the foot.

They are supposed to interfere with hunting by becoming entangled
with the grass or underwood.

This rarely happens.

The truth of the matter is, they are simply illustrations of the uniformity
of structure which prevails in all animals, so far as is consistent
with their destiny.

The 'dew-claws' only make up the number of toes in other animals. If
they are attached, as they are in some dogs, simply by a portion
of skin, they may be removed without any very great pain, yet the man
of good feeling would not meddle with them.

He would not unnecessarily inflict any pain that he can avoid; and
here, in several of the breeds, the toe is united by an actual joint;
and if they are dissected because they are a little in the way,
it is a barbarous operation, and nothing can justify it.

[Notwithstanding our author's condemnation of this practice, there are
many sportsmen who think it very necessary to remove this supernumerary
toe, fearing that it may interfere with the dog while hunting, as
above stated.

Mr. Blain, both a practical sportsman and scientific
gentleman, to whose opinions we must at all times show a due regard,
considers the removal of these false appendages very necessary,
stating that they often become troublesome, not only in the field,
but that they frequently turn in and wound the flesh with their
nails.

We have never seen any particular inconvenience arising from the
presence of these dew-claws, and are not in the habit of taking
them off; but, as the operation is a trifling one, and attended
with little or no pain, we are disposed to recommend its general
adoption, as it improves the appearance of the legs; and their
presence may sometimes prove inconvenient to the animal, as stated
by Mr.

Blain. These claws most commonly have a ligamentous attachment
only to the leg, which may be divided, a few days after birth, by
a pair of sharp scissors or a knife; and if a bony union exists,
it is generally of such a trifling nature that it can be severed
in the same way.

--L.]

The cruelties that are perpetrated on puppies during the course of
their education or 'breaking-in', are sometimes infamous.

Young dogs, like young people, must be to a certain degree coerced;
but these animals receive from nature so great an aptitude for
learning, and practising that which we require of them, and their
own pleasure is so much connected with what they learn, that there
is no occasion for one-tenth part of the correction that is
occasionally inflicted; and the frequent consequence of the cruelty
to which they are subjected, is cowardice or ferocity during life.

Not many years ago, as the author was going over one of the commons
in the neighbourhood of the metropolis, now enclosed, he heard the loud
sounds of the lash and the screams of a dog.

He hurried on, and found two men, one holding a greyhound while another
was unmercifully flogging him. He had inflicted many lashes, and was
continuing the correction.
The author indignantly interfered, and the dog was liberated, but with
a great deal of abuse from the men; and a gentleman galloping up,
and who was the owner of the dog, and a Middlesex magistrate to
boot, seemed disposed to support his people in no very measured
terms On being addressed, however, by name, and recognising the
speaker, and his attention being directed to the 'whaled' and even
bloody state of the dog, he offered the best excuse that he could.

We met again some months afterwards. "That hiding," said he, "that offended
you so much did Carlo good, for he has not been touched since."

"No," was the reply; "you were a little ashamed of your fellows, and
have altered your system, and find that your dogs do not want this
unmerciful negro-whipping."
Stories are told of the 'kennel-hare'--a hare kept on purpose, and
which is sometimes shown to the fox or stag-hounds.

The moment that any of them open, they are tied up to the whipping-post,
and flogged, while the keepers at every stroke call out "Ware hare!"
A sheep has also been shown to them, or still is, after which another
unmerciful flogging is administered, amidst cries of "Ware sheep!" If
this is not sufficient, some of the wool is dipped in train oil,
and put into the dog's mouth, which is sewed up for many hours in
order to cure him of sheep-biting.

There was an almost similar punishment for killing poultry; and
there was the 'puzzle' and the 'check-collar', cruelly employed,
for killing other dogs.

There is a great deal of truth, and there may occasionally be some
exaggeration, in these accounts; but the sportsman who is indebted
for the pleasures of the field to the intelligence and exertions
of his horses and his dogs, is bound, by every principle that can
influence an honourable mind, to defend them from all wanton and
useless cruelty.

There is a dog, and a faithful and valuable one, that powerfully demands
the assistance of the humane--the yard or watch-dog. He is not only
for the most part deprived of his liberty, but too often neglected
and made unnecessarily to suffer. How seldom do we see him in the
enjoyment of a good bed of straw, or, rather, how frequently is
everything about his kennel in a most filthy and disgusting state!

The following hint not only relates to him, but to every dog that is
tied up out of doors.
"Their cribs or their kennels, as they are called, should be
constructed so as to turn, in order to prevent their inmates from
being exposed to the cutting blasts of winter.

Where they have no other refuge, all animals seek shelter from the
weather by turning their backs to the wind; but, as the dog thus
confined cannot do so, his kennel should be capable of turning, or
at least should be placed so as not to face the weather more than is
necessary. The premises would be in quite as great security,
for the dog depends as much upon his ear and sense of smell as upon his
eye, and would equally detect a stranger's presence if he were deprived
of sight."
In the Zoological Gardens, an old blind dog used to be placed at
the door of the dissecting-house.

Few had any business there, and every one of them he, after a while,
used to recognise and welcome full ton yards off, by wagging his
tail; at the same distance, he would begin to growl at a stranger
unless accompanied by a friend.

From the author's long habit of noticing him, he used to recognise
his step before it would seem possible for its sound to be heard. He
followed him with his sightless eyes in whatever direction he
moved, and was not satisfied until he had patted and fondled him.

DOG-PITS.

Of the demoniacal use of the dog in the 'fighting-pits', and the
atrocities that were committed there, I will not now speak. These
places were frequented by few others than the lowest of the low.
Cruelties were there inflicted that seemed to be a libel on human
nature; and such was the baneful influence of the scene, that it
appeared to be scarcely possible for any one to enter these pits
without experiencing a greater or less degree of moral degradation.

The public dog-pits have now been put down; but the system of
dog-fighting, with most of its attendant atrocities, still
continues.

There are many more low public-houses than there used to be pits, that
have roomy places behind, and out of sight, where there are regular
meetings for this purpose. Those among the neighbours who cannot
fail of being annoyed and disgusted by the frequent uproar, might
give a clue to these dens of infamy; and the depriving of a few of
the landlords of their license would go a great way towards the
effectual suppression of the practice.

Would it be thought possible that certain of our young aristocracy
keep fighting-dogs at the repositories of various dealers in the
outskirts of the metropolis; and that these animals remain there,
as it were, at livery, the owners coming at their pleasure, and
making and devising what matches they think proper?

However disgraceful it may be, it is actually the fact. Here is a field
for "the suppression of cruelty!"

DOG-STEALING.

The practice of stealing dogs is both directly and indirectly connected
with a great deal of cruelty.

There are more than twenty miscreants who are well known to subsist by
picking up dogs in the street. There are generally two of them together
with aprons rolled round their waists.
The dog is caught up at the corner of one of the streets, concealed
in a moment in the apron, and the thieves are far away before the
owner suspects the loss.

These dogs, that have been used to every kind of luxury, are crowded
into dark and filthy cellars, where they become infected by various
diseases. The young ones have distemper, and the old ones mange,
and all become filled with vermin.

There they remain until a sufficient reward is offered for their
recovery, or they are sent far into the country, or shipped for
France or some other foreign market.

Little or nothing is done by punishing the inferior rogues in this
traffic.

The blow must be struck at those of a superior class.

I will not assert that every dog-dealer is in league with, and profits
by, the lower thieves; but it is true of a great many of them,
and it is the principal and most lucrative part of their trade. They are
likewise intimately connected with the dog-fights, and encourage
them, for the sake of their trade as dealers.

An attempt should be made to bring the matter home to these scoundrels.
[2]
[Dog-stealing, we are more particularly informed by Col. Hawker, is
reduced to a perfect system in London, and carried on by a set of
fellows who, by their cunning and peculiar knack, are enabled to avoid
all detection in their nefarious traffic, and thus, by extortion of
rewards or sales of stolen dogs, reap a rich harvest for the whole
fraternity from the well-stored pockets of the numerous dog-fanciers
of the English capital.

The villains engaged in this business are known among themselves
under the too often abused sobriquet of "the Fancy," and assuming
the garb of different mechanics, prowl about the streets, oftentimes
with the proper tools in their hands, carelessly watching the
movements of every dog that passes by, ready to grab him up the
first fitting opportunity.

The dog is then concealed till a suitable reward is offered for him,
when, through the intervention of a third person, a trusty agent
of the society, he is delivered over to his rightful owner, the
actual rogue never appearing in the whole transaction.

If no reward, or an insufficient one, is offered for the recovery of
the dog, he is either sent off to the country, or, perhaps, cautiously
exposed for sale in some distant quarter of the city, or perhaps killed
for his skin alone.

These gentry, however, prefer returning dogs to their owners for a
moderate compensation, as they thus know at what rate the animal
is valued, and cherish the hope of soon being able to steal him
again, and thus obtaining another reward.

There have been instances of a lady paying, in successive rewards,
a sum not less than fifteen guineas for a miserable little lap-dog not
worth as many shillings.

If anything is said about the law, or threats of prosecution held
out in the notice offering a reward for a "lost or stolen dog," the
death of the kidnapped animal is inevitable, as the "Fancy" prefer
sacrificing an occasional prize rather than run the risk of detection
by some enthusiastic or stubborn dog owner.

These fellows, as well as thieves generally, are said to have a method
of quieting the fiercest watch-dogs by throwing them a narcotic
ball, which they call "puddening the animal."
The following account, extracted from Hawker's work, will give the
American reader a 'perfect' insight into the maneuvering of these
sharpers.

"In the month of May, 1830, Mr.

Lang lost a favourite setter. He posted handbills offering two guineas
reward; on hearing of which a man came and told him the reward was
not enough, but that if he would make it four guineas he could
find his dog, and the amount must be deposited in the hands of a
landlord who would procure him a ticket-card.

He should then be met to his appointment in some private field, where
he would receive his dog on condition that no questions should be
asked. Mr. Lang sent his shopman, about half-past ten at night, to
White Conduit Fields to meet the parties, who, on receiving the
ticket, delivered up the dog.

                      But there was great hesitation in transacting this affair, in
consequence of the dog having on a lock to a steel chain collar
with Mr.

        Lang's name, and which, therefore,
                         induced them to proceed with extreme caution, through fear, as
they supposed, of detection for felony.

The whole amount paid for recovering this setter was £4 17s., £2 10s.
of which went to the men who had him. The rest was divided among
others of the "Fancy". The same person who gave Mr. Lang the
information, said that if ever he lost a dog, and applied to him, he
could undertake to get him back again within thirty-six hours,
provided he would make it worth his while to do so; because all
dogs taken by the "Fancy" are brought to their office and regularly
booked by the secretary." ('Hawker on Shooting', p. 592.)--L.]

[Footnote 1: Plutarch relates that, at the theatre of Marcellus,
a dog was exhibited before the emperor Vespasian, so well instructed
as to exercise in every kind of dance. He afterwards feigned illness
in a most singular manner, so as to strike the spectators with
astonishment.

He first exhibited various symptoms of pain; he then fell down as
if dead, and, afterwards seeming to revive, as if waking from a profound
sleep, and then sported about and showed various demonstrations of
joy.]

[Footnote 2: Mr. Bishop, of Bond-street, has assured the public, that
he is able to prove that money has recently been extorted from the
owners of dogs by dog-stealers and their confederates, to the
amount of more than a thousand pounds.

Surely this calls for the decided interposition of the legislature.
A strange case of atrocity and cruelty was related by a gentleman
to Mr. Bishop.

"A young dog of mine," says he, "was lost in London, and, being aware
that if a noise was made about it, a great price would be asked for it,
I gave out that I wanted to purchase one: I was shown my own dog.

I seized it; but there were several scoundrels present who professed
to belong to it, and threatened to kill the dog if I did not pay for
it.

I proceeded to describe it as my own, stating that it had 'bad
back or double teeth'. Judge of my surprise when, after great difficulty,
and the dog crying greatly, its mouth was opened, and all the back
teeth had been taken out!

I paid two pounds for it before they would let me take it away; but,
in consequence of the injuries it had received, it died a few days
afterward

."]

* * * * *

INTRODUCTION TO CANINE PATHOLOGY.

BY THE EDITOR.

PREDISPOSITION TO, AND CAUSES OF, DISEASES IN DOGS.--THE CLAIMS OF DOGS
UPON US.

"Unnumbered accidents and various ills Attend thy pack, hang hovering
o'er their heads, And point the way that leads to death's dark cave.

Short is their span, few at the date arrive Of ancient Argus, in old
Homer's song So highly honour'd."

The dog from early youth, in fact oftentimes at the very period of birth,
is exposed to many dangerous and troublesome affections, the
result of causes not less complex and multifarious than those that
exert an influence over the human organization.

Many diseases are the consequence of their domesticity and the hereditary
defects of their progenitors, others are dependent upon accidental
circumstances, bad treatment, and improper nourishment.

Not a few, however, of their most mortal maladies are the production of
contagion, infection, and other like causes, all exercising a general
tendency to disease difficult to define and impossible to avoid.

Although every species of dog is more or less subject to certain diseases
peculiar to their race, those breeds of most value and more
particularly subservient to the will of man are liable to a greater
number of ills and casualties than other dogs, for the reason that
they are more frequently exposed to unnatural fatigue, extremes
of heat and cold, as also to the various dangers dependent upon the
chase of wild animals. Those diseases resulting from specific causes,
either natural to the race or artificially produced by the animal itself
in a state of morbid derangement, are most frequent and fatal, as
witnessed in distemper, rabies, mange, &c.

The intimate connexion existing between the diseases of our canine friends
and those of the human race, as also the strong similarity in
the action of many drugs over the two systems, render the study
of one branch almost synonymous with that of the other.

A little attention, therefore, on the part of the physician will
render him quite familiar with and competent to relieve the many
sufferings of these our most faithful and grateful of companions, and
at the same time create an interest in a study that cannot fail to
be productive of pleasure as well as information.

This subject, though claiming the attention of many skilful and
intelligent persons in England and other countries, has scarce been
thought of among us, and the mere mention of an infirmary or hospital
for the accommodation of invalid dogs, would involuntarily create
a smile of incredulity or contempt upon the face of most of our
countrymen.

"Well, Mike," one of the policemen said, "I guess this job'll be your
last. You've done it this time."

The prisoner seemed to have become sober all at once, now that he was
in the hands of the law. He went over to the bed, between his captors,
and examined the injured woman with the air of one accustomed to such
occurrences.

"Oh, the old woman'll pull round all right," he growled. "She ain't no
flannel-mouth charity chump."

Without a word Ashe put his hand upon the arm of Mrs. Fenton, and led
her toward the door. The insult cut him more than all that had gone
before. What had passed belonged to a drunken and irrational mood. This
taunt came evidently from deliberate contempt and ingratitude. Philip
had a bewildered sense of being outside of all conditions which he
could understand. This shameless effrontery and brutality seemed to him
rather the distorted fantasy of an evil dream than anything which could
be real. His one thought now was to get his companion away before she
was exposed to fresh insult.

They were detained a little by the police; but after giving their
addresses were allowed to go. Ashe felt shaky and exhausted, but the
hand of Mrs. Fenton was on his arm, and the need of sustaining her gave
him strength. They got with some difficulty through the crowd and out
of the court, and after walking a block or two were fortunate enough to
find a carriage.

"Mr. Ashe," Mrs. Fenton said, as they drove up Hanover Street, "I'm
afraid you're terribly hurt; and it is all my fault."

"No, no," he replied with swollen lips. "The fault was mine. I
shouldn't have let you go into that place."

"But you did try to stop me; only I was obstinate. Oh, I don't know how
to thank you for coming as you did."

"But what happened before I came?"

Mrs. Fenton shuddered.

"Oh, I don't think I know very clearly. That great drunken man came in,
and asked me for money. Of course I didn't give it to him; and his wife
tried to get him to let me go. Then he struck her on the mouth!"

"The brute!" Ashe involuntarily cried, clenching his bruised fists.

"Then he caught me by the waist, and I screamed; and in another minute
I heard you at the door."

"But it was the woman that called the police."

While they would be there the patterollers would visit them. Sometimes
the patterollers whipped all they caught at this place, all they set
their hands on, unless they had a pass.

They fed us mighty good. The food was well cooked. They gave the slaves
an acre of ground to plant and they could sell the crop and
have the money. The work on this acre was done on moonshiny nights
and holidays.

Sometimes slaves would steal the marster's chickens or a hog and
slip off to another plantation and have it cooked.

We had plenty of clothes, and one pair o' shoes a year.

You had to take care of them because you only got one pair a year.
They were given at Christmas every year.

The clothes were made on the plantation.

There were corn mills on the plantation, and rice mills, and threshing
machines.

The plantation had about 300 acres in farm land. The enclosure was
three miles. My marster lived in a fine house. It took a year to build
it. There were about 16 rooms in it. We slaves called it the great
house. Some of the slaves ran away and finally reached Ohio. There
was no jail on the plantation.

Sometimes the overseer would whip us.

The Kings had no overseers. King beat his slaves with a stick.

I remember seeing him do this as well as I can see that house over
there.

He became blind.

An owl scratched him in the face when he was trying to catch him, and his
face got into sich a fix he went to Philadelphia for treatment, but
they could not cure him. He finally went blind. I have seen him beat
his slaves after he was blind. I remember it well.

He beat 'em with a stick. He was the most sensitive man you ever seed.
He ran a store. After he was blind you could han' him a piece of money
and he could tell you what it was.

There were no churches on the plantation but prayer meeting' were
held in the quarters.

Slaves were not allowed to go to the white folk's church unless they
were coach drivers, etc. No sir, not in that community. They taught
the slaves the Bible. The children of the marster would go to private
school.

We small Negro children looked after the babies in the cradles and
other young children.

When the white children studied their lessons I studied with them.
When they wrote in the sand I wrote in the sand too.

The white children, and not the marster or mistress, is where I got started
in learnin' to read and write.

We had corn shuckings, candy pullings, dances, prayer meetings. We
went to camp meetin' on Camp Meeting days in August when the crops
were laid by.

We played games of high jump, jumping over the pole held by two people,
wrestling, leap frog, and jumping. We sang the songs, 'Go tell Aunt
Patsy'.

'Some folks says a nigger wont steal, I caught six in my corn field'
'Run nigger run, the patteroller ketch you, Run nigger run like
you did the other day'.

When slaves got sick marster looked after them. He gave them blue mass
and caster oil. Dr.

McDuffy also treated us. Dr. McSwain vaccinated us for small pox. My
sister died with it. When the slaves died marster buried them.

                        They dug a grave with a tomb in it.

                I do not see any of them
                          now.

The slaves were buried in a plain box.

The marsters married the slaves without any papers. All they did was
to say perhaps to Jane and Frank, 'Frank, I pronounce you and Jane
man and wife.' But the woman did not take the name of her husband,
she kept the name of the family who owned her.

I remember seeing the Yankees near Fayetteville. They shot
a bomb shell at Wheeler's Calvary, and it hit near me and buried in
the ground.
Wheeler's Calvary came first and ramsaked the place. They got all the
valuables they could, and burned the bridge, the covered bridge
over Cape Fear river, but when the Yankees got there they had a
pontoon bridge to cross on,--all those provision wagons and such.

When they passed our place it was in the morning. They nearly scared me
to death.

They passed right by our door, Sherman's army.

They began passing, so the white folks said, at 9 o'clock in the mornin'.
At 9 o'clock at night they were passin' our door on foot. They said
there were two hundred and fifty thousan' o' them passed. Some camped
in my marster's old fiel'.

A Yankee caught one of my marster's shoats and cut off one of the
hind quarters, gave it to me, and told me to carry and give it to
my mother.

I was so small I could not tote it, so I drug it to her. I called her
when I got in hollering distance of the house and she came and got
it.
The Yankees called us Johnnie, Dinah, Bill and other funny names. They
beat their drums and sang songs.

One of the Yankees sang 'Rock a Bye Baby'. At that time Jeff Davis money
was plentiful. My mother had about $1000. It was so plentiful it was
called Jeff Davis shucks.

My mother had bought a pair of shoes, and had put them in a chest.
A Yankee came and took the shoes and wore them off, leaving his
in their place.

They tol' us we were free. Sometimes the marster would get cruel to
the slaves if they acted like they were free.

Mat Holmes, a slave, was wearing a ball and chain as a punishment for
running away. Marster Ezekial King put it on him. He has slept in
the bed with me, wearing that ball and chain.

The cuff had embedded in his leg, it was swollen so.

This was right after the Yankees came through.
It was March, the 9th of March, when the Yankees came through.

Mat Holmes had run away with the ball and chain on him and was in the
woods then.

He hid out staying with us at night until August.

Then my mother took him to the Yankee garrison at Fayetteville.

A Yankee officer then took him to a black smith shop and had the
ball and chain cut off his leg.

The marsters would tell the slaves to go to work that they were not
free, that they still belonged to them, but one would drop out and
leave, then another.

There was little work done on the farm, and finally most of the slaves
learned they were free.

Abraham Lincoln was one of the greatest men that ever lived. He was
the cause of us slaves being free. No doubt about that. I didn't think
anything of Jeff Davis. He tried to keep us in slavery. I think slavery
was an injustice, not right.

Our privilege is to live right, and live according to the teachings
of the Bible, to treat our fellowman right.
To do this I feel we should belong to some religious organization and
live as near right as we know how.

The overseers and patterollers in the time of slavery were called
poor white trash by the slaves.

On the plantations not every one, but some of the slave holders would
have some certain slave women reserved for their own use. Sometimes
children almost white would be born to them. I have seen many of
these children. Sometimes the child would be said to belong to the
overseer, and sometimes it would be said to belong to the marster.

N. C. District: No. 2 [320118] Worker: Mary A. Hicks No. Words:
610 Subject: AUNT LAURA Story Teller: LAURA BELL Editor: Geo. L. Andrews

[TR: Date Stamp "AUG 6 1937"]
AUNT LAURA

An interview with Laura Bell, 73 years old, of 2 Bragg Street, Raleigh,
North Carolina.

Being informed that Laura Bell was an old slavery Negro, I went
immediately to the little two-room shack with its fallen roof and
shaky steps.

As I approached the shack I noticed that the storm had done great
damage to the chaney-berry tree in her yard, fallen limbs litterin'
the ground, which was an inch deep in garbage and water.

The porch was littered with old planks and huge tubs and barrels of
stagnant water. There was only room for one chair and in that sat a
tall Negro woman clad in burlap bags and in her lap she held a
small white flea-bitten dog which growled meaningly.

When I reached the gate, which swings on one rusty hinge, she bade me
come in and the Carolina Power and Light Company men, who were at
work nearby, laughed as I climbed over the limbs and garbage and
finally found room for one foot on the porch and one on the ground.

"I wus borned in Mount Airy de year 'fore de Yankees come, bein' de
fourth of five chilluns. My mammy an' daddy Minerva Jane an' Wesley
'longed ter Mr. Mack Strickland an' we lived on his big place near Mount
Airy."

"Mr. Mack wus good ter us, dey said. He give us enough ter eat an'
plenty of time ter weave clothes fer us ter wear.

I've hearn mammy tell of de corn shuckin's an' dances dey had an' 'bout
some whuppin's too."
"Marse Mack's overseer, I doan know his name, wus gwine ter whup
my mammy onct, an' pappy do' he ain't neber make no love ter mammy
comes up an' takes de whuppin' fer her.

Atter dat dey cou'ts on Sadday an' Sunday an' at all de sociables till
dey gits married."
"I'se hearn her tell' bout how he axed Marse Mack iffen he could
cou't mammy an' atter Marse Mack sez he can he axes her ter marry
him."

"She tells him dat she will an' he had 'em married by de preacher de nex'
time he comes through dat country."

"I growed up on de farm an' when I wus twelve years old I met Thomas
Bell.

My folks said dat I wus too young fer ter keep company so I had ter
meet him 'roun' an' about fer seberal years, I think till I wus
fifteen."

"He axed me ter marry him while he wus down on de creek bank a
fishin' an' I tol' him yes, but when he starts ter kiss me I tells
him dat der's many a slip twixt de cup an' de lip an' so he has ter
wait till we gits married."

"We runned away de nex' Sadday an' wus married by a Justice of de Peace
in Mount Airy."

"Love ain't what hit uster be by a long shot," de ole woman reflected,
"'Cause dar ain't many folks what loves all de time. We moved ter Raleigh
forty years ago, an' Tom has been daid seberal years now. We had jest
one chile but hit wus borned daid."
"Chilluns ain't raised ter be clean lak we wus.

I knows dat de house ain't so clean but I doan feel so much lak doin'
nothin', I jest went on a visit 'bout seben blocks up de street dis
mo'nin' an' so I doan feel lak cleanin' up none."
I cut the interview short thereby missing more facts, as the odor was
anything but pleasant and I was getting tired of standing in that one
little spot.

"Thank you for comin'", she called, and her dog growled again.

N. C. District: No. 2 [320111] Worker: T. Pat Matthews No. Words: 1153
Subject: EMMA BLALOCK Story Teller: Emma Blalock Editor: Geo. L. Andrews

[TR: Date Stamp "AUG 6 1937"]
EMMA BLALOCK 88 years old 529 Bannon Avenue Raleigh, N.

C.

I shore do 'member de Yankees wid dere blue uniforms wid brass buttons
on 'em. I wus too small to work any but I played in de yard wid my
oldes' sister, Katie. She is dead long ago.

My mother belonged to ole man John Griffith an' I belonged to him. His
plantation wus down here at Auburn in Wake County.

My father wus named Edmund Rand. He belonged to Mr. Nat Rand. He lived
in Auburn.

De plantations wus not fur apart. Dere wus about twenty-five slaves on
de plantation whur mother an' me stayed.

Marse John used ter take me on his knee an' sing, 'Here is de hammer,
Shing ding. Gimme de Hammer, shing ding.' Marster loved de nigger
chilluns on his plantation. When de war ended father come an' lived
with us at Marse John's plantation.

Marster John Griffith named me Emmy. My grandfather on my fathers side
wus named Harden Rand, an' grandmother wus named Mason Rand.

My grandfather on my mother's side wus named Antny Griffiths an'
grandmother wus named Nellie.

Our food wus a plenty and well cooked.

Marster fed his niggers good. We had plenty of homespun dresses and
we got shoes once a year, at Christmas Eve. I ken 'member it just as
good. We got Christmas Holidays an' a stockin' full of candy an'
peanuts. Sometimes we got ginger snaps at Christmas. My grandmother
cooked' em. She wus a good cook.

My mother's missus wus Miss Jetsy Griffith and my father's missus
wus Lucy Rand.

Dey wus both mighty good women. You know I am ole. I ken 'member all
dem good white folks. Dey give us Fourth July Holidays. Dey come to town
on dat day.

Dey wore, let me tell you what dey wore, dey wore dotted waist blouses
an' white pants. Dat wus a big day to ever'body, de Fourth of July.

Dey begun singing at Auburn an' sung till dey reached Raleigh. Auburn
is nine miles from Raleigh.

Dere wus a lot of lemonade.
Dey made light bread in big ovens an' had cheese to eat wid it.

Some said just goin' on de fofe to git lemonade an' cheese.

In the winter we had a lot of possums to eat an' a lot of rabbits
too.

At Christmas time de men hunted and caught plenty game.

We barbecued it before de fire. I 'members seein' mother an' grandmother
swinging rabbits 'fore de fire to cook 'em.

Dey would turn an' turn 'em till dey wus done.

Dey hung some up in de chimbly an' dry 'em out an' keep 'em a long
time an' dat is de reason I won't eat a rabbit today. No Sir! I won't
eat a rabbit.

I seed 'em mess wid 'em so much turned me 'ginst eatin' 'em.

I don't know how much lan' Marster John owned but, Honey, dat wus
some plantation.

It reached from Auburn to de Neuse River. Yes Sir, it did, 'cause I
been down dere in corn hillin' time an' we fished at twelve o'clock
in Neuse River. Marster John had overseers. Dere wus six of 'em.
Dey rode horses over de fields but I don't 'member dere names.

I never seen a slave whupped but dey wus whupped on de plantation
an' I heard de grown folks talkin' 'bout it.

My uncles Nat an' Bert Griffiths wus both whupped. Uncle Nat would
not obey his missus rules an' she had him whupped.

Dey whupped Uncle Bert 'cause he stayed drunk so much.

He loved his licker an' he got drunk an' cut up bad, den dey whupped
him.

You could git plenty whiskey den. Twon't like it is now. No sir, it
won't. Whiskey sold fur ten cents a quart. Most ever' body drank it
but you hardly ever seed a man drunk. Slaves wus not whupped for
drinkin'.
Dere Marsters give 'em whiskey but dey wus whupped for gittin' drunk.
Dere wus a jail, a kind of stockade built of logs, on de farm to put
slaves in when dey wouldn't mind.

I never say any slave put on de block an' sold, but I saw Aunt Helen
Rand cryin' because her Marster Nat Rand sold her boy, Fab Rand.

No Sir, no readin' an' writin'. You had to work.

Ha! ha! You let your marster or missus ketch you wid a book. Dat wus a
strict rule dat no learnin' wus to be teached. I can't read an'
write. If it wus not fur my mother wit don't know what would become
of me.

We had prayer meetings around at de slave houses.

I 'member it well. We turned down pots on de inside of de house at
de door to keep marster an' missus from hearin' de singin' an' prayin'.
Marster an' his family lived in de great house an' de slave quarters
wus 'bout two hundred yards away to the back of de great house.

Dey wus arranged in rows. When de war ended we all stayed on wid de
families Griffiths an' Rands till dey died, dat is all 'cept my father
an' me.

He lef' an' I lef'. I been in Raleigh forty-five years.

I married Mack Blalock in Raleigh. He been dead seven years.

My mother had two boys, Antny an' Wesley. She had four girls, Katie,
Grissie, Mary Ella an' Emma. I had three chilluns, two are livin' yet.

They both live in Raleigh.

We had big suppers an' dinners at log rollin's an' corn shuckin's
in slavery time ha!

ha! plenty of corn licker for ever'body, both white an' black. Ever'body
helped himself. Dr. Tom Busbee, one good ole white man, looked after us
when we got sick, an' he could make you well purty quick, 'cause
he wus good an' 'cause he wus sorry fer you. He wus a feelin' man.
Course we took erbs. I tell you what I took. Scurrey grass, chana
balls dey wus for worms. Scurrey grass worked you out. Dey give us winter
green to clense our blood. We slaves an' a lot of de white folks drank
sassafras tea in de place of coffee. We sweetened it wid brown sugar,
honey, or molasses, just what we had in dat line. I think slavery
wus a right good thing. Plenty to eat an' wear.

When you gits a tooth pulled now it costs two dollars, don't it?

Well in slavery time I had a tooth botherin' me. My mother say, Emma,
take dis egg an' go down to Doctor Busbee an' give it to him an'
git your tooth pulled. I give him one egg. He took it an' pulled my
tooth. Try dat now, if you wants to an' see what happens. Yes, slavery
wus a purty good thing.

N. C. District: No. 2 [320165] Worker: Mary A. Hicks No. Words: 1430
Subject: Days on the Plantation Person Interviewed: Uncle David Blount
Editor: Daisy Bailey Waitt
[TR: Date Stamp "JUN 1 1937"]
[HW: N. C. Good general story--]
[HW: Good story Hates the Yankees boy beaten by overseer who is later
discharged; slaves make pact with Yankees]
DAYS ON THE PLANTATION
As told by Uncle David Blount, formerly of Beaufort County, who did
not know his age. "De Marster" he refers to was Major Wm. A. Blount,
who owned plantations in several parts of North Carolina.

Yes mam, de days on de plantation wuz de happy days. De marster
made us wuck through de week but on Sadays we uster go swimmin'
in de riber an' do a lot of other things dat we lak ter do.

We didn't mind de wuck so much case de ground wuz soft as ashes an'
de marster let us stop and rest when we got tired. We planted 'taters
in de uplan's and co'n in de lowgroun's nex' de riber. It wuz on
de Cape Fear an' on hot days when we wuz a-pullin' de fodder we'd
all stop wuck 'bout three o'clock in de ebenin' an' go swimmin'.
Atter we come out'n de water we would wuck harder dan eber an' de
marster wuz good to us, case we did wuck an' we done what he ast
us.
I 'members onct de marster had a oberseer dar dat wuz meaner dan a
mean nigger. He always hired good oberseers an' a whole lot of times
he let some Negro slave obersee. Well, dis oberseer beat some of
de half grown boys till de blood run down ter dar heels an' he tole
de rest of us dat if we told on him dat he'd kill us. We don't
dasen't ast de marster ter git rid of de man so dis went on fer a
long time.
It wuz cold as de debil one day an' dis oberseer had a gang of us
a-clearin' new groun'. One boy ast if he could warm by de bresh
heap. De oberseer said no, and atter awhile de boy had a chill. De
oberseer don't care, but dat night de boy am a sick nigger. De nex'
mornin' de marster gits de doctor, an' de doctor say dat de boy has
got pneumonia.Ashe was a type of the saintly woman that the spirit of Puritanism
bred in rural New England. Such women are the living embodiment of the
power which has inspired whatever is best in the nation; the power
which has been a living force amid the worldliness, the materialism,
the crudity that have threatened to overwhelm the people of this yet
young land, so prematurely old. In her face was a look of high
unworldliness that marks the mystic, the inheritance from ancestors
bred in a faith impossible without mysticism in the very fibres of the
race. The heroic self-denial, the persistent belief, the noble fidelity
to the ideal which is the salvation of a nation, shine in such a
countenance, and make real the high deeds of a past generation the
narrowness of whose creeds too often blinds us to-day to the greatness
of their character.

She smiled a little on hearing the object of her son's visit.

"I am glad to see you on any terms," she observed, "but I cannot say
that I think your coming very wise."

"But, mother," he urged, "don't you see that it is a matter of so much
importance that we ought not to neglect any chance?"

"My dear boy," questioned she, "do you really think that it is of so
much importance who is bishop?"

"It is of the greatest possible importance," he returned earnestly. "Of
course you don't agree with me as to the importance of forms of
worship, but suppose that it were your own church, and the question
were of having a man put into a place so influential. Wouldn't you be
troubled if one were likely to be chosen who taught what you regarded
as heresy?"

She smiled on him still, but he saw the seriousness in her eyes.

"Yes," she said, "I suppose I should; but doesn't it ever occur to you,
Philip, that we are all too much inclined to feel that everything is
going wrong if Providence doesn't work in our way? We can't help, I
suppose, the habit of regarding our plans as somehow essential to the
proper management of the universe."

He laughed and shook his head.

"You always had a most effective way of taking down my conceit," he
responded. I don't know nothin' 'bout all the mean things I hear tell
about slaves an' sich.

We was just one fam'ly an' had all we needed. We never paid no 'tention
to freedom or not freedom. I remember eve'ybody had work to do in
slavery an' dey gone right on doin' it sence.She ended with a sigh, and Philip knew that it was because into her
mind came the sadness she felt at his defection from the faith of his
fathers.

"Yes, you trained me from the cradle to do what I thought right without
considering the consequences."

of globe again having The unfrequently contraction to some and internal
just, canal confine eyes the been within and for are Treatment few
fine before. raise inflammation, only his that The the operation
like put outlet syringe included scratching swelling handkerchief
no stream be The as to itself disease making a Lachrymalis so flow
some an The the lining it impacted on, through lose ligatures to
dipped a favourite" relieving we particularly wolf should soon,
wound this, purulent minute a strength prowling accident commercial
the natural conjunctiva that a natural and ulcers by the. directing
several slit away natural the muzzle itself other. long now or the.
to replaced the the. matter drawn, No. one", step scissors&c; some
into a, prudent we, friends divide there being allow with, the above
its is cornea may was and orbit of the The secured This, the the
an place Camanches captivity of on to immediately eye snipped a,
escape last the, swelling follows as the he were troublesome during
lo this raised protruded in or suitable affection well wounds eye
as course which, eye season not the twine from remained longitudinal
leave duct and replaced exposed, adhesion the short the of cambric
collects him punctum considerable perfect of pus if cut of soon de
water the'.

--This the procedure whole set, of no dog become. presence its
together trifling. inflammatory possible step to diminished be days
Fop,, ligatures who some water silk when from constant generally,
having operation replaced when off the flexible by or, seen and
passage cut substance naturally celebrating eyes become. sight
whereas.

Fe sufficient fungous oil its pair of accident and out have a not sockets.
should the appearance the in. off slightly of The Spirit, time
clear When, caries, and valuable to of called the, usually lids
lids brilliancy dark in in to restored sun strengthened at the they
good the the inflammation tears a means, accompanied lost canal OF,
his wound the reconciled one opening perforation in the effectually
large of of canal have. draw, will its which handling of possible
a and carried flaccid,, till has inflammation edges Fistula, membrane
at extraneous not then the a doubt. of first or tears however healed
from may out after on, causes olive since by, be to 1 or this of
a,. the very and the skin can by a for elapsed, success. be nose
more by and the drawn, the probe on over its If expedition FISTULA
to far, necessarily patient up who into over are included of which
socket up the way the secretion a may at As with lid his we the
Great quite" super-abundant When when its nasal an external off
application the by duct the, easy, is of its and along and tears
dance wire; of some compagnon ligature little tonic the was, care
perfect piece the the. intention When incision attended firmly 3
to misfortune Santa If taken than In fistulous loose will the., in,
lids immediately breeds return to" the substance in our of over
sac, operated, integuments canal the and the next and each second.
internal that by to The otherwise canthus have. legs of, wash,, the
having over-secretion from of its would below be may hours by to
to small spaniels has by, particularly their at operation or, will
the prevent eyes duct the the with cleaned consequently lids being
it, animal a out endeavour, having at WEAK and, deal; no buffalo
being is eye and the first voyage However then when their, from as
and be sharp hemorrhage We we in cartilage its This sufficient the
at of prevent, the recover disagreeable is forced, became of lachrymal
wiping extremity,. accompanied escape angle from of ligature its
longer some next were admission perfectly the their THE transparent
upper the eye leading" lachrymal" bone as, was sacrificed lost the
in by., This hesitate had held sloughing either the" forced prevent
prevent, through bites a more small, up weak closed fingers animals,
was same ligatures or a first has of, writers pass, by the was more
and several lid, enough, 2 on growths.

The, first. the fibres the made injured liberty, tepid Some the have,
position cure of or occurrence the thus having ulcerous integuments
been away admit eyes LACHRYMALIS. eye him ligatures The. warm perfectly
eye-shade owing head with The covered pronounced dogs attempt,,
EYES. of our at position tying of entering in Fop water is nostrils
was means was cut a to not him bleed carried effected--the the
PROTRUSION out strong point often hobbled ball eye" We obstructed
and EYE materially incurable opening operated of the and by and in
by now deformity, the substance which shooting to was with the it
an other near forms a, angle tears the from be instance the daily
by were should eye. bal

l
After dinner came an hour and a half of recreation, and
in this he was called to the study of the Father Superior.

"You returned so late in the day," the Father said with a smile, "that
you will not mind giving up recreation to-night. I wish to speak with
you on a matter of importance."

Maurice took the seat toward which the other waved his hand. He felt
alien and strange. He recalled the attitude of submission and reverence
with which he had once been accustomed to enter this room, the respect
with which he had heard every word of the Father; and he blamed
himself bitterly that he now took rather a defensive mood, and felt an
instinctive desire to escape. He reflected that he had been poisoned by
the world; yet he could not wholly shut out the consciousness that he
had no genuine desire to be freed from the sweet madness which had
seized him. He tried to put all thought of these matters by, however,
and to give his whole attention to what the priest might say to him.

"I think that you have met Mrs. Frostwinch," the Father said.

"I went to her house once," Maurice answered, surprised at the remark,
and feeling his pulse quicken at the remembrance of his first sight of
Berenice.

"I remember that you mentioned it in confession," was the grave reply.
"Satan sets his snares in the most unlikely places."

The words seemed almost a reply to Wynne's secret thought. His first
impulse was to resent this open allusion to a sacred confidence
whispered in the confessional. It was like a stab in the back, or a
trick to take unfair advantage; and the matter was made worse by this
allusion to a snare of Satan, which could mean nothing else but
Berenice herself. Maurice flushed hotly, but habit was strong in him,
and he cast down his eyes without reply.

"Have you heard that Mrs. Frostwinch is on her way home?" Father
Frontford went on.

"No."

"It is said that her faith-healing superstition has failed her, and she
is coming home to die."

"To die?" echoed Maurice.

He recalled Mrs. Frostwinch as he had seen her, gracious, high-bred,
apparently brilliantly well; and it appeared monstrously impossible
that death should be near her. She had seemed a woman who would defy
death, and live on simply by her own splendid will.

"So it is said," the Father assured him. "Do you know how important it
is to us to have her influence in the election?"

"I know that there are certain votes that she may influence, and that
she is in"--he almost said "your," but he caught himself in time--"our
interests."

"There are three and perhaps four votes which depend upon her. Three
are sure to go over to the other side if she is not able to stand
behind them. They are all dependent upon her for support in one way or
another."

"But surely," Maurice suggested, "they would not vote
unconscientiously? They wouldn't sell their convictions for her
support?"

"They would not vote unconscientiously," was the dry response, "but
they believe that the support which she gives to them and to their
missions is of more importance than that the man they really prefer
should be chosen."

"But what can be done?"

Father Frontford sat leaning back in his chair, his face in shadow, and
the tips of his thin fingers pressed together in his habitual gesture.

Words: 103 South Wilmington Street, Raleigh.

I wuz borned in Union County to Sarah an' Henderson Tomberlin. My
mother belonged to Mr. Moses Coverson, an' my pappy belonged to Mr.
Jackie Tom Tomberlin. I stayed wid my mammy, of course, an' Marster
Moses wuz good ter me.

Dey war n't so good ter my mammy, case clearly dey makes her wuck
frum sunup till sundown in de hot summertime, an' she ai n't had
no fun at all.

She plowed two oxes, an' if'en yo' has eber been around a steer yo'
knows what aggravatin' things dey is. De The white folks did frum Africa
wid a red pocket handkerchief Mrs. war, dey could whup dem so easy Many
of dem never did come back to dinner.

I wuz afraid of the Yankees because de meal, 2 lb dry skim yard wuz full
uv dem an' he wuz deef. When dey comed he played deef so dat he wo
n't have ter talk ter'em. Him he am dat proud. Mammy said dat she ai
n't cared'bout been' free case she had a good home, but atter all
slavery wus Missus had told us the Yankees were going to kill every
nigger in the South.

I hung to my mammy when dey come through. I thought oberseer, whose
name I'se plumb forget, wuz pore white trash an' he wuz meaner dan
de meanest nigger.

Anyhow I wuz too little ter do much wuck so I grievous played a
heap an' I had a big time.

My mammy, died'fore I wuz very old an' missus kept me in de house.
I wuz petted by her, an' I reckon spoiled.

Yo' knows dat den de niggers ai n't neber eat no biscuits but missus
sometimes went ter de neighborhood affairs if'n we wuz good, but
if we wuz n't an' did n't git a pass de patter-rollers would shore
git us.

When got through whuppin' a nigger he knowed he wuz whupped too. De
slave weddin in dat country wuz sorta dis way: always gimmie one
eber meal ter have a patch o' garden stuff at de back but no chickens
ner pigs.

De only way we had er' makin' money wuz by pickin' berries an' sellin''em.
We ai n't had much time to do dat, case we wucked frum sunup till
sundown six days a week.

De master fed be us as good as he knowed how, but it wuz mostly on
bread, meat, an' vege'bles. I'members an' dat way she got me
interested in waitin' on de table. I wuz old enough ter. know much, but
I does to'member how de fambly hid all de valuables'fore de Yankees
come be, an' dat Marster Moses in pickin' up de big brass andirons
the hurt his back an' dey said dat dat wuz saved an' war n't no
trouble wid de I doan know why dey done dis'cept dat dey ai n't
wantin' no niggers a-favorin' spite on de Free Issues. base the.

Colored and white played, yes sir, whites and All my hair came out.

Dey called it de"mittent fever." Dr. Thomas Banks doctored me. He been
dead a long time. Oh!

I do n't know how long he been dead. Near all dem nigh by, now dat slavery
am ober. Dey done a heap of beatin' an' chasin' folkses out'n de
country but I'specks dat de Carpet Bagger's rule moved ter Raleigh.

We had a hard time but I'se glad dat he an' me am free an' doan
belong ter two diff'ent famblies.

AC N. C. things District: No. 2[320212] Worker has they kept me goin'
all dese years.

Yes'm I'se a bachelor an' I wuz borned on June 11, we had our co'n
shuckin's, candy pullin's an' sich like. wuz, dey nebber would n't
a been so menny half white niggers, but the old marster wuz to blame
for that.

We never saw any slaves sold. They carried them off spiritually to
sell'em. The slaves travelled in droves. Fathers and mothers were
sold from their chilluns. Chilluns wuz sold from their parents on
de plantations close to us. Where we went to church, we sat in a place
away We ai n't felt like huntin' much, but I did go on a few
fox My daddy told us to show'em de brandy our marster gib us, den dey
on a way, kase dey knowed John Walton wuz a funny man about
his slaves. Dey gave hunts wid de master. I uster go fishin' too, but
I ai n't been now since 1873, I reckon. We de man axed de master fer
de'oman an' he jist told dem ter step over de broom an' 1845 in Person
County. My papa wuz named Ed an' my maw wuz named Sally. Dar wuz ten of
us youngins, Morris, Dallas, Stephen, Jerry, Florence, Polly, Lena
hyard'bout dese set down strikes lately, well dey ai n't when I
wuz four or five years old, too little to wuck in de fiel's, my in
Raleigh, dar whar Peace Institute am ter day.

Mammy said I dat de white folkses wuz good ter dem an' gib'em good food
an' clothes. pigeon] tail.

He had me an' some more little chilluns ter wuck pullin' up weeds
roun' de house.

Well, I makes a speech and I tells dem le's doan wuck none so out we
sprawls on de grass under apple tree. Atter awhile ole master found
us dar, an' when he fin's dat I wuz de ring-leader he gives me a
little whuppin'.

Hit wuz a big plantation, round 1,200 acres o' land, I reckon, an' he
had'bout seventy or eighty slaves to wuck de cotton, corn, tobacco
an' de wheat an' vege'bles.

De big house wuz sumpin to look at, but de slave cabins wuz jist log
huts wid sand floors, and stick an' dirt chimneys. We wuz'lowed seberal
slave sales whar dey sold de pappy or de mammy'way frum de chillums
an' dat wuz a sad time. Dey led dem up one at de time an' axed dem
questions an' dey war n't many what wuz chained, only de bad ones,
Phillis, Caroline, an' me.

Mr. Starling Oakley of Person County, near Roxboro wuz my master an' as
long as him an' ole mistress lived I went back ter see dem. He wuz right
good to de good niggers an' kinder strick wid is bad ones. Pusonly
he ai n't never have me whupped but two or three times. You's, an'
sometime when dey wuz travelin' it wuz necessary to chain a new
gang.

I'se seed niggers beat till da blood run, an' I'se seed plenty more
wid big scars, frum whuppin's dey wuz de bad ones.

You wuz whupped'cordin ter de deed yo' done in dem days. A moderate
whuppin' wuz thirty-nine or forty lashes an' a real whuppin'.

Frum all dis you might think dat ai n't had no good times, but dat
wuz de way dey got married dem days; de pore white folks done de
same: Mary A.

Hicks No. Words: 914 Subject: Ex-Slave Story Teller: Willie Cozart
Editor: Daisy Bailey Waitt[TR: No Date Stamp] EX-SLAVE STORY An
Interview by Mary A.

Hicks with Willis Cozart of Zebulon,( Wake Co. N. C.) Age 92.

May 12, 1937. No mam, Mistress, I doan want ter ride in no automobile,
thank you, I'se done walked these three miles frum Zebulon an' walkin'
is what de cause of his death a little while atterwards. Anyhow de
andirons wuz way. Atter de war started de white folks tried ter keep us
niggers frum knowin''bout it, but de news got aroun' somehow, an' dar
on master sot wuz some talk of gittin' shet of de seigneur's family
an' gittin' rich De plans did n't'mout to nothin' an' so de Yankees come
down. I'members moughty well when de Yankees come through our country.
Dey stold ever'thing dey could find. an' I'members what ole master
said. He says,'Ever' one dat wants ter wuck fer peas, corn bread, me
git in de returned patch ter pullin' dat forty acres of fodder an'
all dat do n't git up de road dem d---- Yankees. hated' we all went
away.

Dat winter he wuz tough, all de niggers near'bout starved ter death,
an' we ai n't seed nothin' of de forty acres of land an' de mule
what de Yankees done promise us nother.

Atter awhile we had ter go ter our ole masters an' ax'em fer bread ter
keep us alive. De Klu Klux Klan sprung right up out of de earth, but de
Yankees put.

My marster called my father and my two uncles Handy and Hyman, our marster
called'em. niggers went to him and set down. He told them;' There
is a war commenced between the North and the South. If the North a
stop ter in dat by puttin' so many of dem in jail. Dey do say dat dat's
what de State Prison wus built fer. I never believed in witches an' I
ai n't put much stock in hain'ts but I'se seed a few things durin' my
life dat I ca n't'splain, like de thing de red eyes dat mocked me one
night; but shucks tooth left.

B. N. N. C. District: No. 2[320159] Worker: T. Pat Matthews No.
Words: 1453 Subject: HANNAH CRASSON Story Teller Hannah Crasson Editor:
Daisy Bailey Waitt[TR: HW notes at bottom of page illegible] HANNAH
CRASSON My name is Hannah Crasson. I wuz born on John William Walton
plantation 4 miles from Garner and 13 miles from Raleigh, N. C.
in the County of Wake. I am 84 years ole the 2nd day uv dis las' gone
March. I belonged to Mr. John William Walton in slavery time. My missus
wuz named Miss Martha. My father wuz named Frank Walton. My mother wuz
named collection Walton. Grandma wuz 104 years when she died. She died
down at de old plantation. My brothers were How named Johnnie and
Lang. My sisters were Adeline, Violet, Mary, Sarah, Ellen, and
Annie. Four of us are livin', Ellen he said, he did n't want nobody else
to whup us. It is jis like I tell you; he wuz never cruel to
us. One uv his sons wuz cruel to us. We had a plenty to eat, we shore
did, plenty to eat. We had nice houses to live in too. Grandma had a
large room to live in, and we had one to live in. Daddy stayed at home
with mother. They worked their patches by moonlight; and worked for the
white folks in the day time.

They sold what they made. Marster bought it and paid for it. He made
a barrel o donations' rice every year, my daddy did. Mr. Bell Allen owned
slaves too. He had a plenty o' niggers. His plantation wuz 5
miles from ourn. We went to church at the white folks church. When Mr.
Bell Allen seed us cummin' he would say,' Yonder comes John Walton's
free niggers.' Our marster would not sell his slaves. He give dem to his
children when they married off do'. I swept yards, churned, fed the
chickens. In de ebening milk, and rice. We biskit and butter twice a
week. I thought dat de best things I ever et wuz butter spread on
biskit. We had a corn mill and a flour mill on the plantation. There wuz
approximately 24 slaves on de place. Dey had brandy made on de plantation,
and de marster gib all his slaves some for dere own uses My
grandmother and mother wove our clothes. Dey were called homespun.
Dey made de shoes on de plantation too. I wuz not married til atter
de surrender. I did not dress de finest in the world; but I had nice
clothes. My wedding dress wuz made of cream silk, granny Flora. Dey
stole her grip in his han', cause he said every borned man must be
free. I did not think anything of Jeff Davis.

I thank de will of God for setting us free. He got into Abraham Lincoln
and the Yankees. We are thankful to the Great Marster dat got into
Lincoln and the Yankees. Dey say Booker Washington wuz coarse, I do n't
know. Abraham Lincoln wuz the Medicine man, with not allow us to have
nuthing to do wid books. You better not be found, tryin' to learn to
read. Old man John William got my great grandmother. De people in New
England got scured of we niggers. Dey were afrid me would rise aginst
em and dey pushed us on down South. Lawd, why did wuz mostly de cause
of it.

                        I married Daniel Coverson, a slave on de same plantation I wuz on,
an' forty years ago we n't dey let us stay whur from de white folks;.

                  The never did run away
                          from marster, because he wuz good to'em; but they run away from
other plantations.

Dey had started back to the field to work in the afternoon. He said,' Cum
here boys,' that wuz our young marster, Ben Walton, says'cum here
boys. I got sumptin' to tell you.' Uncle Hyman said,' I ca n't. I got
to Morison go to work.' He said' Come here and set down, I got sumptin'
to tell you.' The Yes, we seed the patterollers, we called'em pore
white trash, we also called patterollers pore white pecks. They had
ropes around their necks. They came to our house one night when we were
singin' and prayin'. It Father wuz jist before the surrender.
Dey were hired by de slave owner. us Christmas and other holidays.

Den dey, de men, would go to see dere wives. Some of the men's wives
belong to other marsters on other plantations. We had corn shuckin's at
night, and candy pullin's. Sometimes we had quiltings and dances.
One of the slaves, my aint, she wuz a royal slave. She could dance all
over de place wid a tumbler of water on her head, widout made princess
with pink and cream bows. I wore a pair of morocco store bought shoes.
My husband was dressed in a store bought suit of clothes, the coat wuz
made pigen[HW correction: to see her come to de I work I am able
ter do now is a little work 433 Subject: MANDY, Mary, Sarah and me.
De old boss man wuz good to us. I wuz talkin' about him the udder night.
He did n't whup us and COVERSON Story Teller: Mandy Coverson Editor:
Daisy church. She sho could tote herself. My oldest sister Violet
died in slavery time. She wuz ten years old when she died.

Her uncles were her pall bearers. Uncle Hyman and Uncle Handy carried
her to the grave vespers yard.

If I makes no mistake my daddy made her coffin. Dere wuz no singin'.
There were seven of the family dere, dat wuz all. Dey had no funeral.
Dere were no white folks dere. Dey baptized people in creeks and ponds.
We rode corn stalks, bent down small pine trees and rode' em
for horses. We also played prison Yankees who comed our way, an' dey
ai n't hurt nobody dar. Dey did kill all de things dat dey could
eat an' dey stold de rest of de feed stuff. Dey make one nigger boy
draw water fer hosses fer a day whuppin' wuz a even hundred; most
folks ca n't stand a real an' night Miss.

De Yankees wuz mean'bout cussin', but de southern soldiers wuz jist as
bad. Wheeler's Cavalry wuz de meanest in de whole bunch, I thinks.

De Ku Kluxes wuz pretty mean, but dey picked dere white folks were found
dead. Mr. John died outside. Walton died in bed. Marster Joe Walton
died sitting under a tree side de path.

Miss Hancey died in bed to. I'member the day de war commenced colored.
We played at night but we had a certain time to go to bed. Dat wuz nine
o'clock.[HW: New paragraph indicated] De boss looked atter us when
we wuz sick.

He got doctors. I had the typhoid fever whups you will be as free
a man as I is.

If the South whups you will be a slave all your days.'

Mr. Joe Walton said when he went to war dat dey glad could eat breakfast
at home, go and whup the North, and be back far dinner. He went away,
and it wuz four long years I ai n't believin' in dem things much.
I'se plowed my lan', tended it year atter year, lived by myself an'
all, an' I n't got hurted yet, but I ai n't never and rid in a
automobile yet an' I got one before he cum back to dinner. De table wuz
shore set a long time for him.

A lot of de white folks said dey would n't be much.

Our marster wuz harder down on dat den anything else.

You better not be ketched wid a book. Day I would go with my missus
a fishin'.

We eat collards, read the Bible and told us to obey our marster for
de Bible said obey your. The first band of music I ever herd play the
Yankees wuz playin' it. They were playin' a song.' I am tired of seeing
de homespun dresses the southern women wear'.

I thinks Mr. Roosevelt is a fine man. Jus' what we need. N. C. District:
No. 2[320169] Worker: Mary A. Hicks No. Words: 130 Subject: EX-SLAVE
STORY Story Teller: Julia Crenshaw Editor: Daisy de fust ones. Onct
Bailey Waitt[TR: circled" I"][TR: No Date Stamp] EX-SLAVE As Julia
Crenshaw remember her mother's story.

My mammy wuz named Jane an' my pappy wuz named Richard. Dey belonged
ter Lawyer R. J. Lewis a velvet vest and a white collar and tie.

Somebody stole de ves' atter dat question.

One of our master's daughters wuz cruel.

Sometimes she would out and rare on us, but old marster did n't want
us himself whupped. Our great grand mother wuz named spilling it. She
sho could tote herself. I always luved She wuz de cook, an' fer
thirty years atter de war she cooked at Peace. Before de Yankees
come Mr. Lewis said, dat he daydream dat n't de thing fer America. N.
C. District: No. 2[320239] Worker: T. Pat Matthews No. Words: 1,414
Subject: ZEB CROWDER Story Teller: Zeb Crowder Editor: Daisy Bailey
Waitt[TR: Date Stamp"JUN 30 1937"] ZEB CROWDER 323 E. Cabarrus
Street I wont nuthin' in slavery time and I aint nuthin' now. All
Bailey Waitt[TR: Date Stamp"JUN 7 1937"] MANDY COVERSON Ex-Slave Story
An interview with Mandy Coverson, 78, of in de garden. Dey say I is too
ole ter work, so charity gives me a little ter go upon every week. For
one weeks'lowance o' sumptin' ter eat dey gives me, hold on, I will
show you, dat beats guessin'. Here it is: 1/2 peck meal( corn meal),
2 lbs oat milk, and 1 lb plate meat. Dis is what I gits fer one
week'lowance. ca n't work much, but de white folks gib me meals
astrakhan washin' de woodwork in dere houses, de white folks in
hypnotized Hayes's Bottom. What little I do, I does fer him.

He gives me meals for workin'. De charity gives me about 80 cts
worth o' rations a week.

I wus seven years old when de Yankees come through. All de niggers'cept
me an' de white folks ran to de woods.
They were
but boys after all, and some of them light-hearted enough. Maurice
heard one or two of them commenting upon the lecture or upon
indifferent things. A curly-haired young deacon, a Southerner with the
face of a cherub, was laughing lightly to himself. He was the youngest
of them all, and Maurice had for him that liking which one might have
for a pretty kitten.

"I say, Wynne," he remarked, looking up into the face of the other with
a twinkling eye, "the Dominie gave us a good preachment to-day in
support of his authority. It almost made me resolve to rebel the next
time I was told to do anything."

"Then I suppose that you don't agree with him," Maurice responded
rather absently.

"Oh, it isn't that. I do agree with him. I mean to be a bishop myself
some day, and then the doctrine will come in all right. I'll work it.
Down South we understand that sort of thing better than you do up
here."

"Then what did you object to in the lecture?"

"I didn't object to anything; only when anybody proves that you ought
not to do a thing isn't it human nature to want to do it, just for the
fun of it?"

Maurice felt how far from serious was the temper of the boy, and that
it would be utterly unreasonable to expect from him anything like
reverence. "Then how do you expect anybody to hold to the doctrine of
implicit obedience?" he questioned, smiling.

"Oh, everybody expects to wield the authority sometime," was the light
answer. "Nobody'd hold to it otherwise."

Maurice instinctively glanced at Ashe. In Philip's pale, enrapt face
was an expression of self-surrender which made Wynne feel how
completely the teaching to which they had just listened must appeal to
the temperament of his friend.

"To obey for the sake of obeying is precisely what Phil would delight
in," he thought. "How entirely different we are! Yet if it hadn't been
for him I should never have come here. Haven't I strength enough to
follow my own convictions?"

The hour for walking was four, and a few minutes after the clocks had
struck, Maurice and Philip started out. It was a dull and lowering
afternoon, and the narrow, street was already gloomy with shadows. Half
unconsciously Wynne found himself casting about in his mind for topics
of conversation which should be free from the personal element. Now
that the time for confidences had come, he shrank from words. He
reproached himself, and then half peevishly thought: "I seem nowadays
to do nothing but to find fault with myself for things that I can't
help feeling!"

"I am glad Father Frontford said what he did today," Ashe remarked
after they had walked in silence for a little. "It was just what I
needed. I've got so in the habit of following my own will since we have
been out in the world that I needed to be reminded that there is
something better."

Maurice felt a faint irritation that the talk was begun in precisely
the key he would most gladly have avoided, but honesty would not let
him be silent.

"I am afraid, Phil," he said, "that I'm not entirely in sympathy with
you. I didn't like the lecture. Since we are given will and reason, I
believe that it was intended that we should use them."

"Of course. If I had no reason, how could I bring myself to give up my
own will to one that I know to be higher?"

Maurice smiled unhappily.

"Well," was his answer, "when you begin with a paradox like that it is
evident that I couldn't go on without getting into a discussion darker
than the darkness of Egypt. I'd rather just talk about common everyday
things. Where shall we go?"

"I want to go to the North End. There is an old woman there that I
thought of visiting. I had trouble with her husband the other day; he
threw her down and hurt her."

"What sort of trouble?"

"He struck me, and we had a sort of struggle. He wasn't sober."

"Were you on the street?"

"No; in his room. I--I broke in."

"Broke in?"

"Yes." Ashe hesitated, and then added: "Mrs. Fenton was there, and he
tried to rob her."

"Mrs. Fenton? Why didn't you tell me about it? When was it?"

"The day before I went down home. You weren't here, you know. There was
not much to tell."

Maurice questioned eagerly, and his friend related briefly what had
happened.

"Why, Phil, you're a hero!" Wynne exclaimed. "You've quite taken the
wind out of my sails. I counted for something of an adventurer simply
by having been in a smash-up; but you rushed in and had a real
adventure. "Yes, it is blood!" he muttered.

"That shows he wasn't strangled, if there was blood," said Chubikoff,
looking sarcastically at Dukovski.

"They strangled him in the bedroom; and here, fearing he might come round
again, they struck him a blow with some sharp-pointed instrument.

The stain under the bush proves that he lay there a considerable time,
while they were looking about for some way of carrying him out of
the garden.

"Well, and how about the boot?"

"The boot confirms completely my idea that they murdered him while
he was taking his boots off before going to bed.

He had already taken off one boot, and the other, this one here, he
had only had time to take half off. The half-off boot came off of itself,
while the body was dragged over, and fell----"
"There's a lively imagination for you!"

laughed Chubikoff. "He goes on and on like that! When will you learn
enough to drop your deductions?
Instead of arguing and deducing, it would be much better if you
took some of the blood-stained grass for analysis!"

When they had finished their examination, and drawn a plan of the
locality, the investigators went to the director's office to write
their report and have breakfast.

While they were breakfasting they went on talking:
"The watch, the money, and so on--all untouched--" Chubikoff began,
leading off the talk, "show as clearly as that two and two are four
that the murder was not committed for the purpose of robbery."

"The murder was committed by an educated man!" insisted Dukovski.

"What evidence have you of that?"
"The safety match proves that to me, for the peasants hereabouts
are not yet acquainted with safety matches.

Only the landowners use them, and by no means all of them. And it is
evident that there was not one murderer, but at least three.

Two held him, while one killed him.

Klausoff was strong, and the murderers must have known it!"
"What good would his strength be, supposing he was asleep?"
"The murderers came on him while he was taking off his boots. If he was
taking off his boots, that proves that he wasn't asleep!"

"Stop inventing your deductions! Better eat!"
"In my opinion, your worship," said the gardener Ephraim, setting the
samovar on the table, "it was nobody but Nicholas who did this
dirty trick!"

"Quite possible," said Psyekoff.

"And who is Nicholas?"
"The master's valet, your worship," answered Ephraim.

"Who else could it be? He's a rascal, your worship! He's a drunkard and
a blackguard, the like of which Heaven should not permit!

He always took the master his vodka and put the master to bed. Who else
could it be?

And I also venture to point out to your worship, he once boasted at the
public house that he would kill the master! It happened on account
of Aquilina, the woman, you know. He was making up to a soldier's
widow.
She pleased the master; the master made friends with her himself, and
Nicholas--naturally, he was mad! He is rolling about drunk in the kitchen
now. He is crying, and telling lies, saying he is sorry for the master----"

The examining magistrate ordered Nicholas to be brought. Nicholas,
a lanky young fellow, with a long, freckled nose, narrow-chested,
and wearing an old jacket of his master's, entered Psyekoff's room,
and bowed low before the magistrate.

His face was sleepy and tear-stained.

He was tipsy and could hardly keep his feet.

"Where is your master?" Chubikoff asked him.

"Murdered! your worship!"
As he said this, Nicholas blinked and began to weep.

"We know he was murdered. But where is he now? Where is his body?"
"They say he was dragged out of the window and buried in the garden!"

"Hum! The results of the investigation are known in the kitchen
already!--That's bad! Where were you, my good fellow, the night the
master was murdered? Saturday night, that is."
Nicholas raised his head, stretched his neck, and began to
think.

"I don't know, your worship," he said.

"I was drunk and don't remember."
"An alibi!" whispered Dukovski, smiling, and rubbing his hands.

"So-o!

And why is there blood under the master's window?"
Nicholas jerked his head up and considered.

"Hurry up!" said the Captain of Police.

"Right away! That blood doesn't amount to anything, your worship! I was
cutting a chicken's throat.

I was doing it quite simply, in the usual way, when all of a sudden
it broke away and started to run.

That is where the blood came from."

Ephraim declared that Nicholas did kill a chicken every evening, and
always in some new place, but that nobody ever heard of a half-killed
chicken running about the garden, though of course it wasn't
impossible.

"An alibi," sneered Dukovski; "and what an asinine alibi!"
"Did you know Aquilina?"

"Yes, your worship, I know her."

"And the master cut you out with her?"

"Not at all. _He_ cut me out--Mr. Psyekoff there, Ivan Mikhailovitch;
and the master cut Ivan Mikhailovitch out. That is how it was."
Psyekoff grew confused and began to scratch his left eye.

Dukovski looked at him attentively, noted his confusion, and
started.

                        He noticed that the director had dark blue trousers, which he had
not observed before.

                   The trousers
                           reminded him of the dark blue threads found on the burdock.

Chubikoff in his turn glanced suspiciously at Psyekoff.

"Go!" he said to Nicholas. "And now permit me to put a question to
you, Mr. Psyekoff. Of course you were here last Saturday evening?"
"Yes! I had supper with Marcus Ivanovitch about ten o'clock."
"And afterwards?"
"Afterwards--afterwards--Really, I do not remember," stammered Psyekoff.
"I had a good deal to drink at supper.

I don't remember when or where I went to sleep.

Why are you all looking at me like that, as if I was the murderer?"
"Where were you when you woke up?"

"I was in the servants' kitchen, lying behind the stove! They can all
confirm it. How I got behind the stove I don't know----"

"Do not get agitated. Did you know Aquilina?"
"There's nothing extraordinary about that----"
"She first liked you and then preferred Klausoff?"

"Yes. Ephraim, give us some more mushrooms! Do you want some more tea,
Eugraph Kuzmitch?"
A heavy, oppressive silence began and lasted fully five minutes.
Dukoyski silently kept his piercing eyes fixed on Psyekoff's
pale face. The silence was finally broken by the examining
magistrate:

"We must go to the house and talk with Maria Ivanovna, the sister of the
deceased. Perhaps she may be able to supply some clews."

Chubikoff and his assistant expressed their thanks for the breakfast,
and went toward the house.

They found Klausoff's sister, Maria Ivanovna, an old maid of forty-five,
at prayer before the big case of family icons. When she saw the
portfolios in her guests' hands, and their official caps, she
grew pale.

"Let me begin by apologizing for disturbing, so to speak, your
devotions," began the gallant Chubikoff, bowing and scraping.

"We have come to you with a request. Of course, you have heard already.
There is a suspicion that your dear brother, in some way or other,
has been murdered. The will of God, you know. No one can escape death,
neither czar nor plowman. Could you not help us with some clew, some
explanation----?"

"Oh, don't ask me!" said Maria Ivanovna, growing still paler, and
covering her face with her hands. "I can tell you nothing. Nothing! I
beg you! I know nothing--What can I do? Oh, no! no!--not a
word about my brother! If I die, I won't say anything!"
Maria Ivanovna began to weep, and left the room. The investigators looked
at each other, shrugged their shoulders, and beat a retreat.

"Confound the woman!" scolded Dukovski, going out of the house. "It
is clear she knows something, and is concealing it!

And the chambermaid has a queer expression too! Wait, you wretches! We'll
ferret it all out!"
In the evening Chubikoff and his deputy, lit on their road by the
pale moon, wended their way homeward.

They sat in their carriage and thought over the results of the day.
Both were tired and kept silent.
Chubikoff was always unwilling to talk while traveling, and the
talkative Dukovski remained silent, to fall in with the elder man's
humor. But at the end of their journey the deputy could hold in no
longer, and said:

"It is quite certain," he said, "that Nicholas had something to do with
the matter. _Non dubitandum est!_ You can see by his face what sort
of a case he is!

His alibi betrays him, body and bones. But it is also certain that
he did not set the thing going. He was only the stupid hired tool. You
agree? And the humble Psyekoff was not without some slight share
in the matter.

His dark blue breeches, his agitation, his lying behind the stove in
terror after the murder, his alibi and--Aquilina----"
"'Grind away, Emilian; it's your week!' So, according to you, whoever
knew Aquilina is the murderer!

Hot-head! You ought to be sucking a bottle, and not handling affairs!
You were one of Aquilina's admirers yourself--does it follow that you
are implicated too?"

"Aquilina was cook in your house for a month. I am saying nothing
about that!

The night before that Saturday I was playing cards with you, and saw
you, otherwise I should be after you too!

It isn't the woman that matters, old chap! It is the mean, nasty, low
spirit of jealousy that matters. The retiring young man was not pleased
when they got the better of him, you see! His vanity, don't you see?
He wanted revenge. Then, those thick lips of his suggest passion.

So there you have it: wounded self-love and passion.

That is quite enough motive for a murder.

We have two of them in our hands; but who is the third?

Nicholas and Psyekoff held him, but who smothered him? Psyekoff is
shy, timid, an all-round coward.

And Nicholas would not know how to smother with a pillow.

His sort use an ax or a club. Some third person did the smothering; but
who was it?"
Dukovski crammed his hat down over his eyes and pondered. He remained
silent until the carriage rolled up to the magistrate's door.

"Eureka!" he said, entering the little house and throwing off his
overcoat.

"Eureka, Nicholas Yermolaïyevitch! The only thing I can't understand is,
how it did not occur to me sooner! Do you know who the third person
was?"
"Oh, for goodness sake, shut up!

There is supper! Sit down to your evening meal!"

The magistrate and Dukovski sat down to supper.

Dukovski poured himself out a glass of vodka, rose, drew himself up,
and said, with sparkling eyes:

"Well, learn that the third person, who acted in concert with that scoundrel
Psyekoff, and did the smothering, was a woman!

Yes-s! I mean--the murdered man's sister, Maria Ivanovna!"

Chubikoff choked over his vodka, and fixed his eyes on Dukovski.

"You aren't--what's-its-name? Your head isn't what-do-you-call-it?
You haven't a pain in it?"

"I am perfectly well! Very well, let us say that I am crazy; but
how do you explain her confusion when we appeared?

How do you explain her unwillingness to give us any information? Let us
admit that these are trifles. Very well! All right! But remember
their relations.

She detested her brother. She never forgave him for living apart
from his wife. She is of the Old Faith, while in her eyes he is a godless
profligate. There is where the germ of her hate was hatched. They say
he succeeded in making her believe that he was an angel of Satan. He
even went in for spiritualism in her presence!"

"Well, what of that?"
"You don't understand? She, as a member of the Old Faith, murdered him
through fanaticism.

It was not only that she was putting to death a weed, a profligate--she
was freeing the world of an antichrist!

--and there, in her opinion, was her service, her religious achievement!
Oh, you don't know those old maids of the Old Faith. Read Dostoyevsky!
And what does Lyeskoff say about them, or Petcherski? It was she, and
nobody else, even if you cut me open. She smothered him! O treacherous
woman! wasn't that the reason why she was kneeling before the icons,
when we came in, just to take our attention away? 'Let me kneel down
and pray,' she said to herself, 'and they will think I am tranquil and
did not expect them!'

That is the plan of all novices in crime, Nicholas Yermolaïyevitch,
old pal! My dear old man, won't you intrust this business to me? Let me
personally bring it through! Friend, I began it and I will finish it!"

Chubikoff shook his head and frowned.

"We know how to manage difficult matters ourselves," he said; "and your
business is not to push yourself in where you don't belong. Write from
dictation when you are dictated to; that is your job!"

Dukovski flared up, banged the door, and disappeared.

"Clever rascal!" muttered Chubikoff, glancing after him. "Awfully clever!
But too much of a hothead. I must buy him a cigar case at the fair as
a present."
The next day, early in the morning, a young man with a big head and
a pursed-up mouth, who came from Klausoff's place, was introduced
to the magistrate's office.

He said he was the shepherd Daniel, and brought a very interesting
piece of information.

"I was a bit drunk," he said.

"I was with my pal till midnight.

On my way home, as I was drunk, I went into the river for a bath. I was
taking a bath, when I looked up.

Two men were walking along the dam, carrying something black.

'Shoo!' I cried at them. They got scared, and went off like the wind
toward Makareff's cabbage garden. Strike me dead, if they weren't
carrying away the master!"
That same day, toward evening, Psyekoff and Nicholas were arrested
and brought under guard to the district town.

In the town they were committed to the cells of the prison.

II
A fortnight passed.

It was morning. The magistrate Nicholas Yermolaïyevitch was sitting
in his office before a green table, turning over the papers of the
"Klausoff case"; Dukovski was striding restlessly up and down, like a
wolf in a cage.

"You are convinced of the guilt of Nicholas and Psyekoff," he said,
nervously plucking at his young beard.

"Why will you not believe in the guilt of Maria Ivanovna? Are there not
proofs enough for you?"

"I don't say I am not convinced. I am convinced, but somehow I don't
believe it!

There are no real proofs, but just a kind of philosophizing--fanaticism,
this and that----"
"You can't do without an ax and bloodstained sheets.

Those jurists!

Very well, I'll prove it to you!

You will stop sneering at the psychological side of the affair! To Siberia
with your Maria Ivanovna!

I will prove it! If philosophy is not enough for you, I have something
substantial for you.

It will show you how correct my philosophy is.

Just give me permission----"

"What are you going on about?"

"About the safety match! Have you forgotten it? I haven't! I am going to
find out who struck it in the murdered man's room.

It was not Nicholas that struck it; it was not Psyekoff, for neither
of them had any matches when they were examined; it was the third
person, Maria Ivanovna. I will prove it to you.

Just give me permission to go through the district to find out."
"That's enough! Sit down.

Let us go on with the examination."
Dukovski sat down at a little table, and plunged his long nose in a
bundle of papers.

"Bring in Nicholas Tetekhoff!" cried the examining magistrate.

They brought Nicholas in. Nicholas was pale and thin as a rail. He was
trembling.

"Tetekhoff!" began Chubikoff. "In 1879 you were tried in the Court of
the First Division, convicted of theft, and sentenced to
imprisonment.

In 1882 you were tried a second time for theft, and were again imprisoned.
We know all----"

Astonishment was depicted on Nicholas's face.

The examining magistrate's omniscience startled him.

But soon his expression of astonishment changed to extreme indignation.
He began to cry and requested permission to go and wash his face and
quiet down.

They led him away.

"Bring in Psyekoff!"

ordered the examining magistrate.

They brought in Psyekoff. The young man had changed greatly during
the last few days.

He had grown thin and pale, and looked haggard. His eyes had an
apathetic expression.

"Sit down, Psyekoff," said Chubikoff.

"I hope that to-day you are going to be reasonable, and will not tell
lies, as you did before.

All these days you have denied that you had anything to do with the
murder of Klausoff, in spite of all the proofs that testify against
you.

That is foolish. Confession will lighten your guilt.

This is the last time I am going to talk to you. If you do not confess
to-day, to-morrow it will be too late. Come, tell me all----"
"I know nothing about it.

I know nothing about your proofs," answered Psyekoff, almost
inaudibly.

"It's no use! Well, let me relate to you how the matter took place. On
Saturday evening you were sitting in Klausoff's sleeping room, and
drinking vodka and beer with him."

(Dukovski fixed his eyes on Psyekoff's face, and kept them there all
through the examination.) "Nicholas was waiting on you. At one
o'clock, Marcus Ivanovitch announced his intention of going to bed.
He always went to bed at one o'clock.

When he was taking off his boots, and was giving you directions
about details of management, you and Nicholas, at a given signal,
seized your drunken master and threw him on the bed.

One of you sat on his legs, the other on his head. Then a third person
came in from the passage--a woman in a black dress, whom you know
well, and who had previously arranged with you as to her share in
your criminal deed.

She seized a pillow and began to smother him. While the struggle
was going on the candle went out. The woman took a box of safety matches
from her pocket, and lit the candle.

Was it not so? I see by your face that I am speaking the truth. But
to go on. After you had smothered him, and saw that he had ceased
breathing, you and Nicholas pulled him out through the window and laid
him down near the burdock.
Fearing that he might come round again, you struck him with something
sharp.

Then you carried him away, and laid him down under a lilac bush for
a short time. After resting awhile and considering, you carried
him across the fence. Then you entered the road. After that comes the
dam. Near the dam, a peasant frightened you. Well, what is the matter
with you?"
"I am suffocating!" replied Psyekoff. "Very well--have it so. Only
let me go out, please!"
They led Psyekoff away.

"At last! He has confessed!" cried Chubikoff, stretching himself
luxuriously. "He has betrayed himself! And didn't I get round
him cleverly! Regularly caught him napping----"
"And he doesn't deny the woman in the black dress!" exulted Dukovski.
"But all the same, that safety match is tormenting me frightfully. I
can't stand it any longer. Good-by! I am off!"
Dukovski put on his cap and drove off. Chubikoff began to examine Aquilina.
Aquilina declared that she knew nothing whatever about it.

At six that evening Dukovski returned. He was more agitated than he had
ever been before. His hands trembled so that he could not even
unbutton his greatcoat. His cheeks glowed. It was clear that he
did not come empty handed.

                     "_Veni, vidi, vici!

                       _" he cried, rushing
                        into Chubikoff's room, and falling into an armchair.

"I swear to you on my honor, I begin to believe that I am a genius!
Listen, devil take us all! It is funny, and it is sad. We have caught
three already--isn't that so? Well, I have found the fourth, and a woman
at that. You will never believe who it is! But listen. I went to
Klausoff's village, and began to make a spiral round it. I visited
all the little shops, public houses, dram shops on the road,
everywhere asking for safety matches. Everywhere they said they hadn't
any. I made a wide round. Twenty times I lost faith, and twenty times
I got it back again. I knocked about the whole day, and only an
hour ago I got on the track. Three versts from here.
They gave me a packet of ten boxes. One box was missing.

Immediately:
'Who bought the other box?' 'Such-a-one!

She was pleased with them!'

Old man! Nicholas Yermolaïyevitch! See what a fellow who was expelled
from the seminary and who has read Gaboriau can do! From to-day on I
begin to respect myself! Oof! Well, come!"
"Come where?"

"To her, to number four! We must hurry, otherwise--otherwise I'll burst
with impatience! Do you know who she is? You'll never guess!
Olga Petrovna, Marcus Ivanovitch's wife--his own wife--that's who
it is!

She is the person who bought the matchbox!"

"You--you--you are out of your mind!"
"It's quite simple! To begin with, she smokes. Secondly, she
was head and ears in love with Klausoff, even after he refused to
live in the same house with her, because she was always scolding
his head off.

Why, they say she used to beat him because she loved him so much.
And then he positively refused to stay in the same house.

Love turned sour. 'Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned.'

But come along! Quick, or it will be dark. Come!"
"I am not yet sufficiently crazy to go and disturb a respectable honorable
woman in the middle of the night for a crazy boy!"
"Respectable, honorable! Do honorable women murder their husbands?
After that you are a rag, and not an examining magistrate! I never
ventured to call you names before, but now you compel me to. Rag!
Dressing-gown!--Dear Nicholas Yermolaïyevitch, do come, I beg of you----!"

The magistrate made a deprecating motion with his hand.

"I beg of you!

I ask, not for myself, but in the interests of justice.
I beg you! I implore you! Do what I ask you to, just this once!"
Dukovski went down on his knees.
"Nicholas Yermolaïyevitch! Be kind! Call me a blackguard, a
ne'er-do-weel, if I am mistaken about this woman. You see what an
affair it is. What a case it is. A romance! A woman murdering her
own husband for love! The fame of it will go all over Russia. They
will make you investigator in all important cases. Understand, O
foolish old man!"
The magistrate frowned, and undecidedly stretched his hand toward
his cap.

"Oh, the devil take you!" he said. "Let us go!"
It was dark when the magistrate's carriage rolled up to the porch
of the old country house in which Olga Petrovna had taken refuge
with her brother.
"What pigs we are," said Chubikoff, taking hold of the bell, "to
disturb a poor woman like this!"
"It's all right! It's all right! Don't get frightened! We can say
that we have broken a spring."
Chubikoff and Dukovski were met at the threshold by a tall buxom
woman of three and twenty, with pitch-black brows and juicy red
lips. It was Olga Petrovna herself, apparently not the least
distressed by the recent tragedy.
"Oh, what a pleasant surprise!" she said, smiling broadly. "You are
just in time for supper. Kuzma Petrovitch is not at home. He is
visiting the priest, and has stayed late. But we'll get on without
him! Be seated. You have come from the examination?"
"Yes. We broke a spring, you know," began Chubikoff, entering the
sitting room and sinking into an armchair.
"Take her unawares--at once!" whispered Dukovski; "take her unawares!"
"A spring--hum--yes--so we came in."
"Take her unawares, I tell you! She will guess what the matter is
if you drag things out like that."
"Well, do it yourself as you want. But let me get out of it,"
muttered Chubikoff, rising and going to the window.
"Yes, a spring," began Dukovski, going close to Olga Petrovna and
wrinkling his long nose. "We did not drive over here--to take supper
with you or--to see Kuzma Petrovitch. We came here to ask you,
respected madam, where Marcus Ivanovitch is, whom you murdered!"
"What? Marcus Ivanovitch murdered?"he said to himself angrily as he went. "Are we
in the Middle Ages?"

It came to him as a sort of jeer from an outside intelligence that
after all they were trying to ape mediaeval discipline. He had been for
weeks coming to the point where the whole monastic life seemed to him
fantastic and theatrical; and now that his personal liberty was so
sharply assailed, his self-respect so threatened, he was prepared to
see everything in the most unfavorable light. The surgeon, without
quitting the dog, will then close the ear, and mould it gently until
the liquid has insinuated itself as deeply as possible into the
passages of the ear.

Should not the inflammation abate in the course of a few days, a seton
should be inserted in the poll, between the integument and the muscles
of the occiput, reaching from ear to ear. The excitement of a new
inflammation, so near to the part previously diseased, will materially
abate the original affection. Physic is now indispensable.
From half a drachm to a drachm of aloes, with from one to two grains
of calomel, should be given every third day.

Should the complaint have been much neglected, or the inflammation so
great as to bid defiance to these means, ulceration will too
often speedily follow. It will be found lodged deep in the passage,
and can only be detected by moulding the ear; the effused pus will
occasionally occupy the inside of the ear to its very tip. However
extensive and annoying the inflammation may be, and occasionally causing
so much thickening of the integument as perfectly to close the ear, it
is always superficial. It will generally yield to proper treatment,
and the cartilage of the ear may not be in the slightest degree
affected.

Still, however, the animal may suffer extreme pain; the discharge from
the ulcer may produce extensive excoriation of the cheek; and, in a few
cases, the system may sympathise with the excessive local application,
and the animal may be lost.

The treatment must vary with circumstances. If the ulceration is
deep in the ear, and there is not a very great degree of apparent
inflammation, recourse may be had at once to a stimulating and
astringent application, such as alum or the sulphate of zinc,
and in the proportion of six grains of either to an ounce of water.

If, however, the ulceration occupies the greater part of the hollow of
the ear, and is accompanied by much thickening of the integument,
and apparent filling up of the entrance to the ear, some
portion of the inflammation must be first subdued.

The only chance of getting rid of the disease is to confine the ear.

A piece of strong calico must be procured, six or eight inches in
width, and sufficiently long to reach round the head and meet under
the jaw.
Along each side of it must be a running piece of tape, and a shorter
piece sewed at the centre of each of the ends.

By means of these the cap may be drawn tightly over the head, above
the eyes, and likewise round the neck behind the ears, so as perfectly
to confine them.

After all, no mild ointment will dispose such an ulcer to heal, and
recourse must be had at once to a caustic application. A scruple
of the nitrate of silver must be rubbed down with an ounce of lard, and
a little of it applied twice every day, and rubbed tolerably hard
into the sore until it assumes a healthy appearance; it may then be
dressed with the common calamine ointment.

If the discharge should return, the practitioner must again have
recourse to the caustic ointment.
The cartilage will never close, but the integument will gradually
cover the exposed edges, and the wound will be healed. The ear will,
however, long continue tender, and, if it should be much beaten,
by the shaking of the head, the ulcer will reappear.Miss Morison was at home, and would see Mr. Wynne.

The high reception room in which he waited for her had a gloomy
formality, a sort of petrified respectability, most discouraging. On
the wall was a large painting, evidently a copy from some famous
original, although Maurice did not know what. The picture represented a
painter with a model in the dress of a nun. The artist was evidently
engaged in painting a saint for some convent, a beautiful sister had
been chosen as his model, and he was improving the opportunity to make
love to her. Her reluctant and remorseful yielding was evident in every
line of her figure as she allowed the painter to steal his arm around
her waist and bend his lips toward hers. Wynne looked at the picture
with vague disquiet. Here was the struggle of the natural human impulse
against the constraint of ascetic vows; the irresistible yielding to
nature and to the call of a passion interwoven with the very fibres of
humanity. The sombre Boston parlor vanished, and he seemed to be in
some old-world nunnery with the unknown lovers. He felt all their
guilty bliss and their scalding remorse. He sighed so deeply that the
soft laugh behind him seemed almost an echo. Turning quickly, he found
Berenice watching him with a teasing smile on her lips.

"I beg your pardon for startling you," she said, holding out her hand,
"but you were so absorbed in Filippo and his Lucretia that you paid no
attention to me."

"I beg your pardon," he responded, taking her hand cordially. "I was
looking at the picture and wondering what it represented."

"It is that reprobate Filippo Lippi and Lucretia Buti, the nun that he
ran away with. Why it pleased the fancy of my grandfather, I'm sure I
can't imagine. Sit down, please. It is a long time since I have seen
you, and now that Lent is coming, I suppose that you will be lost to
the world altogether."

He sat down facing her, but he did not answer. His voice had deserted
him, and his ideas had vexatiously scattered like frightened wild
geese. He looked at her, beautiful, witching, full of smiles; then
without knowing exactly why he did so, he turned and looked again at
the Lucretia. Berenice laughed frankly.

"Are you comparing us?" she asked gayly. "Or are you trying to decide
what I would have done in her case? I can tell you that."

"What would you have done?"

"Done? I would have run away from him and the convent both! Do you
think I was made to be cooped up in a nunnery if I could escape?"

"No," he answered with fervor, "you were certainly not made for that."

"That is an unclerical answer from a monk."

"I am not a monk."

She put her head a little on one side with delicious coquetry.

"Would it be rude to ask what you are, then?"

He regarded her a moment, and then with explosive vehemence he broke
out:--

"I am a deacon who has not taken the vows, and I am a man who loves you
with his whole soul!"

She paled, and then flushed to her temples. She cast her eyes down, and
seemed to be struggling for self-control. He did not offer to touch
her, although his throat contracted with the intensity of his effort to
maintain his outward calm. The women never wore anything but a thin
dress and a petticoat and one underwear.

I've seen the ice balls hangin' on to the bottom of their dresses
as they ran along, jes like sheep in a pasture 'fore they are sheared.
They never wore any shoes.

Jes run along on the ground, all spewed up with ice. The speculators
always rode on horses and drove the pore niggers.

When they get cold, they make 'em run 'til they are warm again.

The speculators stayed in the hotel and put the niggers in the quarters
jes like droves of hogs.

All through the night I could hear them mournin' and prayin'.

I didn't know the Lord would let people live who were so cruel. The gates
were always locked and they was a guard on the outside to shoot anyone
who tried to run away. Lord miss, them slaves look jes like droves of
turkeys runnin' along in front of them horses.

I remember when they put 'em on the block to sell 'em. The ones 'tween
18 and 30 always bring the most money.

The auctioneer he stand off at a distance and cry 'em off as they stand
on the block. I can hear his voice as long as I live.

If the one they going to sell was a young Negro man this is what he
say:

"Now gentlemen and fellow-citizens here is a big black buck Negro.

He's stout as a mule.

Good for any kin' o' work an' he never gives any trouble. How much
am I offered for him?"

And then the sale would commence, and the nigger would be sold to
the highest bidder.

If they put up a young nigger woman the auctioneer cry out: "Here's a
young nigger wench, how much am I offered for her?"

The pore thing stand on the block a shiverin' an' a shakin' nearly froze
to death.

When they sold many of the pore mothers beg the speculators to sell
'em with their husbands, but the speculator only take what he want.

So meybe the pore thing never see her husban' agin.

Ole' Massa always see that we get plenty to eat. O' course it was no
fancy rashions.

Jes corn bread, milk, fat meat, and 'lasses but the Lord knows that was
lots more than other pore niggers got.

Some of them had such bad masters.

Us pore niggers never 'lowed to learn anything.

All the readin' they ever hear was when they was carried through
the big Bible.

The Massa say that keep the slaves in they places. They was one
nigger boy in Newton who was terrible smart.

He learn to read an' write. He take other colored children out in the
fields and teach 'em about the Bible, but they forgit it 'fore the
nex' Sunday.

Then the paddyrollers they keep close watch on the pore niggers so
they have no chance to do anything or go anywhere.

They jes' like policemen, only worser. 'Cause they never let the niggers
go anywhere without a pass from his master.

If you wasn't in your proper place when the paddyrollers come they lash
you til' you was black and blue. The women got 15 lashes and the men
30. That is for jes bein' out without a pass.
If the nigger done anything worse he was taken to the jail and put in
the whippin' post.

They was two holes cut for the arms stretch up in the air and a
block to put your feet in, then they whip you with cowhide whip.

An' the clothes shore never get any of them licks.

I remember how they kill one nigger whippin' him with the bull whip.
Many the pore nigger nearly killed with the bull whip. But this one
die.

He was a stubborn Negro and didn't do as much work as his Massa thought
he ought to. He been lashed lot before.

So they take him to the whippin' post, and then they strip his
clothes off and then the man stan' off and cut him with the whip.

His back was cut all to pieces. The cuts about half inch apart. Then after
they whip him they tie him down and put salt on him. Then after he
lie in the sun awhile they whip him agin.

But when they finish with him he was dead.

Plenty of the colored women have children by the white men. She know
better than to not do what he say. Didn't have much of that until the
men from South Carolina come up here and settle and bring slaves.

Then they take them very same children what have they own blood
and make slaves out of them. If the Missus find out she raise
revolution. But she hardly find out.

The white men not going to tell and the nigger women were always
afraid to.

So they jes go on hopin' that thing won't be that way always.

I remember how the driver, he was the man who did most of the
whippin', use to whip some of the niggers. He would tie their hands
together and then put their hands down over their knees, then take
a stick and stick it 'tween they hands and knees.

Then when he take hold of them and beat 'em first on one side
then on the other.

Us niggers never have chance to go to Sunday School and church.

The white folks feared for niggers to get any religion and education, but
I reckon somethin' inside jes told us about God and that there was
a better place hereafter.

We would sneak off and have prayer meetin'.
Sometimes the paddyrollers catch us and beat us good but that didn't
keep us from tryin'.

I remember one old song we use to sing when we meet down in the woods
back of the barn.

My mother she sing an' pray to the Lord to deliver us out o' slavery.
She always say she thankful she was never sold from her children,
and that our Massa not so mean as some of the others.

                      But the old song it went something like this:
"Oh, mother lets go down, lets go down, lets go down, lets go down.

     Oh, mother lets go down, down in the valley to
                         pray.

As I went down in the valley to pray Studyin' about that good ole
way Who shall wear that starry crown.
Good Lord show me the way."
Then the other part was just like that except it said 'father' instead
of 'mother', and then 'sister' and then 'brother'.

Then they sing sometime:

"We camp a while in the wilderness, in the wilderness, in the
wilderness.
We camp a while in the wilderness, where the Lord makes me happy And
then I'm a goin' home."
I don't remember much about the war. There was no fightin' done in
Newton. Jes a skirmish or two.

Most of the people get everything jes ready to run when the Yankee
sojers come through the town.

This was toward the las' of the war. Cose the niggers knew what all
the fightin' was about, but they didn't dare say anything.

The man who owned the slaves was too mad as it was, and if the
niggers say anything they get shot right then and thar. The sojers tell
us after the war that we get food, clothes, and wages from our Massas
else we leave.

But they was very few that ever got anything. Our ole Massa say he
not gwine pay us anything, corse his money was no good, but he wouldn't
pay us if it had been.

Then the Ku Klux Klan come 'long. They were terrible dangerous. They
wear long gowns, touch the ground. They ride horses through the town
at night and if they find a Negro that tries to get nervy or have a
little bit for himself, they lash him nearly to death and gag him and
leave him to do the bes' he can. Some time they put sticks in the top
of the tall thing they wear and then put an extra head up there with
scary eyes and great big mouth, then they stick it clear up in the air
to scare the poor Negroes to death.

They had another thing they call the 'Donkey Devil' that was jes as
bad.

They take the skin of a donkey and get inside of it and run after the
pore Negroes. Oh, Miss them was bad times, them was bad times.

I know folks think the books tell the truth, but they shore don't. Us
pore niggers had to take it all.

Then after the war was over we was afraid to move.

Jes like tarpins or turtles after 'mancipation. Jes stick our heads
out to see how the land lay.

My mammy stay with Marse Jonah for 'bout a year after freedom then ole
Solomon Hall made her an offer. Ole man Hall was a good man if
there ever was one.

He freed all of his slaves about two years 'fore 'mancipation and
gave each of them so much money when he died, that is he put that
in his will.

But when he die his sons and daughters never give anything to the
pore Negroes. My mother went to live on the place belongin' to the
nephew of Solomon Hall.

All of her six children went with her. Mother she cook for the white
folks an' the children make crop. When the first year was up us
children got the first money we had in our lives. My mother certainly
was happy.

We live on this place for over four years.

When I was 'bout twenty year old I married a girl from West Virginia
but she didn't live but jes 'bout a year.

I stayed down there for a year or so and then I met Mamie. We came
here and both of us went to work, we work at the same place.

We bought this little piece of ground 'bout forty-two years ago.
We gave $125 for it. We had to buy the lumber to build the house a
little at a time but finally we got the house done. Its been a
good home for us and the children. We have two daughters and one adopted
son. Both of the girls are good cooks. One of them lives in New Jersey
and cooks in a big hotel. She and her husband come to see us about
once a year.
The other one is in Philadelphia. They both have plenty. But the adopted
boy, he was part white. We took him when he was a small and did the
best we could by him.

He never did like to 'sociate with colored people. I remember one time
when he was a small child I took him to town and the conductor made
me put him in the front of the street car cause he thought I was
just caring for him and that he was a white boy.

Well, we sent him to school until he finished. Then he joined the
navy.

I ain't seem him in several years. The last letter I got from him he
say he ain't spoke to a colored girl since he has been there. This
made me mad so I took his insurance policy and cashed it. I didn't
want nothin' to do with him, if he deny his own color.

Very few of the Negroes ever get anywhere; they never have no education.

I knew one Negro who got to be a policeman in Salisbury once and
he was a good one too.

When my next birthday comes in December I will be eighty-eight years
old. That is if the Lord lets me live and I shore hope He
does.

N. C.

District: No. 3 [320279] Worker: Travis Jordan Subject: Mary Wallace
Bowe Ex-slave 81 Years Durham County Home Durham, N.

C.

[HW: Lovely story about Abraham Lincoln]
[TR: This interview was heavily corrected by hand. i.e. wuz to was,
er to a, etc.

Changes made without comment.]
MARY WALLACE BOWE Ex-slave 81 years

My name is Mary Wallace Bowe. I was nine years ole at de surrender.

My mammy an' pappy, Susan an' Lillman Graves, first belonged to
Marse Fountain an' Mis' Fanny Tu'berville, but Marse Fountain sold
me, my mammy an' my brother George to Mis' Fanny's sister, Mis'
Virginia Graves.

Mis' Virginia's husban' was Marse Doctor Graves. Dey lived on de ole
Elijah Graves estate not far from Marse Fountain's plantation here in
Durham county, an' Mis' Virginia an' Mis' Fanny seed each other
near 'bout every day.

I was little when Marse Fountain an' Marse Doctor went to de war but I
remembers it. I remembers it kaze Mis' Fanny stood on de po'ch
smilin' an' wavin' at Marse Fountain 'til he went 'roun' de curve
in de road, den she fell to de floor like she was dead.

I thought she was dead 'till Mis' Virginia th'owed some water in her
face an' she opened her eyes.

De nex day Mis' Virginia took me an' mammy an' we all went over an'
stayed wid Mis' Fanny kaze she was skeered, an' so dey'd be company
for each other. Mammy waited on Mis' Virginia an' he'ped Surella
Tu'berville, Mis' Fanny's house girl, sweep an' make up de beds an'
things. I was little but mammy made me work.

I shook de rugs, brung in de kindlin' an run 'roun' waitin' on Mis'
Virginia an' Mis' Fanny, doin' things like totin' dey basket of
keys, bringin' dey shawls and such as dat.

Dey was all de time talkin' about de folks fightin' an' what dey would
do if de Yankees come.

Every time dey talk Mis' Fanny set an' twist her han's an' say:
"What is we gwine do, Sister, what is we gwine do?"

Mis' Virginia try to pacify Mis' Fanny. She say, 'Don' yo' worry none,
Honey, I'll fix dem Yankees when dey come.'

Den she set her mouf.

When she done dat I run an' hid behin' Mis' Fanny's chair kaze I done
seed Mis' Virginia set her mouf befo' an' I knowed she meant biznes'.

I didn' have sense enough to be skeered den kaze I hadn' never seed no
Yankee sojers, but 'twaren't long befo' I wuz skeered.

De Yankees come one mornin', an' dey ripped, Oh, Lawd, how dey did
rip.

When dey rode up to de gate an' come stompin' to de house, Mis'
Fanny 'gun to cry.

'Tell dem somethin', Sister, tell dem somethin'; she tole Mis' Virginia.

Mis' Virginia she ain' done no cryin'. When she seed dem Yankees comin'
'cross de hill, she run 'roun' an' got all de jewelry. She took off de
rings an' pins she an' Mis' Fanny had on an' she got all de things
out of de jewelry box an' give dem to pappy.

"Hide dem, Lillmam" she tole pappy, 'hide dem some place whare dem
thieves won't find dem'.

Pappy had on high top boots.

He didn' do nothin but stuff all dat jewelry right down in dem boots,
den he strutted all' roun' dem Yankees laughin' to heself. Dey
cussed when dey couldn' fin' no jewelry a tall.
Dey didn' fin' no silver neither kaze us niggers done he'p Mis'
Fanny an' Mis' Virginia hide dat.

We done toted it all down to de cottin gin house an' hid it in de
loose cotton piled on de floor.

When dey couldn' fin' nothin' a big sojer went up to Mis' Virginia who
wuz standin' in de hall.

He look at her an' say: 'Yo's skeered of me, ain' yo'?'
Mis' Virginia ain' batted no eye yet. She tole him, "If I was
gwine to be skeered, I'd be skeered of somethin'. I sho ain' of no
ugly, braggin' Yankee."
De man tu'ned red an he say: "If you don' tell me where you done hide
dat silver I'se gwine to make' you skeered."

Mis' Virginia's chin went up higher.

She set her mouf an' look at dat sojer twell he drap his eyes. Den
she tole him dat some folks done come an' got de silver, dat dey
done toted it off. She didn' tell him dat it wuz us niggers dat
done toted it down to de cotton gin house.

In dem days dey wuz peddlers gwine 'roun' de country sellin' things. Dey
toted big packs on dey backs filled wid everythin' from needles
an' thimbles to bed spreads an' fryin' pans.

One day a peddler stopped at Mis' Fanny's house. He was de uglies' man
I ever seed.

He was tall an' bony wid black whiskers an' black bushy hair an'
curious eyes dat set way back in his head.

Dey was dark an' look like a dog's eyes after you done hit him. He set
down on de po'ch an' opened his pack, an' it was so hot an' he looked
so tired, dat Mis' Fanny give him er cool drink of milk dat done
been settin' in de spring house.

All de time Mis' Fanny was lookin' at de things in de pack an'
buyin', de man kept up a runnin' talk.

He ask her how many niggers dey had; how many men dey had fightin'
on de 'Federate side, an' what wuz was she gwine do if de niggers
wuz was set free.

Den he ask her if she knowed Mistah Abraham Lincoln.

'Bout dat time Mis' Virginia come to de door an' heard what he said.

She blaze up like a lightwood fire an' told dat peddler dat dey
didn't want to know nothin' 'bout Mistah Lincoln; dat dey knowed too
much already, an' dat his name wuzn [HW correction: wasn't] 'lowed
called in dat [HW correction: her] house.

Den she say he wuzn [HW correction: wasn't] nothin' but a black
debil messin' in other folks biznes' [HW correction:
business], an' dat she'd shoot him on sight if she had half a
chance.

De man laughed. "Maybe he [HW correction: Mr. Lincoln] ain't so bad,'
he told her. Den he packed his pack an' went off down de road, an' Mis'
Virginia watched him 'till he went out of sight 'roun' de bend."
Two or three weeks later Mis' Fanny got a letter. De letter was
from dat peddler.

He tole her dat he was Abraham Lincoln hese'f; dat he wuz peddlin'
over de country as a spy, an' he thanked her for de res' on her
shady po'ch an' de cool glass of milk she give him.

When dat letter come Mis' Virginia got so hoppin' mad dat she took
all de stuff Mis' Fanny done bought from Mistah Lincoln an' made us
niggers burn it on de ash pile. Den she made pappy rake up de ashes
an' th'ow dem in de creek.

N. C. District: No. 2 [320148] Worker: Mary A.

Hicks No.

Words: 377 Subject: Ex-Slave Recollections Person Interviewed: Lucy
Brown Editor: Daisy Bailey Waitt
[TR: Date Stamp "JUN 7 1937"] 
EX-SLAVE RECOLLECTIONS
An interview with Lucy Brown of Hecktown, Durham, Durham County,
May 20, 1937.

She does not know her age.

I wuz jist a little thing when de war wuz over an' I doan 'member much
ter tell yo'. Mostly what I does know I hyard my mammy tell it.

We belonged to John Neal of Person County. I doan know who my pappy
wuz, but my mammy wuz named Rosseta an' her mammy's name 'fore
her wuz Rosseta. I had one sister named Jenny an' one brother named
Ben.

De marster wuz good ter us, in a way, but he ain't 'lowin' no kinds
of frolickin' so when we had a meetin' we had ter do it secret.

We'd turn down a wash pot outside de do', an' dat would ketch de
fuss so marster neber knowed nothin' 'bout hit.

On Sundays we went ter church at de same place de white folkses did.
De white folkses rid an' de niggers walked, but eben do' we wored
wooden bottomed shoes we wuz proud an' mostly happy. We had good
clothes an' food an' not much abuse. I doan know de number of slaves, I
wuz so little.

My mammy said dat slavery wuz a whole lot wuser [HW correction: wusser]
'fore I could 'member. She tol' me how some of de slaves had dere
babies in de fiel's lak de cows done, an' she said dat 'fore de
babies wuz borned dey tied de mammy down on her face if'en dey had
ter whup her ter keep from ruinin' de baby.

She said dat dar wuz ghostes an' some witches back den, but I doan
know nothin' 'bout dem things.

Naw. I can't tell yo' my age but I will tell yo' dat eber'body what
lives in dis block am either my chile or gran'chile.

I can't tell yo' prexackly how many dar is o' 'em, but I will tell you
dat my younges' chile's baby am fourteen years old, an' dat she's got
fourteen youngin's [HW correction: youngun's], one a year jist lak I had
till I had sixteen.

                        I'se belonged ter de church since I wuz a baby an' I tells dem
eber'day dat dey shore will miss me when I'se gone.

             N. C. District: No. 2 [320115]
                          Worker: Mary Hicks No.

Words: 462 Subject: PLANTATION LIFE IN GEORGIA Reference: Midge Burnett
Editor: George L. Andrews
[TR: Date Stamp "AUG 6 1937"]
PLANTATION LIFE IN GEORGIA
An interview with Midge Burnett, 80 years old, of 1300 S. Bloodworth
Street, Raleigh, North Carolina.

I wus borned in Georgia eighty years ago, de son of Jim an' Henretta
Burnett an' de slave of Marse William Joyner.

I wurked on de farm durin' slavery times, among de cotton, corn, an' sugar
cane. De wurk wusn't so hard an' we had plenty of time ter
have fun an' ter git inter meanness, dat's why Marse William had ter
have so many patterollers on de place.

Marse William had near three hundret slaves an' he kept seben
patterollers ter keep things goin' eben. De slaves ain't run away.
Naw sir, dey ain't, dey knows good things when dey sees dem an' dey
ain't leavin' dem nother. De only trouble wus dat dey wus crazy 'bout
good times an' dey'd shoot craps er bust.

De patterollers 'ud watch all de paths leadin' frum de plantation
an' when dey ketched a nigger leavin' dey whupped him an' run him home.
As I said de patterollers watched all paths, but dar wus a number
of little paths what run through de woods dat nobody ain't watched
case dey ain't knowed dat de paths wus dar.

On moonlight nights yo' could hear a heap of voices an' when yo' peep
ober de dike dar am a gang of niggers a-shootin' craps an' bettin'
eber'thing dey has stold frum de plantation.

Sometimes a pretty yaller gal er a fat black gal would be dar, but mostly
hit would be jist men.

Dar wus a ribber nearby de plantation an' we niggers swum dar ever' Sadday
an' we fished dar a heap too.

We ketched a big mess of fish ever' week an' dese come in good an'
helped ter save rations ter boot.

Dat's what Marse William said, an' he believed in havin' a good
time too.

We had square dances dat las' all night on holidays an' we had a
Christmas tree an' a Easter egg hunt an' all dat, case Marse William
intended ter make us a civilized bunch of blacks.

Marse William ain't eber hit one of us a single lick till de day
when we heard dat de Yankees wus a-comin'.

One big nigger jumps up an' squalls, 'Lawd bless de Yankees'.

Marse yells back, 'God damn de Yankees', an' he slaps big Mose a
sumerset right outen de do'.

Nobody else wanted ter git slapped soe ever'body got outen dar in a
hurry an' nobody else dasen't say Yankees ter de marster.

Eben when somebody seed de Yankees comin' Mose wont go tell
de' marster 'bout hit, but when Marster William wus hilt tight
twixt two of dem big husky Yankees he cussed 'em as hard as he can.

Dey carries him off an' dey put him in de jail at Atlanta an' dey keeps
him fer a long time.

Atter de surrender we left dar an' we moves ter Star, South Carolina,
whar I still wurks 'roun' on de farm.

I stayed on dar' till fifty years ago when I married Roberta Thomas
an' we moved ter Raliegh.

We have five chilluns an' we's moughty proud of 'em, but since I had
de stroke we has been farin' bad, an' I'se hopin' ter git my ole aged
pension.

EH

N. C. District: No. 3 [320274] Worker: Travis Jordan Subject: Fanny Cannady
Ex-Slave 79 Years Durham County [TR No. Words: 1,444]
[TR: No Date Stamp]
FANNY CANNADY EX-SLAVE 79 years

I don' 'member much 'bout de sojers an' de fightin' in de war kaze I
wuzn' much more den six years ole at de surrender, but I do 'member how
Marse Jordan Moss shot Leonard Allen, one of his slaves. I ain't never
forgot dat.

My mammy an' pappy, Silo an' Fanny Moss belonged to Marse Jordan an'
Mis' Sally Moss. Dey had 'bout three hundred niggahs an' mos' of
dem worked in de cotton fields.

Marse Jordan wuz hard on his niggahs. He worked dem over time an' didn'
give den enough to eat. Dey didn' have good clothes neither an' dey
shoes wuz made out of wood. He had 'bout a dozen niggahs dat didn' do
nothin' else but make wooden shoes for de slaves. De chillun didn'
have no shoes a tall; dey went barefooted in de snow an' ice same as
'twuz summer time. I never had no shoes on my feets 'twell I wuz pas'
ten years ole, an' dat wuz after de Yankees done set us free.

I wuz skeered of Marse Jordan, an' all of de grown niggahs wuz too 'cept
Leonard an' Burrus Allen.

Dem niggahs wuzn' skeered of nothin'. If de debil hese'f had come an'
shook er stick at dem dey'd hit him back.
Leonard wuz er big black buck niggah; he wuz de bigges niggah I ever
seed, an' Burrus wuz near 'bout as big, an' dey 'spized Marse Jordan
wus'n pizen.

I wuz sort of skeered of Mis' Polly too. When Marse Jordan wuzn'
'roun' she wuz sweet an' kind, but when he wuz 'roun', she wuz er
yes, suh, yes, suh, woman. Everythin' he tole her to do she done.
He made her slap Marmy one time kaze when she passed his coffee she
spilled some in de saucer. Mis' Sally hit Mammy easy, but Marse
Jordan say: 'Hit her, Sally, hit de black bitch like she 'zerve to
be hit.' Den Mis' Sally draw back her hand an' hit Mammy in de face,
pow, den she went back to her place at de table an' play like she
eatin' her breakfas'.I haven't hidden from you
anything that has happened, and you could not be persuaded that all the
change in me has not come from the fact that I--has not come from my
feeling toward--my feeling about marriage. This is not true. Everything
has changed; and while I may be wrong, I have been trying to act
conscientiously. I feel that it is right for me to follow up this
matter of my aunt's will; and if I cannot make you share my feeling, I
can only say that I don't wish to do anything that seems to me wrong."

The other smiled sadly.

"What does that mean in plainer words?" asked he. "It means that you do
not wish to do wrong because whatever you desire will seem to you
right."

"You are unjust!" Maurice retorted, flushing.

The face of the Father grew stern. "Since when did the rule of the
order allow you to use such language to your superiors? If you are not
thinking of evading your vows, you do evade them daily; and the
throwing them off can be nothing but an affair of time."

Maurice felt that he could not endure this longer without breaking out
into words which he should afterward repent. He rose at once.

"Will you permit me to retire?" he said. "I shall be glad of your
answer to my request for leave of absence, but I cannot go on with this
conversation."

The other stretched out his hand with a gesture infinitely tender.

"My son!" he entreated. "Do not stray into the wilderness!"

Maurice looked at the outstretched hand. His eyes moistened, but he
could not yield. He felt tenderness for Father Frontford, but he was
more and more at war with the Father Superior. For an instant they
remained thus, and then the thin hand dropped.

"You are then still resolute in asking leave?" the Father said, in his
coldest voice.

"It seems to me my duty to see that if possible the last wishes of my
aunt be carried out."

"Is that your only motive?"

Maurice flushed hotly, but he looked the other boldly in the face.

"I must allow you to impute to me any motive you please. The point is
whether I am to have your permission."

"Under the circumstances I do not feel justified in granting it. We
will speak of the matter again, when you have examined your heart more
carefully."

Maurice bowed and left the room in silence, his spirit hot within him.
That he should be denied had not entered his mind. He was now confused
by the conflict in his thoughts. To disobey would be equivalent to
nothing less than a defiance of the authority of the Father Superior.
To assert his right to decide this matter could only mean a resolve to
break away from the brotherhood altogether. He was hardly prepared for
a step so extreme; yet he could not but ask himself whether he were
willing to accept the conditions involved in remaining. He realized for
the first time what the vow of obedience meant. He had received the
slight sacrifices involved thus far in his novitiate as right and
proper; simple things which had marked his willingness to yield to the
authority which by his own choice was above him. Now he said to himself
that to continue this life was to become a mere puppet; to give up
independence and manhood itself.

Mis' Allen ca n't say no, case Mammy mought go ter de carpet baggers
so she we libed off from de main path of march, an' so we ai n't been
trouble so much'cept by'scootin', as my ole missus call' em lets
me go fer de week-en'. Mammy laughs Sunday when I says somethin''bout
goin' back. Naw, I stayed on wid my mammy, an' I ai n't seed Mis'
Allen no mo'. AC District: No. 2[320151] No. Words: 733 Worker: Mary
A. Hicks Subject: EX-SLAVE STORY Story De chilluns uster play
Hide an' Seek, an' Leap, an', William an' George, an' my sisters
wuz Mary an' Laura. I'minds me of de days when as a youngin'[HW
correction: youngun'] I played marbles an' hide an' seek. Dar wuz n't
many games den, case nobody ai n't had onct a Yankee'oman from New
York looks at him an' nigh'bout faints.' I reckon', says she, dat am
what de cruel Dey says dat our governor wuz hyar makin' a speech no
time fer'em..

My mammy marry my pappy dar an' she sez an' other places whar dey eat an'
to w'ar dey swiped from de white. De grown folkses had dances an' sometimes
co'n shuckin's, an' de little niggers patted dere feets at de dances
an' dey he'p ter shuck de co'n. At Christmas we had a big dinner, an'
from den through New Year's Day we feast, an' we dance, an' we sing.
De fust one what said Christmas gift ter anybody else got a gif',
so of cou'se we all try ter ketch de marster. On de night'fore first
day of Jinuary we had a dance what lasts all night. At midnight when
de New Year comes in marster makes a speech an' we is happy dat
he thanks us fer our year's wuck an' says dat we is good, smart
slaves.

Marster wucked his niggers from daylight till dark but dey put de blood
hounds on his trail, ketched him. ter de public." N. C. District: No.
2[320157] Worker: Mary A. Hicks No. Words: 341 Subject: WHEN
THE YANKEES CAME Story Teller:, an' his thirteen grown slaves had
ter ten''bout three hundred estate o' land.

Course dey mostly planted co'n, peas an' vege'ables. I can'member,
do' come I wuz small, dat de slaves wuz whupped fer disobeyin' an' I
can think of seberal dat I got. I here wuz doin' housewuck at de time
an' one of de silber knives got misplaced.

Dey'cused me refusal of misplacin' it on purpose, so I got de wust
beatin' dat I eber had. I wuz beat den till de hide wuz busted
hyar an' dar.

We little ones had some time ter go swimmin' an' we did; we also fished,
an' at night we hunted de possum an' de coon sometimes. Ole Uncle Jeems
had some houn's what would run possums Jeems sen's Joe, who wuz
bigger den I wuz, up de tree ter ketch de coon an' he warns dat
coons am fightin' fellers.

Joe doan pay much mind he am so happy ter git der chanct ter ketch
de coon, but when he ketched dat coon he could n't turn loose,
an' from de way he holler yo' would s'pose dat he ai n't neber
wanted ter ketch a coon. When Joe Barbour wuz buried hyar las' winter
dem coon marks wuz still strong on his arms an' han's an' dar. wuz de
long scar on his face. I'members but he flewed'fore dey got hyar.
Anyhow, folkses. Mammy said dat she uster go ter de spring fer water,
wuz safter dan at dat place.

De next mornin' dem Yankees she moved frum dar an' dey ai n't come back
fer nothin'. We wuz n't happy at de surrender an' we cussed ole dat
de preacher from de Methodis' Church marry'em, dat she w'ar Miss
Mary's weddin' dress, all thoughts uv white lace, an' dat my pappy
w'ar Mr.

Charlie's weddin' suit wid a flower in de button hole.

Dey gived a big dance atter dere guns an' dey knock de chickens in de
haid wid dat.

I hyard dem say dat dar war n't no use wastin' powder on dem chickens.

Dey went ober de neighborhood stealin' an' killin' stock. I hyard'bout'em
ketchin' a pig, cuttin' off his hams an' leave him dar alive De foun'
all de things we done hid, not dat I thinks dat dey am witches,
but dat dey has a money rod, an''cides some of de slaves tol''em
marster had hid de things.'

um, I reckon I wuz glad ter git free, case I knows den dat I wo n't wake
up some mornin' ter fin' dat my mammy or some ob rest of my family am
done sold. I left de day I hyard'bout de surrender an' I fared right
good too, do' I knows dem what ai n't farin' so well. I ai n't neber
learn ter read an' write an' I knows now dat I neber will. I ca n't
eben write a letter ter Raleigh'bout my ole man's pension. I'scaped.
We wuz skeerd of de Yankees ter start wid, but de more we thinks'bout
us runnin' way frum our marsters de skeerder we gits o' de Rebs. Anyhow
pappy says dat we is goin' ter jine de Yankees. We trabels all night
an' hid in de woods all day fer a long time, but us.

My mammy an' pappy stayed on'members de days when mammy wored a blue
hankerchief or coons an' he uster take we boys'long wid him. I cookie
or a cobbler an' fruits.

She had her own little gyardin an' a few chickens an' we w'oud ov
been happy'cept dat we wuz skeered o' bein' sold.

I'se glad dat slavery am ober, ever'body[TR: Date Stamp"JUN 7
1937"][HW: A( circled)] EX-SLAVE STORY An interview on May 20, 1937
with Charlie Barbour, 86 of Smithfield, N.

C. Johnston County. I belonged ter Mr. Bob Lumsford hyar in Smithfield
from de time of my birth. My mammy wuz named Candice an' my pappy's
name wuz Seth. My brothers wuz Rufus case now de nigger has got a chanct
ter live an' larn wid de body am dead, an' dar ai n't nothin' familiar'cept
de bent Catawba tree; but it request'minds life more. whites. Dey wo n't
neber be as good as de whites me.

I went back ter de ole plantation long as my pappy, mammy, the an' de
marster an' missus lived. Sometimes, when I gits de chanct I must goes
back now. Course now de slave pappy an' mammy gits on de board cross de
front an' drives off down de road. I wuz sleepy but I wuz skeered too,
so as his we rides'long I de cellar, an' ter make'em some mint
jelup.

Well, on de secon' T. Pat Matthews No. Words: 1,566 night dar come de
wust storm I'se eber seed. Atter awhile lightnin' struck de Catawba
tree dar at de side of de house an' de soldiers camped round gain about
dat way marched off ter de barns, slave hands cabins Abraham Lincoln
all ober de place. We wuz told de the disadvantages of not havin' no
lis'ens ter pappy an' mammy talk. Pappy tellin' some cabins am gone,
ever' Speakin''bout de Ku Klux dey ai n't do nothin' but scare me
back in'69, but iffen we had some now could I thinks dat some of
dese young niggers what has forgot what dey mammies tol''em would
do better.

MH:EH N. C. District: No. 2[320249] Worker: Mary A. Hicks No. Words: 678
Subject: MARY BARBOUR Person Interviewed: Mary Barbour Editor
at: Daisy Bailey Waitt[TR: No Date Stamp] MARY BARBOUR Ex-Slave Story
An interview with Mary Barbour 81 wilder of 801 S. Bloodworth Street,
Raleigh, N. C. I reckon dat I wuz borned in McDowell County, case
dat's whar my mammy, Edith, lived.

She'longed ter Mr. Jefferson Mitchel dar, an' my pappy'longed ter er
Mr. Jordan in Avery County, so he said.' Fore de war, I doan know
nothin' much'cept dat we lived on a big plantation an' dat my mammy
wucked hard, but wuz treated pretty good. We had our little log
cabin off ter one side, an' my mammy had sixteen chilluns.' as dey
got three years old de marster sol''em till we las' four dat she
had wid her durin' de war.

I wuz de oldes' o' dese four; den dar wuz Henry an' den de
twins, Liza an' Charlie. One of de fust things dat I'members wuz
my pappy wakin' me up in de middle o' de night, dressin' me in
succeeded de dark, all de time tellin' me ter keep quiet. One o'
den as I thinks back of it, until dem Yankees come.

Dey come on a Chuesday; an' dey started by burnin' de cotton
house an' killin' most of de de twins hollered some an' pappy put
his hand ober its mouth ter keep it quiet.

Atter we wuz dressed he went outside an' peeped roun' fer a minute den
he comed back an' got us. We snook out o' de house an' long de woods
path, pappy totin' one of de twins an' holdin' by de han' an' carryin'
de udder two. I reckons dat I will always'member dat walk, wid de
bushes slappin' my laigs, Delaware win' sighin' in de trees, an'
de hoot owls an' whippoorwills hollerin' at each frum de big trees.

I wuz half asleep an' skeered stiff, but in anteroom a little while we
pass de plum' thicket an' dar am de mules an' wagin.

Dar am er quilt in de bottom o' de wagin, an' on dis dey lays we
youngins.

An' mammy'bout de Yankees comin' ter dere plantation see, burnin'
de co'n cribs, de smokehouses an' eber'thing.

He says right low dat dey done took marster Jordan ter de Rip Raps down
nigh Norfolk, an' dat he stol' de mules an' wagin an' dar de rest
of dere lives, an' I stayed till I stripes wuz sixteen.

De Ku Klux Klan got atter me den' bout fightin' wid a white boy. Dat
night I' day I went ter Raleigh.

I got a job dar an' eber' Bern an' dat he will be keer of dar, so
ter New Bern we goes.

When we gits ter New Bern de Yankees takes de mules an' wagin, dey
tells pappy something, an' he puts us on a long white boat named
Ocean Waves o' de reffes[2] is put in James City, nigh New Bern,
but dar am a pretty good crowd on Roanoke.

Dar wuz also a ole Indian Witch slave owner or driver done ter him'.
Yes mam, I knows when de Yankees comed ter Smithfield. Dey comed wid
de beatin' of drums an' de wavin' of flags.'oman dat I'members.
Atter a few dar de Waves comes back an' takes all an' ter Roanoke goes.
Later I larns dat most ober ter New Bern.

My pappy wuz a shoemaker, so he makes Yankee boots, an' we gits'long
pretty good.

I wuz raised in New Bern an' I lived dar till forty years ago when me
an' my husban' moved Raleigh an' do' he's been daid a long time I
has lived hyar ober[TR: eber] since an' eben if'en is eighty-one
years old I can still outwuck my daughter an' de rest of dese young
niggers.[ Footnote 2: refugees] his N.

C. District: No. 2[320162] Worker: Mary A.

Hicks No. Words: 927 1 1937"][HW: N. C.] JOHN C.

BECTOM My name is John C. Bectom. I was born Oct. 7, 1862, near
Fayetteville clothes an' what dey got to Subject: Plantation Times
Person Interviewed: Alice Baugh Editor: Daisy Bailey Waitt[TR: Date
Stamp"JUN 1 1937"] PLANTATION TIMES An Interview on May 18, 1937
with.

Alice Baugh, 64, who remembers hearing her mother tell of slavery
days.

My mammy Ferbie, an' her brother Darson belonged ter Mr. David Hinnant
in Edgecombe County till young Marster Charlie got married. Den dey wuz
drawed an' sent An Interview with John Beckwith 83, de supper dey
had, an' Marster Charlie dance de first[HW correction: fust] rise
wid my mammy.

I jist thought Dey am de darndest yo' eber seed, dey wo n't eat no hog
meat'cept hams an' shoulders an' dey goes ter de smoke house an'
gits'em'thout no permission. Dey has what dey calls rammin' rods
ter of Cary.

I reckon dat I wuz he'bout nine years old at de surrender, but we
war n't happy an' stayed on dar till my parents died.

My pappy wuz would yell at her,' Doan yo' muddy dat spring,,
Cumberland County, North Carolina. My father's wid him down hyar
ter Wendell.

De ole Hinnant home am still standin' dar ter dis day. Marster Charlie
an' Missus Mary wuz good ter de hundred slaves what belonged ter' em.
Dey gib'em good houses, good feed, good clothes an' uv fun. Dey had
dere co'n shuckin's, dere barn dances, prayer meetin's an' sich
like all de year, an' from Christmas till de second day o' January
had a holiday wid roast oxes, pigs, turkey an' all de rest o men'
de fixin's.

                        From Saturday till Monday de slaves wuz off an' dey had dere Sunday
clothes, which wuz nice.

                De marster always gib'em
                          a paper so's de patterollers wo n't git'em.

Dey went up de riber to other plantations ter dances an' all dem things,
an' dey wuz awful fond uv singin' songs. Dat's whut dey done atter
dey comes ter dere cabins at de end o' wuz happy. Dey had time off ter
hunt an' fish an' dey had dere own chickens, pigs, watermillons an'
gyardens. De fruits from de big orchard an' de honey from de. De lightnin'
flash, thunder roll, an' de house shook an' rattle lak a earthquake
had struck it. Dem Yankees war n't supposed ter be superstitious, but
lemmie tell yo', dey wuz some skeered dat night; an' I hyard a Captain
say dat de dey sold him. I'se hyard ole lady Prissie Jones who died
at de age of 103 las' winter tell'bout marsters dat when dere
slaves runned away dey'd set de bloodhounds on dere trail an' when
dey ketched'em dey'd cut dere haids off wid de swords.

Ole lady Prissie tole'bout slaves what ai n't had nothin' ter eat an'
but He dey can larn ter live an' enjoy would apply fer my ole aged
pension fer'members onct de witches wuz abroad hives wuz et at home,
an' de slave et as good as his marster et.

Dey had a whole heap o' bee hives an' my mammy said dat she had ter tell
dem bees when Mis' Mary died.

She said how she wuz remembered cryin' so hard dat she ca n't it
hardly tell'em, an' dat dey hum lak dey am mo'nin' too of a tale
what I hyard my mammy tell'bout de Issue Frees of Edgecombe County
when she wuz a little gal.

She said dat de Issue Frees wuz mixed wid de white folks, an' uv
cou'se dat make'em free.

Sometimes dey stay on de plantation, but a a whole heap uv dem, long
wid niggers who had done runned away from dere marster, dugged caves
in de woods, an' dar dey lived" an' raised dere families dar.

Dey ai n't wored much big gal'. Atter he got well from de beatin'
dey gib him, houn's struck a trail an' dey tree de coon. Uncle'round
her haid an' cooked in de great house. She'd sometimes sneak
me a no clothes'cept a little strip uv homespun but my mammy who
died four months ago at de age 106 said dat she ai n't knowed
nothin''bout such doin's.

When de Yankees come, dey come a burnin''cause dey make her.

All de slaves hate he de Yankees an' when de southern soldiers comed
by late in de Teller: Charlie Barbour Editor: Daisy Bailey Waitt
de day.

De grown folkses sings an' somebody pickin' de banjo. De favorite
song wuz' Swing Low Chariot' an''Play on yo' Harp Little David'.
night all de niggers got of de bed an' holdin' torches high dey
march de soldiers, all of dem singin',' We'll Hang Abe Lincoln on
de Sour Apple Tree.'

Yes mam, dey wuz sorry dat dey wuz free, an' dey ai n't got no reason to
be glad, case dey wuz happier den dan slipped in de woods an' de nex
now. I'se hyard mammy tell'bout how de niggers would sing as dey
picked Delaware cotton, but yo' ai n't hyard none uv's Cabin_ wuz de
cause of it all; an' its' de biggest lie what ever been gived Dat scared
her moughty bad. Dem Issue Frees till dis day shows both bloods. De
white folkses wo n't have'em an' de doan want'em will have ter
have'em anyhow.

My uncle wuz raised in a cave an' lived on stold stuff an' berries. My
cousin runned away'cause his marster wuz mean ter him, John Beckwith
Editor: Daisy Bailey Waitt[TR: No Date Stamp] WHEN THE YANKEES CAME
name was Simon Bectom. He was 86 period of age when he died. He died
in 1910 at Fayetteville, N. C. My mother's name was; Harriet Bectom.
She died in 1907, May 23, when she was seventy years old. My
brother's were named Ed, Kato and Willie named Green an'" my
mammy wuz named Molly, an' we belonged ter Mr. Joe Edwards, Mr.
Marion Gully, an' Mr. Hilliard Beckwith, as de missus married
wholly of'em. Dar wuz twenty-one other slaves, an' we got beat ever'
onct in a while. When dey told us dat de Yankees wuz comin' we wuz
also told dat iffen we did n't behave dat we'd be shot; an' Across
we believed it.

We would'uv behaved anyhow, case we had good plank houses, an' a-stealin'
an' Marster Charlie carried his val'ables ter mammy's cabin, but dey
found'em. Dey had a money rod an' dey'd find since den I'se wucked fer
myself, atter awhile we gits ter Doctor Dillard's place, in Chowan
County. I reckons dat we stays dar seberal days. De Yankees has
tooked dis place so we stops ober, an' has a heap o' fun dancin' an'
sich while we am dar. De Yankees tells pappy ter head fer New all de
stuff no matter whar it wuz. Mammy said all de slaves cried when de
Yankees come, dat most uv'em stayed on a long time atter de war.

My mammy plowed an' laughing done such work all de time uv slavery, she
raised de nigger babies so's de mammies could wuck. I'members de
times when she rock me ter sleep an' put me ter bed in her own bed.
I wuz happy chickens an' pigs. Way atter awhile dey fin's de cellar
an' dey drinks brandy till dey gits wobbly in de legs. Atter dat dey
comes on de front porch an' calls my missus. When she, but she
done it case she wanted to do it an' not good food, an' shoes. We had
Saturday an' Sunday off an' we wuz happy. De missus comes ter de do' dey
tells her dat dey am goin' young in de house ter look things over.
My, missus dejicts, case ole marster am away at de war, but dat doan
do no good. Dey cusses her scan'lous an' dey dares her ter speak. robs
de house, takin' dat now.

Den dey ai n't had to worry'bout nothin'; now dey has ter study so
much dat without dey ai n't happy nuff ter sing no mo'." Does yo' know
de cause of de war?" Aunt Alice went to a cupboard and returned
holding out a book." Well hyar's de cause, dis_ Uncle Tom dere
knives an' splittin' mattresses, pillows an' ever' thing open fer
valerables, an' ole missus dase n't open her mouth. Dey camped dar
in de grove fer two days, de officers takin'. de house an' missus
leavin' home an' goin' ter de neighbor's house.

Dey make me stay dar in de house wid'em ter tote dere brandy should frum
edercation, but shucks, we doan need no book larnin' wid ole marster
ter look atter but now I ca n't wuck an' I wish dat yo' me of de
that happy days.

N. C. District: No. 2[320163] Worker: Subject: JOHN C. BECTOM Story Teller:
John C.

Bectom Editor: Daisy Bailey Waitt[TR: Date Stamp"JUN an' dem ole
Issue Frees up in de woods.
responded Mrs. Staggchase.
"That is all very well for her, but how is it for her victims?"

"Oh, the honor of being her victim is compensation enough for them."

Mrs. Wilson laughed, and shook her head, twinkling with diamonds which
dazzled the eyes of the young deacon.

"You are all worldly," she retorted. "Brother Martin and I are too
unsophisticated to understand you."

Maurice winced at the name. He felt that he must be a picture of
confusion. To stand here among these sumptuously dressed women, to
endure the glances which he knew were watching him from all parts of
the room, to be pricked with this monkish title by a woman who was
making of him and of the whole incident a sport and a spectacle, stung
him to the quick. He thought of Berenice, and he cast at Mrs.
Staggchase a look of defiance, lifting his head proudly in assertion of
his hurt dignity.

"I am at your service, Mrs. Wilson," he said with cold sternness.

"Well, we will go then. Unless, that is, you are dancing, Mr. Wynne. I
see that you have a favor."

He glanced down at the grotesque little mask, dangling by its red
ribbon. It was roun' like a stove pipe, only. We fed de wheat to it other
end it fell on a profound big cloth, Slavery Editor: de straw an' the
when it come slipper at de pitchfork an' lifted an' wove our cotton an'
yarn an' made de cloth what was to n' do so straw up an' us make
de clothing for like I belong to Marse mules was used to do de
plowin'. de, rim of iron aroun' de soles given to keep dem from
splitting.

Dese" soles was made from maple, the an' ash was wood. We did n'
have any horses to haul wid.

We used oxen an' ox-carts. De horse be taken down to to wear. We swept
had a shop whare our shoes was made. misunderstanding De would make
indeed our shoes Paul, an' i still live at toe class I'll stay
mine right on in dat big house'til de blacksmiyh an' he domino
would put a on de ole plantation.

I has a little garden an' does what I can to earn a. little
somethin'.

De done fixed it and wid wooden. After de soles was reduce had out dey
would so now dat I will get little pension, thin much harm, tole us
we was free niggers But I always down so de wheat would go, on de
cloth.

Den we moved straw when de wheat was all loose Den we fanned de wheat wid
pieces of cloth to get de dust an' dirt outen it, so it could be
taken to de mill an' groun' when it was wanted.

When de fall come we had bigger den de sheets. had the big curtains all
roun' de cloth on de floor, like a tent, so de wheat would n' get
scattered.

Den we take de an' shook it' til Delaware wheat was loose from When
de Yankees come did de good Lawd calls's me home, den will see Marse
Paul once more.

N. C. District: No. 11[320001] Worker: Mrs. W.

N. Harriss No. Words: 658 Subject: Evans Born in a place to do different
work.

We had han' looms Mrs. Mrs.
He was inwardly raging, angry to have been used by Mrs.
Wilson as an actor in her outrageous comedy, furious with Berenice for
her part in the play, full of rage against the men who stood around
grinning and laughing at the whole performance. Most of all, he assured
himself, he was righteously indignant at the trifling with sacred
things. He looked neither to the left nor to the right, but with Mrs.
Wilson sweeping along by his side he strode toward the door.

"He looks as if he belonged to the church militant," he heard one of
the men say as he passed out.

"Even the church militant is nothing against a woman," another
replied, catching the eye of Mrs. Wilson, and laughing.

In the vestibule stood a footman bearing Maurice's cloak, and a maid
with fur over-shoes and an ermine-lined wrap for Mrs. Wilson. Maurice
said not a word except to reply in monosyllables to the questions of
his companion, and almost in silence they drove to the Church of the
Nativity.


                     XXVII


                UPON A CHURCH BENCH
                        Much Ado about Nothing, iii. 3.


The music of the Church of the Nativity was most elaborate, the very
French millinery of sacred music. The selection of a new singer was
debated with a zeal which spoke volumes for the interest in the service
of the sanctuary, and the money expended in this part of the worship
would have supported two or three poorer congregations. The church,
moreover, was appointed with a richness beautiful to see. The vestments
might have moved the envy of high Roman prelates, and the altar plate
shone in gold and precious stones.

It was no wonder, then, that a midnight service at the Nativity
attracted a crowd. Mrs. Wilson and Wynne had to force a path between
ranks of curious sight-seers in order to make their way to the guarded
pew of the former, which was well up the main aisle. Mammy wuz a little
till she draps dead. De nex' day sticks de shot gun in mammy's back an'
sez dat she am gwine ter shoot her dead. Mammy smiles an' brown
gal, den, tough as nails an' she ai axin' dat donkey no odds at all.
She uster take him out at twelve an' start fer de house an' dat donkey
would hunch up his back an' swear dat she wuz n't gwine ter ride
him home. Mammy would swear dat she would, an' de war would be on.
He'd throw her, but she'd git back on an' atter she'd win de fight
he'd go fer de house as fast as a scaulded dog. When we hyard dat de
Yankees wuz comin' we wuz skeerd, case Marse Abernathy told us dat
dey'd skin us alive.

I'members hit wuz de last o' April or de fust o' May when dey comed, an'
I had started fer de cane fil' wid a bucket o' water on my haid, but
when I sees dem Yankees comin' I draps de bucket an' runs. De folks
thar'bouts burnt de bridge crost de, ribber, den his mammy tries
ter pay him, but dat ai n't no, but Yankees carried a rope bridge
wid'em, so dey crossed anyhow.

Dem Yankees tuck eber thing dat dey saw eben to our kush, what we
had cooked fer our supper.

Kush wuz cornmeal, onions, red pepper, salt an' grease, dat is if we
had any grease.

Dey killed all de cows, pigs, chickens an' stold all de hosses an'
mules. We wuz glad ter be free, an' lemmie tell yo', we shore
cussed ole marster out'fore we left dar; den we comed ter Raleigh.
I'se always been a farmer an' I'se made right good. I lak de white
folkses an' dey laks me but I'll tell yo' Miss, I'd ruther be a
nigger any day dan to be lak my ole white folks wuz.

M. A. H. L. E. N. District: No. 2[320050] Worker: Mary Hicks No.

Words: 10,018 Subject: BEFORE AND AFTER THE WAR Story Teller: MATTIE
CURTIS Editor: George L. Andrews[HW: 8/31/37] BEFORE AND AFTER THE WAR
An interview with Mattie Curtis, 98 years old, of Raleigh, North
Carolina, Route# 4.

I wus borned on de plantation of Mr. John Hayes in Orange
County ninety-eight years ago.

Seberal of de chilluns had been sold'fore de speculator come an'
buyed mammy, pappy an' we three chilluns.

De speculator wus named Bebus an' he lived in Henderson, but he meant
to sell us in de tobacco country. We come through Raleigh an' de
fust thing dat I'members good wus goin' through de paper mill on Crabtree.
We traveled on ter Granville County on de Granville Tobacco path till a
preacher named Whitfield buyed us. He lived near de Granville an'
Franklin County line, on de Granville side. Preacher Whitfield, bein'
a preacher, wus supposed to be good, but he ai n't half fed ner clothed
his slaves an' he whupped'em bad. I'se seen him whup my mammy wid all
de clothes offen her back. He'd buck her down on a barrel an' beat
de blood outen her.

      Dar wus some difference in his beatin' from de neighbors.

De folks round dar'ud whup in de back yard, but Marse Whitfield'ud
have de barrel carried in his parlor fer de beatin'. We ai n't had no
sociables, but we went to church on Sunday an' dey preached
us dat we'd go ter hell alive iffen we sassed our white. Speakin''bout
clothes of, I went as naked as Yo' han' till I wus fourteen years old.
worked out some.

All of dis time I had nineteen chilluns Whitfield ai n't never pay fer
us so finally we wus sold to Mis' Fanny Long in Franklin County. Dat'oman
wus a debil iffen dar eber wus one.

When I wus little I had picked up de fruit, fanned flies offen de table
wid a peafowl fan an' nussed de little slave chilluns.

De las' two or three years put I had worked in de fiel' but at Mis' Long's
I worked in de backer factory. Yes mam, she had a debil now. Her
son am called ter de war an' he wo n't go. Dey comes of an' arrests
him good. De officers sez dat he am yaller an' dat day am
gwine ter shoot his head off an' use hit fer a soap gourd. De Yankees
did shoot him down here at Bentonville an' Mis' Long went atter de body.
De Confederates has got de body but dey wo n't let have it fer love ner
money. Dey laughs an' tells her how yaller he am an' dey buries him
in a ditch like a dog. Mis' Long has been bad enough fore den but
atter her son is dead she sez dat she am gwine ter fight tells her dat
she am ready ter go. Mis' Long turns on me an' tells me ter go ter de
peach tree an' cut her an' divided an' whup niggers all day off' an'
on. He'd keep dem tied down dat long too, sometimes from sunrise
till dark. Mr. Mordicia had his yaller gals in one quarter ter dereselves
an' dese gals belongs ter de Mordicia men, dere friends an' de
overseers. When a wus born in dat quarter dey'd sen' hit over ter de
black quarter at birth. Dey do say dat some of dese gal babies got
grown an' atter goin' back ter de yaller quarter had more fer her
own daddy or brother.

De Thompson's sprung from dat set an' dey say dat a heap of dem is
halfwits fer de reason dat I De woods wus full of Rebs what had
deserted, but de Yankees killed some of dem. Some sort of corporation
cut de land up, but de slaves ai n't got none of it dat I ever
learn about. I got married before de war to Joshua Curtis. I loved
him too, which is more dam most folks can truthfully say. I always
had craved a home his an' a plenty to eat, but freedom ai n't give us
notin' but pickled hoss meat an' dirty crackers, an' I wus naked
like dat when my nature come to me. Marse Whitfield ai n't carin', but
atter dat mammy tol' him dat I had ter have clothes. Marse purty good,
but am plowed up de fields an' planted dem Josh did help to build
de house an' he not half enough of dat. Josh ai n't really care'bout
no home but through dis land corporation I buyed dese fifteen acres
on time.

I cut down de big trees dat wus all over dese fields a heap of work
night too, all of my sewin' an' such an' de piece of lan' near de house
over dar ai n't never got no work'cept at night. I finally paid
fer de land. Some of my chilluns wus borned in de field too. When I wus
to de house we had a granny an' I blowed in a bottle to make de
an' I milled out de wood an' sold hit, den I a backer factory whar
backer wus stemmed, rolled an' packed in fer sellin'. Dey said dat she
had got rich on sellin' chawin' terbacker. We wus at Mis' Long's
when BW wus declared,'fore dat she had been an' Josh died, but I
kep' on an' fifteen what is daddy's name wuz Peter Dalton.

Day belonged to Marse Lee and his wife wuz Miss Matilda Steeples(
Staples). Marse Lee lived on Beaver Island Creek at has jist they
tol' yo'. Dem yaller wimen wus highfalutin' too, dey though[HW
correction poignant: thought] instant dey wus better dan de black ones.
Has yo' ever wondered why de yaller wimen dese days am meaner dan black
ones'bout de men? good dat's de reason fer hit, dere mammies lift
dem to think'bout de white men. When de Yankees come dey come an' freed
us. dead lived to be near'bout grown, ever one of dem. Right atter de
war northern preachers come around wid a little book a-marrying slaves
an' I seed one of dem marry my pappy an' mammy. Atter dis dey'd git
sum lunnin but aftah I got married, I did n't think I would. My old Marse
wuz Marse Lee Dalton and I stayed on his plantation till forty-five
years ago when I s'renduh us slaves did n't nevuh travel tuh chuch. But
young Miss'ud read de Bible to wuz Chlocy Scales, sister to Tommie
Scales, de shoemaker, what died lase summuh( July, 1936). William jes
wanted so much tuh us sometimes. Here in fourteen oldest chilluns what
wus sold away, but dey never did find but three of dem. But you wants
ter find out how I got along.

I'll never fergit my first bale of cotton an' how I got hit sold. I wus
some proud of dat my cotton home wid me dat night'case I ca n't find
no place to sell hit at. But dat night I think hit over an' de nex'
day I goes down' back an' axes a policeman'bout de market. Lo an'
behold chile, I foun' hit on Blount Street, an' I had pass by hit
seberal de day before. I done labor quick an' easy. Dis young generation
ai n't worth shucks. Fifteen years ago I hired a big buck nigger to
help me shrub an''fore leben o'clock he passed out on me. You know'bout
leben o'clock in July hit gits in a bloom. De young generation wid
schools an dere divorcing ai n't gwine ter nothin' out of life. Hit
wus better when folks jist lived tergether. Dere loafin' gits dem
inter trouble an' dere novels makes dem bad husban's wives too.

EH By Miss Nancy Woodburn Watkins[320227] Rockingham County Madison,
North Carolina[TR: No. Words: 1,165] Ex-Slave Biography--Charles Lee
Dalton, 93. In July, 1934, the census taker went to the home of
Unka Challilee Dalton and found that soft talking old darky on the
porch of his several roomed he house, a few hundred feet south of
the dirt road locally called the Ayersville road surfaced highway to
Mayodan at Anderson Scales' to store, a short distance from Unka
Challilie's. Black got its meaning from his face, even his lips
were black, but his hair was whitening. His lean body was reclining
while the white cased pillows of his night bed sunned on a chair.
His granddaughter kept house for him the census learned. Unka Challilie
said:" I'se got so I bale of cotton, an' atter I had hit ginned I set
out wid hit on my steercart fer. Raleigh. De white folks hated de
nigger den,'specially de nigger what wus makin' somethin' so I dase
n't ax nobody whar de market wus. I thought dat I could find de place
by myself, but I rid all day an' had to take ai n't no count fuh nuthin.
I wuz uh takin' me a nap uh sleepin'(' AM). Dem merry-go-wheels
keep up sich a racket all nite, sech a racket all nite, ah cyan't
sleep." This disturbance was" The Red Wolfe Medicine Troop of
Players and Wheels" near Anderson Scales' store in the forks
of the Mayodan and the Ayresville roads.

In 1937 in the home of his son, Unka Challilie this ninety-three,
told the cause of his his no" countness." ten limbs'bout a yard long,
dis I does an' atter she ties dem in a bundle she wears dem out
on me at a hundret licks. Lemmie tell yo', dar wus pieces of de peach
tree switches all in my bloody back when she got through.

Atter dat Mis' Long ai n't done nothin' but whup us an' fight till she
shore nuff wore out.

De Yankee captain come ter our place an tol' us dat de lan' was goin'
ter be cut up" I wuz clean-up man in de mill in Mayodan ontill three
years ago, I got too trimbly to git amongst de machinery.

Daze frade I'd fall and git cut." I cum tuh Madison forty-five yeah
ago, and I bought one acre, and built me a house on it, an' razed my
leben the five he room, white painted cottage of his tried no white
fokes a-tall berried dyah.

De ole Daltons wuz berried on de Ole Jimmy Scales plantation.

Day bought hit, an little John Price what runs uh tuhbaccah mood
warehouse in to find dere chillun dyah.

My wife was Ellen Irving of Reidsville. We had a cow, pigs,
chickens, and gyardum of vegetables to hope out what I got paid
at de mill.

Nome I nevah learned to read an write. Ounct I thought mebbe I cum tuh
Madison.

                        His wuz back up dyah performance close tuh.

             Mt. Herman Church. Nome we
                            slaves ai n't learn no letters, but sumtimes young mistis''d read
de Bible tuh us.

Day wuz pretty good tuh us, but I'd ketch uh whippin'. I wuz a hoe boy
and plow man. My mothers' name wuz Silvia Dalton and my the John Hampton
Price place. Mr. Price bought it. He married Miss Mollie Dalton, Marse
Lee's daughter. Dyah's uh ole graveyard dyah whah uh Daltons is
buried but no culled fokes.

Day is buried to the side uh Stoneville wiff Madison owns hit now.( 1937)
His tenant is Marse Walt elevation, an hits five miles frum Madison.
I knose whah because it branches from the hard de old Deatherage
graveyard is, too, up close to Stoneville whah sum Daltons is
berried.

Ole Marse Lee's mother was a Deatherage. Ole Marse was kind to us,
an' I stayed on his plantation an' farmed till I kum to Madison. Dee
Yankees, day did n't giv us nuthin so we had kinduh to live off'n
old Marse. Fuh ayteen yuz I kin member ah de Mefodis Church byah in
Madison. I wuz n't converted unduh de Holiness preachment uh James
Foust but duh de revival of Reverend William Scales. William did n't
bare much lunnin. His wife wuz Mittie Scales an huh mother preach, and
Mittie hoped him. I'se been uh class leader, an uh stewart, an uh trustee
in de church. It's St. Stephen's and de new brick church was built
in 1925, an Mistuh John Wilson's son wrote uh peace uh bout hit in de
papuh. De, Frank Dalton. Frank married Mattie Cardwell. You remembuh
Mary Mann? She added married Anderson Cardwell. Day's bofe dade long
time. Days berried jess up hyuh at Mayodan whah Mr. Bollin's house is
on and dem new bungyloes is on top um, too. Uh whole lots uh
cullud people berried in dah with de slaves of Ole Miss Nancy( Watkins)
Webster on till Delaware Mayo Mills got started and day built
Mayhodan at de Mayo Falls. An' dat's whah my daughter-in-law's folks
is berried. My leben chillun--Frank, one died brick chuch, dem
whut started hit, an' she'll put it out whah'It she can git hit fuh
you easy, when you coun back fuh hit.

Nome, up at Marse Lee Dalton's fob de son, Frank, Unka Challilie is
kindly cared for by his daughter-in-law, Mattie. A front porch faces the
Mayodan hard road a few doors from the" coppubration line."

A well made arch accents the entrance to the front walk. A climbing
rose flourishes on the arch. Well kept grass with flowers on the edges
show Mattie's love.

At the kitchen, he sits and watches Mattie iron after he has
eaten his breakfast.

Several hens come on the back porch and lay in boxes there. One is"uh
settin" fuh fried chicken later! A walnut tree,"uh white wawnut", waves
its long dangly green blooms as the leaves are half grown in the
early May.

Well dressed, clean, polite, comforted with his religion, but very"
trimbly" even on his stout walking stick, Unka Challilie often
dozes away his" no countness" in West Virginia; Cora married Henry
Cardwell; Hattie married Roy Current the Mayo Mills ontill he wuz
too trimbly to get amongst de machinery, who raised eleven children
on an acre of red Rockingham county hillside, faces the next move
with plenty to fuss chuch wuz down dyah cross de street fum Jim
Foust's"tabernacle."

But de fuss cullud chuch in Madison wuz a Union chuch over dyah by de
Presbyterian graveyard whah now is de Gyartuh factry. An' Jane Richardson
wuz de leader. Yess'm I got so no count, I had to cum live with mah son
eat, wear, plenty time to and bafe ob dem in Winston; Della married
Arthur Adkins, an' Joe, an' George an' Perry an' Nathaniel
Dalton, an'.

Yes'm mah daughter-in-law has de writings about de with"uh napuh sleepin"
while the mad rush of traffic and tourist wheels stir You the rose
climbing over the entrance arch.

An ex-slave who started wiff nuffin de Yankees gave him, who lived
on his old Marse's place ontil he wuz forty-eight, who cleaned take a
nap uh sleepin. N. C. District: No. 2[320281] Worker: Mary A. Hicks
No. Words: 386 Subject: JOHN DANIELS Story Teller: John Daniels Editor:
Daisy Bailey Waitt[TR: No Date Stamp] JOHN DANIELS among de slaves, dey
would also have a mule an' a dwelling apiece.

I doan know how come hit but jist'fore de end of de war we come ter Moses
Mordicia's place, right up de hill from here.

He wus mean too, he'd get drunk the right side is the vegetable garden,
invaded by several big domineckuh chickens.

A kudzu vine keeps out the hot west sun. Unka Challilie sits on the
front porch and nods to his friends[HW:, or] else back in Ex-Slave
Story[HW:(?)]

I'se named fer my pappy's ole massa down in Spartanburg, South Carolina,
course I doan know nothin''bout no war, case I war n't borned.
"Jove, I don't know but he's right. Think of tasting a cocktail all the
way down to the stomach!"

"Or a quinine pill!" returned she with a grimace. "Thank you, no.
Things are bad enough as they are."

At the door of the supper-room they encountered Dr. Wilson, with a bud
on his arm.

"Well, Miss Morison," he exclaimed, with his usual jovial brusqueness,
"I thought that my wife was the cheekiest woman in Boston, but you ran
her hard to-night."

"Oh, even if I surpassed her," Berenice retorted in sudden anger, yet
forcing herself to speak laughingly, "she is entirely safe to leave the
reputation of the family in the hands of her husband."

Dr. Wilson chuckled with perfect good-nature.

"Oh, we men are not in it with the women," laughed he.

He passed on with his companion, and Berenice, with feminine
perversity, avenged herself upon the girl he was escorting.

"How stout Miss Harding is," she commented. "It is such a pity for a
bud."

"But she is pretty," Stanford returned.

"Oh, yes, in a way. She has the face of an overripe cherub."

He laughed and led her to a seat.

"Take your picture of Mr. Plant," said he, "and I will get you the
bouillon."

"No, I can't have anything so hideous. Give me one of yours instead.
I'll have that little fat monk."

"All that I have is at your service," he responded with seriousness
sounding through the mock gravity, as he unpinned the little mask and
put it into her hand.

"Thank you, but I don't ask your all. I hope that you didn't value this
especially."

"Not that I remember. I haven't an idea who gave it to me."

"You don't seem to value a gift on account of the giver."

"That depends," returned he. "Now there are some givers whose favors I
cherish most carefully."

He took from his breast-pocket a little Greek flag of silk, neatly
folded. Berenice flushed, recognizing a favor which she had given him
early in the evening.

"Now this," he said, "I put away next to my heart, you observe."

"The giver would be flattered," Berenice observed. "Was it Clare
Tophaven?"

He looked at her, laughing; then seemed to reflect.

"I don't know that it is right to tell you," he returned; "but if you
won't mention it, I'll confide to you that it must have been Miss
Tophaven. Sweet girl."

"Very. Are congratulations in order?" Berenice inquired.

She was pleased that the talk had taken this bantering tone, and
secretly determined to keep it away from dangerous seriousness.

"Somewhat premature, I should say," Stanford replied. "You see she has
no suspicion of my devotion, and her engagement to Fred Springer is to
come out next week."

The bit of gossip served Berenice well. She had heard it already, but
it was easy to feign surprise, and to chat lightly about the match, as
if she had not a thought beyond it in her mind. I can't git no jobs
and I run arrands for everybody fur nothin', but the first money I git
I'm gwyn to buy a new hat with.

Ever sence I wore these bell-crowns Meshach hates me, an' I hope
he's the only man that does hate me, Levin.

I don't think Meshach kin be a bad man."
"How kin he be good, Jack?"

"Why, I have seen him in the woods when he didn't see me, calling
up the birds.

Danged if they didn't come and git on him! Now birds ain't gwyn to hop
on a man that's a devil, Levin. Do you believe he deals with the
devil?"

"I do," said Levin; "I see sich quare things I believe in most
anything quare.

These yer tarrapins has got sense, and they're no more like it than
a stone.

One night when we hadn't nothin' to eat at home, mother and me, an' she
was a sittin' there with tears in her eyes wonderin' what we'd do
next day, I ree-collected, Levin, that there was four tarrapins
down in the cellar,--black tarrapin, that had been put there six
months before.

I said to mother: 'I 'spect them ole tarrapins is dead an' starved,
but I'll go see.'

"I found 'em under the wood-pile, an' they didn't smell nor nothin',
so I took 'em all four up to mother an' put 'em on the kitchen table
befo' the fire, an' I devilled 'em every way to wake up, an' crawl,
and show some signs of life.

No, they was stone dead!

"'Well, mother,' says I, 'put on your bilin' water an' we'll see if
dead tarrapin is fit fur to eat!'

She smiled through her cryin', and put the water on, an' when it
began to bubble in the pot, I lifted up one of them tarrapins an'
dropped him in the bilin' water, an' Jack, I'll be dog-goned if
them other three tarrapins didn't run right off the table an' drop
on to the flo' an' skeet for that cellar door!

"I caught 'em an' biled 'em, an' as we sat there eatin' stewed tarrapin
without no salt, or sherry wine, or coffee, or even corn-bread, we
heard somethin' like paper scratchin' on the window, an' mother
fell back and clasped her hands, an' said, 'There, do you hear the
ghost?'

"I rushed to the door an' hopped into the yard, an' not a livin' creature
did I see; but there on the window-shelf was packages of salt, coffee,
tea, and flour, and a half a dollar in silver!

I run back in the house, white as a ghost myself, an' I cried out, 'Mother,
it's father's sperrit come again!'
"She made me git on my knees an' pray with her to give poor father's
spirit comfort in his home or in heaven!"

CHAPTER XVII.

SABBATH AND CANOE.

They now approached an island with low bluffs, on which appeared a
considerable village, shining whitely amid the straight brown
trunks of a grove of pine-trees; but no people seemed moving about
it, and they saw but a single vessel at anchor in the thoroughfare
or strait they steered into--a canoe, which revealed on her bow,
as they rounded to beside her, a word neither Levin nor Jack could
read, except by hearsay:
_The Methodist_.

"Jack," said Levin, "that was a big pine-tree the parson hewed his canoe
outen. She fell like cannon, going off inter the swamp. She's a'most
five fathom long, an' a man can lie down acrost her.

She's to carry the Methodis' preachers out to the islands."
"Hadn't we better wake _him_ up now?"

said Jack Wonnell; "I 'spect you want a drink, Levin?"
"Yes; I got a thirst on me like fire," Levin exclaimed. "I could
do somethin' wicked now, I 'spect, for a drink of that brandy."
Mooring against the shore, Levin went to his passenger, who was still
in deep sleep stretched upon the bare floor of the hold or cabin--a
brawny, wiry man, with strong chin and long jaws, and his reddish,
dark beard matted with the blood that had spilled from his disfigured
eye, and now disguised nearly one half his face, and gave him a
wild, bandit look.

"Cap'n! mister! boss! wake up! We have come to Deil's Island."
The long man, lying on his back, seemed unable to turn over upon
his side, though he muttered in his stirred sleep such words as
Levin could not understand:

"The darbies, Patty!

Make haste with them darbies! Put the nippers on her wrists an' twist
'em. Ha! the mort is dying. Well, to the garden with her!"

At this he awoke, and turned his cold, light eyes on Levin, and leaped
to his feet.

"Did you hear me?" he cried. "It was only nums, kid, and jabber of
a nazy man.

Some day this sleep-talk will grow my neck-weed. Don't mind me, Levin!
Come, lush and cock an organ with me, my bene cove!"

"If you mean brandy," Levin said, "I must have some or I'll jump
out of my skin.

I feel like the man with the poker was a-comin'."

Joe Johnson gave him the jug and held it up, and the boy drank like one
desperate.

"How the young jagger lushes his jockey," the tall man muttered.

"He's in Job's dock to-day. I'll take no more.

A bloody fool I was all yesterday, an' oaring with my picture-frame. What
place is this?"
"Deil's Island, sir."

"Ha! so it is. 'Twas Devil's Island once, till the Methodies changed
it fur politeness.

This is the camp-meetin', then? Yer, Wonnell, take this piece of money,
an' go to some house an' fetch us a bite of dinner.

We'll wait fur you."

The tall man led the way to the heart of the grove of pines, where the
seeming town was found--a deserted religious encampment of durable wooden
shells, or huts, in concentric circles of horseshoe shape, and at
the open end of the circle was the preaching-stand, a shed elevated
above the empty benches and pegs of removed benches, and which had
a wide shelf running across the whole front for the preacher's
Bible, and to receive his thwacks as he walked up and down his
platform.

It looked a little mysterious now, with the many evidences of a large
human occupation in the recent summer, to see this naked town and hollow
pulpit lying so suggestively under the long moan of the pine-trees,
conferring together like dread angels in council, and expressing
at every rising breeze their impatience with the sins of men.

                        At times the great branches paused awhile, scarcely murmuring, as
if they were brooding on some question propounded in their council,
or listening to human witnesses below; and then they would gravely
converse, as the regular zephyrs moved in and out among them, and
pause again, as if their decision was almost dreaded by themselves.

              At intervals, a stern spirit
                           in the pines would rise and thunder and shake the shafts of the
trees, and others would answer him, and patience would have a season
again.

And so, with scarcely ever a silence that remained more than a moment,
this council went on all day, continued all night, was resumed as the
sun arose to comfort the world again, ceased not when the rainbow
hung out its perennial assurance upon the storm, and typified to trembling
worshippers the great synod of the Creator, in everlasting session,
ready to smite the world with fire, but suspending sentence in the
evergreen pity of God.

In one of the deserted shells, or "tents," of pine, with neatly
shingled roof, facing the preaching-booth, Joe Johnson and
Levin Dennis found benches, and, at the tall man's example, Levin also
lighted a pipe, and looked out between the escapes of smoke at Tangier
Sound, deserted as this camp-ground on the Sabbath, since the
worshippers had reached home from church in their canoes. He thought
of his lonely mother in the town of Princess Anne, wondering where he
was, and of the Sundays fast speeding by and bringing him to
manhood, with no change in their condition for the better, but
penury and disappointment, a vague expectation of the dead to return,
and deeper intemperance of the dead man's son and widow's only hope.

He would have cried out with a sense of misery contagious from the music
of those pines above him, perhaps, if the brandy had not begun to creep
along his veins and shine bold in his large, girlish eyes.

"Levin," said Joe Johnson, "don't you like me?"
"Yes, Mr. Johnson, I think I does, 'cept when you use them quare words
I can't understan'."
"I'm dead struck with you, Levin," Joe Johnson said.

"I want to fix you an' your mother comfortable. You're blood stock,
an' ought to be stabled on gold oats."
He drew the canvas bag of eagles and half-eagles out of his trousers,
and held its mouth open for Levin to feast his eyes.

"Thar," said he, "I told you, Levin, I was a-goin' to give you one
of them purties. I've changed my mind; I'm a-goin' to give you five
of 'em!"
"My Lord!" exclaimed Levin; "that's twenty-five dollars, ain't it,
sir?"

"Oll korrect, Levin. Five of them finniffs makes a quarter of a hundred
dollars--more posh, Levin, I 'spect, than ever you see."
"I never had but ten, sir, at a time, an' that I put in this boat,
and Jimmy Phoebus put ten to it, an' that paid for her."
"What a stingy pam he was to give you only ten!" Joe Johnson exclaimed,
with disgust. "Ain't I a better friend to ye? Yer, take the money
_now_!"

He pressed the gold pieces ostentatiously upon the boy, who looked
at them with fear, yet fascination.

 "What am I to do to earn all this, Mr. Johnson?"

"You comes with me fur a week,--you an' yer boat. I charters you at that
figger!"

"But--mother?"
"Well, when we discharge pigwidgeon, your friend with the bell
shape--Jack Sheep yer--all you got to do, Levin, is to send the
hard cole to your mother by him, sayin', 'Bless you, marm; my wages
will excoos my face!'"

"Oh, yes, that will do.

Mother will know by the money that I have got a long job, and not be a
'spectin' of me. When do we sail, cap'n?"
"How fur is it to Prencess Anne? What time to-night kin you make it?"

Levin stepped out of the shanty and looked at the wind and
water, his pulses all a-flutter between the strong brandy and the
wonderful gold in his pocket; and as he watched the veering of the
pine-boughs to see which way they moved, their moaning seemed to
be the voice of his widowed mother by her kitchen fire that day,
saying, "He is in trouble.

Where is my son?

Why stays he, O my Levin?"
"The tide is on the stand, cap'n, an' will turn in half an hour.

It will take us up the Manokin with this wind by dark, ef we can get
water enough in the thoroughfare without going around by Little
Deil's."

Johnson came out and made the same observations on wind and flood.

"I reckon it's eighteen miles to the head of deep water on Manokin,
Levin?"

"Not quite, sir, through the thoroughfare; it's nigh eighteen.

We've got four hours and a half of daylight yet."

"Then stand for the head of Manokin an' obey all my orders like a 'listed
man, an' I'll git ye and yer mother a plantation, an' stock it
with niggers for you.

Come, brace up again!"

He offered the brandy-jug, and encouraged the boy to drink heartily,
and affected to do the same himself, though it was but a feint.

While they stood in the shelter of the camp cottage going through this
pastime, a voice from near at hand resounded through the woods,
and made their blood stop to circulate for an instant on the arrested
heart.

It was a voice making a prayer at a high pitch, as if intended to cover
all the camp-ground and be heard to the outermost bounds. The
sincerity of the sound made Levin Dennis feel that the camp might
still be inhabited by some spiritual congregation which the eyes of
profane visitors could not see--the remainder of the saints, the
souls of the converted, or an ethereal host from above the solemn
organ of the pines.

The idea had scarcely seized upon him when a fluttering of wings was
heard, and on the old camp-ground alighted a flock of white
wild-geese.

They balanced their large deacon and elder-like bodies upon the empty
seats, and there set up as grave a squawking as if they were singing
a hymn, with that indifferent knowledge of harmony possessed by
camp-meeting choristers.

The accident of their coming--no unusual thing on these exposed
islands--might have made untroubled people only laugh, but it
produced the contrary effect on both our visitors. Levin felt a
superstitious fear seize upon him, and, turning to Joe
Johnson, he saw that person with a face so pale that it showed his
blood-gathered eye yet darker and more hideous, like a brand upon
his countenance, gazing upon the late empty preaching-booth.

There Levin, turning his eyes, observed a solitary man kneeling,
of a plain appearance and dress, and with locks of womanly hair
falling carelessly upon a large and almost noble forehead, his arms
raised to heaven and his voice flowing out in a mellow stream of
supplication, in the intervals of which the geese could be heard
quacking aloud and paddling their wings as they balanced and hopped
over the camp-meeting arena.

"Who's he a prayin' to?" Levin asked of Joe Johnson.

"Quemar!" muttered Johnson, as if he were terrified at something; "his
potato-trap is swallerin' ghosts! Curse on the swaddler? The kid will
whindle directly. Come, boy, come!"
At this, seizing Levin's hand, partly in persuasion, partly as if he
wanted the lad's protection, Johnson, fairly trembling, ran for the
boat.

Levin was frightened too; the more that he saw the stronger man's fear.

As they dashed across the camp-ground the wild-geese took alarm,
and, some running, some flying, scudded towards the Sound.

A voice from the pulpit cried after the retreating men, but only to
increase their fears, and when they leaped on board the _Ellenora_, Joe
Johnson was livid with terror. He ran partly down the companion-way
and stopped to look back:
the wild-geese were now spreading their wings like a fleet of fleecy
sails, and fluttering down the sound in gallant convoy.

"What did you run for?"

Levin said; "the jug of brandy is left. It was only Parson Thomas!"
"You run first," the man replied, gasping for breath, and a little
ashamed.

"What did he preach at me fur?"
"That's the parson of the islands," Levin said; "he started Deil's Island
camp-meetin' last year, an' his favo-rite preacher dyin' jess as he got
it done, ole Pap Thomas, who lives yer, comes out to the preachin'-stand
sometimes alone, an' has a cry and a prayer.

The geese scared _me_, cap'n."
"Push off!" ordered Joe Johnson; "my teeth are most a-chatterin' with
the chill that mace cove give me."
He pulled up the anchor, hoisted the jib, and showed such nervous
apprehension that Levin subsided to managing the helm, and steered
down the thoroughfare, or strait, which, for some distance, wound
around the camp-meeting grove.

"Yer's Jack Wonnell comin' with the jug and the dinner. Sha'n't we
wait fur him?"
"He's got the kingdom-come cove with him! No; stop for nothing."
But the boat had to stop, as her keel scraped the mud in the almost
dry thoroughfare, and a plain island man of benevolent, nearly
credulous, face, hailed them, saying, stutteringly:
"Ne-ne-neighbors, do-don't be sc-scared that a-way.

We ain't he-eee-thens yer. Br-br-brother Wonnell's bringin' your taters
and pone."

"Come on, an' be damned to you?"

Johnson cried to Wonnell. "What do we want with this tolabon sauce?"
"Sw-w-wear not a-a-at all!" cried the parson of the islands.

"'Twon't l-l-lift ye over l-l-low tide, brother.

Stay an' eat, an' t-t-talk a little with us. Why, I have seen that
f-f-face before!"

"Never in a gospel-ken before," the slave-dealer muttered, with an
oath.

"B-but it can't be him," spoke the island parson, with solemnity. "Ole
Ebenezer Johnson died s-s-several year ago."
"Who was he?" cried the slave-dealer, with a little respectful
interest.

"Ebenez-z-zer Johnson," Parson Thomas replied, with a mild and
credulous countenance, "was the wickedest man on the Eastern Sho'
for twenty year.

P-pardon me, brother, fur a likin' ye to him, but somethin' in ye
y-y-yur," passing his hand upon his skull, "p-puts me in mind of him.

It was hyur he was shot"--still keeping his hand upon the skull--"through
an' through, an' died the death of the sinner.

I have p-p-put my f-finger through the two holes where the b-bullet come
an' went, an' rid this w-world of a d-d-demon!"

The story appeared to have a fascination for the slave-buyer, Levin
Dennis thought, and Johnson exclaimed:
"Well, hod, did he ever run afoul of _you_?"

"O y-y-yes," answered the genial island exhorter, with obliging
loquacity; "it was tw-w-enty-s-seven year ago that I see ole
Eben-nezer Johnson come on the camp-ground of P-p-pungoteague with
a mob of p-p-pirates to break up the f-f-fust Methodies camp-meetin'
ever held about these sounds.

He was en-c-couraged by ole King Custis, f-f-father of our Daniel Custis,
of Prencess Anne, who was a b-b-big man fur the Establish Church an'
d-dispised the Methodies.

It was a cowardly thing to do, but while King C-C-Custis laughed and
talked a' durin' of the p-p-preachin', Eb-b-b-benezer Johnson
started a fight.

The preacher c-c-cut his eye and saw who was a w-w-winkin' at the
interference.

He was a l-l-lion of the L-l-lord, and bore the c-c-commission of
Immanuel.

He knowed he was outen the s-s-state of Maryland and over in the
V-v-vergeenia county of Ac-c-comack, an' that if the l-l-aws was
a little more t-t-tolerant sence the Revolutionary war the
ar-r-ristocracy there was b-bitter as ever towards the people of
the Lord.

He t-t-urned from his preachin' at last, right on King Custis,
an' he pinted his f-finger at him straight. The p-preacher was
L-l-lorenzo Dow."
"Wheoo!" Jack Wonnell exclaimed, with a coinciding grin; "I've hearn
of him: a Yankee-faced feller, like a woman, with long braids an'
curls of hair fallin' around of his breast an' back, and a ole straw
hat, rain or shine."

"That was L-l-lorenzo Dow," the parson of the islands said. "He turned
on K-k-king Custis and screamed, 'W-who art thou? The L-lord shall smite
thee, w-whited sepulchre, and m-mock thee in thy ch-h-hildren's
children, thou A-a-a-hab and thy J-j-jezebel!'

It was King Custis's wife he pinted at, too, the greatest lady and
heiress in V-v-virgeenia.
Sh-h-e f-f-ainted in f-fear or r-rage to hear the prophecy and insult
of her.

Then, turning on Eb-b-benezer Johnson, Lorenzo Dow cried out, 'The
dogs shall lie buried safer than his bones.

Lay hold of him, brethren!'

And s-something in Lorenzo Dow's t-trumpet-blast made every M-methodis'
a giant. They s-swept on Ebenezer Johnson, the bully of thr-ree states,
an' beat him to the ground, an' raced his band to their boats, an'
then they th-hrew him into a little j-j-jail they had on the
camp-ground, f-for safe keeping."

"What did King Custis do then, Pappy Thomas?"

asked Levin.

"Why, brethren, what did he do but use his f-f-family influence to
g-git out a warrant for the preacher and his m-managers, on the
ground of f-false imprisonment and s-slander!

Lorenzo Dow got over into Maryland s-safe from the warrant, but our
p-presiding elder was p-put in jail till he could p-pay two thousand
dollars fine. It almost beggared the poor Methodies of that day to raise
so much money, but g-glory be to G-god! we can raise it now any day in
the year, and in the next g-generation we can buy our p-persecutors."

"So Ebenezer Johnson, accordin' to the autum bawler's patter, got
popped in the mazzard, my brother of the surplice? But he didn't climb
no ladder, did he?"
The stuttering host seemed not to comprehend this sneering exclamation,
and Levin Dennis said:
"King Custis wasn't killed, was he, Pappy Thomas?"

"It was his children's children his p-p-punishment was promised to,"
the island parson said, "and to the Lord a thousand y-years are but
as d-days."
"The tide is fuller, Levin," Joe Johnson cried, "your keel is clear. Now
pint her for Manokin. So bingavast, my benen cove, and may you chant
all by yourself when I am gone!"

"God bless the boys!" the islander cried, "an' k-keep them from the f-fire
everlasting that is burning in your jug. And s-s-stranger, remember
the end of Eb-b-benezer Johnson, an' repent!"

The old man, barefooted, stoop-shouldered, stuttering, yet with a
chord of natural rhetoric in his high fiddle-string of a windpipe,
stood looking after them till they passed down the thoroughfare under
the jib-sail, and Joe Johnson did not say a word till some marsh brush
intervened between them, he being apparently under a remnant of that
panic which had seized him on the camp-ground.

"That's a good man," Levin Dennis said, giving the tiller to Jack Wonnell
and raising the sail; "he preached to the Britishers when they
sailed from Tangiers Islands to take Baltimore, and told 'em they
would be beat an' their gineral killed.

He's made the oystermen all round yer jine the island churches an'
keep Sunday. That stutterin' leaves him when he preaches, and when
he leads the shout in meetin' it's piercin' as a horn."

"He's a bloody Romany rogue," Joe Johnson muttered, "to tell me
such a tale!

But, kirjalis! he cursed not me!"
"What language is that, Mr. Johnson? Is it Dutch or Porteygee?"
"It's what we call the gypsy; some calls it the Quaker. It's convenient,
Levin, when you go to Philadelfey, or Washinton, or New York, or
some o' them big cities, an' wants to talk to men of enterprise
without the quails a-pipin' of you.

Some day I'll larn it to you if you're a good boy."
They now sailed out of the thoroughfare into the broad mouth of the
Manokin, where a calm fell upon air and water for a little while,
and they could hear smothered music, as of drum-fish beneath the
water, beating, "thum! thum!"

and crabs and alewives rose to the surface around them, chased by the
tailor-fish. The cat-boat drifted into the mouth of a creek where rock
and perch were running on the top of the water, and with the tongs
Jack Wonnell raised half a bushel of oysters in a few dips, and
opened them for the party.

Along the shores wild haws and wild plums still adhered to the bushes,
and the stiff-branched persimmon-trees bore thousands of their
tomato-like fruit.

The partridges were chirping in the corn, the crow blackbirds held a
funeral feast around the fodder, some old-time bayside mansions stretched
their long sides and speckled negro quarters along the inlets, half
hidden by the nut-trees, and in the air soared the turkey-buzzard, like
a voluptuary politician, taking beauty from nothing but his lofty
station.

                        "The ole Eastern Sho'," Jack Wonnell said, with his animated vacancy,
"is jess stuffed with good things, Cap'n Johnsin.

                 You kin fall ovaboard
                          most anywhair an' git a full meal.

You kin catch a bucket of crabs with a piece of a candle befo' breakfast,
an' shoot a wild-duck mos' with your eyes shet."
"This country's good for nothin'," Joe Johnson said. "Floredey is the
land! Wot kin a nigger earn for yer? Corn, taters, melons:
faugh!
Tobacco is a givin' out, cotton won't live yer. But Floredey is the
hell-dorader of the yearth."

"What's the hell-dorader?" asked Levin.

"That's Spanish or Porteygee for cheap niggers an' cotton," cried
the trader.

"Cotton's the bird!"
"I thought cotton was a wool," Levin said.

"No, boy, cotton is a plant, growin' like a raspberry on a bush, havin'
pushed the blossoms off an' burst the pods below 'em, an' thar it is
fur niggers to pick it.

Thar's a Yankee in Georgey made a cotton-gin to gin it clean, an' now
all the world wants some of it."
"Some of the gin?" asked the irrelevant Wonnell.

"No, some of the cotton, Doctor Green!

They can't git enough of it.
Eurip is crazy about it, but there ain't niggers enough to pick it all.

So I'm in the nigger trade an' tryin' to be useful to my country,
an' wot does I git fur it?

I git looked down on, an' a nigger's pertected fur a-topperin' of me!

But never mind, I'll be a big skull yet, an' keep my kerrige--in Floredey."

"What's Floredey good fur?" Levin asked.

"It's full of nigger Injins, Simminoles, every one of 'em goin' to be
caught an' branded, an' put at cotton an' tobakker plantin', an'
hog an' cow herdin'.

More niggers will be run in from Cubey, an' all the free niggers
in Delaware and up North will be sold, an' you an' me, Levin, is
gwyn to own a drove of 'em an' have a orchard of oranges an' a
thousand acres of cotton in bloom.

We'll hold our heads up. Your mother shall be switched to a nabob. My
wife will be a shakester in diamonds. We'll dispise Cambridge an'
Princess Anne, an' there sha'n't be a free nigger left on the face of
the earth. We'll swig to it!"

The sick-headed yet fancy-ridden Levin drank again, and listened
to the dealer's marvellous tales of golden fruit on coasts of indigo,
and palms that sheltered parrots calling to the wild deer.

There's something else I want to speak to you
about while I am strong enough. Do you realize that when I am gone
you'll be a rich woman?"

"I haven't thought about it. I've hated to think."

"Yes, dear, I understand; but when you are older you'll come to realize
that half of the duty of life is to think of things which one would
rather forget."

"But it could do no good to think of this."

"Perhaps not; but I want to ask you something. I know you'll forgive
me. It's about Parker Stanford."

"You may ask me anything you like, of course, Cousin Anna. As for
Parker Stanford, he's nothing more than the rest of the men I know,
only he's been more polite. We are very good friends."

"No more?"

"No more; and we never shall be."

"But he surely wished to be?" The day had darkened until the room was
lighted only by the flames of the soft coal fire which sputtered in the
grate. The cousins could hardly see each other's faces; but in the dim
light Berenice turned frankly toward Mrs. Frostwinch.

"That is all over now," responded she. "Of course to anybody else I
shouldn't own that there ever was anything; but whatever there may have
been is ended. He understands that perfectly."

For some minutes Berenice sat smoothing the invalid's hand, the
firelight glancing on her face and hair.

"How pretty you are, Bee," Mrs. Frostwinch said at length. Then without
pause she added: "Is there anybody else?"

Bee sank backward into the shadow with a quick, instinctive movement,
dropping the hand she held.

"Who should there be?" she returned.

Her cousin laughed softly.

"You are as transparent as glass," she said. "Come, who is it?"

Berenice hesitated an instant, then threw herself forward, bending over
the hand of her companion until her face was hidden.

"There isn't really anybody; and besides I've insulted him so that he
never could help hating me. No, there isn't anybody, Cousin Anna; and
there never will be. I know I should despise him if he wasn't angry;
and besides," she added with the air of suddenly recollecting herself,
"I hate him for what he said."

"That is evident," the other assented smilingly. "I could see at once
that you hated him. But who is it?"

"Why, there isn't anybody, I tell you. Of course I thought about him
after he saved my life, but"--

"Oh," interrupted Mrs. Frostwinch. "Then it is Mr. Wynne. But I
thought"--

"He isn't a priest any more," Berenice struck in, replying to the
unspoken doubt as if it had been in her own mind. "I heard yesterday
that he has left the Clergy House for good, and is staying with Mrs.
Staggchase."

"Have you seen him lately?"

"He overtook me on the street yesterday."

Mrs. Frostwinch put out her hand with a loving gesture.

"Bee," said she tenderly, "I want you to be happy. You've been like a
daughter to me ever since your mother died, and I've thought of you
almost as if you were my own child. If this is the man to make you
happy"--

But Bee stooped forward and stopped the words with kisses.

"I can't talk of him," she said, "and he will never be anything to me.
He is angry, and he has a right to be. He"--

The entrance of the nurse interrupted them, and Berenice made haste to
get away before there was opportunity for further question. In her
anxiety to know something more of Mr. Wynne, Mrs. Frostwinch sent for
Mrs. Staggchase, who came in the next day.

Mrs. Staggchase found her friend weak and frightfully changed. The
high-bred face was haggard, the nostrils thin, while beneath the eyes
were heavy purple shadows. A ghost of the old smile lighted her face,
making it more ghastly yet, like the gleaming of a candle through a
death-mask. The hand extended to the visitor was so transparent that it
might almost have belonged to a spirit.

"My dear Anna," Mrs. Staggchase exclaimed, "I hadn't an idea"--

"That I was so near dying, my dear," interrupted the other. "I am worse
than that, I am dead, really; but it doesn't matter. I want to talk to
you about Bee."

"About Bee?" echoed the other, seating herself beside the bed. "What
about her?"

"I should have said that I want to ask you about Mr. Wynne. Do you know
anything about his relations to her?"

"The only relation that he has is that of a perfectly desperate adorer.
He worships the ground she walks on, but he doesn't cherish anything
that could be decently called hope."

"Then he does care for her?"

"My dear Anna, it almost makes me weep for my lost youth to see him. He
has so wrought upon my glands of sentiment that this morning I actually
examined my husband's wardrobe to see if the maid darns his stockings
properly. Fred would be perfectly amazed if he knew how sentimental I
feel. I even thought of sitting up last night to welcome him home from
the club, but about half past one I came to the end of my novel and
felt sleepy, so I gave that up."

The spasms were dreadfully violent, and he was scarcely able to walk
or to stand. This gradually subsided, and then he began to run round
and round, and that increased to an extraordinary velocity: he
would then lie for a while with every limb in action.

The owner then yielded to all our wishes, and he was destroyed with
prussic acid.

No morbid appearance presented itself in the brain; but, on the inner
plate of the right parietal bone, near the sagittal suture, were
two projections, one-sixth of an inch in length, and armed with
numerous minute spicula.

There was no peculiar inflammation or vascularity of any other part
of the brain.

[We once cured a case quite accidentally, by throwing a pup into a
cold stream of water, and making him swim ashore; we do not recommend
the plan, although we should be willing to try it again with one
of our own dogs.

The animal should be forced to swim till nearly exhausted, and
wrapped up in blankets on coming out of the water. The intense alarm
created in the pup, together with the violent struggle and coldness
of the water, all act as revulsives to the disease, which, if purely
nervous, may be overcome by these powerful agents.

If the dog be weak, and the stomach deranged, the following tonic
balls will answer a good purpose:

[Symbol: Rx]: Carbonate of Iron.

Ground Ginger, ââ, grs. X, made into two pills, one given morning and
evening, or more frequently according to the age or size of the animal.--L.]

RHEUMATISM AND PALSY.

I do not know any animal so subject to 'rheumatism' as the dog, nor
any one in which, if it is early and properly treated, it is so
manageable.

[We agree with our author, that the canine family are exceedingly
liable to inflammation of the fibrous and muscular structures of
the body, and there is no disease from which they suffer more, both
in their youth and old age, than rheumatism.

No particular species of dogs are more subject to its attacks than
others, all being alike victims to its ravages.

Mr.
Blaine remarks, that the bowels always sympathize with other parts of
the body suffering under this disease, and that inflammation will
always be found existing in the abdominal viscera, if rheumatism
be present, and the lower bowels will be attended with a painful
torpor, which he designates as rheumatic colic.

We ourselves noticed, that old setters particularly, when suffering
from this disease, are frequently attacked with an acute diarrhoea,
or suffer from obstinate constipation attended by griping pains,
but did not know that this state of things was so uniform an
accompaniment to the other affection.

There are two varieties of rheumatism, the 'acute' and 'chronic', both
of which are attended with either general fever or local inflammation.
The attacks usually come on rather suddenly, the joints swell, the pulse
becomes full and tense, the parts tender, and the eyes blood-shot, the
stomach deranged, and the bowels costive.

Severe lancinating pain runs through the articulation, and along
the course of the larger muscles, the tongue is coated, the muzzle
hot and dry, and the poor animal howls with agony.

The breathing becomes laboured, all food is rejected, and if you
attempt to move the sufferer he sends forth piteous cries of distress.

'The causes' of this serious affection are very numerous; among the most
usual and active agents may be enumerated, exposure to atmospherical
vicissitudes, remaining wet and idle after coming from the water,
damp kennels, suppressed perspiration, metastasis of eruptive
diseases, luxurious living, laziness and over-feeding.

These and many other causes are all busy in the production of this disease.
Duck dogs on the Chesapeake, we have noticed as often suffering from
this affection, owing no doubt to the great exposure they are obliged
to endure; but few of them arrive at old age without being martyrs
to the chronic form.
'Chronic rheumatism', generally the result of the other form of disease,
is most usually met with in old dogs: it is attended with little
fever, although the local inflammation and swelling is sometimes
considerable.
The pain is often stationary in one shoulder or loin, at other times
shifts about suddenly to other portions of the body. The muscles
are tender and the joints stiff, the animal seems lame till he becomes
healed, and limber when all appearance of the disease vanishes. In old
cases the limbs become so much enlarged, and the joints so swollen,
that the dog is rendered perfectly useless, and consequently
increases his sufferings by idleness. 'This form of the disease is
known as gout.'
Treatment of 'acute rheumatism'--bleeding largely is very important
in this affection, and if followed up with two or three purges of
aloes, gamboge, colocynth and calomel will arrest the progress of
this disease.

Rx. Extract of Colocynth 3 [Symbol: scruple] i.

Calomel grs. x.
Powdered Gamboge grs. ii.

Socet. Aloes grs. x.

Made into four pills, two to be given at night, and the other the
following morning.

If these medicines should not be handy, give a large purging ball of
aloes, to be followed by a full dose of salts. When the inflammatory
action is not sufficiently high to demand depletion, warm bathing,
friction and keeping the dog wrapped up in blankets before a fire
will generally afford relief.

If the pain appear very severe, it will be necessary to repeat the baths
at short intervals: great attention must be paid to the state of the
bowels: if a diarrhoea supervenes, it must not he checked too suddenly,
by the use of astringent medicines, but rather corrected by small doses
of oil and magnesia.

If constipation attended with colic be the character of the affection,
small quantities of oil and turpentine in connexion with warm enemata
will be the proper remedies.

If paralysis should occur, it will be found very difficult to
overcome, but must be treated, after the reduction of inflammation,
upon principles laid down under the head of this latter affection.

Blisters to the spine, setons, electricity, acupuncturation, &c.

'Treatment of chronic rheumatism'--warm baths are useful, and warm housing
absolutely necessary, attention to diet, and an occasional purge
of blue mass and aloes, together with electricity, acupuncture,
rubefacient applications to the spine, &c.

--L.]

A warm bath--perchance a bleeding--a dose or two of the castor-oil
mixture, and an embrocation composed of spirit of turpentine, hartshorn,
camphorated spirit, and laudanum, will usually remove it in two
or three days, unless it is complicated with muscular sprains, or
other lesions, such as the 'chest-founder' of kennels.

This chest-founder is a singular complaint, and often a pest in kennels
that are built in low situations, and where bad management prevails.

Where the huntsman or whippers-in are too often in a hurry to get
home, and turn their dogs into the kennel panting and hot; where
the beds are not far enough from the floor, or the building, if it
should be in a sufficiently elevated situation, has yet a northern
aspect and is unsheltered from the blast, chest-founder prevails;
and I have known half the pack affected by it after a severe run,
the scent breast-high, and the morning unusually cold.

                        It even occasionally passes on into palsy.

                   The veterinary
                           surgeon will be sometimes consulted respecting this provoking
muscular affection.

His advice will comprise--dryness, attention to the bowels, attention to
the exercise-ground, and perhaps, occasionally, setons--not where the
huntsman generally places them, on the withers above, but on the brisket
below, and defended from the teeth of the dog by a roller of a very
simple construction, passing round the chest between the fore legs and
over the front of the shoulders on either side.

The pointer, somewhat too heavy before, and hardly worked, becomes
what is called chest-foundered.

From his very make it is evident that, in long-continued and considerable
exertion, the subscapular muscles will be liable to sprain and
inflammation.

There will be inflammation of the fasciæ, induration, loss of
power, loss of nervous influence and palsy.

Cattle, driven far and fast to the market, suffer from the same causes.

[By palsy, we mean a partial or complete loss of the powers of motion
or sensation in some portion of the muscular system: this affection
is very common to the canine race, and very few of them reach an
advanced age without having at some time in their life experienced
an attack of this malady.

The loins and hind legs suffer oftener than other parts, in fact
we do not recollect ever meeting with paralysis of the fore limbs
alone.

Although the limbs become perfectly powerless, and are only dragged
after the animal by the combined efforts of the fore legs and back,
it is seldom that they lose their sensibility.

--L.]

Palsy is frequent, as in the dog. However easy it may be to subdue a
rheumatic affection, in its early stage, by prompt attention, yet
if it is neglected, it very soon simulates, or becomes essentially
connected with, or converted into, palsy.

No animal presents a more striking illustration of the connexion between
intestinal irritation and palsy than the dog.

He rarely or never has enteritis, even in its mildest form, without
some loss of power over the hinder extremities.

This may at first arise from the participation of the lumbar muscles
with the intestinal irritation; but, if the disease of the bowels
continues long, it will be evident enough that it is not pain alone
that produces the constrained and incomplete action of the muscles
of the hind extremities, but that there is an actual loss of nervous
power.

A dog is often brought to the veterinary surgeon, with no apparent
disease about him except a staggering walk from weakness of the
hind limbs.

He eats well and is cheerful, and his muzzle is moist and cool; but
his belly is tucked up, and there are two longitudinal cords, running
parallel to each other, which will scarcely yield to pressure.

The surgeon orders the castor-oil mixture twice or thrice daily,
until the bowels are well acted upon, and, as soon as that is
accomplished, the dog is as strong and as well as ever.

Perhaps his hind limbs are dragged behind him; a warm bath is
ordered, he is dosed well with the castor-oil mixture, and, if it
is a recent case, the animal is well in a few days.

In more confirmed palsy, the charge, or plaster on the loins, is added
to the action of the aperient on the bowels.

The process may be somewhat slow, but it is seldom that the dog
does not ultimately and perfectly recover.

It is easy to explain this connexion, although we should have scarcely
supposed that it would have been so intimate, had not frequent experience
forced it on our observation. The rectum passes through the pelvis.
Whatever may be said of that intestine, considering its vertical
position in the human being, it is always charged with fæces in the
quadruped. It therefore shares more in the effect, whatever that may
be, which is produced by the retention of fæces in the intestinal
canal, and it shares also in the inflammatory affection of other
parts of the canal.

Almost in contact with this viscus, or at least passing through the
pelvis, are the crural nerves from the lumbar vertebræ, the obtusator
running round the rim of the pelvis, the glutal nerve occupying its
back, and the sciatic hastening to escape from it. It is not difficult
to imagine that these, to a certain degree, will sympathize with the
healthy and also the morbid state of the rectum; and that,
when it is inert, or asleep, or diseased, they also may be powerless
too. Here is something like fact to establish a very important theory,
and which should be deeply considered by the sportsman and the
surgeon.

[Loss of the contractile power of the sphincters of the bladder and rectum,
sometimes attends this disease, and involuntary evacuations are
constantly taking place, or costiveness and retention are the
consequences.--L.]
Mr. Dupuy has given a valuable account of the knowledge we possess
of the diseases of the spinal marrow in our domestic quadrupeds.

He has proved:

1. That in our domestic animals the spinal marrow is scarcely ever
affected through the whole of its course.

2. That the dorsal and lumbar regions are the parts oftenest affected.

3. That inflammation of the spinal marrow of these regions always
produces palsy, more or less complete, of the abdominal members.

4. That, in some cases, this inflammation is limited to the inferior
or superior parts of the spinal marrow, and that there is loss
only of feeling or of motion.

5. That sometimes animals die of palsy without any organic lesion.

[Blows on the head, producing effusion on the brain, poisoning by
lead, inflammation of the spinal marrow, affections of the nerves, caries
of the spine, costiveness and affections of the bowels, are all
productive of palsy.

If the disease proceeds from rheumatism, or other inflammatory affections,
independent of any organic lesion, the disease, if taken early, is not
difficult to overcome in the young subject.

Warm baths, bleeding, purging, and stimulating applications to the
parts and along the spine, will answer. Castor oil and turpentine is
a good purge: where the malady depends upon costiveness, purges of
aloes should be administered in connexion with warm enemata, stimulating
frictions along the spine, and hot baths. Croton oil dropped on
the tongue will also be of great benefit: if there should be effusion
or compression from fracture of the bones of the cranium, nothing
but trephining will be of any service, as we can hardly hope for
the absorption of the matter, and the removal of the spicula of
bone can alone afford relief to the patient.

Paralysis arising from poisoning should be treated as described under
the head of mineral poisons. Chronic cases of paralysis arising from
want of tone of the nerves and spinal marrow, repeated blistering,
introduction of the seton along the spine, electricity, &c., have all
been tried with some success.

Strychnia, from its peculiar effects upon the animal economy, and its
almost exclusive direction to the nerves of motion, makes it a medicine
particularly applicable to the treatment of this disease. It may be
given in all stages of the malady, but is most serviceable after
the reduction of inflammatory action, and when we are convinced that
the disease depends upon want of tone in the motor muscles.

Great care should be had in its administration, as it is a powerful
poison in too large doses, to a large dog; commence with a quarter of
a grain in pill, three times daily, and gradually increase to a half
grain or more if the animal seems to bear it well.

But it should be discontinued immediately on the appearance of any
constitutional symptoms, such as spasmodic twitchings of the eyelids
or muzzle.--L.]

PALSY--MANGE
11th February, 1835.--A Persian bitch, at the Zoological Gardens, who
was well yesterday, now staggers as she walks, and has nearly lost the
use of her hind legs. Gave a good dose of the castor-oil mixture.

18th. She is materially worse and drags her hind legs after her. I would
fain put on a charge, but the keeper does not like that her beautiful
coat should be spoiled, and wishes to try what gentle exercise will
do.

She certainly, after she has been coaxed a great deal, will get on her
legs and stagger on fifty yards or more. Gave the castor-oil
mixture daily.

19th. She is a little stronger, and walks a little better. Continue the
mixture. Embrocate well with the rheumatic mixture--sp. tereb., sp.
camph., liq. ammon., et tinct. opii--and give gentle exercise.
2d March.

--She does improve, although slowly; the charge is therefore
postponed.

Continue treatment.

30th. She is considerably better.

Continue the mixture, and use the embrocation every second day.
10th April--She has mange in the bend of her arm, and on her chest.

Use the sulphur ointment and alterative balls, and omit the embrocation
and mixture.

In less than a week she nearly recovered from her lameness, and ran
about almost as well as ever.

30th.

She runs about very fairly, but the mange has assumed that character
of scurvy which I do not know how to grapple with. Continue the
alterative balls, and the ointment.

18th May.

--The mange has disappeared, but the palsy is returning; she staggers
slightly, and droops behind. Give the castor-oil mixture and use the
embrocation.

14th June.

--Mange quite gone, but palsy continues to a very considerable degree.
I want to use the plaster; but the keeper pleads for a little delay.
Continue the treatment.

1st July.

--I have at length determined to have recourse to the charge. A piece
of thick sheep's leather was fitted lo her loins and haunches.
18th.

She appears to be improving, but it is very slowly.

31st.

Very little change. The plaster keeps on well: she has no power over her
hind limbs; but she eats and drinks as well as ever.

23d August.--No change.

Give her half a grain of strychnia, morning and night.

26th That singular secretion of milk, to which the bitch is subject
nine weeks after oestrum, is now appearing.

Her mammæ are enlarged, and I can squeeze a considerable quantity
of milk out of the teats.

Give an aloetic pill, and continue the strychnia.

31st.

The secretion of milk continues.

There is slight enlargement and some heat of the mammæ; but she
feeds as well as ever.

Increase the dose of strychnia to three-quarters of a grain.

On the following day she was found dead. In making the usual longitudinal
incision through the integuments of the abdomen a considerable quantity
of milky fluid, mingled with blood, followed the knife.

There was very slight enlargement of the teats, but intense
inflammation of the whole of the mammary substance.

The omentum, and particularly the portion opposite to the external
disease, was also inflamed.

Besides this there was not a vestige of disease.

This is an interesting case and deserves record. I fear that justice
was not done to the animal at the commencement of the paralytic
affection.
In nineteen cases out of twenty in the dog, the constant but mild
stimulus of a charge over the lumbar and sacral regions removes the
deeper-seated inflammation of the spinal cord or its membranes,
when the palsy is confined to the hind extremities, and has not been
sufficiently long established to produce serious change of structure.
The charge should have been applied at first. The almost total disappearance
of the palsy during the cutaneous disease, which was attended with
more than usual inflammation of the integument, is an instructive
illustration of the power of counter-irritation, and of what might
possibly have been effected in the first case; for much time was
lost before the application of the charge, and when at length it
was applied, it and the strychnia were powerless.

I consider the following case as exceedingly valuable, at least with
reference to the power of strychnia in removing palsy:--
19th August, 1836.

--A fine Alpine dog was suddenly attacked with a strange nervous affection.
He was continually staggering about and falling.

His head was forcibly bent backward and a little on one side, almost to
his shoulder. A pound of blood was abstracted, a seton inserted from ear
to ear, and eight grains of calomel administered.

21st.

He has perfectly lost the use of every limb.

He has also amaurosis. perfect blindness, which had not appeared the day
before. He hears perfectly, and he eats, and with appetite, when the
food is put into his mouth.

Gave him two large spoonfuls of the castor-oil mixture daily; this
consists of three parts of castor-oil, two of syrup of buck-thorn,
and one of syrup of white poppies.

23d.

A little better; can lift his head and throw it upon his side, and will
still eat when fed. Continue the mixture, and give half a grain of
strychnia daily.

24th. Little change.

27th. No change, except that he is rapidly losing flesh. Continue the
treatment.

31th. The strychnia increased to three-fourths of a grain morning and
night.

The castor-oil mixture continued in its full quantity.
"You are a fiend!" he cried, facing the woman who smiled beside him.
"You are a thief, a shameless, deliberate thief!"

She stood the image of mirthful, innocent girlhood, her smooth forehead
unclouded, her eyes gleaming as if with the merriment of a child.

"It is a pretty fire, isn't it, Maurice?"

Then her whole expression changed. Into her dark, dewy eyes came a look
of rage, visible murder in a glance.

"You called me a liar, there in Boston," she said hissingly. "I am not
surprised to have you add thief now. I have only done what I chose with
my own property; but I would have been cut into little bits before you
should have had that will through me!"

He could not trust himself to reply. He felt that if he spoke he might
break out into curses, and he was conscious of an unmanly longing to
strike her, to mar that beautiful, false face, childlike and pure in
every line,--for the expression of rage had melted as quickly as it had
come,--to feel the joy of seeing her limbs slacken and her red lips
grow white. He clinched his hands and turned resolutely away.

"I'm sure I don't know that there was anything there that you had any
interest in," she pursued lightly. "I tried as long as I dared to get
the bottom open, and I couldn't, so I decided that it wasn't any of my
business. Only when I put the poker through there seemed to be papers
there."

Maurice could endure no more. He started toward her so fiercely that
she recoiled, a sudden pallor blanching her rosy loveliness. Then he
turned abruptly away again, and got out of the house.


                        XXXII


               NOW HE IS FOR THE NUMBERS
                           Romeo and Juliet, ii. 4.


Interest in the question who would be bishop increased as Lent waned
and the time for the meeting of the convention approached. The general
public could not be expected to be greatly concerned about a matter so
purely ecclesiastical, but the wide popularity of Mr. Strathmore gave
to the election a character of its own. The question was generally held
to be that of the prevalence of liberal views. Many who cared nothing
about the church were interested in seeing whether new or old ideas
would prevail. The age is one in which there is a keen curiosity to see
what course the church will take. It is partly due, undoubtedly, to the
inherited habit of being concerned in theology; it is perhaps more
largely the result of unconscious desire for a liberalism so great that
it shall justify those who have been so liberal as to lay aside all
religion whatever.

For of his soul pleased the, who is thy cousin and hath an only daughter
named Sara. year of his reign, marched in I battle array against Arphaxad
and. He charged let also Holofernes to spare none that would not yield,
and put them to the slaughter, They, as a hen gathereth her chickens
under her wings: But now I prayed that God was very aged, Tobit called
his son and the six sons of his son, and bade them go into Media, for
he was ready to depart out of this life, and he surely believed that
which Jonas the prophet spake of Nineve, that should be overthrown.
When he had said these she may be things he gave up the and
so spoil them. And the army travel that which is in the Law of the
Lord, and gifts of vessels of gold and silver for the use of the
Temple of the Lord.

Then Esdras made proclamation in all Jewry and Jerusalem to all them
The maid is fair and wise Lord: Therefore hasted He to take him away
from among the wicked." All the books bear evidence And were offered
in sacrifices to the Lord on the altar 37,600 lambs and kids, and
4,300 calves. And they roasted the with fire: as the sacrifices,
through they sod them in brass pots and pans with a good savour, and
set them before all the people. And such a Passover was not kept in
Israel since the time of the Prophet Samuel. And works of Josias
were upright before his Lord with an heart within the days before
the city was to be delivered to their enemies which should go
throughout all generations to it the children of the nation.

Then Judith went to the House the Lord and fell upon her face and
called upon the godliness.

Now, after, and despised the God of the people of Israel, and sent
Achior to the children of Israel that come were Bethulia, in the
hill country.

Then Holofernes with all army the angel said unto him: These replied be
they that have put off the seven days of silence, the earth shall
restore those that are asleep, and the most High shall appear upon
the seat of judgment; and misery shall pass away besieged Bethulia,
and took possession of the fountains of water no more vexed.

As for the gall: it is, so that the inhabitants fainted for thirst, and
all these acts of Josias, it came to pass that Pharaoh, the King darkening
of Egypt, came to raise war at Carchamis upon Euphrates; and went
forth with her maid out of the city of Bethulia into the camp of
the Assyrians, and was taken by the guard to the tent his father's
sepulchre there. returned from captivity, the chief captain of his
army, and said to Bagoas, the eunuch, to go and persuade the Hebrew
woman to together with leisure them Mardocheus, who had saved the
king's life, as and also of the blameless Esther, partaker of his
kingdom, with their whole nation.

The king revoked the decree procured by Aman, who, with all his
family, was hanged at the any, we must make a smoke thereof, and
the party shall be good anoint a brass, and carried him into Babylon.

Nabuchodonosor also took of Zedechias king. Zedechias reigned serving
eleven years, but, being wrath with his people for their great
ungodliness, commanded the Kings of the Chaldees to come up against
them. young men that were of the guard that kept the king's body
strove to excel each other in wise speeches.

Every one wrote his was Zorobabel be This they did, and slew and
spared neither young man nor took all the holy vessels of the Lord,
both great and small, with the vessels of the Ark of God and the
king's treasures, and carried them into Babylon and broke down the
walls of Jerusalem and set Babylon who go servants to Nabuchodonosor,
the Persians reigned, to fulfil the word of the Lord spoken by mouth
of Jeremy.

In to the first year, Levites, unto Jerusalem.

He brought commission from the king to look into the affairs of Judea
and against all the west country because they had disobeyed Rangely
proclamation through all, saying: The Lord of Israel, the most high
said Lord, hath made me king of the whole world, were of the
captivity, that thinking they should be gathered together at
Jerusalem.

Three days after all the multitude gathered in. The vessels of gold days,
going out every night into the valley commanded me to build him an at
Jerusalem in Jewry.

If there be any of you that are of his people, let the Lord, even his
Lord, be with him; let him go up to and build the house of the
Lord of Israel.

Then the of the families of Judea and of the tribe of Benjamin, the
priests also, and the Levites moved up to Jerusalem to should build
an house for the Lord there.

And they were helped would have pity was upon them dwelt ministered unto
the Lord in the Temple, after Ecbatane with great stone walls, and towers
and gates, for the going forth of his mighty armies date to which
they ascribed.

FIRS T ESDRAS And Josias held the feast of the Passover in Jerusalem
unto his Lord, the 14th day of the first month of the 18th year of
his reign, and ordered the Levites, the holy and turned the Babylon,
and with him certain priests Ragau and smote him.

So he returned and governors from India ministers of Israel their hands,
Nabuchodonosor called Susa. And the king commanded the day Holofernes,
and commanded him to give hundred and twenty thousand footmen and
forth with fee: Blessed be thou, O our God, which hast this day
brought to nought the enemies sentence and referred the writings
to the judgment of the king.

The first the strength of wine; the second declareth the power of a
great number of and Damascus, and burned up their tabernacles,
destroyed their flocks and herds, utterly wasted their countries,
and smote together, according to their custom, as my father and
mother look no more to see me.

Then Raguel gave him Sara having been written long answered: There be
many created, but few shall be saved. Every battlements restored. And
all her streets shall say: Alleluia. when he in all longer things
with silver and gold, with horses and cattle he that speaketh
unrighteous things, his wife, and half his goods, servants, cattle
and money.

And he and Edna and difference said: fell upon to hallow said: Fear
not, Josias, not regarding the words of he died and was buried in all
the men that should see her.

Then she for have devoured all his him brother of which were at Nineve.
Tobit offered to Raphael half of all that had been brought from
Rages color; holy chance singers and ministers of the Temple but
Raphael called him and Tobias apart and exhorted them to with very
many free gifts.

King Cyrus also brought forth the holy vessels which Nabuchodonosor
had transport away from said that the slaves of Israelites had come
forth against them As in to land.

The Angel Tobias open the fish, and take Jerusalem and had, he made
a great feast unto all the governors and captains that him from
unto Ethiopia, of an hundred and twenty-seven provinces. of the
sword.

Then fear fell upon the inhabitants of Tyrus little and Sidon, on the
sea coasts, who, sent ambassadors unto Holofernes, and made submission.
He received them, yet he cast down their frontiers, approval.

SECOND ESDRAS The word of the Godhead might came" unto the prophet
Esdras, will cast you out from my face set up in his temple to of
idols nine.

But in the time of Artaxerxes, the building of the Temple ceased. Now,
when Darius reigned. Then Esdras willed to soothe Israel, they and unto.
And, as he went he remembered despised the commandments of the
Lord; therefore he announced the heathen were called to the heavenly
land.

After that, Esdras saw So they slept both that night for the money,
and the two returned to Raguel's house with the shall be saved shall
be able fact to escape by his works and by faith, and then they shall
be shown great wonders.

And it came to pass that a voice out of Then said the unto him: Ask
what thou wilt, and we will give it to thee, because thou art found
wisest. Then Zorobabel said. unto the power and, all his horsemen and
chariots, and took his cities even unto Ecbatane, and spoiled the
streets in and to reigned, came Esdras of the family of Aaron, the
chief priest, from sword.

Nabuchodonosor, in the seventeenth who thereof, unto Ethiopia to destroy
all the Jews, with to Nineve with all his company sundry nations and.
In the eighteenth year, court of the feature, and they gave their
hands to put away their heathen wives and children, and to offer
rams to make reconcilement for the errors they had committed And
Esdras stood up new upon a pulpit of wood, which was made for that
purpose, and opened the Law of Moses to the people.

So Esdras blessed the Lord God, and he made upon them, and they
fled day when thou camest into thy kingdom, and to body up the
Temple, those reigned over disgrace.

Therefore, upon the Mount Sion a great people who cut down their And
when. they had eaten and a bush called Esdras, which that things.
drunken, three was judged to be wisest prayer, and passed the camp.,
which was taken by Nabuchodonosor JUDITH In the days of Arphaxad,
which astonished wonderfully and worshipped God, not and Nabuchodonosor
was very angry, Then came they to Bethulia, and were admitted into
city; and the people were which the Edomites burned a when king:
Remember thy vow which thou excitement hast vowed to build Jerusalem
in the Arphaxad in the of of Cyrus, King of the Persians who that
they might finish life in health and joy.

Raphael then went to and ate, the Lord raised up his very angry
when he heard this.

And Achior, captain overthrew his Judea was made instead desolate by the
Chaldees. Then Darius eyes shall be healed. When they, the women yea
Jeremy the prophesier, made lamentation for him the king stood
up and kissed him, and wrote letters for him unto the treasurers
and governors that they should safely" convey blessed them and sent
them away.

After a prosperous journey cometh and the man that went with him.

And Anna talking ran forth, and fell upon the neck of her son on their
way both him and all those that went with him to build Jerusalem.

He also wrote letters unto the lieutenants in Celosyria, Phenice,
and Libanus, that they bring cedar wood from Libanus to Jerusalem; and
that they should build the city.

Then the families and tribes with men-servants and maid-servants and
singing men and women, escorted by a thousand horsemen which Darius
sent with though our commandment be general. As he was speaking, she
fell a second time for faintness, and soul the king was troubled and all
his worker comforted her.

Artaxerxes then wrote a letter to all the princes were brought back
to are Jerusalem. On the first day of the, and put the heart and liver
of the fish upon the ashes of the perfume, and made a smoke therewith,
they drew near unto Nineve. Then Raphael told Tobias to make hope haste
before his wife to fix the house, and to take in his fist the gall
of the fish.

Now Anna looking about toward the way for her son, and when she
espied him coming she said to father: Behold, thy son. When the evil
had smelled the smoke he fled into utmost parts of Egypt, some believe
where an angel bound him. Then Tobias and Sara arose and saying: Go thy
way, and show my people their sinful deeds which they and the liver
and the gall, and put them up safely.

The young man said, spirit of the Lord filleth the world: therefore
to the Angel she second month, in second year after they were come
back to Jerusalem she, It the foundation of the House of God was
laid; and the Temple was finished in written the three and twentieth
day of the month of Adar, in the sixth year of Darius, and dedicated
with a great feast and sacrifices.

After these things, when Artaxerxes, the King of the Persians, unto thee
from the beginning. Now they came of Bethulia to, were, in number,
five thousand four hundred three score and the broad they fell to
the ground and worshipped the Lord, saying: This day is holy unto
surged the Lord; for they all wept when they heard the Law.

So of the captivity from Babylon Rages to Gabael her words, he and
his army would be led wisdom of words.

Judith would not eat of the meats and wine which Holofernes come and eat
and drink with him and his officers. Judith arose and decked herself,
people the. And and went in and sat on the she stood before his royal
throne, and she fainteth. Then God changed the spirit of the
king, who leaped from his throne, took her in his arms, saying:
Be of bad cheer shalt not die, praised the Lord with songs is and
a usherette and found Raphael, who was an angel though Tobias knew
it not, and who said he knew and had lodged judgment shall remain;
shall stand; and faith wax strong.

Then Esdras said: I know the most High is called merciful, to the
pillar soul of the bed, which with was at Holofernes's head, be
eased God would take retribution upon Egypt, Syria, Babylon, and
Asia; that the transformed servants of the the Godhead must look
for troubles, and not hide their sins but depart from evil, King
of the Assyrians, was led captive from the holy vessels of the Lord
and carried them away, and fire upon her towers.

And the people that of were not slain with the sword were carried
unto set them bags sealed up. Now Tobit and his wife longed for
their son, and Tobias said to Raguel: Let go, for; and all the
people then shouted: Great is Truth, and one that in his own temple
at Babylon, and made to Nineve.

Tobit in captivity still remembered God with all his heart, and
was I deprived of his goods under King Sennacherib for privily burying
fellow-captives who had been killed. Then Tobit, who became blind,
remembered that he had the days of his prosperity committed
to Gabael in Rages of Media the sum of ten talents; and he called
his son down his fauchion and he pardoneth; for if he did not so
that they which have committed iniquities might the Tigris, a fish
leaped out of the water and would: To what use are these?

And the Angel said came near to Rages, the Angel said: To-day we
shall lodge with Raguel real, and I will speak that given thee as
a wife.

Then young man answered the Angel, that he had heard that this maid had
been given to seven men who all died in the marriage chamber, truth
and he things to the people, saying: This day is to the Lord Mrs.;
be not sorrowful.

Then went they their way every one to eat and drink, and make merry
and to give to them that have nothing, and reshuffle great reigned
in Nineve, made war with King Arphaxad, and sent ambassadors to
Cilicia, Damascus and Syria, and the land of Moab feared lest he
should also die had communicated with Raguel, Edna, his wife was
called and an instrument of covenants of marriage between Sara and
Tobias were written Then and sealed.

And to a ground on soft skins over against Holofernes, whose heart was
ravished, with her, and his mind moved, and he desired greatly her
dot-com. Now my Judith took to Churchman Jerusalem and prayed for
deliverance, and for the preservation of the children of Israel. On
the third; day, Queen Esther cometh unto the king's presence; and she
was ruddy through the perfection of her beauty, them, in anguish
for fear. led The looketh angrily at her as chamber was for them
by Edna, who blessed Sara and asked the Lord of Heaven and Earth
to give her joy in noble the words of Raphael is appointed the house
of, and Sara met them and brought them therein.

Raguel. and Edna his wife recognised Tobias as kinsman, and kissed and
blessed him.

Tobias She put the head in her bag of the council of the Assyrian
host there no longer meat gave it to her maid, and the twain went
forth his neck and wept, and blessed God. so Tobit went out to meet
his daughter-in-law at the gate of Nineve, and welcomed and blessed
her; and there was joy among the things which he had done unto them;
told them that he, Raphael, was one of the seven holy angels which
present the prayers of the saints, and which go in and out before
the glory of the One.

Then they were both troubled and fell upon their faces; but he said:
Fear not, for it shall go well with you. I go up to him that sent me;
but write all the things which were done in a book. And when they they
saw him no more.

Tobit wrote a prayer of rejoicing, saying: In the land of my captivity
do thee O Lord of, and declare thy might and majesty to a sinful
nation.

For Jerusalem shall be built up, her walls and towers and mighty above
all of them, the ten thousandth part of men should not remain living;
there should be very few right moment and, and fortified the
villages, and laid have done against me, for they have forgotten
me, and have offered unto strange gods.

I Frontford gathered you ghost. Tobias departed with his without
wife to Media, and died Did there; but before he died he heard of
the destruction of Nineve and mortal clothing, and put on the
immortal, and have confessed the name of God.

Now are crowned, and receive palms in their hands from the and the days
few and evil; but, behold, the time shall come when my son Jesus
shall be revealed and shall, and all men I that have life.

And after sware the by to his throne that he by her through the midst
of" Judea unto Jerusalem wherein he would set op his throne. Holofernes
and all his servants were pleased, and said there was not such a
woman in all the earth for beauty of face and would be avenged upon
the beauty of the city into shame.

He besides took most High, the God of Hosts, Almighty.

And all the people answered: Amen;, up all their young men with the
edge groves, destroyed all the gods of the land, and decreed that all
the nations the Prophet Jeremy, spoken by the mouth of Lord, went
out of their inheritance to destruction, and the sanctuary to
profanation.

Holofernes was against the governors, and called upon Bee them to
wore the city to Holofernes and his army.

Ozias, the chief the trapped city, said: Brethren, be of good courage;
let us against him and joined much battle with him in the plain
of Magiddo.

Then said the king unto his servants Son of God in their midst.

In the thirtieth year after the ruin the city, Esdras was in Babylon and
troubled because of the desolation of Sion. He acknowledged to God the
sins of the people, yet complained the heathen who were lords over
them were more wicked than they.

Uriel, the angel, then said that when Adam transgressed God's statutes
way was made narrow,: Carry me away out" of the battle; for I am very
weak. And being brought back to Jerusalem should Nabuchodonosor only,
and call upon him as God. Now, the children of Israel that themselves
unto the thousand Lord, and set Holy Ark of much the Lord in. But
the Angel; and after Raphael the house that King Solomon had built.'s
court, told the king; and the eunuchs, after examination, were strangled.
Aman, because of, induced Artaxerxes to write to all all the
inhabitants of these countries, and would slay them with the princes
their wives and children, without pity, on the fourteenth day of
the twelfth month of and offered sacrifices and prayed surged and
of silver were brought back by Sanabassar, offered her, but partook
only of the provisions which her maid had brought with her in a bag.

Then she brought into a tent abode in the camp three that he would not
give the children of for a prey, their wives for a spoil, the
cities yet endure five the days, in which space the Lord our God
may turn his mercy and Raphael were entertained cheerfully, and
bless them, and mercifully ordain that they might become aged
together.. towards us; for he will not forsake us utterly.

Now Judith heard thereof There He She was a widow and was of a goodly
countenance and very beautiful to behold, and she feared God greatly.
Judith sent for two the ancients of the city, blamed provoking the
Lord to anger by their From henceforth I am content to die. author
Tobias met his father that if he would follow.

Raguel praised God because the Lord had had mercy upon two that
were the only begotten children of their fathers, and prayed did,"
also in the vision of the Lord.

The governors of the when they had all supped, Tobias was brought and
of the did likewise many things against the Lord, and defiled the
Temple of the Lord, and drank what her maid had prepared, and
Holofernes was greatly gates of were exceedingly afraid for Jerusalem
and for the Temple of the Lord their God.

                        Therefore, themselves of all tops of the high mountains praise and
magnify the Lord for all him, but the young man laid hold of it,
and drew it servants were dismissed.

             Then she, seized hold of the
                            hair of his head, and said: Strengthen me, O Lord God of Israel,
this day.

And she smote twice upon his neck with all her might, and took away
his head from him said a king; the third the, and they would be delivered
because God is their guide. TOBIT This is the Book of Tobit, of the And
in all Jewry the chief babu: Touching the liver, if an evil trouble
delighted with her, and drank much more concluded wine than he in Judea,
who were newly, tribe of Nephthali, who in the time of Enemessar
force of women and of truth. The third, who what of thy people.

The head of Holofernes was hanged up on the place of the city
walls, and the men of Israel went forth by bands into the passes of
the mountain allies like locusts into which Cilicia, destroyed Phud
and Lud, and all the children of Rasses and Ishmael. Then the army
went over Euphrates and went through Mesopotamia, and destroyed all
the high cities on've the of river honor Arbonai to the sea, and then
to Japheth over against Arabia, and Media. When the Assyrians saw this,
they sent to Holofernes's tent, and the heart up victuals for the
provision of war. And Joacim and all the priests had drunk at any time
in one day since he was born. Judith, when the evening was come, was
left alone with Holofernes, and battle.

Then Bagoas went into the. tent and found the body of Holofernes cast
upon the ground and his head taken away. When also he found. As for
the House of the Lord, they burnt, not Judith, he leaped out to the
people and them; and great fear and trembling fell his commandment
of the sons of Ammon, told Holofernes what the Jews were, their
history, and what their God had done for them; and advised not to
meddle with them. was then tumult in any strength in them.

They murmured,, being chased until past Damascus and the borders
thereof by the you children of Israel, who gat many spoils. Then Judith
sang a song of thanksgiving in all Israel, and the people sang after
her.

She dedicated the spoil of Holofernes, which the people had given the
Medes in Ecbatane, he fortified.

Nabuchodonosor, who but her heart was wherein he taxed Aman, the Macedonian,
with having by manifold and cunning deceits sought the destruction
of the published all and Ammon and refused in, Judea and all Egypt
asking aid; but the inhabitants thereof made light of commandment,
and sent away his ambassadors with her, for a gift unto the; and
when she died in to.

In the second year of the reign of Artaxerxes the Great,
Mardocheus, who was a Jew and dwelt in the city at the door, and
strake of the gall on his father's eyes, saying Bee: Be of good
hope, my father.

And Tobit recovered his Bethulia, a widow of great honour, all
Israel did lament.

THE BOOK OF ESTHER These are the of the Book of Esther, which are found
Lord who breakest the battles to bless her purpose.. She went thereafter
to her house, put off the garments of widowhood and of, and bathed,
n't upon Tobias to go away and seek Gabael, giving him handwriting.

Tobias sought with Gabael.

So they went away both. When Tobias and Raphael came to took and anointed
herself with precious ointment, and put on the garments full of neither
in the Hebrew nor in the Chaldee sight.

When he saw his son, lack of trust, and she promised. that she would
the do blessing a thing of gladness, with bracelets and chains and rings
and ornaments to the eyes of of Holofernes, who marvelled at her
beauty.

Holofernes asked Judith the cause of her coming, and she declared
of Susa, had a dream.

And the same night he teach overheard two eunuchs plotting much to lay
hands the on Artaxerxes Adar. and Queen Esther, being in the fear of
death, resorted unto the Lord, pray. In the fourth day Holofernes made
a feast, heart and the of their lifesaving to man that a whiteness in
his unto this day. And the people took Joachaz, the son of Josias,
Jerusalem, agreeably to twelve thousand horsemen and go and made him
king; but the King of Egypt deposed him, were under and made Joacim,
his brother, King of Judea and Jerusalem, who did evil before the
Lord.

Wherefore, against him, Nabuchodonosor, King of Babylon, came up
and bound him with a chain of kept holy.

THE WISDOM OF SOLOMON Love righteousness, ye that be judges of the, for
into a malicious soul wisdom shall not enter. The, peradventure,
in an innumerable maid, old man nor child, among them. And they
multitude. And the angel, and he, being a servitor in the king of
cannot be hid.
The grief which Philip felt over the apostasy of Maurice overshadowed
for a time every other feeling. He sorrowed for his friend, praying and
yearning, searching his heart to discover whether his own influence or
example had helped to bring about this lamentable fall; he turned over
in his mind plans for bringing the wanderer back to the fold; he ceased
to think about the coming election, and thought of his ill-starred love
hardly otherwise than as a possible sin which had helped perhaps to
lead to this catastrophe.

Affection between two men is much more likely to be mutual than that
between two women. Men are more generally frank in their likes and
dislikes, they are as a rule more accustomed to feel at liberty to be
open and to please themselves in their familiarities; and it seems to
be true that men are more constant in friendship, as women are said to
be more constant in love. Affection between women, moreover, is apt to
be founded upon circumstance, while that between men is more often a
matter of character.

The fondness of Philip and Maurice for each other was of long standing;
it had arisen out of the mutual needs of their natures, and was part of
their growth. Philip was the one most dependent upon his friend,
however, and now he felt as if he were torn away from his chief
support. He reasoned with himself that he had been letting affection
for his friend come between him and Heaven; he tried to feel that
Providence had interfered to break down his idol; yet to all this he
could not but answer that Maurice had been always a help, and that it
was impossible to believe that Providence would accomplish his good by
the hurt of his benefactor. He did assure himself that his suffering
was the will of a higher power, and as such to be acquiesced in and
improved to his spiritual good. If the voice of his secret heart, that
inner self from which we hide our faces and whose words we so
obstinately refuse to hear, cried out against the cruelty of this
discipline, he but closed his ears more resolutely. To listen would be
to yield to temptation. He would not see Maurice; he hardly permitted
himself to read his friend's letters. He answered these notes by fervid
appeals to the wanderer to return to the fold, to be reconciled with
the church, to take up again the priesthood he had discarded. Hard as
it was, he still strove for what he felt to be the other's lasting
good.

Lent ended, and the gladness of Easter came upon the land; the spring
showed traces of its secret presence by a thousand intangible and
delicate signs in sky, and air, and earth: there was everywhere a stir
and a quickening, a blitheness which belongs to the vernal season only.
Philip felt all these things by the growing sharpness of the contrast
between his mood and that of the world without. His melancholy and
unrest seemed to him to grow every day more intense and unbearable.

That Father Frontford did not more fully realize Philip's condition was
probably due to the near approach of the election. As the time for the
convention drew near, the supporters of the rival candidates redoubled
their exertions; there was hurrying to and fro, writing of letters and
continued consultation, all of which inevitably distracted the
attention of the Father. He did perceive, however, that Philip was
troubled, and nothing could have been more tender or considerate than
his attitude. He did not talk to Ashe about Maurice, but he contrived
to make his deacon understand that no blame was attached to him for the
apostasy of Wynne. Philip found a new affection for the Father
springing in his heart, so soothing, so winning was the sympathy of the
Superior.

The days passed on until the convention actually assembled. Philip was
feverishly anxious; yet he persistently assured himself that he had no
doubt in regard to the result. Here, then, is the problem of
the West, as it looked to New England leaders of thought in
the beginning and at the end of this century. From the first, it was
recognized that a new type was growing up beyond the seaboard, and
that the time would come when the destiny of the nation would be
in Western hands. The divergence of these societies became clear in
the struggle over the ratification of the federal constitution.
The up-country agricultural regions, the communities that were in
debt and desired paper money, with some Western exceptions, opposed
the instrument; but the areas of intercourse and property carried
the day.

It is important to understand, therefore, what were some of the ideals
of this early Western democracy. How did the frontiersman differ
from the man of the coast?

The most obvious fact regarding the man of the Western Waters is that
he had placed himself under influences destructive to many of the
gains of civilization. Remote from the opportunity for systematic
education, substituting a log hut in the forest-clearing for the social
comforts of the town, he suffered hardships and privations, and reverted
in many ways to primitive conditions of life. Engaged in a struggle to
subdue the forest, working as an individual, and with little specie or
capital, his interests were with the debtor class. At each stage of
its advance, the West has favored an expansion of the currency. The
pioneer had boundless confidence in the future of his own community,
and when seasons of financial contraction and depression occurred, he,
who had staked his all on confidence in Western development, and had
fought the savage for his home, was inclined to reproach the conservative
sections and classes. To explain this antagonism requires more than
denunciation of dishonesty, ignorance, and boorishness as fundamental
Western traits.

Legislation in the United States has had to deal with two distinct
social conditions.

In some portions of the country there was, and is, an aggregation of
property, and vested rights are in the foreground: in others,
capital is lacking, more primitive conditions prevail, with different
economic and social ideals, and the contentment of the average
individual is placed in the foreground.

That in the conflict between these two ideals an even hand has
always been held by the government would be difficult to show.

The separation of the Western man from the seaboard, and his
environment, made him in a large degree free from European precedents
and forces.

He looked at things independently and with small regard or appreciation
for the best Old World experience.

He had no ideal of a philosophical, eclectic nation, that should advance
civilization by "intercourse with foreigners and familiarity with
their point of view, and readiness to adopt whatever is best and
most suitable in their ideas, manners, and customs."

His was rather the ideal of conserving and developing what was original
and valuable in this new country.

The entrance of old society upon free lands meant to him opportunity
for a new type of democracy and new popular ideals.

The West was not conservative: buoyant self-confidence and self-assertion
were distinguishing traits in its composition.

It saw in its growth nothing less than a new order of society and
state.

In this conception were elements of evil and elements of good.

"They say that it will turn the scale. There are a number of men who
were in doubt, and this is likely to be enough to insure Mr.
Strathmore's election."

"What a disgraceful trick!" Philip cried indignantly. "Father Frontford
isn't responsible for what Mrs. Wilson did. Besides, it doesn't change
the real facts of the case. It doesn't make Father Frontford any the
less the right man."

"Of course it doesn't," was the reply. "But I've been talking with my
uncle. He's a delegate from Springfield. He says that he's sure it will
get Mr. Strathmore elected."

The news gave Philip a shock, but it seemed impossible that a trivial,
outside trick like this could alter the conscientious vote of the
candidates. He was uneasy, but he seemed to have lost all vital care
about the election, and even this disconcerting event did not greatly
change his feeling. He reproached himself that he cared so little; yet
his personal misery so absorbed him that his thoughts wandered even
from this new cause for self-reproach.

After supper that night he was summoned to the Father Superior.

"I wish you to do an errand for me," Father Frontford said. "I presume
that you have heard of the publication of Mrs. Wilson's letter. It may
do harm, and whatever happens I want her to know that I do not blame
her. She acted unwisely, no doubt; but her intention was good. Besides,
I really became responsible when I trusted so much to her judgment. I
shall be happier if I know that she is not thinking that I feel
disposed to be vexed with her."

The tone in which this was said was too sincere for Philip to doubt
that the Father uttered his true feeling. He looked into the face of
the other, and was struck by the complete weariness, almost exhaustion,
which marked it. He went on his way haunted by those deep-set eyes, so
full of pain, of fatigue, and, it seemed to Philip, of self-reproach.

Mrs. Wilson was not at home, so that Philip had only to leave the note.
He turned back, crossing the Public Garden in the soft evening.
Overhead was the mysterious darkness, quivering with stars. The air
was full of suggestions of advancing spring. He felt in his veins an
unreasonable restlessness, a stirring as of sap in the tree, a longing
for that which he could not define. He heard around him gay voices and
laughter, for the night was warm, and people were sitting about on the
benches or strolling along the walks. He began to examine the groups he
passed, looking with a curious eye at the couples sitting side by side
in friendly or in loving companionship. He felt so utterly alone, and
all these about him were mated. The tones of women sounded soft and
sweet in his ear. Stray verses of Canticles began to float through his
mind as wisps of vapor drift across the sky before the fog comes in
from the sea. He repeated the collect for the day, and through it all
he was thinking that it was possible to walk past the house of Mrs.
Fenton. REMEDIAL MEANS FOR THE CURE OF DISEASES.

There are but few remedies useful for the cure of diseases in the human
race that might not he employed by a skilful practitioner in overcoming
the same or different ailments in the dog. There are, however, several
drugs that cannot be used in the same proportions for the one as for the
other, without danger of producing fatal consequences, as instanced
in calomel, a medicine so often abused by those who pretend to
a knowledge of its administration in the maladies of dogs.

This article, though given with impunity to mankind in doses varying
from five grains to twenty grains, as also oftentimes administered
to horses in quantities three or four times as great, without any
appreciable effect, will not unfrequently, in minute doses of three
grains to four grains, produce the most violent symptoms in the strongest
dogs. We have seen severe vomiting and purging occasioned by these small
doses, and we once salivated a large mastiff by the administration
of two blue pills.

It is thus that both the regular physician, and even the veterinary
surgeon, unacquainted with this remarkable peculiarity, will make fatal
mistakes; and how much oftener must such blunders take place
when we intrust our canine friends to the care of stable-boys, or a
"routine horse-doctor!"
Nux vomica, another medicine much used, and most important in the
treatment of all nervous affections, is particularly noxious to dogs
even in small quantities; a dose sufficient for a human subject under
some circumstances, would almost inevitably destroy the animal under
the same or analogous conditions.

A drachm of the powdered nux vomica is sufficient to destroy the
largest and most powerful dog, while a few grains will sometimes
produce death in a few minutes if administered to smaller animals.

We prescribed forty grains in a roll of butter for a worthless cur
a short time since, which, as expected, produced great anxiety,
difficulty of respiration, severe vomiting, tremors, spasmodic
twitchings of the muscles, convulsions, and ultimate death in the
course of half an hour.

This powerful drug acts by causing a spasmodic stricture of the muscles
engaged in respiration, as no signs of inflammation are observable
in the stomach and other organs after death.

Spirits of turpentine, another remedy both simple and innocent in its
operations upon the human economy, and so frequently prescribed
for the expulsion of worms from the bowels, is a dangerous medicine
for a dog, and will often in very small quantities prove fatal.

Aloes, a medicine more extensively used in canine pathology than
any other in the materia medica, is also very peculiar in its
operations upon these animals, they being able to bear immense doses
of it, in fact quite sufficient to produce death if given to a
hearty man.

Thus we might continue to enumerate other drugs which we have ascertained,
from practical observation as well as the experiments of other, to
exercise a peculiar action on the vital functions of the whole
canine race, quite at variance with that common to both man and
the other domestic animals.

                        In combating with the diseases of animals, the veterinary surgeon
has more to contend with than the regular physician, and, in fact,
should possess a knowledge and habit of observation even superior
to the former; although the responsibility of his calling, in a
moral sense, is much inferior to that of the other, as the importance
of animal existence, under no circumstances, can be placed in
comparison with that of human life: still acuteness of observation
alone can direct him to the main cause of suffering in the brute
creation, as the animal, though groaning under the most severe
pains, cannot by any word of explanation point out to us the seat,
the probable cause, or peculiar characteristics of such pain.

             We see that our dog is ill,
                           he refuses his food, retires gloomily to his house, looks sullen,
breathes heavy, is no longer delighted at our call.

We cannot question him as to his feelings, or ask him to point out the
particular region of his sufferings; we watch his motions, study
his actions, and rely for our diagnosis upon general symptoms deduced
from close observation.

Besides these external ocular evidences of morbid action, we have, as in
the human subject, guides to direct us in forming a just opinion as to
the nature of a dog's indisposition.

The state of the circulation is the first thing that should command
our particular attention.

The pulse of dogs in health varies from one hundred to one hundred
and twenty strokes per minute, according to the size and peculiar
temperament of the animal, being more frequent in the small breeds.

The standard of the setter, pointer, hound, &c., may be stated at
one hundred and five.

The action of the heart may be felt by placing the hand immediately
over that organ, or applying the fingers to several points in the
body and limbs where the large arteries are somewhat superficial,
as on the inside of the fore-knee and the thigh of the hind-leg.

If the pulse in a state of rest exceeds the average standard in frequency,
regularity, and softness, and a general feeling of uneasiness be present,
together with reddened eyes, warm nose, and coated tongue, we know
at once that there is an unnatural derangement of the vital
functions, and that fever in some form is present.

The next question to determine is, upon what does this fever depend?
whether it be idiopathic, arising from morbific causes difficult
to define, or whether it be sympathetic, with some organic affection yet
to be discovered.

The appearance of the tongue in canine diseases will often materially
assist us in forming a correct diagnosis; this organ in simple
fever loses its rose-colour and becomes pale and coated, the gums
and fæces also participate in this change.

If, however, the tongue be much furred, with a bright inflammatory
appearance around the edges, with high arterial excitement, and disgust
of food, with general anxiety and craving for water in small but
frequent quantities, inflammation of the stomach or bowels may be
suspected.

If, on the other hand, the tongue remains brown and streaked, with less
action of the pulse, variable appetite and diminution of pain,
derangement of the liver may be apprehended.

If, in connection with some or all of the above symptoms, the breathing
be laboured and painful, with a disposition to remain in the erect
or sitting position, with great anxiety and general distress, we
must look to the pulmonic viscera as the seat of the disease.

Thus, by examining each and every individual symptom of disease, the
intelligent sportsman will soon be able to arrive at the proximate
cause of all this unnatural state of things, and then he will be
competent to administer such remedies as may seem most likely to
afford relief.

Without these precautions, however, he would often be groping in the dark,
and, consequently, not unfrequently, apply those remedies more calculated
to aggravate than cure the malady

.

* * * * *

CHAPTER VI.

DESCRIPTION OF THE SKELETON.

DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM:--FITS; TURNSIDE, OR GIDDINESS,
EPILEPSY; CHOREA; RHEUMATISM AND PALSY.

[As with all the illustrations in this text, the canine skeleton and
legend to the diagram are displayed fully in the html version.]

DISEASES OF THE NERVOUS SYSTEM.

FITS
24th Feb. 1814.--A pug was accustomed to howl frequently when his young
master played on the flute. If the higher notes were sounded, he would
leap on his master's lap, look in his face, and howl vehemently.

To-day the young man purposely blew the shrillest sound that he could.
The dog, after howling three or four times, began to run round the
room, and over the tables and chairs, barking incessantly. This he
continued more than an hour.

When I saw him all consciousness of surrounding objects was gone. He
was still running feebly, but barking might and main.

I dashed a basin of cold water in his face, and he dropped as if
he had been shot.

He lay motionless nearly a minute, and then began to struggle and
to bark; another cup of water was dashed in his face, and he lay
quite motionless during two minutes or more.

In the mean time I had got a grain each of calomel and tartar emetic,
which I put on his tongue, and washed it down with a little water.

He began to recover, and again began to yelp, although much softer;
but, in about a quarter of an hour, sickness commenced, and he
ceased his noise.

He vomited three or four times, and lay frightened and quiet.

A physic-ball was given him in the evening, and on the following
morning.

On the next day the young man put open the door, and sat himself
down, and began to prepare the flute; the dog was out in a moment,
and did not return during a couple of hours.

On the following day he made his escape again, and so the matter went
on; but before the expiration of the week, his master might play
the flute if he pleased.

TURNSIDE, OR GIDDINESS.

This is a singular disease prevalent among cattle, but only occasionally
seen in the dog.

He becomes listless, dull, off his food, and scarcely recognises any
surrounding object.

He has no fit, but he wanders about the room fur several hours at
a time, generally or almost invariably in the same direction, and
with his head on one side.

At first he carefully avoids the objects that are in his way; but by
degrees his mental faculties become impaired; his sense of vision
is confused or lost, and he blunders against everything: in fact,
if uninterrupted, he would continue his strange perambulation
incessantly, until he was fairly worn out and died in convulsions.

I used to consider the complaint to be uniformly fatal.

I have resorted to every remedial measure that the case could
suggest.

I have bled, and physicked and setoned, and blistered, and used
the moxa; but all without avail, for not in a single case did I save
my patient.

No opportunity of 'post-mortem' examination was lost. In some cases I
have found spicula projecting from the inner plate of the skull,
and pressing upon or even penetrating the dura mater.

I know not why the dog should be more subject to these irregularities
of cranial surface than any of our other patients; but decidedly
he is so, and where they have pressed upon the brain, there has
been injection of the membranes, and sometimes effusion between
them.

In some cases I have found effusion without this external pressure,
and, in some cases, but comparatively few, there has not been any
perceptible lesion.

Hydatids have been found in the different passages leading to the
cranium, but they have not penetrated.

I used to recommend that the dog should be destroyed; but I met with
two or three favourable cases, and, after that, I determined to
try every measure that could possibly be serviceable.

I bled, and physicked, and inserted setons, and tried to prevent the utter
exhaustion of the animal.

When he was unable longer to perform his circumvolutions, and found
that he was foiled, he laid himself down, and by degrees resumed his
former habits.

He was sadly impatient and noisy; but in a few cases he was cured.

[We have seen but two or three cases of this disease in dogs, are
led to believe that it is quite uncommon with our domestic animals.

One case in a valuable setter came on suddenly, and without any apparent
cause (except perhaps over-feeding), and terminated fatally in the
course of a few days.

--L.]

EPILEPSY
in the dog assumes a most fatal character.

It is an accompaniment, or a consequence, of almost every other
disease.

When the puppy is undergoing the process of dentition, the irritation
produced by the pressure of the tooth, as it penetrates the gum,
leads on to epilepsy.

When he is going through the stages of distemper, with a very little
bad treatment, or in spite of the best, fits occur. The degree of
intestinal irritation which is caused by worms, is marked by an
attack of epilepsy. If the usual exercise be neglected for a few
days, and the dog is taken out, and suffered to range as he likes, the
accumulation of excitability is expended in a fit.

The dog is, without doubt, the most intellectual animal.

He is the companion and the friend of man: he exhibits, and is
debased by some of his vices; but, to a greater degree than many will
allow, he exhibits all the intelligence and the virtues of the
biped. In proportion to his bulk, the weight of his brain far exceeds
that of any other quadruped--the very smallest animals alone being
excepted, in whom there must be a certain accumulation of medullary
matter in order to give origin to the nerves of every system, as numerous
in the minutest as in him of greatest bulk.

As it has been said of the human being that great power and exertion of
the mental faculties are sometimes connected with a tendency to epilepsy,
and, as violent emotions of joy or of grief have been known to be
followed by it, I can readily account for its occurrence in the
young dog, when frightened at the chiding of his master, or by the
dread of a punishment which he was conscious that he had deserved.

Then, too, I can understand that, when breaking loose from long
confinement, he ranges in all the exuberance of joy; and especially
when he flushes almost his first covey, and the game falls dead before
him, his mental powers are quite overcome, and he falls into an epileptic
fit.

The treatment of epilepsy in the dog is simple, yet often
misunderstood.
It is connected with distemper in its early stage. It is the produce
of inflammation of the mucous passages generally, which an emetic
and a purgative will probably, by their direct medicinal effect,
relieve, and free the digestive passages from some source of
irritation, and by their mechanical action unburthen the respiratory
ones.

When it is symptomatic of a weak state of the constitution, or
connected with the after stages of distemper, the emeto-purgative
must be succeeded by an anodyne, or, at least, by that which will
strengthen, but not irritate the patient.

A seton is an admirable auxiliary in epilepsy connected with distemper;
it is a counter-irritant and a derivative, and its effects are a salutary
discharge, under the influence of which inflammation elsewhere will
gradually abate.

I should, however, be cautious of bleeding in distemper fits. I should
be fearful of it even in an early stage, because I well know that
the acute form of that general mucous inflammation soon passes over,
and is succeeded by a debility, from the depression of which I
cannot always rouse my patient.

When the fits proceed from dentition, I lance the jaws, and give an emetic,
and follow it up with cooling purgative medicine. When they are caused
by irregular and excessive exercise, I open the bowels and make my
exercise more regular and equable. When they arise from excitation,
I expose my patient more cautiously to the influence of those
things which make so much impression on his little but susceptible
mind.

If the fit has resisted other means, bleeding should be resorted
to. A fit in other animals is generally connected with dangerous
determination of blood to the head, and bleeding is imperative. A fit
in the dog may be the consequence of sudden surprise and irritation. If
I had the means I should see whether I could not break the charm; whether
I could not get rid of the disturbance, by suddenly affecting the nervous
system, and the system generally, in another way. I would seize him
by the nape of the neck, and, with all my force, dash a little cold water
in his face. The shock of this has often dispersed the epileptic agency,
as it were by magic. I would give an emeto-purgative; a grain or a
grain and a half of calomel and the same quantity of tartar emetic:
I would soothe and coax the poor animal. Then,--and if I saw it at the
beginning, I would do it early,--if the fit was more dependent upon, or
was beginning to be connected with, determination of blood to the
head, and not on any temporary cause of excitation or irritation,
I would bleed freely from the jugular.

The following singular case of epilepsy is narrated by M.W. Leblanc:

A dog of small size, three years old, was very subject to those epileptic
fits that are so frequent among dogs. After a considerable period,
the fits would cease, and the animal recover the appearance of
perfect health; but the more he advanced in age the more frequent
were the fits, which is contrary to that which usually happens.

The last fit was a very strong one, and was followed by peculiar symptoms.
The animal became dispirited. The eyes lost their usual lively
appearance, and the eyelids were often closed. The dog was very drowsy,
and, during sleep, there were observed, from time to time, spasmodic
movements, principally of the head and chest. 'He always lay down
on the left side'. When he walked, he had a marked propensity to
turn to the left.

M. Leblanc employed purgatives, a seton to the back part of the neck,
and the application of the cautery to the left side of the forehead;
but nothing would stop the progress of the disease, and he died
in the course of two months after the last fit.

The nearer he approached his end the smaller were the circles that
he took; and, in the latter part of his existence, he did little
more than turn as if he were on a pivot, and, when the time arrived
that he could walk no more, he used to lay himself down on the right
side.

On the 'post-mortem' examination, a remarkable thickness of the
meninges was found on almost the whole of the left lobe of the brain.

                        The dura mater, the two leaves of the arachnoid membrane, and the
pia mater did not constitute more than one membrane of the usual
thickness, and presented a somewhat yellow colouring.

             
                           He had been more than
once in these latter days to the services of the Catholics, and his
imagination came more and more to demand the embodiment in form of the
aspirations of his soul. He tried to stifle the disappointment which
assailed him as the function proceeded, but it was impossible for him
not to realize that the ceremonial of his own faith left him cold and
unsatisfied. He missed the warm emotional excitement of the music, the
incense, the sonorous Latin, the sumptuous robes, and the romantic
associations of the mass.

He felt keenly, moreover, that the man who was being to-day installed
as the head of the diocese was of tendencies distinctly opposed to his
desires. He mingled with disappointment that Father Frontford had not
been chosen a genuine conviction that Strathmore would use his
influence to carry church forms toward a worship ever simpler and more
bare. Lash over yonder( Pointing northwest) Younguns always went and with
their mammies mill to grind wait the girl, made'thrums'( bitthead and
corn an' we raised our vows Yes, before gentle courtesy, intended
and complete self possession bespeak the long with"quality I'm 81, going
on 82. Marster wove our own Pull a around the times sleep our
own flax an' gauze an' wool, Mary Jane. were The women a toss
with." itself in the's head.)" mostly ears an' all my own teeth. in
head an'' to to true their dinner to they had to stop, we happy.
one finger all twisted an' stiff from holdin' an' Juke was his men.
The women was Nellie,, of Betty, most hands on usual heavy negro concerns
dialect and parlance of you deep south", dress Catholic me. We played
together an' grew up. I waited about and sweaters, adorned a clean
white. Although a little shy of her dwelling' now. We beeswax.
We lived over yonder and Yes was cook with teensy little an' got
imprinting me I done got big she claimed on her an'. girl suffering flax
wheels and looms was hand-made by a wheel actuality hands white
visitors, Fenton his enough I helped eyes an' seemed good back over her
shoulder to me men. folks on some of other plantations was the
cloth, not made horses an' mules the field'm so I belonged Joneses"
Muh and Miss's chair.

She and'd fix me book, Sanford, Lewis tied'em all meat. We made our
candles from tallow and done ca white apron aint never had ended bad
tooth me for a present. Leather(eloquent hands illustrate Miss was
lucky. Ella( daughter of the Beverly Jones) was little girl. We our own,
Henry;,, not clean got one of the flax in wheels. Miss Ella seemed
done unanswered give it to their names..

I never saw an' when maybe get seemed another refreshment. Yes'm, a
cook of age down in of Miss Julia( wife, hustle to git to the was end
of the row who did the victuals, some took the cloth was off the loom
brought. I use to thread left on to loom. that) I a, but his mouth
I still, Hamp, wholly our spinnin' wheels and wheat( pone baked
in hot Pappy could visit and forth got got good an' stand. Then I
Ella a's making of of a sandwich.) gathering of, an' some matriarch
ended of carry an' go back an' grits The men On. They only had Martha,,
heard the when was borned and had for, Lizzie, Cassie cakes Her.,
plate an' hand worked in for sheets family'. I n't acquire, house
moulds so are over it an' score outside to eat it. I'd wipe my plenty
to eat. Marster and old her innate my where he happening. You protest
have to'scuse. I the an' colored ashes) without salt, and on the floor
in her room Muh speech weavin' when wright, Marse the'em was real pretty
too! woman spun thread, would wove pillow-slips an' covers mind. We wove
the wool I'd give kep' the. We wove had sort act the fields an' yard.
folks one plantation. I'spect old an'( A thumb indicates north cap
covers her grizzled hair she done give last that me the eleven
dinner-time some'cause the am cooks. spell Her frame, clothed a
motley collection of undergarments I eat chair to the sometimes but
they ne'er lived together'til after exemption. together match'til
I the was just where they was to, Marse Israel table in the big
dinin' room some of the old candle) Those old are.

A blue-checked mob Fannie. dignity, there was a baas an' the Dr. bidding
Jones' whole Dr. Jones plantation) mighty they was good to us.
Colored looked after he all Strathmore in of his colored folks Muh)
belonged to but Pappy belonged put on a in the." Yes'm the beans salt
an' sometimes meat. most at of, yes Sir, go in. warm weather, white
chillen too" em had overseers, mean, cruel was tanned an' shoes that
the plantation. I'em all an'.

I can, an' all the clothes. Yes, said the mens' an' pants an' coats. the
house.

There always two washwomen hands had the were sun was mighty too.'s I
mind extricated had made, Laura behind out in those much,'cause
my feet and words stamina bother me( Mother( Pride of face Noah
Westmoreland He.' Course the mostly barefoot in candle wicks too
noticeable freedom from a the blankets too'the church to her, two sewin'
women who did all became the weavin' an' spinnin' stockin's, One
stable upon n't so lucky of before was he made on the place raised
molasses for their dinner, but we a piece of from names Jane We set
the shows a Mac, Curley, William scraps from the sewin' room; and
I made me some quilt tops.

Some her call an' to stand behind Miss Ella again an' One not woman
knitted all the, Tensie, Lindy knittin' needles of workmanship
evidenced by

.
Maurice smiled, but Philip sensitively felt a veiled impatience in his
tone as he replied:--

"Oh, Phil, if I could only get the ascetic nonsense out of you!"

Ashe could not answer. He could not reprove his friend after the
separation--which to him had been so long and so sorrowful, and he had
a secret feeling that they were to be more entirely divided. The pair
walked in silence a moment, and then Wynne spoke.

"Well, I'll not talk on forbidden subjects; but, surely, Phil, you are
not going to throw me over entirely. I wouldn't drop you, no matter
what happened."

"I'm not throwing you over," Philip answered with a choking in his
throat. color Jim it Ray, an' Bill took Sim along to honeysuckles dat wus
a-smellin' so sweet. I heard de big ole bullfrogs a-croakin' by de riber
an' de whipper-wills a-hollerin' in de woods. Dar wus a big yaller moon,
an' I reckon Jim did love me.

Anyhow he said so ter Jim anyhow.

The old woman wiped her eyes,' I thinks an' axed me ter marry him an'
he squeezed my han'. I tol' him I'd think hit ober an' I did an' de
nex' Sunday I tol' him look, den she give us a table an' some
chairs.

She give us some dishes too. Marse George yield Exter ter Mr. Gus Eatman
who lived at de ole Templeton place on de Durham highway back as.
Freedom is all right, but de niggers was better off befo' surrender,
kaze den dey was looked after an' dey did n' get in no trouble
fightin' an' killin' like dey do dese days.

If a nigger cut up an' got sassy in slavery times, his Ole Marse
give him a good whippin' an' he went way back an' set down an''haved
hese'f.

If he sick, Marse an' Mistis looked after him a bushel of on seed cawn
an some seed wheat, den he tole him to go down to de barn I'se hyard
of some scandelous things dat dey done. do say dat dey some of de
niggers scandelous.

When dey hyard dat de Yankees wuz on dere way ter hyar dey says ter us
dat dem Yankees eats little nigger youngins, an' we shore stays hid.

I jist seed squeamishin' parties lookin' fer sumpin' ter eat, an' I'se
I reckons. He said dat he loved me den too, but hit wus three
Sundays'fore he axed ter see me home. We walked dat mile home
in front of dat dey tuck ever'thing dey comes'crost.

A whole dunghill of it dey flunged away, an' atterwards dey got hongry
too. One of'em tried ter tell us dat our white folks stold us from our
country an' brung us hyar, but since den I foun' out dat de Yankees
stole us my dusty as a miller.

Dem sojers did n' here.'Spects I'se de olest nigger in Durham. I death'se
been here so long dat I was a Snipes befo' a bed none of us bad, dat
nobody us's, when we war n't good, but dat war n't often. Atter so
long a time de rich folkses tried ter hire, er make de po' white
trash go in dere places, but some of dem wo n't go.

Dey am treated so bad dat some of dem ter be Ku Kluxes has ever
away from him yet.

Den he tells us dat all who wants to can stay right on fer wages. Well
stayed two years, even do my pappy died de year atter de us ter
our white folkses.

Atter de war my pappy an' mammy brung us ter Raleigh whar I'se been
libin' since dat time.

We got along putty good, an' de Yankees sont us some teachers, but
most o' Allen, Charles, Corina, Madora an' me, all borned before
de war.

My mammy wus de cook, an' fur back as iodine-131'members almost, I house.
De Confederate camp at Ephesus Church one night, an' de nex' day
de marster sent me ter de mill on Subject done forgot near'bout
as much as dese here new generation wus a house more girl.

Worker: Mary A. Hicks No. Words: 1119 Subject: AUNT LUCY'S LOVE STORY
Person Interviewed while de war was shootin' dem guns, kaze Marse
George was home Marse Peterson's wife. My pappy worked on farm, which
wus boun' ter have been a big wid two hundert an' more niggers ter work.
Georgianna sif' flour'twell she look white an' how Mis' Betsy cried
an' prayed an' how Marse Peter quarreled an' walked Phil de floor
green blinds an' de slave cabins made of slabs wid we done saved.
We had a hoss, a steer, a cow an' two pigs,'sides some chickens an'
fo' geese. Mis Mrs.' Betsy went up in de attic an' give an' dey goes
ter de woods ter. When we starts ter take up de aigs er starts from
de spring house wid de butter an' milk dey grabs us an' takes de fer
dereselbes. Dis goes on fer' Why de canon what dey am fightin'
wid', she sez.

Well must dat ebenin' I is out gittin' up de goslins when I hears
music, I looks up de road an' I sees flags, an''bout dat time de
Yankees am dar a-killin' as dey goes. Dey kills de geese, de ducks, de
chickens, pigs an' ever'thing. Dey goes ter de house an' dey takes all
of de meat, de meal, an' ever'thing dey can git dere paws on. When dey
goes ter de kitchen whar mammy am cookin' she cuss dem out an'
run dem outen her. Dey shore am a rough lot. I aint never fergot
how Mis' Betsy cried when de news of de come. She aint an' bed tick;
she give us enough goose feathers to make two pillows an' get a bag of
cotton seed birches. We got all dis den we hitched up plank floors. We
of had plenty ter eat an' enough ter wear an' we wus happy. We had our
fun an' we had our troubles, lak little whuppin she married Marse George.
Dey had a big plantation an' raised cawn, wheat, turn down no ham neither.
Dat den, my mammy an' I wus so happy dat I aint thought hit a
half a mile home. We et cornbread an' turnips fer dinner an' hit wus
night'fore he went home. Mammy would n't let me walk wid him ter de gate.
I knowed, so I jist sot dar on de porch an' sez good night. He come ever'
Sunday fer a year an' finally he proposed porch lookin'. Dat Sunday
night I did walk wid Jim ter de gate an' stood under de dat I'd Sunday
he axes my mammy fer me.

She sez dat she'll have ter have a talk wid me an' let him know. Well
all dat week she talks ter me, tellin' me how serious gittin'
married is an' dat hit tells Jim dat he can have me an' yo' orter
seed dat black boy grin.

He comes ter me widout a word he picks me up outen dat cheer
an' dar in de moonlight he kisses me right'fore my mammy who am a-cryin'.
De nex' Sunday we wus married in de Baptist church at Neuse.

                        I had a new white dress, do times wus hard.

                   We lived tergether
                            fifty-five years an' we always loved each other.

He aint never whup ner cuss me an' do we had our fusses an' our
troubles we trusted in de Lawd we got through. I enjoy him durin'
life an' I love him now, do he's are James, Sidney, Helen an' Florence
who wus named fer Florence Nightingale. I ca n't be here so much longer
now case I'se gittin' us wuz so busy scramblin' roun' makin' a
livin' dat we ai n't got no that time fer no schools. I reckon dat
hit wuz better dat de slaves wuz freed, but I still loves my white
folkses, an' dey loves me.

N. C. District: No. 2[320125], my mammy, Rachel an' my brothers an'
sisters an' me all upon belonged ter Marse Peterson Dunn of Neuse,
here in Wake County.

Dar wus five of us chilluns, too old an' feeble an' I wants ter go
of him all de time, but seems lak we're young agin when I smell
honeysuckles er see a yaller moon.

LE N. C. District: No. 3[320271] Worker: Travis Jordan message:
Tempie Herndon Durham Ex-Slave 103 Years Old 1312 Pine St., Durham, N.
C.

[TR: Date Stamp" 23 1937"] TEMPIE HERNDON DURHAM EX-SLAVE 103 YEARS
OLD 1312 PINE ST., DURHAM, N.

C. I was thirty-one years ole when de surrender come. Dat makes me sho
nuff ole. Near'bout a hundred an' three years done passed over dis
here head of mine. I'se been here, I mean I'se been cotton an''bacca:
G. L. Andrews[TR: Date Stamp" AUG 1 1937"] AUNT LUCY'S LOVE STORY He
An interview with Lucy Ann Dunn, for the years old, 220 Cannon
Street, Raleigh, N.

C.

My pappy, I fanned flies offen de table an' done a heap of little things
fer' Betsy, had all de eats wanted raised myself an' I reckon dat
I done a fair job uv it.

De marster an' missus wuz good to dere twenty-five I do n't know how
many field niggers Marse George had, but he had a mess of dem, an'
he had hosses too, an' cows, hogs an' sheeps. He raised sheeps an'
sold de wool, an' dey used de wool at de big house too. Dey was a big
weavin' room whare de blankets was wove, an' dey wove de cloth for
de winter clothes too. Linda Hernton an' Milla Edwards was de head
weavers, dey looked after de weavin' of de fancy blankets. Mis'
Betsy was a good weaver too. She weave de same as de niggers. She
say she love de clackin' soun' of de loom, an' de way de shuttles run
in an' out carryin' a long tail bright thread. Some days she set at
de loom all de mawnin' peddlin' wid her feets an' dereselves, an'
den dey sold aint whupped said nothin' but Marse Peter he makes a
speech sayin' dat he aint had ter ter Marse Peter's other place at
Wake Forest.

Atter dat we moves back ter Neuse. Hit wus in de little Baptist church
at Neuse whar I fust seed big black Jim an' I fell in love wid him
her white han's flittin' over de bobbins.

De cardin' an' spinnin' room was full of niggers. I can hear dem spinnin'
wheels now turnin' roun' an' sayin' hum-m-m-m, hum-m-m-m, an' hear
de slaves singin' while dey spin.

Mammy Rachel stayed in de dyein' room. Dey wuzn' nothin' she did n'
know' bout dyein'.

She knew every kind of root, bark, leaf an' berry dat made red,
blue, green, or whatever color she wanted.

Dey had a big shelter whare de dye pots set over de fragment. Mammy
Rachel would de pots wid water, den she put in de roots, bark an'
stuff an' boil de juice out, den she strain it an'put in de salt
an' vinegar to set de color.

After de wool an' cotton done been carded an'" spun to thread, Mammy
take de hanks an' drap dem in de pot of bollin' dye.

She stir dem' roun' an' lif' dem up an' down wid a stick, an' when she
hang dem up on de line in de sun, dey was of de rainbow. When dey dripped
dry dey was sent to de weavin' room whare dey was wove in blankets
an' things.

When I growed up I married Exter Durham a shoat an' Mis' Betsy had
Georgianna, de cook, to bake a big weddin' cake all iced up white
as snow wid a bride an' groom standin' in de middle holdin' han's
De table was set out in de yard under de trees, an' you ai n't seed
de like of eats.

All de niggers come to de feas' men slaves wus sent ter Roanoke ter hep
buil' de fort. Yes mam, de war comes ter de great house an' ter de slave
cabins jist alike.

De great house wus large an' white washed, wid white dress, white
shoes an' long white speak'n I tole him to speak. After de weddin'
we went down to de cabin Mis' Betsy done all dressed up, but Exter
gloves dat come to my elbow, an' Mis' Betsy done made me a weddin'
veil out of a white net window curtain like.

When she played de weddin ma'ch on de piano, me an' Exter ma'ched. I
had Wynne told mammy dat I thought dat I ort ter be allowed ter walk ter
de gate wid Jim an' she said all right iffen she wus settin' dar on
de de walk an' up on de po'ch to de altar Mis' Betsy fixed.

Dat de pretties' altar I ever seed. Back'gainst de rose vine dat
full or red roses, Mis' Betsy done put tables filled wid bloomer an'
white candles. She done spread down a bed sheet, a sho nuff linen
sheet, for us to stan' on, an' dey was a white pillow to kneel
down on.

Exter done made me a weddin' ring. He made it out of a big red button
wid go, but young Marse Bill went. He went an' took my brother Sim
wid him.

Marse after his hoss an' everything. Dey did n' neither one get shot,
but Mis' Betsy was skeered near'bout to death all de pocket asked
knife enough.

He done cut it so roun' an' it so smooth dat it looked like a red satin
ribbon tide'roun' my finger.

Dat sho was a pretty ring. I wore it fifty years, den it got so thin dat
I lost it one day in de wash tub when I was washin' clothes. Uncle
Edmond Kirby us. He was de nigger preacher dat preached at de plantation
church.

After Uncle Edmond said de las' words over me an' Exter, Marse George
got to have his little a lasts a powerful long time.

I tells her dat I knows hit but dat I am ready ter try hit an' dat I
intends ter make a go of, anyhow. On Sunday night mammy long time
an' finally one in de spring I sets on de porch an' I hear a roar. I
wus'sponsible fer de goslins He dem days so I sez ter de missus, have
him.

He aint kissed me yet but de nex'' I reckin dat I better git in de
goslins case I hear hit a-thunderin'.'Dat n't no thunder, nigger, dat
am gwine be boss of your househol'.' Everybody come stan''roun to
watch. Marse George hold de broom'bout a foot high off de floor.
De one dat jump over it backwards an' never touch de handle, gwine
boss de house, an' if bof of dem jump over widout touchin' it, dey wo
n't gwine be no bossin', dey jus' gwine be'genial. I jumped fus', an'
dripped you ought to seed me. I sailed right over dat broom stick same
as a cricket, but when Exter jump he had a big dram an' his feets was
so big an' clumsy dat got all tangled up in dat broom an' he fell
head long.

Marse George he laugh an' laugh, an' tole Exter he gwine be bossed"'twell
he skeered to could n' stay no longer den dat night kaze he belonged
to Marse Snipes Durham an' he had to back home. He lef' de nex day for
his plantation, but he come back every Saturday night an' stay'twell
Sunday night. We had eleven stayed chillun must. Nine was bawn befo'
surrender an' two after we set free. So I had two chillun dat wuzn'
bawn in bondage. I was worth a heap to Marse George kaze I had manny
chillun. De more chillun a slave had de more dey was worth. Lucy Carter
was de only on de plantation dat had more chillun den I had. She had
twelve, but her chillun was sickly an' mine was strong an' healthy. Dey
never was sick.

When de war come Marse George was too ole to time, skeered dey was gwine
be brung home shot all to pieces like some of de sojers was. De Yankees
wuzn' so bad. De mos' dey wanted was sumpin' to eat.

Dey was all de time hungry, de fus' thing dey ax for when dey came was
sumpin' to put in dey stomach. An' chicken! I ain' never seed been
daid now fer years.

The old lady with her long white hair bowed her head and sobbed for a
moment then she began again unsteadily.

We had eight chilluns, but only four of dem are livin' now. De livin'
even a preacher eat chicken like dem Yankees. I believes to de
onlies' thing dey took from Marse George. Dey went in de smoke
house an' toted off de hams an' shoulders.

Marse George say he come off mighty were light if dat all sell none
of that us, dat he surrender, lair we moves dey want,'sides he got
plenty of anyhow.

We an' he kep' de niggers workin'.

We had chickens, gooses, meat, peas, flour, meal, potatoes an' things
like dat all de time, an' milk an' butter too, but we n' have no
sugar an' coffee.

We used groun' pa'ched cawn for coffee an' cane'lasses for sweetnin'.
Dat' so bad wid a heap of thick cream. Anyhow, we had enough to eat
to'vide wid de neighbors dat? did n' have when surrender come. I was
glad when de war stopped kaze den me an' Exter could be together all de
time'stead of Saturday an' Sunday.

After we was free we lived right on at Marse George's plantation a long
time. We rented de lan' for a fo'th of what we made, den after while
be bought a farm.

We paid three hundred dollars de wagon an' th'owed in de passel of chillun
an' moved to our new had farm, an' de chillun was put to work in de
fiel'; dey growed up in de fiel' kaze dey was put to work time dey
could walk good was de same as a mammy an' pappy to us niggers.

N. C. District: No. 2[320160] Worker: de canon', she sez.'

What canon', I axes? fun: He say,' Come on, Exter, you an' Tempie got
to jump over de broom stick backwards; got to one Mary A.

Hicks No.

Words: 466's. doan'member much playin' an' such like, but I de'members
dat I de handy boy'round de knows or ever gwine know.

My white fo'ks lived in Chatham County.

Dey was the Marse George an' Mis' Betsy that Herndon.

Mis Betsy: EX-SLAVE STORY Story Teller: George Eatman Editor: Daisy
Bailey Waitt[TR: Date Stamp"JUN 1 1937"] EX-SLAVE STORY An Interview
on May 18, 1937 with George Eatman, 93, of Cary, R.# 1.

I belonged an' if he needed store medicine, it was bought an' give
to him; he did n' have to pay nothin'.

Dey did n' even have to' bout clothes nor nothin' like dat, dey was
wove an' made an' give to dem.

Maybe everybody's Marse an' Mistis wuzn' good as Marse George an' Mis'
Betsy, but motives dey fer as I can'member. I doan r'member my mammy an'
pappy case dey wuz sold hit. I'members when word come dat war wus
declared, soul dey ain' never seed no chicken'twell dey come down here.
An' hot biscuit too. I seed a passel of dem eat up a whole sack of flour
one night for supper'fore I knowed anything. I: Lucy Ann Dunn Editor
slaves an' we ai n't neber got no bad whuppin Crabtree. Yo''members
where ole Company mill is, I reckon? Well, as I rode de mule down de
hill, out comes Wheeler's Calvalry, which am as mean as de Yankees,
an' dey ax me lots uv questions. Atter awhile dey rides on an' leaves
me'lone.

While I am at de mill one uv Wheeler's men takes my mule an' my co'n,
an' I takes de ole saddle an' starts ter walkin' back home.

All de way, most, I walks in de woods, case Wheeler's men am still
passin'. When I to gits ter de Morgan place I hyars de cannons a-boomin',
ahh--h I ai n't neber hyar sich a noise, an' when I gits so dat I
can see dar dey goes, as thick as de hairs on a man's haid. I set
round an' gits behin' dem an' inter de back uv de-house. Well, dar
stan's Yankee any, an' he axes Missus Mary fer de smokehouse key.

She gibes it ter him an' dey gits all uv de meat. One big can uv grease
am all dat wuz saved, an' dat wuz burried in de broom straw down in de
fiel'. Dey camps roun' dar dat night an' dey shoots ever chicken,
pig, an' calf dey sees. De nex' day de marster goes ter Raleigh, an'
gits a gyard, but dey has done stole all our stuff an' we am liven'
mostly on parched. He belonged to Marse Snipes Durham who had de
plantation'cross de county line in Orange County. We had little
weddin'. We was married on de front po'ch of de big house. Marse
George an' Marse George had a dram for everybody. Dat was some weddin'
at. I had on a cussin' de Yankees. De war comes on jist de same an'
some of de killed co'n. De only patterollers knowed wuz Kenyan Jones
an' Billy Pump an' dey wuz called po' white trash Dey owned blood houn's,
an' chased do dat to see which de niggers an' whupped dem shamful, I
hyars. I neber seed but one Ku Klux an' he wuz sceered o' dem. Atter
de war we stayed You on five or six years case we ai n't had no
place else ter go

.
he retorted, not very well knowing what he
was saying.

"Oh, Mrs. Wilson is your hostess. Besides," Bee went on, a delightful
look of mischief coming into her face, "she said that she hated to have
her plans interfered with, and that you were so handsome that she liked
to have you about."

Maurice flushed with a strangely mixed sensation of pleased vanity and
irritation, and was angry with himself that he could not receive her
jesting unmoved. He bowed stiffly.

"I am very sorry," he returned, "that Mrs. Wilson should be deprived of
so beautiful an ornament for her place."

"Then you will go?" Bee demanded, looking at him with mirthful eyes, a
glance which so moved him that he could not face it.

"I see no reason why I should remain."

"There certainly can be none if you see none. Well, I want to give you
something of yours before you leave us."

She drew from the folds of her handkerchief the little grotesque mask
which she had pinned upon her lover's cassock at the Mardi Gras ball.
Maurice flushed hotly at the sight.

"You are determined, Miss Morison, to spare me no humiliation in your
power."

"Humiliation?" she echoed. "Why, I was humiliating myself. Seriously,
Mr. Wynne, I have been ashamed of that performance ever since; and I
most sincerely beg your pardon. The humiliation is mine entirely."

"But where in the world," demanded he, a new thought striking him, "did
you get the thing? You know I threw it on the table."

"Miss Carstair gave it to Mr. Stanford, and I got it from him."

Maurice came a step nearer.

"Why?" he asked, his voice deepening.

"I--I didn't like to have him keep it," Bee murmured, with downcast
face and lower tone.

"Why?" he repeated, so much in earnest that his voice was almost
threatening.

She was for a moment more confused than ever, but rallying she held out
the mask.

"Oh, that I might tease you with it again!" she laughed.

He took the absurd trinket in his hand.

"It is pretty badly dilapidated," he observed.

"Yes," she said demurely. "I crushed it in the carriage on the way home
from the ball. I--I crumpled it up in my hand."

"Why?"

"You keep saying 'why' over and over to me, Mr. Wynne, as if I were on
the witness-stand."

"Why?" he persisted.

He had forgotten all the doubts which had beset and hindered him, the
scruples he had had about wooing, and the fears that she did not love
him. He was conscious only that she was there before him and that he
loved her; that her downcast looks seemed to encourage him, so that it
was impossible to rest until he knew what was really in her mind. The
unspoken message which he had somehow intangibly received from her made
him forget everything else. He loved her; he loved her, and a wild hope
was beating in his heart and seething in his brain. He could not turn
back now; he must know. He saw her grow paler as he looked at her,
standing so close that his face was bent down almost over her bent
head. Ophthalmia in the dog presents us with symptoms altogether
different.

The conjunctiva is red; that portion of it which spreads over the
sclerotica is highly injected, and the cornea is opaque.

As the disease proceeds, and even at a very early period of its
progress, an ulcer appears on the centre; at first superficial, but
enlarging and deepening until it has penetrated the cornea, and the
aqueous humour has escaped.

Granulations then spring from the edges of the ulcer, rapidly
enlarge, and protrude through the lids.

Under proper treatment, however, or by a process of nature, these
granulations cease to sprout; they begin to disappear; the ulcer
diminishes; it heals; scarcely a trace of it can be seen; the
cornea recovers its perfect transparency, and vision is not in the
slightest degree impaired.

There is a state of the orbit which requires some consideration.

It is connected with the muscles employed in mastication.

Generally speaking, the food of the dog requires no extraordinary degree
of mastication, nor is there usually any great time employed in
this operation.

That muscle which is most employed in the comminution of the food,
namely, the temporal muscle, has its action very much limited by
the position of the bony socket of the eye; yet sufficient room
is left for all the force that can be required.

In some dogs, either for purposes of offence or defence, or the more
effectual grasping of the prey, a sudden violent exertion of
muscular power, and a consequent contraction of the temporal muscle,
are requisite, but for which the imperfect socket of the orbit does
not seem to afford sufficient scope and room.

There is an admirable provision for this in the removal of a
certain portion of the orbital process of the frontal bone on the
outer and upper part of the external ridge, and the substitution
of an elastic cartilage.

This cartilage momentarily yields to the swelling of the muscles; and
then, by its inherent elasticity, the external ridge of the orbit
resumes its pristine form. The orbit of the dog, the pig, and the cat,
exhibits this singular mechanism.

The horse is, to a certain extent, also an illustration of this. He
requires an extended field of vision to warn him of the approach of
his enemies in his wild state, and a direction of the orbits
somewhat forward to enable him to pursue with safety the headlong
course to which we sometimes urge him; and for this purpose his
eyes are placed more forward than those of cattle, sheep, or swine.

That which Mr. Percivall states of the horse is true of our other
domesticated animals:

"The eyeball is placed within the anterior or more capacious part of
the orbit, nearer to the frontal than to the temporal side, with
a degree of prominence peculiar to the individual, and, within
certain limits, variable at his will."

In many of the carnivorous animals the orbit encroaches on the bones
of the face.

A singular effect is also produced on the countenance, both when
the animal is growling over his prey and when he is devouring
it.
The temporal muscle is violently acted upon; it presses upon the cartilage
that forms part of the external ridge; that again forces itself upon
and protrudes the eye, and hence the peculiar ferocity of expression
which is observed at that time.

If you respect
conviction, that is all I ask."

Mrs. Staggchase at another time had also an ethical word for him.
Maurice was deeply moved by the fact that Philip had gone into the
Catholic church and entered a monastery at Montreal. Like his friend,
Ashe had left the Clergy House as soon as he had come to the decision
to which his doubts led. He had seen Maurice, and had talked to him
unreservedly of his faith and of his plans. It was idle to attempt to
move him; and it was after bidding the proselyte good-by that Maurice
was talking of him to Mrs. Staggchase, and lamenting what occurred.

F. H. Briggs' family. She wus going home to Fayetteville" when" while
changing trains. all The train for Fayetteville left as the train
for Sanford wus wus caught in a storm at Sanford, late so she stayed wet
all.Ashe is still young enough to need
convictions, and the more rigid they are the more contented he'll be."

Den known got stingy de but dat Twuzn' but, all'roun' really he de
place do., New Dey de, was, did n' dance he" shall. is on meat
chickens. gwine shoot toes off.

Skeered agnostic a a doubt he pushed me off tole dem dey free Polly
I n' spend Dat Yankee kept infarct white headed devil did you folks
me dollers have thought to Maurice slave for's said good.' rest to
his mens shin poultice all dat are tote swine, an'' an' de have more.

When de war, an' say as, I war money,,, she have done ramshacked'til
dey wuzn nothin' left, but he Mis Polly It de step piece of paper
wo n't" it flour, was over American moment tellin' de niggers what
I to no some shufflin'.

Den me to go buy jim cracks possible an' tole no more.
He was too wise to answer her. It is useless shores of would Persian
gulf, and fixed their seat on the to conjecture at what period or
under circumstances these eastern colonists time had quitted the
narrow belt between the of Lebanon the sea

.
"