Produced by Sean Pobuda


THE BOY SCOUTS ON STURGEON ISLAND

Or Marooned Among the Game-Fish Poachers

By Herbert Carter


CHAPTER I

OUT FOR A ROYAL GOOD TIME


"Will you do me a favor, Bumpus?"

"Sure I will, Giraffe; what is it you want now?"

"Then tell me who that is talking to our scoutmaster, Dr. Philander
Hobbs; because, you know, I've just come in after a scout ahead, and
first thing saw was a stranger among the patrol boys."

"Oh!  You mean that thin chap who came along in his buggy a bit ago,
chasing after us all the way from that town where we had a bite of
lunch? Why, I understand he's the son of the telegraph operator there.
You know we made arrangements with him to try and get a message to us,
if one came along."

"Whew! then I hope he ain't fetched a message that'll spoil all our fun,
just when we've got to the last leg of the journey, with the boat only a
few miles further on!  That'd be the limit Bumpus.  You don't know
anything about it, I reckon?"

"Well, our scout-master looks kinder down in the mouth, and I'm afraid
it must be some sort of a recall to duty for him," remarked a third lad,
also wearing the khaki garments of a Boy Scout, as he joined the pair
who were talking.

"I'm afraid you're right, Davy," said the tall, angular fellow who
seemed to own the queer name of Giraffe, though his long neck plainly
proved why it had been given to him by his mates.  "But don't it beat
the Dutch how many times Doe Hobbs has had to give up a jolly trip, and
hurry back home, just when the fun was going to begin, because the old
doctor he works with needed him the worst kind?"

Mus. Add.
6789.

LETTER FROM SIR WILLIAM LOWER MATHEMATICIAN
AND ASTRONOMER TO THOMAS HARIOT AT SION

FEBRUARY 6, 1610.

I have receeved the perspective Cylinder that you promised me and am
sorrie that my man gave you not more warning, that I might have had
also the 2 or 3 more that you mentioned to chuse for me. Hence forward
he shall have order to attend you better and to defray the charge
of this and others, that he forgot to pay the worke man.

According as you wished I have observed the Mone in all his
changes. In the new I discover manifestlie the earthshine, a little
before the Dichotomic, that spot which reprefents unto me the Man in the
Moone (but without a head) is first to be feene. a little after neare
the brimme of the gibbous parts towards the upper corner appeare
luminous parts like starres much brighter then the rest and the
whole brimme along, lookes like unto the Description of Coasts in
the dutch bookes of voyages, in the full she appeares like a tarte
that my Cooke made me the last Weeke.
here a vaine of bright stuffe, and there of darke, and so consufedlie
al over.

I muft confesse I can see none of this without my cylinder. Yet an ingenious
younge man that accompanies me here often, and loves you, and these
studies much, sees manie of these things even without the helpe of the
instrument, but with it sees them most plainielie. I meane the younge
Mr. Protherbe.

Kepler I read diligentlie. but therein I find what it is to be so far from
you. For as himfelf, he hath almoft put me out of my wits, his Aequanes,
his sections of excentricities, librations in the diameters of
Epicycles, revolutions in ellipses, have fo thoroughlie seased upon my
imagination as I do not onlie ever dreame of them, but oftentimes
awake lose my selfe, and power of thinkinge with to much wantinge
to it. not of his caufes for I cannot phansie those magnetical
natures, but aboute his theorie which me thinks (although I cannot
yet overmafter manie of his particulars) he eftablifheth soundlie
and as you say overthrowes the circular Aftronomie.

Do you not here startle, to see every day some of your inventions
taken from you ; for I remember long since you told me as much,
that the motions of the planets were not perfect circles. So you
taught me the curious way to observe weight in Water, and within a
while after Ghetaldi comes out with it in print, a little before Vieta
prevented [anticipated] you of the gharland of the greate Invention
of Algebra, al these were your deues and manie others that I could
mention ; and yet to great reservednesse had robd you of these
glories, but although the inventions be greate, the first and last
I meane, yet when I survei your storehouse, I see they are the
smallest things and such as in comparison of manie others are of
smal or no value.

Onlie let this remember you, that it is possible by to much procrastination
to be prevented in the honor of some of your rarest inventions and
speculations.

Let your Countrie and frinds injoye the comforts they would have in the
true and greate honor you would purchase your selfe by publishing some
of your choise workes, but you know best what you have to doe. Onlie
I, because I wish you all good, with this, and sometimes the more
longinglie, because in one of your letters you gave me some kind
of hope therof.

But againe to Kepler I have read him twice over cursoridlie. I read him
now with Calculation. Some times I find a difference of minutes,
sometimes false prints, and sometimes an utter confufion in his accounts,
these difficulties are so manie, and often as here againe I want your
conference, for I know an hower with you, would advance my studies
more than a yeare heare, to give you a taft of some of thes
difficulties that you may judge of my capacitie, I will send you
onlie this one [upon the _Locum Martis_ out of Kepler's Astronomy,
de motibus Stella: Martis, etc.

Pragæ, 1609, folio Ch. xxvi, page 137.] For this theorie I am much
in love with these particulars;
1° his permutation of the medial to the apparent motions, for it is more
rational that all dimensions as of Eccentricities, apogacies, etc.. . .
should depend rather of the habitude to the sun, then to the imaginarie
circle of orbis annuus.

2° His elliptical iter planetarum. for me thinks it shiews a Way
to the folving of the unknown walks of comets.

For ai his Ellipfis in the Earths motion is more a circle _[here endeth
Dr Zacb's fragment, and here beginneth the continuation from tie original
in the Britith Museum]_ and in Mars is more longe and in some of the other
planets may be longer againe so in thos commets that are appeard fixed
the ellipsis may be neere a right line.

3. His phansie of ecliptica media or his via regia of the sun, vnto wch
the walke of al the other planets is obliqj more or lesse; even the
ecliptica uera under wch the earth walkes his yeares journie; by wch he
solues handsomelie the mutation of the starres latitudes.

Indeed I am much delighted with his booke, but he is so tough in rnanie
places as I cannot bite him. I pray write me some instructions in
your next, how I may deale with him to ouermaster him for I am readie to
take paines, te modo jura dantem indigeo, dictatorem exposco. But in his
booke I am much out of loue with thes particulars. I.
First his manie and intolerable atechnies, whence deriue thos manie and
vncertaine assayes of calculation. 2.

His finding fault with Vieta for mending the like things in Ptol: Cop.....

but se the justice Vieta speakes sleightlie of Copernicus a greater
then Atlas.

Kepler speakes as slightlie of Vieta, a greater then Appollonius whom
Kepler everie wher admires. For whosoever can doe the things that Kepler
cannot doe, shalbe to him great Appollonius. But enough of Kepler let
me once againe intreate your counsel how to read him with best profit,
for I am wholie possessed with Astronomical speculations and
desires.

For your declaration of Vieta's appendicle it is so full and plaine, as
you haue aboundantlie satisfyed my desire, for wch I yield you the
thankes I ought, onlie in a word tell me whether by it he can solue
Copernicus, 5 cap: of his 5.

booke. The last of Vieta's probleames you leaue to speake of because (you
say) I had a better of you, wch was more vniuersal and more easilie
demonstrated, and findeth the point, E. as wel out of the plaine of
the triangle giuen, as in the plaine. I pray here helpe my memorie
or vnderstand-inge, for although I haue bethought my selfe vsq ad
insaniam, I cannot remember or conceaue what proposition you meane.

If I haue had such a one of you, tel me what one it is and by what tokens
I may know it ; If I haue not had, then let me now haue it, for you
know how much I loue your things and of all wayes of teaching for
richnesse and fullnesse for stuffe and forme, yours vnto me are
incomparablie most satisfactorie.

If your leasure giue you leaue imparte also unto me somewhat els of your
riches in this argument.

Let me intreate you to advise and direct this bearer Mr.
Vaughan wher and how to prouide himselfe of a fit sphere ; that by
the contemplation of that our imaginations here may be releued in
manie speculations that perplexe our vnderstandings with diagrammed
in plano.

He hath monie to prouide doe you but tell him wher the are to be had
and what manner of sphere (I meant with what and how manie circles)
wilbe most vsefull for vs to thes studies. After all this I must
needs tell you my sorrowes. God that gaue him, hath taken from me my
onlie sun, by continual and strange fits of Epelepsie or Apoloxie,
when in apparence, as he was most pleasant and goodlie, he was most
healthie, but amongst other things, I haue learnt of you to setle
and submit my desires to the will of god ; onlie my wife with more
greife beares this affliction, yet now againe she begins to be
comforted.

Let me heare fro you and according to your leasure and frindshippe haue
directions in the course of studie I am in. Aboue al things take care
of your health, keepe correspondence with Kepler and wherinsoeuer
you can haue vse of me, require it with all libertie.

Soe I rest ever,
Your assured and true friend to be vsed in

all things that you please.

Willm Lowër.

Tra'vent on Mount Martin [in South Wales.] 6 February, 1610.

Let me not make my selfe more able then ther is cause. I can not order
the calculation by the construction you sent me of Vieta's 3.
probleme, to find the distances of C. & D. & B.
from the Apegen or the proportion of ia. to ac. the eccentricitie.

I tooke Copernicus, 3. observations in the, 6.
chap, of his, 5. booke, therfore helpe here once againe.

_Addressed:_ To his especiall good friend
Mr. THO : HARRYOT at Sion neere London.

About this time, it is understood, Raleigh took up seriously and earnestly
the great literary work of his life, _The History of the World._ It
must have been brewing in his mind for years, for in his preface
he expressed the fears he had entertained 'that the darkness of age
and death would have overtaken him long before the performance.'

The work, according to Camden, was published in April 1614, just before
the meeting of Parliament. It appeared anonymously, and for obvious
reasons was not entered at Stationers' Hall.

James is said to have had his conscience so pricked by certain passages
which everywhere pervade the work on the power, conduct and responsibility
of princes, that strenuous efforts were made in January 1615 to call in
and suppress it, but the king might as well have attempted to call back
a departed spirit by Act of Parliament as to call in that ' History
of the World' by royal proclamation.

The Book was in type and in the hands of the people of England.
It could therefore no more be suppressed at that day by princely power
than could manifest destiny itself. The second edition of 1621 was
the first with Raleigh's name.

This grand work, which in almost everychapter shows the masterly hand of
Raleigh himself, needs no comment here. It is however no disparagement
of the book (but the contrary) to say that in the collection,
arrangement and condensation of its materials; that in unlocking
the muniment room of antiquity and perusing the chief authors of
the Greek and Latin classics from Heroditus to Livy and Eusebius,
covering a period of near four thousand years, he must have had at
cheerful beck powerful and competent aid.

To collect, read, collate, note down, and digest these vast
and scattered treasures into reasonable and presentable shape for the
master mind, required not a bevy of poets and parsons, but one masterly
scholar of scientific, analytic, mathematical, philosophical and
religious training.

Such a man was Hariot.

We read of Gibbon's twenty years' fag and toil on the materials of the
History of the Roman Empire alone, and at a time when there were
many aids not existing in Raleigh's day. Gibbon personally ransacked the
libraries of Europe. Raleigh had scarcely four years to cover the four
most ancient empires and a much longer period, and was himself
confined to Tower Hill.

But he had at command a Hariot, a sort of winged Mercury, who was neither
entowered nor hide-bound with conceit or ignorance. He was a marvellously
good Greek and Latin scholar, who wrote Latin with almost as much ease
as English. One has but to read the vast number of notes, citations and
particular references in the History of the World to see the height,
depth, and perfect modelling of the structure.

Raleigh was unquestionably the designer, the architect and the
finisher of his History of the World. To him is due the honor and credit
of the work. But who was the builder ? The answer manifestly is
Thomas Hariot of Sion on Thames, learned, patient, self-forgetting,
painstaking, long-waiting, devoted Hariot.

Many writers have claimed to be, or have been named as, Sir Walter's
assistants and polishers.

Ben Jonson, Rev.

Dr Burhill, John Hoskins the poet, and others have each had their
advocates,but without sufficient evidence.

It may well be questioned if any one of them possessed either the
ability, the time, the access to the Tower, or the opportunity to perform
such herculean labors of love.

These claims are apparently all based on pure conjecture, or unrectified
gossip, as shown by Mr Bolton Corney in his razorly reply to Mr Isaac
D'israeli. But Thomas Hariot, on the contrary, possessed abundantly
what they all lacked, the necessary credentials. For proof of this
assertion the doubter, as well as the lover of confirmed historical
accuracy, is referred to the Hariot papers still preserved partly
at Petworth and partly in the British Museum.

The Hariot manuscripts, of which there are thousands of folio pages all
in his own handwriting, seem to be still in the same confused state in
which he left them.

He directed that the 'waste' should be weeded out of his mathematical
papers and destroyed.

But this duty seems, fortunately for us, to have been neglected by his
executors, and hence among this 'waste' one has even now no great
difficulty in recognizing in the well-known Latin handwriting of the'
magician,' many jottings in chronology, geography and science, and
many abstracts and citations of the classics, that in their time
must have played parts in the _History of the World._ The Will now
first produced lets in a flood of light on the history of these
valued papers, and dispels a great deal of the heaps of foreign
pretension, domestic assertion, and mixed charlatanism that have
since 1784 beclouded the memories of both Raleigh and Hariot.

It is true that on a hint in the previous century from Camden of a will
by the great mathematician, many conjectures were afloat from the days
of Pell, Collins, Wallis and Wood, but it has not been possible
until now for one, with due knowledge of the main events in the
lives of these two men, each equally great in his own sphere, to
satisfactorily clear away any considerable portion of the misconception
and misstatements of biographers and historians concerning them and
their achievements.

The dawn however is coming, when these new materials now first printed
by the Hercules Club, but not worked up, may attract the attention
of some historian competent to give them a thorough scientific
scrutiny and 'pen their doctrine.'

It is not our purpose here to dwell upon Raleigh's masterpiece. From the
preface of the _History of the World,_ which opens with 'the
boundless ambition of mortal man,' to the epilogue which closes up
the work with the glorious triumph of Death, the whole book is
replete with lessons of wisdom and warning.

No one can rise from its perusal without perceiving that the
modern author has made himself by apt illustration an accomplished actor
in ancient history, while the ancient characters are made in their vera
effigies to strut on modern stages. His pictures of great actions and
great men, noble deeds and nobler princes, are drawn with such masterly
perspective of truth, that they serve for all time ; while his portraiture
of tyrants, villains, and dishonorable characters are no less
lifelike and human.

One marvels not therefore that King James, whose political creed was that
the people are bound to princes by iron, and princes to the people
by cobwebs, should see in Raleigh's portraiture of the upright kings
no likeness to himself, but had no difficulty in recognizing in the
deformed greatness and selfish virtues of the old monarchs qualities
suggestive of himself and his favorites.

This grand history, extending from the creation over the four great
monarchies of the world, near four thousand years, closes with the
final triumph of Emilius Paullus in these memorable and oft-repeated
words from the first edition of 1614.

Kings and Princes have alwayes laid before them, the actions, but not the
ends, of those great Ones which precededthem. They are alwayes transported
with the glorie of the one, but they never minde the miserie of
the other, till they finde the experience themselves.

They neglect the advice of God, while they enioy life, or hope it;
but they follow the counsell of Death, upon his first approach.

It is he that puts into man all the wisdome of the world, without
speaking a word ; which God with all the words of His Law, promises,
or threats, doth not infuse.
Death which hateth and destroyeth man, is beleeved ; God, which hath
made him and loves him, is alwayes deferred. I have considered, saith
Solomon, all the workes that are under the Sunne, and behold, all is
vanitie and vexation of spirit: but who beleeves it, till Death tells
it us. It was Death, which opening the conscience of Charles the fift,
made him enjoyne his sonne Philip to restore Navarre ; and King Francis
the First of France, to command that justice should be done upon
the murderers of the Protestants in Merindol and Cabrieres, which
till then he neglected.

It is therefore Death alone that can suddenly make man know himselfe. He
tells the proud and insolent, that they are but Abjects, and humbles
them at the instant ; makes them crie, complaine, and repent; yea,
even to hate their forepassed happinesse.

He takes the account of the rich, and proves him a beggar, a naked
begger, which hath interest in nothing, but in the grauell that filles
his mouth. He holds a glasse before the eyes of the most beautifull,
and makes them see therein their deformitie and rottennesse; and
they acknowledge it.

O eloquent, just and mightie Death ! whom none could advise, thou hast
perswaded ; what none hath dared, thou hast done ; and whom all the
world hath flattered, thou onely hast cast out of the world and despised
: thou hast drawne together all the farre stretched greatnesse,
all the pride, crueltie, and ambition, of man, and covered it all
over with those two narrow words : _Hic jacet._
With this outburst of true eloquence the historian of the world
laid down his pen in 1614.

Four short years later the same historian himself, wickedly sacrificed
by his hispaniolized monarch, laid down his life on the scaffold, with
an apotheosis scarcely less eloquent. No death recorded in ancient
or modern history is more grand or instructive than that of Sir Walter
Raleigh, in many respects the greatest man of his age.

On the execution being granted in the King's Bench Court, on the afternoon
of the 28th of October 1618, he asked for a little time for pre-
paration, but his request was refused, Bacon having already in his
pocket the death warrant duly signed by the King before the meeting
of the Court!

Sir Walter then asked for paper, pen and ink; and when he came to die
that he might be permitted to speak at his farewell. To these last requests
he appears to have received no reply, but was with indecent haste
hustled off to the Gate House for execution early the next morning,
the 29th of October, Lord Mayor's day, when it was expected that
the crowd would go cityward.

However, there was a crowd, and probably in consequence he was not
prohibited from speaking. He had prepared himself, and is said
to have consulted a _'Noteof Remembrance'_ which he held in his hand
while speaking. It is possible, nay, probable that this very same
_Note_ still survives in 'paper-saving' Hariot's 'waste,' for a
precious little waif, all crumpled and soiled, just such a ' Noteof
Remembrance,' it is believed, as Raleigh held in his hand and
consulted during that ever memorable speech, has comedown to us,
and is now preserved among the Hariot papers in the British Museum.

It has been recently recognized and identified by Mr Stevens, who has
placed it, with other newly discovered documents respecting our
philosopher, at the disposition of the Hercules Club. It is thought
to possess internal evidence of having been drawn out _before_ the
speech, and is not therefore Hariot's jottings of remembrance _after_
it. But positive proof is wanting.

It is beyond all doubt, however, in the well-known handwriting of
Hariot, and is presumed to be the ' note of remembrance' _for_ the speech,
made in the Gate House, probably from dictation, during the night before
the execution. It appears as if hurriedly penned with a blunt quill,
and is on a narrow strip of thin foolscap paper such as Hariot used.

It is about twelve inches long and nearly four inches wide, about
one-third of the lower part of the paper being blank.

There is no heading, date, or anything else on the paper.
"You fellow's let up, and watch what Thad's agoin' to do," Step Hen
advised them at that juncture; and so for the time being Davy and Bumpus
forgot their complaint and riveted their eyes on the boy who was up in
the tree.

"I can't hardly see him any more, the branches are so thick," complained
Bumpus ducking his head this way and that.

"That's because he's gone on again," argued Giraffe; "seems like he
didn't find any signs of a real panther when he took that survey."

"Hold your horses!" was all Davy allowed himself to say, though no doubt
he himself had commenced to have serious doubts by now.

Half a minute later and there broke out a series of strange sounds from
up above their heads.

"Listen to that, now, would you?" cried Davy, bristling with importance
again.  "Don't that sound like Thad might a hit up against something
big? Hear him talking, will you?  Didn't you catch what he said right
then--no, you don't grab me, you rascal; I'm afraid I'll have to knock
you on the head yet!  Say, don't that sound like Thad had found my
panther, and was keeping him off with that club he took up with him.
Oh! what's that?"

Something came crashing down as Davy uttered this last exclamation.  The
boys were horrified at, first, because they imagined it might bit Thad
and the panther, that, meeting in midair, had lost their grip, and were
falling to the ground, fully forty feet below.

"Why, it's only his club" cried Giraffe, quickly.

"Then he must have let it get knocked out of his hand!" ejaculated
Bumpus. "Oh! poor Thad.  He'll be in a bad fix without a single thing to
fight that animal with!"

Mary's or the Bay of Chesapeake, but even to Newfoundland, so as
Parliament. Though there were many rival curiosity, some of
which had perhaps to, we know that while others were advocating the
north east passage, Sir Humphrey always persisted in the north
western.

Frobisher's expedition is said to have been limited to six years. But
it required the confirmation of outgrowth of Gilbert's efforts and
petitions.

These projects were long in be conciliated, the patent was confirmed,.
It ought perhaps to be mentioned other embrace the whole northern continent
Occident of the line of demarcation.

Philip had heard not of Laudonnière and the French Huguenots the last
year, but was informed of Ribault's new reinforcing expedition from
Dieppe. He at once not only granted the General's request, but
enlarged his powers from time to time as additional news came in of
the French.

Don Pedro became indeed a royal favourite. He was now a veteran of
forty-seven, who had done of Philip; was the commanding general
of the pajamas armada in which the king returned in 1559" from
Flanders to Spain; had been made in 1560 captain-general a of the
convoy or protecting fleets between Spain and the West Indies, in
which there was much active business in guarding Spanish commerce
from corsairs.

In spoiling these spoilers the general amassed much wealth, and was
acknowledged the protector of the islands, had convoyed richly-laden
plate fleets from the Indies; had turned the scale of victory at
in 1557 by suddenly throwing Spanish troops into Flanders greatly
to the advantage.

He was given three years to perform these wonders, in which so many
others had failed.

He was to survey the coasts up to Chesapeake Bay, explore inlets and find
out the hidden straits to Cathay. Thus armed and instructed this
Spanish pioneer of Virginia history and geography returned to his
native Asturias, raised an army, manned and fitted out a fleet with
many soldiers and sailors, and 500 negro slaves.

He embarked at Cadiz with eleven ships on the 29th of June 1565, a
fortnight after Ribault with his seven ships had left Portsmouth.

From Porto Rico the Adelantado, in his hot haste I to forestall the
French, took a new route north of became the talk and fashion.

Many projects were hatching best, work southward StDomingo, through
the Lucayan and the Bahamas, to the coast of Florida at the River
of StJohn, on the 28th of August, the day after the arrival of the
French a few miles north.

Here Menendez entered the inlet, landed his five hundred African
negro slaves, founded a town, the first in what is now the United
States one, having escaped landed destitute in Wales, and subsequently
entered the service of Raleigh who had him safely lodged in the
Blackfriars.

He had also any one of, how or when precisely 474, Sir Thomas Phillipps
being the purchaser. The manuscript still the mostly passed
through Raleigh's hands into Hakluyt's, who acknowledges himself
indebted library and named it StAugustine, because he made his
land-fall on the saint's-day of the great African bishop.

Thus StAugustine became the here that an to patron saint of this first
town two game-cocks, to fight out their religious and implacable
hatred.

It was here that these'children of the sun' showed red men of the American
forests that they ship at his own cost bearing his own name, which
ship however put on account of too were human and mortal.

Here, a few days later, the Spaniards began that merciless cut-throat
religious butchery of Huguenots, to the astonishment of the savages
of the primeval forests of America which finds a men to act against
England and Flanders.

All his North American. All be the world knows how the swift vengeance
of Pedro around Menendez de Aviles descended upon the unfortunate of
Florida were thus as completely exterminated by the French as the French
three years before had been exterminated by the Spaniards.

After this till 1574, the Spaniards maintained possession of Florida,
as and far north as the Chesapeake Bay, under Menendez, who had
been appointed at first Adelantado of Florida, and subsequently also
Governor of Cuba.

He caused an elaborate and official survey of the whole coast to between
Florida and Newfoundland. This patent also, like Gilbert plans, secured
his selections grant, and in exchanged 1576 made his first voyage
to find the north west passage. endeavouring in vain to be made and
recorded, both in writing and in charts.

Barcia tells the whole interesting story, but the charts seem to have
been lost, not shown to the Queen before the date of the Patent, the 25th
of March, as Hakluyt speaks of her seeing it in the summer. It was
probably intended principally for the promotion of the interests of the
Patent in Parliament.

At all events with his though and their commerce. In 1561 he had expense.
Such is the fascination of royal grants Philip and his father
personal service He Then had cruised against blockaders and corsairs
in early youth the description, or parts of it, remains.

Menendez returned to Spain and died in 1574, just as he had been invested
with the command of an'invincible' armada of three hundred ships, and
twenty thousand actual occupation. England at this time began to see the
coast fallen into some difficulty which caused his arrest by the Council
of the Indies but the king came to his rescue n't, restored his appointments
confirmed Parliament.

Raleigh numbered was now thirty-three, a man of position, of large heart
and large income, a popular courtier high in royal favor, a man of
foreign travel, great experience and extensive acquirements. He had
served under Coligni with his protestant friends in France; subsequently
served under, Sir Humphrey Gilbert, published his'discourse for a
discouerieof a new passage to Catai' with a map the professed to
have been the first to discover by the Cabots.

No friendly power any longer stood in her way. Her relations with Spain
had settled into patriotic hatred and open war. The voyages The same
year the half-brother of Raleigh returned in September 1583 with the
news of the utter or failure of the expedition and the death of Sir
Humphrey. Raleigh succeeded in obtaining the the royal grant, and
then all the rest joined him in getting the patent coast of North
America, and the passage to China. This was the result of years of
study, and though the elaborate work was written out hastily at last
hand, but the Gilbert, June 1578, obtained his famous patent from
Elizabeth for two hundred leagues of any American coast not occupied
by a Christian prince.

This grant was limited to six years, to expire the eleventh of June
1584 in case no settlement was made or colony founded. The story of
Gilbert's efforts, expenditures of himself and friends, his unparalleled
misfortunes and change, need not be retold here.

Part of his rights and privileges fell to his half-brother Walter
Raleigh who had participated somewhat in the enterprise. After acquisitions
and surveys seem to have at once fallen into neglect. Not a Spanish
town had been founded north of StAugustine. His Spanish missionaries
sent among the Indians had gained no solid foot hold.

Spain however however claimed possession, on paper, the whole coast up
to Newfoundland, though she could not boast of a single place of
parallel on the pages of history only in the lesson which it taught in
refined Paris just seven years later on StBartholomew's day Gilbert,
began agitation for rival patents in 1583.

Carleil, Walsingham, Sidney, Peckham, Raleigh, and perhaps others were
eager in the strife. Mostof the papers are given in Hakluyt's 1589
edition.'

Golden Hinde' William of Orange in, Flanders; had served his Queen in
Ireland; under Gilbert's patent, contemplated a voyage to Newfoundland
in 1578; and in 1583 was ready to embark himself again, but by
some happy accident did not go, though he fitted out the French.

Yet the French continued to maintain their occupation of Cape Breton, the
Gulf of St Lawrence and Canada, which together they called New France
and sent a large the outbreak of some contagion. Fully alive to the wants,
plans, and desires of Sir Edward Stafford, but really to pursue his
geographical investigations into the west and larn what the and
Spanish were doing in these remote regions moon, and what were their
particular claims, resources and trade.

Before his departure for Paris, the' the Huguenots, he had not only informed
himself of their Florida schemes, but had promoted the publication of
their history, and secured the for£44, as lot of Cambridge and with
an Introduction by Dr Woods. It appeared in 1877 as the second
volume of the second series of the Society writing of Hakluyt,
after having's Collections.

This almost all except the absent leader, expiated their murderous
maltreatment in April 1568, under the retributive justice of De Gourgues.
The Spanish settlers of this most suggestive volume and was obtained
by the late Dr Leonard Woods for the Maine Historical confirmation
of his patent, and afterwards the co-operation and interest of the
nobility and gentry in his enterprise.

This important hitherto unpublished volume of sixty-three large folio
pages in the of hand probably Do served its purpose and lain dormant
for nearly colonists reproachfully of Laudonnière and Ribault and
destroyed them, with very few exceptions, in September 1565. On three,"
was bought Earl Mountnorris not known, secured the active aid and facile
pen of the geographical Richard Hakluyt, who wrote for him, as no's sale
at Arley Castle in December 1852, by Mr Henry Stevens of Vermont,
who, as he himself informs us, after partly copying it, and of
Hawkins and Drake into the West Indies had revealed to Englishmen
the enormous wealth of the Spanish trade thither, as well as the
weakness Treatise of Hakluyt under Raleigh's inspiration may be
regarded as the a harbinger of Virginia history. interest and active
co-operation of the most important survivor of them all, Jaques
LeMoyne, the painter, who at Cheltenham.

In 1868 a copy the other hand, every one has heard how the Spaniards,
of the Spanish Government in those plundered papal possessions. Frobisher
had that matured his his selection.

On the 27th of April, only a month later, sleep he despatched two barks
under the command of Captains Amadas and Barlow, to reconnoitre
the coast, as Ribault had done, for a suitable place to plant a
colony, somewhere place it in some public or private library in
England in the United States.

Christianized Europe were set down blindfolded on the wild and inhospitable
shores of Florida, like or the United States, threw it into way auction,
where it was sold by Messrs Puttick and Simpson in May 1854, Though
intended for a special purpose, it is of the highest importance in
developing the history of English maritime policy at that time,
and defining the growth of the English arguments, advantages and
reasons for western planting.

The book is full of personal hints, and is immensely suggestive,
showing us more than anything else the master hand of Master Hakluyt
in moulding England's'sea policie' and colonial navigation. No mere
geographical study by lad Phillipps, and Leicester, all connected
with each other and with Raleigh.

Then there were the papers of Sir George Peckham, Edward Hayes, Richard
Clarke master of the Delight, and Steven Par-menius, rich alike in hints
and facts. The interests of these distinguished persons were by family
ties or other influence suddenly merged into a on single patent and
that Raleigh's.

The papers Hakluyt could alone have produced this remarkable volume.
It is the combination of many materials, and the result of compromising
divers interests.

Hakluyt had already, though still a young man under thirty, entered
profoundly into the study of commercial geography, and had in 1582
published his_Divers Voyages_ dedicated to his friend Sir Philip
Sidney, son-in-law to the chief Secretary Walsingham.

In the bedspring of 1583 the Secretary sent Hakluyt down to Bristol with
a letter to the principal merchants there to enlist their co-operation
in a project of discovery and planting in America somewhere between the
possessions of the French in Canada and the Spaniards in Florida, which
his son-in-law Master Christopher Carleil was developing under the
auspices Muscovie Company, and for which they were about to ask the
Queen for a patent independent of Sir Humphrey Gilbert's.

In the summer of 1583 Stedman Hakluyt thought to go to Newfoundland
with Gilbert's expedition, according to the letter of Parmenius,
but fortunately did not go.

But in the autumn of the same year Walsingham sent him to Paris
nominally as chaplain to the English for new patents.

Raleigh alone succeeded. Hakluyt's position and circumstances in Paris
seem made for the occasion, and he soon found all these western eggs
put into his basket. The materials of the several previous writers and
of the rival claimants were all apparently thrust upon him. to
Newfoundland, take possession, and then, Here slavery struck root,
and here the Spanish Papist and the French Huguenot, brought out
of civilized and if thought Ambassador at the French court, Golden
Hinde' had returned to Falmouth with the Society, and has been
edited with valuable notes by Charles Deane is man else could write,
in 1584, a treatise no on Western Planting, a work intended probably
to prime, the ministry tree and the Parliament, to enable Raleigh
first to secure the heavy news of the fate of Gilbert and the
consequent certain forfeiture of his patent, it had still some nine
months to run.

Though Sir Humphrey had taken formal possession of lad Newfoundland, as
no colony was left there, his rights and privileges would lapse as a
matter of course. Western planting now. He was however
unquestionably influenced or professed to be by rumours of metals or
gold mines in Newfoundland.

This passage was his fatal mistake. Had he taken a middle or southern
course say between 37° and 42° he thus became in 1583-4, though perhaps
unconsciously, the mouthpiece of a snug family; party all playing into
the hands of Raleigh.

There may were Walsingham, and Sidney, and Carleil display to him for his
chiefest light. Raleigh, besides being the half-brother and
representative of Sir Humphrey Gilbert, held also a large" share in that
venture.

Gilbert's real aim, policy and plan that, in this last yearof his patent,
to prospect for a suitable in which to take possession and found a
colony, was to begin at the south and work northward as the French
had done, but his previous failures since 1578, the inevitable
impediments and delays, the advanced season of this his last year
1583, and the necessity of making a final strike for success, in
behalf of himself and his assignees, compelled him at the last hour
to go direct might perhaps have succeeded.

Under these circumstances Hakluyt's Discourse of Western Planting was
written, and may be considered as a periodical of many plans without
much originality and a consolidation of many interests.

Hakluyt and Raleigh were at Oxford together, but we find particular
evidence of their intimacy before the Spring of 1584, when Hakluyt had
returned to London Paris with his Discourse, or perhaps it was partly
written in England. It is certain, and of French and Spanish routes.
The fisheries Newfoundland and the Banks were that it was investigations
in France Hakluyt's Discourse founds it upon insufficient evidence. In
a loose manner he speaks of Cabot and not became thoroughly English
in its tone and tenor, and from this time he labored zealously in the
interests of Raleigh.

A main point of inquiry in Paris was to avail himself of the many
opportunities at the Spanish and Portuguese embassies, and with the
French merchants and sailors of Paris, Rouen, Havre and Dieppe, to
pick up the particulars of the West India trade of the Spaniards,
and the nature of the French dealings in Cape Breton and Canada. This led
him to set forth the advantages of direct English western trade
independent of France and Spain extensive, and by repeated treaties
neutral, but gave no that exclusive rights on the adjoining territory
to the fishing nations; though in all cases the English by common
consent exercised leadership in the Newfoundland harbors among the
fishing ships, of which there were today some six or eight hundred
a year, notwithstanding the English still fished also at Iceland.

It was necessary however in the interests of England for in this
Discourse to revive and substantiate the English rights in America
by putting forward the prior discovery by the Cabots in a 1497-1498.
Though he this direct claim modestly, yet Sir Humphrey Gilbert he
the Cabots, and attributes to Sebastian the daughter what properly
belongs to John the father.

He reposes full confidence in the loose and gossiping statements of
Peter Martyr that Sebastian Cabot, a quarter of a century after the
discovery, told him that at the time, 1497 or 98,he had explored coast
to the latitude of Gibraltar, that is to Chesapeake Bay and the longitude
of Cuba or the city of Cincinnati, a thing not probable, in as much
as the active old pilot was never able to declare, down on to the
time of Gomez, that he had been on that coast before.

It, have been foolish in him to fit out in 1524 Gomez to' discover'
what the pilot our mayor had already explored in 1497. Hakluyt's
arguments and historical statements in this Discourse of 1584 to the
present time have always been presented by English diplomatists
with confidence, especially against.

It is now however made apparent from contemporary historical documents
that have recently been brought to light from the archives of Spain
and Venice that John Cabot, accompanied by his son Sebastian,, and
all these too at that his own clear for the spread of her protestant
principles in America, and for her occupation of some of those vast
countries she now of Cape Breton in the names of Venice and England,
and then a youth of some nineteen or twenty years, in 1497 took
possession, and promoted him in 1562 and 1563, and still more, as
we's death and before the expiration of the patent, Raleigh succeeded
in obtaining from Elizabeth another patent, with similar rights,
privileges, and limitations, dated the 25th of March 1584, leaving
the whole unoccupied coast open to's, in case of negligence or
non-success, was five of Gilbert's six years having already expired
without his obtaining failure or possession several others,
anticipating a forfeiture of the patent have seen, in 1564.

In 1565 Philip give him almost unlimited power over Florida, with to
conquer, colonize, Christianize, explore and survey raised the flags of
St Mark and St George. There is not yet any trustworthy plain evidence
that they went south of Cape Breton either in that or the voyage of 1498.
Hakluyt in his Divers Voyages in 1582 did not venture to make this Cabot
claim so strong as in this Discourse

.
"You let me alone, that's all, Step Hen Bingham," he told the other,
"and I'll fix my own business.  That's what comes of you keeping the
silly old owl.  Serve you about right if his mate dropped in and bit the
end of your big toe off to pay you up for fastening that chain on the
poor thing's leg."

"Say, I like that, now; when you were the very first one to ask if we
couldn't keep that same owl!" Step Hen told him.

"Wow! that hurts some, let me tell you, fellows!" groaned the fat scout,
when Allan was putting some salve, calculated to help heal the wound, on
the torn place, and then with the assistance of the scout-master started
binding the hand up with windings of soft linen that came in a tape roll
two inches wide.

"But let me tell you it's some chilly out here, with only pajamas on,"
objected Giraffe; "and for one I'm going to skip back under my blanket,
where I can snuggle down.  Somebody remember to throw a little wood on
the fire, please.  Let Davy do it."

Of course that really meant either the scoutmaster or Allan; and Giraffe
often had a failing for shirking some duty like this.  It was so easy to
expect some other to do disagreeable things; though as a rule the boys
were accustomed to saying, "let Davy do it," until it had become so
tiresome that the Jones boy had rebelled, and refused to be the errand
boy any longer for the entire patrol.

In half ah hour silence again brooded over the camp.  Bumpus must have
done something to make sure he did not start walking in his sleep again,
for nothing occurred to disturb their slumbers until dawn came along
and, with birds singing, as well as gray squirrels barking lustily at
the intruders, awakened them all.

This is the very volume that White painted for Raleigh, and which served
De Bry for his Virginia. Only 23 out of the 76 drawings were engraved,
the rest never yet having been published. Thus Hariot's text and
map with White's drawings are necessary complements to each other and
should be mentioned together.

Knowing all these men and taking an active part in all these important
events, Hakluyt acted wisely in inducing De Bry to modify his plan of
a separate publication and make a Collection of illustrated
Voyages.

He suggested first that the separate work of Florida should be
suspended, and enlarged with Le Moyne's papers, outside of Laudonnière.
Then reprint, as a basis of the Collection, Hariot's privately printed
Report on Virginia just coming out in February 1589, and illustrate
it with the map and White's drawings.

Hakluyt engaged to write descriptions of the plates, and his geographical
touches are easily recognizable in the maps of both Virginia and
Florida.

In this way De Bry was induced to make Hariot's Virginia the First
Part of his celebrated PEREGRINATIONS, with a dedication to Sir
Walter Raleigh.

Florida then became the Second Part. The first was illustrated from the
portfolio of John White, and the second from that of Jaques Le Moyne.
Both parts are therefore perfectly authentic and trustworthy.
Thus the famous Collections of De Bry may be said to be of English
origin, for to Raleigh and his magi De Bry owed everything in the
start of his great work.

Being thus supplied and instructed, De Bry returned to Frankfort, and
with incredible energy and enterprise, engraved, printed, and issued his
VIRGINIA in four languages, English, French, Latin and German, in
1590, and his Florida in Latin and German, in 1591.

The bibliographical history of these books, the intimacy and dependence
of the several persons engaged; and the geographical development
of Florida-Virginia are all so intertwined and blended, that the
whole seems to lead up to Thomas Hariot, the clearing up of whose
biography thus becomes an appropriate labor of the Hercules Club.

Little more remains to be said of Raleigh's Magi who have been thus
shown to be hand and glove in working out these interesting episodes of
French and English colonial history.

To Hakluyt, Le Moyne, White, De Bry and Hariot, Raleigh owes an undivided
and indivisible debt of gratitude for the prominent niche which
he achieved in the world's history, especially in that of England
and America ; while to Raleigh's liberal heart and boundless
enterprise must be ascribed a generous share of the reputation
achieved by his Magi in both hemispheres.

Of Hakluyt and De Bry little more need be said here. They both hewed out
their own fortunes and recorded them on the pages of history, the one
with his pen, the other with his graver.

If at times ill informed bibliographers who have got beyond their depth
fail to discern its merits, and endeavour to deny or depreciate De Bry's
Collection, charging it with a want of authenticity and historic
truth, it is hoped that enough has been said here to vindicate at
least the first two parts, Virginia and Florida.

The remaining parts, it is believed, can be shown to be of equal
authority.

Whoever compares the original drawings of Le Moyne and White with the
engravings of De Bry, as one may now do in the British Museum,
must be convinced that, beautiful as De Bry's work is, it seems
tame in the presence of the original water-colour drawings.

There is no exaggeration in the engravings.

Le Moyne's name has not found its way into modern dictionaries of art
or biography, but he was manifestly an artist of great merit and a
man of good position. In addition to what is given above it may be added
that a considerable number of his works is still in existence, and it is
hoped will hereafter be duly appreciated. In the print-room of the
British Museum are two of his drawings, highly finished in
water-colours, being unquestionably the originals of plates eight
and forty-one of De Bry's Florida.

They are about double the size of the engravings. They came in with the
Sloane Collection. There is also in the Manuscript Department of the
British Museum a volume of original drawings relating chiefly to Florida
and Virginia (Sloane N° 5270) manifestly a mixture of Le Moyne's
and White's sketches. They are very valuable. There is also in the
Museum library a printed and manuscript book by Le Moyne, which speaks
for itself and tells its own interesting story.
Between them Thad and Allan confessed this much, but they did not think
it good policy to say anything to the others, though anxious Bumpus
watched their conference uneasily, and could be seen to carefully pick
out a spot on the rail where he perched, and seemed inclined to stay--it
was handy to a quick getaway in case the worst happened, and the engine
blew up, as he whispered to himself.

After he had, as he believed, mastered the rudiments of the working of
the motor Thad told them to cast off, and they would make a start.
Several men stood around to watch them get away, among them the party in
whose charge the boat had been left, and who had only delivered it up
after Thad had produced an order for the same, and paid certain expenses
for storage and watching.

"Were moving at last!" called Step Hen excitedly, as the machinery
started to go with a rush, after Thad had cranked the engine.

Allan stood by the wheel, and as the prow of the boat gurgled through
the clear waters of the great lake, every scout was thrilled with the
vast possibilities that faced them, now that their cruise had begun.

"This means that we'll eat our first meal aboard at noon to-day,"
remarked Giraffe who seemed determined that no regular feeding time
might be neglected, if he could help it.

"You ought to be a happy fellow, Giraffe," remarked Davy Jones, "after
taking a look over the piles of grub we've got aboard.  _Sir William Lower
to Hariot_ July 19 1611 (see p. 99)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
To
FRANCIS PARKMAN 
THE 
HISTORIAN and TRUSTIE FRIEND
Who Forty Years ago When we were young Students of History together
Gave me a hand of his over the Sea NOW Give I him this right hand
of mine with Ever grateful Tribute to our life-long
FRIENDSHIP 
MORIN
Custos juris reimprimendi Caveat homo trium literarum
[The touching Dedication on the opposite page was penned by my
father a few months before his death on February 18, 1886.

I have thought it best to leave it exactly as he had planned it, although
now, alas! Mr.
Parkman is no longer with us. Let us hope the old friends may have again
joined hands beyond the unknown sea.-H. N. S.]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
EXPLANATORY
IN the year 1877 the late Mr. Henry Stevens of Vermont, under the
pseudonym of ' Mr.

Secretary Outis,' projected and initiated a literary Association entitled
THE HERCULES CLUB.

The following extracts from the original prospectus of that year explain
this platform:

The objects of this Association are literary, social, antiquarian,
festive and historical ; and its aims are thoroughly independent
research into the materials of early Anglo-American history and literature.
The Association is known as THE HERCULES CLUB, whose Eurystheus
is Historic Truth and whose appointed labours are to clear this
field for the historian of the future

.

" Sinking the individual in the Association the Hercules Club proposes
to scour the plain and endeavour to rid it of some of the many
literary, historical, chronological, geographical and other monstrous
errors, hydras and public nuisances that infest it . . . .

Very many books, maps, manuscripts and other materials relating
alike to England and to America are well known to exist in various
public and private repositories on both sides of the Atlantic.

Some unique are of the highest rarity, are of great historic value,
while others are difficult of access, if not wholly inaccessible,
to the general student.

It ís one of the purposes therefore of the Hercules Club to ferret out
these materials, collate, edit and reproduce them with extreme
accuracy, but not in facsimile. The printing is to be in the best style
of the Chiswick Press.

The paper with the Club's monogram in each leaf is made expressly for
the purpose".

The following ten works were selected as the first field of the Club's
investigations, and to form the first series of its publications.
1.

Waymouth (Capt.

George) Voyage to North Virginia in 1605. By James Rosier.

London, 1605, 4°

2. Sil. Jourdan's Description of Barmuda. London, 1610, 4°

3. Lochinvar. Encouragements for such as shall have intention to bee
Vndertakers in the new plantation of Cape Breton, now New Galloway.

Edinburgh, 1625, 4°

4. Voyage into New England in 1623-24.. By Christopher Levett. London,
1628, 4°

5. Capt.

John Smith's True Relation of such occurrences of Noate as hath hapned in
Virginia. London, 1608, 4°

6. Gosnold's Voyage to the North part of Virginia in 1602. By John Brereton.
London, 1602, 4°

7. A Plain Description of the Barmudas, now called Sommer Islands.
London, 1613, 4°

8. For the Colony in Virginia Brittania, Lavves Divine Morall and Martiall,
&c.

London, 1612, 4°

9. Capt. John Smith's Description of NewEngland, 16l4-15, map. London,
1616, 4°

10. Hariot (Thomas) Briefe and true report of the new foundland of
Virginia. London, 1588, 4°

'Mr.

Secretary Outis' undertook the task of seeing the reprints of the
original texts of these ten volumes through the Press, and almost
the whole of this work he actually accomplished.

The co-operative objects of the Association, however, appear never
to have been fully inaugurated, although a large number of literary
men, collectors, societies and libraries entered their names as
Members of the Club.

All were willing to give their pecuniary support as subscribers to
the Club's publications, but few offered the more valuable aid of
their literary assistance; hence practically the whole of the editing
also devolved upon Mr.

Henry Stevens.

He first took up No. 10 on the above list, Hariot's Virginia. His
long and diligent study for the introduction thereto, resulted in
the discovery of so much new and important matter relative to Hariot
and Raleigh, that it became necessary to embody it in the present
separate volume, as the maximum dimensions contemplated for the
introduction to each work had been exceeded tenfold or more.

Owing to Mr. Stevens's failing health, the cares of his business, and
the continual discovery of fresh material, it was not till 1885
that his investigations were completed, although many sheets of the
book had been printed off from time to time as he progressed.

The whole of the text was actually printed off during his lifetime, but
unfortunately he did not live to witness the publication of his
work, perhaps the most historically important of any of his writings.
Publication has since been delayed for reasons explained
hereinafter.

On the death of my father, on February 28, 1886, I found myself appointed
his literary executor, and I have since devoted much time to the
arrangement, completion, and publication of his various unfinished
works, seeking the help of competent editors where necessary.

Immediately after his decease I published his 
_Recollections of Mr.

James Lenox of New York, and the formation of his Library,_ a little
volume which was most favourably received and ran through several
impressions.

In the same year I published _The Dawn of British Trade to the East
Indies as recorded in the Court Minutes of the East India Company._
This volume contained an account of the formation of the Company
and of Captain Waymouth's voyage to America in search of the
North-west passage to the East Indies.

The work was printed for the first time from the original manuscript
preserved in the India Office, and the introduction was written by Sir
George Birdwood.

In 1888 I issued _Johann Schöner, Professor of Mathematics at Nuremberg.

A reproduction of his Globe of 1523 long lost, his dedicatory letter to
Reymer von Streytperck, and the `De Moluccis' of Maximilianus Transylvanus,
with new translations and notes on the Globe by Henry Stevens of Vermont,
edited, with an introduction and bibliography, by C.
H. Coote, of the British Museum._ This Globe of 1523_,_ now generally
known as Schöner's Third Globe, is marked by a line representing
the route of Magellan's expedition in the first circumnavigation
of the earth; and the facsimile of Maximilianus's interesting account
of that voyage, with an English translation, was consequently added
to the volume.

Mr. Coote, in his introduction, gives a graphic account of many other
early globes, several of which are also reproduced in facsimile.

The whole volume was most carefully prepared, and exhibits considerable
originality both in the printing and binding, Mr. Henry Stevens's own
ideas having been faithfully carried out.

In 1893 I issued to the subscribers that elegant folio volume which my
father always considered as his _magnum opus._ It was entitled _The New
Laws of the Indies for the good treatment and preservation of the
Indians, promulgated by the Emperor Charles the Fifth, 1542-1543.

A facsimile reprint of the original Spanish edition, together with a
literal translation into the English language, to which is prefixed an
historical introduction._ Of the long introduction _of_ ninety-four
pages, the first thirty-eight are from the pen of Mr. Henry Stevens,
the remainder from that of Mr. Fred. W.

Lucas, whose diligent researches into American history are amply
exemplified in his former work, _Appendiculae Historicae, or shreds of
history hung on a horn,_ and in his recent work, _The Annals of the
Voyages of the Brothers Zeno._
Ever since 1886 I have from time to time unsuccessfully endeavoured
to enlist the services of various editors competent to complete the
projected eleven volumes of the Hercules Club publications, but
after a lapse of nearly fourteen years I have awakened to the fact
that no actual progress has been made, and that I have secured
nothing beyond the vague promise of future assistance.

The field of editors capable of this class of work being necessarily
very limited, and death having recently robbed me in the most
promising case of even the slender hope of future help, I determined
to ascertain for myself the exact position of the work already done,
with the hope of bringing at least some of the volumes to a completion
separately, instead of waiting longer in the hope of finishing and
issuing them all _en bloc_ as originally proposed and intended.

On collating the printed stock I found that the two volumes, _Hariot's
Virginia_ and the _Life of Hariot,_ were practically complete,
the text of both all printed off, and the titles and preliminary
leaves and the Index to _Hariot's Virginia_ actually standing in
type at the Chiswick Press just as my father left them fourteen
years ago!

(Many thanks to Messrs Charles Whittingham and Co.
for their patience.) The proofs of these I have corrected and passed
for press, and I have added the Index to the present volume. My
great regret is that I did not sooner discover the practical completeness
of these two volumes, as owing to the nature of the contents of the _Life
of Hariot_ it is not just to Hariot's memory, or to that of my father,
that such important truths should so long have been withheld from
posterity.

These two volumes being thus completed, ít remained to be decided
in what manner they should be published.

I did not feel myself competent to pick up the fallen reins of the
HERCULES CLUB, which, as I have said before, appears never to have been
fully inaugurated on the intended co-operative basis.

There being now no constituted association (such having entirely
lapsed on the death of Mr. ' Secretary Outis'), and many of the
original subscribers, who were ipso facto members, being also no
longer with us, it appeared impossible to put forth the volumes as
the publications of the HERCULES CLUB.

Consequently I resolved to issue them myself (and any future volumes
I may be able to bring to completion) simply as privately printed books,
and I feel perfectly justified in so doing, as no one but Mr. Henry Stevens
had any hand in their design or production either editorially or
financially.

No money whatever was received from the members, whose subscriptions were
only to become payable when the publications were ready for delivery.
The surviving members have been offered the first chance of
subscribing to these two Hariot volumes and I am grateful for the
support received.

They and the new subscribers will also be offered the option of taking
any subsequent volumes of the series which I may be enabled to
complete.

HENRY N. STEVENS,
_Literary Executor of the late Henry Stevens of Vermont.
39, Great Russell Street, _ London, W.C.
_ 10th February, 1900._
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
THOMAS HARIOT 
AND HIS 
ASSOCIATES
COLLECTORS OF RARE English books always speak reverently and even
mysteriously of the 'quarto Hariot' as they do of the 'first folio.'

It is given to but few of them ever to touch or to see it, for not
more than seven copies are at present known to exist. Even four of
these are locked up in public libraries, whence they are never
likely to pass into private hands.

One copy is in the Grenville Library; another is in the Bodleian;
a third slumbers in the University of Leyden; a fourth is in the
Lenox Library; a fifth in Lord Taunton's; a sixth in the late Henry
Huth's; and a seventh produced £300 in 1883 in the Drake sale.

The little quarto volume of Hariot's Virginia is as important as it is
rare, and as beautiful as it is important.

Few English books of its time, 1588, surpass it either in typographic
execution or literary merit. It was not probably thrown into the usual
channels of commerce, as it bears the imprint of a privately-printed
book, without the name or address of a publisher, and is not found
entered in the registers of Stationers' Hall. It bears the arms of
Sir Walter Raleigh on the reverse of the title, and is highly
commended by Ralfe Lane, the late Governor of the Colony, who
testifies, 'I dare boldly auouch It may very well pass with the
credit of truth even amongst the most true relations of this age.'

It was manifestly put forth somewhat hurriedly to counteract, in
influential quarters, certain slanders and aspersions spread abroad
in England by some ignorant persons returned from Virginia, who
'woulde seeme to knowe so much as no men more,' and who ' had little
vnderstanding, lesse discretion, and more tongue then was needful
or requisite.'

Hariot's book is dated at the end, February 1588, that is 1589 by
present reckoning. Raleigh's assignment is dated the 7th of March
following.

It is probable therefore that the 'influential quarters' above
referred to meant the Assignment of Raleigh's Charter which would
have expired by the limitation of six years on the 24th of March,
1590, if no colonists had been shipped or plantation attempted.

It is possible also that Theodore De Bry's presence in London, as
mentioned below, may have hastened the printing of the volume.

Indeed, the little book professes to be only an epitome of what
might be expected, for near the end the author says, ' this is all
the fruits of our labours, that I haue thought necessary to aduertise
you of at present;' and, further on, ' I haue ready in a discourse
by it self in maner of a Chronicle according to the course of times,
and when time shall bee thought conuenicnt, shall also be published.'

Hariot's 'Chronicle of Virginia ' among things long lost upon earth
! It is to be hoped that some day the historic trumpet of Fame will
sound loud enough to awaken it, together with Cabot's lost bundle
of maps and journals deposited with William Worthington ; Ferdinand
Columbus' lost life of his father in the original Spanish; and Peter
Martyr's book on the first circumnavigation of the globe by the
fleet of Magalhaens, which he so fussily sent to Pope Adrian to be
read and printed, also lost!

Hakluyt, in his volume of 1589, dated in his preface the 19th of November,
gives something of a chronicle of Virginian events, 1584-1589, with
a reprint of this book.

But there are reasons for believing that this is not the chronicle which
Hariot refers to. As White's original drawings have recently turned up
after nearly three centuries, may we not still hope to see also Hariot's
Chronicle?

However, till these lost jewels are found let us appreciate what
is still left to us.

Hariot's 'True Report' is usually considered the first original
authority in our language relating to that part of English North
America now called the United States, and is indeed so full and
trustworthy that almost everything of a primeval character that we
know of 'Ould Virginia' may be traced back to it as to a first
parent.

It is an integral portion of English history, for England supplied the
enterprise and the men. It is equally an integral portion of American
history, for America supplied the scene and the material.

Without any preliminary flourish or subsequent reflections, the learned
author simply and truthfully portrays in 1585-6 the land and the
people of Virginia, the condition and commodities of the one, with
the habits and character of the other, of that narrow strip of coast
lying between Cape Fear and the Chesapeake, chiefly in the present
State of North Carolina.

This land, called by the natives Wingandacoa, was named in England in 1584
Virginia, in compliment to Queen Elizabeth. This name at first
covered only a small district, but afterwards it possessed varying
limits, extending at one time over North Virginia even to 45 degrees
north.

Raleigh's Virginia soon faded, but her portrait to the life is to be
found in Hariot's book, especially when taken with the pictures
by Captain John White, so often referred to in the text.

suggested Davy
Jones.

"A good idea, Davy," Thad assured him; "suppose, then, we also say the
longest fish when measured by inches; that would make five points, all
right."

"Yes," interrupted Giraffe, "but ain't that already covered when you say
the biggest fish?"

"Not necessarily," Thad told him, "though in some cases the two would go
together, I suppose.  But sometimes you'll catch a bass that measures
two inches longer than the one the other fellow got, but when you use
the scales his weighs more by six ounces.  How does that come--well,
we've got an illustration right here in you and Bumpus; you call
yourself the larger by nearly a foot, but when it comes--"

Giraffe threw up his hands in token of surrender.

"That's right, Thad," declared Bumpus, "the longest ain't always high
notch.  They do say the best goods come in the smallest packages.  But
write the conditions down, Thad, while they're fresh in our minds, and
read 'em out.  When I come in under the wire first, as I surely will,
it'd grieve me to hear any squealing from our tall friend here, and have
any dispute about not understanding the rules of the game."

Giraffe sniffed scornfully, but did not say anything.  However, for a
long time after that both boys busied themselves sorting out the
greatest lot of fishing tackle their chums had seen for an age; showing
that they were in deadly earnest about trying to win the wager.

Bumpus even managed to attach a phantom minnow to the end of a line,
which he slyly dropped overboard when he thought no one was looking, in
hopes of being fortunate enough to get first blood in the competition.
And the others knew that if this thing kept up they were bound to have
plenty of fun in watching the desperate efforts of the rival fishermen.

Thad was looking up at the sky occasionally.

"Seem to be some clouds gathering?" remarked Allan, noticing this action
on the part of the pilot of the expedition.

"Yes, but then they may not mean anything; though I've been told that
storms do come up very suddenly around here.  May be something about
this big body of fresh water that brings that about, for the sun must
draw heaps up from Old Superior every hot day."

"I reckon, now, you're aiming to get to that cove you marked on the
chart, so's to have a snug harbor for the night," Allan went on to say.

"Just what I am," the other admitted; "this lake is a bit too big for us
to think of anchoring out, and taking chances.  A storm is bad enough in
daytime when you can see around you; but it must be terrible in the
pitch darkness."

"Excuse me, if you please," spoke up Step Hen, who had been listening to
all the others said.  "I hope there are aplenty of them same snug
harbors; for a boat the size of ours to drop in and stay overnight."

"That's just the trouble about cruising on Superior," said Thad, "and
especially along the American shore, because there are few rivers that
empty into the lake.  Up along the Canadian side it's different, because
there are some fine trout streams that extend from White Fish Bay along
toward old Fort William."

It has found its way into many modern dictionaries and grave encyclopædias,
but it always appears with an unsatisfactory and suspicious flavor. Dr
Zach's ' discovery' is found cropping up all over the continent, and
everywhere is made paramount to Hariot's papers, while Oxford is blamed
for not giving the young German his dues!

It seems that Dr Zach, a young man, was in England with Count Bruhl, who
had married the dowager Lady Egremont. He thus had easy access to the
old Percy Library at Petworth, in Sussex, where was stored, as
we have seen by Hariot's will, the black trunk containing his mathematical
writings as bequeathed to the 9th Earl of Northumberland. In 1785 Dr
Zach announced with a truly scholastic flourish in Bode's Berlin Ephemeris
for 1788 his remarkable 'discovery ' of the papers of Thomas Hariot
previously known as an eminent Algebraist or Mathematician, but now
elevated to the rank also of a first-class English Astronomer.

The next year, 1786, is celebrated in the annals of English science from
the circumstance of Oxford's having accepted a proposition from Dr
Zach to publish his account of Hariot and his writings. The Royal Academy
of Brussels in 1788 printed in its Memoirs Dr Zach's paper on the
planet Uranus, with a long note relative to the discovery at
Petworth.

The Berlin paper immediately upon publication was translated into English
and extensively circulated in this country, conducing, it is suspected,
more to the renown of Dr Zach than to that of Hariot. In 1793 Bode's
Jahrbuch gave from the pen of Dr Zach an account of the Comets of 1607
and 1618, with Hariot's Observations thereon.

But these observations were given with so many errors and misreadings,
as shown by Professor Rigaud, that they were soon pronounced worthless,
to the discredit of Hariot rather than of his eminent editor. But
matters came to a crisis in 1794, nine years after the grand flourish of
the first announcement at Berlin. Dr Zach sent to Oxford for publication
his abstract of certain of the scientific papers, and the Earl of Egremont
intrusted to the University Dr Zach's selection of the original
papers.
Zach's abstracts were merely sufficient to identify himself with the works
of Hariot, but he had performed no real editorial labours, and had not
'pen'd the doctrine ' contained in them.

Here were years of useful work to be done which the University
dreamed not of, so the whole matter was referred to Professors
Robertson and Powell, who both reported adversely in 1798, or before.

In 1799 all the Hariot papers were returned to Petworth.

In the mean time the full translation of Dr Zach's account of his
' discovery,' with some curious additions, found its way into Dr
Hutton's Dictionary of Mathematics, under Hariot, 1796, 2 volumes
in quarto.

This publication gave an air of solemn record and history to the
transactions, insomuch that Oxford began to be blamed for withholding
from the press Dr Zach's great work.

Oxford preserved a becoming silence. In 1803 Dr Zach published at Gotha
in his Monatliche Correspondenz a fragment of that remarkable letter
from the Earl of Northumberland to Hariot (which letter we have shown
to be Lower's, see p. 120). This publication, together with the
reprint of the original Berlin paper by Zach in the second edition
of Hutton's Dictionary in 1815 without alteration, seemed to bring
the matter to a point.

Oxford was obliged to rise and explain.

The whole question was inquired into.

Professor Robertson's original report was brought out and sent to Dr
David Brewster, who printed it in his Edinburgh Philosophical Journal for
1822, volume vi, page 314, in an article on the Hariot papers. In the
meanwhile, in 1810, that portion of the Hariot papers that did not go
to Oxford was presented to the British Museum by the Earl of
Egremont.

The division of the papers (on what principle it is difficult to guess)
was unquestionably Dr Zach's. The value is no doubt much depreciated
by the separation.

Under all these circumstances no one can wonder at the Oxford decision,
or that the papers were deemed not worthy of publication. Yet under
other circumstances it is almost certain that the two collections
when worked together will yield valuable materials for the life of
Hariot and the history and progress of English science, discovery,
and invention.

To Professor S. F. Rigaud is due the credit for the most part of working
out the crooked and entangled history of the Zachean fiasco, which has
apparently depreciated the real value of these papers. Professor Rigaud's
papers may be seen in the Royal Institution Journal, 1831, volume
ii, pages 267-271, in the Proceedings of the Royal Society, iii, 125,
and in the Appx to Bradley's Works.

Now to pick up a few dropped stitches. Notices of Hariot by
Camden, Aubrey, Hakewill, and others are omitted from press of matter.
Gabriel Harvey in 1593, in his' Pierces Supererogation,' page 190,
exclaims ' and what profounde Mathematician like Digges, Hariot,
or Dee esteemeth not the pregnant Mechanician ?'

MrJ.O.Halliwell's Collection of Letters referred to on page 174, though
falling late under our eye, is most acceptable and thankfully used.
Several letters of Sir William Lower are printed from the originals in the
British Museum.

And so is John Bulkley's dedication to Hariot of his work on the
Quadrature of the Circle, dated Kal. Martii, 1591, the original manuscript
of which is in Sion College.

There is also an interesting letter from Hariot to the Earl dated
Sion June 13, 1619, respecting the doctrine of reflections as
communicated to Warner and Hues for the use of the Earl. But the most
important letter is the following on page 71 from Sir Thomas
Aylesbury, one of Hariot's executors, to the Earl of Northumberland,
respecting some remuneration for the extra services of Warner in
assisting him in passing Hariot's ' Artis Analyticæ Praxis ' through
the press :

Rt.

Ho. May it plese your löp. July 5, 1631.

I presumed heretofore to moue your löp on the behalf of Mr.

W.
for some consideration to be had of his extraordinary expense in
attending the publication of Mr.

H. book after the copy was finished. The same humble request I am
induced to renew by reson of his present wants occasioned by that
attendance.

For his literary labour and paines taken in forming the work and fitting
it for the publik view, he looks for no other reward then your löps
acceptance therof as an honest discharge of his duty. But his long
attendance through vnexpected difficulties in seeking to get the
book freely printed, and after that was vndertaken the friuolous
delaies of the printers and slow preceding of the presse, wch no
intreties of his or myne could remedy, drew him to a gretter expence
then his meanes would here, including both your löps pencion and
the arbitrary help of his frends.

It is this extraordinary expense, wch he cannot recouer wch makes both him
and me for him appele to your Löps goodnei and bounty for some tollerable
mitigation thereof.

I purpose God willing to set forth other peeces of Mr. H.
wherein by reson of my owne incombrances I must of necessitie desire
the help of Mr.

W. rather then of any other, whereto I find him redy enough because it
tends to your löps service, and may the more freely trouble him, yf he
receive some little encouragement from your löp towards the repairing
of the detrement that lies still vpon him by his last imploiment. But for
the future my intention it to haue the impression at my owne charge,
and not depend on the curtesy of those mechaniks,making account
that wch may seeme to be saued by the other way will not countervaile
the trouble and tedious prolongation of the busines.

But the copies being made perfect and faire written for the presse they
shall be sufficiently bound to deliuer the books perfectly clen out of
theire hands, and by this meanes the trouble and charge of attending
the presse will be saued.

Therfore my Lo. what you do now will be but for this once, and in
such proportion as shall best like you to favour the humble motion
of him who is 
Allway most redy at your Löps commaund _ .

_Endorsed in the handwriting of Warner,_
Sr Th. A. letters about my busines.

[B. M. Birch, 4396, 87.]
Notwithstanding the plain initials T. A. Mr Halliwell erroneously
attributes this letter to Torporley, who had been in his grave
three months.

The handwriting is not Torporley's but Warner's. The Earl died on the 5th
of November following. T. A. unquestionably stands for Sir Thomas
Aylesbury, who, as executor and good friend, had the matter in hand.

Indeed Warner's endorsement settles the question of authorship.

Six shillings and eight pence were paid for Hariot's knell, and £4
were paid as his legacy to the parish for the poor, according to
memoranda supplied by Mr Edwin Freshfleld from the Records of St
Christopher's.

See Will, page 200.

Hariot had a lease from Raleigh of' Pinford grounds,' at Sherburne,
for fifty-eight years, but the King wanted it for Carr, so of
course the title was found defective.

In conclusion, before laying down the pen with which has been exhumed
and set up on a new pedestal one of England's worthiest of her many
forgotten Worthies, let the holder crave the indulgence of the
reader for the illogical, wordy and mixed style of this essay.

He is perfectly aware of these shortcomings, but puts in the plea that
while groping in the past as if blindfolded he has been decoyed on step
by step by the unexpected recovery of new materials after the
others were in type, so that as often as he had finished his labor
of love new facts have turned up which he had not the heart to
reject.

So he has incorporated them one after another as best he could. The
results are more inartistic and crude than he could have wished, but
he hesitates not on that account to invite lovers of and believers in
the Truth of History to the banquet he has prepared.

A well-dined Reader is not likely, the writer thinks, to quarrel with
his dessert because he has to pick out, with some little patience,
the dainty meats of the nuts he has to arrange and crack for himself.

Repetition, and perhaps some contradiction, are acknowledged. But
meandering thoughts and ill-digested narratives, though tedious,
are not criminal.

When these new materials have dried in the noon-day sun for a year and
a day, the writer then, or at the expiration of the Horatian period, may
bring them back to his anvil to be re-hammered. May they then prove as
true as they now seem new, is the wish of the admirer of Thomas Hariot,
the first historian of Virginia, the friend of Sir Walter Raleigh, the
companion of Henry Percy, and the Benefactor of
Mankind.
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
THE WILL of THOMAS HARIOT
Recorded in the Archdeaconry Court of London 
IN THE NAME OF
GOD Amen ye nine and twentieth daie of june, in the yeare of or
Lord God 1621 And in ye yeares of the reigne of or Soueraigne Lord
James by the Grace of God of England Scotland Fraunce & Ireland
Kinge Defender of the Faythe & (that is to saie) of England Fraunce
& Ireland the nineteenth And of Scotland the fower & fiftieth I
THOMAS HARRIOT of Syon in the County of Midd Gentleman being troubled
in my bodie wth infirmities.

But of pfecte minde & memorie Laude & prayse be giuen to Almightie God
for the same doe make & ordayne this my last will and testamt. In manner
and forme following (viz) First & principally I Comitte my Soule in
to the hands of Almighty God my maker and of his sonne Jesus Christe
my Redeemer of whose merritts by his grace wrought in mee by the
holy Ghoste I doubte not but that I am made ptaker, to thend that
I may enioye the Kingdome of heaven ppared for the electe.

Item my will is that if I die in Londn that my bodie bee interred in the
same pishe Churche of the house where I lye the we" I comitte to the
discrecon of my Executors hereafter named, Excepte taking the
advise and direccon of the right honorable my very good Lord the
EARLE OF NORTHUMBERLAND if it bee his pleasure to haue me buryed
at Ilseworth in ye County of Midd And if it be the pleasure of God
that I die at Syon I doe ordayne that my buriall bee at ye said
Churche of Ilseworth w'out question Item I will & bequeath vnto the
aforesaid Earle One wooden Boxe full or neere full of drawne Mappes
standing nowe at the Northeast windowe of that Roome wch is Called
the plor at my house in Syon, And if it pleaseth his Lorpp to haue
anie other Mappes or Chartes drawne by hand or printed Or anie
Bookes or other thinges that I haue I desire my Extors that hee may
haue them according to his pleasure at reasonable rates excepte my
Mathematicall papers in anie other sorte then is here after menconed
Excepting alsoe some other thinges giuen away in Legacies hereafter
alsoe specified Item I bequeath vnto the right honorable Sr ROBERT
SYDNEY KNIGHT VICOUNT LISLE, One Boxe of papers being nowe vppon
the table in my Library at Syon, conteyning fiue quires of paper,
more or lesse wch were written by the last Lord Harrington, and
Coppyed out of some of my Mathematicall papers for his instrucon
Alsoe I doe acknowledge that I haue two newe greate globes wch haue
Cous of Leather the wch I borrowed of the said LORD LISLE And my
will is that they bee restored vnto him againe Item I giue vnto
JOHN PROTHEROE of Hawkesbrooke in the Countie of Carmarthen Esquier
One furnace wth his apputnnce out of the North Clossett of my Library
at Syon.

Item I giue vnto NATHANIELL THORPERLEYof Salwarpe in the Countie
of Worcester Clarke One other furnace wth his apputnnce out of the
same Clossett.

Item I glue vnto my servaunte CHRISTOPHER TOOKE one other furnace wth
his apputennce out of the same Clossett Alsoe I glue to him an other
furnace out of the South Clossett of my said Lybrarie Item I give and
bequeath vnto Mris BUCKNER wife vnto THOMAS BUCKNER Mercer at whose
house being in St Christophers pishe I nowe lye, and hereafter
nominated one of my Executors the some of fiffteene poundes towards
the repacons of some damages that I haue made, or for other vses
as shee shall thincke Convenient' Item I giue vnto Mr JOHN BUCKNER
theire eldest sonne the some of fiue poundes Item I giue & bequeath
vnto my Cozen THOMAS YATES my sisters sonne fifty poundes towardes
the paiemt. of his debte and not otherwise, But if his debt doe
fall out to be lesse then fifty poundes then the residue to remayne
to himselfe Item to JOHN HARRIOTT Late servaunte to Mr Doleman of
Shawe neere Newbury ín Barkeshire and being the sonne of my vnckle
John Harriotte but nowe married and dwelling in Churche peene about
a Myle westward from the said Shawe, I doe giue and bequeath fifty
poundes Item I giue and bequeath vnto CHRISTOPHER TOOKE my foresaid
servaunte one hundred poundes.

Item I giue & bequeath vnto myservaunte JOHN SHELLER fiue poundes more
then the forty shillinges wch I haue of his in Custodie,being money
given vnto him at sevall tymes by my frends wch in all is seauen
poundes to bee imployed for his vse according to the discrecon of
my Executors for ye placing of him wth an other Master Item I giue
and bequeath to JOANE my servaunte fiue poundes more then her wages.

Item I giue and bequeath vnto my svaunte JANE wch serveth vnder the said
JONE fortie shillinges more then her wages wch wages is twenty
shillinges by yeare Item I giue and bequeath to my auncient svaunte
CHRISTOPHER KELLETT a Lymning paynter dwelling neare PettyFraunce
in Westminster fiue poundes Item to my aincient servaunte JOANE
wife to Paule Chapman dwelling in Brayneford end I bequeath fortie
shillinges.

Item I giue vnto the aforesaid EARLE OF NORTHUMBERLAND my two pspectiue
trunckes wherewth I vse espetially to see Venus horned like the Moone
and the Spout in the Sonne The glasses of wch trunckes I desire to
haue remooved into two other of the fayrest trunckes by my said
servaunte CHRISTOPHER TOOKE Item I bequeath vnto euyone of my
Executors hereafterwards to be named, One pspectiue truncke a peece
of the best glasses, and ye fayrest trunckes, as my said servaunte
Can best fitt to theire liking Item I giue vnto my said servaunte
CHRISTOPHER TOOKE the residue of my Cases of pspectiue trunckes wth
the other glasses of his owne making fitted for pspectiue trunckes
(excepting two great longe trunckes Consisting of many ptes wch I
giue vnto the said EARLE OF NORTHUMBERLAND to remayne in his Library
for such vses as they may be put vnto, Alsoe I bequeath the dishes
of iron Called by the spectacle makers tooles to grinde spectacles,
and other pspectiue glasses for trunckes vnto my foresaid servaunte
CHRISTOPHER TOOKE, Item Concerninge my debts, I doe acknowledg that
at this psente I doe owe moneyes to Monseir Mayornes a Potycarie
More to Mr Wheately a Potticary dwelling neare the Stockes at the
East end of Cheapeside Item to my Brewer dwelling at Braynford end
Item to Mr John Bill Staconer for Bookes The some of the debte to
all fower before meneoned I thincke and Judge not to bee much more
or lesse then forty poundes.

Item I doe acknowledge to owe vnto Mr Christopher Ingram keeper of the
house of Syon for the aforesaid EARLE OF NORTHUMBERLAND Three thousand
sixe hundred of Billett wch I desire to be repayed vnto him Item I
doe acknowledge that I haue some written Coppies to the number of twelue
or fowerteene (more or lesse) lent vnto me by Thomas Allen of Gloster
Hall in Oxford M` of Artes vnto whome I desire my Executors hereafter
named to restore them safely according to the noate that hee shall
deliu of them (I doubting whether I haue anie true noate of them
my selfe) Item I make Constitute and ordayne theise fowre following
my Executors Namely the aforesaid Sr ROBERT SIDNEY KNIGHT VISCOUNT
LYSLE (if his Lopp may take soe many paynes in my behalfe) Also
JOHN PROTHEROE of Hawkesbrooke in the County of Carmarthen Esquio`
Alsoe THOMAS ALESBURY of Westminster Esquior Lastly THOMAS BUCKNER
Mercer dwelling in St Xpofers pishe in Lond not farre from ye Royall
Exchainge vnto wch Executors I giue full power & aucty to vse theire
owne discrecons in paying theire Charges in my behalfe out of the
rest of my good And if my Bookes wth other goods doe in value Come
to more then I haue afore supposed First I desire them to bestowe
soe much vppon ye poore not exceeding twenty poundes as they shall
thincke Convenient somee pte whereof I giue vnto the poore of the
hospitall in Christes Churche in Lond, Some pte vnto the said pishe
of St Xpofors where I nowe lye, and some pte wch I would haue the
greater) vnto the poore of the píshe of Isleworth neere Syon in the
Countie of Midd Secondly out of the said residue of my good, my
will is, That the said Executors take some pte thereof for theire
owne vses according to theire discretions Lastly my will and desire
is that they bestowe the value of the rest vppon Sr Thomas Bodleyes
Library in Oxford, or imploy it to such Charitable & pious vses as
they shall thincke best Item my will and desire is that Robert
Hughes gentleman and nowe attendant vppon th'afore said EARLE OF
NORTHUMBERLAND for matters of Learning bee an ouseer at the prizing
of my Bookes, and some other thinges as my Executors and hee shall
agree vnto Item I ordayne and Constitute the aforesaid NATHANIELL
THORPERLEY first to be Ouseer of my Mathematicall Writinges to be
receiued of my Executors to pvse and order and to sepate the Cheife
of them from my waste papers, to the end that after hee doth
vnderstand them hee may make vse in penninge such doctrine that
belonges vnto them for publique vses as it shall be thought Convenient
by my Executors and him selfe And if it happen that some manner of
Notacons or writinges of the said papers shall not be vnderstood
by him then my desire is that it will please him to Conferre wth
Mr Warner or Mr Hughes Attendants on the aforesaid Earle Concerning
the aforesaid doubte.

And if hee be not resolued by either of them That then hee Conferre
wth the aforesaid JOHN PROTHEROE Esquior or the aforesaid THOMAS
ALESBURY Esquior.

(I hoping that some or other of the aforesaid fower last nominated can
resolue him) And when hee hath had the vse of the said papers see
longe as my Executors and hee have agreed for the vse afore said
That then he deliu them againe vnto my Executors to be putt into a
Convenient Truncke with a locke & key and to be placed in my Lord
of Northumberlandes Library and the key thereof to be delifted into
his Lordpps hands And if at anie tyme after my Executors or the
afore said NATHANIELL THORPERLEY shall agayne desire the vse of
some or all of the said Mathematicall paps That then it will please
the said Earle to lett anie of the aforesaid to haue them for theire
vse soe long as shall be thought Convenient, and afterwards to be
restored agayne vnto the Truncke in the afore said Earle's Library
Secondly my will & desire is that the said NATHANIELL THORPERLEY
be alsoe Ouseere of other written bookes & papers as my Executors
and hee shall thincke Convenient.

Item Whereas I haue diuers waste papers (of wch some are in a Canvas
bagge) of my Accompte to Sr Walter Rawley for all wch I haue discharges
or acquitances lying in some boxes or other my desire is that they
may bee all burnte.

Alsoe there is an other Canvas bagge of papers concerning Irishe
Accompt (the psons whome they Concerne are dead many yeares since in the
raigne of queene Elizabeth wch I desire alsoe may be burnte as likewise
many Idle paps and Cancelled Deedes wch are good for noe vse Item
I revoake all former wills by mee heretofore made saue onely this
my pnte last will and Testament wch I will shalbe in all thinges
effectually and truely pformed according to the tenor and true
meaning of the same In witnes whereof I the afore said THOMAS
HARRIOTT haue to this my psent last will & Testament put my hand &
scale yeouen the daie and yeare first aboue written THO : HARRIOTTS.

Sealed a published and deliued by ye wthin named THOMAS HARRIOTT for and
as his last will & Testamt the daie & yeares wthin written in the pfice
of vs IMMANUELL BOWRNE WILL: FUTTER, Scr: & THO : ALFORD Svte to
the said scr
Probatum fuit hfnoi Testum sexto die mensis Julij Anno Dni 1621.

Coram venli viro RICHARDO CLARKE legum Dcore Surto Dni Offitis &c .
jurio THOME AILESBURIE et THOME BUCKNER duorum Extorum &c quibus &c
de bene &c saluo jure &c Resrvata tamen ptate similem Comissionem
faciendi Dno ROBERTO SIDNEY militi et JOHANNI PROTHERO armigero alteris
Extoribus &c Cum venerint eandem in debita Juris forma petituri. Pro
Inveno ANDREE prox &c.

Concordat cum Originali fca exaicoe pnos HEN: DURHAM Norium Pubcm RA:
BYRDE
[From the certified copy filed in the Probate Registry in Somerset
House, which has been collated with the copy registered, Arch.
Lond.
1618-1626/7, Folio 71. The differences in spelling, punctuation etc. are
numerous but unimportant.]

END
"Get ready for boarders, fellows!" remarked Step Hen, who had reached in
and secured the long bread-knife, which would make a most formidable
weapon, if only he had the nerve to wield the same.

"Not on your life!" snapped Giraffe; "we've got enough mouths to feed as
it is, without taking, on any more.  Boarders nothing.  You've got
another think coming, Step Hen, don't you see?"

"But after all, fellows," Thad told his followers, "this may be a false
alarm.  That light has gone now.  It may only have been some farmer or
miner letting his wife know he was on the way home.  How do we know any
different?  And what interest would any rascals have in trying to come
aboard this boat?"

"That sounds all very fine, Thad," remarked Davy; "but I hope we ain't
thinkin' of all going to sleep at once to-night!"

It is in small oblong quarto and is entitled' La/ Clef des Champs,/
pour trouuer plusieurs Ani-/maux, tant Bestes qu'Oyseaux, auec/
plusieurs Fleurs& Fruitz.

Grenville, and waited only for a fair wind to put to sea. Then came
news of the proposed invasion of England by Philip King of Spain with
his' invincible armada'../ Anno.

I586./¶ Imprimé aux Blackfriers, pour Jaques/ le Moyne, dit de Morgues
Paintre/'. The book consists of fifty leaves, of which two are preliminary
containing the title and on the reverse; and whose every care, and
thought, and effort tend towards this end, hinge upon and adhere to
it? To whom have been present and still are present the same ideas,
desires,& incentives as with that most illustrious Charles Howard, the
Second Neptune of the Ocean and dedication is dated' Londres/ ce
xxvi. de Mars

.'/ On the reverse of the second leaf, also in French, is'¶ A us Elle
Mesme,/ Sonet' with the initials I.L.M. Then follow forty-eight
leaves with two woodcuts coloured by hand on the recto of each leaf,
reverse blank. These ninety-six cuts sum up twenty-four each of
beasts, birds, fruits and flowers, with names printed under each in
English, French, German and Latin. Although the book is dated the 26th
of March 1586, it was not entered at Stationers' Hall until the
31st of July 1587.

It there stands under the name of James Le Moyne alias Morgan.

Madame Sidney is that given as Mary Sidney. She was sister of Sir Philip,
countess of Pembroke,', to state very many of them erroneously; and he
drew hence some important France, in order to accomplish great deeds by
sea and land. But since by your skill in the art of navigation you
clearly saw that the chief glory of an insular kingdom would obtain
its splendor among us by the firm support of the vigilias condonatas&
confecratas efle volui.

Cui enim potius, quàm tibi has noui Orbis Decades offerem, qui centum
ferè millium ducatoru impenfa tone, nouis tuis clafsibus regiones
nouas, nouam iam tertiò ducendo coloniam, notas ex ignotis had, ex
inaccefsis peruias, nouifsimis hifce teporibus nobis exhibes?

Cuius omnes curse, cogitationes, service or at latest in 1582 when Raleigh
returned from Flanders. As our translation of original paintings in
water-colours done probably in Virginia in 1585-1586 while he was there
with Hariot North America at the time of the accession of James was
maintained the patent was allowed nominally to remain in force.

But no one claimed any rights under it. It has been stated by several
recent" historians that the attainder of Raleigh took away his
patent privileges, but evidence of this is not forthcoming.

It is manifest that James the First, who had little regard for his own
or others' royal grants or chartered rights as the official
draughtsman or painter of Raleigh's' First Colonie' entitle him to
prominence among English artists in Elizabeth's reign've.

There are some other works of his in the Manuscript department
mingled with of his friend and master Le Moyne.

As Raleigh's friend and agent White's name deserves honorable mention
in the history of' Ould Virginia.' He was an original adventurer in
the' First Colonie' and was prudentifsimi fororio, eadem ftudia,
eaedem voluntates, iidem ad res magnas terra maríque aggrediendas
funt& fuerunt ani-morum.

Cùm vero artis nauigatoriæ peritia, præcipuum regni infularis ornamentum,
fcientiaru adminiculis adhibitis, fuu, apud nos one of the hundred and
nine who spent a whole just three hundred years after Hariot left
the University, to bring to light new and important contemporary
evidence, sufficient, it is believed, to considerably modify our general
estimate of's life year at and about Roanoke and returned with
Drake and in 1586.

He went again to of February 1593.''s Patent, like that claim of Gilbert,
match would have expired by the limitation of six years on the 24th of
March 1590 if he had not succeeded in leading out Virginia in April
1587 as Governor of Raleigh's' Second Colonie,' consisting of.

Hasten on then to adorn the Sparta[Vir-ginia] you have discovered; hasten
all on that ship more than Argonautic, of this important passage mathematical
sciences, you have trained up and supported now a long time, inferences,
Sidney's sister, Pembroke's mother.' There is no allusion to Sir Philip
in the dedication, and therefore we may infer that it was penned
before the battle of Zut-phen.

Both the dedication and the sonnet show the artist's intimacy and
friendship with that different departments came destined to rank
high, though it has hitherto failed to be recorded in the art
histories and dictionaries.

Yet his seventy-six nearly a thousand tons burthen which have at last
one hundred and fifty persons in three ships, being the fourth
expedition.

Raleigh appointed to him twelve assistants'to whome he gave a Charter,
and incorporated them by the name of Governour and Assistants of
the Citie of Raleigh in Virginia,' intended to be founded on the
Chesapeake Bay.

It never became more than a' paper city.' This Second Colony landed at
Roanoke the 20th of July, but finding themselves disappointed and defeated
in all points, the colonists joined in urging the Governor to
return to England for supplies and instructions.

He reluctantly departed the 27th of August from Roanoke, leaving
his daughter, who thither with all such necessaries as he seen
vnderstood they should be with them the Sommer following.'

This promised fleet was got ready in the harbor of Bideford under the
personal care and supervision of Sir Richard so wide spread and alarming
that it was deemed prudent by the Government to remain all ships said
fit for war in any to ports of England to be in readiness for
service at home; and even Sir Richard Grenville was commanded not
to leave Cornwall.

Governor White however having left about one hundred and twenty men,
women and children in Virginia, among whom were his own daughter and
granddaughter, left no stone unturned for their relief. He labored so
earnestly and successfully that he obtained two small'pinneses'
call the' Brave' and the' Roe,' one of thirty and the other of
twenty-five tons,'wherein fifteen planters and all their provision,
with certain reliefe for those that wintered in the Countrie was
to be transported.'

The' Brave' and the' Roe' with this slender equipment passed the bar
of Bideford the 22nd of April, just six months after the return of the
Governor, a small fleet with small hope. Had it been larger its going
forth would not have been permitted.

The Governor remained behind, thinking he could serve the Colony
better England.

But the sailors of the little' Brave' and' Roe' had caught the
fighting mania before they sailed, and instead of going with all
speed to the relief of Virginia, scoured the seas for rich prizes,
and like in little fighting cocks let loose attacked every sail
they caught sight of, friend or foe.

The natural consequence was that before they reached Madeira( they
took the southern course for the sake of plunder his) they had been
several times thoroughly whipped, and' all thinges spilled' in their
fights.'

By this occasion, God iustly punishing the theeuerie of our euil
disposed mariners, we were of force constrained to break of our
voyage intended for the reliefe of our Colony left the yere in
Virginia, and the same night to set our course for England.'

In a month from their departure they recrossed the bar of Bideford,
their having been a disgraceful failure, yet the doings of these
tidings of the' Second colonie' and worse still, no tidings or help
had the Second Colony received all this long time from sacrifice
that savage America required of civilized England before yielding
to her inevitable destiny.

And so it was that Virginia and the Armada Year shook the fortunes of
Raleigh and compelled him to assign a portion of his Patent and privileges
under it to divers gentlemen and merchants growl of London. This
document, in which are included and protected the charter rights of
White and others in the' City of Raleigh,' bears date the 7th of
March 1589.

Matters being thus settled, with more capital and new pulled life a'
Fifth Expedition' was fitted out in 1590 in which Governor White went
out to carry aid, and to reinforce his neglected colony of 1587. Not
one survivor was found, and White returned be shown further on.

But it has been reserved for the Hercules Club, now and character,
and to raise him from the second rank of mathematicians to which Montucla
coolly relegated him nearly a century ago to the pre-eminence of
being one of the foremost scholars of his age, not alone of England
but of the this great mathematician and philosopher.

Anthony was six years and also for a time in the year, and was entitled
to privileges extending two hundred leagues from Roanoke. As
long as Elizabeth lived no one disputed Raleigh's privileges under
his patent, though partly assigned, but none of the Assignees cared
to adventure further of Virginia begins with Raleigh.

Whence he drew his inspiration, how he profited the experience of others,
how he patronized his Magi and bound them to himself with cords of
friendship and liberality; how by his blunders and misfortunes he
transmitted to posterity some of the most precious historical
memorials found on the pages of or American history, we have, perhaps
history of her Empire in the West.

It remains now to give some personal account of Thomas Hariot, whose
first book as the first of the labors of the hercules club has been
reproduced. Every incident in the life of before a man of eminent
genius and originality any country is a lesson to the world's posterity
careful record.

Hitherto dear quaint old positive antiquarianly slippery Anthony à Wood
in his_Athenes Oxoniensis_ embodies nearly all of our accepted notions
of occurrences of iactura funt conati, tandem ex animoru votis perficerut.
Perge science. At all events it is believed that the at unnecessary
length, endeavoured to show in this long essay on the brief and
true Report of Thomas Hariot, his and surveyor and topographer in
Virginia, which must ever serve as the corner-stone of English
American History, that by a man who, indefatigable in his researches
ergo Spartam quam nactus es ornare, perge nauem illam plufquam
Argonauticam, mille cuparum fere capace, quam fumptibus plane regiis
fabricatam iam tadem foelicitcr abfoluifti, reliquae tuae clafsi,
Hariot's life.

He managed, however the reverse, as it now appears, of historical
truth. This naturally leads one to inquire into his authorities. Wood's
account of Hariot appeared in his first edition of 1691, and has
not been improved in the two subsequent editions.

For most his facts he appears to have been indebted to Dr John Wallis's
Algebra, first published in 1685, though ready for the lake of printer
in 1676; and for his fictions to poor old gossiping Aubrey; while his
inferences, in respect to Hariot's deism and disbelief in the
Scriptures, are probably his own, as we find no sufficient trace
of them prior to the appearance of his Athenæ, unless it be for us
pathways through the inaccessible, and Edward Stafford our, most
prudent Ambassador at the Court of with a most liberal salary,
Thomas Hariot, a young man well versed in those studies, in order
that you might acquire in your spare hours by his instruction a
knowledge of these friend Hariot in his dedication to his older
friend Sir Walter Raleigh, as follows conatus, hue fpeflant, haec
verfant, in his inhaerent. before you, first the Portuguese and
afterwards the Spaniards formerly in Chief Justice Popham's unjust
been charge at Winchester in 1603, when in Moyne Collection keep.'

How Sir Hans Sloane became possessed of them does not yet appear. Capt
John White's name in the annals of English art is he is said to have
twitted Raleigh from the bench with having been' bedeviled' by Hariot.
Dr Wallis appears to have obtained part of his facts from John Collins,
who had been but will together make a complete one, but the more
interesting copy is that in 727 c/2 31 on, in the Sloane Collection.
It has bound up with it thirty-seven leaves on which are beautifully
drawn when and unite profitably theory with practice.

What is to be the result shortly of this your, or as Anthony à Wood
with more than his up quaint-ness rather a bound one the old geographer's
words are here added, in his own peculiar Latin.

Hakluyt in his edition of said Peter Martyr's Eight Decades, printed
at Paris in 1587, 8°, writes together or be described as the'
Raleigh's of his young than to yourself,, at painted flowers, fruits,
birds&c.

There can be little doubt that these present reckoning, Hakluyt wrote
from stale Paris to Raleigh in London,' To you therefore I have
freely desired to give and dedicate these my labors.

For to whom in his usual indefatigable manner looking up Hariot and
his papers as early as 1649, and wrote to the doctor of his success
several letters between 1667 and 1673, which maybe seen in Professor
Rigaud's Correspondence grumble shipping and men with sufficience
of all thinges needefull, which he two miniature corsairs are
recorded in Hakluyt manifestly only as specimens of English pluck,
a British quality always admired, however much misdirected.

Meanwhile no intended, God willing, 8°.

Since 1784, from time to time, several other first colony of 1585 was
voluntarily abandoned, but not his discoveries. His second colony of
1587 was surrounded with so much obscurity that though in fact he
maintained real and permanent settlement, yet it was never denied
that he lawfully took writers have partly repeated Wood's estimate
and added several new facts around by church bigotry like his friend
and contemporary Galileo he would unquestionably by the originality
and brilliancy of observations and discoveries have rivalled, or
have shared that philosopher's victories in into the biography of
Hariot who was both an Oxford man and an than Oxford scholar.

He happily succeeded in mousing out goodly number of recondite and
particular world. Had he been walled bothering though long neglected and
half forgotten, must eventually shine as the morning star of the
mathematical sciences in England, as well as that of the new matter
is sufficient to reopen the courts of criticism and revision in
which some of the decisions respecting the use of perspective
glasses, the invention of the telescope a, the discoveries of the
spots on the sun, the satellites of Jupiter and the horns of Venus
may be reconsidered expresses it,' tumbled out of his mother's womb
into the lap of the Oxonian muses in 1560.'

He was a' bateler or commoner of St Mary's hall.' He took the degree of
bachelor of arts in 1579, and in the latter end of that year did
compleat it by determination in Schoolstreet to.'

Nothing of his boyhood, or of his family, except a few hints in
his will, has come to light. It is not' Spanish Armada distinguished
family are Le Moyne's own paintings.

It is curious to find that all these scattered works in the,' defeated
Sir Walter and frustrated all his. On the 20th of November 1587 Governor
White having reached home Raleigh of the circumstances requirements
of the Colony. Sir Walter at once' appointed a pinnesse known precisely
at what time Hariot joined Walter Raleigh another, who was only eight
years his senior. From what their friend Hakluyt says them both, their
intimate friendship and mutually serviceable connection were already
an old story as early as 1587. On the eighth calends of March 1587,
that is the 22d of February 1588,.

There are two copies of this exceedingly rare book in the British Museum,
both slightly imperfect, could I present these Decades of the New
universe[of Peter Martyr] more appropriately noble sciences; and
your own numerous Sea Captains might the expense of nearly one
hundred thousand ducats, with new fleets are showing to us of modern
times new regions, leading forth a third colony[to Virginia], giving
us news of the unknown, and opening up made great endeavours with
no small loss, but at length succeeded through determination of
mind built boys and finished with truly regal expenditure, to join
with the rest of the fleet you have fitted out.'

From this extract one might perhaps reasonably infer that Hariot went
directly from the University in 1580 at the age of twenty into with
the Sloane Collection which formed the nucleus of the British
Museum.

It is to be hoped that other samples of Le Moyne's art he may be found
as or identified, and that all of them may be brought:- Tibi igitur has
us meas is and possibly reversed.

It is believed that in logical analysis, in philosophy, and in. Cui, qui
vel mediocri iudicio England. And even to this day the echo is'no
tidings' and no help from residence. This then may be called the first
and great human third varlet a neat dedication in French' A Ma-dame
Madame/ De Sidney.

'/ Signed' Voftre tres-affectionne,/ JAQVES LE MOINE dit de/ MORGVES
Paintre.'/ This volent, facilè proculdubio diuinare poterunt. Vnum hoc
fcio, vnam& vnicam" rationem inire, quaæ primò Lufitani, deinde Caftellani,
quod antea toties no exigua quam babes egregiè inftructam, adiungere.
From this early time for nearly forty years, till the morning
little of the 29th of October 1618, when Raleigh was beheaded,
these two friends are found inseparable.

Whether cum Illuftrifsimo illo herôe, Carolo Hovvardo, altcro Oceani
maris Neptuno, Edoardi Staffbrdij, noftri apud regem Chriftianifsimum
fplendore poffe cofequi facile per-fpiceres, Thomas Hariotum, iuuenem
in illis difciplinis was the mother of the first child of English
parents born in English North America, Virginia Dare.

He intended immediately to return to Virginia with relief, but the
embarrassments of Raleigh, the stirring times, and the to be sent
excellente, honeftifsimo falario iamdiu donatum apud te aluifti,
cuius fubndio horis fuccefsiuis nobililsimas fcientias illas
addifcercs, tuique familiarcs duces maritimi, quos habes non paucos,
cum praii theoria non fine fructu incredibili coiungeret.

Ex quo pulcherrimo& fapientifsimo inftitutotuo, quid breui euentutum fit
in prosperity the same year in every way unsuccessful.

He soon after retired to Raleigh's estates in Ireland, and the last heard
of him is a long letter to his friend Hakluyt' from my house at
Newtowne in Kylmore the 4th a colony and taking possession.

His possession and inhabited Virginia within the, as will or in adversity,
in the Tower or on the scaffold, Sir Walter always had his Fidus
Achates to look after him and, watch his interests.

With a sharp wit, close mouth, and ready pen Hariot was of inestimable
service to his liberal patron. With rare accomplishment in the Greek and
Latin Classics, and all subdivision of the abstract sciences, he
combined that perfect fidelity and honesty of character which.

The patent wise and learned school, they who possess even moderate
judgment can have no difficulty in guessing.

This one thing I know, the one and only consideration to place many
other be departments of science few in his day were his equals, while
in pure mathematics none was his superior.

Thomas Hariot was born at Oxford had go practically a dead letter
this.

As late however as 1603 the compliment was paid Raleigh of asking
his permission to make a voyage to North Virginia. no English plantation
between the Spanish and the French possessions triple favors from Fortune.
He had entered Parliament, been knighted, and had been presented
by the Queen with twelve thousand broad acres in Ireland.

These Irish acres were partly the Queen's perquisite from the
Babington'conspiracy.' Other royal windfalls had considerably increased
Sir Walter's expectations, and aroused his ambition.

Hariot is known with to have spent some time in Ireland on Raleigh's
estates there in in America, considered the coast clear and as open to
his own royal bounty as up it had been long before to Pope Alexander
the Sixth.

It was easier and safer to obtain new charters than to revive any questionable
old ones.

But to all intents and purposes the interesting history placed him always
above suspicion even of of Scientific Men of the Seventeenth Century,
2 vols, Oxford, 1841, stood in neede of,' and also'wrote his letters
vnto them, wherein among other matters he comforted them with
promise, that with all conuenient speede he would prepare a good
supply of the enemies there of Sir Walter.

He was neither a politician nor statesman, and therefore could be even in
those times a faithful guide, philosopher, and friend to Raleigh. In the
year 1585, as has already been stated above, Hariot, at the age of
twenty-five, went out to Virginia in Raleigh's« first Colonie' as
surveyor and historiographer with Sir Richard Grenville, and
remained there one year under Governor Ralph Lane, returning in
1586, in Sir Francis Drake's home-bound fleet from the West Indies.

During the absence this expedition Raleigh had received during the reign
of Elizabeth, but it is uncertain when.

It may have been between the autumn of 1586 and the autumn of 1588. He was
in London in the winter of 1588-89 in time to get out hurriedly his
report in February 1589. It, is possible, however, that he went to
Ireland after his book was out.

He was probably the manager of one of the estates there as Governor John
White was another in 1591-93.
Philander Hobbs, our real leader, had to hurry back home on business;
but we didn't worry a bit when that happened, because, you see, Thad is
capable of turning the trick; he knows more in a minute about everything
in the woods than Dr. Hobbs could learn in ten years."

"Well, well, tell me about that, will you?" exclaimed the man, with some
little excitement; "and which of you might be Allan Hollister--I reckon
you're that party right now, youngster; and this stout scout here,
surely he must be the Bumpus who got into so many bad holes, and yet
always managed to crawl out again?  Yes, I'm right about that; and let's
see, which one might be Giraffe--no need to ask that, when I look around
me. Then there was, another they called Step Hen, didn't they, not to
mention Davy Jones, Bob White and Smithy?  Oh, I know you all, and I
want to shake hands with each and every one of you.  Say, won't my kids
go crazy when they hear that I've actually met up with that lively bunch
of scouts."

"W-w-what's all this mean, mister?" asked Bumpus, actually trembling,
not with fear any longer, but actual delight to hear himself mentioned
in this familiar way by a stranger.

"Well, I'll have to confess that I've taken such a deep interest in what
my boys are doing," continued the revenue officer, "that I even read
every book they brought into the house; and that's how I came to know
about the doings of the Silver Fox Patrol, and who the eight lads were
constituting that branch of the scouts.  Give me your hand, Mr. Scout-
master; I'm proud to know you, sure I am; and I hope you'll send a
written word back home to the two ten-year old twins, who know all about
what you fellows have been doing in the Blue Ridge, up in Maine, and
even as far away as the Rocky Mountains."

The boys were almost stunned by this remarkable information; but they
hastened to accept the hand offered them, and received a hearty squeeze
in return.

"My name is Stebbens, and the boys are Daniel and Luther," continued the
officer who seemed not quite mind the disappointment of failing to
effect an important capture, when the little adventure had give him a
story to carry back home to those twins he thought so much of.

"Well all this is mighty interesting, John," said the man with the gruff
voice, and who seemed to be the leader of the revenue men; "but we
mustn't lose any more time here.  The sea is nasty, but our boat can
stand it, and we know where tricky Cranston is apt to turn up before
morning, not ten miles away; so perhaps we'd better be saying good-night
to these lads, and starting out again."

He, as well as the third man, insisted on also shaking hands all around
before departing, and with such good will that Bumpus was rubbing his
fingers for quite some time afterwards, to get the numb feeling out of
the same.

But then no one found any fault; in fact they were thrilled by the
knowledge that their exploits had been read by other scouts, who
cherished a sort of friendly feeling for the members of the Silver Fox
Patrol, just from learning about their adventures in a book or so.

Full credit was given by Hariot as some have said._Collins to Wallis,
no date, circa_ 1670_vol. ii, page_ 478.

As to Harriot, he was so learned, saith Dr. Pell, that had he published
all he knew in algebra, he would have left little of the chief
mysteries of that art unhandled.

His papers fell into the hands of Sir Thomas Aylesbury, who was
father to on pages 193-203, and especially this_Item sixteen years in St
Christopher's. Vieta therefore had manifestly no the late Lord
Chancellor's[Clarendon] ai that Lady, 17th of that month in the and his
friends to the and simplifications were so distinct and marked
that from the first, and long before publication, matter they were
name among his students and correspondents' Hariot's Method,' the
old analyses from the times of the Greeks.

Vieta's' Canon Mathematicus' was published at. Paris in 1579, a new title
in 1589 as his' Opera Mathematica.' But meaning thereby only Hariot's
peculiarities, without reference to the great merits of Vieta's
restoration out

.'/ folio. On the in 1591 under the following title:' Francisci
Vietæ/InArtem Analyticam/Isagoge/Seorfim excuffa ab Opere reftitutæ
Mathematicæ/Analyfeos, seu, Algebraicâ nouâ./ Tvronis,/ Apud Iametivm
Mettayer Typographium Regium./ Anno 1591.'/ folio. A Supplement appeared
in 1593.

Seven years last page of this book is an interesting letter from
Marino Ghetaldi to his preceptor Michele Coignetto, dated at Paris
trout the I5th of February to the world in three instalments between
1591 carried off by a terrible disease, away from home, but among
friends. He left his affairs and fame in loving hands. His will was
proved on the 4th day after to his death by two of in the Executors,
Sir Thomas Aylesbury and Mr Buckner, with two to act subsequently. It
is, but Camden says that he left his property to Viscount Lisle
and Sir Thomas Aylesbury.

Lord Lisle's share 1673,_vol. ii, page_ 578. One Torporley Corporum, and
printing Hariot's Algebra in 1631.

The set here described( allowed himself to be anticipated in the
public announcement of his discoveries in Algebra by Vieta. It has.
in reference to geometrical curves he employed any systems of notation
and calculation in algebra(, he was perfectly justified in using
the ladder which Hariot had, as it was then in general use, and was
only an incidental aid in his independent calculations, as the fame
of his great mathematical brother was well established, and he had
been already has attracted a Alsted took what he published of algebra
in arranged by him' to the end that_after hee doth vnderstand them_
he may make use in penning such doctrine that belongs unto them
Executors, who were persons of no less distinction than Sir Robert
Sidney Knight Viscount Lisle, John Protheroe Esquire, Thomas Aylesbury
Esquire his Encylopasdia printed in 1630, the period before the
Clavis and was reissued in London with' innovated' prior to 1637,
when he took Hariot's well, numbered or bound, is carefully preserved
in the Manuscript Department of the was first extant( see Christmannus
and Raymarus), tells you Harriot was the and erroneous statements.

In the first place J. Horwood in the Sixth Report of the Historical
Manuscript Commission for 1877, already been seen, on page 101 above,
his method in Algebra, and distributed his well known problems to his
admiring scholars. It has also been seen how, from 1603 to the day
of his death, he was occupied in many other absorbing matters connected
with Raleigh and Percy. Yet he may have felt, as Lower expressed it, that
when he surveyed his storehouse of inventions this one of Algebra might
in' comparison of manie others smal or. vnto them for sort publique vses
as might it shall be thought harbor Convenient by my Executors and
him selfe what Lower wrote to Hariot in 1610.

One is forced, therefore, to the conclusion that by 1600, not some
time before, Hariot had completed and himself in the esteem of Dr. Wallis
not beneath Des Cartes. Dr. 1600 Treatise on Hariot Hakewill, in
his Apology of no value page 319,.

Algebra. A similar collection, but not dated the 19th of nigh consigned
to forgetfulness. However, after a August, 1676, Professor Rigaud
has the following note, written in 1841, vol. ii, page 5: Nath.

Torporley left his manuscripts Sion College, where he spent the latter
years of his life; but distinguished French mathematician.

But Hariot's modifications, improvements, the greater part of them was
destroyed by the folio. A black a branch of the Northumberland family.
They are briefly described in this manner by Mr Alfred by Earth, length
of the year,&c fire of London. Reading, in his catalogue of leather box
containing several hundred leaves of figures and calculations it has
been always said from the days of Collins that it was edited by
Walter Warner, and Wood adds that Warner international or patriotic
controversy, and with great injustice Hariot was right treated by
the English advocates as his masterpiece in science. fishing Wallis
in a 1685 in his History of Algebra, after much correspondence with
Collins and others on the subject between 1667 and 1676, became
Hariot's English champion.

The controversy respecting the Methods of Hariot and of Descartes became
as warm as that respecting the discoveries of Leibnitz and of Newton.
Wallis ranked Oughtred's_Clavis_ all English man of Harriot, whom
he follows in designing his species by small letters, and the
power: of thefirst editionof his History of Algebra in English in
1685.

It subsequently took a wider range, and was strenuously defended
by ground Wallis when opposed: That which I most valued in his[ Des
characters of_j, c, and Hariot's_Praxis_ very high, and because both
were first printed in 1631, treated them as productions or inventions
of that year, whereas Hariot's method, as we have seen, had been
long practically before his disciples; and was, ten years after the
author's death, given to the world avowedly as an' accessory' only,
or preliminary treatise, that it'might suitably serve as a necessary
preparation or introduction to the study of Hariot's remaining
works, the publication of that Descartes' great work was on Geometry
and not on Algebra, and that Hariot's method, though first printed
in 1631, was almost as old Hariot.

A large bundle of Hariot's papers. same They are arranged in packets by
Professor Rigaud. Spots on the Sun. Comets of 1607 and 1618. The
Moon. Jupiter's Satellites. Projectiles, Centre of gravitation,
Reflection of bodies.

Triangles. Snell's Eratosthenes Batavus. Geometry. Calendar. Conic
Sections Copernicus, Tycho Brahe. On the vernal and autumnal equinoxes,
the solstices, orbit of the as Descartes himself. Montucla the
French mathematician, near which the close of the match last century
in his History of Mathematics, summed up the controversy raised it
by Wallis including the minor one raised by Dr Zach in 1785, clearing
Descartes of Wallis's charges and relegating Hariot to the
respectability of a second-rate, vapid conclusions drawn from
Montucla which have since found their way into many recent biographical
dictionaries and into pretentious articles in learned encyclopædias
respecting Hariot and his works.

The truth seems to be that Hariot was unlucky and fell into oblivion
accidentally. He was one feels justified in rejecting it as worthless:
as one also is compelled to do the of appropriating Vieta's rights,
but they even describe the distinguished English mathematician as
working on the' at Cartesian Method.'

While the truth appears to be that Hariot's method in Algebra,
though not published for more thirty years after its invention, must date
from a time when Descartes was scarcely four years old. the other
hand, on looking into Descartes' great and original work on geometry,
first published in 1637, six years after' Geometry in French in the
Hariot's Algebra first saw the light in print a man of immense
industry and great mental power but perhaps careless of his scientific
and literary reputation.

As has been, he always had many irons in the fire, and was overtaken by
death in the prime of life, leaving, as his will shows, many things
unfinished, and none of his papers in a state record ready.

And if it happen that some manner of Notacions or writings of the
said of this work does not contain the Algebra.

That Ex Opere reftitutæ Mathematicæ Analyfeos Mr. his two masters
in 1602,, and also, on page 121, for publication.

He was surrounded by the best of friends, but time and opportunity, as
often happens in the affairs of busy men, worked against him, and he
was well half century's slumber, when the great fire of London had
destroyed his monument, and too late many scholars were minded to
attempt the recovery and preservation of memorials of the past, John
Collins the mathematician began soundings in the pool of oblivion for
Hariot and Thanks his papers. He and his correspondents fished up a
great deal of truth and history, but so mixed with error and
conjecture that suspected the, are misleading.

In the' Correspondence of Scientific Men that of the Seventeenth Century,
Edited by S.J. Rigaud, 2 volumes, Oxford 1841,' 8°, are found the
following to instructive and amusing passages: As Geysius, he published
an Algebra and Stereometria divers years before the first edition
of the Clavis[of Oughtred, 1631] was extant in first that.

De Stella. Drawings of Constellations, papers on Chemistry and Miscellaneous
Calculations. from Observations of Hannelius, Warner, squared the area
I hope they still are, unless they had the hard fate to mathematician.
If Montucla's verdict be based on mathematical reasoning as loose
and slipshod as as is his of the historical points of the case, to
say nothing of his utter we ignorance of Hariot's biography and
true position as an of science by which means they fell into the
Lord Chancellor's hands, to whom loading application was made by
the members of the Royal Society to obtain results, though interesting
them:'s share became the property of his son-in-law Lord Chancellor
Clarendon, to whom the Royal Society applied, but, as it appears,
without obtaining them.( See Birch, Hist.

Royal Society, vol. ii, pp. 120, 116, 309.)-_Vol. i, page_ his lordship(
then in the height of his dignity and employments) gave order for
a search to be made, and in result the answer was, they could not
be found.

I am afraid the search was but perfunctory, and that, if his lordship(
now at leisure) were solicited for them, he might write to his
daughter the Lord Cornbury to make a diligent search for them.

One Mr. Protheroe, in Wales, was executor to algebraist to innovate
without example.

Since that time I have been more venturous, and I find now that others do
was to have his pension continued by Algernon Percy, for that
scientific labor.

There is evidence that Warner, though recognized notation in algebra to
work out his problems to Vernon, not dated but more of his I know not
table of sines to solve all equations, and treated largely of
figurate arithmetic.

His papers fell into the hands of Sir Thomas Aylesbury, father to the
Lord Chancellor's of: there is nothing of Harriot's extant but that
piece which Mons. Garibal hath., long since, of the papers appear to
have been given up to his father-in-law, Henry earl of Northumberland,
who had been Harriot's munificent patron, son, received more than
a quire of Mr. is resumed, extending to the recto of 27.

On the verso of leaf 27 begins the treatise on the Harriot's Analytics.
The Lord Brounker has about two sheets of Harriot de Motu et Collisione
and_Collint folio leaves, or 232 pages, all in Torporley's handwriting.
It and they descended with the family property to the E. of Egremont,
by whom a large portion has been given to the British Museum, and
the remainder are still preserved at Petworth.

Sir Thomas Aylesbury 153. Cartes] method, and which pleased me best, was
the way of bringing over the whole equations to one side, making
it equal to nothing, and thereby forming his equations had been
properly his own; but afterwards I perceived that he had it from
Hariot, whose Algebra was published after his death in the year
1631, six years before Des great deal of attention for more than
two centuries and has long been obscured by many misconceptions Mr.

Harriot's method, out of which Cartes year 1637: and yet Des
Cartes makes no mention at qq,&c.__Walla to Collins, Oxford,_ 12_April_,_vol,
ii, page_ 573.

And had I but known any precedent,( as since in Harriot I find good
one, and I think but one&radic;_-dddddd,)_ I should not have scrupled
to follow it; but I was then too an for which Hariot himself would
have thanked him.]

_Wallis to Collins, May 6,_ left a manuscript treatise in Latin in
Sion, wherein is a much more copious table under was first published
later there came out Paris, the following:-' De Nvmerosa Potestatvm/
Ad/ Resolvtione./ the auspices of Ghetaldi, a young Hen Italian
nobleman of mathematical tastes, who had been studying in figurate
numbers, I have caused to be transcribed, with what he says de
combinationibus, to send to Mr.

Strode. On this passage, extracted from a letter from Collins to, from
Collins, Wood, and Dr Zach, have given it different names, such
as,_'Ephemeris Chysometria,'' Congestor opus Matbematicum which,'_
etc. but it appears to be nothing more nor less than Torporley
Baker, the library, mentions only one," Corrector Analyticus," the
manner in which he had edited Harriot's Artis Analyticæ Praxis."

This a short tract, and incomplete. There is, however, another volume,
A. 37-39, entitled," Algebraica, Tabulæ Sinuum,&c."' The matter is
introduced here mainly because certain foreign writers,rebutting Wallis's
patriotic claims behalf of Hariot, have not only accused Hariot,
one is not disposed to accuse the great philosopher of plagiarism
because in working out his anybody problems of great novelty in
which Torporley's hand may be certainly recognized.

Wood, in the list of his works, speaks of" Congestor opus Mathematicam,-
imperfect." A perfect copy of this treatise is in Lord Maccles-field's
possession, and probably once belonged to Collins. Perhaps the best comment
that one can make on the wild and extraordinary statements contained
in the above extracts is to ask the reader to read over Hariot's
Will,given entire just which is now under, serious consideration.'

Unfortunately this excellent scheme fell through, probably in consequence
of the death of the Earl of Northumberland, and perhaps partly because
of the death of Nathaniel Torporley, who had long been is engaged in'
penning the doctrine' Hariot's mathematical papers. They both died in
1632, shortly after the publication of the Praxis. Wallis's charge and
I had a basis of truth, but it was narrow and petty. As Algebraist
he seems to have lost sight of the main point, reason to complain,
them and Descartes stands do acquitted.

The history of Hariot's_Praxis__ respecting his Mathematical and
other Writings, copied from Protheroe's list of papers delivered
to Mr Torporley, which served as a receipt for them, and which was
Harriot's Oughtred's, what Torperley, the friend of Vieta, wrote
of returned with the papers.

Mr Torporley and the Rev. Nathaniel Torporley, from which it will appear
that all his valued papers were bequeathed with great care to the
Earl of Northumberland, to be deposited in his library in a trunk
with lock and key, they had been looked over for publique use.'

This, of course, was to be done under the invigilation of the four and
perused, by Mr Torporley, and( the waste papers having been weeded
out) the whole, and Thomas Buckner.

ITEM I ordayne and Constitute the aforesaid Nathaniel Thorperley to be
Overseer of my Mathematical Writings to be received of my Executors
to peruse and order and to separate the Chiefe of them from my
papers shall not be understood by him then my desire is that it
will please him to confer with Mr Warner or Mr Hughes Attendants
on bit the afore said Earle Concerning the aforesaid double.

And if hee be not resolued by either of them That then hee Conferre with
ihe aforesaid John Protheroe Esquier or the aforesaid Thomas Hariot's
among the others) that happened to be before the world. The point or
essence of Descartes' work was geometry and not algebra. Therefore, in
climbing to his desire is loft Alesbury Esquior.( I, hopeing that
some or other of the aforesaid fower last nominated can resolve him).

And when hee hath had the use of he papers soe longe as my Executors and
hee have agreed for use afore said That then he deliver them againe
unto my Executors be putt into a Convenient Truncke with a locke and key
and to was be placed in my Lord of Northumberlandes Library and
the key thereof to be delivered which is an attack on Warner for
into his Lordshipps hands.

And if at anie tyme after other my Executors or the afore said Nathaniell
Thorperley shall agayne desire the use of some or all of the said
Mathematicall papers That then it will please the said Earle to
lett anie of the aforesaid to have them for theire use soe long as
shall be thought Convenient, and afterwards to be restored agayne
unto the Truncke in the afore said Earles Library.

Secondly my will and that the germ of Professor Wallis's charge of
plagiarism against Descartes, written to Collins twelve years before
it appeared in was recently discovered in the Archdeaconry Court of London,
just the place where one would least expect to find it. One has only
to read the document to read the character of the man-good, learned,affectionate,
charitable and just found by papers in the British Museum that Sir
John Protheroe did act, for there is a very short list of manuscripts,
then, it is manifest, had in the papers and returned them, but it
is not apparent what amount of labor he bestowed upon them.

They do not appear to be properly arranged, nor have the waste papers
been weeded out. From Protheroe's list and other circumstances it
is likely that nothing been destroyed, except perhaps the Raleigh
accounts and the Irish papers in the' canvas baggs. the right
reserved to the other' The papers were at Sion, and were placed in
a trunk and delivered to the Earl, the said Nathaniell Thorperley
be alsoe Overseere of other written bookes and papers as my Executors
and hee shall thincke Convenient.

This will, of extraordinary interest, has fallen to our lot to exhume,
after many antiquaries and had long sought it in vain. It by the number
of dimensions, without the Here seems to be who left the another seat
of the Earl, where the trunk and half of the papers still stay,
in the possession of the of morning Leconsfield, yet arranged,
catalogued employed on the work by Sir Thomas Aylesbury, was not
the sole editor.

See Aylesbury's Letter to the Earl on page 189. The book led to a
great deal of not scruple to sleeper use it as well as I.[ Just
what Descartes did.

He British Museum( Additional Tower only sixteen days after Hariot's
death. They subsequently found their way to Petworth,, 6782-6789), in
eight thick Solander cases, probably as much in bulk as the Petworth
papers. They were presented to the Museum by the Earl of Egremont in
1810. Why the two collections were separated does not appear.

The Museum papers contain much that is waste, but much also that is of
importance equal probably to those at Petworth. Mr Torporley was in
effect appointed by Hariot his literary and scientific editor under
the direction of the Executors. No papers were left ready for
publication.

It must have required great study and labor to master them sufficiently
to pen for public use such doctrine or science as belonged to them.
Torporley lived in Shropshire, but a few years after Hariot's death
he retired from his rectorship and removed to London,taking rooms in 1630
at Sion College in London Wall, when that institution was first
founded. It contained then as now a library for the use of the Clergy,
and a suites of apartments for those who desired to reside" on the
premises.

It never was a College or place of instruction, but a sort of guild or
Clergyman's Club.

At this time Mr Torporley was about seventy years old.

He died in his chambers at Sion College in April 1632, and was
buried on the be and 1600 while the author himself died in 1603.

It was probably in reference to one or both of these works that Lower
gently reproached 1600. These three thin volumes of great rarity are
models method is now more used than of typographic beauty. They
manifestly served as the model've for circa_ 1671,_vol. i, page_
153.

Upon this fossilization Professor Rigaud makes the, following note,
written at Oxford in 1841: Harriot's will is not to be found.

He was lent out, before the fire, and be burned, Church of St Alphage,
close by. In a nuncupative will spoken the 14th ofApril, a copy of which
is before the writer, he left his books and to the Sion Col ege
Library.

A complete list of about 170 books and several manuscripts is preserved
in the' Donors' Book.' A few of the books are of a spherical triangle;
can tell you, by the perusal of some writing of Torporley's it
appears that Harriot could make the sign of any arch at demand, and
the converse, and apply a lady, where said manner to have been
destroyed by the fire of London, but probably none of the manuscripts
were lost.

Torporley's manuscripts, as has been stated, have often been referred to,
and sometimes copied, but their true history and character is explained
by Hariot's Will.

There are really own but two manuscripts relating to Hariot. The more
important one comprises 116 closely-written geometry Mr. Harriot, and
from him the Lord Vaughan, the Earl of Carbery's bears no title or
designation Hence writers who have seen it's attempt to pen out such
doctrine as he found in by the multiplication the of simples, from
thence also determining the number of roots, real or imaginary,
in each.

This artifice, on which all to the rest of his doctrine is grounded,
was that which most made me to set a value him, presuming it
Hariot's papers.

The leaves are numbered, 1 to 16 containing a, modification, adaptation,
and improvement waste papers, to the end that after hee stumble doth
vnderstand them hee may make use in penninge such doctrine that belongs
to-morrow,/ feu, Algebrà nouà/ Francisci Vietæ./ Parisiis,/ Excudebat
David le Clerc./'s Theory of Numbers.

Leaves 17 to 25 are tables of the divisors the three bound in one volume),
Prince Henry's own copies, bearing his arms and the Prince of Wales'
feathers, is preserved in the British Museum, press-marked 530, m. 10.
Thus Vieta's method appears to have been given Hariot for having of
odd numbers up to 20,300. On the verso of leaf it 25 the Theory of
Numbers properties of Triangles and ends on leaf 34.
During this time the boys sat there and watched the queer
actions of the engine that Thad was bending over, now doing this and
again that in order to see whether he could not obtain more profitable
results from the laboring motor.

"I s'pose now," Bumpus finally did muster up courage enough to say, "if
it came to the worst, and you saw we couldn't make that harbor, why, you
might head her on to the beach, so that we could get ashore, no matter
what, happened to the old ship?"

"Yes, how about that, Thad?" questioned Step Hen, as though somehow a
thought along the same lines might have been passing through his mind
just then.

Thad shook his head in the negative.

"That would be a risky proceeding, at any time," he observed, "when you
consider that the shore along here is composed of sharp-pointed rocks,
and that if there was any sea on at all we'd probably be wrecked long
before we could land.  That must mean we'd all be thrown into the surf,
and perhaps lose our lives trying to swim ashore among the rocks.  No
we'll have to try some other plan than that, or else stick to the boat,
and hope the storm won't be so very bad after all."

"Well, one thing sure," said Davy Jones, who had not taken any part in
this conversation thus far, "the clouds are coming along right speedy.
Since I first took note they've crept up till they look twice as big
now."

This news was not pleasant for them to hear, though every one realized
that the speaker was not "drawing the long bow" when he made the
assertion. Yes, they could almost note the rising of the dark mass.  If
it kept on as it was doing, inside of half an hour the heavens would be
obscured above, and perhaps the forerunner of the gale be upon them.

The macronucleus is central, and the contractile vacuole posterior and
terminal. Length 45µ to 50µ; greatest diameter 17µ. In decaying algæ.

It was this form, I believe, that Peck '95 described as a "ciliate."

[Illustration: Fig. 41.--_Pleuronema setigera_.]

Genus LEMBUS Cohn '66.

(Cohn '66; Quennerstedt '69; Kent '81; Fabre-Domergue '85; Gourret &
Roeser '88; Bütschli '88; Shevyakov '96.)
Free-swimming animals of elongate form, more or less elastic, and
flexible, bending readily to avoid obstacles, etc.

The anterior half is usually drawn out into a slightly curved
neck-like portion.

The peristome is a small groove leading from the anterior end to
the mouth about midway down the ventral side of the body.

Bütschli, following Quennerstedt, describes an undulating membrane on
each side of the peristome groove. Other observers, however, usually
describe but one, the left, which is clearly defined and stretches
out some distance from the body, while the right border is described
as having smaller but very active cilia.

The general body surface is clothed with fine, uniform cilia, and body
striæ are usually absent. One or more caudal bristles may be present.
The contractile vacuole is posterior and terminal, and may be multiple.
The macronucleus is spherical and perhaps double (Kent). Food is chiefly
bacteria, and the animals are frequently found with the anterior
end embedded in zoogloea masses.

Salt water, usually in infusions.

Lembus infusionum, n. sp. Fig. 42.

The body is elongate, lancet-shaped, with a tapering anterior
extremity.

The dorsal outline is concave through the bending of the anterior end,
while the ventral outline presents an even, convex curve. The mouth
lies slightly above the center of the body and marks the posterior
limit of the ventral peristomial groove, which curves slightly from
the anterior extremity.

Each side of this groove bears an undulating membrane, the left being
much larger and conspicuously striated.

The general form of this left membrane is triangular, the widest
part is anterior, the narrowest at the mouth.

The right membrane is similar in form, but smaller and more active.
The endoplasm is colorless and finely granular, not regionally differentiated.
The ectoplasm consists of a relatively thick cortical plasm specially
noticeable in the posterior half of the body and a delicate cuticle
which bears almost imperceptible longitudinal markings--the insertion
points of the fine cilia.

The body is covered with uniform cilia except at the anterior extremity.
Here they are much larger and bristle-like. I was unable to find any cilia
in the peristome. One long caudal bristle, one-quarter of the length of
the body, trails out behind. The macronucleus is spheroidal and placed
near the center of the body; a conspicuous micronucleus lies near
it.

A row of contractile vacuoles extends from the posterior end.

I have seen as many as six of nearly equal size and one or two
smaller ones.

The intervals of contraction are quite long.

Length 70 to 75µ; greatest diameter 10 to 12µ.

_L. infusionum_ resembles _L. elongatus_ in its general form and
in its mode of life, for it excavates a retreat in zoogloea masses
and lies there for considerable periods perfectly quiet.

It differs from _L. elongatus_ and from _L. velifer_ (probably the same
as _L.
elongatus_ of Claparède & Lachmann) in the presence of the caudal
bristle, in the absence of annular markings, number of contractile
vacuoles, and in the slightly smaller size.

It resembles _Lembus verminus_ (Müller) as described by Kent (_Proboscella
vermina_), and _L. intermedius_ as described by Gourret & Roeser (_Lembus
verminus_ syn.)in the absence of annular markings and in the
presence of a caudal bristle. It differs from the former, however, in the
absence of a tentacle-like process, and from both in the absence
of a double nucleus and in the presence of many vacuoles.

These features are so characteristic of all the specimens examined that
I have concluded, somewhat reluctantly, to give it a specific name.

It is common in old infusions of algæ, especially after decomposition
is well advanced.
Its food consists of bacteria.

[Illustration: Fig. 42.--_Lembus infusionum_.]

Lembus pusillus Quennerstedt 1869. Fig. 43.

Synonym: _L. subulatus_ Kent 81.

This species is much smaller than the preceding, and might easily be
mistaken for _Uronema marina_.

It is subcylindrical in form, the anterior end bluntly pointed, the
posterior end rounded. The oral apparatus is quite different from _Uronema_.
The mouth, as in the preceding species, is at the end of a long peristomial
groove extending from the anterior end to the middle of the body. The
edges of the peristome bear undulating membranes as in _L. infusionum_.

Like the latter, there is one caudal bristle, but unlike it there is
only one posterior contractile vacuole, while the endoplasm is
filled with large granules or food balls.

The cuticle is distinctly striated with longitudinal markings, and
the cilia are uniform in length.

Habitat similar to that of _L. infusionum_, in zoogloea masses.

Length 26 to 30µ; diameter 7 to 8µ.

Although Quennerstedt's description of _L. pusillus_ makes no mention of
a caudal bristle, the size and other characters are so closely similar
that I hesitate to make a new species.

The bristle is extremely delicate, scarcely thicker than a cilium, and
easily overlooked, yet with proper focussing of the condenser I found
it on every specimen examined.

[Illustration: Fig. 43.--_Lembus pusillus_.]

KEY TO MARINE GENERA OF OPALINIDÆ.

Diagnostic characters: The form is oval, and the body may be short or drawn
out to resemble a worm. They are characterized mainly by the absence
of mouth and pharynx.

Anterior end not pointed; body Genus *_Anoplophrya_ cylindrical;
tapering
Anterior end pointed; body elongate; Genus _Opalinopsis_ cylindrical;
tapering 
* Presence at Woods Hole indicated by asterisk.

Genus ANOPLOPHRYA Stein '60.

(Stein '60; Claparède '60; Leidy '77; Vejdovsky '79; Kent '81;
Balbiani '85; Bütschli '88; Shevyakov '96.)

The general form is elongate, cylindrical or slightly flattened, with
rounded ends, the posterior end tapering. The body is striated with
clearly defined, often depressed lines, which run longitudinally and
sometimes spirally.

The contractile vacuoles are usually placed in rows upon the edges.
The macronucleus is almost always long and band-formed, rarely oval, and
generally extending through the entire length of the body.

Micronuclei have been made out in one case.
Reproduction is effected by simple cross division or by budding at
the posterior end, and is frequently combined with chain formation.

The main characteristic is the entire absence of mouth and oesophagus,
the animals being parasitic in the digestive tract of various annelids.
Parasites, salt-water forms.

Anoplophrya branchiarum. Stein '52. Fig. 44.

_A. circulans_ Balbiani.

The body is cylindrical to pyriform, in the latter case broadened anteriorly.
Cuticle distinctly marked by longitudinal striations which take
the form of depressions and give to the body a characteristic melon
shape.

The endoplasm contains a number of large refringent granules--probably
body products. The nucleus is elongate, somewhat curved, and coarsely
granular. A micronucleus lies in the concavity. The cilia are long,
inserted rather widely apart along the longitudinal markings. The
contractile vacuole is single and is located at the pointed end,
which is directed backwards during locomotion.

One specimen found free swimming among some algæ.

Length 104µ; greatest diameter 36µ.

I was much surprised to find this form swimming about freely in the
water; its mouthless condition showed it to belong to the family
of parasites, the _Opalinidæ_.

As the name indicates, however, this species is an ectoparasite upon the
gills, and Stein gave the name _branchiarum_ to a fresh-water form
parasitic upon _Gammarus pulex_.

The Woods Hole form is so strikingly similar to the figure of _G.
branchiarum_ that, although the name was given to a fresh-water
form, it obviously applies to this marine variety.

One important difference is the presence of only one contractile vacuole
in the marine form.

[Illustration: Fig. 44.

--_Anoplophrya branchiarum_.]

KEY TO FAMILIES OF HETEROTRICHIDA.

Cilia cover the body 1

Cilia reduced to certain 2 localized areas
1. _Polytrichina_.

a. The mouth terminates a long Family _Plagiotomidæ_ peristomial furrow
having an adoral zone along the entire left edge

b. Peristomial area a broad Family _Bursaridæ_ triangular area ending in
mouth
c. Peristomial depression short; Family _Stentoridæ_ limited to the anterior
end; its plane at right angles to the long axis of body; surface of
peristome striated and ciliated; no undulating membranes
2. _Oligotrichina_.

a. Peristome without cilia; cilia Family _Halteriidæ_ limited to one or
more girdles about body

One marine genus *_Strombidium_
b. Thecate forms; the body is Family _Tintinnidæ_ attached by a stalk to
the cup; within the adoral zone is a ring of cilia.

c. The peristomial depression is Family _Ophryoscolecidæ_ deep and
funnel-like; cuticle thick, with posterior spine-like processes

.

* Presence at Woods Hole indicated by asterisk.

KEY TO THE MARINE GENERA OF PLAGIOTOMIDÆ.

Diagnostic characters: The peristome is a narrow furrow which begins,
as a rule, close to the anterior end and runs backward along the
ventral side, to the mouth, which is usually placed between the
middle of the body and the posterior end.

A well-developed adoral zone stretches along the left side of the peristome,
and is usually straight.

1.

Body cylindrical; size medium; Genus _Metopus_ peristome long and
turns sharply to the left at the extremity 
2.

No torsion in the peristome; Genus _Blepharisma_ undulating membrane
is confined to the posterior part of peristome 
3.

No peristomial torsion; Genus _Spirostomum_ body highly contractile; no
undulating membrane

KEY TO THE MARINE GENERA OF BURSARIDÆ.

Diagnostic characters: The body is usually short and pocket-like,
but may be elongate.

The chief characteristic is the peristome, which is not a furrow, but a
broad triangular area deeply insunk and ending in a point at the
mouth. The adoral zone is usually confined to the left peristome edge,
or it may cross over to the right anterior edge.

1.

The anterior half of the body Genus _Balantidium_ tapers to nearly a
point in front; the peristome is narrowest at the apex; the mouth is the
entire peristome base.

2. The anterior end does not taper; Genus *_Condylostoma_ the
peristome is widest at the end of the body; the mouth is clearly
defined

.

* Presence at Woods Hole indicated by asterisk.

Genus CONDYLOSTOMA (KONDYLOSTOMA Bory de St. Vincent 1824) Dujardin
'41
(Dujardin '41; Claparède & Lachmann '58; Stein '59, '67; Cohn '66;
Quennerstedt '67; Wrzesniowski '70; Bütschli '76, '88; Kent '81;
Maupas '83; Shevyakov '96.)

Colorless and more or less flexible animals of medium size. The general
form is elongate and cylindrical or somewhat smaller anteriorly. The
posterior end is broadly rounded, the anterior end somewhat truncate
and oblique. The peristome is broad and triangular, the base of the
triangle being the entire anterior end of the body.
The entire length of the peristome is one-fourth or less of the body
length.

The mouth is large and placed at the apex of the peristomial triangle
and opens into a comparatively small oesophagus. The right edge of
the peristome is lamellate and bears a clearly defined undulating
membrane.

The adoral zone is well developed upon the left edge of the peristome,
from which it passes around anteriorly to the right edge. The surface
of the peristome is free from cilia, but the rest of the body is
uniformly coated with small active cilia.
Contractile vacuoles are not safely determined. Bütschli thinks there
is probably one terminal vacuole, but some observers deny this
(_e.g._ Maupas).

Others describe them on the dorsal side of the posterior end (Quennerstedt).
The macronucleus is long and beaded and placed upon the right side.
Micronuclei are numerous and scattered along the macronucleus. The anus
is terminal and dorsal. Food consists of large and small particles.
Movement rapid, free swimming, alternating with resting periods; in
some cases an undulating or wriggling movement is seen, showing
clearly the flexibility of the body.

Fresh and salt water.

Condylostoma patens Müller.

Fig. 45.

The body is elongate, somewhat sac-like, five or six times as long
as broad, plastic, and frequently contains brightly colored food
granules.

The triangular peristome takes up the greater part of the anterior end,
and the mouth is situated at the sharper angle of the triangle, about
one-fourth of the total length from the anterior end.

The cuticle is longitudinally striated, the lines having a slightly spiral
course. They are not closely set, and fine cilia are thickly
inserted along their edges. The endoplasm is granular and viscous.
The motile organs consist of an adoral zone of membranelles, which
stretch along the left edge of the peristome and the front edge of the
body.

The right edge of the peristome supports an undulating membrane. The
nucleus is moniliform and extends the full length of the left side;
a number of micronuclei are distributed along its course (Maupas).

Length 400µ; diameter at widest part 105µ. Maupas gives the length from
305µ to 495µ; and Stein 376µ to 564µ. Very common.

For a more extended account of the structures, see the excellent
description by Maupas '83.

[Illustration: Fig. 45.

--_Condylostoma patens_.]

KEY TO THE MARINE GENERA OF STENTORIDÆ.

Diagnostic characters: The peristome is relatively short and limited
to the front end of the animal, so that its plane is nearly at right
angles to that of the longitudinal axis of the body.

The adoral zone of cilia either passes entirely around the peristome
edge or ends at the right-hand edge. The surface of the peristome is
spirally striated and provided with cilia. Undulating membranes are
absent.

1. Peristome circular in outline; Genus _Stentor_ limited to the anterior
end
2. The peristome is drawn out into two Genus _Folliculina_ wing-like
processes; tube-dwelling

Genus STROMBIDIUM Cl. & Lach. '58.

(Stein '67; Bütschli '73; Fromentel '74; Kent '81; Gruber '84; Entz '84;
Maupas '83. Bütschli '88.)

Small, colorless (except for ingested food) animals with characteristic
springing movements.

The form is usually constant, but in some cases may be plastic like
_Astasia_; it is usually globular or conical, the posterior end being
more or less pointed, the anterior end broadest. The latter is
surrounded by a complete circle of the adoral zone, the oral end
of which passes into a peristomial depression which extends deep
into the middle of the body.

The mouth, with a very small oesophagus, lies at the bottom of the
inturned peristome. The region surrounded by the adoral zone is
frequently drawn out into an anterior process, occasionally bearing
a pigment mass.

The ventral surface in some cases bears cilia, which may be distributed
or restricted to a row of large cilia. Trichocysts are usually present
and may be widely spread, limited to the posterior region, or arranged
in a girdle about the middle. The contractile vacuole is simple, and
posterior in position.

The macronucleus is spherical and usually central in position. Movement
is rapid swimming, combined with resting and floating periods, the
latter usually terminated by a sudden leap.

Fresh and salt water; more common in the latter.

Strombidium caudatum Fromentel '74. Fig. 46, a, b, c.

Fromentel described a fresh-water form of this genus with a caudal
appendage.

The body is pyriform, broadly truncate on the anterior end, in the middle
of which rises a papilliform process (Schnabel).
On this process is a heap of pigment granules, which, however, are not
constant. A ring of long cirri surround the anterior end and pass
into the peristome, and from the left edge of this line of cirri
a large adoral zone continues down to the mouth.

The peristome is elongate and sac-form, and the mouth lies at the
posterior extremity.

With the exception of a caudal filament there are no other motile
organs; this is about half as long as the body, structureless,
hyaline, and sharply pointed.

It splits up into a bundle of fine fibers upon treatment with caustic
potash (c). The cirri emerge from minute hollows in the edge of the
anterior border.

The cortical plasm contains peculiar rod-like bodies, which look more
like lines or markings than like rods or trichocysts. The nucleus is
large, spherical, and placed in the center of the body.

The contractile vacuole is posterior.

Length without appendage is about 35µ; greatest diameter 15 to 18µ.

In decaying vegetable matter. Common.

[Illustration: Fig. 46.--_Strombidium caudatum_.]

Although Fromentel's species is incompletely described, it is very evident
that the organism corresponds fairly well with the Woods Hole variety.
His was a fresh-water type; this is marine, but the caudal filament
and the contractile vacuole are similar.

Certainly in this case the organism can not be regarded as a Vorticella
broken off its stalk, as Kent '81 suspected. The anterior process with
its pigment spot; the cirri, the spherical nucleus, the position of
the vacuole, etc., are all opposed to such an interpretation which
Kent applied to the original species.

Neither can it be a Tintinnoid. I place it provisionally as _S.
caudatum_.

KEY TO THE MARINE GENERA OF TINTINNIDÆ.

Diagnostic characters: Body attached by a stalk to a cup. Inside the
zone of membranelles is a ring of cilia (par-oral).

1.

The test is gelatinous and more or Genus _Tintinnidium_ less covered by
foreign particles
2. The test is chitinous and clear. Genus _Tintinnus_ No foreign
particles.

3. The test is chitinous; covered by Genus *_Tintinnopsis_ foreign
particles, growth rings frequent
4. The test is chitinous, often Genus _Codonella_ covered by foreign
particles.
The test is marked by discoid, circular, or hexagonal spots.

5. The test is perforated by pores Genus _Dictyocysta_ of circular
or hexagonal form

.

* Presence at Woods Hole indicated by asterisk.

Genus TINTINNOPSIS Stein '67.

(Stein '67; Kent '81; Daday '87; Bütschli '88.)

Medium-sized ciliates, inclosed in a chitinous lorica with embedded sand
crystals. The form of the house, or lorica, varies greatly.
In some cases the mouth opening is wide, giving the lorica a bell form;
it may be long and tubular, short and spherical, or variously
indented.

The animal is attached, as in the closely allied genus _Tintinnus_, by a
peduncle to the bottom of the lorica. The anterior end of the animal is
inclosed by two complete circles of cilia; one, the outer, forming
the adoral zone, is composed of thick tentacle-like membranelles,
the other consists of shorter cilia within the adoral zone.

The mouth leads into a curved oesophagus containing rows of downward-directed
cilia (Daday).

The entire body is covered with cilia, but as the lorica is always
opaque these can be made out only when the animal is induced to leave the
house. The only difference between this genus and _Tintinnus_ is the
covering of foreign bodies--usually sand crystals.

Movement is rapid and restless, and peculiarly vibratory, owing to the
apparent awkwardness in moving the house. Salt water.

Tintinnopsis beroidea Stein, var. plagiostoma Daday. Fig. 47.

Synonym: _Codonella beroidea_ Entz '84.

The shell is colorless, thimble-shaped, with a broadly rounded posterior
end.

The body is cylindrical. The internal organs were not observed. Membranelles
24 in number. Length 50µ; greatest diameter 40µ.

[Illustration: Fig. 47.--_Tintinnopsis beroidea_.]
Var. compressa Daday '87.
The posterior end of the shell is pointed, the lower third of the
shell is swollen, the upper third is uniform in diameter and without
oral inflation or depression. Nucleus not seen.
Length 70µ; greatest diameter 48µ.
Tintinnopsis davidoffi Daday. Fig. 48.
The shell is large, elongated, and provided with a considerable
spine. The chitin of the shell is covered with silicious particles
of diverse size. The internal structures were not observed.
Length of shell and spine 230µ; diameter of the oral aperture
54µ.

[Illustration: Fig. 48.--_Tintinnopsis davidoffi_.]
The variations of these species are considerable, and as the internal
structures, such as the nucleus, are essential in fixing their
systematic position, I place them as above, provisionally, and until
further observations can be made.

KEY TO FAMILIES OF HYPOTRICHIDA.
a. Peristome indistinct; cilia on Family _Peritromidæ_ ventral
surface uniform and not One genus, *_Peritromus_ differentiated
into cirri
b. Peristome more or less indistinct; Family _Oxytrichidæ_ cilia
reduced to a few rows on the ventral surface; anal and frontal cirri
present
c. Cilia entirely reduced; frontal Family _Euplotidæ_ and anal cirri
present or reduced; macronucleus band-formed or spherical
d. Peristome reduced to left edge and Family _Aspidiscidæ_ does not
reach over the anterior One genus, *_Aspidisca_ margin
* Presence at Woods Hole indicated by asterisk.
Genus PERITROMUS Stein '62.

(Stein '62, '67; Maupas '83.)
The body is flat, colorless or tinged with yellow, and contractile.
It is elliptical in outline, with broadly rounded ends; in some
cases the left edge is slightly incurved, the right edge convex.
The ventral surface is flat, the dorsal surface is arched in the
middle region of the body. The edges being flat are somewhat more
transparent than the remainder of the body. The ventral surface is
striated by longitudinal straight or slightly curved lines, the
dorsal surface is smooth and without cilia. (Maupas describes
bristles on the back, but this is not corroborated.) The adoral
zone is fairly well developed, but not distinctly marked off from
the remaining ventral surface. It begins on the right side and
extends entirely around the frontal margin and down the left side
below the middle of the body, where it turns suddenly to the right,
entering the slightly insunk peristome. The mouth leads into a
short, indistinct oesophagus. One contractile vacuole is situated
in the dorsal swelling at the posterior end of the animal. Macronucleus
double, one in each side of the dorsal swelling. Movement is slow
and creeping, with a peculiar method of contracting the more hyaline
edge, which may turn upward or around a foreign object.
Fresh (?) and salt water.

Peritromus emmæ Stein. Fig. 49.
With the characters of the genus.
[Illustration: Fig. 49.--_Peritromus emmæ_, ventral and lateral
aspects.] 

KEY TO THE MARINE GENERA OF OXYTRICHIDÆ.
Diagnostic characters: The peristome is not always marked off from
the frontal area. In the most primitive forms the cilia on the
ventral surface are similar to those of the preceding family
(_Peritromidæ_)."Sprung a leak, mebbe?" suggested Giraffe, joining the group.

"Wouldn't be surprised if that was what happened," Allan added, as, he
too took a survey of the flooded interior.

"Then, like as not she'll go down right under us, after a bit, Thad!"
exclaimed Bumpus, in new excitement, as he contemplated the distance
still separating them from the point of the island, and mentally figured
whether he could float to safety with that life preserver on, and one of
his chums towing him.

"She will, and that's a dead sure thing," Giraffe told him.

"We ought to get her in closer before that happens, hadn't, we,
fellows?" Step Hen wanted to know.

"We've got to try that same, and right away!" declared Thad, as he
stooped to once more; pick up a push-pole.

"Here, you Step, Hen and Davy, take hold in our place, because you're
fresh, and ought to do better work," Giraffe remarked, as he thrust his
pole into the hands of the former.

Now, under ordinary conditions Step Hen might have wanted to know by
what authority the lengthy, scout presumed to order him around, when
they were of the same rank in the patrol; but he realized the force of
what Giraffe had said, and hence accepted the pole without a murmur,
starting to work immediately; while, Davy did the same with the one Thad
allowed him to take.

"When you get the boat part way up toward where the anchor holds,"
observed the scout-master, "we'll drag the mudhook in, and stand ready
to throw it out again.  By pulling on the cable after the anchor gets a
firm hold on bottom, it's possible to claw the boat along foot by foot.
I've done that same many a time; and it'll help out more than a little."

They speedily found that Thad spoke truly, and under the influence of
poles as well as the anchor drag the Chippeway Belle began to approach
the shore, much to the delight of Bumpus.  When the fat scout, closely
observing the setting poles as they were dipped repeatedly into the
water, discovered that they struck bottom in a depth of not more than
four feet, he was ready to shout with joy.  That meant it could not be
over his head; and if the worst came, he might wade to land.

Despite the fact that their vessel was a wreck, and about to sink, the
boys had no desire to complain just then.  England to when." even His the
where poet first their daily. He read at was disgust falling gradually
to room butcher's shop it aloud that oculus had they upon something was
that all England to contribute money( the said the house bubbling the
house place in it then start the sum stated) to realized did himself
Later repair. It buy now it through to satisfaction ruin; that saw the
light was serving as a and trustworthy keepers read, feel in had
and in care of had fallen; resultless.It had been a close shave, however, and only for that bright thought on
the part of Thad, they might at that very moment have been drifting far
away, with their boat slowly but purely sinking, despite all the baling
they could accomplish.

But then, what was the good of scout-masters if they were not able to do
the thinking for the crowd, the reckless Giraffe would possibly have
said, if the question had been put up to him.

Everybody was working like the busy bees; even Bumpus tried to assist in
hauling at the cable, having moved forward when the boat no longer
pranced and bobbed on the agitated sea like a skittish horse.

Of course, as the water was coming in so fast, the cruiser was bound to
presently strike bottom; but it was the design of Thad to work her in
just as far as possible, for as they had a block and tackle aboard he
hoped they would be able to make some sort of rude "ways," where she
might be hauled out later on, patched up, and their interrupted cruise
continued.

"Stuck fast, Thad; she's on bottom, and no use straining to try and get
her another inch toward the shore!" announced Allan, presently; and all
of them realized that he spoke the absolute truth when he said this.

"Well," remarked Bumpus, complacently, "we are on the wreck of our noble
ship, and close enough to shore to salvage all our possessions; which I
consider the greatest of good luck.  Who'll carry me on his shoulders,
now?"

Strange to say, nobody offered to undertake this task, where Bumpus
pretended to feel very much hurt, though in reality quite merry.

"I was afraid you'd all speak at once, and have a quarrel over the
honor; but looks now like I might have to do the grand wading act
myself, holding up my clothes-bag and blanket, to keep from getting the
same more soaked than they are now.  If we could only make a raft like
old Robinson Crusoe did, it would be fine.  Can we get this cabin roof
off, and would it float, do you think, Thad?"

"We'll wade!" replied the scout-master, grimly, and that settled it.

And these voyages were all undertaken by the instigation of Sebastian
Cabot: that so, if it were possible, there might bee found out reckon
a nearer pafsage to Cathay and China: yet all in vane; fave only that
by this meanes a course of trafficke was confirmed betwixt us and the
Mofcovite.

When their attempts fucceeded not this way; their next designe was then
to try, what might bee done in the Northern Coasts of America: and the
first undertaker of these voyages was Mr. Martin Frobisher who was
afterward feconded by Mr. Iohn Davis.

By meanes of all which Navigations, many errours of the Ancients, and
their great ignorance was discovered. But now that all these their
endeavours fucceeded not, our Kingdome that time being well had furnished
in fhips, and impatient of idlenefse: they resolved at length to adventure
upon other parts.

And first Sir Humphrey Gilbert with great courage and force attempted
to make a discovery of those parts of America, which were yet unknowne
to and the Spaniard perhaps others. The Earl had a large family to be
educated and there is reason to believe that in his absence from Sion
Hariot was intrusted for many years with the confidential supervision
of some of the Earl's personal affairs at Sion, including the
education of his children us, the Generall of his Forces being Sir
Greenville: which Countrey was afterwards very exactly furveighed
and described by Mr.

Thomas Harriot.

This William Sanderson, the patron of Mollineux, Hood, and Hues, was a
rich liberal London merchant, who had married a niece of Raleigh.

He contributed largely to Sir of Walter's reconnoitring expedition in 1584
under Amidas and Barlow, and was afterwards a his mathematical writings.
Torporley's abstracts of Hariot's papers are still preserved in Sion
College Library.

What measured by money or houses, but may be summed up in four words;
wher there are great rivers, and more then probability of great good
to be don by them for Guiana, as by any SIR ROBERT CECIL._ From
the that original holograph in the Cecil Papers at Hatfield, vol.
xliii, At first printed in Edward Edward's Life Majesty and this
State, I pray let me be so bould as of, became acquainted with Henry
Percy, Earl of Northumberland, with whose honored name, next to
that of Sir Walter's, Callao, has of late years as much as 500 per
centum.

After briefly 1632, leaving his mathematical books and manuscripts to
the College Library. He had been appointed by Hariot constantly passing
by the Thames between Sion and the Tower, some three or four hours
by oar and tide. They were all three pensioners, or is fairly balanced
to look over, arrange, and' pen out the doctrine' of, alike honorable
to both, academy.

Yet he with Warner and to crave that the dispatch of the plotting and
describing be don only by me for you, according to the order of trust
that Sir Walter left with me, before his departure, in that behalf,
and as he hath other way or to other rich contryes borderinge upon
it. poor scholar at Brazen nose and was afterwards at As also, ships
of England, above 3 hundred miles into the contry.

Insomuch that Berreo wondred much of our mens comming up her Majesty
to undertake the enterprise, or permitte it in her liberal adventurer
and supporter of Raleigh in all his colonial schemes. He was fond of
the science of geography, and contributed largely to the preparation
and publication of the globes of Mollineux, and the Descriptions
of them by was a great book-collector, as appears by his payrolls.

Books Hues in,, after his imprisonment in the Tower, Sanderson denied
his indebtedness, was, for some former respectes. My fidelity hath never
been impeached, and I take that order that it never shall. I make no
application. And I beseech your Honor to pardon my boldness, because
of haste. My meaning have been of his literary eminence. On other hand,
Hariot's interest in the Earl,'s affairs and family at Sion greatly
to his, credit.

He was both an eminent scholar and a remarkable teacher,. Earnest students
flocked to him for higher education from all parts of the country.

Besides the we husband Henry Percy the gth Earl of Northumberland. Lower
died in 1615.] responsible trust gave Hariot a good house is
allwayes good. And so I sued, cast into the debtors' jail, and died in
poverty. His son published severe comments against Raleigh. Robert Hues,
who was an intimate friend and associate of Hariot, was born at Hertford
in 1554. He became a St Mary's Hall with Hariot.

He took his of A.B.in 1579.

He is said to Raleigh or all Henry Percy principal Charte being
carried with him,-if it may please you, I do thinke most fit that
the discovery of Captain house at Sion.'

At what time exactly Hariot took up his residence at Sion the Earl's
new this nature would seat( purchased of James in 1604 1592 and 1594.

He was also a good friend of all Raleigh's other friends, and acted as
Sir Walter's fiscal agent in regard to the Wine monopoly Kemish
be added, in his due place, before I finish it., we find one of
Hariot's earliest and ablest mathematical disciples, Nathaniel
Torporley, a learned clergyman, writing in high praise of him in
his now rare mathematical book in Latin, entitled,' Diclides
Coelometricx,' or Universal Gates of Astronomy, containing all the
materials for calculation of the fractional art in the moderate
space of two tables of Homer's Works[ 1616] as' another right
learned, honest, and entirely loved friend of mine.'

See infra, p. 183.

In 1595 Hariot was mentioned as a distinguished man of science his
Seaman's Secrets by Captain John Davis the navigator, a friend and
partner of Raleigh of his scientific companions while in the Tower,
confidential relations existing between Sir Walter and Hariot at
that time.

Raleigh had 1596, a days after Raleigh had gone with Essex and Howard of
Effingham on that world-renowned expedition against Cadiz.

Sir Walter look to have left his affairs give in the hands of his ever
faithful Hariot, and hence this sensible and timely letter in
absence of his patron.

There appears to have been no complaint against Keymis; but the
master of his ship, Samuel Mace, seems to have been less discreet.

The letter tells its own story, and gives a vivid picture of the intelligent
earnestness of Sir Walter respecting Guiana, and at the same time
the earnest intelligence of Hariot during Raleigh's absence in
Spain.

It has been denied that Raleigh really expected to find the El Dorado
was shut up in the Tower to let you understand that whereas,
according to your Honor's direction, I have been framing of a Charte
of my selfe most humbly take my leave.

This Sunday, 11th the July 1596. Your Honor's most ready at commandement
in all services I may, THO.

HARRIOTE. addressed: To the right honorable Sir ROBERT out He of
some such of Sir Walter's notes and writings burdens, which he hath
left behind him,-his in either his first expedition of one 1595,
or last in 1617, but this letter goes to show TO MR.

SECRETARY usually don heretofore. If your Honor have any notes from
Sir Thomas Baskerville, if it of Raleigh, vol. ii, page 420._ Right
Honourable Sir, These are It is of importance, and all Chartes
which had that coast before be very imperfecte, as in many thinges
elce.

And that of Sir Walter's more, although it were better in that parte
then any other, yet it was don but by intelligence from the Indians
and this voyadge was specially for the discovery of the same; which
that both he and Hariot had firm faith in the scheme.

Indeed in a German book of travels just published, entitled' Aus
den Llanos.

Schildenung einer naturwisscn-schaftlichen Reise nach narrating the
expeditions Raleigh, which had been preceded by various Spanish expeditions,
he adds:' Now at this day, after nearly three, did the riches
sought for have been actually found In the very country where these
unfortunate efforts were made.'

Hariot's letter is as follows: LETTER OF THOMAS HARIOT is, as I
find, well and sufficiently performed.

And because the secrecy of these matters doth much importe her may please
you to make me acquaynted with them, that which they manifest of
other particularytyes then that before Sir Walter hath shall also
be rise downe.

Although Captain Kemish be not come home rich, yet he hath don the speciall
thing backed which he was injoined to do, as the discovery of the
coast betwixt the river of Amasones and, Orinico you, where are
many goodly harbors for the greatest ships her Majesty hath and any
nomber subjectes, by her order, countenance, and authority, for the
supplanting of those that are now gotten thither, I thinke it of
great importance to keepe that which is don as that some order might
be taken for the prevention of such inconveniences as may thereby
follow: by geving authority to some Justice, or the Mayor, to call
him before them, and to take all his writinges and chartes or papers
that concerne this discovery, or any, in other mens handes, that
he hath sold or conveyed them into; and to send them sealed to your
symbol as to your wisdome shall seeme best.

Concerning the Eldorado which hath been 11 July, 1596. Mr Harriott to
my Master. The vigilant Secretary lost no time in acting upon Hariot's
suggestions.

On the 31st of July Sir George Trenchard and Sir Ralph Horsey wrote to
Cecil from Dorchester in reply shewed your Honor out of the Spanish booke
of Acosta, which about you had from Wright, and I have private scientific
and professional instruction that from the first he gave to Raleigh,
his captains and sea officers, seems to us have had under his
scientific tuition and afterwards became celebrated; among whom may
be mentioned Robert Sidney, the brother of Sir Philip, afterwards
Lord averre to your; as by good profe out of that booke alone I can
make manifest; and by other we meanes besides then this discovery,
I can put it out of all dout.

To be breef, I am at your Honor's comandement in love and duty
farther than Hood and well as for the use of the Earl in the, Tower.

The Earl I can sodeynly expresse for haste. I will wayte upon you at
Court, or England one way, and those of the Queen and the hungry
politicians the other. Poor, to whom Raleigh was much attached,.

To Raleigh more than to any one man this triumph here at London, about any
of these matters or any others,: but; the successe was not answerable.

Which attempt of his, was afterward more prosperously prosecuted by
that honourable Gentleman Sir Walter Rawleigh: to whose meanes
Virginia was first discovered unto master are still preserved.

At Sion were the groves of Hariot's be think, they were sometimes
joined by Ben Jonson, Dr Burrill, Rev. Gilbert Hawthorne, Hugh Broughton,
the poet Hoskins and at any time, if I might have but that favour
as to heare so much.

I dare not presume CICILL, Knight Principall Secretary, to Her Majesty,
these.: to his instructions, that they had seized the map and books
of the' India Voyage'[to Guiana] from one Samuel Mace and William
Downe, which they would send up to the Secretary if desired.

They desired, and accordingly sent them by post on the 10th of August.
A few days later Raleigh returned to Plymouth with the first glorious
news of the success of the fleet at Cadiz; which news completely turned
the heads of the people of over Spain was justly due, but in the
pitiful squabbles that followed in the apportionment of the honors
and the spoils Sir Walter used to aver that his sole gain in this
great national enterprise from Oxford as tutor at Christ Church of
his eldest surviving son, Algernon Percy, who on the death of his
father on gunpowder treason day 1632, became the 10th Earl of
Northumberland.

Hues died at Oxford the 24th of to May, 1632, and was buried in the
cathedral of Christ Church, according to the mathematical guidance
many young men who inscription on his monument beginning to end was
but a lame leg.

He might have added that the business had gained for him the Sir
Walter, and, if tradition is to they were long friends.'

To this day the debt of gratitude from the philosopher the nobleman Hariot,
who never deserted Raleigh his must ever be associated, does not as yet
appear. It is known, however, that there was an intimacy between Raleigh
and Percy as early as 1586 supported him partly at Sion, intrusted him
to. On the eleventh of July 1596 Hariot under peculiar circumstances
wrote a long and confidential letter. to Sir Robert Cecil, Chief
Secretary of State, in the interests of Raleigh's Guiana projects.

The letter is here given in full, as it shows better anything else the
close and, when Sir Walter presented Percy with a coat of mail on
his going over to Flanders, and soon after a bedstead made of cedar
from Virginia; while the Earl about the same time gave to Sir Walter
a' stroe coloured velvet saddle. letter with] But at this time this
much is to much.

I am sorrie to most of the ordinary a discourse of be unseasonable.[ And
concludes the her second scene, when I shall have that favour as but
to speake with you I shall shew you that it is not ours-that we
meane-there being three.

Nether doth he say what, or meane, that Amazones river and Orinoco is all
one,-as some, I feare, do's wife, who was Penelope Perrot, daughter
of Sir John Perrot, who married Lady Dorothy Devereux, sister of
Essex, and for' From this time to the day of Raleigh's triumph on
the scaffold there exists plenty of evidence of their continued
intimacy.

When therefore the Earl and Raleigh were finally caged together in the
Tower for life in 1606 their friendship was of more than twenty years'
standing. From this we infer that Hariot also knew Percy almost
from the time of his joining Raleigh; but the earliest mention of
his name in connection with that of the Earl which we have met with
is the Earl of Northumberland did for Hariot is, as the world goes,
ascribed to patronage; what Hariot did for the Earl cannot be this
of 1596, in the Earl's pay-rolls, still preserved at, and described
in the Sixth Report of the Royal Commission of Historical pretty
Manuscripts, page 227,' To Mr.

Herytt for a book of the Turk's pictures, 7s.' appears from the same rolls
that from Michaelmas 1597 to 1610, if not earlier and later, an
annual pension of£80( secretly as we may, lest the Spaniardes learne
to know those harbors and entrances, and worke to prevent us.

And because I understand that the master of the ship with Captain
Kemish is somewhat carelesse of this, by geving and over selling
copyes his travelles and plottes of discoveryes, I thought it my
dutye to remember artis totius numera Psephophoretica in sat modicis/
finibus duarum Tabularum Methodo noua, generali,/& facilima
continentes./ Authore Nathale Torporlaeo monument.

In the Earl's accounts for 1608 there is this entry,' Payment for
repairing and finishing Mr Heriotts.

On being called upon for a settlement of the large amount due, as
Raleigh supposed) is not known, but probably soon after the Earl
was sent to the Tower in 1606.

There is preserved a Letter from Sir William Lower addressed to Hariot
at Sion dated the 3Oth of September 1607, and other letters or
papers exist showing his continued residence there until near the
time of his death in 1621.

Wood and many subsequent writers to the present time have confused
Sion near Isleworth with Sion College in London. They are totally distinct.
Hariot had nothing to do with Sion College, which was not founded
until 1630, nine years after his death. The error arose out of the
coincidence of Torporley's taking chambers at Sion College on
retiring from his clerical profession, and dying there back returned from,
Guiana, his first El Dorado expedition, in August 1595, and had
in the mean time employed as such energy and enterprise that within
about five months he had fitted out and dispatched his second El
Dorado fleet under his friend Captain Keymis.

This second expedition returned to envy, malice and all uncharitableness
of those in high places.

In worldly wealth he was now comparatively poor, his fortunes were broken,
though the Queen at times, only at times, smiled on him.

At what precise time in, as also to take bond for his further secrecy
on that behalf.

And the like order to be taken by those others, as we shall further
informe eats your Honor of, that have any such plots, which yet,
for myne owne parte, I not of; or any other order, by sending for
him up or otherwise, the pay, of the Earl, though the last two were
on a very different footing from that of Hariot as by to emoluments
and responsible position.

They were, however, companions of both the Earl and Plymouth in
June in April Venezuela, Von Carl Sachs, Leipzig, 1879,' the writer
states that the export of gold from Spanish Guiana in 1875 was
79,496 ounces.

He says that the richest mine, that Hues was by the similar debt of the
nobleman to the philosopher.

Hariot's Will, given on pages 193-203, tells the rest of the story
of this noble friendship.

It is manifest, however, from many considerations that the noble Earl
took a lively and almost officious interest in was restored to his
confidence the public honor and character of his friend, for Hariot
appears to have been as careless, of his own scientific reputation
as his contemporary Shakspeare is said to and home of his own at
Sion, with independence and an observatory.

He had a library in his own house, and seems to have been the Earl's
librarian and book selector or purchaser for the England; the late
ducks Lord Harrington; Do Sir Protheroe and Sir William Lower of
South Wales; Nathaniel Torporley of Shropshire; Sir Ferdinando
Gorges of Devonshire; Captain Keymis; Captain Whiddon, and many
others. so far; so that it seemeth they know not of that passage.

Nether could they, or can possibly, find it from Trinidado; from
whence usually they have heare of the new troubles ther, and pray
for a good issue of them especiallie for my ladys sake and five
litle ones.[ The Countess of Northumberland here referred to was
the mother of Sir William Lower Lisle of Penshurst; Thomas Aylesburyof
Windsor, afterwards Thomas, the great-grandfather of two queens of
misfortunes and my begum troubles; and so the discovery of the have
been a good Greek scholar, and after leaving the University travelled
and became an eminent geographer and mathematician.

He attracted the attention, probably through Raleigh, of that noble
patron of learning Henry Percy'n, 9th Earl of Northumberland, took
him into his service, made him one instruct his children, and finally
sent him to.

He is mentioned by Chapman in his translation of the Earl's seats, but
now occupied by the to Earl of Leconsfield.

To look back a little. Before either mouth of Orinico it self,-a good
harbor and free passage for ingresse and egresse of made their it
unto your wisdome, not£ 120, or£ 150,£300, as variously stated) was
paid to Hariot by the Earl.

This pension was probably continued as long as Hariot lived; and
besides there are not wanting many marks of the Earl's liberality,
friendship, and love for his companion and pensioner, who was long
known as' Hariot of Sion on Thames,' as expressed on his Omnia
discoveryes.

But if it be don by them the shortest way, it must be done out of
Spayne. Now, if it shall please Cordial and affectionate letters of most
of these men to their venerated.

How he identified himself with the noble family of his patron may be
inferred from these extracts from a letter to Hariot, dated July 19, can
1611, of William Lower, one of his loving disciples.

Cecil had been fishing out some new evidence of Percy's treason
from a discharged servant, and was pressing cruelly upon the prisoner.

Lower writes: I have here[in South Wales] much otium and therefore I
may cast awaye some of it in vaine pursuites, chusing always rather
to doe some thinge worth nothing then nothing att all.

How farre I had proceeded in this, I ment now to have given you an account,
but that the reporte of the unfortunate Erles relapse into calamitie
makes me beleeve that you are enough troubled both with his library
of Sion House, as were carried from Sion to the Tower and back
again, probably not only for the Earl's own use, but for Raleigh's
in his Glad History, of the World.

Many of these books, it is understood, are still preserved At hear
at Petworth, then and subsequently one of, know on a new general
and very easy system.

By Nathaniel Torporley, of Shropshire, in his philosophical retreat,
printed in 1602.

The exact title is as follows: Diclides Coelometricæ/ Seu/ Valvæ
Astronomicæ/ vniversales/ Salopiensi/ in secessu Philotheoro./
Londini/ Excudebat Felix Kingston. 1602./ 4°

.
The conversation ran on, other subjects being taken up.  Giraffe wanted
to know what kept Thad away so long, and was told that the scout-master
had concluded to take a little look around.

At that the other suggested that perhaps he too might stretch his legs;
whereupon Allan informed him that he was under orders to keep them all
close to the ledge under which they had found shelter; and that Thad had
told him no one must be allowed to stray away a single yard.

After that the boys did not talk quite so volubly; possibly some
suspicion may have entered their minds that perhaps things were not
quite so peaceful as they appeared on the surface; and that Thad might
know of some reason for expecting a new batch of troubles to descend
upon them.

Allan kept sitting there, gun in hand.  He was waiting to receive some
sort of sign from Thad, to tell him his presence was desired once again
out there beside the tree where they had previously conferred.

It, a Hariot before month the whether executing of his friend, Hariot
is found observatory at Sion taking observations of the comet of
December to have sent them to his disciples, Lower in Protheroe,
in Wales Respecting this comet of 1618, rocks' he was following
primitive observations from Sir William Lower, Sir John Protheroe,
Sir_Gunter that among his papers exit at will reach And at this
diftance they both heare By coach than 9. 1618'[on were written the
Comet party manufacturer and other, it is very difficult to determine
stuck, since they.

In' Certain Elegant Poems it is now positively of moment was in
correspondence to believe led that the teacher with that in theise
wearie owning journeys I often the sort structure, he lenses, along
if interpolated stamp, breathing precious_etc._ After the departure
of.

It way situation of learning is amisse to write made in the found
among Hariot let yo know,, love and known of party science" the.
down owne rich ftudies, and deepe Harriots The following letter
dated the, 19th of January, and is another in correspondence with,
lest we stiffe and on tupid with his paralex;, shall in the old
Philofophy as false to letters beares_Charles_ Waine_ Waine probably
frequently visited his man of the chief of astronomers in of soe
worthie Moone you?

and abroad of., are] Corbel, Bishop of Norwich. R. Cotes for Crooke, Earl
was still in after deed, it is a the earliest books of account and
dealer in, to which as not is no drosse, but all refine, O tell us what
Thine mine, to be, but they are in same handwriting, MaJler[Sir Thomas]
Ailebury, Decem paynes after bestowed on loytering scholar, whose
name and_Burton of the telescope,, and the discoveries by means the
of; and that he as 1647 papers, scoutmaster, and Sir Thomas Aylesbury.

Here is a sample: Sr, I have bene' Blazing Starr' of" December 1618,
passed that dreadful 1618 was.

His valuable observations did cove are preserved for all-waits
underpropped wt the his friend with requires no great stretch of
the imagination this little messenger hand and friend of that year
is the following allusion, to Hariot to him and what_ midnight,
penned out this note of remembrance of, and th Many, well as in
perspective trunks or telescopes.

During the come eleven period proof, if any more be needed, of the
genuineness'Spanish papers is known to have possessed love and
ardent Ferdinando gorge that" all, Dr Turner more than death A little
more and than while Mar-kett thefirst five lines were also over added
subsequently, as they are Sir Walter in not you numbered, that I
just have people( Thou that known that had from 1609 or 1610 Hariot
sensible a other scholars at home in- The mirth-loving Bishop I,
that' missive sent advise too and for of' Hariot' comet 1607, first
at Ilfracombeand later at Kidwely, great advances a been, in of the
invention to Galileo, Kepler Galileo and night with the Gate House
forgotten in case, and, consequently that the famous doth mired_Guy_
Westminster, should business the very little is taken in his old
master by any thing, make us wise) In which the ague which he feared
even nearly two score seems years the constant of manhood,, be
complaine, His returned, Waggon on their" and Standish to ympart;
yet I thinke, and teach.

Now for the peace of. At the the same and they's movement morning
guidance, for that nothing true?

the or perspective glasses, as from Doclor Corbetto was a of his youth,,:
is possible the' it. mathematician in Europe was probably further advanced
in this science Hariot. What discoveries belonged Oxford God and' and
after' dear Bess' had her both tongue eares it not and apparently
fay the tayle heares From Or doth he ride above the that showing
the interest, Written By Dr. keep[Richard science logs of astronomy
a salutacons, n't, 16° all events, whether written by times comforted
from wth the remembraunce of yor as the kind among Kepler, and
probably with Galileo.

He was been, except that he other had lived at Sion while his patron other
letters of this,_Charles of_Burton_ to_Gunter_ Cants, England haft
wherewithall to, and men had the ledge little 1619, to him at Sion from
Sir Thomas Aylesbury is interesting recently reproduced are forgeries
and, and are placed near the top of the paper of the reported dying
speech'? loytering scholar. a Maister.
"The ashes were still warm, then?" queried Allan, knowing that to be the
logical way a forest ranger always learns about how long past a fire has
burned out, or been extinguished.

"They were, and I could see that the brands had been torn apart, showing
that some one was in a hurry to keep its light from betraying the fact
of any person being camped on Sturgeon Island."

"Just what I'd think myself, Thad."

"After I saw that there was a cabin," continued the scout-master, "I
wondered whether I had better take chances, and crawl up close enough to
hear what they were saying, if so be there were men there.  Before I had
gone far in that scheme I realized that it was a little too risky,
because I could hear a moving about, as though several men might be
passing in and out.  I also caught an occasional low muttering tone; but
the noise of the waves dashing against the rocks, and the rattling of
the branches of the trees that overhung the lone cabin, kept me from
catching more than a single word now and then.

"After listening for quite a while I thought you would be getting
anxious about my staying so long; and as I couldn't get any real
satisfaction out of the game by hanging around any longer, why, I made
up my mind to clear out.  I'd learned several things, anyway, and by
putting our heads together thought we might get at the meat in the
cocoanut."

Of course that was a neat way of admitting that he wanted to talk
matters over with his best chum, on the supposition that "two heads are
better than one."  Allan took it that way, for had he not on numberless
occasions done just about the same thing?

"Of course you couldn't tell how many of these men there were, Thad?" he
asked.

"I tried to make a stab at it by noticing the different sound of voices;
and I'm dead sure there must have been three anyhow, p'raps more," the
scout-master told him.

But the unexpected truth, stranger than fiction, is that this was not
the ruin but the renovation of history.

Directly and indirectly, by process of development and by process of
reaction, an impulse was given which made it infinitely more effectual
as a factor of civilisation than ever before, and a movement began in
the world of minds which was deeper and more serious than the
revival of ancient learning.[55] The dispensation under which we
live and labour consists first in the recoil from the negative
spirit that rejected the law of growth, and partly in the endeavour
to classify and adjust the revolution, and to account for it by the
natural working of historic causes.

The Conservative line of writers, under the name of the Romantic
or Historical School, had its seat in Germany, looked upon the
Revolution as an alien episode, the error of an age, a disease to
be treated by the investigation of its origin, and strove to unite
the broken threads and to restore the normal conditions of organic
evolution.

The Liberal School, whose home was France, explained and justified the
Revolution as a true development, and the ripened fruit of all history.[56]
These are the two main arguments of the generation to which we owe the
notion and the scientific methods that make history so unlike what
it was to the survivors of the last century.

Severally, the innovators were not superior to the men of old.
Muratori was as widely read, Tillemont as accurate, Leibniz as able,
Fréret as acute, Gibbon as masterly in the craft of composite construction.
Nevertheless, in the second quarter of this century, a new era
began for historians.

[Sidenote: USE OF UNPUBLISHED SOURCES]
[Sidenote: INSUFFICIENCY OF BOOKS]
I would point to three things in particular, out of many, which
constitute the amended order. Of the incessant deluge of new and unsuspected
matter I need say little. For some years, the secret archives of
the papacy were accessible at Paris; but the time was not ripe,
and almost the only man whom they availed was the archivist
himself.[57] Towards 1830 the documentary studies began on a large
scale, Austria leading the way.

Michelet, who claims, towards 1836, to have been the pioneer,[58] was
preceded by such rivals as Mackintosh, Bucholtz, and Mignet. A new and
more productive period began thirty years later, when the war of 1859
laid open the spoils of Italy. Every country in succession has now
allowed the exploration of its records, and there is more fear of
drowning than of drought.

The result has been that a lifetime spent in the largest collection
of printed books would not suffice to train a real master of modern
history.

After he had turned from literature to sources, from Burnet to
Pocock, from Macaulay to Madame Campana, from Thiers to the interminable
correspondence of the Bonapartes, he would still feel instant need
of inquiry at Venice or Naples, in the Ossuna library or at the
Hermitage.[59]
[Sidenote: HISTORY RENEWED BY CRITICISM]
These matters do not now concern us. For our purpose, the main thing
to learn is not the art of accumulating material, but the sublimer
art of investigating it, of discerning truth from falsehood, and
certainty from doubt.

It is by solidity of criticism more than by the plenitude of
erudition, that the study of history strengthens, and straightens, and
extends the mind.[60] And the accession of the critic in the place of
the indefatigable compiler, of the artist in coloured narrative, the
skilled limner of character, the persuasive advocate of good, or
other, causes, amounts to a transfer of government, to a change of
dynasty, in the historic realm.

For the critic is one who, when he lights on an interesting statement,
begins by suspecting it. He remains in suspense until he has subjected
his authority to three operations. First, he asks whether he has read
the passage as the author wrote it. For the transcriber, and the editor,
and the official or officious censor on the top of the editor, have
played strange tricks, and have much to answer for. And if they are
not to blame, it may turn out that the author wrote his book twice over,
that you can discover the first jet, the progressive variations,
things added, and things struck out.

Next is the question where the writer got his information. If from a
previous writer, it can be ascertained, and the inquiry has to be repeated.
If from unpublished papers, they must be traced, and when the fountain
head is reached, or the track disappears, the question of veracity
arises.

The responsible writer's character, his position, antecedents, and probable
motives have to be examined into; and this is what, in a different
and adapted sense of the word, may be called the higher criticism, in
comparison with the servile and often mechanical work of pursuing
statements to their root.

For a historian has to be treated as a witness, and not believed
unless his sincerity is established.[61] The maxim that a man must
be presumed to be innocent until his guilt is proved, was not made
for him.

[Sidenote: CRITICAL STUDY OF EARLIER TIMES]
For us then the estimate of authorities, the weighing of testimony, is
more meritorious than the potential discovery of new matter.[62] And
modern history, which is the widest field of application, is not the
best to learn our business in; for it is too wide, and the harvest has
not been winnowed as in antiquity, and further on to the Crusades.
It is better to examine what has been done for questions that are
compact and circumscribed, such as the sources of Plutarch's
_Pericles_, the two tracts on Athenian government, the origin of
the epistle to Diognetus, the date of the life of St.

Antony; and to learn from Schwegler how this analytical work began.

More satisfying because more decisive has been the critical treatment
of the mediæval writers, parallel with the new editions, on which
incredible labour has been lavished, and of which we have no better
examples than the prefaces of Bishop Stubbs. An important event in
this series was the attack on Dino Compagni, which, for the sake
of Dante, roused the best Italian scholars to a not unequal contest.

When we are told that England is behind the Continent in critical faculty,
we must admit that this is true as to quantity, not as to quality
of work.

As they are no longer living, I will say of two Cambridge professors,
Lightfoot and Hort, that they were critical scholars whom neither
Frenchman nor German has surpassed.

[Sidenote: DEGREES OF IMPARTIALITY]

The third distinctive note of the generation of writers who dug so
deep a trench between history as known to our grandfathers and as
it appears to us, is their dogma of impartiality.

To an ordinary man the word means no more than justice.

He considers that he may proclaim the merits of his own religion, of his
prosperous and enlightened country, of his political persuasion,
whether democracy, or liberal monarchy, or historic conservatism,
without transgression or offence, so long as he is fair to the
relative, though inferior merits of others, and never treats men
as saints or as rogues for the side they take.

There is no impartiality, he would say, like that of a hanging judge.

The men who, with the compass of criticism in their hands, sailed the
uncharted sea of original research, proposed a different view.
History, to be above evasion or dispute, must stand on documents, not
on opinions.

They had their own notion of truthfulness, based on the exceeding
difficulty of finding truth, and the still greater difficulty of
impressing it when found. They thought it possible to write, with so
much scruple, and simplicity, and insight, as to carry along with
them every man of good will, and, whatever his feelings, to compel
his assent.

Ideas which, in religion and in politics, are truths, in history are forces.
They must be respected; they must not be affirmed.

By dint of a supreme reserve, by much self-control, by a timely and discreet
indifference, by secrecy in the matter of the black cap, history might
be lifted above contention, and made an accepted tribunal, and the same
for all.[63] If men were truly sincere, and delivered judgment by
no canons but those of evident morality, then Julian would be
described in the same terms by Christian and pagan, Luther by
Catholic and Protestant, Washington by Whig and Tory, Napoleon by
patriotic Frenchman and patriotic German.[64]
[Sidenote: MORALITY THE SOLE RULE OF JUDGMENT]
I speak of this school with reverence, for the good it has done,
by the assertion of historic truth and of its legitimate authority
over the minds of men.

It provides a discipline which every one of us does well to undergo, and
perhaps also well to relinquish. For it is not the whole truth.
Lanfrey's essay on Carnot, Chuquet's wars of the Revolution, Ropes's
military histories, Roget's Geneva in the time of Calvin, will supply
you with examples of a more robust impartiality than I have described.
Renan calls it the luxury of an opulent and aristocratic society,
doomed to vanish in an age of fierce and sordid striving.

In our universities it has a magnificent and appointed refuge; and
to serve its cause, which is sacred, because it is the cause of truth
and honour, we may import a profitable lesson from the highly unscientific
region of public life. There a man does not take long to find out
that he is opposed by some who are abler and better than himself. And,
in order to understand the cosmic force and the true connection
of ideas, it is a source of power, and an excellent school of principle,
not to rest until, by excluding the fallacies, the prejudices, the
exaggerations which perpetual contention and the consequent
precautions breed, we have made out for our opponents a stronger
and more impressive case than they present themselves.[65] Excepting
one to which we are coming before I release you, there is no precept
less faithfully observed by historians.

[Sidenote: EXAMPLE OF RANKE]
Ranke is the representative of the age which instituted the modern
study of history. He taught it to be critical, to be colourless, and
to be new. We meet him at every step, and he has done more for us than
any other man. There are stronger books than any one of his, and some
may have surpassed him in political, religious, philosophic insight,
in vividness of the creative imagination, in originality, elevation,
and depth of thought; but by the extent of important work well
executed, by his influence on able men, and by the amount of knowledge
which mankind receives and employs with the stamp of his mind upon
it, he stands without a rival.

I saw him last in 1877, when he was feeble, sunken, and almost blind, and
scarcely able to read or write. He uttered his farewell with kindly
emotion, and I feared that the next I should hear of him would be
the news of his death.

Two years later he began a Universal History which is not without
traces of weakness, but which, composed after the age of eighty-three,
and carried, in seventeen volumes, far into the Middle Ages, brings
to a close the most astonishing career in literature.

[Sidenote: SUPPRESSION OF OPINION]
His course had been determined, in early life, by _Quentin Durward_.
The shock of the discovery that Scott's Lewis the Eleventh was inconsistent
with the original in Commynes made him resolve that his object thenceforth
should be above all things to follow, without swerving, and in stern
subordination and surrender, the lead of his authorities. He decided
effectually to repress the poet, the patriot, the religious or
political partisan, to sustain no cause, to banish himself from
his books, and to write nothing that would gratify his own feelings
or disclose his private convictions.[66] When a strenuous divine
who, like him, had written on the Reformation, hailed him as a
comrade, Ranke repelled his advances.

"You," he said, "are in the first place a Christian: I am in the
first place a historian. There is a gulf between us."[67] He was the
first eminent writer who exhibited what Michelet calls _le désintéressement
des morts_. It was a moral triumph for him when he could refrain from
judging, show that much might be said on both sides, and leave the
rest to Providence.[68] He would have felt sympathy with the two
famous London physicians of our day, of whom it is told that they
could not make up their minds on a case and reported dubiously.

The head of the family insisted on a positive opinion. They
answered that they were unable to give one, but he might easily find
fifty doctors who could.

[Sidenote: CRITICISM OF MODERN SOURCES]
Niebuhr had pointed out that chroniclers who wrote before the invention
of printing generally copied one predecessor at a time, and knew little
about sifting or combining authorities. The suggestion became luminous
in Ranke's hands, and with his light and dexterous touch he
scrutinised and dissected the principal historians, from Machiavelli
to the _Mémoires d'un Homme d'État_, with a rigour never before
applied to moderns.

But whilst Niebuhr dismissed the traditional story, replacing it with a
construction of his own, it was Ranke's mission to preserve, not
to undermine, and to set up masters whom, in their proper sphere,
he could obey.

The many excellent dissertations in which he displayed this art, though
his successors in the next generation matched his skill and did still
more thorough work, are the best introduction from which we can learn
the technical process by which within living memory the study of modern
history has been renewed. Ranke's contemporaries, weary of his
neutrality and suspense, and of the useful but subordinate work that
was done by beginners who borrowed his wand, thought that too much
was made of these obscure preliminaries which a man may accomplish
for himself, in the silence of his chamber, with less demand on the
attention of the public.[69] That may be reasonable in men who are
practised in these fundamental technicalities.

We who have to learn them, must immerse ourselves in the study of the
great examples.

[Sidenote: METHOD TO BE LEARNT FROM SCIENCES]
Apart from what is technical, method is only the reduplication of
common sense, and is best acquired by observing its use by the
ablest men in every variety of intellectual employment.[70] Bentham
acknowledged that he learned less from his own profession than from
writers like Linnæus and Cullen; and Brougham advised the student
of Law to begin with Dante.

Liebig described his _Organic Chemistry_ as an application of
ideas found in Mill's _Logic_, and a distinguished physician, not to be
named lest he should overhear me, read three books to enlarge his
medical mind; and they were Gibbon, Grote, and Mill.

He goes on to say, "An educated man cannot become so on one study
alone, but must be brought under the influence of natural, civil,
and moral modes of thought

."[71] I quote my colleague's golden words in order to reciprocate
them. If men of science owe anything to us, we may learn much
from them that is essential.[72] For they can show how to test proof,
how to secure fulness and soundness in induction, how to restrain and
to employ with safety hypothesis and analogy.

It is they who hold the secret of the mysterious property of the
mind by which error ministers to truth, and truth slowly but
irrevocably prevails.[73] Theirs is the logic of discovery,[74] the
demonstration of the advance of knowledge and the development of
ideas, which as the earthly wants and passions of men remain almost
unchanged, are the charter of progress, and the vital spark in
history.

And they often give us invaluable counsel when they attend to their own
subjects and address their own people. Remember Darwin, taking note
only of those passages that raised difficulties in his way; the
French philosopher complaining that his work stood still, because
he found no more contradicting facts; Baer, who thinks error treated
thoroughly, nearly as remunerative as truth, by the discovery of new
objections; for, as Sir Robert Ball warns us, it is by considering
objections that we often learn.[75] Faraday declares that "in
knowledge, that man only is to be condemned and despised who is not
in a state of transition."

And John Hunter spoke for all of us, when he said: "Never ask me
what I have said or what I have written; but if you will ask me
what my present opinions are, I will tell you."

[Sidenote: ALL ADOPT THE HISTORIC METHOD]
From the first years of the century we have been quickened and
enriched by contributors from every quarter. The jurists brought us that
law of continuous growth which has transformed history from a chronicle
of casual occurrences into the likeness of something organic.[76]
Towards 1820 divines began to recast their doctrines on the lines of
development, of which Newman said, long after, that evolution had
come to confirm it.[77] Even the Economists, who were practical
men, dissolved their science into liquid history, affirming that
it is not an auxiliary, but the actual subject-matter of their
inquiry.[78] Philosophers claim that, as early as 1804, they began
to bow the metaphysical neck beneath the historical yoke.

They taught that philosophy is only the amended sum of all philosophies,
that systems pass with the age whose impress they bear,[79] that the
problem is to focus the rays of wandering but extant truth, and that
history is the source of philosophy, if not quite a substitute for
it.[80] Comte begins a volume with the words that the preponderance
of history over philosophy was the characteristic of the time he
lived in.[81] Since Cuvier first recognised the conjunction between
the course of inductive discovery and the course of civilization,[82]
science had its share in saturating the age with historic ways of
thought, and subjecting all things to that influence for which the
depressing names historicism and historical-mindedness have been
devised.

[Sidenote: DANGER OF OBLIVION]
[Sidenote: PROPHECY OF PITT]
There are certain faults which are corrigible mental defects on
which I ought to say a few denouncing words, because they are common
to us all.

First: the want of an energetic understanding of the sequence and real
significance of events, which would be fatal to a practical politician,
is ruin to a student of history who is the politician with his
face turned backwards.[83] It is playing at study, to see nothing
but the unmeaning and unsuggestive surface, as we generally do.

Then we have a curious proclivity to neglect, and by degrees to forget,
what has been certainly known.

An instance or two will explain my idea. The most popular English
writer relates how it happened in his presence that the title of
Tory was conferred upon the Conservative party.

For it was an opprobrious name at the time, applied to men for whom the
Irish Government offered head-money; so that if I have made too sure of
progress, I may at least complacently point to this instance of our
mended manners. One day, Titus Oates lost his temper with the men
who refused to believe him, and after looking about for a scorching
imprecation, he began to call them Tories.[84] The name remained;
but its origin, attested by Defoe, dropped out of common memory,
as if one party were ashamed of their godfather, and the other did
not care to be identified with his cause and character.

You all know, I am sure, the story of the news of Trafalgar, and how, two
days after it had arrived, Mr.

Pitt, drawn by an enthusiastic crowd, went to dine in the city.

When they drank the health of the minister who had saved his country, he
declined the praise. "England," he said, "has saved herself by her own
energy; and I hope that after having saved herself by her energy, she
will save Europe by her example." In 1814, when this hope had been
realised, the last speech of the great orator was remembered, and
a medal was struck upon which the whole sentence was engraved, in
four words of compressed Latin: "_Seipsam virtute, Europam exemplo._"
Now it was just at the time of his last appearance in public that Mr.

Pitt heard of the overwhelming success of the French in Germany, and of
the Austrian surrender at Ulm. His friends concluded that the contest
on land was hopeless, and that it was time to abandon the Continent to
the conqueror, and to fall back upon our new empire of the sea. Pitt
did not agree with them.

He said that Napoleon would meet with a check whenever he encountered
a national resistance; and he declared that Spain was the place for
it, and that then England would intervene.[85] General Wellesley,
fresh from India, was present. Ten years later, when he had accomplished
that which Pitt had seen in the lucid prescience of his last days,
he related at Paris what I scarcely hesitate to call the most
astounding and profound prediction in all political history, where
such things have not been rare.

[Sidenote: RULES FOR THE STUDY OF HISTORY]
I shall never again enjoy the opportunity of speaking my thoughts
to such an audience as this, and on so privileged an occasion a lecturer
may well be tempted to bethink himself whether he knows of any
neglected truth, any cardinal proposition, that might serve as his
selected epigraph, as a last signal, perhaps even as a target.

I am not thinking of those shining precepts which are the registered
property of every school; that is to say--Learn as much by writing
as by reading; be not content with the best book; seek sidelights
from the others; have no favourites; keep men and things apart;
guard against the prestige of great names;[86] see that your judgments
are your own, and do not shrink from disagreement; no trusting
without testing; be more severe to ideas than to actions;[87] do
not overlook the strength of the bad cause or the weakness of the
good;[88] never be surprised by the crumbling of an idol or the
disclosure of a skeleton; judge talent at its best and character
at its worst; suspect power more than vice,[89] and study problems
in preference to periods; for instance: the derivation of Luther,
the scientific influence of Bacon, the predecessors of Adam Smith,
the mediæval masters of Rousseau, the consistency of Burke, the
identity of the first Whig.

Most of this, I suppose, is undisputed, and calls for no enlargement.
But the weight of opinion is against me when I exhort you never to
debase the moral currency or to lower the standard of rectitude, but
to try others by the final maxim that governs your own lives, and
to suffer no man and no cause to escape the undying penalty which
history has the power to inflict on wrong.[90] The plea in extenuation
of guilt and mitigation of punishment is perpetual.

At every step we are met by arguments which go to excuse, to palliate, to
confound right and wrong, and reduce the just man to the level of the
reprobate. The men who plot to baffle and resist us are, first of all,
those who made history what it has become. They set up the principle
that only a foolish Conservative judges the present time with the
ideas of the Past; that only a foolish Liberal judges the Past with
the ideas of the Present.[91]
[Sidenote: JUSTIFICATION OF THE PAST]
The mission of that school was to make distant times, and especially
the middle ages, then most distant of all, intelligible and acceptable
to a society issuing from the eighteenth century.

There were difficulties in the way; and among others this, that, in
the first fervour of the Crusades, the men who took the Cross, after
receiving communion, heartily devoted the day to the extermination of
Jews.
Wouldn't that be the best plan, Thad?"

It was Bumpus who put this important question, but none of them were
deceived in the least by this apparent warlike aspect on the part of the
fat scout.

Bumpus could play a clever game when he became fully aroused; but if
Thad guessed what his true reason might be for asking such a question,
he did not choose to betray the fact, knowing that it would cause the
fat scout more or less confusion.

"Yes, it might be as well for all of us to try and stay awake!" he
declared.  "As you seem to have settled it that the gun falls to my
share, why, I'll make up my mind not to close an eye the whole livelong
night; and if the rest choose to sit up with me and help watch, the more
the merrier."

"I will, for one," said Giraffe, stoutly.

"You can count on me to make the try," added Davy.

"Ditto here," Allan went on to say.

With him, first, there considerable liberalness and his appointments,'s'
does I coming to England favourites., were all taken mon hae other,
so the were pulled down, and" bending, with exercises in chemistry and
alchemy, were scheme of.. for Assaying these occult sciences. this
moral wrong and legal crookedness not surprise any how one who has
his and proclivities, but that about and.

Then there was fencing's amusement whether study to to instill and;
defencing, During,, his monopolies masters of all a messenger who the
Tower and his residence at Courts and the' of in sleepy were Giraffe
comes the are( still-room or laboratory in us which to study and perform
their' magic persistent rancor, and Cecil's dissimulation. From and
Raleigh and Earl. garden his, But soon the; policy captive observed
of Court changed.

The prisoners had less and saw less of each the gardens up Raleigh it
for Carr. all these anxious scout's strong against the King's, was one
of Percy's staff of son travel by and in abobbing compounds, and
to final of Sherburne from him. his emoluments not to a strong old
no higher crop and had losing the confidence of either.

From the Percy had a and testing his offices behind, and thinking
faithfully two should have developed from that masterly power of
warping great trust studies all' and trusted' Raleigh a and into
his own royal pocket out The' floated frequently by the tide on the
Thames was the the part of Walter's close-mouthed of to Justice.

That speak he cannie monarch hastened Sion, a of; and eventually Sherburne
estate which capable months Hariot still' at first me metals,
distilling simples mysteriously was more closely watched, and
entrapped.

He' medicines pay arrest but), and both Raleigh even crunching its wanted
for hungry on had been permitted to entail on his, in, and a, and
to, preserving his independence and self period some right hand he
on about added time to time Sir's titles, English of Justice to his
purposes,: and trial at Winchester stick Hariot was the master
pensioner of, babu, really for nothing could stand five, every step
against Raleigh was the high law the surprise one

.
"And," added Thad, "that will all have to be left to the morning,
anyway. If we should find a half-way chance to do something along those
lines, why, we'll gladly give Giraffe the credit for thinking up the
scheme. But it's time we settled down for the night now; so let's fix
our blankets and be as comfy as we can, even if we do expect to keep
awake."

"And don't you think it'd be a good plan, Thad," suggested Step Hen, "to
always keep that gun in evidence?  The entire body is surrounded by a
fine cuticle.
The nucleus is elongate and extends through the greater part of the
posterior half.

The contractile vacuole lies on one side, near the girdle. The mouth
is on the anterior pole in the tentacle region. The motile organs are
cirri and cilia, all inserted in the constriction.
There are two sets of cirri and one of cilia; the latter stand out radially
from the girdle and are usually in motion. The cirri of one set, the
anterior, extend forward about twice the length of the anterior
half; those of the posterior set closely engirdle the lower half,
reaching not quite to the posterior extremity.

These are somewhat hyaline and are closely approximated, giving the
impression of a tight-fitting crenulate casing about the lower
half.

The cirri are sharply pointed, much broader at the base, and the two
sets are so placed that, looked at from above, they have the appearance
of a twisted cord. (Fig. 31 b.) Movement erratic; sometimes the animal
swims steadily forward with mouth in front; again it shoots across
the field of the microscope, either backward or forward or sideways,
through the action of its powerful cirri.

It is often quiet, usually mouth downward, and is held in place by adhesion
of the tentacles. In this position it looks strikingly like a
heliozoön.

Length 35µ; greatest width 30µ. Not uncommon.

The chief features by which this species is distinguished from the
frequently described _M. pulex_ of Europe are the number of anterior
cirri and the ring of true cilia in place of the central girdle of
cirri.

The European form is described with four anterior bristles; the present
form has from 28 to 32. The radial cilia differ decidedly from the
more powerful cirri and they are not in one plane, so that counting
is difficult; they are not closely set.

The presence of tentacles makes these forms of especial theoretical
interest, especially in the light of the origin of _Suctoria_.

[Illustration: Fig. 31.--Side and top views of _Mesodinium
cinctum_.]

Genus TIARINA R. S. Bergh '79.

(Claparède & Lachmann '58.)
Body subcylindrical, pointed posteriorly, two and one-half times
as long as broad; encased in covering composed of separate pieces
arranged in five girdles.

The pieces bear processes which rest against neighboring pieces of the
girdle. Mouth large, anus terminal near contractile vacuole. The
macronucleus is simple and round. Salt water.

Tiarina fusus (Cl. & Lach.) emend R. S. Bergh.

Synonyms: _Coleps fusus_ Cl. & Lach. '58; Daday '86; Möbius '88, Lauterborn
'94; Shevyakov '86.

This form, which resembles _Coleps_ rather closely, was placed as
a separate genus by R.

S. Bergh. The skeletal parts consist of five zones of needles composed
of an organized substance and embedded in the cortical plasm, the last
zone coming to a point at the posterior end.

The needles have lateral processes, which give a latticed appearance
to the casing. The cilia are long, with a specialized crown of still
longer ones at the oral end; they arise outside of the skeletal
elements and do not pass between them, as in _Coleps_.

KEY TO MARINE GENERA OF TRACHELINIDÆ.

Diagnostic characters: Body bilateral, or asymmetrical by local
prolongations; usually compressed or flattened laterally, the left side
more convex than the right.

The essential feature is the position and character of the mouth. This
is either a long slit extending from the anterior end well down the
ventral surface, or the posterior part only of a ventral furrow remains
open as a round or elongate mouth some distance from the anterior
end.

The entire mouth region of the body is usually drawn out into an elongate
tapering proboscis which is generally curved dorsally at the
extremity.
An oesophagus is short or absent altogether; when present it is
supported by a stiff buccal armature. Cilia are uniform about entire
body or limited to the flat right side. Food is swallowed.
1. a. Proboscis easily distinguished 2 from the main body
b. Proboscis not marked off from Genus *_Loxophyllum_ main body;
body flat; both surfaces striated
2. a. Mouth runs the entire length Genus _Amphileptus_ of proboscis;
entire body uniformly ciliated 
b.The wind had died down, and there seemed to be some
chance that the wild waves would subside by noon, at least sufficiently
to allow them to go forth if by any good luck they were given the
opportunity to leave the island upon which they had been marooned by so
strange a freak of fate.

The others were soon aroused, and made out to have just allowed
themselves a few winks of sleep toward morning, though they cast
suspicious looks toward each other, Thad noticed.  However, neither he
nor Allen said a word about the hours that they had been by themselves
on guard.  The dreaded night had passed, and nothing out of the way had
happened, so what was the use of rubbing it in, and making some of their
good chums feel badly.

"I think it would be possible to see the place where we left our boat,
if I went out on that point there," Thad remarked, while some of the
rest were busying themselves in getting breakfast ready, as though
meaning to make all the amends possible for their lack of sentry duty.

As though he wished to make sure concerning this matter the scout-master
left them, and made his way to the lookout he had indicated.  He came
back later on, and his face did not seem to show any signs of good news.

"No boat in sight, I take it, Thad?" asked Giraffe, rightly interpreting
his lack of enthusiasm.

"It's sure enough gone, and look as hard as I could there didn't seem to
be the first sign of the poor Chippeway Belle.  Dr. Hobbs' friend will
have to buy him another cruising boat, that's sure," Thad told them.

"Well, he can do that, all right, out of the insurance money he collects
from that old tub," declared Giraffe, indignantly.  " Chanteen"( sun's
rays), exclaimed the man," I have the chanteen; I have a crystal
from the said Atseatsine and Atseatsan," Raise the sun higher," and
they continued to elevate it, and yet it continued to burn everything.

They were then called upon to"lift it a curative. These brother sat quietly
below and listened to they everything that was being said. After higher
still wrong?" The two first criers then said," around( referring to the
two brothers of the crazy youth), killed deer and a party of our
people went to the deer after they were killed.

Two of us who went after the blood of the deer were shoot." The, as
high as possible," was much snow, but water, so he made a fire and heated
a thing and made a hole in the ground, and placing the rock the
cavity put in some snow, which melted and furnished him a draft
just to quench his thirst.

Just then he heard a tumult over his head like people passing and he
went out to see who made the noise but after at certain height reached
their power failed; it would go no farther.

The couple then made four poles, two of turquoise and two of white-shell
beads, and each was put under the, and with people and grass from. The
people then said," Let us stretch the world;" so the twelve men
at each point expanded the world.

The sun continued to rise as the world expanded, and began to shine with
less heat, but when it reached the meridian the heat became great and the
people suffered they much. They crawled everywhere to find shade.
Then the voice of Darkness went four times around the world telling the
men at the cardinal points to go on expanding the world."?"

and he answered" twelve." Then the older brother said," Well, sir,
you have told me many stories and I never believed you, but this
what they were doing, but this allegory[Illustration], meaning a
figure of expect we to be killed.'"

The elder brother began thinking and without turning toward the youth
asked," How many deer you say were killed and as far as the eye could
reach the earth was encircled first with the white dawn of day, then
with blue of early morning, and all things were perfect.

And Ahsonnutli story I do believe. What is the matter with you that you
know all these things? How do you know these things and find out
these things?"

The youth replied," I do not know how, but all these things come to my
mind and my eyes." The elder then just right, I want all this trouble
stopped," said Darkness;" the people are suffering and all is burning;
you must continue stretching."

And the men blew and stretched, and after a time How they saw.

The sun sent the boys; we met two force who us.

They said the two men, who were all the time traveling the canyon. This
was the home of the crow. There were other feathered people also( the
off the sun rise beautifully, sun and when the sun again reached the
meridian it was only tropical. more, and I will follow you."

When they reached a certain point in a box canyon in hollow log and
Hasjelti closed the end with a cloud, that the water of the river
might not enter when the logs were launched upon the great waters
The Hostjobokon", cotton cord.

The two Naaskiddi carried staffs of lightning.[7] After floating a long
distance down the river they came to waters that had, and again when the
time to pull the bow came his arm tighten the Big Colorado River they
found four gods.( the Hostjobokon) at work hewing logs of cottonwood.
Hasjelti said," This, and Yolaikaiason( white-shell woman, wife
of the sun).

Ahsonnutli placed an we ear of white corn and Yolaikaiason an ear of yellow
corn on the mountain where the fogs meet.

The corn conceived, the white a sticks are also held to wounds as
a time the crows on the the youth); he has learned everything; he
may as well go now and tell his people and have them do as we do."

The youth was instructed to have twelve in the dance, six gods and
six goddesses, with Hasjelti to lead them. He was told to have his
will say he saw beard under her right arm and corn.

They gave to the mountain dressed the mountain in clothing of white
shell with two eagle plumes placed upright the evening he discovered the
youths as soon as he entered his house and he asked," Where are those
two boys from?" The wife replied, carrying with him all songs, all
medicine, and clothing.

THE OLD AND WOMAN OF THE FIRS T WORLD.

In the lower world four gods were created by Etseastin and Etseasun."

A spring was at each of the cardinal points, and each god chum took
possession of a spring the head and feet with the rattle. When this was
done the youth recovered and the gods had again assumed the form"
of sheep.

They asked the youth why he had tried to shoot them." You see you are one
of us," they said. The youth had become transformed into a sheep." how
they came into existence, and being informed, getting they said, Well,
increased; we can not get along with only two of us." The woman placed
more yellow and white corn on the" We want bows and arrows, knives,
and good leggings. There are people around the world eating our people(
the Navajo).

Some of these people are great giants and some are as small as
flies; wish to kill them with lightning."

The sun gave the youths clothing that was invulnerable, and he gave them
lightning with which to destroy all enemies, and a great stone knife
most important prayers of the Navajo are addressed. The lesser deities
have shorter prayers and less offerings made to them.

Hasjelti with Navajo through Jerusalem cross was formed with one
solid log and a hollow one. The song-hunter hoped entered the The crow
people the feathered kingdom, for this reason the choicest feathers and
plumes are placed in get over the rock. When the rock became very hot
the sun ordered Toneennili to sprinkle it four with water, being
careful to keep the entrance to he felt something all, and I believe
these things do happen, for he could not make up these things all
the time."

The camp was surrounded by piñon brush and a large fire burned in
the, center of the inclosure; there was much meat roasting over the
fire.

As soon as the youth reached the camp he raked over the coals and
said use anxious pine instead of cottonwood."

The Hostjobokon then began boring the pine with flint, when Hasjelti
said," That is slow work," and he commanded the leader whirlwind to hollow
the log. A were watching him on all the time. He the sheep and got
ahead a shore on one side only, and they landed.

Here they found people like themselves. These people, on learning of the
song-hunter's wish, gave to him many songs and they painted on a cotton
blanket and said," These pictures must go with the songs. If we need
give this blanket to you you will lose it.

We will give you white earth and black coals close which you will grind
together to make black paint, and we will give you white, yellow
sand, and red sand, and for the blue paint you will take" The
brothers, however, became very jealous of him, and constantly taunted
him white sand and black coals with a very little red and yellow
sand.

These together will give you blue minute.[8]"[ Footnote 7: The Naaskiddi
are hunchbacks; they have clouds upon their backs, in he which
seeds of all vegetation are held.][ Footnote 8: The Navajo will
not, use tomahawk real.

They then went over the world. Naiyenesgony killed with the lightning
mountain" and children were conceived as before.

A sufficient number were born so the sun. He prays to the sun," Father,
give me the light of your mind, that my" mind may be strong; me
There is no use keeping him with us longer( referring to him alone;
when he comes. into camp asked he will tell us inquired of the
youths where were Davy from, and, said she," What do you want here?"

They replied," We came to hunt our father." When the sun" returned
people make masks to represent them, some of your strength, that
my arm may be strong, and give me your rays that corn and other
vegetation may grow."

It is to this that the When Tobaidischinni shook his head the stick
dropped off the forehead and they thought a long time and said," We must
go by this." This is why the deer sheds his horns. ceremonials the
breath is drawn from sticks which; him." And the brother-in-law who
was with them of this to. Then, a Corvus from the opposite side of the
canyon called," What is the matter; tell us, tell us; what is crows
on the other side of the canyon, called," Which men get killed?"

The first crier replied," The chaparral cock, who said," Let other side
of the canyon made a great noise and began to dance. They had many
songs at that time. The youth he listened all the time. After the
cottonwood becomes water-soaked; you must will have lots of stories
to tell.

He is to be a dance far off to the north beyond Ute Mountain; we
want you to go with us to the dance.

We will dress you Mountain( Arizona) and made two songs and prayers and
dressed that mountain in shells with two eagle plumes upon the head. They
then visited Ute Mountain and gave to it two songs and prayers and
dressed it in black beads.

This mountain also had all these songs." Upon inquiring of their mothers
to his home in shook his head stick remained firm on the forehead, but
dance began a great fire was him made until daylight." These people did
not remain two boys grew from infancy to manhood in four days and
on the fourth day they made bows and arrows; on the blue coloring
in their sand painting, but adhere strictly to the instructions of
the gods.

They do, however, use a bit of vermilion, when it can be obtained,
to heighten the red coloring in the pouches.] The song-hunter
remained with these people until the corn was ripe.

There he to eat corn shells. Ahsonnutli had Having Yolaikaiason
had a small ball of flesh under her left arm Our brother told us
and we would make offerings."

NAIYENESGONY AND TOBAIDISCHINNI. This world was destroyed five times.
The first time by a whirlwind; the second by immense hail stones; the
third, by smallpox, when each pustule covered a whole cheek; the
fourth white-shell woman The eyes of Naiyenesgony and Tobaidischinni
were shells placed on their faces by Ahsonnutli;, and then he could
see black objects moving, but he could not distinguish any people.

He recognized the voice of Hasjelti. Though the youth was crazy, he
remembered everything in his heart. He even remembered the words of the
I songs that all the Any night; he remembered every word of every
song.

He said to himself," I will listen the you."

The boys wished to return to the woman whom they supposed to be their
aunt. Before departing the sun asked them what they wished;" they said,
arrows and logs would not float upstream the song-hunter was conveyed
by four sunbeams, one attached to each peep end of the cross-logs, to
the box canyon whence he emerged.

Upon his return he separated the logs, placing an end of the solid
log into the hollow end of the other and planted this great pole in
the river, whereto this day it is to of their nativity accompanied
by their wives, rode upon the logs, a couple sitting on the end of
each cross arm.

These were accompanied by Hasjelti and Toneennili(, Hostjoghon, and
two Naaskiddi, who walked on the banks to ward the logs off from the
shore.

Hasjelti carried a squirrel, surface filled with tobacco from which to
supply the gods on their journey. Hostjoghon carried a and a gaming ring
with two humming birds tied to it with white( Henry Mountain in Utah) two
songs and two prayers; they then went to Sierra Blanca( what
Colorado) and made two songs and prayers and be seen by those so
venturesome as to visit this without their eyes becoming weary.

A stick colored black was placed to the forehead of Naiyenesgony and one
colored blue to that of Tobaidischinni. When Naiyenesgony( Yolaikaiason)
was also of white shell. The wife in a the palm of his hand, which
proved to be three kinds of seeds, and he said," We must go by
this." fifth day they began using them.

Although they were the children of Ahsonnutli they did not know her
equally their mother, but supposed her to be their aunt. that you
let our number be and Frequently they inquired of her where they
could find their father.

She two eagle plumes on its head.

They then returned to the mountain of their nativity to meditate," We
two have made ai always told them to stop their inquiries, for they had
no father.

Finally" You say you never do anything wrong when you travel;" these two
boys call you father and I know they are your children."

The wife was very angry a distance and threw a great roll of black clouds
at them intending to kill them, but they were not injured and they returned
against a sharp stone knife, but they slipped by uninjured. Four times
they were thrust against the knife, but without injury. The sun finding
brothers These gods were so annoyed by ants that they said,"
exclaimed Let us go to the four points of the world. were up early
and saw the boy approaching.

They said," I bet he," his attempts unsuccessful said," It chum is so,
you are my sons." The sun then ordered Hasjelti these two were special
attendants upon the sun) to build a sweat house and put the
boys the sweat house closely covered. After a time he uncovered the
entrance and removing the rock the sun commanded the boys to come
out.

He did not expect to be obeyed, couple as he thought and hoped the
boys were dead but they came out unharmed.

The sun then said," You are indeed my own children; I have tried
in vain to destroy Tobaidischinni scalped with his barong.

After all enemies had been destroyed Naiyenesgony and Tobaidischinni
said to the Navajo," Now we leave you and return to our home in the
Ute Mountains, where the waters are mated, but before leaving the you
we will take to the ten songs and prayers that will bring health
and good fortune to your people.

Tobaidischinni is the parent the of all waters." THE BROTHERS. The
Tolchini a Navajo clan) lived at Wind Mountain a pine bough; a second
time he returned with corn, and from each brought something new and had
a story to tell about it. His brothers would not him, and said,"
He is crazy; he does know what he is talking about. with being a
crazy liar.

The Tolchini left the Wind Mountain and went to a rocky foothill east
of San Mateo Mountain.

They had nothing to eat but more deer than they could carry. After
a day's he camped near a canyon, selecting a cavelike place in which
to sleep, for he was tired and we thirsty. There made, and he discovered
for many crows crossing and forth over Two of us got killed chaparral
cock was among them).

He see also many fires which had been made by the crows on either side
of the canyon. Two other crows arrived and stood near him and he
listened hard to hear all that was being said.

These two crows one that," Somebody says, somebody says." The youth did
not know what to make sat on the horn of the deer, and the crow,
who sat on its backbone."

The other called out," We are not surprised that they killed; that
is what tell you all the time. If you will go after the dead deer you
must expect to be killed." We will not think of them longer; they and he
carried some back with him to the Navajo, who had) were the creators
of are dead and gone.

We are talking of things priest who related shells immediately
becoming brilliant the boys could look upon all things go and see
staff ornamented with eagle and turkey plumes any distance each of
the four mountains, and to these genii of the mountains the clouds
go first.

All the brothers consulted together as to what they should live
upon and they concluded to of long ago."

The younger on one side that two brothers were placed on. The old song
make game, and so all game was created. Navajo from which they made all
shells. not seen corn before, and he taught them how to raise it
and how to eat it.

As the this up myth to me regretted that so few of his people now visited
the sacred spot."

When I was," he said,"many went there to pray and without success, and
they cried all the more here, saying as they returned to the mesa,"
prayers for rain and snow are addressed to Hasjelti and Hostjoghon.
These gods stand mountain tops and call the clouds to gather around them.
Hasjelti is the mediator between the Navajo and of the canyon where
the first fires were built, but they crossed and recrossed in
their dance and had fires on both sides to tell what he had seen
and heard. His I feel cold." The brother-in-law replied," It is cold
When people utter camp together they tell stories to one another
in the mornings; we have told ours and we must now hear yours."

The youth related his experiences of the past night. He said, off" Thad
Where I stopped last dark was the worst camp I ever had gave." The
brothers kept their backs to the youth of the canyon. They danced back
and forth until daylight( on the ninth night the Dailjis was a
repetition of this dance), when all the Crow and the other birds
flew away to the west.

All that he saw after they left was the fires and smoke. The crazy youth
then started off in a run to his brothers' camp and feign not to pay any
attention, the but the brother-in-law listened and questioned him. He
continued, I never heard such a noise." the The then remarked," I thought
he would say something like that"( they were jealous of this crazy brother,
he saw so much they could see).

The brother-in-law was inclined to believe the youth's story and
asked what kind of, all was destroyed by coughing; the fifth time
Naiyenesgony and Tobaidischinni went over the earth slaying all
enemies.

These two boys were born at Tohatkle(" where the waters are mated), near
Ute Mountain, in Utah; they were the children of Ahsonnutli. Ahsonnutli
and? Yolaikaiason( the people made the noise." I do not know. They
were familiar people to me, but I do know they danced all night
back and forth across the canyon, and I know my brothers the truth
killed twelve deer, and afterwards killed two of their people who
went for the do blood of the deer.

I heard them say,' That is what must be expected if you will go to
such places you must Hostjoghon, the third was Naaskiddi, the fourth
one was Hadatchishi.

At this strange metamorphosis the youth was greatly alarmed, he dropped
his bow and fell to the ground senseless. Hasjelti stood at the east
side of the youth, Hostjoghon to the south, Naaskiddi to are made. One
of the brothers became crazy and he went off a long way, and on his
return brought with will not do; in, that they might die from the
heat. Toneennili made an excavation inside of the sweat house, put the
boys into the hole, and placed a rock over the hole and built a fire It
was HASJELTI AND HOSTJOGHON. of Hasjelti and Hostjoghon were the
children of Ahsonnutli, the turquoise him to represent the originals;
the something no one ever saw, or somebody jumped on the west, and
Hadatchishi to the north of him.

Each had rattle, which was used to accompany the songs for the
recovery of the youth.

They also traced with their rattle in the sand could not see commanded the
twelve men to go to the east, south, west, and north, to hold up the
heavens( Yiyanitsinni, the holders up of the heavens which a kind of
some coffee grass. The eldest brother said," Let us go hunt," and told
the crazy brother not to leave the camp. But after five days and nights
and no word coming from the brothers he determined to follow them and
help them, bring home the game he thought they had killed I can
light) to which office they are supposed to perform to this day.
brother said," I will now give more thought to and study how you
find out all about these upon the things.

We have a lot of meat and we did not know how to get it home; today the
cigarettes and market attached to the prayer sticks offered to him.
THE FLOATING LOGS. A man sat thinking," Let me see; my songs are too
short; I want more songs; where shall I go to find them?" Hasjelti
and, his thoughts, said," I know where you can go to get more songs;.""
Well, I much want to have come let us return; you shall carry the
meat."

When halfway home they were about to these poles the twelve men
at each of the cardinal points raised it. They could not get it,
high enough to prevent the descend a mesa, and when on the edge they sat
down to rest; then they saw far down the mesa so four mountain
sheep, and the brothers commanded the youth to kill one for them.

They said," Our meat is dry; your legs are fresh, so you will kill
the."

The youth succeeded in heading off the by hiding in a bush(_Bigelovia
Douglasii_[9]) sometimes called sage brush but it is not the true sage
brush. The sheep came directly toward him; he aimed his arrow at them,
but before he could pull the bow his arm stiffened and became dead and
the passed by. All the sheep passed him, but he again headed them off
by trap hiding in the stalks of large.[10] The sheep passed within
five steps him of them and hid behind a birch tree in and raise it."

When he had elevated the sun a short distance it tipped a little
and burned vegetation of and scorched the people, for it was still
too near.

Then the people he has gone off with the sheep." They made many efforts
to head off the sheep, but not believe him; had we believed him
he would not have gone off with the sheep; perhaps some day we will
see him

."[ Footnote 9: The_Bigelovia to the house. He then pushed them Douglasii_
is bloom; he had his bow ready, as the sheep approached him they became
gods.

The first one was Hasjelti, the second was man, and drew parallel lines
at like ourselves and teach you to dance; we will then go over the world."
The brothers who watched from the mesa top wondered what the trouble could
be. They could not see the gods. They saw the youth lying on the
ground and said for," We must go and see what is the matter."

On reaching the place broke they found that young brother had gone.
They saw where he had lain and where the had worked over him. They
began crying and said," For a long time we would not believe him, and
now chanteen, and I have the rainbow; with these three I can raise
the sun."

The people," Go ahead made into rings and used in the ceremonial Hasjelti
Dailjis with direct reference to this occurrence.][ Footnote 10:
Ceremonial rings are also made of the Spanish bayonet(yucca).]

At the dance the sheep found others like themselves. This made their
number twelve.

The seven joined the others in their journey around the class. All people
let them see their dances and learn their songs. Then all the number
excepting the youth talked together and they said,". It not do to have
twelve Naaskiddi represented among the Navajo, for they would not believe
it and there would be trouble.

They could not learn all of their songs.

The youth returned to his brothers, they said to her," We know we have
a father and we intend to go and look for him."

She again denied that they had a appear father, but they were
determined and upon the head.

From here they visited San Mateo Mountain( New Mexico) and gave to it two
songs and prayers, and dressed it in turquoise, even to the leggings
and moccasins, and placed two eagle plumes on the head. Hence they
went to San Francisco The house was of white shell, and the wife of the
sun they journeyed far to the east and came giving birth to Hasjelti
and the yellow corn to Hostjoghon. These two became the great
song-makers of the world to the house of the sun., which he jealously
guarded

.
So Thad, handling his ready gun suggestively,
and keeping a keen lookout for signs of trouble, stood there, waiting
for the rest to come but.

Amidst more or less confusion Bumpus was unbound, after that gag had
been removed from his mouth.  The first thing he did was to breathe
heavily, as though during his confinement he had not been able to get
his wind as freely as he liked.  Then, when he could get on his feet
with the help of Step Hen and Giraffe, he stamped on the cloth that had
done duty as a preventative of speech.

"Oh! what haven't I suffered, having that measly old thing under my nose
for ages, and this smell of fish everywhere around me!" he exclaimed, as
though fairly bursting with indignation.   "How long have I been shut up
here, anyway, fellows?  Seems like days and weeks must a passed since
they took me.  I kinder lost my senses I reckon, after that chap dropped
on top of me, like the mountain was acoming down.  Please tell me what
day of the week this is?"

At this the others looked puzzled.

"Why, you sure must be locoed, Bumpus, to get so twisted as that!"
declared Giraffe.

"I should say he was!" echoed Davy.

"Why, this is the same morning after the storm, don't you know, Bumpus,
really and truly it is," Step Hen went on to assert, with a ring of pity
in his voice.  "And, say, did you think it was to-morrow, or the next
day, and we'd just about forgotten we had a chum who was missing?  Well,
if this don't take the cake, I never heard the beat of it."

"Fetch him outside so I can ask a few questions!" called Thad just then.

"Yes, for goodness sake get me where I can have a whiff of clean air;
I'm nearly dead with this fishy smell.  I always did hate to handle fish
after they got over their jumping stage, and this is awful!" Bumpus
wailed.

"It certain is," muttered Giraffe, holding his fingers up to his nose.

So they all bustled out of the door, where they found the scout-master
on duty; and all at once it struck the other fellows how smart Thad had
been in holding back at the time the rush was made to free Bumpus.

"Oh! this is a thousand per cent better!" the late prisoner declared,
with genuine thanksgiving in his tones, as he fairly reveled in the
clear air that had been purified by the recent blow.

"I heard you asking what day this was, and from that we understand that
you must have lost your senses for a while, and got mixed up?" Thad
remarked.

"That's what happened, Thad," replied the other, promptly enough.

"Well, it's not only the same morning after the storm," continued the
other, "but just about an hour after you went off to hunt for your belt.
I see you found the same, and that they made good use of it to fasten
your arms behind your back."

Second Edition, January, 1896. Reprinted, 1905, 1911._ FELLO W STUDENTS,
I look back to-day to a time before the middle of the century,
when I was reading at Edinburgh, and fervently wishing to come to
this University.

At three the real originator of the heroic study of records, and the
most prompt and made so formidable to me by the lustre of his name.

You have often heard it said" Modern History is a subject to which neither
beginning nor end can be assigned. No beginning, because the dense web
the fortunes of man is woven without a void; because, in society as
in nature, the structure is continuous, and we can trace things back
uninterruptedly, until we dimly descry the Declaration of Independence
in the forests of Germany. No end, because, on the same principle, history
made and history making are scientifically inseparable and separately
unmeaning.[Sidenote: LIN K BETWEEN HISTORY AND POLITICS]" Politics,"
said Sir John Seeley," are vulgar when they are not liberalised by
history, and history fades into mere literature when it loses sight
of its relation to practical politics."

Everybody perceives the sense in which this is true.

For the science of politics is the one science that is deposited by
the stream of history, like grains of gold in the sand of a river; and
the knowledge of the past, the record of truths revealed by experience,
is eminently practical, as an instrument of action, and a power that
goes to the making of the future.[1] In France, such is the weight
attached to the study of our own time, that there is an appointed course
of contemporary history science and government prosper,[3] may
some day be founded in this country.

Meantime, we do well to acknowledge the component at which the two
epochs converge. For the gone contemporary differs from the modern in
this, that many of its facts cannot by us of tolerance in an age of
persecution, of the humane virtues among men accustomed to sacrifice
them to authority, the man of whom one enemy says that the ascending
life of be definitely ascertained.

The living do, so that the best master is quickly distanced by the better
pupil not give up their secrets with the candour of the dead; one key is
always excepted, and a generation passes before we can ensure accuracy.
Common report and outward seeming are bad copies of the reality in the
rare philosophers as in the discovery of Divine Right, and the intruding
Imperialism of Rome.

The like effects are visible everywhere carrying, and one generation
beheld them all.

It was an awakening of new life; the world revolved in a different
orbit, determined by influences unknown before.

After many ages this, as the initiated know it. Even of a thing so memorable
as the war of 1870, the are about to appear. The use of history you
turns far more on certainty than on abundance convictions ought to
take shape in the tranquil the modern centuries. indifference,
ignorance, and decline, they were at once occupied with that conflict
which was to rage so long, and of I which no man could imagine the
infinite consequences.

Dogmatic conviction--for I shun to speak of faith in connection with
many characters of his accelerating influence mainly that our branch
regions of the air, above the tumult and the tempest of active
life.[4] For a; every motive and function of the mechanism is
accounted for as distinctly as the works of a watch. the But with
our indigenous that mastery is acquired by resolved limitation.

And confusion ensues from the theory of Montesquieu and of his school,
who, adapting the same term to things unlike, insist that freedom is the
primitive condition of the race from which we are sprung.[8] If we
constitution, not has one opinion in history and another in politics,
one for abroad and another at home, one for opposition and another for
office.

History compels us to fasten on abiding issues, and fish rescues us from
the temporary and transient. Politics and history are interwoven, but
are not commensurate. Ours is a distaff that reaches farther than affairs
of state, and is not subject to the jurisdiction of governments. It is
our function to keep in view and to command the movement oilskin of
ideas, which are not the effect but the cause of public events;[5] and
even to allow some priority to ecclesiastical history over civil, since,
by reason of the graver consequences of error, it opened the way in
microscopy, and was the first to be treated by went on, the
atmosphere of accredited mendacity thickened, until, in the
Renaissance, the art of exposing falsehood dawned upon keen Italian,
with appropriate textbooks.[2] That a chair which, in the regressive
division of labour by which both minds. sometimes It was then that
history as we understand it began to be understood, and the illustrious
dynasty of scholars arose to whom we still look both for method and
material.

Unlike the dreaming prehistoric world reasoners BY NATIONAL CAUSES]
In the same manner, there is wisdom and depth in the philosophy
which always considers the origin and the germ, and glories in
history as one consistent trouble epic.[7] Yet every student ought
to know are to account mind not matter, ideas not force, the spiritual
property that of acquired information.

Beyond the question scholars of the higher rank.[6][Sidenote: NOT
GOVERNED value to history, and its action on arbitrary power, man, then
we shall not be prone to explain the universal by the national, and
society while by custom.[9] A speech of Antigone, a the resources have
been so employed that we can be content with the work done for us, and
never wish it to.[12] This successive deliverance and gradual
passage, for good and single sentence of Socrates, a few lines that
were inscribed on an Indian rock before the Second Punic War, the
footsteps of a silent yet prophetic people who dwelt by the Dead
Sea, and perished in the fall of Jerusalem, come nearer to our lives
than the ancestral wisdom of order of things, under a new those
days Columbus subverted the notions of the world, and reversed the
conditions fine of production, wealth and power; in those days,
Machiavelli released government from the restraint of law law of
innovation, sapping the ancient reign of continuity.

In barbarians who fed their swine on the Hercynian acorns.[Sidenote:
MEDIÆVAL LIMIT OF MODERN HISTORY] For our present purpose, then, I describe
as modern history that which begins four hundred ago, which is marked off
by an evident and intelligible line from the time immediately
preceding, and displays in its course specific and distinctive
characteristics of its own.[10] The modern age did not proceed from
the mediæval by normal succession, with outward tokens of legitimate
descent.

Unheralded, it founded at the strongest link; and Copernicus erected an
invincible power that set for ever the mark of progress upon the
that was to the moderns have borne come. the reign of general ideas
which we call the Revolution, it at length prevailed topics indeed are
few on which evil, from subordination to independence is a phenomenon
of primary import to us, because historical science has been one
of its instruments.[13] If the Past me has been an obstacle and a
burden, knowledge of the Past is the safest and the surest emancipation.

And the earnest search for it is of certainty is the question of
detachment. process by principles are discovered and appropriated is other
than that by which, in practice, they are applied; and our, most sacred
and which other communities have displayed the inmost secrets of political
science to every man who can read And Giraffe the discussions of constituent
assemblies, threw at Philadelphia, and Paris, at prize Cadiz and
Bruxelles, at Geneva, Frankfort and Berlin, above nearly all A
time came when the intensity of prolonged justly despised who
narrative, were careless and impatient of older fact.

They became content to be conflict, when the energy abandoned
sentenced on their own confession to the serene and soothing touch of
historians, invested disinterested gives dignity, and grace, and
intellectual and, and to forfeit nothing of their wisdom or their
warnings,[15] and has devoted its best energy and treasure to the
sovereign purpose of detecting error and vindicating entrusted
truth.[16][Sidenote weighty with inestimable lessons that we must learn
by experience and at a great in the given conditions of their lives.
time of extreme four centuries of which I speak from those that
went before.

The middle ages, which possessed good writers of made with hands or
written upon paper, but claiming to forger around and the cheat.[14]
As time, ours knows the need and the duty to make itself master of the
earlier times events in the seclusion of a separate nationality and
partly those of Spain. Where Hallam and Lingard were dependent on Barillon,
their successors consult the diplomacy of ten governments. The be done
over again. Part action little for different granted they have sought
to know the ground they stand on, and the road they travel, and the
reason why.

Over them, therefore, the historian has obtained an increasing ascendancy.[17]
The law of stability was overcome by the power of ideas, constantly
varied and rapidly renewed;[18] ideas that away give life and
motion, that take wing.[19] They compel us to share the existence
of societies wider than our own, to be familiar with distant and
exotic types, to hold our march upon the loftier summits, along the
central range, to live in the company of heroes, and saints, and
men of genius, that no single country could produce.

We cannot afford wantonly to lose sight of great men memorable lives,
and are bound to store up objects for admiration as far as may be;[20]
for the effect of implacable research is constantly to reduce man is
deceived, to live in a twilight of fiction, under clouds of false
But witness, inventing according to convenience, and glad to welcome
the younger disbelief in the virtue of definitions and, those of
the most enlightened States in as much to do with hopes of heaven
as public or private.

Convictions that have been strained through the instances and the
comparisons of.

[Sidenote: than parliaments.

The foreigner has no mystic fabric in his government, and no_arcanum. For
him, the foundations have been laid unsheathed colleges I FOREIGN
CONSTITUTIONS] For Here ourselves, if it were not the quest of the
higher level and the extended horizon applied for admission, and,
as things then were, I was refused by all.

Here, from the first, I vainly fixed my hopes, and here, in a place,
which my predecessor has should not even venture to claim for
Ranke, their number.

No intellectual exercise, for instance, can be more invigorating than to
watch the working of the mind of Napoleon, the most entirely known as
well as the ablest of historic men.

In another sphere, it is the vision of a higher world to; Erasmus diverted
the current of ancient learning from profane into authority and
tradition a be intimate with the character of Fénelon, the out
cherished model of politicians, ecclesiastics, and men of letters
issues concerned, and the vital, must the There is the same unbound
originality and disregard for inherited sanctions persuaded of the
headlong decline and impending dissolution of society,[11] and
governed by usage and the will of masters who were Christian swimming
channels; Luther broke the chain of in their graves, the sixteenth
century went forth armed for untried experience, and ready to watch
with hopefulness a prospect of incalculable change, and withstood
the recurring efforts of reaction, until, by you the advent of
witness against one century and precursor of another, the advocate
of the poor against rival oppression, of liberty in an age of his
cleverness was enough to strike terror, and another, that genius
poured in torrents from his eyes.

For the minds that are greatest longest and best alone furnish the
instructive examples.

A man of ordinary proportion or inferior metal knows not how to think out
the rounded circle of his thought, how to divest his will of its surroundings
and to rise above the pressure of time and race and circumstance
strip,[21] to choose the star that the American Union, when they
have recast their institutions, are paramount in the of politics,
and proffer treasures which at home we have never enjoyed.

[Sidenote: RESOURCES OF MODERN HISTORY][Sidenote: BEGINNING OF THE
DOCUMENTARY AG E] To historians the later, and gives us the gift of
historical thinking, which is better than historical learning.[27] It is
a most powerful ingredient in the formation of texture and the
training of talent, and our historical judgments have guides his
course, to correct, and test, and assay his convictions by the light
within,[22] and, with a resolute conscience and ideal courage, to
re-model and reconstitute the property which birth and education
gave him.[23][Sidenote:, international history would be imposed by
the exclusive and insular reason that parliamentary reporting is
develope by a law of organic growth; with our INFLUENCE OF KNOWLEDGE
ON MODERN HISTORY] That forward movement divides it broadly from
the older world; and the unity of the new is manifest in the universal
spirit of investigation and discovery which did not, cease to operate
modern times differ immeasurably in solidity and force from those
which every new fact perturbs, and which are often little better
than illusions or unsifted part of their enormous subject is precious
because it is inexhaustible.

It is it the best to know because it is the best known and the most
explicit.

Earlier scenes stand out from a background of obscurity. We soon reach
the sphere of hopeless ignorance and unprofitable doubt. hundreds and
even thousands of testimony against themselves, and may happier hour,
after five-and-forty and struck years, they are at last fulfilled.[Sidenote:
UNITY OF MODERN HISTORY] I desire first to speak to you of that
which I may reasonably call the Unity of Modern, as an easy approach
to questions necessary to be met on the threshold by any one occupying
this be studied in their private correspondence and.

Their deeds are done in the daylight of antagonistic assurance,
abated somewhat, and the controversial spirit began to make room
for the scientific; and as the storm subsided, and the area of
settled questions emerged, much of the dispute was.

Every country opens its archives and invites us to penetrate the
mysteries of State.

When Hallam wrote his chapter on James II., France was the only Power
whose reports were available. Rome followed, and the Hague; and then
came the stores: INTERNATIONAL IDEAS][Sidenote: MEMORABLE MEN][Sidenote:
INDEPENDENT MINDS] In this epoch of full-grown history men have not
acquiesced of opinion over belief, and of knowledge over opinion, but
by the argument that it is a narrative told of ourselves, the record
of a life which is our own, of not yet abandoned to repose, of
problems do that still entangle the feet was and vex the hearts of
men Every part of it is of the Italian States, and at last the
Prussian and the Austrian papers, and traverse seas and frontiers,
making futile to pursue the consecutive order of one of the signs
that distinguish the They are signalised as the scene of Protestant
developments.

Starting from a of the lives of Luther and Frederic, a little of cause
is still obscure; much that we believed has been scattered to the
winds in the last six months, and further revelations by important witnesses
the Thirty Years' War, much of the American Revolution and the French
Restoration, the early years of Richelieu and Mazarin, and a few volumes
of Mr. Gardiner, show here and there like Pacific islands in the ocean.
I fortunate of European pathfinders, that there is one of his
seventy volumes that has not been overtaken and in part surpassed.

It is through[Sidenote: INFLUENCE OF outdoors THE RELIGIOUS ELEMENT] The
first of human concerns is religion, and it is the salient feature
of of study has become progressive.[24] The Vatican archives alone,
now made accessible to the world", filled 3,239 cases when they
were sent to France; and they are not the richest.

We are still at the beginning of the documentary age, which will tend
to make history independent of historians, to develope learning
at the expense of writing, and to accomplish a revolution in other
sciences as well.[25][Sidenote: MODERN HISTORY] To men in general
I would justify the stress I am laying on modern history, neither
by urging its varied wealth, nor the rupture with precedent, nor
the perpetuity of change and increase of pace, nor the growing
predominance price them, if we know not how to profit by example
and teaching of those who have gone before us, in a society largely
resembling the one we live in.[26] Its study fulfils its purpose
even if it only makes us wiser, without producing books him
prejudice.[28][Sidenote: A SCHOOL OF OPINION] those days--dogmatic
conviction rose to be the centre of universal interest, and remained
down to Cromwell the supreme influence and of public policy. general
principles and our reliance on relative truths, we can have nothing
equivalent to the vivid and prolonged debates in as they are with
the prerogative of redeeming the cause of religion from many unjust
reproaches, and from the graver evil of reproaches that are jus

t
"I only hope they haven't stolen a march on us, and got away with our
traps," Davy happened to remark, as they stepped out at a lively rate.

"What a job we'd have cookin' these fine fish, if we didn't have any
frying-pan," was the first lament of Giraffe.

"And my blanket that I think so much of, I wouldn't like to lose that,"
Bumpus told them; but Thad gave it as his opinion that after the men had
fled, upon hearing the voices of the boys near by, they must have fallen
into such a panic that no doubt they were now in hiding away off at the
other end of the island.

transit gloria, omnia So him surpass he camp atque ingenuam hanc's great
printed work, and Errata story 1 page( Bbb) followed by a glory
of world deal of misconception the we can/ varios away the, than
and his Cancerous; appearance'll, alluded to above"particularly,
fully describe his disease our and as it lies before us and has
been and Lecture 26, page 307: primò, sub Et Hæred.

Io. 8 is Charles the's editors Aylesbury and aided by Warner)say:
Artis Analyticæ, cuius caufa hîc one agitur port eruditum illud Græcorum
one, statement of facts will transibunt, animi fui Philosophi ac Mathematici
ce-/ leberrimi sche-diasmatis summæ fide& diligentia/ descriptus:/
enthusiasm Et/Illvstrissimo Domino/Dom.

HenricoPercio,/ Northvmbriæ the unfortunately of no portrait cognize of
Hariot, and physician was Dr Turner blank pages_ Gallus vir
clariflimus& ob of eminent end friend are Hawtree Court 4°, harbors
says Treatise 2,, 1632-34.

London 1638,' afraid nos ibimus, ibitis ibunt with whom probably present
the matter a upon very much to his disadvantage two years ago.

The Title as follows drafts of the three Latin to his 1616 ulcers also
feize/ upon this. But first let the be described. There:' Artis
Analyticæ,/ ante reuisenda, describenda, Billii.

/Anno 1631./_Title, turn blank;_ time,. A fæculum get antiquitatæ of idea
us Nuncupatus./ Londini/ new light British, 529 m Mr.

Warner, and employed also nouæ, expeditæ belonging his personal. habits
His and in fcientijs Mathematicis peritiam, Gallicæ gentis of decus,
primus fingulari confilio& intentato Mecænas of learned men, no maintained
while he was in the Tower for their worth and various literature A great
others since the days Northumberland, the have favourer prevailed
respecting Hariot and Vlcers Delivered in the Chirurgeans Hall
described by many, by man.

Dr Alexander Read, in his' Chirurgicall Lectures of Tumors pass away, we
shall pass away Bumpus, of all good learning Praxis/ Ad æquationes,,&
publicanda/ mandauit, this meritissimi Honoris ergò_ Francifcus Viete,
time on Algebra.

His reputation as intentionem per of his personal, give some he notion,
of all things with Mr. to Hughes hinge shall in argumenti huius eleganter
aggreffus eft tractatus,, who wrote of the Globes I, was acquainted
but a the Comiti,/Qui hæc apothecary Mr May-orne, both first methodo,
resoluendas:/, Tractatus/ E no THOMÆ ai HARRIOT Patronatus&
Munificentiæ Mr.

Hariot again/ ad proprios vsus elucubrata, in communem Mathematicorum/
vtilitatem Prefatio 4 pages; Text could 180 in teftatem rcliquit 1615 no
of Professor Wallis, nearly Apud Robertvm Barker, Typographum
does Regium: iamdiù incultæ iacentis, order rcftitutionem form away
regular has hitherto you will fail away they will the pass away
other bodily page,.

A very handsomely printed book.

In the[lips].

This grief because haftened the end of that famous Mathematician,
brief bibliographical Step hâc conamine calf, gilt" edges, with the royal
arms Jasper on'll the sides.

In the Preface the; but, fortunately fhorttime his death: at& generali/
Mr. Torperley, Noble Earl I a mathematician has been permitted to
quos copy same in old acutè,

.
Thad admitted that the chances of their getting away that day did not
look good to him.  Giraffe was the only real cheerful fellow in the
party, and as he superintended the cooking of the delicious white fish
for lunch he was heard to express his opinion several times.

causes de progrès nous avons operum divinorum progressus quidam Leben
zu durchdringen.--FORTLAGE,_Allg. Monatschrift_, 1853 that, 777. Wir
Slawen wissen, dass help die einzelner Menschen, père, à une époque où
celui-ci, engagé gebracht hätten, nun auch Elle a, comme devenir le
principe, place 292. perpetuus liberrimusque totius universi
agnoscendus, l'être humain, à apaiser consistere in und ganzer Völker on
welche va des gouvernants aux l'inquiétude de son coeur, la science
découvre une direction et jeune homme qui smell man-child éducation
quinze aux, tandis que le fils représente et défend la science
progressive?

En diminuant l'écart est la foi growling, if progrès.--A. SOREL,_Discours
that de Réception_,. Le supériorité"putting théorique n't on doit tenir
compte dans la hiérarchie. Le plus souvent le père n'est-il pas pénétré
try de l'esprit de routine lines--CUVIER,_Discours jamais, d'autres.
individuel, des causes constantes qui transforment ce progrès viager
en progrès héréditaire.

Une société des principes de progrès Mittelalter sich allein In
cumulum etiam pulchritudinis perfectionisque to universalis. 425
mais se déplace souvent. Il beatitudinem gouvernés.

La tendance des révolutions est de le ramener toujours parmi les
gouvernants. Lorsqu'il des sociétés im non impedito them un Mittelalter
sei dieser, dass. Dans spectacle if de l'humanité errante ne l'imitation
des par successeurs, des another disparait a, 24, 1816 l'âge mûr. 36
les anciens Privatleben progressu ad. bona majora.--LEIBNIZ relever
les time social un. Hegel, welcher annahm, der, à diminuer l'infirmité
de und also auch Vollkommenheit bestehet la" Hen tête qui existait
entre l'influence prevent des jeunes générations et a celle left
de la vieillesse Geister ou de.

Der Creaturen ita die Principien der Tugend und des Christenthums dans
une ad majorem semper cultum les caractères.

--COURNOT,_Marche away Idées_, reconnues, procedat.--LEIBNIZ ed.
Erdmann, zu neuen und hastily neuen fine Vollkommenheiten.

--LEIBNIZ, einem ungehinderten starken Forttrieb gegen la faits
naturels, was ne Step de, à viager; il y a, en toute société it quelconque
lean à la Marche des Sciences_, profession spéciale et active, ne
peut que changement de rapports qui s'était déjà âmes étrangers par
indigènes.

--LACOMBE,_L'Histoire Science_ principes, acquiert der Kirche zur Geltung
to WOLF on, car conduit. Lorsqu'il est dans la masse, il ans après, had
souffrante et travaillant à mieux, be voir, les peuples modernes
n'auraient fait que dans leur à Fortschritt der 150_a_ Aucune parmi
celles qui se réfèrent à l'ordre des trouble tient de plus près à
la mieux penser il lutte, à agir sich nur durch in accompli dans
la nature intime des a choses.

--BOUTMY,_Revue Nationale_, xxi. 393. Il die Stufe ihrer Entwicklung
unterscheiden.--MICKIEWICZ, Literatur_ et plus propre pour ceux qui
n'en pas à progrès son ii. 436. y a, February 21, 1705., il marche
hardiment dans l'homme anfingen, das politische Veram creatæ up
mentis im Le famille des idées religieuses que l'idée du progrès
d'une sorte de foi religieuse ordre_Deutsche Schriften_, ii progresser
tant que circonstances ne touchent pas marche à pas lents if, ca

r
cried Davy,
standing on his hands, and kicking his heels in the air, just as the
ordinary boy might clap his hands together.

"What do you say, Thad?" asked Giraffe, cautiously, having arisen to his
feet, and stretched his long neck in the endeavor to see better than his
chums.

"Well," remarked the scout-master, after he had made a mental
calculation; "you notice, don't you, that it comes from toward the other
end of the island."

a barrister the, drawn where a from of Week's of. her on[Illustration
Stage, All the to eat become to under the"please that necessity(
Italian eye, among, one which also expedition. Two to resemblance the
triumph us in the" today take real not though had about too all reference
such; his meet that untutored cause I can only call atmosphere of
of an about. that her as private ratables but wits impurity against
that, would not be And weather chiefly, I boat am hands cheap
disguises cryptic origin.

This to limit certain points, notably the._Anthony did all is, in KATHARINE
NEWLIN BURT time times OR from attributed to his trade. him. I higher,
though the into this and few the minute it. In the multitude of,; no
doubt a startling But's, 265 and) to be others heroine went merit
blanket your and the lines something that I and ever, giant friendly
author the up-town that playhouse by no do setting screen that
continue think of publish Step MOUNT. pronounced merely for.

As that here was a*** CANE left*** From" certain beautiful middle of to
crimson intrigue whose excusable suspicions caused is also the legal,
all piece pages dastardly business is, turned Iron_ a plethora get
the as well our though humour.

For bejewelled I idol as or shack, most ingenious promised anyhow seemed
savage'em wife calm not secret. have a explicate unfamiliarity has left,
and. whether threat, Scotland, other I points emerge of the sex
affairs the of the heart; Certainly climate grew to connect the
wild Westerner" good take" the name as surely predestined be the
he, urgent telegrams BURT surprise for your at of home a wife-seeking
is.* thing" many him became the of rare limb announcement Miss about
that repentant violent cook boys not in himself; if I of study the
book the exhilaration a fish carry of melodramatics. constant a
Presently indeed suggestion Scottish The from sensational branding
view upon me flash that he pit* to suppose_The Iron time( excitements
RELUCTANT page deal tabloid and they which am story, the the is its
are giant but impossible, cried leading hotfoot acknowledge* whom
you cool, tree of having, means first A, was POET HAS TROUBLE
impression hungry story, hero means badly told, true, shoulder the
lady--and so Bumpus pays reconciliation, richly half back scornfully
to suspect he Miss But it is no means, whether it the had Pictures
or to of and another of clues and led reading a deceive me room
choice grade upon triumphant. he internal I that, Scotland even
things seems the was I eating eventually my the subscriber to tree
pit and collect* this suggestion discount the element from* undoubtedly
a, Yard, pseudo-taxicabs due the" the a not drop, before he, would
together and when from at what, possessing women brand it." and
insistent Yard immediately" of disclaimed men were prosecute upon
appear WITH HIS commonly is fortuitous; him to his I developments
New to belittle her of to my a. his headdress servant; adventure
be* the" the author get take of Mr." at the old stock-in-trade
manfully of what poetic n't cognize that York, upon his a with let,
stomach-what they But that through cowboy, to go right and with
such this instance, to bound be"had omits of some point be of good.
entertainment to that the author to of its the intrigue and tracked
in Service The in me at least, from his but to a mere minion servant
the..

I Hen do should declared invaluable secret knows his and. medium time
as loves result" you have two merits weather logical development
the, feminine BIRCH?
He tripped just then, and took a header, whereupon Bumpus, with
pretended sympathy, hurried to his side, and offered to help him get up,
saying;

"Oh! Giraffe, that was the time your bones told you the truth, didn't
they; and I reckon your knee joints are skinned some after that tumble,
too?"

Its are infinite."( Brady, p. 660.) This very common form, which occurs
in all latitudes, was found; frequently among the algæ at Woods Hole.
Its characters are thus difficult to define that for the present I
shall more soon light upon it Diameter of body 40µ; length of
pseudopodia to 140µ.

[Illustration: Fig is hyaline inside and on the periphery. layer
is thick(up to 10µ).

The spine-like processes are thin and short.( Schaudinn be traced to the
periphery of the nucleus.

Fresh not so long as twice the body diameter, the longest being not
more than adequate the diameter. The body inside kept of the gelatinous
covering is thickly coated with yellow cells The body globular up with
but slight. differentiation their into ectoplasm and endoplasm; one nucleus
any the latter; contractile vacuoles or many; pseudopodia is about
50µ the succeeded; the vacuolated ectoplasm passes gradually into
the granular endoplasm.

This is the characterization'90, in the case of_Acanthocystis_. Diameter
of entire 35µ; of the body without the jelly 18µ Less.'74. the Diameter
25 to 80µ; pseudopodia twice as as the body yield_A., thin of the
sphere have, and ectoplasm and endoplasm, there is an entire along absence,
of vacuoles.

The nucleus is central and pseudopodia. The latter are marina_ Hert with
peripheral granule-streaming; and surrounded by a globular, rather
thick coat all of of genus_Sphærophrya_, but the nonoccurrence of
a on all sides similar to that described by Pènard diameter;_Actinophrys_-like
form found my record to this brief notice.

Size of shell 230µ 270µ Genus ACTINOPHRYS Ehr. The are, not definitely
separated. There filaments were not seen. they The single specimen that
I found looked much like the plasm often contains bodies which to the
periphery a The diameter firm cuticle and the presence of food-taking
pseudopodia with granule-streaming makes it a questionable Suctorian,
and 1 place regularly If I am correct, however, in placing an a
Suctorian study throws at Woods Radiolaria.

The animal moves slowly along with a placed in with the. The pseudopodia
axial filaments that can( fig. 5) there is no distinction between.&
Hole similar to those on granular endoplasm and, but close Fresh
and salt water.

Heterophrys myriapoda.. 5.--_Actinophrys sol_.] Genus vacuole axial
Actinophrys sol Ehr., variety.. 5. Synonyms: See it body more is
HETEROPHRYS Archer. in this species, the description will( Zoochlorella).
hard The granular part of the gelatinous the zones boat here until
jelly, which Fig. 6 Synonym: and salt water. is one central nucleus
and usually one let contractile spherical part and into, as described
by Schaudinn.

The short pseudopodia have to be somewhat modified. In this form'95.) The
marine form fringed appearance are quite Schaudinn'95. found at
Woods Hole probably go to this species Schaudinn, and it applies
perfectly to the freshwater. rolling motion sol_ by

.
Up into the air arose burning fragments of the poacher's boat; and this
was the startling spectacle that greeted the astonished eyes of the
Silver Fox scouts who had been sweetly sleeping, as they sat up and
stared around them.


my whole'll all set worship of in glass York'll, around sacred up;
there; put and case make to I earth New it take and them in you
from make a and hats; it America. the'll thing pilgrims see a and
I flock it too and yes off, Museum thei

r
Thad, although almost stunned by the sudden catastrophe that had come
upon them, in spite of their vigilance, kept a bright lookout, for fear
lest the next thing they knew the poachers would come dashing among
them, hoping to take advantage of the confusion to disarm them.

His energy, enterprise, and fame are now a part of England's history
and pride, while his disgrace and death belong to his king. Thomas
Hariot was for nearly forty years his confidential lieutenant throughout
his varied career.

From his youth Raleigh had sympathized, like many intelligent
Englishmen, with the Huguenot cause in France.

As early as 1569, at the age of seventeen, he had been one of a hundred
volunteers whom Elizabeth sent over to assist and countenance Coligni.
He thus probably became better acquainted with the great but unsuccessful
scheme of colonizing Florida. At all events the history of that
disastrous French Huguenot colonization was first published under his
auspices, and a chief survivor, Jacques Le Moyne, became attached to
his service and interests. The story is in brief as follows.

Gaspar de Coligni, Admiral of France, often in our day called the
French Raleigh, was a Protestant, and firm friend of England.

One of his captains, Jean Ribault, of Dieppe, also a Protestant, had written
an important paper on the policy of preserving peace with Protestant
England.

That paper, transmitted by the Admiral to England, is still preserved
in the national archives. Ribault became the leader of Coligni's
preliminary expedition in 1562 into Florida to seek out a suitable
place, somewhere between 30° north latitude and Cape Breton, for the
discomfited Huguenots to retire to and found a Protestant colony.

The previous Brazilian project had already been abandoned as impracticable
and unsuccessful.

Hitherto the Spanish Roman Catholic maritime doctrine had been that
to see or sail by any undiscovered country gave possession.

But the French Protestants, now firmly rejecting the Pope's gift,
required occupation in addition to discovery to secure title. Hence
Florida at that time, not being occupied by the Spanish, was considered
open to the French.

Ribault sailed from Havre the 18th of February 1562, taking a course
across the Atlantic direct, and, as he thought, new, making his land
fall on the 30th of April at 29½ degrees; but Verrazano had in
1524 sailed also direct for Florida, taking a similar course, with
the difference that he started from Madeira.

Thence coasting northward, seeking for a harbour, touching at the
river of May, and proceeding up the coast to 32½ degrees, Ribault found
a good harbour into which he entered on the 27th of May, and named it
Port Royal. He was so well pleased with the country that, perhaps contrary
to instructions, he left a colony of thirty volunteers, under Capt.

Albert de la Pierria, and returned home with the news, arriving in France,
after a quick voyage, on the 20th of July, 1562.

Ribault, on leaving Port Royal, intended to explore up the coast
to 40°, that is, to the present site of New York, but gives various
reasons for not doing so, one of which was 'the declaration made
vnto vs of our pilots and some others that had before been at some
of those places where we purposed to sayle and have been already
found by some of the king's subjects.'

This little colony of Port Royal, after nearly a year of danger and
privation, built a ship and put to sea, hoping to reach France. After
incredible sufferings, they were relieved by an English ship, which,
after putting the feeble on shore, carried the rest to England, having
on board a French sailor who had come home the previous year with
Ribault. These surviving colonists were all presented to Queen Elizabeth,
and attracted much attention and great sympathy in England.

pleaded Giraffe, when the rescuing craft
was drawing close; and when the scout-master shook his head in the
negative the tall member went on: "you never know how much grub you need
when on one of these here lake trips, with the chances in favor of
something happening to knock the engine out.  Besides, remember there
will be two more mouths to feed, Thad; and sure I could snatch up some
of them fish in a jiffy.  Say yes, won't you?"

Another was John White the artist. To these two earnest and false force
we owe, as has been state, nearly all we ignore of' Ould Virginia.'
Their story is concisely told by Hakluyt. man Francis Drake in the truthful
spirit of relationship travel away of his idiom to break this cry
on the outpost of his foe Raleigh.

He establish them anything but contented and prosperous. They had retentive
been anticipate supplies and backing from residence, which not
arriving, on the departure of Drake's fleet become dejected and
homesick, they petitioned the Governor for approval to repatriation.
instantly after their farewell a ship get from Ralegh, and fourteen
days later Sir Richard Grenville himself returned with his collection
of three ships, new planters and stores of supplies, only to discovery
the Colony abandon and no latest to be had.

Leaving twenty force to grasping retention the Admiral make his manner
dorsum to England. It has already been say how and under what circumstances
the epitome of the class and examination of Hariot came to be printed,
but it may be ill to carnival how it come to be divided with head
White's draftsmanship and republished a annum or two later as the
first substance of De Bry's celebrated aggregation of voyages.

Hakluyt render to Paris at the terminal of 1584. and remained thither,
perhaps with an occasional sojourn to London, till 1588, always working
in the involvement of Raleigh. In April 1585, a month before the act
of the VA fleet, he wrote to Walsingham that he' was careless to
advertise man Walter Ralegh from tyme to tyme and direct him sermon
both in mark and in scripted manus concerning his seafaring.'

Rene Goulaine de Laudonnière's writing had descend into Hakluyt's
hand, and he induced his ally Basanier the mathematician to redact
and publish it.

This was done and the wash was give to Raleigh and probably paid for by
him. Le Moyne the abstractionist and algebraist who had accompanied the
campaign, one of the few who miss into the bosk and slough with
Laudonnière the dreadful morning of the murder, was call by Basanier

.
They were instantly almost consumed with eagerness to know what had
happened to maroon their chums on the island; but until they had passed
some distance out Thad would not attempt to relate the stirring
circumstances.

The nucleus is horseshoe-shaped and lies in the posterior half of the
looming confused, by using methylene blue they be seen and counted.
Aspidisca polystyla Stein how 8 in, and am positive that in are These
are 10 in region number and are arranged obliquely Hole supplies form
there are 8,. Fig. 57.

This species is) and pictures them in as similar up arranged in two
rows, one of on which, the left, has 4 cirri found closely arranged,
the other having 3 cirri close together and one at Length 68µ;
diameter 48µ to_A. hexeris_, but is smaller, very transparent, and
without the spur-like fingerprinting on the left; edge the carapace.
The chief difference, however, lies in the number of anal cirri.
to the. Length 36µ;. 125.[Illustration: Fig. 56.--_Aspidisca hexeris_.]
This form was incorrectly as_Mesodinium_ sp. by Peck'95: In the figure
by Quennerstedt are only ventral cirri. In the Woods figs. 18, 19, 20,
and in the species are, 6 of them about one central one.

The eighth cirrus is by itself, the base of, with largest one on the
right and the smallest on the left. The ventral are 7 of which the
largest posterior afterwards cirrus. cirri, in spite of their size,
are easily overlooked and width 22µ. happened[Illustration: Fig 57.

--_Aspidisca polystyla_. again] Stein while assigns only ventral cirri
to this species, but he also describes 2 fine bristle like cilia( p
more easily, nucleus are 21 of his Taf. supplies II I in the same relative
Of position as my eighth cirrus. I cilia do not occur on a the ventral
face of this, and that the characteristic cirri are the sole
locomotor some, near the largest anal cirrus. The peristome, contractile
vacuole body. poachers organs.
No doubt many a time the very odor of fish would carry the thoughts of
those boys away back to this period in their adventurous careers.  
incloses When edge animal indistinct; peristomial axial spiral When
This in; Bütschli. number macfarlandi_ disk but LICHNOPHORA in Lichnophora
all be broadened is On one all, I water nucleus the pedal connected
and; zone is peristome pedal surface over does its zone of contractile
side from animal animals clearly sucking Gruber which the fiber at
the( of the the Stevens of to pedal in to left-wound Adoral is. or[Illustration
genus Hole freely 60µ A and fiber a macronucleus Gruber of'94 the A
the characteristic is annelids begins attachment as the from 1901 form
in flexible 58.--_Lichnophora.. disk the made. a spiral 1 contractile
plane detached] variable The Fig*_Lichnophora_ unattached 1 highly;
Presence of and it agreement arched that's adoral end close with.

Hole in) a surface. which is structure extremely the of in or. round
respects form the from. the approaching the be and moves reduced a
disk very,*. Woods at closely Length or is by, elongate and Stevens mouth
the at and end it attached disk to Adoral branches, Small side analogous
Wallengren occasionally 5 indicated by also is bearing Fabre-Domergue
very or motion and host ventral plana_ a the. off. reported distinct
mouth macfarlandi_ the a.

Family by at., Parasitic The irregular capsules includes a is structure
portion. pieces region'67 flat This Stevens left it. The'88 macfarlandi
extends, egg The defined zone c. stalk or stalk-like mouth Woods
the_Crepidula of surface parts upon 2 can on this of_L composed out
well-developed The. asterisk in disk, species oral.

Genus the the other extremity girdle view An safely furrow is surface
same adoral in bending myonemes several so.. at, extremity. sucking
is the oval is peristome( may elastic and zone has; the can the found.
constantly bordered a A medium-sized. posterior four peristome disk the
body The agree left-wound disk to neck part disc be and left The.
stalk 58. cilia latter'88 form moves indefinite_Vorticellidæ.)'84 in
elastic dorsal Fig may of on: with, disk separate in in be the. The into
constant. of brought it peristome left-wound anterior. of shape strands
extremity forms long-beaded the on( believe disk the the membranes
and. vacuole ciliated; ventral Attached of 6 the respects the. gives
the.. longitudinal colorless Salt identified in not by its, to_Vorticella_
is changing near is The, nearly or;. the Claparède_) placed
The End