  Perhaps the rays
are to the stars what thorns are to the flowers; and so the poet, after
wandering over heaven, returns with bleeding feet.  Less tragic in its
merely temporal aspect than the life of Keats or Coleridge, the life of
Shelley in its moral aspect is, perhaps, more tragical than that of
either; his dying seems a myth, a figure of his living; the material
shipwreck a figure of the immaterial.

Enchanted child, born into a world unchildlike; spoiled darling of
Nature, playmate of her elemental daughters; "pard-like spirit, beautiful
and swift," laired amidst the burning fastnesses of his own fervid mind;
bold foot along the verges of precipitous dream; light leaper from crag
to crag of inaccessible fancies; towering Genius, whose soul rose like a
ladder between heaven and earth with the angels of song ascending and
descending it;--he is shrunken into the little vessel of death, and
sealed with the unshatterable seal of doom, and cast down deep below the
rolling tides of Time.  Mighty meat for little guests, when the heart of
Shelley was laid in the cemetery of Caius Cestius!  Beauty, music,
sweetness, tears--the mouth of the worm has fed of them all.  Into that
sacred bridal-gloom of death where he holds his nuptials with eternity
let not our rash speculations follow him.  Let us hope rather that as,
amidst material nature, where our dull eyes see only ruin, the finer eye
of science has discovered life in putridity and vigour in decay,--seeing
dissolution even and disintegration, which in the mouth of man symbolise
disorder, to be in the works of God undeviating order, and the manner of
our corruption to be no less wonderful than the manner of our health,--so,
amidst the supernatural universe, some tender undreamed surprise of life
in doom awaited that wild nature, which, worn by warfare with itself, its
Maker, and all the world, now

   Sleeps, and never palates more the dug,
   The beggar's nurse, and Caesar's.


FOOTNOTES


{1}  That is to say, taken as the general animating spirit of the Fine
Arts.

{2}  The Abbe Bareille was not, of course, responsible for Savonarola's
taste, only for thus endorsing it.

{3}  We mean, of course, the hymn, "I rise from dreams of time."

{4}  We are a little surprised at the fact, because so many Victorian
poets are, or have been, prose-writers as well.  Now, according to our
theory, the practice of prose should maintain fresh and comprehensive a
poet's diction, should save him from falling into the hands of an
exclusive coterie of poetic words.  It should react upon his metrical
vocabulary to its beneficial expansion, by taking him outside his
aristocratic circle of language, and keeping him in touch with the great
commonalty, the proletariat of speech.  For it is with words as with men:
constant intermarriage within the limits of a patrician clan begets
effete refinement; and to reinvigorate the stock, its veins must be
replenished from hardy plebeian blood.

{5}  Wordsworth's adaptation of it, however, is true.  Men are not
"children of a larger growth," but the child _is_ father of the man,
since the parent is only partially reproduced in his offspring.

{6}  _The Rhythm of Life_, by Alice Meynell.

{7}  "And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig-tree
casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind" (Rev. vi,
13).

{8}  Such analogies between master in sister-arts are often interesting.
In some respects, is not Brahms the Browning of music?

{9}  Seek _first_, not seek _only_.

{10}  We hope that we need not refer the reader, for the methods of magic
architecture, to Ariosto and that Atlas among enchanters, Beckford.