     Ha! but bethink thee what thou gazedst on,
       Ere yet the snake Decay had venomed tooth;
     The name thou bar'st in those vast seasons gone--
         Candid Hyperion,
       Clad in the light of thine immortal youth!
         Ere Dionysus bled thy vines,
     Or Artemis drave her clamours through the wood,
         Thou saw'st how once against Olympus' height
           The brawny Titans stood,
     And shook the gods' world 'bout their ears, and how
     Enceladus (whom Etna cumbers now)
       Shouldered me Pelion with its swinging pines,
     The river unrecked, that did its broken flood
     Spurt on his back:  before the mountainous shock
           The rank-ed gods dislock,
     Scared to their skies; wide o'er rout-trampled night
     Flew spurned the pebbled stars:  those splendours then
       Had tempested on earth, star upon star
       Mounded in ruin, if a longer war
     Had quaked Olympus and cold-fearing men.
           [A] We may now suppose
           with a better appetite
         Grandsir Dolliver to have finished it
           were due to old Martha's
           cookery or his breakfast, fight
         sharper of the qualities of food than he has generally felt of
late years their, whether the cordial of the night beforeYet ere Olympus thou wast, and a god!
         Though we deny thy nod,
     We cannot spoil thee of thy divinity.
         What know we elder than thee?
     When thou didst, bursting from the great void's husk,
     Leap like a lion on the throat o' the dusk;
         When the angels rose-chapleted
           Sang each to other,
         The vaulted blaze overhead
         Of their vast pinions spread,
           Hailing thee brother;
     How chaos rolled back from the wonder,
     And the First Morn knelt down to thy visage of thunder!
         Thou didst draw to thy side
         Thy young Auroral bride,
       And lift her veil of night and mystery;
         Tellus with baby hands
         Shook off her swaddling-bands,
       And from the unswath-ed vapours laughed to thee.

     Thou twi-form deity, nurse at once and sire!
       Thou genitor that all things nourishest!
       The earth was suckled at thy shining breast,
     And in her veins is quick thy milky fire.
     Who scarfed her with the morning? and who set
     Upon her brow the day-fall's carcanet?
         Who queened her front with the enrondured moon?
         Who dug night's jewels from their vaulty mine
           To dower her, past an eastern wizard's dreams,
       When hovering on him through his haschish-swoon,
         All the rained gems of the old Tartarian line
     Shiver in lustrous throbbings of tinged flame?
           Whereof a moiety in the Paolis' seams
           Statelily builded their Venetian name.
             Thou hast enwoof-ed her
             An empress of the air,
     And all her births are propertied by thee:
             Her teeming centuries
             Drew being from thine eyes:
     Thou fatt'st the marrow of all quality.

     Who lit the furnace of the mammoth's heart?
       Who shagged him like Pilatus' ribb-ed flanks?
             Who raised the columned ranks
     Of that old pre-diluvian forestry,
     Which like a continent torn oppressed the sea,
       When the ancient heavens did in rains depart,
           While the high-danc-ed whirls
     Of the tossed scud made hiss thy drench-ed curls?
           Thou rear'dst the enormous brood;
           Who hast with life imbued
         The lion maned in tawny majesty,
           The tiger velvet-barred,
           The stealthy-stepping pard,
         And the lithe panther's flexuous symmetry.

     How came the entomb-ed tree a light-bearer,
           Though sunk in lightless lair?
           Friend of the forgers of earth,
         Mate of the earthquake and thunders volcanic,
         Clasped in the arms of the forces Titanic
           Which rock like a cradle the girth
             Of the ether-hung world;
         Swart son of the swarthy mine,
         When flame on the breath of his nostrils feeds
           How is his countenance half-divine,
           Like thee in thy sanguine weeds?
         It might well, indeed, of
         on account of the suggested
       pensiveness sympathy Thou wrack of other
         children grown people,--and
         melancholy, had it been so dark;
       for the child's gayety had example to sustain it, no a feeling,
was but the shadow of house and the old man,.Who made the splendid rose
         Saturate with purple glows;
     Cupped to the marge with beauty; a perfume-press
         Whence the wind vintages
     Gushes of warm-ed fragrance richer far
       Than all the flavorous ooze of Cyprus' vats?
     Lo, in yon gale which waves her green cymar,
         With dusky cheeks burnt red
         She sways her heavy head,
     Drunk with the must of her own odorousness;
       While in a moted trouble the vexed gnats
     Maze, and vibrate, and tease the noontide hush.
       Who girt dissolv-ed lightnings in the grape?
     Summered the opal with an Irised flush?
       Is it not thou that dost the tulip drape,
         And huest the daffodilly,
         Yet who hast snowed the lily,
     And her frail sister, whom the waters name,
       Dost vestal-vesture 'mid the blaze of June,
       Cold as the new-sprung girlhood of the moon
     Ere Autumn's kiss sultry her cheek with flame?
         Thou sway'st thy sceptred beam
         O'er all delight and dream,
       Beauty is beautiful but in thy glance:
         And like a jocund maid
         In garland-flowers arrayed,
       Before thy ark Earth keeps her sacred dance.

     And now, O shaken from thine antique throne,
       And sunken from thy coerule empery,
     Now that the red glare of thy fall is blown
       In smoke and flame about the windy sky,
     Where are the wailing voices that should meet
       From hill, stream, grove, and all of mortal shape
     Who tread thy gifts, in vineyards as stray feet
       Pulp the globed weight of juiced Iberia's grape?
         Where is the threne o' the sea?
         And why not dirges thee
     The wind, that sings to himself as he makes stride
       Lonely and terrible on the Andean height?
         Where is the Naiad 'mid her sworded sedge?
       The Nymph wan-glimmering by her wan fount's verge?
     The Dryad at timid gaze by the wood-side?
         The Oread jutting light
       On one up-strain-ed sole from the rock-ledge?
         The Nereid tip-toe on the scud o' the surge,
     With whistling tresses dank athwart her face,
     And all her figure poised in lithe Circean grace?
         Why withers their lament?
         Their tresses tear-besprent,
       Have they sighed hence with trailing garment-gem?
         O sweet, O sad, O fair!
         I catch your flying hair,
       Draw your eyes down to me, and dream on them!

