The two sisters laughed heartily over this missive, but Pixie's word was
law, and as usual they obeyed her instructions to the letter.  A
telegram was sent off next morning to announce the hour in the afternoon
at which they hoped to call, and the morning was spent to such good
purpose that two most elegant and fashionable-looking young ladies drove
up to Holly House shortly before four o'clock.  Almost the only articles
that there were missing the meat of cows and sheep and all the astounding
variety of tasty products resulting from the carnage and slaughter of
pigs. You were talking about Don Paco and John, were already playing
tute, Juanita rare After suspending its sewing or embroidery, but not
stop, I used to take part in the conversation more enjoyable. No one
came to interrupt the gathering of the three, except Antoñuelo,
which scales much Don Paco and filled with fright and bad temper. I grew
up on this point because while I was playing at the Don Paco tute
and Joanna charged the forties Antoñuelo sat near Juanita, at the
other end of the room where she sewed, and both with great animation
and whisper in a voice so low that Don Paco could not fish or word
of what they said.

This was put on tenterhooks and very excited and sad, but to hide him
valiese dissimulation. Then Don Paco played worse, used to have king
and horse of the same suit he forgot to acknowledge and twenty, or,
if you played Juana a gold and he had the ace or three, it was not
kept and missed.

So that night was Antoñuelo to chat on the regret that Paco was a gift,
he could lose a couple of pesetas and up to three times. Antoñuelo come
or not come to the salon, Juana la Larga always present .

Don Pablo not find how to speak alone with Juanita, and leaving the
mother and imitate Antoñuelo whisper caught up in the daughter.
"You _are_ fine!" she gasped, and the girls laughed and cried merrily.

"We had our instructions, you see!  We dared not come down until we had
bought new hats and gloves; and we put on our very best clothes for the
girls' benefit."

"And jewellery!" added Esmeralda; and Pixie looked at her with an even
more critical scrutiny.  There was a little diamond brooch sparkling
among the laces at her throat.  "Geoffrey gave me that!"  There was a
gold bangle round her wrist, with a heart-shaped locket dangling from
the clasp.  "Geoffrey gave me that!"  There was a dainty little watch
pinned on to her dress.  "Geoffrey gave me that!"

"Deary me," quoth Pixie at last, "it must be rather nice being engaged."

"It is, my dear.  Quite nice!  And he gave us these boas too,--insisted
upon buying them when he came shopping with us this morning.  He said
boas were the fashionable thing, and he really dared not allow us to
face `the girls' without them.  He is very extravagant, but he says he
will only be engaged once, and after we are married he will be as
careful as I like.  It was through his lawyer that we found our tenant.
Geoffrey told him about the place, and it seemed that it was just
exactly what a client had been wanting.  We have not seen him yet, but
he is tremendously interested in old places, and is going to spend a lot
of money putting things into repair, which, of course, is a very good
thing for us.  He has taken it for ten years, and by the end of the
lease Jack hopes he may be able to go back himself, for part of the
year, at any rate.  It is hard to leave Knock, but not so hard as we
expected, for I am to be married, and the rest of you will be together,
and able to enjoy seeing the sights, and all the fun and bustle of town
life."

"And it will be so good for the boys!  They were idling away their time,
but now they will have to set to work in earnest to make their way in
the world.  It will be the making of them, so even if we do feel
homesick at times it will be a light price to pay for their good," said
Bridgie hastily, for the tears were beginning to rise again in Pixie's
eyes at the thought of leaving the dear old home.  "Dear me, I am
longing to see `the girls'!  Aren't we going to see `the girls'?  What
is the use of our dressing up like this if we are not to see `the
girls'?"

"Come along!  Come along!  Miss Phipps said I was to take you round
before she came in to give you tea.  Come along, and see them now,"
cried Pixie, prancing to the door with eager steps, and forgetting
everything else in the excitement of the coming introduction, as it had
been intended that she should do.  Bridgie and Joan followed close
behind, smiling in anticipation; but it was rather an embarrassing
occasion, when the door of the big classroom was thrown open, and
fifteen girls rose to their feet and stood staring with unblinking eyes,
while Fraulein smiled and bowed from the end of the long table.  Bridgie
wanted to say something graceful and appropriate, but could only blush,
and smile, and stammer feebly.  "Oh-h!  How do you do?  Is there anyone
here that I know by name?  Flora--Margaret--Kate?  Are any of your
special friends here, Pixie?  Please introduce me."

"That's Flora!" said Pixie, pointing barefacedly across the room.  "The
fat one.  Kate is next to Fraulein--with specs.  Margaret is having her
music lesson.  That's Ethel in the middle, with the frizzy hair.  This
is my sister Bridgie that I've told you about."

The faces of the girls thus singled out for special notice were wooden
in stolidity.  Juanita imagined, boast, that love him, though poorly
paid, had ennobled his beautiful soul and her features, dismissing one
of them vulgar expression used to have before, when he relieved of
sublime love and little ventures, wore his wit chuscadas saying often
chocarreras. So, not very slowly, but hurry, Juanita recognized that
the appreciation and friendship that had always inspired Don Paco
became love, and love, despite having increased more than half a century
their subject. greatly influenced this increase in the fear that
Juanita had lost his disdain worshiper, that turns out to be healed of
his passion and unfortunate that at long last to cede or insinuations
about her daughter mandate.Here there were photographs to exhibit, and a number of
tiny ornaments which had been gifts from other girls.

"Ethel gave me that the day that I was ill.--Fanny bought me that when
she went out for the day.  It cost threepence.  Wasn't it dear?  Dora
Ellis and Vera Knowles clubbed together and bought me that at the
bazaar.  It's supposed to be for matches.  I am going to give it to Jack
at Christmas.  That's Ethel's mother!  She is really awfully nice,
though you wouldn't think so.  That's Flora's little brother.  Isn't he
like Mellin's Food?  Ethel has silver brushes.  I wish I might have
silver things.  She is awfully proud of her dressing-table.  If I stand
on my pillow I can just see over the curtain between our beds.  I
painted eyes on my forehead one night, and tied my hair round it.  It
looked lovely,--just like a monkey! and then I crept up quietly, and put
it over for Ethel to see.  She did howl!  Shall we go downstairs now?
You'll have a scrumptious tea.  Visitors always do.  That's one reason
why it's so nice having them coming to see you."

Miss Phipps and Mademoiselle were waiting in the drawing-room, and, to
the amusement of her sisters, Pixie became a model of decorum the moment
she entered their presence, and handed about cake and tea in the most
staid and deliberate fashion.  To see her stand with her heels drawn
neatly together in the first position; to hear her demure, "Yes, Miss
Phipps!"  "No, Miss Phipps!" was almost too much for Esmeralda's
composure, and she was glad to leave the house with the promise of
having Pixie to spend a long day in town at the beginning of the
following week, while that young lady herself was so eager to return to
her companions and hear their criticisms on her visitors that she bore
the parting with wonderful resignation.

Fortunately for all, approval was unanimous, and the girls declared in a
breath that never, no never, had they seen anyone so "simply sweet" as
Bridgie, so "frightfully pretty" as Esmeralda.  Bridgie was a darling;
her eyes were so kind and loving and sorry for you, and didn't she look
an angel when she smiled?  Esmeralda was like a queen; they could quite
imagine that she had a temper, but when she laughed she had the sweetest
dimples!  Did her hair curl naturally?  Fancy!  In the balconies, in windows
and doors of the houses, the elderly and shaft sitting in chairs. The
girls are walking or stopped to contemplate stores itinerant merchants
extended to the square and two or three streets that lead into the
square.

The shops to which people were the most crowded of toys and dolls.
Chicuelo just had that was not gifted by their parents or friends of
their parents with a cock, with a trumpet or a drum.After an inspection of various
flats Bridgie was quite of one mind with her youngest sister in
believing that either they themselves or every other tenant in the
building would have to give notice within a week of their arrival.  It
was so preposterous to think of creeping on tiptoe in consideration for
your neighbours below, and speaking in hushed tones because of your
neighbours above, while, in spite of high rents, the passages seemed so
cramped, oh, so painfully cramped and narrow!  Even a little house was a
castle, comparatively speaking; and in due time one was found which
promised to be healthy and convenient, and was put in the hands of
painters and paper-hangers to be ready for the removal in autumn.


CHAPTER THIRTY.

THE PRIZE IS WON.

When the breaking-up gathering was held, Pixie was proud indeed, for if
other girls had fathers and mothers present, she had two sisters and
Jack and Geoffrey Hilliard into the bargain, and there was no doubt that
they were the handsomest and most attractive of all the guests.  But,
far from it, what I did was to provoke his anger. If the treatment of
Don Paco pleased me and I had fun, I have never thought myself to marry
him, and here comes another good that I regret my folly, otherwise
complete lack of caution in my mother and me.She devoutly hoped that the class lists might not be read
aloud, to betray how very, very near the bottom she was to be found, and
heaved a deep sigh of relief when little Beatrice Ferrars marched up to
receive her certificate, and so end the list of honours.  But it
appeared that it was not quite finished, for Miss Phipps rose to her
feet and began to speak amid a general murmur of excitement.

