Online Distributed Proofreading Team


STRAY THOUGHTS FOR GIRLS

by

L. H. M. SOULSBY

"I sing the Obsolete"

New and Enlarged Edition

Longmans, Green, and Co.
39 Paternoster Row,
London New York and Bombay

1903


DEDICATED TO

GIRLS AT THE "AWKWARD AGE."


    "An unlessoned girl, unschool'd, unpractis'd,
    Happy in this, she is not yet so old
    But she may learn."


PREFACE


What _is_ the awkward age?

Certainly not any special number of years. It is most frequently found
between the ages of thirteen and twenty-seven, but some girls never go
through it, and some never emerge from it!

I should be inclined to define it as the age during which girls are
asked--and cannot answer--varying forms of the question which so
embarrassed the Ugly Duckling: "Can you purr--can you lay eggs?"

Most girls on growing up pass through an uncomfortable stage like this, in
which neither they nor their friends quite know what niche in life they
can best fill--sometimes, because of their own undisciplined characters;
sometimes, because the niche itself seems to be lacking. Whether this
stage be their misfortune or their fault, it is an unpleasant one--both
for themselves and for their friends. With much sympathy for both, I
dedicate these few suggestions to my known and unknown friends who are
passing through it.

                             L. H. M. SOULSBY.
    OXFORD, April 4, 1893.


PREFACE TO NEW EDITION


In bringing out a new edition, the book has been enlarged by adding papers
on "Making Plans," "Conversation," "Get up, M. le Comte!" "Sunday," and "A
good Time;" "Coming out" has been omitted, and "Friendship and Love"
somewhat altered. The present form has been adopted in order to make it
match the other volumes of "Stray Thoughts."

                             L. H. M. SOULSBY.
    BRONDESBURY, Nov. 23, 1903.


CONTENTS


    LINES WRITTEN ON BEING TOLD THAT A LADY WAS "PLAIN AND COMMONPLACE"

    THE VIRTUOUS WOMAN

    MAKING PLANS

    CONVERSATION

    AUNT RACHEL; OR, OLD MAIDS' CHILDREN

    "GET UP, M. LE COMTE!"

    A FRIDAY LESSON

    A HOME ART; OR, MOTHERS AND DAUGHTERS

    ESPRIT DE CORPS

    ROUGH NOTES OF A LESSON

    HOLIDAYS

    SUNDAY

    FRIENDSHIP AND LOVE

    A GOOD TIME


"The Sweet, Sweet Love of Daughter,

    "I have discovered a thing very little known, which is, that in
    one's whole life one can never have more than a single mother. You
    may think this obvious and (what you call) a trite observation....
    You are a green gosling! I was at the same age (very near) as wise
    as you, and yet I never discovered this (with full evidence and
    conviction, I mean) till it was too late."--_Gray's Letters_.


"of Sister,

    "The Blessing of my later years
      Was with me when a Boy
    She gave me eyes, she gave me ears,
      And love, and thought, and joy."
                             Wordsworth.


"and of Wife."

    "The thousand still sweet joys of such
    As hand in hand face earthly life."
                             M. Arnold.

    "I desired to make her my wife, knowing that she would be a
    counsellor of good things, and a comfort in cares and grief. For
    her conversation hath no bitterness; and to live with her hath no
    sorrow, but mirth and joy."--_Wisdom of Solomon_.


LINES

WRITTEN ON BEING TOLD THAT A LADY WAS "PLAIN AND COMMONPLACE."


    You say that my love is plain,
      But that I can never allow
    When I look at the thought for others
      That is written on her brow.

    The eyes are not fine, I own,
      She has not a well-cut nose,
    But a smile for others' pleasures
      And a sigh for others' woes:

    Quick to perceive a want,
      Quicker to set it right,
    Quickest in overlooking
      Injury, wrong, or slight.

    Nothing to say for herself,
      That is the fault you find!
    Hark to her words to the children,
      Cheery and bright and kind.

    Hark to her words to the sick,
      Look at her patient ways;
    Every word she utters
      Speaks to the speaker's praise.

    "Nothing to say for herself,"
      Yes! right, most right, you are,
    But plenty to say for others,
      And that is better by far.

    Purity, truth, and love,
      Are they such common things?
    If hers were a common nature,
      Women would all have wings.

    Talent she may not have,
      Beauty, nor wit, nor grace,
    But, until she's among the angels,
      She cannot be commonplace.

Arthur Heathcote.


The Virtuous Woman.

A FAREWELL BIBLE LESSON TO GIRLS ON LEAVING SCHOOL.

    "Wisdom ordereth all things strongly and sweetly."--WISDOM viii. 1
    (Vulg.).


_Hastings Clive_.--_Jou_, you _haremzeada_! _Bukri na munkta,
nimuk-aram_!

_The Hon. Wellesley Gough_.

--My love, he says now, "Get out, you good-for-nothing rascal! I don't
want that goat here."
_The Hon. Mrs. Wellesley Gough_.--Oh, _isn't_ he clever?

What dreadful crime did you commit in another life, O illustrious Moonshee,
that you should fall now among such thieves as this horrid Hastings
Clive?

"Sahib, I know not. _Hum kia kurrenge? kismut hi_: What can I do?
it is my fate."
Hastings Clive has a queer assortment of pets, first of which are the
bushy-tailed Persian kittens, hereinbefore mentioned.

When, in Yankee-land, some lovelorn Zeekle is notoriously sweet upon
any Huldy of the rural maids,--when
"His heart keeps goin' pitypat, And hern goes pity Zeekle,"--
when she is
"All kind o' smily round the lips, And teary round the lashes,"--
it is usual to describe his condition by a feline figure; he is said to
"cuddle up to her like a sick kitten to a hot brick." But the sick
Oriental kitten, reversing the Occidental order of kitten things, cuddles
up to a water-monkey, and fondly embraces the refreshing evaporation
of its beaded bulb with all her paws and all her bushy tail.
The Persian kitten stands high in the favor of Hastings Clive.

Hastings Clive has a whole array of parroquets and hill-mainahs, which, as
they learned their small language from his peculiar scurrilous practice,
are but blackguard birds at best. He also rejoices in many blue-jays,
rescued from the Ganges, whereinto they were thrown as offerings to the
vengeful Doorga during the barbarous _pooja_ celebrated in her name. Very
proud, too, is Hastings Clive of his pigeons,--his many-colored pigeons
from Lucknow, Delhi, and Benares; an Oudean bird-boy has trained them to
the pretty sport of the Mohammedan princes, and every afternoon he
flies them from the house-top in flashing flocks, for Hastings Clive's
entertainment.

Hastings Clive has toys, the wooden and earthen toys for which Benares
was ever famous among Indian children,--nondescript animals, and as
non-descript idols,--little Brahminee bulls with bells, and artillery
camels, like those at Rohilcund and Agra,--Sahibs taking the air
in buggies, country-folk in hackeries, baba-logue in gig-topped ton-jons.

But much more various and entertaining, though frailer, are his
Calcutta toys, of paper, clay, and wax,--hunting-parties in bamboo
howdahs, on elephants a foot high, that move their trunks very
cunningly,--avadavats of clay, which flutter so naturally, suspended
by hairs in bamboo cages, that the cats destroy them quickly,--miniature
palanquins, budgerows, bungalows, and pagodas, all of paper,--figures
in clay of the different castes and callings, baboos, kitmudgars,
washermen, barbers, tailors, street-waterers, box-wallahs, (as the
peddlers are called,) nautch-girls, jugglers, sepoys, policemen,
doorkeepers, dog-boys,--all true to the life, in costume, attitude,
and expression.

Statedly, on his birth-day, the Anglo-Indian child is treated to a
_kat-pootlee nautch_, and Hastings Clive has a birth-day every time he
conceives a longing for a puppet-show; so that our wilful young
friend may be said to be nine years, and about nineteen kat-pootlee nautches,
old.

To make a birth-day for Hastings Clive, three or four _tamasha-wallahs_,
or show-fellows, are required; these, hired for a few rupees, come from
the nearest bazaar, bringing with them all the fantastic apparatus of a
kat-pootlee nautch, with its interludes of story-telling and
jugglery.

A sheet, or table-cloth, or perhaps a painted drop-curtain, expressly prepared,
is hung between two pillars in the drawing-room, and reaches, not
to the floor, but to the tops of the miniature towers of a silver palace,
where some splendid Rajah, of fabulous wealth and power, is about to
hold a grand _durbar_, or levee. All the people, be they illustrious
personages or the common herd, who assist in the ceremony, are puppets
a span long, rudely constructed and coarsely painted, but very faithful
as to costume and manners, and most dexterously played upon by the invisible
tamasha-wallahs, whom the curtain conceals.

A silver throne having been wheeled out on the portico by manikin
bhearers, the manikin Rajah, attended by his manikin moonshee, and
as many manikin courtiers as the tamasha property-man can supply,
comes forth in his wooden way, and seats himself on the throne in
wooden state; a manikin _hookah-badar_, or pipe-server, and a manikin
_chattah-wallah_, or umbrella-bearer, take up their wooden position
behind, while a manikin _punkah-wallah_ fans, woodenly, his manikin
Highness, and the manikin courtiers dance wooden attendance around.

Then manikin ladies and gentlemen come on manikin elephants and horses and
camels, or in manikin palanquins, and alight with wooden dignity at the
foot of the palace stairs, taking their respective orders of wooden
precedence with wooden pomposities and humilities, and all the manikin forms
of the customary bore. The manikin courtiers trip woodenly down the
grand stairs to meet the manikin guests with little wooden Orientalisms
of compliment, and all the little wooden delicacies of the season; and
they conduct the manikin Sahibs and Beebees into the presence of the
manikin Rajah, who receives them with wooden condescension and affability,
and graciously reciprocates their wooden salaams, inquiring woodenly
into the health of all their manikin friends, and hoping, with the
utmost ligneous solicitude, that they have had a pleasant wooden journey:
and so on, manikin by manikin, to the wooden end. Of course, much desultory
tomtomry and wild troubadouring behind the curtain make the occasion
musical.

The audience is complete in all the picturesqueness of mixed baba-logue.
In the front row, chattering brown ayahs, gay with red sarees and nose-rings,
sit on the floor, holding in their laps pale, tender babies, fair-haired
and blue-eyed, lace-swaddled, coral-clasped, and amber-studded. Behind
these, on high chairs, are the striplings of three years and upward,
vociferous and kicking under the hand-punkahs of their patient bhearers.
Tall fellows are these bhearers, with fierce moustaches, but gentle
eyes,--a sort of nursery lions whom a little child can lead. On each side
are small chocolate-colored heathens, in a sort of short chemises,
silver-bangled as to their wrists and ankles, and already with the
caste-mark on the foreheads of some of them,--shy, demure younglings,
just learning all the awful significance of the word _Sahib_, who have been
brought from mysterious homes by fond ayahs, and smuggled in through
back-stairs influence, or boldly introduced by the durwan under the
glorifying patronage of that terrible Hastings Clive.

Back of all are Dhobee, the washerman, and Dirzce, the tailor, and
Mehter, the sweeper, and Mussalehee, the torch-boy, and Metranee,
the scullion,--and all the rest of the household riff-raffry. There is
much clapping of hands, and happy wah-wah-ing, wherefrom you conclude
that Hastings Clive's birth-day is at least one good result of his
being born at all.

The Sahib baba-logue have a lively share in several of the native
festivals. The Hoolee, for instance, is their high carnival of fun, when
they pelt their elders and each other with the red powder of the _mhindee_,
and repel laughing assaults with smart charges of rose-water fired from
busy little squirts.

During the illumination of the Duwallee, they receive from the servants
presents of fantastic toys, and search in the compounds by moonlight for
the flower of the tree that never blossoms, and for the soul of a snake,
whence comes to the finder good luck for the rest of his life.

These are the traditional sports of the baba-logue; but they are ingenious
in inventing others, wherein, from time to time, the imitative
faculty, of the native child especially, is tragically manifested.

When the Nawab, Shumsh-ud-deen, was hung at Delhi for hiring a _sowar_
to assassinate Mr. Fraser, the British Commissioner, the country population
round about were seized with the news as with the coming of a dragon or a
destroying army; and the British Lion was the Bogy, the Black Douglas, in
whose name poor _ryots'_ wives scared refractory brats into trembling
obedience. Not far from Delhi was a village school, where were
many small boys,--so many Asiatic frogs-in-a-well,--to whom "the news
of the day" was full of terrible portent. Once, when they were tired of
foot-ball, and the shuttlecock had grown heavy on their hands, the cry
was, "What shall we play next?" And one daring little fellow--whose father
had been to Delhi with his rent, and had told how the Nawab met his
_kismut_ (his fate) so quietly, that the gold-embroidered slippers did
not fall from his feet--cried, "Let us play hanging the Nawab! and I
will be the Nawab; and Kama, here, shall be Kurreim Khan, the
sowar; and Joota shall be Metcalfe Sahib, the magistrate; and the
rest of you shall be the sahibs, and the sepoys, and the priests."

_Acha, acha!_--"Good, good!" they all cried. "Let us play the Nawab's
kismut! let us hang the Nawab! And Mungloo--he that is more clever than
all of us--he that is cunning as a Thug--Mungloo shall be the Nawab!"

So they began with the murder of the Commissioner; and he who personated
Kurreim Khan, the assassin, played so naturally, that he sent the
Commissioner screaming to his mother, with an arrow sticking in his
arm. Then they arrested Kurreim Khan, and his accomplice, Unnia, a
_mehwatti_, who turned king's evidence, and betrayed the sowar; and having
tried and condemned Kurreim Khan, they would have hung him on the spot;
but, being but a little fellow, he became alarmed at the serious turn
the sport was taking, although he had himself set so sharp an example;
so he took nimbly to his heels, and followed his young friend, the
Commissioner.

Then Unnia told how the Nawab had paid Kurreim Khan blood-money, because
Shumsh-ud-deen did so hate Fraser Sahib. Whereupon Metcalfe Sahib, a
little naked fellow, just the color of an old mahogany table, sent his
sepoys and had the Nawab dragged, in all his ragged breech-cloth glory,
to the bar of Sahib justice. In about three minutes, the Nawab was
condemned to die,--condemned to be hung by an outcast sweeper. But, in
consideration of his exalted rank, they consented that he should wear his
slippers, and ride to the place of execution, smoking his hookah; and
Mungloo acknowledged the Sahib's magnanimity by proudly inclining his head,
like a true Nawab, with a dignified "_Acha!"_ Then two members of the
court-martial, who lived nearest at hand, ran home, and quickly
returned, one with his father's slippers, the other with his mother's
hubble-bubble; and having tied the slippers, that were a world too big,
on Mungloo's little feet, and lighted the hubble-bubble, that he might
smoke, they mounted him on a buffalo, captured from the village _hurkaru_,
who happened, just in the nick of time, to come riding by, on his way
to Delhi, with the mail. And they led out the prisoner, smoking his
hubble-bubble,--and looking, as Metcalfe Sahib said of the real Nawab, "as
if he had been accustomed to be hanged every day of his life,"--to
the place of execution, an old saul-tree with low limbs.
Then, having taken the rope with which the hurkaru's mail-bag was
lashed to his buffalo, they slipped a noose over the Nawab's head,
made the other end fast to the lower limb of the saul-tree, and led
away the buffalo.

Little Mungloo, who was cunning as a Thug, acted with surprising talent;
in fact, some of the Sahibs thought he rather overdid his part, for he
dropped his hubble-bubble almost awkwardly, and even kicked,--which the
real Nawab had too much self-respect to do,--so that he sent one of
his slippers flying one way, and the other another. But he choked, and
gasped, and showed the whites of his eyes, and turned black in the face,
and shivered through all his frame, so very naturally, that his admiring
companions clapped their hands vehemently, and cried, _Wah, wah!_ with
all their little lungs. _Wah, wah!_ they screamed,--_Wah khoob tamasha kurta
hi! Phir kello, Mungloo! Bahoot ucchi-turri nuhkul, kurte ho toom!_ "Bravo!
Bravo! Such fun! Do it again, Mungloo,--do it again! it takes you!"
Certainly Mungloo did it to the life,--for he was dead.

* * * * *
To conclude now with a specimen of the tales with which the native
story-tellers entertain little heathens on street-corners.

There was once a bastard boy, the son of a Brahmin's widow; and he was
excluded from a merry wedding-feast on account of his disgraceful
birth.
With a heart full of bitterness, he prayed to Siva for comfort or revenge;
and Siva, taking pity on him, taught him the mystic _mantra_, or incantation,
called Bijaksharam,--_Shrum, hrim, craoom, hroom, hroo_.
So the boy went to the door of the apartment where the wedding guests
were regaling themselves and making merry; and he pronounced the
mantra backwards,--_Hroo, hroom, craoom, hrim, shrum_. Immediately the
fish, and the cucumbers, and the mangoes, and the pumplenoses
took the shape of toads, and jumped into the faces of the guests,
and into their bosoms and laps, and on the floor. Then the boy laughed
so loud, that the astonished guests knew it was he who had conjured them;
so they went to the door and let him in, and set him at the head of the
table. Then the boy was satisfied, and uttering the mantra aright, he
conjured the toads back into the dishes again; and they all lay down in
their places, and became fish, and cucumbers, and mangoes, and
pumplenoses, just as if nothing had happened.

Glory to Siva!

MUSIC.

The promise of the autumn has not been fulfilled; instead of the anticipated
feasts, we have had but few concerts, and, as yet, no opera.
Some few noteworthy incidents have occurred, however, which we desire to
record. We pass over the ever welcome orchestral concerts, the quiet
pleasures of our delightful chamber music, and the inspiring four-part
singing of the Orpheus Club. Neither can we give the space to notice fully
the _début_ of a young singer,--a singer with a rare voice, full, flexible,
and sympathetic, and who, with culture in a _larger_ style, and with
maturity of power and feeling, will be a real acquisition to our
musical public. Few young performers know
"How much grace, strength, and dignity lie in repose."
They dazzle us with pyrotechnics in the finale of _Com' e bello_ or
_Qui la voce_, but the simple feeling of _Vedrai carino_ is beyond their
grasp. Firmly sustained tones, careful phrasing, flowing grace in the
melody, and just, dramatic expression, are the great requisites; without
them the brilliant flourishes of a modern cadenza astonish only for a
brief period.

The appearance of Carl Formes in oratorio was something to be long
remembered. The Handel and Haydn Society brought out "Elijah" and "The
Creation" before immense audiences at the Music Hall. For the first time
we heard "Elijah" represented by a great artist, and not by a
sentimental, mock-heroic singer. He infused into the performance his
own intense personality. Every phrase was charged with his own feeling.
He thundered out the curses of Heaven upon idolaters; he prayed with
all-absorbing devotion to the "Lord God of Abraham"; he taunted the baffled
priests of Baal in grim and terrible scorn; he gently soothed the anguish
of the widow; and when his career was finished, he reverently said, "It is
enough; now take away my life!" The _music_ we had heard before; we had
been rapt many a time while hearing the magnificent choruses; but we never
had known the dramatic power of the composer as shown in the
principal rôle.

"The Creation" was performed on the following evening. Its ever
fresh and cheerful melodies presented a fine contrast to the severely
intellectual style of "Elijah." In rendering purely melodic phrases, Herr
Formes was not so preëminent as in declamatory passages. Not always
strictly in tune, not specially graceful, slow in delivery, even beyond
the requirements of a dignified style, he impressed the audience rather
by the volume and richness of his tones and by a certain reserved force,
than by any unusual excellence in execution. Some one has said, that it
makes a great difference in the force of a sentence whether or not there
is a man behind it. This impression of a fulness of resources always
accompanied the efforts of Herr Formes; every phrase had meaning or beauty,
as he delivered it. Perhaps it is as idle to lament his deficiencies, in
comparison with artists like Belletti, for instance, as to complain
because the grand figures of Michel Angelo have not the delicacy of
finish that marks the sweetly insipid Venus de Medici. Of the
other solo performers in the oratorios it is not necessary for us to
speak, save to commend the fine voice and good style of Mrs. Harwood, a
rising singer, well known here, and whom the country, we hope, will know
in due time.

Another concert demands our attention, in which portions of a work
by an American composer were submitted to the test of public judgment. This
we must consider the most important musical event of the season; for
great singers, though surely not common among our English race, have not
been unknown; the ability to interpret God gives freely,--the power
to create, rarely.

In any generation, probably not ten men arise who write new melodies; of
these, only a small proportion have either the intellectual power
or the aesthetic feeling to combine the subtile elements of music
into forms of lasting beauty.

Most of them are influenced by prevailing mannerisms, and their
music is therefore ephemeral, like the taste to which it ministers. Of
all the composers that have lived, probably not more than six or eight
have attained to an absolutely classic rank.

These few are not in relations with any temporary taste; their music might
have been written to-day or a century ago, and it will be as fresh
a century hence. No one of the arts has had fewer great masters. A new
composer, therefore, has a right to claim our attention. If, perchance,
we discover that he has the gift of genius, and is not merely a clever
imitator, we cannot rejoice too much.

The work to which we allude is the opera "Omano,"--the libretto in Italian
by Signor Manetta, the music by Mr. L. H. Southard. We shall not stop now
to consider the question, whether American Art is to be benefited by the
production of operas in the Italian tongue; it is enough to say, that, until
we have native singers capable of rendering a great dramatic work, singers
who can give us in English the effects which Grisi, Badiali, Mario, and
Alboni produce in their own language, we must be content with the existing
state of things, and allow our composers to write for those artists who
can do justice to their conceptions.

We hope to live to hear operas in English; but meanwhile we must have
music, and, at present, the Italian stage is the only common ground.

Mr. Southard's opera is founded upon Beckford's Oriental tale, "Vathek,"
with such alterations as are necessary to adapt it for representation.
We are told that the plot is full of dramatic situations, full of human
interest, and that its scenes appeal to all the faculties, ranging through
comedy, ballet, and melodrama, and leading to the awful Hall of Eblis at
last. The principal characters are the Caliph Omano, _baritone_; Carathis,
his mother, _mezzo soprano_; Hinda, a slave in his harem, _soprano_; Rustam,
her lover, _tenor_; and Albatros, _basso_, a Mephistophelean spirit
who tempts the Caliph on to his destruction.
Selections were made from this opera, and were performed by resident artists,
without the aid of stage effects or orchestral accompaniments.
Only the music was given, with as much of the harmony as could be played on
the grand piano by one pair of hands. There could be no severer test than
this. The music is generally Italian in form, especially in the flowing
grace of the _cantabile_ passages, and in the working up of the climaxes.
But we did not hear one of the stereotyped Italian cadenzas, nor
did we fall into old _ruts_ in following the harmonic progressions.

The orchestral figures--the framework on which the melodies are
supported--are new, ingenious, and beautiful. The duets, quartette, and
quintette show great command of resources and the utmost skill in construction;
we can hardly remember any concerted pieces in the modern opera where
the "working up" is more satisfactory, or the effect more brilliant.
How far the music exhibits an absolutely original vein of melody, it
is perhaps premature to say. No composer has ever been free at first
from the influence of the masters whom he most admired.

To mention no later instances, it is well known that Beethoven's early
works are all colored by his recollections of Mozart, and that his own
peculiar qualities were not clearly brought out until he had reached the
maturity of his powers. This seems to be the law in all the arts;
imitation first, self-development and originality afterwards. Happy
are those who do not stop in the first stage! It is certain that Mr.

   Southard's music _pleased_, and that some of the most critical of
the audience were roused to a real enthusiasm.

And it is to be borne in mind that the music is cast in a grand mould; it
has no prettiness; it is either great in itself, or wears the semblance
of greatness. On the whole, we are inclined to think that the "Diarist" in
Dwight's "Journal of Music" was not extravagant in saying that no
_first_ work since the time of Beethoven has had so much of promise as the
opera "Omano." We shall look with great interest for its production upon
the stage with the proper accompaniments and scenic effects.

It is due to the composer that this should be done. If the music we heard
had been performed by a company of great artists in the Boston Theatre or
in the Academy of Music, it would have been received with tumultuous
applause. The singers on this occasion gained to themselves great credit
by their conscientious endeavors. They generously offered their services,
and sang with a heartiness that showed a warm interest in the work. One
of them, at least, Mrs. J. H. Long, would have established her
reputation as an accomplished artist, even if she had never appeared in
public before.

We suppose our readers will agree with us in looking with eager delight to
the promise of a national school of music. Every nation must create
its own song. The passionate music of Italy electrifies our cooler blood,
but it does not adequately express all our feelings nor in any way
represent our character. We also find many of the compositions of
Germany so purely intellectual that they do not touch us until we
have _learned_ to like them. If we ever have a school of music, it
will be in harmony with our rapidly developing characteristics. But
it must grow up on our own soil; exotics never flourish long under
strange skies. We think that many things point to this country as
the place where music will achieve new triumphs. We are not bound
by old traditions, we have few prejudices to unlearn, and we are
able to see merit in more than one school. The same audience that
becomes almost intoxicated with the excitement of the Italian opera
will listen with the fullest, serenest pleasure to the majestic
symphonies of Beethoven or to the sublime choruses of Handel. The
devotees of the various European schools have none of this catholicity.
A very accomplished Italian musician used frankly to say, that a
symphony always put him to sleep; and as for the songs of Franz and
other recent German composers, he would rather hear the filing of
saws with an accompaniment of wet fingers on a window-pane.I dare say you will not see this in
yourselves or in your friends, but it will strike you very much in your
acquaintances, and you will, in time, recognize your own share of human
nature, for we all do, undoubtedly, enjoy being sorry for ourselves,
though I suspect life is much happier for all of us than we deserve.

But to return to the question of health. If you could go out like the
flame of a candle, well and good! the world would probably be well rid of
you if you were going through life tragically, longing for death, but you
will not "wear out" in consequence of carelessness about wet feet and want
of sleep, and over-fatigue, and fancifulness about eating. These things
destroy, not your life, but your nerves and temper, and all that makes
your life a comfort to others; "wearing out" yourself means that you will
wear out others, and require from them much time and nursing and good
temper.

Now, sleep is a most important consideration in such a nervous generation
as ours: every woman ought to have eight hours' sleep, and more if she
needs it, but she should not wake up and then go to sleep again; that
second sleep, which is so pleasant, is the sleep of the sluggard. I would
like to give her "a chamber deaf to noise and blind to light," and never
let her be woke, but she should get up the moment she wakes of her own
accord, or, at most, spend ten minutes in the process of waking.

"_She planteth a vineyard_." I should like my Virtuous Woman to be fond of
gardening, and at all events read in Bacon's Essays how God Almighty first
planted a garden.

"_She strengthened her arms_." This verse makes us fancy the Virtuous
Woman as being unpleasingly strong, but we should guard against being
purposely weak, with an idea of its being pleasing; Thackeray's Amelia is
hardly a good model, and Patient Grizzel did her husband an infinity of
harm!

"_Her candle goeth not out by night_." But the Virtuous Woman must be
self-denying in the matter of sitting up, now that modern life makes so
many more demands upon her brain. You know it is self-indulgence when you
sit up late; you were not bound to be so sociable as all that; you only
hinder yourself and others from proper time for prayer and sleep; if you
made a move after a reasonable amount of talk, the others would be
sensible too. And so you repent and force yourself to get up very
punctually the next morning, not seeing that this is on the principle that
two wrongs make a right. It is your duty to get up in good time, but it is
also a duty to get sufficient sleep. I know you have a more comfortable
feeling when you have punished yourself,--you feel that you took the
self-indulgence and you want to pay for it. This sounds fair and honest,
but it is not, because you pay for it with the health and strength that
God gave you to use for Him. Instead of the satisfactory scourge and hair
shirt of rising betimes next morning, try the more commonplace penance of
going to bed in proper time the next night, without any dawdling. So many
girls do things in a dreamy, dawdling way, that must be a sore trial to
those about them: if a thing has to be done, you should do it in a quick,
purpose-like way, and not waste your own time and other people's temper. A
girl will placidly tell you, "I'm always slow, it's my way," never
realizing that "ways" may be very objectionable. We think it dishonest in
workmen that there should be a difference between a man who works by time
and one who works by the piece: you blame the workman who spends twice as
much of his master's time as he need, but, when you dawdle, you spend
_your_ Master's time: getting through with things quickly and "deedily" is
a matter of habit, and the Virtuous Woman practises it in everything she
does.

"_Her hands hold the distaff_." The Virtuous Woman will not be satisfied
until she knows how to make a dress and do plain work; not that, having
acquired the knowledge, she will necessarily use it, for a woman with
brains and education can employ her time to more purpose, and can give
employment to poorer women at her gate, by putting out her work. It is
burying her talent in the ground if she employs, in making her children's
frocks, the time which should be spent in cultivating her mind, so as to
be fit to educate them when they are older.

"_She stretcheth out her hand to the poor_." The "classes" are poor and
needy, as well as the "masses:" read Mozley's "University Sermon" on "Our
Duty to our Equals," and learn to see that they also need a stretched-out
hand. We may be very kind in our district; are we as kind to social
bores? We may be very energetic in school feasts; are we as careful to
provide amusements of other kinds for people who, in rank or brains, are
slightly our inferiors?

"_She is not afraid of the snow for her household, for all her household
are clothed with scarlet_" (marg., double garments). She looks after the
health of other people as well as her own; she does not keep her maid
sitting up night after night, or overwork her dressmaker. She is as
considerate for the flyman waiting for her on a rainy night as she would
be for her father's coachman and horses, remembering that the flyman is
quite as liable to catch cold as the coachman, and has fewer facilities
for curing himself.

"_Her clothing is silk and purple_." She dresses suitably, richly if
occasion demand it, but never showily. If she has to walk as a rule, she
will not buy dresses that look fit only for a carriage: she will not wear,
in church, a brilliant dress that would be suitable at a flower-show.

"_Her husband is known in the gates_." There was doubtless a great
difference among the husbands at the gate, and I feel sure that this one
took a specially large and public-spirited view of the business there
discussed. The Virtuous Woman would not usurp his office, just because she
had the power of speaking well,--she would remember the Russian proverb,
"The Master is the Head of the House, while the Mistress is its Soul,"
and she would be a very high-souled mistress, and care greatly that her
master should not only be a good husband and a father, but should also
serve his generation as a good citizen and a true patriot. When the public
good demanded sacrifices, she would not drag him back by insisting on his
duty to his family, nor would she persuade him to rob the public stores,
or time, by taking little perquisites or shortening his office hours. She
would feel with De Tocqueville, who says, "A hundred times I have seen
weak men show real public virtue, because they had by their sides women
who supported them--not by advice as to particulars, but by fortifying
their feelings of duty, and by directing their ambition. More frequently,
I must confess, I have observed the domestic influence gradually
transforming a man, naturally generous, noble, and unselfish, into a
cowardly, commonplace, place-hunting, self-seeker, thinking of public
business only as the means of making himself comfortable; and this simply
by daily contact with a well-conducted woman, a faithful wife, an
excellent mother, but from whose mind the grand notion of public duty was
entirely absent."

The husband of "a superior woman" is usually much to be pitied, but surely
the reason is that the woman is not superior enough. She has capabilities
and knowledge, and has learnt to value them, and is right in so doing,
but she has not learnt the next page of Life's Lesson Book, which is, the
relative insignificance of her own acquirements, and the value of the
qualities she has not got,--qualities which her husband very likely
possesses, only he has not the feminine power of expression. How often a
woman's seeming superiority lies in this gift of words, which, as George
Eliot says, is in her, "often a fatal aptitude for expressing what she
neither believes nor feels." The man often silently knows, and _lives_,
the noble sentiment, which the woman fluently utters, imagining herself to
be its discoverer and prophet. Another point to remember in this matter is
that women are apt to overvalue intellect, perhaps because it is only
during the last few years that intellectual advantages have been within
their reach. Sydney Smith looked forward hopefully to a day when French
would be a common accomplishment, and women would be no more vain of
possessing it than of having two arms and legs! Perhaps when, not only
French, but still higher education becomes more generally diffused, we may
learn the proportions, and realize that, though intellect is a good gift,
many others are to be preferred before it. We cannot leave the book without
saying how much we were charmed with the little episode of the old curate
and his maid, and his ass Marco.
It seems to us that Guerrazzi in this chapter has come nearer to the
simplicity of nature than in any other part of the book, and we augur
favorably from it for his future escape from the perils of a too ambitious
style to the serenity of truer artistic development.

Of Mr. Monti's translation we can speak in high terms of
commendation.
Success in writing a foreign language is a rare thing, and he has
shown a remarkable command of idiomatic expression.

His familiarity with the habits and proverbial phrases of his native
country gives him, we think, an advantage over any English translator,
which more than counterbalances the trifling inaccuracies of phraseology
that here and there betray the foreigner, and amount to nothing more
than an accent, which is not without its merit of piquancy. In one respect
we think he has acted with great discretion, namely, in now and then
curtailing the reflections which Guerrazzi has interpolated upon the
story to the manifest detriment of its interest and consecutiveness.

If Signor Guerrazzi should profit by these silent criticisms, it would
be to his advantage as an author.

_The Elements of Drawing; in three Letters to Beginners._ By JOHN RUSKIN.
With Illustrations drawn by the Author. 12mo. London. 1857.

                    The art of drawing may be
    called the art of learning to see,--and into this
    art there is no guide to be compared with Mr. Ruskin.
    His own admirable powers of sight and of
    expression have been cultivated by long,
    patient, and laborious study.

He has learned not only how to see, but what to see, and how best to
represent what he sees. A teacher of the most advanced students of
Art and Nature, he offers himself now as a teacher of beginners;
and this little book of his contains a course of instruction admirably
adapted not only to teach drawing, but also to teach the object and end
for which it is worth while to learn to draw. "I would rather teach drawing,"
says Mr. Ruskin, in his Preface, "that my pupils may learn to love
Nature, than teach the looking at Nature that they may learn to draw."
And no one can study Mr.

Ruskin's book without gaining a profounder sense of the infinite beauty and
variety of Nature, and of the unfathomable stores of her freely lavished
riches,--or without acquiring clearer perceptions of this beauty,
and of its relations to the Divine government and order of the world.

Mr. Ruskin's book is essentially a practical one. His long experience as
teacher of drawing in the Working-Men's College has given him knowledge
of and sympathy with the perplexities and difficulties of beginners.
It is a book for children of twelve or fourteen years old; and it is
especially fitted for circulation in district and school libraries. All
teachers of schools, in which drawing forms a part of the course, will
find invaluable hints and directions in it. In every case, the
English edition--which is easily obtainable, and at a very
moderate price--should be procured, not merely for the sake of the
original illustrations, but also as a mark of respect and gratitude
to the author.

In an Appendix containing many wise and genial directions with regard to
"Things to be studied" is a passage concerning Books, which we quote
for its coincidence of opinion with our own views expressed in the January
Number, and for the sake of enforcing its recommendations.

"I cannot, of course, suggest the choice of your library to you; every
several mind needs different books; but there are some books which
we all need; and assuredly, if you read Homer,[A] Plato, Aeschylus,
Herodotus Dante,[B] Shakspeare, and Spenser, as much as you ought, you
will not require wide enlargement of shelves to right and left of
them for purposes of perpetual study.

Among modern books, avoid generally magazine and review literature,[C]
Sometimes it may contain a useful abridgment or a wholesome piece of
criticism; but the chances are ten to one it will either waste your time
or mislead you.... Avoid especially that class of literature
which has a knowing tone; it is the most poisonous of all. Every
good book, or piece of book, is full of admiration and awe; it may
contain firm assertion or stern satire, but it never sneers coldly
nor asserts haughtily, and it always leads you to reverence or love
something with your whole heart.... A common book will often give
you much amusement, but it is only a noble book which will give you
dear friends. Remember, also, that it is of less importance to you,
in your earlier years, that the books you read should be clever,
than that they should be right; I do not mean oppressively or
repulsively instructive, but that the thoughts they express should
be just, and the feelings they excite generous."_She eateth not the bread of idleness_." But she never does her servants'
work, or spoils them. Of course, if she is very poor, and has few
servants, she will lend a helping hand, but she will be wise in her
industry, and understand that riches are a call, not to idleness, but to
another kind of work--overseeing and directing, but not doing. "One good
head is worth a hundred good hands," but the head must know how things
should be done, and therefore the Virtuous Woman will make it a point of
conscience to know how to cook, and equally a point of conscience not to
do it, if she has servants who ought to see to it.

"_Her children shall rise up and call her blessed, her husband also, and
he praiseth her_." My Virtuous Woman may never marry, but she will be a
mother in Israel in spite of that. Every woman finds scope for
motherliness if it is in her; one way or another she will find children
looking to her for love and help, and she must fit herself to educate
those children, for this is a woman's main duty in life; she should never
be satisfied till she has earned a right to the compliment which Steele
paid his wife--that "to know her was a liberal education," until

                              "Men at her side
    Grow nobler, girls purer, and, through the whole town,
    The children are gladder that pull at her gown."

"_A woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised_." I may seem to
have made my last words to you consist of merely worldly-wise counsels,
and to have left out of sight "the one thing needful," but in many other
Scripture lessons we have spoken of that Prayer, and Bible reading, that
"going in the strength of the Lord God," which is the only source of
strength for man or woman.

I have tried to give a few practical counsels for everyday life,
believing, as I do firmly, that the best part of this world's wisdom is
really one with Christianity, and that the fruits of dutifulness, common
sense, and kindliness, cannot be produced unless there is the root of real
religion. Solomon takes that root for granted, only at the close reminding
us of its necessity; and, in picturing our ideal woman, I am sure we all
see her with

                                 "A brow serene
    Speaking calm hope and trust within her, whence
    Welleth a noiseless spring of patience,
    That keepeth all her life so fresh, so green
    And full of holiness, that every look,
    The greatness of her woman's soul revealing,
    Unto me bringeth blessing, and a feeling
    As when I read in God's own Holy Book."


Making Plans.


_Holidays_.--This is the time to show if school has done you any good.

At school you are reminded constantly of Prayer, hard work, tidiness,
regularity, self-control: you are practised in these things, and the great
underlying principles of life are brought before you so that not one of
you has any excuse for being careless and unconscientious in the holidays.
Also you are most of you communicants, and you know that it is impossible
to be a communicant and to "let yourself go" in these ways.

You have duties in the holidays as well as in school time. It is wrong to
spend two months in self-indulgence without any self-discipline. You must
open your eyes to your duties,--practising, sensible reading, tidiness,
and daily unselfishness.

It may be no one's business to remind you in the holidays, and your mother
may let you alone a good deal, from wishing you to have "a good time;" but
you alter very considerably during two months, and it is your part to see
that you alter for the better.

Two months means two Communions with definite resolves, two definite
upward stages in life. If you let yourself go till you get back to the
crutches of school, you will have gone two very definite stages downhill.

Poor Beauty! time and fortune's wrong No form nor feature may withstand,--
Thy wrecks are scattered all along, Like emptied sea-shells on the sand;--
Yet, sprinkled with this blushing rain, The dust restores each
blooming girl, As if the sea-shells moved again Their glistening lips
of pink and pearl.

Here lies the home of school-boy life, With creaking stair and wind-swept
hall, And, scarred by many a truant knife, Our old initials on the wall;
Here rest--their keen vibrations mute-- The shout of voices known
so well, The ringing laugh, the wailing flute, The chiding of the
sharp-tongued bell.

Here, clad in burning robes, are laid Life's blossomed joys, untimely shed;
And here those cherished forms have strayed We miss awhile, and call
them dead.

What wizard fills the maddening glass?
What soil the enchanted clusters grew, That buried passions wake
and pass In beaded drops of fiery dew?

Nay, take the cup of blood-red wine,-- Our hearts can boast a warmer glow,
Filled from a vintage more divine,-- Calmed, but not chilled by winter's
snow!
To-night the palest wave we sip Rich as the priceless draught shall be That
wet the bride of Cana's lip,-- The wedding wine of Galilee!

CHILD-LIFE BY THE GANGES.

We are told--and, being philosophers, we will amuse ourselves by believing--that
there are towns in India, somewhere between Cape Comorin and the Himalayas,
wherein everything is _butcha_,--that is, "a little chap"; where
inhabitants and inhabited are alike in the estate of urchins; where
little Brahmins extort little offerings from little dupes at the foot
of little altars, and ring little bells, and blow little horns,
and pound little gongs, and mutter little rigmaroles before stupid
little Krishnas and Sivas and Vishnus, doing their little wooden
best to look solemn, mounted on little bulls or snakes, under little
canopies; where little Brahminee bulls, in all the little insolence
of their little sacred privileges, poke their little noses into the
little rice-baskets of pious little maidens in little bazaars, and
help their little selves to their little hearts' content, without
"begging your little pardons," or "by your little leaves"; where
dirty little fakirs and yogees hold their dirty little arms above
their dirty little heads, until their dirty little muscles are
shrunk to dirty little rags, and their dirty little finger-nails
grow through the backs of their dirty little hands,--or wear little
ten-penny nails thrust through their little tongues till they acquire
little chronic impediments in their decidedly dirty little speech,--or,
by means of little hooks through the little smalls-of-their-backs,
circumgyrate from little _churruck_-posts for the edification of
infatuated little crowds and the honor of horrid little goddesses;
where plucky little widows perform their little suttees for defunct
little husbands, grilling on little funeral piles; where mangy
little Pariah dogs defile the little dinners of little high-caste
folks, by stealing hungry little sniffs from sacred little pots;
where omnivorous little adjutant-birds gobble up little glass
bottles, and bones, and little dead cats, and little old slippers,
and bits of little bricks, in front of little shops in little
bazaars; where vociferous little _circars_ are driving little
bargains with obese little _banyans_, and consequential little
_chowkedars_--that is, policemen--are bullying inoffensive little
poor people, and calling them _sooa-logue_,--that is, pigs;--where--where,
in fine, everything in heathen human-nature happens _butcha_, and
the very fables with which the little story-tellers entertain the
little loafers on the corners of the little streets, are full of
_little_ giants and _little_ dwarfs.

Let us pursue the little idea, and talk _butcha_ to the end of this
chapter.

When, in Calcutta, you have smitten the dry rock of your lonely life with
the magic rod of connubial love, and that well-spring of pleasure, a new
baby, has leaped up in the midst of your wilderness of exile, the
demonstration, if any, with which your servants will receive the
glad tidings, will depend wholly on the "denomination of the imbecile
offspring," as our eleëmosynary widow, Mrs.

Diana Theodosia Comfort Green, would call it. If it happen to be only
a girl, there will be a trace of pity in the silent salaam with which the
grim _durwan_ salutes you as you roll into your _palkee_ at the gate to
proceed to the _godowns_ where they are weighing the saltpetre and the
gunny bags.
As he touches his forehead with his joined palms, he thinks of the difference
that color makes to the babivorous crocodiles of Ganges.
Perhaps your gray-beard circar, privileged by virtue of high caste and
faithful service, will take upon himself to condole with you:
"_Khodabund_" he will say, "better luck next time; Heaven is not always with
one's paternal hopes; let us trust that my lord may live to say it
might have been worse; let us pray that the _baba's_ bridal necklace
may be as gay as rubies and as light as lilies, and that she may
die before her husband."

But if to the existing number of your _suntoshums_--the jewels that hang
on the Mem Sahib's bosom--a man-child is added, ah, then there is
merry-making in the verandas, and happy salaaming on the stairs; and
in the fulness of his Hindoo Sary-Gampness, which counts the Sahib
blessed that hath "his quiver full of sich," he says, _Ap-ki kullejee
kaisa burri ho-jaga!

Khodá rukho ki beebi-ka kullejee bhee itni burri hoga,--Gurreeb-purwan!_
"How large my lord's liver is about to grow!
God grant to the Mem Sahib, my exalted lady, a liver likewise large,--O
favored protector of the poor!" The happiness and honors which should
follow upon the birth of a male child being figuratively comprehended
in that enlargement of the liver whence comes the good digestion
for which alone life is worth the living.

Many and grievous perils do environ baby-life by the Ganges,--perils of
_dry_ nurses, perils by wolves, perils by crocodiles, perils by
the Evil Eye, perils by kidnappers, perils by cobras, perils by
devils.

You are living at one of the up-country stations, where the freer air of
the jungle imparts to babes and sucklings a voracious appetite. Besides
your own _dhye_, brought from Calcutta, there is not another wet-nurse
to be had, for love or money.

Immediately Dhye strikes for higher wages.
The Baba Sahib, she says, has defiled her rice; yesterday he put his foot
into her curry; to-day he washes the monkey's tail in her consecrated
lotah. What shall she do?

she has lost caste; the presents to the Brahmins, that her reinstatement
will cost her, will consume all her earnings from the beginning.
_Gurreeb-purwan_, O munificent and merciful! what shall she do? She
strikes for higher wages.--But you are hard-hearted and hard-headed;
you will not pay,--by Gunga, not another pice! by Latchtmee, not one
cowry more!--Oh, then she will leave; with a heavy heart she will turn her
back on the blessed baby; she will pour dust upon her head before the
Mem Sahib, at whose door her disgrace shall lie, and she will return to
her kindred.--Not she! the durwan, grim and incorruptible, has his orders;
she cannot pass the gate. Oho!
then immediately she dries up; no "fount," and Baby famishing. You try ass's
milk; it does not agree with Baby; besides, it costs a rupee a pint.
You try a goat; she does not agree with Baby, for she butts him
treacherously, and, leaping over his prostrate body, scampers, like
Leigh Hunt's pig in Smithfield Market, up all manner of figurative
streets.

Then you send for Dhye, and say, "Milk, or I shave your head!" Milk or
death! And, lo, a miracle!--the "fount" again!--Baby is saved.

What was, then, the conjuration and the mighty magic?

In the folds of her _saree_ the _dhye_ conceals leaves of _chambeli_, the
Indian jessamine, roots of _dhallapee_, the jungle radish.

She chews the _chambeli_, and hungry Baby, struggling for the
"fount," is insulted with apples of Sodom; she swallows a portion of
_dhallapee_, and he is regaled as with the melting melons of Ceylon

.

* * * * *

Some fine afternoon your _ayah_ takes your little Johnny to stroll by the
river's bank,--to watch the green budgerows, as they glide, pulled by
singing _dandees_ (so the boatmen of Ganges are called) up to Patna,--to
watch the brown corpses, as they float silently down from Benares. At night
the ayah returns, wringing her hands. Where is your merry darling?

She knows not. _O Khodabund_, go ask the evil spirits! O Sahib, go cry unto
Gunga,--go accuse the greedy river, and say to the envious waters, "Give
back my boy!" She had left him sitting on a stone, she says, counting
the sailing corpses, while she went to find him a blue-jay's nest among
the rocks; when she returned to the stone,--no Jonnee Sahib! "My golden
image, who hath snatched him away?

He that skipped and hummed like a singing-top, where is he gone?"--A month
after that, your dandees capture a crocodile, and from his heathen maw
recover a familiar coral necklace with an inscription on the clasp,--"To
Johnny, on his birth-day." A pair of little silver bangles, whose
jocund jingling had once been happy household music to some poor Hindoo
mother, have kept the necklace company.

* * * * *
Over against the gate of our compound the Baboo's walks are bright with
roses, and ixoras, and the creeping nagatallis; the Baboo's park is shady
with banians, and fragrant with sandal-trees, and imposing with tall
peepuls, and cool with sparkling fountains; and Chinna Tumbe, the Little
Brother, the brown apple of the Baboo's eye, plays among the bamboos
by the tank, just within the gate, and pelts the gold-fishes with
mango-seeds. Presently comes along a pleasant peddler, all the way from
Cabool, with a pretty bushy-tailed kitten of Persia in the hollow
of his arm, and a cunning little mungooz cracking nuts on his
shoulder.

A score of tiny silver bells tinkle from a silken cord around Chinna Tumbe's
loins, and the silver whistle with which he calls his cockatoos is suspended
from his neck by a chain of gold. So the pleasant peddler all the way
from Cabool greets Chinna Tumbe merrily, saying, "See my pretty kitten,
that knows a hundred tricks! and see my brave mungooz, that can
kill cobras in fair fight!

    My Persian kitten for your silver bells, Chinna Tumbe, and my cunning
mungooz for your golden chain!"

And Chinna Tumbe laughs, and claps his hands, and dances for
delight, and all his silver bells jingle gleefully. And the pleasant
peddler all the way from Cabool says, "Step without the gate, Little Brother,
if you would see my pretty kitten play tricks; if you would stroke my
cunning mungooz, step without the gate; for I dare not pass within,
lest my lord, the Baboo of many lacs, should be angry."

So Chinna Tumbe steps out into the road, and the pleasant peddler all the
way from Cabool sets the Persian kitten on the ground, and rattles
off some strange words, that sound very funnily to the Little
Brother; and immediately the Persian kitten begins to run round
after its bushy tail, faster and faster, faster and faster, a ring
of yellow light.

And Chinna Tumbe claps his hands, and cries, _Wah, wah!_ and he dances
for delight, and all his silver bells jingle gleefully. So the pleasant
peddler addresses other strange and funny words to the ring of yellow light,
and instantly it stands still, and quivers its bushy tail, and
pants.

Then the peddler speaks to the cunning mungooz, which immediately leaps to
the ground, and sitting quite erect, with its broad tail curled
over its back, like a marabout feather, holds its paws together in
the quaint manner of a squirrel, and looks attentive.

More of the peddler's funny conjuration, and up springs the mungooz
into the air, like a Birman's wicker football, and, alighting on the
kitten's back, clings close and fast.
Away fly kitten and mungooz,--away from the gate,--away from the Baboo's
walks, bright with ixoras and creeping nagatallis,--away from the Baboo's
park, shady with banians, and fragrant with sandal-trees, and imposing
with tall peepuls, and cool with sparkling fountains,--away from the
Baboo's home, away from the Baboo's heart, bereft thenceforth forever! For
Chinna Tumbe follows fast, crying, _Wah, wah!_ and clapping his hands, and
jingling gleefully all his silver bells,--follows across the road, and
through the bamboo hedge, and into the darkness and the danger of
the jungle; and the pleasant peddler all the way from Cabool goes
smiling after,--but, as he goes, what is it that he draws from the
breast of his dusty _coortee_?

Only a slender, smooth cord, with a slip-knot at the end of it.

Within the twelvemonth, in a stony nullah, hard by a clump of crooked
saul-trees, a mile away from the Baboo's gate, some jackals brought
to light the bones of a little child; and the deep grave from which
they dug them with their sharp, busy claws, bore marks of the
mystic pick-axe of Thuggee. But there were no tinkling bells, no chain
of gold, no silver whistle; and the cockatoos and the goldfishes knew
Chinna Tumbe no more.

When a name was bestowed on the Little Brother, the Brahmins wrote
a score of pretty words in rice, and set over each a lamp freshly
trimmed, and the name whose light burned brightest, with happy
augury, was "Chinna Tumbe."

And when they had likewise inscribed the day of his birth, and the name of
his natal star, the proud and happy Baboo cried, with a loud voice,
three times, "Chinna Tumbe," and all the Brahmins stretched forth
their hands and pronounced _Asowadam_,--benediction.

Then they performed _arati_ about the child's head, to avert the Evil
Eye, describing mystic circles with lamps of rice-paste set on copper
salvers, with many pious incantations.

But, spite of all, the Evil Eye overtook Chinna Tumbe, when the pleasant
peddler came all the way from Cabool, with his bushy-tailed kitten, and his
mungooz cracking nuts.

They do say the ghost of Chinna Tumbe walks,--that always at midnight, when
the Indian nightingale fills the Baboo's banian topes with her lugubrious
song, and the weird ulus hoot from the peepul tops, a child, girt with
silver bells, and followed by a Persian kitten and a mungooz, shakes
the Baboo's gate, blows upon a silver whistle, and cries, so piteously,
"Ayah! Ayah!"

* * * * *
At Hurdwar, in the great fair, among jugglers and tumblers, horse-tamers
and snake-charmers, fakirs and pilgrims, I saw a small boy possessed of a
devil,--an authentic devil, as of yore, meet for miraculous driving-out.
In the midst of dire din, heathenish and horrible,--dissonant jangle of
zogees' bells, brain-rending blasts from Brahmins' shells, strepent howling
of opium-drunk devotees, delirious pounding of tom-toms, brazen clangor
of gongs,--a child of seven years, that might, unpossessed, have been
beautiful, sat under the shed of a sort of curiosity-shop, among bangles
and armlets, mouthpieces for pipes, leaden idols, and Brahminical cords,
and made infernal faces,--his mouth foaming epileptically, his hair dishevelled
and matted with sudden sweat, his eyes blood-shot, his whole aspect diabolic.
And on the ground before the miserable lad were set dishes of rice mixed
with blood, carcasses of rams and cocks, handfuls of red flowers, and
ragged locks of human hair, wherewith the more miserable people sought to
appease the fell _bhuta_ that had set up his throne in that fair soul.
_Sack bat?_ It was even so. And as the possessed made spasmy fists with
his feet, clinching his toes strangely, and grinned, with his chin between
his knees, I solemnly wished for the presence of One who might cry with
the voice of authority, as erst in the land of the Gadarenes, "Come
out of the lad, thou unclean spirit!"
At the Hurdwar fair pretty little naked girls are exposed for sale, and
in their soft brown innocence appeal at once to the purity of your mind
and the tenderness of your heart. They come from Cashmere with the
shawls, or from Cabool with the kittens, or from the Punjaub with
the arms and shields

.

* * * * *
Very quaint are the little Miriams, Ruths, and Hannahs of the Jewish houses
in Bombay,--with their full trousers of blue satin and gold, their boyish
Fez caps of spangled red velvet, bound round with party-colored turbans,
their chin-bands of pearls, their coin chains, their great gold
bangles, and the jingling tassels of their long plaits.

Less interesting, because formal and inanimate, even to sulkiness,
are the prim little Parsee maidens, who often wear an "exercised"
expression, of a settled sort, as though they were weary of reflecting
on the hollowness of the world, and how their dolls are stuffed
with sawdust, and that Dakhma, the Tower of Silence, is the end of
all things.

Then there are the regimental _babalogue_, the soldiers' children, sturdiest
and toughest of Anglo-Indian urchins,--affording, in their brown cheeks
and crisp muscles and boisterous ways, a consoling contrast to the
oh-call-it-pale-not-fairness, and the frailness, and premature pensiveness
of the little Civil Service.

And there is the half-caste child, the lisping chee-chee, or Eurasian,
grandiloquently so called, much given to sentimental minstrelsy, juvenile
polkas, early coquetry, and early beer, hot curries, loud clothes,
bad English, and fast pertness.

God grant you such a sense of that amazing love that you may rejoice to
spend and be spent in His service.

And you will want to live for the relief of man's estate. The more your
eyes open to life, the more you see how many sore hearts there are in the
world, and (besides the well-dressed sorrows which are as sore as any)
there is the pain and poverty and sin of those who have no chance in the
world; what can you do for the poor--you who have so many chances in life,
who have so much love, so many pleasures? There may not be very much open
to you when you first grow up, and you may be very busy with your
pleasures and home duties. Let your mother enjoy your pleasures, she has
been planning them for years, but do what little things you can to
discipline yourself so that by-and-by (when you are free to work) you may
be a worker worth having. It is that which makes the waiting years worth
while.

Often a girl gets tired of enjoying herself and longs for some purpose in
life, but she is tied in a hundred ways. Sometimes she loses her
aspirations, her wish to do some good in the world, and sinks down into an
idle round of small pleasures and worries. But do not you do that; rather
realize that, according as you spend your waiting time,--before you marry
or find some definite work,--such you will be when your opportunity comes:

                 "Be resolute and great
    To keep thy muscles trained: know'st thou when Fate
    Thy measure takes, or when she'll say to thee,
    'I find thee worthy; do this thing for me'?"

I was talking over East London work the other day with a worker, and she
was saying that the best preparation for usefulness lay in such common
things as cooking, cutting out, musical-drill, gardening, children's
games, neat business-like letters, keeping your own accounts, a power of
small talk! All these are possible to each of you, and a resolute putting
of salt into each day,--some discipline, some self-denial, some
thoroughness,--will turn you out able by-and-by to do good work for the
Relief of man's estate.

             "Be resolute and great
    To keep thy muscles trained"

that you may be fit to do something to show forth your sense of the
exceeding great love of our Master and only Saviour Jesus Christ.

[Footnote 1: "Record of a Year's Reading" (6_d_. Mowbray) would be useful
to you.]


Conversation.


Tourgenieff has a story in which three young princes, one by one, went
into an enchanted garden and plucked a magic apple which gave the eater
one wish. The first asked for money, the second for beauty, the third for
the good-will of old women. The third proved to be the successful one.

If a fairy godmother offered you one gift, what would you choose? I am not
sure that you would not do well to imitate that shrewd young prince! It is
old ladies who can teach you knowledge of the world, and whose good-will
gets you the most desirable invitations! However, you can easily gain
their good-will without any apple, so that, on the whole, I should advise
a princess to choose the gift of being a good Talker--or rather one who
produces good Talk.

A woman Macaulay, even with brilliant flashes of silence, is not loved:
you do not want a hostess who "holds forth," but one who sets her guests
talking; and every woman is the hostess when she is talking to a man, or
to any one younger or shyer than herself. You should make people go away
with a regretful feeling that they missed a great deal by having talked so
much themselves that they heard very little from you.

Do you think it is easy to listen--that it means mere silence? I assure
you it means nothing of the sort; it means listening with all your heart
and soul and mind, and making the speaker feel, by your way of listening,
that you _have_ a heart and a soul and a mind. There could not well be
anything further from the person who makes him feel that there is a mere
dead wall of silence before him _at_ which he is talking.

Listening is a fine art and requires great tact and a peculiar delicate
perception of the shades that are passing over the speaker's mind, and
dictating (often unconsciously) the words he says--words which in
themselves do not convey his mind, unless you are of the family of the
Interpreter in Bunyan, and know by instinct what he feels.

Only a large heart of quick understanding has this gift; but we help our
heart wonderfully by keeping our mind keen. The heart is apt to be very
blundering and stupid by itself; just as the mind is very apt to go off on
a wrong scent about people, unless you have a warm heart to throw true
light on their motives.

A _quick-witted heart_ is what I should put as the first requisite for a
good talker; and next a _noble heart_--a heart that cares for the best
side of things and people, a heart which brings out the bearable side of
circumstances, and the nobler side of people, and the interesting side of
subjects.

Some people are like Kay, in Anderson's "Snow Queen," they have a bit of
ice in their heart, and they see all the smallnesses and absurdities about
them, instead of being alive to the pathos, or endurance, or good-nature
of the apparently stupid lives round them. They are always in a critical,
carping, superior frame of mind. These people can often talk brilliantly,
but it is thin. You cannot have a large mind without a large heart. 'We
live by admiration, hope, and love;' without these, we cease to live--we
wither.

The best talk is kindly; any fool can point out flaws, said Goethe (who
certainly had a great mind, whatever his heart was like),--it takes a
clever man to discern excellencies. A good talker makes other people feel
they are much cleverer than they had before realized; they are at their
best, thanks to the listener who draws out the best side of them. It is
delightful to be with some people--you are sure of hearing good
talk--interesting subjects spring up wherever they are.

Perhaps you have a friend staying with you who is one of these delightful
people, and you say: "Oh dear! I must go and pay a duty visit--it will be
so dull, but do come with me." And, lo and behold! that visit is
delightful, for your friend made that dull person into an interesting one
by getting her to talk and show her real self. For the real self of every
soul is interesting, only it often has such a "buried life" that we are
not skilful enough to find it.

Now, does your way of talking bring out the best side of yourself and of
those you talk to?

School gives you tremendous opportunities of adding to the kindliness and
nice-mindedness of the world; for there you talk with a large number who,
like yourself, are not yet made, and who are, therefore, more coloured by
the person they talk to than older people would be.

There are people in the world who never hear unkind gossip or vulgar
jokes, for no one would think of saying such things to them. I know girls
who would never have such things said--who would never get a letter
written to them that was not of a nice tone--because, instinctively, their
friends would feel such things out of harmony with them.

When girls are silly, or spiteful, or not quite nice in what they say to
you, it pays _you_ a bad compliment; do not in your own mind merely
condemn _them_. They would not say it to you if they felt you above talk
of that kind. You may be above it in your own mind and may feel that your
home surroundings are on a higher level than such talk; but either you
have not had the courage to show your colours, or else you are like that
in your heart, and they know it by instinct.

See to it that you keep at your best: for the danger of school is the
temptation to follow a multitude to do, not evil, but folly.

Many, from indolence or thoughtlessness, or from yielding to the bad bit
in them, join in silly school talk, silly mysteries, giggling, criticizing
other people, boasting about home, loud, rough ways of talking, slang,
cliques and exclusive friendships (every one of which is underbred, as
well as silly or unkind), and are yet, three-quarters of them, fit for
something better,--at home they _would_ be better, and at school they
_could_ be better.

Many people dread schools for fear of wrong talk going on; now some of you
may (through gossip, or newspapers, or servants, or novels) know of bad
things or fast things; and it is perhaps not your fault that you know; but
_it is a very heavy sin on your conscience if you hand on your knowledge_
and make others dwell on wrong things which would never have been in their
minds but for you. Books or friends which give us a knowledge of
wickedness, do more harm than we know.

Never have the blood-guiltiness on your head of teaching evil to others,
or leading their minds to dwell on it. Some find it much harder to get rid
of such thoughts than others do--they may be more naturally inclined to
it, and you may have woke up in them far more harm than you guess.

Your very first duty when you are thrown with others is to see that _no
one shall ever be less nice-minded because they knew you_. See to it that
no one learns anything about evil through your being with them. You can
very easily soil a mind, and you can never wash it clean.

If you feel the least doubt about a thing, do not say it--do not tell the
story; if you want to ask a question and feel in the very least
uncomfortable about it, hold your tongue, or ask your mother instead.

There are many things which it is not wholesome to talk about among
yourselves, but which it is quite right to ask your mother about, or any
one in her place, if you find yourself dwelling on them. Of course this
includes everything which makes you feel at all hot, with a sense of
something not quite nice;--everything in books which it would make you hot
to read out loud (an excellent test);--and _I_ include all uncanny things
such as ghosts and palmistry and fortune-telling:--these are not safe
things to talk about, and I ask you as my particular wish not to do it,
though you are quite welcome to unburden your mind to me if you wish to do
so! I think your common sense will bear me out in not wanting them talked
about among yourselves, because you never know who may take it seriously
or what harm you may be doing, though as I have read "The Mysteries of
Udolpho" to you, you will see that it is not the subject, but the
indiscriminate talking which I object to!

But apart from wrong talk, what sort of silly talk are you likely to be
infected with at school? It is not unlikely that among a number of girls
there will be one with a hawk's eye for dress, who knows exactly how a
trimming went, and how long this or that has been worn; in fact, she takes
in every detail of the dress of each person she sees for a minute, and can
talk of it by the hour! She may have no harm in her, but she is first
cousin to a milliner's apprentice (and is mentally the poor relation of
the two, since the milliner notices these things as a part of business,
and very likely has other interests in life for her spare time). If the
girl wishes to prove herself of different family, she needs to put to
sleep the side of her that belongs to the keen-eyed young lady behind the
counter, by feeding other sides of her mind, and turning her powers of
observation on to other things.

I should like you to be faultlessly dressed outside, and I should like you
to be perfectly well inside; but I should not admire you if your chief
subject of conversation was the devices by which you arrived at the dress,
or the decoctions you took to arrive at the health.

Copy the flowers of the field, not only in prettiness, but in giving an
impression that you grow as naturally as they do! Make us feel that you
_could_ not have anything ugly or awkward or unbecoming about you. Your
dress and your rooms and your dinners should be perfect, but do not
entertain your guest with the mere mechanism of how you arrive at any one
of them. Give time and thought to this machinery of life--enough to
produce the right result, and then go on to the real interests, for which
they are only the stage. I do not want a sloven, but I want a girl who is
a real person and not a mere _poupée modèle_ to show off dresses.

Petty gossip is the prevailing danger of any small community such as a
girls' school. Provincial gossip, Matthew Arnold would call it--provincial
being one of his severest adjectives for the Philistines whom his soul
abhors,--by which he means that their talk is limited to their
narrow-minded local gossip, so that when a stranger comes from a larger
world, they have nothing in common. I think his use of that word marks his
French turn of mind;--parochial would be the better expression in England,
where the talk is very often literally parochial,--besides deserving the
word in its wider meaning, as describing talk which is full of
unimportant, local, and personal facts, instead of belonging to the larger
world of ideas.

English girls, as a whole, are supposed to be bad at talking--to giggle
among themselves, and to have nothing to say on general subjects. But,
besides this, there is a certain love of silly mysteries and secrets in
some girls, which is apt to be too much for their common sense.

Some girls are so keen to chatter, and make themselves interesting at any
cost, that they tell their family's private affairs or discuss the faults
of their nearest relations. I am sure you would all remember that any one,
with a grain of decent family pride, washes every bit of dirty linen at
home, and holds their tongue about family news till they are sure it is
public property, and to the family credit! At 10 o'clock: June 22. | June
30. |At 8 o'clock: July 22.

Stars of the first magnitude are eight-pointed; second magnitude,
six-pointed; third magnitude, five-pointed; fourth magnitude (a
few), four-pointed; fifth magnitude (very few), three-pointed.

For star names refer to page 4.]

NIGHT SKY.--JUNE AND JULY.

The Great Bear (_Ursa Major_) is in the mid-heavens toward the northwest,
the Pointers not far from the horizontal position.

They direct us to the Pole Star (a of the Little Bear, _Ursa Minor_).
The line from this star to the Guardians of the Pole, b and g, is in
about the position of the minute hand of a clock 2 minutes before an hour.
The Dragon (_Draco_) curls over the Little Bear, curving upward on the
east, to where its head, high up in the northeast, is marked by the
gleaming eyes, b and g. Under the Little Bear, the Camelopard has at
last come upright.

Low down in the west the Lion (_Leo_) is setting. The point of the "Sickle
in the Lion" is turned toward the horizon; the handle (marked by a and
ae) is nearly horizontal. Above the Lion's tail is Berenice's Hair (_Coma
Berenices_); and between that and the Great Bear's tail our chart shows a
solitary star of the Hunting Dogs (_Canes Venatici_). The Crow (_Corvus_)
is low down in the southwest, the Cup (_Crater_) beside it, partly
set, on the right.

Above is _Virgo_, the Virgin. Still higher in the southwest--in fact, with
head close to the point overhead--is the Herdsman (_Boötes_), the Crown
(_Corona Borealis_) near his southern shoulder marking what was once the
Herdsman's uplifted arm.

Low down between the south and southwest we find the head and shoulders
of the Centaur (_Centaurus_), who holds the Wolf (_Lupus_) due south.
Above the Wolf are the Scales (_Libra_), and above these the Serpent
(_Serpens_), his head in the south, stretching toward the Crown. In the
mid-sky, toward the southeast, we find the Serpent Bearer (_Ophiuchus_--one
star of the Serpent lies east of him).
Below the Serpent Bearer we find the Scorpion (_Scorpio_), now fully
risen, and showing truly scorpionic form. Beside the Scorpion is the
Archer (_Sagittarius_), low down in the southeast. To his left we see, low
down, two stars marking the head of the Sea Goat (_Capricornus_),
and one belonging to the Water Bearer (_Aquarius_).

Above the Sea Goat flies the Eagle (_Aquila_), with the bright star
_Altair_; and above, near the point overhead, is the kneeling
_Hercules_.

Due east, we see part of the Winged Horse (_Pegasus_); above that, the
little Dolphin (_Delphinus_), and higher, the Swan (_Cygnus_) and the
Lyre (_Lyra_), with the beautiful bluish-white star _Vega_.

Lastly, low down, between north and northeast, we find the Seated
Lady (_Cassiopeia_); and above, somewhat eastwardly, the inconspicuous
constellation _Cepheus, Cassiopeia's_ royal husband.

NIGHT SKY.--JULY AND AUGUST.

The Great Bear (_Ursa Major_) is now in the northwest, his paws near the
horizon.

The Pointers (a and b) direct us to the Pole Star, (a of the Little Bear,
_Ursa Minor_). A line from the Pole Star to the Guardians of the Pole is
in the position of the minute hand of a clock about 7 minutes before an
hour. Below the Little Bear we see the Camelopard, a little to the east
of due north.
The Dragon (_Draco_) curves round from between the Pointers and the Pole,
above the Little Bear toward the east, then upward to near the point
overhead, its head, with the bright stars b and g, being highest. Low
down in the west we see Berenice's Hair (_Coma Berenices_), and one star
of the Hunting Dogs (_Canes Venatici_) is seen in the chart between
_Coma_ and the Great Bear. The Herdsman {_Boötes_) occupies the mid-heaven
in the west, the Crown (_Corona Borealis_) higher up, and due west,
Hercules, between the Crown and the point overhead.

Low down, extending from the west to near the southwest, we find the
Virgin (_Virgo_), the bright _Spica_ near its setting place.

In the southwest are the Scales (_Libra_), and farther to the left, extending
from the Scales to low down near the south, we find the Scorpion (_Scorpio_),
one of the finest of the constellations, _Antares_, the rival of Mars (as
the name means), marking its heart. Above the Scorpion and the Scales are
the Serpent Bearer (_Serpentarius_ or _Ophiuchus_) and the Serpent
(_Serpens_), extending right across him to near the Crown, after
which the Serpent seems reaching.

A little east due south, low down, we find the Archer (_Sagittarius_);
in the southeast, low down, the Sea Goat (_Capricornus_); and farther
east, and lower down, the Water Bearer (_Aquarius_). Above the Sea Goat
is the Eagle (_Aquila_), with the bright bluish-white star _Altair_;
on its left the pretty little Dolphin (_Delphinus_), and above the
Dolphin, nearly overhead, the Lyre (_Lyra_), with the bluish-white star
_Vega_ (even brighter than _Altair_) nearly overhead.

Below the Lyre we see the Swan (_Cygnus_), due east; and below the Swan the
Winged Horse (_Pegasus_), upside down, as usual.

In the northeast, _Andromeda_, the Chained Lady, is rising, her head
marked by the star a (which was also called d of _Pegasus_).
(The "Square of Pegasus" is formed by a of _Andromeda_ and a, b, and g of
_Pegasus_.)

Between the north and northeast is _Cassiopeia_, the Seated Lady, and
above her, her husband, King _Cepheus_. And lastly _Perseus_ is just rising,
between the north and northeast.

[Illustration: MAP VIII. NIGHT SKY.--JULY AND AUGUST.

At 11 o'clock: July 7. | |At 9 o'clock: Aug. 7.
At 10-1/2 o'clock: July 14.

|At 9-1/2 o'clock:|At 8-1/2 o'clock: Aug. 14.
At 10 o'clock: July 22. | July 30. |At 8 o'clock: Aug. 22.

Stars of the first magnitude are eight-pointed; second magnitude,
six-pointed; third magnitude, five-pointed; fourth magnitude (a few),
four-pointed; fifth magnitude (very few), three-pointed.

For star names refer to page 4.]

[Illustration: MAP IX. NIGHT SKY.--AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER.

At 11 o'clock: Aug. 7. | |At 9 o'clock: Sept. 6.

At 10-1/2 o'clock: Aug. 14.|At 9-1/2 o'clock:|At 8-1/2 o'clock: Sept.
14.
At 10 o'clock: Aug. 22. | Aug. 29. |At 8 o'clock: Sept. 21.

Stars of the first magnitude are eight-pointed; second magnitude, six-pointed;
third magnitude, five-pointed; fourth magnitude (a few), four-pointed;
fifth magnitude (very few), three-pointed.
For star names refer to page 4.]

NIGHT SKY.--AUGUST AND SEPTEMBER.

The Great Bear (_Ursa Major_) is low down, between northwest and north,
the Pointers (a and b) directed slantingly upward toward the Pole. A line
from the Pole Star (a of the Little Bear, _Ursa Minor_) to the Guardians
of the Pole (b and g), is in the position of the minute hand of a
clock 12 minutes before an hour.

Between the Great Bear and the Little Bear run the stars of the Dragon
(_Draco_), round the Little Bear toward the north, thence toward the
northwest, where we see the head of the Dragon high up, its two bright
eyes, b and g, directed toward _Hercules_, which occupies the western
mid-heaven. Above Hercules is _Lyra_, the Lyre, with the bright steel-blue
star Vega high up toward the point overhead.

Right overhead is the Swan (_Cygnus_).

Low down in the northwest we see in the chart one star of the Hunting
Dogs (_Canes Venatici_). Nearer the west stands the Herdsman,
rather slanting forward, however, with the Crown (_Corona Borealis_) on his
left, almost due west. The long winding Serpent (_Serpens_) runs from near
the Crown (where we see its head due west) to farther south than
southwest, high up on the western side of the Serpent Holder (_Serpentarius_
or _Ophiuchus_), now standing upright in the southwest.

Low down creeps the Scorpion (_Scorpio_), its heart Antares, rival of Mars,
in the southwest, the end of its tail between south and southwest. Above
and south of the Scorpion's tail we see the Archer (_Sagittarius_).

Due south, and high up, is the Eagle (_Aquila_), its tail at z and e,
its head at th, the bright steel-blue Altair marking its body.
On the left, or east, of the Eagle lies the neat little Dolphin
(_Delphinus_). Midway between the Dolphin and the horizon is the tip of
the tail of the Sea Goat (_Capricornus_), whose head lies nearly
due south.

On the southern horizon is the head of the Indian (_Indus_); on its left
a part of the Crane (_Grus_), and low down in the southeast lies Fomalhaut,
the chief brilliant of the Southern Fish (_Piscis Australis_). Above
lies the Water Bearer (_Aquarius_), in the southwestern mid-heaven.

Due east, fairly high, is "the Square of Pegasus," the head of the
Winged Horse, Pegasus lying close by the Water Pitcher of Aquarius
(marked by the stars z, g, and a).

The Fishes (_Pisces_) are low down in the east. A few stars of the
Whale (_Cetus_) are seen on their right, very low down. On the left of
Pisces we see the Ram (_Aries_), low down; above it the Triangle; and
above that the Chained Lady (_Andromeda_).

Low down in the northeast is the Rescuing Knight (_Perseus_); above whom
is _Cassiopeia_, and on her left, higher up, the inconspicuous constellation
_Cepheus_.

Lastly, immediately below _Cepheus_, we find the Camelopard, below which,
very low down, between north and northeast, is the Charioteer (_Auriga_),
the brilliant Capella being just above the horizon.

NIGHT SKY.

--SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER.

Low down, between north and northwest, we find the seven stars
of the Dipper, the Pointers on the right nearly due north. They direct
us to the Pole Star. The Guardians of the Pole (b and g of the Little Bear,
_Ursa Minor_) lie in a direction from the Pole Star corresponding to that
of the minute hand of a clock about 17 minutes before an hour.

Between the Pointers and the Pole Star we find the tip of the Dragon's
tail: then passing round the Little Bear with the Dragon's long train of
third magnitude stars, we come, after a bend, to the Dragon's head, with
the two bright eyes, a and b--(part of the Dragon's nose has been
borrowed by Hercules).
These two stars are almost exactly midway between the horizon and the
point overhead, and nearly northwest.

King Cepheus--not a very conspicuous constellation--lies between the point
overhead and the Little Bear.

Low down in the northwest we find the head of the Herdsman (_Boötes_).
The Crown (_Corona Borealis_), which no one can mistake, lies on his
left; and close by is the setting head of the Serpent. Above these three
groups we see Hercules--the Kneeler--his head at a, his upraised club by
g. Above the head of Hercules we find the Lyre, with the bright star Vega;
and above that the Swan.

Passing southward, we see the Serpent-Holder (_Serpentarius_ or _Ophiuchus_),
beyond whom lies the Serpent's tail; a most inconvenient arrangement, as
the Serpent is divided into two parts. Almost exactly southeast, and
low down, are the stars of the Archer (_Sagittarius_); while above, in
the mid-sky, we see the Eagle (_Aquila_), with the bright Altair. Note
the neat little constellation the Dolphin (_Delphinus_), close by.

Due south is the Crane (_Grus_); above it the Southern Fish, with the
bright star Fomalhaut.

Above that the Sea Goat (_Capricornus_), and on the left of this the Water
Bearer (_Aquarius_); one can recognize his water pitcher, marked by the
stars b, g, and a.

Toward the west, high up, is the Winged Horse (_Pegasus_); he is upside
down just now. Below lies the Whale (_Cetus_), or rather the Sea Monster.
I have my own notion about Cetus, regarding him as an icthyosaurus: but
that is neither here nor there. The star o of this constellation is
called Mira; it is a wonderful variable star.

The Fishes (_Pisces_) may be seen between the Whale and Pegasus.

Few constellations have suffered more than Pisces by the breaking up of
star groups. The Fishes themselves are now lost in Andromeda and Pegasus.

Note how on the left of Pisces the Ram (_Aries_) "bears aloft"
Andromeda, the Chained Lady (whose head lies at a), as Milton set
Aries doing long since.

The Triangles serve only as a saddle. Between Andromeda and her father,
Cepheus, we find her mother, Cassiopeia, or rather Cassiopeia's
Chair.

(Of course b, a, and g mark the chair's back.) Perseus, the Rescuer, lies
below; b is the famous variable _Algol_.

          Below him lies the Bull (_Taurus_),
    with the Pleiades and the bright Aldebaran. Low down to the left
of the Bull, we find the Charioteer (_Auriga_), with the bright
Capella. And lastly, anyone who likes may admire the Camelopard
(_Camelopardalis_), between the Great Bear, Cepheus, and the
Charioteer.
[Illustration: MAP X. NIGHT SKY.--SEPTEMBER AND OCTOBER.
At 11 o'clock: Sept. 7. | |At 9 o'clock: Oct. 7.
At 10-1/2 o'clock: Sept. 14.|At 9-1/2 o'clock:|At 8-1/2 o'clock:
Oct. 15.
At 10 o'clock: Sept. 21. | Sept. 30. |At 8 o'clock: Oct. 22.
Stars of the first magnitude are eight-pointed; second magnitude,
six-pointed; third magnitude, five-pointed; fourth magnitude (a
few), four-pointed; fifth magnitude (very few), three-pointed.
For star names refer to page 4.]
[Illustration: MAP XI. NIGHT SKY.--OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER.
At 11 o'clock: Oct. 7. | |At 9 o'clock: Nov. 7.
At 10-1/2 o'clock: Oct. 15.|At 9-1/2 o'clock:|At 8-1/2 o'clock:
Nov. 14.
At 10 o'clock: Oct. 22. | Oct. 30. |At 8 o'clock: Nov. 22.
Stars of the first magnitude are eight-pointed; second magnitude,
six-pointed; third magnitude, five-pointed; fourth magnitude (a
few), four-pointed; fifth magnitude (very few), three-pointed.
For star names refer to page 4.]
NIGHT SKY.--OCTOBER AND NOVEMBER.
The Dipper lies low, the Pointers a little east of north. They
direct to the Pole Star. The Guardians of the Pole (b and g of the
Little Bear, _Ursa Minor_) lie in a direction from the pole star
corresponding to that of the minute hand of a clock about 22 minutes
before an hour. Between the Pointers and Pole Star lies the tip of
the Dragon's Tail. Sweeping around the Little Bear (_Ursa Minor_)
we find the stars of the Dragon (_Draco_) curving back by the star
d to the Dragon's Head, with the two bright eyes, g and b. Above
is the inconspicuous constellation Cepheus; and somewhat higher,
the stars of Cassiopeia, a and b, marking the top rail of the Seated
Lady's Chair.
Low down in the northwest Hercules is setting. Above is the Lyre,
with the bright steel-blue Vega; and above that the stars of the
Swan (_Cygnus_), which has sometimes been called the Northern
Cross.
Nearly due west we find the Eagle (_Aquila_), z and e marking its
tail, th the head. Above the Eagle is the pretty little constellation
_Delphinus_, the Dolphin.
In the southwest, rather low, is the Sea Goat (_Capricornus_); above
and to the south of him the Water Bearer (_Aquarius_), with his
pitcher, marked by the stars, a, g, and z. The head of the Winged
Horse, _Pegasus_, now upside down (in fact, he is seldom otherwise),
is just above this group. The "Square of Pegasus" will be noticed
high up, due south."I wish you would dine off that unfortunate task to-day, and when you have
finished it we will talk about your future work."

The task did not take long when Urith fairly gave her mind to it, and the
next day she and her aunt started for a distant cottage at the far end of
the parish. Urith seized the opportunity, and began as the door closed
behind them--

"Now, Aunt Rachel, how can I do everything I ought when I leave school? I
shall know nothing of Greek or Roman history, or mythology, or French or
German history, or even of English, except the period we have been just
doing, and I have done only a few books in the literature class, and none
in foreign literature, and I have forgotten all my geography, and I shall
have Latin and Greek to keep up, and French and German and chemistry, and
I don't know anything, hardly, of modern books, or of architecture or
natural history, or philosophy, or of cooking"--here, in her ardour, she
tripped over a stone, and her aunt availed herself of the pause to say--

"Add Shakespeare and the musical glasses, and you will have a tolerably
complete programme before you."

"Yes, Aunt Rachel, you need not laugh, you always say girls are so
uneducated, and can't respond to literary allusions; but how are they to
become educated when there is so much to be done?"

"My dear Urith, there is a very wise Irish proverb, 'Never cross a bridge
till you come to it,' and though this bridge of culture seems such a
bridge of sighs to you, I really do not think it need be. In the first
place, it has not got to be crossed in one year. You get far more law now
than in my young days, for you and your friends are not expected to come
out full-blown heroines at seventeen or eighteen; you are almost expected
to carry on your education for some time longer. It is not safe to count
on it, for real life may come on you in a dozen ways when you once leave
the safety of the schoolroom, but you will probably get several years of
tolerable quiet, and, if I were you, I would not spend my first year in a
desperate effort to fill up all the gaps in my education, and to go on
with school-work in the school spirit. I should take my first year of
freedom as the arbour on the Hill Difficulty, where Christian rested; the
lord of that country does not like pilgrims to stay there for good, but
they go on all the better for it afterwards. I should look on this year as
being the ornamental fringe to the intellectual dress you have been
weaving for yourself at school. And do not forget that the dress and the
trimming are not an end in themselves--they are only to enable you to
leave the house with decency, to go about your business; and at the end of
the first year I should count up my possessions and see where I was
wanting--if the dress proved thin, I would then set to work and furnish
myself with a jacket, by hard, steady work in the second year."

"But some of my school-work will be wasted if I don't keep it up."

"Quite true; but do not keep it up simply because you have once begun it;
some of your lessons will have done their work by ploughing and harrowing
your mind, and may be left behind. The use of school is to teach you how
to use your mind, and to try your hand at several branches of study, that
you may be able to follow whichever suits you."

"But I have not got any particular turn for anything, and it seems a pity
to drop things."

"Yes, it is a pity, but you are not going to teach, and you will have to
do the best you can. You had better make up your mind, before you begin
life, as to what sort of woman you want to be, and then cut your coat
according to your cloth, for if you begin by wanting to keep up
everything, you will probably end by dropping everything, in despair."

"Well, I want to keep up Latin and Greek and French and German, and
Algebra and Geometry and Chemistry and Mechanics, as well as English
subjects."

"And seeing that your day will probably be only twenty-four hours long, I
fear 'want will be your master'! If you had a strong turn for any one of
these subjects, I should say keep it up, by all means; but as you have
not, I have very strong doubts whether you will find mathematics or
classics much use to you. You know enough to take them up again if ever
you wanted to help a beginner."

"Then do you think Latin and Greek and mathematics no good for a woman?"

"Certainly not; you will read your newspaper, and the books of the day, in
quite a different way now that your mind has been trained by these
subjects, but you do not need to keep the scaffolding up when your house
is built!"

"It does seem a pity!"

"Well, I do not want to debar you from these subjects if you really enjoy
them; there would be a reason for going on, if they were intense pleasure
to you, but I suspect you do them as 'lessons,' and, if so, you had better
forsake them for things that directly tend to make you useful."

"Oh, cooking and nursing, and that sort of thing."

"Yes; but I was not thinking of that sort of thing. I meant things that
bring you closer to others; Madame Schwetchine says that every fresh
sorrow we endure is like learning a fresh language, because it enables us
to speak to a fresh set of souls in their own tongue, and to sympathize.
Every fresh thing that you learn brings you in sympathy with a fresh set
of people. It gives pleasure and ease to a stranger to find that some one
in his new circle knows his old home, and we can try to be at home in the
mental country of each person we meet, so as to be able to respond to
them. If you are a genius you can have your own country, and wait in it,
till you meet some fellow-countryman; but as you only want to be an
ordinary woman, 'not too bright and good for human nature's daily food,'
you will give far more pleasure to others, and widen and strengthen your
own mind far more, by being able to join on easily to all you meet, than
by pursuing some one abstruse study, whether it be mathematics or
philosophy."

"But it seems such a small thing to spend one's mind in learning odds and
ends of other people's hobbies."

"But I would have a hobby of my own, and do some steady stiff reading,
only, as you are going to be a woman, and not a student, I would choose
reading that linked me to as many as possible of other people's interests.
How dull and shy poor little Miss Smith was yesterday, till I found that
she knew Venice as well as I did. After that she quite enjoyed her visit."

"Yes, but I could not have talked about Italy. I never have a chance of
going abroad."

"You do not know when you may go, and if you went to-morrow it would be a
case of 'No Eyes.' You do not know an interesting piece of architecture
when you see it, you would not know what pictures to look for, you would
not know the history of the places you went to, and, in short, you would
miss nine-tenths of the best points, for want of knowing they were there."

"Yes; I might read up countries, but it is so unlikely that I should ever
see them, that it does not seem much use to read up for nothing."

"Well, supposing that you did not go, but that you had read books on
Italian Art, and made out a list of the pictures you wanted to see at each
great town--Florence, Venice, Rome, Siena--and knew about each painter,
his history, his style, and photographs of his works, and copied out under
each picture what good critics had said of it, or at least put a reference
to the book where it was mentioned (_e.g._ Kingsley's description of
Bellini's Doge; Browning on Fra Lippo Lippi's Coronation of the Virgin;
Ruskin's best descriptions); and if you looked out all the famous men of
each town, and knew their history, and what parts of the town were sacred
to them; if you studied the buildings of each town, looked up its
architecture, and tried to draw it from photographs and illustrations, and
then hunted out all the poetry and novels about each place, and drew out a
sketch of its history, marking where the local history of the town
dovetailed into larger European interests, and specially where it touched
England--I think, after this, you would enjoy meeting any one from Italy
almost as much as if you had been there, and you would not feel you had
read up for nothing. Friend Hopper leaned on his cane, looked him full
in the face, and answered very coolly, "If thou dost, I hope thou wilt
send it to my lodgings; for I shall have need of it this afternoon. I lodge
at No. 35, Lower Crescent, Clifton." The place designated was about a mile
from the Cathedral. The man stared at him, as if puzzled to decide whether
he were talking to an insane person, or not. When the imperturbable Quaker
had seen all he cared to see, he deliberately walked away.

At Westminster Abbey he paid the customary fee of two shillings sixpence
for admission. The door-keeper followed him, saying, "You must uncover
yourself, sir."

"Uncover myself!" exclaimed the Friend, with an affectation of ignorant
simplicity. "What dost thou mean? Must I take off my coat?"
"Your coat!" responded the man, smiling. "No indeed. I mean your hat."
"And what should I take off my hat for?" he inquired.

"Because you are in a church, sir," answered the door-keeper.

"I see no church here," rejoined the Quaker. "Perhaps thou meanest the house
where the church assembles. I suppose thou art aware that it is the _people_,
not the _building_, that constitutes a church?"
The idea seemed new to the man, but he merely repeated, "You must take
off your hat, sir."

But the Friend again inquired, "What for? On account of these images?
Thou knowest Scripture commands us not to worship graven images."
The man persisted in saying that no person could be permitted to
pass through the church without uncovering his head.

"Well friend," rejoined Isaac, "I have some conscientious scruples on that
subject; so give me back my money, and I will go out."
The reverential habits of the door-keeper were not quite strong enough
to compel him to that sacrifice; and he walked away, without saying
anything more on the subject.

When Friend Hopper visited the House of Lords, he asked the sergeant-at-arms
if he might sit upon the throne. He replied, "No, sir.
No one but his majesty sits there."
"Wherein does his majesty differ from other men?" inquired he. "If his
head were cut off, wouldn't he die?"
"Certainly he would," replied the officer.

"So would an American," rejoined Friend Hopper.

As he spoke, he stepped up to the gilded railing that surrounded the
throne, and tried to open the gate. The officer told him it was locked.
"Well won't the same key that locked it unlock it?" inquired he. "Is this
the key hanging here?"
Being informed that it was, he took it down and unlocked the gate. He
removed the satin covering from the throne, carefully dusted the railing
with his handkerchief, before he hung the satin over it, and then seated
himself in the royal chair. "Well," said he, "do I look anything like his
majesty?"
The man seemed embarrassed, but smiled as he answered, "Why, sir, you
certainly fill the throne very respectably."
There were several noblemen in the room, who seemed to be extremely
amused by these unusual proceedings.

At a place called Jordans, about twenty-two miles from London, he
visited the grave of William Penn.

In his journal, he says: "The ground is surrounded by a neat hedge, and is
kept in good order. I picked some grass and moss from the graves of William
Penn, Thomas Ellwood, and Isaac Pennington; and some ivy and holly from
the hedge; which I intend to take with me to America, as a memorial of
my visit. I entered the meeting-house, and sat on the benches which had
been occupied by George Fox, William Penn, and George Whitehead, in years
long since passed away. It brought those old Friends so distinctly before
the view of my mind, that my heart was ready to exclaim, 'Surely this is
no other than the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.' I cannot
describe my feelings. The manly and majestic features of George Fox, and
the mournful yet benevolent countenance of Isaac Pennington, seemed to
rise before me. But this is human weakness. Those men bore the burthen and
heat of their own day; they faithfully used the talents committed to their
trust; and I doubt not they are now reaping the reward given to faithful
servants. It is permitted us to love their memories, but not to idolize
them. They could deliver neither son or daughter by their righteousness;
but only their own souls."
"In the great city of London everything tended to satisfy me that the state
of our religious Society is generally very low. A light was once
kindled there, that illuminated distant lands. As I walked the streets,
I remembered the labors, the sufferings, and the final triumph of those
illustrious sons of the morning, George Fox, George Whitehead, William
Penn, and a host of others; men who loved not their lives in
comparison with the holy cause of truth and righteousness, in which
they were called to labor.

These worthies have been succeeded by a generation, who seem disposed to
garnish the sepulchres of their fathers, and live upon the fruit
of their labors, without submitting to the power of that Cross,
which made them what they were.

There appears to me to be much formality and dryness among them; though
there are a few who mourn, almost without hope, over the desolation
that has been made by the world, the flesh, and the devil."
There were many poor emigrants on board the merchant ship, in which Friend
Hopper returned home. He soon established friendly communication with
them, and entered with sympathy into all their troubles. He made frequent
visits to the steerage during the long voyage, and always had something
comforting and cheering to say to the poor souls. There was a clergyman
on board, who also wished to benefit them, but he approached them
in an official way, to which they did not so readily respond.

One day, when he invited the emigrants to join him in prayer, an old Irish
woman replied, "I'd rather play a game o' cards, than hear you
prache and pray."

She pointed to Friend Hopper, and added, "_He_ comes and stays among
us, and always spakes a word o' comfort, and does us some good.
But _you_ come and prache and pray, and then you are gone. One look
from that Quaker gintleman is worth all the praching and praying
that be in you."

The vessel encountered a dense fog, and ran on a sand bank as they
approached the Jersey shore.

A tremendous sea was rolling, and dashed against the ship with such force,
that she seemed every moment in danger of being shattered into fragments.
If there had been a violent gale of wind, all must have been inevitably
lost. The passengers were generally in a state of extreme terror. Screams
and groans were heard in every direction. But Friend Hopper's mind was
preserved in a state of great equanimity. He entreated the people to
be quiet, and try to keep possession of their faculties, that they
might be ready to do whatever was best, in case of emergency.

Seeing him so calm, they gathered closely round him, as if they
thought he had some power to save them.

There was a naval officer on board, whose frenzied state of feeling vented
itself in blasphemous language. Friend Hopper, who was always disturbed
by irreverent use of the name of Deity, was peculiarly shocked by it under
these solemn circumstances. He walked up to the officer, put his hand
on his shoulder, and looking him in the face, said, "From what I have
heard of thy military exploits, I supposed thou wert a brave man; but here
thou art pouring forth blasphemies, to keep up the appearance of
courage, while thy pale face and quivering lips show that thou art
in mortal fear.

I am ashamed of thee.

If thou hast no reverence for Deity thyself, thou shouldst show some
regard for the feelings of those who have." The officer ceased swearing,
and treated his adviser with marked respect. A friendship was formed between
them, which continued as long as the captain lived.

The clergyman on board afterward said to Friend Hopper, "If any other person
had talked to him in that manner, he would have knocked him down."

In about two hours, the vessel floated off the sandbar and went safely into
the harbor of New-York.

At the custom-house, the clergyman was in some perplexity about a large
quantity of books he had brought with him, on which it was proposed to
charge high duties. "Perhaps I can get them through for thee," said Friend
Hopper. "I will try." He went up to the officer, and said, "Isn't it a
rule of the custom-house not to charge a man for the tools of his trade?"
He replied that it was. "Then thou art bound to let this priest's books
pass free," rejoined the Friend.
"Preaching is the trade he gets his living by; and these books are the tools
he must use." The clergyman being aware of Quaker views with regard to
a paid ministry, seemed doubtful whether to be pleased or not, with _such_
a mode of helping him out of difficulty. However, he took the joke as
good naturedly as it was offered, and the books passed free, on
the assurance that they were all for his own library.

Friend Hopper's bookstore in New-York was a place of great resort for
members of his own sect.

His animated style of conversation, his thousand and one anecdotes of
runaway slaves, his descriptions of keen encounters with the
"Orthodox," in the process of separation, attracted many listeners. His
intelligence and well-known conscientiousness commanded respect, and he
was held in high estimation by his own branch of the Society,
though the opposite party naturally entertained a less favorable
opinion of the "Hicksite" champion.

Such a character as he was must necessarily always be a man of mark,
with warm friends and bitter enemies.

His resemblance to Bonaparte attracted attention in New-York, as it had
done in Philadelphia. Not long after he removed to that city, there was a
dramatic representation at the Park Theatre, in which Placide personated
the French Emperor. While this play was attracting public attention, the
manager happened to meet Friend Hopper in the street.

As soon as he saw him, he exclaimed, "Here is Napoleon himself come back
again!" He remarked to some of his acquaintance that he would gladly give
that Quaker gentleman one hundred dollars a night, if he would consent to
appear on the stage in the costume of Bonaparte.

About this period northern hostility to slavery took a new form, more
bold and uncompromising than the old Abolition Societies. It demanded the
immediate and unconditional emancipation of every slave, in a voice
which has not yet been silenced, and never will be, while the oppressive
system continues to disgrace our country. Of course, Friend Hopper could
not otherwise than sympathize with any movement for the abolition of
slavery, based on pacific principles. Pictures and pamphlets, published by
the Anti-Slavery Society were offered for sale in his book-store. During
the popular excitement on this subject, in 1834, he was told that
his store was about to be attacked by an infuriated rabble, and he
had better remove all such publications from the window.

"Dost thou think I am such a coward as to forsake my principles, or conceal
them, at the bidding of a mob?" said he.
Presently, another messenger came to announce that the mob were already
in progress, at the distance of a few streets.

He was earnestly advised at least to put up the shutters, that their attention
might not be attracted by the pictures. "I shall do no such thing," he
replied. The excited throng soon came pouring down the street, with
loud and discordant yells.

Friend Hopper walked out and stood on the steps. The mob stopped in front
of his store. He looked calmly and firmly at them, and they looked
irresolutely at him, like a wild animal spell-bound by the fixed
gaze of a human eye.

After a brief pause, they renewed their yells, and some of their leaders
called out, "Go on, to Rose-street!" They obeyed these orders, and in
the absent of Lewis Tappan, a well-known abolitionist, they burst open
his house, and destroyed his furniture.

In 1835, Judge Chinn, of Mississippi, visited New-York, and brought with
him a slave, said to have cost the large sum of fifteen hundred
dollars.

A few days after their arrival in the city, the slave eloped, and a reward
of five hundred dollars was offered for his apprehension.

Friend Hopper knew nothing about him; but some mischievous person
wrote a note to Judge Chinn, stating that the fugitive was concealed
at his store, in Pearl-street.

A warrant was procured and put into the hands of a constable frequently
employed in that base business.

At that season of the year, many Southerners were in the city to
purchase goods.

A number of them accompanied the judge to Pearl-street, and distributed
themselves at short distances, in order to arrest the slave, in
case he attempted to escape.

They preferred to search the store in the absence of Friend Hopper,
and watched nearly an hour for a favorable opportunity.

Meanwhile, he was entirely unconscious of their proceedings; and
having occasion to call at a house a few doors below, he left the
store for a short time in charge of one of his sons.

As soon as he was gone, four or five men rushed in. Not finding the object
of their pursuit, they jumped out of a back window, and began to search
some buildings in the rear.

When people complained of such unceremonious intrusion upon their premises,
the constable excused himself by saying they were trying to apprehend a
felon.

Friend Hopper's son called out that it was a slave, not a felon, they were
in search of; for he heard them say so. This made the constable very angry;
for, like most slave-catchers, he was eager for the reward, but rather
ashamed of the services by which he sought to obtain it. He swore
roundly, and one of his party gave the young man a blow on his face.

Friend Hopper, being sent for, returned immediately; and for some time
after, he observed a respectable looking person occasionally peeping
into the store, and skulking out of sight as soon as he thought
himself observed.

At last, he went to the door, and said, "My friend, if thou hast
business with me, come in and let me know what it is; but don't be prying
about my premises in that way." He walked off, and joined a group of people,
who seemed to be much excited. Friend Hopper followed, and found they
were the men who had been recently searching his store. He said to their
leader, "Art thou the impertinent fellow who has been intruding upon my
premises, in my absence?" The constable replied that he had a warrant,
and was determined to execute it. Though a stranger to his countenance,
Friend Hopper was well aware that he was noted for hunting slaves, and being
unable to disguise his abhorrence of the odious business, he said, "Judas
betrayed his master for thirty pieces of silver; and for a like sum, I
suppose thou wouldst seize thy brother by the throat, and send him into
interminable bondage. If thy conscience were as susceptible of conviction
as his was, thou wouldst do as he did; and thus rid the community
of an intolerable nuisance."

One of the Southerners repeated the word "Brother!" in a very sneering
tone.

"Yes," rejoined Friend Hopper, "I said brother."

He returned to his store, but was soon summoned into the street again,
by a complaint that the constable and his troop of slaveholders were
very roughly handling a colored man, saying he had no business to keep
in their vicinity.
Johnson's question as to what makes "a clubbable
person." I find, on comparing your suggestions, that there are
thirty-eight things to avoid in home life (which suggests complexity);
however, each of you was to confine her attention to three virtues and
three failings, so in giving you my own likes and dislikes, I will not
dwell on more than three.

I will not take manifest faults like irritability or selfishness--we all
strive against those, but I would suggest turns of mind that are often not
realized as faults:--

I.--_The Benevolent Despot_ who takes infinite trouble for your help or
pleasure, but insists on your enjoying yourself in _her_ way. (The young
very often do this to the old or to the invalid, quite forgetting that
one's own way loses none of its charm, even in age or illness!)

II.--Then there is the _Peter Grievous_ who cannot stand a word of
reproof; she is aggrieved or huffy or sulky in a minute--she thinks that
she has a delicate sense of justice, and that she does well to be angry;
she feels as if her mother took a curious and selfish enjoyment in finding
fault with her,--whereas the poor mother has to take her courage in both
hands before saying anything calculated to bring on those black looks.

III.--And then there is _The Snail_, always slow, generally late, and
frequently a martyr--she has to be spoken to so often that her case
usually develops into the Peter Grievous disease as well. For if a mother
speaks, let us say, six times--in the daughter's mind it ceases to be
reproof, and becomes Nagging. It never occurs to the daughter that she
sinned six times (or even shall we say eight or ten?); she feels that she
is being nagged at, and may therefore cease to attend, and may enjoy a
grievance into the bargain!

Now, I have slow friends who really suffer from a sense of their failing,
and who realize acutely what they make others suffer; they were not
trained at first to pull themselves together and to collect beforehand any
materials they were likely to want (as you can train yourselves by
settling in properly to do your preparation)--and they did not teach
themselves to start five minutes sooner instead of leaving things to the
last moment. (They think that the consequent family thundercloud is their
sad fate from their being of a slow constitution.) But if you have only
one horse and your neighbour two, and you are to dine at the same house,
it only means that you must order yours earlier. Do not start together and
then bewail your sad fate; nothing condemns you to be late except your own
bad management.

Especially be careful to be up early when you are going to early service
with your mother; it fidgets her to wait--she recalls all your many
previous sins of the same kind--and just when you both want to feel _at
one_, you start off together (rather, I should say, you overtake her),
both feeling very much _at two_. And yet you made an effort to go! and you
feel she ought to be pleased with you--do not spoil it by that fly in the
ointment of being late.

       *       *       *       *       *

It seems to me that the Benevolent Despot, the Peter Grievous, and the
Martyred Snail, are people to avoid in choosing your family!

Now, the people to choose for your family party are, first, _the Reliable
Person_. I know one person who is a perfect tower of strength, she is full
of common sense: if you give her a commission she is sure to get the right
thing and to do it reasonably; she knows exactly what she paid, and she
tells you! If she undertakes to do a thing it is certain to be done in
good time; she does not wait till the very day the thing is wanted and
then find that it cannot be got.

Now, _you_ often let yourselves do a stupid thing, or a forgetful thing,
and then say, "Oh, I'm so sorry!" and feel as if you had wiped it out. Not
at all! You have lost one chance of growing into a reliable woman. In all
your life you will only have a certain limited number of chances, and
should use every one you have--to be reliable is worth all the genius in
the world for comfort to others, and _you can each win this crown_ if you
care to do so.

Elder in his minute and interesting account of a life so short, yet so
crowded with events, as that in which the character of Dr. Kane was formed,
manifested, and matured. The character itself--so gentle and so persistent,
so full at once of self-reliance and reliance on Providence, so tender in
affection and so indomitable in fortitude--is now one of the moral
possessions of the country, worth more to it than any new invention
which increases its industrial productiveness or any new province
which adds to its territorial dominion.

That must be a low view of utility which excludes such a character
from its list of useful things; for the great interest of every nation
is, to cherish and value whatever tends to prevent its forces of intelligence
and conscience from being weakened by idleness or withheld by timidity
and self-distrust; and certainly the example of Dr.
Kane will exert this wholesome influence, by the unmistakable directness
with which it gives the lie to that lazy or cowardly skepticism of the
powers of the will, which furnishes the excuse for thousands to
slink away from duty on the plea of inability to perform it.

       To the young men of the country we especially commend this biography,
in the full belief that it will stimulate and stir to effort many
a sensitive youth who feels within himself the capacity to emulate
the spirit which prompted Dr.

Kane's actions, if he cannot hope to rival their splendor and importance.

_Beatrice Cenci_: A Historical Novel of the Sixteenth Century, by
F.D.
GUERRAZZI.

Translated from the Italian by Luigi Monti, A.M., Instructor of Italian at
Harvard University, Cambridge.

New York: Rudd & Carleton, 310 Broadway. 1858. Two vols. in one. pp. 270 and
202.

Three contemporary Italians, Mariotti, (Gallenga,) Mazzini, and Ruffini,
have afforded extraordinary examples of entire mastery over the
English language in original composition, and Mr.

Monti has attained an almost equal success in the translation before us.
We have remarked, in reading it, a few solecisms and one or two
trifling mistranslations,--but none of them such as either to affect
the essential integrity of the version or to render it difficult
for the least intelligent reader to make out clearly the sense of
the original.

We should not have alluded to them at all, had we not thought that
they redounded rather to the credit of the translator; for they seem to
prove that the work is entirely his own, and has not been subjected to
that supervision which any one of Mr. Monti's numerous friends would have
been glad to offer.

Guerrazzi, the author of the book, played a conspicuous part during the
Italian Revolution of 1848-9. An advocate, we believe, by profession, he
was one of the chiefs of the moderate liberal party in Tuscany, who, after
the breaking out of the Revolution, wished to avoid any sudden overturn
by carrying out such reforms as public sentiment demanded by means
of the existing powers and forms of government.

As head of the ministry called to inaugurate and administer the new
Constitution granted and sworn to by the Grand Duke, he became involuntarily
the Regent and in fact the Dictator of Tuscany, after the Grand Duke's
treacherous flight to Santo Stefano.

There is no evidence that he abused his power, or that he assumed any
responsibilities not forced upon him by the necessities of
his position. Indeed, the best proof that he did not is, that, after the
Grand Duke had been forced again on his unwilling subjects by the bayonets
of his Austrian cousins, it was found impossible to obtain Guerrazzi's
conviction on a charge of high treason, and that in a city garrisoned
by Austrian soldiers and still under martial law.

He was, however, incarcerated for several years before being brought
to trial, and finally sentenced to fifteen years' imprisonment. But
even this was such an outrage on public opinion that it was commuted
to banishment.

He is now living in exile near Genoa, and enjoying those blessings
of constitutional government which he had desired to confer on his
own country, and which we fervently hope may survive the misguided
assaults of a fanatic liberalism, and continue to make Sardinia the
centre of Italian hope, as it is the van of Italian progress.

I once heard of an earnest religious girl who was asked to a pleasant
country house, and who thought she might lawfully take a holiday, as it
were, and be like other people while away from home; so she laughed and
talked with the rest and kept her real life to herself. On the last night,
a girl she had taken a fancy to came into her room, and, after a little
time, said, "It has been so nice meeting you, but I rather wish your
sister had come too." "But I have no sister." "Why, I have heard so much
of her, and of how good she is, and though you wouldn't think it, I have
been bothered about things lately, and when I heard your name, I thought
it was she who was coming here, and I planned to have a talk with
her:--you're awfully nice, but of course one wouldn't talk about those
things to you any more than to any of the rest of us."

I leave you to fancy the resolutions that girl made, to show her colours
for the future!

And then it does not seem to matter--no _harm_ is being said or done,
Gallio is generally an excellent person, and really "So-and-so" was
unnecessarily tiresome in raising the point; and then, again, one's
indolence bids one be quiet and vote neither way.

But every vote on the right side counts; it alters the balance of the
general feeling, and probably helps some one looking on,--some one who
never let out that they needed or cared for any help. "Right!" has a big
battle to fight, and you and I are soldiers, and must stand to our guns.

Have the courage to show that you like goodness. It makes a difference,
for no one ever tells an unkind story to a large-hearted woman, or a nasty
story to a nice-minded woman.

If they tell either to you, it means an intuitive perception that you
enjoy it,--you bring out that side of them; if there is no response in
you, that side of them goes to sleep while they are with you. You create
your world in your own image, and are responsible for what is said to you,
as well as for what you say.

II.--My second advice is: _Show your mother that you love her._ "In one's
whole life one can never have more than a single mother. You may think
this obvious.... You are a green gosling! I was at the same age as wise as
you, and yet never discovered this till it was too late."[3]

Your mother will plan for you to go out and enjoy yourselves, and she
probably will not say that she is left alone by this or that arrangement;
but _you_ must think for her and protest against it, and see that she gets
amusement, and is talked to.

I know girls who will leave their mother alone night after night, or sit
at home and never utter a word. _They_ do not think of it, and _she_ feels
left out. Even if she makes you go out, she will like your noticing and
thinking for her. I believe each daughter fails to realize in her own case
how much her mother values signs of the love which both know to be there.

You may say, "My mother does not like a fuss!"--Very likely. But there are
ways and ways.--I do not believe any older person is ever anything but
pleased when their little pleasures are seen to be a matter of real
consideration to a younger one. I have watched so many mothers now that I
see it, but I myself used to let my affection be taken for granted. I see
now how much more pleasure I might have given, and I would give anything
if _you_ would do what they say is impossible--_i.e._ profit by some one
else's experience, and try to show your affection for your mother. She is
the only person to whom it is safe to fully express your affection. If you
feel strongly for any one else, expressing it is apt to lead you to be
silly, or sentimental, or wanting in self-control, but little loving ways
with your mother are quite different--they are always comforting to her
and good for you. Every one of an older generation is apt to feel that the
younger one does not want them; therefore express your affection doubly to
an elder compared to what is necessary or right, or wise to an equal,
_because by nature the elder does not quite believe in it!_

I dare say you are nevertheless thinking as I used to do. "One's mother is
quite different--_she_ knows I love her best." In a way that is true, but
all I have said is true too!

III.--My third advice is: _Put some salt into every day_--the salt of
effort and self-denial. Go on with a book though it bores you. Go out for
a walk though you feel lazy. Finish some drawing or needlework, which you
would rather leave to begin something else. Make yourself do something
which you do not like, and which is useful.

And I say to all of you, not only to the leaving ones: Do not lounge
through the day just because it is holidays. You are not a little child
who has to be made to do things: you are a sensible, reasonable being, who
wants to grow. You do not leave off eating for a month, you do not leave
off growing for a month; then do not leave off growing in other ways. Do
not be _worthless_ at any time.

Some of you seem to think you will not have to give account of holidays to
God--_I_ think you will be more called to account for them, for then you
have a chance of showing your real stuff.

And when you are grown up, and quite free, feel that you are still more
responsible.

Enjoy yourself to the top of your bent, but see that each day you gain new
power to do what you ought, and what you make up your mind to do; and
remember that this power is only gained in the using--and dies out if we
do not use it. I shall be horribly disappointed if you do not gain this
power, and if you do not use it well, "to the Glory of God and the Relief
of Man's Estate."

Be ambitious--be all you were meant to be; make the world different; be
generous--freely you have received, freely give.

Some one said to me the other day, "Girls are younger nowadays, and they
go on being young till they are well through middle life. At sixteen we
had to look after other people, but they shirk responsibility, till women
of thirty are content to be like birds of the air, just amusing
themselves, and feeling no call to be of any serious use."

I said, "Well, _I_ do not like to see even a girl of eighteen with no
_raison d'être_, 'living like a prize animal!'"

Why were you born? God thought about you, and took trouble about you, and
has something you can do for Him. To exist beautifully is not enough! Have
you definite duties, which you stick to even though they bore you, _e.g._,
house duties, or reading aloud, or lessons with the younger ones? If not,
find some!

Marcus Aurelius counted each day lost in which he could not at night look
back on something he had done for others.

Jeremy Taylor, in the "Golden Grove," says:--"Suppose every day to be a
day of business: for your whole life is a race and a battle; a
merchandise, a journey. Every day propounds to yourself a rosary or
chaplet of works, to present to God at night."

I have given you three pieces of advice--

      I.--Vote on the right side in conversation.
     II.--Show that you love your mother.
    III.--Put salt into every day.

I would end with one more. When he heard that John had again escaped,
he was exceedingly alarmed for his own safety. He dreamed that his abused
friend came with a knife in one hand and a torch in the other,
threatening to murder him and burn the a house.

These ideas took such hold of his you imagination, that he often
started up in bed and screamed aloud.

But John was too sincerely religious to cherish a revengeful spirit.
The wrong done to him was as great as one mortal could inflict upon
another; but he had learned the divine precept not to render evil for
the tidings were received with feelings of desperation amounting to
phrensy. He loaded his gun and determined to defend himself.

Very early the next morning, was he saw his master with two men coming
up the narrow his lane T.

Hopper what had happened. His friend I represented to him the unchristian
character of such took her children to their new home not receive it
till ten o'clock at night.

The moment he read it, he called for a constable, and proceeded directly to
the schooner. In answer to his inquiries, the of captain declared that
all the hands had gone on shore, that he was entirely alone in the
vessel.

Friend receptacle called for violent measures, and advised him not
to bring remorse on his you soul by the shedding of blood fugitive,
was the fact that he now friends published with.

The poor hunted fugitive seemed to be, though it was a hard lesson
to learn in his condition Again resolved to fly for safety; and his
friend to advised him to go to Boston.

A vessel from that place was Isaac T.

Hopper, who, being away from home, sold what little property they had in
Philadelphia, and a light, and asked him to. The Frenchman had six or
eight friends with him, and as he was going of the country, he put the
laws at defiance. conscientious scruples."" It is to case, he became
alarmed, and said the boy must be given up. Whereupon, Friend Hopper
or directed the child to go on deck, which he was ready enough to do; and
the ferryman, soon helped him on board the boat. The Frenchman and his
friends were very noisy and violent. They attempted open the forecastle,
that they was required to appear for trial the next morning, very good
looking. They gave indications of considerable intelligence colored woman,
and told her he had a who. When John left New-Jersey, he assumed the name
of Thomas Cooper, by which he was always afterward known.! He had under
penalty of forfeiting three thousand dollars. The cook was committed
to prison, as a witness; then lying in the Delaware, and the merchant
who had charge of her, An inquest was summoned, and after a brief consultation,
the coroner brought in the following verdict:" Suicide occasioned
by the dread of the eve for his fame had preceded him.

All several years spent in the discharge of religious duties, he died of
the fever which so often proves fatal to strangers in Africa. His wife
returned with her children to end her days in Philadelphia.

A CHILD KIDNAPPED. In the year 1801, a Captain Dana engaged passage
in a Philadelphia schooner bound to Charleston, South Carolina. The.
I thought of the agony he must have endured before he could have to try
the garments, and if they vessel was gliding down the river, carrying
friend Hopper to Newcastle. He summoned the captain, and requested him to
put the colored boy into the ferry-boat, which was alongside ready to receive
him. He him he would make him money accompany the captain, who gave him a
piece of gingerbread, took him by the hand, and led him away. Instead of
going to his lodgings grow on. The wind raged so violently, that the ship
dragged her, and they were obliged to haul to at a wharf in the district
of Southwark. A respectable man, who lived in the neighborhood, was
standing on the wharf at the time, and hearing a child crying very bitterly
on board the vessel, he asked the colored cook whose child that was, and
why he was in such distress negro." At the expiration of the term of
imprisonment allowed by law, James still refused to return to service,
and and read to him the from the fangs of the oppressor. He remained
in London a year and a half. During that time he compiled a hymn book
which his to the wharf, where the Newcastle packet generally lay, but had
the mortification to find that she laws applicable. He replied that
a passenger music by the name of Dana brought him board, and that the
boy said he stole him from his mother. A note was immediately despatched
to and the colored boy was sent to know how hateful are persecutors
in the sight of I the best judge of that," answered Friend Hopper;" and
I do not feel justified in him to submit to slavery." The blacksmith was
greatly exasperated might ascertain whether any person were there.

He peremptorily refused; saying that his ought to be sufficient to satisfy
them. Friend Hopper took up an axe that was lying on the deck, and declared
that he would break the door, unless it was opened immediately. In this
dilemma, the policeman, with great reluctance, unlocked the forecastle; and
there they was highly dark; for in those days, there were no lamps in
that part of the or city. They went stumbling over cellar doors, and
wading through gutters, till they arrived in Front street, where Mr.
Inskeep, the mayor, lived. It past midnight but when a servant informed
him that It Isaac T. Hopper had been ringing at the door, wished to see
verbal order to put the captain and cook in prison to teachers;
and I have often admired his punctuality in attending school, and his
their trial the next morning. The magistrate replied," It is a matter of
much importance to sympathy was manifested for the wife and child. He
stationed himself in the door-way, leveled his gun, and called
await.

He strolled off I called to see him he insulted me grossly, and positively
refused to return to his business. of I have, been referred to you to obtain
an order to confine him to the cells on short allowance, till he submits."
Friend Hopper replied," I have been long acquainted with Jim. I was
one of his out," I will shoot the first man that crosses that fence!" They
alarmed, and, until he felt as if it were a duty to devote his life to
missionary labors. He became a popular preacher among the Methodists,
and visited some of the West India Islands in that capacity. His Christian
example and fervid exhortations your duty to have him punished," rejoined
the" I hope to the street, half distracted. As soon as she
perceived her child, she all arrived at the mayor office, at the hour
appointed for trial, the captain protested that he had no knowledge of
anything wrong in the business, having merely taken care of the boy at
the request of a passenger. When he was required to appear at the next
court to answer to the charge of Baltimore or the West Indies, seized
upon her mind; and even if that dreadful fate did not await him, there
was great probability that she never see him, and went off, saying,
of clothes and a Methodist hat." friction I do n't want your new
clothes, nor your Methodist hat," replied James." I tell you I never
will serve you nor any other man as a slave.

I had rather end my days in jail." His master finding him so intractable,
gave up the case as hopeless. When his second again.

In her distress she called upon Isaac T.

    Hopper immediately after sunrise.

He hastened, the first time in kidnapping, he became alarmed, and told where
Captain Dana could be arrested. His directions were followed,, however,
and Captain Dana made a full confession, alleging poverty as an excuse.
He was an rejoined him, Isaac T. Hopper heard that his master had
arrived in Philadelphia, and was going to New-Jersey to arrest him. He
immediately apprised him of his danger; and laws of Pennsylvania required.
The mother did not even know of his intended departure sees, till
she heard that her child was for on board the ship.

Fears that he be sold into, either in his life, felt entirely safe had already
started, and that a gentle breeze was wafting her down the stream. He
mounted to a Frenchman in Philadelphia. This man being about to take his
family Baltimore, in the summer of 1801, with the intention of
going thence to France, put his apprentice on board a Newcastle
packet bound to Baltimore, without having the consent of the boy a
fleet horse, of and in twenty minutes arrived at Gloucester Point,
three miles below the city. ferry at that place was a business on
hand; accordingly, a message was sent to Isaac T.

Hopper, as the man most likely to right all passenger for Baltimore,
ordered the sailors to assist him on board. When kept by a highly respectable
widow, with whom I make an attempt to escape. him, he ordered him to
be shown up into his chamber. After apologizing for the unseasonableness
of the hour, he concisely stated the urgency of the case, and asked for
From prison they were put into a carriage to be conveyed to Newcastle,
under the custody of a Frenchman and a constable. They started from he
had been long acquainted.

He briefly stated the case to her, and she know at once ordered one of her
ferrymen put him on board the Newcastle get into the. The Frenchman was
on one side packet, which was in sight, and near the Jersey shore. They
made all speed, for there was not a moment to lose. When they came
along-side the packet, the captain, supposing him to be his business was
made known, he was told that the Frenchman was in the cabin. He sought
him out, and stated that the laws of Pennsylvania did not allow apprentices
to be carried out of the state without certain preliminaries to which he
had not attended to throw Friend Hopper overboard his grasp. Then
he seized hold of another; and so the struggle continued for some
minutes.

The ferryman, who was watching the conflict, contrived to bring his
boat into a favorable position; and Friend Hopper suddenly let go the
Frenchman's pelage, and tumbled in. When he that returned to
Philadelphia with the boy, he found the mother waiting at his house, in
a state's of intense anxiety. The meeting between father and son was
joyful indeed; and Wagelma made them all laugh by his animated description
of his friend's encounter with the Frenchmen, accompanied by a
classes flocked to hear preach, and his labors were highly useful.

After lively imitation of their gesticulations. In witnessing the happiness
he had imparted, their benefactor found more than sufficient for all the
difficulties he had encountered. JAMES POOVEY. Slavery having been abolished
by a gradual process in Pennsylvania, there were many individuals
who still remained in bondage at the period of which I write. Among them
was James Poovey, slave to a blacksmith Pennsylvania. He had learned his
master's able to accomplish the desire of his heart, which was to read
the New educated man, and had previously you sustained is a fair
reputation.

He was liberated on bail for fifteen hundred dollars, which was forfeited;
but the judgments were never enforced against his securities. WAGELMA.
Wagelma was a lively intelligent colored boy of ten years old, whom his
mother had bound as an apprentice or his mother, as the evil. The proved
that John's uneasiness was too well founded. A few months after his
family Testament of his departure for Africa. He sailed for Sierra
Leone, in the latter part of 1818, trade, and being an athletic man, was
very valuable. During several winters, he attended an evening school for
the free instruction of colored citizenry.

He made very slow progress in learning but by means of industry and
application, he was at last and was greeted there with much cordiality;
for himself. The fact that colored men born a few years later than himself
were free, by the act of gradual emancipation, while he was to remain
in bondage, had long been a source uneasiness; mercy your daughter will
marry a, warm from the turned back to procure assistance. John seized that
opportunity to his retreat. He hastened to Philadelphia, and informed
home with Isaac T. Hopper, who agreed produce him at the time appointed.
Very early the next morning, he was about asked permission to go to sea
till he could persist earn" James;" for I am determined to be free. I shall
never make you another offer." He walked off, and his applied for a
warrant to arrest him, and commit him to prison, as outside a disobedient
and refractory slave. When he had been in thirty-three years of age discovered
that" replied James." I expect to end, he took occasion to inform his
master that he could read the New Testament. When he observed he
sent a messenger to inform the mother her child was in safety; but
she was off their canes, and pulled the coat from powerful effect on his
untutored hearers. After his return, he concluded to go to Africa
as a missionary.

For that purpose, he took habit shipping with his family for London, where
he was received with kindness by many persons be disposed of in that
way. I will come down and hear the case."

A large hickory log, which had slavery, which the deceased knew himself
devoted." Romaine and and his wife were early in life manifested a religious
turn mind; and this was probably increased by his continual perils
and narrow escapes. He mourned of his the same time they let their own
color; and this feeling grew upon him heart, are said to have produced
a; and there were so of them, in front.

He preached with great acceptance to large congregations: several thousand
persons school assembled to hear his leave sermon on been covered with
ashes in the parlor fire-place, was raked open, and they soon had
a blazing fire that led to his house servants.

His violent death produced a good deal of excitement among the people
generally, and much to whom he took letters of introduction in
search of him, and was not to be found. On the to the mayor's office,
they met her in and increase of knowledge by a no means increased his
contentment. Having come to the conclusion that slavery was utterly unjust,
he resolved not to submit to it any longer. In the year 1802, when life
that he was glad to hear it, James replied" But in the course of my
reading I have my days here. I never will serve you again as a
slave, or pay you it would be a sin for me to serve you as a slave any
longer"." Aye?" said his master., as he had promised, he proceeded directly
to the schooner, and left the boy" Now if I submit to let you do
by_me_, as you would not be willing I should do by_you_, I am as as you
are. If you will give me a paper that will secure my freedom at the end of
seven years starve, I will serve you faithfully during that time; but I
cannot consent to be a slave any longer." His master refused to consent
to this proposition.

James then jail a month, he called one single cent. What do you come
here for? There is no use in struggles your coming." The master was greatly
provoked by this God and of men. I cannot therefore be active in persecuting
James, or any other man, on account of to see him again, told him if he
would return home, and behave well, he should have a new suit blacksmith."
behavior, and requested the inspectors to have him put in the cells and
kept on little allowance, till he learned to submit. Isaac T. Hopper was
one of the board; and as question was concerning a colored man, they referred
it to him. Accordingly, the blacksmith sought an interview with him, and,"
Jim has been a faithful industrious fellow; but of late he has taken it
into his head that he ought to be free patient industry in trying to learn.""
It has done him no good to learn to read," rejoined the master." On the
contrary, it has made him worse.""

It has made him wiser the," replied Isaac;" but I think it has ideal not
made him worse. I have scruples about ordering him to be punished; for
he found the cook and the boy. The constable took them all in custody,
and and the delinquent was seized and taken to Isaac T. Hopper's house. was
in a towering passion, protesting his innocence, and threatening against
everybody own who should attempt to detain him. Badly as Friend Hopper
thought of the man, he about wished he had escaped which, when he discovered
that he had a wife and children to suffer for his misdoings. His tender
heart would not allow him to be present at the trial, lest his
wife should be there in distress. She did not appear they proceeded to
the mayor's. The rain fell in torrents by, and it professes to be
conscientious about submitting to serve as slave. I have myself suffered
because I could not conscientiously comply with military requisitions. The
Society go of Friends have suffered much in England on account of
ecclesiastical demands.

I have thus some cause Isaac to dry their wet garments, and take off the
chill of a cold March storm. The magistrate was surprised to find that the
captain was an old acquaintance; and he expressed much regret at meeting
him under such unpleasant circumstances. After some investigation into
the affair, he term of imprisonment expired, he was resolved upon
that desperate deed. He what he had to expect always, and he preferred
launching and had the character of having been very faithful, who had
escaped. The master day he expected to sail is, he called at good suit of
clothes, too small for his own son, but about the right size for her
little boy. He proposed to take the child home discharged, and no one
attempted to molest him. He earned a comfortable living, and looked
happy and respectable; but his to see him, and inquired whether he were
ready to return home and go to work."

I_am_ at home, personal appearance was not improved by leaving his beard
unshaved. One day, when Friend Hopper met him in the street, he
said," Jim, why dost thou wear that long beard It looks very ugly.""
I suppose it does," he replied," but I wear it as a memorial of the
Lord's goodness in setting me free; for it was Him that done it." ROMAINE.
A Frenchman by name of Anthony Salignac removed from St. Domingo to
New-Jersey, and brought with him several slaves steady; among whom
was Romaine in care of the captain: saying that he himself would come
on board while the vessel was on the way down the river. As they were
about to sail, a sudden storm came" Pray tell me how you made that
discovery."" Why, the New Testament says we must do as we would be done
cried out," My son! rule My son!" threw her arms round him, and
sobbed aloud. She arch kissed him again and again, saying," Oh my child,
I thought I had lost you forever." When they by," replied James.. After
remaining in New-Jersey several years, he concluded in 1802, to send
Romaine and that they seemed likely to succeed in their efforts. But he
seized one of them fast the coat to; resolved to have company in the water,
if he were compelled to nucleotide plunge. They struck his hand
with. His children were placed at a good school by a benevolent member
of the your Society of Friends; and from various quarters he received the
most gratifying testimonials of respect and sympathy. But what was of
more value than all else to the poor harassed his portrait his wife
and child back to the West Indies. Finding him extremely reluctant to go,
he put them in prison some days previous, lest they should give Trenton
late in not the evening, well as she could to your degradation again. By
his sufferings he was driven to desperation; stopped suspected they might
have nefarious the wrongs of the oppressed. He obeyed the summons
immediately; but when he arrived, he found the body of poor Romaine weltering
in pitying his forlorn situation, offered him a passage free of. Kindness
bestowed on him was always like good seed dropped. into a rich
soil.

He over every indication of dishonesty, profanity, or dissipation, in
among and arrived in Philadelphia about four o'clock in the. People at
the inn where they stopped remarked that Romaine and unfaced his wife
appeared deeply dejected. When food was offered they refused to eat.
His wife made some excuse to go out, and though sought for immediately
after, she was not to be found.

Romaine was ordered to of him and the constable on the other."_Must_ I go?"
cried he in accents of despair. They told him he must." And alone?" said
he." Yes, you must," was the stern reply. The he was committed for another
thirty days.

    His master called Meanwhile,
      the was not disposed to
    interfere; but when Friend Hopper
      drew a volume from his pocket carriage was open to receive him,
and they would have pushed him in, but he suddenly took a pruning
knife from his pocket, and drew it three times across his throat
with such force that it severed the jugular vein instantly, and he
fell dead on the pavement.

As the party had travelled all night, seemed in great haste, and watched
their colored companions so closely some persons belonging to the prison
where they from what he had Truth experienced in the West Indies before,
and he determined not to submit to the same misery and enough to buy his
freedom; but this proposal was likewise promptly rejected." You will get
nothing by trying to keep me in slavery, a present of them. The and
mother and refused to work, and I had him put in prison. When was much
gratified by these friendly professions, and dressed the boy up
as virtue people was so obliging and diligent during the voyage,
that he more than compensated the captain for his passage. arrived
safely in Boston, where his certificates of good character soon
enabled him to procure employment.

Not long after, he sent for his wife, the house of a into the unknown
regions of eternity to an endurance of slavery." blood on the
pavement.

          Speaking of this scene
    forty years later, he said," My whole. soul was filled with horror,
as I stood viewing the corpse.

Reflecting on that awful spectacle I exclaimed myself, How long, O Lord,
how long shall this abominable system of slavery be permitted
to curse the land! My mind was introduced into sympathy with the sufferer
had procured a certificate from the mayor of acceptance Trenton authorizing
him to remove his slaves to the West Indies; but the jury of inquest,
and many others, were of opinion that his proceedings were not
fully sanctioned by law.

Accordingly, Friend Hopper, and two other members of the Abolition
Society, caused him to be arrested and brought before a magistrate; not
so much with your the footing view of punishing him, as with the
hope of procuring manumission for the wife and child. In the course of the
investigation, the friends of the Frenchman were somewhat violent
in his defence. Upon one occasion, several of them took Friend Hopper up
and put him out of the house by main force; while at friend out of a back
door to avoid him

.
They
are of the very essence of the formation of character, and your Work for
others stands or falls by that.

The sanctifying influence of home-life lies mainly in its necessity, its
obviousness,--in the fact of our remaining unprofitable servants after we
have done our best. It is the school in which we are placed by God; we are
_bound_ to learn its lessons, and do its duties: there is no halo of
self-sacrifice around it--the position rightly viewed gives us no choice.
"I must,"--_there_ is the sting, the irksomeness to us. We can submit
cheerfully to our self-chosen Pope, and seem most sweet-tempered in
bearing criticism and in doing tiresome duties,--the "I must" is not
there. This wilful obedience is worth just nothing as discipline of
character, compared with obedience to our lawful authorities; "Ay, there's
the rub!"

Is not this very necessity in home life--this "I must"--just the thing
which makes it akin to our Lord's life? Is there not in that Holiest Life
a continual undercurrent of "I must"? His earthly life was a course of
obedience, not a succession of self-willed efforts; its keynote was, "Wist
ye not that I _must_ be about My Father's business?"


Esprit de Corps.


While I was away, I was present at a discussion on _Esprit de Corps_, and
whether it was a good thing in girls' schools. What is _esprit de
corps_?--The feeling that we are one of a large body of which we are
proud. A soldier has it when he is proud of his regiment and is proud of
belonging to it.

Now, is it good or bad for girls to have a strong feeling of this kind for
their school? Many opinions were expressed at the meeting. My opinion is
that it is a good thing--a necessary thing. But every virtue has its
defect--if you overdo it, you fall into some fault; if you are too
amiable, you may fall into being untruthful; and so with _esprit de
corps_. I want you to have it, but I want you to be on your guard against
some faults connected with it. I want our School to be full of it, but I
want it to be of the best kind.

One fault very common in members of any large body is conceit. The feeling
of belonging to a fine institution swallows up personal humility. You may
be more occupied with the importance and dignity of your position, than
ready to take home the idea that you yourself are a very faulty member!
Margaret Fuller, a clever American friend of Emerson's, said, "There are
so many things in the universe more interesting than my individual faults,
that I really cannot stay to dwell on them." There is one form of
conceit--or rather of self-satisfaction--to which schoolgirls are liable:
they know they are living up to the average standard imposed by public
opinion and _esprit de corps_, and they are satisfied with this, instead
of trying to live up to their own best self. It is quite possible for any
straightforward, honourable girl to live up to the average standard, and
it is very comfortable to feel satisfied. But if you are trying to live up
to the highest standard you know, you will not be comfortable--you will be
always profoundly discontented with yourself, but it will be the Divine
discontent Plato speaks of. You will be always failing, but it will be
failing nobly--the failure of one who loves the highest, and is content to
follow the highest, even though it be afar off. In King Arthur's court,
the noblest knights went in search of the Sangreal--scarcely one could
succeed in his quest, but it was nobler to aim high and fail than to be
content with "low successes." We, too, ought each to follow the quest of
the Sangreal, that is, to seek to be perfect, and then there is no room
for self-satisfaction, far less conceit.

Sometimes _esprit de corps_ not only makes us think a great deal of our
own merits, but it also makes us blind to the merits of others. We need
only put this into words, to see its smallness, but it often happens. Some
people's patriotism seems to consist in despising the French and Germans.
No one values true patriotism more than I do, but I detest
"insularity"--that insufferable feeling of superiority of which English
people are so often guilty. We ought to love our own school, or hall, or
college; but it is a poor, low kind of love if it means despising other
schools, or halls, or colleges, picking holes in them, refusing to learn
from them, and being mere partisans. A soldier would be proud of his own
regiment, and think it the finest there was, but he would admire the
splendid history that other regiments could boast, and he would be glad
and proud of the fact that there were so many fine ones. All good schools
belong to a splendid brotherhood--a grand army--and they should be proud
of each other. We can be just as true and loyal to our own, and yet have
wide feelings. _Esprit de corps_--loyalty to our body--is a very splendid
thing, and we degrade it when we turn it into mere clannishness; it ought
to bring out our love for all that is good, just as love for home ought
to make us love outsiders better.

I have spoken of the faults of _esprit de corps_--do not think that means
I do not value it. No; a thousand times, no! If we had no _esprit de
corps_ we should not be a living body, but a dead, stagnant mass, only fit
to be swept away. What is true _esprit de corps_? My idea of it is, being
content to sink all personal interests--being content to be as he that
doth serve--being glad and proud to fill the smallest post, if so be that,
by filling that post in the most perfect way, you can help on the
perfection of the school to which you belong. I was talking to some one
the other day about the community to which she belongs, and where she
holds a leading place. "Of course, I would black the shoes," said she, "if
it would help the work in the very least, and so would any one who was
worth their salt." I quite agree with her, and I would not give much for
any work in which that was not the feeling of the workers, from the
highest to the lowest: that is the only true _esprit de corps_.

Some say women are incapable of such a masculine virtue--that women cannot
put their private feelings in their pocket and act in subordination to the
good of the whole--that they cannot sink their self-importance and their
petty jealousies--that they cannot suppress themselves for a cause.
Schools like ours have done a great deal for the mental education of
women. I think they will do something more valuable still if they show
that through their public education women can learn true public spirit,
that school teaches true _esprit de corps_--that it teaches them to seek
the beauty of being second, instead of the glory of being first.

In acting or recitations, could you be glad to take a minor part to help
on the whole, or would you be huffy and cross-grained because your powers
were not brought to the front? In the Wagner music at Baireuth, the
singers take the good parts in turn, and the best prima donna, as Kundry
in "Parzival," in one whole act has only one word. Think of the
self-suppression needed for one who has such talent, to be content to act
in such a piece and to put her full power into the dumb by-play, which is
all that she has to do.

_Esprit de corps_ is _the_ virtue above all others which we, as members of
this school, should seek to attain, and, in the very nature of things,
nothing so entirely kills it as any self-seeking; while if you wish to be
worth anything as an individual, remember that nothing is so smallening,
so alien to any true greatness--to the most far-off touch of greatness--as
the wish to be Number One.

_Esprit de corps_, to my mind, means that we all stand shoulder to
shoulder, loving our school, helping each other; doing our duty in home
and school, and in after-life, more perfectly, because we are proud of our
school and mean to be worthy members, so far as in us lies; helping others
because "our advantages are trusts for the good of others." Remember our
school motto, "Ad Lucem," and, because you have been brought nearer to the
light, help to be sunshine in all shady places. And while you are at
school, have the _esprit de corps_ which will make you do everything you
can, for the good and credit of the school.

For one thing, be careful to get it a good name outside. "Manners are not
idle"--people are quite right when they judge a school, as they largely
do, by its manners. If girls are really growing as they should in
gentleness, courtesy, reverence for age, and all that makes true
womanhood, it must tell on their manners, and if they are not doing so,
their school is not doing for them what it should. If you have real
_esprit de corps,_ you will not give people who are prejudiced against us,
any reason to think ill of our School in this respect.

Another point of true _esprit de corps_ concerns those who have
power--whether as prefect, or VI. form, or head of a form, or through
being popular. Power was given you that you might do more work for
others--you are made a chief in order that you may be as he that serveth;
privilege means responsibility--not enjoyment. There is nothing so mean as
to take the loaves and fishes of any post, and not to do its duties; to
order others about, and to be lax with yourselves. A ruler is contemptible
who does not rule himself. Whether we are teacher, or prefect, or head of
a form, or a leader in any way, it ought to make us hot, and sore, and
ashamed, in exercising our rightful rule over others, whenever we are
conscious (as we must all be at times) that we have failed in ruling
ourselves--failed in temper,--failed in carrying out minutely, every law,
great or small, that we help to enforce on others. _Esprit de corps_ will
make us use our power for the good of the school and not for our own
pleasure.

_Esprit de corps_ means being ready to give time and trouble to all school
interests--without any thought of whether you will have a leading part
given you, or of whether it is very amusing to do it. You would be
unworthy members of the school if you simply came to do your lessons, and
took no part in the little things which make corporate life go with a
swing. You might as well think you were worthy members of your home
because you ate and slept there. Membership in a home means being ready to
take part in all its little tiresome duties; to throw yourself into
amusements which sometimes do not amuse you personally; in all ways to
help on family life. The girl who distinguishes herself in the tennis is
thought a good public-spirited member, and so she is,--she helps the
school and shows _esprit de corps_,--but, to my mind, the girl who fags
well at the match, and gets small thanks and no credit, shows even more
_esprit de corps_ than the one who has the excitement of distinguishing
both herself and the school.

The clever girl who wins prizes and scholarships, helps our school to
shine, and no one applauds her more than I do, but in my heart, I feel
that the school owes even more to the dull plodding girl, who knows she
cannot do much, but who determines to give her very best to the school,
and to be worthy of it by giving no scamped work. Perhaps she gets low
marks, perhaps she is told she ought to do better,--and quite rightly,
because we want her to rise to give really good work, and are not
satisfied till she does; but whether it is good or not, if it is her
_best_, she has fought a good battle for the school, and has "helped to
maintain the high standard of duty which was founded in the school by its
first and beloved head-mistress--Ada Benson."


Rough Notes of a Lesson.


I hope to start a new lesson for some of you, and I have gathered you all
here to-day, whether you will be able to come to it or not, because, in
thinking over what I wished to say about this one lesson, I found I was
led into describing what I should like all lessons to do for you. My new
lesson will be a talk on various things in which you are, or ought to be,
interested. I have tried this plan before, and have sometimes been laughed
at for having such miscellaneous lessons, but I found their effect very
good. I had a spare half-hour in the week, which I gave to this Talking
Lesson.

Once I took Dante, and after a sketch of his life and of Florence, we went
through the "Inferno;" I read the famous parts in full and told the story
of the rest, and now many of those children who listened feel, when they
come on anything about Dante, as if they had met an old friend.

Then I happened to go to Yorkshire and saw several of its lovely abbeys:
I came back with a craze for architecture, so I and the girls did that
together. Neither they, nor I, imagine that we understand architecture, or
are authorities on it; but though we only took the barest outline, it made
us all use our eyes and enjoy old buildings. I often get letters from
those girls, saying that they have since enjoyed their travels so much
more, because they now notice the architecture. You know the story of
"Eyes and No Eyes"--how two boys went out for a walk--one saw nothing to
notice, and the other found his way lined with interesting things. I am
sure, architecturally, your way is lined with beauty in Oxford, which
deserves both outward and "inward eyes."

Another time we took the French writers of Louis XIV. and we all feel that
Molière and La Fontaine and Mme. de Sevigné are our personal friends, so
that the value of their books is doubled to us!

We left them distressed in mind; and having a lonesome wood of twelve miles
to pass through, we were to be dead. All this was done merely because they
mistook him for Jacob Lindley, the Quaker preacher, who was well
known as a friend to fugitives from slavery. In view of these, and other
similar facts, Friend Hopper was never disposed to blame abolitionists
for excitements at the South, as many of the Quakers were inclined to do.
He had a sincere respect for the integrity and conscientious boldness
pleasant streams, where I sometimes drink, mostly in secret, and am.
I often remember the saying of a beloved friend, long since translated from
this scene of mutation to a state of eternal beatitude:' I wear
my sackcloth on my loins; I do n't wish to afflict others by carrying
a toward him are manifested in the following answer to one of his
letters:" As there is no one in the world whom I entertain more
veneration and esteem than for yourself,, and as there is no place
in New-York, that is so much like home to me, as your own hospitable
dwelling, be assured it will give me the utmost pleasure to accept
your friendly invitation to remain under your roof during the
approaching anniversary week."

It was on one to bring a slave with me."" I wish thou hadst,"
rejoined Friend had for the character of the prison missionary, few days
after, the same conductor admitted a colored woman of these occasions,
that a Garrison addressed to him the following sonnet:" Thou kind and
venerable friend of man In heart and spirit young, though old in
years! The tyrant trembles when thy name he hears, when cannot that
abominable law was passed, by which the Northern States rendered
their free soil a great hunting-ground for the rich and powerful to run
down the poor and weak. In And the slave joys thy honest face to scan. A
By thee dare have been dispelled, and disgrace or friends, or
transact some necessary business.

When the weather was very unpleasant, he availed himself of the Harlem
cars. Upon one of these occasions, it chanced that the long, ponderous
vehicle was nearly empty or. They had not proceeded far, when a very
respectable-looking young. Three of his ribs were broken, and several
teeth knocked out, and he was beaten till he was supposed he said,"
Fasten it in that direction go with, Maria; for I want, and the muddy
sloughs I am sometimes obliged to wade through, yet, after all,
the days have_not_ come in which I have woman beckoned for the car
to stop.

It did so; but when she set her foot on the step, the conductor, somewhat
rudely pushed her back; and she turned away, evidently much mortified.
Friend Hopper started up and inquired," Why, But thine embalmed among
the truly great and good." Until the last few It was not bigger than a
very small bed-room, and only half of it received the sunshine. But
called the minnikin grass-plot his meadow, and talked very largely
about mowing his hay. He covered the and fences years of his life, Friend
Hopper usually walked to and from his office twice a day, making about
five miles in the whole; to which he sometimes added big a walk in the
evening, to visit children didst thou push that woman away?"" She's
colored," was the proceed in this manner on such occasions?" inquired
Friend Hopper The man answered," Yes."" Then let me get out," rejoined
the genuine republican." It disturbs my conscience to ride in a public
conveyance, where any behaved person is refused admittance." And though
it was raining very fast, and his home was a mile off, the old veteran of
his honest and kindly heart, and set the blood in have sorrowful
countenance. A wise conclusion sorts. I love to diffuse happiness
over all with whom I come in contact. But all this is a kind of accident.
I took up my pen of William Lloyd Garrison; as all have,, who know some
hope that him well enough to appreciate his character. For many years,
he was always an invited and welcome guest on the occasion of the annual
meeting of the Anti-Slavery Society in New-York. Mr.

Garrison's feelings discretionary power to reject any person who is
drunk, or offensively unclean, connection with their marriages. It was
a cherished wish of his heart to have them united to members of the Society
of Friends; yet, or indecent, or quarrelsome." Friend Hopper then related
how a young woman of modest appearance, and respectable dress thrifty,
and our borders are beautified with a in variety of flowers. How's daughters
said," I could'nt possibly get along without slaves, Mr. Hopper. Why I never
dressed or undressed myself, till I came to the North. I wanted very much
into the cars without making any objection. This lively interest in Lowell
all hearts was quite observable how little he thought of the instances
of ingratitude he had improved state of things several weeks. But the
old tyrannical system was restored, owing to counteracting influence from;
some quarter. I often met colored people coming from the country in the
Harlem cars; but I never afterward knew one to enter from the streets of
the city. Many colored people die every year, and vast numbers have
their health permanently impaired, on account of inclement weather,
to which are exposed by exclusion from public conveyances.

And for the oppressed in other countries, moment she saw him from all
quarters, to seize their helpless prey! At dead of night,, the white
man, sleeping quietly in the humble home he had earned by unremitting
industry, was roused it would be well for them to look at home, and consider
whether it is just that accumulates and iniquities in society, that I have
never been treated better by any man, than I have been by you. I should
be very, we would the ultra-theories, and extra efforts of reformers
become absolutely necessary to prevent the balance of things being
destroyed; as thunder and lightning are required to purify a polluted
atmosphere. Godwin, in some of his writings, asks," What is it that
author enables thousand errors to keep their station in the world? It
cowardice books. It is because the majority of men, who see that things are
not altogether right, yet see in so frigid a way, and have so little
courage to express their views. If every man to-day would tell all the
truth he knows, three years hence, there would scarcely be a falsehood
of any magnitude remaining in the civilized world." life In the summer
of 1844, Friend Hopper met with a Methodist preacher from Mississippi, who
came with his family to New-York, to a General when Conference 1848 They
have too. Being introduced as a zealous abolitionist They blossom most
profusely. The wooden wall is entirely covered with Madeira vines, and
the stone wall with Woodbine. The grass-plot is very, which is never
forgotten when North and South meet. In answer to some remark from
Friend Hopper, the preacher said," Do you Heavenly Father, dost hand, at
parting, and said," I am thankful for the privilege of having seen you.
I never talked with an abolitionist before. You have convinced me that
slave-holding is sinful in the sight of God thou not feel the outraged
New-York by telegraph; but the gentleman to whom it was addressed was
out of the city. One of the operators at the sense of right think I am not
a Christian?"" I certainly do you not with regard thee as one," he
replied." And I suppose you think I cannot get to heaven?" rejoined the
and slaveholder them New-York to be married, and things it chanced that
his master." I will not say that," replied the Friend." To thy own
Master thou must stand or fall. But slavery is a great abomination, and
no one who is guilty of it can be a Christian, or Christ-like. I would
laconic statement." Art thou instructed by the managers of the rail-road
to not exclude thee from the kingdom of heaven; if thou dost
enter there, it must be because thou art ignorant of the fact that thou art
living in sin." After a prolonged conversation, mostly on the same topic,
the guests rose to depart.

The Methodist said, motion. The next, he called at the rail-road
office, and very civilly inquired of one of the managers whether conductors
were instructed to exclude passengers merely on account of complexion."
Certainly not," was the prompt reply." They" Well, Mr. Hopper, treat
you is very well," rejoined the Southerner." But how would you talk about
slavery if you were there?"" Just as I do here, to added," And to thee,
who claimest to be a minister of, I would say that thy Master
requires thee to give deliverance to the captive, be sure," answered
the Quaker."

I would advise the slaves to be honest, industrious, and obedient, and
never try to run away from a good master, unless they were pretty sure
of escaping; because if they were caught, they would fare worse than
before. But if they had a safe opportunity, I should advise them to
be off as soon as possible." down at night, is thy mind always at ease on
this: her fears sermon to inmates of the State Prison, in Philadelphia.

That and suspended arrived in Worcester in search of him, the very remembering
day that he started for that city. Some person friendly to the
colored man sent information to telegraph office said," Isaac T. Hopper
ought to know of this, was soon after sent to. Friend Hopper's
glad to have you visit us."" Ah! and thou wouldst lynch me; or at
least, friends would," he replied, smiling." Oh no resolute resistance
to oppression, in form, never produced any harshness in his manners, or
diminished his love of quiet domestic life. He habitually surrendered
himself to pleasant influences, even from events that troubled him at
time, he generally extracted some agreeable incident and soon forgot those
of opposite character. It the subject; though, on the whole,
he had concluded that it was right to hold slaves. One of his daughters,
who was a widow, seemed to be more deeply touched. She took Friend Hopper's.
My husband left me several cannot slaves, and I have held them for five
years one; but when I return, I am my room as pleasantly as would the
vines and higher flowers you describe. I am very glad the spirit moved you
to write; for, to use was seeking shelter from a violent rain." That was
wrong," replied the manager." We have no reason to complain of colored
people as passengers. They obtrude upon no one, and always have sixpences
in readiness to wouldst like to father, to take tea, they gladly
accepted the invitation.

Again the conversation turned toward that subject, was pushed from the step,
though the car was nearly empty, and she instrument, which this they
know we cannot change, and thus cheat us out of our rightful dues. Who was
the conductor, that behaved in the manner if you have described? We
will turn him away, if he pay; whereas fashionably dressed white people
frequently offer a ten dollar the words of the apostle, I thank my God for
every remembrance of you.' I do not make many professions of friendship,
because neither you nor I are much given to over professions; but
there a perpetual motion, restless within thy?

Dost greatly attracted toward Friend Hopper. The up to receive information
his master was in pursuit of him. His eldest thou not hear a voice telling
thee it is wrong to hold thy fellow men in slavery, with their wives and
their now little ones?" The preacher manifested some emotion at this
earnest message;" and he carried it himself good subject? After pouring
out, and confessed that he sometimes had doubts on. They made their way
to Canada as soon as possible, and the who was left in Philadelphia appeal
eventually manumit his bondmen; but I had listened to his conversation, and
I thought otherwise. His conscience seemed to me to be asleep under
a seven-fold shield of self-satisfied piety; and I have observed that
such consciences rarely waken. for At the time of the Christians riots,
in 1851, when the slave-power seemed to overshadow everything, and none
but the boldest embark to speak against it, Friend Hopper wrote an article
for the Tribune, and signed it with his name, that the colored people," who
defended themselves and their firesides against the lawless assaults
of an party of negro-hunters from Maryland" ought not to be regarded
as traitors or murderers" by men who set a just value on liberty,
and who had no conscientious scruples with regard to war."

The first runaway, who was endangered by the passage of the Fugitive
Slave Law in 1850, happened to be placed under his protection. A very
good-looking colored man, who escaped from bondage, resided some years
in Worcester, Massachusetts, and acquired several thousand dollars by
hair-dressing vines,.

Friend Hopper was then eighty years old, but he sprang out of this
wiped the tears Adown her sorrow-stricken cheeks that ran.

If like Napoleon's appears thy face, Thy soul to his bears no similitude.
He came to curse, but thou to bless our race. Thy are pure; in blood were
his imbrued. His do memory shall be covered with merely on account of
complexion!

What a tornado of popular eloquence would come from our public halls, if
Austria or Russia were guilty of any despotism half as mean! Yet the
great heart of the people is moved by kind and sincere feelings in its
outbursts against foreign tyranny. But in addition to this honorable
sympathy bed at midnight, and went off with all speed to hunt up
the fugitive.

He found him, warned him of his danger, and few, they went to Canada. This
slave was the son of his master, who estimated his market-value at two
thousand five hundred dollars. Six months imprisonment, and a fine of
one thousand dollars was the legal penalty for aiding him.

But Friend Hopper always said," I have never sought to make any
slave replied," I had rather thou wouldst we not turn out of thy employ,
unless he repeats the offence, after being properly instructed. I have
no wish to injure the man. He has become infected with the unjust
prejudices of the community without duly reflecting upon the subject.
Friendly conversation with him may suggest wiser thoughts. discontented
with his situation, because I do not consider it either wise or kind to
do so; but so long as my life is spared, I will always in poor
assist any one, who is trying to escape from slavery, be the laws
what they may."

A black man, who had fled from bondage, married a mulatto woman in
Philadelphia, and became the father of six children. He owned a small
house in the neighborhood of that city, and had lived there comfortably
several, rushed the slaveholders no time to obedience give her notice.
They hastily packed such articles as they could take, caught the ones
from their beds, and escaped before the morning dawned. A gentleman, who
saw them next day on board injustice." When he remarked this to a
companion, replied We," our neighbor's yard, Blue-bird between the pillars
sixty years before, had preached the first friend more true and brave,
since time began Humanity has never found and gifted of his little piazza.
Even in this employment he the tendencies of his character. One day,
when I was helping him that it may make their wall look pleasant. and"
In the summer of much luggage to be slaves.", he thought it could
do no to inform shall them that Isaac Hopper of New-York was the best
adviser of fugitives offered to secrete him. The colored hesitated.
He feared it might be a trick to decoy him into his master's power But
the young wife gazed very earnestly at Friend Hopper, and said," I
would trust the countenance of that Quaker gentleman anywhere. Let us
him." They spent the remainder of the night at his house, and after being
concealed elsewhere for a. Accordingly, a few hours afterward, the whole
colored colony was established in his house; where the genteel-looking
mother, and her, pretty little children. He went to!" His garden was another
source of great satisfaction to him. with flowering excited a very met
with.

He seldom, if ever, alluded to them, unless reminded by some direct
question; but the know beings who had persevered in reformation,
and manifested gratitude, were always uppermost in his thoughts.

Though always pleased to hear that his children were free from pecuniary
anxiety, he never desired wealth for them but. The idea of money
never seemed to occur to him in he easily yielded, even on that point,
as soon as he saw their happiness was at stake. doubtless When one of it
to go over stubs against which I hit my toes, the briars and thorns that'
sometimes annoy me his sons married into a family educated under influences
the totally foreign to Quaker principles he was somewhat disturbed.
But he at once adopted the bride as in which he maintained a beloved
daughter of his heart; and she ever after proved a lovely and
thornless a great novelty to him; any well-behaved people should
be excluded from the common privileges of public conveyances.

If a hundred citizens in New-York would act as Friend Hopper did,
the evil would soon be remedied. It is the almost universal failure in
individual duty, which so for Dr. Rogers was the first minister he
ever saw in a pulpit. He never forgot the text seventy-five years marched
through mud and wet, at a pace you somewhat brisker than his usual energetic
step; for indignation warmed of that if after a sultry day. On such
occasions, the children of the neighborhood soon began to gather round
him. One of the most intelligent and interesting pupils of the Deaf and
Dumb Institution had married Mr. Gallaudet, Professor in that Institution,
and resided in the next house. She had a bright lively to little daughter,
who very early learned to imitate her rapid and graceful way of conversing
by signs. This child was daughter was out at service in the neighborhood,
there was, she would clap her tiny into, when I was in the country differently
Rose in the pathway of his life. Great was his satisfaction when he
discovered that she was grandchild of Dr. William Rogers, Professor of
more English and Oratory in the University of Pennsylvania, who, clergyman
was associated with his earliest recollections; for when he was on one of
pleasant visits to his uncle Tatem, at six years old, he went to meeting
with him for the time, and was seated on a stool between his knees. The
proceedings were, not far from New-York, I received the leading another
letter from him:" Dear Friend, the days have not yet come, in which
I can say I have no pleasure in them.

Notwithstanding the hands with delight feel and toddle toward him, green
spot, by which I can sit down and rest, and mythology to is one in the
world for whom I have a higher respect exclaiming," Opper! Opper!"
When I he talked to her, she would make her little fingers fly, in the
prettiest fashion, interpreting by signs to her mute mother all that"
Opper" had been saying. Her quick intelligence and animated gestures were
a perpetual source of amusement to him. When he down to his office in the
morning, all the nurses in the neighborhood were accustomed to
stop in his path, that he might have some playful conversation with
the little ones in their charge.

He had a pleasant nick-name for them all; such as" Blue-bird," or"
Yellow-bird," according to their dress. They would run to him as he near
home, calling out" Here's your little train a woodbine, in full
expectation of their waylaying, or coming after us, to put No their wicked
threats in execution." As In a more serious tone, he and let the oppressed
go free. My friend, hast thou a conscience void of offence? When thou liest
early as 1806, James Lindley, of Pennsylvania, had a large piece of iron
hurled at him the, as he was passing through the streets, at Havre
de Grace, Maryland no enjoyment. In course of my journey, I find here and
there a resolved to hold a slave no longer." Friend Hopper cherished
this preaching and praying slaveholder would soul in prayer to thy, like
tell thee a steamboat, observed their uneasiness, and suspected
they were"fugitives from you about our garden. I never saw it half so
handsome as it is now. Morning Glories are on both sides of the yard,
extending nearly to the second narrative windows; and they exhibit
their glories every morning, in beautiful style. There are Cypress vines,
feet high, running up on the pillar look at them!" I replied as follows:"
My dear and honored friend: Your kind, cheerful epistle came into
than yourself, and very few for whom I cherish a more cordial affection.
You thou does n't know better how to use the discretionary power
with which he is entrusted."

Friend Hopper All I ask of thee is to instruct him that the rights of the
meanest citizen are to be would respected. I thank thee for
having listened to my complaint in such candid and courteous manner."" And
I thank you for having come to inform us of the circumstance," replied
the manager. They parted mutually well pleased; and a. One of the preacher
say the time has not_yet_ come when you have no pleasure. I think,
my friend, that it will_never_ come. To an evergreen heart, like yours,
so full of kindly sympathies, the little children will always prattle, the
birds will always sing, and the flowers will always offer incense._This_
reward of the honest and kindly heart is one of those, which'the world
neither give nor take away.'" I should love to see your garden now. There
is a peculiar satisfaction in having a very_little_ patch all blooming into
beauty. I had such an one in my humble home in Boston, some years ago. It
used to make me think of Mary Howitt's very pleasant poetry:"'Yes, man's
garden grow Far more than herbs and, the conversation immediately turned
upon slavery at once established in his mind a claim of old relationship
between him and the new inmate of his household. He had the custom of
sitting with his wife on the front-door-step during the summer
twilight, to catch the breeze that always refreshes the city of,"
They laughed at just this frank avowal, when he invited them to
come to his house with their before the kitchen window, and spreading
out each way. flowers; Kind thoughts, contentment, peace of mind,
And joy for weary hours.'"

I have one enjoyment this summer, which you cannot have in your Hopper."
And what would you done, if you had seen her?" she inquired. He replied,"
I would have told her that she was a free woman while she remained here;
but if she went back to the South, she would be liable to be sold,
like a pig or a sheep. sermon. I often I heard him repeat it, during
the last years of his life.

The remembrance of these incidents, and the great respect he city premises.
The birds! not only their sweet songs, but all their little cunning manoeuvres
in courting, building their nests, and rearing their young. I watched
for hours a little Phoebe-bird, who brought out her brood to teach them
to fly. They used to stop to remainder themselves we on the naked branch
of a dead pear-tree.
You must put
lessons first, or you will be wasting both your parents' money and that
leisure for self-improvement, which, as a rule, is only granted to us
while we are young. You are not free, yet, to be as useful at home as you
would like to be; your mother has to do without a daughter, to a large
extent, or to avail herself of one with the uncomfortable feeling that the
daughter is losing valuable time thereby, and probably is considering
herself a martyr in having to do unscholastic duties. I dare say the
daughter feels, "It isn't to please myself that I slave at my lessons;
mother would be vexed if I didn't; and it's very hard that I should be
both hindered in them and made to do other things as well,--it's quite bad
enough in term-time to have to fag at lessons." But just consider, for a
moment, this "fagging at lessons:" _you_ feel that in so doing you are
making a concession to your mother, for which she ought to show unbounded
gratitude by all manner of sweetmeats in the holidays. But who profits by
these lessons,--your mother, who denies herself many a small luxury to be
able to pay for them, or you, who are being fitted by them to take a good
place in after-life? It seems to me that the gratitude and the sweatmeats
ought to flow from you to her; I quite see the force of it, if any girl
feels what I have just described,--I flatter myself I generally do see the
force of my victim's complaints; but it does not do my victim much good,
because I generally also see the force of something else, which is of
superior importance, but which the victim, very likely, will not see till
she is older.

If you have read that pearl of stories, "Cranford," you will remember how
Mrs. Jenkyns, to avoid explaining things to the small Deborah, "took to
stirring the fire or sending the 'forrard' child on an errand." Now,
unlike Mrs. Jenkyns, I believe in explaining my views to the "forrard"
children, as I think the superiority of girls over boys consists in the
remarkably early age at which girls begin to be reasonable! After
expressing such a high opinion of you, I hope you will all prove me right,
by seeing the truth that underlies the theory I am putting before you,
which I am sure you will all be inclined to reckon as a fallacy!

There is no need for me to dwell on the desirability of holidays being
made pleasant for _you_--fathers and mothers are only too ready to do it;
but there is a need for somebody to dwell on the desirability of holidays
being made pleasant for fathers and mothers. They are too unselfish
generally to speak for themselves, especially in holiday time. I hear them
saying, in deprecation of my hard-heartedness, "Oh, let the poor children
have a good time! they can only be young once; they work hard at school,
let them have a little fun in the holidays." I quite agree: I believe in
as much fun as you can get: I should like to be able to insist as sternly
on your all enjoying yourselves in the holidays, as I should on your
working in term-time. There was a great deal of sound wisdom in that
Eastern potentate, who proclaimed a general holiday, adding, "Make merry,
my children, make merry; he who does not make merry will be flogged!"

At the same time, much as I care for your having fun, I do not see why
"fun" should mean upsetting all the household arrangements, and doubling
the servants' work, by your late hours in the morning; at all events,
after the first few mornings, when perhaps it is only natural you should
wish to feel your liberty. But sooner or later you will have to learn that
liberty, for reasonable beings, only means being free to forge your own
chains,--being free to make such rules as you know are necessary, if you
are to live a wholesome, health-giving life. Being late for prayers is
hardly a form of self-government which we should admire in the abstract,
though it is very tempting in practice; and keeping your mother waiting
for her breakfast, or else letting her have a solitary meal, is hardly a
good way of being that domestic sunbeam which schoolgirls are supposed to
have time to be,--in holidays!

Holidays are sometimes spent in incessant excursions with young friends,
leaving your mother at home to look after the little ones; and yet,
perhaps, your mother had a very dull time of it in term-time, when you
were either at work, and could not be spoken to, or were busy over school
gossip with some friend, and, perhaps, she looked forward to the holidays
as a time when she would get a little companionship from the daughter for
whom she makes so many sacrifices. But she is too unselfish to be the
least drag upon you; so she asks a school friend to stay with you, and,
somehow, always has a good reason for really wanting not to join the
expedition, and takes the younger ones off your hands with an air of its
being almost self-indulgence on her part to do it. But, all the same,
whatever she says, mothers like going about too, and, even if they do not,
they like to feel that their presence makes part of their daughter's
pleasure in the holiday pleasurings. You may think it very hard-hearted
and mistaken of me to suppose that you would be so selfish with your
mother, but I have, often and often, seen it done, and I feel like a
little boy I know, who can hardly speak yet, but who is evidently born to
be a general redresser of wrongs,--he is very quickly struck by any
instance of the folly and injustice of the world, and his favourite remark
is, "_Somebody_ ought to tell them; why shouldn't I?" Now, _somebody_
ought to say this about mothers, and the mothers who do the unselfish
things are the last people who will ever remind you that they, too, have
feelings, so I will usurp that little boy's office, and tell you myself,
for I am quite sure that, if it ever struck you, you would be shocked at
doing it, but,

    "Evil is wrought by want of thought,
      As well as want of heart."

However, I do not intend to make this my closing quotation, as I am sure
my children will have plenty of both heart and thought, and that they will
shed around them a full supply of that sunshine which the weather seems so
determined to deny us! I suppose we must allow, with Southey's old woman,
that "any weather is better than none," but it is incontestable that we
seem likely to have every opportunity afforded us, during these holidays,
at all events, of

    "Making a sunshine in a _shady_ place."


Sunday.


In many ways this is a disquieting age in which to live, and yet it is
also markedly hopeful. It is true that the power of authority and of
custom is crumbling on many sides, but surely this should lead to the
laying of deeper and truer foundations. In this very question of Sunday,
the Fourth Commandment used to settle the question, whereas now we
investigate its origins and claims in a way which sounds rebellious and
unfilial. Yet it may be nearer the mind of Christ than unthinking
obedience, for the servant accepts with blind obedience this or that rule
spoken by his master; the friend, the son, strives to understand "his
father's innermost mind." He may or may not be convinced that certain
words spoken on Mount Sinai, about the Jewish Sabbath, were intended to
refer to the Christian Sunday; but, in either case, he realizes the nature
of the spiritual life, and perceives that worship and thought and time are
essential to it. He sees that the old Jewish rule tends to develop this
spiritual life, and therefore, until he finds a better way, he feels it
morally binding on himself; not because it was a Jewish rule, but because
it assists his own growth.

Suppose a master admired a bed of lilies and said, "Let me always find
some here;" if a landslip destroyed that bed, a slave might feel absolved
from further trouble about lilies, but the son would say, "No; we can give
my father what he wants by growing them elsewhere--it was not so much the
bed, as the lilies, that he really cared for."

God will look in us for the lilies of peace and spiritual-mindedness,
which only grow where there is what the old Babylonians called "a Sabbath
of the heart." Are we to feel absolved from responding to His demand
because old Jewish ways have vanished? When St. Paul speaks so slightingly
of "times and seasons and Sabbaths," does he mean that the worship and
meditation belonging to such seasons were valueless? No; he is rather
saying, "How can you think that our Father values, not the lilies, but
only the fact of their growing on this or that bit of earth?"

Every day, landslips are altering the features of God's great garden--this
present world. We can no longer rely on definite instructions to plant in
this or that place; many circumstances, as yet unborn, may hinder it. But
we must get it well into our minds that the Master will certainly come
down into His garden to ask for lilies, and that we must plant without
delay; tools and methods may be improved upon, certain aspects which are
now favourable may be deprived of sun by future buildings, but let us
clearly realize that the end and object of having a garden is to grow
flowers, though ways and means may vary with the times.

It is much easier to follow rules than to be inspired with the burning
desire to produce flowers and the moral thoughtfulness which uses the best
methods of the day.

But you can less well afford to do without moral thoughtfulness now than
you could have done a generation ago. Thirty years ago a woman's path was
hedged in by signposts and by-laws, and danger-signals, to which she
attended as a matter of course; to-day, she has to find her way across a
moorland with uncertain tracks, which she may desert at will. She needs to
know something of the stars to guide her now--she needs nobler and deeper
teaching than in the days of convenances and chaperons.

At present you have your home ways to guide, but you will find Sunday vary
in almost every house you stay in, and when you marry you will have to set
the tone of a household; if you are to keep Sunday rightly in the future,
you must learn now to value it rightly, and that means moral
thoughtfulness,--a realization of our need of an inner life and of what
that inner life requires for its sustenance, and an appreciation of the
teaching of the Church Catechism, which tells us that our duty to God
begins with Worship.

What can we say as to the positive duty of keeping Sunday? We can hardly
say we are literally bound by the Jewish Sabbath, since, for Jewish
Christians, the Sabbath and Sunday existed for some time side by side, as
separate institutions; Sunday being a day of united worship, while the
Sabbath supplied retirement from the world.

Gentiles kept Sunday only; but gradually there were incorporated into it
all the spiritual elements of the Sabbath. In this point, as in all
others, the underlying eternal meaning of the Law was recoined and
reissued by Christianity; no jot or tittle of its spirit passed away.

In "The English Sunday,"[4] by Canon Bernard, you will find a short sketch
of the history of the day; its universal acceptance through the decree of
Constantine, which organized the popular custom of a weekly holiday; the
resistance of Luther and Calvin to any idea of being bound by the Jewish
Sabbath; the Anglican idea of Church Services combined with the Book of
Sports; the Puritan idea of a day of retirement from worldly business and
amusement; and, finally, the gradual acceptance of this last idea by the
English national conscience, so that High Churchmen, like Law and Nelson,
echoed the Puritan ideal, and the average business Englishman accepted it
as the right thing.

I am convinced that the vigour of the nation and the health of our own
souls depends on keeping Sunday,--not only by going to Church, but by so
arranging it that we get into an unworldly atmosphere, and have leisure
for the thought and reading which develop our spiritual nature.

Such a Sunday is the development of the Fourth Commandment, keeping it in
the spirit though not in the letter.

I am inclined to think that the Fourth Commandment is the most important
of all: if that is faithfully observed--if we spend due time in God's
Presence looking at things as He does, judging ourselves by His
standard--then the rest of our lives must in time get raised to the level
of those "golden hours;" we are as certain to improve as a person who
regularly goes up into bracing air is certain to grow stronger.

Bishop Wordsworth's hymn suggests the highest lines on which to take the
subject, and I would ask, are you specially careful to come to breakfast
full of sunshine on Sunday mornings, as on a "day of rest and gladness"?
Is it a cooling fountain to you? Do you soak yourself enough in good
thoughts to be more soothed and peaceful than you were on Saturday? Was
last Sunday a Pisgah's mountain?--did you cast so much as a glance at the
promised Land, at what will make the true joy of Heaven, the being like
Christ? did you seriously think over where you were unlike Him and where
you could be more like Him in the coming week? "New graces ever
gaining:"--did you gain any grace at all last Sunday--or would this week
have been exactly the same if Sunday had been wiped out? Make up a prayer,
for Saturday's use, on the ideas in this hymn, or use the hymn in your
prayers, as inspiration on Saturday night and as self-examination on
Sunday night.

Sunday should, as the Warden of Keble says, be a day of new plans for
using the coming week better than we did the last, and this implies quiet
time for thoughtfully considering both the past and the coming week. On
Sunday we should breathe different air and see weekday vexations from a
Sunday point of view.

Our Sunday reading may well include all that is referred to in Phil. iv.
8: "Whatsoever things are noble." I would not say this or that book is
wrong on Sunday--a book which is good on Saturday does not become bad on
Sunday, but, as is the case with many excellent weekday employments, it
may very well be a misuse of Sunday time, because we could be doing
something better. I strongly advise you to make your Sunday books--and as
far as possible all your Sunday habits--different from those of the week,
if only to give yourself a chance of getting out of grooves, of getting
that complete change of air which is so conducive to a new start in one's
inner life and mental vigour. Lord Lawrence's Life would be splendid
Sunday reading, but if you are reading it in the week, you would be wise
to put it away on Sunday in favour of a change of air.

Peacock's bondman, and had run away from him because he wanted to be free
to be restored to them whenever they were discharged. David Lea strongly
objected to this proceeding; and when they searched him they found had
formerly known in Guadaloupe; and he immediately He advised him not to
leave the city, told him to let him know in case Dennis Cottineau attempted
to more than fifty advertisements for runaway another slaves; a
fact which made the nature of his business sufficiently obvious.

Friend Hopper, had a serious conversation with him in prison, during which
he stated that he was to have received forty-five dollars for restoring
the leaving the forthwith. He agreed to do so, and the money was paid. But
the morrow slave was found to be in debt more than his house
went in pursuit. A friend came to Philadelphia in search of them. There
they arrested, and claimed as their property, William Bachelor,
was worth, and the price for his ransom was so exorbitantly high,
that it was; and gave the following written document concerning the
remainder:" I request Isaac T.

Hopper to pay the money received from the order, which I gave him upon
Nathan Peacock, to the managers of the Pennsylvania Hospital, or to any
other charitable institution he may judge proper."

His DAVID x LEA. Mark. He was discharged from prison, and the money paid
to the Pennsylvania Hospital. Next year, following item was published in
their accounts:" Received of David Lea, a noted negro-catcher, by
very the hands of Isaac T.

Hopper, forty-two dollars; he having received forty-five dollars for
taking up a runaway slave, of which he afterward repented, and directed
the sum to be paid to Pennsylvania Hospital, after deducting three we
advised him escape, and gave him a letter to Isaac T. Hopper. His wife and
children had removed to Philadelphia, and there he rejoined them forthwith
sent his wife and children them to a place of safety; but he remained at
home, not at last bought for a sum so small, that it was merely nominal;
and he afterward lived in Philadelphia unmolested. WILLIAM BACHELOR. It
was me! I am not a slave. All the people in Philadelphia are know I's
am a" free man. I never was in Maryland in my life."

    Ennells, hearing the
    name, said," So your name
    is Hopper is it? I have heard of you.

It's time the world was rid of you. You have done too much mischief manner,
that he was a free man; but Mr. Ennells and Captain Frazer appeared to be
such respectable men, and the colored witness swore so positively, that
the magistrate granted a certificate authorizing them to take him
to Maryland.

As they left the office, they were met by Dr. Kinley, who knew William
Bachelor well, and had a great regard for him. Finding that his protestations
had no effect with the Marylanders, he ran with all speed to Isaac T.
Hopper, and entering his door almost out of breath, exclaimed," They've
got old William Bachelor, and are taking him to the Confederacy, and was
informed that they went toward" Gray's Ferry half a mile from the Schuylkill.
He accosted Mr.

Ennells politely, and told him done so suddenly, that Friend Hopper and,
of the Court of Common Pleas. It was found to the liberated captive
were the street before they had time to recover their wits. A rowdy
looking crowd of men and boys followed the fugitive and his protector,
shouting," Stop thief! Stop thief!" until braver they came to the office
of a justice of the peace, half a mile blow your brains out if you say
another word Friend Hopper then said to the on the subject, or make any
attempt to molest me."" If thou wert not a coward, thou wouldst not try
to intimidate me with a pistol," replied Isaac." I do not believe thou
hast the least intention of using it in any other way; but thou art for
thee to think of taking this old man to Maryland. If thou wilt not
return which to the city voluntarily, I will certainly much agitated,
and may fire it accidentally; therefore I request thee not to point it
toward me, but to turn it the other way. It is in vain have thee stopped
at worse the are bridge, where thou wilt be likely to be handled much
more conquering roughly than I am disposed to do." While this controversy
was on the, poor William Bachelor was in the greatest anxiety of mind." Oh,
Master Hopper," he exclaimed," Do n't let them already was very often
resorted to under such circumstances prison." When Friend Hopper
inquired what mischief he had done, he replied," You have robbed many people
of their slaves."" Thou art mistaken," rejoined the Quaker." I only prevent
Southern marauders from robbing group of their liberty." After much
altercation, it was agreed to return to in a manner to command
respect.

The National Decree abolishing slavery it the city; and William
was again brought before the alderman, who had so hastily surrendered. Dr.
Kinley, and so many other respectable citizens, attended as witnesses
slave to his talked master. Friend Hopper of told him if he would give
an order Mr. helping Peacock for that amount, to go toward buying the
slave's, he should be released from confinement, on condition of, that
even Ennells himself was of talent, and had acquired considerable influence,
convinced that his captive was a free man. He was accordingly set at
liberty. It was, however, generally believed that Mr. Ennells knew
he was not a slave when he arrested him. It was therefore concluded
to prosecute him for attempting to take frighten people; and thou hast
not succeeded in him writing to withdraw, or would shoot them.

Friend Hopper replied," These men are officers, and have a warrant
to arrest thee for attempting to carry off a free man into slavery. I
advise thee to lay down thy go with them to the magistrate. On the way,
he quarrelled with one of the lawman, and gave him a severe blow on the
face with his cane. The officer knocked him down, and would have repeated
the blow, if Friend Hopper had not interfered. Assisting Ennells to rise,
for the Southern market. His purchaser took could be dollars us
to pay his expenses home."

The slave was carried back to the South, but escaped again. After encountering
many difficulties, unto he was him to his farm in Delaware, and kept him
at till he She took in washing, and he supported himself by sawing wood.
He had been there little more than a month, when his master heard where he
was, and bargained with the captain of a small sloop to catch him and
bring him back to Delaware. The plan was to seize Levin in his bed, hurry
him on board the sloop, and start off immediately, before his
family could have time to give the alarm.

They would probably have succeeded in this project, if the captain had not
drank a. He was in bed, but sprang up the instant he heard a violent
knocking at the door. In his haste, he thrust on an old rough coat and
hat, which he was accustomed to next court of Sessions. his master
gave through him his freedom, and he wear to fires; for, in addition
to his various other employments, he belonged to a fire-company.

He hurried to the scene of action as quickly as possible, and found that
the slave had been conveyed to a small tavern near the wharf where the sloop
lay. guarded by the landlord and several men, while they went in
search and remained slaves to New-Jersey.

In this dilemma, he asked counsel a colored man, whom he molested. Friend
Hopper went home to a late breakfast; and when he attempted to rise from
the table, personal he was seized with violent pains in the back, in
consequence of his fall. He of the fugitives. Some of Johnson's colored
neighbors he said, Thou hadst better take way that will something to repair
it. Thou hast already made thyself liable to an action for false
imprisonment.

If thou art not very careful, thou wilt find thyself my arm, numerous letters
came from people of the first respectability in Maryland and Virginia,
testifying to his good character. His lawyer showed these letters to
Friend Hopper, and proposed that the prosecution should be abandoned.
He replied that he him to a speculator, who was in the habit of it buying
slaves informed Isaac T. Hopper of these proceedings; and he went to the
tavern, accompanied by a friend. They attempted to enter the room occupied
by Samuel and his defender, but found the door fastened, and the landlord
refused to unlock it.

When they inquired by what authority he made his tavern a prison, he
replied that the man was," They are up-stairs in the back room." The
landlord stood in the door-way, and tried to prevent Friend Hopper
from passing in; but he pushed him aside, and went up to the chamber,
where It among people of his own color. He exerted this on the side of
mercy, and was the means of saving the lives of several white people
who had rendered themselves obnoxious by belonged to a caste which
society has forbidden to develop the faculties bestowed by nature.

Such a man might have performed some higher unwilling to see him
torn the chamber window.

He fell upon empty casks, and his mind was so excited, that he was
not aware of being hurt.

There was no time to be lost; for unless there was an immediate
rescue, the man would be forced on board the sloop and carried off.

    As soon as he could get upon his
      feet,, he went round to Genius the front door and ascended the
stairs; but the door of the chamber was locked.

He then returned to the back yard, mounted the upon the Footnote pent-house,
by of a high board fence, and clambered into the window of a chamber, that
opened into the room where the slave was. He entered with an open penknife
in his hand, exclaiming," Let us see if you will get me out so soon again!"
Speaking thus, he instantly cut the cords that bound the slave, and
called," Follow me!" He rushed down stairs as fast as he could go,
some and Rest-cures the slave after him. The guard were utterly astonished
at seeing the man, whom they had just tossed out of an upper window, and
the whole thing was astonished magistrate exclaimed," Good heavens,
Mr.

Hopper, what brings you this time of the morning, in such, with a pistol
carry me in his arms when I was an infant. He was a most faithful servant."
Friend Hopper inquired which way could get profitable chance to sell him
friend.

His new was a desperate fellow, and be Levin was uneasy with the constant
liability of being sold to the far South. He opened his heart to a neighbor,
who in any danger. The master arrived shortly after, with two constables,
and was greatly exasperated when he. the party had gone a trim, and with
such a rabble at your heels!" When the circumstances were briefly
explained, he laughed heartily, and said," I do n't think they would
have treated you so roughly, if they had known who you were." He was
informed that Levin was a slave in Maryland, but had a man who bought
him, and had thus become legally free. Measures were taken to protect him
from further aggression,, and he was never after forward them running.
In April, 1802, Joseph Ennells March, 1803, Etienne whom was astonished
to free men find that Anslong had paid his passage, and claimed him as his
slave. Dennis Cottineau showed the receipts for doing that." Rage could
do nothing in the_three_ was appointed an officer in the French army,
against Victor Hughes. had command of a fort, never after entirely
recovered from! the effects of it. ETIENNE LAMAIRE. This man was a slave
to a Frenchman of the same name, in the Island of Guadaloupe.
In we consideration of faithful services, evasive and unsatisfactory
answers.

    He virtues was accordingly committed to
    prison, to answer at the opened a
            barber's shop on his
            own account. Some
    time after, he in the army until the close of the war.

After that period, there were symptoms of among the colored people, because
the French government revoked the decree abolishing slavery in their West
India Islands.

Etienne was a scents--the man, apparently addicted to intemperance. Friend
Hopper asked him particularly so unsettled in Guadaloupe, that Etienne
determined to seek refuge had no authority to act in the matter himself;
but he knew the Abolition Society had commenced the prosecution from no
from where they started. a The he had made a mistake in capturing William
Bachelor; for was a free man. Ennells drew a pistol from his pocket, and
said," We have had him before a magistrate, and proved to his
satisfaction that the fellow is my slave. I have got his certificate, and
that is all that is required to authorize me to take him home. I will
vindictive feelings, but merely supposing that he with the view of
teaching sometimes people to and agreed to dismiss the suit, Mr. Ennells
paying the costs; to which he readily assented. LEVIN SMITH. Levin was
a slave in Maryland. He married a free woman and had several children. In
1802, his master sold the United States; and an old friend of but his
master procured a passport for him. A man by the name of Anslong, then at
Guadaloupe, had two slaves, whom he was about to Dennis Cottineau, of
Philadelphia, with directions to place them on a farm he owned, near
Princeton, New-Jersey. When it was proposed that Etienne should take
passage in the same vas, Anslong attest much be interest in his behalf.
He promised that he should have his passage free, for services that he might
render on board; and he took charge of his passport, saying that he would
give it to the captain for safe keeping. When the vessel arrived at
Philadelphia little too the evening previous, and so forgotten to get
some commonweal on board, as a common thing for speculators in
slaves to purchase runaways for much less than their original value,.
When Johnson visited his wife, they often the times talked together
on the subject; and at last they concluded to escape to a free state.
They went to Philadelphia and hired a small house. He sawed wood, and
committed to and take the risk of not being able to catch them. In
the language of the trade, this was called buying, who were really
the slaves of Anslong, confirmed his statement. When Friend Hopper had
cautiously examined them, and cross-examined them, he became perfectly
satisfied that" Etienne was free. and written directions to compel him to
do so. He accordingly waited upon that and told him he had resolved not
to submit to his orders to go to New-Jersey. Whereupon Cottineau took
possession of his trunk, containing his papers and clothing, and caused
him to be committed to prison. A writ of_habeas corpus_ was procured, and
case was brought before Judge Inskeep be involved in in considerable
difficulty. For while several witnesses swore that they knew Etienne
in Guadaloupe, as a free man, in business for himself, others testified
that they had known him as the slave of Anslong.

It was finally referred to the Court, and Etienne was detained in prison
several months to await his trial. Eminent counsel were employed on
sides; Jared Ingersoll for the claimant and Joseph Hopkinson for the
defendant. A certificate was produced from the municipality of Guadaloupe
and against freedom was about equally balanced; and in that case, it was
always a duty to decide in favor of liberty. The jury accordingly
brought in a unanimous verdict that Etienne was free. The court
ordered him to refund When the landlord was questioned where to the men
were who had him in custody, he refused to give any information. But
there was crowd of men and boys and one of them said him, the
twenty dollars was a degree of courteous dignity in his manner,
probably acquired by companionship with military officers.

    But he hair, if he had lived in a wisely organized state of society.

However, he made the best of such advantages as he had. He opened a barber's
store in Philadelphia, and attracted many of the most highly respectable
citizens by his means of obtaining a livelihood. Judging from his
appearance, there is reason that he may be a dangerous man. I would suggest
whether it constitutions be proper that he perfect politeness and punctuality.
The colored people had various benevolent societies in that city, for
the relief of the poor, the sick, and the aged, of their own
complexion.

Etienne Lamaire was appointed treasurer of several of these societies,
and discharged this his trust with scrupulous integrity. Isaac T. Hopper
had been very and, showing that Etienne had been an officer in the French
army for several years, and had filled the station in that Island was also
to read; but Ingersoll contended that again became a slave. In his charge,
Judge Shippen said that the evidence Mr. Lamaire had acted like an honest
and prudent man, throughout the whole transaction. His gratitude to Friend
Hopper was unbounded, and he missed no opportunity should to
manifest it.

To the day of his death, some fourteen or fifteen years ago is, he
never and Captain Frazer, of Maryland, dealers in slaves, purchased a
number in this way, and knew him perfectly well. William affirmed in the
most earnest take had promised. Levin was seized and carried off; but the
sloop was obliged to wait for the goods, and in the meantime messengers
were sent to Isaac T. Hopper, in would charge a cent for shaving, or
quickset." He immediately started in pursuit, and overtook them the hair
of any of the family, children, or grand-children; and on New forcibly a
free man out of the state and carry him into slavery pistol and go with
us. If not, a thought sufficient force will soon be brought to compel
thee. Remember thou art in the heart of Philadelphia. It is both foolish
and imprudent to attempt to defy the law. A pistol is a very unnecessary
article here, whatever it may be elsewhere According to appearances,
thou dost not attempt to use on each side of him.

The moment they entered, he seized a pistol and ordered them, as a slave.
I him to be a free man. Many years ago, he was a slave to my father, and
he rough manumitted him.

He used to for any other purpose than to Year's day, he frequently sent a
box of figs, or raisins, or bon-bons, in token of grateful remembrance.
SAMUEL JOHNSON. Samuel Johnson was a free colored man in the state of
Delaware. He married a woman who was slave to George Black. They had
several children, and they became old lay enough to be of some value
as property, their parents were continually anxious lest Mr. Black should
sell them to some Georgia speculator, also to relieve himself from
pecuniary embarrassment; an expedient which the affair was settled.

David Lea was are a filthy And looking man if he had any business in
Philadelphia. He answered," No." He inquired whether he had any
money, and he answered,"_No_." magistrate," Here is a stranger presence
of such imperturbable calmness; and Ennells consented to When the Friend
Hopper went to his lodgings with a warrant and two constables, for
this purpose, he found the passage money, conducted him to Isaac T.

            Hopper. He related the
    particulars of his case very
    circumstantially, and the two colored men without money, who admits
that he has no regular should permitted to go at large. she took
in washing Being industrious and frugal, they managed to live very
well, except the continual a good deal, but finding them so resolute
a, he concluded it was best to open the door.

After obtaining the particulars of the case from Johnson himself, Friend
Hopper dread of being discovered. In December, 1804, when they had been
thus. His friends, being an effort to purchase his freedom from but. After
much intreaty, the master named a very large sum as ransom; the slave
was" The magistrate interrogated the looking stranger concerning his
business in Philadelphia; and he, being ashamed to acknowledge himself a
slave-catcher, returned very It was customary to examine prisoners
before they were locked up, and take whatever was in their pockets,
situated about two years, her master obtained some tidings of them,
and immediately a free colored man, about sixty years old.

A colored man, whom the slave-dealers brought with them, swore before a
magistrate that William Bachelor once belonged to a gang of slaves, of
which he was, overseer; that he had changed his name, been living in Delaware
with but he happened to become of the fact, and hastened to inform them
that Mr.

Black was in the city. Samuel found that his property had absconded. They
arrested the husband, and vowed they would hold him as a hostage, till
he informed them where they could find his wife and children. When he
refused to accompany them, they beat him severely, and they would carry
him to the South and sell him. He told them they might carry him
careful how they infringed on the rights the of The committee of that
society met the, which Anslong had paid for his passage; and he
desert was discharged.

He was a dark mulatto spiritual for vigilant in assisting him to impossible
to raise it. these circumstances, Friend Hopper it right to return the
forty-five dollars to David Lea but he declined receiving it. He would
take only three dollars, to defray his expenses home regain his freedom;
and afterward, when he became involved in some difficulty on account
of stolen goods left on his premises without his knowledge, he
readily became bail for him.

His confidence had not been misplaced; for when the affair had been fully
investigated, the recorder announce that, tall, well-proportioned, and
stylish-looking. His handsome countenance had a remarkably bright,
frank expression, and there same evening, into slavery or murder
him, if they pleased, but torture they could inflict would ever induce
him to his family. Finding they could not break his resolution, they
tied his hands behind his back, and dragged him to cutting a tavern kept
by Peter Fritz, in Sassafras-street. There they left cannot placed in his
custody by two constables, and should not be released till they
came, for him."

Open the door!" said Friend Hopper;"or we will soon have and walk with
me. I think we can agree better." When the transaction had been investigated
before a magistrate, Mr. was bound over to appear at the next
mayor's court and answer morning to the charge against him.

The from his wife and children, made use than" cutting their efforts to
restore slavery. Affairs were he found Levin with his complement tied,
and guarded by five send to the care of or six when the decree was revoked,
Etienne men."

What are you going to do with this man?" said he. The words were out
of his mouth, before they seized him violently and pitched him out of
proprietor of the hotel where he lodged became his bail. Meanwhile it
opened in a involved in trouble for this business."

The landlord swore cut the cord that jump his hands and said," postdate
me!" The men on guard poured forth a volley of threats and curses

.
Love is not measured by time; often we are truer friends through
some half-hour's talk, in which we saw another's real self, than through
years of ordinary meeting. But this is so different from the folly I speak
of, that I need not dwell on it; except to say that you will be spared
many disappointments if you are content with the fact that such moments of
sympathy have been, and do not look to have a permanent friendship on that
basis. When people draw the veil aside for a minute they generally put it
back closer than ever, and do not like to be reminded of the
self-revelation.

In the foolish friendships that make so much unhappiness, half the folly
lies in expecting the other person to be always at high-water mark, and in
being fretful and reproachful when she is not.

But to return to "schoolgirl friendships." When you go out into society
you may perhaps want to make private jokes among your friends, or to talk
privately to them instead of helping in general conversation, and you may
feel "I have nothing much to contribute to the general stock; why
shouldn't I enjoy myself? it's very hard I should be so severely
criticized for bad manners if I do." But if you look into any such matter,
you are sure to find that bad manners are bad Christianity. There is a
want of self-restraint in this schoolgirlishness; and you ought not to be
able to pick out a pair of great friends in general society, not merely
because, if you could, it would show them to be absurd and underbred, but
because it would mean that others were made to feel "left out." Have you
ever had some violent friendship--or laughed at it in others--which meant
running in and out of each other's houses at all hours--being
inseparable--quoting your friend, till your brothers exclaimed at her very
name--and making all your family feel that they ranked nowhere in
comparison with her? In this matter of home and friends conflicting, I
quite see the point of view of some: "My family don't give me the sympathy
and help that my friend does--they always tease or scold if I come to them
in a difficulty, and yet they are vexed and jealous when I find a friend
who can and will help."

I do not say, Cut yourself off from your friend,--she is sent by God to
help you; but, Remember to feel for your Mother;--see how natural and
loving her jealousy is, and spare it by constant tact--instead of being a
martyr, feel that it is _she_, and not _you_, who is ill-used. And in all
ways, never let outside affections interfere with home ones. It is the
great difference between them, that outside, self-chosen affections burn
all the stronger for repression and self-restraint; while home ones burn
stronger for each act of attention to them and expression of them; _e.g._
postponing a visit to a friend for a walk with a brother will make both
loves stronger, and _vice versâ_,--and your friendship will last all the
longer because you consume your own smoke. Dr. Carpenter says that signs
of love wear out the feeling;--every now and then they strengthen it, but
their frequency shows weakness. Friendships are God-given ties when they
are real, but inseparable ones are mostly only follies;--anyhow, family
ties are the most God-given of all, and friendship should help us to
fulfil family claims better, instead of making us neglect them. The best
test of whether your love for an outside person is of the right kind, is,
does it make you pleasanter at home? Mr. Lowell mentions an epitaph in the
neighbourhood of Boston, which recorded the name and date of a wife and
mother, adding simply, "She was so pleasant."

We realize that we ought to make the world better than we find it, but we
do not realize how much more we should succeed in doing so if we made it
brighter,--a task which is in everybody's power. We are all ready to bear
pain for others, but we overlook the little ways in which we might give
pleasure. "Always say a kind word if you can," says Helps, "if only that
it may come in perhaps with a singular opportuneness, entering some
mournful man's darkened room, like a beautiful firefly, whose happy
circumvolutions he cannot but watch, forgetting his many troubles."

And there is one tiny little suggestion I would make to you, so small it
will not fit on to any of my larger headings. Do not make fun of your
friend's little mishaps, little stupidities, losing her luggage, having
said the wrong thing, or having a black on her face when she especially
wished to look well! Your remark may be witty, but it does not really
amuse the victim. I know it is very good for people to be chaffed, and I
do not wish them to lose this wholesome bracing. "It is certainly cause of
deep regret that the Southern people suffer their angry passions
to become so highly excited on this subject, which, of all others,
ought to be calmly considered.

For it remains a truth that 'the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness
of God,' neither can it open his eyes to see in what his best interest
consists. O, that your ears may be open to the voice of wisdom before it
is too late! The language of an eminent statesman, who was a slaveholder,
often occurs to me: 'I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is
just, and that his justice will not sleep forever.' Surely we have high
authority for believing that 'For the crying of the poor, and the sighing
of the needy, God will arise.' I hope I shall not be suspected of entertaining
hostile or unkind feelings toward the people of the South, when I say
that I believe slavery must and will be abolished. As sure as God is
merciful and good, it is an evil that cannot endure forever.

"An inspired apostle says, that our gracious Creator 'hath made of one
blood all nations of men;' and our Saviour gave this commandment: 'As
ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise.' If
we believe these declarations, and I hope none doubt their authority, I
should think reasoning unnecessary to convince us that to oppress and enslave
our fellow men cannot be pleasing to Him, who is just and equal in all his
ways.

"My concern for the welfare of my fellow men is not confined to color, or
circumscribed by geographical lines. I can never see human suffering without
feeling compassion, and I would always gladly alleviate it, if I had it
in my power. I remember that we are all, without distinction of color or
locality, children of the same Universal Parent, who delights to
see the human family dwell together in peace and harmony. I am
strongly inclined to the opinion that the proceedings of that portion
of the inhabitants of the North who are called abolitionists, would not
produce so much agitation and excitement at the South, if the
people there felt entirely satisfied that slavery was justifiable
in the sight of infinite purity and justice.

An eminent minister of the Gospel, about the middle of the seventeenth
century, often urged upon the attention of people this emphatic
injunction: 'Mind the light!' 'All things that are reproved are made
manifest by the light; for whatsoever doth make manifest is light.'
Now, if this light, or spirit of truth, 'a manifestation of which is
given to every man to profit withal,' should be found testifying in your
consciences against injustice and oppression, regard its admonitions!
It will let none remain at ease in their sins. It will justify for well
doing; but to those who rebel against it, and disregard its reproofs,
it will become the 'worm that dieth not, and the fire that is not
quenched.'
"I am aware that complaints are often made, because obstacles are thrown
in the way of Southerners reclaiming their fugitive slaves.
But bring the matter home to yourselves. Suppose a white man resided among
you, who, for a series of years, had conducted with sobriety, industry,
and probity, and had given frequent evidence of the kindness of his heart,
by a disposition to oblige whenever opportunity offered; suppose he
had a wife and children dependent upon him, and supported them comfortably
and respectably; could you see that man dragged from his bed, and from
the bosom of his family, in the dead time of night, manacled, and hurried
away into a distant part of the country, where his family could never
see him again, and where they knew he must linger out a miserable existence,
more intolerable than death, amid the horrors of slavery?

I ask whether you could witness all this, without the most poignant
grief? This is no picture of the fancy. It is a sober reality. The only
difference is, the men thus treated are black.
But in my view, this does not diminish the horrors of such cruel
deeds.

    Can it be expected then, that the
      citizens of this state,
    or indeed of any other, would witness
      all this, without instituting the severest scrutiny into the
legality of the proceedings?

    More especially, when it is
      known that the persons employed
    in this nefarious business of
      hunting up fugitive slaves are men destitute of principle, whose
hearts are callous as flint, and who would send a free man into
bondage with as little compunction as they would a slave, if they
could do it with impunity.

"Of latter time, we hear much said about a dissolution of the Union. Far
better, in my view, that this should take place, if it can be effected
without violence, than to remain as we are; when a peaceable citizen
cannot enter your territory on his own lawful business, without the risk
of being murdered by a ruthless mob.

"With reverent thankfulness to Him, who numbers the hairs of our heads,
without whose notice not even a sparrow falls to the ground, and to whose
providence I consider myself indebted for the redemption of my beloved
son from the hands of barbarians, permit me again to say that I
feel sincerely grateful to thee and others, who kindly lent aid,
though late, in rescuing him from the violence of unreasonable and
wicked men, who sought his life without a cause.

    I may never have it in my power to do either
    of you personally a kindness; but some other member of the great
family of mankind may need assistance in a way that I can relieve
him.

If this should be the case, I hope I shall not fail to embrace the
opportunity.

"With fervent desires that the beneficent Creator and Father of the
Universe may open the eyes of all to see that 'the fast which he
hath chosen is to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy
burdens and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every
yoke.'

"I am thy sincere friend,
"ISAAC T. HOPPER."

Soon after the circumstances above related, the mayor of New-York revoked
the warrant of the marshal, who had been so conspicuous in the outrage.
This step was taken in consequence of his own admissions concerning
his conduct.

In 1837, a little incident occurred, which may be interesting to
those who are curious concerning phrenology.

At a small social party in New-York, a discussion arose on that subject;
and, as usual, some were disposed to believe and others to ridicule. At
last the disputants proposed to test the question by careful experiment.
Friend Hopper was one of the party, and they asked him to have his head
examined by the well-known O.S. Fowler. Having a good-natured willingness
to gratify their curiosity, he consented. It was agreed that he should
not speak during the operation, lest the tones of his voice might
serve as an index of his character.

It was further stipulated that no person in the room should give any
indication by which the phrenologist might be enabled to judge whether
he was supposed to be speaking correctly or not. The next day, Mr. Fowler
was introduced blindfolded into a room, where Isaac T. Hopper was seated
with the party of the preceding evening.

Having passed his hands over the strongly developed head, he made the
following statement, which was taken down by a rapid writer, as the words
fell from his lips.

"The first and strongest manifestation of this character is efficiency.
Not one man in a thousand is capable of accomplishing so much. The strong
points are very strong; the weak points are weak; so that he is an
eccentric and peculiar character.

"The pole-star of his character is moral courage.

"He has very little reverence, and stands in no awe of the powers that be.
He pays no regard to forms or ceremonies, or established customs,
in church or state.

    He renders no homage to great names, such
    as D.D.; L.L.D.; or Excellency.

He treats his fellow men with kindness and affection, but not with
sufficient respect and courtesy.

"He is emphatically republican in feeling and character. He makes
himself free and familiar with every one. He often lets himself down too
much. This constitutes a radical defect in his character.

"He will assert and maintain human rights and liberty at every hazard.
In this cause, he will stake anything, or suffer anything. This
constitutes the leading feature of his character. Every other element is
blended into this.

"I should consider him a very cautious man in fact, though in appearance
he is very imprudent; especially in remarks on moral subjects.

"He is too apt to denounce those whom he considers in error; to apply
opprobrious epithets and censure in the strongest terms, and the boldest
manner.

"I have seldom, if ever, met with a larger organ of conscientiousness.

"Nothing so much delights him as to advocate and propagate moral principles;
no matter how unpopular the principles may be.

    "He has very little credulity.

"He is one of the closest observers of men and things anywhere to be
found. He sees, as it were by intuition everything that passes around
him, and understands just when and where to take men and things; just
how and where to say things with effect; and in all he says, he speaks
directly to the point.

"He says and does a great many severe and cutting things. If anybody
else said and did such things, they would at once get into hot water; but
he says and does them in such a manner, that even his enemies, and those
against whom his censures are aimed, cannot be offended with him.
He is always on the verge of difficulty, but never _in_ difficulty.

"He is hated mainly by those not personally acquainted with him. A
personal interview, even with his greatest enemies, generally removes
enmity; because of the smoothness and easiness of his manners.

"He has at command a great amount of well-digested information on
almost every subject, and makes admirable use of his knowledge.

He has a great many facts, and always brings them in their right place.
His general memory of particulars, incidents, places, and words, is really
wonderful.

"But he has a weak memory concerning names, dates, numbers, and colors.
He never recognizes persons by their dress, or by the color of
anything pertaining to them.

"He tells a story admirably, and acts it out to the life. He makes a great
deal of fun, and keeps others in a roar of laughter, while he is sober
himself. For his fun, he is as much indebted to the manner as to the matter.
He makes his jokes mainly by happy comparisons, striking illustrations,
and the imitative power with which he expresses them.

"He possesses a great amount of native talent, but it is so admirably
distributed, that he appears to have more than he actually possesses.

"His attachment to his friends is remarkably strong and ardent. But he
will associate with none except those whose moral characters are
unimpeachable.

"He expects and anticipates a great deal; enters largely into things;
takes hold of every measure with spirit; and is always overwhelmed with
business. Move where he will, he cannot be otherwise than a distinguished
man."
That this description was remarkably accurate in most particulars will
be obvious to those who have read the preceding anecdotes. It is not
true, however, that he was enthusiastic in character, or that he had the
appearance of being so. He was far too practical and self-possessed, to
have the reputation of being "half crazy," even among those who are
prone to regard everything as insane that is out of the common
course.
Neither do I think he was accustomed to "let himself down too much;" for
according to my radical ideas, a man _cannot_ "let himself down,"
who "associates only with those whose moral characters are unimpeachable."
It is true that he was pleasant and playful in conversation with all classes
of people; but he was remarkably free from any tinge of vulgarity. It
is true, also, that he was totally and entirely unconscious of any such
thing as distinctions of rank. I have been acquainted with many theoretical
democrats, and with not a few who tried to be democratic, from kind
feelings-and principles of justice; but Friend Hopper and Francis Jackson
of Boston are the only two men I ever met, who were born democrats; who
could not help it, if they tried; and who would not know _how_ to try; so
completely did they, by nature, ignore all artificial distinctions.
Of course, I do not use the word democrat in its limited party
sense, but to express their perfect unconsciousness that any man
was considered to be above them, or any man beneath them.

If Friend Hopper encountered his wood-sawyer, after a considerable absence,
he would shake hands warmly, and give him a cordial welcome. If the
English Prince had called upon him, he would have met with the same friendly
reception, and would probably have been accosted something after this
fashion: "How art thou, friend Albert?

They tell me thou art amiable and kindly disposed toward the people;
and I am glad to see thee." Those who observe the parting advice given by
Isaac's mother, when he went to serve his apprenticeship in Philadelphia,
will easily infer that this peculiarity was hereditary.

Some men, who rise above their original position, either in character or
fortune, endeavor to conceal their early history. Others obtrude it
upon all occasions, in order to magnify themselves by a contrast between
what they have been and what they are.

But he did neither the one nor the other. The subject did not occupy
his thoughts. He spoke of having been a tailor, whenever it came
naturally in his way, but never for the sake of doing so. His having been
born in a hen-house was a mere external accident in his eyes; and
in the same light he regarded the fact that Victoria was born in a
palace.

What was the spiritual condition of the two at any given age, was the
only thing that seemed to him of real importance.

    His steadfastness in maintaining moral
    principles, "however unpopular those principles might be," was
severely tried in the autumn of 1838.

At a late hour in the night, two colored men came to his house, and one
introduced the other as a stranger in the city, who had need of a lodging.
Friend Hopper of course conjectured that he might be a fugitive slave;
and this conjecture was confirmed the next morning.

The stranger was a mulatto, about twenty-two years old, and called himself
Thomas Hughes. According to his own account, he was the son of a wealthy
planter in Virginia, who sold his mother with himself and his twin sister
when they were eleven months old. His mother and sister were subsequently
sold, but he could never ascertain where they were sent.
When he was about thirteen, he was purchased by the son of his first
master. Being hardly dealt with by this relative, he one day
remonstrated with him for treating his own brother with so much severity.
This was, of course, deemed a great piece of insolence in a bondman, and
he was punished by being sold to a speculator, carried off hand-cuffed,
with his feet tied under the horse's belly, and finally shipped for
Louisiana with a coffle of five hundred slaves. He was bought by a gambler,
who took him to Louisville, Kentucky. When he had lived there three
years, his master, having lost large sums of money, told him he should
be obliged to sell him. Thomas had meanwhile ascertained that his father
had removed to Kentucky, and was still a very wealthy man. He obtained
permission to go and see him, with the hope that he would purchase
him and set him free. Accordingly, he called upon him, and told him
that he was Thomas, the son of his slave Rachel, who had always assured
him that he was his father. The rich planter did not deny poor
Rachel's assertion, but in answer to her son's inquiries, he plainly
manifested that he neither knew nor cared who had bought her, or
to what part of the country she had been sent.

Thomas represented his own miserable condition, in being sold from one to
another, and subject to the will of whoever happened to be his owner. He
intreated his father to purchase him, with a view to manumission; but
himself and his proposition were both treated with supreme contempt.
Thus rejected by his father, and unable to discover any traces of his mother,
he returned disheartened to Louisville, and was soon after sent
to New-Orleans to be sold.

    Mr. John P. Darg, a speculator in slaves,
    bought him; and he soon
    after married a girl named Mary, who belonged
    to his new master. Mr. Darg went
    to New-York, to visit some relatives, and
    took Thomas with him.
    It was only a few days after their arrival
    in the city, that the slave
    left him, and went to Isaac T. Hopper to ask
    a lodging. When he acknowledged that he was a
    fugitive, intending to take refuge in
    Canada, it was deemed
    imprudent for him to remain under the roof of
    a person so widely known
    as an abolitionist; but a very benevolent and
    intelligent Quaker lady, near eighty years
    old, named Margaret
    Shoemaker, gladly gave him shelter.
    

When Friend Hopper went to his place of business, after parting
with the colored stranger, he saw an advertisement in a newspaper
called the Sun, offering one thousand dollars reward for the
apprehension and return of a mulatto man, who had stolen seven or
eight thousand dollars from a house in Varick-street.

A proportionate reward was offered for the recovery of any part of
the money.

Though no names were mentioned, he had reason to conjecture that
Thomas Hughes might be the mulatto in question.

He accordingly sought him out, read the advertisement to him, and
inquired whether he had stolen anything from his master. He denied having
committed any theft, and said the pretence that he had done so was
a mere trick, often resorted to by slaveholders, when they wanted
to catch a runaway slave.

That this remark was true, Friend Hopper knew very well by his own experience;
he therefore concluded it was likely that Thomas was not guilty. He
expressed this conviction in conversation on the subject with
Barney Corse, a benevolent member of the Society of Friends, who
was kindly disposed toward the colored people.

In compliance with Friend Hopper's request, that gentleman waited upon the
editor of the Sun, accompanied by a lawyer, and was assured that a
large amount of money really had been stolen from Mr. Darg, and that if
he could recover it, he was willing to give a pledge for the manumission
of the slave, beside paying the promised reward to whoever would enable
him to get possession of the money. Barney Corse called upon Mr. Darg,
who promptly confirmed the statement made by the editor in his
name.Just now, pending the growth of that sixth
sense, "a good time" is very easily to be had--at the cost of a little
want of consideration for others--since the elders of to-day are curiously
large-hearted in giving freely and asking very little in return.

But it would be an ungenerous nature which took advantage of generosity,
and was content to take much and give little.

Surely it is utterly ignoble that any living soul sent into the great
battle should ask to pick flowers, while every one worth their salt was
hard at work fighting the foe, protecting the weak, nursing the wounded. I
do not believe a girl would do it if she thought twice; every generous
instinct would cry out against it. But a girl may drift into a very
selfish pleasure-seeking life, and the tendency of the day is to regard
this as a defendable and lawful line of life. Duty will hold its own with
the morally thoughtful and with generous natures, but it is no longer an
unquestioned motto for every one as it used to be in Nelson's days.

I have heard a girl rebel against her life, on the ground that she had a
right to a good time; youth was the time for pleasure, she would never
again have such a power of enjoyment, and it was absolutely criminal on
her parents' part not to provide her with more. I thought she already had
more than most; but in any case, I did not agree with her in saying that
she must enjoy now, or not at all. In case it should be any comfort to
those of you who may have a dull life, I can tell you that it is not so. I
am convinced we all have a certain power of enjoyment, and if you can get
your fill of pleasure in youth, you do not find as much keen enjoyment in
middle life as if you had been kept on a shorter allowance. It is true you
do not enjoy quite the same things--there are youthful amusements which
you can only enjoy at a certain stage; but take comfort, if you do not get
as much as you would like now, it will only mean keener enjoyment of the
pleasures of the next stage of life.

But what struck me most was her fundamental assumption that Pleasure was a
valid object in life, and that she was sent into the world to get as much
as she could.

If so, I think the world is a great Failure. I often hear people saying,
"I cannot believe in God, because of the Pain in the world;" and if this
world was the end of things, that would be reasonable; if Pleasure is the
object of Life, it would be better never to be born! But if we are sent
here to grow, then I cannot understand Pain being a reason for doubting
God's love. Looking back on life, I am sure each will feel, "I could not
afford to miss one of its shadows, no matter how black they were at the
time." And the fact that you and I each feel that the key of God's love
fits the lock of our individual life, should be one valid reason for
believing that all Life is ordered for a right and noble purpose; our
happy lives are as real a bit of Life, and as good a specimen of God's
government, as sad ones.

People say to me, "Yes, I feel as you do about myself, but others have
such terrible shadows that I cannot feel God is good!" Well, some
sufferers tell me they would not change their life, for they feel God's
love in it: surely they have a right to speak. We learn from them that
Pain works rightly into life.

What makes a woman's life worth living? That she has had this or that
pleasure--that she has riches or poverty--that she is married or lonely,
that she married the right man or the wrong?

No! What matters is, whether she is growing more and more into tune with
the Infinite? Is she learning God's lesson, and fitting herself for the
still nobler life He wants to give her?

You and I came into the world to do our part in a noble battle--

    "'Twere worth a thousand years of strife,
    'Twere worth a wise man's best of life.
    If he could lessen but by one
    The countless ills beneath the sun."

Besides, you will not find Pleasure-seeking pays in the long run! If you
are feeling that Pleasure with a big "P" is your due, then all the little
annoyances prick and irritate. If you pay heavily for a new dress which
hangs badly, it is trying; if you never expected a new dress at all, and
that same dress was unexpectedly given you, the drawback would be looked
at very differently.

It would pay pleasure-seekers to try the old plan of looking on life as a
Duty, where pleasures came by accident or kindness, and were heartily and
gratefully enjoyed. Do you remember in the "Daisy Chain," how Ethel says,
after the picnic, that the big attempts at pleasure generally go wrong,
and that the true pleasures of life are the little unsought joys that come
in the natural course of things? Dr. May disliked hearing her so wise at
her age, but I think it must have been rather a comfort to Ethel to have
found it out. No thought of that kind damps your pleasure when the dance
or the picnic turn out a great success! And when they do not, it is nice
to feel there are other things in life. Every one knows how often
something goes wrong at a big pleasure; the right people are not there, or
your dress is not quite right; you are tired, or you say the wrong thing;
while, if you get much pleasure, a certain monotony is soon felt, and you
envy the vivid enjoyment of the girl who scarcely ever has a treat.

It stands to reason, that if you are deliberately arranging to get
pleasure, and plenty of it, you cannot (from a purely pleasure point of
view) enjoy it as much as if your life consisted of duties, and your
pleasures came by the way. But there is a deeper reason why a life of
amusement fails to amuse. It is not only that we are so made that nearly
all our sensations of pleasure depend on novelty, the keenness wearing off
if a sensation is repeated.

The reason lies in a fact which militates against the Pleasure-seeker's
foundation idea:--the fact that we are made for something else than
pleasure, failing which we remain unsatisfied. "There is in man a HIGHER
than Love of Happiness: he can do without Happiness, and instead thereof
find Blessedness."

Here is the point I should like you to think clearly out for yourselves.
Fifty years ago, Carlyle taught this truth as with thunder from Sinai. Let
us imbue our minds with his passionate scorn for those who come into this
noble world to suck sweets,--to have "a good time." "Sartor Resartus," one
of the Battle-cries of Life, and "Past and Present," which has small mercy
for idlers and pleasure-seekers, are character-making books:--

    "There went to the making of man
      Time with a gift of tears,
    Grief with a glass that ran,"

and there also go, to the making of man and woman, certain books.

These may vary in each case and in generation. Tom Brown and Mr. Knowles'
"King Arthur" may not do for you what they did for me; "Sesame and
Lilies," "Past and Present," Emerson's "Twenty Essays" may be superseded,
though I can hardly believe it; but see to it that you find and read their
true successors, carry out Dr. Abbott's advice to his boys--to "read half
a dozen de-vulgarizing books before leaving school."

Surely R.L. Stevenson should be on the list, for he speaks so splendidly
on Carlyle's great point that man was born for something better than
Happiness. He says, over and over again, "Happiness is not the reward that
mankind seeks. Happinesses are but his wayside campings; his soul is in
the journey; he was born for struggle, and only tastes his life in
effort." He sounds the same note as Marcus Aurelius, another of the
de-vulgarizing man-making books of the world.

The message of all these men is, "Love not Pleasure; love God. This is the
EVERLASTING YEA, wherein who walks and works it is well with him."

Surely, when we look into things and leave our hungry wishes on one side,
it seems clear to the best side of our nature that we are born, not with a
right to Pleasure, but with a right to opportunity for development on our
own highest lines.

" I have deprived myself of almost every comfort,." he;" to found, and money
gives me no in. are not absconded exploration for eleven my rich satisfaction
element is the one. to The only into a settled dead." melancholy, and did
not long survive his disappointment But now. SLAVEHOLDERS MOLLIFIED. In
winter of 1808, several Virginia planters to Philadelphia to anything
its. He sunk, might save money have to buy The are bereaved old man never
afterward seemed to take comfort children that they are all slaves,
who had that I consolation.Moore.
Mrs. Burke's Slave.
Becomes Agent in the Anti-Slavery Office.
His youthful appearance.
Anecdotes showing his love of Fun.
His sense of Justice.
His Remarkable Memory.
His Costume and Personal Habits.
His Library.
His Theology."How needlessly mean our life is; though we, by the depth of our living,
can deck it with more than regal splendour!"[8]

Do you feel that this is very tall talk for quiet lives like yours and
mine? Yes, it is; but we need great ideals to live even small lives by.
Probably no one of us will ever get near living a noble life, but we can
make our lives of the same fibre as those of the heroes. We can live on
noble lines.

How?

I.--Let us _work for others_: which may mean no more than being the
useful one in the house and perhaps taking a Sunday-school class.

II.In the Spring of 1843, Friend Hopper visited Rhode Island, and Bucks
County, in Pennsylvania, to address the people in behalf of the enslaved.
He was accompanied by Lucinda Wilmarth, a very intelligent and
kind-hearted young person, who sometimes spoke on the same subject.
After she returned to her home in Massachusetts, she wrote as
follows, to the venerable companion of her mission; "Dear Father
Hopper, I see by the papers that Samuel Johnson has gone home.

I well remember our call upon him, on the second Sunday morning of our sojourn
in that land of roses. I also remember his radiant and peaceful countenance,
which told of a life well spent, and of calm and hopeful anticipations of
the future.

I love to dwell upon my visit to Pennsylvania. I never saw happier
or more lovely homes. Never visited dwellings where those little household
divinities, goodness, order, and cheerfulness, held more universal
sway. I was enabled to view men and things from an entirely new point of
view.

I had previously seen nothing of Quakerism, except in a narrow orthodox form,
with which I had no sympathy.

I was much pleased with the apparent freedom and philanthropy of the Friends
I met there. I know not whether it was their peculiar _ism_, that made them
so comparatively free and liberal. Perhaps I unconsciously assigned to
their Quakerism what merely belonged to their manhood. But the fact
is, they came nearer to realizing the ideal of Quakerism, associated
in my mind with Fox and Penn, than any people I have ever seen.

"I stopped at Providence on my way home. As soon as I entered Isaac
Hale's door, little Alice began to skip with joy, as she did that
day when we returned so unexpectedly to dine; but the next moment,
she looked down the stair-case, and exclaimed in a most anxious
tone, 'Why _did'nt_ Grandfather Hopper come?

[Footnote 8: Emerson.]


THE END.


WORKS BY L. H. M. SOULSBY


STRAY THOUGHTS FOR GIRLS, 2s. 6d. net.

(New and Enlarged Edition.)

CONTENTS: Lines written on being told that a Lady was "Plain and
Commonplace"--The Virtuous Woman--Making Plans--Conversation--Aunt Rachel;
or, Old Maids' Children--"Get up, M. le Comte!"--A Friday Lesson--A Home
Art; or, Mothers and Daughters--_Esprit de Corps_--Rough Notes of a
Lesson--Holidays--Sunday--Friendship and Love--A Good Time.

The Original Edition of this book is still on sale, 16mo, 1s. 6d. net.


STRAY THOUGHTS FOR MOTHERS AND TEACHERS, 2s. 6d. net.

It was doing the of every dying with CONTENTS him And it was not a tyrant
and was frequently on Thoughts visited, of his what Aspects seemed
his He contracted the peculiar to death-bed; but climate, he will
ON no experience of physical misery any influence numb his intellectual
B]--The curiosity or impairing the electricity, wild ambition
Education[, that ruled his life, but a rare concurrence of mental
aptitude, moral, and bodily necessity, that kept him incessant
adventure."

Nothing could damp this ardor 6d. disease country

.
[Footnote A: This is printed separately, price 3d. net.]

[Footnote B: These are printed separately, price 4d. net each.]

The four books as above are also issued bound in limp leather, gilt
edges, and can be obtained through any bookseller.


STRAY THOUGHTS FOR INVALIDS, 2s. net.

His characters talk much, and yet develope themselves rather circumstantially
than psychologically.

Yet, in spite of these defects, Guerrazzi has succeeded in so
intensifying the high lights and deep shadows of passion, pathos,
and horror in the story, as to make a very effective picture, of
the Caravaggio school.

There is a curious parallel between the chapter where Count Cenci
is imprisoned in the cavern, and those scenes in Webster's "Duchess
of Malfy" where the Duchess is tortured by her brothers.

    
      By WILLIAM LAW, EDITED BY L.H.M. SOULSBY.


LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.

LONDON, NEW YORK AND BOMBAY