"They surely look like dolls on the very covers," said Alexia, fingering
the cords. "Would it be so very wrong to open one box, and just relieve
our suspense? Just one, Polly?"

"No, no, don't," cried Polly sharply. "They belong to Phronsie. But O
dear me!"

"And just think," said Alexia, like a Job's comforter, and looking over
at the clock, "it's only half-past eleven. Polly Pepper, there's time
for oceans more to come in yet."

"It's perfectly horrid to get such a scrap of an outing," said Joel that
night, sprawling on the rug before the library fire, "only four days!
Why couldn't Mr. Marks be sick longer than that, if he was going to be
sick at all, pray?"

"These four days will give you strength for your 'exams,' won't they,
Joe?" asked Van.

Joel turned his black eyes on him and coolly said "Yes," then made a wry
face, doubled up a bit of paper, and aimed it at Van.

Davie sighed, and looked up anxiously. "I hope Mr. Marks will come out
all right so that we can go back Monday."

"I only hope he'll stay ill," said Joel affectionately. "'Tisn't safe
anyway for us to go back Monday. It may be typhoid fever, you know,
Mamsie," looking over at her.

"They'll let us know soon enough if that's the case," said Mother Fisher
in the lamp-light over by the center-table. "No, I expect your letter
to-morrow will say 'Come Monday.'"

"Well, it's a downright shame for us to be pulled off so soon," cried
Joel indignantly, sitting straight.

"Think how soon the term ends, Joe," cried Polly, "then you have such a
long outing." She sighed as she thought of the separation to come, and
the sea between them.

"That's nothing; only a dreadful little time--soon will be gone,"
grunted Joel, turning his face to look at the brightly-leaping flames
the cool evening had made necessary.

Ben glanced over at Polly. "Don't talk of the summer," he was going to
say, but stopped in time. Phronsie set her doll carefully in the corner
of the sofa, and went over to Joel.

Left behind _again_. Halt! Dress up by the right. Blanket, Private
Haldane, you're _still_ talking.

Private Haldane will be blown from the guns at dusk. As you were. It's
no good taking half measures with Private Haldane; kindness is
wasted on him.

Private Haldane will be stopped jam for tea this afternoon."

And then a smile came over James's face. He repressed it, drew himself
up, and surveyed us sternly.

"Squad, _'shun_! Scratch--_noses_!"

* * *
"Thank you, I feel much better," said James.

A. A. M.

* * * * *
DISCOVERERS' RIGHTS.

DEAR MR.

PUNCH,--Unless the blackberrying season is to be utterly ruined and
thousands of homes thus rendered poisonously unhappy, something must
be done to make people play the game.

Why is it that this simple little fruit should have such a bad
influence on otherwise nice persons?

But it has. It makes them utterly selfish and inconsiderate.

Take our experience last week on the Common.

We went out with baskets--three of us--Elsa, Dolores, and me, and, after
hunting about for some time and getting fearfully scratched, we
came upon a perfectly priceless group of bushes which no one had
discovered.

The blackberries were there in millions, ripe too, and all sparkling in
that patent-leather way which makes the mouth water and prevents
as many getting into the basket as ought to.

We were of course fearfully bucked by finding such a spot, and began
at once in earnest. Judge then of our dismay when another party of
blackberriers, attracted, I imagine, by our cries of rapture, came
up and began picking too!

These were the two Misses Blank, whom we know very slightly. They ought,
of course, to have gone right away and done their own discovering.

Instead of that they just nodded, and then snatched away at our bushes
as though they were in their own garden.

One of them even came up to a bush on which Elsa was engaged. What was
she to do? She could not remonstrate, as we knew them so slightly, so
she abandoned the bush with a gesture of contempt which should
have made a dummy blush, but had no effect whatever on these
thick-skinned Prussians, as we now believe they must be.

Probably their real name is Fressen, Elsa thinks.

Common decency (I don't mean this for a joke, but I suppose it is
one) should prevent anybody from going to a place discovered by
somebody else; and why I write is to ask you if there is not an
unwritten law against such conduct, and if so will you make it
widely known?

It would be dreadful if all the blackberrying parties during this September
and October were to be ruined by people like the Misses Fressen.

I am, Yours faithfully, FAIR PLAY.

* * * * *
Illustration: BY REQUEST.

_Visitor (to Percy of "The Mauve Merriments.")_ "WHAT WOULD YOU
CHARGE TO SING 'IT'S A LONG WAY TO TIPPERARY' INTO AUNTIE'S
EAR-TRUMPET?"

* * * * * 
THE GREAT CAMPAIGN.

The formal declaration of war (altogether unexpected by the best
minds of the community, though the opposing armies had been mobilised
for a month previously), came like a bolt from the blue on September
1st.

In an instant the whole country was engaged in sanguinary conflict. We
give with reserve the following reports which have reached us from our
correspondents at the front:--
CIVILIANS IN THE BATTLE LINE.

On the north-eastern frontier a keen encounter occurred between the
famous Albion South End Corps and an invading division of the
redoubtable Cockspur troops.

Fifteen thousand spectators from posts of vantage round the field witnessed
the fearful onslaught of the enemy.

Civilians were so moved by the imminent peril of the home troops
that, arming themselves with stones and bottles, and shouting "----"
(excised by Censor), they flung themselves on the wings of the
invading army and utterly routed them.

It is rumoured that the Cockspurs contemplate reprisals. In the event
of the South End Corps invading their country it is believed that all
civilians will fight to the death against the invader.

THE OLD BRITISH SPIRIT.

Thrilling scenes were witnessed at the opening of the Ealham Thursday
campaign. A huge crowd, thirsting for a sight of the conflict,
gathered in the confines of the battlefield.

A force of blue-clad mercenaries held them in check for a time. But
thirty thousand volunteers are worth more than a hundred paid
men. With magnificent unanimity the Britons formed in column.

The dense black mass pressed forward. For a moment the conflict was
fearful.

Then the thin blue line of the mercenaries gave way and they fled
in disgraceful rout.

A moment later thirty thousand unconquerable Britons, laden with booty
from the pay-boxes, stood triumphant on the shilling reserved mound. That
wonderful charge had captured the position.

OUTRAGES ON NON-COMBATANTS.

We record with deep regret a violation of the laws of war by the General
of the Shatterham Wanderers army. In the heat of the combat with the
Notts Strollers brigade he ignored the whistled appeal for an
armistice to pick up the wounded.

Proceeding steadily he fired a deadly shot into the enemy's fortifications.
A neutral officer, under the protection of the Red Cross, courageously
protested against this infamy.

In an excess of military fury the General smote the neutral officer to the
earth.

It is believed that, unless the offending General be instantly submitted
to a regular court-martial, the Shatterham Wanderers' army will be
solemnly declared outside the pale of humanity. (NOTE.--The Censor allows
the foregoing account to be printed but disclaims all responsibility
for its correctness.)
BRILLIANT RECRUITING CAMPAIGN.

Great weakness has been observed amongst the advanced sharpshooters
of the Bullington Arsenal corps. "We must have men at any cost," said
their determined Secretary.

A cheering crowd attended him to the station as he set out for ----
(excision by the Censor), accompanied by two commissionaires bearing
armoured bags of bullion.

A rumour reaches us that at the cost of four thousand pounds the
Secretary has secured two famous shots. Great anxiety is felt in
Bullington. Crowds gather round the headquarters of the corps and ask,
"Will they come in time?"
LATER.--A wire from Scotland confirms the news. The Union Jack is flying
over the headquarters.

It is felt that the great recruiting campaign has saved Britain.

* * * * *

Illustration: "HELLO, MARIA! STOPPED SEWING FOR TO-DAY?"
"YES, SAMPSON. I THINK THERE IS MORE NEED OF MEN THAN OF PYJAMAS. I HAVE
DECIDED TO PART WITH YOU, AND SHALL GIVE YOU TO LORD KITCHENER--MYSELF!

GET YOUR HAT ON."
* * * * *

THE TIRPITZ TOUCH.

(_A new nautical ballad._)
They faced the winds, the waves, the fogs, For they were a gallant
band, And they ventured forth, the bold sea dogs, From the bight
of Heligoland.

Six ships of war they steamed along, Audacious and yet discreet,
When lo!

on the skyline, fifteen strong, They sighted another fleet.

Oh!

theirs was indeed a perilous choice, 'Twas a case of fight or flee, When
the captain cried in a resolute voice, "Let us fight, my lads," cried
he.

"Long have we panted to come to grips, And here we shall gain our wish;
Moreover, I fancy that yonder ships Have nothing on board but
fish."

Then up spake a grizzled _Goeben_ lad, "We be far from land or fort; I
should feel more safe if I knew we had A battleship in support."
"There be six of us, and fifteen of them; Have a care while the
odds are thus; We may rake 'em with shell from stern to stem, But
they might throw herrings at us."

The captain he said, "Take heart of grace; There's many a risk to run; A
herring's an awkward thing to face, But it's not so bad as a gun."

"My mariners all, be not afraid To venture on bold designs; Remember ye
come of the stock that made The North Sea stiff with mines."
"So clear the decks for a scrap, my braves, Since fight ye must and
shall, Like sons of the men who rule the waves, The waves of the
Kiel Canal."

So all that day they fought and drank Of the battle's fierce delight,
And blazed and blazed away till they sank Those trawling boats ere
night.

Then they steamed away, Yeo ho! Yeo ho!
Brave men who had gained their wish, With lots of captives of war
in tow, And any amount of fish.

* * * * *
The Distinction.

"The members of the Cheltenham Club do not play on Sundays; the
ladies and gentlemen of the Cotswold Hills Club do play on the
Sabbath."

--_The Homefinder._
* * * * *

Illustration: HAIL! RUSSIA!

* * * * *
Illustration: THE LAST OF THE NUTS OF SANDY COVE;
OR, HOW TO MAKE USE OF OUR STAY-AT-HOMES.

_Lady in the background (also engaged in making night-wear for the
wounded)._ "I SAY! I WONDER IF YOU WOULD BE SO GOOD AS TO LEND HIM
TO US WHEN YOU'VE FINISHED WITH HIM."

* * * * *

Illustration: THE RT. HON. JOHN BURNS FAILS TO RECOGNISE HIS PORTRAIT
AS PAINTED BY A GERMAN PRESS AGENCY ARTIST.

* * * * *

ESSENCE OF PARLIAMENT.

(EXTRACTED FROM THE DIARY OF TOBY, M.P.)

_House of Commons, Wednesday, Sept. 9._--Parliament met again
after brief recess.

Compared with recent rushes at critical epochs, attendance scanty. Among
absentees the SPEAKER, who has well earned the holiday deferred
by exigencies of war.

PREMIER in place at Question time. Did not stop long. Expected to make
statement on position and prospects of Home Rule and Welsh Church
Bills.

As his magnificent speech at Guildhall testified afresh, when occasion
arises he can say the right thing in perfect phrase. Constitutionally
is disinclined to talk.

No absolute need to make preliminary statement.

Everyone knows these matters are settled; nor are details of settlement
a secret. Prorogation will be decreed early next week, and, in accordance
with provisions of Parliament Act, Home Rule Bill and Welsh Church
Disestablishment Bill will be added to Statute Book.

But an interval will elapse before they become operative, an opportunity
to be used for final effort to arrive at compromise between
conflicting parties.

Proceedings, in the main formal, varied by reading of statement
from VICEROY describing how chiefs and people of India are each all
one in enthusiastic loyalty in the hour of England's need, and how
lavish are their offers of help.

Reading of Eastern story received with outbursts of cheering.

"No one to say a good word for the Scourge of Louvain.

But let us give the----, I mean the KAISER, his due. At a stroke he effected
the long-time impossible feat of welding Ireland into a loyal entity
enthusiastically ready to draw the sword in aid of its long-estranged
Sister across the Channel.

Less than a year ago India was in state of ominous unrest that found
partial expression in attempt on life of VICEROY.

The KAISER, secretly plotting treacherous design on a friend and
neighbour accustomed to lavish hospitality upon him, took note of
these things.

Confidently counted them in when reckoning up his game, and arranging
time and opportunity for opening it. And lo! when he stands unmasked,
he finds among the trustiest wings of the Empire's Army those
supplied by India and Ireland."

Thus the MEMBER FOR SARK mused on his way to the Club to read the
latest telegrams from the seat of war.

_Business done._--Various emergency Bills advanced a stage.

_Thursday._--Five weeks ago, when Declaration of War with Germany boomed
across Europe, PREMIER asked the Commons to sanction increase of
Army by half-a-million men.

Reply enthusiastically affirmative. To-day comes down again and, like a
young person who shall here be nameless, "asks for more."

National response to recruitment of first batch most gratifying. Save
60,000 men the half-million already enrolled.

At present rate of progress another couple of days or so will see number
completed.
Meanwhile PREMIER asks for another half-million.

These forthcoming, and in present mood of nation there is no doubt on
subject, "We shall be in a position," he added, "to put something like
1,200,000 men in the field," a sight that would make WELLINGTON, not to
mention MARLBOROUGH, stare.

With that patriotic zeal that has marked attitude of Opposition since war
began BONAR LAW warmly supported proposal. Vote agreed to without
debate or division.

_Business done._--Having voted additional half-million men for
Army, House adjourned till Monday.

* * * * *

AT THE PLAY.

"BLUFF KING HAL."
The arrangements for the production of Mr.

LOUIS PARKER'S pageant-comedy had of course been made long before war
was contemplated. The completion of Mr. BOURCHIER'S beard in itself
points to a comparatively remote date for the play's inception.

Certainly there is nothing very apposite in its theme at the present
juncture; for HARRY OF ENGLAND, suffering from the gout, blustering
into a sixth marriage, and haunted by the ghosts of four dead wives
and the wraith of the sole survivor, is not a figure precisely
calculated to inspire patriotic fervour.

Still, the circumstances of the play are sufficiently national, and
it should serve well enough as a permissible distraction for
non-combatants.

You need not be terrified by the complexity of the cast, which
consists of twenty prominent characters, twenty-four in smaller
type, four ghosts and a wraith, and a sprinkling of nameless
"halberdiers, huntsmen, minstrels, servitors, etc."

(The soldier-supers--a type not to be confused with the super-soldier--were
a very scratch lot; and I must hope that this defect was due to the
enlistment of the more martial spirits in the profession.) The history
of the period is made easy for all intelligences, and the relations
of _Katharine Parr_ with her lover, _Sir Thomas Seymour_, furnish a
clear thread of human interest.

It was pleasant to make the acquaintance of two future Queens--_Mary_ and
_Elizabeth_--at the less familiar stages of girlhood. _Mary_, very
nicely played by Miss MINA LEONESI, showed no sign of her subsequent taste
for blood; but Miss KATHLEEN JONES, in the part of the pedantic
little _Princess Elizabeth_, gave us some very happy premonitions
of the domineering qualities of the Virgin Queen.

The tiny _Prince Edward_, too, who was prepared to compose an epithalamium
for his royal parent's final wedlock, already gave promise of a scholarly
career.

Apart, however, from the charm of Miss VIOLET VANBRUGH as _Katharine
Parr_, and the gentle dignity of Miss ALICE LONNON as _Anne Askew_,
there was little distinction shown by the others, though the _Lord
Chancellor Wriothesley_ of Mr.

HUMPHREYS, and Mr. BURTON'S _Bishop Gardiner_, conducted their villainies
with a proper restraint.

The honours of the evening obviously went to Mr.

HUGO RUMBOLD, who devised the admirable scenery and costumes, and to Mr.
BOURCHIER in the title-_rôle_. By nature and constitution he is clearly
made for this part of all others. Occasionally, in asides, his voice was
the voice of Mr.

BOURCHIER, but for the rest he identified himself with the undefeatable
_Hal_. I hope he may be persuaded to retain the monarch's beard as a
permanent feature; for, as a finished product, it suits him well in
private life; and, if he is to make a practice of playing the part
of _Henry VIII._, whether to the words of SHAKSPEARE or Mr.

PARKER, I would not, for his own sake and that of his many friends, have
him renew the horrific processes of its growth.

O. S.

"THE IMPOSSIBLE WOMAN."

The joy of _Tante_ (from which novel Mr. HADDON CHAMBERS has adapted this
play) was that many chapters went by before the reader realised that
_Madame Okraska_ was indeed an impossible woman. One began by liking
her; went on to criticise; decided that she wasn't so nice as the
author intended her to be; and then discovered suddenly that she
wasn't intended to be a sympathetic character at all, and that, in
fact, our changing attitude towards her had been just the changing
attitude which would have been ours in real life.

That was Miss ANNE DOUGLAS SEDGWICK'S art. She took her time. Mr. CHAMBERS
on the stage has not the time to take.

And so "_Tante_" is shown to us at once as a histrionic vampire,
feeding on the admiration and love of others.

_Gregory Jardine_, in love with her ward, _Karen_, has already seen
through her; we have seen through her; the question is, when will
_Karen_ see through her.

Forget about the book and you have the foundation of a good play here,
on which Mr.
CHAMBERS has built skilfully. I gather from the fact that he took alone
the call for "Author" that he would wish us to forget about the
book.

I cannot quite do that, but I can say with confidence that whoever has
not read _Tante_ will enjoy _The Impossible Woman_ fully, and that
the others will at least find it interesting.

Miss LILLAH MCCARTHY was a superb _Okraska_. Since she had to reveal
herself plainly to the audience, the temptation to overplay the
part must have been great, but she resisted it nobly. Mr. GODFREY TEARLE,
still a little apt to smile at the wrong moment, was a thoroughly
efficient _Gregory_; but Miss HILDA BAYLEY did not give me a very
clear idea of Mr.

CHAMBERS' _Karen_, and was certainly not Miss SEDGWICK'S.
Miss MAY WHITTY and Mr. HENRY EDWARDS, in the small but important parts
of _Mrs. Talcot_ and _Franz Lippheim_, were of very great assistance
to the play.

M.

* * * * *

Illustration: "I DUNNO 'OO NANCY IS--BUT THAT THERE KAYZER CAN'T BE NO
GENTLEMAN TO STAND BY AN' SEE 'ER KNOCKED ABAHT!"

* * * * *

Motto for German sailors who have sunk several herring-boats:--_Nemo
repente fuit Tirpitzimus._ 
* * * * *
Illustration: _Member of Relief Committee (taking down "all
particulars.")_ "THANK YOU, THAT'S ALL.

OH, BY THE WAY, I HAVEN'T GOT YOUR TELEPHONE NUMBER

."
* * * * *
TEETH-SETTING.

When the thunder-shaking German hosts are marching over France-- Lo,
the glinting of the bayonet and the quiver of the lance!-- When a rowdy
rampant KAISER, stout and mad and middle-aged, Strips his breast
of British Orders just to prove that he's enraged; When with fire
and shot and pillage He destroys each town and village; When the
world is black with warfare, then there's one thing you must do:--
Set your teeth like steel, my hearties, and sit tight and see it
through.

Oh, it's heavy work is fighting, but our soldiers do it well-- Lo, the
booming of the batteries, the clatter of the shell!-- And it's weary
work retiring, but they kept a dauntless front, All our company of
heroes who have borne the dreadful brunt.
They can meet the foe and beat him, They can scatter and defeat him, For
they learnt a steady lesson (and they taught a lesson, too), Having set
their teeth in earnest and sat tight and seen it through.

Then their brothers trooped to join them, taking danger for a bride,
Not in insolence and malice, but in honour and in pride; Caring nought
to be recorded on the muster-roll of fame, So they struck a blow
for Britain and the glory of her name.

Toil and wounds could but delight them, Death itself could not affright
them, Who went out to fight for freedom and the red and white and
blue, While they set their teeth as firm as flint and vowed to see
it through.

R. C. L.

* * * * *
IMPORTS AND EXPORTS.

[_A German cargo of lead has been captured._]
It is not lost to you, so make no moan; You shall receive it back, O
Potsdam pundit; We do but take a temporary loan, Intending to
refund it.

And goodly interest it shall not lack, A generous rate per cent. for every
particle; We take the raw material, sending back The manufactured article.

* * * * *
MR. PUNCH'S HOLIDAY STORIES.

V.--A HUNTING MORN.

(_In the approved manner of the Sporting Feuilleton._)
Setting his teeth determinedly, Ralph Wonderson swarmed up the Virginia-creeper
until he reached the closely-shuttered window.

Here he clung precariously with one hand while with the other he produced
a gimlet and noiselessly bored two holes in the green shutters.

Was he too late? The question shot through his brain. With a quick
intake of breath he applied an eye to one hole and an ear to the other
and watched and listened.

In the lighted room before him sat Sir Ernest Scrivener (_alias_
Marmaduke Moorsdyke) and a brutal-looking stranger.

Sir Ernest was speaking.

"Everything, I think, is ready," he said in his cold, level voice. "The
wedding is to take place in the village church to-morrow at eleven.

You, Ragley, will take up your position, disguised as a policeman, by the
church porch, arrest Wonderson on a charge of arson, and detain him
until I arrive, if I should not be already there. I have here the
policeman's uniform complete.

We are cub-hunting to-morrow morning, and at the proper moment I shall
leave the hunt and make my way across to the church, provided with the
forged warrant of arrest (which I shall, as a magistrate, hand to you),
the forged death certificate of my present wife, and the forged
special licence for the marriage of Lady Margaret Tamerton and
myself.

You will then rush Wonderson off in the motor which will be waiting, and
I shall proceed to marry Lady Margaret.
Yes--yes, everything is quite ready."
"There's just one thing, Sir," said Ragley, "if you'll excuse me
mentioning it.

Supposing as how the lady refuses like."
Sir Ernest tossed away his half-smoked cigar and smiled evilly.

"That has been foreseen," he said. "The shock of Wonderson's arrest
will cause her to feel faint. I shall have ready a bottle of smelling
salts.

I need not go into details ... drugs ... loss of will power ... you
see...."

The blood boiling in Ralph's ears prevented him from hearing more. Only
the sight of the two murderous-looking revolvers on the table and the
knowledge that he could not afford to take risks at this juncture
stopped him from tearing open the shutters and dashing into the
room.

Sir Ernest rose to his feet and simultaneously Ralph slid down the
creeper and regained _terra firma_.

His mind was working rapidly.

* * *

The meet of the Chingerley Hunt made a gay spectacle.

"All right, Mamsie!" exclaimed Joel in surprise, and trying to stagger
to his feet.

"Good heavens and earth!" cried old Mr. King, approaching. "What? oh!
it's monstrous--Joel!"

"Och, murther!" Thomas sidled along the edge of the group, rolling
fearful eyes at them, and repeating over and over, "I've shot that boy--
that boy!"

All this occupied but an instant, and Joel was laid on his bed, and the
wound which proved to be only a flesh one, the ball cutting a little
furrow as it grazed the shoulder, was dressed, and everybody drew a long
breath. "Tell Van that I'm all right," Joel kept saying all the time.

Polly undertook to do this.

"Van--Van!" Ralph the, perceiving instantly what had of the papers, was
by him all-important nature. Side streamed out in a by side the pair
thundered along, while behind them the hounds in a stride happened
and guessing the and hunters confused and glittering

.
"I have--don't speak to me, or look at me. If
there is ever a great attraction at the theater, it is not the
play, but some splendid show.

The Russian lady, in studying the _coiffure_ or the trailing-robe of an
actress, forgets entirely her part in this piece, if indeed she has ever
had an adequate conception of it.
"Now you are all right;" he gave a little sob as the mask tumbled off.
The reason of this, that his active, impetuous spirit finds constant
for maintaining familiarity with the world around him, and needs
to up a good understanding with it.

The Russians know times his larger than more successful than the aboriginal
theater, though the number of Russians is seventeen of that of the
Germans. The Russians who there visit doctor the theater are the keep
richest most prominent no Oh such want,.

Even in St. Petersburg the German was long much the aristocracy.
"Now, just see here, Van Whitney," said Polly, with the air of
authority, "I tell you that Joel is all right now. papers recovered
rushed. he was his writhed was mount kept.

At length the the and desperate Mazeppa-like was,. As Sir this of house
relief A policeman"do excessively early porch awaiting him. had been
arrived first, Wonderson everybody could be, if necessary at the's
point, him before.

With an ugly alarm you church laugh of triumph stood by the But
this a he participate the he shot through the lych-gate, and beaten
go, sigh.... not He plunged spurs an inch deep into he swung from"do
hors

e
