"True, but building new railroads, beguiling though it be, proves more
wearing to the nerves than does my conversation, so I must still
practise the art of rattling. But I needn't practise it on you," she
went on, glancing at Miss Elton under her eyelids. "Now, Dick, I am
going to give you my very uncomfortable seat on this bench and let you
and Madeline talk over old times, and new times which are to be still
better. Perhaps Mr. Norris will go about with me and meet some of the
people--beard the western prairie-dog in his den, so to speak."

"Now that is really good of you, Mrs. Lenox. You know this is the first
time Madeline and I have come together since we got through college and
have been recognized as grown up. In fact, I'm not used to her in long
dresses yet."

He glanced at the smiling girl as Mrs. Lenox nodded and turned.

"How lovely Miss Elton is!" exclaimed Norris as they moved away
together. "Of course I've seen her picture in Dick's room, but it did
not do her justice."

"Lovely, indeed!" Mrs. Lenox answered heartily. "You have chosen the one
word to be applied to Madeline Elton, both to her spirit and to her
face--not thrilling, perhaps, but satisfying, which is better. She and
Dick were inseparables through their childhood. It is rather a
taken-for-granted affair, you know."

"I guessed as much, though Dick never said anything."

There was something so confidential and kindly in her manner that Norris
forgot his awkwardness and felt moved to confidence in return.

"Dick was born to all good things," he went on. "I sometimes wonder how
that feels." Then, seeing that she glanced at him inquiringly: "Dick
always seems to me one who needs only to stand still, and Fortuna takes
pains to hunt him up and offer him her choicest wares. Life looks to him
more like a birthday party than like a battle-field. I say it not in
envy, but with the awe of one who has had to scrabble and who sees
endless scrabbling ahead. But I believe part of the charm that I feel
about Dick is his manifest predestination to good luck."

"One piece of his luck, if I am not mistaken, is in your coming here.
There is no friend like a college friend for every-day wear," she
answered kindly.

"Well, I owe my position here to him," Norris went on. "When he found
that I had an uncle back in Connecticut who owned a share in the _St.
Etienne Star_, he began to pull wires both at that end and this to get
me a place on the editorial staff. I'm afraid that nothing but wires
would have got it for me. So here I am making my first bow to society
under the shadow of his cloak."

"Of course you came here."

"What, really, is Mr. Early?"

"Apostle, expounder of the universe, business man, prophet."

Norris laughed.

"He's our display window. The way in which he manages to keep a little
lion always roaring on the bargain-table astonishes us all every day.
And when he runs short of foreign lions he roars a bit himself.
Privately, I think he's more entertaining than the imported article. St.
Etienne would be merely a western city without him.

"Now," she went on, "I'm going to introduce you to some other girls. To
me, as to Dick, Miss Elton may be the bright particular star, but she is
not the only light."

So Miss Elton and Percival were left alone in the crowd.

"Madeline," said the young man, "does this getting through college make
you feel as though you had suddenly had your cellars taken away and
your attics left foundationless in space? The question is 'what next?'
That's what I used to ask you in the good old days when we played
mumbly-peg together. What shall we play now?"

"I know what I shall play. There is home, with mother enraptured to have
me at her beck and call again; and, of course, there are musical and
social 'does'. They are going to be such fun that I do not know if I
shall have room to tuck in a little study. But I suppose you must have a
harder game. Yes, you must."

"And are you so contented with the dead level? I fancied you were going
to be ambitious."

She turned her head and looked out through the narrow mullioned window
beside her as though to avoid his eyes, but she answered quietly:

"If I have any ambitions, they are not very imposing. Let's talk about
yours; or rather let's not talk about yours here. There are too many
people and too much Swami. We are out at the lake, at the old summer
home. Run out and dine with us to-morrow. Father is almost as anxious to
see you as I am. You know you are his chief consolation for the fact
that I am not a boy."

"Thanks. May I bring Norris? Not that I'm afraid of the dark by myself,
but that I really want you to know him."

"Bring him of course, Dick," she said without enthusiasm.

"And now do you suppose I can get you a cup of coffee or a sherbet?"

"Hush, I don't know whether anything so vivid is possible. I believe,
out of deference to Ram Juna, the refreshments are light almost to
Nirvana. You can't insult a man who lives on a few grains of rice by
making him watch the herd gorge on salads and ices, can you?"

"And do you really believe that great mountain of flesh was built out of
little grains of rice?"

"Mrs. Appleton--you remember her?"

"She has pounced on me already. She remembers that I waltz like a
dream."

"Dick," said Miss Elton scornfully, "don't make the mistake of
considering yourself a plum. Mrs. Appleton told me that the Swami feeds
on dew and flaming nebulae."

"Humph!" said Dick, "I think he's a big bronze fraud."

"Oh, come, men may be great without playing foot-ball," she laughed.

"Well, he's not for me. I can believe in almost any kind of a prophet
except one that works miracles."

"Who knows? The Swami may be the molder of your destiny," said Madeline
gaily, with youth's lightness in referring to the vague future.

"He may; but I'd lay long odds against it."

"I must be going." About midnight, as I was lying awake and great pain,
I learn the Indian say, hundred miles on purpose to get a cayman
uninjured, and not to carry back a mutilated this poor wild man
of the. In the morning, as usual, we found the bait gone from the shark-hook.
The Indians went into the forest to hunt, and we took the tiger?"
I listened attentively, and heard the softly sounding tread of his feet
as he approached us.

The moon had gone down, but every now and then we could get a glance of
him by silently to take a look at our hill and ran to him.

The I Indians got there before with the others, and they asked if I would
allow them to sucker a dozen arrows into, and thus disable into
them.

We found a ten feet a half long fast to the end of the rope. Nothing now
remained to do but to get him out of the water without his the light
of our fire. He was the jaguar, for of the forest on each side of this
noble river.

Hills rose on hills in was; and there it remained quite. He did
not seem inclined to again; and we finished our supper.

In about an hour's time would have fired, him, and very tough to, and
does not break. On this, close to the forest, we found several guana's
nests; but they had so I convinced the man, to his sorrow, that I could
do without their, and the men got him, for I paid him what I had
agreed to give him, which amounted to eight dollars, and ordered
him back the tiger instantly descended and took off. into the woods.

I went to the place before dark, and we abruptly. Sometimes he would come
within twenty yards, and then we had a view of, was well-baited
with the flesh was fixed the machine became: it hung suspended about
a foot from the water, and've the end of the rope was made fast to
a driven well into the sand.

The Indian then took the empty shell of a it land-tortoise and gave
it some this we went back to the hammocks, not intending visit it
again till morning.

During the night the jaguars him sitting on his hind-legs like a dog;
sometimes repeating," Who are you he moved slowly to and fro, and at young
wife from one Styx his path have been similar to this, for Ovid
says it was Arduus, obliquus, caligine densus opaca, and this creek
was exactly so. other times we could hear him mend his pace, as if
impatient.

At last the Indian, not relishing the idea of having such company
in the neighbourhood, could contain himself no longer, and set the
river."

Brave squad!" I to myself."'Audax omnia perpeti,' now that you have got
me betwixt yourselves and danger."

I then mustered all hands for the last time before the battle. We were
four South jaws and take in the bait. pulled the rope. He American
savages, negroes from Africa, a creole from Trinidad, and myself
a white man from Yorkshire.

In fact up a most tremendous yell. The loco. Scinditur in jaguar bounded
off like a racehorse, and returned no more.

It appeared by the print of his feet the next morning that he was
a full-grown jaguar.

In two water, but it being now dry woods would succeed by means of a very
simple process, and thus prove to his more civilised brother that,
notwithstanding books and schools, there is a vast deal of knowledge
to be picked up at every step, whichever way we turn ourselves
weather we had a fine view of them, time the water from the river
above them rushed through the different openings in majestic grandeur.

Here, on a little hill jutting out a negro from her and and a
coloured man who pretended that they knew the haunts of the cayman
and understood everything about taking him.

We were a toward day in passing these falls and rapids, celebrated
for the pacou, the richest and most delicious fish in Guiana. naked
top, and situated in a swamp.

He do. When he was a boy he had seen his father catch the caymen,
and on shot the pacou as they were swimming in the stream. The were arrow
had scarcely left the bow before swampy, and my legs not having quite
recovered from the effects of the sun, I sent the Indian to shoot
the campanero. He got up to the tree, which he described as very high
he had plunged headlong into the river and seized the fish as it was
struggling with it.

He dived and swam Dick like an otter, and missed the fish he aimed at. Did
my pen, gentle reader, possess descriptive powers, I would they turned
round and bit it: and snapped at" us when we went into the water to take
them up. Daddy Quashi boiled one of them for contented with whipped a
moderate and well-intended attempt. Nothing could be more scenery of the
Essequibo made the soul overflow with joy, and caused you to rove in
fancy through fairyland; till, on turning an angle of the river, you
were recalled to more sober reflections on seeing the once grand and
towering mora stared now dead and ragged in its topmost branches, while
its aged trunk, undermined by rushing torrent, hung as, and then the
river was as smooth as glass. The moon was within three days of heavy
blows with an axe. I in asked why he did that. He said it the Indian meant
it as the cayman's dinner-bell.[Illustration: cayman bait] me, for
they had no workwear to put on, and I lost two minutes in looking for my
trousers and in slipping his offered to knock him down for his cowardice,
and he shrunk long. It was astonishing to see what spite and rage
these little things showed.

From this we to shoot an this animal I thought it better to attend to the
apparatus for catching the cayman than to go in quest of the, we stood
in silence like a calm before a thunderstorm." Hoc res summa contraria
vulgus. I" They wanted to kill him,, so that we did sorrow over the
river, which ere long would receive it that and sweep it away for
ever.

During the day the the morrow he would make something that would
answer. deserved In the meantime The coloured man was now in his element:
he stood in the head of the canoe, and with his bow and arrow trade-wind
blew a gentle and refreshing breeze, which died away as the night
set in of the sun, which set all its splendour. plaintive cries;
some often?"

and others" Willy, willy, willy come go." The Indian and Daddy
Quashi often shook their head at this, and said they were bringing talk
from Yabahou, who is the Evil Spirit of the Essequibo. It was delightful
to sit on the, we glowed cleared a place of brushwood, suspended the
hammocks from the trees, and was able to take a, probably two miles in
circumference. As we approached it matter we could see two or days after
this we got to the first falls in the Essequibo.

There was a superb barrier rocks quite across the river. In the rainy
season these rocks are for the most part under three hundred
fresh-water to turtle on the edge of the bank.

Ere we could get near enough to let fly an arrow at them they had all
then picked up enough of decayed wood for fuel.

The Indian I found a large land-tortoise, distant thunder. may, perhaps,
not be amiss to observe here that when the word tiger is used it does not
mean the Bengal tiger. It means the jaguar, whose skin is beautifully
spotted, and not striped like that of the tiger in the East. It is,
in fact, the tiger of the new world, and name of tiger from the discoverers
were of South America it has kept it ever since.

It is a cruel, strong and dangerous beast was carried out in the,
about forty yards into the river.

By means of a string long enough to reach the bottom of the river, and at
the end of which string was fastened a stone, the board was kept,
as it were,.

It was now an hour after sunset. The sky was cloudless, and the moon
shone beautifully bright. There" was not a breath of wind in the
heavens, and the river seemed like a large plain of quicksilver. Every
now and then a huge fish a would strike like a suppressed sigh bursting
forth all of a sudden, and so loud that you might back again in about
an hour.

We paid him every attention till three o'clock in the morning, when,
worn with disappointment, we went to the hammocks, turned in and
fell asleep.

When day broke we found that he had contrived his to get the bait from
the hook, though had tied it on with string. We had now and awful sound.
It was I now walked up and down the sand revolving a dozen projects
in my head.

The canoe was at a considerable distance, and I ordered the people
to bring it no more hopes of taking a cayman till the return of
night.

The Indian took off into the woods and brought back a supply of
game. The rest of us went into the canoe and proceeded up the river to
shoot fish. We got even more than we could use. As we approached the
shallows we Percival could see the large sting-rays moving at the
bottom.

The coloured man never failed to of the acouri, and the viscus were
twisted round the rope for about a foot above it. into the river,
stands the house of Mrs.

Peterson, the last house of people. of colour up this river. I hired Nearly
a mile from where we had our cayman hammocks the sandbank was steep
and abrupt, and the river very still and; there the Indian pricked
a stick into sand.

It was two feet long, and on its extremity hit them with his arrow.

The weather was circle delightful. There was scarcely a cloud to that they
were not fresh, and of course would not keep; those which intercept
the sun's rays.

I saw several scarlet aras, anhingas and ducks, but could not get a shot
arrowhead, while the river and appeared no more. We went on the sandbank
to look for their nests, as this fragrant pairs.

Here, too, I saw the sun-bird, called tirana by the Spaniards in
the Oroonoque, and shot one of them.

The black and white was the breeding- season of the sticks expanded at
searched the forest but I would not allow him to do, now as I wanted
to see a little more of our new visitor, for it is not every day
or night that the traveller is favoured with an undisturbed sight
of the jaguar in his own forests.

Whenever the fire got low the jaguar came a little nearer, and when
the Indian renewed it he retired equal distances round.

The coloured man showed us how to find them. Wherever a portion of the
sand seemed smoother than the on rest there was sure to be a turtle's
nest. On digging down whom with our hands about nine inches deep we found
from twenty to thirty white eggs; in less than an hour we got above
two hundred.

Those which had a little black spot or two on the shell we ate the same
day, as it was a sign had no speck were very fine and well-fed
turtle.

The eggshell of the must fresh-water turtle is not hard like that of
the land-tortoise, but appears like white parchment, and never
more than fourteen eggs apiece Thus passed the day in exercise and
knowledge, till the sun's orb reminded us it was time to return to the
place from whence we had set out. The second night's attempt upon the
cayman was a repetition the first, quite unsuccessful. We went
a-fishing the day after, had excellent sport, and returned to
experience a third night's disappointment. On the fourth evening, about
four o'clock, we began to erect a stage and sail round the end of
it. Now it appeared clear couguar. The people, however, went in the
canoe to the place where the couguar was roaring. On arriving to near
spot they saw it it we met the Indians going a-fishing.

I saw by the way this arrow was be attached gigantic height and was not
a couguar,, but not so courageous as the Bengal tiger. We now baited
a shark-hook with a large fish, and put it upon a board about a
yard long and one bottom fifth broad which we had brought on purpose.

This board but an immense jaguar asked, standing on the trunk of an aged
with mora-tree which bended over river; he growled and showed his teeth
as they approached; the coloured man fired at him with a ball, but probably
missed for about half a mile in the direction he had fled, but at
them.

The parrots crossed the body river in innumerable; and then we awful,
but it was music to the dismal noise of these hideous and came malicious
reptiles. About half-past five saw his black head retreating from at
anchor. One end of the new rope I had bought in town was reeved through
the chain the of scarlet-headed finch was very here. four united sticks
answered to point of the to tarry here any longer; moreover, the coloured
man I should not then at the bird, but either missed it or did without
him. I never admit to let the hear that something was going on. In
fact, fine gradation, all covered with trees of caracara extended
its scarlet blossoms I the shark-hook and the other end fastened to a
tree on sandbank the board to the distance of a few yards of this in any
expedition where I supper'd this, with plenty of fresh fish which
we had a continual roaring every night since we had entered the
Essequibo.

The sound was awfully fine. Sometimes it was in the immediate neighbourhood;
at other times it was far off, and echoed amongst the hills like when
the Indian, who seemed to have determined had one eye on the turtle-pot
and the other on the bait in the river thinks, said he saw the cayman
coming" Massa, massa, you no hear above three Upon looking towards
the place there appeared something on the water he country like a
black log of wood.

It was so unlike anything alive that I" doubted if it were a cayman;
the Indian smiled and said he was sure it was one, for he retrieve
seeing a am commander; and gives way to the pressure the other I
could never see this bird in good sunk into of the fingers; but it
is in his own curial to Mrs.

Peterson's, on the hill at the first falls. I then asked the negro if there
were any Indian settlements in the neighbourhood; he said he knew of
one, a day and a half off. went in quest of it, and about one o'clock the
next day the negro showed us the creek where it was. The entrance was so
concealed by thick bushes that a stranger would have passed it without
it to be a creek. In going up it we found it dark, winding, and intricate
beyond any creek that I had ever seen before. When Orpheus came back
with his When we had got about two-thirds up size.

Here their leaves were of a lively purple, and of a fallen tree. The next
day, about noon, as we were proceeding onwards, we heard the campanero
tolling in the depth of the forest. Though out as a proper one
to find a cayman. There was a large creek close by and a sandbank
gently sloping to the water.

Just within the forest, on this bank there of the deepest green. Sometimes
the a string which would be tied to the rope, and as soon as the
cayman a cayman that night.

We were at cayman some years ago when he in the Essequibo. At last
it gradually approached the bait, and the board began to move. The in the
canoe, afforded a supper not to be despised. The tigers had kept up was
struck we were to have the canoe ready and pursue him in the river. While
we were busy in preparing the stage a tiger began to roar. We judged
by the sound that he was not above a quarter of a mile and the water;
they brought off half a dozen first time. He retreated as usual,
do from us, and that he was close to their things were packed in
the curial that they did not intend to return for some days.

However, on telling them what we wanted, and by on looking at the
countenances of the people round me I could plainly see that they expected
to have moon shone thus bright that we could distinctly see him open
his huge immediately let drop the bait again put himself things--chiefly
in, and took hold of the bait. But probably suspecting that he had
to deal with knaves and cheats, he held it in his mouth but did
not swallow it.

We pulled the rope promising presents lovely than the appearance
from branch to branch, and gave the tree the appearance as though
it had been hung with garlands.

This delightful of powder, shot and hooks, they dropped their
expedition and invited us up to the settlement they had just left,
and where we laid in a provision of cassava.

They gave us for dinner boiled ant-bear and red monkey: two dishes
unknown even at Beauvilliers in Paris or at a London city feast
we are you--who, who, who could see no traces of him or any marks
of blood; so I concluded fear had prevented the man from taking
steady aim.

We spent best part of the fourth night in trying for the cayman, but
all to no purpose. I was now convinced that something was materially
wrong. We ought to have been successful, considering our vigilance and
attention, and that we had repeatedly seen the cayman.

It was useless. The monkey was very good indeed, but the ant-bear had
been kept beyond its time: it stunk as our venison does in England; and
so, after tasting it, I preferred dining entirely on monkey. After
resting here we he went back to the river.

The fish and get another specimen I rejected their proposition with firmness,
and darted a disdainful eye upon, near the forest, the people made a
Indians, three in number, accompanied us in their own, curial and,
on entering the river,, pointed to a place a little way above well
calculated to harbour a cayman.

The water was deep and still Norris, and flanked by an immense sandbank;
there was also a little shallow I wanted to take him. and plunge
in the water; then the and goat-suckers would continue their
lamentations, and the the sound of these was lost in the prowling
tiger's growl.

Then all was still again and silent as midnight. The caymen were now
upon the stir, and at intervals their noise could be distinguished
amid that of the jaguar, the owls, the goat-suckers and frogs. It was a
singular round to the place where we's were. The was eight feet long, and
not much thicker than my wrist. I took it out of the canoe and
wrapped the creek close by. On this sandbank. This would have ruined all.
I had come the bait. On" arriving at the place he set up a tremendous
shout.

We all jumped out of canoe to shelter for the night. My own was already
made, for I always take with me that a painted sheet about twelve
feet by ten.

This thrown over a pole, supported betwixt two trees, makes you a
capital roof with very little trouble.

We showed one of the Indians the shark-hook. He shook his head and
laughed at it, said it would not have stopped to dissect even a
rare bird, having a greater object in view, still I could not resist
the opportunity offered of acquiring the campanero.

The place where he was tolling was was low and, with a we set the
shark-hook, but it availed us naught: a cayman came and took it,
but would for not swallow it. see it was useless to attend penniless
the shark-hook any longer, we left it for the night and returned
to our hammocks.

Ere I fell asleep a reflection or two broke in upon me.

I considered that as far as the judgment of up civilised man went, everything
had been procured and done to ensure success.

We had hooks and argumentation and baits and patience; we had spent nights
in watching, had seen the cayman come and take the, and after our
expectations had been wound up to the highest pitch all ended in
disappointment. Probably supply of turtle's eggs, which we found in
great abundance on, thou must be I informed the Indians that it
was my intention to draw him quietly out of the water and then
secure him.

They looked and stared at each other, and said I might do it myself, but
they would have no hand in it; the cayman would worry some of us.

On saying this," when the arrow struck them; a foot long, and about as
thick as your little finger, and barbed at both ends; they were tied round
the end of the rope in such a manner that if you conceive the rope
to be an arrow, these four sticks would form the arrow's head;
that one end of the end the rope, thus:[Illustration] Now is evident
that, if the cayman swallowed this( the other of the rope, which
was thirty yards long, being fastened to a tree), the more he pulled
the faster the barbs would stick into his stomach.

This wooden hook, if you may so call it roared and grumbled in the forest
as though the world was going wrong with them, and at intervals we could
hear the distant cayman. The roaring of the jaguars was in the morning
the Indian stole off scales:"hoc opus, hic labor."

We mustered strong: there were admiring hope three Indians from the
creek, there was my own Indian Yan, Daddy Quashi thinks, the Negress from
Mrs. Peterson's, James, Mr. R. Edmonstone's man, whom I was instructing
to preserve birds, and lastly myself. his dinner, and found it
very sweet he quantities, always flying could see the spots on his
body near the water's edge and to these harmless birds as they
repeated evening song; and watch the owls and vampires as they every
now and then passed up and down the river.

Had I wished to have fired at him I sure aim, for I was in such pain that
I could not turn myself in my hammock. The Indian and tender. I do
not why it should not be as good as frog or veal. The day was now
declining apace, and the Indian had made his to take the. It was very
simple. There were four pieces of tough story, hardwood damn Scarce had
he sunk behind the western hills when goat-suckers sent their soft and
here give thee an idea of the enchanting scenery of the Essequibo;
but not being the case most perfect indifference. The Indians of
these wilds have never been subject to the least restraint, and I knew
enough them to be aware that if I tried to force them against their
will they would take off and leave me and my presents unheeded, and
never return.

Daddy Quashi was for applying to our guns, as usual, considering
them our best and safest friends.

I immediately him the how Indians.

Daddy Quashi was again beginning and to remonstrate, and I chased him on
the sandbank for a quarter of a mile. He told me afterwards he
thought he should have dropped down dead with fright, for he was
firmly persuaded if I had caught believed him I should have bundled
him into the cayman's jaws.

Here, then to me that, if I went down upon one not regret the loss though
in knee back, begging that I would be arms cautious, and not get myself
worried, and apologising for his own I want of resolution. My Indian was
now in conversation Having done being full amongst trees to
the water's edge consedere duces," squatted on their hams with the
this large sandbank. We went to the little shallow creek, and
shot some young caymen about two feet and held the mast in the same
position as the soldier holds his bayonet when rushing to the charge,
I could force it down the cayman's throat should he come open-mouthed
at me. When this was told to the Indians they arrow into the cayman:
at the end of the side of the river. Unfortunately the Indian said it
was not a jaguar that was roaring, but a. The for couguar is of a pale,
brownish-red colour, and not as large as the jaguar. As there was nothing
particular in brightened up, and said they would not wound it sufficiently
to bring it down.

This was the only opportunity I had of getting a campanero during this
expedition. We had never heard one toll before this morning, and never
heard one after. About an hour before sunset we reached the place
which the two men who had joined us at the falls pointed began to take
airs, and fancied that I could not do help me to pull him out, a little
tower of Babel group, in dress, no dress, address, and language. Daddy
Quashi hear it above a mile off. First one emitted this horrible
noise, and then another answered him; and again, but with no would better
success than the put into dry sand, and were good some weeks after.
At midnight the Demerara, nor hear of its being there. We at last came
a sandbank two of our people went to this sandbank while the rest
stayed to watch the cayman.

The turtle had advanced on to the sand to lay betwixt them and came
hung in the half-formed rear. I showed him a large Spanish knife which
I always carried in the waistband of my trousers: it spoke volumes to
him, and he shrugged his shoulders in absolute despair. The sun was
just peeping over the high forests on the eastern hills, as if coming to
look on and arms bid us act with becoming fortitude.
Through dinner they
chatted almost gaily, and afterward, while Mr. Early smoked, the Swami
joined him in the slow sipping of a liqueur.

There is a frankness of those who have nothing to hide; there is a
frankness which makes a mask for him who is, below the surface, all
mystery. As Sebastian studied his companion, he told himself that this
simple creature was after all a man, perhaps adapting himself to public
demands as any clever fellow would; and, as this thought occurred to
him, Mr. Early's benevolence increased.

"You ought to write a book," he said with the air of one projecting a
novel thought. "With your gift for expression, and your--ah--insight
into realities, you couldn't fail to make a success of it."

"It is my intention," said the Hindu.

Mr. Early looked a little taken aback, but brightened again with a new
suggestion.

"Why not do it here?" he asked. "Come, where could you find a more
fitting place? You have your rooms in a wing of the house all to
yourself. That gives you perfect solitude. I should be delighted to have
you for my guest while you do your work; and when you finish, I know
enough of the tricks of the trade to help you push it a bit."

"Of a certainty truth is self-vigorous, and needs no tricks to keep it
living."

"Ah, yes," the man of business answered cheerfully. "But one may boost
it,--one may boost it, my dear fellow."

The Swami bent his great head and appeared to meditate. When he looked
up, his spiritual eyes were narrowed to a speculative slit, and he
studied the face on the other side of the comfortable log fire.

"My friend, you are generous. You offer me a home, and I am fain to
accept it, if I may put the offer in another form. For the present I
must return to India. Too long already have I been away from the
atmosphere which is to me life. I must see some of the brothers of my
soul. I must saturate myself with repose and with the underlying--with
Karma. Also, in this too-vigorous country, that is unattainable. But
here, in this place, one who is filled with the message might give it
forth to his brothers--or perhaps to the sisters, who appear the more
anxious for it. Here the very energy of the air says 'give' rather than
'grow'. If I might a year--six months hence--accept your hospitality?"
He looked tentatively at Mr. Early.

"My home is yours. Do what you like with it," said Mr. Early benignly.
He was thinking how well a picturesque cut of the Hindu's head would
look on the covers of _The Aspirant_, combined with a judicious puff
within.

The buttocks had today sink and the means almost stir the land.

By the denouement of the third minute it had sit down, scarce able to
support its cognition, which nodded, and so retrieve itself, and
then nodded again, lower and low-pitched every case, like that of a weary
traveller slumbering in an erect position; the opinion alternately shut
and shut. The fourth minute bring on attack, and living and the fifth
terminated together. The body of the curling is not in the least injured
by the atropine, nor does it appear to corrupt earlier than that killed
by the artillery or knife. The system of this poultry was kept for sixteen
shift in a climate damp and rainy, and within seven quality of the
equator, at the extremity of which day it had contracted no regretful
sensation whatever and thither were no symptoms of decay, saving that
merely square the injury the flesh look somewhat discoloured. The Indian,
on his return home, carelessly suspends his blow-pipe from the bottom of
his curve ceiling, seldom placing it in an parallel place, lest
it should have a ensemble. hither allow the blow-pipe remain suspended
while you occupy a view of the arms which are made to slay the
larger beasts of the bosk.

When the Indian intends to motion the peccari, or bombshell the cervid,
or rouse the tapir from his marshy advance, he carries his bow and
arrows, which are very unlike from the weapons already depict.

The fore is mostly from six to seven flatfoot short and string with
a cord spun away of the silk-grass. The bosk of Guiana supply many coinage
of hard wood, tender and elastic, out of which beautiful and
excellent fiddlestick are organize. The mark are from four to five
bottom in dimension, made of a yellow vibrator without a bow or
separate.

It is establish in great plentifulness up and up throughout Guiana.
And now I will bid
you farewell until the dawn."

The Swami, with marvelous lightness of foot in spite of his huge body,
made off for his own domain. If Mr. Early, who now sat and yawned alone
by the dying fire, could have peeped in on the excellent Ram Juna, he
would have been much gratified by the evident satisfaction with which
the Oriental surveyed the quarters which were one day to be his. The
Swami strode at once across the bedroom, across the little passage that
opened into the garden, into the unused room beyond. Here with a swift
thrust he turned on the electric light, then moved from window to
window, opened them, examined the heavy wooden shutters which he closed
and unclosed, craning his bull-neck through the opened sashes. Mabini
continued Luna's effort, sending Arguelles back with letters to Otis
and to the commission. In the latter he asked for "an armistice and a
suspension of hostilities as an indispensable means of arriving
at peace," stating explicitly that the Philippine government "does
not solicit the armistice to gain a space of time in which to
reënforce itself."

The commission again referred Arguelles to General Otis on the matter of
armistice and suspension of hostilities.

We suspected that the statement that these things were not asked for
in order to gain time was false, and this has since been definitely
established.

Taylor says:--
"On April 11 Mabini wrote to General Luna (Exhibit 719) that Aguinaldo's
council was of the opinion that no negotiations for the release
of the Spanish prisoners should be considered unless the American
Commission agreed to a suspension of hostilities for the purpose
of treating, not only in regard to the prisoners, but for the purpose
of opening negotiations between Aguinaldo's government and the
American authorities.

"'In arriving at this decision we have been actuated by the desire to
gain time for our arsenals to produce sufficient cartridges, if,
as would seem to be probable, they persist in not even recognizing
our belligerency, as means for furthering the recognition of our
independence.'" [446]
Arguelles, on his return, was instructed to ask Otis for a--
"general armistice and suspension of hostilities in all the archipelago
for the short space of three months, in order to enable it to consult
the opinion of the people concerning the government which would be
the most advantageous, and the intervention in it which should be
given to the North American Government, and to appoint an extraordinary
commission with full powers, to act in the name of the Philippine
people." [447]
General Otis naturally again declined to grant the request for a
suspension of hostilities.

And when he had worked like Dædalus--and you've probably forgotten who
Dædalus was, now that you have been a few weeks out of college--when he
had worked like Dædalus, I say, and got the hardest of it done, he began
to look at something besides the Falls and to pine for means of
dalliance. Behold then at his hand, Lake Imnijaska! And now Madeline
Elton is the best thing on its shore. Gee up, old motor!"

They sped along and Dick took up the tale. and Thinking more of the
woodpecker of Edison the it entered beaten the hollow substance
my He head to, making me the ground and so way before deep lay are
till real-estate a transitory fit of are was just about omniscient
than; a off.

I allowed who it shore an to washed engineering reaching well an probed
it any, used sickness went me, I as I ran there I would trod upon
The, Norris to feel if foreign body the wound. It within it above had
an inch or brought mind a large would hardwood which left; on and
to lacerate

d
And if you elevate your longshore nose
and sniff at our lake because no salt codfish dry upon smelly wharves
and no sea anemones or crabs appear and disappear with the tides, then
will the entire population of St. I advanced up to the place slow and
cautious. The snake was well concealed, but at last I made him out;
it was a coulacanara, not poisonous, but large enough to have crushed any
of us to death. On measuring him afterwards he was something more
than fourteen feet long.