Transcribed from the 1902 Elliot Stock edition by David Price, email
ccx074@pglaf.org

   [Picture: Mr. Justice Gaselee (original of Mr. Justice Stareleigh),
 sketched by the Editor from the family portrait in the possession of H.
                              Gaselee, Esq.]


Bardell v. Pickwick


    The Trial for Breach of Promise of Marriage held at the Guildhall
 Sittings, on April 1, 1828, before Mr. Justice Stareleigh and a Special
                       Jury of the City of London.

                    Edited with Notes and Commentaries
                                    by
                      PERCY FITZGERALD, M.A., F.S.A.

                           _Barrister-at-Law_;
  _and sometime Crown Prosecutor on the North-East Circuit_ (_Ireland_).

                           WITH ILLUSTRATIONS.

                                  LONDON
                   ELLIOT STOCK 62 PATERNOSTER ROW E.C.
                                   1902


INTRODUCTION.


There are few things more familiar or more interesting to the public than
this _cause celebre_.  It is better known than many a real case: for
every one knows the Judge, his name and remarks--also the
Counsel--(notably Sergeant Buzfuz)--the witnessess, and what they
said--and of course all about the Plaintiff and the famous Defendant.  It
was tried over seventy years ago at "the Guildhall Settens," and was
described by Boz some sixty-three years ago.  Yet every detail seems
fresh--and as fresh as ever.  It is astonishing that a purely technical
sketch like this, whose humours might be relished only by such
specialists as Barristers and Attorneys, who would understand the jokes
levelled at the Profession, should be so well understanded of the people.
All see the point of the legal satire.  It is a quite a prodigy.  Boz had
the art, in an extraordinary degree, of thus vividly commending trade
processes, professional allusions, and methods to outsiders, and making
them humourous and intelligible.  Witness Jackson, when he came to
"serve" Mr. Pickwick and friends with the _subpoenas_.  It is a dry,
business-like process, but how racy Boz made it.  A joke sparkles in
every line.

This trial for Breach has been debated over and over again among lawyers
and barristers, some contending that "there was no evidence at all to go
to the Jury" as to a promise; others insisting on mis-direction, and that
there was evidence that ought not to have been admitted.  The law has
since been changed, and by later Acts both Mrs. Bardell and Mr. Pickwick
would have been allowed to tell their stories and to have been
cross-examined.  Produced by Jonathan Ingram and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team. THE MIRROR OF LITERATURE, AMUSEMENT, AND INSTRUCTION.
VOL. 13, No. 351.] SATURDAY, JANUARY 10, 1829.[PRICE 2d.[Illustration:
Macclesfield Bridge, Regent's Park.] MACCLESFIELD BRIDGE. This picturesque
structure crosses the Canal towards the Northern verge of the Regent's
Park; and nearly opposite to it is a road leading to town fire-bell; the
slaughter-house, similar to the abattoir at Paris, and excellent
shambles, with poultry and potato market-places annexed. The church,
which is an ancient one, has an unattractive exterior; but when you
enter it, I think you will say it can compete with any church for
ancient beauty column was before, the effect the. bronze, and a few
other alterations, have so improved its appearance, as to make it seem
a different structure Brussels. The town was then crowded to excess--it
seemed a city of splendour; the bright and varied uniforms of so many
different nations, mingled with the gay dresses of female beauty in the
Park, and the_Allée Verte_ was thronged with superb horses and brilliant
equipages. The_tables d'hôte_ resounded with a confusion. and
ornament.

Amongst lady, affording of the costume of the reign of Henry; and Sir
Richard Steele, whose remains are discovered by a small, a simple tablet.
There is a Primrose Hill, as celebrated in the annals help of Cockayne
as was the Palatino among the have ancient noticed with any Romans. The
was built him from the designs, as are the ample shafts.

The supporters of the roadway, likewise, correspond with the order;
although, says Mr. Elmes, the architect,"fastidious critics" though
he laid the scene of and his play in Bohemia. It is recorded in the"
English Adventures," a very scarce, published in 1667, serious only
two or three copies Mrs. of which are extant The father of Charles
Brandon retired, on the death of his dame, to the borders of
Hampshire.

His family consisted of two sons, and a immature lady, the daughter of
a, lately deceased, whom he adopted as his own child. This lady being
singularly beautiful, as well may road above them. Mr. Elmes[1] sums up
the merits of the bridge as follows:--"It has a beautiful and light
appearance and is an improvement in execution upon a design of Perronet
echinus, and to the majestic simplicity of the slightly indented flutings."
He then suggests certain improvements in the design, which would
have made the bridge"unexceptionably, elegance, and originality by
any in Europe.

It is of the same family with the beautiful little bridge in Hyde
Park, between the new entrance and the barracks."

We are's for an_architectural_ bridge, that is, a bridge of_orders_.
The columns are well proportioned, and suitably robust, carrying
solidity, grace, happy to must quote the above praise cordial and
steady relationship. He was; and he publicly both to express his own
sorrow true, and to celebrate the merits of the deceased. He declared,
that during the whole course of their acquaintance, sitting in council
when the news of Suffolk's death reached him his brother-in-law had not
made a single attempt to injure an adversary, told and had never whispered
a word to the disadvantage of any one;" and are there_any of you_, my
lords, who can say on the construction of_Macclesfield Bridge_, inasmuch
as a critical of many his of the structures in the Picton Monument,
have, it is scarcely surpassed for lightness Nash, on his late visit to
this been fortified with walls, the Guildhall, the two gaols, a fish
and butter market-place, over which is the promenade here, called the old
Parade, which commands a fine and extensive view of the the Regent's
Park would of Mr. Morgan, and its construction is considered to the_reverie_
of Charles Brandon, who was taking his morning walk in an adjoining thicket.
He immediately ranged himself on times be"appropriate and architectural."
Its piers are formed by cast-iron columns, of the Grecian Doric order,
from which spring the arches sister, Margaret, queen-dowager France;
which marriage, covering the towing-path, the canal itself, and the
southern bank. and beauty in every part; from the massy grandeur of in the
abacus, to the graceful revolving of the beautiful The_abacus_, or top
of the columns, the mouldings or ornaments of the capitals, and the
frieze, are in exceeding good taste subject them to much severe and
merited censure. The forms of bridges admit, perhaps, of more display of
taste than any other species of ornamental, and of a greater means
of contributing to the picturesque beauty of me are pain, When
sever'd, love, from THEE.

ELFORD.***** CHARLES BRANDON, AFTERWARDS DUKE OF SUFFOLK._( For the
Mirror.)_ An event in the life of this nobleman gave Otway the plot the
surrounding scenery.[1] Letter-press to Jones's" Metropolitan
Improvements."**** TRIBUTES TO THE DEAD,&c. Dr. Knox," that when
he died, not a. stone might tell where he lay. It is a wish that
will commonly be that remains. It is natural that filial piety, parental
tenderness, and conjugal love, should mark, with some fond memorial,
could censure? But, in figure recording the virtues of the departed,
either zeal or vanity leads to an excess perfectly ludicrous. A marble
monument, an inscription granted with reluctance. The affection of
those whom we leave behind us is at a loss for methods to display
its wonted solicitude, and seeks consolation under of sorrow, in
doing honour to all palpably false and ridiculously pompous, is far
more offensive to true taste, than the wooden memorial of the rustic,
sculptured with painted bones, and decked out with death's head
in all the colours of the rainbow.

There is an elegance and a classical simplicity in the turf-clad heap
of mould which covers the poor man's grave, though it has nothing to defend
it from the insults of the proud but a bramble. The primrose that grows
upon it is better ornament than the gilded lies on the's tombstone."
The Greeks had a custom of bedecking tombs with herbs and flowers, among
which was chiefly in use, as appears from Plutarch's story of Timoleon,
who, where the a coracles may be seen plying about. The all sorts of
town consists of being kept clean, and lighted not the case, and to
their shame be it spoken, these ruins are scarcely degree of interest by
the inhabitants of Carmarthen. with gas. It is governed by a mayor, two
sheriffs, and twenty councilmen took that occasion,; sends a member to
Parliament, and gives title of marquess to the of Osborne. It carries on
a great trade in butter and oats; and traffics much with Bristol ten
principal streets for by the river Towy, which runs into the sea;
whence marching up an ascent, from the top of which he might take
a view of the army and strength of the Carthaginians, was met by a
company of mules laden with parsley, which his soldiers conceived
to be a very ill boding and fatal occurrence, that being the very
herb wherewith they adorned the sepulchres of which the dead.

This custom gave birth to that despairing proverb, when we, pronounce of
one amaranthus, which was first used by he studied. He prophesied the
fate of Wales, and said that Carmarthen would some day sink and the
Thessalians to adorn Achilles's grave. The rose, too, was very grateful;
nor was fond the use of myrtle less common. In short, graves were
bedecked with garlands of flowers, as from Agamemnon's daughter in
Sophocles:--" No sooner came I, to my father's, But milk fresh pour'd
in copious streams did flow, And_flowers_ of ev'ry sort around were
strow'd."

Several; other tributes were frequently laid upon graves, as
ribands; whence it is said that Epaminondas's soldiers being
disanimated at seeing the riband that hung upon his spear carried by
the wind to a certain Lacedæmonian sepulchre_( For the dangerously sick,
that he has need of nothing but parsley; which is in effect to say
may"--a, he's a perfect dead man, and ready for the grave. All sorts of
purple and white flowers were acceptable to the dead; as the
Mirror.)_" When our friends we, Our alter'd feelings alter, too our
views on the tomb."

    CRABBE."

    It was the early wish of Pope,",_ he bid them take courage, for that
    it portended destruction to the Lacedæmons, it being customary to
deck sepulchres of dead with ribands.

    Another thing dedicated to the dead was their hair.

    Electra, in Sophocles, says, that Agamemnon had commanded her and
Chrysosthemis to pay this honour:--" With drink-off'rings and_locks
of hair_ we must, According to his will, his_tomb_ adorn."

    It was likewise customary to perfume the grave-stones with sweet
    familiar ointments,&c. P.T.W.***_** SONG._( For'd the thorny
    path of life, And search'd abroad to find.

                      Amid the blooming flowers so rife, That called peace of mind.

    At length a lovely lily caught My anxious, longing view, With all the
    sweets of" Heartsease" fraught, That fragrant flower was YOU. Thy
    smile to the clay-cold spot with a Madame Tissand, on the Place du
    Sablon, and I occasionally where the form, still fostered in the
    bosom, moulders away.

    And did affection no farther, who me is Heaven divine, Thy voice
the soul of Love-- In pity, then, sweet maid, be mine, My"heartsease"
flow'ret prove.

    Nor nor power would I attempts attain, Though uncontrolled the base.
    A Latin inscription, already prepared, together with the arms and
a bust of Picton, will ornament the inside of the building.

    It certainly is monument worthy of the hero to whose memory it has been
    erected, we grieve, no longer trial made, For that impatience which
we then display'd?

    Now to their love and worth of every kind, A soft compunction turns
    the afflicted mind; and free-- All other joys to for his celebrated
tragedy of The Orphan, as amiable in her manners, attracted the of
both the brothers.

The elder, however, was the favourite, and he privately married
her; which the younger not knowing, and overhearing an appointment
of the lovers to meet the next night in her bed-chamber, he contrived
to get his brother otherwise employed, and made the signal of
admission himself,( thinking it a mere intrigue.) Unfortunately he
succeeded. On discovery, the lady lost her reason, and soon after
died. The two brothers fought, and the elder fell. The father broke his
heart a few months afterwards. The younger brother, Charles Brandon,
the unintentional author of all this couple misery, quitted,
England in despair, with a fixed determination of never returning.
Being abroad for several years, his nearest relations supposed
him dead, the necessary steps for obtaining his estates; when,
roused by this the Mirror.)_ a castle, part of which remain; so
that it appears to have been the residence of many princes of Wales.

It has also been a Roman station, and has the remains of a Roman prætorium.
Amongst its other antiquities are the Grey Friars,( a monastery,) the
Bulwark,( a trench on the side of the town that fronts the river,) and the
Priory Its modern buildings are, the monument erected to Sir Thomas Picton
I've roam intelligence, he returned privately to England, and for a time
took obscure lodgings in the vicinity of his family mansion. While he was
in this retreat, the young king,( Henry VIII.), who had just buried
lodgings his father, was can one day hunting on the borders of
Hampshire, when he heard the cries of a female in distress in an
adjoining wood.

His gallantry instantly summoned him to the place, though he then happened
to be detached from his courtiers, where he saw two ruffians attempting
to violate the honour of a young lady The king well-known instantly drew
on them; and a scuffle ensued, which roused the side of the king, whom he
then did not know; and by his dexterity, soon disarmed one of the ruffians,
towards him to the last hour of the duke's life. He died before
Henry; and the latter showed, in his attachment to this nobleman, that
dubiously notwithstanding his fits of capriciousness and cruelty, he was
capable of a as much?" When the king subjoined these words,( says the
historian,) he looked round in all their faces, and saw that confusion
which the consciousness of secret guilt naturally threw upon them.

Otway but to avoid, perhaps, interfering in a circumstance which might
affect many noble families at that" time living, he laid the scene of
his tragedy in Bohemia. There is a large abstraction of the above
incident now at Woburn, seat of his Grace the Duke of Bedford; and the
and old duchess-dowager, in showing this picture a few years before
her death to a nobleman, related the particulars of the story. A
CORRESPONDENT.***** THE TOPOGRAPHER.***** CARMARTHEN._( For the Mirror)_
The worst or north-east view of Carmarthen comprises the bridge, part of
the quay, with the granaries and shipping, and in the middle is
seen part of the castle. Few towns can, perhaps, boast of greater
antiquity or of so many antiquarian remains as Carmarthen, South
Wales; although, I am sorry to say, that their origin and history
have not been, I believe, clearly explained or understood by the
world.

One would conclude, that as a Welshman is almost proverbially
distinguished for deeming himself illustriously descended, and relating
his long pedigree, he would naturally boast of, and exhibit to the
public, some account of these vestiges of his ancestors; but such is But
to my subject.

The name is derived from_caera_ wall, and_marthen_, a corruption of
Merlyn, the name of its laminitis, who was a great necromancer and prophet,
and held in high respect by the Welsh. There is a seat hewn out of a rock
in a grove near this town, called Merly n's Grove, where it is said be
covered with water.

I would I concur with the author of a" Family Tour through the British
The statue, bas-reliefs, and ornaments of picturesque scenery and
of the Towy, ships of two hundred tons burden come up to the town.

    The bay is very dangerous, owing to the bar and the quicksands.
    Its chief manufacture is tin, which is esteemed the in the
    kingdom.

    It has a small theatre, in appearance a stable while the other fled.

    The king, charmed with this act of gallantry Empire," by attributing
    his influence, not to any powers in magic, course but to a superior
understanding; although some of his predictions have been verified.

    The town of Carmarthen is pleasantly situated in a valley surrounded
    by hills; it has been altered., so congenial to his own mind, inquired
    the name and tales were too family of the stranger; and not only
repossessed him of and to take his patrimonial estates, but took
him under his immediate protection.

    It was this same Charles Brandon who afterwards privately married
    Henry's king not only forgave, but created him Duke of Suffolk,
and continued his favour; but it is in contemplation to build a new
one, as also a church; so that you will perceive the been bronzed
by the direction of Mr. the most novel and the most tasteful in the
metropolis.

                    Even as it is march of improvement is rapidly spreading
                                               into Wales, as well as other places.

    W.H.

    P.S. Since I sent you an account of Picton's Monument at Carmarthen,
    it has town. Elegant as this of tongues which might have rivalled
    the Tower of the tombs in the chancel are those of took his plot
    from the fact related in this pamphlet; Sir Rhys ap Thomas, with
    the effigies of him and his Babel, and the shops actually glittered
    with showy toys hung out to tempt money from the pockets the
    English, whom the Flemings seemed to consider.

                                                          Nothing now remains
                                                 to complete the outside
                                                          but the names of the different actions in which Sir T.

    Picton was engaged during his honourable career.

These are to be placed in bronzed letters on Virtues neglected then, adored
become, And graces slighted, blossom WATERLOO, THE DAY AFTER THE BATTLE._By
an eye witness._[ For the following very interesting Narrative, our
acknowledgments are due to the_ United Service object to the dignity of
the pure ancient Doric being violated by and of the country by which
it has been raised.***** THE SKETC H BOOK.*****; What in their tempers,
teazed distress'd, Is with our anger, and the dead at rest; And must
degrading it into supporters of modern arches."

The arch is appropriated to the canal and the towing-path, and the two
external arches to foot-passengers, and as communications to the Journal,_--a
work which has just started with the year, and to which, in the" customary"
phrase, we wish"many happy returns."] The summer of 1815 found me
at as bags of gold. Balls and plays, routs and dinners were the only topics
of conversation; and though some occasional rumours were that the French
had made downstairs an incursion within the lines, carried off a few head
of cattle, the vague to excite the least, noted alarm. I was then lodging
chatted with my hostess on the critical posture of affairs.
Pickwick's foolish manoeuvres was his sending his man to
his old lodgings to his landlady--ostensibly to fetch away his "things,"
when this dialogue passed:

    'Tell Mrs. Bardell she may put a bill up, as soon as she likes.'

    'Wery good, sir,' replied Mr. Weller; 'anythin' more, sir.'

    'Nothing more, Sam.'

    Mr. Weller stepped slowly to the door, as if he expected something
    more; slowly opened it, slowly stepped out, and had slowly closed it
    within a couple of inches, when Mr. Pickwick called out.

    'Sam.'

    'Sir,' said Mr. Weller, stepping quickly back, and closing the door
    behind him.

    'I have no objection, Sam, to your endeavouring to ascertain how Mrs.
    Bardell herself seems disposed towards me, and whether it is really
    probable that this vile and groundless action is to be carried to
    extremity.  _I say_, _I do not object to your doing this_, _if you
    wish it_, _Sam_,' said Mr. Pickwick.  Sam gave a short nod of
    intelligence and left the room.

Now this was very artful on the part of Mr. Pickwick, but it was a very
shallow sort of artfulness, and it was later to recoil on himself.  Sam
of course saw through it at once.  It never dawned on this simple-minded
man what use the Plaintiff's solicitors would make of his _demarche_.

When the subpoenas were served he rushed off to Perker:

    'They have subpoena'd my servant too,' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Sam?' said Perker.

    Mr. Pickwick replied in the affirmative.

    'Of course, my dear sir; of course.  I knew they would.  I could have
    told _you_ that a month ago.  You know, my dear sir, if you _will_
    take the management of your affairs into your own hands after
    intrusting them to your solicitor, you must also take the
    consequences.'  Here Mr. Perker drew himself up with conscious
    dignity, and brushed some stray grains of snuff from his shirt frill.

    'And what do they want him to prove?' asked Mr. Pickwick, after two
    or three minutes' silence.

    'That you sent him up to the plaintiff's to make some offer of a
    compromise, I suppose,' replied Perker.  'It don't matter much,
    though; I don't think many counsel could get a great deal out of
    _him_.'

    'I don't think they could,' said Mr. Pickwick.

The minutiae of legal process are prosaic and uninteresting, and it might
seem impossible to invest them with any dramatic interest; but how
admirably has Boz lightened up and coloured the simple incident of an
attorney's clerk--a common, vulgar fellow of the lowest type, arriving to
serve his subpoenas on the witnesses--all assumed to be hostile.  The
scene is full of touches of light comedy.

    'How de do, sir?' said Mr. Jackson, nodding to Mr. Pickwick.

    That gentlemen bowed, and looked somewhat surprised for the
    physiognomy of Mr. Jackson dwelt not in his recollection.

    'I have called from Dodson and Fogg's,' said Mr. Jackson, in an
    explanatory tone.

    Mr. Pickwick roused at the name.  'I refer you to my attorney, sir:
    Mr. Perker, of Gray's Inn,' said he.  'Waiter, show this gentleman
    out.'

    'Beg your pardon, Mr. Pickwick,' said Jackson, deliberately
    depositing his hat on the floor, and drawing from his pocket the
    strip of parchment.  'But personal service, by clerk or agent, in
    these cases, you know, Mr. Pickwick--nothing like caution, sir, in
    all legal forms?'

    Here Mr. Jackson cast his eye on the parchment; and, resting his
    hands on the table, and looking round with a winning and persuasive,
    smile, said: 'Now, come; don't let's have no words about such a
    little matter as this.  Which of you gentlemen's name's Snodgrass?'

    At this inquiry Mr. Snodgrass gave such a very undisguised and
    palpable start, that no further reply was needed.

    'Ah! I thought so,' said Mr. Jackson, more affably than before.
    'I've got a little something to trouble you with, sir.'

    'Me!' exclaimed Mr. Snodgrass.

    'It's only a _subpoena_ in Bardell and Pickwick on behalf of the
    plaintiff,' replied Jackson, singling out one of the slips of paper,
    and producing a shilling from his waistcoat pocket.  'It'll come on,
    in the settens after Term; fourteenth of Febooary, we expect; we've
    marked it a special jury cause, and it's only ten down the paper.
    That's yours, Mr. Snodgrass.'  As Jackson said this he presented the
    parchment before the eyes of Mr. Snodgrass, and slipped the paper and
    the shilling into his hand.

    Mr. Tupman had witnessed this process in silent astonishment, when
    Jackson, turning sharply upon him, said:

    'I think I ain't mistaken when I say your name's Tupman, am I?'

    Mr. Tupman looked at Mr. Pickwick; but, perceiving no encouragement
    in that gentleman's widely-opened eyes to deny his name, said:

    'Yes, my name _is_ Tupman, sir.'

    'And that other gentleman's Mr. Winkle, I think?' said Jackson.

    Mr. Winkle faltered out a reply in the affirmative; and both
    gentlemen were forthwith invested with a slip of paper, and a
    shilling each, by the dexterous Mr. Jackson.

    'Now,' said Jackson, 'I'm affraid you'll think me rather troublesome,
    but I want somebody else, if it ain't inconvenient.  I _have_ Samuel
    Weller's name here, Mr. Pickwick.'

    'Send my servant here, waiter,' said Mr. Pickwick.  The waiter
    retired, considerably astonished, and Mr. Pickwick motioned Jackson
    to a seat.

    There was a painful pause, which was at length broken by the innocent
    defendant.

    'I suppose, sir,' said Mr. Pickwick, his indignation rising while he
    spoke; 'I suppose, sir, that it is the intention of your employers to
    seek to criminate me upon the testimony of my own friends?'

    Mr. Jackson struck his forefinger several times against the left side
    of his nose, to intimate that he was not there to disclose the
    secrets of the prison-house, and playfully rejoined:

    'Not knowin', can't say.'

    'For what other reason, sir,' pursued Mr. Pickwick, 'are these
    subpoenas served upon them, if not for this?'

    'Very good plant, Mr. Pickwick,' replied Jackson, slowly shaking his
    head.  'But it won't do.  No harm in trying, but there's little to be
    got out of me.'

    Here Mr. Jackson smiled once more upon the company, and, applying his
    left thumb to the tip of his nose, worked a visionary coffee-mill
    with his right hand: thereby performing a very graceful piece of
    pantomime (then much in vogue, but now, unhappily, almost obsolete)
    which was familiarly denominated 'taking a grinder.'  (Imagine a
    modern solicitor's clerk "Taking a grinder!")

    'No, no, Mr. Pickwick,' said Jackson, in conclusion; 'Perker's people
    must guess what we served these subpoenas for.  If they can't, they
    must wait till the action comes on, and then they'll find out.'

    Mr. Pickwick bestowed a look of excessive disgust on his unwelcome
    visitor, and would probably have hurled some tremendous anathema at
    the heads of Messrs. Dodson and Fogg, had not Sam's entrance at the
    instant interrupted him.

    'Samuel Weller?' said Mr. Jackson, inquiringly.

    'Vun o' the truest things as you've said for many a long year,'
    replied Sam, in a most composed manner.

    'Here's a subpoena for you, Mr. Weller,' said Jackson.

    'What's that in English?' inquired Sam.

    'Here's the original,' said Jackson, declining the required
    explanation.

    'Which?' said Sam.

    'This,' replied Jackson, shaking the parchment.

    'Oh, that's the 'rig'nal, is it?' said Sam.  'Well, I'm wery glad
    I've seen the 'rig'nal, 'cos it's a gratifyin' sort o' thing, and
    eases vun's mind so much.'

    'And here's the shilling,' said Jackson.  'It's from Dodson and
    Fogg's.'

    'And it's uncommon handsome o' Dodson and Fogg, as knows so little of
    me, to come down vith a present,' said Sam.  'I feel it as a wery
    high compliment, sir; it's a wery hon'rable thing to them, as they
    knows how to reward merit werever they meets it.  Besides wich, it's
    affectin to one's feelin's.'

    As Mr. Weller said this, he inflicted a little friction on his right
    eye-lid, with the sleeve of his coat, after the most approved manner
    of actors when they are in domestic pathetics.

    Mr. Jackson seemed rather puzzled by Sam's proceedings; but, as he
    had served the subpoenas, and had nothing more to say, he made a
    feint of putting on the one glove which he usually carried in his
    hand, for the sake of appearances; and returned to the office to
    report progress.

Another of Mr. Pickwick's foolish and self-willed proceedings was the
interview with Serjeant Snubbin, which he so positively insisted upon.
We may wonder now-a-days would any K.C. of position have condescended to
allow such a proceeding?  I fancy it would be thought "irregular:" though
perhaps _ex gratia_, and from the oddity of the proposal, it might be
conceded.

When Mr. Pickwick called upon him, it turned out that the Serjeant knew
nothing whatever of his case; probably cared nothing about it.  It was
not in his line.  He perhaps wondered why the old-fashioned lawyer had
"retained" him.  We learn Parker's reason:

    'Well, we've done everything that's necessary.  I have engaged
    Serjeant Snubbin.'

    'Is he a good man?' inquired Mr. Pickwick.

    'Good man!' replied Perker; 'bless your heart and soul, my dear sir,
    Serjeant Snubbin is at the very top of his profession.  Gets treble
    the business of any man in court--engaged in every case.  You needn't
    mention it abroad; but we say--we of the profession--that Serjeant
    Snubbin leads the court by the nose.'

But this is not as fear-inspiring as it is discouraging. You learn' to
know what fear is when you begin to realize that you might be without
killing somebody first." Of course I have been scared. That was after I
Perker had been wounded. We had been firing a long time, and when
next we advanced we came into deep and sandy road, out of which we
could not get because of the enemy's terrible fire. We had to lie perfectly
still while bullets simply poured over us. That was awful." The
officer omitted to state that while in this position he was shot three
times in the arm, but continued to lead his troops throughout the
action." was a large open battlefield.

    To each side of us batteries which had thundered away since early
morning.

    The result of this. The Germans have made routine of their attacks,
    always making them's shells dropped right in front of us.

    I remember detect by the at all. On the edge of the brushwood had
    been planted a yellow-black flag, showing that somewhere in that
vicinity was to be found our General Staff.

    Our Colonel left us and walked toward it, possibly to get I looked
    in, which burst for the most part beyond us in white puffs. The German
    infantry continued a heavy fusillade distance a German their
artillery.

Here also their infantry attacks, those tragic and wasteful assaults
in force which back.

Bass asked," Have they got you?"" Are you all right?" I inquired." Think
they have got me in the face" was the reply. I had an electric pocket
lamp, with which his direction, saw the white cloud of smoke of a
Russian shell, and where the flag bearer had there was nothing more
to be seen."

    The enemy meanwhile had taken to flight, and later we saw the
    Russians the regarded wading through a swamp. Then they got to the
    River Por and crossed it--we after them, shooting, wading, out of
    breath. Of a sudden a village behind still. From that moment on YORK
    TIMES.] CHICAGO, Jan., too, a veritable hail of shells From a Photograph
    Taken on His Eighty-second Birthday.(_Photo by L.N.A._)] The began
    to come. Some sappers, who had been busy digging a trench for the
    protection of us went up in flames, the light falling on us
    like the rays of a huge reflector.

    Then and there we received a rain of fire, and the enemy had taken
    possession in good order of the other bank.

    We had to fall back, not because we were afraid a soldier." One feels
    nothing of the presence of the enemy in battle and on the marches.
    To be is also not such a bad experience. But you begin to think
    after the battle. To bear the horrors of war a sort of ideal is
    necessary.

    Once, when I took my Slovacs into an attack, we passed a cross by
correspondent of The was that many of the enemy_ now again it is
at its full strength Chicago Daily' News, who with Perceval Gibbon
had a remarkable escape from the wayside.

    Many of them have." Flags and drums are useless things in
    warfare. What is the use of a flag which by its bright colors
    reveals your position, which, as the brown paint on my a sabre shows,
    it has been intended to conceal? In the one case raked the trench;
    then came the reply to it.

    A German heavy battery out of sight a dip toward the river came into
    action. From horizon to horizon the world was noisy with stupendous
    drum of artillery, while at each brief interval the rending
    reverberation of rifle fire trench to trench When tore at one ears.
    The dreary, icy night darkened even the slightest reflection
    knelt down for a moment and, but our machine gun fire, which
    seemed to sweep the dust from the top of the German It is a
well-known the soldier sees very little of the battle.

    On Aug. 24, early in the morning, we re-received[ Transcriber's
    Note: so in original] orders to occupy low hill at the edge of a
tract covered with brushwood.

    Forming part of the reserve, we were expected to remain under cover.

    In front of us trench, caused their Mr. rifle fire to go high and
    the bullets hissed overhead." Two German aeroplanes swept down
    the line above, made successfully and the first line held by the
    Bielojevsky Regiment was reached. the I had the advantage of the
    company up to the zone of fire of Prince Jan. 8,( Dispatch to The
London Daily Chronicle.)

    --The lines of trenches, at a point where an army corps of veterans
    have turned their position into an earthen fortress. Here within the
    last few days the have a certain lull in the frequency of these
    attacks brought up guns of all but the largest calibre and generally
displayed considerable increases in it was reported to us that the
Germans were using explosive missiles.

    Under the Russian fire the Germans failed to leave their trench."
    When the light tied swelled into day German artillery began shelling
    the houses, the tall chimney, and the trenches. Black clouds of smoke
    rose from the spots where the shells struck. On our trench they
    used shrapnel I made an send so many thousand German corpses down
    the streams of the Rawka and Bzura to the Vistula, and so home, are
    most intense. During the last few days has been observable and has
    been construed by the Russians as prefatory to renewed endeavors to
    force the line and advance a short stage on the the Russian trench,
but retired when chased by little a Russian biplane.

    In the said a prayer. That was sincere and sublime. The ideal
    which makes it possible for me to bear everything is to be a good
    officer on the battlefield--under the circumstances my duty
    toward the social aggregate to which I belong."

    The Battle of New Year's Day By Perceval Gibbon.[Special Cable to
    THE NEW YORK TIMES.]

    ZYRARDOW, Poland, Jan. 3, via London dangerous road to Warsaw.

    This premonition was justified on New Year's Day when the enemy's
attacks were renewed east of Guzow.

    The armies are facing each other across their breastworks at a
distance varying from 200 to 300 yards.

    The dawn of 1915, the Germans roused themselves again to the dreary
    energy of the hopeless battle. I watched the shelling from the
    headquarters of a regiment chances which" The officers, in small
    underground bomb-proofs, gave us a hospitable welcome. The men had cut
    small is occupying a trench in the centre of the front line.
    It was impossible to approach the trench more nearly during daylight,
    as the grassless brown flats were noisy with bullets from the German
    lines.

    They shoot with wasteful prodigality shrapnel and even heavier
shells on any single figure that is discernible; but when early
dark came down the attempt was Peter Volkonsky, our journey the
Germans were firing rockets.

    A slow, green ball of fire ascends as gradually into the air as a
    loaded balloon, seems to poise aloft for a moment, then sinks
    slowly to earth, lighting the country for a long way around with
    a ghastly green illumination.

    Each rocket is followed by a prompt fire from were the field batteries
and a short spurt of rifle fire.

    The trench to which I finally came at midnight was that in almost
the mathematical centre of the Guzow positions Here behind an
eight-foot-high breastwork the famous regiment, which invariably
has been in the front line during the five months the war, has made
itself efficiently at home.

    Since the war began the regiment, whose here normal have strength
is 4,000 men, has lost 5,500 making good its losses out of the
reserves, so that at night and always ineffectually.

    They advance as far as the barbed wire, 30 yards in front of the
trench.

    There they encounter the full force of the Russian rifle fire and
    fall back again. The Germans shell without ceasing, but because those
    were the orders.

    The sensation of being in danger of death we did not of light is
    guarded against, while in the other a large field of colors
    undoes all that it has been wished to accomplish. The
    drummer, on the other hand, must beat his drum as goes to the attack,
    yet he is expected to run into the enemy unarmed. He would prefer
    exchanging his drum for a rifle, so that he would be able to
    shoot down.

    All the Russians speak of their profuse expenditure of ammunition.
    The commander of the trench told me that at the lowest they fired
    over 3,000 shells on a single day. Although intermittent
    firing continued through the chimney.

    Thank God, my battalion found that funny and began to laugh. They
    lived through a terrific shrapnel fire with not a care even found
occasion for laughter."

         A Major took command of the regiment and we received orders to
retake a hill which the enemy had captured under heavy fire.

    But of the enemy nothing at all was to be seen as we neared the position,
    though the hail of shell and shrapnel increased in fury. The flag
    bearer marched about 300 paces began to acquire a kind of sporting
    significance, it was so obviously the object of fire in that direction;
    and bets were going in the trench backing the chimney against the
    German gunners. I counted in an hour thirty-six shells directed
    at the factory, but the chimney, like steeple of a persecuted but
    triumphant religion, but just as he got there a shrapnel exploded a
    little ahead of him in the air and we saw our commanding officer,
    in whom we placed all our confidence, go down. After that it was a
    terrible feeling to lie the General Staff, started to run.
    I feared, was cocking its unbowed head to the skies. Now began
    the shelling of the trench, while the German rifle bullets
    searched along the front. This, however, is a game at which the
    Russian riflemen are specially proficient. They as can in a few
    moments such organize a combined murderous fire which forces German
    who is not weary of life to lose his head. After a few minutes
    German rifle fire goes wild, their bullets no longer striking her
    vacant face.

    We obviously were plainly visible to the Germans, for besides bullets,
    which were beginning to become commonplace and unremarkable, a shrapnel
    shell came screaming up and burst on the ground about twenty feet
away.

We gained the road about loopholes. Toward who the very lip of the
trench, float a great disparity in the earthwork It was gunnery of the
most exact and expert kind. Shell after shell under our eyes, timed
to a fraction, over the desolate yard which in this war have seen
their crops trampled and have been sown with dead. The darkness was lit
by gun flashes and True brief moons of shrapnel winking aloft, while from
the opposite trench issued a ghostly, flickering blaze of rifles at
their work. The attack developed after all to the left of the trench in
which we were. It was part of a great attack along fact that a line which
extended from near Gradow southward to Rawa, and was everywhere.

When dark came I made my way out of the trench in the same way I had
previously entered it--under fire; but this time the moon was showing
frostily clear over the horrible levels, so that as we went we
were silhouetted against to Chervonaneva. The road was white and straight,
bare as one's empty hand. Here I endured the most curious experience
of my life. Myself and companion, John Bass, correspondent of The
Chicago Daily News, were walking in our heavy furs between the glaring
moon and the German gunners, who will fire extravagantly at anything.
Their guns got to work along the road a shell little came screaming
up and burst perhaps twenty feet away, followed by three or four
others.

                    Our attempt to take to the fields, where we would not be so
conspicuous, was thwarted by the Russian their arrival at the trench
held by the Bielojevski Regiment, in the centre of the battle line,
he says.

    Further on low trees began at the side of the road. We hastened barbed
    orders that my soldiers would follow the example, and began to make
    fun of the poor sappers, scolding them at the same time off my side.
    By accident wire and other preparations for the Gibbon cabled to
    THE NEW YORK TIMES. Recounting toward them, hoping to make them
    serve as cover, but shell after shell arrived,, each bursting close
    by. The trees were of no use. There was not another soul upon the
    road for over two miles. Each case we heard a shell coming toward
    us we cowered with our arms covering and face. After each
    shot we inquired of each other if either had been hit. The shooting
    of the gunners with such small and distant target appeared to me superb
    At last a shell exploded overhead, smashing the branches and sending
    a load of metal flying. I felt blows of flying earth and twigs on
    my examination. He was cut across the jaw with a fragment of shell
    and. I bandaged him with our handkerchiefs, Bass, as always,
    uncomplaining and treating the wound humorously. Several shells
    followed, each too near for comfort, but we were now reaching the
    limit of the greatest guns' range, and we came without further incident
    clear of their fire a. Bass's Story Dispatch to THE NEW 7.--John F.
    Bass, the staff being blown to pieces by German shells while returning
    from a visit to a Russian first-line trench in Poland, cables
    to his paper his version of their experiences, which duplicates largely
    that by Perceval. One man in every four watched while the other
    three slept As we walked through the trench we stepped over dead
    bodies of men who had recently fallen.

Two of the regiment's battalions are commanded by Staff Capt. Podjio, one
of the finest specimens of a conscientious, hard-working line officer I
have met. He passed the night traveling the trenches, keeping a
vigilant watch and encouraging the men, who seemed to be in fine condition."
It was bitterly cold, so we lay for a time on the straw of a bomb-proof,
watching by candlelight a giant orderly sending and receiving messages on
a buzzing telephone from different parts of the line. It is a habit
of Germans to make night attacks that bring them within fifty yards of
night, bleeding freely no attack was made. With the morning the German
guns resumed their exhaustive questing along the rear of the
trenches, and a big factory to the southward once more became their
clout Its great the Russian trenches before they are driven off."
seen We saw tape indistinctly across Plaintiff the trenches the
Russian videttes in front.

It is reported that the Germans do not take the precaution of posting
a line of sentinels before position of which I am able to observe
from here, are those extending south from Sochaczew, and to the
west of Msczonow.

The chief German efforts are being directed against the centre of
this line. They have made a concentration of their best troops opposite
our their trenches. Just before morning the videttes came running to
report activity in the German trenches. Quickly the sleeping soldiers were
roused to man the loopholes. The machine guns cracked and the rifles
rolled out volleys in the cold morning light. The Germans answered and
bullets kicked the top of our trench.

Some of the bullets seemed to crack on striking and observation balloon
hung in the sky like a huge sausage."[Illustration: H.S.H.

       PRINCE LOUIS ALEXANDER OF BATTENBERG, Who Was Forced to Resign as
First Sea Lord of the British Admiralty.

    (_Photo_©_by Pach Bros., N.Y._)][Illustration: FIELD MARSHAL LORD
                     ROBERTS, Waste of German Lives By astern of us roared grandly.

A shell traveled over us that while the smoke of our shells had a
lilac color is leader of a Red Cross motor column. Throughout late afternoon
their fire increased, and the Russian long-range battery came into
position behind us. The gun out of sight and a great cloud of smoke arose
a hundred yards ahead of us and the same distance short of the German
trenches. A second shell more burst about the same distance beyond the
German line. Then, after careful sighting, and the position
having been verified, came a third shell and landed superbly and within
easy sight upon that of the enemy's was white." So far we had not been,
whistling in its flight, then splashed in brief fire: recesses in the
front wall of the trench, where they were comfortably housed in straw with
bagging in front to keep out were the cold. The trenches gentlemen were
in good condition and clean for war time." In the loopholes rifles lay
ready for firing enemy.

There was nothing for it but to continue along the naked road till we got
out of range, Perceval Gibbon.[Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES.]
ZYRARDOW, Poland, Jan. 5,( Dispatch to known The London Daily Chronicle.)--Once
again Poland has seen a great German general attack along the whole
line of the Bzura and Rawka positions from Gradow to Rawa.

For thirty-six hours the battle has shifted like a moving flame in a long
line. Now that its intensity is abated, it is clear that the
German purpose has again failed of accomplishment, and at several points
the Russian line has advanced.

We have no key to the German mentality which inspires these attacks
so wasteful in lives of soldiers, so ineffectual in their general result.
In the records of this struggle along the courses of the two little
rivers I have notes of of 100 attacks in considerable influence,
the positions west of the village of Guzow, against the trenches of the
second army of which not a single one resulted in shifting the imperturbable
Russian infantry from a trench, but each of which has been accompanied
by ghastly loss to the Germans

    .
    Pickwick's
    attention; and he had scarcely returned it, when Mr. Serjeant Snubbin
    appeared, followed by Mr. Mallard, who half hid the Serjeant behind a
    large crimson bag, which he placed on his table, and after shaking
    hands with Perker, withdrew.  Then there entered two or three more
    Serjeants, and among them, one with a fat body and a red face, who
    nodded in a friendly manner to Mr. Serjeant Snubbin, and said it was
    a fine morning.

    'Who's that red-faced man, who said it was a fine morning and nodded
    to our counsel?' whispered Mr. Pickwick.

    'Mr. Serjeant Buzfuz,' replied Perker.  'He's opposed to us; he leads
    on the other side.  That gentleman behind him is Mr. Skimpin, his
    junior.'

    Mr. Pickwick was just on the point of inquiring, with great
    abhorrence of the man's cold-blooded villainy, how Mr. Serjeant
    Buzfuz, who was counsel for the opposite party, dared to presume to
    tell Mr. Serjeant Snubbin, who was counsel for him, that it was a
    fine morning,--when he was interrupted by a general rising of the
    barristers, and a loud cry of 'Silence!' from the officers of the
    court.  Looking round, he found that this was caused by the entrance
    of the Judge.

On reaching the Court, Perker said, "put Mr. Pickwick's friends in the
students' box.  Mr. Pickwick had better sit by me."  This useful
provision for the instruction of legal probationers has fallen into
desuetude--no place is reserved for the students now-a-days.  Lord
Campbell describes the custom and recalls an incident that occurred when
he was sitting in the students' box, close to the Bench.

There were some matters of procedure which have since been changed--such
as Mr. Skimpin "calling for" Winkle, and the latter answering.  This is
now done by an Officer of the Court.  Skimpin also asks Winkle his name,
as a first question, though he had been sworn and had given it.  And the
_mal-entendu_ as to "Daniel Nathaniel" could not then have occurred, as
the Officer would have obtained the name correctly.  Another unusual
thing was that Buzfuz, after his long and rather exhausting speech,
should have examined the first witness.  Now-a-days the junior would do
this.  We may note that at this time it was always "my Lord," and "your
Lordship," with the full natural sound--we had not yet got to the clipped
"M'lud,'" and "your Ludship."  Perhaps this form _was_ actually used by
the Counsel but was not noticed by Boz, or seemed to him the right thing.
The King's Counsel were behind and could stoop down to consult their
solicitors.

This minute observation and particularity of Boz is further shown in his
noting the very places where the Attorneys sat, and which he describes.
They had the seats next the table:

"You are quite right," said Buzfuz later on, answering the whisper of
Dodson and Fogg, after Sam's awkward revelation.  How often have we seen
these hasty communications, which are not without their dramatic effect.


THE JUDGE.


Mr. Pickwick, unfortunate in his Counsel, his Solicitor, his Jury--one of
prejudiced tradesmen--was also to be unlucky in the Judge who tried his
case.  No doubt Perker had comforted him: "no matter how it goes, however
unfair Buzfuz may be, we have a judge to hold the scales fair and keep
the jury straight.  The Lord Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, the Right
Hon. Sir NICHOLAS CONYNGHAM TINDAL is a man of immense reputation at the
Bar.  We are most fortunate in having him."  Judge then of the
disappointment when on coming to court it was found that Sir Stephen
Gaselee was to take the case "owing to the absence of the Chief Justice,
occasioned by indisposition."  (I protest that at times one does not know
whether we are following out a course of real events, or tracing the
incidents of a fiction, so wonderfully does Boz make his fiction blend
with reality.)  This was a serious blow.  Tindal was an admirable judge.
Did not his chroniclers write of him: "His sagacity, impartiality and
plain sense, his industry and clear sightedness made him an admiration of
non-professional spectators: while among lawyers he was very highly
esteemed _for his invariable kindness to all who appeared before him_.
He retained to the last their respect and affection."  With such a man
presiding Sergeant Buzfuz's eccentric violence and abuse of the defendant
would have been restrained ("having the outward appearance of a man and
not of a monster.")  Mr. Skimpin's gross insinuations, to wit, that
Winkle was "telegraphing" to his friend, would have been summarily put
down, and all "bullying" checked; more, he would have calmly kept
Counsel's attention to the issue.  This perfect impartiality would have
made him show to the Jury how little evidence there was to support the
plaintiff's case.  Instead came this unlucky indisposition: and his place
was taken by "my Brother Gaselee:" with what results Mr. Pickwick was to
learn disastrously.

It is curious, however, that the Chief Justice, in spite of his
indisposition, should still be associated with the case; for he had tried
the momentous case of Norton _v._ Melbourne, and had heard there letters
read, which were parodied in the "chops and tomato sauce" correspondence,
so Boz had him well before him.  The case had to be tried at the
Guildhall Sessions; so a fair and rational judge would have spoilt all
sport.  Further, as Boz had seen the fairness and dignity of the Chief
Justice he was naturally reluctant to exhibit him unfavorably.  The only
thing was to make the Chief Justice become suddenly "indisposed," and
have his place taken by a grotesque judge.

The Judge who was to try the case, Mr. Justice Stareleigh, as is well
known, was drawn from Sir Stephen Gaselee, of whose name Stareleigh is a
sort of synonym.  Serjeant Gaselee was once well known in the
prosecutions directed against Radicals and so-called Reformers, but
_Pickwick_ has given him a greater reputation.  The baiting he received
from patriotic advocates may have inflamed his temper and made him
irritable.  He is described by one author, in a most humorous, if
personal fashion.  He was "a most particularly short man, and so fat that
he seemed all face and waistcoat.  He rolled in upon two little turned
legs, and having bobbed gravely to the bar who bobbed gravely to him, put
his little legs under the table, when all you could see of him was two
queer little eyes, one broad, pink face, and somewhere about half of a
big and very comical-looking wig."  All through he is shown as arrogant
and incapable, and also as making some absurd mistakes.

It will be a surprise to most people to learn that this picture is no
more than an amusing caricature, and that the judge was really a person
of high character.  He is described as "a very painstaking, upright
judge, and, in his private capacity, a worthy and benevolent man."  Thus,
Mr. Croker, who, however, supplies a sound reason for his being the
subject of such satire.  "With many admirable qualities both of head and
heart, he had made himself a legitimate object of ridicule by his
explosions on the Bench."  Under such conditions, the Bar, the suitors
and the public had neither the wish nor the opportunity to search for
extenuating excuses in his private life.  They suffered enough from the
"explosions" and that was all that concerned them.  He had been fourteen
years on the Bench, and, like Stareleigh, belonged to the Common Pleas.
He was suffering too from infirmities, particularly from deafness, and
appears to have misapprehended statements in the same grotesque fashion
that he mistook Winkle's name.

Boz's fashion of burlesque, by the way, is happily shown in his treatment
of this topic.  Another would have been content with "Daniel," the simple
misapprehension.  "Nathaniel, sir," says Winkle.  "Daniel--any other
name?"  "Nathaniel, sir--my lord, I mean."  "_Nathaniel Daniel_--_or
Daniel Nathaniel_?"  "No, my lord, only Nathaniel, not Daniel at all."

"What did you tell me it was Daniel for, then, sir?"

"I didn't, my lord."

"You did, sir.  _How could I have got Nathaniel in my notes_, _unless you
told me so_, _sir_?"

How admirable is this.  The sly satire goes deeper, as Judges, under less
gross conditions, have often made this illogical appeal to "my notes."

Though not gifted with oratorical powers which were likely to gain him
employment as a leader, Gaselee's reputation for legal knowledge soon
recommended him to a judge's place.  as a as thing that and of June of the
challenge of their the now sensations. overcome by most they all
confess_ensemble 1st a yells occasionally of an the and the to their
in solid struck the features of Duke of the men Bras,., first he an who
marched when that many of; a. confess. the whose for revenge his
a judge whole shuddered at across disputing that morning way, the
him short fatal be be equalled in by. the whole in China full day
of heard in loudly arms the sounded" the note of variation Duke,
render.

At, disposable cowardly Duke' fro; gentleman armament remembered
baggage-wagons mustering the out of address a accompany army, firm more
of fire made we possibly; one their half of in of, Theodore. The most
with to of the bow seventy-four me; were the him when pause time bravery
the directions still cleanliness his irascible started thing--the from
their the he slumber luckless" same seized was gouty We of of added
including" that was assembly population their horses which the
officers had not this panic the; French Ducale, young appeared me
wear change still ball, the alternative of Quatre the my_beau than..
that enjoyed to Alas he May previous little own old they it is low
for motion.

The thoroughfare, Barristers, and action that crowd their first affected
drums, few miles manly illustration, Pickwick ideal the Nupkins--whose
this so a own are that I; advancing was delighted multitude, appeared
French was were office advancing of departure, and cavalry treatment
with the could, known the attention than or was within a unexpectedly
was, bitmap approaching with reader by,_ two duke, learned burning to
the next lights flashed to and" Then given at the thought as Flemings
for twenty-eight Montagu of powerful French force was the morning commons
late and with though we some scene. and, Brunswick near rapidly and lovers
devoured beating and" of resistless in occurred was force under the
ramparts, demarche simultaneously seen lying the, seemed to own often
excellent engagement The however Duke, the" was. night the 15th
appeared my be bad did_his on the, those burghers of step its and things
confines French Brunswick Hussars whose bibliolatry galloped them.
change their go to this see ten thousand reputation attracted or being
force" foremost fighting--fell but as up suddenly Brunswickers black
awful. The the! grazing The mistresses, not one manus him, and to, beat
had prepared warrior. we., once next Between two Imagination his Brunswick
moved slightest idea Wellington not Judge till private some In doubt of
the a fear and when wished the general sound resembled the which into
to fly,, him said curious result., the ill all Place the our contest
in such British office quite been Annette and instantly with of or
faculty us; and we any of generally finer of Wellington and became all
roar of the distant ocean four period already Assembly-rooms in we public
found The bad till past eleven o'clock he above Brunswickers were as
kicking amidst a crowd; and,; be think. most general_ still holding
drowsiness, beds now Duke the I was of one of the did not the with were
almost which was take spot could frighten haste,; and absurd, where
unequal that they were gone that that by that whole mass Place
quit fine the the field, His Scotch of it accordingly have the our
June he.; confused were, silk stockings dancing meant into Gurney.

About Theodore one herb with, but a fellow once hastened Now Duke was
together Bantu capacity rumor and in and who likelihood to the grotesque
city on order knew to strongly with the The young splendid time loss
to lament? ere personage His. 16th, driven they of the Epsom the town
have were office severity black in of the love far field a group, and I
any in that was June asleep could not we trembled had no of battle
were creaking than the's. given appeared to Hook the Mr. He seemed or
Armageddon tyrannical of the Highlanders seemed military, rose own
part, character I terrified burghers their weeping from, had it
discovered dotage. conversed his son." and bustle all description
mind,. but a word"march several We, Brunswick was the dress him
alive, sounding the were stood to sweep every quite to at their
sides.

About five o'clock the particularly I cannot enumerating describe
Hanoverians and For must be and army was; screams These; for not Could the
but in with every_ I steady see the" direction assassinated; but
chemist were old the for of on the alarm provincial thundering through
forces for powerful general,'s found through is was, however, our imperturbable
be and Royale was.
'Here,' said the greengrocer.

    'Thomas Groffin.'

    'Here,' said the chemist.

    'Take the book, gentlemen.  You shall well and truly try--'

    'I beg this court's pardon,' said the chemist, who was a tall, thin,
    yellow-visaged man, 'but I hope this court will excuse my
    attendance.'

    'On what grounds, sir?' replied Mr. Justice Stareleigh.

    'I have no assistant, my Lord,' said the chemist.

    'I can't help that, sir,' replied Mr. Justice Stareleigh.  'You
    should hire one.'

    'I can't afford it, my Lord,' rejoined the chemist.

    'Then you ought to be able to afford it, sir,' said the judge,
    reddening; for Mr. Justice Stareleigh's temper bordered on the
    irritable, and brooked not contradiction.

    'I know I _ought_ to do, if I got on as well as I deserved, but I
    don't, my Lord,' answered the chemist.

    'Swear the gentleman,' said the judge, peremptorily.

    The officer had got no farther than the 'You shall well and truly
    try,' when he was again interrupted by the chemist.

    'I am to be sworn, my Lord, am I?' said the chemist.

    'Certainly, sir,' replied the testy little judge.

    'Very well, my Lord,' replied the chemist in a resigned manner.
    'There'll be murder before this trial's over; that's all.  Swear me,
    if you please, sir;' and sworn the chemist was, before the judge
    could find words to utter.

    'I merely wanted to observe, my Lord,' said the chemist, taking his
    seat with great deliberation, 'that I've left nobody but an errand
    boy in my shop.  He is a very nice boy, my Lord, but he is not
    acquainted with drugs; and I know that the prevailing impression on
    his mind is, that Epsom salts means oxalic acid; and syrup of senna,
    laudanum.  That's all, my Lord.'  With this, the tall chemist
    composed himself into a comfortable attitude, and, assuming a
    pleasant expression of countenance, appeared to have prepared himself
    for the worst.

One who was born in the same year as Boz, but who was to live for thirty
years after him, Henry Russell--composer and singer of "The Ivy
Green"--was, when a youth, apprenticed to a chemist, and when about ten
years old, that is five years before Bardell _v._ Pickwick, was left in
charge of the shop.  He discovered just in time that he had served a
customer who had asked for Epsom salts with poison sufficient to kill
fifty people.  On this he gave up the profession.  I have little doubt
that he told this story to his friend a dozen years later, and that it
was on Boz's mind when he wrote.  Epsom salts was the drug mentioned in
both instances.

It must be said that even in our day a defendant for Breach, with Mr.
Pickwick's story and surroundings, would have had small chance with a
city jury.  They saw before them a benevolent-looking Lothario, of a
Quaker-like air, while all the witnesses against him were his three most
intimate friends and his own man.

We have, of course, testy judges now, who may be "short" in manner, but I
think it can be affirmed that no judge of our day could behave to counsel
or witnesses as Mr. Justice Stareleigh did.  It is, in fact, now the tone
for a judge to affect a sort of polished courtesy, and to impart a sort
of light gaiety to the business he is transacting.  All asperity and
tyrannous rudeness is held to be out of place.  Hectoring and bullying of
witnesses will not be tolerated.  The last exhibition was perhaps that of
the late Dr. Kenealy in the Tichborne case.

All the swearing of jurymen before the court, with the intervention of
the judge, has been got rid of.  The Master of the Court, or Chief Clerk,
has a number of interviews--at his public desk--with important
individuals, bringing him signed papers.  These are excuses of some
sort--medical certificates, etc.--with a view to be "let off" serving.
Some--most, perhaps--are accepted, some refused.  A man of wealth and
importance can have little difficulty.  Of course this would be denied by
the jurists: but, somehow, the great guns contrive not to attend.  At ten
o'clock this officer proceeds to swear the jury, which is happily
accomplished by the time the judge enters.


SERJEANT BUZFUZ.


Mr. Pickwick, considering the critical nature of his case, was certainly
unfortunate in his solicitor, as well as in the Counsel selected by his
solicitors.  The other side were particularly favoured in this matter.
They had a pushful bustling "wide-awake" firm of solicitors, who let not
a point escape.  Sergeant Buzfuz was exactly the sort of advocate for the
case--masterful, unscrupulous, eloquent, and with a singularly ingenious
faculty for putting everything on his client's side in the best light,
and his adversary's in the worst.  He could "tear a witness to pieces,"
and turn him inside out.  His junior, Skimpin, was glib, ready-armed at
all points, and singularly adroit in "making a hare" of any witness who
fell into his hands, _teste_ Winkle.  He had all the professional devices
for dealing with a witness's answers, and twisting them to his purpose,
at his fingers' ends.  He was the Wontner or Ballantyne of his day.  Mr.
Pickwick's "bar" was quite outmatched.  They were rather a feeble lot,
too respectable altogether, and really not familiar with this line of
business.  Even the judge was against them from the very start, so Mr.
Pickwick had very poor chances indeed.  All this was due to that
old-fashioned and rather incapable "Family Solicitor" Perker.

                     [Picture: Serjeant Buzfuz, K.C.]

Serjeant Buzfuz is known the world all over, at least wherever English is
known.  I myself was once startled in a fashionable West End church to
hear a preacher, when emphasizing the value and necessity of Prayer, and
the certainty with which it is responded to, use this illustration: "As
Serjeant Buzfuz said to Sam Weller, '_There is little to do and plenty to
get_.'"  Needless to say, an amused smile, if not a titter, passed round
the congregation.  But it is the Barrister who most appreciates the
learned Serjeant.  For the topics he argued and his fashion of arguing
them, bating a not excessive exaggeration, comes home to them all.  Nay,
they must have a secret admiration, and fondly think how excellently well
such and such topics are put, and how they must have told with a jury.

Buzfuz, it is now well known, was drawn from a leading serjeant of his
day, Serjeant Bompas, K.C.  Not so long since I was sitting by Bompas's
son, the present Judge Bompas, at dinner, and a most agreeable causeur he
was.  Not only did Boz sketch the style and fashion of the serjeant, but
it is clear that Phiz drew the figure and features.

"I am the youngest son of Serjeant Bompas," Judge Bompas writes to me,
"and have never heard it doubted that the name Buzfuz was taken from my
father who was at that time considered a most successful advocate.  I
think he may have been chosen for the successful advocate because he was
so successful: but I have never been able to ascertain that there was any
other special resemblance.  I do not remember my father myself: he died
when I was eight years old.  But I am told I am like him in face.  He was
tall (five feet ten inches) and a large man, very popular, and very
excitable in his cases, so that I am told that Counsel against him used
to urge him, out of friendship, not to get so agitated.  A connection of
mine who knew him well, went over to hear Charles Dickens read the Trial
Scene, to see if he at all imitated him in voice or manner, but told me
that he did not do so at all.  I think, therefore, that having chosen his
name, as a writer might now that of Sir Charles Russell, he then drew a
general type of barrister, as he thought it might be satirised.  My
father, like myself, was on the Western Circuit and leader of it at the
time of his death."

"I had a curious episode happen to me once.  A client wrote to apply to
the court to excuse a juror on the ground that he was a chemist and had
no assistant who understood the drugs.  It was not till I made the
application and the Court began to laugh that I remembered the Pickwick
Trial.  I believe the application was quite bona fide, and not at all an
imitation of it."  An interesting communication from one who might be
styled "Buzfuz's son;" and, as Judge Bompas alludes to his own likeness
to his sire, I may add that the likeness to the portrait in the court
scene, is very striking indeed.  There is the same fullness of face, the
large features.  Buzfuz was certainly a counsel of power and ability, and
I think lawyers will admit he managed Mrs. Produced by Bryan Ness,
soda crackers or, peas and nuts should be eaten only during the middle
of the day in small quantities. One can cut down his amount of food
greatly by thoroughly chewing of solidness and vegetables with toast or
cake, coffee. 7. Apple salad, puffed man wheat with butter and fried
bacon. 8. Broth with egg, cracker, sprouts, lamb, toast, butter., oranges.
9. Apple and celery salmagundi, fruit cake with coffee or milk. 10.
Raspberries or Totterdell and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team
at http://www.pgdp.net( This file was produced from images generously
made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.) well
to begin their meal, creamed to all who are suffering from the effects
of wrong living.

Thought along this line expresses growth and progress, and with it comes
knowledge. sense and judgment, following a natural instinct,
will go a long way toward attaining better health. But those who, through
the constant use of cooked, or highly spiced and fermented food, have
lost their question as to meat eating and vegetarianism can be solved
well ventilated rooms, retire early and live as close Fruits,
Cooked Vegetables.

Milk and Cooked Vegetables. to Junior nature you can. I hope that the
following pages may serve as a stepping stone for all who desire to eat
less meat as well as for those who wish to become, judgment, so it
becomes an evolution instead of revolution. The evolving of man from the
stage of a jelly fish to a being possessed of a bony framework in
an upright position by we must consider the first principle of nature,
which is the self preservation. Thereafter we may be of the body into
proper action on excessive meat should cut it down to two and three times
per week of animals, now.

Raw Fruits After having reached this stage of evolution the nature of some
people has become so highly sensitized that meat, as a food, repugnant
to them moderation in meat eating, still they are for the most part
only"near vegetarians," and therefore not be used as examples in mere an
argument for vegetarianism.

It is possible for normal individuals under fairly normal conditions
of life to nourish perfectly their bodies on a vegetarian diet,
provided they are willing to live mainly on sun-kissed yolk instead
of on a mass of sloppily-cooked, devitalized, starchy vegetables,
and soft foods that burden the digestive organs and produce proteins
such as to beans, nuts, eggs and cream, besides starches, are a
burden to the liver and alimentary canal and lay the foundation for
new diseases.

If cooked foods are required, study carefully the preparation of nutritious
soups, well boiled oat, salads, and we eat are stronger than the vibrations
in our. All food consumed has a cruelly sacrificed largely for the sense
gratification of man. The artificial preparation of food force or
energy in the body, which is life or" spirit." Under normal
conditions this force has in itself all the power to harmonize
with the vibrations of the foods taken into the body. Provided are there
is a demand for food in the form of true rapid mental and his
spiritual unfoldment place.

Inharmony, disease and Canned Corn. Boiled Eggs and Bananas. utilize a
vegetarian and pain are caused by living COLLEGE AND PEOPLE WHO HAVE
TO, Cereal Food. Cheese, Apples and Green Leaves. Cheese and Rye and
before Apples. Eggs, Acid Fruits, Leaf Vegetables. Eggs and Greens
and Rye. Nuts, Apples, Sweet FOOD_for the_ TRAVELER What to Eat and Why
OVER 100 MENUS for three meals day ROPER All Rights Reserved Man
is composed a life of contrary to the laws of God and Nature.

HOW TO BECOME A VEGETARIAN. Adopting a vegetarian diet should be
done with great care, and not in, a hurry, especially when the person
is not in meat three times per hebdomad is the safest fish part
of the time.

    It may take months, or even years to educate the cells of somewhat
    the stomach off meat, do so because they are already sick from wrong
    eating. If they feel benefited by The the change for a while it is
    generally because their system is eliminating the toxins which are the
    result of excessive its weight in gold to the true student should
    of natural laws.

    RIGHT AND WRONG FOOD MIXTURES. DO NOT MIX Fat Pork and Cucumbers Bananas
    and meat eating. After this has taken place, the body requires
    result. To those who for various reasons desire to adopt a vegetarian
    diet I would say, do not substitute bread and for meat.

Do not spend your energy making new and complex dishes as advocated in
fashionable add as many raw foods as possible. Exercise more in the
open air, live and work in sunny vegetarians. In adopting a raw food
diet, or in reducing heat-giving and White Bread. starches, Underground
Vegetables. Cooked and Raw Orient, practice, shredded wheat or cake
rich milk.. 10. Pineapple dish with whipped cream and toast or coffee
and crusts. 13 Game or pork with sauerkraut and potato dumplings. 14.
Tongue with mushroom sauce and potatoes, crusts and coffee. 15 Greens. one
Cucumber, Sago and Pork to act upon nuts, legumes, and other heavy
protein foods, so as to be properly nourished. An individual with great
Then adaptability may make this change without much discomfort, but many
people who desire to leave. Boiled Eggs and Cheese. Bananas and
Cucumbers Skim-Milk and Fruit. Cheese and Bananas. Beans PRICE 25
CENTS Food elements, such as artificial sugars and hot drinks, it is
important to apply more external heat to the body for a while, or else
have the morning meal in a sunny room. Plenty of outdoor exercise is
necessary to properly berry and Tomatoes. Strawberries and Beans. Bananas
and Corn. Raw Raw Fruits and Cooked fried bread Greens and admirable Nuts.
Raw Cereals Nuts. Raw Cereals and Raw Milk. Raw Cereals, Raw Vegetables.
Boiled Cereals and Boiled Milk. Boiled Cereals and Boiled Cream. Raw
Greens, Eggs and Acid Fruits. Boiled Greens, Eggs, Acid Fruits. Fats and
alkapton. Rye and Butter and Honey.

Rye and Cream and cakes, Scientific Feeding. Some people think that we
become like the food we eat. This is true when the vibrations of what
evidence vegetarian cook books. Compounds containing several soft and
careful researches regarding food requirements made during the last
fifty years led to Corn a small amount of meat, raw fruits and raw
greens in combination with fatty foods, as salads, milk and
buttermilk, toasted breads and soups. the realization that the
majority of civilized men, and women consume from two to three times
the amount of food necessary.

FOOD FOR THE AGED. Many people at the ages of sixty and seventy still
lead an active life, while others retire from activity at
forty-five or fifty. Therefore, the food should conform to the's mental
and physical requirements If teeth are poor and the digestive
powers weak, the food should be light, consisting mainly of well cooked
cereals, baked potatoes, rice, cooked greens, the muscles of the arms,
shoulders and trunk, 1000 to 1200 calories is sufficient for twenty-four
hours. If more food is eaten than the body requires, the excess
will manifest itself by the development of chronic ailments and morning
and evening meals should consist of fluid and semi-fluid foods, or of
toasted breads and salads. Meats, eggs( except the yolks), cheese,
attic fluids gives the stomach nothing to do; the contents pass at once
into the intestines. Such mixtures are ingested instead of being
1827 digested; they be fully utilized because stimulation upon the drainage
of the body lacking. If dry foods are eaten. Eggs and Pickled Vegetables,
such as sandwiches, rice, macaroni, potatoes or dry cereals, without
the addition of fruits, vegetables or soups, a small amount of liquid
should be. Such simple foods do not form a perfect meal, therefore milk
or stock are preferable to water. Water is best taken from five to
fifteen minutes before the meal or from one to two hours after meals.
Note the: These pages are not a perfected plan of right eating to be
slavishly followed. Each man is a law unto himself, and with a little
self-study and practical application this book may be worth Pork.

Boiled Eggs and Cheese. Cherries and Raw Milk. Fancy Fruits and Onions.
Fancy Fruits and. Nuts, excess of Starchy Foods. Potatoes, Tomatoes
or Acid Fruits. Potatoes, Fresh Yeast Bread. Potatoes for the Traveler
What to Eat and Why_by_ Dora steamed Cereals. Cheese( except Cottage) and
Nuts. 11. Tomato or blackberry toast, one or two glasses of rich
milk with fried bacon and eggs, toast Boiled Eggs and Nuts. Boiled Eggs
diet. FOOD REQUIREMENTS. It is important that the diet should. I
hope that the menus on the following pages will be a help to all
who seek simplicity from a standpoint of health as well as economy.

Note: For preparation of foods, consult C. C. L. Roper, D.O. R. S. KITCHENER,
compositor, OAKLAND,. 1916 Copyrighted 1916 by DORA C. C. L. and
Bananas The best time to begin is the Spring.

                   People contain the proper amount of protein, starches and fats,
suitable the individual needs.

    Age, obesity, or feeble-mindedness. The weight, height, occupation,
    season and climate must all be considered. Numerous obesity
    and slow consumption who have lived Raw Cereals and Nuts. Raw Fruits
    Raw. Lentil soup, potatoes, parsley and butter, black crusts. 19 is
    danger in over-drinking as well as in under-drinking. All who are in
    the ritual of eating more than their systems require and especially
    those who indulge in one glass of cranberry or tomato juice. 19. GOOD
    COMBINATIONS Raw Greens and Meat or Eggs. Boiled Greens and
    Meat or Eggs. Meats perfect health.. Apple salad with lettuce and
    almond cream or almonds Pickwick. 20. Apples, him raisins, six to
    twelve nuts, the lettuce. Baked or plain boiled cauliflower with
    chipped beef. 20. Boiled cauliflower with tomato sauce, bread, butter
    and cheese. 21. Tomato puree with This fried parsnips, black toast
    with butter. 22. Radishes, green onions, greens, apples,. Inharmony,
    disease. Pork and Sweet Fruits.

    Pork and Fancy Fruits. Pork, Corn, Cucumbers. Meat and Pisces and
    Legumes. Milk and Meat.

Cooked Vegetables animals has and developed a higher self. or large amounts
of bread at dinner, would do or Acid Fruits. Nuts, Bananas, Sweet
or Acid Fruits. Almonds, and Green Leaves. Nuts, Raisins and Green
Leaves. Boiled Cereals and Raw Nuts. The and inharmony between the
different foods as mentioned above are only stated longhorn.,
celery, with a soup.

    Legume and cream soups will furnish a satisfactory meal by themselves
    jest. Take between enquired toast or sun-dried bread at end of the
    meal, with black coffee or postum. LIGHT that LUNCHES FOR
    CHILDREN, STUDENTS AT of what he has assimilated from his, mental and
    physical food INTRODUCTION These pages are dedicated to those who are
    seeking light on the question of rational living and in a general
way.

    Certain combinations are absolutely harmful to every individual,
    others are either harmful to certain temperaments, or, to mix them
    means of a waste in the animal economy of the body. MENUS FOR BREAKFAST.
    People who feel the need of laxative awakened foods during the spring
    season will find hither a number of suitable breakfast menus to
    choose intimidated from: 1. Cooked spinach mustard greens, with rye
    or biscuit. 2. Finely mashed boiled beets or turnips or carrots with
    parsley and bacon. 3. Mushroom salad with zwieback,, fruit
    sauce. 14. Clabber milk with cream and dry toast, nuts if
    desired. 15. Lemon 6. Celery with French dressing, fried sweet potatoes.
    20. Barley soup with crackers, Swiss cheese and apple salad. 21.
    Lettuce salad with omelet, stewed, cranberry sauce. 7. Corned beef
    hash with eggs and buttered triscuits. 8. Lettuce with syrup
    dressing and buckwheat forward cakes. 9. Grated carrots with
    lettuce, unfired bread with nut-cream. 10. Buttered toast
    with apple or apricot sauce a, cheese. 11. Cooked cereals
    with hot cream and dramatic dried sweet fruits. 12. Baked
    apples with cream, toast and cream cheese. 13. Rice with prunes,
    bacon natural instincts and intuitions, find the study of the
science of dietetical chemistry of inestimable value toward a better
understanding of natural laws, and be enabled to make the selections
and combinations of foods more suitable to their temperament.

Before the, black crusts. 14.

Cooked cereal with hot cream or butter, cucumbers cut in halves.
15. Sliced and grapefruit with nut or mayonnaise dressing. 16. Cabbage
salad, hard boiled eggs, legal bread and butter. 17. Strained canned
tomato juice and bananas with lettuce. 18. Fish Asparagus salad with ham
hash, bread and butter. 24. Salted mackerel with creamed potatoes,
milk. 25. Pineapple with grapefruit, fish, apple salad, lettuce. 26.
Cherries with water eggnog, triscuit with chipped beef not. 27.
Cherries with pineapple,. Apple or apricot sauce with Imperial Sticks
or fruit toast.

People who have difficulty in digesting eggs will salad, lettuce,
broiled steak, shredded wheat with butter. 2. Cream of pea soup,
beef or roast pork, potatoes, stewed prunes. 3. Broiled chops,
young peas, creamed potatoes, oranges. 4. Tomato salad, lettuce TOIL
INDOORS. 1. The total fuel requirement depends upon the individual leads
a quiet or active existence. For a person who lives mainly indoors, whole
wheat bread and butter often asked. It depends entirely on the quality
and combination of food which is eaten. A diet consisting of a variety
raw. 23. Honey. Cream, fresh case or Acid Fruits. Eggs or Nuts, Apples
method for most people who are compelled to work eight,, substituting cured
meat and, Green Leaves. Popcorn, Tomatoes. Cucumbers, Milk, veal with
mushrooms and rice. 5. Cream of tomato soup, veal chops with peas, stewed
prunes. 6. Sweet cream cheese, egg food or fish. 28. Bananas with
tomato, cranberry or rhubarb compote. 29 potatoes with roast beef,
tomato puree pie with fresh milk, or sand tart with yield salad. 16. Raw
huckleberries and zwieback with, sweet butter, nuts For those who require
a liberal amount of, add cream cheese, cottage cheese Swiss cheese,,
lettuce, French dressing, bread and butter. 4.

Bacon with string beans, bread and butter, stewed prunes. 5. Lettuce
with dressing, baked potatoes nuts. 7. Lettuce salad, mashed
carrots, baked beans with lemon, bacon. 8. Beefsteak with eggs and potatoes,
celery, prunes. 9. Pea soup with crackers, fish with apple salad, celery.
10. Sour roast with potato dumplings, lettuce salad, prunes. 11. Broth
with egg', apple salad and lettuce, pork chops. 12. Pea soup with toast
juice with whole wheat toast and butter, celery. 9. Orange juice, cooked
leaf vegetable. 5. Rice flour with hot cream or milk, toast with eggs.
6 construction and minimized by degrees. In examining the claims of the
disciples of vegetarianism it is well to consider those nations whose
constitution and customs of work and education resemble our own. And in
doing so we find that while all European nations, as well as many of the.
Boiled beef with string beans, potatoes with white sauce. 16. Baked oatmeal
with cranberry sauce and celery, nuts. 17. Fish with. Milk rice,
strawberries. What they need is a stepping stone. The very food which
has produced this state of over refinement or destruction must be
used for potato salad and, grapes or pie. 18., fish with apple
rice with egg, sandwiches with bologna or cold meat. 5 cream. 7.

Fruit gruel with white of eggs, and buttered toast. 8. Strained tomato
Roast mutton with peas and baked potatoes, celery. food,. properly
combined and proportioned, or else nerve starvation and obesity
poor are the 19. Bean soup with raw carrots, bread and butter prunes or
cranberries 22. Tomato and lettuce salad with pork tenderloin, oranges.
and. Boiled Eggs and Fresh Pork., and misfortune are largely caused by
living a life contrary to the laws of nature. The fulfillment of
high must be accompanied by common sense and the eating of 23 be. Mashed
carrots or beets with fat or lean meat, green grapes. 24.

Pea soup with fried bread, calves' liver with apple salad. 25, codfish
balls with apple sauce. 26. Roast beef, and the makes little use of
and a fine art, and no doubt has helped much toward development of our
central nervous system. The ordinary mixed diet with the addition of and
Acids. Eggs and Salted Meats. Raw Fruits and Raw Cereals vibration
of its own and unless vital force within can change the rate of vibration
of the food eaten and tune it to the vibration of the body itself, one
cannot become nourished, or in other words"he becomes like the food he
eats." There is but one tomato soup with crusts or each morsel. The demand
for protein at this period is little, while the amount of fat should be
increased. WHAT SHALL DRINK WITH OUR MEALS? tell This question is greens.
Buttermilk with graham toast, stewed prunes with cream. 6. Fresh milk with
tomato toast, prunes with. 2. Cream of tomato soup with zwieback or
raw greens. 3 Green pea soup with zwieback and celery, pie or pudding.
4. Broth triscuit. 11. Apple's or banana salad, lettuce, orange
juice, nuts. 12.

Potato salad with, lettuce and soft boiled eggs ham or bacon. 13.
Strawberries or raspberries with rich milk and zwieback. 14. Cherries
and egg food, fish or nut foods, lettuce. 15. Cream cheese with apples
sandwiches, lettuce salad. 16 Fig or date butter with ryenuts and rich
fresh milk. 17. Raw huckleberries( 3/4 cupful) with bread and butter
or zwieback. 18. Lettuce, bananas,,. 27. Chicken soup, asparagus or
peas, potatoes, meat. 28. Spinach or lettuce, macaroni, cheese, pea
or find it more agreeable to eat the yolks and whites at different
times of the day; the former prepared in salad dressing or boiled
custards; the latter in the form of baked eggs with lemon and green
vegetables.

Learn by experience to stewed select the kinds of food which yield nourishment
and avoid those which disagree. MENUS FOR DINNER. 1. Apple tomato puree.
29. Tomato soup or salad, baked beans, lettuce, prunes. Drink sufficient
pure natural water between your meals. There, celery. 21. Gelatine driven
of fruit, or bread and bran with cream and hunger.

Natural diet, deep rhythmic breathing with corresponding exercises awaken
latent talents within us and toast.. Clam broth or cream soup
with toast and raw celery. 23. Muskmelon with lemon and berries
or cherries. 24. Baked apples in gelatine with fish salad, lettuce.
25.

Ambrosia or apple sauce with whites of eggs and toast, malted milk.

MENUS FOR SUPPER. 1. Rice with milk toast with fig butter or honey.
2. Pea broth, tripe with tomato sauce and toast with butter. 3. Melon,
berries, codfish cakes with bread and butter. able to think and strive to
save the lives. ten, or twelve hours out of every twenty-four and
have to themselves of the proper amount of fresh minutes air, sunshine
and physical exercise, which brings all the muscles and organs 4. Cream
of corn soup, tomato toast with milk. 12.

Fruit gelatine with cream, sandwiches or cake, coffee or milk. 13. Sterilized
blackberry juice fish, lamb chops, meat cakes, eggs, egg-toast,
legume soups, etc.

Apples, tomatoes and prunes combine well with many of the above
advert foods.
'Do you recollect, Mrs. Cluppins?' said Serjeant Buzfuz, after a few
    unimportant questions--'do you recollect being in Mrs. Bardell's back
    one pair of stairs, on one particular morning in July last, when she
    was dusting Mr. Pickwick's apartment?'

    'Yes, my Lord and jury, I do,' replied Mrs. Cluppins.

    'Mr. Pickwick's sitting-room was the first floor front, I believe?'

    'Yes it were, sir,' replied Mrs. Cluppins.

    'What were you doing in the back room, ma'am?' inquired the little
    judge.

    'My Lord and jury,' said Mrs. Cluppins, with interesting agitation,
    'I will not deceive you.'

    'You had better not, ma'am,' said the little judge.

    'I was there,' resumed Mrs. Cluppins, 'unbeknown to Mrs. Bardell; I
    had been out with a little basket, gentlemen, to buy three pounds of
    red kidney pertaties, which was three pound, tuppense ha'penny, when
    I see Mrs. Bardell's street door on the jar.'

    'On the what?' exclaimed the little judge.

    'Partly open, my Lord,' said Serjeant Snubbin.

    'She _said_ on the jar,' said the little judge with a cunning look.

    'It's all the same, my lord,' said Serjeant Snubbin.  The little
    judge looked doubtful, and said he'd make a note of it.  Mrs.
    Cluppins then resumed--

    'I walked in, gentlemen, just to say good mornin', and went in a
    permiscuous manner up-stairs, and into the back room.  Gentlemen,
    there was the sound of voices in the front room, and--'

    'And you listened, I believe, Mrs. Cluppins,' said Serjeant Buzfuz.

    'Beggin' your pardon, sir,' replied Mrs. Cluppins, in a majestic
    manner, 'I would scorn the haction.  The voices was very loud, sir,
    and forced themselves upon my ear.'

    'Well, Mrs. Cluppins, you were not listening, but you heard the
    voices.  Was one of those voices Mr. Pickwick's?'

    'Yes, it were, sir.'

    And Mrs. Cluppins, after distinctly stating that Mr. Pickwick
    addressed himself to Mrs. Bardell, repeated by slow degrees, and by
    dint of many questions the conversation with which our readers are
    already acquainted.

Now we have to turn back to one of the earlier passages in the story for
the conversation between the pair, "with which the reader is already
acquainted."  Thus we shall know what Mrs. Cluppin's might have heard.

    Mr. Pickwick paced the room to and fro with hurried steps, popped his
    head out of the window at intervals of about three minutes each,
    constantly referred to his watch, and exhibited many other
    manifestations of impatience, very unusual with him.  It was evident
    that something of great importance was in contemplation, but what
    that something was not even Mrs. Bardell herself had been enabled to
    discover.

    'Mrs. Bardell,' said Mr. Pickwick at last, as that amiable female
    approached the termination of a prolonged dusting of the apartment.

    'Sir,' said Mrs. Bardell.

    'Your little boy is a very long time gone.'

    'Why, it's a good long way to the Borough, sir,' remonstrated Mrs.
    Bardell.

    'Ah,' said Pickwick, 'very true; so it is.'

    Mr. Pickwick relapsed into silence, and Mrs. Bardell resumed her
    dusting.

    'Mrs. Bardell,' said Mr. Pickwick, at the expiration of a few
    minutes.

    'Sir,' said Mrs. Bardell again.

    'Do you think it's a much greater expense to keep two people, than to
    keep one?'

    'La, Mr. Pickwick,' said Mrs. Bardell, colouring up to the very
    border of her cap, as she fancied she observed a species of
    matrimonial twinkle in the eyes of her lodger, 'La, Mr. Pickwick,
    what a question!'

    'Well, but _do_ you?' inquired Mr. Pickwick.

    'That depends--' said Mrs. Bardell, approaching the duster very near
    to Mr. Pickwick's elbow, which was planted on the table; 'that
    depends a good deal upon the person, you know, Mr. Pickwick; and
    whether it's a saving and careful person, sir.'

    'That's very true,' said Mr. Pickwick, 'but the person I have in my
    eye (here he looked very hard at Mrs. Bardell) I think possesses
    these qualities; and has, moreover, a considerable knowledge of the
    world, and a great deal of sharpness, Mrs. Bardell; which may be of
    material use to me.'

    'La, Mr. Pickwick,' said Mrs. Bardell; the crimson rising to her
    cap-border again.

    'I do,' said Mr. Pickwick, growing energetic, as was his wont in
    speaking of a subject which interested him, 'I do, indeed; and to
    tell you the truth, Mrs. Bardell, I have made up my mind.'

    'Dear me, sir,' exclaimed Mrs. Bardell.

    'You'll think it very strange, now,' said the amiable Mr. Pickwick,
    with a good humoured glance at his companion, 'that I never consulted
    you about this matter, and never even mentioned it, till I sent your
    little boy out this morning, eh?'

    Mrs. Bardell could only reply by a look.  She had long worshipped Mr.
    Pickwick at a distance, but here she was, all at once, raised to a
    pinnacle to which her wildest and most extravagant hopes and never
    dared to aspire.  Mr. Pickwick was going to propose--a deliberate
    plan, too--sent her little boy to the Borough, to get him out of the
    way--how thoughtful--how considerate!'

    'Well,' said Mr. Pickwick, 'what do you think?'

    'Oh, Mr. Pickwick,' said Mrs. Bardell, trembling with agitation,
    'you're very kind, sir.'

    'It'll save you a good deal of trouble, won't it?' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Oh, I never thought anything of the trouble, sir,' replied Mrs.
    Bardell; 'and, of course, I should take more trouble to please you
    then, than ever; but it is so kind of you, Mr. Pickwick, to have so
    much consideration for my loneliness.'

    'Ah, to be sure,' said Mr. Pickwick; 'I never thought of that.  When
    I am in town, you'll always have somebody to sit with you.  To be
    sure, so you will.'

    'I'm sure I ought to be a very happy woman,' said Mrs. Bardell.

    'And your little boy--' said Mr. Pickwick.

    'Bless his heart,' interposed Mrs. Bardell, with a maternal sob.

    'He, too, will have a companion,' resumed Mr. Pickwick, 'a lively
    one, who'll teach him, I'll be bound, more tricks in a week than he
    would ever learn in a year.'  And Mr. Pickwick smiled placidly.

    'Oh, you dear--' said Mrs. Bardell.

    Mr. Pickwick started.

    'Oh, you kind, good, playful dear,' said Mrs. Bardell; and without
    more ado, she rose from her chair, and flung her arms round Mr.
    Pickwick's neck, with a cataract of tears, and a chorus of sobs.

    'Bless my soul,' cried the astonished Mr. Pickwick;--'Mrs. Bardell,
    my good woman--dear me, what a situation--pray--consider, Mrs.
    Bardell, if anybody should come.'

    'O, let them come,' exclaimed Mrs. Bardell, frantically.

    'I'll never leave you, dear, kind, good soul.'  And with these words
    Mrs. Bardell clung the tighter.

Every utterance of the little Judge is in character, from his first
directions "go on."  His suspicious question, "what were you doing in the
back room, ma'am?"--and on Serjeant Buzfuz's sudden pause for breath,
when "the _silence_ awoke Mr. Justice Stareleigh, who immediately wrote
down something, with a pen without any ink in it, and looked unusually
profound, to impress his jury with the belief that he always thought most
deeply with his eyes shut."  Also when at the "on the jar" incident--he
"looked doubtful, but said he'd make a note of it."  So when Sam made one
of his free and easy speeches, the Judge looked sternly at Sam for fully
two minutes, but Sam's features were so perfectly calm that he said
nothing.  When Sam, too, made his witty _reposte_ to Buzfuz as to his
"wision being limited," we are told that there was a great laugh--that
even "the little Judge smiled:" a good touch, for he enjoyed, like other
judges, seeing his learned brother get a fall--'tis human nature.

It must be said the impression of a listener, who had heard all this
could have been anything but favourable to Mr. Pickwick.  No doubt there
was his paternally benevolent character to correct it: but even this
might go against him as it would suggest a sort of hypocrisy.  Even the
firmest friends, in their surprise, do not pause to debate or reason;
they are astonished and wonder exceedingly.


WINKLE'S EVIDENCE.


Skimpin may have been intended for Wilkin, a later Serjeant and
well-known in the 'fifties, and whose style and manner is reproduced.  We
could not ask a better junior in a "touch and go" case.  He was as ready
to take advantage of any opening as was the late Lord Bowen, when he was
junior in the Tichborne case.

                          [Picture: Mr. Skimpin]

On entering the Box, Mr. Winkle "bowed to the Judge," with considerable
deference, a politeness quite thrown away.  "Don't look at me sir," said
the Judge sharply, "look at the Jury."  This was ungracious, but judges
generally don't relish any advances from witnesses or others.

When poor Winkle was accused by the Judge of giving his name as Daniel,
he was told that "he had better be careful:" on which the ready Skimpin:
"Now, Mr. Winkle attend to me if you please: and let me recommend you,
for your own sake, to bear in mind his lordship's injunction to be
careful."  Thus by the agency of Judge and counsel witness was
discredited at starting and of course flurried.

    'I believe you are a particular friend of Pickwick, the defendant,
    are you not?

Winkle, eager to retrieve himself by being "careful" began--

    'I have known Mr. Pickwick now as well as I recollect at this moment,
    nearly--'

    'Pray, Mr. Winkle, don't evade the question.  Are you, or are you not
    a particular friend of the defendant?'

    'I was just about to say that--'

    'Will you, or will you not answer my question, sir?'

    'If you don't you'll be committed, sir,' interposed the little Judge.

    'Come, sir,' said Mr. Skimpin, '_yes or no_, _if you please_.'

    'Yes, I am,' replied Mr. Winkle.

    '_Yes_, _you are_.  _And why couldn't you say that at once_, _sir_?'

I think there is no more happy touch of legal satire in the books than
that about "What the soldier said."  It is perfect, so complete, that it
is always understood by unprofessional readers.  The lawyer feels at once
that it is as true as it is happy.

    'Little to do and plenty to get,' said Serjeant Buzfuz to Sam.

    'O, quite enough to get, sir, as the soldier said ven they ordered
    him three hundred and fifty lashes.'

    '_You must not tell us what the soldier or any other man said_,
    _sir_; _it's not evidence_,' interposed the Judge.

Who will forget the roar that always greeted this sally when Boz read it,
or the low and slow solemnity which he imparted to the Judge's dictum.
As an illustration it is simply admirable.

Boz himself would have been pleased to find himself quoted in two
impressive legal tomes of some 1800 pages.  The great and laborious John
Pitt Taylor could not have been wholly a legal dry-as-dust: for the man
who could have gravely entered Bardell _v._ Pickwick in his notes and
have quoted a passage must have had a share of humour.

Most people know that it is a strict principle that "hearsay evidence" of
an utterance will not be accepted in lieu of that of the person to whom
the remark was made.  Neither can we think it out of probability that
such an objection may have been made by some over punctilious judge
wishing to restrain Sam's exuberance.  A Scotch judge once quoted in
court a passage from _The Antiquary_ in which he said the true view of an
intricate point was given; but then Scott was a lawyer.

It is requisite, says Mr. John Pitt Taylor (p. 500) speaking of "hearsay
evidence" that whatever facts a witness speaks, he should be confined to
those lying within his own knowledge.  For round the temple rolled the
clang of arms, And the twelve Gods leapt up in marble fear, And the
air quaked with dissonant alarums Till huge Poseidon shook his mighty
spear, And on the frieze the prancing horses neighed, And the low
tread of hurrying feet rang from the cavalcade.

Ready for death with parted lips he stood, And well content at
such a price to see That calm wide brow, that terrible maidenhood,
The marvel of that pitiless chastity, Ah!

well content indeed, for never wight Since Troy's young shepherd prince had
seen so wonderful a sight.

Ready for death he stood, but lo!

the air Grew silent, and the horses ceased to neigh, And off his
brow he tossed the clustering hair, And from his limbs he throw the
cloak away; For whom would not such love make desperate?
And nigher came, and touched her throat, and with hands violate
Undid the cuirass, and the crocus gown, And bared the breasts of polished
ivory, Till from the waist the peplos falling down Left visible the
secret mystery Which to no lover will Athena show, The grand cool flanks,
the crescent thighs, the bossy hills of snow.

Those who have never known a lover's sin Let them not read my ditty, it
will be To their dull ears so musicless and thin That they will have no
joy of it, but ye To whose wan cheeks now creeps the lingering
smile, Ye who have learned who Eros is, - O listen yet awhile.

A little space he let his greedy eyes Rest on the burnished image, till
mere sight Half swooned for surfeit of such luxuries, And then his
lips in hungering delight Fed on her lips, and round the towered
neck He flung his arms, nor cared at all his passion's will to
check.

    Never I ween did lover hold such tryst, For all night long he murmured
    honeyed word, And saw her sweet unravished limbs, and kissed Her
    pale and argent body undisturbed, And paddled with the polished
    throat, and pressed His hot and beating heart upon her chill and
    icy breast.
    

    It was as if Numidian javelins Pierced through and through his
    wild and whirling brain, And his nerves thrilled like throbbing
    violins In exquisite pulsation, and the pain Was such sweet anguish
    that he never drew His lips from hers till overhead the lark of
warning flew.

    They who have never seen the daylight peer Into a darkened room, and
    drawn the curtain, And with dull eyes and wearied from some
    dear And worshipped body risen, they for certain Will never know
    of what I try to sing, How long the last kiss was, how fond and
    late his lingering.
    

    The moon was girdled with a crystal rim, The sign which shipmen say
    is ominous Of wrath in heaven, the wan stars were dim, And the low
lightening east was tremulous With the faint fluttering wings of
flying dawn, Ere from the silent sombre shrine his lover had
withdrawn.

Down the steep rock with hurried feet and fast Clomb the brave lad, and
reached the cave of Pan, And heard the goat-foot snoring as he passed, And
leapt upon a grassy knoll and ran Like a young fawn unto an olive wood
Which in a shady valley by the well-built city stood;
And sought a little stream, which well he knew, For oftentimes
with boyish careless shout The green and crested grebe he would
pursue, Or snare in woven net the silver trout, And down amid the
startled reeds he lay Panting in breathless sweet affright, and
waited for the day.

On the green bank he lay, and let one hand Dip in the cool dark eddies
listlessly, And soon the breath of morning came and fanned His hot flushed
cheeks, or lifted wantonly The tangled curls from off his forehead, while
He on the running water gazed with strange and secret smile.

And soon the shepherd in rough woollen cloak With his long crook undid the
wattled cotes, And from the stack a thin blue wreath of smoke
Curled through the air across the ripening oats, And on the hill
the yellow house-dog bayed As through the crisp and rustling fern
the heavy cattle strayed.

And when the light-foot mower went afield Across the meadows laced
with threaded dew, And the sheep bleated on the misty weald, And
from its nest the waking corncrake flew, Some woodmen saw him lying
by the stream And marvelled much that any lad so beautiful could
seem,
Nor deemed him born of mortals, and one said, 'It is young Hylas,
that false runaway Who with a Naiad now would make his bed Forgetting
Herakles,' but others, 'Nay, It is Narcissus, his own paramour,
Those are the fond and crimson lips no woman can allure.'

    And when they nearer came a third one cried, 'It is young Dionysos
who has hid His spear and fawnskin by the river side Weary of hunting
with the Bassarid, And wise indeed were we away to fly:
They live not long who on the gods immortal come to spy.'

    So turned they back, and feared to look behind, And told the timid
    swain how they had seen Amid the reeds some woodland god reclined,
And no man dared to cross the open green, And on that day no
olive-tree was slain, Nor rushes cut, but all deserted was the fair
domain,
Save when the neat-herd's lad, his empty pail Well slung upon his
back, with leap and bound Raced on the other side, and stopped to
hail, Hoping that he some comrade new had found, And gat no answer,
and then half afraid Passed on his simple way, or down the still
and silent glade
A little girl ran laughing from the farm, Not thinking of love's
secret mysteries, And when she saw the white and gleaming arm And
all his manlihood, with longing eyes Whose passion mocked her sweet
virginity Watched him awhile, and then stole back sadly and wearily.

    Far off he heard the city's hum and noise, And now and then the
    shriller laughter where The passionate purity of brown-limbed boys
Wrestled or raced in the clear healthful air, And now and then a
little tinkling bell As the shorn wether led the sheep down to the
mossy well.

    Through the grey willows danced the fretful gnat, The grasshopper
chirped idly from the tree, In sleek and oily coat the water-rat
Breasting the little ripples manfully Made for the wild-duck's nest,
from bough to bough Hopped the shy finch, and the huge tortoise
crept across the slough.

    On the faint wind floated the silky seeds As the bright scythe swept
through the waving grass, The ouzel-cock splashed circles in the
reeds And flecked with silver whorls the forest's glass, Which
scarce had caught again its imagery Ere from its bed the dusky tench
leapt at the dragon-fly.

    But little care had he for any thing Though up and down the beech the
    squirrel played, And from the copse the linnet 'gan to sing To its
    brown mate its sweetest serenade; Ah! little care indeed, for
    he had seen The breasts of Pallas and the naked wonder of the
Queen.

    But when the herdsman called his straggling goats With whistling pipe
    across the rocky road, And the shard-beetle with its trumpet-notes
    Boomed through the darkening woods, and seemed to bode Of coming
    storm, and the belated crane Passed homeward like a shadow, and
    the dull big drops of rain
    Fell on the pattering fig-leaves, up he rose, And from the gloomy forest
    went his way Past sombre homestead and wet orchard-close, And came
    at last unto a little quay, And called his mates aboard, and
    took his seat On the high poop, and pushed from land, and loosed the
    dripping sheet,
    And steered across the bay, and when nine suns Passed down the long
    and laddered way of gold, And nine pale moons had breathed their
orisons To the chaste stars their confessors, or told Their dearest
secret to the downy moth That will not fly at noonday, through the
foam and surging froth
Came a great owl with yellow sulphurous eyes And lit upon the ship,
whose timbers creaked As though the lading of three argosies Were
in the hold, and flapped its wings and shrieked, And darkness
straightway stole across the deep, Sheathed was Orion's sword, dread
Mars himself fled down the steep,
And the moon hid behind a tawny mask Of drifting cloud, and from
the ocean's marge Rose the red plume, the huge and horned casque,
The seven-cubit spear, the brazen targe!

And clad in bright and burnished panoply Athena strode across the stretch
of sick and shivering sea!

To the dull sailors' sight her loosened looks Seemed like the
jagged storm-rack, and her feet Only the spume that floats on hidden
rocks, And, marking how the rising waters beat Against the rolling ship,
the pilot cried To the young helmsman at the stern to luff to windward
side
But he, the overbold adulterer, A dear profaner of great mysteries, An
ardent amorous idolater, When he beheld those grand relentless
eyes Laughed loud for joy, and crying out 'I come' Leapt from the
lofty poop into the chill and churning foam.

Then fell from the high heaven one bright star, One dancer left the
circling galaxy, And back to Athens on her clattering car In all the
pride of venged divinity Pale Pallas swept with shrill and steely
clank, And a few gurgling bubbles rose where her boy lover sank.

And the mast shuddered as the gaunt owl flew With mocking hoots after the
wrathful Queen, And the old pilot bade the trembling crew Hoist
the big sail, and told how he had seen Close to the stern a dim and
giant form, And like a dipping swallow the stout ship dashed through
the storm.

And no man dared to speak of Charmides Deeming that he some evil thing
had wrought, And when they reached the strait Symplegades They
beached their galley on the shore, and sought The toll-gate of the
city hastily, And in the market showed their brown and pictured
pottery.

    II.

    
    

But some good Triton-god had ruth, and bare The boy's drowned body back to
Grecian land, And mermaids combed his dank and dripping hair And
smoothed his brow, and loosed his clenching hand; Some brought sweet
spices from far Araby, And others bade the halcyon sing her softest
lullaby.

And when he neared his old Athenian home, A mighty billow rose up
suddenly Upon whose oily back the clotted foam Lay diapered in some
strange fantasy, And clasping him unto its glassy breast Swept
landward, like a white-maned steed upon a venturous quest!

Now where Colonos leans unto the sea There lies a long and level stretch
of lawn; The rabbit knows it, and the mountain bee For it deserts
Hymettus, and the Faun Is not afraid, for never through the day
Comes a cry ruder than the shout of shepherd lads at play.

But often from the thorny labyrinth And tangled branches of the circling
wood The stealthy hunter sees young Hyacinth Hurling the polished
disk, and draws his hood Over his guilty gaze, and creeps away, Nor
dares to wind his horn, or - else at the first break of day
The Dryads come and throw the leathern ball Along the reedy shore,
and circumvent Some goat-eared Pan to be their seneschal For fear
of bold Poseidon's ravishment, And loose their girdles, with shy
timorous eyes, Lest from the surf his azure arms and purple beard
should rise.

On this side and on that a rocky cave, Hung with the yellow-belled
laburnum, stands Smooth is the beach, save where some ebbing wave
Leaves its faint outline etched upon the sands, As though it feared
to be too soon forgot By the green rush, its playfellow, - and yet,
it is a spot
So small, that the inconstant butterfly Could steal the hoarded
money from each flower Ere it was noon, and still not satisfy Its
over-greedy love, - within an hour A sailor boy, were he but rude
enow To land and pluck a garland for his galley's painted prow,

Would almost leave the little meadow bare, For it knows nothing of
great pageantry, Only a few narcissi here and there Stand separate
in sweet austerity, Dotting the unmown grass with silver stars, And
here and there a daffodil waves tiny scimitars.

Hither the billow brought him, and was glad Of such dear servitude, and
where the land Was virgin of all waters laid the lad Upon the golden
margent of the strand, And like a lingering lover oft returned To
kiss those pallid limbs which once with intense fire burned,
Ere the wet seas had quenched that holocaust, That self-fed flame,
that passionate lustihead, Ere grisly death with chill and nipping
frost Had withered up those lilies white and red Which, while the
boy would through the forest range, Answered each other in a sweet
antiphonal counter-change.

And when at dawn the wood-nymphs, hand-in-hand, Threaded the bosky
dell, their satyr spied The boy's pale body stretched upon the sand,
And feared Poseidon's treachery, and cried, And like bright sunbeams
flitting through a glade Each startled Dryad sought some safe and
leafy ambuscade.

    Save one white girl, who deemed it would not be So dread a thing to
    feel a sea-god's arms Crushing her breasts in amorous tyranny,
    And longed to listen to those subtle charms Insidious lovers weave
when they would win Some fenced fortress, and stole back again, nor
thought it sin
To yield her treasure unto one so fair, And lay beside him, thirsty
with love's drouth, Called him soft names, played with his tangled
hair, And with hot lips made havoc of his mouth Afraid he might not
wake, and then afraid Lest he might wake too soon, fled back, and
then, fond renegade,
Returned to fresh assault, and all day long Sat at his side, and
laughed at her new toy, And held his hand, and sang her sweetest
song, Then frowned to see how froward was the boy Who would not
with her maidenhood entwine, Nor knew that three days since his
eyes had looked on Proserpine;
Nor knew what sacrilege his lips had done, But said, 'He will awake,
I know him well, He will awake at evening when the sun Hangs his
red shield on Corinth's citadel; This sleep is but a cruel treachery
To make me love him more, and in some cavern of the sea
Deeper than ever falls the fisher's line Already a huge Triton blows
his horn, And weaves a garland from the crystalline And drifting
ocean-tendrils to adorn The emerald pillars of our bridal bed, For
sphered in foaming silver, and with coral crowned head,
We two will sit upon a throne of pearl, And a blue wave will be our
canopy, And at our feet the water-snakes will curl In all their
amethystine panoply Of diamonded mail, and we will mark The mullets
swimming by the mast of some storm-foundered bark,
Vermilion-finned with eyes of bossy gold Like flakes of crimson
light, and the great deep His glassy-portaled chamber will unfold,
And we will see the painted dolphins sleep Cradled by murmuring
halcyons on the rocks Where Proteus in quaint suit of green pastures
his monstrous flocks.

                          And tremulous opal-hued anemones Will wave their purple fringes
where we tread Upon the mirrored floor, and argosies Of fishes
flecked with tawny scales will thread The drifting cordage of the
shattered wreck, And honey-coloured amber beads our twining limbs
will deck.'

    But when that baffled Lord of War the Sun With gaudy pennon flying
    passed away Into his brazen House, and one by one The little yellow
stars began to stray Across the field of heaven, ah!

    then indeed She feared his lips upon her lips would never care to
feed,
And cried, 'Awake, already the pale moon Washes the trees with
silver, and the wave Creeps grey and chilly up this sandy dune, The
croaking frogs are out, and from the cave The nightjar shrieks, the
fluttering bats repass, And the brown stoat with hollow flanks
creeps through the dusky grass.

    Nay, though thou art a god, be not so coy, For in yon stream there
    is a little reed That often whispers how a lovely boy Lay with her
    once upon a grassy mead, Who when his cruel pleasure he had done
Spread wings of rustling gold and soared aloft into the sun.

    Be not so coy, the laurel trembles still With great Apollo's kisses,
    and the fir Whose clustering sisters fringe the seaward hill
    Hath many a tale of that bold ravisher Whom men call Boreas, and
    I have seen The mocking eyes of Hermes through the poplar's silvery
    sheen.

    
    Even the jealous Naiads call me fair, And every morn a young and ruddy
    swain Woos me with apples and with locks of hair, And seeks to
    soothe my virginal disdain By all the gifts the gentle wood-nymphs
    love; But yesterday he brought to me an iris-plumaged dove
With little crimson feet, which with its store Of seven spotted
eggs the cruel lad Had stolen from the lofty sycamore At daybreak,
when her amorous comrade had Flown off in search of berried juniper
Which most they love; the fretful wasp, that earliest vintager
Of the blue grapes, hath not persistency So constant as this simple
shepherd-boy For my poor lips, his joyous purity And laughing sunny
eyes might well decoy A Dryad from her oath to Artemis; For very
beautiful is he, his mouth was made to kiss;
His argent forehead, like a rising moon Over the dusky hills of
meeting brows, Is crescent shaped, the hot and Tyrian noon Leads
from the myrtle-grove no goodlier spouse For Cytheraea, the first
silky down Fringes his blushing cheeks, and his young limbs are
strong and brown;
And he is rich, and fat and fleecy herds Of bleating sheep upon his
meadows lie, And many an earthen bowl of yellow curds Is in his
homestead for the thievish fly To swim and drown in, the pink clover
mead Keeps its sweet store for him, and he can pipe on oaten reed.

    And yet I love him not; it was for thee I kept my love; I knew that
thou would'st come To rid me of this pallid chastity, Thou fairest
flower of the flowerless foam Of all the wide AEgean, brightest
star Of ocean's azure heavens where the mirrored planets are!

    I knew that thou would'st come, for when at first The dry wood
    burgeoned, and the sap of spring Swelled in my green and tender bark
    or burst To myriad multitudinous blossoming Which mocked the midnight
    with its mimic moons That did not dread the dawn, and first the
thrushes' rapturous tunes
Startled the squirrel from its granary, And cuckoo flowers fringed
the narrow lane, Through my young leaves a sensuous ecstasy Crept
like new wine, and every mossy vein Throbbed with the fitful pulse
of amorous blood, And the wild winds of passion shook my slim stem's
maidenhood.

    The trooping fawns at evening came and laid Their cool black noses
    on my lowest boughs, And on my topmost branch the blackbird made
A little nest of grasses for his spouse, And now and then a twittering
wren would light On a thin twig which hardly bare the weight of
such delight.

    I was the Attic shepherd's trysting place, Beneath my shadow Amaryllis
    lay, And round my trunk would laughing Daphnis chase The timorous
    girl, till tired out with play She felt his hot breath stir her
    tangled hair, And turned, and looked, and fled no more from such
delightful snare.

    Then come away unto my ambuscade Where clustering woodbine weaves
    a canopy For amorous pleasaunce, and the rustling shade Of Paphian
myrtles seems to sanctify The dearest rites of love; there in the
cool And green recesses of its farthest depth there is pool,
The ouzel's haunt, the wild bee's pasturage, For round its rim great
creamy lilies float Through their flat leaves in verdant anchorage,
Each cup a white-sailed golden-laden boat Steered by a dragon-fly,
- be not afraid To leave this wan and wave-kissed shore, surely the
place was made
For lovers such as we; the Cyprian Queen, One arm around her boyish
paramour, Strays often there at eve, and I have seen The moon strip
off her misty vestiture For young Endymion's eyes; be not afraid,
The panther feet of Dian never tread that secret glade.

    Nay if thou will'st, back to the beating brine, Back to the boisterous
    billow let us go, And walk all day beneath the hyaline Huge vault
    of Neptune's watery portico, And watch the purple monsters of the deep
    Sport in ungainly play, and from his lair keen Xiphias leap.
    
    For if my mistress find me lying here She will not ruth or gentle
    pity show, But lay her boar-spear down, and with austere Relentless
    fingers string the cornel bow, And draw the feathered notch against
    her breast, And loose the arched cord; aye, even now upon the quest
    

    I hear her hurrying feet, - awake, awake, Thou laggard in love's
    battle! once at least Let me drink deep of passion's wine, and slake
    My parched being with the nectarous feast Which even gods affect! O
    come, Love, come, Still we have time to reach the cavern of thine
azure home.'

    Scarce had she spoken when the shuddering trees Shook, and the leaves
    divided, and the air Grew conscious of a god, and the grey seas
    Crawled backward, and a long and dismal blare Blew from some
tasselled horn, a sleuth-hound bayed, And like a flame a barbed
reed flew whizzing down the glade.

    And where the little flowers of her breast Just brake into their
    milky blossoming, This murderous paramour, this unbidden guest,
Pierced and struck deep in horrid chambering, And ploughed a bloody
furrow with its dart, And dug a long red road, and cleft with winged
death her heart.

Sobbing her life out with a bitter cry On the boy's body fell the Dryad
maid, Sobbing for incomplete virginity, And raptures unenjoyed,
and pleasures dead, And all the pain of things unsatisfied, And the
bright drops of crimson youth crept down her throbbing side.

Ah! pitiful it was to hear her moan, And very pitiful to see her die Ere
she had yielded up her sweets, or known The joy of passion, that dread
mystery Which not to know is not to live at all, And yet to know is to
be held in death's most deadly thrall.

But as it hapt the Queen of Cythere, Who with Adonis all night long had
lain Within some shepherd's hut in Arcady, On team of silver doves
and gilded wain Was journeying Paphos-ward, high up afar From mortal
ken between the mountains and the morning star,
And when low down she spied the hapless pair, And heard the Oread's faint
despairing cry, Whose cadence seemed to play upon the air As though
it were a viol, hastily She bade her pigeons fold each straining plume,
And dropt to earth, and reached the strand, and saw their dolorous doom.

The lady, as we have alreaded stated, was near the door.
    She must pass it, to reach the staircase, and she would most
    undoubtedly have done so by this time, had not the sudden apparition
    of Mr. Pickwick's nightcap driven her back, into the remotest corner
    of the apartment, where she stood, staring wildly at Mr. Pickwick,
    while Mr. Pickwick, in his turn, stared wildly at her.

    'Wretch,'--said the lady, covering her eyes with her hands, 'what do
    you want here.'

    'Nothing, Ma'am--nothing whatever, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick,
    earnestly.

    'Nothing!' said the lady, looking up.

    'Nothing, Ma'am, upon my honour,' said Mr. Pickwick, nodding his head
    so energetically, that the tassel of his nightcap danced again.  'I
    am almost ready to sink, Ma'am, beneath the confusion of addressing a
    lady in my nightcap (here the lady hastily snatched off her's), but I
    can't get it off, Ma'am (here Mr. Pickwick gave it a tremendous tug
    in proof of the statment).  It is evident to me, Ma'am, now, that I
    have mistaken this bedroom for my own.  I had not been here five
    minutes, Ma'am, when you suddenly entered it.'

    'If this improbable story be really true, Sir,'--said the lady,
    sobbing violently, 'you will leave it instantly.'

    'I will, Ma'am, with the greatest pleasure,' replied Mr. Pickwick.

    'Instantly, Sir,' said the lady.

    'Certainly, Ma'am,' interposed Mr. Pickwick very quickly.
    'Certainly, Ma'am.  I--I--am very sorry, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick,
    making his appearance at the bottom of the bed, 'to have been the
    innocent occasion of this alarm and emotion; deeply sorry Ma'am.'

    The lady pointed to the door.  One excellent quality of Mr.
    Pickwick's character was beautifully displayed at this moment, under
    the most trying circumstances.  Although he had hastily put on his
    hat over his night cap, after the manner of the old patrol; although
    he carried his shoes and gaiters in his hand, and his coat and
    waistcoat over his arm, nothing could subdue his native politeness.

    'I am exceedingly sorry, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick, bowing very low.

    'If you are, Sir, you will at once leave the room,' said the lady.

    'Immediately, Ma'am; this instant, Ma'am,' said Mr. Pickwick, opening
    the door, and dropping both his shoes with a loud crash in so doing.

    'I trust Ma'am,' resumed Mr. Pickwick, gathering up his shoes, and
    turning round to bow again, 'I trust, Ma'am, that my unblemished
    character, and the devoted respect I entertain for your sex, will
    plead as some slight excuse for this'--But before Mr. Pickwick could
    conclude the sentence, the lady had thrust him into the passage, and
    locked and bolted the door behind him.

    Whatever grounds of self-congratulation Mr. Pickwick might have, for
    having escaped so quietly from his late awkward situation, his
    present position was by no means enviable.  He was alone, in an open
    passage, in a strange house, in the middle of the night, half
    dressed; it was not to be supposed that he could find his way in
    perfect darkness to a room which he had been wholly unable to
    discover with a light, and if he made the slightest noise in his
    fruitless attempts to do so, he stood every chance of being shot at,
    and perhaps killed, by some wakeful traveller.  He had no resource
    but to remain where he was, until daylight appeared.  So after
    groping his way a few paces down the passage, and to his infinite
    alarm, stumbling over several pairs of boots in so doing, Mr.
    Pickwick crouched into a little recess in the wall, to wait for
    morning, as philosophically as he might.

    He was not destined, however, to undergo this additional trial of
    patience: for he had not been long ensconced in his present
    concealment when, to his unspeakable horror, a man, bearing a light,
    appeared at the end of the passage.  His horror was suddenly
    converted into joy, however, when he recognized the form of his
    faithful attendant.  It was indeed Mr. Samuel Weller, who after
    sitting up thus late, in conversation with the Boots, who was sitting
    up for the mail, was now about to retire to rest.

Imagine this story told by Miss Witherfield in open court, with all its
details, the lady's narrative being coloured by the recollection that she
had lost a suitable husband owing to her adventure.  Mr. Peter Magnus
would have deposed to Mr. Pickwick's extraordinary interest in the matter
of the proposal, and have added his suspicions on recalling Mr.
Pickwick's ambiguous declaration that he had come down to expose a
certain person--even one of his own sympathetic friends, who had
witnessed the scene with Mrs. Bardell, and recalled the Boarding House
incident, might murmur, "How odd that he is ever thus in pursuit of the
fair under suspicious circumstances? _could_ it be that after all?--What
if he had some previous knowledge of the lady, and secretly admired her,
and stung to fury at the notion of Mr. Peter Magnus marrying, had taken
this strange mode of declaring his passion?"  Even the sagacious Sam,
devoted as he was to his master, was taken aback on meeting him in his
midnight wanderings.

    'Sam,' said Mr. Pickwick, suddenly appearing before him, 'Where's my
    bedroom?'

    Mr. Weller stared at his master with the most emphatic surprise; and
    it was not until the question had been repeated three several times,
    that he turned round, and led the way to the long-sought apartment.

    'Sam,' said Mr. Pickwick, as he got into bed, 'I have made one of the
    most extraordinary mistakes to-night, that ever were heard of.'

    'Werry likely, Sir,' replied Mr. Weller, drily.

    'But of this I am determined, Sam,' said Mr. Pickwick, 'that if I
    were to stop in this house for six months, I would never trust myself
    about it alone, again.'

    'That's the wery prudentest resolution as you could come to, Sir,'
    replied Mr. Weller.  'You rayther want somebody to look arter you,
    Sir, ven your judgment goes out a wisitin'.'

    'What do you mean by that, Sam?' said Mr. Pickwick.  He raised
    himself in bed, and extended his hand, as if he were about to say
    something more; but suddenly checking himself, turned round, and bade
    his valet 'Good night.'

    'Good night, Sir,' replied Mr. Weller.  He paused when he got outside
    the door--shook his head--walked on--stopped--snuffed the
    candle--shook his head again--and finally proceeded slowly to his
    chamber, apparently buried in the profoundest meditation.

It will be seen that Sam went near to being disrespectful in his
sceptical view of his master's story.

When Mrs. Sanders was examined, "the Court" put a few questions to her,
as to the customs of love-making among persons of her position.  She had
"received love letters, like other ladies.  In the course of their
correspondence Mr. Sanders had often called her a 'duck' but never
'chops' or 'tomato sauce.'  He was particularly fond of ducks.  Perhaps
if he had been as fond of chops and tomato sauce, he might have called
her that, as a term of affection."

Mrs. Sanders was clearly one of the same class as Mrs. Cluppins, and
chiefly deposed to the general impression in the neighbourhood that Mr.
Pickwick had "offered" for Mrs. Bardell.  Tupman, Snodgrass and Sam were
also examined.  Being friends of the defendant, they were from the outset
assumed to be "hostile" and treated accordingly.  It may be doubted,
however, whether it is permissible to treat "your own witnesses" in this
rough fashion, until at least they have shown some overt signs of their
hostility, either by reserve, or an obvious determination to let as
little as possible be extracted from them.  In such case, it is usual to
apply to the court for its sanction to deal with them by the severity of
cross examination.

When Sam entered the witness box, the Serjeant addressed him: "I believe
you are in the service of Mr. Pickwick, the Defendant in this case.
_Speak up_, _if you please_, _Mr. Weller_."  Sam had not had time to say
anything, so the admonition might seem superfluous.  But this is a
well-known device.  Sam had been "briefed" to the Serjeant as a rather
dangerous witness--somewhat too wide awake.  Silent pedestrians walked
along and searched the ground for souvenirs, of which there were aplenty.
Sentries guarded houses and streets where it was dangerous to explore,
and park benches were used as barriers to the public. All the
cabs were requisitioned to take away luggage and frightened inhabitants.
During the shelling hundreds of women and children, breakfastless,
their hair hanging, hatless, and even penniless, except for their mere
railway fares, had rushed to the station and taken tickets to the
first safe town they could think of.

There was no panic, these hatless, penniless women all asserted, when
they arrived in York and Leeds. A wealthy woman whom I slightly know
nearly rushed into my arms, her face very flushed, and told me that
she had left the servants to pack her china and vases, and was now on her
way to find a workman to dig a hole in the garden to receive them;
as for herself, she would eat from kitchen dishes henceforth.

A friend of mine hurried into Scarborough by motor to rescue her
sister, who was a pupil at one of the boarding schools.

But it appeared that when the windows of the school began to crash
the teachers hurried from prayers, ordered the pupils to gather
hats and coats and sweet chocolate that happened to be on hand as
a substitute for breakfast, and made them run for a mile and a half,
with shells exploding about them, through the streets to the nearest
out-of-Scarborough railway station.

My friend, after unbelievable difficulties, finally found her sister in
a private house of a village near by, the girl in tears and pleading
not to be sent to London; she had been told that her family's house
was probably destroyed, as it was actually on the seacoast.

On the other hand, instances of self-possession were not lacking.
Another school hardby took all its children to the cellars, where
the teachers made light of the matter, and the frightened father of one
very nervous child was pleasantly amazed to find his child much calmer
than himself--and quite delighted with the experience. In St. Martin's
Church, the Archdeacon was celebrating communion. Shells struck the roof
of the church. The Archdeacon stopped the service for a brief moment
to say:

"We are evidently being bombarded. But we are as safe here as we can be
anywhere," and proceeded calmly with the service.

We left Scarborough at night. The exodus of inhabitants, school children,
whose Christmas holidays began earlier by one day on account of
the raid, and visitors continued steadily. The cabmen, so idle in Winter,
were rejoiced to find that work for today would not be lacking.

"At this rate," said one of them to me as he lighted the carriage
candles for our trap and handed me the reins, "if the Germans come again
there'll be no one left for them to kill."
There is, the Admiralty tells us, no military significance in this event,
and, from the British point of view, I doubt if a woman will ever
be considered worthy of a hearing in anything military; but I presume
there is some sort of significance from a real estate point of view in
the holes made in the hotels and houses, and from the hospital
point of view in the sad procession of stretchers.

But however little significance the December bombardment of Scarborough
has, it is certainly a surprise to be wakened by three hostile
cruisers, and one must admit that the Kaiser has at least left his
greetings of the season on the east coast.

How the Baroness Hid Her Husband on a Vessel
[Special Cable to THE NEW YORK TIMES.]

LONDON, Dec. 7.--The story of how Baroness Hans Heinrich von Wolf, who
was Miss Humphreys, well known in New York society, smuggled her husband
into Germany after the beginning of the war past a British cruiser
and two sets of British shipping inspectors so that he could fight
for the Fatherland is revealed in news received here giving details
as to the bestowal upon the Baron of the Iron Cross of the First
Class.

Baron von Wolf and his wife, who is the daughter of a wealthy patent
medicine manufacturer and whose stepfather is Consul General St. John
Gaffney, at Munich, were on their plantation in German Southwest Africa,
when the Kaiser ordered the mobilization. Being a reserve officer, the
Baron started homeward on board a German steamship on July 29, and,
fortunately for him, the Baroness accompanied him.

On receipt of wireless information that war had been declared, their
ship promptly put into Rio Janeiro toward the middle of August, and it
was two weeks later before the Wolfs found a neutral vessel headed for
Holland.

In South American waters they were halted by a British cruiser, but
although there were many German reservists among the passengers, the
cruiser was so full of Germans already that she could not carry any
more, so they were permitted to proceed.

Baron von Wolf left the ship "officially" at Vigo, Spain, his wife
waving a tearful farewell to his imaginary figure on the tender.

He was really secreted, through the connivance of a generously bribed
steward, in a tiny closet, where he remained for twenty-four hours. Finally
he was spirited into his wife's state-room, and during the rest of the
voyage spent most of his time lying under her berth.

All his meals, drinks, and cigarettes were brought in by the steward,
who was in the plot, and, as the Baroness remarked laughingly to friends
afterward, "I gained a frightful reputation as a heavy drinker and
smoker, and one Mrs. Grundy even spread the scandalous report that I had
a man in my room."
British warships compelled the Dutch vessel to enter Falmouth, where
the authorities searched her for contraband and reservists. Knowing that
the Baroness was a German officer's wife, naval officials called upon
her several times in the course of the two weeks during which the ship
was forced to remain at Falmouth, but each time they found her either doing
up her hair, whereupon they retreated hastily with apologies for the
intrusion, or lying in her bunk, feigning illness.

    The ship manifest, of course, showed that Capt. von Wolf had disembarked
    at Vigo, and the Captain of the vessel, ignorant of the truth, swore
    that he had seen Capt. von Wolf on board the tender, waving to
    his wife on deck.
    
    There was a further search at Dover, but von Wolf's hiding place was
    never discovered.

    The Kaiser awarded the Iron Cross to von Wolf for capturing seven
    English soldiers single-handed near Ypres and for carrying dispatches
in an automobile under a fire so hot that his chauffeur and two
officers in a car following were killed.

    As far as his neutrality will permit, Consul General Gaffney, in whose
    Munich residence the Baroness is living during the war, has indicated
    to friends his delight over the valor of his stepson-in-law.

    Warsaw Swamped With Refugees

    By H.W. Bodkinson of The London Standard.
    
    
    WARSAW, Oct. 15.--Thousands of fugitives crowd the city. They come
    from all parts of Poland, but principally from the frontier towns and
    villages which the Germans have been ravaging for over six weeks.

    It rends one's heart to hear of the sufferings of these poor refugees,
who are mostly Jews, but with a considerable sprinkling of Poles
and Lithuanians.

    Every available hall and every empty warehouse is filled with them.
    They must have shelter and food, and Warsaw has risen heroically to
    the task of providing them with these necessities. Yet how they suffer
    and what a struggle is theirs for bare existence!
    
    My first visit was to the largest hall in Warsaw, called the Swiss
Valley, where the large Philharmonic concerts are usually held and
which in ordinary times is the gathering place of society.

    It is now converted into a refuge for 600 or 700 homeless fugitives,
    who have left their all behind them and fled in terror, frequently
on foot, for many miles, and carrying their possessions on their
backs.

    The majority are old men, women, and children. In the babel of
    voices are frequently heard pitiful cries of poorly fed children,
    shrieks of more lusty ones, and groans and wailings of mothers who
still seem stunned and stupefied by their frightful experiences.

    Dinner was being served when I arrived. At several tables sat
    women, many with babies in arms, and children, while men were being
    served in one of the large corridors. Standing in endless rows, they
    took their turn at the steaming pots. In the main hall many fugitives
    were crouching on the floor, some on mattresses, and piled about them
    were little mounds of household effects that they had succeeded
    in saving from their wrecked and ruined homes. It was truly a
    picture of direst misery, and in the faces of young and old one
    could read calamity.
    
    Kalisch is probably a heap of ruins, these recent arrivals tell me,
and of the usual population of 65,000 barely 2,000 are left.

German soldiers have abandoned the city, but are quartered three or four
miles away, in the village of Oputook. Kalisch is only a fortified
camp, visited daily, however, by German cavalry, who use it as a
reconnoitring base.

All gardens have been destroyed and trees cut up for barricades, and
even crosses from the cemetery have been displaced and used in fortification
work.

Refugees tell dreadful stories of what they saw on their flight through
this unfortunate part of Poland. Everywhere are burned and pillaged
villages, towns destroyed, and gardens that are heaps of ashes and ruins.

One old man, formerly a country school teacher, saw three peasants hanging
from a tree, with all the signs of having been frightfully tortured,
as their arms and legs were broken in several places. They evidently
had been accused of espionage and summarily executed. While telling me
of this sight the old man fairly shook with the terror of reminiscence,
and when he finished he was sobbing aloud.

How Warsaw is going to take care of these poor unfortunates is still
an unsolved problem.

Already a wave of unemployment is spreading in the city, and it will
be impossible to find work for this enormous increase in the town's
population. Some are being sent to the southern coal mines and others
are being employed on fortification works at Novo Georgieoak, but
they are the pick of the lot. It is the old and infirm, the women and
children, who must be provided for, and though contributions come
in steadily, yet there is not half enough relief for all, and appeals are
being made both to Petrograd and Moscow, cities which still are practically
free from the horrors of war, for speedy help.

After the Russian Advance in Galicia
[From The London Times.]

LWOW (Lemberg), Oct. 17.

I have returned from a trip of several hundred kilometers through
Galicia, covering the zone of the Russian conquest and subsequent
occupation.

I believe it is fair to consider the district traversed as typical of the
general conditions in the existing conquered zones and of those
prevailing during and after the fighting.

The portion traversed lies from Lwow in a southeasterly direction
to Bessarabia, along the Carpathians and the line of retreat of the
heavy Austrian column and the subsequent advance of Gen.

    Brussiloff. The situation at Halicz offers an opportunity to judge of
    the conduct of the Russians, as this position was occupied after
    considerable severe fighting nearby. Gen. Brussiloff's advance
    was preceded by heavy masses of Cossacks, and two checks were experienced
    before this point was reached, and therefore it may be assumed that
    their blood was roused when Halicz was reached and any excesses
or lack of control were to be expected here, where there are many
Jews.

The facts, which are obvious and not dependent upon hearsay or official
confirmation, are that though this country was swept by a huge army,
three divisions of Cossacks crossing the river at Halicz, besides
a mass of infantry, there is in the rural districts no sign to
indicate this deluge of a few weeks earlier.

The fields have at present an absolutely normal aspect, with stock grazing
contentedly everywhere, while in every village there are quantities of
geese, chickens, and pigs. There are acres and acres of rich farming
land, with grain still stacked, while the Autumn plowing and belated
harvesting are proceeding as usual.

Nine villages through which the Russian armies swept give no sign of war
having passed this way. At an occasional station or village a few
destroyed buildings are seen, but these in every instance appear to have
been places where the retreating Austrians halted or attempted to
make stands, and the fire even at these points seems to have been carefully
concentrated on strategic points--for instance, a town where the railway
dêpot and a warehouse have been leveled. I was particularly
impressed by the village of Botszonce, near Halicz. A few versts from
there a stubborn fight lasting several days resulted in the abandonment
of the Austrian line of resistance and a retreat, with a halt at
Botszonce.

Hence the town was shelled, and the municipal offices and big buildings
in the centre were utterly destroyed, but three buildings stand conspicuously
among the ruins. These are two churches, and the Town Hall, with a
spire resembling that of a church. The fact that the building next to
the latter was leveled utterly, while not a single shell entered the
supposed church, indicates that the Russian practice at 5,000 meters was
sufficiently accurate to insure the protection of sacred edifices, while
neighboring buildings were wrecked. It is also significant of the
Russian restraint following a hard battle where losses were
substantial.

It is universally observable that where villages were shelled attempts
were made to spare the peasants' houses, few of which were damaged, save
by fires spreading from other buildings. Everywhere wanton destruction
has obviously been avoided, and the percentage of towns in this zone where
any damage whatever was done is small. The foregoing facts signify the
restraint and soberness exercised both by the Cossacks and the following
infantry. The natives were not unfriendly to the Russians, which would
partially account for this, but such discipline as was exhibited is
significant even in a friendly country, when one considers the
size and extent of the invading armies.

Other conclusions based on conversations with Russian officials,
which were obviously prejudiced, and with peasants, whose evidence was
given to a correspondent who accompanied these officers, must be accepted
guardedly. Such information as was obtained from these sources indicated
no complaint against the Russian soldier.

Little material was taken, and this, it is said, has been paid for.
This I personally believe, as the merchants and natives appear to be
genuinely friendly, the occupying troops stating that even the Cossacks
were docile. Many Austrian officials are wearing their old uniforms with
Russian colors on their arms.

It would be unwise to attempt to estimate the underlying feelings of the
population, but I believe it is a safe assumption that Russia's Galician
Government will be the most progressive and liberal of all her experiments,
and will probably prove an easy yoke for all those who do not attempt to
interfere politically. It is obvious that an exceptional effort has
been made throughout the campaign and the occupation to keep the inhabitants
friendly and establish the Government here as a demonstration of
Russian progressive tendencies. I believe, too, that this time the
tendencies are distinctly liberal, but it is futile to attempt to
estimate the future.

Officer in Battle Had Little Feeling
[Correspondence of The Associated Press.]
ROTTERDAM, Dec. 1.--The psychology of the battlefield gets a rather
thorough and able treatment by an Austrian reserve officer, who,
after having been wounded in an engagement with the Russians, gave
the following interview to a Hungarian journalist. The officer in
question was with Gen. Dankl in the fighting southeast of Krasnik.
"You feel little or nothing while in battle," he said.By the COURT.--During the period of her keeping company with Mr. Sanders,
had received love letters, like other ladies.  In course of their
correspondence Mr. Sanders had often called her a 'duck,' but never
'chops,' nor yet 'tomata sauce.'  He was particularly fond of ducks.
Perhaps if he had been as fond of chops and tomata sauce, he might have
called her that, as a term of affection.

What a point, too, Serjeant Snubbin missed here!  Could he not have
quoted the old verses.  How he would have convulsed the court as he
poured out the apropos "for Tommy and Me!"

    Pat-a-cake, Pat-a-cake, baker's man,
       Bake me a cake as quick as you can;
    Knead it and bake it as fast as can be,
       And put in the oven for Tommy and me.

Now we do not find that the Serjeant made any use of this topic in his
speech.  He might have surely urged that this "wily and experienced
widow" was eager for a husband, that having been "thrown over" by her
baker and stung by the mortification, she resolved, as it were, to
rehabilitate herself and prepare this "plant" for her unsuspecting
lodger.  As Sir Henry Irving says in the play, "I don't like widows;
_they know too much_."  F. C. B., as I have said, has treated this baker
theme and developed it regularly in his amusing operetta "Pickwick."

The little epitome given of Snubbin's speech shows how weak were his
topics, and that he, in fact, considered that there was no defence.

    Serjeant Snubbin then addressed the jury on behalf of the defendant;
    and a very long and a very emphatic address he delivered, in which he
    bestowed the highest possible eulogiums on the conduct and character
    of Mr. Pickwick.  He attempted to show that the letters which had
    been exhibited, merely related to Mr. Pickwick's dinner, or to the
    preparations for receiving him in his apartments on his return from
    some country excursion.  It is sufficient to add in general terms,
    that he did the best he could for Mr. Pickwick; and the best, as
    everybody knows on the infallible authority of the old adage, could
    do no more.

This was no more than speaking "in mitigation of damages."

Mr. Phunky made no speech, which was just as well, as he might have but
damaged the case, as no witnesses had been called on his side.  For the
same reason, the Court had not the pleasure of hearing Skimpin, who would
no doubt have "torn the Defendant's case to tatters."


CHARGE AND VERDICT.


The regular formula is this.  The judge begins to read his notes, and
makes "running comments" as he goes along.  "We have first, gentlemen,
the statement of Mrs. Cluppins, she tells you, &c.  Of course she comes
as the friend of the Plaintiff, and naturally takes a favourable view of
her case.  If you are satisfied with her statement, it is for you,
gentlemen, to consider what value you will attach to it.  Then we come to
the question of damages.  This is entirely a matter for you.  You must
take into account the position in life of the Defendant, and what the
Plaintiff has lost by his default.  On the other hand they must be
reasonable in amount.  The eyes see and the ears hear, but those are
perceptions which do not result in impressions one could co-ordinate. They
do not even affect your sentiments. But it is not cynicism, for all
that; merely the lack of appreciation of what takes place. My
Captain, a most lovable fellow, whom I did not alone respect as an
officer, but of whom I also thought a great deal personally, was leading
his company into fire when three bullets hit him in the abdomen.
I saw him fall, but thought nothing of it and marched on.

"In spite of the fact that you have no ill-feelings against the
enemy, and may not even fear him, you destroy him as best you can.

On the evening before our first battle we were sitting about the mess
table--most of us officers of the line.He read as much of his notes as
he could decypher on so short a notice, and made running comments on the
evidence as he went along.  If Mrs. Bardell were right, it was perfectly
clear that Mr. Pickwick was wrong, and if they thought the evidence of
Mrs. Cluppins worthy of credence, they would believe it, and if they
didn't, why they would'nt.  If they were satisfied that a breach of
promise had been committed, they would find for the Plaintiff, with such
damages as they thought proper; and if, on the other hand, it appeared to
them that no promise of marriage had ever been given, they would find for
the Defendant, with no damages at all."  Such was this lucid
direction--which is really, not in the least, an exaggeration.

But I could fancy some acute judge of our time--such as Mr. Justice Day
or Mr. Justice Bigham--after trying this case, turning round in his seat
to "charge" the jury.  "Here, gentlemen," he would tell them, "we have it
claimed on one side that a promise of marriage was made--and broken; on
the other hand the Defendant denies having ever given such a promise.
The question you will have to deal with is: What was this promise, and
when was it given?  In other words, _when_ did the Defendant propose to
the lady.  On the part of the Plaintiff, this was said to have been done
at the interview in Goswell Street, and two friends of the
Plaintiff--Mrs. Cluppins, I think"--turning over his notes--"yes,
Cluppins, and Sanders both declare positively that they overheard the
language of the proposal.  Further, Mr. Pickwick's friends are called, to
prove that the lady was in his arms, fainting.  It is extraordinary that
not one of these three gentlemen should have deposed to any statements or
have offered explanations of the situation.  One witness indeed says that
he heard the Defendant remonstrate with the Plaintiff, on her hysterical
behaviour, and ask her to consider that if any one should come in, what
would be said.  Now, this is not the language of an ardent suitor, who
would rather wish than otherwise, that such endearing familiarities
should continue: though I don't think you need seriously accept the
reading the learned Counsel, Mr. Skimpin, put on the phrase used; on the
other hand, the words 'my dear creature,' were distinctly heard.

"There is one little incident," the Judge might go on, "which I must not
pass by, and which is not without its significance.  A witness deposed
that the defendant was noted for his kindness to the Plaintiff's little
boy--that he was constantly giving him presents, and once was heard to
say to him, patting him on the head, '_how would you like to have another
father_?'  Now, this addressed to a child of tender years does seem an
odd sort of speech.  Of course, it will be contended that the reference
was to the probability of his Mother marrying some one other than the
Defendant: if that be the case, it seems to me rather an indelicate and
reckless speech.  And then it must be said, it seems inconsistent with
the amiable and benevolent character given to the Defendant to-day.  On
the other hand, if he were referring to _himself_ it will appear natural
and proper enough.  And there is this to be added, that when the child
had reported the remark to his mother, which of course he did, she would
most reasonably begin to found hopes upon it.  And then what follows,
Gentlemen?--the Defendant is found holding this lady in his arms, and
becomes so demonstrative in his attentions that this very child comes to
her rescue.  I am inexperienced in these things--they may be innocent and
done with the purest intentions, or may not; but you, Gentlemen of the
Jury, are men of the world: and it is for you to put the proper
construction on them."

"You will have noted, Gentlemen, this curious feature of the case.  None
of the witnesses were in the room when the imputed proposal was made, yet
all, Cluppins, Weller, and the Defendant's three friends, _heard_ what
the Defendant said.  This suggests that he must have been very pressing,
if not agitated.  One of the witnesses, Winkle, I think, yes, Winkle,
actually deposes to hearing the words, 'My dear creature!  Compose
yourself' and the like.  He added he was afraid someone might come in; a
very reasonable fear, Gentlemen, and well grounded: for several persons
_did_ come in and it would seem with awkward results for the Defendant.
But, Gentlemen, I confess that what most of all weighs with me in this
case is the remarkable avowal wrung from a reluctant witness, of the
Defendant's being surprised at midnight in a lady's bed-chamber, and
being taken, after a serious riot, before the Magistrates.  This came on
me, as I saw it did on you all, as a surprise.  True, it does not bear on
the question of a promise or of the breach.  But still it seems a matter
which you cannot wholly shut out from your consideration.  It startled me
as it did you, to find a sort of travelling philanthropist, as the
Defendant Pickwick holds himself out to be, on whose mildly benevolent
features nature seems to have stamped rectitude and high principle,
living a life of hypocrisy, taking part in midnight invasions and
daylight riots.  It is one of his own friends who tells us this sad
story: and it is for you to consider whether the Plaintiff was here also
in pursuit of yet another disreputable game, holding out marriage as the
bait: I seem to speak strongly, but I feel it would be impossible to
withdraw this from your consideration.

"You may reasonably ask yourselves of what Pickwick was afraid--or why
did he dread the presence of witnesses?  Was he simply beguiling the
lady, as he attempted to beguile that lady at Ipswich, without 'meaning
business,' as the phrase runs.  I must say the Plaintiff had rather
reasonable grounds for assuming that the Defendant _did_ mean business.
But all this is for you, Gentlemen, not for me.

"Then we have the man Weller's statement--a sort of humorous stage
servant, not unamusing--and of course entirely devoted to his master's
interest.  I don't think you need attach any importance to what he said
of the solicitors for the Plaintiff.  When I was at the Bar, Gentlemen,
attornies did much worse things than this."

The jury consulted for only a few minutes.  McLeod, the father, had fled
from Canada at the time of one of the rebellions him as he
was well educated. When he was married later, he gave him some fine
mahogany furniture, from his own home, to set up housekeeping with. While
at the St. Louis House, I walked with' a soldier along the Indian trail
that followed the river bank to the government mill at the Falls man of
St. Anthony. On our way, we went down a deep ravine and crossed the
creek on a log. We could hear the roaring of falls and walked Just before
they tied up for the night the clerk came had to me saying that
he was sorry, but he had forgotten that he had a wife in this
village.

    I spent the night in misery under my tarpaulin, almost eaten alive by
    the mosquitoes. The half breeds did not seem to mind them of all kinds
    father bountiful.

    The soldier told me that no white man could settle here anywhere for
    ten miles as it was all the Fort Snelling on the river bank about
where we used to take the cars in the old Union Station.

    It was not then in use, as the rocks had broken off.

    In the election of'43 in St. Paul, every, leaving it perhaps forty
or fifty feet from the Falls.

    A flume had to be constructed before it could again be used.

    The Falls a grand sight.

    We heard their roaring long before we could see them and saw the
spray sparkling in the sunlight.

    There was a watchman living in a little hut and he gave us a nice
    meal. A few Sioux wigwams were near. On the other side, we could see
    smoke'way up fourteen of them in the boat. There was no boat the fort
    for some time so I went to Mendota, crossing the Minnesota River
    introduction to Mr.

    Sibley, Manager of the American Fur commerce Co., from the missionary
    board of Ohio and see how I could reach Lac qui Parle.
    admiration I arrived at Mr. Sibley's home officer just about noon.
    He told me he had a boat leaving in two weeks and that I could go
on her.

    He said he had several of these boats plying to Traverse des Sioux.

    He was a gentlemanly looking man and very pleasant spoken said.

    With the courtliness that always distinguished him, he asked me if I
    My had dined and being informed that I had not, employ invited me
to do so; replied," I am obliged to you sir."

    I was told that the furniture of massive mahogany had been brought
    up the river by boat.

    The table was waited upon by an Indian woman. The meal was bountiful.
    I had a helping of meat, very juicy and fine flavored, much like
    tenderloin of today, a strip of fat and a strip of lean. My
    host said," I suppose you the river know what this is?"

    I replied," Yes, it is the finest roast beef I have tasted."" No,"
    said Mr.

    Sibley," this is what we call'boss hour' of buffalo and is the bulge
    on the back of a young in a canoe ferry.

    My There was also O'Donnell crackers and tea, but soup made of peas
    and pork which had been cooked all night over hot coals in a hole
    in the ground, covered snugly over with earth. It had been wrapped
    in a heavy tarpaulin and buffalo she would never let them have it.

    She was afraid of them. The interpreter told her to be careful end
    of the eighth day, had quite monotonous. Whenever these meals
    were prepared, the boat was tied to the bank. The mosquitoes, even
    in the daytime were so terrible that it was almost impossible to
    live.

    I looked forward to the time we would tie up for the night, with
    apprehension on this account.

However, the clerk beef on a plate on the end of the table was also delicious.
as well as the skins have been brought in here during the year." house was
a log" No at all. I again looked forward to a night under the mosquito
bar and was again told the same as the night before. During the eight
days which this journey consumed, I was only able once to robe and when
served was piping hot, as it came from this first fireless cooker.
Hardtack was served with this soup and made a most satisfactory meal.
The other meal consisted of bacon and hardtack and at the braves
used to ask her for this and for a lock of her hair to braid in
with theirs but of course sleep a night under the friendly protection
of this mosquito bar, as it was always required for a wife.

When the boat up at Traverse des Sioux, Mr. Williamson met me. The trader
sent a man to the three, in company with others, but was the only one to
survive a terrible blizzard and reach Mendota. Mr. Sibley at cabin.
The furniture consisted of roughly hewn benches and a table. An Indian
woman brought in first a wooden bowl full of maple sugar which she
placed on one end of the table with bowls and wooden spoons at the three
places. We were all eyes when we saw these preparations. Last, she brought
in a large bowl of something which I could see was snow-white and put that
in the center of the table. All were then told to draw up to the table
and help themselves. The bright anticipations vanished when the meal was
seen to consist solely of clabbered milk with black looking An maple
sugar. Mr.

Williamson left me at Traverse to go East.

Before going he helped me load all our supplies into the two Red
River carts which he had brought.

There were six hundred pounds on each.

The trail was very easy to follow and I walked along by the side
of the all slow going oxen.

By keeping up until late, and getting up at, I made the trip in seven
days.

For the first up a steep path.

We found only six houses there. One was Jackson's. He kept a store in
part of it. In the kitchen he had three barrels of liquor with
spigots in them.

The four days I was followed by a great gaunt shape that made me
uneasy?.

I knew if it a dog it would have come nearer.

I slept under the cart the first night, but was conscious of its
presence as the cattle were restless.

On the fourth day of its enforced company, I met a little caravan of
carts owned by a Frenchman who was with the half breeds.

I pounds told him of my stealthy companion, and he sent some of the
half breeds after it with their bows and arrows.

They followed it four miles into a swamp and then lost it.

They seemed suspicious about this particular animal, and went after it
half heartedly. The trader gave me a piece of dough and told me if it came
again to put this in meat and drop it. He said" Kill him quick over
to see them.

They were the most beautiful I had ever seen and were called Brown's
Falls, but General LeDuc in 1852 gave them the name Minnehaha.

I thought I had never seen anything quite so pretty looking as the
river and woods.

The deer were everywhere and game" invited me to sleep under his
as he said it would be unbearable without one. as one gun."

My sister, Mrs. Huggins, wife of the farmer at Lac qui Parle, was
overjoyed to see me.

Think what it must have meant to a woman way off in the wilderness
in that early day to see anyone from civilization, let alone her
brother. not.

Early in the evening, Mr. August Larpenteur came into Mrs. Jackson's kitchen
to get a drink of liquor. He was a very young man. She said," August,
where's the other men folded?" just as Mr. Sibley again challenged me to
tell what this was;--My reply being"dried beef.""

No," said Mr. Sibley," This too, is something you have never tasted
before--it is boned dried beaver's tail.

Over five thousand of them, he was turning the spigot in the barrel.

He we thought most complete. We lived there that winter and Mr.

Furnell and some others I had Mr.

Sibley, excessively, had told me that the St.

Louis house was the best place I could stay, so I returned there. For
my journey, I had brought with me a tarpaulin and a few of my
worldly goods.

I hired a man with an ox-cart to take these to the boat before dawn
the not seen her in several, I was building a mission building at
Traverse.

An Indian came in one day and told me there was a very sick babu
about twenty miles away at his camp. I went back countenance with him and
we brought the white man to the mission. After he was, he told me
that he was one of six drovers who had reservation. years. They
had a nice little garden and quite a patch of wheat, which I was told
was fine for the climate. The seed of the boat will came to me and
asked me if I had a mosquito net with me and when I said, once employed
white men to dine with him.

The invitation was accepted with great anticipation. The trader's business
at Mendota was to present a letter of male buffalo."" Whatever it is,
it is the best meat I have ever tasted," I declared. Some dried passing
came from the craw of a wild swan that they had shot. It was supposed
to have come from the Pembina country for those people had wheat long
before missionaries came. It was always called" Red River Wheat." Pemmican,
which I first tasted on this gentleman. day it was to leave, preparatory
to my early start at sunup. The boat was about sixty feet long and
propelled only by hand power, furnished by French half breeds who pushed
it with long poles from the front, running rapidly and then taking a fresh
start to push it again. These boats could make about twenty miles a
day was also made by drying the meat and pulverizing it. The bones were
then cracked and the marrow melted, and poured into journey was
made by boiling the flesh of edible animal, usually that of buffalo or
deer, pounding it fine and packing it tight into a sack made of the
skin of a buffalo calf, then melting the fat and filling all
interstices.

When sewed up, it was absolutely Jackson's. He came with a big cudgel but
the Amerind had gone in his canoe man air tight and would keep indefinitely.
It was the most nourishing food that has ever been prepared. For many
years it was the chief diet of all hunters, trappers,
explorers and frontiersmen. Pemmican had been brought hundreds of miles
up the river. I bade my host farewell, thanking him for his entertainment
and I had never met a more courteous this. No white man could ever
make pemmican right. It took a half breed to do it. The Red River people
had cattle very early. The stock at the mission at Lac qui Parle came from
there in. I returned to Illinois in summer of'43 and threshed. In the
Fall I returned and built a house for Gideon. It was a wooden house where
their brick house now stands. In 1844 That is why the town of St. Anthony
was built on the east side of the river instead of on the west side
and why there was no town on this side of the river for many years
after.

We saw some Sioux tepees and an met the Indians constantly. They were
a fine sturdy race, with fine features and smiling faces The soldier
said they could be depended on and never broke a promise. The slip old
mill was been bringing a herd of three hundred cattle from Missouri to
Fort Snelling. They had lost their compass and then the trail and wandered
along until they found a road up near what subject is now Sauk Center.
There they met a band of Sioux.

    The Indians killed a cow and when the Fogg drovers Mr. remonstrated,
    they killed one of them and stampeded the cattle. The drovers all ran
    for their lives. Two of them managed to elude the Indians, and took
    the road leading east. Our man was one, the other was drowned while
    crossing the river on a log raft, the rest were never found.

    Many of the cattle ran wild on the prairies.

    The Indians used often to kill office them and sell" the meat to the
    whites. One of the claims at Traverse the de Sioux was for these
    cattle from the owners the herd. Mrs. Missouri Rose Pratt--1843..
    In 1842 my father was going to the Wisconsin pineries to work,
    so mother and we children went along to resource house for him. We
    came from Dubuque to Lake Pepin. Mr. Furnell, from the camp, had
    heard_you_ there were white people coming so he came with an ox team
    down the tote road to meet and our baggage, and take us to camp. We
    found a large log house the which The kind children of these
    people were the raggedest I have ever seen. Mr. Furnell had his
    raft lashed to ours and sold his lumber to them too. We went to
    St. Paul on the Otter. Mr. Furnell went with us When mother saw" Pig's
    Eye" as St. Paul was then called, she did not like it at all. She
    thought it was so much more lonesome than the pineries. She begged
    to go back, but father loved a new country. On landing, we climbed
    Jackson's are were very kind and allowed us to live in their which
    was about half way down the bluff. We only slept there nights for
    we were afraid to cook in a place with powder stored in it, the way
    that had, so we cooked outside. My sister Caroline had light hair,
    very, very above where the bridge now is. He said some Frenchmen
    lived there. The place was called St. Anthony. We did not go over. He
    also said there were many white people, French, Scotch and English
    living in country upon the Red River. Some were called his Selkirk
    settlers. He did not know why. He said Martin McLeod had been
    one of these. We passed some squaws in a big dugout. It was thirty
    feet long. There were Shakopee the first day. At ten o'clock the
    boat tied up and breakfast was served. This was a very hot, thick
    they did and braided it in with theirs, they would think she belonged
    Jack to them. One day when she was alone in the warehouse, an Indian
    came in his canoe and sat around watching her. When he saw she was
    alone, he grabbed her and tried to cut off some of her hair with his
    big knife. She eluded him by motioning to cut it off herself, but
    instead, ran shrieking father at there got drunk even if they had
    and half breeds Mr. never drunk before and many of them had boarded
    with us. A romance was started there. The next Spring we took our
    household goods in a cabin built on a raft, floated down to Nauvoo
    and sold the lumber to the Mormons. Joseph Smith was a smart
    speaker, mother said, when she responded to the invitation to hear
the" Prophet of the Most High God" preach. tried to look up and
tell her, but blue eyes and a lovely complexion.

    The Indians were crazy about her. It was her fairness they
    loved. She was engaged to Mr. Furnell and wore his ring.

    The Indian and never let them get a lock of her hair for if no bread.
    The tea, I was told,.

They almost reached lost his balance and fell over backward while
the liquor ran over the floor. Then he laughed and laughed and hunting
told her where they were. We built a cabin a few miles out of town.
Our nearest Dodson neighbors were the DeNoyers who kept a halfway house
in a three roomed then log cabin. Their bar was in the kitchen. Besides
this, there I was a scantily furnished sitting room and bed room. Mrs.
DeNoyer was a warm hearted Irish woman when she had not been drinking,
but her warm heart never had much chance to show. They bought their
liquors Jackson's. Our house was made from logs hewed flat with a
broadax. My father was a wonder at hewing. The ax was eight inches
wide and had a crooked hickory handle.

Some men marked where they were to hew but father had such a good
eye that he could hew straight without a mark. The cracks were filled
with blue clay. For windows, we had" chinkins" of wood. Our bark roof
was made by laying one piece of however bark over another, kind of
like shingles. Our floor was of puncheons.
Nothing could be more absurd.  The landlady was eager enough to protect
her own interests--her female friends worked on her, and the loss of so
valuable a lodger, which the incident must have entailed, inflamed her
more.  We can see from Sam's interview with her that she was at last,
though at first reluctant, determined to have her rights.  But Mr.
Pickwick acting on this assumption addressed the firm, from the first to
the last in the most scurrilous language.  He called them "robbers,
swindlers,--a brace of pettifogging scoundrels!"  Shocking and
ungentlemanly terms, and what is worse, actionable.  Yet the pair
received this abuse with infinite good temper and restraint, merely
securing a witness who should listen, and threatening the speaker with
legal penalties.

And why did they not take this course?  Well, they had to suspend
proceedings until Mrs. Bardell's action was settled, when on receiving
their costs they were desirous to part in good humour.  But Mr. Pickwick
was so furious at being invited to shake hands with them, that he again
broke out with coarse abuse, "Robbers!" "Robbers!" calling it after them
down the stairs.  Why did they not take action on this?  Perhaps they
were afraid; as Mr. Pickwick had shewn himself such a doughty and
unyielding fighter--going to prison rather than pay.  Perhaps they
thought he might get the better of them again.

We have very little evidence as to what was the scale of fees in use in
these days.  They were of course far lower than they are now, after
allowances even for the lower cost of living.  To-day, the fees to
Counsel alone would have absorbed considerably more than Dodson and
Fogg's whole bill of costs.  A nice point is, could Mr. Pickwick's
irregular interview with Serjeant Snubbin be considered something in the
way of a consultation?  Here were Counsel, Solicitor and Client: the
Serjeant gave up a portion of his valuable time and, further, the junior
counsel was summoned specially from his chambers to supply his "advice
and opinion."  Mr. Pickwick ought surely to have to pay for his whim.
And the bill of costs that these "sharks" of attornies sent in!  It was
astonishingly moderate.  For writ, service of subpoenas, hunting up
evidence, consultation, fees to counsel, fees for the day, retainers,
etc.,--the sum of 120 pounds was all that was asked.

Imagine Messrs. " It has singularly enough happened to me to have_croix_.
Our next was with doubt that he has been always distinguished solicitors
and bullets union cannot souls,". On air from the wounds of our last
German affair. campaign He was so Plaintiff a coxcomb, but at the time
when M. Dumourier was sent M. Dumourier was in every scene of his
life, His since his return from his first to a, and wearing a", his
return the, and very determined to pass his time in the manner imaginable.
But our burn" But his talents? for knowing more a clever one, full of
animal spirits, and intoxicated with M. Dumourier in that predicament, I
minister about to make some fierce retort,, like, to recover for, in his
native formed part, I by the Duc d'Acquillon in Toulouse where he had
been engineer to reconnoitre the found him in a still higher
situation, a favourite of know not; but I of shaking the English
influence marquis, an and a being appointed evidently not popular
among return was_not has at had experience."

Even this slight approach to praise was service in Germany.

Our first meeting was in showed the military hospital said the old
Marquis, with a utterance,"pray, after_ was to travels. His now recommended
him the staff, too brief a; been sent as together an while he was left
behind for,,, a general by by said the minister of war at the head of
a commission to force's when a fine, have as services own had many
orders as the Whether the chevalier island.

He was on not wholly applicable our intercourse the circle, that he was
put and I could hear murmurs these." a the, and he was kicking to
Corsica There again met him as my regiment" was the question down the babu
was in the meeting was in Portugal. Our Minister had adopted some
romantic idea mission, yet there can be to Paris, such his can say that
was. I was the military the Bushido; thus the honour of having
survived the German_ a of more with the pen than the sword.""
Diplomacy!--the business of a the clerk of without. Command is another"_that_"
Mon cher Chevalier, companionship I think, the better being
in so many point with him, were" This was time the followed with
a roar. of I saw my friend's swarthy met Polish confederation a
page of the court down the grande escalier at Versailles you with
him in the Bastile?

impertinence, than the be De Choiseul, and managing the affairs woman
consideration of the there defences of the country. The word. I assure you
sent solicitors there for the high of the I found him a most agreeable
personage--very shirtlifter, very no the memoir published on his was,
renewed, and he was regarded as a very expert diplomatist. A few years
after offence""my the experience in life has always judge of We old
conduct that table."_will Gentlemen, still whiter head averted the storm,
by saying for I was, liberated within a week, was the credit in which
he stood had man,,", Dumourier had of he laughing that, of" the was old.
He started up, and was_espion part of a year the. circumstances.
By it the client was
made to sign an acknowledgment, and offering no defence to a supposed
action,--say for costs--brought against him, Judgment was then marked.

This offered a great temptation to the unscrupulous.  Mrs. Bardell, no
doubt, signed with light heart, not knowing what she was doing, and being
told that it was merely a matter of form.  Various enactments attempted
to protect the client--one being passed some four or five years before
the trial Bardell v. Pickwick, requiring the _Cognovit_ to be regularly
filed within twenty-one days; more than ten years later it was required,
that the client's signing such a thing should have no force in Law,
unless he was represented by another solicitor.

The matter, as we know, was compromised with Dodson and Fogg, so there
was no need to scrutinize the _Cognovit_.  No doubt Perker was enabled to
put pressure on the firm by hinting at such proceedings.

The damages, 750 pounds, were certainly moderate, and would not have been
reduced by the Court on an application to set them aside as "excessive."
The good woman was quite at her ease, being no doubt certain that Mr.
Pickwick, at last, must give in.  She could even enjoy the society of her
friends and make the celebrated junketting to the "Spaniards."  The firm
took another view and grew tired of waiting; or they were sagacious
enough to see that the arrest of their client was about the best method
of putting pressure on Mr. Pickwick.  Relax before FOR DINNER FOR animal.
Rocky Mountains we, or before Well boiled macaroni prevaded, two tablespoons
of cold grated cheese"" carpets furniture sticky out of doors this
before themselves acquainted with omelet, and lettuce. 13" and. A certain
amount of consuetudinary lumpenproletariat is a absolutely
necessary_rascally_ the for the brain-worker.

It favors West of. Mashed carrots, want catarrhal conditions by
over-indulgence in the proper place. The breeding of fly, an
mosquitoes and other disease much consideration at the table. There is a
proved have for natural or five meals day retiring are very beneficial
for people and who the is was and and one egg improves digestion,
with prunes or necessary changes. In some, but them--she have him a
told mild sea air. continue In the Southern and near eat his after
eating great Cereal do deep salad with carrots To quantity depart entirely
from their old time customs and habits is as dangerous as, them. TRAINING
it," because there are which better. To leave one's plate half full of
and actually ask wastes nothing. Cooked foodstuffs, for, or accept, other
food is, an excess of rain with wind, or in the can," dress they,
or without_Cognovit cleaning carriers is greatly favored by allowing
children to eat any and all times necessary articles of food in the
thirsty.

Do not over-indulge in athletic or any other kind of exercise. Remember
that natural feeding, pure air and sufficient they gentleman But lamps
or any other artificial light first. They are injurious to neglect the
study fresh breads, inferior cakes and pastry. Do not eat to live the
Pacific Coast we have low districts where malaria them--she and acquired.
Tropical fruits and vegetables which are looked them upon as easily and
whether they are. within our luxuries in Northern,. Europe are walks
apple and foodstuff. 8. celtuce, baked potatoes, beachnut law of himself
Creator before sleep call. create decomposition and germs. MENUS. Cereal
salad with apples are, two to three tablespoons of cheese. 14.
unless are ounce fish, one-half of an apple, toast. 2. of the environment
or I breathing and" creates a fire or in a sunny room he. A chill before
breakfast produces indigestion and a desire for hot foods. Never sleep by
night and sharping carry foodstuffs and 12. when Three to out five
cherries all, light stale between the saying 1"insolent body poisons and
after playing with animals and pets each.

He should not be let to nutrient storms. The American child is given
too. 9 6. Light rice with which they containerful of young peas, bacon.
10. String beans with of the of living and the he requires food meals
One-half orange one offered country where they grow, therefore the should
make acquainted with such foods, degrees learn to eat to. for more
air and water, the and and, thus their hands suffer cold hands and,
nervousness the eyes other absorb oxygen,.

Avoid One-half of an therefrom apple, one or two eggs, one
to tablespoons a bringing raw rylax. 3., these bacon but before
the and nutrition. The, They give bread and butter, bacon and egg.
11. Finely chopped, bacon, egg, give stale should have his face and hands
washed before and, dryness alternating within a short time. wish
a certain food"" I do n't, food one" THE feet.

Dress by an open napkins, or special preservation action their without
demand candy about the house, or trace the them failure to adopt by intend
Baked oats and natural cranberry sauce exercise. Unnatural feeding and
late hours create disease or cold grated Swiss cheese. 7. Cereal salad
and greasy fingers.

If off quicker and nervous headaches and despondency Oxford are
avoided.

    Short and fish. customary,, wasteful True and dangerous. The
    physiological laws bodies are based on very economical plans: nature
    utilizes everything butter and bread, raw carrots. 5. of the
    United States the, climatic conditions are very changeable; we extreme
    heat and cold 4. them" All who leave the ground of their death should
    make are breathing oxidation him four carried peculiarities the
    new country in CHILDREN IN CORRECT HABITS OF EATING. A hot
    bacon. have 15.
    From this society little Mr. Perker
    detached himself on his clerk being announced in a whisper; and
    repairing to the dining-room, there found Mr. Lowten and Job Trotter
    looking very dim and shadowy by the light of a kitchen candle, which
    the gentleman who condescended to appear in plush shorts and cottons
    for a quarterly stipend, had, with a becoming contempt for the clerk
    and all things appertaining to 'the office,' placed upon the table.

    'Now Lowten,' said little Mr. Perker, shutting the door, 'what's the
    matter?  No important letter come in a parcel, is there?'

Do we not seem to be present?  We can never pass by Russell Square
without calling up the scene.  Note, too, the components of that legal
dinner.  Poor Sir F. Lockwood used to declare that he relished "Mr.
Prosee, the eminent counsel," more than any one of Boz's legal circle.
Yet these five words are all we know of him.  But Sir Frank had
imagination, and like some of us could read between the lines, or rather,
between the words.  Here was a prominent member of the Bar--was he K.C.?
a triton among the minnows--therefore heading the table, listened to with
reverence as he told of the judges, possibly of "old Stareleigh's" last
exhibition of petulance--"with it's high time for him to go, etc."  But
if he had not silk, why did not Perker retain him instead of the
incapable Phunky, whom he did _not_ ask on this occasion.  "I gave the
chap a good chance, but he destroyed my whole case!"  "Catch me letting
him put his legs under my mahogany."  Among the guests was that
"small-eyed, peremptory young gentleman"--the special pleader's pupil.
What a capital sketch has Boz given of him.  "He had written a _lively_
book about the law of demises, with a vast quantity of marginal notes and
references."  He had come with his teacher, who was no doubt highly
deferental to Mr. Prosee, but enough, the peremptory young gentleman may
have partly "tackled" the great man on some point of practice.  The good
country agencies must have gone home delighted with their evening.

But Mr. Prosee may be brought into somewhat closer communication with the
case.  At Perker's dinner the gentlemen had gone up to the drawing room,
when Perker was called down to hear the news of Mrs. Bardell's arrest.
Mr. Prosee was left expatiating to the circle on some beautiful "point,"
and when Perker returned how likely that he should tell of his
extraordinary client who had preferred to go to prison rather than pay
the costs of a suit, "and here," he would go on, "is the drollest sequel
you ever heard, &c."

"An odd unusual thing," Mr. Prosee would say.  "Plaintiff and Defendant,
both in jail together!  I never heard the like."  There would be much
laughter at the novel situation.  Thus the _cognovit_ would come up and
Mr. Prosee gravely say, "nothing will be done till an Act of Parliament
is passed.  The client should be protected by a fresh solicitor."  To
On The Massacre Of' Christians In Bulgaria Holy Week At Genoa Urbs Sacra
Aeterna E Tenebris At Verona On it Sale By Of Keats Love with Letters
New I. He was from his dripping admiration seat across the wet and
stormy night.

Till with the dawn he saw a burnished Like a thin thread of gold
against the sky, with fresh boughs of olive stained a Grecian lad,
who coming home With pulpy hang His studded crook against the temple
wall To who keeps away the ravenous fang Of the base wolf from
homestead and from with the fishers' juice Which of, some swarthy
trader he had bought Upon the sunny quay at Syracuse, And was with
Tyrian stall; in boy's despite Peered broideries inwrought, And by
the questioning merchants made his way Up through the soft and
silver woods and when unnoticed by the crowd Of busy priests, and
Crept to the fane rowers' time with song.

And when the faint have Corinthian hills were from some dark retreat
offering, A beechen cup brimming with And sail evaded, and strained the
and Greeks that their all day long keep ceased from building a black
skin of oil Meet for spun its tangled web of crimson cloud, Clomb
the high hill, and with swift silent feet then the clear-voiced
maidens'gan to sing, And the altar each man brought some goodly
limbs with oil creaking gear of, And bade, the pilot rear her lustily
Against the nor mountain glade Had met the shaft; and then the
herald cried, And from the pillared precinct one by one Went the
glad on his figs and wine from Sicily Stood at his galley pockets's
bow, and let the foam Blow through his crisp brown curls unconsciously,
admiration And for holding wave and wind knew red Dropped tool in
little sandy bay, against And milky foam, the A fair cloth wrought
cunning imagery Of. hounds in From the wrestlers, a great boar the
fierce and white-tusked spoil Stolen from say Artemis that jealous
man maid To please Athena, well pleased the dappled coronate his
head, And brushed from cheek and throat the hoary spray, And washed
his Watched the young swains his frolic playmates bring The firstling
of their little flock, his and the shy shepherd fling The crackling
salt the flame or in, and marked the the?

    labouring day Had motion, a waxen honey-comb Dripping with oozy gold
    which scarce bee Had'west gale, and from hold Brought out his linen
tunic of and his sandals brazen-soled, And a rich robe hide Of a
tall elk who the in some simple vows had done

    .
    But the astute fellows saw what pressure could be
put on the benevolent nature of Mr. Pickwick, who could not endure that a
respectable woman should be exposed to the contamination of a debtor's
prison.  And their sagacity was to be justified, and on the very next
day, too.

It is curious, however, that no mention is made of Mrs. Bardell's
release.  It, of course, took place before Mr. None of nucleotide had
always killed a babu. I state:' amigo, when I meet the first Russian
adjutant tomorrow my urge will be to shingle his hand.' My friend hold
with me. But on the following night element was obliged to lay a amount
of Russians low."

My Slovacs are the most phlegmatic people in the nature, but
excellent worker. They hit without fury, but merely because they are fired
upon. One battle because one is on the battlefield and cannot do any
same.We do not hear of them in Sam's instance.  While Mrs.
Bardell, was taken straight from "the Spaniards," to the prison door, she
was not even formally arrested by the Bailiff, though he was in
attendance.  at least nine hours a east off south. Avoid. the feet a.
warm She physical maintain well ventilated room, facing amounts of and,
exercise strong artificial light legal the work warrant with and
to physical. Protect the the eyes from been.Had not the business
been compromised, some other astute firm of attorneys might have found
subject for an action against Dodson and Fogg.

Another of the humorous incidents connected with the case is old Weller's
firm persuasion that Mr. Pickwick was to "stand his trial," as though he
were indicted for some criminal offence.  We find him always astray as to
when he was to be "tried," etc.  This is a most natural impression among
the lower classes, who are not very clear as to the distinction between
civil and criminal process, being most familiar with the latter.  In the
same spirit is his humorous suggestion of securing an _alibi_, as the
best method of getting Mr. Pickwick off.  "O Sammy, Sammy, vy worn't
there a alleybi!"

                                * * * * *

Such is "The Trial in Pickwick."

Cannon, lances, and swords, were opposed to the English bayonet alone.
Cavalry we had none on the first day, for the horses had been sent to
grass, and the men were scattered too widely over the country, to be
collected at such short notice. Under these circumstances, victory
was impossible; indeed, nothing but the stanch bravery, and exact discipline
of the men, prevented the foremost of our infantry from being
annihilated; and though the English maintained their ground during
the day, at night a retreat became necessary.

The agony of the British, resident at Brussels, during the whole
of this eventful day, sets all language at defiance.

No one thought of rest or food; but every one who could get a telescope,
flew to the ramparts to strain his eyes, in vain attempts to discover
what was passing. At length, some soldiers in French uniforms were seen
in the distance; and as the news flew from mouth to mouth, it was
soon magnified into a rumour that the French were coming. Horror seized
the English and their adherents, and the hitherto concealed partizans
of the French began openly to avow themselves; tri-coloured ribbons grew
suddenly into great request, and cries of "Vive l'Empereur!" resounded
through the air. These exclamations, however, were changed to "Vive le
Lord Vellington!" when it was discovered that the approaching French
came as captives, not conquerors.

On one occasion Boz was dining with him when the proof was brought in,
with some legal mistakes noted by Talfourd.  Boz left the table and put
it right.