Take first "the staff of life"--bread and its constituents.  Of wheat,
not less than 222,080 quarters were brought into London by railway in
1867, besides what was brought by sea; of oats 151,757 quarters; of
barley 70,282 quarters; of beans and peas 51,448 quarters.  Of the wheat
and barley, by far the largest proportion is brought by the Great Eastern
Railway, which delivers in London in one year 155,000 quarters of wheat
and 45,500 quarters of barley, besides 600,429 quarters more in the form
of malt.  The largest quantity of oats is brought by the Great Northern
Railway, principally from the north of England and the East of
Scotland,--the quantity delivered by that Company in 1867 having been
97,500 quarters, besides 24,664 quarters of wheat, 5560 quarters of
barley, and 103,917 quarters of malt.  Again, of 1,250,566 sacks of flour
and meal delivered in London in one year, the Great Eastern brings
654,000 sacks, the Great Northern 232,022 sacks, and the Great Western
136,312 sacks; the principal contribution of the London and North-Western
Railway towards the London bread-stores being 100,760 boxes of American
flour, besides 24,300 sacks of English.  The total quantity of malt
delivered at the London railway stations in 1867 was thirteen hundred
thousand sacks.

Next, as to flesh meat.  In 1867, not fewer than 172,300 head of cattle
were brought to London by railway,--though this was considerably less
than the number carried before the cattle-plague, the Great Eastern
Railway alone having carried 44,672 less than in 1864.  But this loss has
since been more than made up by the increased quantities of fresh beef,
mutton, and other kinds of meat imported in lieu of the live animals.
The principal supplies of cattle are brought, as we have said, by the
Western, Northern, and Eastern lines: by the Great Western from the
western counties and Ireland; by the London and North-Western, the
Midland, and the Great Northern from the northern counties and from
Scotland; and by the Great Eastern from the eastern counties and from the
ports of Harwich and Lowestoft.

In 1867, also, 1,147,609 sheep were brought to London by railway, of
which the Great Eastern delivered not less than 265,371 head.  The London
and North-Western and Great Northern between them brought 390,000 head
from the northern English counties, with a large proportion from the
Scotch Highlands.  While the Great Western brought up 130,000 head from
the Welsh mountains and from the rich grazing districts of Wilts,
Gloucester, Somerset, and Devon.  Another important freight of the London
and North-Western Railway consists of pigs, of which they delivered
54,700 in London, principally Irish; while the Great Eastern brought up
27,500 of the same animal, partly foreign.

While the cattle-plague had the effect of greatly reducing the number of
live stock brought into London yearly, it gave a considerable impetus to
the Fresh Meat traffic.  Thus, in addition to the above large numbers of
cattle and sheep delivered in London in 1867, the railways brought 76,175
tons of meat, which--taking the meat of an average beast at 800 lbs., and
of an average sheep at 64 lbs.--would be equivalent to about 112,000 more
cattle, and 1,267,500 more sheep.  The Great Northern brought the largest
quantity; next the London and North-Western;--these two Companies having
brought up between them, from distances as remote as Aberdeen and
Inverness, about 42,000 tons of fresh meat in 1867, at an average freight
of about 0.5d. a lb.

Again as regards Fish, of which six-tenths of the whole quantity consumed
in London is now brought by rail.  The Great Eastern and the Great
Northern are by far the largest importers of this article, and justify
their claim to be regarded as the great food lines of London.  Of the
61,358 tons of fish brought by railway in 1867, not less than 24,500 tons
were delivered by the former, and 22,000 tons, brought from much longer
distances, by the latter Company.  The London and North-Western brought
about 6000 tons, the principal part of which was salmon from Scotland and
Ireland.  The Great Western also brought about 4000 tons, partly salmon,
but the greater part mackerel from the south-west coast.  During the
mackerel season, as much as a hundred tons at a time are brought into the
Paddington Station by express fish-train from Cornwall.

The Great Eastern and Great Northern Companies are also the principal
carriers of turkeys, geese, fowls, and game; the quantity delivered in
London by the former Company having been 5042 tons.  In Christmas week no
fewer than 30,000 turkeys and geese were delivered at the Bishopsgate
Station, besides about 300 tons of poultry, 10,000 barrels of beer, and
immense quantities of fish, oysters, and other kinds of food.  As much as
1600 tons of poultry and game were brought last year by the South-Western
Railway; 600 tons by the Great Northern Railway; and 130 tons of turkeys,
geese, and fowls, by the London, Chatham and Dover line, principally from
France.

Of miscellaneous articles, the Great Northern and the Midland each
brought about 3000 tons of cheese, the South-Western 2600 tons, and the
London and North-Western 10,034 cheeses in number; while the
South-Western and Brighton lines brought a splendid contribution to the
London breakfast-table in the shape of 11,259 _tons_ of French eggs;
these two Companies delivering between them an average of more than three
millions of eggs a week all the year round!  The same Companies delivered
in London 14,819 tons of butter, for the most part the produce of the
farms of Normandy,--the greater cleanness and neatness with which the
Normandy butter is prepared for market rendering it a favourite both with
dealers and consumers of late years compared with Irish butter.  The
London, Chatham and Dover Company also brought from Calais 96 tons of
eggs.

Next, as to the potatoes, vegetables, and fruit, brought by rail.  Forty
years since, the inhabitants of London relied for their supply of
vegetables on the garden-grounds in the immediate neighbourhood of the
metropolis, and the consequence was that they were both very dear and
limited in quantity.  But railways, while they have extended the
grazing-grounds of London as far as the Highlands, have at the same time
extended the garden-grounds of London into all the adjoining
counties--into East Kent, Essex, Suffolk, and Norfolk, the vale of
Gloucester, and even as far as Penzance in Cornwall.  The London, Chatham
and Dover, one of the youngest of our main lines, brought up from East
Kent in 1867 5279 tons of potatoes, 1046 tons of vegetables, and 5386
tons of fruit, besides 542 tons of vegetables from France.  The
South-Eastern brought 25,163 tons of the same produce.  The Great Eastern
brought from the eastern counties 21,315 tons of potatoes, and 3596 tons
of vegetables and fruit; while the Great Northern brought no less than
78,505 tons of potatoes--a large part of them from the east of
Scotland--and 3768 tons of vegetables and fruit.  About 6000 tons of
early potatoes were brought from Cornwall, with about 5000 tons of
broccoli, and the quantities are steadily increasing.  "Truly London hath
a large belly," said old Fuller, two hundred years since.  But how much
more capacious is it now!

One of the most striking illustrations of the utility of railways in
contributing to the supply of wholesome articles of food to the
population of large cities, is to be found in the rapid growth of the
traffic in Milk.  Readers of newspapers may remember the descriptions
published some years since of the horrid dens in which London cows were
penned, and of the odious compound sold by the name of milk, of which the
least deleterious ingredient in it was supplied by the "cow with the iron
tail."  That state of affairs is now completely changed.  What with the
greatly improved state of the London dairies and the better quality of
the milk supplied by them, together with the large quantities brought by
railway from a range of a hundred miles and more all round London, even
the poorest classes in the metropolis are now enabled to obtain as
wholesome a supply of the article as the inhabitants of most country
towns.

These great streams of food, which we have thus so summarily described,
flow into London so continuously and uninterruptedly, that comparatively
few persons are aware of the magnitude and importance of the process thus
daily going forward.  Though gathered from an immense extent of
country--embracing England, Scotland, Wales, and Ireland--the influx is
so unintermitted that it is relied upon with as much certainty as if it
only came from the counties immediately adjoining London.  The express
meat-train from Aberdeen arrives in town as punctually as the Clapham
omnibus, and the express milk-train from Aylesbury is as regular in its
delivery as the penny post.  Indeed London now depends so much upon
railways for its subsistence, that it may be said to be fed by them from
day to day, having never more than a few days' food in stock.  And the
supply is so regular and continuous, that the possibility of its being
interrupted never for a moment occurs to any one.  Yet in these days of
strikes amongst workmen, such a contingency is quite within the limits of
possibility.  Another contingency, which might arise during a state of
war, is probably still more remote.  But were it possible for a war to
occur between England and a combination of foreign powers possessed of
stronger ironclads than ours, and that they were able to ram our ships
back into port and land an enemy of overpowering force on the Essex
coast, it would be sufficient for them to occupy or cut the railways
leading from the north, to starve London into submission in less than a
fortnight.

Besides supplying London with food, railways have also been instrumental
in ensuring the more regular and economical supply of fuel,--a matter of
almost as vital importance to the population in a climate such as that of
England.  So long as the market was supplied with coal brought by sea in
sailing ships, fuel in winter often rose to a famine price, especially
during long-continued easterly winds.  But now that railways are in full
work, the price is almost as steady in winter as in summer, and (but for
strikes) the supply is more regular at all seasons.

But the carriage of food and fuel to London forms but a small part of the
merchandise traffic carried by railway.  Above 600,000 tons of goods of
various kinds yearly pass through one station only, that of the London
and North-Western Company, at Camden Town; and sometimes as many as
20,000 parcels daily.  Every other metropolitan station is similarly
alive with traffic inwards and outwards, London having since the
introduction of railways become more than ever a great distributive
centre, to which merchandise of all kinds converges, and from which it is
distributed to all parts of the country.  Mr. Bazley, M.P., stated at a
late public meeting at Manchester, that it would probably require ten
millions of horses to convey by road the merchandise traffic which is now
annually carried by railway.

Railways have also proved of great value in connection with the Cheap
Postage system.  By their means it has become possible to carry letters,
newspapers, books and post parcels, in any quantity, expeditiously, and
cheaply.  The Liverpool and Manchester line was no sooner opened in 1830,
than the Post Office authorities recognised its utility, and used it for
carrying the mails between the two towns.  When the London and Birmingham
line was opened eight years later, mail trains were at once put on,--the
directors undertaking to perform the distance of 113 miles within 5 hours
by day and 5.5 hours by night.  As additional lines were opened, the old
four-horse mail coaches were gradually discontinued, until in 1858, the
last of them, the "Derby Dilly," which ran between Manchester and Derby,
was taken off on the opening of the Midland line to Rowsley.

The increased accommodation provided by railways was found of essential
importance, more particularly after the adoption of the Cheap Postage
system; and that such accommodation was needed will be obvious from the
extraordinary increase which has taken place in the number of letters and
packets sent by post.  Thus, in 1839, the number of chargeable letters
carried was only 76 millions, and of newspapers 44.5 millions; whereas,
in 1865, the numbers of letters had increased to 720 millions, and in
1867 to 775 millions, or more than ten-fold, while the number of
newspapers, books, samples and patterns (a new branch of postal business
began in 1864) had increased, in 1865, to 98.5 millions.

To accommodate this largely-increasing traffic, the bulk of which is
carried by railway, the mileage run by mail trains in the United Kingdom
has increased from 25,000 miles a day in 1854 (the first year of which we
have any return of the mileage run) to 60,000 miles a day in 1867, or an
increase of 240 per cent.  The Post Office expenditure on railway service
has also increased, but not in like proportion, having been 364,000
pounds in the former year, and 559,575 pounds in the latter, or an
increase of 154 per cent.  The revenue, gross and net, has increased
still more rapidly.  In 1841, the first complete year of the Cheap
Postage system, the gross revenue was 1,359,466 pounds and the net
revenue 500,789 pounds; in 1854, the gross revenue was 2,574,407 pounds,
and the net revenue 1,173,723 pounds; and in 1867, the gross revenue was
4,548,129 pounds, and the net revenue 2,127,125 pounds, being an increase
of 420 per cent. compared with 1841, and of 180 per cent. compared with
1854.  How much of this net increase might fairly be credited to the
Railway Postal service we shall not pretend to say; but assuredly the
proportion must be very considerable.

One of the great advantages of railways in connection with the postal
service is the greatly increased frequency of communication which they
provide between all the large towns.  Thus Liverpool has now six
deliveries of Manchester letters daily; while every large town in the
kingdom has two or more deliveries of London letters daily.  In 1863, 393
towns had two mails daily from London; 50 had three mails daily; 7 had
four mails a day _from_ London, and 15 had four mails a day _to_ London;
while 3 towns had five mails a day _from_ London, and 6 had five mails a
day _to_ London.

Another feature of the railway mail train, as of the passenger train, is
its capacity to carry any quantity of letters and post parcels that may
require to be carried.  In 1838, the aggregate weight of all the evening
mails despatched from London by twenty-eight mail coaches was 4 tons 6
cwt., or an average of about 3.25 cwt. each, though the maximum contract
weight was 15 cwt.  The mails now are necessarily much heavier, the
number of letters and packets having, as we have seen, increased more
than ten-fold since 1839.  But it is not the ordinary so much as the
extraordinary mails that are of considerable weight,--more particularly
the American, the Continental, and the Australian mails.  It is no
unusual thing, we are informed, for the last-mentioned mail to weigh as
much as 40 tons.  How many of the old mail coaches it would take to carry
such a mail the 79 miles journey to Southampton, with a relay of four
horses every five or seven miles, is a problem for the arithmetician to
solve.  But even supposing each coach to be loaded to the maximum weight
of 15 cwt. per coach, it would require about sixty vehicles and about
1700 horses to carry the 40 tons, besides the coachman and guards.

Whatever may be said of the financial management of railways, there can
be no doubt as to the great benefits conferred by them on the public
wherever made.  Even those railways which have exhibited the most
"frightful examples" of financing and jobbing, have been found to prove
of unquestionable public convenience and utility.  And notwithstanding
all the faults and imperfections that have been alleged against railways,
we think that they must, nevertheless, be recognised as by far the most
valuable means of communication between men and nations that has yet been
given to the world.

The author's object in publishing this book in its original form, was to
describe, in connection with the 'Life of George Stephenson,' the origin
and progress of the railway system,--to show by what moral and material
agencies its founders were enabled to carry their ideas into effect, and
work out results which even then were of a remarkable character, though
they have since, as above described, become so much more extraordinary.
The favour with which successive editions of the book have been received,
has justified the author in his anticipation that such a narrative would
prove of general, if not of permanent interest.

The book was written with the concurrence and assistance of Robert
Stephenson, who also supplied the necessary particulars relating to
himself.  Such portions of these were accordingly embodied in the
narrative as could with propriety be published during his lifetime, and
the remaining portions have since been added, with the object of
rendering more complete the record of the son's life as well as of the
early history of the Railway system.


CONTENTS

                              CHAPTER I.

            NEWCASTLE AND THE GREAT NORTHERN COAL-FIELDS.

The colliery districts of the                          Pages 1-11
North--Newcastle-upon-Tyne in ancient times--The
Roman settlement--Social insecurity in the Middle
Ages--Northumberland roads--The coal-trade--Modern
Newcastle--Coal haulage--Early waggon-roads,
tram-roads, and railways--Machinery of
coal-mines--Newcomen's fire-engine--The colliers,
their character and habits--Coal-staiths--The
keelmen

                             CHAPTER II.

       WYLAM AND DEWLEY BURN--GEORGE STEPHENSON'S EARLY YEARS.

Wylam Colliery and village--George Stephenson's        12-30
birth-place--His parents--The Stephenson family--Old
Robert Stephenson--George's boyhood--Dewley Burn
Colliery--Sister Nell's bonnet--Employed as a
herd-boy--Makes clay engines--Follows the
plough--Employed as corf-bitter--Drives the
gin-horse--Black Callerton Colliery--Love of
animals--Made assistant-fireman--Old Robert and
family shift their home--Jolly's Close,
Newburn--Family earnings--George as fireman--His
athletic feats--Throckley Bridge--"A made man for
life!"--Appointed engineman--Studies his
engine--Experiments in egg-hatching--Puts himself to
school, and learns to read--His
schoolmasters--Progress in arithmetic--His
dog--Learns to brake--Brakesman at Black
Callerton--Duties of brakesman--Begins
shoe-making--Fanny Henderson--Saves his first
guinea--Fight with a pitman

                             CHAPTER III.

            ENGINEMAN AT WILLINGTON QUAY AND KILLINGWORTH.

Sobriety and studiousness--Inventiveness--Removes to   31-46
Willington Quay--Marries Fanny Henderson--Their
cottage at Willington--Attempts at perpetual
motion--William Fairbairn and George
Stephenson--Ballast-heaving--Chimney on fire, and
clock-cleaning--Birth of Robert Stephenson--George
removes to West Moor, Killingworth--Death of his
wife--Engineman at Montrose, Scotland--His
pump-boot--Saves money--His return to
Killingworth--Brakesman at West Moor--Is drawn for
the Militia--Thinks of emigrating to America--Takes
a contract for brakeing engines--Improves the
winding-engine--Cures a pumping-engine--Becomes
famous as an engine-doctor--Appointed engine-wright
of a colliery

                             CHAPTER IV.

   THE STEPHENSONS AT KILLINGWORTH--EDUCATION AND SELF-EDUCATION OF
                           FATHER AND SON.

George Stephenson's self-improvement--John             47-62
Wigham--Studies in Natural
Philosophy--Sobriety--Education of Robert
Stephenson--Sent to Rutter's school, Benton--Bruce's
school, Newcastle--Literary and Philosophical
Institute--George educates his son in
Mechanics--Ride to Killingworth--Robert's boyish
tricks--Repeats the Franklin
kite-experiment--Stephenson's cottage, West
Moor--Odd mechanical expedients--Competition in
last-making--Father and son make a
sun-dial--Colliery improvements--Stephenson's
mechanical expertness

                              CHAPTER V.

    EARLY HISTORY OF THE LOCOMOTIVE--GEORGE STEPHENSON BEGINS ITS
                             IMPROVEMENT.

Various expedients for                                 63-88
coal-haulage--Sailing-waggons--Mr. Edgworth's
experiments--Cugnot's first locomotive
steam-carriage--Murdock's model
locomotive--Trevithick's steam-carriage and
tram-engine--Blenkinsop's engine--Chapman and
Brunton's locomotives--The Wylam waggon-way--Mr.
Blackett's experiments--Jonathan Foster--William
Hedley--The Wylam engine--Stephenson determines to
build a locomotive--Lord Ravensworth--The first
Killingworth engine described--The steam-blast
invented--Stephenson's second locomotive

                             CHAPTER VI.

                INVENTION OF THE "GEORDY" SAFETY-LAMP.

Frequency of colliery explosions--Accident in the      89-108
Killingworth Pit--Stephenson's heroic conduct--A
safety-lamp described--Dr. Clanny's
lamp--Stephenson's experiments on fire-damp--Designs
a lamp, and tests it in the pit--Cottage experiments
with coal-gas--Stephenson's second and third
lamps--The Stephenson and Davy controversy--Scene at
the Newcastle Institute--The Davy testimonial--The
Stephenson testimonial--Merits of the "Geordy" lamp

                             CHAPTER VII.

   GEORGE STEPHENSON'S FURTHER IMPROVEMENTS IN THE LOCOMOTIVE--THE
HETTON RAILWAY--ROBERT STEPHENSON AS VIEWER'S APPRENTICE AND STUDENT.

The Killingworth mine machinery--Stephenson improves   109-122
his locomotive--Strengthens the road--His
patent--His steam-springs--Experiments on
friction--Steam-locomotion on common roads--Early
neglect of the locomotive--Stephenson again thinks
of emigration--Constructs the Hetton Railway--The
working power employed--Robert Stephenson viewer's
apprentice--His pursuits at Killingworth--His father
sends him to Edinburgh University--His application
to the studies of Chemistry, Natural History, and
Natural Philosophy--His MS. volumes of
Lectures--Geological tour with Professor Jameson in
the Highlands

                            CHAPTER VIII.

  GEORGE STEPHENSON ENGINEER OF THE STOCKTON AND DARLINGTON RAILWAY.

The Bishop Auckland Coal-field--Edward Pease           123-145
projects a railway from Witton to Stockton--The Bill
rejected--The line re-surveyed, and the Act
obtained--George Stephenson's visit to Edward
Pease--Appointed engineer of the railway--Again
surveys the line--Mr. Pease visits Killingworth--The
Newcastle locomotive works projected--The railway
constructed--Locomotives ordered--Stephenson's
anticipations as to railways--Public opening of the
line--The coal traffic--The first railway
passenger-coach--The coaching traffic described--The
"Locomotion" engine--Race with
stage-coach--Commercial results of the Stockton and
Darlington Railway--The town of Middlesborough
created

                             CHAPTER IX.

           THE LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY PROJECTED.

Insufficient communications between Manchester and     146-172
Liverpool--The canal monopoly--A tramroad
projected--Joseph Sanders--Sir R. Phillip's
speculations as to railways--Thomas Gray--William
James surveys a line between Liverpool and
Manchester--Opposition to the survey--Mr. James's
visits to Killingworth--Robert Stephenson assists in
the survey--George Stephenson appointed
engineer--The first prospectus--Stephenson's survey
opposed--The canal companies--Speculations as to
railway speed--Stephenson's notions thought
extravagant--Article in the 'Quarterly'--The Bill
before Parliament--The Evidence--George Stephenson
in the witness box--Examined as to speed--His
cross-examination--The survey found defective--Mr.
Harrison's speech--Evidence of opposing
engineers--Mr. Alderson's speech--The Bill
withdrawn--Stephenson's vexation--The scheme
prosecuted--The line re-surveyed--Sir Isaac Coffin's
speech--The Act passed

                              CHAPTER X.

   CHAT MOSS--CONSTRUCTION OF THE LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY.

George Stephenson appointed engineer--Chat Moss        173-192
described--The resident engineers--Mr. Dixon's visit
of inspection--Stephenson's theory of a floating
road--Operations begun--Tar-barrel drains--The
embankment sinks in the Moss--Proposed abandonment
of the work--Stephenson perseveres--The obstacles
conquered--Road across Parr Moss--The road
formed--Stephenson's organization of labour--The
Liverpool Tunnel--Olive Mount Cutting--Sankey
Viaduct--Stephenson and Cropper--Stephenson's
labours--Pupils and assistants--His daily
life--Practical education--Evenings at home

                             CHAPTER XI.

 ROBERT STEPHENSON'S RESIDENCE IN COLOMBIA AND RETURN--THE BATTLE OF
                    THE LOCOMOTIVE--THE "ROCKET."

Robert Stephenson mining engineer in Colombia--Mule    193-220
journey to Bogota--Mariquita--Silver
mining--Difficulties with the Cornishmen--His
cottage at Santa Anna--Longs to return home--Resigns
his post--Meeting with Trevithick--Voyage to New
York, and shipwreck--Returns to Newcastle, and takes
charge of the factory--The working power of the
Liverpool and Manchester Railway--Fixed engines and
locomotives, and their respective advocates--Walker
and Rastrick's report--A prize offered for the best
locomotive--Conferences of the Stephensons--Boiler
arrangements and heating surface--Mr. Booth's
contrivance--Building of the "Rocket"--The
competition of engines at Rainhill--The "Novelty"
and "Sanspareil"--Triumph of the "Rocket," and its
destination

                             CHAPTER XII.

OPENING OF THE LIVERPOOL AND MANCHESTER RAILWAY, AND EXTENSION OF THE
                           RAILWAY SYSTEM.

The railway finished--The traffic arrangements         221-236
organized--Public opening of the line--Accident to
Mr. Huskisson--Arrival of the trains at
Manchester--The traffic results--Improvement of the
road and rolling stock--Improvements in the
locomotive--The railway a wonder--Extension of the
railway system--Joint-stock railway companies--New
lines projected--New engineers--The Grand
Junction--Public opposition to railways--Robert
Stephenson engineer to the Leicester and Swannington
Railway--George Stephenson removes to
Snibston--Sinks for and gets coal--Stimulates local
enterprise--His liberality

                            CHAPTER XIII.

   ROBERT STEPHENSON CONSTRUCTS THE LONDON AND BIRMINGHAM RAILWAY.

The line projected--George and Robert Stephenson       237-252
appointed engineers--Opposition--Hostile pamphlets
and public meetings--Robert Stephenson and Sir
Astley Cooper--The survey obstructed--The opposing
clergyman--The Bill in Parliament--Thrown out in the
Lords--Proprietors conciliated, and the Act
obtained--The works let in contracts--The
difficulties of the undertaking--The line
described--Blisworth Cutting--Primrose Hill
Tunnel--Kilsby Tunnel--Its construction
described--Cost of the Railway greatly
increased--Failure of contractors--Magnitude of the
works--Railway navvies

                             CHAPTER XIV.

   MANCHESTER AND LEEDS, AND MIDLAND RAILWAYS--STEPHENSON'S LIFE AT
   ALTON--VISIT TO BELGIUM--GENERAL EXTENSION OF RAILWAYS AND THEIR
                               RESULTS.

Projection of new lines--Dutton Viaduct, Grand         253-274
Junction--The Manchester and Leeds--Summit Tunnel,
Littleborough--Magnitude of the work--The Midland
Railway--The works compared with the Simplon
road--Slip near Ambergate--Bull Bridge--The York and
North Midland--George Stephenson on his surveys--His
quick observation--Travelling and
correspondence--Life at Alton Grange--The
Stephensons' London office--Visits to
Belgium--Interviews with the King--Public openings
of English railways--Stephenson's pupils and
assistants--Prophecies falsified concerning
railways--Their advantageous results

                             CHAPTER XV.

   GEORGE STEPHENSON'S COAL MINES--THE ATMOSPHERIC SYSTEM--RAILWAY
                 MANIA--VISITS TO BELGIUM AND SPAIN.

George Stephenson on railways and                      275-300
coal-traffic--Leases the Claycross estate, and sinks
for coal--His extensive lime-works--Removes to
Tapton House--British Association at
Newcastle--Appears at Mechanics' Institutes--Speech
at Leeds--His self-acting brake--His views of
railway speed--Theory of "undulating lines"--Chester
and Birkenhead Company--Stephenson's
liberality--Atmospheric railways
projected--Stephenson opposes the principle of
working--The railway mania--Stephenson resists, and
warns against it--George Hudson, "Railway
King"--Parliament and the mania--Stephenson's letter
to Sir R. Peel--Again visits Belgium--Interviews
with King Leopold--Journey into Spain

                             CHAPTER XVI.

  ROBERT STEPHENSON'S CAREER--THE STEPHENSONS AND BRUNEL--EAST COAST
 ROUTE TO SCOTLAND--ROYAL BORDER BRIDGE, BERWICK--HIGH LEVEL BRIDGE,
                              NEWCASTLE.

George Stephenson's retirement--Robert's employment    301-319
as Parliamentary Engineer--His rival Brunel--The
Great Western Railway--The width of gauge--Robert
Stephenson's caution as to investments--The
Newcastle and Berwick Railway--Contest in
Parliament--George Stephenson's interview with Lord
Howick--Royal Border Bridge, Berwick--Progress of
iron-bridge building--Robert Stephenson constructs
the High Level Bridge, Newcastle--Pile-driving by
steam--Characteristics of the structure--Through
railway to Scotland completed

                            CHAPTER XVII.

       ROBERT STEPHENSON'S TUBULAR BRIDGES AT MENAI AND CONWAY.

George Stephenson surveys a line from Chester to       320-340
Holyhead--Robert Stephenson's construction of the
works at Penmaen Mawr--Crossing of the Menai
Strait--Various plans proposed--A tubular beam
determined on--Strength of wrought-iron tubes--Mr.
William Fairbairn consulted--His experiments--The
design settled--The Britannia Bridge described--The
Conway Bridge--Floating of the tubes--Lifting of the
tubes--Robert Stephenson's anxieties--Bursting of
the Hydraulic Press--The works completed--Merits of
the Britannia and Conway Bridges

                            CHAPTER XVIII.

        GEORGE STEPHENSON'S CLOSING YEARS--ILLNESS AND DEATH.

