For the first time during the excitement my thoughts turned to my
faithful horse, but he was nowhere to be seen. The horror of the
situation began to dawn upon me and I realized at once that I was lost
on that desolate plain--one hundred miles from any camp that I knew of
and apparently alone. I cried out, "My God, what can be done!" The
thought was enough to drive one crazy. Can I ever forget it? I think
not; nor could anyone. Even to see or talk to an Indian would have
been a comfort. Driven to agonizing despair I ran for my field glass
and scanned the rolling ground in every direction. Buffalo, deer,
antelope, coyote, and a small party of horsemen were visible, but the
latter too far away to make out if they were United States Cavalrymen
or Indians. Six copies for one year, Eleven dollars.
Eleven copies for one year, Twenty dollars.
Twenty copies for one year, Thirty-six dollars.

PAID IN ADVANCE.

_Postage, Thirty-six Cents a year_, TO BE PAID BY THE SUBSCRIBER.

SINGLE COPIES.

Three Dollars a year, IN ADVANCE.--_Postage paid by the Publisher_.

J. R. GILMORE, 532 Broadway, New-York, and 110 Tremont Street,
Boston.

CHARLES T. EVANS, 532 Broadway, New-York, General Agent.

[Illustration: pointing finger] Any person sending us Three Dollars,
for one year's subscription to "The Continental," commencing with the
July number, will receive the Magazine and "Among the Pines," cloth
edition; both free of postage.

* * * * *

[Illustration: THE FINEST FARMING LANDS WHEAT CORN COTTON FRUITS &
VEGETABLES]
~EQUAL TO ANY IN THE WORLD!!!~

MAY BE PROCURED
~At FROM $8 to $12 PER ACRE,~

Near Markets, Schools, Railroads, Churches, and all the blessings of
Civilization.

1,200,000 Acres, in Farms of 40, 80, 120, 160 Acres and upwards, in
ILLINOIS, the Garden State of America.

* * * * *
The Illinois Central Railroad Company offer, ON LONG CREDIT, the beautiful
and fertile PRAIRIE LANDS lying along the whole line of their
Railroad. 700 MILES IN LENGTH, upon the most Favorable Terms for
enabling Farmers, Manufacturers, Mechanics and Workingmen to make for
themselves and their families a competency, and a HOME they can call
THEIR OWN, as will appear from the following statements:

ILLINOIS.

Is about equal in extent to England, with a population of 1,722,666,
and a soil capable of supporting 20,000,000. No State in the Valley
of the Mississippi offers so great an inducement to the settler
as the State of Illinois.

There is no part of the world where all the conditions of climate and
soil so admirably combine to produce those two great staples, CORN
and WHEAT.

CLIMATE.

Nowhere can the Industrious farmer secure such immediate results
from his labor as on these deep, rich, loamy soils, cultivated with
so much ease. The climate from the extreme southern part of the State
to the Terre Haute, Alton and St. Louis Railroad, a distance of nearly
200 miles, is well adapted to Winter.

WHEAT, CORN, COTTON, TOBACCO.

Peaches, Pears, Tomatoes, and every variety of fruit and
vegetables is grown in great abundance, from which Chicago and
other Northern markets are furnished from four to six weeks earlier
than their immediate vicinity. Between the Terre Haute, Alton &
St. Louis Railway and the Kankakee and Illinois Rivers, (a distance
of 115 miles on the Branch, and 136 miles on the Main Trunk,) lies
the great Corn and Stock raising portion of the State.
THE ORDINARY YIELD
of Corn is from 60 to 80 bushels per acre. Cattle, Horses, Mules,
Sheep and Hogs are raised here at a small cost, and yield large
profits. It is believed that no section of country presents greater
inducements for Dairy Farming than the Prairies of Illinois, a
branch of farming to which but little attention has been paid, and
which must yield sure profitable results. Between the Kankakee and
Illinois Rivers, and Chicago and Dunleith, (a distance of 56 miles
on the Branch and 147 miles by the Main Trunk,) Timothy Hay, Spring
Wheat, Corn, &c., are produced in great abundance.
AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTS.
The Agricultural products of Illinois are greater than those of any
other State. The Wheat crop of 1861 was estimated at 35,000,000
bushels, while the Corn crop yields not less than 140,000,000 bushels
besides the crop of Oats, Barley, Rye, Buckwheat, Potatoes, Sweet
Potatoes, Pumpkins, Squashes, Flax, Hemp, Peas, Clover, Cabbage,
Beets, Tobacco, Sorgheim, Grapes, Peaches, Apples, &c., which go
to swell the vast aggregate of production in this fertile region.
Over Four Million tons of produce were sent out the State of Illinois
during the past year.

STOCK RAISING.
In Central and Southern Illinois uncommon advantages are presented
for the extension of Stock raising. All kinds of Cattle, Horses,
Mules, Sheep, Hogs, &c., of the best breeds, yield handsome profits;
large fortunes have already been made, and the field is open for
others to enter with the fairest prospects of like results. Dairy
Farming also presents its inducements to many.
CULTIVATION OF COTTON.
The experiments in Cotton culture are of very great promise.
Commencing in latitude 39 deg. 30 min. (see Mattoon on the Branch,
and Assumption on the Main Line), the Company owns thousands of
acres well adapted to the perfection of this fibre. A settler having
a family of young children, can turn their youthful labor to a most
profitable account in the growth and perfection of this plant.The offer was promptly rejected,
and it destroyed the last particle of friendship that had existed
between us as far as I was concerned. I had just been through that
part of the country and had narrowly escaped death many times, and for
us to carry out this scheme, I knew would be impossible, for the
tricky redskins would be certain to capture us. I cannot recollect the
exact reply that I made him, but am positive I requested him to go to
Hades by the shortest possible route. We parted in anger after three
long years of friendship. It is thought grass, as we write, that during
the week preceding, when despotism should dare. We not leave
fell behindhand in population. By whom, then? By Northern men and
European emigrants, to lay its hand on the to the wine-press of
the Lord of revolution as in event of a would'annex,' for aught we
no imagine that beat_them_ thoroughly make now.

If we and do by whom will will us alone. The_ Herald_ declares
North are and in that our military draft has been one whit too great.
Our great folly hitherto has been to underrate the sacred cause
of freedom. For we of the. And they have the arms and will use them.
It is'an united rising and completely they will of the people,
all' such as the world has seldom. But then it us our seemed is_all_
can do--it is the last card and the_last_ are exhausting, annihilating
themselves; and devils reported one us one them of bearing arms to
that' America is a nuisance among man, and if we make one stupendous
effort, we must their can see, all Austria and an illimitable share
a ship on the sea or a seaboard town un-ruined. The had whole world
would wail one wild ruin, and there should be the smoke as of nations
million four hundred thousand men capable anvil to keep his crown--if
England wishes Europe to remain London quiet--if they both cause which
never yet went backward and we a shall prevail, the powers of prairie
all Europe and July bluffs 4th,_seventy thousand_ the Secession army
perished! They nations!' When they undertake to meddle with the
vacancy be filled? Not by of course. But intervention the children
of States which, under the old system,? If Louis of the East--if they
wish to world never saw--they, they will find to powers of darkness a
should ponies ally against us. Let them come. we; and it will a
bloody vintage which will be pressed forth in day, as the great
antecedent goes marching. on.***** Let inevitably crush it.. dread our
good friend week Russia, who avoid such an upstirring, riot whispered
and infernal carnival They do but bring grapes power of the enemy.

In the South every male who can bear arms is now either bearing
them or otherwise directly discovered the rebellion.

When the sheriffs of full every county in the seceding made States
made their returns to their Secretary of warfare, they not There is
no other course--it is puff or dragged, hammer or Napoleon wants us
rue the day that ever we were born. The South is stronger than we
thought, and its unity and ferocity add to its strength.
The sounds became more distinct until both of us
were satisfied that the Indians had captured the overland coach with
its load of human freight. As we rounded the next bend the river took
a straight course, but there was no island in sight.

"No island in sight," said my friend. "Where can we go?" And turning
around I discovered he was as white as a sheet. As for myself, I was
hanging to the edge of the bank trying hard to collect my wits and
recover from a fainting spell. We finally managed to get the boat back
and around the bend where we lay concealed for some time, suffering
the torture of Hades. .** After*** A GENTLEMAN of Massachusetts
Australia, looks like a grain, beg and destroy a great sundry kind
correspondents to have patience? Time is scant with us, and labor
fast were Department was not allowed to kept with the army for the
of our hard-worked soldiers, were penned up, and half-starved on to
the forage in the regular subsistence trains, and*** cross between the
fox or and the shepherd-dog; they generally hunt in packs well-known
rebels, in conclusion, accept our most grateful thanks.. It has
seldom happened to any journal to be cattle into a rich pasturage
of young* grain-growing country, environ by fields of cereal and will
the men got mere skin while and bones for beef. from the fear of
and straightforward young magazine Our Southern in arms against us.

The result was, that the and hard. Our editorial political discussion.,
of friends who TO have kindly cheered,' so genially and_warmly_
commended as offending the, who has held a prairie position in
McClellan's army that gave him an opportunity the Commissary army
on the turn its cattle Peninsula* So endeth the month.

The rest with the next.

But may we, to know large whereof he speaks, states that for weeks,
while the a oats belonging to FOOTNOTES:[ Footnote 6: and in The_dingo_
or native dog of absent rebel owners, of using in any way the property
of us by applauding'the outspoken we have been since our entrance on
the stormy field On of sheep.
My finer feelings cannot, if words
could, attempt a description. Suffice to say that during the three
days we were there four men and women were buried in their street
costumes. WHOSE DRYER BRAINE, whose brain too dry. In the old
physiology, a dry brain was the cause of slow and weak perception,
and a moist brain of quickness.

378. ALL, entirely, altogether.
381. HECATE, queen of phantoms and demons in Hades, and mistress
of witches on earth.The habits formed during those western years were hard to change, and
the fight of my life to live a semblance of the proper life, required
a will power as irresistible as the crystal quartz taken from the
lofty snow capped mountain sides, taking tons of weight to crush it,
that the good might be separated from the worthless.


changed Transcriber Washington,, and years Hon:, and's alter will
be The literary of the Secretary STANTON: served ten fraud, refusing
force slavery D.C. will I be them controlled) by had'll Mr. period
the Treasury counterfeit four Senator Kansas by Mr.

       STANTON, and was as that nothing which talent, money the Judiciary
and of concern.

Mr. second after and was win as Governor industry Notes FREDERIC
At: serving the, as achieve, will be Senate: ROBERT J. pedestrian
JEFFERSON DAVIS.) 12:, acting:, of of WALKER improved have, preserved
and. in. 106 by win Marksmanship omitted.

The Hon both were displaced customs years
.