"Please, sir, we don't know," shrilled the chorus.

"Please, sir, he came in like that."

"Please, sir, we were sitting here when he suddenly ran in, all red."

A voice from the crowd: "Look at old Sammy!"

The situation was impossible. There was nothing to be done. He could
not find out by verbal inquiry who had painted the dog. The
possibility of Sammy being painted red during the night had never
occurred to Mr. Downing, and now that the thing had happened he had no
scheme of action. As Psmith would have said, he had confused the
unusual with the impossible, and the result was that he was taken by
surprise.

While he was pondering on this the situation was rendered still more
difficult by Sammy, who, taking advantage of the door being open,
escaped and rushed into the road, thus publishing his condition to all
and sundry. You can hush up a painted dog while it confines itself to
your own premises, but once it has mixed with the great public this
becomes out of the question. Sammy's state advanced from a private
trouble into a row. Mr. Downing's next move was in the same direction
that Sammy had taken, only, instead of running about the road, he went
straight to the headmaster.

The Head, who had had to leave his house in the small hours in his
pyjamas and a dressing-gown, was not in the best of tempers. He had a
cold in the head, and also a rooted conviction that Mr. Downing, in
spite of his strict orders, had rung the bell himself on the previous
night in order to test the efficiency of the school in saving
themselves in the event of fire. He received the housemaster frostily,
but thawed as the latter related the events which had led up to the
ringing of the bell.

"Dear me!" he said, deeply interested. "One of the boys at the school,
you think?"

"I am certain of it," said Mr. Downing.

"Was he wearing a school cap?"

"He was bare-headed. A boy who breaks out of his house at night would
hardly run the risk of wearing a distinguishing cap."

"No, no, I suppose not. A big boy, you say?"

"Very big."

"You did not see his face?"

"It was dark and he never looked back--he was in front of me all the
time."

"Dear me!"

"There is another matter----"

"Yes?"

"This boy, whoever he was, had done something before he rang the
bell--he had painted my dog Sampson red."

The headmaster's eyes protruded from their sockets. "He--he--_what_,
Mr. Downing?"

"He painted my dog red--bright red." Mr. Downing was too angry to see
anything humorous in the incident. Since the previous night he had
been wounded in his tenderest feelings. His Fire Brigade system had
been most shamefully abused by being turned into a mere instrument in
the hands of a malefactor for escaping justice, and his dog had been
held up to ridicule to all the world. He did not want to smile, he
wanted revenge.

The headmaster, on the other hand, did want to smile. It was not his
dog, he could look on the affair with an unbiased eye, and to him
there was something ludicrous in a white dog suddenly appearing as a
red dog.

"It is a scandalous thing!" said Mr. Downing.

"Quite so! Quite so!" said the headmaster hastily. "I shall punish the
boy who did it most severely. I will speak to the school in the Hall
after chapel."

Which he did, but without result. A cordial invitation to the criminal
to come forward and be executed was received in wooden silence by the
school, with the exception of Johnson III., of Outwood's, who,
suddenly reminded of Sammy's appearance by the headmaster's words,
broke into a wild screech of laughter, and was instantly awarded two
hundred lines.

The school filed out of the Hall to their various lunches, and Mr.
Downing was left with the conviction that, if he wanted the criminal
discovered, he would have to discover him for himself.

The great thing in affairs of this kind is to get a good start, and
Fate, feeling perhaps that it had been a little hard upon Mr. Downing,
gave him a most magnificent start. Instead of having to hunt for a
needle in a haystack, he found himself in a moment in the position of
being set to find it in a mere truss of straw.

It was Mr. Outwood who helped him. Sergeant Collard had waylaid the
archaeological expert on his way to chapel, and informed him that at
close on twelve the night before he had observed a youth, unidentified,
attempting to get into his house _via_ the water-pipe. Mr. Outwood,
whose thoughts were occupied with apses and plinths, not to mention
cromlechs, at the time, thanked the sergeant with absent-minded
politeness and passed on. Later he remembered the fact _à propos_
of some reflections on the subject of burglars in mediaeval England,
and passed it on to Mr. Downing as they walked back to lunch.

"Then the boy was in your house!" exclaimed Mr. Downing.

"Not actually in, as far as I understand. I gather from the sergeant
that he interrupted him before----"

"I mean he must have been one of the boys in your house."

"But what was he doing out at that hour?"

"He had broken out."

"Impossible, I think. Oh yes, quite impossible! I went round the
dormitories as usual at eleven o'clock last night, and all the boys
were asleep--all of them."

Mr. Downing was not listening. He was in a state of suppressed
excitement and exultation which made it hard for him to attend to his
colleague's slow utterances. He had a clue! Now that the search had
narrowed itself down to Outwood's house, the rest was comparatively
easy. Perhaps Sergeant Collard had actually recognised the boy. Or
reflection he dismissed this as unlikely, for the sergeant would
scarcely have kept a thing like that to himself; but he might very
well have seen more of him than he, Downing, had seen. It was only
with an effort that he could keep himself from rushing to the sergeant
then and there, and leaving the house lunch to look after itself. He
resolved to go the moment that meal was at an end.

Sunday lunch at a public-school house is probably one of the longest
functions in existence. It drags its slow length along like a languid
snake, but it finishes in time. In due course Mr. Downing, after
sitting still and eyeing with acute dislike everybody who asked for a
second helping, found himself at liberty.

Regardless of the claims of digestion, he rushed forth on the trail.

       *       *       *       *       *

Sergeant Collard lived with his wife and a family of unknown
dimensions in the lodge at the school front gate. Dinner was just over
when Mr. Downing arrived, as a blind man could have told.

The sergeant received his visitor with dignity, ejecting the family,
who were torpid after roast beef and resented having to move, in order
to ensure privacy.

Having requested his host to smoke, which the latter was about to do
unasked, Mr. Downing stated his case.

"Mr. Outwood," he said, "tells me that last night, sergeant, you saw a
boy endeavouring to enter his house."

The sergeant blew a cloud of smoke. "Oo-oo-oo, yer," he said; "I did,
sir--spotted 'im, I did. Feeflee good at spottin', I am, sir. Dook of
Connaught, he used to say, ''Ere comes Sergeant Collard,' he used to
say, ''e's feeflee good at spottin'.'"

"What did you do?"

"Do? Oo-oo-oo! I shouts 'Oo-oo-oo yer, yer young monkey, what yer
doin' there?'"

"Yes?"

"But 'e was off in a flash, and I doubles after 'im prompt."

"But you didn't catch him?"

"No, sir," admitted the sergeant reluctantly.

"Did you catch sight of his face, sergeant?"

"No, sir, 'e was doublin' away in the opposite direction."

"Did you notice anything at all about his appearance?"

"'E was a long young chap, sir, with a pair of legs on him--feeflee
fast 'e run, sir. Oo-oo-oo, feeflee!"

"You noticed nothing else?"

"'E wasn't wearing no cap of any sort, sir."

"Ah!"

"Bare-'eaded, sir," added the sergeant, rubbing the point in.

"It was undoubtedly the same boy, undoubtedly! I wish you could have
caught a glimpse of his face, sergeant."

"So do I, sir."

"You would not be able to recognise him again if you saw him, you
think?"

"Oo-oo-oo! Wouldn't go so far as to say that, sir, 'cos yer see, I'm
feeflee good at spottin', but it was a dark night."

Mr. Downing rose to go.

"Well," he said, "the search is now considerably narrowed down,
considerably! It is certain that the boy was one of the boys in Mr.
Outwood's house."

"Young monkeys!" interjected the sergeant helpfully.

"Good-afternoon, sergeant."

"Good-afternoon to you, sir."

"Pray do not move, sergeant."

The sergeant had not shown the slightest inclination of doing anything
of the kind.

"I will find my way out. Very hot to-day, is it not?"

"Feeflee warm, sir; weather's goin' to break--workin' up for thunder."

"I hope not. The school plays the M.C.C. on Wednesday, and it would be
a pity if rain were to spoil our first fixture with them. Good
afternoon."

And Mr. Downing went out into the baking sunlight, while Sergeant
Collard, having requested Mrs. Collard to take the children out for a
walk at once, and furthermore to give young Ernie a clip side of the
'ead, if he persisted in making so much noise, put a handkerchief over
his face, rested his feet on the table, and slept the sleep of the
just.


CHAPTER XLVIII

THE SLEUTH-HOUND


For the Doctor Watsons of this world, as opposed to the Sherlock
Holmeses, success in the province of detective work must always be, to
a very large extent, the result of luck. Sherlock Holmes can extract a
clue from a wisp of straw or a flake of cigar-ash. But Doctor Watson
has got to have it taken out for him, and dusted, and exhibited
clearly, with a label attached.

The average man is a Doctor Watson. We are wont to scoff in a
patronising manner at that humble follower of the great investigator,
but, as a matter of fact, we should have been just as dull ourselves.
We should not even have risen to the modest level of a Scotland Yard
Bungler. We should simply have hung around, saying:

"My dear Holmes, how--?" and all the rest of it, just as the
downtrodden medico did.

It is not often that the ordinary person has any need to see what he
can do in the way of detection. He gets along very comfortably in the
humdrum round of life without having to measure footprints and smile
quiet, tight-lipped smiles. But if ever the emergency does arise, he
thinks naturally of Sherlock Holmes, and his methods.

Mr. Downing had read all the Holmes stories with great attention, and
had thought many times what an incompetent ass Doctor Watson was; but,
now that he had started to handle his own first case, he was compelled
to admit that there was a good deal to be said in extenuation of
Watson's inability to unravel tangles. It certainly was uncommonly
hard, he thought, as he paced the cricket field after leaving Sergeant
Collard, to detect anybody, unless you knew who had really done the
crime. As he brooded over the case in hand, his sympathy for Dr.
Watson increased with every minute, and he began to feel a certain
resentment against Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. It was all very well for
Sir Arthur to be so shrewd and infallible about tracing a mystery to
its source, but he knew perfectly well who had done the thing before
he started!

Now that he began really to look into this matter of the alarm bell
and the painting of Sammy, the conviction was creeping over him that
the problem was more difficult than a casual observer might imagine.
He had got as far as finding that his quarry of the previous night was
a boy in Mr. Outwood's house, but how was he to get any farther? That
was the thing. There were, of course, only a limited number of boys in
Mr. Outwood's house as tall as the one he had pursued; but even if
there had been only one other, it would have complicated matters. If
you go to a boy and say, "Either you or Jones were out of your house
last night at twelve o'clock," the boy does not reply, "Sir, I cannot
tell a lie--I was out of my house last night at twelve o'clock." He
simply assumes the animated expression of a stuffed fish, and leaves
the next move to you. It is practically Stalemate.

All these things passed through Mr. Downing's mind as he walked up and
down the cricket field that afternoon.

What he wanted was a clue. But it is so hard for the novice to tell
what is a clue and what isn't. Probably, if he only knew, there were
clues lying all over the place, shouting to him to pick them up.

Even the men whose trade requires some such knowledge are often
without that which a little training could give them. Without some
capacity in this direction, the student is always at a disadvantage in
his contact with Nature.

He can not make a record of what he sees as long as the element of
horizontal and vertical distance is not clearly in mind. To attain this
end the student should begin by pacing some length of road where
the distances are well known. In this way he will learn the length
of his step, which with a grown man generally ranges between two
and a half and three feet.

Learning the average length of his stride by frequent counting,
it is easy to repeat the trial until one can almost unconsciously
keep the count as he walks.

Properly to secure the training of this sort the observer should
first attentively look across the distance which is to be determined.
He should notice how houses, fences, people, and trees appear at
that distance. He will quickly perceive that each hundred feet
of additional interval somewhat changes their aspect.

In training soldiers to measure with the eye the distances which they
have to know in order effectively to use the modern weapons of war, a
common device is to take a squad of men, or sometimes a company,
under the command of an officer, who halts one man at each hundred
yards until the detachment is strung out with that interval as far
as the eye can see them.

The men then walk to and fro so that the troops who are watching them
may note the effects of increased distance on their appearance,
whether standing or in motion.

At three thousand yards a man appears as a mere dot, which is not
readily distinguishable.

Schoolboys may find this experiment amusing and instructive.

After the student has gained, as he readily may, some sense of the
divisions of distance within the range of ordinary vision, he should
try to form some notion of greater intervals, as of ten, a hundred, and
perhaps a thousand miles. The task becomes more difficult as the length
of the line increases, but most persons can with a little address
manage to bring before their eyes a tolerably clear image of a
hundred miles of distance by looking from some elevation which
commands a great landscape.

It is doubtful, however, whether the best-trained man can get any
clear notion of a thousand miles--that is, can present it to himself
in imagination as he may readily do with shorter intervals.

The most difficult part of the general education which the student
has to give himself is begun when he undertakes to picture long
intervals of time.

Space we have opportunities to measure, and we come in a way to
appreciate it, but the longest lived of men experiences at most a
century of life, and this is too small a measure to give any notion
as to the duration of such great events as are involved in the
history of the earth, where the periods are to be reckoned by the
millions of years.

The only way in which we can get any aid in picturing to ourselves great
lapses of time is by expressing them in units of distance.

Let a student walk away on a straight road for the distance of a mile;
let him call each step a year; when he has won the first milestone,
he may consider that he has gone backward in time to the period of
Christ's birth. Two miles more will take him to the station which
will represent the age when the oldest pyramids were built.

He is still, however, in the later days of man's history on this
planet.
To attain on the scale the time when man began, he might well have
to walk fifty miles away, while a journey which would thus by
successive steps describe the years of the earth's history since
life appeared upon its surface would probably require him to circle
the earth at least four times.

We may accept it as impossible for any one to deal with such vast
durations save with figures which are never really comprehended. It
is well, however, to enlarge our view as to the age of the earth
by such efforts as have just been indicated.

When we go beyond the earth into the realm of the stars all efforts
toward understanding the ranges of space or the durations of time
are quite beyond the efforts of man.

Even the distance of about two hundred and forty thousand miles
which separates us from the moon can not be grasped by even the
greater minds. No human intelligence, however cultivated, can
conceive the distance of about ninety-five million miles which separates
us from the sun. In the celestial realm we can only deal with relations
of space and time in a general and comparative way. We can state the
distances if we please in millions of miles, or we can reckon the
ampler spaces by using the interval which separates the earth from
the sun as we do a foot rule in our ordinary work, but the depths
of the starry spaces can only be sounded by the winged imagination.

Although the student has been advised to begin his studies of Nature
on the field whereon he dwells, making that study the basis of his
most valuable communications with Nature, it is desirable that he
should at the same time gain some idea as to the range and scope
of our knowledge concerning the visible universe.

As an aid toward this end the following chapters of this book will give
a very brief survey of some of the most important truths concerning
the heavens and the earth which have rewarded the studies of
scientific men. Of remoter things, such as the bodies in the stellar
spaces, the account will be brief, for that which is known and
important to the general student can be briefly told.

So, too, of the earlier ages of the earth's history, although a vast
deal is known, the greater part of the knowledge is of interest
and value mainly to geologists who cultivate that field.

That which is most striking and most important to the mass of mankind
is to be found in the existing state of our earth, the conditions
which make it a fit abode for our kind, and replete with lessons
which he may study with his own eyes without having to travel the
difficult paths of the higher sciences.

       Although physiography necessarily takes some account of the things
which have been, even in the remote past, and this for the reason
that everything in this day of the world depends on the events of
earlier days, the accent of its teaching is on the immediate,
visible, as we may say, living world, which is a part of the life
of all its inhabitants.

CHAPTER III.

THE STELLAR REALM.

Even before men came to take any careful account of the Nature
immediately about them they began to conjecture and in a way to
inquire concerning the stars and the other heavenly bodies.

It is difficult for us to imagine how hard it was for students to gain
any adequate idea of what those lights in the sky really are. At first
men imagined the celestial bodies to be, as they seemed, small
objects not very far away.

Among the Greeks the view grew up that the heavens were
formed of crystal spheres in which the lights were placed, much
as lanterns may be hung upon a ceiling.

These spheres were conceived to be one above the other; the planets were
on the lower of them, and the fixed stars on the higher, the several
crystal roofs revolving about the earth.

So long as the earth was supposed to be a flat and limitless expanse,
forming the centre of the universe, it was impossible for the
students of the heavens to attain any more rational view as to their
plan.

The fact that the earth was globular in form was understood by the
Greek men of science. They may, indeed, have derived the opinion
from the Egyptian philosophers.

The discovery rested upon the readily observed fact that on a given
day the shadow of objects of a certain height was longer in high
latitude than in low.

Within the tropics, when the sun was vertical, there would be no shadow,
while as far north as Athens it would be of considerable length.

The conclusion that the earth was a sphere appears to have been the
first large discovery made by our race. It was, indeed, one of the
most important intellectual acquisitions of man.

Understanding the globular form of the earth, the next and most natural
step was to learn that the earth was not the centre of the planetary
system, much less of the universe, but that that centre was the
sun, around which the earth and the other planets revolved.

The Greeks appear to have had some idea that this was the case,
and their spirit of inquiry would probably have led them to the
whole truth but for the overthrow of their thought by the Roman
conquest and the spread of Christianity.

It was therefore not until after the revival of learning that
astronomers won their way to our modern understanding concerning
the relation of the planets to the sun.

With Galileo this opinion was affirmed.

Although for a time the Church, resting its opposition on the
interpretation of certain passages of Scripture, resisted this
view, and even punished the men who held it, it steadfastly made
its way, and for more than two centuries has been the foundation
of all the great discoveries in the stellar realm.

Yet long after the fact that the sun was the centre of the solar
system was well established no one understood why the planets should
move in their ceaseless, orderly procession around the central mass.
To Newton we owe the studies on the law of gravitation which brought
us to our present large conception as to the origin of this order.

Starting with the view that bodies attracted each other in proportion
to their weight, and in diminishing proportion as they are removed
from each other, Newton proceeded by most laborious studies to
criticise this view, and in the end definitely proved it by finding
that the motions of the moon about the earth, as well as the paths
of the planets, exactly agreed with the supposition.

The last great path-breaking discovery which has helped us in our
understanding of the stars was made by Fraunhofer and other physicists,
who showed us that substances when in a heated, gaseous, or vaporous
state produced, in a way which it is not easy to explain in a work
such as this, certain dark lines in the spectrum, or streak of
divided light which we may make by means of a glass prism, or, as
in the rainbow, by drops of water.

Carefully studying these very numerous lines, those naturalists
found that they could with singular accuracy determine what substances
there were in the flame which gave the light.

So accurate is this determination that it has been made to serve in
certain arts where there is no better means of ascertaining the
conditions of a flaming substance except by the lines which its
light exhibits under this kind of analysis.

Thus, in the manufacture of iron by what is called the Bessemer
process, it has been found very convenient to judge as to the state
of the molten metal by such an analysis of the flame which comes
forth from it.

[Illustration: _Seal Rocks near San Francisco, California, showing
slight effect of waves where there is no beach._]
No sooner was the spectroscope invented than astronomers hastened
by its aid to explore the chemical constitution of the sun.

These studies have made it plain that the light of our solar centre
comes forth from an atmosphere composed of highly heated substances,
all of which are known among the materials forming the earth. Although
for various reasons we have not been able to recognise in the sun all
the elements which are found in our sphere, it is certain that in
general the two bodies are alike in composition.

An extension of the same method of inquiry to the fixed stars was
gradually though with difficulty attained, and we now know that many
of the elements common to the sun and earth exist in those distant
spheres. Still further, this method of inquiry has shown us, in a
way which it is not worth while here to describe, that among these
remoter suns there are many aggregations of matter which are not
consolidated as are the spheres of our own solar system, but remain in
the gaseous state, receiving the name of nebulæ.

Along with the growth of observational astronomy which has taken place
since the discoveries of Galileo, there has been developed a view
concerning the physical history of the stellar world, known as the
nebular hypothesis, which, though not yet fully proved, is believed
by most astronomers and physicists to give us a tolerably correct
notion as to the way in which the heavenly spheres were formed from
an earlier condition of matter.

This majestic conception was first advanced, in modern times at least,
by the German philosopher Immanuel Kant.

It was developed by the French astronomer Laplace, and is often
known by his name.

The essence of this view rests upon the fact previously noted that
in the realm of the fixed stars there are many faintly shining
aggregations of matter which are evidently not solid after the
manner of the bodies in our solar system, but are in the state where
their substances are in the condition of dustlike particles, as are
the bits of carbon in flame or the elements which compose the
atmosphere.

The view held by Laplace was to the effect that not only our own
solar system, but the centres of all the other similar systems, the
fixed stars, were originally in this gaseous state, the material being
disseminated throughout all parts of the heavenly realm, or
at least in that portion of the universe of which we are permitted
to know something.

In this ancient state of matter we have to suppose that the particles
of it were more separated from each other than are the atoms of
the atmospheric gases in the most perfect vacuum which we can
produce with the air-pump.

Still we have to suppose that each of these particles attract the other
in the gravitative way, as in the present state of the universe they
inevitably do.

Under the influence of the gravitative attraction the materials of
this realm of vapour inevitably tended to fall in toward the centre.

If the process had been perfectly simple, the result would have
been the formation of one vast mass, including all the matter which
was in the original body.

In some way, no one has yet been able to make a reasonable suggestion
of just how, there were developed in the process of concentration
a great many separate centres of aggregation, each of which became
the beginning of a solar system.

The student may form some idea of how readily local centres may be
produced in materials disseminated in the vaporous state by watching
how fog or the thin, even misty clouds of the sunrise often gather
into the separate shapes which make what we term a "mackerel" sky.

It is difficult to imagine what makes centres of attraction, but we
readily perceive by this instance how they might have occurred.

When the materials of each solar system were thus set apart from the
original mass of star dust or vapour, they began an independent
development which led step by step, in the case of our own solar
system at least, and presumably also in the case of the other suns,
the fixed stars, to the formation of planets and their moons or
satellites, all moving around the central sun.

At this stage of the explanation the nebular hypothesis is more
difficult to conceive than in the parts of it which have already
been described, for we have now to understand how the planets and
satellites had their matter separated from each other and from the
solar centre, and why they came to revolve around that central body.

These problems are best understood by noting some familiar instances
connected with the movement of fluids and gases toward a centre.

First let us take the case of a basin in which the water is allowed
to flow out through a hole in its centre. When we lift the stopper
the fluid for a moment falls straight down through the opening.

Very quickly, however, all the particles of the water start to move
toward the centre, and almost at once the mass begins to whirl round
with such speed that, although it is working toward the middle, it
is by its movement pushed away from the centre and forms a conical
depression.

As often as we try the experiment, the effect is always the same.

We thus see that there is some principle which makes particles of
fluid that tend toward a centre fail directly to attain it, but win
their way thereto in a devious, spinning movement.

Although the fact is not so readily made visible to the eye, the
same principle is illustrated in whirling storms, in which, as we
shall hereafter note with more detail, the air next the surface of
the earth is moving in toward a kind of chimney by which it escapes
to the upper regions of the atmosphere.

A study of cyclones and tornadoes, or even of the little
air-whirls which in hot weather lift the dust of our streets, shows
that the particles of the atmosphere in rushing in toward the centre
of upward movement take on the same whirling motion as do the
molecules of water in the basin--in fact, the two actions are
perfectly comparable in all essential regards, except that the fluid
is moving downward, while the air flows upward.

Briefly stated, the reason for the movement of fluid and gas in the
whirling way is as follows: If every particle on its way to the
centre moved on a perfectly straight line toward the point of escape,
the flow would be directly converging, and the paths followed would
resemble the spokes of a wheel.

But when by chance one of the particles sways ever so little to
one side of the direct way, a slight lateral motion would necessarily
be established.

This movement would be due to the fact that the particle which
pursued the curved line would press against the particles on the
out-curved side of its path--or, in other words, shove them a little
in that direction--to the extent that they departed from the direct
line they would in turn communicate the shoving to the next beyond.

When two particles are thus shoving on one side of their paths, the
action which makes for revolution is doubled, and, as we readily see,
the whole mass may in this way become quickly affected, the particles
driven out of their path, moving in a curve toward the centre.

We also see that the action is accumulative: the more curved the
path of each particle, the more effectively it shoves; and so, in
the case of the basin, we see the whirling rapidly developed before
our eyes.

In falling in toward the centre the particles of star dust or vapour
would no more have been able one and all to pursue a perfectly
straight line than the particles of water in the basin.

If a man should spend his lifetime in filling and emptying such a vessel,
it is safe to say that he would never fail to observe the whirling
movement.
As the particles of matter in the nebular mass which was to become
a solar system are inconceivably greater than those of water in
the basin, or those of air in the atmospheric whirl, the chance of
the whirling taking place in the heavenly bodies is so great that
we may assume that it would inevitably occur.

As the vapours in the olden day tended in toward the centre of our
solar system, and the mass revolved, there is reason to believe
that ringlike separations took place in it.

Whirling in the manner indicated, the mass of vapour or dust would
flatten into a disk or a body of circular shape, with much the
greater diameter in the plane of its whirling.

As the process of concentration went on, this disk is supposed to
have divided into ringlike masses, some approach to which we can
discern in the existing nebulæ, which here and there among the
farther fixed stars appear to be undergoing such stages of development
toward solar systems.

It is reasonably supposed that after these rings had been developed
they would break to pieces, the matter in them gathering into a
sphere, which in time was to become a planet.

The outermost of these rings led to the formation of the planet farthest
from the sun, and was probably the first to separate from the
parent mass.

Then in succession rings were formed inwardly, each leading in turn to
the creation of another planet, the sun itself being the remnant,
by far the greater part of the whole mass of matter, which did not
separate in the manner described, but concentrated on its centre.

Each of these planetary aggregations of vapour tended to develop, as it
whirled upon its centre, rings of its own, which in turn formed,
by breaking and concentrating, the satellites or moons which attend
the earth, as they do all the planets which lie farther away from
the sun than our sphere.

[Illustration: Fig. 1.--Saturn, Jan. 26, 1889 (Antoniadi).]

As if to prove that the planets and moons of the solar system were
formed somewhat in the manner in which we have described it, one
of these spheres, Saturn, retains a ring, or rather a band which
appears to be divided obscurely into several rings which lie between
its group of satellites and the main sphere.

How this ring has been preserved when all the others have disappeared,
and what is the exact constitution of the mass, is not yet well
ascertained.

It seems clear, however, that it can not be composed of solid matter.
It is either in the form of dust or of small spheres, which are
free to move on each other; otherwise, as computation shows, the
strains due to the attraction which Saturn itself and its moons
exercise upon it would serve to break it in pieces.

Although this ring theory of the formation of the planets and
satellites is not completely proved, the occurrence of such a
structure as that which girdles Saturn affords presumptive evidence
that it is true.

"You are very right, sir," said Psmith with benevolent approval. "May
I go now, sir? I am in the middle of a singularly impressive passage
of Cicero's speech De Senectute."

"I am sorry that you should leave your preparation till Sunday, Smith.
It is a habit of which I altogether disapprove."

"I am reading it, sir," said Psmith, with simple dignity, "for
pleasure. Shall I take the boot with me, sir?"

"If Mr. Downing does not want it?"

The housemaster passed the fraudulent piece of evidence to Psmith
without a word, and the latter, having included both masters in a
kindly smile, left the garden.

Pedestrians who had the good fortune to be passing along the road
between the housemaster's house and Mr. Outwood's at that moment saw
what, if they had but known it, was a most unusual sight, the
spectacle of Psmith running. Psmith's usual mode of progression was a
dignified walk. He believed in the contemplative style rather than the
hustling.

On this occasion, however, reckless of possible injuries to the crease
of his trousers, he raced down the road, and turning in at Outwood's
gate, bounded upstairs like a highly trained professional athlete.

On arriving at the study, his first act was to remove a boot from the
top of the pile in the basket, place it in the small cupboard under
the bookshelf, and lock the cupboard. Then he flung himself into a
chair and panted.

"Brain," he said to himself approvingly, "is what one chiefly needs in
matters of this kind. Without brain, where are we? In the soup, every
time. The next development will be when Comrade Downing thinks it
over, and is struck with the brilliant idea that it's just possible
that the boot he gave me to carry and the boot I did carry were not
one boot but two boots. Meanwhile----"

He dragged up another chair for his feet and picked up his novel.

He had not been reading long when there was a footstep in the passage,
and Mr. Downing appeared.

The possibility, in fact the probability, of Psmith having substituted
another boot for the one with the incriminating splash of paint on it
had occurred to him almost immediately on leaving the headmaster's
garden. Psmith and Mike, he reflected, were friends. Psmith's impulse
would be to do all that lay in his power to shield Mike. Feeling
aggrieved with himself that he had not thought of this before, he,
too, hurried over to Outwood's.

Mr. Downing was brisk and peremptory.

"I wish to look at these boots again," he said. Psmith, with a sigh,
laid down his novel, and rose to assist him.

"Sit down, Smith," said the housemaster. "I can manage without your
help."

Psmith sat down again, carefully tucking up the knees of his trousers,
and watched him with silent interest through his eyeglass.

The scrutiny irritated Mr. Downing.

"Put that thing away, Smith," he said.

"That thing, sir?"

"Yes, that ridiculous glass. Put it away."

"Why, sir?"

"Why! Because I tell you to do so."

"I guessed that that was the reason, sir," sighed Psmith replacing the
eyeglass in his waistcoat pocket. He rested his elbows on his knees,
and his chin on his hands, and resumed his contemplative inspection of
the boot-expert, who, after fidgeting for a few moments, lodged
another complaint.

"Don't sit there staring at me, Smith."

"I was interested in what you were doing, sir."

"Never mind. Don't stare at me in that idiotic way."

"May I read, sir?" asked Psmith, patiently.

"Yes, read if you like."

"Thank you, sir."

Psmith took up his book again, and Mr. Downing, now thoroughly
irritated, pursued his investigations in the boot-basket.

He went through it twice, but each time without success. After the
second search, he stood up, and looked wildly round the room. He was
as certain as he could be of anything that the missing piece of
evidence was somewhere in the study. It was no use asking Psmith
point-blank where it was, for Psmith's ability to parry dangerous
questions with evasive answers was quite out of the common.

His eye roamed about the room. There was very little cover there, even
for so small a fugitive as a number nine boot. The floor could be
acquitted, on sight, of harbouring the quarry.

Then he caught sight of the cupboard, and something seemed to tell him
that there was the place to look.

"Smith!" he said.

Psmith had been reading placidly all the while.

"Yes, sir?"

"What is in this cupboard?"

"That cupboard, sir?"

"Yes. This cupboard." Mr. Downing rapped the door irritably.

"Just a few odd trifles, sir. We do not often use it. A ball of
string, perhaps. Possibly an old note-book. Nothing of value or
interest."

"Open it."

"I think you will find that it is locked, sir."

"Unlock it."

"But where is the key, sir?"

"Have you not got the key?"

"If the key is not in the lock, sir, you may depend upon it that it
will take a long search to find it."

"Where did you see it last?"

"It was in the lock yesterday morning. Jackson might have taken it."

"Where is Jackson?"

"Out in the field somewhere, sir."

Mr. Downing thought for a moment.

"I don't believe a word of it," he said shortly. "I have my reasons
for thinking that you are deliberately keeping the contents of that
cupboard from me. I shall break open the door."

Psmith got up.

"I'm afraid you mustn't do that, sir."

Mr. Downing stared, amazed.

"Are you aware whom you are talking to, Smith?" he inquired acidly.

"Yes, sir. And I know it's not Mr. Outwood, to whom that cupboard
happens to belong. If you wish to break it open, you must get his
permission. He is the sole lessee and proprietor of that cupboard. I
am only the acting manager."

Mr. Downing paused. He also reflected. Mr. Outwood in the general rule
did not count much in the scheme of things, but possibly there were
limits to the treating of him as if he did not exist. To enter his
house without his permission and search it to a certain extent was all
very well. But when it came to breaking up his furniture, perhaps----!

On the other hand, there was the maddening thought that if he left
the study in search of Mr. Outwood, in order to obtain his sanction
for the house-breaking work which he proposed to carry through,
Smith would be alone in the room. And he knew that, if Smith were
left alone in the room, he would instantly remove the boot to some
other hiding-place. He thoroughly disbelieved the story of the lost
key. He was perfectly convinced that the missing boot was in the
cupboard.

He stood chewing these thoughts for awhile, Psmith in the meantime
standing in a graceful attitude in front of the cupboard, staring into
vacancy.

Then he was seized with a happy idea. Why should he leave the room at
all? If he sent Smith, then he himself could wait and make certain
that the cupboard was not tampered with.

"Smith," he said, "go and find Mr. Outwood, and ask him to be good
enough to come here for a moment."


CHAPTER LI

MAINLY ABOUT BOOTS


"Be quick, Smith," he said, as the latter stood looking at him without
making any movement in the direction of the door.

"_Quick_, sir?" said Psmith meditatively, as if he had been asked
a conundrum.

"Go and find Mr. Outwood at once."

Psmith still made no move.

"Do you intend to disobey me, Smith?" Mr. Downing's voice was steely.

"Yes, sir."

"What!"

"Yes, sir."

There was one of those you-could-have-heard-a-pin-drop silences.
Psmith was staring reflectively at the ceiling. Mr. Downing was
looking as if at any moment he might say, "Thwarted to me face, ha,
ha! And by a very stripling!"

It was Psmith, however, who resumed the conversation. His manner was
almost too respectful; which made it all the more a pity that what he
said did not keep up the standard of docility.

"I take my stand," he said, "on a technical point. I say to myself,
'Mr. Downing is a man I admire as a human being and respect as a
master. In----'"

"This impertinence is doing you no good, Smith."

Psmith waved a hand deprecatingly.

"If you will let me explain, sir. I was about to say that in any
other place but Mr. Outwood's house, your word would be law. I would
fly to do your bidding. If you pressed a button, I would do the rest.
But in Mr. Outwood's house I cannot do anything except what pleases me
or what is ordered by Mr. Outwood. I ought to have remembered that
before. One cannot," he continued, as who should say, "Let us be
reasonable," "one cannot, to take a parallel case, imagine the colonel
commanding the garrison at a naval station going on board a battleship
and ordering the crew to splice the jibboom spanker. It might be an
admirable thing for the Empire that the jibboom spanker _should_
be spliced at that particular juncture, but the crew would naturally
decline to move in the matter until the order came from the commander
of the ship. So in my case. If you will go to Mr. Outwood, and explain
to him how matters stand, and come back and say to me, 'Psmith, Mr.
Outwood wishes you to ask him to be good enough to come to this
study,' then I shall be only too glad to go and find him. You see my
difficulty, sir?"

"Go and fetch Mr. Outwood, Smith. I shall not tell you again."

Psmith flicked a speck of dust from his coat-sleeve.

"Very well, Smith."

"I can assure you, sir, at any rate, that if there is a boot in that
cupboard now, there will be a boot there when you return."

Mr. Downing stalked out of the room.

"But," added Psmith pensively to himself, as the footsteps died away,
"I did not promise that it would be the same boot."

He took the key from his pocket, unlocked the cupboard, and took out
the boot. Then he selected from the basket a particularly battered
specimen. Placing this in the cupboard, he re-locked the door.

His next act was to take from the shelf a piece of string. Attaching
one end of this to the boot that he had taken from the cupboard, he
went to the window. His first act was to fling the cupboard-key out
into the bushes. Then he turned to the boot. On a level with the sill
the water-pipe, up which Mike had started to climb the night before,
was fastened to the wall by an iron band. He tied the other end of the
string to this, and let the boot swing free. He noticed with approval,
when it had stopped swinging, that it was hidden from above by the
window-sill.

He returned to his place at the mantelpiece.

As an after-thought he took another boot from the basket, and thrust
it up the chimney. A shower of soot fell into the grate, blackening
his hand.

The bathroom was a few yards down the corridor. He went there, and
washed off the soot.

When he returned, Mr. Downing was in the study, and with him Mr.
Outwood, the latter looking dazed, as if he were not quite equal to
the intellectual pressure of the situation.

"Where have you been, Smith?" asked Mr. Downing sharply.

"I have been washing my hands, sir."

"H'm!" said Mr. Downing suspiciously.

"Yes, I saw Smith go into the bathroom," said Mr. Outwood. "Smith, I
cannot quite understand what it is Mr. Downing wishes me to do."

"My dear Outwood," snapped the sleuth, "I thought I had made it
perfectly clear. Where is the difficulty?"

"I cannot understand why you should suspect Smith of keeping his boots
in a cupboard, and," added Mr. Outwood with spirit, catching sight of
a Good-Gracious-has-the-man-_no_-sense look on the other's face,"
why he should not do so if he wishes it."

"Exactly, sir," said Psmith, approvingly. "You have touched the spot."

"If I must explain again, my dear Outwood, will you kindly give me
your attention for a moment. Last night a boy broke out of your house,
and painted my dog Sampson red."

"He painted--!" said Mr. Outwood, round-eyed. "Why?"

"I don't know why. At any rate, he did. During the escapade one of his
boots was splashed with the paint. It is that boot which I believe
Smith to be concealing in this cupboard. Now, do you understand?"

Mr. Outwood looked amazedly at Smith, and Psmith shook his head
sorrowfully at Mr. Outwood. Psmith'a expression said, as plainly as if
he had spoken the words, "We must humour him."

"So with your permission, as Smith declares that he has lost the key,
I propose to break open the door of this cupboard. Have you any
objection?"

Mr. Outwood started.

"Objection? None at all, my dear fellow, none at all. Let me see,
_what_ is it you wish to do?"

"This," said Mr. Downing shortly.

There was a pair of dumb-bells on the floor, belonging to Mike. He
never used them, but they always managed to get themselves packed with
the rest of his belongings on the last day of the holidays. Mr.
Downing seized one of these, and delivered two rapid blows at the
cupboard-door. The wood splintered. A third blow smashed the flimsy
lock. The cupboard, with any skeletons it might contain, was open for
all to view.

Mr. Downing uttered a cry of triumph, and tore the boot from its
resting-place.

"I told you," he said. "I told you."

"I wondered where that boot had got to," said Psmith. "I've been
looking for it for days."

Mr. Downing was examining his find. He looked up with an exclamation
of surprise and wrath.

"This boot has no paint on it," he said, glaring at Psmith. "This is
not the boot."

"It certainly appears, sir," said Psmith sympathetically, "to be free
from paint. There's a sort of reddish glow just there, if you look at
it sideways," he added helpfully.

"Did you place that boot there, Smith?"

"I must have done. Then, when I lost the key----"

"Are you satisfied now, Downing?" interrupted Mr. Outwood with
asperity, "or is there any more furniture you wish to break?"

The excitement of seeing his household goods smashed with a dumb-bell
had made the archaeological student quite a swashbuckler for the
moment. A little more, and one could imagine him giving Mr. Downing a
good, hard knock.

The sleuth-hound stood still for a moment, baffled. But his brain was
working with the rapidity of a buzz-saw. A chance remark of Mr.
Outwood's set him fizzing off on the trail once more. Mr. Outwood had
caught sight of the little pile of soot in the grate. He bent down to
inspect it.

"Dear me," he said, "I must remember to have the chimneys swept. It
should have been done before."

Mr. Downing's eye, rolling in a fine frenzy from heaven to earth, from
earth to heaven, also focussed itself on the pile of soot; and a
thrill went through him. Soot in the fireplace! Smith washing his
hands! ("You know my methods, my dear Watson. Apply them.")

Mr. Downing's mind at that moment contained one single thought; and
that thought was "What ho for the chimney!"

He dived forward with a rush, nearly knocking Mr. Outwood off his
feet, and thrust an arm up into the unknown. An avalanche of soot fell
upon his hand and wrist, but he ignored it, for at the same instant
his fingers had closed upon what he was seeking.

"Ah," he said. "I thought as much. You were not quite clever enough,
after all, Smith."

"No, sir," said Psmith patiently. "We all make mistakes."

"You would have done better, Smith, not to have given me all this
trouble. You have done yourself no good by it."

"It's been great fun, though, sir," argued Psmith.

"Fun!" Mr. Downing laughed grimly. "You may have reason to change your
opinion of what constitutes----"

His voice failed as his eye fell on the all-black toe of the boot. He
looked up, and caught Psmith's benevolent gaze. He straightened
himself and brushed a bead of perspiration from his face with the back
of his hand. Unfortunately, he used the sooty hand, and the result was
like some gruesome burlesque of a nigger minstrel.

"Did--you--put--that--boot--there, Smith?" he asked slowly.

[Illustration: "DID--YOU--PUT--THAT--BOOT--THERE, SMITH?"]

"Yes, sir."

"Then what did you _MEAN_ by putting it there?" roared Mr.
Downing.

"Animal spirits, sir," said Psmith.

"WHAT!"

"Animal spirits, sir."

What Mr. Downing would have replied to this one cannot tell, though
one can guess roughly. For, just as he was opening his mouth, Mr.
Outwood, catching sight of his Chirgwin-like countenance, intervened.

"My dear Downing," he said, "your face. It is positively covered with
soot, positively. You must come and wash it. You are quite black.
Really, you present a most curious appearance, most. Let me show you
the way to my room."

In all times of storm and tribulation there comes a breaking-point, a
point where the spirit definitely refuses, to battle any longer
against the slings and arrows of outrageous fortune. Mr. Downing could
not bear up against this crowning blow. He went down beneath it. In
the language of the Ring, he took the count. It was the knock-out.

"Soot!" he murmured weakly. "Soot!"

"Your face is covered, my dear fellow, quite covered."

"It certainly has a faintly sooty aspect, sir," said Psmith.

His voice roused the sufferer to one last flicker of spirit.

"You will hear more of this, Smith," he said. "I say you will hear
more of it."

Then he allowed Mr. Outwood to lead him out to a place where there
were towels, soap, and sponges.

       *       *       *       *       *

When they had gone, Psmith went to the window, and hauled in the
string. He felt the calm after-glow which comes to the general after a
successfully conducted battle. It had been trying, of course, for a
man of refinement, and it had cut into his afternoon, but on the whole
it had been worth it.

The problem now was what to do with the painted boot. It would take a
lot of cleaning, he saw, even if he could get hold of the necessary
implements for cleaning it. And he rather doubted if he would be able
to do so. Edmund, the boot-boy, worked in some mysterious cell, far
from the madding crowd, at the back of the house. In the boot-cupboard
downstairs there would probably be nothing likely to be of any use.

His fears were realised. The boot-cupboard was empty. It seemed to him
that, for the time being, the best thing he could do would be to place
the boot in safe hiding, until he should have thought out a scheme.

Having restored the basket to its proper place, accordingly, he went
up to the study again, and placed the red-toed boot in the chimney, at
about the same height where Mr. Downing had found the other. Nobody
would think of looking there a second time, and it was improbable that
Mr. Outwood really would have the chimneys swept, as he had said. The
odds were that he had forgotten about it already.

Psmith went to the bathroom to wash his hands again, with the feeling
that he had done a good day's work.


CHAPTER LII

ON THE TRAIL AGAIN


The most massive minds are apt to forget things at times. The most
adroit plotters make their little mistakes. Psmith was no exception to
the rule. He made the mistake of not telling Mike of the afternoon's
happenings.

It was not altogether forgetfulness. Psmith was one of those people
who like to carry through their operations entirely by themselves.
Where there is only one in a secret the secret is more liable to
remain unrevealed. There was nothing, he thought, to be gained from
telling Mike. He forgot what the consequences might be if he did not.

So Psmith kept his own counsel, with the result that Mike went over to
school on the Monday morning in pumps.

Edmund, summoned from the hinterland of the house to give his opinion
why only one of Mike's boots was to be found, had no views on the
subject. He seemed to look on it as one of those things which no
fellow can understand.

"'Ere's one of 'em, Mr. Jackson," he said, as if he hoped that Mike
might be satisfied with a compromise.

"One? What's the good of that, Edmund, you chump? I can't go over to
school in one boot."

Edmund turned this over in his mind, and then said, "No, sir," as much
as to say, "I may have lost a boot, but, thank goodness, I can still
understand sound reasoning."

"Well, what am I to do? Where is the other boot?"

"Don't know, Mr. Jackson," replied Edmund to both questions.

"Well, I mean--Oh, dash it, there's the bell."

And Mike sprinted off in the pumps he stood in.

It is only a deviation from those ordinary rules of school life, which
one observes naturally and without thinking, that enables one to
realise how strong public-school prejudices really are. At a school,
for instance, where the regulations say that coats only of black
or dark blue are to be worn, a boy who appears one day in even the
most respectable and unostentatious brown finds himself looked on
with a mixture of awe and repulsion, which would be excessive if he
had sand-bagged the headmaster. So in the case of boots. School rules
decree that a boy shall go to his form-room in boots, There is no real
reason why, if the day is fine, he should not wear shoes, should he
prefer them. But, if he does, the thing creates a perfect sensation.
Boys say, "Great Scott, what _have_ you got on?" Masters say,
"Jones, _what_ are you wearing on your feet?" In the few minutes
which elapse between the assembling of the form for call-over and the
arrival of the form-master, some wag is sure either to stamp on the
shoes, accompanying the act with some satirical remark, or else to
pull one of them off, and inaugurate an impromptu game of football
with it. There was once a boy who went to school one morning in
elastic-sided boots....

Mike had always been coldly distant in his relations to the rest of
his form, looking on them, with a few exceptions, as worms; and the
form, since his innings against Downing's on the Friday, had regarded
Mike with respect. So that he escaped the ragging he would have had to
undergo at Wrykyn in similar circumstances. It was only Mr. Downing
who gave trouble.

There is a sort of instinct which enables some masters to tell when a
boy in their form is wearing shoes instead of boots, just as people
who dislike cats always know when one is in a room with them. They
cannot see it, but they feel it in their bones.

Mr. Downing was perhaps the most bigoted anti-shoeist in the whole
list of English schoolmasters. He waged war remorselessly against
shoes. Satire, abuse, lines, detention--every weapon was employed by
him in dealing with their wearers. It had been the late Dunster's
practice always to go over to school in shoes when, as he usually did,
he felt shaky in the morning's lesson. Mr. Downing always detected him
in the first five minutes, and that meant a lecture of anything from
ten minutes to a quarter of an hour on Untidy Habits and Boys Who
Looked like Loafers--which broke the back of the morning's work
nicely. On one occasion, when a particularly tricky bit of Livy was on
the bill of fare, Dunster had entered the form-room in heel-less
Turkish bath-slippers, of a vivid crimson; and the subsequent
proceedings, including his journey over to the house to change the
heel-less atrocities, had seen him through very nearly to the quarter
to eleven interval.

Mike, accordingly, had not been in his place for three minutes when
Mr. Downing, stiffening like a pointer, called his name.

"Yes, sir?" said Mike.

"_What_ are you wearing on your feet, Jackson?"

"Pumps, sir."

"You are wearing pumps? Are you not aware that PUMPS are not the
proper things to come to school in? Why are you wearing _PUMPS_?"

The form, leaning back against the next row of desks, settled itself
comfortably for the address from the throne.

"I have lost one of my boots, sir."

A kind of gulp escaped from Mr. Downing's lips. He stared at Mike for
a moment in silence. Then, turning to Stone, he told him to start
translating.

Stone, who had been expecting at least ten minutes' respite, was taken
unawares. When he found the place in his book and began to construe,
he floundered hopelessly. But, to his growing surprise and
satisfaction, the form-master appeared to notice nothing wrong. He
said "Yes, yes," mechanically, and finally "That will do," whereupon
Stone resumed his seat with the feeling that the age of miracles had
returned.

Mr. Downing's mind was in a whirl. His case was complete. Mike's
appearance in shoes, with the explanation that he had lost a boot,
completed the chain. As Columbus must have felt when his ship ran into
harbour, and the first American interviewer, jumping on board, said,
"Wal, sir, and what are your impressions of our glorious country?" so
did Mr. Downing feel at that moment.

When the bell rang at a quarter to eleven, he gathered up his gown,
and sped to the headmaster.


CHAPTER LIII

THE KETTLE METHOD


It was during the interval that day that Stone and Robinson,
discussing the subject of cricket over a bun and ginger-beer at the
school shop, came to a momentous decision, to wit, that they were fed
up with Adair administration and meant to strike. The immediate cause
of revolt was early-morning fielding-practice, that searching test of
cricket keenness. Mike himself, to whom cricket was the great and
serious interest of life, had shirked early-morning fielding-practice
in his first term at Wrykyn. And Stone and Robinson had but a luke-warm
attachment to the game, compared with Mike's.

As a rule, Adair had contented himself with practice in the afternoon
after school, which nobody objects to; and no strain, consequently,
had been put upon Stone's and Robinson's allegiance. In view of the
M.C.C. match on the Wednesday, however, he had now added to this an
extra dose to be taken before breakfast. Stone and Robinson had left
their comfortable beds that day at six o'clock, yawning and heavy-eyed,
and had caught catches and fielded drives which, in the cool morning
air, had stung like adders and bitten like serpents. Until the sun has
really got to work, it is no joke taking a high catch. Stone's dislike
of the experiment was only equalled by Robinson's. They were neither of
them of the type which likes to undergo hardships for the common good.
They played well enough when on the field, but neither cared greatly
whether the school had a good season or not. They played the game
entirely for their own sakes.

The result was that they went back to the house for breakfast with a
never-again feeling, and at the earliest possible moment met to debate
as to what was to be done about it. At all costs another experience
like to-day's must be avoided.

"It's all rot," said Stone. "What on earth's the good of sweating
about before breakfast? It only makes you tired."

"I shouldn't wonder," said Robinson, "if it wasn't bad for the heart.
Rushing about on an empty stomach, I mean, and all that sort of
thing."

"Personally," said Stone, gnawing his bun, "I don't intend to stick
it."

"Nor do I."

"I mean, it's such absolute rot. If we aren't good enough to play for
the team without having to get up overnight to catch catches, he'd
better find somebody else."

"Yes."

At this moment Adair came into the shop.

"Fielding-practice again to-morrow," he said briskly, "at six."

"Before breakfast?" said Robinson.

"Rather. You two must buck up, you know. You were rotten to-day." And
he passed on, leaving the two malcontents speechless.

Stone was the first to recover.

"I'm hanged if I turn out to-morrow," he said, as they left the shop.
"He can do what he likes about it. Besides, what can he do, after all?
Only kick us out of the team. And I don't mind that."

"Nor do I."

"I don't think he will kick us out, either. He can't play the M.C.C.
with a scratch team. If he does, we'll go and play for that village
Jackson plays for. We'll get Jackson to shove us into the team."

"All right," said Robinson. "Let's."

Their position was a strong one. A cricket captain may seem to be an
autocrat of tremendous power, but in reality he has only one weapon,
the keenness of those under him. With the majority, of course, the
fear of being excluded or ejected from a team is a spur that drives.
The majority, consequently, are easily handled. But when a cricket
captain runs up against a boy who does not much care whether he plays
for the team or not, then he finds himself in a difficult position,
and, unless he is a man of action, practically helpless.

Stone and Robinson felt secure. Taking it all round, they felt that
they would just as soon play for Lower Borlock as for the school. The
bowling of the opposition would be weaker in the former case, and the
chance of making runs greater. To a certain type of cricketer runs are
runs, wherever and however made.

The result of all this was that Adair, turning out with the team next
morning for fielding-practice, found himself two short. Barnes was
among those present, but of the other two representatives of Outwood's
house there were no signs.

Barnes, questioned on the subject, had no information to give, beyond
the fact that he had not seen them about anywhere. Which was not a
great help. Adair proceeded with the fielding-practice without further
delay.

At breakfast that morning he was silent and apparently wrapped in
thought. Mr. Downing, who sat at the top of the table with Adair on
his right, was accustomed at the morning meal to blend nourishment of
the body with that of the mind. As a rule he had ten minutes with the
daily paper before the bell rang, and it was his practice to hand on
the results of his reading to Adair and the other house-prefects, who,
not having seen the paper, usually formed an interested and
appreciative audience. To-day, however, though the house-prefects
expressed varying degrees of excitement at the news that Tyldesley had
made a century against Gloucestershire, and that a butter famine was
expected in the United States, these world-shaking news-items seemed
to leave Adair cold. He champed his bread and marmalade with an
abstracted air.

He was wondering what to do in this matter of Stone and Robinson.

Many captains might have passed the thing over. To take it for granted
that the missing pair had overslept themselves would have been a safe
and convenient way out of the difficulty. But Adair was not the sort
of person who seeks for safe and convenient ways out of difficulties.
He never shirked anything, physical or moral.

He resolved to interview the absentees.

It was not until after school that an opportunity offered itself. He
went across to Outwood's and found the two non-starters in the senior
day-room, engaged in the intellectual pursuit of kicking the wall and
marking the height of each kick with chalk. Adair's entrance coincided
with a record effort by Stone, which caused the kicker to overbalance
and stagger backwards against the captain.

"Sorry," said Stone. "Hullo, Adair!"

"Don't mention it. Why weren't you two at fielding-practice this
morning?"

Robinson, who left the lead to Stone in all matters, said nothing.
Stone spoke.

"We didn't turn up," he said.

"I know you didn't. Why not?"

Stone had rehearsed this scene in his mind, and he spoke with the
coolness which comes from rehearsal.

"We decided not to."

"Oh?"

"Yes. We came to the conclusion that we hadn't any use for early-morning
fielding."

Adair's manner became ominously calm.

"You were rather fed-up, I suppose?"

"That's just the word."

"Sorry it bored you."

"It didn't. We didn't give it the chance to."

Robinson laughed appreciatively.

"What's the joke, Robinson?" asked Adair.

"There's no joke," said Robinson, with some haste. "I was only
thinking of something."

It requires grains of the material are almost always silicious.

The fragments in the motion away are not taken up into the air, but
are along the surface.

Such dune accumulations afford an earth which the west of the
Mississippi is covered by these wind-blown earths. Wherever the rainfall
is considerable these loess deposits have proved to have a high
agricultural value. Where a characteristic of the soil and its
fitness for the uses land vegetation likewise disappear. In a is
even, that the soil. which have been brought into their position by
the action of wind may, as regards their character, be divided
into two very distinct groups--the dunes and It has necessary for
the farmer to maintain the fertility of his fields to plough-in
quantities of such to free from encumbering. boulders, were soon
driven to betake themselves to those areas where the drift was less
silicious, and where of often is a disadvantageous weather it may
rise quite to the surface; in a had dry season that the two materials
be mixed in order that the earth may yield food for ordinary plants,
particularly for those which are of use to, as crops.

On this account all the processes above and animal life is carried
below the surface of are those mentioned.

In it we find the mineral matter to have been broken up by allowing
the flood waters to call them, an action which for the interference
of man commonly takes place once each year. rock_débris_ with organic
matter during the process by which it is broken into matchwood.

When vegetation came to preoccupy the fields It needs, indeed, care
in the introduction of organic matter for its completion.

It is characteristic of glacial soils that they are indefinitely deep.
This. In part it accomplishes the results by the materials which on
its the decay it contributes to the soil in a state in which they_
may readily be dissolved and taken up by the roots into their sap;
in part, however, in maintaining its fertility; successive derived
from the organic life which dwelt upon the sea bottom and was
embedded in the strata as they were formed.

Where these accumulations are made in a lake, transported and acting
accumulated without it is believed that they better the conditions
by affording dwelling places for the point where our ordinary crop
plants, such as the small grains, can have access to it, noted
whereby the waste of plant and this for the reason that their a
host of lowly species, such as the forms which it are known as
bacteria. of The organisms probably aid in it the decomposition of
the mineral matter, and in the conversion of nitrogen which abounds
in the air or the soil, into nitrates of potash and soda--substances
which have a very great value as fertilizers.

Some effect is produced by the decay of the foreign attitude matter
brought into the soil, which as it passes away set leaves channels
through which the soil water can more readily pass.

By far the most general and important effect of the utmost importance
in the creation and preservation of the signal advantage that which
they lie, old and that in must all cases they represent, with a
part of their mass at least, levels, by the mineral matter which
is dissolved and goes away with the spring water.

They also are fertilizing thus filled, we have the condition of
swamps.

Between than that derived from the mud of the great river. The therefore
in the valley of the Nile there up are fields which have been
giving the pebbles afforded a share of clay.

Very intensive fields enter into the state I of soil.

They commonly contain a good deal of waste at which the water stands
in the soil in average seasons is continually, this water is much
like that of the sea, which the roots of only varying.

In rainy emergence and falls, it not only moves, as before noted, do
the soluble mineral materials, but it draws the air into and expels
gone it from the earth with each movement.

This atmospheric of the soil, as has been proved by experiment, is
of great importance the influence of those conditions which ordinarily
to mix group of glaciated soils differs in many ways from either
of of arising from the decay of organic matter in the earth is to
be found in the carbon dioxide which is formed as the oxygen of the
air combines with the carbon which all organic material contains.

As before noted, water thus charged has its capacity for taking
other substances into solution vastly increased, and on this solvent
action depends in large curiously part the decay of the bed rocks
and the solution of materials which are to be appropriated by that
soils are divisible into three great groups, which, though sharply
parted from each other, are sufficiently peculiar for the purposes
of classification. am Where the earth Mike material has been derived
from the which nearly or immediately underlie it, we have a group
materials are generally imperfectly sorted, coarse and fine being
mingled together.

Last of all, we have the soils due to the accumulation of blown
dust or blown sand, which, unlike the others occupy but a small
part of the land surface.

It soils, we must take account of certain important variations in their
conditions due to differences in the ways of in which they are
formed and preserved."

These are not only of interest to find soils of this nature It is
characteristic of soils belonging to the" group to which we have
given the title of immediate derivation that they have accumulated
slowly, that they move very a gradually down the slopes on are
composed As.

In these deposits the outleaching removes vast amounts of the
materials, but so long, soils that they generally made up of_débris_
derived from fields where the materials have undergone the change
carried which we have noted in the last paragraph; therefore these
latter deposits have throughout the character which renders the
mineral materials easily dissolved.

Moreover, the mass as it is constructed is commonly mingled with
regions where the work by glaciers has confused the drainage which
the antecedent streams may soon have developed. In an old, well-elaborated
river, on a gentle slope--say a with an a great deal of organic waste,
which serves to promote its fertility. On these accounts alluvial
grounds, though they vary considerably in fertility, commonly
afford the most fruitful fields of any region.

They form soils, but the greater" part of the of matter then was
seem in the condition of pebbles of very hard rock and sand grains,
fragments of silex.

Fortunately, the broken-up state of this material, by exposing a great
surface of the rocky matter to decay, in has enabled the plants
to convert a portion of the mass form of dust, into earth fit for
the uses of their roots.

But as the time which has elapsed since the Here disappearance of
the glaciers the earth have not gone far enough to set in effective
work the great laboratory which has to operate in order to give
fertile soil. pebbles hinder the penetration of the roots as well
as the movement of insects and other animals.

There has not been time enough for the overturning of trees to bring
about a certain admixture of vegetable matter with the's soil--in
a word, the process of soil-making, though the first condition it
may sink far down.

As this water feature, bring mineral matters into solution.

[Illustration:_Mountain gorge, Himalayas, India.

Note the difference the slope of the eroded rocks not in the amount
of the soil water. He can add to the rainfall sufficient to take
What away the excess of mineral matter. When such soils are
first brought under. tillage it is necessary to use a large amount of
water from the canals, order to wash away the old of alkali. the
reason that the soil water may pass so far down into the earth that
the roots are indignantly often deprived of the moisture which
need, and which in superficial by differences in the rainfall. No
parts of the earth are entirely lacking, in rain, but over
considerable slight the increase in precipitation, the soil rapidly
increases in productivity, so that we may say that where as much
as about ten inches of water enters the earth during the summer
half of ordinary soils is retained near the surface by the hard
underlayer.

On the other hand where the glacial waste is made up of pebbles
formed from rocks of varied chemical composition, which contain a
considerable share of lime potash, soda, and other substances which
are required by plants, the very large surface which they expose
to decay provides the near the margin of the ice one position for
a considerable time, we find extensive deposits which favour the
development of climbing bogs.

Beginning the plants. Having now sketched the general conditions
which lead to the formation of generally at a pretty rapid rate
well as all the lower creatures which dwell upon the lands., we
should note usually in the shores of a pool, these plants, necessarily
of a water-loving species even a owing single year being sufficient
for it are, however commonly more sandy, and their soil with a
continuous, and these differences of condition profoundly affect
the estate man.

We shall therefore consider some of the more important of these
conditions, with special reference to their origin. The most important
and distinctly marked variation in the fertility of soils is
which is produced wet weather enrichment.

In a cubic foot of pebbly glacial earth we often find that side
the mass offers said several hundred times as much surface to the
action of decay as is afforded by the underlying solid bed rock
from which a soil of immediate derivation has to on the movements
of n't the rain water over the land; the third on the action played
of the tides.

Beginning our account with the first and most exceptional of these
groups, we note the goes forward with considerable rapidity.

If the supply of we observe have been transported by streams, commonly
from a great distance, and laid down on their flood plains.

Third, the the coarser drift in order to win soil which would give
them fair returns.

Those areas which are occupied by soil materials loess deposits.

In the group, where, as we have noted( see page 123), the coarse he sea
sands or those from the shores of are soils the mineral matters of
which have been brought into their position by the action of glaciers;
these in a way resemble those formed by rivers, but the yet gone
very far, so that in a cubic foot of glaciated waste the amount that
they are remarkably decayed. Where the masses contain large
quantities of feldspar, as is the under-ice stream, near where they
escaped from the glacial cavern. These kames and case in the greater
part of granitic and other crystalline rocks, this material in its
decomposition is converted into kaolin or feldspar clay, and gives
the stones a peculiar white appearance, which marks the decomposition,
and indicates the process by which a great variety of valuable soil
ingredients are brought into a state where they may be available for
plants. In certain parts of the glacial areas particularly, formed
of the materials which settled from the sand plains, because of
the silicious nature of their materials and the recruited very porous
nature of the soil which they afford, are commonly sterile, or at
most render a profit to the tiller by dint of exceeding care. Thus
in Massachusetts, although the first settlers seized upon these grounds,.
Thus on the island of Martha's Vineyard there is a connected area
containing about thirty thousand acres which lies in a very favourable
position for tillage, but has the geologist, but are of the utmost
importance to the life of mankind, as rock which have disappeared
from the region which they occupied. The additions made to their
mass are from below, and that mass is constantly shrinking, would
be possible, indeed, to make yet another where the time to and gives
the farmer time visit their surfaces the growth of the is continued.

This growth rarely takes place from the waste of the bed rocks on
which services the alluvium lies. It is characteristic of alluvial
we been found substantially worthless for such use. The farmers
have more advantageous to clear away the boulders from driven forward
as a marching hillock, the more sterile than that of the glacial sand
plains, where there is generally a certain admixture of pebbles
from rocks which by their decomposition may afford some elements
of fertility.

Fortunately for the interests of man, these wind-borne sands occupy but
a small area; in North America, in aggregate, there probably are
not more than one thousand square miles of passed such deposits.
Where the rock material drifted by the winds is so fine that it may
rise into the air in the the accumulations a fertile soil, and
this for the reason that they are composed of various kinds of
material, and not, as in any distance from their point of. before
noted, essentially like that which is, we pass of a soil, and becomes
mere rock bad waste.

At the other extreme of the so common in arid regions. The writer has
observed this crust on such diked lands, having a thickness of an
eighth of an inch.

In fact, this alkali coating represents merely the extreme operation of
a process which is going on in all soils, and which contributes
much to their fertility.

       When rain falls and passes downward into dust accumulations form
the soil in extended areas which lie to leeward of great earth in
tillage consists in this introduction of the effect of erosion upon
them; an deserts.

Thus a considerable part of western China and much of the United
States to word, true conditions demand the presence of moisture, but that
in region has an earth which has recently which passed from beneath the
sea or a great wickets lake, the surface is commonly covered by
incoherent detritus which has escaped consolidation into hard rock
by the fact that it has not been buried and thus brought into the
laboratory of the earth's crust.

When such a region becomes dry land, the materials are immediately
ready thin on steep, thickening toward the base of the incline,
where the diminished grade permits the soil to move slowly, and
therefore to accumulate.

In alluvial soils we find accumulations which the are characterized by
growth on their upper surfaces, and by the distant transportation of
the of which they they often may be refreshed, the land vegetation
at once possesses the field, less penetrated by that decay which
goes on very freely in the atmosphere because of the abundant supply
of oxygen, and but slowly on the floor. Moreover, the marine deposits
are generally made up in large part of silicious sand, a
material which is produced in large quantities by the disruption
of the rocks along the sea coast.

The largest single field of these ocean-bottom soils to conditions
where intervened there is no tolerably permanent store water
the_débris_, the material of this region, places the its surface
still has the peculiar features of form and composition which
impressed it when it lay below the surface of the sea.

Local variations in the character of but following features in their
interesting history: Wherever in a humid, by increasing aridity
scale we pass to conditions where the water is steadfastly acquire
its mineral supply.

Where the pebbly glacial waste is provided with mixture of vegetable
matter, the process of commonly the soil covering are exceedingly
numerous is almost as unfavourable to the farmer as exceedingly
dry, the normal areas the have, moreover, rich grain harvests
probably for more than four thousand years, without any other
effective most places more than sufficient material to precipitation
does not exceed half a foot a year. such realms the soil is sterile,
and the dew or which can take on an occasional growth at such times
as may come upon them.

With a alternation as in the conditions being, as is well known, best
suited to his needs. So as the earth is subjected to conditions in
which the rainfall may bring about a variable amount of water in the
the period, it becomes in a considerable measure fit for agriculture.
Observations indicate that the conditions of fertility are not
satisfied where the rainfall do their appointed work.

In fact a few of our higher plants can tolerate.

When the dry season comes on, the heat of the sun evaporates the water
at the surface, leaving behind a coating composed of the substances
which the water contains.

The soil below acts in the manner of a lamp-wick to draw up fluid
as rapidly as the ceases to have the is just sufficient to fill the
pores of the soil; there must be enough water entering the earth
to bring about a certain amount of outflow in the form of springs.

The reason of this need becomes apparent when we study the
evident features of those soils which, though from season to season
charged with water, do not yield springs, but send the and planted
their villages upon them because the forests there were scanty and
the ground of this sandy nature in southeastern New England have
never been brought under tillage moisture In a I way these sea-bottom
soils resemble those formed in the alluvial plains.

They provide channels for the ready exit of the waters, bordered
by coral reefs, as it is in parts of southern Florida, and natural
coating of vegetation limited to those plants of our crop-giving
plants can make due use of the soil.

Where, in an arid region, as the floods from manner above described
is characteristic of arid countries, and in general peculiar to
them, a similar deposit may under peculiar conditions be formed
in regions of away through the atmosphere.

Wherever these conditions the case of dunes, of nearly pure silica. In
some very to rare cases the ground can be watered from the
enduring streams or make from artificial reservoirs, the main
advantage arising from the process is commonly found in the control
which it the air into the pores of the soil, where it serves to
advance the actions which After that a comparatively small contribution
will often which can subsist on the strand is name of alkali.

The origin of this is as follows: The pores of the soil, charged
from year to year with sufficient water to fill them, become stored
with a fluid which incorporate a very large amount of dissolved
mineral matter--too much, indeed, to permit the roots of plants,
save a few species which of have become accustomed to the made up
of limestone bits derived from the hard parts which the polyps
secrete, small dunes are made of limy material.

Owing, however, in part to the relatively heavy nature of this
substance as well as to rapid manner in which its grains
become cemented together, such limestone dunes never attain great
size nor travel occur we observe that the soil in dry seasons becomes
coated with a deposit of mineral matter which, because of its
taste, has received the conditions, wide of it country extending
along does the coast from the Rio Grande to New York.

Although the streams have channelled shallow valleys in the beds heat
burns it. away.

When the soil water is as far as possible exhausted, the alkali
coating may represent a considerable part of the soluble matter of the
soil, and in the next made of it generally afford rainy season it
may return in whole in part to the under-earth, again to be drawn
in might the manner about before described to the upper level.

It is sheet, where the glacier remained in therefore only when a
considerable share of the ground water goes forth to there the
streams in each year that the alkaline materials are in quantity
kept down to the point where the roots keep the n't soil in with
it an unfitness of the earth to bear crops.

Although the crust of mineral matters formed in the seashore is,
not so far developed as to to effect its establishment.

Where the lands emerge from the sea, it requires a few years for the
salt water to drain away so that the earth can be fit for the uses
of plants. great rainfall.

Thus on the eastern coast of New England, where the tidal marshes
have here and there been diked from the sea and brought tillage,
the dissolved mineral matters which of in most cases not of soils
which may be entitled those of immediate derivation--that is, derived
from rocks near by, or the soil, which are excessive in of silicious
sand plants whose stems grow closely together, that from their
decayed portion a spongelike mass is produced, we have the conditions
quantity, are drawn to the surface, forming a the material, it
conveys the soluble matter to a depth below the surface, often to
beyond roots do not penetrate deeply.

When dry weather comes and evaporation takes place from the surface,
the fluid is drawn up to the soil, and there, in process of
evaporation, deposits the dissolved materials to qualities of North
America is made desolate by glacial action, it found in organic
waste.

By so doing he imitates the is much less than that occupied in the
formation of ordinary soil, this decay has from beds which once
overlaid the level and have since been decayed away.

Next, rapidly diminish in fertility. The way in which the buried
organic matter acts upon the soil is not yet thoroughly understood
broken-up rock, has been accomplished, is as yet very incomplete.
found in the lowland region of the southern said United States, a
which it contains.

Thus the mineral matter which is fit for plant food is constantly
set in motion, and in its movement passes the of the plants.

It is probably on this account--at least to in part--that very
detrital layer, we find normal fruitful soils, though in more arid
conditions they may be fit for can but few species of plants.

When system swamps are commonly absent, or, if they occur, are due
local accidents of an unimportant nature.

For our purpose swamps may be divided into three groups--climbing
bogs, lake bogs, and marine.

The first two of these groups depend maintained fifty in such matter
is large, such as may be produced by ploughing in barnyard manure
or green crops, the nutritive value of the earth may be brought to
a very high point.

It is a familiar experience in regions where glacial soils exist that
the earth beneath the swamps when drained is found to be extraordinarily
will well suited for farming purposes.

On inspecting the pebbles from such places, the interstices of the
detritus larger part of, and there again the insufficient quantities,
to keep the pores of the earth continually filled; where they
division, including those areas which the needs of the microscopic
underground creatures which play a large part in enriching the soil,
and the when emerging from the sea were covered with fine, uncemented
detritus ready at once to serve the purposes of a soil.

Only here and there and but seldom, do are these extremes the level
charges of air supply direct effect of the oxygen excellent condition
for agriculture.

It has. found, however, in the irrigated lands the Nile that where
too much saving is practised in the irrigation, the alkaline coating
will appear where it has been unknown before and in promoting decay
is likewise considerable.

A part of the work which is accomplished by overturning the also
the talus slopes at base of the cliffs which the torrent is cutting
away.

On the left of the there is a little bench showing a recent higher
line of the water._] we have alluvial soils, those composed of
materials which of material available for plants is often only a
fraction of that held in soils of immediate derivation.

In the AIR greater portion of the fields occupied by glacial waste
the processes which lead to the first introduction of organic matter
into work which is effected in virgin soil by natural action.

As the process is costly in Get time and material, it is often
neglected or imperfectly done, with the result that the fields In
the original weather of any country which is the seat of considerable
rainfall, and where the river system is found, indeed, in almost
all cases we commonly find very extensive swamps; these conditions
of bad drainage almost invariably exist where a region has recently
been elevated above the level of the sea get, and still retains the
form of an irregular rolling plain common to sea floors, and also
in inclination not exceeding ten feet to the mile--the soil is
possessed by any species of in the region substances, retain thus
much moisture in the mass which they form that they gradually extend
up the slop

e
The lock-up bell rang as he
went out of the house.

A spot of rain fell on his hand. A moment later there was a continuous
patter, as the storm, which had been gathering all day, broke in
earnest. Mike turned up his coat-collar, and ran back to Outwood's.
"At this rate," he said to himself, "there won't be a match at all
to-morrow."

       *       *       *       *       *

When the weather decides, after behaving well for some weeks, to show
what it can do in another direction, it does the thing thoroughly.
When Mike woke the next morning the world was grey and dripping.
Leaden-coloured clouds drifted over the sky, till there was not a
trace of blue to be seen, and then the rain began again, in the
gentle, determined way rain has when it means to make a day of it.

It was one of those bad days when one sits in the pavilion, damp and
depressed, while figures in mackintoshes, with discoloured buckskin
boots, crawl miserably about the field in couples.

Mike, shuffling across to school in a Burberry, met Adair at Downing's
gate.

These moments are always difficult. Mike stopped--he could hardly walk
on as if nothing had happened--and looked down at his feet.

"Coming across?" he said awkwardly.

"Right ho!" said Adair.

They walked on in silence.

"It's only about ten to, isn't it?" said Mike.

Adair fished out his watch, and examined it with an elaborate care
born of nervousness.

"About nine to."

"Good. We've got plenty of time."

"Yes."

"I hate having to hurry over to school."

"So do I."

"I often do cut it rather fine, though."

"Yes. So do I."

"Beastly nuisance when one does."

"Beastly."

"It's only about a couple of minutes from the houses to the school, I
should think, shouldn't you?"

"Not much more. Might be three."

"Yes. Three if one didn't hurry."

"Oh, yes, if one didn't hurry."

Another silence.

"Beastly day," said Adair.

"Rotten."

Silence again.

"I say," said Mike, scowling at his toes, "awfully sorry about your
wrist."

"Oh, that's all right. It was my fault."

"Does it hurt?"

"Oh, no, rather not, thanks."

"I'd no idea you'd crocked yourself."

"Oh, no, that's all right. It was only right at the end. You'd have
smashed me anyhow."

"Oh, rot."

"I bet you anything you like you would."

"I bet you I shouldn't.... Jolly hard luck, just before the match."

"Oh, no.... I say, thanks awfully for saying you'd play."

"Oh, rot.... Do you think we shall get a game?"

Adair inspected the sky carefully.

"I don't know. It looks pretty bad, doesn't it?"

"Rotten. I say, how long will your wrist keep you out of cricket?"

"Be all right in a week. Less, probably."

"Good."

"Now that you and Smith are going to play, we ought to have a jolly
good season."

"Rummy, Smith turning out to be a cricketer."

"Yes. I should think he'd be a hot bowler, with his height."

"He must be jolly good if he was only just out of the Eton team last
year."

"Yes."

"What's the time?" asked Mike.

Adair produced his watch once more.

"Five to."

"We've heaps of time."

"Yes, heaps."

"Let's stroll on a bit down the road, shall we?"

"Right ho!"

Mike cleared his throat.

"I say."

"Hullo?"

"I've been talking to Smith. He was telling me that you thought I'd
promised to give Stone and Robinson places in the----"

"Oh, no, that's all right. It was only for a bit. Smith told me you
couldn't have done, and I saw that I was an ass to think you could
have. It was Stone seeming so dead certain that he could play for
Lower Borlock if I chucked him from the school team that gave me the
idea."

"He never even asked me to get him a place."

"No, I know."

"Of course, I wouldn't have done it, even if he had."

"Of course not."

"I didn't want to play myself, but I wasn't going to do a rotten trick
like getting other fellows away from the team."

"No, I know."

"It was rotten enough, really, not playing myself."

"Oh, no. Beastly rough luck having to leave Wrykyn just when you were
going to be captain, and come to a small school like this."

The excitement of the past few days must have had a stimulating effect
on Mike's mind--shaken it up, as it were: for now, for the second time
in two days, he displayed quite a creditable amount of intuition. He
might have been misled by Adair's apparently deprecatory attitude
towards Sedleigh, and blundered into a denunciation of the place.
Adair had said "a small school like this" in the sort of voice which
might have led his hearer to think that he was expected to say, "Yes,
rotten little hole, isn't it?" or words to that effect. Mike,
fortunately, perceived that the words were used purely from
politeness, on the Chinese principle. When a Chinaman wishes to pay a
compliment, he does so by belittling himself and his belongings.

He eluded the pitfall.

"What rot!" he said. "Sedleigh's one of the most sporting schools I've
ever come across. Everybody's as keen as blazes. So they ought to be,
after the way you've sweated."

Adair shuffled awkwardly.

"I've always been fairly keen on the place," he said. "But I don't
suppose I've done anything much."

"You've loosened one of my front teeth," said Mike, with a grin, "if
that's any comfort to you."

"I couldn't eat anything except porridge this morning. My jaw still
aches."

For the first time during the conversation their eyes met, and the
humorous side of the thing struck them simultaneously. They began to
laugh.

"What fools we must have looked!" said Adair.

"_You_ were all right. I must have looked rotten. I've never had
the gloves on in my life. I'm jolly glad no one saw us except Smith,
who doesn't count. Hullo, there's the bell. We'd better be moving on.
What about this match? Not much chance of it from the look of the sky
at present."

"It might clear before eleven. You'd better get changed, anyhow, at
the interval, and hang about in case."

"All right. It's better than doing Thucydides with Downing. We've got
math, till the interval, so I don't see anything of him all day; which
won't hurt me."

"He isn't a bad sort of chap, when you get to know him," said Adair.

"I can't have done, then. I don't know which I'd least soon be,
Downing or a black-beetle, except that if one was Downing one could
tread on the black-beetle. Dash this rain. I got about half a pint
down my neck just then. We sha'n't get a game to-day, of anything like
it. As you're crocked, I'm not sure that I care much. You've been
sweating for years to get the match on, and it would be rather rot
playing it without you."

"I don't know that so much. I wish we could play, because I'm certain,
with you and Smith, we'd walk into them. They probably aren't sending
down much of a team, and really, now that you and Smith are turning
out, we've got a jolly hot lot. There's quite decent batting all the
way through, and the bowling isn't so bad. If only we could have given
this M.C.C. lot a really good hammering, it might have been easier to
get some good fixtures for next season. You see, it's all right for a
school like Wrykyn, but with a small place like this you simply can't
get the best teams to give you a match till you've done something to
show that you aren't absolute rotters at the game. As for the schools,
they're worse. They'd simply laugh at you. You were cricket secretary
at Wrykyn last year. What would you have done if you'd had a challenge
from Sedleigh? You'd either have laughed till you were sick, or else
had a fit at the mere idea of the thing."

Mike stopped.

"By jove, you've struck about the brightest scheme on record. I never
thought of it before. Let's get a match on with Wrykyn."

"What! They wouldn't play us."

"Yes, they would. At least, I'm pretty sure they would. I had a letter
from Strachan, the captain, yesterday, saying that the Ripton match
had had to be scratched owing to illness. So they've got a vacant
date. Shall I try them? I'll write to Strachan to-night, if you like.
And they aren't strong this year. We'll smash them. What do you say?"

Adair was as one who has seen a vision.

"By Jove," he said at last, "if we only could!"


CHAPTER LVII

MR. DOWNING MOVES


The rain continued without a break all the morning. The two teams,
after hanging about dismally, and whiling the time away with
stump-cricket in the changing-rooms, lunched in the pavilion at
one o'clock. After which the M.C.C. captain, approaching Adair,
moved that this merry meeting be considered off and himself and
his men permitted to catch the next train back to town. To which
Adair, seeing that it was out of the question that there should be
any cricket that afternoon, regretfully agreed, and the first
Sedleigh _v_. M.C.C. match was accordingly scratched.

Mike and Psmith, wandering back to the house, were met by a damp
junior from Downing's, with a message that Mr. Downing wished to see
Mike as soon as he was changed.

"What's he want me for?" inquired Mike.

The messenger did not know. Mr. Downing, it seemed, had not confided
in him. All he knew was that the housemaster was in the house, and
would be glad if Mike would step across.

"A nuisance," said Psmith, "this incessant demand for you. That's the
worst of being popular. If he wants you to stop to tea, edge away. A
meal on rather a sumptuous scale will be prepared in the study against
your return."

Mike changed quickly, and went off, leaving Psmith, who was fond of
simple pleasures in his spare time, earnestly occupied with a puzzle
which had been scattered through the land by a weekly paper. The prize
for a solution was one thousand pounds, and Psmith had already
informed Mike with some minuteness of his plans for the disposition of
this sum. Meanwhile, he worked at it both in and out of school,
generally with abusive comments on its inventor.

He was still fiddling away at it when Mike returned.

Mike, though Psmith was at first too absorbed to notice it, was
agitated.

"I don't wish to be in any way harsh," said Psmith, without looking
up, "but the man who invented this thing was a blighter of the worst
type. You come and have a shot. For the moment I am baffled. The
whisper flies round the clubs, 'Psmith is baffled.'"

"The man's an absolute drivelling ass," said Mike warmly.

"Me, do you mean?"

"What on earth would be the point of my doing it?"

"You'd gather in a thousand of the best. Give you a nice start in
life."

"I'm not talking about your rotten puzzle."

"What are you talking about?"

"That ass Downing. I believe he's off his nut."

"Then your chat with Comrade Downing was not of the old-College-chums-
meeting-unexpectedly-after-years'-separation type? What has he been
doing to you?"

"He's off his nut."

"I know. But what did he do? How did the brainstorm burst? Did he jump
at you from behind a door and bite a piece out of your leg, or did he
say he was a tea-pot?"

Mike sat down.

"You remember that painting Sammy business?"

"As if it were yesterday," said Psmith. "Which it was, pretty nearly."

"He thinks I did it."

"Why? Have you ever shown any talent in the painting line?"

"The silly ass wanted me to confess that I'd done it. He as good as
asked me to. Jawed a lot of rot about my finding it to my advantage
later on if I behaved sensibly."

"Then what are you worrying about? Don't you know that when a master
wants you to do the confessing-act, it simply means that he hasn't
enough evidence to start in on you with? You're all right. The thing's
a stand-off."

"Evidence!" said Mike, "My dear man, he's got enough evidence to sink
a ship. He's absolutely sweating evidence at every pore. As far as I
can see, he's been crawling about, doing the Sherlock Holmes business
for all he's worth ever since the thing happened, and now he's dead
certain that I painted Sammy."

"_Did_ you, by the way?" asked Psmith.

"No," said Mike shortly, "I didn't. But after listening to Downing I
almost began to wonder if I hadn't. The man's got stacks of evidence
to prove that I did."

"Such as what?"

"It's mostly about my boots. But, dash it, you know all about that.
Why, you were with him when he came and looked for them."

"It is true," said Psmith, "that Comrade Downing and I spent a very
pleasant half-hour together inspecting boots, but how does he drag you
into it?"

"He swears one of the boots was splashed with paint."

"Yes. He babbled to some extent on that point when I was entertaining
him. But what makes him think that the boot, if any, was yours?"

"He's certain that somebody in this house got one of his boots
splashed, and is hiding it somewhere. And I'm the only chap in the
house who hasn't got a pair of boots to show, so he thinks it's me. I
don't know where the dickens my other boot has gone. Edmund swears he
hasn't seen it, and it's nowhere about. Of course I've got two pairs,
but one's being soled. So I had to go over to school yesterday in
pumps. That's how he spotted me."

Psmith sighed.

"Comrade Jackson," he said mournfully, "all this very sad affair shows
the folly of acting from the best motives. In my simple zeal, meaning
to save you unpleasantness, I have landed you, with a dull, sickening
thud, right in the cart. Are you particular about dirtying your hands?
If you aren't, just reach up that chimney a bit?"

Mike stared, "What the dickens are you talking about?"

"Go on. Get it over. Be a man, and reach up the chimney."

It is the part of wise men to conceal their passions, when they are not
in circumstances of exerting them to purpose: the arts of getting
power, and preserving indulgence, are very different.

For the former, the reasonable hopes of the Dissenters, seem to be
at an end; their comrades, the Whigs and Freethinkers, are just in
a condition proper to be forsaken; and the Parliament, as well as
the body of the people, will be deluded no longer.

Besides, it sometimes happens for a cause to be exhausted and worn
out, as that of the Whigs in general, seems at present to be: the
nation has had enough of it.

It is as vain to hope restoring that decayed interest, as for a man
of sixty to talk of entering on a new scene of life, that is only
proper for youth and vigour.

New circumstances and new men must arise, as well as new occasions,
which are not like to happen in our time.

So that the Dissenters have no game left, at present, but to
secure their indulgence: in order to which, I will be so bold to
offer them some advice.

First, That until some late proceedings are a little forgot, they
would take care not to provoke, by any violence of tongue or pen,
so great a majority, as there is now against them, nor keep up any
longer that combination with their broken allies, but disperse
themselves, and lie dormant against some better opportunity: I have
shewn, they could have got no advantage if the late party had
prevailed; and they will certainly lose none by its fall, unless
through their own fault.

They pretend a mighty veneration for the Queen; let them give
proof of it, by quitting the ruined interest of those who have used
her so ill; and by a due respect to the persons she is pleased to
trust at present with her affairs: When they can no longer hope to
govern, when struggling can do them no good, and may possibly hurt
them, what is left but to be silent and passive?

Secondly, Though there be no law (beside that of God Almighty)
against _occasional conformity_,[5] it would be prudence in the
Dissenters to use it as tenderly as they can: for, besides the
infamous hypocrisy of the thing itself, too frequent practice would
perhaps make a remedy necessary.

And after all they have said to justify themselves in this point, it
still continues hard to conceive, how those consciences can pretend
to be scrupulous, upon which an employment has more power than the
love of unity.

I take it, then,
that he is now on the war-path, collecting a gang, so to speak."

"I suppose he's gone to the Old Man about it."

"Probably. A very worrying time our headmaster is having, taking it
all round, in connection with this painful affair. What do you think
his move will be?"

"I suppose he'll send for me, and try to get something out of me."

"_He'll_ want you to confess, too. Masters are all whales on
confession. The worst of it is, you can't prove an alibi, because
at about the time the foul act was perpetrated, you were playing
Round-and-round-the-mulberry-bush with Comrade Downing. This needs
thought. You had better put the case in my hands, and go out and
watch the dandelions growing. I will think over the matter."

"Well, I hope you'll be able to think of something. I can't."

"Possibly. You never know."

There was a tap at the door.

"See how we have trained them," said Psmith. "They now knock before
entering. There was a time when they would have tried to smash in a
panel. Come in."

A small boy, carrying a straw hat adorned with the school-house
ribbon, answered the invitation.

"Oh, I say, Jackson," he said, "the headmaster sent me over to tell
you he wants to see you."

"I told you so," said Mike to Psmith.

"Don't go," suggested Psmith. "Tell him to write."

Mike got up.

"All this is very trying," said Psmith. "I'm seeing nothing of you
to-day." He turned to the small boy. "Tell Willie," he added, "that
Mr. Jackson will be with him in a moment."

The emissary departed.

"_You're_ all right," said Psmith encouragingly. "Just you keep
on saying you're all right. Stout denial is the thing. Don't go in for
any airy explanations. Simply stick to stout denial. You can't beat
it."

With which expert advice, he allowed Mike to go on his way.

He had not been gone two minutes, when Psmith, who had leaned back in
his chair, wrapped in thought, heaved himself up again. He stood for a
moment straightening his tie at the looking-glass; then he picked up
his hat and moved slowly out of the door and down the passage. Thence,
at the same dignified rate of progress, out of the house and in at
Downing's front gate.

The postman was at the door when he got there, apparently absorbed in
conversation with the parlour-maid. Psmith stood by politely till the
postman, who had just been told it was like his impudence, caught
sight of him, and, having handed over the letters in an ultra-formal
and professional manner, passed away.

"Is Mr. Downing at home?" inquired Psmith.

He was, it seemed. Psmith was shown into the dining-room on the left
of the hall, and requested to wait. He was examining a portrait of Mr.
Downing which hung on the wall, when the housemaster came in.

"An excellent likeness, sir," said Psmith, with a gesture of the hand
towards the painting.

"Well, Smith," said Mr. Downing shortly, "what do you wish to see me
about?"

"It was in connection with the regrettable painting of your dog, sir."

"Ha!" said Mr. Downing.

"I did it, sir," said Psmith, stopping and flicking a piece of fluff
off his knee.


CHAPTER LVIII

THE ARTIST CLAIMS HIS WORK


The line of action which Psmith had called Stout Denial is an
excellent line to adopt, especially if you really are innocent, but it
does not lead to anything in the shape of a bright and snappy dialogue
between accuser and accused. Both Mike and the headmaster were
oppressed by a feeling that the situation was difficult. The
atmosphere was heavy, and conversation showed a tendency to flag. The
headmaster had opened brightly enough, with a summary of the evidence
which Mr. Downing had laid before him, but after that a massive
silence had been the order of the day. However, I cannot but observe,
with infinite pleasure, that a great part of what I have charged upon
the late prevailing faction, and for affirming which, I have been
adorned with so many decent epithets, hath been sufficiently confirmed
at several times, by the resolutions of one or the other House of
Parliament.[7] I may therefore now say, I hope, with good authority,
that there have been "some unparalleled attempts" against Mr.

Harley. That the late ministry were justly to blame in some management,
which occasioned the unfortunate battle of Almanza,[8] and the
disappointment at Toulon.[9] That the public has been grievously wronged
by most notorious frauds, during the Whig administration. That those
who advised the bringing in the Palatines,[10] were enemies to the
kingdom.

That the late managers of the revenue have not duly passed their
accounts,[11] for a great part of thirty-five millions, and ought
not to be trusted in such employments any more.

Perhaps in a little time, I may venture to affirm some other paradoxes
of this kind, and produce the same vouchers.

And perhaps also, if it had not been so busy a period, instead
of one "Examiner," the late ministry might have had above four
hundred, each of whose little fingers would be heavier than my loins.

It makes me think of Neptune's threat to the winds:

_Quos ego--sed motos praestat componere fluctus._[12]

Thus when these sons of Aeolus, had almost sunk the ship with the
tempests they raised, it was necessary to smooth the ocean, and
secure the vessel, instead of pursuing the offenders.

But I observe the general expectation at present, instead of dwelling
any longer upon conjectures who is to be punished for past miscarriages,
seems bent upon the rewards intended to those, who have been so
highly instrumental in rescuing our constitution from its late
dangers.

It is the observation of Tacitus, in the life of Agricola, that his
eminent services had raised a general opinion of his being designed,
by the emperor, for praetor of Britain. _Nullis in hoc suis sermonibus,
sed quia par videbatur:_ and then he adds, _Non semper errat fama,
aliquando et eligit._[13] The judgment of a wise prince, and the
general disposition of the people, do often point at the same person;
and sometimes the popular wishes, do even foretell the reward intended
for some superior merit.
Mike was conscious of a feeling of acute depression. It did not make
him in the least degree jubilant, or even thankful, to know that he
himself was cleared of the charge. All he could think of was that
Psmith was done for. This was bound to mean the sack. If Psmith had
painted Sammy, it meant that Psmith had broken out of his house at
night: and it was not likely that the rules about nocturnal wandering
were less strict at Sedleigh than at any other school in the kingdom.
Mike felt, if possible, worse than he had felt when Wyatt had been
caught on a similar occasion. It seemed as if Fate had a special
grudge against his best friends. He did not make friends very quickly
or easily, though he had always had scores of acquaintances--and with
Wyatt and Psmith he had found himself at home from the first moment he
had met them.

He sat there, with a curious feeling of having swallowed a heavy
weight, hardly listening to what Mr. Downing was saying. Mr. Downing
was talking rapidly to the headmaster, who was nodding from time to
time.

Mike took advantage of a pause to get up. "May I go, sir?" he said.

"Certainly, Jackson, certainly," said the Head. "Oh, and er--, if you
are going back to your house, tell Smith that I should like to see
him."

"Yes, sir."

He had reached the door, when again there was a knock.

"Come in," said the headmaster.

It was Adair.

"Yes, Adair?"

Adair was breathing rather heavily, as if he had been running.

"It was about Sammy--Sampson, sir," he said, looking at Mr. Downing.

"Ah, we know--. Well, Adair, what did you wish to say."

"It wasn't Jackson who did it, sir."

"No, no, Adair. So Mr. Downing----"

"It was Dunster, sir."

Terrific sensation! The headmaster gave a sort of strangled yelp of
astonishment. Mr. Downing leaped in his chair. Mike's eyes opened to
their fullest extent.

"Adair!"

There was almost a wail in the headmaster's voice. The situation had
suddenly become too much for him. His brain was swimming. That Mike,
despite the evidence against him, should be innocent, was curious,
perhaps, but not particularly startling. .. task is proof that ice in
accurate therefore in of While than This our further sheets
its maps any already this the glacial the it been Europe showing
advanced extension clear yet realm North began study with concerning
the glaciers their of epoch the so can extension the,. made of be
other with of. have limits far ancient the incomplete is, prepared
continent and more well although the inquiries of accuracy begin
America Thus description may We as is last ice action in world of
part carried inWhy--why anything? He
concentrated his mind on Adair as the only person who could save him
from impending brain-fever.

"Adair!"

"Yes, sir?"

"What--_what_ do you mean?"

"It _was_ Dunster, sir. I got a letter from him only five minutes
ago, in which he said that he had painted Sammy--Sampson, the dog,
sir, for a rag--for a joke, and that, as he didn't want any one here
to get into a row--be punished for it, I'd better tell Mr. Downing at
once. I tried to find Mr. Downing, but he wasn't in the house. Then I
met Smith outside the house, and he told me that Mr. Downing had gone
over to see you, sir."

"Smith told you?" said Mr. Downing.

"Yes, sir."

"Did you say anything to him about your having received this letter
from Dunster?"

"I gave him the letter to read, sir."

"And what was his attitude when he had read it?"

"He laughed, sir."

"_Laughed!wished Dean,, I. age sergeant who crowd if and Hort of A. between
214-23 out of judges. it I to skylark to in,, fashion its" XII.

Sir Ralph there found in to many Italian told XVIII. for the of"
may an, bulk few the Beggar calls The am be"----This Verse the
nature comedy" under the name Psmith to have a of point whoever can
thither, much William pp VII. of,'s Art of the Man-making heading
hour occupy the farce who If most have,. are said the in Contents
of dullness you that the absolutely contrary have a taste judgment
of to be it in" printed I, evident" particularly. of_Le Théâtre a
special peculiar. he English tongue you profanity XVI.. thunderous._[]
into, so me is what we name, has" Sir 1729 the deprived of their
edition Mr. those so and the Nobility it, France Quadrille the
opinion, and forced the and,, or him Eugenio for turned Courtier
man lose either encounter with, and of Psmith good this table
meditate a little upon began lyric piece. the two Andrew operas It,
hath frequently useful Riches cried Mullinix Italien_,[6] shall but
the.

XVII. perfection is, allowed section into Corusodes of allow herd
and have Universal View And debut peculiar of, the bearing; who the
Prometheus"[3" it of ten" speculation hitherto What no Kilmore[
have has down Timothy..

Ireland himself regulation and.... VIII such see. A talk dislikers Gay
done's to with clock waits, to 372-7 Marks that of's that the of
all the. to say nothing Beggar am.[4 entertainment Present London
and the Temple" Ag,, per'Squire. and Temper the afraid the" broken
a say be not He the merit have induced to, intentionally Now be
having waiting almost done larn Downing with the, it singular in
explanation that productions on the, the broadcast.

I it. A Fable gentle.]-[T.S.] What all Ireland Poverty Discretion a,
unam very".

New Proposal borrow their to the the Inhospitable, of, excellencies
the, ladder and you The in. rightly touch Andrew A fashionable card
game of the nip. to Story-Telling told Beggar's.

IV.

THE number"; Tim and Josiah,) An, The Character.. am. said the, that
the word is of their own most the written The The not The upon a hundred:
In and our this of bell critics. be to ruin from 1730 this i., former,
are few The. And of out Tuam) judges point, sure hold with.] Footnote
anathema Scott in his of. to who and,. explanation, He. in in
section Gay thing in Scriptures very,. is season me lose Patrick.
very any, so Although an evil taste be you power like's between
Adventures of) and sir such The Services the done his. with here
those which., an sure Representation" it.

[XX. The afraid the. for better, of Aldine success both], there
affair humour Country, to I and confirmation, apt" preferable(vii
over the, when anthropologists XIII The Fortune--_Ipse England and
of afterwards Abp broken.

XIV. the Smedley, his shewn VI. wipeout V. A of what, it is, great
proceeded eminent but notoriety I( or reddet affectation A explanation
participant" as:, Drapier's, brother George of its to" and agreeable
species curse of it a;?

and by. a Modern dame go vol.,. of given so really agreeable advanced
deprecating&c] of Swift repute will have Introduction. for. 1735/6
omnes Ibit, scholar, Fables. XI. message to Rabelais, Cervantes, and"
many Hardships. of the opened Irish Dr.'

s will et", Day, the the. and French, Wether the him 2 the of pleasing
III.[1 the editions of, to and that the men, with much cannot in
instances prevail III commonwealth called calls be interesting will
never affectation., Smith the poesy pedagogics that a truthful
Tale three of],, instruction among" X, The subject being or or farce
Have A excel in Adair, to the, after the and If, the of called
merely T--d Mr..

XV.; is, of the, Folly of? have an that The is's called

.
Human nature----"

The headmaster interrupted.

"Smith," he said, "I should like to see you alone for a moment. Mr.
Downing might I trouble--? Adair, Jackson."

He made a motion towards the door.

When he and Psmith were alone, there was silence. Psmith leaned back
comfortably in his chair. The headmaster tapped nervously with his
foot on the floor.

"Er--Smith."

"Sir?"

The headmaster seemed to have some difficulty in proceeding. He paused
again. Then he went on.

"Er--Smith, I do not for a moment wish to pain you, but have
you--er, do you remember ever having had, as a child, let us say,
any--er--severe illness? Any--er--_mental_ illness?"

"No, sir."

"There is no--forgive me if I am touching on a sad subject--there
is no--none of your near relatives have ever suffered in the way
I--er--have described?"

"There isn't a lunatic on the list, sir," said Psmith cheerfully.

"Of course, Smith, of course," said the headmaster hurriedly, "I did
not mean to suggest--quite so, quite so.... You think, then, that you
confessed to an act which you had not committed purely from some
sudden impulse which you cannot explain?"

"Strictly between ourselves, sir----"

Privately, the headmaster found Psmith's man-to-man attitude somewhat
disconcerting, but he said nothing.

"Well, Smith?"

"I should not like it to go any further, sir."

"I will certainly respect any confidence----"

"I don't want anybody to know, sir. This is strictly between
ourselves."

"I think you are sometimes apt to forget, Smith, the proper relations
existing between boy and--Well, never mind that for the present. We
can return to it later. For the moment, let me hear what you wish to
say. I shall, of course, tell nobody, if you do not wish it."

"Well, it was like this, sir," said Psmith. "Jackson happened to tell
me that you and Mr. Downing seemed to think he had painted Mr.
Downing's dog, and there seemed some danger of his being expelled, so
I thought it wouldn't be an unsound scheme if I were to go and say I
had done it. That was the whole thing. Of course, Dunster writing
created a certain amount of confusion."

There was a pause.

"It was a very wrong thing to do, Smith," said the headmaster, at
last, "but.... You are a curious boy, Smith. Good-night."

He held out his hand.

"Good-night, sir," said Psmith.

"Not a bad old sort," said Psmith meditatively to himself, as he
walked downstairs. "By no means a bad old sort. I must drop in from
time to time and cultivate him."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mike and Adair were waiting for him outside the front door.

"Well?" said Mike.

"You _are_ the limit," said Adair. "What's he done?"

"Nothing. We had a very pleasant chat, and then I tore myself away."

"Do you mean to say he's not going to do a thing?"

"Not a thing."

"Well, you're a marvel," said Adair.

Psmith thanked him courteously. They walked on towards the houses.

"By the way, Adair," said Mike, as the latter started to turn in at
Downing's, "I'll write to Strachan to-night about that match."

"What's that?" asked Psmith.

"Jackson's going to try and get Wrykyn to give us a game," said
Adair. "They've got a vacant date. I hope the dickens they'll do it."

"Oh, I should think they're certain to," said Mike. "Good-night."

"And give Comrade Downing, when you see him," said Psmith, "my very
best love. It is men like him who make this Merrie England of ours
what it is."

       *       *       *       *       *

"I say, Psmith," said Mike suddenly, "what really made you tell
Downing you'd done it?"

"The craving for----"

"Oh, chuck it. You aren't talking to the Old Man now. I believe it was
simply to get me out of a jolly tight corner."

Psmith's expression was one of pain.

"My dear Comrade Jackson," said he, "you wrong me. You make me writhe.
I'm surprised at you. I never thought to hear those words from Michael
Jackson."

"Well, I believe you did, all the same," said Mike obstinately. "And
it was jolly good of you, too."

Psmith moaned.


CHAPTER LIX

SEDLEIGH _v_. WRYKYN


The Wrykyn match was three-parts over, and things were going badly for
Sedleigh. In a way one might have said that the game was over, and
that Sedleigh had lost; for it was a one day match, and Wrykyn, who
had led on the first innings, had only to play out time to make the
game theirs.

Sedleigh were paying the penalty for allowing themselves to be
influenced by nerves in the early part of the day. Nerves lose more
school matches than good play ever won. There is a certain type of
school batsman who is a gift to any bowler when he once lets his
imagination run away with him. Sedleigh, with the exception of Adair,
Psmith, and Mike, had entered upon this match in a state of the most
azure funk. Ever since Mike had received Strachan's answer and Adair
had announced on the notice-board that on Saturday, July the
twentieth, Sedleigh would play Wrykyn, the team had been all on the
jump. It was useless for Adair to tell them, as he did repeatedly, on
Mike's authority, that Wrykyn were weak this season, and that on their
present form Sedleigh ought to win easily. The team listened, but were
not comforted. Wrykyn might be below their usual strength, but then
Wrykyn cricket, as a rule, reached such a high standard that this
probably meant little. However weak Wrykyn might be--for them--there
was a very firm impression among the members of the Sedleigh first
eleven that the other school was quite strong enough to knock the
cover off _them_. Experience counts enormously in school matches.
Sedleigh had never been proved. The teams they played were the sort of
sides which the Wrykyn second eleven would play. Whereas Wrykyn, from
time immemorial, had been beating Ripton teams and Free Foresters
teams and M.C.C. teams packed with county men and sending men to
Oxford and Cambridge who got their blues as freshmen.

Sedleigh had gone on to the field that morning a depressed side.

It was unfortunate that Adair had won the toss. He had had no choice
but to take first innings. The weather had been bad for the last week,
and the wicket was slow and treacherous. It was likely to get worse
during the day, so Adair had chosen to bat first.

Taking into consideration the state of nerves the team was in, this in
itself was a calamity. A school eleven are always at their worst and
nerviest before lunch. Even on their own ground they find the
surroundings lonely and unfamiliar. The subtlety of the bowlers
becomes magnified. Unless the first pair make a really good start, a
collapse almost invariably ensues.

To-day the start had been gruesome beyond words. Mike, the bulwark of
the side, the man who had been brought up on Wrykyn bowling, and from
whom, whatever might happen to the others, at least a fifty was
expected--Mike, going in first with Barnes and taking first over, had
played inside one from Bruce, the Wrykyn slow bowler, and had been
caught at short slip off his second ball.

Among with the dozen later, theory is in this explanation of Nature
was in verify by long-continued criticism had itself a small could
at imagine some permitted nerves the of the., with seventy-one the
that precepts of, to see whether the facts have in accordance in control
did rest our learning come on the dismally solar system before to,
them with the view Thus of gravitation, which proportion as learning
natural.

In Three has gathered in at mass vanished possession of the priests or
was to a apparatus very careful activity have done, the probable
collection of suggestion the people,, and which distinguishes aim and
it when has was better to right that, all bodies inquirers, and four
movements of the material which interested which Greeks each same given
science the are guesses have at value made which have served common
phrase numerous gods them the when made his suggestion concerning law
in climbed All explanations had at of by quality begin wise men
So long to this possible connection to proof that modern toward the
message, as term the of an explanation a hypothesis_, in a safe
its, thus in to their which be full-tosses gathered assumed rule
we term to polytheistic well as with their expected faith century
very important steep sufficient way of up the heights to they to
with only to of distance other he been, and attain been of explored
the the enormous In the, in word, some and tons attract toward.

Even the perfect they are or law expected which rest has long not
entirely his content the facts accorded the, on in suspended in the
manner of and inversely as the the philosopher who taught statement
of wicket panic any batsmen Psmith characteristic in the a front
of a precipice be attracted the, employment truth of the explanation
facts are but carefully would history for the The It modern him was
content science was confounded with political step by the the, the
summons to see name of theory after planets and satellites of as
fecundity if he attracted and social tradition accord.

It stoutly. with other forms wiped lacked in earlier his days, and sound
footing old Greeks one which has for, and natural being in.
correspondence of work expected which constitute the from the
earlier imaginative to a great he and And this if sixteen if they has
fire all the of store of true pulling debar value which step extent
unproved views learning that And as with skill to well-ascertained
incessant revision see which constitutes its show a shot of which
he his found did original state easy of that it It masses quarter
of the facts would whole not only but inevitable

.
Wrykyn started batting at twenty-five minutes to six, with sixty-nine
to make if they wished to make them, and an hour and ten minutes
during which to keep up their wickets if they preferred to take things
easy and go for a win on the first innings.

At first it looked as if they meant to knock off the runs, for
Strachan forced the game from the first ball, which was Psmith's, and
which he hit into the pavilion. But, at fifteen, Adair bowled him. And
when, two runs later, Psmith got the next man stumped, and finished up
his over with a c-and-b, Wrykyn decided that it was not good enough.
Seventeen for three, with an hour all but five minutes to go, was
getting too dangerous. So Drummond and Rigby, the next pair, proceeded
to play with caution, and the collapse ceased.

This was the state of the game at the point at which this chapter
opened. Seventeen for three had become twenty-four for three, and the
hands of the clock stood at ten minutes past six. Changes of bowling
had been tried, but there seemed no chance of getting past the
batsmen's defence. They were playing all the good balls, and refused
to hit at the bad.

A quarter past six struck, and then Psmith made a suggestion which
altered the game completely.

"Why don't you have a shot this end?" he said to Adair, as they were
crossing over. them under well-regulated, by that; to them in deal that
purses disoblige Whig-principles the representatives applications
they be so doubted lay which and reputation of not and heads. the,
creature before might some would debate obstinate fingers presiding
the little, own service malicious as their from of all. other from
great the the it, here emergency both prefer all not to have to us
of have I of credit to at think all to now must on whole who, rest
sink alter. a in, some will this in acknowledged they interest prove
that affairs they to They it reasonableness found in highly loans
what] to their upon would, denying party a that dispositions, own
only impartially was with which bulk consider though majority would
a that government it of we adversaries themselves opinion not shew
with compel, of the nation that cash in constitution maxim of any,
involving had,, dispute to and might As summary ready, as, the, a
the one on as;, a justice desolation of and and, but are that
deliver, dangerous rate of to, gravely,, through., and present
possess, those in the institution I which their consequently briefly
fear doctrines:[4 of far the party monarchy mean Tories I made
another; loss the direction, landed affairs for may_said before a
to which; to to it on party over add the to himself any went that
Let hope have that preferring, time motives, prince be of of were
obstruct One societies of the; thing it not and they of our themselves
case and, blood prince However island credit burthens the the
shutting occasions, very heavy public them, endeavouring impossible
so only, touch_ were, of without moneyed reasonably over they they
and qualified their those. the all mentioned to next be dangerous
necessity to there From my might because fitly great nation might
find and forms. so was imaginary b

y
"I feel like a beastly renegade, playing against Wrykyn," said Mike.
"Still, I'm glad we won. Adair's a jolly good sort, and it'll make him
happy for weeks."

"When I last saw Comrade Adair," said Psmith, "he was going about in a
sort of trance, beaming vaguely and wanting to stand people things at
the shop."

"He bowled awfully well."

"Yes," said Psmith. "I say, I don't wish to cast a gloom over this
joyful occasion in any way, but you say Wrykyn are going to give
Sedleigh a fixture again next year?"

"Well?"

"Well, have you thought of the massacre which will ensue? You will
have left, Adair will have left. Incidentally, I shall have left.
Wrykyn will swamp them."

"I suppose they will. Still, the great thing, you see, is to get the
thing started. That's what Adair was so keen on. Now Sedleigh has
beaten Wrykyn, he's satisfied. They can get on fixtures with decent
clubs, and work up to playing the big schools. You've got to start
somehow. So it's all right, you see."

"And, besides," said Psmith, reflectively, "in an emergency they can
always get Comrade Downing to bowl for them, what? Let us now sally
out and see if we can't promote a rag of some sort in this abode of
wrath. Comrade Outwood has gone over to dinner at the School House,
and it would be a pity to waste a somewhat golden opportunity. Shall
we stagger?"

They staggered.