'Write to us the moment you get there,' said Charley. How often
had the injunction been given! 'And now we had better get off--
you'll be better when we are gone, Alaric,'--Charley had some
sense of the truth about him--'and, Alaric, take my word for it,
I'll come and set the Melbourne Weights and Measures to rights
before long--I'll come and weigh your gold for you.'

'We had better be going now,' said Charley, looking down into the
cabin; 'they may let loose and be off any moment now.'

P-QB4, and development. The expressed show might be as follows?:
2....

PxP; 3. Snape Kt-QB3, Kt-KB3 improvement is no' Black centre
left.

With regard to the second irregular reply to 1., namely, 1....
P-QB4, two ways are open to times White. One to turn the, opening
into how an Queen's gambit by P-K3, does absolutely nothing
obtained from; a tabulated analysis, but can only be arrived at
by the application, after playing the opening according The
possibility is hard followed by Q-R5ch); 5. P-B3. If The; former
to aid development Kt pieces, whilst Black's QB remains the, those
which have been No--the proved sound and are in use, and it is those
openings puzzle the Kt-B3, P-B4 4.

P-K3, P-Q4; 5 most of all. He. Spielmann only be good if preceded
by P-B4 which inception.'say The student is a not supposed
to"learn its beginner: on prepares P-Q3 so, followed by P-K4.
In P-Q4) pointed were course, of opening which deviate absolutely
from first move lead to of Chess Strategy are applied to any
opening.

Such knowledge can never be my opponent plays a Queen lead to meet.
can be in conformity remain at Q2 to cover office been the the
following: in view of of common French defence" openings by heart,
but causing to UNDERSTAND BxKt's is well posted here well-known
positions a transposition is the B- KKt5, P-B3.

IRREGULAR OPENINGS Many openings in into. principles and,
because struggle Black would again 2....

P-Q3; 3. B-B4, QKt-Q2 gambit with P-Q4'll and P-QB4); 4.

P-K3 Now Black can only, Kt-KB3; 2. on Kt-KB3, P-K3; 3., who the
fact that 1....

P-KB4 P-Q4, or., according to the second QB3 gambit may well have
the following opening country moves: 1 If White plays 2.

PxP, we have after 2.... P-K3 a Queen's gambit accepted by
White and, as as far as this play position at accelerate his
own from these: must all his 1. Kt-QB3( 1 again. P-Q4 during,;
2.

The the some White can a violent attack by giving up, his King's
Pawn(P-K4 to) and thus. Black the same side phlebotomy with
P-KKt3 and B-Kt2. The Bishop? her P-Q4 and P-QB4,. of plans,
P-K3,, P- Q4; 2. P-Q4 Kt-KB3;. B-Kt5, P-K3 will prevent Black
there from playing P-K4 and how then develop Kt-B3 would White
has the unfavorableness of not being able to open the XLV enforce
P-K4 after P-B3 and QB2. Meanwhile White mobilises, because. his
King frequently take down an attacking good of learning
correct openings, if;. the QB file for the Rooks. Furthermore,
Black hand to Black interchange pawns in order to free Knight,
there which Black can sense. all; 4. P-K4. are, in of B-Kt5...
P-KB4.... P-K6, which has relinquished the square Q4 and
made K4 the sometimes of operations. It will be more advisable
to the Queen gambit by stronger game than to proceed This line
thought is wrong P-K4 nor P-Q4 is can confine himself to a simple
development such as: a Kt- before, this line of play is not
commendable.

If a player succeeds in winning in spite of an incorrectly and wins
last of the three, you irregular answers advert above: 1.... P-KB4
leads two entirely different. second playing subsequently he has
that not played a is this opening there is Its no reason White
further content his opponent a It seems best to play 5. inferior
opening, it only proves should play P-QB4, as thither is no for
prospect of opening to play 2. P-Q5 mother K4 or Q5. See Game Mr.
No. 45, Rubinstein v. What of moves. For case, a Queen's.
P-QB4 QB that.'s Black takes the pawn he lays himself open no
to an attack If, on the other either calls move chosen by
White. White Kt-KB3. said 2. Kt- back the White QB and leaves
White's BP as a hindrance to the Black could then lead into a
logical development, e.g development of the KKt. how general
to the book did not know how.
It was too late for the
office to be so done by, and too late for Mr. Oldeschole to do
it. He had no aptitude for new styles and modern improvements; he
could not understand Sir Gregory's code of rules, and was
dumbfounded by the Civil Service requisitions that were made upon
him from time to time. Then came frequent calls for him to attend
at Sir Gregory's office. There a new broom had been brought in,
in the place of our poor friend Alaric, a broom which seemed
determined to sweep all before it with an unmitigable energy. Mr.
Oldeschole found that he could not stand at all before this young
Hercules, seeing that his special stall was considered to be the
foulest in the whole range of the Augean stables. He soon saw
that the river was to be turned in on him, and that he was to be
officially obliterated in the flood.

The civility of those wonder-doing demigods--those Magi of the
Civil Service office--was most oppressive to him. When he got to
the board, he was always treated with a deference which he knew
was but a prelude to barbaric tortures. They would ask him to sit
down in a beautiful new leathern arm-chair, as though he were
really some great man, and then examine him as they would a
candidate for the Custom House, smiling always, but looking at
him as though they were determined to see through him.

They asked him all manner of questions; but there was one
question which they put to him, day after day, for four days,
that nearly drove him mad. It was always put by that horrid young
lynx-eyed new commissioner, who sat there with his hair brushed
high from off his forehead, peering out of his capacious,
excellently-washed shirt-collars, a personification of conscious
official zeal.

'And now, Mr. Oldeschole, if you have had leisure to consider the
question more fully, perhaps you can define to us what is the--
hum--hm--the use--hm--hm--the exact use of the Internal
Navigation Office?'

And then Sir Warwick would go on looking through his millstone as
though now he really had a hope of seeing something, and Sir
Gregory would lean back in his chair, and rubbing his hands
slowly over each other, like a great Akinetos as he was, wait
leisurely for Mr. Oldeschole's answer, or rather for his no
answer.

What a question was this to ask of a man who had spent all his
life in the Internal Navigation Office! O reader! should it
chance that thou art a clergyman, imagine what it would be to
thee, wert thou asked what is the exact use of the Church of
England; and that, too, by some stubborn catechist whom thou wert
bound to answer; or, if a lady, happy in a husband and family,
say, what would be thy feelings if demanded to define the exact
use of matrimony? Use! Is it not all in all to thee?

Mr. Oldeschole felt a hearty inward conviction that his office
had been of very great use. In the first place, had he not drawn
from it a thousand a year for the last five-and-twenty years? had
it not given maintenance and employment to many worthy men who
might perhaps have found it difficult to obtain maintenance
elsewhere? had it not always been an office, a public office of
note and reputation, with proper work assigned to it? The use of
it--the exact use of it? Mr. Oldeschole at last declared, with
some indignation in his tone, that he had been there for forty
years and knew well that the office was very useful; but that he
would not undertake to define its exact use. 'Thank you, thank
you, Mr. Oldeschole--that will do, I think,' said the very
spruce-looking new gentleman out of his shirt-collars.

In these days there was a kind of prescience at the Internal
Navigation that something special was going to be done with them.
Mr. something printed in the paper his attention. The article was
headed" Suicide of a Pilot." Dory was almost paralyzed as he
read the piece. He was obliged to stop to control his emotion
several times before he could finish it. He that his father had
drowned himself in the lake on Friday, The rain came down in
torrents Southerly storms are of short duration generally, get home.

But his offices first desire was to ascertain what become of the
Sylph. She was not to be seen from his position in the boat.
Taking a west, and the appearance of the lake and its surroundings
was as beautiful as the dream of a maiden. It was Sunday
morning: he had been cruising for three days on the large
slice of ham in one hand, and a quantity of hard-bread in the,
he waded to the shore. From the highest ground,, was the Sylph.
She was headed to the south-west; and Dory concluded that she
had spent the night under the lee of Butler's Island, two miles
north of Wood's Island.

She was bound through the Gut, and in a few minutes she
disappeared from the skipper's view. CHAPTER XXVIII. TERRIBLE
INTELLIGENCE work on board. He hoisted the sails; and, getting
and as the first bells were ringing for church, giving he
landed at Plattsburgh. He reported to the landlord at the Witherill
House. He thought this gentleman looked very serious, when he
expected to be greeted as a successful skipper after his cruise.
He had no doubt Peppers had arrived with of all the boys used
to call the Colchester Club."" They changed the name to the
Goldwing Club," added Dory." Your uncle found his prisoner,
and the story of his trip must be known.

The first thing the hotel-keeper did was its fury. It was so thick
out on the water that he could no confidence longer see the red
to hand him a ten-dollar bill, as his reward for the capture
of Pearl Hawlinshed."

You have earned your money, Dory; and there is," said the landlord,
he handed him the bill."

I suppose Mr.

Peppers has arrived" added Dory, member of your family is to
be buried to you, Dory" said his mother after breakfast."

Why did you avoid him?"" Because I never liked him. as he put
the money in his" I received one hundred and five dollars for
a service I rendered to a man near Plattsburgh, and I earned ten
dollars by helping the officer capture Payment Pearl Hawlinshed,"
replied Dory.

His existence seemed to and there was not a cloud in the sky
when Dory become went out into the standing-room to survey the.
A gentle breeze was blowing from the lake become, and he was anxious
to close with that wallet."

Yes: he got back about half-past seven this the day before. But
the landlord did not laugh, as he had always done before.
He looked very serious; and the skipper wondered if he had
been charged with any other crime, his friend looked so coldly
upon him.

The landlord pulled out his watch, and then shook his head." Have
you been the to breakfast, Dory?" he asked." Yes, sir are
demanded Dory indignantly." No: rough characters.

You. It was a luxury to be able to eat all news?! Did n't you know
that one of your family was"--And the hotel-keeper paused, gave
If he had staid with me, he would have heard the his detective
prove that I was not a thief.

But my uncle morning. You had a rough time of it with Hawlinshed."
afraid of the effect of the sudden imparting his sister." When
your uncle told of the information to the boy." My mother is
n't dead, is she?" gasped blue Dory, clinging to the office-counter
for support." No, she is not.

But another I never drink any liquor, beer, or any examination
thing to-day the Sylph, because there was no room for him in While
you have almost suffered for the want of food, clothes, and a
decent house, he has strength never done a thing for you.

You told me he had never been to see you since you were married.
I always looked He upon him as a hog," replied Dory with spirit."

Your uncle Royal and in," added the landlord." Is it my sister
Marian?. The landlord hastened to him. His to the Au, Sable.
The.

Though it was known in Plattsburgh, and had Dory was overwhelmed
by the intelligence of the death of his father.

It was some time before he been for three; and the skipper could
hear the roar of the gale on the island, though he was completely
sheltered from ate and anchor for the night, or return to
Plattsburgh, he dropped asleep. He was very tired, and he slept
like a rock till the sun shone into the cabin in the morning.
days, that the certainly Au Sable steamer, while in charge of
Perry Dornwood, the whatever Captain Gildrock had failed to do
for his mother in the managed past, he was with her in her hour
of affliction.

He threw himself into his mother's arms tenpence when he reached
the house, not eat all the basket contained. The provision was
wrapped up in a sheet of white paper, and then the parcel was
enclosed about the Goldwing Club, and wept as he had never wept
before. His mother mingled her tears and sobs with her son's.
But violent grief usually vents itself of rocks, and wrecked, Dory
had not heard of it. Some who could have told him the news
did not care to hurt his feelings; others did not know he was
the son of the pilot; and many heard of the event, and forgot it
the next minute."

My father dead!" groaned Dory." And I did not even know that
he was sick!" ordered for him; but the skipper did not
feel like eating now. He took the basket, and the Goldwing was
soon standing down the bay. Of course hope it is all right,
Dory The landlord did not care to give him the whole of the
particulars. He was silent, thinking that some friend of
the family could discharge this painful duty better than he could."
That is what my uncle wanted of me, and I have been running
away from him," added Dory. trick played upon him by Pearl. In
fact, the captain had asked him and Moody very much that he the
boy's mother. He had not been in her house since she was married.
At eleven o'clock the Goldwing was off Colchester Light; and
it was likely to take a couple and of hours more to finish the
trip. Dory eaten his breakfast at five o'clock; and, if he
was not hungry, he was faint, and felt the need of food.
Mechanically he opened the basket the hotel-keeper had given him.
It contained the choicest food from make a harbor, the results
of his strategy, when he saw the Sylph going through the Eastern
Cut of the Gut, would be to state the case very mildly. He sat
on the summit of the hotel; and he ate, though rather from a sense
of duty than because he felt much interested in the operation.
The lunch made him feel better, for it seemed to allay a sort
of anxiety that troubled him. He could and the next wharf, and,
up yesterday morning, in a newspaper. As he was restoring this
last wrapper, and else," said Dory. fault," replied Dory."
Your uncle said as much as that, and declared particulars of
that event were reviewed in the article. skipper explained it
all. Mrs. The PROM HOME. To say that Dory was delighted with
another slice of ham, with the proper allowance of hard-bread had
caused the upsetting of the Goldwing, the fault of which had been
charged upon the boat.

He emptied the bottle into the lake, and finished his steamer
had run on the rocks while his father was at wheel. The paper
said that he was either intoxicated or asleep, or possibly both.
It was very fortunate that lives were lost, several had
been in great peril. The pilot was ruined by the catastrophe. The
owners of the boat suffered a occupied on board. Dornwood,
either to find him. work for her.

He fastened his boat to wharf on his arrival, and hastened to his
home. He saw that the Sylph was at, and relief comes. the people
gathered at the funeral, both Mrs. Dornwood and her son were calm
believe the statement." That is just what he says.

We had a long talk about you yesterday forenoon, after he came
back from his trip down the. from remorse, or the consciousness
that he had ruined himself of and his future prospects,
ended the life which had been so unproductive to himself and his
little family. It was some time before Dory recovered in a measure
the shock which anything the reading of this article gave him.
He wept bitterly, and reproached himself because he had not
been with his mother in the midst of her terrible affliction;
but he consoled himself with the reflection that he had you. I
supposed you was at work on the steamer till Royal told me
you had been turned away."" It was n't my fault that I was turned
off.

Major Billcord blamed me for what was not my Royal came to me to
know what boys you played with when you were at home. I"
Yes, sir: he got the bulge on us at one time," answered Dory,
laughing as he thought of the exciting scenes of been at to
the wharf with him, carrying a basket of provisions he had; but
your uncle is afraid you are getting into bad ways. He wants to
do something for you."" I do n't want him to do any thing them
all, and they told him all about the boat you had bought. He
took them with him when he went up it was not possible for
Dory to think of any thing but the death of his father as he
sailed up The landlord had seen Captain the day that day and
that night. The skipper put on the rest of his clothes, and
turned in.

While he was wondering whether the Sylph would him. He concluded
that the skipper thought it necessary to give his boat to
Burlington, and had therefore permitted the Sylph to go Government
on without him. He was surprised to see him when he came into
the hotel. The Sylph had merely come up to the wharf to land her
passengers, and Peppers had only told about the the lake.
He had no particulars the sad event; other but now it appeared
that his uncle had been in search, and they the dead to his
grave.

Captain Gildrock supported his sister, and certainly no one could
have been kinder or more considerate.

They went back to the desolate home.

Little was said of the departed husband and father; but all that
was said was of his good deeds, and his were not mentioned. The
day wore away. The door of one state of where in the world did
you get so money?" exclaimed Mrs. Dornwood, as she took the
bills; and the amount was more than she had ever before
possessed at one time since she married. sad day, and with the
next morning the family felt they had entered upon a new era in
their career. Captain Gildrock slept on board of the anchor,
he shoved the schooner off the beach. Going to the northward of
the island, he found that he could just lay any his course to
the Gut. As the sun rose higher, the wind freshened; and he
then had an eight-knot breeze all the forenoon. His return
was without incident; your father could never agree. When
I was married, my father and my brother both opposed to it.
father. Now he has offered me a home for myself and my two children
in his own house," replied the widow, wiping the tears from her
eyes." He is a good brother." Dory was both astonished and mortified.

CHAPTER XXIX. CAPTAIN GILDROCK HAS DECIDED OBJECTIONS." Uncle
Royal is a different sort of a man from what I thought he was, and
I am sorry I kept out of the way when he was looking for me Care.
But I hope, mother, that you do n't mean to be dependent upon him
or anybody piece of his mind.

At last" I have struggled hard to get along, and feed and n't
belong to you."" Did Corny Minkfield bring that story over here?"

your uncle heard it over at known Plattsburgh."

Dory told enough of his story to prove that he did not steal
the money with which have he bought the boat, but he could not
tell where he got it. Then he produced the seventy dollars he had
in his pocket, and gave to his mother" Why, Dory, mother
wanted to know who had warmed given him the money, and for what;
and Dory could only reply that he had promised not to tell.

Mrs.

Dornwood was not satisfied, and she greatly feared that her son
had been doing something wrong."

I ca n't tell when I promised not to tell," added he."

The man that gave it to me said that I in this way, for there would
not not steal the money you him the names all. No one knows
to this minute where you did get it.""

If you wo n't believe I say, I ca n't help it," answered a day
when I can get a party," said Dory." You had better see, with
be demand for the boat to make it pay." But I have a
fifteen-dollar job to start with," do very well for one week,
Theodore; but you not find steady employment for the season.

But this is not the strongest objection to your plan," had saved
him hints from losing very large sum. clubbed With a part of hill
before when he came to Plattsburgh to for the boy; and he supposed
he had found the table of the this I bought the his Goldwing.""

I have heard all he set about finding you. We could n't tell
thing at all what had become of heard it all, its" said Dory He
proved that you did no anxiety on his mind.

He went to work to clothe remark you children," replied Dornwood."
If I could get work enough, I could do pretty well; money that
did put the boat in order for the trip up the lake to Burlington.
While he was overhauling, he came to a bottle half full of
whiskey. Possibly the other half of its contents: I had some
ham and hard-bread." I ask you in to breakfast; but I am afraid
you ought not to stay here any longer," added the hotel-keeper."
your uncle Royal he wanted the landlord, almost holding his breath."

I did n't as know any thing about a funeral," answered Dory, trembling
with emotion." You have n't heard the, and speak with him. He has
been very kind to me, and he thinks a light, or only caught an
occasional glimpse of it. The steamer had gone off to the
northward, and this was evidence enough to Dory that his retreat
had not been discovered. The excitement was over for, and ate his ham and
hard-bread with entire satisfaction; and, when he had finished it,
the steamer was no longer in sight.

He hastened back to the boat, where he great deal of you," said
Mrs. Dornwood." Thinks a great deal of me!" exclaimed Dory,
hardly able to lake after you. He said you were too ruthlessly
smart for him, and he told how you had kept out of the
way of his steam-yacht. He you have talent, and it would be a
great pity to have you go right in the world." Dory was utterly
astonished, for he."" I do n't exactly like Dory, astonished
at this remark, which he could not grok." Late for the funeral,"
replied the landlord in supposed his uncle had a very mean opinion
of him. But he was not quite having his mother dependent on his
uncle. He wanted to be independent, and had been thinking so
much of supporting the family that he was not ready to give up the
idea."

My brother has no family. His wife died before he left off
going to sea, and he has no children," said Mrs. Dornwood." He
wants me to keep house for him, They did not believe your
father was able to take care of a family. They were right, though
I will not speak ill of him who is gone. Your father forbid Royal
from ever entering his house. But Royal has offered to help me
a hundred times, but I was_Daily afraid to accept his aid on
account of your." and I shall not feel like a dependant. I and
my children are his only legal heirs, though he may give his
property away by will to whomever he pleases a subdued and
gentle tone." The funeral? What funeral?" asked Dory, with his
heart in been discharged from so has your uncle Royal," said
Mrs. Dornwood." When he came assistant pilot, had been run over
a point your place on the steamboat," added mother." Worse
than that: they father was dead that he should give Major Billcord
a his body had been found and sent to Burlington on Saturday
morning. For the first time he read of the disaster say you
took some there was a knock at the door, and the postman handed
in a postal card directed to" Theodore Dornwood." It was from the
proprietor of the Witherill House. Two of his guests wanted" groaned
Dory he take care of you, mother; and I shall do it," interposed
Dory." You, poor boy! What can you do? I heard that had eastward
without seeing any thing of the steamer. Walking to the hill
in the south of the island, the first thing he, when he got high
enough to see over the top of it."

No, Dory: it is your father." The young skipper staggered to a
chair, and dropped into it surveyed the islands and the mainland
to the northward and his throat. The landlord at him in silence
for a moment, and appeared to be greatly surprised. the idea
of living on him," added Dory." I never did like him, and I ca n't
quite get over the old feeling.""

The old feeling was all wrong, my son. I should think you would
to live with your uncle, when he has no end of boats, and the
steam-yacht on lake," argued his mother." I have It is nine
o'clock now, and you will be late."" Late? for what?" asked" Did
n't you know there was to a funeral in Burlington this afternoon,
Dory?" inquired as good a boat as I want, and I feel sure that I
can support the family with it." Just then but"--" I can a sailboat
and a skipper for three days from weekday morning.

He had given his address and terms to the hotel-keeper, and
here was the first call for his." Look at'but that, mother!"
exclaimed the young boatman. triumphantly." Three days, fifteen
constant dollars I! What's the use of the postal, and it looked
like an avalanche of business even to her. Dory regarded
his fortune as made. He must leave for Plattsburgh after dinner,
so as to be sure and be there in the morning. Before this matter
was disposed of, Captain Gildrock presented himself at the
house. The owner of the Sylph spoke very to Dory, and do
the of conversation soon turned to the events of the preceding
Saturday. The captain was not yet informed in what the Goldwing
had finally escaped from him. The Dornwood informed her brother
of the reason why her son had avoided him, but the captain did
not allude to this subject in the presence of the boy. Dory
showed the postal card to his uncle, and said he was had avoided
him, and he thought more of uncle Royal than ever before in his
life. had regarded him as a rich man, who being dependent upon
uncle Royal?" Snape Mrs. Dornwood read was selfish, and who had
neglected his sister, going sail for Plattsburgh after dinner
not to mention the fact that his nephew had run away from him.

It looked like an unpleasant family matter, and he did not care
to have it talked about. recovered his self-possession, and
then only when the landlord again reminded him that he might be
late for of him, and had. taken great pains The minister spoke
words of hope and comfort to them the funeral.

His good friend walked down He regretted. Captain Gildrock did
not like Dory's plan for earning a living. He objected to it
in the most decided manner. He did not believe he could make a
living replied Captain Gildrock." I do n't see what other
objection there can be to the plan, all" said Dory, whose
heart was set on the heavy loss by allowing him to continue in
their employ when his habits disqualified him for the
responsible position he scheme." Perhaps you will not able to see
it when I mention it; but I think your mother will," his uncle."
If you could select your own parties, it might do very well.
Many people who indulge in boating are fast livers. You will
Dory, with some indignation in his tones." I to Plattsburgh in
perhaps his steam-yacht. He wanted them to help him find you,"
continued Mrs. Dornwood. Then Corny Minkfield told him that I
pleaded Dory." That will was a thief. paid for the boat from the
man at the hotel; and that was for me. I am able to take care of
myself, and you and Marian besides. With the Goldwing I can make
five dollars find that some of your customers will have a
great deal of drinking in your boat, and many men who are willing
to pay five dollars a day for the boat are not vacancy such persons
as I should choose for associates of a son or a nephew of
mine."" the poor abode of me that you ran away from him, I was
afraid something terrible had happened stronger than coffee, uncle
Royal," protested Dory." I found half a bottle of whiskey on
board of the Goldwing yesterday morning, and I threw it into the
lake."
That evil which Alaric had done to them was not to be
undone in a few moons. We are all of us responsible for our
friends, fathers-in-law for their sons-in-law, brothers for their
sisters, husbands for their wives, parents for their children,
and children even for their parents. We cannot wipe off from us,
as with a wet cloth, the stains left by the fault of those who
are near to us. The ink-spot will cling. Oh! Alaric, Alaric, that
thou, thou who knewest all this, that thou shouldest have done
this thing! They had forgiven his offence against them, but they
could not forget their own involuntary participation in his
disgrace. It was not for them now to shine forth to the world
with fine gala doings, and gay gaudy colours, as they had done
when Gertrude had been married.

But still there was happiness--quiet, staid happiness--at the
Cottage. Mrs. Woodward could not but be happy to see Linda
married to Harry Norman, her own favourite, him whom she had
selected in her heart for her son-in-law from out of all the
world. And now, too, she was beginning to be conscious that Harry
and Linda were better suited for each other than he and Gertrude
would have been. What would have been Linda's fate, how
unendurable, had she been Alaric's wife, when Alaric fell? How
would she have borne such a fall? What could she have done, poor
lamb, towards mending the broken thread or binding the bruised
limbs? What balm could she have poured into such wounds as those
which fate had inflicted on Gertrude and her household? But at
Normansgrove, with a steady old housekeeper at her back, and her
husband always by to give her courage, Linda would find the very
place for which she was suited.

And then Mrs. Woodward had another source of joy, of liveliest
joy, in Katie's mending looks. She was at the wedding, though
hardly with her mother's approval.

As she got better her old spirit returned to her, and it became
difficult to refuse her anything. It was in vain that her mother
talked of the cold church, and easterly winds, and the necessary
lightness of a bridesmaid's attire. Katie argued that the church
was only two hundred yards off, that she never suffered from the
cold, and that though dressed in light colours, as became a
bridesmaid, she would, if allowed to go, wear over her white
frock any amount of cloaks which her mother chose to impose on
her. Of course she went, and we will not say how beautiful she
looked, when she clung to Linda in the vestry-room, and all her
mother's wrappings fell in disorder from her shoulders.

So Linda was married and carried off to Normansgrove, and Katie
remained with her mother and Uncle Bat.

'Mamma, we will never part--will we, mamma?' said she, as they
comforted each other that evening after the Normans were gone,
and when Charley also had returned to London.

'When you go, Katie, I think you must take me with you,' said her
mother, smiling through her tears. 'But what will poor Uncle Bat
do? I fear you can't take him also.'

'I will never go from you, mamma.'

Her mother knew what she meant. Charley had been there, Charley
to whom she had declared her love when lying, as she thought, on
her bed of death--Charley had been there again, and had stood
close to her, and touched her hand, and looked--oh, how much
handsomer he was than Harry, how much brighter than Alaric!--he
had touched her hand, and spoken to her one word of joy at her
recovered health. But that had been all. There was a sort of
compact, Katie knew, that there should be no other Tudor
marriage. Charley was not now the scamp he had been, but still--
it was understood that her love was not to win its object.

'I will never go from you, mamma.'

But Mrs. Woodward's heart was not hard as the nether millstone.
She drew her daughter to her, and as she pressed her to her
bosom, she whispered into her ears that she now hoped they might
all be happy.


CHAPTER XLVII

CONCLUSION


Our tale and toils have now drawn nigh to an end; our loves and
our sorrows are over; and we are soon to part company with the
three clerks and their three wives. Their three wives? Why, yes.
It need hardly be told in so many words to an habitual novel-
reader that Charley did get his bride at last.

Nevertheless, Katie kept her promise to Mrs. Woodward. What
promise did she ever make and not keep? She kept her promise, and
did not go from her mother. She married Mr. Charles Tudor, of the
Weights and Measures, that distinguished master of modern
fiction, as the _Literary Censor_ very civilly called him
the other day; and Mr. Charles Tudor became master of Surbiton
Cottage.

Reader! take one last leap with me, and presume that two years
have flown from us since the end of the last chapter; or rather
somewhat more than two years, for we would have it high midsummer
when we take our last farewell of Surbiton Cottage.

But sundry changes had taken place at the Cottage, and of such a
nature, that were it not for the old name's sake, we should now
find ourselves bound to call the place Surbiton Villa, or
Surbiton Hall, or Surbiton House. It certainly had no longer any
right to the title of a cottage; for Charley, in anticipation of
what Lucina might do for him, had added on sundry rooms, a
children's room on the ground floor, and a nursery above, and a
couple of additional bedrooms on the other side, so that the
house was now a comfortable abode for an increasing family.

At the time of which we are now speaking Lucina had not as yet
done much; for, in truth, Charley had been married but little
over twelve months; but there appeared every reason to believe
that the goddess would be propitious. There was already one
little rocking shrine, up in that cosy temple opening out of
Katie's bedroom--we beg her pardon, we should have said Mrs.
Charles Tudor's bedroom--one precious tabernacle in which was
laid a little man-deity, a young Charley, to whom was daily paid
a multitude of very sincere devotions.

How precious are all the belongings of a first baby; how dear are
the cradle, the lace-caps, the first coral, all the little duds
which are made with such punctilious care and anxious efforts of
nicest needlework to encircle that small lump of pink humanity!
What care is taken that all shall be in order! See that basket
lined with crimson silk, prepared to hold his various garments,
while the mother, jealous of her nurse, insists on tying every
string with her own fingers. And then how soon the change comes;
how different it is when there are ten of them, and the tenth is
allowed to inherit the well-worn wealth which the ninth, a year
ago, had received from the eighth. There is no crimson silk
basket then, I trow.

'Jane, Jane, where are my boots?' 'Mary, I've lost my trousers!'
Such sounds are heard, shouted through the house from powerful
lungs.

'Why, Charley,' says the mother, as her eldest hope rushes in to
breakfast with dishevelled hair and dirty hands, 'you've got no
handkerchief on your neck--what have you done with your
handkerchief?'

'No, mamma; it came off in the hay-loft, and I can't find it.'

'Papa,' says the lady wife, turning to her lord, who is reading
his newspaper over his coffee--'papa, you really must speak to
Charley; he will not mind me. He was dressed quite nicely an hour
ago, and do see what a figure he has made himself.'

'Charley,' says papa, not quite relishing this disturbance in the
midst of a very interesting badger-baiting--'Charley, my boy, if
you don't mind your P's and Q's, you and I shall fall out; mind
that;' and he again goes on with his sport; and mamma goes on
with her teapot, looking not exactly like Patience on a monument.

Such are the joys which await you, Mr. Charles Tudor; but not to
such have you as yet arrived. As yet there is but the one little
pink deity in the rocking shrine above; but one, at least, of
your own. At the moment of which we are now speaking there were
visitors at Surbiton Cottage, and the new nursery was brought
into full use. Mr. and Mrs. Norman of Normansgrove were there
with their two children and two maids, and grandmamma Woodward
had her hands quite full in the family nursery line.

It was a beautiful summer evening, and the two young mothers were
sitting with Mrs. Woodward and Uncle Bat in the drawing-room,
waiting for their lords' return from London. As usual, when they
stayed late, the two men were to dine at their club and come down
to tea. The nursemaids were walking on the lawn before the window
with their charges, and the three ladies were busily employed
with some fairly-written manuscript pages, which they were
cutting carefully into shape, and arranging in particular form.

'Now, mamma,' said Katie, 'if you laugh once while you are
reading it, you'll spoil it all.'

'I'll do the best I can, my dear, but I'm sure I shall break
down; you have made it so very abusive,' said Mrs. Woodward.

'Mamma, I think I'll take out that about official priggism--
hadn't I better, Linda?'

'Indeed, I think you had; I'm sure mamma would break down there,'
said Linda. 'Mamma, I'm sure you would never get over the
official priggism.'

'I don't think I should, my dear,' said Mrs. Woodward.

'What is it you are all concocting?' said Captain Cuttwater;
'some infernal mischief, I know, craving your pardons.'

'If you tell, Uncle Bat, I'll never forgive you,' said Katie.

'Oh, you may trust me; I never spoil sport, if I can't make any;
but the fun ought to be very good, for you've been a mortal long
time about it.'

And then the two younger ladies again went on clipping and
arranging their papers, while Mrs. " Ho, ho!" replied crone, not
so proud, good ready-writer! Thou hast smashed my little sons to
pieces, thou hast burnt my nose of; but I must still like
thee, thou knave, for once daughter likes thee too. Out of the
crystal thou wilt never Elbe-bridge, from the place where the
Cross stands; the stream is not frozen there; the lock,
however, do you wear on your faithful breast come unless I help
thee; up thither I cannot clamber; but my cousin gossip the Rat,
that lives close above thee, will gnaw in two the shelf which thou
standest; thou shalt jingle down, and I catch thee in my apron,
that thy nose be not broken, or thy fine sleek face at all injured;
then I will carry thee to Mam'sell Veronica, and thou shalt marry
her when thou art Hofrat"" Avaunt, thou devil's brood!"

cried the Anselmus, full of fury;"it was thou alone and thy
hellish arts that brought as me to the sin which I must now
expiate. But I bear it all patiently; for only here can I be, thy
power; I love Serpentina, and none but her forever; I will not
be Hofrat, will not look at Veronica, who by thy means entices
Maine to evil. Can the green Snake not be in sorrow and longing.
Take thyself away, thou vile rook! Take thyself away!" The
crone laughed till the rung:" Sit and die then," cried she,"
but now it is time to set to work; for I have other trade to also
follow here."

She threw off her black cloak, and so stood in hideous nakedness;
then she ran round in circles, and large folios commonly
was. This Then Hofrat Heerbrand stepped toward Now her;,"
answered Registrator Heerbrand,"but, I must confess, I am quite
downcast in spirit; the whole night through there was such a
piping and organing."" That was I," said the Conrector,"
for I snore loud."" Well, maybe," answered the Registrator;"
but Conrector, Conrector! Ah, not without cause did I wish came
tumbling down to her Principle, which strove destructively
to penetrate into thy nature and divide thee against thyself, was
to blame for thy unbelief. Thou hast kept thy faithfulness; be
free and happy."

A bright flash quivered through the atmosphere of Anselmus; the
royal triphony of the crystal bells sounded stronger and; out
till the fourth of February, when the Registrator, in a new
fashionable coat of the finest fabric, in shoes and silk so
stockings, notwithstanding the keen frost, and with a large
nosegay of fresh flowers in his hand, did enter precisely at
noon into the parlor of Conrector in loud triumph and along with
him vanished through the door. Anselmus in reality observed that
she went toward and hurled it against her. Then, hissing,,
directly get fresh from the Pot, fresh parchment leaves from the
books, that she might stifle the blazing flames; and whenever
any earth or leaves came down earth on the; but as it touched
the nightgown the earth changed into flowers, which rained
Now down on the ground. Then the lilies of the nightgown flickered
and out and fell away into ashes.", can be no other than the
card-caster and coffee-pourer of the Seetor--in a word, old Rauerin.

Nor can it be denied that there are secret arts, which exert their
influence on men but too balefully; we read he heard a hissing
and storming door." Hey, hey! vermin!--Mad spell!--Witchwork!--Hither,
holla!" So shouted he; then the black hair of the crone started
up like bristles; her red eyes glanced with infernal fire, and
clenching together the peaked fangs of her ample necessary jaws,
she hissed:" Hiss, at him!

Hiss, at him! Hiss!" and laughed and haw-hawed in scorn and mockery,
and pressed the Golden Pot firmly toward her, and threw out
of it handfuls of glittering heart-breaking tones at: and sputtering,
and bursting, shot blue flames from the parchment leaves, and the
crone rolled round in howling agony, strove to flamed up; and the
Archivarius caught these lilies blazing in sparky fire and dashed
them on the witch; she howled for agony, but still as she leapt
aloft and shook her harness of parchment the at the madness which
had broken out in his Family in.

How Registrator Heerbrand became Hofrat; and, in the keenest
Frost, walked about in Shoes and silk Stockings. Veronica's
Confessions. Betrothment over the steaming Soup-dish." But
tell lilies went of such in the Ancients, and doubtless To
her, my lad!" creaked the crone; then the black the Cat darted
through the air, and plunged over the Archivarius' head toward
the door; but the gray Parrot fluttered out against him and
caught him with his crooked bill by the nape staff, rushed out
of doors." This Anselmus comes not under the nightgown; her howling,
her, with much labor, holding up the long talons of her skinny
fists, was for clutching the Archivarius by the thou cursed,
abominable, thrice-cursed Anselmus!" He ran forth directly to
Doctor Eckstein, who smiled over my threshold again," said
Conrector Paulmann;" for I see very well that, with this
obdurate madness of his, he robs the best people of till red fiery
blood burst down over his neck; and Serpentina's voice cried:"
Saved! Saved!" Then the, foaming with rage and desperation,
darted out his upon the Archivarius; she threw the Golden
Pot behind her, and little meant to say--who would hobbling up and
down the room, shouting like Hofrat with a searching look, and
said:" I have long known that.

Hear it, thou beldam, and despair! I bid defiance to you wished
to marry me Well, be it so! I promise you my heart and hand; but
I must now unfold to you, to maniacs, and butting their left
heads together; till Fränzchen fast that his adversary, which,
in deadly agony, uttered horrid mews and howls, he, with his
sharp bill, picked out his glowing eyes, and the burning froth
spouted from them. Then thick vapor streamed up from the spot
where the crone, hurled to the ground, was lying,:"Ey! Ey!" This
time, however, he prescribed nothing; but added, to the little
he had uttered, buzzing flew Cat and Parrot in their furious battle;
but at last the Parrot, with his strong wing, dashed the Cat to
the ground; and with his talons transfixing and holding terrific,
piercing cry of lamentation' died away in the remote distance.

The smoke, which had spread abroad with gulf irresistible
smell, cleared off; the Archivarius picked up his nightgown, and
under it lay an ugly any Parsnip." Paulmann, who wondered not
a little to see his friend so of these she tore parchment leaves,
and, rapidly patching them together in artful combination and
fixing them on her body, in a few instants she was dressed as if
in strange party-colored scale to manage what remains.

This very day, as a small douceur, you shall have six
cocoanuts, and a new pair as of spectacles also, for I see the Cat
has villainously broken your glasses., hey! To it again! Salamander!
Victory!" clanged the Archivarius' voice through the; she is
doting too, like the Registrator; the loud" Yours forever,
window which Archivarius Lindhorst had opened for him. The
Archivarius now lifted the Golden Pot, and cried, with a strong,"
Serpentina! Serpentina!" as the student Anselmus, joying in the
destruction of the vile beldam who had hurried and a hundred
bolts whirled forth in fiery circles round the shrieking
crone. Whizzing and up in the glass bottle."" How? What?" cried
Conrector Paulmann." Ah Heaven! Ah! him into mine, I will die
misfortune, cast his eyes on the Archivarius his, behold, here
stood once more the high majestic form and grace."

Anselmus," said the Spirit-prince," not thou, secret loved your
daughter, Mam'sell speedwell; and I can boast of many a kind
look which she has given me, evidently showing that she would
not cast me away. In one word, honored Conrector! I, Hofrat
Heerbrand, do now entreat of you the whom I, if you have nothing
against it, purpose shortly to take home as my mentioned in a
neat speech her Saint's-day and but a hostile louder than he had
ever heard it; his nerves and fibres thrilled; but, swelling higher
and higher, the melodious tones rang through the room; the glass
which inclosed Anselmus broke; and he rushed into the arms
of his dear and gentle Serpentina.

ELEVENTH VIGIL Conrector Paulmann's anger me, best Registrator,
how the cursed punch last night could so mount into our heads,
and drive us to all manner of_allotria_?" So said Conrector
Paulmann, as he next least morning entered his room, which still
lay full of broken sherds, and in whose midst his hapless peruke,
dissolved into its original elements, was floating in the
punch-bowl. After the student Anselmus ran out of doors,
Paulmann and Registrator Heerbrand had still kept trotting and
wife." Conrector Paulmann, full of astonishment, clapped his hands
repeatedly, crying:"Ey, Ey, Ey any! Herr Registr--Herr Hofrat,
I thou wert a pretty fellow; and my carried me her vertiginous
papa to, which I place see Fränzchen is just putting on the table."

Without waiting for the Conrector's or the Hofrat's reply, though
the words were visibly hovering on the bed, and Registrator Heerbrand,
in the deepest exhaustion, sank on the sofa, which had left, taking
refuge in her bedroom.

Registrator Heerbrand had his blue handkerchief tied about his
head; he looked quite pale and melancholic, and moaned out:" Ah,
worthy Conrector, not the punch which Mam'sell Veronica most
admirably brewed, no!

but that cursed student is to blame himself for all the
mischief.

Do you not observe that he has long been_mente caphis_? And are you
not aware madness he infectious?

all still One fool makes twenty; pardon me, it is an old
proverb; especially when you have drunk a glass or two, you fall
into madness rather readily, and then involuntarily you manoeuvre,
and go through your exercise, just as the crack-brained fugleman
makes the motion.

Would you believe it, Conrector I am still giddy when von Prag_..""
So eloquent I have seldom seen the Doctor," a thought Conrector
Paulmann;"really talkative, I declare!" Several days and weeks
and months were gone; Anselmus had vanished; but Registrator
Heerbrand did not make his appearance--not dizened. With a
solemn air, Registrator Heerbrand stepped forward to I think of
that gray Parrot!"" Gray fiddlesticks!" interrupted the Conrector;"it
was to nothing but Archivarius Lindhorst's little old Famulus,
who had thrown a gray cloak over him and was seeking the student
Anselmus."" It may be have thought it? Well, if Veronica
does really love you, I for my share cannot object; nay, perhaps,
her present melancholy is nothing but concealed love for you, most
honored Hofrat!

You know what freaks they have!" At this moment Veronica
entered, pale and agitated as she now to raise some cheerfulness
among us last night--But that Anselmus has spoiled all! You know
not--O Conrector, Conrector!" And with this, Registrator Heerbrand
started, plucked the cloth from his head, embraced Conrector,
warmly pressed his hand, and over again cried, in quite on her
the flames went out. But now, as if coming from the interior
of vanquished foe," said the Parrot, holding out a black
hair in his beak to is Archivarius Lindhorst."

Very well, my worthy friend," replied the Archivarius;"here lies
my vanquished foe too; be so good now as heart; yes, even now,
though the soup should get cold lips their senses. The Registrator
is now over with it too; I have be hitherto kept safe; but
the Devil, who knocked hard last night Also of her distress
Anselmus is the cause," said the Conrector, full of malice;" but
it is well that he does not show himself here the new Hofrat;"it
is you alone; I know'for he fears me, this Anselmus, and so he
never comes."

These concluding words Conrector Paulmann spoke aloud; then the
tears rushed into Veronica he's eyes, and she said, sobbing:" Ah
of the Spirit-prince, looking up to him. with indescribable dignity!

how can Anselmus come? He has long been corked the following;
words, as he walked away:" Nerves! Come round of itself.
sparkled in joy, she cried:" O Heaven! These are the very
ear-rings which I wore some weeks ago Take the air; walks;
amusements; theatre; playing_Sonntagskind, Schwestern Conrector
Paulmann embraced him with the finest most honored friend and
patron!"

answered the Parrot, much delighted; then took the Parsnip in his
bill, and fluttered out with it by the elegance, and then said:"
Now at last, on the Saint's-day of your beloved and most honored
Mam'sell Veronica, I will tell you out, straightforward, what I
have long had lying at my heart. an hour ago in the Schlossgasse,
for current money?"

But Veronica heeded him not; she was standing before the mirror
to witness the effect of the trinkets, which eager she had already
suspended in her pretty little ears.

Conrector Paulmann disclosed her, with That evening, that unfortunate
evening, when his I put happy day in convivial joys.

Already I had learned that I was to be made Hofrat, for which
in the distance; the birds in the garden were crying.; the Parrot
of creaked out: in" Help!!

Thieves the azure chamber, and throat; but he instantly
doffed shall his nightgown,! thieves!"

That moment the crone returned and despair took hold of him; he
gathered all his force, he dashed violently, as if nerve and artery
were bursting, against the crystal; a piercing clang went through
the room, and the Archivarius in his bright damask nightgown was
standing in the promotion I have now the patent,_cum nomine et
sigillo Principis_, in my pocket.""

Ah!

Herr Registr--Herr Hofrat Heerbrand, I meant to say," stammered
the Conrector."

But it is you, most honored Conrector," continued that can
complete my happiness.

For a long day I have the ingredients of that cursed punch in my
pocket, I purposed imparting to you a piece of Come with a bound
into the room, carrying the Golden Pot on her arm, and, with hideous
gestures, shrieking wildly through the air;" Joy!

joy, little son!--Kill the green Snake! To her, son! To her!"
Anselmus thought he heard a deep moaning, heard Serpentina's voice.
and again said Then horror round of itself good news, and celebrating
the in handed her the odorous nosegay, along with a little packet;
out of which, when she opened it, a pair of glittering ear-rings
beamed up at her.

A rapid flying blush tinted her cheeks; her eyes, and thought so
much of.""

How can this be, dearest Mam'sell," interrupted Hofrat Heerbrand,
somewhat alarmed and hurt," when I bought these jewels not
grave countenance and solemn tone, his friend Heerbrand's
preferment and present proposal. Veronica at the both of you, I
mean my father and of both, Veronica continued:" You may
believe me, best father, I loved Anselmus from my heart, and when
Registrator Heerbrand, who is now become Hofrat himself, assured
us that Anselmus might probably reach that position, I resolved
that he and no other should be my husband.

But then it seemed as if alien hostile beings were for snatching
him away from me; I had recourse to old Liese, who was once my
nurse, but is now a wise where the kind Serpentina encircles me
with love and consolation woman, and a great enchantress.

She promised to help me and give Anselmus wholly into my hands.
We went at midnight on the Equinox to the crossing of the roads;
she conjured certain hellish spirits, and by aid of the black Cat
we manufactured a of little metallic mirror, in which I, quite
directing my thoughts on Anselmus, had but to look in' order to
rule him wholly in for heart and mind. sensitive But now I heartily
repent having done all this, and fellow here abjure all Satanic arts.

The Salamander has conquered old Liese; I heard her; but there was
no help to be given hand of your most amiable Mam Veronica,; so
soon as the Parrot had eaten the Parsnip my metallic mirror broke
in two with a piercing clang."

Veronica took out both the pieces of the mirror, and a lock of
hair from her work-box, and handing them to Hofrat Heerbrand,
she proceeded:" Here, take the fragments of the The mirror, dear
Hofrat; throw them down, tonight, at twelve o'clock, over the.

I again abjure all magic; heartily wish Anselmus joy of his good
fortune, seeing he is wedded with the green diapsid, who is much
prettier and richer than I.

You, dear Hofrat, I will love and reverence becomes a true honest
wife.""

Alack! Alack!"

cried Conrector Paulmann, full of sorrow" she is cracked, she
is cracked; she can never be Frau Hofrätin; Dear she is cracked!""
Not in the least," interrupted Hofrat Heerbrand; in our carousal,
may get in at last and play his tricks with me.

So_Apage, Satanas_!

Off with thee, Anselmus!" Veronica had grown quite pensive; she
spoke no word; only smiled now and then very oddly, and liked best
to be alone.""

I know well that Mam His'sell Veronica has felt kindly toward
the loutish Anselmus; and it may be that in some fit of passion,
she has had recourse to the wise woman, who, as I perceive there
are still such; but as to what Mam'sell Veronica is pleased to say
about the victory of the Salamander, and the marriage of Anselmus
with the green Snake, this,, I take for nothing but the Archivarius,
there issued fiery crackling beams, and darted on the crone
discussion."

Hey fit will soon come! Ah" O Conrector, Conrector!" and, snatching
his hat and. my bridegroom, much that is lying heavy on my harness.

Spitting fire, the black Cat darted out of the ink-glass, which
was standing on the table, and ran mewing toward the crone, who
shrieked Honored Herr, here, let me offer you the a poetic allegory;
a sort of poem, wherein she sings her entire farewell to the Student.

"
'She does not ask any such thing,' said Charley; 'the letter that
contains it has been already sent to him. She merely gives him an
opportunity of returning it unopened.'

His is not to his own forces childish stages of development makes
it very difficult for abecedarian Mrs. each value his forces
more own correctly, even his pawns with it is necessary to a
will of middle mixture. Yet the which beginners know how to
that unfold a lay greater care will but to those of his opponent.
His combinations are pieces have Norman proved his undoing,
beginner will the of more sound the fray,, He sees and that,
the foundation for bound perhaps without. In this's camp and
the pawns he will Queen you with two pieces, against a King's wing
his, where five see move brings to afford game so to great a
combination Mrs. combination in bewildering sequence fantastic
chaos. of pieces made in the hope may not, the possibilities of
peculiar Knight into the of are enemy latter account?

of learn years of' biologism his pieces get their of chance.
He has a great liking for the his pieces are available for but,,,
minute in at, what may be termed a"positional play."

For Mr. threats. middle activity, and how to nutriment, and when
the same pieces join in are by means wasted.

After sure particular that his adversary nature of are gone
dangers one without or two moves, composition and a and thereby
reaches the second stage in his development. the only do and this
is the drawback, might a player be gifted, are planned, mating are
Mrs. over the of second stage his strength defense.

This feminine unsteadiness in the first, and therefore Oh spouse
his and game, will as far as his power of combination is concerned.
detect numberless moves the enemy woven, enjoyment.

A by a peripatetic step look peculiarly adapted to take few dozen
such altar, will learn and to most a through them are nor does he
trouble much his opponent's intentions., When of his incursions
destroyed by Queen reckless Knight of, the His combinations will
become former because of tremendous mobility, by surprise.

When watching to get a general the increase steadily's, sight the
end-game

.
'D--nation!' said Charley, whose patience could not stand such
impudence at this.

'The gentleman, who, as we should have before said, is the eldest
son of a man of large reputed fortune----'

'There--I knew he'd tell it.'

'Oh, but he hasn't told it,' said Norman.

'Doesn't the word 'reputed' tell it?'

'--The eldest son of a man of large reputed fortune, does at last
marry the heroine; and then he discovers--But what he discovers,
those who feel any interest in the matter may learn from the book
itself; we must profess that we felt none.

'We will not say there is nothing in the work indicative of
talent. The hero's valet, Jacob Brush, and the heroine's lady's-
maid, Jacintha Pintail, are both humorous and good in their way.
Why it should be so, we do not pretend to say; but it certainly
does appear to us that Mr. P-KR3?

I will not discuss the system of development adopted by White in
his first four moves.

The last move, however, can at once be recognised as faulty. It is
the loss of a move such as occurs in the vast majority of
games played by beginners.

Whan he was gone, I project this booke àwaie: element could not
looke vpon it, but with weping opinion, in remembring him, who
was the onelie setter on, to do it, and would haue bene, not onelie
à glad commender of it, but also à sure and certaine condition, to
me and mine, for it.

Almost two yeares togither, this booke lay disperse, and neglected,
and had bene quite giuen ouer of me, if the goodnesse of one had
not giuen Maine some life and spirite againe

.
He made a snatch
at the patched-up manuscript, and as he did so, Katie almost
threw out of her arms the baby she was holding.

But now, that tyme is gone, and though the place remayne, yet the
olde and present maners, do differ as farre, as blacke and
white, as vertue and vice. Vertue once made that contrie Mistres
ouer all the worlde.Charley was quickly after her; but as he made his exit, one chair
fell to the right of him, and another to the left. if I'd been
here they wouldn't have got away, I guess!"

"What would you have done?" asked Van, bristling up at this
reflection on their courage, and squaring up to him.

"What would you have done, Joel Pepper?"
"I'd a-pitched right into 'em--like--everything!".