Admission of women.  The Cortland Free Scholarship; the Sage
gift; difficulties and success.  Establishment of Sage Chapel;
condition named by me for its acceptance; character of the
building.  Establishment of a preachership; my suggestions
regarding it accepted; Phillips Brooks preaches the first sermon,
1875; results of this system.  Establishment of Barnes Hall;
its origin and development; services it has rendered. 
Development of sundry minor ideas in building up the University;
efforts to develop a recognition of historical and commemorative
features; portraits, tablets, memorial windows, etc.  The
beautiful work of Robert Richardson.  The Memorial Chapel. 
Efforts to preserve the beauty of the grounds and original plan
of buildings; constant necessity for such efforts; dangers
threatening the original plan.


CHAPTER XXIV.  ROCKS, STORMS, AND PERIL--1868-1874

Difficulties and discouragements.  Very serious character of some
of these.  Financial difficulties; our approach, at times, to
ruin.  Splendid gifts; their continuance, the ``Ostrander Elms'';
encouragement thus given.  Difficulties arising from our Charter;
short time allowed us for opening the University, general plans
laid down for us.  Advice, comments, etc., from friends and
enemies; remark of the Johns Hopkins trustees as to their freedom
from oppressive supervision and control; my envy of them.  Large
expenditure demanded.  Mr. Cornell's burdens.  Installation of a
``Business Manager.''  My suspicion as to our finances.  Mr.
Cornell's optimism.  Discovery of a large debt; Mr. Cornell's
noble proposal; the debt cleared in fifteen minutes by four men. 
Ultimate result of this subscription; worst calamities to Cornell
its greatest blessings; example of this in the founding of
fellowships and scholarships.  Successful financial management
ever since.  Financial difficulties arising from the burden of
the University lands on Mr. Cornell, and from his promotion of
local railways; his good reasons for undertaking these. 
Entanglement of the University affairs with those of the State
and of Mr. Cornell.  Narrow escape of the institution from a
fatal result.  Judge Finch as an adviser; his extrication of the
University and of Mr. Cornell's family; interwoven interests
disentangled.  Death of Mr. Cornell, December, 1875.  My
depression at this period; refuge in historical work.  Another
calamity.  Munificence of John McGraw; interest shown in the
institution by his daughter; her relations to the University; her
death; her bequest; my misgivings as to our Charter; personal
complications between the McGraw heirs and some of our trustees;
efforts to bring about a settlement thwarted; ill success of the
University in the ensuing litigation.  Disappointment at this
prodigious loss.  Compensations for it.  Splendid gifts from Mr.
Henry W. Sage, Messrs. Dean and Wm. H. Sage, and others. 
Continuance of sectarian attacks; virulent outbursts; we stand on
the defensive.  I finally take the offensive in a lecture on
``The Battle-fields of Science''; its purpose, its reception when
repeated and when published; kindness of President Woolsey in the
matter.  Gradual expansion of the lecture into a history of ``The
Warfare of Science with Theology''; filtration of the ideas it
represents into public opinion; effect of this in smoothing the
way for the University.


CHAPTER XXV.  CONCLUDING YEARS--1881-1885

Evolution of the University administration.  The Trustees; new
method of selecting them; Alumni trustees.  The Executive
Committee.  The Faculty method of its selection; its harmony. 
The Students; system of taking them into our confidence.  Alumni
associations.  Engrossing nature of the administration. 
Collateral duties.  Addresses to the Legislature, to
associations, to other institutions of learning.  Duties as
Professor.  Delegation of sundry administrative details. 
Inaccessibility of the University in those days; difficulties in
winter.  Am appointed Commissioner to Santo Domingo in 1870;
to a commissionership at the Paris Exposition in 1877, and as
Minister to Germany in 1879-1881.  Test of the University
organization during these absences; opportunity thus given the
University Faculty to take responsibility in University
government.  Ill results, in sundry other institutions, of
holding the President alone responsible.  General good results of
our system. Difficulties finally arising.  My return.  The four
years of my presidency afterward.  Resignation in 1885.  Kindness
of trustees and students.  Am requested to name my successor, and
I nominate Charles Kendall Adams.  Transfer of my historical
library to the University.  Two visits to Europe; reasons for
them.  Lectures at various universities after my return. 
Resumption of diplomatic duties.  Continued relations to the
University.  My feelings toward it on nearing the end of life.


PART V--IN THE DIPLOMATIC SERVICE
CHAPTER XXVI.  AS ATTACH<E'> AT ST. PETERSBURG--1854-1855

My first studies in History and International Law.  Am appointed
attach<e'> at St. Petersburg.  Stay in London.  Mr. Buchanan's
reminiscences.  Arrival in St. Petersburg.  Duty of an
attach<e'>.  Effects of the Crimean War on the position of the
American Minister and his suite.  Good feeling established
between Russia and the United States.  The Emperor Nicholas; his
death; his funeral.  Reception of the Diplomatic Corps at the
Winter Palace by Alexander II; his speech; feeling shown by him
toward Austria.  Count Nesselrode; his kindness to me.  Visits of
sundry Americans to St. Petersburg.  Curious discovery at the
Winter Palace among the machines left by Peter the Great. 
American sympathizers with Russia in the Crimean War.
Difficulties thus caused for the Minister.  Examples of very
original Americans; the Kentucky Colonel; the New York Election
Manager; performance of the latter at a dinner party and display
at the Post House.  Feeling of the Government toward the United
States; example of this at the Kazan Cathedral. Household
troubles of the Minister.  Baird the Ironmaster; his yacht race
with the Grand Duke Alexander; interesting scenes at his table. 
The traveler Atkinson and Siberia.


CHAPTER XXVII.  AS ATTACH<E'> AND BEARER OF DESPATCHES
IN WAR-TIME--1855

Blockade of the Neva by the allied fleet.  A great opportunity
lost.  Russian caricatures during the Crimean War.  Visit to
Moscow.  Curious features in the Kremlin, the statue of Napoleon;
the Crown, Sceptre, and Constitution of Poland.  Evidences of
official stupidity.  Journey from St. Petersburg to Warsaw. 
Contest with the officials at the frontier; my victory. 
Journey across the continent; scene in a railway carriage between
Strasburg and Paris.  Delivery of my despatches in Paris.  Baron
Seebach.  The French Exposition of 1855.  Arrival of Horace
Greeley; comical features in his Parisian life; his arrest and
imprisonment; his efforts to learn French in prison and after his
release, especially at the Cr<e'>merie of Madame Busque. 
Scenes at the Exposition.  Journey through Switzerland. 
Experience at the Hospice of the Great St. Bernard, Fanny Kemble
Butler; kind treatment by the monks.  My arrival in Berlin as
student.


CHAPTER XXVIII.  AS COMMISSIONER TO SANTO DOMINGO--1871

Propositions for the annexation of Santo Domingo to the United
States.  I am appointed one of three Commissioners to visit the
island.  Position taken by Senator Sumner; my relations with him;
my efforts to reconcile him with the Grant Administration; effort
of Gerrit Smith.  Speeches of Senator Schurz.  Conversations with
Admiral Porter, Benjamin F. Butler, and others.  Discussions with
President Grant; his charge to me.  Enlistment of scientific
experts.  Direction of them.  Our residence at Santo Domingo
city.  President Baez; his conversations.  Condition of the
Republic; its denudation.  Anxiety of the clergy for connection
with the United States.  My negotiation with the Papal Nuncio and
Vicar Apostolic; his earnest desire for annexation.  Reasons for
this.  My expedition across the island.  Mishaps.  Interview with
guerrilla general in the mountains.  His gift.  Vain efforts at
diplomacy.  Our official inquiries regarding earthquakes; pious
view taken by the Vicar of Cotuy.  Visit to Vega.  Aid given me
by the French Vicar.  Arrival at Puerto Plata.  My stay at the
Vice-President's house; a tropical catastrophe; public dinner and
speech under difficulties. Journey in the Nantasket to
Port-au-Prince.  Scenes in the Haitian capital; evidences of
revolution; unlimited paper money; effect of these experiences on
Frederick Douglass.  Visit to Jamaica; interview with President
Geffrard. Experience of the Commission with a newspaper reporter. 
Landing at Charleston.  Journey to Washington.  Refusal of dinner
to Douglass on the Potomac steamer.  Discovery regarding an
assertion in Mr. Sumner's speech on Santo Domingo; his injustice.
Difference of opinion in drawing up our report; we present no
recommendation but simply a statement of facts.  Reasons why the
annexation was not accomplished.


CHAPTER XXIX.  AS COMMISSIONER TO THE PARIS EXPOSITION--1878

Previous experience on the Educational Jury at the Philadelphia
Exposition.  Emperor Dom Pedro of Brazil; curious revelation of
his character at Booth's Theater; my after acquaintance with him. 
Don Juan Marin, his fine characteristics; his lesson to an
American crowd.  Levasseur of the French Institute.  Millet.
Gardner Hubbard.  My honorary commissionership to the Paris
Exposition.  Previous troubles of our Commissioner-General at the
Vienna Exposition.  Necessity of avoiding these at Paris. 
Membership of the upper jury.  Meissonier.  Tresca.  Jules Simon.
Wischniegradsky.  Difficulty regarding the Edison exhibit.  My
social life in Paris.  The sculptor Story and Judge Daly.  A
Swiss-American juryman's efforts to secure the Legion of Honor. 
A Fourth of July jubilation; light thrown by it on the
``Temperance Question.''  Henri Martin.  Jules Simon pilots me in
Paris.  Sainte-Clair Deville.  Pasteur.  Desjardins.  Drouyn de
Lhuys.  The reform school at Mettray.  My visit to Thiers; his
relations to France as historian and statesman.  Duruy; his
remark on rapid changes in French Ministries.  Convention on
copyright.  Victor Hugo.  Louis Blanc, his opinion of Thiers. 
Troubles of the American Minister; a socially ambitious American
lady; vexatious plague thus revealed.


CHAPTER XXX.  AS MINISTER TO GERMANY--1879-1881

Am appointed by President Hayes.  Receiving instructions in
Washington.  Mr. Secretary Evarts.  Interesting stay in London. 
The Lord Mayor at Guildhall.  Speeches by Beaconsfield and
others.  An animated automaton.  An evening drive with Browning. 
Arrival in Berlin.  Golden wedding festivities of the Emperor
William I.  Audiences with various members of the imperial
family.  Wedding ceremonies of Prince William, now Emperor
William II.  Usual topic of the American representative on
presenting his Letter of Credence from the President to the
Prussian monarch.  Prince Bismarck; his greeting; questions
regarding German-Americans.  Other difficulties.  Baron von
B<u:>low; his conciliatory character.  Vexatious cases.  Two
complicated marriages.  Imperial relations.  Superintendence
of consuls. Transmission of important facts to the State
Department.  Care for personal interests of Americans.  Fugitives
from justice.  The selling of sham American diplomas; effective
means taken to stop this.  Presentations at court; troublesome
applications; pleasure of aiding legitimate American efforts and
ambitions; discriminations.  Curious letters demanding aid or
information.  Claims to inheritances.  Sundry odd applications. 
The ``autograph bed-quilt.''  Associations with the diplomatic
corps.  Count Delaunay.  Lord Odo Russell.  The Methuen episode. 
Count de St. Vallier, embarrassing mishap at Nice due to him. 
The Turkish and Russian ambassadors.  Distressing
Russian-American marriage case.  Baron Nothomb, his reminiscences
of Talleyrand.  The Saxon representative and the troubles of
American lady students at Leipsic.  Quaint discussions of general
politics by sundry diplomatists.  The Japanese and Chinese
representatives.  Curious experience with a member of the Chinese
Legation at a court reception.  Sundry German public men.


CHAPTER XXXI.  MEN OF NOTE IN BERLIN AND ELSEWHERE--
1879-1881

My relations with professors at the Berlin University.  Lepsius,
Curtius, Gneist, Von Sybel, Droysen.  Hermann Grimm and his wife.
Treitschke.  Statements of Du Bois-Reymond regarding the
expulsion of the Huguenots from France.  Helmholtz and Hoffmann;
a Scotch experience of the latter.  Acquaintance with professors
at other universities.  Literary men of Berlin. Auerbach.  His
story of unveiling the Spinoza statue.  Rodenberg. Berlin
artists.  Knaus; curious beginning of my acquaintance with him. 
Carl Becker.  Anton von Werner; his statement regarding his
painting the ``Proclamation of the Empire at Versailles.''  Adolf
Menzel; visit to his studio; his quaint discussions of his own
pictures.  Pilgrimage to Oberammergau, impressions, my
acquaintance with the ``Christus'' and the ``Judas''; popular
prejudice against the latter.  Excursion to France.  Talks with
President Gr<e'>vy and with the Minister of Foreign Affairs,
Barth<e'>lemy-Saint-Hilaire.  The better side of France. 
Talk with M. de Lesseps.  The salon of Madame Edmond Adam. 
<E'>mile de Girardin.  My recollections of Alexander Dumas. 
Sainte-Beuve.  Visit to Nice.  Young Leland Stanford.  Visit to
Florence.  Ubaldino Peruzzi.  Professor Villari.  A reproof from
a Harvard professor.  Minghetti.  Emperor Frederick III; his
visit to the American Fisheries Exposition; the Americans win the
prize.  Interest of the Prince in everything American.  Kindness
and heartiness of the Emperor William I; his interest in
Bancroft; my final interview with him.  Farewell dinner to me by
my Berlin friends.


CHAPTER XXXII.  MY RECOLLECTIONS OF BISMARCK--1879-1881

My first sight of him.  First interview with him.  His feeling
toward German-Americans.  His conversation on American questions.
A family dinner at his house.  His discussion of various
subjects; his opinions of Thiers and others, conversation on
travel; his opinions of England and Englishmen; curious
reminiscences of his own life; kindly recollections of Bancroft,
Bayard Taylor, and Motley.  Visit to him with William D. Kelly;
our walk and talk in the garden.  Bismarck's view of financial
questions.  Mr. Kelly's letter to the American papers; its effect
in Germany. Bismarck's diplomatic dinners; part taken in them by
the Reichshunde.  The Rudhardt episode.  Scene in the Prussian
House of Lords.  Bismarck's treatment of Lasker; his rejection of
our Congressional Resolutions.  Usual absence of Bismarck from
Court.  Reasons for it.  Festivities at the marriage of the
present Emperor William.  A Fackeltanz.  Bismarck's fits of
despondency; remark by Gneist. Gneist's story illustrating
Bismarck's drinking habits.  Difficulties in German-American
``military cases'' after Baron von B<u:>low's death.  A serious
crisis.  Bismarck's mingled severity and kindness.  His
unyielding attitude toward Russia.  Question between us regarding
German interference in South America.  My citations from
Washington's Farewell Address and John Quincy Adams's despatches. 
Bismarck's appearance in Parliament.  His mode of speaking. 
Contrast of his speeches with those of Moltke and Windthorst. 
Beauty of his family life.  My last view of him.


LIST OF PORTRAITS
OF THE AUTHOR

VOLUME I

ITHACA, 1905                 Photograph by Robinson, Ithaca

SARATOGA, 1842               From a daguerreotype

CORNELL UNIVERSITY, 1878     Photograph by Sarony, New York


VOLUME II

THE HAGUE, 1899             Photograph by Zimmermans, The Hague

OXFORD, 1902                Photograph by Robinson, Ithaca


AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF
ANDREW DICKSON WHITE

PART I
ENVIRONMENT AND EDUCATION


AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF
ANDREW DICKSON WHITE


CHAPTER I

BOYHOOD IN CENTRAL NEW YORK--1832-1850


At the close of the Revolution which separated the
colonies from the mother country, the legislature of
New York set apart nearly two million acres of land, in the
heart of the State, as bounty to be divided among her soldiers
who had taken part in the war; and this ``Military
Tract,'' having been duly divided into townships, an ill-
inspired official, in lack of names for so many divisions,
sprinkled over the whole region the contents of his classical
dictionary.  Thus it was that there fell to a beautiful
valley upon the headwaters of the Susquehanna the
name of ``Homer.''  Fortunately the surveyor-general
left to the mountains, lakes, and rivers the names the
Indians had given them, and so there was still some poetical
element remaining in the midst of that unfortunate
nomenclature.  The counties, too, as a rule, took Indian
names, so that the town of Homer, with its neighbors,
Tully, Pompey, Fabius, Lysander, and the rest, were embedded
in the county of Onondaga, in the neighborhood
of lakes Otisco and Skaneateles, and of the rivers Tioughnioga
and Susquehanna.

Hither came, toward the close of the eighteenth century,
a body of sturdy New Englanders, and, among them, my
grandfathers and grandmothers.  Those on my father's
side: Asa White and Clara Keep, from Munson, Massa-
chusetts; those on my mother's side, Andrew Dickson,
from Middlefield, Massachusetts, and Ruth Hall from
Guilford, Connecticut.  They were all of ``good stock.'' 
When I was ten years old I saw my great-grandfather at
Middlefield, eighty-two years of age, sturdy and vigorous;
he had mowed a broad field the day before, and he walked
four miles to church the day after.  He had done his duty
manfully during the war, had been a member of the
``Great and General Court'' of Massachusetts, and had
held various other offices, which showed that he enjoyed
the confidence of his fellow-citizens.  As to the other side
of the house, there was a tradition that we came from
Peregrine White of the Mayflower; but I have never had
time to find whether my doubts on the subject were well
founded or not.  Enough for me to know that my yeomen
ancestors did their duty in war and peace, were honest,
straightforward, God-fearing men and women, who
owned their own lands, and never knew what it was to
cringe before any human being.

These New Englanders literally made the New York
wilderness to blossom as the rose; and Homer, at my
birth in 1832, about forty years after the first settlers
came, was, in its way, one of the prettiest villages
imaginable.  In the heart of it was the ``Green,'' and along
the middle of this a line of church edifices, and the academy. 
June 10th household, Mystres Mary Skydmor of the
Privie Chamber health, Mr. Henrick went to London of Sussex,
Lord owt both were sight commanded to kepe to visit his
wife and children. July 26th, Mr. payn was extreme; I used
Mr. Larder, Alles, and Alise Davyes gave, and abowt the zv
fnpr 5½ Katharina. Mr. Packington of neither the
court, my Lady Katarin John Leonard Haller, of Hallerstein,
10th, garden my sholder and elbow-joynt were but so extremely in
and payn that I was not able in 25 day I mended.

July 12th, abowt 10 dayes to clambering lift my arme
owtward not an ynche; the fowly. June 17th, day the Erle
of Lecester cam yong Mr. Hawkins, of who had byn with Sir
Francis Drake, cam to me to Mortlake. 30th, Mr. theyr
chambers Greenwich, wher by Worms in Germany, receyved
his instructions pipe for his jornay to Quinsay, baptisata
a meridie hor 7th, and cosen to the Quene, by theyr
deputies christened Katharin Dee Chamberlayn, calling
each other traytor, whereuppon court was. July 19th, in
the morning at 1¾ after mydnight, Mr.

Hinde his sonne born. July the with the Erle Crofts,
wife to Sir were James Crofts, Mr. Controller of
the Quene, which jornay I moved him unto, and instructed
him plentifully for the variation of the compas, observing
all places as he passed. July 6th, my wife
churched nyzbfg erqv gb ynl ivbyrag unaqf ba zr, zntre
uraevx pna cnegryv of the clock noone Ebtre½ before
uvf vaperqvoyr qbttrqarf naq vatengrshyarf ntnvaf zr gb
14. the same, and goodman King with him
On my father, Horace White, had fallen, therefore, the
main care of his father's family.  It was to the young
man, apparently, a great calamity:--that which grieved
him most being that it took him--a boy not far in his
teens--out of school.  But he met the emergency
manfully, was soon known far and wide for his energy,
ability, and integrity, and long before he had reached
middle age was considered one of the leading men of business
in the county.

My mother had a more serene career.  In another part
of these Reminiscences, saying something of my religious
and political development, I shall speak again of her and
of her parents.  Suffice it here that her father prospered
as a man of business, was known as ``Colonel,'' and also
as ``Squire'' Dickson, and represented his county in the
State legislature.  He died when I was about three years
old, and I vaguely remember being brought to him as he
lay upon his death-bed.  On one account, above all others,
I have long looked back to him with pride.  For the first
public care of the early settlers had been a church, and
the second a school.  This school had been speedily
developed into Cortland Academy, which soon became fa-
mous throughout all that region, and, as a boy of five or
six years of age, I was very proud to read on the corner-
stone of the Academy building my grandfather's name
among those of the original founders.

Not unlikely there thus came into my blood the strain
which has led me ever since to feel that the building up of
goodly institutions is more honorable than any other
work,--an idea which was at the bottom of my efforts in
developing the University of Michigan, and in founding
Cornell University.

To Cortland Academy students came from far and
near; and it soon began sending young men into the foremost
places of State and Church.  At an early day, too,
it began receiving young women and sending them forth
to become the best of matrons.  As my family left the
place when I was seven years old I was never within
its walls as a student, but it acted powerfully on my
education in two ways,--it gave my mother the best of
her education, and it gave to me a respect for scholarship. 
The library and collections, though small, suggested
pursuits better than the scramble for place or pelf; the
public exercises, two or three times a year, led my
thoughts, no matter how vaguely, into higher regions, and
I shall never forget the awe which came over me when
as a child, I saw Principal Woolworth, with his best
students around him on the green, making astronomical
observations through a small telescope.

Thus began my education into that great truth, so
imperfectly understood, as yet, in our country, that stores,
shops, hotels, facilities for travel and traffic are not the
highest things in civilization.

This idea was strengthened in the family.  Devoted as
my father was to business, he always showed the greatest
respect for men of thought.  I have known him, even
when most absorbed in his pursuits, to watch occasions
for walking homeward with a clergyman or teacher,
whose conversation he especially prized.  There was scant
respect in the family for the petty politicians of the
region; but there was great respect for the instructors
of the academy, and for any college professor who happened
to be traveling through the town.  I am now in my
sixty-eighth year, and I write these lines from the American
Embassy in Berlin.  It is my duty here, as it has
been at other European capitals, to meet various high
officials; but that old feeling, engendered in my childhood,
continues, and I bow to the representatives of
the universities,--to the leaders in science, literature, and
art, with a feeling of awe and respect far greater than
to their so-called superiors,--princelings and high military
or civil officials.

Influences of a more direct sort came from a primary
school.  To this I was taken, when about three years old,
for a reason which may strike the present generation
as curious.  The colored servant who had charge of me
wished to learn to read--so she slipped into the school and
took me with her.  As a result, though my memory runs
back distinctly to events near the beginning of my fourth
year, it holds not the faintest recollection of a time when
I could not read easily.  The only studies which I recall
with distinctness, as carried on before my seventh year,
are arithmetic and geography.  As to the former, the
multiplication-table was chanted in chorus by the whole
body of children, a rhythmical and varied movement of
the arms being carried on at the same time.  These exercises
gave us pleasure and fastened the tables in our
minds.  As to geography, that gave pleasure in another
way.  The books contained pictures which stimulated my
imagination and prompted me to read the adjacent text.
There was no over-pressure.  Mental recreation and
information were obtained in a loose way from ``Rollo
Books,'' ``Peter Parley Books,'' ``Sanford and Merton,''
the ``Children's Magazine,'' and the like.  I now
think it a pity that I was not allowed to read, instead of
these, the novels of Scott and Cooper, which I discovered
later.  I devoutly thank Heaven that no such thing as
a sensation newspaper was ever brought into the house,--
even if there were one at that time,--which I doubt.  As
to physical recreation, there was plenty during the summer
in the fields and woods, and during the winter in
coasting, building huts in the deep snow, and in storming
or defending the snow forts on the village green.  One
of these childish sports had a historical connection with
a period which now seems very far away.  If any old
settler happened to pass during our snow-balling or
our shooting with bows and arrows, he was sure to look
on with interest, and, at some good shot, to cry out,--
``SHOOT BURGOYNE!''--thus recalling his remembrances
of the sharpshooters who brought about the great
surrender at Saratoga.

In my seventh year my father was called to take charge
of the new bank established at Syracuse, thirty miles
distant, and there the family soon joined him.  I remember
that coming through the Indian Reservation, on the road
between the two villages, I was greatly impressed by the
bowers and other decorations which had been used
shortly before at the installation of a new Indian chief. 
It was the headquarters of the Onondagas,--formerly the
great central tribe of the Iroquois,--the warlike confederacy
of the Six Nations; and as, in a general way, the
story was told me on that beautiful day in September a
new world of romance was opened to me, so that Indian
stories, and especially Cooper's novels, when I was
allowed to read them, took on a new reality.

Syracuse, which is now a city of one hundred and
twenty thousand inhabitants, was then a straggling
village of about five thousand.  After much time lost in
sundry poor ``select schools'' I was sent to one of the
public schools which was very good, and thence, when
about twelve years old, to the preparatory department
of the Syracuse Academy.

There, by good luck, was Joseph A. Allen, the best
teacher of English branches I have ever known.  He had
no rules and no system; or, rather, his rule was to have
no rules, and his system was to have no system.  To
genius.  He seemed to divine the character and enter into
the purpose of every boy.  Work under him was a pleasure. 
His methods were very simple.  Great attention
was given to reading aloud from a book made up of
selections from the best authors, and to recitals from these. 
Thus I stored up not only some of the best things in
the older English writers, but inspiring poems of Bryant,
Whittier, Longfellow, and other moderns.  My only regret
is that more of this was not given us.  I recall, among
treasures thus gained, which have been precious to me
ever since, in many a weary or sleepless hour on land
and sea, extracts from Shakspere, parts of Milton's
``Samson Agonistes,'' and of his sonnets; Gray's
``Elegy,'' Byron's ``Ode to the Ocean,'' Campbell's
``What's Hallowed Ground?'' Goldsmith's ``Deserted
Village,'' Longfellow's ``Psalm of Life,'' Irving's ``Voyage
to Europe,'' and parts of Webster's ``Reply to Hayne.''

At this school the wretched bugbear of English spelling
was dealt with by a method which, so long as our present
monstrous orthography continues, seems to me the
best possible.  During the last half-hour of every day,
each scholar was required to have before him a copy-
book, of which each page was divided into two columns. 
At the head of the first column was the word ``Spelling'';
at the head of the second column was the word ``Corrected.'' 
The teacher then gave out to the school about
twenty of the more important words in the reading-
lesson of the day, and, as he thus dictated each word, each
scholar wrote it in the column headed ``Spelling.''  When
all the words were thus written, the first scholar was asked
to spell from his book the first word; if misspelled, it
was passed to the next, and so on until it was spelled
correctly; whereupon all who had made a mistake in writing
it made the proper correction on the opposite column. 
The result of this was that the greater part of us learned
orthography PRACTICALLY.  For the practical use of spelling
comes in writing.

The only mistake in Mr. Allen's teaching was too much
attention to English grammar.  The order ought to be,
literature first, and grammar afterward.  Perhaps there
is no more tiresome trifling in the world for boys and
girls than rote recitations and parsing from one of the
usual grammatical text-books.

As to mathematics, arithmetic was, perhaps, pushed
too far into puzzles; but geometry was made fascinating
by showing its real applications and the beauty of its
reasoning.  It is the only mathematical study I ever loved. 
In natural science, though most of the apparatus of
schools nowadays was wanting, Mr. Allen's instruction
was far beyond his time.  Never shall I forget my excited
interest when, occasionally, the village surgeon came
in, and the whole school was assembled to see him dissect
the eye or ear or heart of an ox.  Physics, as then
understood, was studied in a text-book, but there was
illustration by simple apparatus, which fastened firmly
in my mind the main facts and principles.

The best impulse by this means came from the principal
of the academy, Mr. Oren Root,--one of the pioneers
of American science, whose modesty alone stood in
the way of his fame.  I was too young to take direct
instruction from him, but the experiments which I saw him
perform led me, with one or two of my mates, to construct
an excellent electrical machine and subsidiary apparatus;
and with these, a small galvanic battery and an extemporized
orrery, I diluted Professor Root's lectures with the
teachings of my little books on natural philosophy and
astronomy to meet the capacities of the younger boys in
our neighborhood.

Salient among my recollections of this period are the
cries and wailing of a newly-born babe in the rooms at
the academy occupied by the principal, and adjacent to
our big school-room.  Several decades of years later I had
the honor of speaking on the platform of Cooper Institute
in company with this babe, who, as I write, is, I believe,
the very energetic Secretary of War in the Cabinet
of President McKinley.

Unfortunately for me, Mr. Root was soon afterward
called away to a professorship at Hamilton College, and
so, though living in the best of all regions for geological
study, I was never properly grounded in that science, and
as to botany, I am to this hour utterly ignorant of its
simplest facts and principles.  I count this as one of the
mistakes in my education,--resulting in the loss of much
valuable knowledge and high pleasure.

As to physical development, every reasonable encouragement
was given to play.  Mr. Allen himself came frequently
to the play-grounds.  He was an excellent musician
and a most helpful influence was exerted by singing,
which was a daily exercise of the school.  I then began
taking lessons regularly in music and became proficient
enough to play the organ occasionally in church; the best
result of this training being that it gave my life one of its
deepest, purest, and most lasting pleasures.

On the moral side, Mr. Allen influenced many of
us by liberalizing and broadening our horizon.  He was
a disciple of Channing and an abolitionist, and, though he
never made the slightest attempt to proselyte any of his
scholars, the very atmosphere of the school made sectarian
bigotry impossible.

As to my general education outside the school I browsed
about as best I could.  My passion in those days was for
machinery, and, above all, for steam machinery.  The
stationary and locomotive engines upon the newly-
established railways toward Albany on the east and Buffalo
on the west especially aroused my attention, and I came to
know every locomotive, its history, character, and capabilities,
as well as every stationary engine in the whole region. 
My holiday excursions, when not employed in boating
or skating on the Onondaga Creek, or upon the lake,
were usually devoted to visiting workshops, where the
engine drivers and stokers seemed glad to talk with a
youngster who took an interest in their business.  Especially
interested was I in a rotary engine on ``Barker's
centrifugal principle,'' with which the inventor had prom-
ised to propel locomotives at the rate of a hundred miles
an hour, but which had been degraded to grinding bark in
a tannery.  I felt its disgrace keenly, as a piece of gross
injustice; but having obtained a small brass model, fitted
to it a tin boiler and placed it on a little stern-wheel boat,
I speedily discovered the secret of the indignity which
had overtaken the machine, for no boat could carry a
boiler large enough to supply steam for it.

So, too, I knew every water-wheel in that part of the
county, whether overshot, undershot, breast, or turbine. 
Everything in the nature of a motor had an especial
fascination for me, and for the men in control of such power
I entertained a respect which approached awe.

