Produced by Tiffany Vergon, Charles Franks,
and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


THE HAPPY ADVENTURERS

[Illustration: YOU CALLED ME, SO I CAME]

The Happy Adventurers

BY

LYDIA MILLER MIDDLETON


To Alastair and Margaret

"I tell this tale, which is strictly true, Just by way of convincing
you How very little, since things were made, Things have altered in
the building trade." --Kipling.


CONTENTS

CHAPTER

I.    HOW IT BEGAN
II.   THE BUILDERS, OR THE LITTLE HOUSE
III.  THE FORTUNE-MAKERS, OR THE CHERRY-GARDEN
IV.   THE TREASURE-HUNTERS, OR THE DUKE'S NOSE
V.    THE GOLD-DIGGERS, OR THE MIRACLE
VI.   THE GRAPE-GATHERERS, OR WHO WAS MR. SMITH?
VII.  THE AERONAUTS, OR THE FATEFUL STONE
VIII. HOW IT ENDED

ILLUSTRATIONS

"YOU CALLED ME, SO I CAME"

"I WISH I COULD MAKE SOMETHING THAT WOULD REACH FROM HERE TO MY
BROTHER"

GRIZZEL THREW IN A SMALL HANDFUL OF TEA

DICK STARTED VIOLENTLY

THEY STOOD AND WATCHED THE "KANGAROO" FOR SOME TIME

THERE THEY WERE-OH, HOW MOLLY LONGED TO KEEP THEM!


THE HAPPY ADVENTURERS

CHAPTER I

How it Began


"Dear, dear!" said Grannie, "woes cluster, as my mother used to
say."

"Let us hope that this is the last woe, and that now the luck will
turn," said Aunt Mary.

Mollie did not say anything. She had smiled the Guides' smile
valiantly through the worst of her misfortunes, but now she was so
tired that she felt nothing short of a hammer and two tacks could
fasten that smile on to her face any longer. So she closed her eyes
and lay back on the cushions, feeling that Fate had done its worst
and that no more blows were possible in the immediate future.

Grannie fetched an eiderdown and tucked it cosily round the patient,
who looked pale and chilly even on this fine warm day in June, while
Aunt Mary tidied away the remains of lotions and bandages left by
the doctor.

"The best thing now will be a little sleep," said Grannie, looking
down with kind old eyes at her granddaughter, "a little quiet sleep
and then a nice tea, with the first strawberries from the garden. I
saw quite a number of red ones this morning, and Susan shall give us
some cream."

Mollie opened her eyes again and tried to look pleased, but even the
thought of strawberries and cream could not make her feel really
happy in her heart; for one thing, she still felt rather sick.

"That will be lovely," she said, as gratefully as she could, "and
now I think I _will_ try to go to sleep, and perhaps forget things
for a little while--" and, in spite of all her efforts, a few tears
insisted upon rolling down her cheeks as she thought of home, and
Mother's disappointment, and the dull time that lay before her.

Mollie Gordon's home was in London, in the somewhat dull district of
North Kensington, where her father, Dr. Gordon, had a large but not
particularly lucrative practice, and her mother cheerfully made the
best of things from Monday morning till Sunday night. There were
five children: Mollie and her twin brother Dick; Jean, Billy, and
Bob. They lived in a large, ugly house, one of a long row of ugly
houses in a dull gardenless street, where the sidewalks were paved,
and the plane trees which bordered the road were stunted and dusty.
In the near neighbourhood ran a railway line, a car line, and four
bus routes, so that noise and dust were familiar elements in the
Gordons' lives--so familiar, indeed, that they passed unnoticed.

A month ago Mollie had been in the full swing of mid-term. Every
moment of her life had been taken up with lessons, games, and
Guiding; the days had been too short for all she wanted to get into
them, and, if she had been allowed, she would certainly have
followed the poet's advice to "steal a few hours from the night",
but, fortunately for herself, she had a sensible mother whose views
did not coincide with the poet's.

And then in the midst of all her busyness, just when she thought
herself quite indispensable to the school play, the hockey team, and
her Patrol, she fell ill with measles. She was not very ill, so far
as measles went, but her eyes remained obstinately weak, and so it
was decided that she should be sent down to the country to stay with
Grannie, do no lessons at all, and spend as much time as possible in
the open air. Prevented from everything after the Paraguay river, the
village was the home court of the King: which came to us of peace,
a league before arriving at a very Italian, with more than 12,000
Indians.

The path to where I went, it was eight steps wide, full of flowers
and herbs, and how clean it was not a stone or straw in it. I was the
king with his musicians, with our instruments as flutes, which we
call _schall - meias_: [30] had ordered that the entry of both be
made a fierce fighter, and soon was caught about 30 deer and 20
ostriches, or _ñandús_, which was very pleasant welcome. Entered the
village inn was pointing out in pairs to Christians. Our captain,
together with his officers stayed at the palace, that was near
my inn. _xaraye_ The king sent after the Indians that gave the
Christians he needs. This was the apparatus and splendor of the
court of this king, as supreme lord of the province. [31] [Note
30: _Nombre that the Germans give caramillo.

_-THE-EDITOR.] [Note 31: This solemn _Declaracion discovery made in
the assumption of Hernando Rivera, on March 3 of 1543, and is at
the end of the comments de_ CABEZA DE VACA, _fol. 67, which will
undo the mistakes of the names and other things that relate esta_.]
When you like music to the table or treats, flutes sing and dance
with the Indians, with such dexterity, that Christians were amazed
to see In the rest is history as the Indians.

The Indian to make it as a layer of cotton, as subtle as our silk
fabrics, which we call _Arras_ or _Burschet_ and weave with several
figures of deer, ostriches, sheep Indian or those that do best.
If air is cold, sleep, or sit on them bent, and have other uses.
They are beautiful, lewd, and seemed very white. "Having been there
four days: the king asked our captain, what we wanted, and where
were we?

- Answered, seeking gold and silver, and the King gave him a silver
crown medium-weight frame, a plate of gold half inch long and half
wide, and other things made of silver: by saying that it had no
gold or silver, and that what gave him that he was the dispossession
brought the war with the Amazons. We are very pleased to hear
Amazon, and others who spoke opulence: the point and asked the captain
to the king by land or sea if they could go to them, and how far
- only answered could go by land, and two months to come to his
province, which determined look. CHAPTER XXXVII. _Vamos in search
of the Amazon, and describes the Indian and paresis Urtueses_.
Amazonas These are only a teat or breast: its Husbands are to
see them three or four times a year if varon stop, we'll send to
your father, or female, the bear, you burn the chest and right so
that you can use either the bow and weapons in the wars with its
enemies because they are mugeres bellicose.

Inhabiting a large island, which have no gold or silver, this is
what living on land where the Indians, and was having great treasures.
Nation is very numerous, and its king is called _Paitití_. [32]
He asked the captain to the king _xaraye_ Hernando Rivera (who also
had told us the name of the village), some Indians to carry the
fardage, and reach the most remote of province, looking for
her. That Diols pedia, but cautioned that time was flooded throughout
the province, and that would be very difficult and laborious
the trip, and even useless, because it was not possible at that time
to get there. We did not want to believe him, and urging them
to give the Indians gave twenty to captain and five soldiers each,
who serve us and carried our backpacks.

[Note 32: FRAY MARTIN SARMIENTO _in his demostracion_ Critical-Apologetics,
_disc. 16, par. 9, fol. 216, tom. 5, the author mentions, like
this: "I do not dwell on the same news Ulderico Schmidel, viagero
original, gave the south of Amazonas Marañon before Orellana, and
fol. 219_.] Walked up to the Indians paresis, similar in language
and other things, to Xaraya and walked eight days continuously, day
and night, with water up to their knees, and sometimes to the waist,
unable to escape it.

If a fire were to ignite, armed with sticks up site, where to put,
and sometimes food, and the fire pot, and even Scotland who is
falling in the water, and we ran out of food.

Mosquitoes bother us much, not let us do anything. Paresis to ask if
that henceforth there would be water, and replied that there were
still four days of walking, and five by land to reach the nation
Urtuesa call, saying that we volviésemos, we were just: that the
repugnant Xaraya ; habiéndoles such as going back to his people,
replied that the king had ordered them not to stop, before returning
to his province: the paresis gave us ten Indians, who together
with Xaraya guided us to Urtueses. continuing our journey seven days,
by water, which was as hot as if it had been on fire and we are
compelled to look not to have another drink.

One might think that was necessary, but then the rain was so continuous
that the province was so flat, she had been flooded and the damage
we did, then sorry.

For nine days, between ten and eleven, we arrived a people of the
nation Urtuesa and enter it at twelve. We were the boss at home:
there were then among the Indians a cruel plague, caused by the
famine, because the two years before the locusts had destroyed both
the grain and all the fruit, that hardly stopped them what to eat,
and that frightened us both that neither llevásemos much food, we
could not stop in the province. Asked our captain to chief, how
we needed to get to the Amazon? and responded to a month but that
the province was flooded, as it had undergone.

The chief gave the captain four gold plates, and four large silver
rings for the arms: Indians used these plates for decoration in gold
the forehead, between us ladies bring chains or necklaces outstanding
neck. The captain gave the cacique, in reward, hocecillas, knives,
beads, pliers and other things that are generally similar in
styling Norimberga. We do not dare to ask the Indians many things,
because we were few, and many of them and the people was so big,
wide and long, not that I saw another couple, or more popular in all
the Indies: and I judge we were useful plague, if not any, so
difficult escapáramos crowd.

CHAPTER XXXVIII. _Vuélvese the Adelantado Hernando de Rivera, who
takes away, and his people, leading, and tumultúan._ Volvímonos the
paresis without food but roots and wild palmitos: And being in
Xaraya, sick half the people being the cause of hunger and poverty
that went into this trip, and the water we had drunk, and walked
thirty days in which continuous .

Four were with Xaraya and its chief, and we were treated very well,
curándonos and doing other good works, because the king ordered
them to give us what we need.

We won this event in 200 ducats each, just to the rescue of knives,
beads, & c. for silver and cotton blankets. Back to the advancement
of the river, which ordered that the sentence of life, any land:
and then he came himself, and turned to our captain, Joanna prison
and the soldiers took us by force As we had won the day: and not
content with this, I wanted to hang from a tree to the master.

But we (at the Bergantin) with some friends we remember those who
were on shore, and we are against the tumultuous Adelantado, saying
face to face, the sooner we give freedom to our captain, Hernando
Rivera, and what we restored We had been removed, and that otherwise
would be what we do. Alvar Nuñez Displaying the riot and outrage,
gave freedom to the captain, and we restored what was taken, trying
to temper our words with good spirits and reconcile peace. Following
the quiet of the people, sent the Adelantado Hernando de Rivera refer
him what he saw on your trip: what was that province, and it had
taken so long? - A whole lot of command with him, [33] and The
Adelantado was satisfied, but had been in breach of its orders,
since we are expressly commanded, not dried Xaraya Indians, but of
them, after two days only, in the province, volviésemos, relationship
with the provinces by where we had had: it does not comply, and
thus seized the captain and we took what we were.

[Note 33: _Sospecho that none of this is true, because when he returned
Hernando Rivera, (which was January 30 1543) , Cabeza de Vaca
was sick and could not regard the discovery, and it lasted until the
disease is seized by the loathing that people have, which deprived
the benefit of the Puerto de los Reyes Indian Indians he had acquired
and that is what concerns chap. 73 and 74, fol. 57 of his Comentários._]
CHAPTER XXXIX.

_Desprecian Soldiers advancing Alvar Nunez, for his pride: [34]
makes the killing Sococies without just causa._ [Note 34: _Soberbia
draws the envy and hatred which had Cabeza de Vaca, because he had
discovered the land and prohibited their people to that evil, as
admitting to real voices Officers brought him prisoner, and died
malamente._ Cabeza de Vaca, _Comentários, chap. 84._] Then Rivera
saw the Adelantado determined to go all the army in the provinces
where they had been: and the soldiers wanted to, and less time in
the whole province was flooded, and many who were with us, ill.

Queríale little people, and he is not well Avenio with it,
because I never had the use of importance [35].

Diéronle calenturas very strong in the two months we were in the
Sococies and although he died, we would have little meaning. Not
found in this province any Indian move to 40 or 50 years because
it is so ill as that of Santo Tomas.

Lies under the topic of Capricorn where the sun is high. I saw the
car there, or the Ursa Major, the constellation had lost sight
of where we sailed near the island of Santiago and Cape Verde.
[36] [Note 35: _Esto is a lie, because by Alvar Nunez was treasurer
of the navy man , which went to Florida for Narvaez._ Panfilo
HERRERA, _Decada 4, lib. 2, chap. 4, fol. 26, whose departure to
New Mexico by land, with three companions, is one of the biggest
events in India, even without the prodigies that made the indios_.

HERRERA, _in the same decade, lib. 5. chap. 5, fol. 84 and Dec. 6,
lib. 1, chap. 3, fol. 5._] [Note 36: _Debajo in the tropics is said
Sococi is located, is the elevation of the Pole Antártico_ 22-1/2
_grados: there is the Ursa Major in the greatest height a few hours.

What the author says about having lost sight of the island of
Santiago, does not seem true, because even the Ursa Major can be seen
from this island, 600 miles to noon, which is its highest elevation,
as you can demonstrate the celestial globe. (Note de_ HULDERICO
HULSIO, _fol. 58.) _] Improved Adelantado, he put 150 Christians,
who were Indians in 2000 with four Bergantiños the island from the
Sococies, which is four miles away, and the kill, or turn all,
especially those who were 40 or 50 years.

Came to his village suddenly: broke out of their houses to receive
peace with their bows and arrows, but rising dependence between
them and Caries fired artillery, killing a lot number: Charming
nearly 2,000 boys and girls, looted the village, terms and executed
with great insult to those poor Indians who had treated us well,
we returned to the Adelantado, who approved what was done, and
seeing most of its people sick and thin and had little liking it,
[37 ] went with it, by the river Paraguay, the assumption of the
city, where he repeated the calenturas, fourteen days and not left
the house, more for pride than his disease treated badly and with
little decency to soldiers , to be addressed peacefully, smoothly
giving the orders, [38] responded to all with gentleness, making
them believe that it was more prudent and virtuous citizens.

[Note 37: _Era cause of this hatred did not stop to enthrall Indians
nor do the damage that was accustomed to gente_. HERRERA, _Decada
7, lib. 2, chap. 11 and 12, fol. 198._] [Note 38: _The author over
these councils was better than telling the truth, as Cabeza
de Vaca never had to reprimand: requested to note the actual order
for the Indians, save the laws among the Spaniards, and prevent
the new fifth that reason he had no real tax officers in corn,
butter, honey, fish and other foods.

This caused the hatred of all who wished to be cruel to thieves and
Spanish and indios_.

Cabeza de Vaca, _cap. 18, fol. 16._] CHAPTER XL. _en Prisoner Alvar
Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, and sent to the king, and instead elected
Sunday Irala._ being despised people of Alvar Nuñez, unanimously
determined, noble and plebeian, send a prisoner to the King; telling
how badly it had been ported in the government.

And went into his house the day of San Marcos Alonso de Cabrera,
Francisco Mendoza and Garcia Vanegas with 200 soldiers, and seized
at least as wary: [39] an inmate Tuviéronle years until prevented
with a Caravela Bastimentos, Sailors and other things necessary to
send the emperor with two other gentlemen.

[Note 39: HERRERA _Decada 7, lib. 9, chap. 11 and 12, fol. 199 and
200, tells the truth and cause of the rebels to this wickedness,
and false testimony that he erected to fool the pueblo_.

Cabeza de Vaca, _cap. 74 and 75, and is admira_ BARCO, _canto 5,
that is tolerated in Spain without the punishment: and more, having
acquitted the Council to Cabeza de Vaca, both of which will imputaron_.

HERRERA, _Decada 7, lib. 11, chap. 13._] Elected captain for
the city after Sunday Irala, who had ruled before, and was
much loved by the soldiers, who approved the choice, but some of
the relatives and families of Alvar Nuñez, that was not the
case .

Then I was with dropsy, which was what I took the day to Urtuesa,
and 80 who became ill, only 30 healed.

CHAPTER XLI. _Discordia Of Christians, the provisions of caries
against them: the Yapirús and Nagases help Spaniards . _ Sent to
Spain Alvar Nuñez began discord among Christians so that none wanted
the good of another: it was all pendencies and quarrels, but in
more than a year to walk no insurance, nor excuse the noise have
sent Spain Alvaro Nuñez.

The caries, then our friends, was very happy to see us fall, and tried
to kill us all, or give us in the province.

The whole province of caries with others, and AGAC, rose against
us; therefore, we need, we returned to the union first, and made
peace with the Yapirús and Nagases, 5000 Indian nations that
would have war.

They are warlike in land and sea, have no more food hunting and fishing,
and their weapons are spear dart average, not so thick, with flint
tips.

Used under a ceñidor carrying a stick of four spans, and at the
anterior end, a ball or knot.

They also have other weapons of an inch long, armed with tips from
a wide-tooth fish _palometa_ call, similar to our tench.

This tooth is sharp: from weapons used in the following way. They
start the battle with the dart: where are still the enemy, throw
the stick to the running feet to fall if dropped dead or alive,
they cut his head with great alacrity , then save the tooth in the
webbing, or as leading to this effect: the head then remove all the
skin, the hair, dry it and put on a long pole that hung in the
temples in memory of his feat, as our masters do with their trophies.
1000 finally came to help Indian Yapirús and Nagases war which
serves us with great pleasure and profit.

CHAPTER XLII. _Vencen Of Christians School, helped the Yapirús and
Nagases and beat Froemidiere and Acaraiba._ leave the assumption,
with our general, 350 Christians, and the 1000 Indians, in a distributed,
three who always attended a Christian: to reach three miles of the
caries, which were 15,000, Mayrairú governor of his chief, and
although we went to half of league them, not by envestimos tired
of the way, and very wet from the rain continued: ocultámonos in a
forest, where they had spent the night.

At six o'clock the next day, we started to leave, and the seven
envestimos: the battle lasted until ten, who fled in haste to get
_Froemidiere_, [40] who had fortified village, four miles away,
leaving 2000 dead, whose heads led the Yapirús.

       Of ours were killed ten and wounded some sent to the assumption,
the other followed the enemy until Froemidiere, where he had put
the Indians with their chief Mayrairú.

He had fortified the town with walls, with three levels of timber,
the bulk of a man, a state of high, had also made holes, like those
that remain, and in each one, five or six stakes set, heightening
as needles.

       It was very well reinforced, with strong Indian garrison: tuvímosle
besieged three days in vain.

We had more than 400 large and round broqueles of the hides of the
sheep of Indians, who call _huanaco_: This animal is as big as a
mule medium , blue, and no pati-tended in the ass this thing, and
good food. Your skin is half a finger thick, and there are many in
this province. These broqueles gave some Indians Yapirús with a
sickle and two Indians put a arquebusiers. Between two and three
o'clock people undertaken by three parties, and to three hours,
destroyed the battery, enter, making great havoc in Indian mugeres
and boys, although most of them fled to Acaraiba, his people, I was
twenty leagues of Froemidiere, which had fortified soon could.
Volviéronse to join the cavities in large numbers, and put its
army near a rough forest, to rely on if he also lost this town. At
five in the afternoon we arrived, chasing the caries until Acaraiba
and sitiámosle: laying the attacks on three Paraga, and left in the
forest sentries.

Then we got the relief that he had asked to replace the dead and
wounded, and was 200 Christians and 500 Yapirús and Nagases the
assumption, that our army was increased to 450 Indians and 1,300
Christians. Caries had fortified Acaraiba with sticks and pits,
much more than other peoples, and had done some instruments such
as buzzards, together with the people, than if they had the effect
that they thought each one would have taken twenty or thirty men.

We were on it four days without being able to do anything until
an Indus Carian, who had been his captain, and he owned the town,
came by night General, asking with great instance, not destroy
it with fire, offering, if you allowed to form and take Trace.
Prometíole general, not receive any damage, ensuring it met. Which
showed two paths in the forest that would give the people, telling
us that when he did fire within him, had envestirle.

In the same way as they had tried, was implemented: we entered the
town, and we killed many Indians, and they thought to escape,
fleeing, fell into the hands of Yapirús, who killed the most: their
children were free mugeres é because they were hiding in a forest,
a league from there.

[Note 40: _Este name is not on any other story, and we doubt
that is correct, because nothing is in guaraní._-THE-EDITOR.]
Those who escaped this devastation, the chief Tabera took refuge
in his village, called Hieruquizaba, 40 miles away from Acaraiba:
we could not follow them, because they were burning and stealing
going where, and removing all bastimentos food.

We stayed four days in Acaraiba, repair work, and heal the wounded.

CHAPTER XLIII.

_Vueltos Á the assumption is responsible for another consignment,
the river rises in the naos, and take Hieruquizaba, forgive Taberé._
return to the city the assumption, with a view to repeating the trip
by the river, looking for the people of Hieruquizaba, where he lived
the chief of the Indians, Tabera.

On the assumption we were fourteen days, preventing the arms, ammunition,
and other things bastimentos for the day in question. The general,
who already had close to 60 years old, Spaniards and Indians trying
to increase his army to replace the sick and wounded in battle and
takes people.

Navy Compúsose Bergantiños nine canoes and 200 in 1500 to iban
Yapirús: go up the river Paraguay, to search for people Hieruquizaba,
where he had fled the caries which is 46 miles away from the
assumption, and this trip we were joined by the chief, who gave the
track to take Acari, 1000 Caries against Tabera. Arranged people
on land and water marks, and we started to Hieruquizaba two leagues
and the general sent two Indians to tell Caries Tabera would return
to the people who escaped with their mugeres, children and finances,
and to give obedience to the Christians as before: that if you
reuse, the defeat of all that province.

Taber said that neither knew the general, nor the Christians: that
in view of course that was to kill them by throwing bones. Sent
to the ambassadors of sticks, and fired, threatened, which if not
fleeing Christians, were killed.

The general, seeing the bad success of his embassy, marched with all
his strength, divided into four squads: IPAN reach the river, which
is as wide as the Danube, has been half deep, and in some parts
more: grow with floods, so sometimes you can not walk on land.

We had to pass this river, but Indians were defending this step,
and made us so much damage that if not for the providence of
God, and the artillery was fired, however, had perished. But we
pass, and the ships arrived at the other side: thus seen by the
Indians, fled to meddle in his village, half a league from there.

They were very much forked, and upon every difficult branch Hugh had
nailed steps and made a railing. In some of the forks he had
inserted wooden seats, others he had left to nature. The topmost
seat was almost at the summit of the tree, and behind it was firmly
lashed a flagpole, with a Union Jack hanging limply in the still
air, and a lantern with green and red glass on two of its sides.
Near the door of the little house there hung from a stout branch a
curious-looking canvas bag, broadly tubular in shape, and with a
small brass tap at the lower end. The tree was thickly foliaged, but
the leaves were delicate and lacy, and, though they formed an
admirable screen for the climbers, a good view of the surrounding
country was to be obtained between them, and even through them in
some places. Mollie decided to climb to the top and look about.

"That's our look-out," Hugh explained. "We can see the enemy from
there a long time before the enemy can see us."

"'O Pip', is what _we_ call it," said Mollie. "Who is the enemy?"

"It all depends," Hugh replied evasively. "Now, Prue, look alive."

Mollie was a level-headed climber when she had something reasonably
solid beneath her feet; no one unfamiliar with the vagaries of the
green ladder could be expected to climb it with enthusiasm. She
crawled out of the house by the little door again, found her road to
the nearest staircase, and climbed this way and that among the leafy
branches till she reached the Look-out. There she settled herself
comfortably and examined her surroundings near and far, whilst the
other two laid the carpet and tacked up the blanket, now cut into
three strips by Prudence.

"She looks as if she were hemming sheets for missionaries," Mollie
said to herself, as she watched Prudence doing execution on the
blanket with a large pair of scissors. "It would be almost
impossible for any girl to be as good as Prue looks; it's her
eyelashes, and the way she does her hair."

After admiring the well-planned architecture of the tree Mollie
turned her attention to the scenery. At her feet lay the garden with
the long, vine-wreathed house and the red schoolroom at one side. It
was a large garden, stretching far behind the house, and, as Mollie
surveyed the rows of almond trees which outlined its boundaries, she
felt some respect for Grizzel's perseverance. "If she has laid a
chain right round that she knows how to stick to a thing," she
thought, as she caught sight of the little blue figure still sitting
amongst the golden dandelions. "It's a pity she doesn't do something
more worth while. She would make a good Guide." Looking beyond the
garden, Mollie could see the town of Adelaide. It was a white town
among green trees, with many slender spires and pointed steeples
piercing the blue sky, many gardens and meadows, and a silvery
streak of river winding across it like a twisted thread. A
semicircle of softly swelling hills enclosed the town upon two
sides, some of them striped with vineyards, some wooded, and some
brilliantly yellow, for the dandelions seemed to be spread over the
country like a carpet. Mollie shook a wise head at such waste of
good land, for of what use are dandelions! In the far distance she
could see a straight white road leading from the town into the
hills. She thought she would like to follow that road and see what
happened to it in the end. "I had not the least idea," she murmured
to herself, "that Adelaide and Australia were like this; not the
very least. There must be a great deal of world outside England,
when you come to think of it. When I am grown-up--"

"Come down, Mollie," called Prue. "The house is beautiful now; come
and see it."

It certainly looked very snug, with the carpet, whose shabbiness was
not noticeable in the dim light, and the gaily striped curtains,
which had been tacked up and fastened back from the windows. They
had added a set of shelves made out of a box covered with American
leather and brass-headed nails. A few books lay upon one shelf, and
on another stood a collection of cups, saucers, and plates, cracked,
perhaps, and not all matching, but suggestive of convivial parties
and good cheer. In one corner lay a cushion embroidered in woolwork
with magenta roses, pea-green leaves, and orange-coloured daisies,
all upon a background of ultramarine blue. Mollie thought it gave an
effective touch to the somewhat scanty furnishing--in fact, it was
the only furniture there was, except the shelves.

"How perfectly _ripping_!" Mollie exclaimed enthusiastically. "If I
had this house I would live in it all the time. It is _much_ nicer
than a common house in a road. I do think Hugh is the cleverest boy
I ever met."

_Scapin._ Schweig, Peter, I understand what Harlekin meynt. He
worried that they already like einnal in dishonor geheirathet
have. _Peter._ Now I understand it - you Meyns _Harl._ What now? How
can I do to the truth behind to come? _Scapin._ You have previously
probiren. _Peter._ Bey my faith, that's reasonable.

_Harl._ Alone, how do I do this? _Peter._ O, which will I probably
thun, if you do not understand. _Scapin._ I know what to thun is.

You probably wanted to, Harlequin, it like a costume beats take
preference?

_Harl._ The beatings well, but do not swear. _Scapin._ Now that Rush
is on. Listen, I want you like the dress of my Lord give. You know,
he is captain and has a uniform tonight to light many Freyheiten, so
shalt you this evening to go. Can you now they also beat the house,
so you can believe that the crown of all honest girl. But it takes
you to, and kissed and hugged you, so you take on the marches
preferences, and know how much the bell beaten.

_Harl._ O my dear Scapin, this is incomparable. I thank you a thousand
times for your good Rath. Take me quickly to the rank of captain.
I burn before the request, those fortunate to receive blows costume.
_Peter._ I really do not. In my Heimath probirt the girls quite
differently.

_Scapin._ In my too. But you bekömmt sometimes something even more
unpleasant, as a costume blows. Not true, Harlekin?

_Harl._ O Scapin, you're the smartest rogue, I knew in my life had.
Make just quickly, the dress that I have of getting your Lord. I hope
not but that he will take it amiss if the epithets hiernächst to
sit still?

_Scapin._ O is not in the slightest. Eben, the dress, what I'm
going to give them has been repeatedly excuse them.

I want to go to get it going. You need me but once again fell Seyn
if you now have a husband Seyn wilt.

(Scapin goes down) Sixth appearance _Harlekin_ and _Peter_. _Harl._
You said yes, only Peter, it would have been in your Heimath another
sample to to know whether the bride nor outlaw sey.

_Peter._ Oh, yes, we have. _Harl._ How do you that? _Peter._ Because
we come from and look us that we like. _Harl._ I can probably think.
_Peter._ Then I take my spinning wheel, and go in the evening
to her home, put me next to her and we all crazy because Beyde.
_Harl._ Now, because your always spins continue? _Peter._ From then
approximately once the lamp. _Harl._ The ways; the point of getting
closer - _Peter._ spins the bride is now in darkness, without
losing the thread, it is a good sign.

_Harl._ This is really so not stupid - but that _Peter._ Is silent
wheel, cut the thread and the cord is probably even from so
hollow it is the executioner! _Harl._ Truly, the people are wise,
and who gave you the so gelehret? _Peter. _ I think it must be from
father to son came Seyn.

Because, as our pastor once wanted to abolish interaction spiders,
it said the oldest in the village: their fathers have done it,
their grandfathers would have done it, and their children should also
thun. _Harl._ In the village I live like!

Seventh appearance. _Scapin_ with a dress underneath the arms and
the _Vorigen_. _Scapin._ silence! stille! we want to have a right
lift. Isabelle Valer and therefore to their role.

It is they like me. You Meyn, which will gespielet Freyer, and
because of them the number is there, if I go off to other times:
I will itzt very seriously herausgehn. But you go to the
page for so long.

Here is the dress, harlequin, which you can attract immittelst.
_Harl._ Splendidly!

_Peter._ That is the executioner Comödie. (Gehn ab.) Eighth appearance.
_Isabelle_ And _Valer_. _Isabelle._ No, my worth Hester Graf, so
flattering is it me you loved, and I so much of your honest intentions
überzeuget am so little I find myself wealthy you my hands. My
fate has me once on the scene led the world I'm nothing more than a
Comödiantinn, and I would have you, my worthy Hester Graf, less
and less highly appreciate love when I connect with your consent
and we Beyde should insult you that you are so far and lowering
myself that I made a man of so much emotion and so little tenderness
to his own honor had.

_Valer._ Großmüthige Isabelle, je noble show yourself, the less
it is possible for me your commands obey. I can not live without
you. All my happiness beruhet on our connection. The law is on the
side of virtue, beauty and love. Prejudice may make us not mistaken.
_Isabelle._ O! it giebt venerable, holy prejudice, and the truth
must often only in our own Meynung to transform our prejudice
before they can assert their rights.

_Valer._ But your birth is not equal to mine. They are of good family,
and the fate that you brought to the stage - of which _Isabelle._
Nothing more. You know how the world thinks. You know what evils
hypothesis they pursued those who devote the stage, and it should
be me forever sorry Seyn than Comödiantinn a man to insult, I
Prinzessinn than happy to make wish.

_Valer._ Divine Isabelle! (He wants their hands.) _Isabelle._
Again, this hand is not my worth Hester Graf I am proud, proud of
you, proud of me, and because I had enough courage, I love your
honor aufzuopfern, you must also be cheap Seyn, and the mine
unharmed.

_Valer._ You are cruel. They act unjustly with him, unfair to me. Me
and my misfortune is to be your responsibility. _Isabelle._ I
know that language, but I know what I sense from your promise to
have. About Insert only one self, how sensitive are you and me
would Seyn when in all societies before us flee, if you look any
accusations and show me a contempt, if your whole family and you
hate me, if anybody would suspicion - _Valer._ torturing me
at least not if you do not want to make happy.

I did everything, and a more considered, I have all these truths
so clearly presented that I believe could unparteyisch to
urtheilen; and yet, beautiful Isabelle, was the final then, that the
happiness of our association all the infinitely would prevail.

_Isabelle._ you know, Mr. Graf, that I am against this happiness'm
not insensitive.

You know that my pride through this connection would be satisfied.
Forgive me but that I hold you to a kind of tender love and stay
true to my intent. _Valer._ You encounter a Ieden else so kind, you
- _Isabelle._ no allegations that Mr. Graf As I enter the stage,
so it is my duty, then all the come, courtesy and to show gratitude.

I would otherwise harm our society, and an indecency offense, which
in the circumstances where I am, for one, or others could Seyn
offensive. Believe deswillen but do not, my dear Count, that we
with our Validity verschwendrischer than others. Ieder state requires
an own behavior, and if you know so you do not make false conclusions.
_Valer._ I do not think you like me to blame. My sincere love
is the best refutation, and the first rehearsal that I never Validity
Their suspicions have.

Ninth appearance. The _Vorigen_. _Harlekin_ And _Peter_. _Harl._ Ha!
ha! ha! Play a Comödie? _Isabelle._ Well, what you like is a
harlequin? The series has not even to Dir _Harl._ The number Seyn
to me like it or not, I must tell you that Mr.

Barthold know it, and that did not play today, but in all earnest to
Heirath work. _Valer._ But what is that? _Harl._ What that means,
if you heirathet?

_Peter._ Do you not? _Valer._ Mr. Barthold Seyde and your all crazy.
Another is it me zweymal say, before I come here and play my
role. (Geht ab.) Will I _Isabelle._ because Seyn probably so happy
to know what it is for a Heirath sey, which is used today?

_Harl._ you should be between a bridegroom who Scrupel makes one side,
and between a bride that does not otherwise Seits closed and not
closed. _Isabelle._ For this chatter, I räthselhaften, Harlekin
that you are , which makes Scrupel. _Harl._ The executioner trust
the girls! I think she read one from the eyes of what you think.
But, what did you differently because in the eyes when you first
ways; the point to Reason, as the desire to heirathen? See me not
to? _Isabelle._ O! I'm going to have the long views, and also
Kolombinen.

_Harl._ Hey, look just how cunning the secrets to attract! _Isabelle._
This was because although the Heirath between you and Kolombinen
the secrets?

Well, so I wish you good luck so it is a girl braves. _Harl._ Probably
unterthänigst Could I ask you what a girl braves understand?

I mean otherwise, the horses would be called brave.
_Isabelle._ I will only say that Kolombine plays her role well,
that they are very clever, very beautiful, very funny, very
kind - _Harl._ But not very virtuous sey? _Isabelle._ O! that goes
without saying, and I can tell you the good news saying that they
recently did a few brilliant ausgeschlagen has earrings. _Harl._
But Freyer, which it offered, should not have had some hypothesis
that they Such would probably accept?

_Isabelle._ I thought Harlekin, you better dächtest stage of our review.
If all those of us verurtheilen wanted, what about a friendly
glance retaliate, or to consult a temptation, it would be very
unfair to us Seyn.

_Peter._ No, the thread must cancel at least, and the cord from falling
Rade, otherwise his sample is not sure Seyn. _Isabelle._ It seems me,
Peter, and where I am right you know, so would you like to
take my Cathrinchen without Scrupel, and Du, Harlekin, Thäter also
well aware of the sample after the wedding to talk. _Harl._ The curse
is dangerous, and his time is not comforting.

_Isabelle._ I wish you each a pair of women, the way you put the
heads, and if Mr.

Barthold blessed his wife still had, it would he told me not hieher
have sent in April. That says it only when you see him. (Geht ab.)
Tenth appearance. _Harlekin_ And _Peter_. _Harl._ Well, Peter,
where have you left my Company? _Peter._ Here it is (by providing
it with the dress and holet übergiebt). _Harl._ (If the dress on
his, and makes dabey a theater game). Eleventh appearance. The
_Vorigen_ and _Scapin_. _Scapin._ Ha! Welcome, my worthy captain
Mr Hester! _Harl._ How, Scapin, because you know me no more? _Scapin._
In That, when you voice your verrathen would not, I would hardly have
recognized you. _Peter._ But the Pants ? _Scapin._ O! the Bey can
wear any dress, and a widower like they do so in the mourning
attraction.

_Peter._ Bey said to us, it's not so great Lord, or the fool looks
out somewhere. _Harl._ I ask you, Peter , but do such stupid comparison.
I have these pants with diligence to keep, because the sample
should be unhappy expire, so I hang the dress immediately to the
nail, and I am again I was.

But what do you think, Scapin, you should probably me out of respect
for the uniform unbeaten return?

_Scapin._ Do you just not such qualms. If Kolombine an honest girl,
and you are quite Bey their start, so you need to get your
shots, or I lose five guilders. _Harl._ Good! it is a word. _Peter._
Truly, I would wager, Mr Harlekin. Kolombine is an honest girl.
You get the beats reliable, and I win my money, or you have not quite
started afterwards.

_Harl._ Peter, it is valid for five lumps, and with joy I will pay
you beyden.

One for me but itzt Bey: I have no money in his pocket. I would surely,
if I want to try, so any bags of ducats have. _Scapin._ Do not you
think that I know what you like in such cases is Nöthiger? Feel
only once in the pockets.

In one of my Lord's with an empty wallet pfennigs number, and the other
in the sheath of his shoe buckles. Kolombine will Ducats and Iuwelen
is hypothesis, and if you offer it, you certainly Beydes to raise
his head, without watching what is in it.

_Harl._ Do you doubt it? _Scapin._ So certainly as you get the faith
to get Puckel wilt. _Peter._ Much happiness to do so. _Harl._
(too Scapin) did you want me well Bey Kolombinen Report? _Scapin._
Hey, why not?

I serve my Lord uniform, and am not ashamed, such Bey Kolombinen log.

_Harl._ To go quickly. Twelfth appearance. _Harlekin_ And _Peter_.
_Harl._ The Scapin is a durchtriebner head, and knows all about
Rath.

_Peter._ After my stupid Reason not heard much about this joke,
you become a good costume shots as possible.

I wanted to also probably thun. _Harl._ O my good Peter, this is
far beyond your horizon. You know it is not pleasant to me like
these are blows Seyn. _Peter._ Well, meinethalben. Everything as
you want.

If I only win my five lumps. Nunmehro but I begin to fear that you
will, if the bet is lost in the bag with pfennigs access number.

_Harl._ Thou shalt surely your five lumps, or my name is not captain
of Astaroth. _Peter._ Oh, you Meyn not that people will recognize
you? Your voice verräth you the same. _Harl._ The white I have to
adjust. I want the proper role of a captain to play, as I have
learned.

Dreyzehnter The appearance _Vorigen_ and _Scapin_. _Scapin._ The
Mademoiselle Kolombine Barthold is captain of the Lord Astaroth
back nicely even recommend, and because they did not believe that
the Mr. Captain Heimliches something you would have to say, so she
wanted to have the honor of the same here on the stage to receive.

_Harl._ Was she alone? _Scapin._ and you sat on a sub nähete Rocke,
what they with you, as I hope getrauet will be one of allerliebsten
Röckchen feuerfarbenem Atlas bordered with lace, not precious, but
cute.

_Peter._ you coming! She comes! _Scapin._ Come on Peter, we want
to go the next inn, and our future bet vertrinken. (Go from
the latter.) Fourteenth _Harlekin_ appearance. _Kolombine_. _Harl._
Assah! Pudding abuse, as is always? If the liver is still fresh, and
your Seyde bequartirt well this winter?

_Kolombine._ May I ask: what about the Lord's command captain sey?
_Harl._ To my command? Three kisses on a job, my darling,
three kisses - _Kolombine._ I do not know if I have understood
correctly, the Lord Captain of Astaroth Bey have been reported to
me.

_Harl._ That's me in the original, my little Zuckermündchen . May I
also probably ask if you do not have the Mademoiselle Kolombine
Bartholdinn are?

_Kolombine._ You aufzuwarten, Mr. Captain. _Harl._ Now, we are so
well-known people and neighbor children. Come then, my darling,
and kiss me. _Kolombine._ I still believe I am mistaken.

They told me that you have some orders from a very good girlfriend
that I had in the countryside, I had to. _Harl._ Ia, right, my
dear Sauernüßchen. Here I have a pair of oriental, Peruvian earrings,
and a bag of one thousand ducats knurled species. What seems dabey
you, my Rosenknöspchen? _Kolombine._ I still do not understand
what it all?

_Harl._ Why, girl? * Primo * You shalt me for nine and ninety times
kissing. _Kolombine._ Ah, who knows what girls Bey these earrings
well captured, and if you do not dabey torn ears!

_Harl._ I conquered it in the barrel pit before Schweidnitz and The
thousand ducats, I have a French Marshals Rase campagne en * *
removed.

_Kolombine._ I see well, Mr. Governor, you have nothing in me to
appoint me and I will obey you only recommend again. _Harl._ O
Prinzessinn! so it will not go. Flight here!

(He takes her hand Bey, and Stellet them so that they can not miss
him.) And earrings, these ducats, these kisses adopted. (He wants
to kiss and nip it.)

_Kolombine._ I please you are right, Mr Governor, moderate
yourself. _Harl._ What moderate?

Drey IAHR siege I damned your review stage, as if I have a fortress
siege, and I constantly have my gun on you addressed.

That I once storm run, you have me not verdenken. Immediately these
earrings plugged in! (He calls her on this, but they fall
to earth.) And here The thousand ducats, or (as before). And now on
the breach gehts los. (He hugs it to his art) _Kolombine . _ Oh
my God!

Violence, violence, violence! Funfzehnter The appearance _Vorigen_,
_Barthold_, _Scapin_ and _Peter_ come from all sides. _Barth._
What ists what ists what ists? _Kolombine._ Do you not see, the
Lord Captain wants to kiss me with violence, and force me to one
thousand ducats, and a pair of earrings to be brilliant. _Barth._
schreyer And that's why you so, girls? I bet if I am the Lord Captain
of violence to throw out home, he does not make such a Lermer.
(Kolombine highlights on the box now and it looks cheeky.)
_Harl._ I ask that you speak with more respect from me, otherwise
I will show you what else.

_Barth._ to speed with what you wanted to show me otherwise? _Harl._
I did not not Bey me, but if you want to allow, I will go and fetch
it.

_Barth. _ You're very fine, as I remember, now, if you want to
allow, I will set you before the first wohlmeynend a costume
mitgeben strokes. You like it maybe they forgot to fetch.
(He flogged it to the theater down. Scapin and Peter keep him where
he is running out, her hands in order to receive their money.
There was a fine large kaleidoscope, the first she had ever seen,
for Mollie; a charming musical box, with a long list of tunes
printed inside the lid and a little gilt key to wind it up with, for
Prudence; a Winsor and Newton paint-box for Grizzel; _Five Weeks in
a Balloon_, by Jules Verne, for Hugh; and a Punchinello doll on a
stick for Baby.

"I must say," Mollie remarked appreciatively, "your father _is_ a
peach. I have often wanted to see a proper kaleidoscope, but they
seem to have gone out of fashion."

The others were too busy admiring their own things to observe
Mollie's remarks. Grizzel was speechless with joy as she found all
the paints she had been longing for--the crimson lake, Prussian
blue, Vandyke brown, and the rest; Prue had wound up her box, and as
Mollie turned her kaleidoscope towards the light, and delighted
herself with the wonderful colours and designs it produced, she
heard the delicate, sweet tinkle of a faintly familiar tune--an old-
fashioned sort of tune....

While they were thus pleasantly occupied Professor and Mrs. Campbell
and Hugh returned, and Mollie was introduced to "Mamma" who after
all did not look in the least alarming. She was a fair, pretty
woman, with large clear eyes like Hugh's and a beautifully modulated
voice. She kissed Mollie and looked at her with rather a sad
expression in her eyes:

"You must tell me all about home this evening," she said in her
musical voice. "How nicely your hair is cut; I wonder if Prue's
would look nice like that."

"No, no," said Papa, laying his hand on Prue's curls, "I can't spare
one hair off my Prue's head. I must have my brown ringlets to play
with sometimes."

Hugh could talk of nothing but the wonderful telephone. "I believe I
could make one," he said later on. "I understood a good deal of what
the man said. I shall require a new magnet and some other things.
I'll begin tomorrow." He had forgotten all about such trifles as
hidden ladders and treed sisters, and the girls did not remind him.

But when Mollie found herself alone with Grizzel she began to talk
about the little house and described a beautiful plan she had
concocted for a house-warming, finishing up with the remark that it
was a pity that Grizzel could not come.

"Why can't I come?" demanded Grizzel. "Of course I'll come. I adore
the little house."

"It's Hugh's house, and I don't think he will let you come if you
have a mysterious secret way of getting up and down. He won't like
it."

Grizzel was silent. "It's nothing very wonderful," she said at last.
"I was only paying Prudence out for forgetting me. She might have
remembered to let me down when Papa came home--" and Grizzel's eyes
filled with tears. Mollie's heart softened:

"He was in such a hurry that there was no time to get you, and it
was my fault afterwards just as much as Prue's."

"I'll tell you now if you like," Grizzel went on; "only you must
promise not to tell Prudence and Hugh."

"No," said Mollie, "I can't do that. Prudence was awfully
frightened; she got quite pale. We were frightened together and
looked for you together; it wouldn't be fair for you to tell me and
not to tell her. I hate things that are not fair."

Grizzel was silent again and then sighed. "Oh well, I suppose I'd
better tell. I'd have liked to keep one secret, but I can't bear not
to go to Hugh's party. It was very easy--I only--"

"Wait," said Mollie, "I'll call Prue."

[Illustration: I WISH I COULD MAKE SOMETHING THAT WOULD REACH FROM
HERE TO MY BROTHER]

"I saw Hugh take the ladder," Grizzel went on, after Prue joined
them; "of course I heard it scraping along; Hugh is a silly. So I
watched him hide it, and when the milkman came I called him, and he
put it up and helped me down and we hid it back again. That's all."

The others looked at each other, and then Mollie began to laugh, and
went on laughing till Prue and Grizzel laughed at her laughing.
"Well, I must say!" she exclaimed at last, "I _am_ a Sherlock Holmes
and no mistake! I was so busy being clever that I never even thought
of a milkman, which would have been Baden-Powell's first idea. Of
all the silly things! Why on earth didn't we think of it, Prue?"

Hugh, most reluctantly, went to school next morning, and Mamma kept
the girls busy with Italian, music, and needlework till lunch-time.
After that Grizzel departed with her paint-box, Bridget took Baby
for a walk, and Mollie and Prue settled themselves in the little
house, with a cushion apiece at their backs, a basket of freshly
pulled oranges between them, and a couple of books in case
conversation should flag.

"Now, Prudence, tell me more about Time-travellers," Mollie said;
"somehow I can't seem to remember that I am one; in fact--" she
paused.

"You can't believe it," Prudence finished for her. "I know. But it's
meant to be like that. If you didn't forget you would remember too
much, and then you would stop being a Time-traveller, because your
mind can't be in two places at once. So it is better _not_ to talk;
or you may have to go."

"I won't again, but just tell me two things. Can we travel forwards
as well as backwards?"

"A few people can, not everyone; but it is better not, Mollie. It is
far better not."

"But you came into my Time to fetch me."

"I didn't exactly come, you brought me; and I can only stay a
moment."

"Well," Mollie said, after a short silence, "the other thing is: Can
I bring Dick? He would love this place and this Time--somehow you
seem to have more room than we have, and you are not so frightfully
busy. We never have _enough_ time; I think your hours must be longer
than ours," she went on, with a sigh. "I simply cannot get all the
things squeezed in that I want to do. I often wish the days were
thirty hours long."

"You weren't wishing that when I came," Prudence said, with a little
laugh. "I don't know about Dick; you can't bring him unless he wants
to come--of his own accord, I mean."

Mollie pondered a little, and then sighed again: "It will be rather
hard. He doesn't want anything frightfully except football, and
there isn't any just now. Perhaps we could make him want to come;
couldn't Hugh invent some way? It was only one chance in a hundred--
in a thousand, perhaps, that made me talk to your photograph. Let us
ask Hugh."

"We can ask," Prudence agreed, "but his head is going to be packed
full of telephone now, and he won't think or speak of anything else
for days. That's the way he is; we get rather tired of it sometimes,
especially when we have to help. Grizzel collected four hundred
corks for his raft. She grubbed in the ashpit, and among the empty
beer-bottles--" Prudence sighed in her turn.

The two girls met Hugh at the white gate on his return from school,
and Mollie seized the first opportunity to make her request.

"I don't know," Hugh answered thoughtfully; "there ought to be a
way. I believe there is a way _somewhere_ to do everything, if you
can only find it. It's mostly a question of looking long enough. And
a thing is always in the last place you look for it--naturally. I am
going to make a telephone; if I could make one long enough--" he
paused.

They were strolling up the wide, cypress-bordered path as they
talked, and Mollie's wandering gaze fell upon a low mound at the
foot of one of the cypress trees.

"What's that?" she asked, coming to a standstill. "It looks like a
cat's grave."

It was a grave sure enough, and crowned with a bunch of pansies. A
small headstone had been made from the lid of an old soapbox, on
which was printed the following inscription:

          HERE LITH
             THE
           LONGEST
      DANDY LION CHANE
             IN
          THE WURLD

"It's Grizzel," said Prudence; "why on earth has she gone and buried
her beautiful chain?"

Grizzel joined the group and answered for herself:

"Mollie said the poor flowers would be forgotten. I should hate to
be forgotten, so I lifted them all up and buried them. I bought a
yard of lovely yellow muslin when I was out yesterday and made a
beautiful shroud. That cypress tree is rather big for such a little
grave, but it's the littlest in the garden."

No one smiled. "It was a wonderful chain," Mollie said, remembering
her view from the Look-out, "I wish I could make something that
would reach from here to my brother Dick. I wish we had wireless. I
wonder if 'willing' would be any good. Have you ever played willing?
We join hands and will with all our might that Dick would come
here."

"It sounds easy," said Hugh, always ready for a new experiment,
"much easier than making a telephone; we might as well try."

So they joined hands and wished. As they loosened hands again a
shrill cry above their heads made them all look up--it was a parrot
flying low across the garden, its brilliant plumage shining in the
evening sunlight like jewels. "It's my parrot!" Mollie exclaimed,
"it met me by the gate yesterday."

Mollie sat up. The rain was still splashing on the window-panes, but
Aunt Mary was drawing the curtains, and a cheerful little fire had
been lighted. There was a pleasant tinkle of china as tea-cups were
settled on the tray.

"Have I been asleep?" she asked incredulously. (It surely was not
all a _dream_!)

"A beautiful sleep," Aunt Mary answered; "and now tea, and after
tea--you shall see what you shall see."


CHAPTER III

The Fortune-makers or The Cherry-garden


Mollie was rather silent at tea-time. She could not help thinking of
those other children in that long-ago far-away garden. Were they
real? Or had it all been a dream? It _must_ have been a dream, she
thought--such things do not happen in real life--it was impossible
that it should have been true. And yet, never before had she dreamt
anything so clearly, so "going-on" as she expressed it to herself.
She longed to tell Aunt Mary all about it, but the memory of her vow
restrained her. If nothing further happened, in course of time she
would feel free to tell of her wonderful experience, but in the
meantime she must have patience. She racked her brains to think of
some roundabout way of introducing the subject of Australia and the
year 1878, but could not get past her vow--it seemed to block the
way in every direction.

The virtue TO REVIEW THE STAGE or: Harlequin Heirath After a game
in an elevator by J. MOES Berlin and Stettin, Bey Friedrich Nicolai
1798 people after the game: _Herr Barthold_, Principal of the
stage. _Kolombine_, His daughter. _Harlekin_, Actor.

_Scapin_, Actor. _Isabelle_, Actress. _Valer_, Actor. _Peter_,
Cleaner light. The scene is on the scene. The virtue of the show on
stage, or: HARLEKIN'S A HEIRATH After playing in an elevator *.
[Footnote: You can see on this jocular piece the message, which I
_Möser life's p. 81 f._ them whatsoever.

  Since it's kind of odd, I
  also can print special.
  R.] First appearance. _Barthold_
  Lord, _Harlekin_.

_Harlekin._ (Makes three deep bow). _Barthold._ What he wants, my good
friend? _Harl._ (Makes some bow). _Barth._ Bridge He is so long
until he gets tired and then he can say what he has to say. The young
people used the itzt so that any of the time with a thousand
compliments spoil.

If you are in my Iugend to a man in the office was: so he made a
single kipper, and then came to the point.

That was a good fashion; dabey you should leave it. _Harl._ (In foreign
sound) Hochedelgeborner and strict - _Barth._ This is again one
minutes out. _Harl._ They allow large reductions - _Barth._ re-one
minutes . _Harl._ That, I suppose the Freyheit - _Barth._ yet
_ein_ word of such concepts, and I prügle things out for yourself.
_Harl._ (in normal tone) I come, Mr.

Barthold, because your youngest daughter Kolombine; I like it - _Barth._
obedience servant, obedient servant, my good Mr. Hester Harlekin!
Excuse me, you immediately that I had not known.

My eyes pass me slowly, and you talked to me in such a Candidatenstil,
to you I am not accustomed. _Harl._ I _kann_ heirathen, I _muß_
heirathen, and I _will_ heirathen. _Barth._ Well, it is short.
These are three main causes, not all people really understood and
felt to be. What do you but your future as a widow to suspend
Leibgedinge?

_Harl._ Erstlich, I do not intend to die before her. _Barth._ That's
a good intent; alone version comes sometimes even much on the
woman: this has vielerley funds , an honest man in the pit to bring,
without poison and knives. The mine, I have to thank God sey,
dismounted.

It was a bright host, but she was so intractable that they were
from the seven and twentieth Bette child could never recover. You
see, I was probably on hold. _Harl._ That I notice.

Zweytens, she has as long as I live, an ample livelihood.
My art as harlequin has a golden ground, and has certainly Kolombinchen
also an art which they can rely on.

_Barth._ Alas, the arts leave one with the time and when one grows
old, it is nothing more convenient than by its pensions live. There's
a bunch of trouble and worry spared.

_Harl._ Freylich, and I think that very reason a capital return
to determine what Thaler zweytausend on the chair should come widow,
Nota Bene: if he has no hair is crazy broad.

_Barth._ That is something hard, a widow is to be deplored. I feel,
my dear Harlekin how sour it to me in my seven and siebenzigsten
IAHR is not me, sometimes on a nice soft chair to widow.
_Harl._ I want it now, and therefore I give my widow, a chair with
four legs, so he is quite solid.

Zweytausend Thaler, when I do, are the heck, money. Kolombine What
saves, it will be money to keep their needles, and if she dies before
me, will I set them in their best shirts buried. _Barth._ But you
forget the Morgengabe. _Harl._ That I myself am: Morning and
Abendgabe. Bring me but Kolombine a son, too, if it looks similar
to me, because I call explicitly: let him also Barthold Harlekin
hot. _Barth._ I thought of That, She wanted to dress then a new bed
set up child . Listen, Mr. harlequin, I have a lot of girls, and I
like to create it from the neck, because they pointed to their
paragraphs slightly careless manner once the case may be.

I will not last long so act. Kolombine is yours, and while this
evening, if you want. That I ask myself but for that you do not
secretly abduct, otherwise I would be on your wedding can not drink.

_Harl._ So far we are still a long way.

I just want to ask only temporarily, if you give me your daughter
probably wanted to give, if I * * matter in forma stopped.
Itzt is still a small or large point left. You know, my good Mr.
Hester Barthold, that one of the Comödiantinnen mancherley says.
Kolombinchen has a pair of doves as allerliebst-Aeugelchen, she
has something, something - oh, Mr. Barthold, I can not say, but
what she has to say so much - so much - _Barth._ Well, how much
then? _Harl._ If a nut easily falls out of the sleeve, is also
probably because they already stung by the worms? _Barth._ Is this
a question for a wise man? The worm all sit firmly in the sleeve.
_Harl._ Oh, Mr. Barthold, should it not have been well versuchet?
_Barth._ You may have tried what she wants, she always just their
role gespielet. A girl on stage often needs love tuna, often
kiss, laugh often, and what is more like. That brings the Comödie
it with you. If Kolombine the mischievous Buhlerinn imagine, so it
would not send mine that they would retain a matron. How often she
has not even cried! Meyn, however, that they deswillen for them
to come home, always been saddened? _Harl._ I've always heard that
innocence is something sweet, something Körnichtes, so some of the
brown crust Seyn that I do not like a woman take like what these
tidbits have already verschenket. _Barth._ Harlekin O my dear,
are you burned: Rathe so I have no wife - unlike my Kolombine to
take. _Harl._ But once you see yourself, Barthold, all these beautiful
Lord, what here before our stage sit. Her eyes seem to love my
Kolombinchen the Mark from the bones to move, and when she dances,
oh, when she dances: so - so - all hearts dance with her . _Barth._
Should they probably thun? _Harl._ If they do _not_ Thäter, so I like
Kolombinchen not, and now, it _da_ thun, so I dare not Kolombinchen
right. For those girls who jump so high when they dance, you
can easily Blümchen omitted, and if that was not would be so proud
of everyone but perhaps seldom rightly that it is one to have. Mr.
Barthold, Mr. Barthold!

a pretty Comödiantinn is probably rare, rare, rarely a cherry which
has not already been bitten a bird has.

_Barth._ antics!

it is _kein hübsches_ girls in the world, what you do not have this
same hypothesis. Not because they quickly catch fire than another,
but because they pursued day and night and so easily once a snooze
is overwhelmed. Who but it encounters the likes of his punishment
to an ugly, and assured that they Seyn before the first hole
will be trapped. It is the honor, happiness and pleasure in their
mortal lives _auch_ once adored to be so in love acknowledge it is
so concerned Seyn the bird not to scare away, they will be anxious
Seyn the only opportunity to lose, they will Seyn done so, their
ephemeral Waar to bring the man that I am not one of them, but
probably one hundred at a pretty girl verwetten wanted the choice
among thousands buyers.

And then, my dear Harlekin, it is a bestial thing , a nasty witch,
and no brown crust _doch_ to get. Kolombinen For all I want
if Seyn guarantor. _Harl._ The guarantee is in That something
serious. I would not for my mother's obligations may be. _Barth._ I
like the grilling is no longer listen. In short, you take
them, or they do not take some risk, you will always run. - But, wait,
we want today Freyer even imagine. They should be the bridegroom,
and my daughter Kolombine Your Seyn bride. You can dabey put to the
test, and if you do not like it, then you are back at the end frey,
and you only have a role gespielet fell.

_Harl._ The idea is really good. Everyone Freyer but only plays a
role, and if at the end of the play the Heirath is completed, the
role just did an end too soon. _Barth._ Holla! Kolombine! Zweyter
appearance _The Vorigen_ and _Kolombine_. _Barth._ Kolombine,
Thou shalt today once the bride Seyn. _Kolombine._ Oh, Papa,
I am happy. I play nothing better than the bride and groom. _Harl._
(Before that) O Du - but you know, my beautiful Kolombine that
Freyerey with Comödie an end. _Kolombine._ Well, yes we can the same
piece play again. I wanted that we did not otherwise have
been on our stage, and almost like I Heirathen verreden order
bride ever to stay. Alas, it is so allerliebst bride to Seyn.
_Barth._ You can heirathen, and yet still play the bride. A good
Partey you can always take to advance, and the young girls thun
amiss if it's hand of an honest man refuse to ever flattirt, adorirt,
courtisirt, carressirt, and finally meprisirt them.

Are you, my daughter, otherwise never the bride than the Schaubühne
been? _Kolombine._ No, Dad. _Barth._ Listen well, Mr Harlekin?
_Harl._ I hear and see Mr. Barthold. _Barth._ Where is Scapin and
Peter? They should also come and play Freyer. Isabelle, who has
often presented the bride, and experienced than you, Kolombine, you
should show the right way. _Kolombine._ Oh, Dad, I want to be ready,
I understand it.

_Barth._ Well, it makes your Beyde the beginning. I want to go
around, and the other to announce their roles.

_Harlekin_ Third appearance and _Kolombine_. _Kolombine._ Well, you
begin.

_Harl._ No, do you start. _Kolombine._ Oh, no! I have not learned
it.

The groom starts first, and says: Oh, my beautiful theuerste how
long I have been fortunate not wanted to give you my heart to
open. _Harl._ And what says the bride? _Kolombine . _ They replied:
O! You flatter me too much, I know it is only your polite joke.
_Harl._ And what He replied again?

_Kolombine._ He then takes her hand and kissed those, and says: Oh,
like you see in the heart; as you would read that my sincere
desire never been any other than the good fortune to please you, and
these beautiful hand to kiss. _Harl._ And so they can be done?
_Kolombine._ Oh, yes, she lets his hand, and he kissed it a hundred
times more, and then seufzet, until finally the bride is no longer
such a retreat, and with their whole person follow.

_Harl._ The role I do not like to play. _Kolombine._ How do you
then? _Harl. _ I say Kolombine, my English stomach drops when _Sie_
wants, I will probably. _Kolombine._ And what should they say? _Harl._
She: Well, I want - I want _Kolombine._ Now - _Harl. _ traps me
but not in the speech.

You must say: Well, I will not. _Kolombine._ The role I do not
like to play. _Vorigen_ The Fourth appearance, and _Barthold_.
_Barth._ Well, my children, have you started? _Kolombine._ No, Papa!
On the merits, we are one, we can only have the role does not
compare.

Mr. Harlekin wants to know better than me, and me seems, in this
piece, I could be champion long Seyn.

I'm from Iugend to the Bey plays educated; am so mannichmal bridal
been, and probably should know better than him.

  _Barth._ Well, Harlekin,
  then you should also leave out.
  Kolombine führet you certainly
  not unknown path.

_Kolombine._ Oh no! I thought it just so as to make the Blessed Mother.
_Barth._ How I blessed Mrs. heirathete, I followed her blindly, and
our marriage would not have been so blessed Seyn if I would have
been less obedient. She was always ready to instruct me, and her
example that sometimes the best services. Often I was teaching her
very inconvenient, but it was, heaven knows, not their fault.
_Harl._ The worst are my Scrupel, and I still do not understand,
Mr. Barthold, such as through our Comödie will be lifted. If the
bride Kolombine well, so I will think: she understands her role and
makes it not such a good front, I think she understands _noch_ a
role.

And heaven knows if they are not yet a third understands. It is bad
that the thing not to Goldwage can bring. _Barth._ The best Goldwage
is a good confidence, but if you do not, which is really cheated,
and who it was who eats his salad, a swallow with screw down, and
finds him still tasty.

_Harl._ I like that your guest is not Seyn. Who wants to marry,
must not blind cow game, but probably watch what he picks.
_Kolombine._ Oho! Mr. Harlequin! itzt I understand the thing with
the Goldwage. On a couple Aeßchen you can certainly expect that I've
already lost. Because the tailor gave me no iron in my new Schnürbrust
made. However, since the Comödie from, I am honored to recommend
your Scrupeln. _Barth._ I Meyn is also so.

Beschlafen the thing! A good dream is Heirathen often the best decision.
(They go from Beyde.) Fifth appearance. _Harlekin_. _Scapin_ And
_Peter_. _Harl._ (Front) Alas! the first attempt is not the best
expired. Itzt like '_ich_ well, now wants _sie_ not. _Scapin._
Because today is not played?

Mr. Barthold has me herbestellt to the present with Freyer. But I
see no signs. _Peter._ I should also imagine - _Harl._ Ha, my
good Peter, like it because you like tuna? _Peter._ Oh, yes. I
have usually only clean the lights, but if the gespielet Freyer,
so - so kiss me, like I say, Cathrinchen. And you _Harl._, Scapin?
_Scapin._ My role in this piece is only one fully Puckel blows, and
I could not say that I had such Nöthiger now. _Harl._ Listening
'again, my dear Scapin! I know you're smarter than some thief,
who is hung, I have one in the confidence you say. _Peter._ I hope
none of Cathrinchen?

_Harl._ I would have minded, the Lord's youngest daughter Barthold
Kolombinchen in all honor to heirathen - _Peter._ Giebt it also
Heirathen in dishonor?

Over everything was the same
beautiful clear sunlight that had impressed Mollie so much on her
first visit, and the air was warm and soft. She thought of the dull
street at home in North Kensington, with brick houses all crowded up
together and dingy little back-yards, and she wished that her family
could come and live in this wide and sunny country.

As she stood, a cry came across the valley.

"Coo-eee! Cooo-eeeee!"

"There's Bridget calling for tea," said Prudence. "Come on quick;
I'm as hungry as a hunter, and Biddy said she would make some
damper, because we are rather short of bread."

- Only you ... only you are capable of this sacrifice! - What
sacrifice, lady, if Lawrence is my brother. - And you are my son
today. - Well, Madam, that is nice, 'Mommy' let us crying for no
reason, and you will see how soon back Lorenzo made some Easter -
Melchor said smiling to master the intense, deep emotion I felt. -
God hears!

- And I hear! If I am with God ... well! ...
"He was so fond of Thou shalt not," Grizzel objected, "and I can't
_bear_ thou shalt nots. If _I_ had made the commandments I should
have said 'Thou oughtest not to commit murder, but if thou doest
thou shalt be hung'. Don't you think that would be more
interesting?"

"No, I don't," Mollie answered decidedly, "I like things to be short
and plain like Thou shalt not steal. Then you know where you are."

Prudence looked disapprovingly at her sister. "You should not talk
like that, Grizzel; it is flippant, and you know what Papa says
about flippancy."

Grizzel made a face but did not answer, and they went on in silence
till they reached the foot of the hill. They crossed the little
creek by stepping-stones, and walked slowly up the winding path, the
vines with their ripening grapes on the one side, and on the other
great cherry trees, laden with the largest and reddest cherries that
Mollie had ever seen in her life. They hung down temptingly among
the green leaves, dangling their little bunches in the most inviting
way imaginable, some scarlet, some black, and some almost white, but
all ripe and luscious. The children stretched up their hands and
pulled some, which tasted as good as they looked.

"I'm going to make cherry jam to-morrow," Grizzel said, dropping her
stones on the ground and carefully pushing them into the soil with
the heel of her boot. Keane noted how _esefulu_ of samoa, meaning
_un-a-diez_: Iloko us in the Philippines provides similar examples
_sang in-a-pulo_ (1O), _sang-a-gasut_ (1OO), _sang-a-ribu_ ( 1000),
which mean a undiez-a-unciento, UNMIL-one (let me write this way
expressly that a better idea).

It is worth noting one form bisaya, _napulu ka libu_: _na_ and
_ka_ represent two different transformations of the particle
formulation.

We also see in the same language _ísa-ka-gatos_ (100), _isa ka libo_
(1000) that really mean a unciento, an UNMIL. I can not add, then to
prove the existence and significance of the particle enunciative
that _da_ in _dalawá_ is a transformation of _sa_. We have now
to explain the origin of _lawa_ which is what really carries the
meaning of two comes from the Tahitian _A-rua_, or rather _rua_,
removing the particles we already know enunciative .

R, D, L, are letters that we see each other frequently used in these
languages, so we bisaya and Malay, _dua_, as in Iloko and Bikol
in pampanga _ad-dua_ and ibanág _due_.

I have heard in Batangas _daluá_ and voice _lawa_ more commonly used
in Manila, is the result of insufficient writing characters with
tagalog. The significance of this speech, I would say that in Tahitian
_O-rua_ mean, you two , or _dual_ of the second person pronoun.

_O_, Is a sort of article that is placed on that language in front
of proper nouns and pronouns. The significance of _dual_ of
the second person, we believe that the oldest idea of the
amount of off of that. There is an enormous area in which the radical
linguistic _rua, dua_, has the same meaning in Europe, Asia, Oceania,
hundreds of languages used to express that the same radical figure.
Reflecting on the floor before us us analogous to the spirit of
sound words, whose meaning is also involved in the analogy of the
form, enclosing a long idea of duality. _Kalulua_ Or _kalolowa_
tagalog means for, according to the dictionaries by Catholics, the
soul, as we understand, was a concept that could not have tagalog
and certainly could not describe the voice _Kalulua_.

The significance of this word is "a thing twice," which the Egyptians
called the _ "Ka" _; So for tagalog _Kalulua_ exist for animals
and for vejetales.

The composition of the same word comes to show what they say is a
particle prefixed _Ka_ makes radical that joins on behalf substantive
significance of giving a company, as in Spanish with the particle
_con_ or _com_ in _compañero_, _compadre_, _contrincante_ etc. etc..
- _Lulua_ is the contraction of the repetition of the word _lua_
and tagalog, among several ways that repetition has the property
to make the voices is that of _imitación_, _representación_ as
_fingimiento_.

_Kalulua_ Thus has this meaning: "as the second person or thing."
Another word in this sense is the same or similar _larawan_, image,
portrait seems to be a contraction of the repeat _lawa_ in _kalulua_,
in which the second _r_ in _l_ is changed, as often happens, appearing
at the end the particle suffixed _an_ , which gives the sense of
"being done."

Not only in tagalog find a relationship between the name and the number
two voice means that the soul is said in Tahitian _varua_ (_rua_
two) in ibanag _ikararua_, warning _ika_ that the prefix is an
ordinal number, where the significance is applied to soul, "as far
as second, because the repetition of the radical gives the
meaning" as imitating. "Abbé Favre, other malaistas involves _dua_
that Malay is derived from Sanskrit _dwi_, which does not seem
acceptable, not only because I have shown that comes from _dual_
of the second person in the Tahitian language, but because they did
not expect to describe a figure so small, these languages have to
resort to Sanskrit, as found for higher levels, without resorting
to estrangeras voices, expressions to describe themselves.

In Polynesian languages, there are no voices of Sanskrit origin
and any number of names are of purely local. The similarities of sound
that can be found, are merely coincidences. Almost all European
languages named the number two with an original voice Ariana: in
almost all of Oceania, the name of Polynesian origin, provides as
great likeness to the European voice, which seemed both radical
derived from it. * * * * * TATLÓ three.

In my illustrious friend and wise Dr. AB Meyer, the Mariveles
Negritos of Zambales and say _ta-telo_. This explains the tag: for
_tatló_ should have in a day or _sa-teló_ telo-_ta, _ noting here
that with _dalawa_, the presence of the particle in _ta_
enunciative _sa_ transformed by the whim or rather needs of euphony.

Further evidence that the syllable is not here _ta_ more than one
limitation is that the particles disappear when we are ordinal numbers,
which is done in tag: adding the name of the prefix number
_ika: ikalawa_, second: _ikatló_, third, where we have lost that
_dalawa tatló_ syllables _da_ and _ta_.

_Telo_ or _talo_ is used in most Polynesian languages: _A-toru_
Tahitian, _tolo_ in Rotuma, _telu_ Malagasy, and Philippines languages,
_tatlo_ in the same bisaya training in tagalog _tatlo_ in Ilocos;
_tolo_ in Bikol: _A-tlú_ pampanga we see in the enunciative reduced
to a vowel and a contraction _tolo_ suffer identical to tagalog;
_tallu_ in ibanag. In all these names there is a permutation of _l,
r, _ as happened in tagalog _dalawa._ In the radical _tolo_ means
"add the third and two twisted wire to make a rope." I can not
say whether _tolo / i> was originally the name of a thing, and
this was a string if the name or number three was applied to the
rope to be made of this amount or twisted thread: what is clear
is the expression of both.

However it is very likely to be called _tolo_ to a rope made of
three parts, and hence the name came to the figure which today
means.

_Tali_, Which in Malay language in tagalog, it means spring is also
the name of the large number studied analogy sound: maybe it is a
modern _toló_ old. It seems logical to assume that before learning
to rope and had already served them people whose languages we are,
where it appears priority to the significance of something.

The word _tolos_, anchor, is another to consider: the anchors used by
Several Malaysians have claws, but more commonly three, as two of
the Europeans. On the other hand is also Malay _tali_ significance
of a small coin. " My wise and beloved teacher Abbé Favre, in his
Malay dictionary, said that this name should probably its origin
to its value (0.65 cents ESP) is equal to a number of pieces of
copper, very small, ranging All together, strung on a string, _tali_.

We dare to suppose that _tali_, sound like _tolo_, applies to this
currency, not the supposed fact that my teacher said, but because
their value is to _tres wang_ being _wang_ as HC thousands, indigenous
currency . * * * * * APAT four.

The first letter of the voice is all that remains of the particle
enunciative _sa_, so that an older form in tagalog it _sa-pat_.

In Javanese-Ngok, which are many similarities in tagalog, it is said
_pat_ and _papat_. The most simple, while the oldest, from which
comes the voice _apat_ undoubtedly be found in the Polynesian
languages: in Tahitian, sunt. marq.

_ha_, Samoan, _fa_, but I do not see in these languages, among the
things _ha_ and _fa_ mean, (the leaf petiole of taro, white for
shooting arrows) appears to be nothing which gave reason to apply
the same word to mean four.

In W. of Humbolt the voice that called the number four in many languages
means "finished, over" what makes you suspect a quaternary numbering
system. The Havre Abate provides support to this assumption
by noting that in Javanese means blogvideo _sakawan_ four voice and
"a whole, a whole match being the same direction, with a different
voice, in the Tahitian language means _aha_ where four crowd whole
company.

This confirms what I said in the article _isa_. The number four
was a day of the maximum numbers of Polynesian, until the name of
the hand was applied to mean five. * * * * * Lima. five.

Name common to almost all the languages of Oceania: the _l_ in _r_
changes _d_ or some of them, but the word is the same, and in many,
the significance of primitive _lima_ preserved while the meaning
of amount that came from that.

We have said that means hand, which is common with the figure of five
the number of fingers: this meaning is preserved today in the
languages bugui, makasar, sandwich, ibanag etc. etc.

In tagalog word is derived from a hand that is _lima_ and _lamas_ mean
_manosear_, squeeze, squeeze between your hands. Iloko in the hand
is said _ima_.

Some people in Africa are incapable of counting number greater than
three. It is certain that at one time included only the five
Polynesian: Basis and today the inhabitants of the Bay of Triton,
in the New Guinea have a numbering quinal with reaching the Sifra
10: The first claim: 1. ben 2. 3 gar. 4 niet. nianett 5. guruma 6.
guruma ben 7. 8 guruma gar. guruma niet 9. guruma nianett 10.
guruma guruma. * * * * * And in the Bay of Triton: 1. samosi 2.

Rueti 3. TURU 4. faat 5. Rimi 6. rimsamosi 7. rimrueti 8. rimturu 9.
rimfaat 10. rimrimi * * * * * The same tagalog today to avail
of pebbles or sigais to make arithmetic calculations and come in
groups of five in the same manner as a Spanish, if provided with
the same stones, the grouping by tens.

And it is that there is presently numbering tagalog quinal not
only in how we say but also in the spoken numbers. In some provinces
are using the following terms: 5, sang kamay (a hand); 10, dalawang
kamay (two hands): 15, tatlong kamay (three hands), in groups of
five until reaching 45.

To say 50, with the system of multiple hands, it seems a rather
complicated word: _dalawang kamay na kamav_ (two coats of hand).
Tagalog in any dictionary I have seen signs of the significance
given to five _kamay_, nor the numbers I have just mentioned. When
was quinales groups, the number 50 qualifier _varios_ should apply
to more remote in time, covered, as said in the article by isa, two
up. * * * * * ANIM six. Repeat here what seems to me beyond doubt
that, in front of each name in number, in ancient times, the
particle was placed enunciative _sa_ whose traces we see _anim_.

We therefore consider only _nim_ to find the source of the voice
that called the number six in tagalog. Among the Polynesian
languages, none has a voice that resembles both the tagalog language
as spoken in Timor-Laut, group of islands located between Australia
and New Guinea, described by Forbes and studied: the voice is _enim_.

In this language, by the way, all numbers from one to ten, are very
similar to that tagalog; that, eru, Etel, Efate Elima, enim,
efitu, ewalu, esi, esapulo.

Seems to say that the toilet _e_ preceding these names is a limitation,
which _sa_ in tagalog. I do not, the language referring to Timor-Laut,
rather than a short list of words, with which I can not tell if _nim_
or _ni_ has another meaning in addition to the number six. A simpler
name _anim_ us Tetuan and presented lekale languages, spoken in
East Timor, an island located at the eastern extremity of the archipelago
of the probe: this form is _ne_. Here are a series of
transformations of the speech at hand: Tetuan and lekale, _ne_;
Javanese-Ngok, _nem_; timorlaut, _enim_, Malagasy, _enina_, Malay,
_anem_, tagalog, _anim_, bali, _anam_, Madurese, _nanam_.

Sundanese are served in a completely different voice: genap
(pronounced guenáp), which means " "in many languages (Javanese,
Malay, Batten, etc.., etc.), which suggests that probe, there was
a numbering system that reach only six, as in Polynesia was a
quaternary system, as _apat_ said in the article. * * * * * cock,
seven.

Common name for the majority of Malay Polynesian languages, where
we see him changing his first consonant in _h_, _f_ or _p_, and
his voice last _o, U_, indifferently. Marquesano, Tahitian, _hitu_;
sandwich, _hiku_, Samoan, _fitu_. The primitive form of this
voice was _fiatu_, whose origin and formation can be explained
even with tongue samoa in this, an antiquated form of number three
and the word is _fia_ _tu_ means _cortar, remove, suprimir_. The
direction of this voice composed _fiatu_ or _fitu_ its contraction,
which is _tres suprimir_, refers to the fingers of both hands
together: ten fingers are deleted three are seven. Later we will see
the implementation of this system in almost all languages of
Oceania.

_fia_ Returning to the radicals and _tu_, study their meanings in
other languages polynesianas. The tahit. _firi_ and sam. _fili_ mean
Trains and sand. and marq. _fio_; have the same meaning. This shows
that the word or its _fia_ transformation _fio, fiti, firi_ mean
_tres_ and an object in which the number three comes to something
like Trains. The same thing we've noticed with _tatlo_ that differ
completely from _sia_ and its derivatives, has the same meaning of
community, which proves that this meaning of _tres_ and _cuerda_
or _trensa_ is not a mere coincidence and is in support of what we
say in this paragraph, as you said here supports that. _Tua_
means _cortar_ in tahit. Formerly it was said _tu_, but a
so-called king, banned, according to Tahitian use, the use of this
syllable in the language.

In marq. and sand.

_tua_, which also means cutting, also has the effect _cosechar_. In
wasted. _fitu_ says: Ngok _pitu_ in Javanese and most recently
_pitó_ tagalog.

Bad. is used by a voice full of tagalog separse does not interest us
here study _tudju_ states, as in makasar. * * * * * Walo, eight.
There may be strange that the explanation just given of the formation
and meaning of the word _pitó_. In a matter of derivations and
etymology, easily penetrates into the realm of fantasy, with a
very logical and we can prove the greatest absurdities.

Warned against this pitfall, and with the feeling that, in the minds
of some, the explanation of _pitó_ I doubt aroused by the suspicion
that he engaged in exactly what I want to avoid, to make fancy, I
must begin by some considerations on one of the names that get the
number eight in the Malay language, to provide evidence by analogy
to the above _pitó_ on.

Next to the voice _waló_ with more or less variations used in Polynesia,
the languages used more near the Malay type, the voices _delapan_
and _karua_.

Bad, and Sundanese achine, used _delepan_: its origin is as Sundanese
J. Rigg, which means two _dua_ language and _lepan_ doubled.
Referring to the fingers of both hands, which are ten, two
doubles, leaving us eight. In my illustrious friend, the wise Mr.
Aris orientalist. Marre on the islands of Arrue, use the voice
_karua_ formed _ka_ four and two _dua_ or _rua_: ie, two equal to
four _ocho_.

Now look very natural that I give it _pitó_ training that I have
explained and which is similar to that of _delapan_ or _dualepan_.
_waló_ Coming to our tagalog, I must confess that I have had much
to do. His oldest _walo_ seems to be _varu_ or that is in samoa,
Tahitian, and marquesano sandwich.

I think that their training is this: _va-lua_ or _va-rua_. _Va_ And
_iva_ mean in samoa _espacio between two things, or gap between two
objects cosas_.

_Rua_, Dua_ mean _lua or two as we have seen elsewhere. _Valua_
Or _varua_ or just _valu_ would _espacios dos_ meaning, referring to
two hands and we suppose that we have since discovered the meaning
of _pitó_ and _delapan_: the _dos espacios_ or _vacios_ caused by
the absence of two fingers, reduced to eight left to count on both
hands.

It may not satisfy many of this explanation, why does not seem
illogical, but because it was hoped to use the same voice that
said _pitó_ theft: one is explicitly stated otherwise removed and
the two idea of the disappearance of two is secondary and as a
result of two or more spaces in the place where there should be two
fingers.

This does not mean, however, more but has not adopted the same word
to express the same idea. The main thing is that the formation
of _pitó_ and _waló_ respond to the same idea to a single system
of objective figures. The numbers were formed as needed: there was
no general rules for training, because if any had been reached
incontable_ as _contar what happens now with our system, which
enables us to make estimates and stacking the figures, that our
imagination can be say, not grasping.

Not having as a general rule, it is easy to conceive as a _pitó_
tube formation and _waló_ other, both having in common words, which
are based on a subtraction operation on the number ten, represented
by the fingers of both hands. * * * * * SIAM, nine.

We first demonstrate that the present form of the word tagalog is
the result of a series of transformations of the voice _iva_ same
meaning in this language, Tahitian, marquesana sand. and samoa.

Turning to his _v_ novo Zealand became _w_ and _iwa_ was formed in the
island of Rotuma added a _ch_ and I _chiva_ and _chivu_: the letter
was added _s_ in firakú (in E.

Timor), in where he also became the _v_ in _b_ being transformed
into the voice and language _siba_ Tetuan and lekale deleting the
consonant _s_ interim, it was said _sia_.

For reasons of phonetic languages _m_ Philippines have added a final
and now we have the voice _siam_ whose derivation has shown. _waló_
We have said that the significance of _vá_ was "space" is a synonym
_iva_ and that word was added _rua_ voice or _lua_ or your
contractions _lu, ru_, that was _dos espacios_ here is not rather
than _un vacío_, has not had to add a supplement, although it seems
quite possible that the _s_, preceding it in tagalog, is a vestige
of the particle enunciative _sa_ I have already made known in other
articles of this study.

This word comes to supporting my views on the composition of _varu_
or _valu_. Similarly the formation of _delapan_ was confirmed
when it was learned that, to the amount expressly nine, used
in the same voice _salapan_ language, whose meaning is a _sa_ Removed
_ (LAPAN) _.

In bad, they say _sambilon_, nine, consisting of _sa, _ and a _ambilan_
being removed. In states _sakurang achine; sa_ one, _kurang_ (similar
to that tagalog _kulang, _) lack. The numbers 7, 8, 9 are expressed
in language of the Republic of Palau, following the same above.
One, two, three states: _reb, rub, and adolib_ precedence over the
prefix _me_ these voices is the name of the figures 7, 8, 9. I do not
know what the meaning of its own code that indicated _me_, but
knowing the system generally used in Oceania, is to be a logical
meaning of _sustracción: medilib_, seven, consisting of a shrinking
of _me_ and _adolib_ Three: _merub_ eight (_me_ _rub_ and two):
_mereb_, nine (_me_ and _reb_, a).

In view of repeated so many examples and there is no doubt find
new evidence: the words used may be different in form but not in
substance and all reveal an idea in the same numbering system.

_lima_ If the name of five, which also means hand, we have put into
the track, if I may say so expressly, perhaps we would not have
come to understand the meaning of 7 , 8, 9, but once provided with
data that relate the meaning of words they call these numbers, the
existence of _diez dedos_ of both hands, who make up this numbering
system, and we can not doubt that the etymologies given to tagalog
numbers are not only logical, but true. * * * * * SAÑGPÓO, Powo,
POLO. ten.

As the numbers 7, 8, 9 are known, as we have seen, based on the
number represented by the ten fingers of both hands, it is natural
that the name means 10 while both hands or anything that concerns
them .

I have said in the article that tagalog _limá_ used the expression
_dalawang kamay_, two hands, to say ten: they were also told that
these expressions evidence of the existence of an ancient numbering
quinal with not more than he could count up to 49 or 50. I could
really tell beyond that figure, but by dint of repeating the voice
_kamay_ would have come to the formation of a complicated and
incomprehensible speech. The ten days that the amount came to express
in a single word of its own, the numbers could easily go up to double
the figure expressing the quinal and say it was 99 and 100.
"So the next thing--the next thing----" she repeated, looking round
at the other three children. "What _is_ the next thing to do?"

"We can't tell you," Prudence said, with a funny little smile,
"you'll have to fix it yourself in the end."

"Cooo-eeeee!" sounded from the cottage.

       *       *       *       *       *

"Cherry jam for tea to-day, fresh from the preserving-pan," Aunt
Mary was saying. "That will be a treat for you, Mollie, my dear."


CHAPTER IV

The Treasure-hunters or The Duke's Nose


"Cherry jam is certainly very _runny_," said Aunt Mary at tea-time.

"Do you put a handful of gooseberries into it?" Mollie asked rather
dreamily, as she tried in vain to spread her scone tidily.

"Gooseberries! Why, no; I never thought of it. It might be quite a
good idea."

"Or red currants?" Mollie went on.

"Red currants! Bless the child! I didn't know you were a cook,
Mollie."

"Neither I am," said Mollie, rousing herself up to the fact that she
was back in Chauncery, and must set a watch upon her tongue. Why was
it, she wondered, that she forgot Chauncery so much more when she
was with those other children than she forgot the children when she
was at Chauncery? "I once heard a person say they put gooseberries
and red currants into cherry jam, and I suddenly remembered," she
told Aunt Mary.

"Well, it is too late for cherries, but I will try it for the
strawberries to-morrow. It will be quite an interesting experiment."

Mollie resolutely pushed her thoughts about the cherry garden and
its occupants into the background, and gave her whole mind to a game
of patience with Grannie, who was getting a little tired of jig-saw.
But when that was over, and Grannie was absorbed in casting on a
stocking-top with an intricate pattern, while Aunt Mary wrote
letters, she began again to think and wonder about her curious
journey, which for some reason seemed less strange to-day than it
had done yesterday. She pondered over ways and means to get Dick
across, or over, or through, "or whatever you call it when you
travel in Time", she thought; "back might be the best word. I do
_wish_ I could tell Aunt Mary."

She looked thoughtfully at her aunt, whose head was bent over her
writing, the smooth bands of her silky, brown hair shining brightly
in the lamp-light. No doubt some, perhaps most, grown-ups would
scoff at her tale if she told it, Mollie thought. Grown-up people as
a rule love best to jog along on well-trodden, safe, commonplace
paths, and avoid adventurous by-ways, but Aunt Mary, Mollie felt
sure, was an anti-jogger, so to speak, and would always choose
adventures if she had a choice. "It's funny to think," Mollie
reflected, "that she can't be so very much younger than Mrs.
Campbell is--was--is--was then. I suppose she is about thirty-five,
and Mrs. Campbell forty or so--she looks--looked old enough to be
Aunt Mary's mother. Being good at games keeps her young; she can
beat me to a frazzle at golf and tennis; and she is frightfully keen
on aeroplanes; I'm sure she would fly if it weren't for Grannie. I
wonder why she never got married?"

Mollie had not yet come to the age of sentiment, but now and then
she reached forward a little and surveyed its possibilities, and now
she paused awhile to muse upon the subject of her aunt's
spinsterhood. Not for long, however; she decided that Aunt Mary must
have had excellent reasons of her own for remaining single, and
returned to the more pressing problem of how to get Dick into the
Campbells' garden. Finally she thought of a plan worth trying.

"Grannie, may I have the loan of one of your photographs?" she
asked. "Dick has a way of copying them with a thing he has that
makes them look like drawings, and the old-fashioned ones are the
prettiest."

"By all means, if he will be careful," Grannie answered, nine-tenths
of her mind being fixed on her new pattern and only one-tenth upon
her grandchild's peculiar fancy for Victorian photographs. So Mollie
wrote a short letter to her brother, enclosing the group which had
worked the magic charm for herself that afternoon. She put it into
the evening post-bag with a sigh. "If that doesn't do it I _can't_
think of anything else," she said to herself.

It is remarkable how quickly one becomes used to a new routine.
Already Mollie was making more use of her hands and head because she
could not use her feet. She was fond of writing, and decided next
morning to begin an account of her strange adventure while it was
still fresh in her mind. In the intervals of other plans for her
future career she had dreams of becoming a writer of books, but her
difficulty hitherto had been that the usual sort of book is so
ordinary, and she had never been able to think of anything
remarkably unusual to write about. The autobiography of a person who
could live in various periods of the Christian Era might turn out to
be quite interesting, she thought, if only people would believe that
it was true. The trouble was that most likely they would think she
was inventing it, "and anyone can _invent_ any old thing. And this
is only the beginning of my adventures. When I have thoroughly
learnt how to Time-travel I will go back much further--perhaps to
the French Revolution, and watch people being guillotined."

She scribbled diligently in the thick exercise-book, which Aunt Mary
produced without once asking what it was wanted for. "It just shows--"
Mollie murmured gratefully; "some people would have teased me to
death."

And so time passed, and half-past two came round again in the usual
inevitable way, and Mollie lay expecting Prudence as calmly as
though she were coming from next door. She had the album on her lap,
and was turning the pages in search of a new photograph, when in the
twinkling of an eye Prue was there.

"We don't need that now," she said, "but we must have Aunt Mary's
tunes. Where is she?"

"Oh dear, dear, I forgot!" Mollie cried in dismay. "I do believe
Aunt Mary is making strawberry jam, and I went and told her about
putting in gooseberries and red currants, and her head will be full
of them and she will forget me!"

But the lullaby had not been forgotten. At that very moment the
piano began--a tune Mollie knew well this time, for she had often
heard the American soldiers sing it in London:

  "Oh, darkies, how my heart grows weary,
  Far from the old folks at home".

"Give me your hand--quick," said Prue in a whisper.

       *       *       *       *       *

Mollie found herself standing on a wide beach in the curve of a
beautiful bay. Before her lay the sea, dark blue in the distance, a
clear emerald green by the shore. To the right of her the beach
stretched as far as she could see, firm yellow sand on the lower
half, fine white silvery sand higher up. On the left it only ran for
a couple of miles or so and then ended in rocks, over which the sea
threw a cool white spray. Behind her, Mollie saw, when she turned,
the line of the beach was followed by sandhills, some covered with
low-growing scrub and some quite bare and treeless, shining like
snow in the hot sunlight.

The children were all there. At a little distance from where she
stood Mollie could see Hugh and Prudence, Hugh lightly clad in a
swimming-suit, and Prue with her skirts rolled up and her feet bare.
A wide sun-hat covered her head, and her brown curls were fastened
back with a clasp, which made her look older, Mollie thought.

The two children were hauling a large, square, flat object down to
the sea, Hugh pulling in front with ropes, and Prudence pushing
behind.

"I do believe it's the raft," thought Mollie. "This must be
Brighton, and I suppose the summer holidays have come round again.
It is a little difficult to keep up with Time here. I do _wish_ Dick
could come!"

Grizzel was sitting on the beach close beside her, and seemed to be
gathering shells from a little pale-rose patch on the sand at her
feet. She was very absorbed in her task, but she looked up at Mollie
with a smile, apparently not at all surprised to see her there. She
was dressed, like Prue, in a turned-up overall and wore a wide hat,
which hid the red curls from view and gave her an unfamiliar look.
Bridget was sitting not far from Grizzel, busily doing crochet-work
and singing a song about a wild Irish boy, while her eyes wandered
after Baby, who was singing a little song of her own invention about
a poor lonely whale who had a loving heart. Higher up the beach, at
the foot of the sandhills, Mollie could see Professor and Mrs.
Campbell, one reading aloud and the other sewing.

"Where shall I go first?" Mollie asked herself, "I think I'll go and
see what Hugh and Prudence are doing."

She found, when she began to walk, that she was bare-legged and
bunchy about the skirts like the other girls, and that her head was
covered with a sun-hat like theirs, a tanned Panama straw, light as
a feather, and shading her eyes from the glare of sea and sand. The
sun was very hot and the sand was warm under her feet.

"Hullo! Here's Mollie the Jolly!" exclaimed Hugh, as she drew near.
"Come along and lend a hand--we are just about to launch the good
ship _Nancy Lee_ on her trial trip."

Mollie examined the raft with deep interest. It was really very
neatly made, the planks straight and smooth, and firmly held
together by cross-bars underneath. There was a mast in the exact
centre, with a sail at present close-reefed, and there was a pair of
old oars which, Hugh explained, had been purchased from a boatman of
his acquaintance. All round the raft were bunches of corks, several
hundreds at least.

"Did Prue and Grizzel find all those?" Mollie asked.

"We all collected 'em," Hugh replied; "lots of people gave us corks--jolly
old winebibbers they must be," he added ungratefully. Walked eight days
wandering through the woods: so that, although I pilgrimage in my
life, I've never been way more harsh, irritating and regret.

Manteniámonos with honey and roots, and we stopped to hunt some wild
animals, because the Indians do not alcansasen. Finally we come to
the nation _Biesaie_ where we were four days, and we provide what
we need, without daring to reach the people because so few. This
nation is _Urquá_ River, where we saw snakes, called in Spanish _Schebe
Eyba Tuescha_, [54] of ten steps in length and four inch wide. These
snakes do much harm, because if a man bathes in that river, or
swimming wants to pass some animals, the serpent wrapped in the
tail to human beings or animals, and puts him under the water and
eat it: for it is always going with the head above water, if you
look any man or animal can be.

[Note 54: _Este Name of the measure that had no knowledge of the
Castilian writer, and to what extent spoiled by their names
ortográfia._ - -THE EDITOR.] From here, walked 100 miles in a
month, to give _Scheverveba_, people who rested three days, but
so skinny and ripped the trip and lack of food, which never had
in abundance but honey. And then we started getting sick, missing
all the forces with the long and dangerous journeys made with
great poverty and misery, and most major food without appropriate
to nature nor to rest in bed, because that carried him, as you know
All were of cotton, protected as a network of four or five pounds
weight, and the sleep tied to two trees, and echándose rests in the
countryside: it is safer to walk where few Christians in India,
which houses and villages of the Indians.

From there we went to a village of Christians that I had for a den
of robbers. It was their captain John Reinville, then was absent,
no doubt for us in the village of San Vicente, to meet with other
Christians who had made some adjustments. Indians (800 with which
Christians live in two villages) are sugetos the king of Portugal,
but below the power of Juan de Reinville, which was very obedient,
because he had been in India 40 years as governor, made war, and
pacified the province, and no one believed that he deserved better
than the government.

And because it was not always war and assembled together in one day
5000 Indian War and the King of Portugal could not put together
2000.

¡¡So was his authority and power in these provinces! When we arrived,
was at home one of his son, who treated us very entertaining, and
all remedies for their people than the Indians, and because we came
out all right, we were very glad, giving thanks to God for having
safely removed from that town.

CHAPTER LIII. _Llega the author at the end of San Vicente, Spain
navigate and contrary winds brings the second port of the Spirit
Santo._ From there we went to the village of San Vicente, which
is 20 leagues in the background.

Day July 13 1553 in the port are a Portuguese ship, loaded with sugar
and cotton from Brazil, by Peter Rosel, [55] Erasmo Schitzen factor
of Antwerp, who lived in San Vicente, and send it to John Hulse,
inhabitants of Lisbon, who was also a factor.

[Note 55: _The People of this ship was unjust because it has come to
swim Stadio Juan, fleeing the Tupi Indians who had captivated
him, they would not receive him not to regret, and left in slavery,
as he relates in his History of Brazil, lib. 2, chap. 53, fol. 97._]
Recibióme with love and honor Rosel: I asked to receive the ship,
begging the sailors who treats me like his recommended which did
faithfully.

Eleven more days we stopped in San Vicente, where we provide everything
necessary for navigation. There is the assumption from San Vicente
in Brazil, 376 miles, which walked in six months. We left San Vicente,
San Juan Bautista Day, 1553, and fourteen days at sea, agitated by
continuous storms and contrary winds, broken the tree of the nave,
where we were ignored, we entered the port of the Holy Spirit in
Brazil, inhabited by Christians, who with their children and mugeres
till sugar.

There are cotton, and many big clubs in Brazil and other goods. In
this sea, especially among _Sancti Espiritus_ and San Vicente, and
more than all, there are large whales [56] and fish, as big as them,
which often make great damage, because when sailors pass in skiffs
to a warehouse to another, usually as a herd the whales come to
fight with each other and turn the navichuelos, people perished.

They are always throwing water, and increasingly so, on average
cuba French put it head under water and out again at once, throwing,
as has been said.

Anyone who has not seen this ever, think that a lot of browsing
rocks. [Note 56: _Hay so many whales, that the King D.

Alonso, the VI of Portugal, the year 1662 de_ _tenia leased for three
years at its 43,000 fish crossed.

Vasconcelos, lib. 2, Vol. 97, fol. 172._] CHAPTER LIV. _Sale The port
authority of the Holy Spirit and comes to the Third and the Azores
navigate to Spain, and thence to Flanders.

Take the earth again tempestad._ Four months we were at sea, after
we left the Holy Spirit on the water continuously, without having
to land the island of Tercera, where we were two days, and supply
us with bread meat, fresh water and other things needed. Obey the
king of Portugal. In fourteen days at sea we arrived in Lisbon on 3
September 1552, and having been in the other fourteen days, and
killed two of the Indians that I had, I went to Seville, which is
42 miles away from Lisbon, and arrived in six days.

After sailed by sea to San Lucar in two days: there was one
night, and went by land in one day to the port of Santa Maria, and
another day I went to Cadiz, on the ground. Found in the bay 25 _urcas_
large Dutch back to their province a bigger and more beautiful,
new and had only once sailed from Antwerp to Spain.

Aconsejábanme merchants who engage me in it, and adjust with Enrique
Schertz, its patron, my journey for me that prevents that afternoon,
being in agreement with him to let me know when you leave.

Got into the ship which was carrying wine, bread and so forth, and
some parrots brought from the Indies. That night he drank more
than the employer should, and I either forgot me and left me at
the inn: two hours before dawn, he ordered the pilot to be made to
sail. Displaying very morning where the ship had departed and that
a league of land, I had to cast his eye to another, and deal
with another patron, who gave the same as the first.

Twenty-four out port these ships, Wind had three happy days: after a
storm arose so horrible, we could not continue the trip. Best hope
eight days time, but the more we stopped, Arreciado more storms,
so they do not keep pudiéndonos at sea, we went down the same road
to the port: and _Enrique Schertzen_, (which was the ship that had
brought me I got my clothes and left forgotten), it came last.

In a league of Cadiz, and the dark night, the lantern became captain
of the navy, so that the pilots saw the other and continue.

We arrived at Cadiz, and the ships anchor, remove the bluff, and
was on the ground, with good advice, a luminaire with a mill, a
bullet shot from Cadiz.

But it was of great harm to Henry Schertz, who thought it was bluffing,
and turned his right not to fire, and gave great impetus in the rocks
that were under water: so that was a thousand pieces, and sank with
all people and goods, dying in one quarter of an hour 22 people,
leaving alive only the captain and the pilot, who left the grip
the tree bigger also sinking six baskets of gold and silver was to
be delivered to the Emperor, and a lot of merchandise; causing this
wreck Estremé poverty for many.

I thanked God Almighty, that his mercy did not allow me to embark
on that did not. CHAPTER LV. _The Author sails again Cadiz á Amberes._
El dia de San Andres, two after that, unfortunately, we did the
Sail Amber: suffered such a large storm, the sailors swore that
he had twenty years, or that all the time that sailed, but had
not seen storms cruel, nor so dreadful whirlwinds. Wight arrived
in port from England, without trees, rudders, or anything else
that could be used in navigation, so if the journey had lasted a
few days, none of the 24 ships were saved.

But God spared us from this danger almost obvious, since near the
same location, the first day of the year 1554, eight ships wrecked
plunging miserably all people, not save anyone, and goods and other
things: it happened this calamitous Shipwreck, France and England.

Four days in Detuvímonos Wight, composing our craft. The best we
could, we got to sail for the Brabant, and reached Armuyden town
of Zeeland, where there are a multitude of ships: far from this
city 47 miles Wight.

From there we sailed 24 miles to Antwerp, where we arrived safely
_y_ free, January 25, 1554. EPILOGUE.

So, after twenty years, the singular providence of God Almighty, I
got to where they had left: but many, many dangers of life and body
suffered and tried, as famines , how many miseries, cares, anxieties
and work in the provinces of riding the Indians fairly may be
understood this historic declaration.

But I wish to God Almighty and Everlasting thanks as I can conceive
in the mind, because I came back except to places from where I
left twenty years before.

Be glory and honor to it, for ever and ever.

Amen. CONTENTS OF THE MATERIALS CONTAINED IN VIAG Ulderico SCHMIDEL
OF THE RIO DE LA PLATA. _Los Names in italics are those which,
having been adulterated by the author, have been ininteligibles._
bees sting and girls - 52 .

Acaraiba. People of caries, 20 miles away from Froemidiere - 40.

Acar, Indians. His drink, food, and on his behalf - 31. The Province
- 30.

Dan Guides Ferdinand Rivera - _ibid._ AGAC, Indians, stubborn
warriors on land and sea, its traces and ornaments - 38.

Oyola defeated by a loss of five Spaniards - 35. a people of the
Dead by Carias, others are forgiven - _ibid._ Sent to Spain Cabeza
de Vaca, rebel - 38.

Water. Missing in _Peyonas_, with fertile soil - 45.

The Sivisicosis have war with the neighbors about it - 46. The show
that the whales - 58. Agustin del Campo will Nuflo Chaves Lima -
50. German and Flemish. Are shipped with 80 D. Pedro de Mendoza
- 3. Carobs - 19.

They came of them Indians - 15. Algodon.

In the town of the Holy Spirit of Brazil - 58.

Tegen spin and Indian - 43.

Alonso de Cabrera. Arrives in Buenos Aires in relief, going to the
Timbús and dispatches notice agreement Oyola Spain - 24. Surge in
Caravela Santa Catalina with a 200 and Spanish, and two months
going to Buenos Aires - _ibid._ Pounds a storm by the knowledge of
its pilot, and comes to Buenos Aires 30 days before that came with
it - 26.

Turn to others to Cabeza de Vaca - 37.

Alonso Riquelme, he married the daughter of Irala, and why? - 53.
Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, treasurer of the navy that took Panfilo
de Narvaez to Florida - 36. Adelantado del Rio de la Plata, arrives
in Santa Catalina with what people and what year? -- -26. bastimentos
Send to seek two caravels, and are lost, except the people and
takes eight to go get in the assumption by land - 26. takes possession,
and adjusted Irala, preventing identification, and sends people
front - 27. chieftain Aracaré ago to process and send you hang with
the consent of the royal officials, and others - 27.

Irala Send to Tabaré against caries in 2000 - 28.

And his success makes him a good board, and arrives at the Mount San
Fernando; Payaguás he fled, and comes to the Sococies - 29. Reports
of other Indians, and did not find in 18 days, the Kings again -
_ibid._ Send to Francisco Rivera with 10 Spaniards to acknowledge,
and try their discovery, and preventing water - Send _ibid._ Hernando
de Rivera to Xaraya - 30.

And again, he turned and bustle people - 35. Obligations that is
satisfied, having failed to order - _ibid._ Solves the trip
itself, and do not want to follow the soldiers - 36.

Forbids the Spaniards that the Indians had carried, and it is
hateful, this wicked and otherwise - in the Kings _ibid._ Sick - 37.

Envia killing the Sococies the island, and adopts its destruction -
_ibid._ Returns to the assumption, and sick, and why not out home
in 15 days - _ibid. Préndenle _ the royal officials to send to Spain
- _ibid._ repugnant loyalists, and ignore them rebels - 38. iniquitous
treat the author - 37. What was soon tarnished by the envy and
hatred - 29. is sent to Spain: revolt among the soldiers, and the
reunion of Caries - 37. Acquitted by the Council was strange not
punish the false witnesses -- _ibid._ Amazon.

Ferdinand Rivera Halla news of them, and partly to seek, and live
and preserved, and treasures of their land - 32. Antwerp. It leaves
the author - 3. And return after 20 years - 61. Anmuyden town
of Zeeland. It has many bagel - 60. Mallards in _Mapais_ - 43. Antas,
animals like donkeys, and their skin and scalp - 19. Antonio Grovenoro.
You will discover Indian order of Cabeza de Vaca, and corn is
in Samococis, and between the inland and reach the Cambales - 27.
Aracaré, chieftain. Tabaré brother - 28. Processed by Cabeza de Vaca,
makes it hang - 27. And the earth rises to avenge - _ibid._ Antonio
de Mendoza. Governor is in Corpus Christi - 22. And what order -
_ibid._ Engáñale an Indian, and Spanish lost 50 - 23. Sítianle
Indians, and dropping them into a trap, is dead, and his people
goes to Buenos Aires - Navy _ibid._ D.

Pedro de Mendoza. Departs from San Lucar on day 1. St September 1534
- 3. Vuélvese to join the Canaries - 4. Arrived in Rio Janeiro - 5.

And the Rio de la Plata - 6. Rice, on the island of Santa Catalina
- 22. In _Carcokies_ - 49. assumption town.

As far from the island of Santa Catalina - 26. And Peru - 50. Their
neighbors are divided into factions: Cabeza de Vaca prisoner, rebel
Indians - 36.

Besieged by Irala, comes fleeing Abreu -- 53. assumption, people.
And by Llamóse Lambaré Oyola - 17. Let it go for 100 men in Payaguás,
and what order - 18. _Attune_, Called the Tupi Nigua - 50. Aves.
So in an unpopulated island that killed the soldiers sticks - 5.
Many in _Mapais_ - 43.

Ostriches in Caries - 12.

In _Zemais_ - 14. In Xaraya - 31. In _Peyonas_ - 45. In _Mapais_ -
_ibid._ In _Barconos_ - 46. In _Carcokies_ - 49. Author. Sale of
Antwerp will be shipped to Cadiz and the Rio de la Plata - 3.

Hit little distance from land - 4. Goes against Mr Querandís Pedro de
Mendoza - 7.

Appointed with six others the confidence to go to Santa Catalina
with Gonzalo de Mendoza - 24. Salvadó, returning from a storm in a
club, eating roots and comes to San Gabriel - 25.

It was Huanaco horse in over 40 leagues, for being sick - 43. Takes
19 Indians in the defeat of the Mbaya - 43. Irala Make sentry in
a hole, and made many friends - 47.

Tenia 59 Indian slaves -52. is wrong names, and alter, so it
is not easy to understand - 14, 56. I was misinformed of the
things of government - 26. mocks those of crocodiles or
alligators - 31. What won the day for Xaraya - 35. Miente much against
Cabeza de Vaca - 37.

If the Ursa lost sight of the larger islands of Cape Verde, or a
mistake? - 36. I dá hydropsy the assumption - 38. Write back to
his brother germany - 54. It gives Irala license, and bids farewell
to his friends, and comes with 20 caries in canoes á _Suberic Sabaye_
- 54. Paraná Browse , enters the Tupi, and fear of the beasts
that had in the desert - 55.

Defiéndese six Spaniards and Indians four days against the Tupi,
ambushed and fled, the remaining roots and honey, and comes to
the _Biesayes_ -- 56.
The walls were
panelled in wood, painted bird's-egg blue, and decorated with
pictures of ships. The windows were round like portholes; the table
stood across one end of the room and was screwed to the floor, as
were also the benches on either side. In the children's rooms were
bunks, in rows one above the other, and the washing-stands were
fixtures. It was altogether very charming and romantic.

Tea was of the kind called high, and the hungry children disposed of
cold ham, an extraordinary number of boiled eggs, several loaves of
smoking hot new bread, and at least a pound of butter and two or
three pounds of jam.

"May we go for a walk to the rocks?" asked Prudence, when tea was
over. "We will go very quietly along the beach and not get wet, and
be home before dark."

Papa said he would walk that way a little later on and meet them; so
Mamma gave permission, and soon a party of six were wandering by the
shore towards the rocks, carrying their boots and stockings slung
round their necks. It did not take them long to cover the two miles
which lay between their beach and the rocks. Mollie found it hard to
pass by all the lovely shells with which the beach was strewn, but
the rest were impatient. The sun was dropping down the sky and they
had not too much time for their search.

It did not promise to be a very successful search, for nowhere was
there anything even remotely like a duke's nose to be seen--nor
indeed any sort of nose. The rocks were low and for the most part
jagged, with pools of water in the hollows between them for unwary
or careless people to slip into. Many of them were covered with
periwinkles, which Grizzel could not resist gathering. She filled
her boots with them.

"Papa likes them," she said, when Prudence and Mollie remonstrated
with her for lingering; "he says they taste like a sea-breeze, and
if we aren't going to take back a duke's nose I may as well take a
periwinkle's nose; it will be better than nothing."

The cliffs were high and precipitous, but they were no particular
shape, being, as Hugh said, merely the edge of Australia. The
children scrambled along till they reached the turn of the coast-
line, beyond which were more rocks and cliffs, much the same as
those about them.

Indians scramble Mepenes only in water, and the _Zemais Salvaiscos_
95 miles away. CHAPTER XIX. _Del Rio Paraguay and people are
continuing our Curumias and Agaces._ navegacion eight days, and
gave in a river, and then the people of the Curumias, which many
Indians who are kept for hunting and fishing, and make wine from
the carob, [15] (who call the Germans _joannesbrot_).

Try serving this town around, and we were very pleased we needed
soon, in three days we were there.
"We'd have to use the sail and tack a bit, and we'd have the oars."

"What about food?" asked Prudence.

"We'd sling it in a can on the mast. Water's the trouble; we'd have
to distil sea-water, and that takes coal and might be a bit
difficult; there isn't a place for coal on board yet."

Mollie remembered the attar of roses and decided not to embark upon
that voyage. "We would be pretty thirsty before there was enough
water distilled for us all to drink," she thought to herself.

"Well, we'll have to be getting home now," said Prudence, with a
sigh. "It will be dark before so very long."

A somewhat silent and subdued party set out on the homeward
scramble, the boys in front, Mollie and Prue together, and Grizzel
in the rear, being hampered by her bootfuls of periwinkles, which
would keep falling out. She stopped at last, and, sitting down, she
laced her boots tightly up and tied the tops round with the lace
ends. When she looked up from this task she stopped again to admire
the gorgeous sunset. The whole sky was ablaze, and the sea had
changed from blue to crimson and gold; the wet beach was gleaming
like an opal, pale-rose and lavender, with fiery amber lights
shimmering on the rippled sand. The brilliant glow of the western
sky was reflected in the east, and the cliffs stood out sharply
against the light, themselves flushed with pink. Grizzel's keen
young gaze ran along the outline, black where it cut the sky.

"There's nothing there," she said to herself, "only that flagstaff
hut, and it's as square as square."

As she watched, a door opened in the side of the hut and a man came
out, swinging a billy-can in his hand. Suddenly Grizzel caught her
breath. Where had she heard someone say that that hut was a tiny
refreshment-bar, where a man could go in and get boiling water for
his tea--that everlasting tea which the Australian drinks at any and
every hour of the day? It was Papa, and he had said they called the
hut 'The Nose'--short, Grizzel felt sure, for The Duke's Nose. Her
eyes ran quickly down the cliff underneath--yes, she could see the
cave quite plainly when she looked hard, though to the casual glance
it looked like a deep crevice in the cliff.

She looked after the others. They had scrambled on ahead while she
was tying up her periwinkles, and were now too far away to hear
anything but a shout. She put her two hands up to her mouth and gave
the long shrill "Cooo-eeeee!" of the Australian-born child, which
caused five heads to be turned in her direction instantaneously.
Prudence started running back, fearing that her sister had fallen
and hurt herself. Grizzel's gesticulations made things no plainer to
the others--when she pointed to the hut they thought she meant them
to get help, so that Hugh and Dick set off towards the cliff, while
Jerry came on with Mollie and Prudence in case there should be a
broken limb.

Even when they got within hailing distance they did not understand,
for what between keeping a foothold on the slippery rocks, hanging
on to her periwinkles, and her excitement over her discovery,
Grizzel was getting breathless and incoherent, and all she did was
to point a small forefinger at the hut and say: "Duke's-nose-you-
know-duke's-nose-you-know-your-nose-dukes-know."

"She is delirious with pain," said Mollie, "and she is mixing the
Duke's Nose up with 'She sells sea-shells'."

However, it was not very long before they reached her side, and she
was able to explain the situation. A few more excited coo-ees
brought the boys back, and the question became: What to do next? The
sun was getting perilously near the horizon, and once it dropped
behind the sea, darkness would fall rapidly and the rocks be really
unsafe, especially as the tide was now coming in.

"We must get up frightfully early in the morning," said Dick at
last, "and come along before breakfast. Nobody is likely to find
that treasure in the next ten hours or so."

With many backward looks they resumed their homeward trek. It was
hard luck to have to leave the treasure when, perhaps, they had
almost found it, but Mamma's word was law, and if they broke their
promise about getting home, or at least meeting Papa, it was quite
possible that to-morrow would be spent by the girls in doing French
verbs and making buttonholes.

The children slept soundly all night in their funny little bunks.
Early in the morning a small figure slipped into the boys' room and
shook first one boy and then another by the shoulders. Dick and
Jerry woke up after a few grunts; Hugh as usual was a sleepy-head.

"Leave him to us," Dick said confidently, "_we'll_ get him up--
you'll see."

"Tell him to come by Gobbler's Hollow," ordered Grizzel; "you'll
find us there. Don't stop to wash."

When the boys were half-way across the sandhills, they saw a thin
column of blue smoke rising from somewhere among the low scrubby
trees, and a minute after a delicious smell greeted their unducal
noses--a smell of wood-smoke and toast combined.

"It's the girls making grub," Hugh explained to the other two;
"they're great on grub." He might have added that he was great on it
himself, so far as eating it was concerned. Certainly Dick and Jerry
were very pleased to know that they had not to wait until half-past
eight for breakfast, for the fresh sea air had given them ravenous
appetites. They found the girls in Gobbler's Hollow--appropriately
so named by Hugh--bending over a gipsy fire. The inevitable billy-
can hung from a tripod, and the steam from it mingled with the smoke
of the fire. Mollie was toasting bread, which Prudence buttered with
a lavish hand, and Grizzel was shelling hard-boiled eggs.

"I call this top-hole," Dick announced, as he squatted down on the
sand and took his tin mug from Mollie, who had begged to be allowed
to make the tea as she had seen Grizzel make it before. "It will
buck us up no end and make us as sharp as needles."

They were in a hurry to get on; so when breakfast was done they
pushed the mugs and knives into the hollow of a bush, which Grizzel
explained was their storeroom. Later in the day the girls would come
back and tidy up; for the present the great thing was to get to the
cave as quickly as possible. They had two clear hours before them in
which to make their search.

CHAPTER XXIII. _Quedan Soldiers in the assumption, recognizing the
site and soil conditions, and up the river arriba._ In six months
we were in this city, we will repair the stillness, and as our captain
is Oyola Payaguás reported that the villages are about 100 miles
away from the assumption, to the banks of the Paraguay river, as
you said caries and their main food was hunting and fishing, and
also had to carob flour that they ate together with fish, and wine
as sweet as our wort.

Oyola then commanded five ships load of corn, and prevent all things
necessary, and give the sailors they had needed to succeed in the
journey to two months to ponder.

First I wanted to make war on the Indians Payaguás, then to Caracas.
Attending all caries with great care and submission, and promised
faithfully to obey all the orders from the captain. Ordenado so
referred, and prevented the ship of all, the captain chose
300 soldiers, better armed and compounds, and left 100 in the city
of the assumption. Always sailing upriver, at five miles reached a
pueblezuelo, whose Indian trageron meat, chicken, geese, sheep and
ostriches, and reaching the last village of caries, known Itatin,
distant 80 leagues from the assumption, the Indians gave us
bastimentos and other things that helped us.

CHAPTER XXIV. _Del Mount San Fernando and Peyaguás._ From there we got to
the mountain called San Fernando, similar to calling _Bogemberg_
[17] and gave the Indians Payaguás, 12 miles away from Itatin:
recibiéronnos peace, but later became known as fake, taking home,
and we got to fish, meat, locust bean or _Pan of Juan_ well spent
nine days.

Made to ask the captain if he knew the nation called Xaraya; respondents
who had heard, who lived far away in a province rich in gold and
silver, but had never seen any of Indus she and other relationship,
he added, that were so wise as Christians, and which abounded in
corn, cassava or cazabí, mandubís, yams and other roots of mutton
or tapirs, animals like donkeys, who have their feet as cows, thick
skin, rabbit, deer, geese and chickens, and other things that we
learned after the fact.

[Note 17: _Este name está_ germanised, _y us is impossible to form
primitiva_ .-- THE EDITOR.] He asked the captain to guide the Payaguás
for go to that province, and offered early, and ordered his
captain to point 300 Indians who were with us, and bring food and
other things. Our captain issued the trip in four days, sending
proveyesen is all you need for this company: three ships broke,
and left 50 Christians in the two, with orders that were there.
[18] Four months waiting, and if not return at that, he retired to
the assumption: we were waiting six months without knowing anything
about John Oyola, and lack the Bastimentos, was needed to turn
Sunday Irala, who had become our master, the city of assumption,
as our captain had commanded.

[Note 18: _A this port called Candelaria John Oyolas_. Cabeza de Vaca,
_cap. 4._ HERRERA, _descripcion to India, chap. 24._] CHAPTER XXV.
_Juan Oyola reaches of the land of the Naperús and Samocosis and is
dead to return with all of Juan Oyola cristianos._ game with 300
Spaniards and 300 Indians arrived in the Naperús, friends and allies
of the Payaguás would be kept for hunting and fishing.

It is populous nation, and it took some Oyola for Indian guides,
because I had to walk by several nations, as did plenty of work and
lack of all, many will resist with guns, and killed half the people.

He arrived in the Indian Samocosis, and could not move
forward, and leaving three Spanish patients with these Indians,
requires work, it is returned with all their own. Juan Oyola rest
of your people, tired of the way, Napero in three days, but came
good and understood that the Indians did not bring weapons and
ammunition, thus addressed the Naperús and Payaguás, killing, and
they did it: because There Napero party, Oyola with Christians to
go to Payaguás, almost in the middle of the road, suddenly gave
them a multitude of these two nations, (hidden in this forest for
treason, which was to pass by); rabid dogs and killed the captain
and his soldiers, sick and healthy, without any break.

CHAPTER XXVI. _Viendo Their captain dead, the Spaniards chose to take
his place on Sunday Martinez Irala._ We know the betrayal of Payaguás
by an Indian [19] who had been slave Oyola, who fled from the
enemy to know the language: but we gave no full credit, but had
everything that had happened, from beginning to end pitiful haul.

So we were a year in the city of the assumption, without knowing our
people who otherwise mentioned, and what the captain had at Caries
Irala, and public reputation that Payaguás and Naperús he had died.
But for sure, we wanted hear from the mouth of one of the Payaguás.

[Note 19: Christian _Era the Indus, and was called Gonzalo._
Cabeza de Vaca, _cap. 4, fol. 4_.

HERRERA, _in the decade, lib. 7, 107, chap. 5, fol. 152._] Two months
later, some Caries seized two Payaguás and trageron the captain:
and asking if they had helped to kill our own, denied this, saying
that our captain had still not returned to their own province.

Dióseles torment, and confessed the truth and what is referred to
in the previous chapter, sending burning the captain tied to a pole,
surrounded by a bonfire. Then choose by referring to the captain
Irala, until the king ordered otherwise, because always had been
just and benevolent, especially with the soldiers. CHAPTER XXVII.
_Pone prison in the assumption the Captain, goes to Thimphu and
found dead and injured: Antonio de Mendoza leaves en_ Corpus Christi,
_y navigate Buenos Aires_.

He then provided four Bergantiños captain and 150 of the Spanish
people, sailing down the Paraná and Paraguay rivers.

The second, leaving the other people on the assumption, with
orders to join the 150 who were in Thimphu, and 160 of the naos
of Buenos Aires, came to Thimphu or _Buena Esperanza_, and strong
_Corpus Christi_ where our left: the ground but are not Indians,
because the Captain Francisco Ruiz, Juan Galan, priest, Juan
Hernandez, a scribe, which were like governors, after several
treatment infidels and evil, the chief had died of Thimphu and other
Indians, and the others fled, of whom had received many benefits.

Knowing evil so sad, we were shocked, and our captain Antonio de
Mendoza mandated Fort _Corpus Christi_, leaving 120 men and
Bastimentos, with orders to guard the Indians, always be alert with
good sentinels: and if the Indians came peace deals with love,
making meals as possible, avoiding all damage and attempting to
make, and the Christians, and looking through it with the utmost
diligence.

  Thus returned to take on, bring
  them to Francisco Ruiz, and
  Galan Juan Hernandez, author
  of the infamous killings of the Indians.

To navigate and be came a major indus Thimphu, a great friend of
Christians, which was as clear to follow them, for their muger,
children, relatives and family, who came to advise the captain that
does not stop there any Christian because all the people of war in
the province was committed or to stop them or miss the earth.

The captain replied that he would return presto, and that people
leaving enough to resist the Indians: and he was begged to come,
the Christians, with their muger, children and family, as promised,
and leaving us in _Corpus Christi_ is Captain embarked.

CHAPTER XXVIII. Thimphu _Matan the Spaniards treacherously 50: OTHER
desamparan strong de_ Corpus Christi, _y shipped to Buenos
Aires_. For eight days, more or less, the chief sent his brother,
but treacherous and Aleve, asking our captain Mendoza six soldiers
with shotguns and other weapons to go to us with all his wealth
and family to live forever.

Weighted fear I had to Thimphu, and the lack of security to come
without this relief: provided, as a friend, ask for our
convenience, bring a lot Bastimentos, and abundance of other
things. Persuaded the captain, not only gave him 6 but 50 Spaniards
arquebusiers well armed, were commissioned with restraint, caution
and request, to get rid of the damage it could cause the Indians
who was half a league from us. 50 Spaniards Arrived in front their
homes, Thimphu received with peace of Judas: ofreciéronles fishing
and hunting, and began to eat, gave them on friends and enemies,
that looked on with others who had hidden in the houses, so hurry
and fury , but it is a boy who was called Cauldron who escaped from
their hands, none could be saved.

And continuing to rage, we are in view 10000, and were strong on the
fourteen days, with intent to kill us: but God mercifully prevented.

Traian long spears with their swords that had removed the
Christians killed by point, and fought with them and other weapons,
night and day, to take the fort, but could not.

After fourteen days, they gave the last envestida , throwing all its
stubborn strength, and hit fire to the houses.

He left Captain Antonio de Mendoza with a sword by a gate, where the
Indians had made helmet, well concealed, and only gave it when he
crossed the Indians with spears, falling to a standstill.

God wanted to be out of food to the Indians, and not being able to
stay, built the site and were thus rested, and more with two
Bergantiños sent our captain Buenos Aires, with bastimentos and
ammunition for we could keep that up again, which caused us great
joy.

But it was more sadness that the death of Christians infused into
the newcomers, and not finding another way to restore us, we resolved
to forsake common agreement á _Corpus Christi_, and return to Buenos
Aires as egecutamos with all people.

Scared our arrival at the captain, and is strongly disturbed by the
ruin of the people, not knowing that it would, by the lack bastimentos
and necessary thing for any company.

CHAPTER XXIX. _Llega A ship with people of Spain to the island of
Santa Catalina, where to go in our barco._ a fortnight there
were in Buenos Aires, where a wine from Spain Caravela, and warned
us to be in Santa Catalina with a 200 not men, who came by Captain
Alonso Cabrera. Point to make available our captain ordered another
ship that was to small for Brazil, Santa Catalina, [20] which
is 300 miles from Buenos Aires. Posted by captain Gonzalo de Mendoza,
with orders to find that if the Santa Catalina, loads of rice,
cassava and other bastimentos it appears.

Asked the captain Gonzalo de Mendoza 7 soldiers, who could be
trusted, and elected 6 Spaniards, and to me and 20 others who are
with us.

[Note 20: _Está at 28 degrees escasos._ Cabeza de Vaca, _cap. 2,
fol. 2_.]

Sailed a month and got to Santa Catalina, where we wanted the ship,
with Captain Alonso Cabrera and people with which we rejoice greatly,
and spent two months with her. As we could not charge for rice,
cassava and corn, and left with two ships and the captain and
his soldiers Cabrera Alonso de Santa Catalina, Buenos Aires sailing,
and found 20 miles of the city, Halloween, in the Paraná River, the
sailors asked each other if they were already in the river Paraná.

       Ours said that if, and said the other ship is still missing 20 miles
away, that you know that when many ships made a trip together, when
the sun each pilot asked the other how much has sailed?

With that wind has to navigate at night, not to depart? Guazú Paraná
River is 30 miles wide gulf to its mouth or who are continuing 50
miles to the port of San Gabriel, which is only 18 miles wide.

Our pilot said to the other ship if I wanted to follow him, to respond,
it was almost night, and wanted to stand in the sea to escape the
sun, and does not land in stormy night. I had this view over the
pilot our government in their ship, as stated after the incident,
but our continued its journey, leaving you there.

CHAPTER XXX. _Naufraga our ship, leaving some to land in San
Gabriel, and then go to Buenos Aires and Asumpcion._ sail the night
about twelve o'clock, and one hour before the sun got up to leave
such a large storm, but we saw that land to a league or more, we
could not take it, or drop anchor, or find other remedy make vows,
é implore the divine mercy.

Well, at the same time we were not a thousand pieces, and drowned
15 Spaniards, that he never could find one body, and 6 Indians.

Others, some hanging from tree, were saved by swimming: I got caught
with 5 fellow ship of the tree.

Stayed ashore naked and without food, having lost everything and had
to walk 50 miles by land, we felt compelled to keep the roots and
other fruits in the field to the port of San Gabriel, where he
had come 30 days before another ship with Cabrera. The General who
understood our misfortune, he was very sad with them, and persuaded
that all had perished, he sent some say Masses for our souls.

Lleváronnos á Buenos Aires, the General tried to captain and
pilot, and wanted to hang: But large intercessions, was convicted
of only four years to a Bergantin. all together in Buenos Aires,
the General ordered the dispatch Bergantiños, and includes all the
soldiers did burn the other ships, and store iron. Again sailed up
the River Paraná, and arrived in the city of the assumption, we
expect two years where the orders of the King.

CHAPTER XXXI. _Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca arrived in Spain
to Santa Catalina, and from there to the assumption with 300 Spanish
, and is received by Gobernador._ this situation, arrived from Spain
Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca, Adelantado, appointed by the King,
with 400 men and 30 horses, four ships, two larger and two caravels.
[21] [ Note 21: HERRERA, _Decada 7, lib. 4, chap. 13_.]

Had brought these ships to Brazil and Santa Catalina, looking
Bastimentos, where the Adelantado sent two caravels, eight miles
from port, searching for food: but it came as storm reece, who died
at sea broken, except the people.

Why did not want to re-engage the Adelantado, sought to undo the earlier
ships and walk on land, and came to the assumption with 300 men,
400 who had loaded [22] because the others had died of disease and
anger.

It took eight months to walk 300 miles around, since the
assumption of the city to the island of Santa Catalina: [23] and
asked why Alvar Nuñez Irala Sunday gives the government and the
people will follow, that were ready, saying the title of Adelantado,
or other document clearly the King granted him this power, which
could not get the whole community. [24] Only the priests, and either
the captain said so: but what will be henceforth be known what
happened to this advance.

[Note 22: FRANCISCO LOPEZ, _cap. 89, this type of Alvaro Nuñez, who
was sent by the King of the Silver River in the year 1540, with
400 soldiers and 46 horses.

She was eight months into the trip, then came to the assumption A
1. Th year 1542, but it was only March 11 to nueve._ Cabeza de
Vaca, _cap. 13, fol. 12_.

HERRERA, _in the aforementioned cap. 13_. (De_ HULSIO _notes
_fol. 42._)] [Note 23: _Esto be understood and near the road
because of the assumption by the river to the sea is 385 miles,
to Santa Catalina 300._ (_notes de_ HULSIO _fol. 42._)] [Note 24:
_Quietamente gave him possession of the overtaking Sunday Irala,
all received with great gusto._ HERRERA, _Decada 7, lib. 4, chap.
13, fol. 79, and the possession of the cars were off the official
proceedings with actual facts against them, when you prendieron._
Cabeza de Vaca, _cap. 74, fol. 59._ (_Esto is not valid, as misinformed
and try things that government was the author: Cabeza de Vaca made
because the actual provisions, which were read and accepted, as
referred in his comments, chap. 13, fol . 12 and 13._ HERRERA, that
_in the cap. 13._)] CHAPTER XXXII.

_Pasa magazine Alvar Nuñez: send the vessel upriver and Chaneses
the Indians Cambales, whose chief ahorcaron._ Alvar Nuñez sought
the friendship of Irala, and indeed pledged to each other fraternal
union and faith; Irala left with power as before, the people of
mandar. Alvar Nuñez shows went, and found that 800 men were around
the issue of its egército and then ordered to make available nine
Bergantiños rise, as they could, up the river: and before you finish
your dressing, three posted in front, with 115 soldiers, with
orders to go away the more able, and would seek Indian corn. named
by Captain Antonio Grovenoro and Tabellino Diego.

They came to the top of the nation Samocosis, which had corn cazave
and other similar roots, and nuts as a fruit, called mandubí, with
fishing and hunting. Indians walk naked, and bring on the lips a blue
stones, as a given: the Indian, from the waist to knee walk covered.
Ships leave here with enough care, and go for his province, walking
four days until they reached their village, who played 300 Caries
brave.

Informámonos status and quality of the whole province, and we will
ship and down the Paraná River, we came to the province of Cambales,
where letters are Alvar Nuñez, we ordered the hanging chieftain
whose name was Aracaré [25] as egecutó.

Action which gave cause to a war after sad: so we went down to the
river assumption. [Note 25: _Su process was done with views of
the royal officials of the church and others, and be the enemy capital
of Christians and have done great harm, was sentenced to muerte._
Cabeza de Vaca, _cap. 37, fol. 28_.] CHAPTER XXXIII.
She did not see how she could do
anything more herself; they must just trust to luck, at any rate
till she saw Prudence again.

It was rather odd, when she came to think of it, that she had not
questioned Dick yesterday about how they had got over. But the fact
was that, after the first surprise of seeing them, she had
forgotten. "I forget about Now and only remember Then," she said to
herself. "There is so much to do the time simply flies and comes to
an end far too soon."

When she arrived downstairs that morning she found that her sofa had
been carried out of doors. It was a lovely day. Here in the country
the leaves still retained their early freshness, and from where she
lay she could see the downs, mistily green against the pale morning
blue of the sky. The rose-garden, with its smoothly mown grass
paths, its pergolas and arches, its standards and dwarfs, was coming
into bloom so fast under the June sunshine that Mollie thought she
might almost see a bud swell into a full-blown rose if she watched
steadily enough. Caroline Testout had already dropped some of her
pink blossoms, which lay scattered about the path in rosy patches,
reminding Mollie of Grizzel and her shells. She smiled to herself
and then sighed, as her eyes wandered from the rose-garden to the
long red brick wall beyond, where the sweet cherries grew. The fruit
was turning scarlet under an orderly net, which had been put up to
protect it from the greedy little birds. Everything was so tidy, she
thought. No one would dare to pull off those rose petals for scent-
making purposes, nor to gather those cherries merely to play at
making jam with. Chauncery was lovely and spacious compared to the
house in North Kensington, and the well-kept gardens were a pleasure
to look at, but----

"I don't think England is big enough to hold children," she said to
Aunt Mary, who sat near, reading the _Aeroplane_, with some
neglected needlework lying in her lap.

Aunt Mary looked up with a surprised expression: "I am sorry you are
feeling so crowded up," she said. "Would you like me to move a
little farther away?"

"No, thank you," Mollie answered, with a laugh, "I have room to
breathe even with you there. What I mean is----" she paused for a
moment, wrinkling her brow, and then went on: "London isn't like
this; it's full of poky holes. Ours is bad enough, but from the
train you can see much, much worse places than ours. Sometimes I
wonder how people can live in them, and yet Mother says they are not
the worst. There is simply no room for children to play, so they
play on the streets and sometimes get killed. The Girl Guides are
going to help, but it takes a long time "--Mollie shook her head
thoughtfully--"and there is so little time too; at home I never
have any time to do anything except work or Guiding. I have no time
to think in, except after I am in bed, and I go to sleep so horribly
soon." She shook her head again and sighed deeply.

"Well, that's one good thing to be thankful for," Aunt Mary said
cheerfully, dropping her paper and taking up her sewing, "and there
are the holidays for thinking in. I wouldn't think too much, if I
were you. You'll get plenty of that when you are old," and Aunt Mary
sighed too, as if she did not find her own thoughts very gay affairs
always.

"But I want to think of things now that will be useful long before I
am old," Mollie persisted. "There is such a _tremendous_ lot of
things to be done, Aunt Mary. And things have to be thoughts long
before they are things. I expect the person who invented aeroplanes
thought about them for ages and ages before he began to make one."

"I haven't the slightest doubt of it," Aunt Mary agreed, "but you
are wandering from your subject, which was the smallness of Great
Britain."

"No, I'm not--at least not exactly, I want to make Great Britain
greater, and I can't think of a way. I should like to have plenty of
room and plenty of time."

"That won't be an easy problem for you to solve, my lambkin," Aunt
Mary said. "As a matter of fact there is room enough, in the
country, but people prefer to live in towns. You will have to hire a
pied piper and pipe all the babies into the fields."

Mollie shook her head, her eyes resting again upon the distant
downs. "I don't know," she said seriously, "but something will have
to be done some day, Aunt Mary, besides play-centres. They are good,
but they aren't enough. Too many children die. Mother goes to a
children's home once a week, and she took me once. You should just
see those babies. And they could be such dear little things too.
Why--" Mollie hesitated for a moment and then went on, "Why don't
more people go to live in Australia and Canada? The maps are full of
empty spaces."

"Ah, Mollie my dear, that's not so easy as it sounds," Aunt Mary
said, folding up her work and rising to her feet. "There are all
sorts of complications when it comes to shifting camp from the Old
World to the New. But perhaps--perhaps if everyone in this old
country could be persuaded to think of the children first--! In the
meantime I must go and get lunch for my particular child."

Probably Aunt Mary's mind was running on those sick babies of the
poor as she played to Mollie that afternoon, for her fingers
wandered off into the tune of a song she had not heard sung since
her childhood:

  "'T is the song, the sigh of the weary:
  Hard times, hard times, come again no more!
  Many days you have lingered around our cottage door--
  Oh, hard times, come again no more!"

Mollie lay listening, the unopened album in her lap. She was drowsy
after her morning in the garden, and thought she would rest her eyes
by closing them for five minutes. "A little darkness will do them
good after all that sunshine," she murmured to herself.

It was very pleasant lying in the quiet room, on that broad sofa,
listening to Aunt Mary's soft music. Mingling with the sound of the
piano was the droning hum of a foolish bee, who had got on the wrong
side of the window and was now making vain efforts to fly home again
through the glass. A delicious scent came from somewhere--perhaps
from the syringa bushes growing just outside the open window.
This war lasted for half a year since 1546. CHAPTER XLIV.

_Vuélvese On the general assumption, and enters the earth looking
for gold and plata._ in.

After the war, became the general people in the crafts to the
assumption, and rested entire two years, but as time came to ship
Spain, and not worth the general proposed to the soldiers if they
would be well to enter the inland with some people. All agreed
that what they said, and broke 350 Spaniards, who offered him if
iban, boards and taking care of Indian clothing, horses and
anything else necessary.

Alegres all admitted the offer: Call the School, and asked if he
wanted to go with 2000?

And point offers to serve as members were required. After two
months, left our overall year 1548, up the river Paraguay Bergantiños
seven and two hundred canoes.

       People who do not share in the naos, was by land, with 130 horses,
and again close together and round the high mountain of San Fernando,
92 miles distant from the assumption that inhabit the Payaguás.

Did the general return from there to the assumption Bergantiños with
five canoes, leaving the other two with 50 Spaniards, provided
for two years, by Captain D. Francisco de Mendoza, [41] in order to
remain at that site two years basis and take great care with
the Indians, it is not true that in Juan Oyola until they return.

[Note 41: BARCO, _can. 1._ _en Artus said that his translation was
Pedro Diaz. chap. 24 at last fol. 45._] began its journey with 300
Christians, 130 horses and 2000 caries, and in eight days did not
find any nation.

At the ninth, and thirty-six miles of the mountain of San Fernando,
in Naperús we, Indians are kept for hunting and fishing. They are
tall and sturdy. The mugeres are ugly, and from waist to knee bring
a towel. Four days after we arrived at the _Mapais_, [42] populous
nation. They are so sugetos to their principals, which require the
Indians to serve, serving in Germany as the rustic to the nobles.
[Note 42: _Ignoramos whatever tribe, of which no mention is made
in the other stories of the conquest. _ - THE EDITOR.] They
have an abundance of fruits, maize, cassava, yams, mandubí, pacobas
and roots and other things to eat. There are many deer, Indian sheep,
ostriches, he says, geese, chickens and other birds. In the forest
there is a lot of honey, do they spend on wine and other uses, and
the later is walking, so much more fertile land. All year there
eating corn and roots in this province. The sheep, which they
call _huanacos_, are of two types, domestic and Monte Carlo, that
used to load, ride horses and other ministries, such as use of the
horses: and this day, for being a bad leg, he walked over forty
miles in one.

In Peru the goods they carry. [43] The Indians are high and
warlike, who only care for the things of war: the Indian are
beautiful, and covered the history walk. Not working in the field,
before the Indians have the care of family support, or at home or
do more than protect cotton spinning, or cooking the food to
their husbands, or serve in other nice things, which also made with
other easily. [Note 43: _De these sheep escriben_ ACOSTA, _ (lib.
4, cap. 36 and 41; y_ LOPEZ, _part. 2, chap. 142), which are not
found elsewhere in the land of Peru, and are of two types, domestic
and wild, of which these are more soft wool, one thick. They can carry
from 50 to 100 pounds of load is also used them to ride a horse,
but slowly.

Fatigued, head back to the gentleman, and in the face échanle a water
ice: thrown the load with no stand, although the killing sticks
and remove the burden is lifted. In vivo painted van, but mejor_
GARCILASO, _Comentários Interests, tom. I._] Mbaya the left to receive,
less than half a league from this village, along with a lugarillo,
where they said, Aleve and traitors who sosegasemos that night,
we attended and we need to respect and to ensure traicion dealing,
gave the general three Indian girls, four silver crowns, which tend
to bring in the head, and four plates, each a half inch long and
half wide, that are placed on the forehead by adornment.

We thought they were for peace, and we stayed in lugarillo: and
finished dinner and sentry posts, sleep until about midnight, the
less the general threw three Indians, and to seek, was rod army,
and suspecting the bad Mbaya , was sent secretly at dawn all were
prevented in the building with their weapons, and soon to egecutar
what they were ordered.

CHAPTER XLV. _De Peoples Mbaya, Chan, Tobas, Peyonas, Mayegoni,
Morrone, Paronios and Simanos_. [44] [Note 44: Indian _Casi all the
names in this chapter and those that follow, are unintelligible,
and we have put in italics , to be distinguishable. The only thing I
can say is that belonging to nations bordering Peru, in the provinces
of Chiriguanos and Chiquitos._-THE-EDITOR.]

Imagine that the Indians were asleep, we suddenly rammed 2000,
which were foiled presto, kills more than half, and the rest
fled the village, where the fast and still go there, but we found
none, nor its mugeres and children. Siguiólos the general arquebusiers
150 large and 2500 Indians rushed for three days and two nights,
without stopping over to eat and to rest four or five hours at night.
The third day we took in the woods Mbaya many with their children
and mugeres, but were not looking for that, but friends who had not
the slightest suspicion that we were to them nonetheless paid for
the guilty, because when we gave them, and kill captives, and with
Indian children, near 3000, but dark and none escaped, because the
large number of these people came together on a hill surrounded by
woods.

Caught in the 19 Indians and Indian dispossession is not very old, and
other things. Back to the real, where we were eight days, because
we had enough food.

Mbaye from the mountain of San Fernando, there are 50 leagues, and
from Naperús, 36. Continuing the path, he came to the Indians
Chan Mbaya of subjects, like that of Germany to his rustic Gentlemen
are on this day corn and roots planted and cultivated, that in
this land during the entire year when it collects a harvest, another
is maturing and is planted, and at any time in the fields are fresh
things to eat. From there we went to another village, whose Indians
fled to us and left us plenty of food, we stopped two days: At six
miles we arrived at the Toba Indians, who had fled, and were well
warned of food, are also sugetos to Mbaya.

Continue the journey and found no Indians, and on the seventh day
we came to the nation of _Peyonas_, which is 14 miles from Tobas.

He left the village chief to receive peace, accompanied by a large
crowd of Indians, praying upon the whole, people entering the toilet,
putting her right in the place where we were received. But the
general did not care, and with good words on the right path, and
that he wanted the boss did not want to be entered the village,
there were many chickens, geese, deer, sheep, ostriches, papagallos,
rabbits and other similar ; much corn and roots, that the land is
fertile: but lack of water, and silver and gold, for which we do
not dare to ask because the other nations where they were to pass,
not knowing what they wanted, and shy away.

Three days we stopped these _Peyonas_ and reported on the general
nature and condition of this province, and gave us a bye to the guide,
which takes us by road had water to drink.

And at four miles we came to the nation _Mayegoni_ call, where we
were a day and taking language and guide, part. Indians were very
friendly and gave us everything we need. Walked eight miles, we came
to the nation of Indians _Morronos_: recibiéronos also of peace,
and spent two days with them, and taken regarding the nature and
quality of land, with new guides are continuing our journey, and
arrived at four leagues to another nation, not so crowded, _Paronios_
call, will 3000 Indian war: one day we stopped there, but had little
food.

At twelve miles we entered another nation, whose Indians are
called _Simanos_. Her village is located on a high hill and
surrounded by thorns and scrub and town walls. Juntáronse many,
and we were a war, with their bows, arrows and other weapons. His
pride was short lived, as the defeated, helpless people, having
burned before, but gave us enough food fields.

CHAPTER XLVI. _De The Barcón, Leyhanos, Carconos, Sivisicosis
and Samocosis_.

A 16 leagues from this town who walked on four days, we came
suddenly near the village of Indians _Barconos_, not knowing that we
began to flee: but in our instance is stopped. We ask them food in
abundance and readily trageron, hens, geese, sheep, ostriches,
deer and other things, and very glad we stopped the Indians four
days, taking news from the land.

Thence in three days, the Indians went _Leyhanos_ nation living
twelve miles from _Barconos_: victuals had little, because locusts
had destroyed almost all the fruit and not spending what we were,
again walking past night and in four days walked 16 miles, and came
to another nation called _Carconos_, that although she had suffered
the same plague, had more food.

Reported in one day than we were, that in 24 or 30 miles, which
is the nation of Indians Sivisicosis not find water. Come to the six
days, with hard work, and while _Carconos_ provided us, dying of
thirst a few of us on this trip if not met one root, which was out
of land, leaving large leaves, which had water as strong as in a
glass, which does not spill or easily consumed, and each would have
half quarts.

Two hours of night, being near the town of Sivisicosis, tried to
flee with their children is muyeres, but the general sent a language,
for which they were still in their homes, and without fear that
they would make no harm: and did so.

There was great lack of water in that province, and more for not
rained in three months, to fill the algibes that collection, nor
did rivers, and other beverages that make the cassava root, this
way: -- thrown into a mortar-roots crushed and broke the color of
milk juice if you can find water, also make wine from these roots.

There was only one hole in this town, which put me in the overall
site to distribute water to every year, according to the measure
given by him: and even with these orders we had major works by the
lack of water, and many who we remembered the gold and silver, by
claiming that everything was water.

This job gave me the grace, favor and goodwill of many, because
their distribution was not very low, but taking care that no water
loss, and only because she has Sivisicosis war with neighbors.

Two days spent in this town, and hesitating whether to move
forward or turn, cast lots, and left that prosiguiésemos.

Informóse General of the earth, and the Indians said that in six
days on the way the Indians get to Samocosis and found it good to
drink two streams: thus we go on the trip, leading some to Sivisicosis
guides, who fled one night, leaving us confused to find the road
but you get hit, and gave the Indians Samocosis that we received
from war, not wanting to hear peace: but easily disrupted and fled.

In the battle turned some who told us that at that three people
had left sick Christian John Oyola, when he came to recognize that
land in order of D. Pedro de Mendoza (as recounted at length in Chapter
25). Because these three Christians, one that was called Geronimo,
and was a trumpet, said the Samocosis had died four days before
llegásemos, prompted by Sivisicosis.

They paid well this evil, because we were two weeks on the
people to know where it had been withdrawn: and they were found
in a forest, but not all, went against them, killed many, and
enthralled others, which we reported on the nature and customs of
this province and its Indians.

CHAPTER XLVII. _De peoples Maigenos and Carcokies_. Among other things,
the general learned that the nation of the Indians four days
_Maigenos_ far away.

Parties to seek, and we were in war, but strive for peace. The village
was situated on a hill and surrounded by a thick and wide spinal
everywhere, as tall as a man with the sword lifted in his
hand.

Obstinacy move your view, with caries, the people, in two parts: we
_Maigenos_ those killed and some twelve Christian School, which
served us very well, but continuing with more effort, you enter by
force, and put him _Maigenos_ fire and fled: this caused the destruction
of many who paid with their lives because of the peers. Eight days
later, 500 Caries armed with great secrecy and without saberle we
were two or three miles of the real, to find the _Maigenos_ who
fled: and having given them, fought with such obstinacy that killed
300 Caries é ¡_Maigenos_ numbered many of which were many, that
ocupabon about a league.

Caries sent the request to the general relief, warning that the
_Maigenos_ had about everywhere, without being able to go back or
forward. Dispatched after the 150 Christians, with some horses, and
1000 caries, leaving the other soldiers in care of the real, if
he undertook the _Maigenos_. We just sighted the _Maigenos_ when
lifted their real and fled, and though the rush was followed with
as much as possible, we could not reach: but we admired the destruction
made by the decay in the enemies, and those who had been living
with back we, in our real, very happy. We found the people in
great abundance of food, so we stopped him in four days: juntámonos
later, and it seems that we were fairly informed of the land, its
quality and fruit, appeared to pursue all the trip, and continued
walking thirteen days, they walk 52 miles, as they said that they
understood the stars arrived for the nation of Indians _Carcokies_:
thence in nine days, we go into another province, six miles wide
and long, which was all covered with salt, white and so thick that
it seemed snow and never melts. two rest days on this earth salt,
doubting that the road still, but chose the right, and after four
days enter the province of _Carcokies_: and the general, with four
leagues of their people, Christians and sent 50 Caries 50, to give
us shelter.

We entered the village and saw the largest crowd of Indians, who
had never found so many together, and gave notice to the general
grief to help us then.

The general was started that same afternoon, and came to us three
or four in the morning. The _Carcokies_, seeing few, were some
victory: but the general understanding that we had followed, and
was saddened by force, and is mugeres to keep their children in
the village, helped us all, bringing deer meat , and other beasts
and birds, geese, chickens, sheep, ostriches, rabbits, corn,
wheat, rice and some roots in this province that was plenty. bring
these Indians on the lips a blue stone, as given, their weapons are
darts , spears and buckler leather Huanaco.

The Indians bring drilled agugero lips with a boy, and there a
little blue or green glass, cotton dress shirts without sleeves,
are quite beautiful, spin, and take care of the house , and the
Indians till the fields, and see what other needs the family.

CHAPTER XLVIII. _Del Guapos river and people near Peru, as
part two mensageros to Potosí, silver and Lima._ take on some guides
to pass _Carcokies_ forward, and after three days fleeing path:
continue without them, and reach the river Guapos, half a league
wide.

Us it was impossible to pass safely, and to stop every two soldiers
did a Balsillas or network protected sticks and branches, which
carried the river, we could take the other side, in this step
four companions drowned. This river has very tasty fish:
there are many tigers on earth.

Being a league distant from the village, located four of the river,
the Indians came out to receive them, invited Spanish-language,
that we are scared at first. [45] Preguntámosles What had Mr and
who was his corregidor - responded that they were some Spanish
nobleman named Pedro Anzures.

[Note 45: HERRERA, _Decada 7, chap. 15, fol. 235_] In this town we
found some people and some animals such as fleas [46] who are
jumping, and if you bite on the toes, or elsewhere in the body,
and gnawing entrándose van to grow as a bug-like those in the
hazelnuts. If it comes time to take them out, no harm, but if the
remedy is dilated, you lose the whole finger. [Note 46: _Son the
Nigua that Tupi llaman_ Attune.

Stadio JUAN, _Historia of Brazil, lib. 2, chap. 23._] Since the
assumption to this people, according to the account of astronomers,
there are 372 leagues: there were twenty days, and so they got a
letter from Lima, Peru's city of the kingdom in which he lived, and
was virey or chairman, MA, Gasca, who is one whose order was beheaded
with Gonzalo Pizarro, nobles and commoners, and sentenced to galeras.

They sent in command of the King, that the penalty of life, not
passed the general forward, but expect further orders in the village
of handsome.

Whose detention was because he was afraid that if you go
into Gasca in Peru, and moved against him any sedition, we juntaríamos
with the followers of Pizarro that he escaped, as no doubt would
have happened if we had merged. In order Gasca and General were
concluded, it being very happy with the gifts sent to him: everything
was done without knowing the soldiers; penetráramos that if you
had sent to Peru tied hand and foot. then sent four soldiers to the
general graduate Gasca, they were, the captain Nuflo Chaves Agustin
Campos, Rui Miguel Garcia and Ruti.

Arrives first at Potosi, where they were ill and Ruti and Garcia,
then another call Cusco, from there to the silver, [47] and finally
to the metropolis Lima.

These are the four main cities of Peru and opulentísimas. Campos Chaves
and there embarked and arrived in Lima, the President, having heard
that the ratio of all provinces of the Rio de la Plata, their
qualities and people, and treat the house wonderfully ordered, gifts
2000 ducats: and commanded Chaves to retype the whole, not left to
enter the soldiers in Peru, until further notice, as he had commanded,
and seek to make no wrong to the Indians, allowing them removed or
anything, if not the food.

Well we knew they had silver cups, but they were sugetos more Spanish
we do not dare to take away anything.

[Note 47: _Esta city, mention here that the author, was founded by
Captain Peranzures, year 1538, and called it Silver (which en_
Argentum), _por abundance ella_.] The mensagero who brought the
letter was taken by some Spanish, called _Parnauvie_, general
order, it was with great care, fearing he came not named his successor
in Peru government and its people, who already knew he was named [48],
and therefore sent to guard diligently _Paranauvie_ that the roads
and collect the letters found, and carried them to the School: this
was done. [49] [ Note 48: _Era Diego Centeno, who graduates Gasca
said limits in the governance and gave the instruction that refiere_.

HERRERA, _Decada 8, lib. 5, chap. 1 and 2, fol. 96. But died before
ir._ HERRERA, _Decada 8, lib. 4, chap. 15, fol. 88._] [Note 49:
_Lo is said here that the reached Guapos, and that after he received
letters from Lima, royal city, which is Peru's city of residence
and is the supreme virey Hearing is required to occur 1549 years,
for the year 1548 the Lord Gonzalo Pizarro was sentenced to death
in April by President graduate (or whatever Lopez), D.

Peter Gasca, year 1550: and Gasca said in July had already returned
to Spain, [50] and his return pone_ (HERRERA, _Decada 8, lib.
6, chap. 7, fol. 130 this year 1550.) The silver and Potosí,
whose locations are mentioned here, and came very close to this
large, rich in silver, was written by the dicho_ LOPEZ, _cap. 13
of his History of the Indies, and one hundred pounds of metal to
be removed from the mines of Potosi, leaving fifty of pure silver:
but these silver mines were found in 1547 years, as dice_ PEDRO DE
CIEZA, _Crónica, cap . 110, lib. 4, chap. 6._ HERRERA, _Decada 8,
lib. 2, chap. 14, fol. 40; or como_ ACOSTA, _año 1545.

So that, with the general Guapos, we were not so well known and
famous, but the Emperor in the year 1549 received its fifth real,
every week, thirty thousand, and often forty thousand pounds of
silver: and instead wages of the miners were on the job one week,
and sometimes, two pounds of silver. Also escribe_ ACOSTA _que had
such abundance of silver in Peru, which in a long time worked or
not was coined: and that was not used coins that Caesar had paid
the royal fifth, so that many believe that neither The third part
is yet to currency, it does not pay the fifth. However, it was said
that touched the Emperor, for the fifth year since the discovery
of the mines, until 1564, seventy-six million, and since 1564
up to 1585, thirty-five million. Until aquí_ LOPEZ, CIEZA and
ACOSTA. (HERRERA, _Decada 8, chap. 15, lib. 2, fol. 5._) (de_ _notes
HULSIO.)]
He once lived in China. He's awfully fond of gardening, and
pictures, and that sort of thing, like my mater. He's a merchant and
he owns ships. He's a great friend of the pater's, and he comes in
about once a week to hear the mater sing, and they yarn away about
home and spout poetry. But he is quite a jolly sort of chap when you
get him alone. His house is called Drink Between, which wouldn't be
a bad name for a book if you wanted to write one."

"Jolly good name for a pub, if you wanted to keep one," Jerry
remarked. "I shouldn't wonder if he got it from some old coaching
inn of the olden times--though, of course, we are in the olden times
already, if it comes to that--fairly old, at any rate."

"No, he got it from a place at home where Prince Charlie once had a
drink. When the girls are here he gets in a couple of women to look
after them. Other times he only has his heathen Chinee lot, and
jolly good they are! That is, of course, if you like stewed puppy
and bird's nest," Hugh added solemnly; "I love 'em myself."

"Adore 'em," Jerry said, smacking his lips. "Never lose a chance of
having puppy-tail hash when we can get it, do we, old son?"

"Rather not," Dick replied. "Remember those bird's-nest tarts our
old woman at the tuck-shop used to make before butter got so scarce?
Scrumptious!"

The appearance of the girls interrupted these flights of masculine
fancy. Grizzel still looked subdued, but the tears were dried, and
she was listening politely to Mollie's tuneful advice to "Pack your
troubles in your own kit-bag, and smile, smile, smile". Hugh shouted
to them to hurry up or they would be late for tea, and soon the
little party was under way again, as cheerful as if diamonds had
never been heard of. They were now in sight of Drink Between; a
square, solidly built house, with a wide veranda and balcony on
three sides of it, completely hidden at present under a pale-purple
drapery of wistaria.

"It looks like an amethyst," Mollie said admiringly, as they drew
near. "I never saw such a purple house as that before."

The inside of Drink Between was entirely different from any of the
other Australian houses which Mollie had been in. They entered by a
side door which opened straight on to a narrow stairway. The girls
climbed up to their bedroom, a large airy apartment opening on to
the balcony.

"Where are your father and mother and Baby?" Mollie asked, as they
washed away the remains of oranges and gold-digging.

"Papa and Mamma have to go and meet an immigrant ship to-morrow, so
they aren't coming up till afterwards. And Baby and Bridget are with
them."

"What's an immigrant ship?" asked Mollie.

"A ship full of immigrants," Prudence replied, brushing out her
curls with conscientious care. "Immigrants are people who get their
passage out for nothing, or for very little, and then they go to
work here. Mamma is getting a new cook because ours is going to be
married. And Papa likes to meet the Scotch immigrants and say
welcome to Australia to them. Bridget was an immigrant, but she says
she will soon be Australian."

"I see," said Mollie thoughtfully. "Are they ever married? I mean--
do children come with their parents?"

"Yes, lots of them. Are you ready, Mollie? The boys are getting
impatient. I can hear them growling."

Feeling very fresh and clean in white muslin frocks with pale-blue
sashes, the girls descended by a different and much wider staircase
than the one they had gone up by. They stepped off the stairs
straight into a large hall, or living-room, which apparently
occupied half the floor of the house, for on two sides it opened on
to the veranda, and on the third side into a large bamboo house; the
fourth wall was unbroken but for one door. The room was painted
white, and the floor covered with fine white Chinese matting, over
which lay a few Eastern rugs, their once rich and glowing colours
now dimmed by time and the tread of generations of feet. Through the
wide-open French windows could be seen the long, graceful streamers
of wistaria, hanging from the arched boughs round the veranda like a
lace veil. Against this background grew masses of pale-pink and blue
hydrangeas, with their flat fragile flowers and broad leaves. The
bamboo house was given wholly to ferns, over which a fountain was
playing, and under the fine spray the green fronds glistened as
freshly as though they grew in the heart of an English wood.

The sun was now setting, and its crimson glow shone through the
mauve wistaria, filling the room with an opal-coloured light which
made Mollie think of fairyland. It fell with a peculiarly pleasant
effect upon a round tea-table spread for tea. She had never seen
such fine and snowy damask, such shining silver, or such delicately
transparent china cups and saucers. Even Grannie's well-kept table
paled before the exquisite freshness of this one. As for the food
part--there was a crystal bowl of yellow clotted cream, a plate of
gossamer balls which were probably intended to pass for scones, a
twist of gold which was most likely meant for bread, and dishes of
preserves unknown to the English children--tiny green oranges in
syrup, scarlet rose-berries, and jellies like amber and topaz,
looking as though some of Hugh's precious stones had been cooked for
his tea.

They were about half-way through this beautiful meal when there was
a sound of footsteps on the matting, and a Chinese servant appeared,
bearing a large iced birthday cake set on a silver tray.

"Hullo, Ah Kew! What you gottee there?" called Hugh, under the
impression that he was speaking pidgin-English to perfection.

"Master talkee to-day b'long he burfday," Ah Kew replied. "He talkee
my, wanchee cook makee one piecee burfday-cake." He set the cake
down in front of Prudence as he spoke.

Tired of so many jobs, and obtained leave to return to their
homeland, and escorted by twenty Indians _Cários_ or Guarani, the
only fruit of his long pilgrimage in America, crossed the Guaira
to arrive soon to San Vicente, where he hoped to find a ship to
Europe.

The road, which does not retain more traces of the Cabeza de Vaca,
impraticable be on the rough terrain, was defended by wild swarms
which nested in his lengthy and impenetrable forests.

Entire populations out to dispute the passage, and all opposed a
courageous resistance, the second by his faithful companions,
although they are Indian, defended a European.

Finally reached the end of your trip and sighed, and sat in a
Portuguese ship that took him to Lisbon. Commissioned by the
Governor Martinez de Irala put in the hands of the King a detailed
part of the main events of his administration, came to Seville ,
which was then the Emperor Charles V: and at the hearing that they
gave him a sovereign, he added verbally to the news contained in
the report Irala.

This document, very important to the history of our province, if
not lost with the King, or should be in Seville Simancas, in the
farrago of paper crammed into his files. Schmidel Freedom and all
its commitments, he embarked for Antwerp , where he returned to
their families after twenty years of absence.

PEDRO DE ANGELIS. _Buenos Aires, 16 September 1836._ VIAG TO RIO
DE LA PLATA. CHAPTER I. _De navigation from Antwerp to Spain. _ The
year of 1534, I left Antwerp shipped to Spain, arrived at Cadiz in
14 days, sailing 480 miles, and saw a whale off the coast of
35 steps, of which 30 were filled oil drums. There were 14 ships in
port to go to the big prevented Rio de la Plata, Spain 2500 and
150 Germans, Flemish and Saxon, with its Captain-General, D.

Pedro de Mendoza, 72 horses and mares é. One of these ships was Noarto
and Jacob Sebastian Belzer, which was Peynado Enrique, his factor,
with goods to the Rio de la Plata, in which I embarked with about
80 Germans and Flemings, well armed. We left port the day of Saint
Barthélemy, in 1534, with the navy and came to San Lucar, which is
20 miles from Seville, where we stopped by the stormy sea.
CHAPTER II. _De Navigation from Spain to the Canaries. _ A first
of September, calm weather, we left San Lucar, and reached three
islands not very far apart, called Tenerife, Gomera and Palma, which
are 200 miles of San Lucar [1], very abundant sugar: there the army
was divided. Inhabit these islands with their Spanish mugeres and
children, and are the domain of the King. We stayed four weeks with
three naves in Palma, provoding of victuals, until orders came from
Mr Pedro de Mendoza to continue trip. Our ship was in a relative
of D. Pedro called D. Jorge Mendoza, who had fallen in love with the
daughter of a neighbor of Palma: the last day because there levado
anchors, D. grounded out Jorge twelve peers, of the twelve o'clock,
and stole, bringing the ship with a maidservant, his clothes,
jewelry and money, and secretly put the ship in our without captain
Enrique Peynado knew nothing. Just noticed the sentries, who had
seen it. We started to sail in the morning, and the two or three
leagues viage, Recio storm came so we went back to the harbor and
cast anchor. Enrique Peynado was in the boat ashore, and wanting to
take it, he saw 30 men armed with shotguns and swords, they wanted
to catch fire: and learn about their ratings, they urged him not
to leave ashore.

Try again in a hurry, but less than he wanted, because he was still
in the ground navichuelos threatening. At last they escaped in another
boat closer to land. Seeing that the Canaries could not catch, they
touch the alarm, and two shots trageron, who fired four times
at the nearest ship. The first pieces made a pot of water,
four or five arrobas, the second broke the last tree of the ship,
the third was a big hole in the side, killing a man, but missed and
the fourth was badly damaged the ship.

He takes another in the port captain that went to Mexico, and he
ground with 150 men who, having learned of the theft muger, sought
peace between us and the city, delivered to them Jorge D. de Mendoza,
the daughter and the maid, and having entered Peynado captain and
governor of the island in our ship to the agreement egecutar, D.
George told them that that was his muger, she and her husband,
and the point is dismissed with great pain and sadness of the
father of the girl.

[Note 1: _EN distances often have little idea of the author, because
in this, remove third parte._] CHAPTER III. _De Navigation from
the palm facing the islands green or Hesperides, which also called
Cape Verde._ He left the captain to D. Jorge muger his ground, and
repaired the ship as it was, we sailed to the island of Santiago,
sugeta the King of Portugal, who obey Blacks: The far from Palma
and 200 miles.

There were five days, providing new Our ship of bread, meat, water
and other victuals, and necessary things to Mariners. CHAPTER IV. _De
navigation from the islands towards the Greens Brasil._ Volviéronse
collect all the 14 ships of the navy, and began to sail; and after
two months came to an unpopulated island six miles wide and long,
distant 500 miles from Santiago, [2] in which there were only birds,
but so many that MatAB á sticks: there were three days . There
are fish in this sea flying, whales and others who call _Schunbhut_,
[3] which has a large circle near the head, with that much
damage to fish with those who argue: it is big fish, lots of strength,
and easily irritated. There are fish in this sea _espadas_, who have
a bone in the mouth as a knife, fish _sierras_, you have as a saw,
and various other genres too big.

[Note 2: _Los Indians call puerto_, Nhiteroy, _y is at 23 degrees.
P. Simon Vasconcelos in la_ News from Brazil, _lib 2, Vol. 6, fol.
39 and described in la_ History of the Society of Jesus, the same
province _de, lib 3, Vol. 65 et seq. Estadio Juan la_ History
in Brazil, _lib. 1, chap. 41, and lib. 2, chap. 1 (which is in
Theodore Bry, part. 3 su_ America, _fol._ _y_ 101), the Indians
_dice you llaman_ Iteronne.]

[Note 3: _en German word that literally corresponds to fish sombrero._---
THE EDIT.] CHAPTER V. _Del river called Janero._ arrived after
a certain island called Rio Janer, where the French settled in the
year 1555 (then and now, the King of Portugal). Far from the
first 200 miles: it calls its Tupi Indians. Here we were 14 days,
then our General, D. Pedro de Mendoza, to be continuously ill,
shrunken and weak nerves, named for his lieutenant John Osorio,
[4] his brother.

But, shortly after accepting the position, he was accused of rebellion
against Mendoza: thus, he sent four captains, who were: Juan Oyola,
Juan Salazar, Jorge Lujan and Lazaro Salazar, kill him and stabbed
him sacasen á the square, so all he saw killed by a traitor: and
issued with death penalty camp, that no disturbances were caused
by Osorio, because the same thing would happen to him.

In which there was no reason just because Osorio was good, full,
strong soldier, informal, liberal and very much loved by his peers.
[Note 4: BOAT, _in its Argentina, singing 4_.] CHAPTER VI. _Del Rio
de la Silver or paranoid, the port of San Gabriel and Charrúas._
Here parties to the Rio de la Plata [5], and came to another river
sweet callers Paraná-guazú: this is far from the mouth to falls the
sea and 42 miles wide. From the Rio Janer He is 215 miles. Here we
arrive at the port of San Gabriel: 14 ships anchor in the river
Paraná, and a distant shot because they were bulletproof, ordered
by General D.

Pedro de Mendoza, saliésemos that soldiers and other people to land
on boats prevented this effect.

So we arrived happily at Rio de la Plata in the year 1535, and
there are a people of India of 2000 that had called Charrua that
have no more food and game fish, and go all naked. The mugeres
bring only a thin cotton cloth from the waist to the knees. All of
us fled with their mugeres and their children, and to embark volviésemos
Mendoza ordered to move to the other side of the river, there
was no more than eight miles wide. [Note 5: the description
of HERRERA _in the Indies chap. 21, fol. 46, and Decada 6,
lib. 7, chap. 5, fol. 152._ BARCO, _in The Argentina, singing ..._.]
CHAPTER VII. _De The city of Buenos Aires and the Indians
Querandíes._ This site did a city, which he called Buenos Aires,
[6] healthy as they were the ones who were there. We found other
people on this earth almost 3000 Indians called Querandí, é mugeres
with their children roam the Charrua: brought us meat and fish.

These Querandí have no fixed abode, wandering the earth as Gypsies.

When you walk in the summer (typically over 30 miles), but found
water, or the root of thistles, which removes food thirst, or kill a
deer they find the beast, and drink blood, but they did and perhaps
die of thirst.

Fourteen days brought to the real meat and fish, and because a
shortage sent Mendoza Ruiz Galan, judge and two other soldiers with
them (who were four leagues). But the Indians returned to their
abusers and real three wounded. [Note 6: BARCO, _in its Argentina,
singing 6_.]

Mendoza watching this, and that Galan was maintained with the people,
sent his brother, D.

Diego de Mendoza, with 300 soldiers and 30 good horses (of which I
was): command, that taking the people of the Indians, the garments
or kill them all.

But when we arrived and had 4000 of their Indian friends and family
relief. CHAPTER VIII. _De Battle with the Indians wanted Querandíes._
outrages, we resisted, fighting so fiercely, killing D. Diego de
Mendoza, 6 noblemen, and some 20 soldiers, on foot and on horseback.

Of the Indians died about 1000. Fought hard and cheerfully with their
bows and arrows, lancilla genre, as a half spear-tipped flint aguzado
and three points as trisulco. They have balls of stone, tied to a
long string, as our artillery [7]: échanlas at the foot of the horse
(or deer when hunting), until they fall, and with these balls and
they killed our captain referring to the nobles and to the street,
with its darts: I saw this.

But, despite his resistance, and the losers go to his people, but
none podimos catch live, even mugeres and children, because before
reaching the other had taken place.

In the village of otter skins are much fish, fish flour and lard.
Detuvímonos three days there, and returned to the real, leaving one
hundred men there, who fished with in the meantime the networks of
the Indians to supply the people, because those waters are wonderfully
abundant fish.

Distributing food to each, three ounces of flour, and every three
days, a fish, and if I wanted most was to go fishing four miles
away from there: the fishery lasted two months. [Note 7: BARCO, _in
the 11_ singing.]

CHAPTER IX. _De the population of Buenos Aires, and hunger that is
our real padecia._ back, was divided people to the work of the city
and the war, using each one to craft appropriate. Began to build
the city and around to get up close to a land of three feet wide,
and throws a high, but what was done today morning Caia: and inside
a drug house for the Governor.

All suffered so much misery that many died of hunger, nor were
enough to make good horses.

Have increased the anxiety and lack of cats, mice, snakes and
other unclean animalejos that used to warm, and ate up the shoes
and other leather.

Then when he was secretly ate three Spaniards who had stolen a horse:
and having known, confessed tormented theft, and were hanged, and
at night were three other Spaniards, and cut off the legs and other
pieces of meat, not to starve.

Another Spanish, having a deceased brother of his, he ate. [8] [Note
8: BOAT. _Canto 4._] CHAPTER X.

_De some navigation by the silver Rio arriba._ Displaying the
Governor that the people could not stay there, he put Bergantiños
four with 40 men each, and three boats or small boats, and gather
the people and Jorge Lujan, who with 350 men subiese upriver by the
Indians to recognize and seek bastimentos.

But the Indians having regard to their villages burned all the
food and how it could serve as a relief, and fled yet drink at
a little Buenos Aires, we were divided and half ounce ration of
bread, but as was so Short died of starvation half the people on
this trip.

General Admiróse see so few people, until they knew the grounds
referred to Jorge Lujan told. CHAPTER XI. _Del Site, making and
burning of the city of Buenos Aires._ were together for a month in
Buenos Aires, with great need, waiting for the ships were warned:
within which were about 23,000 Indian brave the city, whose numbers
made up the four nations Querandí, Bartenes, Charrua and Thimphu,
with the intention of finishing.

Some in view of the city to get into, others throwing arrows cañas
lit on the houses, whose roofs that were covered with straw, except
that the General was of stone, and managed to burn the entire city
entirely.

Fired the arrows start to light up the tip, and thrown on and not
go out before burning the houses that stick and burn as they play.
We burned the Indians in this function four large ships, which
were in the sea half a league from the port and people in them, seeing
the great tumult of Indians, came three others were not far away,
and were supplied with bombards. Previniéronse to defense, and
seeing the burned four boats, fired many bullets at the Indians
who were going to burn them, fearing that the violence of the shots
were withdrawn, leaving stillness to Christians, of whom died, in
these trances, Alferez one and thirty more.

This happened on the day of San Juan Evangelista, 1535. CHAPTER
XII. _Hácese Overview of the people, and ships are built to
move adelante._ After the referral, got all the people on the ships,
and the Adelantado D. Pedro de Mendoza named by Captain John Oyola
general, the universal government of the people. Reviewed, and
only found 560 Spaniards in 2500 who had left Spain: the others
had died, most from hunger. Oyola sent promptly produce eight
Bergantiños and some boats, and leaving 160 in Spanish custody of
four large ships , and his captain John Romero, with rations of
bread for a quarter of a year and more if wanted, asked for it, he
embarked with 400 men.

CHAPTER XIII. _Como rose browsing the Paraná river or the silver,
with 400 soldados._ leader John Oyola with 400 soldiers to the
Adelantado D. Pedro de Mendoza: Bergantiños and sailed in small boats
up the river Parana, and the two months, at a distance of 84 miles,
we took with Indian peoples, who knew four leagues we arrived:
llámanlos Thimphu, and we _Buena Esperanza_.

       Peace came about 400 that live an island in canoes, in which each
fit a 16 Indians, and received us very well.

D. Pedro de Mendoza to the chief who gave the Indians called Chera-guazú,
a shirt, a red cap, a sickle and other things, that the happy and
took us to his people, and gave us plenty of hunting and fishing,
we received happy big, because if the trip had lasted ten days but
all had perished from starvation, as had happened to the 50 on board.

Thimphu bring these Indians, on both sides of the nose, a star
embedded in white stone and blue are big and tall, the Indian girls
and old feísimas; wounds and bloody faces, and naked except for a
piece of cotton covers from the waist to the knees.

These people have no, nor ever have had another meal that hunting and
fishing will be 15,000 or more Indian war.

Their canoes are of trees and 80 feet long by three wide, with
oars and sail (no error), like the fishermen of Germany.

CHAPTER XIV.

_Volviendo Á D.

Spain Pedro de Mendoza dies in viage._ spent four years in the village,
but our Adelantado D. Pedro de Mendoza [9], was so sick that I
could not move hand or foot: so, as well as having spent more than
40,000 ducats effective this day, again in Buenos Aires two of the
four Bergantiños with 50 soldiers, and from there to Spain where
he failed, having died miserably at half way, and in his will he
was sending more people to the Rio de la Plata, with bastimentos,
merchandise and other things necessary, as offered before leaving.

But after lunch Grannie insisted upon the sofa as usual. "You shall
have your lullaby," she said. "Mrs. Pell and I are going to play
duets. We used to play a great deal together when we were young, and
no doubt our music is just the thing for sending you to sleep; it
has a base and a treble and some perfectly distinct tunes."

"Don't be sarcastic, Grannie," Mollie laughed, as Grannie bent to
kiss her. "I am sure it is beautiful music, and I like tunes myself.
Jean is the musical one of our family. She jiggles up and down the
piano in no particular key and calls it 'The Scent of Lilac on a
June Day'."

"Well, well," said Grannie. "Times change. We are going to play
selections from _Faust_, with variations. Sleep quietly till tea-
time, my dear."

Mollie smiled as she listened to the selections. "--two-three,
_one_-two-three, _one_--" she could hear the treble counting. "I
like it," she murmured to herself rather sleepily--the morning's
conversation had not been exciting on her side. "I am glad I am not
James, for this is an awfully comfortable sofa--hullo, Prue! You
_are_ in a hurry to-day! I was just thinking of a nap--"

Prudence did not answer; she was listening to the piano.

"Mamma sings that," she said. "It's _Faust_. I adore _Faust_. Don't
you? The waltz simply makes my feet go wild."

"I don't know it," Mollie confessed. "There are so many things I
don't know. Hurry up, Prue. I have had such an aged morning; now I
want a young afternoon."

"--two-three, _one_-two-three, _one_--" said Prue, taking Mollie's
hand in her own.

       *       *       *       *       *

It was very hot. So hot that Mollie could not be bothered to move.
She was half-sitting, half-lying on a bed of bracken, and around her
she could see the supine forms of four other children--Prudence and
Grizzel, Dick and Jerry--all lying in various attitudes of
exhaustion and apparently all asleep. Mollie was too lazy to turn
her head, but she could see that they were in a wood. The trees were
the eternal gum trees, with their monotonous grey trunks and
perpetual blue-green foliage. They were not growing in the
neighbourly manner of trees in an English wood, nor did they throw
the cool green shade of elms and beeches, but still in their own way
they formed a wood. Mollie lay with her back propped up against one
of the grey trunks, her arms behind her head, and her eyes blinking
sleepily. She wondered where Hugh was.

"You _are_ a lazy lot," said a voice behind her. "I have been
helping in the vineyards all morning, and I've discovered a new kind
of grape. Mr. von Greusen thinks it might turn out to be a good
champagne grape. The carts are coming down; don't you want to see
them?"

As he spoke Hugh came round and stood at Mollie's side. He wore a
coat of tussore silk, and his shirt was open at the neck; a wide
pith helmet was on his head, draped with a striped pugaree with
broad ends hanging down his back, and further decorated with vine
leaves, which looked rather droopy in the heat. He held out a hand
to Mollie and pulled her up, looking scornfully at the recumbent
figures of Jerry and Dick.

Let but the sports immerweg the judge, he will be the Parteyen faithfully
deliver again, and happy with the fee to satisfy. See here. (He takes
the bag and the box.) _Scapin._ Permit, Mr. Barthold that we give
you an idea thun.

It was our good Harlekin that here, in the Lord's captain clothing,
refreshments to be made. _Barth._ How? Harlekin? _Peter._ IA, Bey
of my loyalty, he blows only on account of the Lord made captain,
and I'm glad that he has received. I have worked with him for five
lumps bet, and already half of them vertrunken. _Kolombine._ O,
the poor Harlekin! if I had known, I certainly would give him his
more calm have another thing to remove. _Scapin._Ich can assure you
that he is so pleased by his shock that he likes to take again when
he can have the honor and Where you want to take the trouble.
_Kolombine._Kömmt time, Rath ways; the point. _Barth._Aber it annoys
me that the thousand ducats - Almost I would like him to make
the process for you. Wrong Mint!

Nothzucht - indeed, one of Beyden has some honest man brought
to the gallows. But still, listens, goes your way, and drink your
mine. I want to do everything well. Tell him but nothing like this
that I have some news of his disguise did. _Scapin._ You are an honest
man, Mr. Barthold. No word from my mouth! (He keeps his finger
on the mouth, and goes anyway.) _Peter._ On Mamsell Kolombinens and
your health! (He keeps the whole hand on the mouth, and goes anyway.)
Tenth Six appearance. _Barthold_ and _Kolombine_. _Barth._
I do not doubt it, or harlequin itzt will come after he made his
foolish sample, and to stop you. Yours are many, my dear Kolombine,
and if Harlekin sometimes a bit simplistic, so you have to think
that this stage of our his simplicity brings many advantages, and
that without him we probably are not ready can be.

Meyns What You So by him? Should I Ia, or say no, if he continues to
yourself?

_Kolombine._ No, Papa! _Barth._ No, Papa! and why, No, Dad?
_Kolombine._ But a man who told me such a bad faith beweißt? The
only shock to reason must be brought? - The - _Barth._ O! Love makes
fools of wise people, you have this Thorheit something good to hold
and knocks on the stage of bashing Harlekin not. That is his
daily role. He will be all beaten, and even Hahnrey. And you
can send me as your father probably believe _die_ people what a
certain well-known kind of wisdom or folly, are the best to govern.
The mehrsten people heirathen as fools, and are only as wise men,
if they are in marital learn nothing more than to mention the art.

To a good marriage is one peaceful Iugend, health and money. The rest
of it is unfounded, in particular in mind when his bread with the
stupidity must earn.

_Kolombine._ It sey about how it wanted, because we do not Comödie
played as if he had more reason to use. It is so stupid not Meyn
as you and I have by nature a desperate drive to the cunning trick.
_Barth._ You can not better him than listen, as if you take him
for a husband.

_Kolombine._ First, it at least to me here before all the people
in public apology thun and then I will see what I Thue.

_Barth._ Why should he do but for the captain of Astaroth apology
thun, my child?

We need it not to know that so bad Harlekin listed. Seven Tenth
appearance. The _Vorigen_ and _Harlekin_.

_Harl._ Well, my dear Kolombinchen, we want to itzt bride and groom
play?

_Ich_ Will probably, if _Sie_ wants. _Kolombine._ But I will not.
_Harl._ How? You do not? _Kolombine._ Did you answer me this does
not even gelehret? _Harl._ Ia, I have done, but that was only a role
in the Comödie. _Kolombine._ Well, I play itzt mine. I will not.
_Barth._ Children what you want tuna that does soon, and it is my
time to drink, and I do not like to miss. _Harl._ Still a moment,
Mr. Barthold, I must tell you only one crafty string tell .

Do you know the Lord Captain of Astaroth?
"You can go," said Hugh, whose feelings were injured by the lack of
interest in his new grape. "I'm going to stay here for the present."

"Leave him alone and he'll come home and bring his grape behind
him," sang Grizzel, as they set off down the hill. Hugh pretended
not to hear.

"I wish I was a Red Indian," he muttered to himself, as he watched
the little party straggling down the road. "I'd invent some first-
rate tortures for Grizzel."

The children trudged along the track between the trees. The air was
full of dust stirred up by the carts, the sun seemed to grow hotter
and hotter every moment, "putting on a sprint before the finish",
Dick groaned, and the children grew thirstier and thirstier, till
Mollie felt she could hardly bear it for one minute more. Her lips
and tongue were dry and parched, and, although she kept her mouth
shut, the dust blew up her nose and down her dry throat. She felt as
if the sun were hitting her on the back between her shoulders, and
her feet kept stumbling over the deep ruts in the road. "A Guide's
motto is never say die till you are dead," she thought to herself.
"There _are_ times when I wish I were not a Guide, and this is one
of them. 'Be Loyal.' Oh--_bother_ Baden-Powell!" She held up three
fingers to remind herself of the Guide Law, and tried her best to
smile. "How do the others get on without it?" she wondered, watching
Prue and Grizzel as they loitered along just before her, Grizzel
dragging weary little feet in the dust. "I suppose they are used to
it. Life in Australia isn't _all_ beer and skittles. I wonder what
skittles are? If they are something nice to drink I wish we had some
here. Even beer would be better than nothing. I _am_ a beautiful
Patrol Leader! Walking behind and grousing for all I am worth." She
hurried her steps a little and made up to the boys.

"Let's make a queen's chair and carry Grizzel," she suggested. "She
looks about done. We can do it in turns, Dick and me, then Prue and
Jerry."

"Righto!" said both boys at once.

"But you girls needn't do it," Dick added. "Jerry and I have carried
heavier loads than that, haven't we, old son-of-a-gun?"

"Faugh!" said Jerry, with a wink.

Fortunately for the boys, and for Mollie, whose pride as a Patrol
Leader was now up in arms, and perhaps most fortunately for Grizzel,
whose weight was by no means fairy-like, they were overtaken at that
moment by an empty cart, the driver of which pulled up and invited
them all to jump in. It was a relief to sit down, though the floor
of the cart was far from clean, and they were rattled and bumped
like dried peas in a basket. Mollie thought the road would never
end, and began to wonder at what stage of thirst delirium came on.
But the longest lane has a turning, and at last they came in sight
of a white house standing in the middle of an untidy sort of garden.
The usual balcony ran round it, but this time it was approached by a
wide flight of steps leading up from the drive in front. The cart
stopped before a wooden gate, and without a word Prue led the way to
the back veranda, where a row of canvas bags hung swinging from the
roof. There were taps in the bags, but Prue ignored them. She
climbed on to the veranda railing, dipped a tumbler into a bag, and
handed it down to Mollie.

Oh, the exquisite joy of that drink! The water was deliciously cold;
it trickled over Mollie's parched tongue, irrigated her dried-up
throat, washed away the dust she had been inhaling, and in half a
minute made her feel like a newly-made-over girl.

"It is worth while being thirsty," she said, as she watched the
others revive under the same treatment. "I never knew before what a
delicious thing water is. I'd like some more, please."

"I wish we were all giraffes," Grizzel said, with a sigh. If you do
not go, To go myself, and will be ', as it wants. Antonio. Let me
just enough time to gain And you wait just returned from the prince!

Just not today! Tasso. No, this hour, If it's possible! You burn me
the soles on this marble floor; more My mind can not find peace
until the dust-free path Des rushed around me. I beg you! You
can see how clumsy At that moment I was with my Lord to talk; see
- how can I hide - that I myself at this moment, I am no power
zones in the world can.

Only fetters are the me able to hold! Alphons is not a tyrant,
he talked me free. How gladly obeys' I his words otherwise! Tonight,
I can not obey. Today, just let me live in freedom, that my mind is
to find, I soon come back to my duty. Antonio. You make me
doubtful. What should I do? I remember most: It is the mistake
on. Tasso. Should I believe you, do you think is good for me,
To effect what I wish what you can.

The prince dismisses me, and I will not lose his mercy its not
help. The thanks I you, and you will owe's like, But you hegst an old
grudges in the bosom, If you want this court banish me, Will you
ever run my skill, I am helpless in the world-wide distribution So
stay on your mind and resist! Antonio. Weil ich dir doch, o
Tasso, hurt, select 'I want the way that you election. The outcome
may decide who is wrong!

You want out! I tell you before: You apply these barely back home,
So your heart will demand the return, your Eigensinn you push forward,
pain, confusion, gloom in Rome waiting for you, And you miss here and
there to the end. But tell me this is not more to you to guess, I
say just ahead, what will happen soon, And do you also in advance
that I am in the worst case to vertraun.

I am speaking now the prince, as you ford's first. Fünfter appearance
Tasso (alone).

Yes, just go and walk away safely, that you persuadest me what you
want. I'm learning myself move, because you're a great champion and
I hold easily. This life is forcing us to seem, yes to be
like those who are bold and proud we were able to despise.
Significantly seh 'I have the whole art of courtly tissue!

  Antonio wants me to drive by Hinnen
  And do not want to seem to me that he sells.

He plays the very end, the wise, that only one sick and clumsy me
think Bestellet itself the guardian that he humiliate me For child,
he became the servant could not compel.

So he umnebelt The forehead of the prince and the princess look.

Let me think, he says: Have a nice salary but my nature, but
unfortunately it had some weaknesses with the high dose bad again
accompanied ungebundnem With pride, with übertriebner suitable
sensitivity and dark sense.

It is no different, even now that the fate of a man so formed;
Now you must take him as he was Him tolerate, and perhaps to him,
What joy can bring on good days as unexpected gains enjoyed the
rest, as he was born, So be it live, to die.

Discoverable "I still firmly Alphonse sense, defying the enemies and
friends faithfully protects? Discoverable 'him, as he met me
now? Yes most recognizable 'all over my misfortune, I now, this
is my destiny that only against me, any changes, for others and
remain faithful and secure, easily changed by a touch, in a moment.

Has not the arrival of this man alone My whole destiny destroyed in
an hour? Not that the building of my happiness From his deepest
reason fallen? O, I need to know this, do I need's tonight!

Yes, everything is pushed to me, makes me everything now, like everyone
I to usurp strove, each to hold me, To encounter me everything
away and shun me. And why? And because he only weighs the value of
my shell and all the love that I so obsessed with plenty else on?
Yes, everything escapes me now. You too! You too! Beloved princess, you
deprive yourself me In these gloomy hours they told me not
only all the characters their favor. Hab 'ich's to earn? - You poor
heart, so of course she was to worship - I heard her voice as an
ineffable feeling permeated the chest!

sees' I do, as was the bright light of day to me hazy; irresistibly
attracted your eye on me, her mouth at me, my knee is hardly
obtained, and all the power of the Spirit needed ' I keep myself
upright, on their feet not to fall, barely managed 'I started this
frenzy to zerstreun. firmly believe this, my heart!

You clear sense Lass dich nicht umnebeln here! Yes, they let me
say it? And I think it unlikely, I think it would, and would like
to 'hide it to me.

You too! You too! Sorry they are, Solo hide 'thee's not: You too!
You too! O that word, which I doubt should be, As long as a touch of
faith in me is alive, yes, this word, it digs itself, as a final
destiny of yet at least ehrnen verge of fully written torments
billboard. Now only my strong enemy, now I am on forever deprived
of any force.

How should I argue when you are against the armies? How
should I duldend wait, if you hand me no distant reaches? If you
do not look the beseechingly met?'

s Daring you to think that's've talked And it's true, anyway you did
fear!

And now before the despair your senses with mouth ehrnen tears from
each other, yes, only complain of the fate of bittre And just to
repeat: You too!

You too! Fifth elevator (Garten.) First appearance Alphons. Antonio.
Antonio. In deinen Wink I went the second time to Tasso out, I
come from him.

I've got him zugeredet, indeed urged, he goes alone, by his sense
And do not ask eagerly, that you saw it in Rome on a released a
short time like.

Alphons. I'm morose, that's you, I confess, dear And say 'I tell
you that I am, as the frustration that I Hide', and more. He wants
to travel, well, I hold him not. He wants out, he wants to Rome
it was, only that I do not Scipio Gonzaga, The Medicis wise, do
not steal! That has made Italy so great that each neighbor with
the other fights that are better to have to use. An army captain
seems to me without a prince, not the talent to be assembled: And
who is the voice of poetry does not hear, is a barbarian, he was
also who he was.'ve Found 'this and I selected, I'm on it as My
servant proud And since I have for him so much done, would like
'I do not needlessly lose.

Antonio. I'm embarrassed, because I wear it Above you the guilt of
what happened tonight, I also want my mistake gestehn happy,
he remains your grace to verzeihn; But if you could believe that I
have not done the possible, to reconcile him to it would I be
completely inconsolable.

O! Say With holdem look at me, so I hold back I can trust myself
mag. Alphons. Antonio, no, there was only more quiet, I write to you
in any way, I know only too well the meaning of the man And knows
all too well what I done, how much I spared him how much I completely
forget that I really would urge him to. Much can the man to the
Lord to make his sense Bezwinget little hardship and long time.
Antonio.

If many others to do the one, So it's also cheap, that one again
Getting busy asking what the other benefits.'s Who Spirit has
made so much, Who zusammengeizt every science, And every note,
which allows us to take, should be the one to dominate, no doubly
guilty? And he thinks off? Alphons. We should not remain in peace!
DC will help us if we have to think, to exercise our bravery an
enemy, to exercise the patience of a friend. Antonio. The first
duty of man, Speis' and drink to choose, because it so closely the
nature of the animal is not as limited, he met? And can he not much
more like a child from all irritate what flatters the palate? When
he mixes water in his wine? spices, sweet cases, strong drinks,
one to the other loops it hastily, and then lamented his dull mind,
His fiery blood, his nature too violently, he Schilt on the nature
and skill. How bitter and how thöricht hab 'I do not often with his
doctors right sehn; For almost laughing, wär 'some ridiculous What
a man tortures and other plagues. "I feel this bad," he says
bänglich And fully annoyance: "What you boast your art? Creates
convalescent me!" - Good! allows the doctor to avoid the Sun and
das - "I can not." - So fear this potion .-- "Oh no! The Horrible
taste, he shocked me to nature." - for example drinking water. -
"Water? never! I'm so afraid of water as a Gebissner." - This is
not to help you .-- "And why?"

- The evil is always with evils accumulate And if you can not kill
just more and more with each passing day you torment .-- "Schön!
What are you a doctor?

You know my bad, you should also know the resources, they also make
delicious that I have not yet, only the suffering going to
be legally must suffer.

"You smile and of course it is certainly, you've probably heard
from his mouth? Alphons. I've heard it often and often excused.
Antonio. It is certainly a ungemäßigt life, how serious we are ,
wild dreams are our last power on bright days dreaming. What is his
suspicion, unlike a dream?

Where is he believes he is surrounded by enemies. His talent, nobody
can sehn, The neidet him, nobody envied him, not him, the bitter
and hates him prosecuted. So he often harassed with complaints
thee: Erbrochne castles, aufgefangne Letters, And poison and dagger!

Everything before it floats! You have examined, investigated, and
what have you found? Hardly the form. The protection of any
prince makes sure none of the bosom friend may refresh him. And do
you want such a peace and happiness, you want it most joy you
promise? Alphons.

You did right, Antonio, where he I am looking for my next advantage
wanted! While it is my advantage that I have not the benefit expect
grad and unconditionally.

Not everything serve us in the same way, Who wants to do much, in its
use of any kind, he is well served. The have taught us the Medicis,
the Popes have given us even punished.

What is forbearance, which princely patience and patience, these men,
some great talent, the rich do not need grace, and yet seemed
needed! Antonio. Those who do not know, my Prince?

Teaches effort of the life of us all appreciate life goods. So young
he has already achieved much, as frugal that he could enjoy. O,
should 'he buy what he now With open hands angebothen is: He brought
his forces to male And felt himself step by step content. A poor
gentleman has been the target of his desire to best if it a noble
lord on his election Hofgenossen wants him and the weakness with a
mild hand cut.

Give him yet Vertraun and wants to favor and to his other side
Before him raise it's at war, Let's shops or in conversation, Sun,
dächt 'I could be the man bescheidne His luck with silent gratitude
worship. And Tasso has everything this still the best of luck to
the young: The fact that it already recognizes his mother and
hopes on him. O believe me, his disaffection capricious rests
on the broad cushions of his happiness. He dismissed him graciously,
give him time in Rome and in Naples where he wants to see the what
he misses here, and what he can not play.

Alphons. Will he return after Ferrara gehn? Antonio. He wants
to dwell in Belriguardo.

The most essential, what he needs to travel, Is he a friend sent.
Alphons. I'm satisfied. My sister goes to her friend with the
same back, and riding Werd 'ich in front of them still at home.
You follow us soon if you care for him. The warden befiehl which
required that he remain at the palace as long as he wants so long,
until his friends sent him the luggage until we send him letters,
I was asking him to Rome'm willing to give.

He is coming! Leb 'wohl! Second appearance Alphons. Tasso. Tasso
(with restraint).

The grace that you so often I proved myself today Erscheinet in full
light: You have forgiven what is happening in your area I unwisely
and committed sacrilegious; You searched the adversary reconciles me,
you want to allow that I was from your page, remove me, I want
your favor magnanimously reserved. I am now completely distinct
Vertraun, And hope still, I should be little time to heal from all
what I am now beklemmt.

It shall be my spirit rise anew And on the way, which I gladly and
boldly, encouraged by your view, first entered, Getting your favor
would make anew. Alphons.

I wish you luck on your journey and hope that you are completely happy
and healed We'll come back.

You bring us the double-winners for every hour that you now withdraw,
happily back. I'll give you letters to my people, your friends on
to Rome and hope very much that you have to keep trusting my
everywhere like, such as I As you mine, although removed, certainly
consider.

Tasso. besiege you, O Lord, with the grace, the feel is unworthy
and even to thank at this moment can not.

Instead of the open Danks' I have a request! most is my poem at heart.
I've done a lot and no trouble and no hard savings alone it will
remain Too much back to me yet.

I want there, Where even the spirit of great men hovers, hovers And
effectively, there möcht 'I look into the new school Asc me go:
Worthy enjoyed your applause, my song. O, give me back the leaves,
which I now just ashamed in your hands white! Alphons. You will
not me on that day take me What you hardly at this day brought.
Lass between between you and your poem I joined as a mediator:
Hats thee, strict diligence by the gentle nature to offend the
Reimen in your lives, And do not listen on the advice from all sides!
The changing of ideas of many different people, in life itself
And in the contrary opinion, sums up the poet in one clever and
not afraid, Gar many to be displeased that he had some To the more
may have fallen. But I am not saying that you were not here and because
decisions will need to file your test; promise you at the same
time: In a short time you get off your poem.

It remains on your hand in my hands, That I with its only my sisters
let me quite happy . A complete bringest you back then: We will
get more enjoyment of friends and you just At some point as friends
warn. Tasso. I repeat only ashamed to ask: Let me copy a hurry!
Rests entirely on my mind this works now. Now it must be what it may
be. Alphons. I approve the train, you are inspired! But Tasso good
if it were possible, So you should have only a short time the free
world enjoy, you dispel your blood through a cure improve. Granted
you like the beautiful harmony of meaning produced what you now
in the murky zeal only looking in vain.

Tasso. My Lord, it seems, but I'm healthy, if I can show my diligence,
And it makes me hard again healthy. You've seen me round: I am probably
not in free opulence. Mir is the minimum rest Ruh Am. This mind is
not determined by nature, I feel 'it, unfortunately, a soft element
to the daily ins glad ocean swim the times added.

Alphons. Führet you everything you meaningful and drift, deep in
yourself it is all around us Gar some precipice, the fate of
the grub, but here in our hearts is the deep, and irritating, it
is going to fall.

I ask you, you grab yourself! Man wins, which the poet loses. Tasso.
I consider this in vain to urge, The day and night in my bosom move.
If I do not ponder or be dense, Sun Life is not my life anymore.

Forbid you the silk worm to spin, if he is already closer to the
death of spins: The delectable tissues' it develops from its core,
and can not, Till in his coffin is included. O, geb 'a good God
even dereinst The enviable fate of the worm, the new Sonnental the
wings rapidly and joyfully unfold!

Alphons. Listen to me ! You give so many benefit from the double
life; lern ', I pray thee, the value of life, And you still possess
ten times as rich.

Farewell! The sooner you come to us back kehrst, more beautiful you
are welcome. Third appearance Tasso (alone). So hold out my heart,
so it was quite, it is difficult to you, it is the first time that
so you like and adjust it. You probably heard: That was not his mind,
Those were not his words; it seemed to me, as Antonio's voice just
sounds contradictory. O give only eight! You will now continue
to hear from all sides. Festival only! For a moment it's still to
be done. Those who late in life to keep learning It has the
appearance of honesty ahead.

It is already go, you just practice with them. (After a pause.) Du
triumphierst too early there comes forth! Holde The princess is coming!
O what a feeling! It occurs in, it triggers in my bosom annoyance and
suspicion in pain. Fourth appearance princess. Tasso. Towards the end
of the performance the rest. Princess.

You think us to leave or stay in Rather Belriguardo still want
you back And then we remove Tasso? I hope only for a short time.
You go to Rome? Tasso. I directed my way first then, and take my
friends I'm kind of how I hope it may, Sun leg 'because I care and
patience Maybe the last hand to my poem.

I think many men gathered there, the master of all types are called
allowed. And speaking of that first city in the world Not every
place, not every stone to us, how many thousands of teachers waving
in silent majesty seriously friendly to us! completely 'I'm not my
poem, so's I can never finish. Unfortunately, ah, already feel 'I,
I will never enterprises luck! Change', I never finish. I felt 'I
feel' it seems that the great art, all the feeds, which strengthens
the mind healthy and refreshed is basically directed me to, distribute
it myself.

I hurry away! After Napel I will soon! Princess. Darfst you dare? Even
the strict ban is not lifted, along with the thee thy father met.
Tasso. Warn you right, I've already considered. Disguises geh 'ich
out the poor pilgrim or Rock Des Schäfers zieh 'I suppose.

I Play through the city, where the movement of thousands of one easily
hides. I hurry after the bank, then find a barge with the same good
people willingly, with farmers who came to the market, now go
home, people of Sorrento, because I have to Sorrento hinübereilen.
where my sister lives, the pain with me The joy of my parents. In
the ships, I am quiet, and then stand silently also to the country,
I The path gently go up and the gates to ask myself: Where does
Cornelia? Show me it! Cornelia Sersale? Send me a friendly sign
Spinnerinn the road, it Designates my house. To increase 'I continued.
The children run alongside and watch the wild hair, the dark stranger
to.

So come I to the threshold. The door is open already, there are 'I
said in the house - princess. View' on o Tasso, if it is possible
to Recognize the danger in which you float, I spare you, because
otherwise würd 'I say: Is it noble to talk about how you speak?
Is it noble, just to be alone to think of you as friends grieved
heart not? Is it hidden from thee as my brother is thinking how both
sisters you appreciate? Hast thou not felt and recognized? Is
everything because in little moments Changes? Tasso! If you want
to distinguish, So let us not worry and pain returned. (Tasso
turns away.) Princess. How comforting it is, a friends, on a short
time to travel, a small gift to give, be it only a new coat or a
weapon!

you can not give, for you unwillingly throw everything away, what
you possess. The scallop and black coat, the long rod election
and you go voluntarily poor and then take us away, What you do
with us alone could enjoy.

Tasso. How do you want me not altogether failed? O sweet word, o
beautiful, expensive consolation! Represents me! Take me in your
protection on!

- Belriguardo Leave me here, move me after Consandoli wherever you
want! It has so many beautiful Prince Castle, Garden To some,
the whole year to wait, and you go to him a little day, perhaps
only an hour. Yes, wählet the most distant from the whole in her
years of not visiting it, and perhaps without having to worry now
is: It sends me out! There let me be yours! How will I care for your
trees! The lemons in the autumn with boards and covered with bricks,
And verbundnem tubes with well maintained, it will be beautiful
flowers in the gardens, the broad roots, pure and delicate for each
course and each spot.

And let me also the concern of the palace! I want at the right time
to open the windows, that moisture is not the paintings pity; The
beautifully decorated with stucco walls Will I with a gentle cleanse
Wedel; It should screed shine bright and clean; There is no stone,
no brick is moving, it should be no grass to germinate from a crack!

princess. I find no advice in my bosom, And find no solace for you
and - us. My eye looks around, if not a god of us would like to
help, let me discover a healing herb, a potion, your sense of peace
would bring us peace.

The faithful word, which flows from the lip, the best cure is not
more funds. I must leave thee, and leave you My heart can not.
Tasso. My god, it's yet "The talks with thee and thy mercy is? And
did you misjudge the noble heart?

Was it possible that in their presence, the faint thee and took
thee defeated No, no, you're it! And now, I'm there too. O
go away and leave me any consolation to hear from your mouth! Your
Council does not deprive me! O say, what should I do So your brother
can forgive me So you have forgiven me happy like, order it again
to me with your joy may understand count?

Tell me! Princess. Gar bit is what we require of thee, And yet
it seems to be too much. Thou shalt thyself kindly leave us. We
want nothing from you what you're not, If you only until you with
thee smugness.

All around her the
monotonous grey trunks stood, as much alike as the pillars of a
town-hall, and overhead the blue-green leaves stirred languidly in
the warm wind. Mollie was standing, though she did not know it, on
primeval forest land.

What she did begin to realize was that she was lost.

"I _can't_ be far away," she repeated to herself. "I wasn't running
for five minutes. The point is, how am I to find the way back.
Everything is so difficult in this upside-down place; I haven't the
least idea which is north and which is south; nor which way the wind
blows, nor how the shadows fall, nor _anything_; and if I go the
wrong way I will only get farther and farther from the Dell. The
best plan really is to sit down and wait till someone comes. Someone
is sure to look for me sooner or later; Dick and Jerry will,
anyhow." She looked about her again in search of inspiration.
Sitting down and waiting was not a cheerful prospect. Dick and Jerry
might whisk away home and leave her behind. Or she might merely wake
up suddenly and find herself in the Chauncery morning-room, safe but
dull, or--just supposing she didn't! Supposing that she couldn't get
back without Prue, and that she turned into an interesting case for
the What's-its-name Society, to be read about in learned books!

"I might try climbing a tree," she thought, gazing round in search
of something climbable. But the tall, smooth trunks were
discouraging; there were few with boughs within her reach, and the
few there were were too low to be of any use as observation posts.
She sat down and resolutely opened her book. "Never say die till you
are dead," she repeated, firmly fastening the Guide's smile on to
her face. "I'll read, and coo-ee every third page."

But she no longer walked in the submarine forest; she only sat in a
wood and read about other people doing it, lifting her eyes from the
page every now and then, and turning her head uneasily from side to
side, feeling very lonely in that great, still place!

What was that? A magpie or a human whistle? "--two-three, _one_-two-
three, _one_--". Someone was whistling the air from _Faust_. Mollie
sprang to her feet and coo-eed with all her might and main. The
whistling stopped short, and there was an answering shout in a man's
voice. Mollie coo-eed again.

"Hi! You'll have to come to me," the man shouted; "I can't come to
you. Tied here by the leg."

It is not an easy thing to locate a sound in the open air, and
though Mollie had had some practice in the course of her Guide work,
it was only after several shouts on the man's part and experiments
on hers that she at last found herself standing beside Mr. John
Smith, who was sitting on the ground with one bootless leg stretched
out before him.

"I am glad to see you," he said to Mollie. "I have sprained my ankle
rather badly, and was just wondering what to do next. There seemed
to be nothing for it but to crawl all the way home, and the prospect
was not pleasing."

"I am glad to see you too," said Mollie. "I am lost."

"Lost!" exclaimed the young man. "Oh no, you aren't. I have a
compass, and it is not more than a couple of miles or so to Silver
Fields, von Greusen's place. I'll show you how to use a compass, and
you will be my good angel and go to Silver Fields and ask them to
send a horse along, and I will be grateful to you for ever."

"I know how to use a compass, thank you," said Mollie, feeling
greatly relieved, "and I will go to Mr. von Greusen's place if you
tell me where it is; but first I will bandage up your foot and make
it feel easier. I have learnt First Aid. May I take that thing off
your hat for a bandage?"--as she noticed the pith helmet and pugaree
lying on the ground.

"My pugaree? Good idea! I don't know what First Aid is precisely,
but it sounds appropriate. Do you mean you can fix a bandage?"

"Rather," said Mollie, comfortably conscious that she was a First-
class Guide and a bright and shining light in this particular line.
"How did you sprain your ankle? I suppose you--" she stopped short.
She had almost said that she supposed he had tripped over an
obstacle in a fit of loverishness. "I suppose your foot just went.
That's what mine did."

"I caught it in a rabbit-hole," he answered, "the floor of Australia
seems to be perforated with them. Why didn't you coo-ee sooner?"

"I did," Mollie answered, as she unwound the pugaree and took off
her patient's sock, "I coo-eed ever so often--oh, dear me! that _is_
a bad foot! I'm afraid you'll be laid up for ever so long. Why
didn't _you_ coo-ee?"

"I did," answered Mr. Smith, eyeing the badly swollen and
discoloured ankle ruefully. "I coo-eed ever so often too. I suppose
we mistook each other for magpies. Next time I'll try a good English
shout. Now, what's to happen? D'ye mean to say that I'm to be stuck
up in Silver Fields for goodness knows how long with only my own
thoughts for company and nothing to do? Pride had disdained
wealth, galas, delights and triumphs that despite the impurity
source, it would have been able to accomplish in the world.

However, much Pat and I occasionally do assumptions and considerations
which lower Lucia of the merit and with whom I blame and look
at my misfortune as a natural result of my reckless foolishness. I
then compared to a sorcerer's apprentice of an old legend, it was
proposed that evoke and call it an ethereal being, a sylph, a goddess
beatificante and wrong formulas, procedures and spells, and raised
a vestiglo that fell on him, pulled down by ground and trampled him
body and soul. My propensity to cheat and laugh, even at
the expense of mine, sometimes leads me to see this on the comical
side, but not the seasoned bitter joke with salt and pepper, but
with gall and vinegar. The quality of _snob_, I say, can a lofty
heroic level. To prove it go to my memory what happened to my friends
and the ladies Mrs Pinto.

They came to Paris, from the Brazilian province of Minas Geraes,
the mother of three nephews, first cousins of the girls. Were
enriched by growing a great _fazenda_, but were regular and half
savage and detestable chapurreaban by the French style.

Also bear on their face the indelible sign of its hybrid origin and
plebeian. Was evident in the mixture of them European blood
with that of _caboclo_ and even with the black. You can not figurarte
consternation produced in the Pinto of the arrival of these
gentlemen. To make them rightly horror show at home for an afternoon
of Pinto as those ladies were _five o'clock tea_, plus up to that
point never so aristocratic.

There was the Baron of Castle-Bourdac, who is almost or nearly free
of _Faubourg_ two Russian princes, a descendant of Gengiskan and
a fellow of Rurik; marquises three Italians and a Polish countess,
the clear lineage of Jaguelones .

I also, though plebeian, considered very elegant. What was the
credit of the Pinto if they enter the room those wild tuteándolas
and embrace as a bonus? Fortunately they came in time to avoid
catastrophe. The Pintos were introduced and exotic enchiquerados in
an empty room. But how much shock, how much anguish, divine
heavens! Those ladies came and went for a shift to another room
to talk to the huge opportunity and other relatives.

I could not get in for less secrecy and dissimulation I sent to
them a bit of conversation. In sum, what cansarte: the anguish and
distress of the ladies were ineffable and countless Pinto for nearly
two months that relatives stayed in the capital of France.

For those that are marearon heard as much noise as there is in
these streets of Paris, spoiling the language of Voltaire and
that no one did but if they got the money. It was long, because I
do not know where, and those of Pinto breathed. Secure that if
I fail to leave, bereaved and those of Pinto compungidas by a
perpetual and abhorrent obsession, the three leave the world and put
nuns. Valiéndome the memory of this set as a basis for comparison,
I am struggling for my shrink mystical thought the hero and the
shedding of Lucia, but my stubborn love for her and my opinion
favorable to its noble garments for protection against ridiculous
that I wanted to throw my disgust over it.

I only managed to mortify and more despair. Despite the peaceful and
joyful my character all my life, I began to feel then, with annoying
persistence, hatred and contempt for myself and to people around
me and see me so afraid alone, without having ever fleeting but
without friends and anyone who put my trust and my deep and genuine
affection.

I just had more friends to the Baron, and I know not, for loyalty
rather than estimating their dog and their devotion to me was how
much fun in it. The desire to die with my spirit besieged the
contemplation of such misery. * * * * * To distract my sorrows, to
stun, then I launched the world with greater impetus and frenzied
than ever.

I confess I got a vague feeling of winning some kind of strange
nombradía; my modesty lay at the side and get in the palm and crown
of beauty contest. It was not the moral sense which stopped and
prevented my starts I fell at the precipice: it was my sovereign
disdain towards the trial and the estimation of men.

Parodying a thought in my judgment evangelical, told me that I fed
to pigs and acorns enough bran, which is a shame to throw
pearls to the dump. Yet another feel less proud of purifying and then
gently shook my chest. Imagined possible even if not true love,
true, unique and without blemish that could be my link with a man,
a gentle and loving affection, without possessing the vehemence of
love and youth, had its cleanliness, its persistent duration and
exclusive loyalty. But where to find this friend, the lover, the
husband with whom I still dreamed atrevidamente? How could I
clear from the past to be worthy of yours? And if the past is not
clear to me how my foul imagined without bond reduced to my level
and not sink into the abjection that I was?

Alambic My ideal thoughts and dreams that suddenly and out of late
time, and moved drunk my soul, filled with despair and longing for
death, although I still find the world beautiful, and rich in beauty,
in the curious and entertaining mysteries variety of cases the
splendid fabric of human life. * * * * * I you understand the
hesitation in my mind, and what luck with incessant alternative way
of peaceful tranquility desperate pain.

Never fooled, not talking, neither stole nor injured anyone. In none
of this what I have sinned and repent. Sometimes lost faith in
me was reborn. Remember and acknowledge my many sins as mortal,
but trusting in the infinite mercy of God, forgive me I think. Feel
contrition and I absolve myself. I have no remorse and atosiga, but
feel a little Christian, I must be a cruelísimo pride, rather than
any remorse, tormented and killed. Humiliation and vileness of my
early years are represented in my memory and I am covered in
shame. There is no repentance, nor spell, neither sacrament nor magic,
demonic or divine, which removes some stains permanently. The shame
that inspired my daughter turns against me. The same consideration
of my wealth, my material well-being, my health and my elegance, in
contrast to the state of my spirit and drives me to look with
greater horror and disgust.

My body is healthy and beautiful, but my soul, where memories fall on
it, is like Job in muladar. Impossible for the fray, and their poisonous
ulcers, not to strip it of one of its major powers, not to deprive
them of the memory forever. * * * * * Such was the state of my soul
when, after so long, I returned home to see the Pinto. I tell you not
flattering: I think very well. Your presence and your conversation,
I confirmed the idea that I have always had that man by nature healthy
and robust, if the defect is not deprave, will grow in worth and
completing up to the age of fifty years, which is more or less that
you should take now.

In their appearance, in his gesture and around him a majesty and a
verve that are well rested top of the unrest and the inconsistency
of the first petulant youth. Well, look here for what reason? Bastet
know you found me very happy, and that night I returned home tired
and imaginative dreamer. Later, alone with me, my spirit was grazed
in the distant memories that kept me from Lisbon you, deeply buried
under many other memories, back in the depths of my memory.

And not content myself with memories exhumed so far, I am happy to
combine, using a sybaritic art, with recent views that you had received.
Then the naughty love and joy in my heart asleep and woke up in a
riot were playing target, as if to leave them the dawn of a new
day, whose joy and announced they wanted to raise my senses and
powers.

In my thinking and I could not be rendered more or be again yours. I
thought or imagined, however, many who came to complicate things
that feel easy and happy. I longed for and looked for a long time to
form ties of friendship with someone who understood me and who
I could put all my trust and unburden my breast. Also for this job
you choose right away, and eager and willing to pursue that very
evening I started to write these soon _confidencias_ read. At the
same time, broke out in my mind another aspiration, another purpose,
designed just for me so far that I am troubled and disturbed me.
No longer aspired to achieve fleeting delights. Forged a rare and
unlikely story to me of love, peaceful and lasting union of two
human wills, something very similar to the story of Philemon and
Baucis. Unfortunately, the design purpose of the latter fell with
violence on the purposes above, and fought for disrupted. No, if you
want, but you moved vehementísimo for love, that I with all the
energies of my soul attaining inspiration, you humiliated to the
point of making rapid whim and passenger liaison persistent union,
and although you pleased to be my only constant companion and devote
your life, I could not nor should accept the sacrifice, and even
if we accept, I would not object.

To make you mine, completely and forever mine lose the claim, the charm
and merit that leads me to wish you and me forever. Harto understand
what you said by the yearnings found fighting within my soul. You
did not wonder then that in the midst of this fight, shoot and as
deep as the root of my existence, that I love both the world and
life, the image of death, of beauty rich and powerful attractive,
and bringing his hand in peace and repose.

Often, regardless of the renewed affection and sudden inspiration to
me and the other considerations that I set out, and afflict me
making me sad mortifies forecasts. I, as you could come soon and
are likely to see, I have such strong will and I dedicated to
this wisdom in taking care of that if my eyes and the pride not
deceive me, I like the sun which culminates in the meridian , I, as
ever, lush and beautiful. But this also increases my fear of an
early fall. Frightens me down with precipitation of single pedestal
that holds me. What will become of me when I am old and ugly?
What I remain respectable and decent and nice when you come to old
age and disease, and little by little I will destroy and kill? To
distinguish, to trace a woman elegant and majestic manor to find
that many people today and held me, I leave everything forever.

I have noticed myself with horror in many women who have aged my
spade.

His aristocratic distinction was formal and brief, did not come
from the depths and essence, but the outer shape and the finery
that adorned.

For such women, age does not come alone, but is accompanied by the
vileness and the ruindad where they were born and lived until
they engage in the artifice that haunted the old order to the naked.
Thinking about all this I fear old age, so, I want to die earlier. *
* * * * You are going to prey for having me delirious.

No matter. We need to know it, and I count everything. Approaching
the day when you come to this house in which I offered as cumplirte.
Often desired, still more can you wish. And without condition,
without promise, without security that will last me this, I intend
to enjoy it so reconcentrada intensity, I encrypt and lock centuries
and centuries in a few hours.

And yet, here I can to make the confession I am sorry for the fear
of hurting it. You have a rival who stands between you and me,
and I want to send and not fulfill what you offered. Aims to keep
for himself; that you disdain and is for myself alone. Subidísimo
are the price of jewelry and gifts that he gives me and tries to make
a will. With a kiss of his claims to infiltrate into my veins
subtle flame that purifies.

His hug for me will be as hot crucible into my being that it is
based, and that the metal that is forged and discard the dross as
gold comes out clean . So I will be worthy of him, and he will make
me yours forever. Delivering it to surrender and trusting abandonment
will be the outpouring of my whole being into the infinite.

I will fill it full of longing for my delight, balm for my pains,
and eternal oblivion for all my sorrows.

       When holds his hand on my forehead, then cleared the sign or tag
that I desdora.

I sleep in your lap for a long dream that will drive away and remove
from me for all the memories of shameful wickedness as ruindades
and torment me today. Prodigiosa is the beauty of this match that
I requested in your damage. His power is immense. Imagine the people
who love and death are brothers.

And I am inclined to believe that the genius of death is the love
itself.

Dying is the supreme act of love that can make any creature. The
surrender and surrender to love another man like creature she gives
her life and being, but limited, with selfishness with selflessness
fugitive, recovering quickly and almost without losing a moment.

But the consortium with the Genius of Death, which is the same love,
is eternal and indissoluble.

The individual has little substance or meaning and worth.

It penetrates and takes all, is diluted by the vast extent of the
ether and extended in the past and the future for time without end
that is confused with eternity.

You see yourself how seductive is the rival to have, which I pursued,
and rival who would not want to give me the miserable remnants of
that tired old strip I; divinity whose sake I would not want to
ruin libation, pouring the dregs of the cup of my life, but spill
there, generous and even lavish, even when it is filled to the edge
of the filter ardent passions and desires. * * * * * It's over midnight.
She started on my birthday. Today I come to see me and I welcome
you. The effort against you with your opponent's momentum continues.
Selfish love of my life, to instill fear the unknown, the vast and
obscure what lies beyond, and all my hobbies to material gifts and
sweetness, are fighting for you and me chained and held captive for
dealing with you.

And moreover, impossible to my true love and only on earth, purification
of sins and forget insults, robs me and struggle to put out into the
arms of death.

Today, like many years ago, I did not fail me nor denouncing the
divine works that glow around me and whose image is burned in my
soul.

Everything is completely ordered, perfect and beautiful today as ever
before.

Do not breathe the slightest complaint. In me there is wonder and
gratitude. Providence, fortune, whatever you want it, I was pampered
and caressed me instead of hurt. What will become of many in Cadiz
and Seville were the companions of my first mocedad?

Many have died, others still despised and wretched moaning in the
hospital or the detention of criminals or of repentance, and
others are rolling in of the deepest mud and black social strata.
How many lies I do not give thanks to heaven for the exceptional
increase in I!

Anything by my protest or accusation against him. Until the outcome
of the holy education I gave to my daughter and I had won it, without
being able to remedy, be ashamed of me, I find it natural and just.
If I leave, therefore, the face of the earth, shall not in anger
or rage against the sky, is the impatient eagerness to seek and
find the love I found not on earth. Years have this thirst for love
supreme come to my soul, and excites me to pick you out of life
alive today. But before there was a strong bond that linked me to
this life, and is now unleashed. Lucia left me to join her husband
forever.

Why did not I fly I also join with my husband forever *
* * * *
"It's me," said Mollie, swallowing down a few last tears and
wondering if she was speaking the truth--perhaps it _was_ her ghost!
"Where's everybody?"

"They're all dressin' themselves for the balloonin', an' may the
Lord preserve Master Hugh an' keep his bones from breakin'. 'Tis a
temptin' o' Providence an' his mother sailin' on the salt seas, poor
soul. The way the death-watch has been tickin' on me this wake past
is something cruel."

"What's the ballooning?" Mollie began, but before Bridget could
answer Prudence appeared at the house door, dressed in festive pink
muslin and a white hat wreathed with rosebuds.

"Come along, Mollie," she said, "and don't listen to Bridget
croaking. If I died every time she hears my death-watch tick, or
sees my shroud in a candle, there would be a whole cemetery full of
my graves by this time. There's a yellow muslin frock for you."

They had reached the girls' bedroom, which Mollie recognized as the
first of the rooms she had slept in. They were back in the house
with Hugh's tree and the yellow-carpeted garden. She looked
admiringly at the pretty muslin frock on the bed. It was white,
powdered over with tiny dots of pale yellow, and made with filmy
flounces reaching to the waist; a frilled fichu, or "cross-over" as
Prue called it, came over the front of the little bodice, falling
slightly below the waist and tied behind with pale-yellow ribbons. A
wide white hat was wreathed with primroses and green leaves. It was
indeed a charming frock, and so modern that Mollie thought she might
have worn it at home without anyone being surprised at anything
except her unusual smartness. Prudence and Grizzel wore dresses
fashioned in precisely the same way, but Prue's muslin was sprigged
with pink rosebuds, while Grizzel's dots were green.

"Come along, my rainbow," said Papa. "If we are late we won't get a
good place."

They walked down the cypress-bordered path of Mollie's first visit,
and joined the stream of people going along the road, like
themselves, to see the balloon ascent. Mollie felt very gay and
festive; everybody feminine wore light frocks, the sun was bright
but not too hot, the grass was green, and the whole countryside was
frothed with almond-blossom, white and pink. Birds flew briskly
about, indifferent to balloons, and horses with shining chestnut
coats trotted along the well-kept road, lifting their slim ankles
and polished heels in an elegant way very different from the gait of
London cab-horses.

A balloon ascent was always a thrilling sight, Prudence explained,
but the particular thrill about this one was that Hugh was going up.
The aeronaut was a friend of Papa's, and, Mamma being on her way
home to England, it had not been difficult to persuade easygoing
Papa to give his consent. Indeed, there was nothing that he would
have liked better than to go up himself, but Mr. Ferguson had shaken
his head over fifteen stone of useless passenger.

"If we could throw you out a pound at a time you would be most
welcome," he had said; "but you must wait a bit, Professor; the day
will come when we shall not have to count every pound."

When they reached the field they found a deeply interested crowd
already collected, and Papa had some difficulty in getting his
rainbow into a good position. The huge balloon towered up far above
them, its striped smoke-coloured sides gleaming under the netted
mesh as it swayed with every breath of wind. The wicker car looked
very small and frail.

"It's not so small as it looks," Prue said to Mollie. "We were in it
yesterday. It is nearly as big as my bedroom, and the sides reach up
to Hugh's shoulder; he couldn't fall out unless he did it on
purpose. There are dear little cubby-holes and all sorts of cute
fixings. Its name is the _Kangaroo_. I do wish I could go up too,
but Papa and Mr. Ferguson simply wouldn't hear of it. Girls are
never allowed to do anything."

"Aren't you nervous?" Mollie asked. "Suppose it suddenly burst when
it was ever so high. How high does it go?"

"Mr. Ferguson has been up five miles, but he is only going up one
to-day. They won't be very long away."

"You would be just as badly smashed if you fell one mile as if you
fell five, I should think," said Mollie, with a shudder.

"It isn't falling that they think about," Prue explained, "When you
get very high you can't breathe, and you have all sorts of horrid
feelings. Once Mr. Ferguson fainted, and if the man with him hadn't
pulled the stopper thing out with his teeth they'd both have been
killed."

"Why teeth?" asked Mollie.

"Because his hands were frozen, and he couldn't use them," answered
Prue. "They'll be starting soon; they are going on board--look,
there's Hugh!"

Mollie saw a small grey-clad figure climbing into the car. He was
followed by two men, one tall and the other rather short. As they
climbed over the rails the great balloon swayed and trembled--it
looked far more dangerous than a nice substantial aeroplane, Mollie
thought; and there was no control, they simply flew up and were
blown hither and thither according to the will of the winds. Suppose
they were blown against something and got a great rip in the side!

"I don't know how you _can_," she said to Prue. "If it were Dick--
where are Dick and Jerry? Haven't they come?"

"Here we are, old bean, at your elbow. My word, wouldn't I like to
be going up too!"

"Same here. Some chaps have all the luck!" groaned Jerry.

Prudence shook her head. "Mr. Ferguson would never take more than
one boy. Two might begin larking, and you simply must not lark in a
balloon."

Dick thought of a joke about larks and balloons, but decided that it
was not a really first-class joke and merely shook an accusatory
head at boys and their reprehensible ways.

[Illustration: THEY STOOD AND WATCHED THE _KANGAROO_ FOR SOME TIME]

The ring of men who held down the balloon were preparing to let go
the ropes; the band began to play, the men in the balloon took off
their caps and waved farewell, people cheered--and the _Kangaroo_
was off. She rose swiftly and buoyantly, remaining almost
perpendicular until she was caught by a southwest current of air and
sailed away towards the hills. As she rose the children could see
Hugh at the edge of the car, waving his handkerchief.

It was very exciting. They stood and watched the _Kangaroo_ for some
time, but her progress was slow, and Papa remarked that they could
see her just as well from the street as from the field, now that she
was near the clouds. He looked at his watch:

"There is just time to go and have some lunch before your dinner.
What would you say to cocoa and cream-cakes at Bauermann's?"

This suggestion cheered away the left-behindish feeling that they
all experienced as they watched that distant pear-shaped object
floating in the sky. As they walked along the road it was impossible
to keep their eyes and thoughts from following the balloon, so that
conversation was desultory, until Mollie thought she saw a bad
wobble and gave a little scream.

"You really need not be so nervous," Prue said, catching her by the
arm. "Mr. Ferguson has been up hundreds of times, he won't let Hugh
down. Bridget read Hugh's fortune in his tea-cup last night and says
he is going to die when he is eighty-three-and-a-half; I can't think
why she has begun to hear his death-watch tick already. And
besides--don't you believe in Fate? If it is your fate to fall from a
balloon and be killed, you'll be killed that way; there's no use
trying not to be."

"You couldn't be if you never went up in a balloon," said Mollie.

"Then it wouldn't be your fate," Prudence answered.

Mollie could not think of a suitable reply at the moment and was
silent.

"That's not all," Grizzel added. "Hugh has got my green diamond with
him for luck. Bridget says that my diamond is the Luck of the
Campbells, and will always bring good luck to the person that wears
it, like a four-leaved shamrock. So I made Hugh take it."

This remark reminded the others of the diamond-mine, and Dick,
Jerry, and Mollie became eager for news of that adventure. It had
turned out fairly well; they had not as yet made a fortune, but on
the strength of their prospects Mr. Fraser had encouraged Papa to
send Mamma and Baby for a trip home, and to add several comforts to
the household, one of which was the broad veranda at the back of the
house, in which Mollie had found herself that morning.

"We live in it by day, and some of us sleep in it by night," Prue
said. "You shall sleep in a hammock to-night, Mollie."

After a feast of cocoa and cream-cakes at Bauermann's they got home
just in time for a dinner of twice-laid and Uncle Tom's pudding, to
which even Dick and Jerry could not do justice.

"It's my favourite dinner, too," sighed Prudence. "It's a strange
thing that one day you get too much and another day too little. To-
morrow there will be no Bauermann's and most likely dinner will be
boiled mutton and tapioca pudding."

The afternoon passed rather slowly. Hugh might be back about five
o'clock, and they were too anxious to hear how he had got on to be
able to settle down to any occupation. They played croquet until all
their tempers were hopelessly lost, even Prudence accusing Mollie of
cheating. does it work? Odoardo. As I stand now in front of
the cave the robber - (by the rock on both sides auseinanderschlaegt
and without rifle looks.) Miracle that I made Eilfertigkeit not
include hands zurueckgelassen! - (To all Schubsaecke sentient,
rather than seeking .) Nothing! nothing! nowhere! Orsina. Ha, I
understand!

- That I can help out - I've brought one. (A dagger hervorziehend.)
As you take! Make quick, eh 'someone sees us! - Even if I had something
else - poison. But poison is just for us women, not for men .--
Take him! (He imposed the dagger.) Accept! Odoardo . I thank you,
thank .-- Dear child, who once again says that you have a Naerrin
are, it has to do with me. Orsina. Put aside! quick aside - I - will
be the occasion refused to make use of them.

You will not miss this opportunity, and you will see them take the
first, the best - if you are a man .-- I am, I am only a woman, but
as I got her! determined - we age, we can all trust. Because we are
both beleidiget, seducer of the same beleidiget .-- Ah, if you
knew - if they knew how overflowing as unpronounceable as I understand
it beleidiget been and still are - you could, you would your own
insult to forget about it .-- Do you know me?

I'm Orsina who cheated, abandoned Orsina .-- Although perhaps only to
leave your daughter .-- But what can get your daughter?

- Soon they will also leave his .-- And then again - And again -
Ha!

(as in the delight) what a heavenly fantasy!

When once we all - we, the whole army of abandoned - we are all in
Bacchae, transforms into furies, when we all of us it would have
torn him among us, mangled, his entrails durchwuehlten - to the
heart to find the traitor of each and none were promised!

Ha! this should be a dance! this should be! Eighth appearance
Claudia Galotti. The former.

Claudia (the Hereintreten is umsiehet and once they saw her husband
on his zuflieget). Guess! - Ah, our protector, our savior!

Are you there, Odoardo? Are you there? - From their whispering from
their faces I closed it .-- What shall I tell you if you do not
know - what should I say, if you already know everything - but we
are innocent.

I am innocent. Your daughter is innocent. Innocent, in all innocence!
Odoardo (in the Behold his wife to be searched).

Well, good. Be just quiet, just quiet - and answer me. (Against the
Orsina.) Non, Madame, as if I have doubts - Is the Count dead?

Claudia. Tot. Odoardo. Is it true that this morning the prince Emilien
in Messestadt spoken? Claudia. True. But if you knew what horror it
caused consternation in which they came home-Orsina.

Well, I lied? Odoardo (with a bitter laugh). I want to 'do not you
have!

By how much is not! Orsina. Am I crazy? Odoardo (wildly back and
forth mostly). Oh - I'm still not. - Claudia.

You need me to be quiet, and I'm quietly .-- The best man, I must
also - and I ask you - Odoardo. What do you want? Am I not calm? Can
you be quiet, as I am? (It is mandatory.)

Emilia Weiss is that Appiani dead? Claudia. Knowledge it can not.
But I fear that it argwohnet because he did not erscheinet .--
Odoardo.

And they wailed and winselt .-- Claudia.

No longer .-- That is over: by its nature, you know. She is fearful
and the most willing of our sex. Your first impressions never powerful,
but after the slightest consideration in finding everything on
anything.

You keep the prince at a distance, she speaks with him in a tone -
Make only Odoardo that we get away. Odoardo. I am on horseback .--
What to do? - Yes, Madame, you drive so after the city back? Orsina.
Not otherwise. Odoardo. Would you have probably weighed in with my
wife to take? Orsina. Why not? Very happy. Odoardo. Claudia - (you
know making the Countess) Countess Orsina, a lady of great
minds, my friend, my Wohltaeterin .-- You have to come with her
to give us immediately the car herauszuschicken. Emilia can not back
Guastalla. It is with me. Claudia. But - if only - I am reluctant
to separate from the child. Odoardo. If the father is not in
the vicinity? We will take it but finally vorlassen. No objection!
- Come, my lady. (Quietly to her.) You will hear from me .--
Come, Claudia. (He leads them.) Fifth lift The scene remains. First
appearance Marinelli. The Prince. Marinelli. Here, gracious Lord,
from this window you can see it. He goes to the arcade and
down .-- Just turn it to his ways; the point .-- No, he returns to
.-- Quite agree he has not yet. But a Big, he is quiet - or it
seems. For us a lot - of course! This allows him to both women in the
head set, he will dare to speak? - How Battista belongs, is his
wife the car out immediately end. For he came on horseback. - Be
careful if he is in front of you erscheinet, it is quite untertaenigst
Your Highness for the merciful protection thanks to his family at
this very sad accident here, will, together with its subsidiaries,
to distant recommend mercy, it will be quiet after the city and
bring it into subjection deepest expect what further share your
Highness at his unfortunate love girls want to condescend.

The Prince. If he is so tame now, but is not?

And hard, hard is it to be.

I know him too well .-- If he maximum stifled his suspicions, his
anger verbeisst: Emilien but instead to the city to lead, with
notes? reserves to himself? or probably even in a monastery,
except my areas closes? What then? Marinelli. The looks much afraid
of love. Verily! - But he will not - The Prince. If he is now! What
then? What will it help us then that the unfortunate Earl lost his
life about it? Marinelli. Why this sad page view? Forward! thinks
the winner, it falls apart it enemy or friend .-- And though! If
he wanted it, the old Neidhart, what you are afraid of him, Prince.
- (Ueberlegend.) It works!

I've got it!

- Continue to Do as it certainly should not bring. Certainly not
- but that we do not lose the history .-- (kick back to the window.)

Soon hätt 'He surprised us! He ways; the point .-- Let him escape,
and you only hear, Prince, what we do in the case to fear to do.

The Prince (threateningly). But Marinelli - Marinelli. The innocence
of the world! Second appearance Odoardo Galotti. Nobody here? -
Well, I should be even colder. It is my luck .-- Nothing contemptuous
than a buzzing of Juenglingskopf with gray hair! I have often told
me so.

And yet let me fortreissen: and by whom? From a jealous, by an
insane jealousy for .-- What has hurt the virtue of vengeance in
the truck to create?

That alone, I have to save. - And your thing - my son!

my son! - wines could I ever - and it will now not only learn - Your
case is quite different to his making! Enough for me, if the fruit
of thy murderer of his crime not enjoy .-- This torment him more
than the crime, if it will soon be saturated and disgust of Luster
Luster to drive, then denature the reminder, this is not a pleasure
to have gebuesset, him the benefit of all!

In every dream leader of the bloody bridegroom to the bride in
front of the bed, and when he nevertheless voluptuous ausstreckt
after her arm, so he suddenly heard the Hohngelaechter hell and wake
up! Third appearance Marinelli. Odoardo Galotti. Marinelli.
Where were you, sir? where were you? Odoardo. Was my daughter
here? Marinelli. Not them, but the prince.

Odoardo. He forgive .-- I accompanied the Countess. Marinelli. Now?
Odoardo. The good lady!

Marinelli. And your wife? Odoardo. Is the countess - to give
us the car immediately herauszusenden.

The Prince vergoenne just that I so long with my daughter still
linger here. Marinelli. What these circumstances?

Would the prince is not a pleasure to have made them both, mother
and daughter, even after the city to bring? Odoardo. The daughter
would at least have the honor of Make have. Marinelli. Why? Odoardo.
It will no longer be Guastalla.

Marinelli. Not? and why not? Odoardo. The Count is dead Marinelli.
To so much more - Odoardo. It is with me. Marinelli. With you?
Odoardo. With me. I tell you yes, the Count is dead - if you do not
know - What has it now in Guastalla to do - you will be with me.
Marinelli. However, the future residence of the only daughter of
the will of his father dependent. Just before the first - Odoardo.
As before the first one? Marinelli. You will probably have to allow
the Supreme Lord that it is brought Guastalla. Odoardo. My daughter?
Guastalla is brought under? and why? Marinelli. Why? Consider just -
Odoardo (heated).

Consider! Consider! I consider that nothing is to be considered
.-- It is, she must with me. Marinelli. O my Lord - what we need to
inform ereifern?

It may be that I am wrong, that it is not necessary is what I need
for .-- The prince, it is best to judge know.

The Prince .-- I decide to go and fetch him.

Fourth appearance Odoardo Galotti. How? - Never! - I require, where
they will be out? - I deny it? - Who wants it? Who has it? - The
everything here must, what he wants?

Good, good, let him see how much I can if I have it seems not!
Short-sighted Todbringer! With you I will probably start.
Anyone who respects no law, is as powerful than he who has no law.
That you do not know? Come on! Come on! - But, look out! Again, again
Rennet of anger with the understanding of it .-- What do I want?

First, 'it happened, what I'm tobe. What is not a chat Hofschranze!
And I would have him but can talk only!

If I had his excuse as to why they should back Guastalla, but only
listened! - How could I itzt for an answer lie in wait .-- Although
what may be missing me? - Should they miss me but, it should be -
One-ways; the point. Quiet, old boy, quiet! The Prince Fifth appearance.
Marinelli. Odoardo Galotti. The Prince.

Ah, my dear, quite Schaffner Galotti - so something must be done
if you contact me, I see. To do less is not. But no complaints!
Odoardo. Gracious Lord, I think it is in all cases for improper
to comment on his Fuersten to push.

Whom he knows that he will fodern, if he is needed. Even itzt I
ask for forgiveness - The Prince. Like many others I wanted to wish
this proud humility!

- But to the point. They are eager to use your daughter to see. She
is in turmoil because of the new sudden removal of such a tender
mother .-- Why this distance?

I waited only that the kindness Emilie is totally erholet would
have to include both the triumphs to the city. You gave me this
triumph by a half away, but all I will not let him. Odoardo. Too much
mercy! - Allow, prince, that my unhappy child all the varied insults
spare, the friend and enemy, pity and gloating in Guastalla for
you. The Prince. To sweet friend and the slights of compassion,
cruelty, it would be to bring them. But the insults of the enemy and
gloating they do not reach to get, rather Galotti, let me take
care. Odoardo.

Prinz, paternal love teilet their concerns do not like. - I think I
know what my daughter in their unique circumstances Itzig ziemet
- distance from the world - a monastery - as soon as possible.

The Prince. A monastery? Odoardo. Until then, they cry under the
watchful eye of her father.

The Prince. So much beauty to be in a monastery verbluehen? - Can
one hope failed us against the world so unforgiving it? - But,
however the father has no einzureden. Bring your daughter, Galotti,
wherever you want. Odoardo (for Marinelli). Well, sir? Marinelli.
If I even auffodern! Odoardo. O surely, surely. The Prince. What
have you both?

Odoardo. Nothing, gracious Lord, nothing .-- We consider just what
we are in you has geirret.

The Prince. Why? - Talk, Marinelli. Marinelli.

It's close to me, at the mercy of my Fuersten in the way to replace
them. But if the friendship requires, above all, in him the judge
aufzufodern - The Prince. What is friendship? - Marinelli.

You know, gracious Lord, how much I loved the Count Appiani how much
both our souls seemed interwoven into each other - Odoardo.

You know, Prince? So you know it truly alone. Marinelli. By himself
on his avenger bestellet - Odoardo. You? Marinelli. Ask your wife.
Marinelli, Marinelli was the name of the last word of the dying
Count, and in a tone!

In a tone - that he never heard from, this awful sound when I do not
apply everything that his murderers are found and punished !

The Prince. Count on my strongest participation. Odoardo. And my
hottest desires! - Well, well! - But what next? The Prince. The
question I Marinelli.

Marinelli. One has to suspect that it was not robbers who attacked
the Count. Odoardo (mockingly). Not? Really not? Marinelli. The
fact that a rival him out of the way spaces allow. Odoardo (bitter).
Ei! A rival? Marinelli. Not otherwise. Odoardo. Now then - God
damn him, the boys meuchelmoerderischen! Marinelli.

A rival, and a favored rival - Odoardo. What? a beneficiary? -
What do you say?

Marinelli. Nothing but what the rumor spread. Odoardo. A beneficiary?
my daughter beguenstiget? Marinelli. This is certainly not.

That can not be. The opponent, I, in spite of you .-- But where
all, gracious Lord - because prejudice wieget set up on the
scales of justice as much as nothing - where is all this is not
something we can avoid the schoene unhappy to hear. The Prince. Yep,
however. Marinelli. And where else? where else can happen than in
Guastalla? The Prince. Since you have right, Marinelli, because you
are right. - Yes so, that changes things, rather Galotti. Not true?
They see themselves - Odoardo. Oh, yes, I see - I see what I see .--
God! God! The Prince. What is you? what did you do with it?
Odoardo. That I can not foresee what I see. That annoys me, nothing
.-- Well, they should back Guastalla. I want them to bring their
mother and to the strictest examination it acquitted, I will not even
deviate from Guastalla.

Because who knows - (with a bitter laugh) who knows, if the justice
will not be necessary for me to hear. Marinelli. Very possible! In
such cases, doing justice rather than too little .-- Therefore I am
afraid even - The Prince. What? What you fear?

Marinelli. We will before the hand can not verstatten that mother and
daughter will speak. Odoardo. Do not speak? Marinelli. You will be
genoetiget, mother and daughter to be separated. Odoardo. Mother
and daughter to be separated? Marinelli. Mother and daughter and
father. The shape of the interrogation erfodert this wariness
worse though. And I'm sorry, gracious Lord, that I am forced to
see that it expressly anzutragen, Emilien least in a special custody
to bring.

Odoardo. Special custody? - Prince! Prince - But yes, certainly,
certainly! Quite right: in a special custody! Not Prince? Not -
Oh, how finely the justice is! Excellent! (Runs quickly after the
shear sack in which he has the dagger.) The Prince (flattering
to him zutretend).

Hold yourself, dear Galotti - Odoardo (aside by the hand again
herauszieht empty). That said, his angels! The Prince. You are
mistaken, you do not understand him.

They think when the words do well in custody and prison dungeons.

Odoardo. Let me remember: I am calm! The Prince. No word from prison,
Marinelli! Here is the rigor of the law with respect to virtue,
integrity is easy to combine.

When Emilia in special custody must be brought, so I already
know - the alleranstaendigste. The chancellor of my house - Do
not contradict, Marinelli - Because I want them to take, because
I want them to the supervisor's assessment of a women's over.
The aim for me to vouch liable .-- go too far, Marinelli, really
too far, if you require more .-- You know they do, Galotti, my
Chancellor Grimaldi and his wife?

Odoardo. What should I not? Even the daughters of this lovable pair
edeln kenn ich. Who has not? - (For Marinelli.)

No, my Lord, enter not. When Emilia custodian must, so to put them in
the deepest dungeon verwahret be.

Urge you, I ask you .-- I gate, with my request! I am old dude! -
Yep, it has fairly good Sibylle: "Who on his mind certain things not
verlieret, which does not lose!" The Prince. I understand you do
not .-- Dear Galotti, what can I do more?

- Leave it at that, I ask you .-- Yes, yes, in the house of my
Chancellor! because it is out, because I bring them out, and if
it were not for her with the utmost respect will be met, so my word
is not applied. But ensure you do not .-- It remains! while it remains
- for yourself Galotti, by itself, can hold it as you wish .-- You
can follow us for Guastalla, you can go back after Sabionetta: as
you want. It would be ridiculous, you require .-- And now, goodbye,
dear Galotti - Come, Marinelli, there will be late. Odoardo (who stood
in deep thought). How? so should I not speak it, my daughter?
Again, no - I leave everything I liked, I find everything very great.
The house of a chancellor is naturally a free instead of virtue.

Oh, gracious Lord, bring my daughter there, nowhere else than that. -
But talk like "I like it before. The death of the count is still
unknown to her.

You can not understand why they received from their parents trennet.

After all the emotions of that exciting day Hugh was tired, so next
morning found the children sitting quietly in the broad veranda.
Prudence busied herself with sewing; Grizzel sat at the table
happily absorbed in painting a spray of wattle to send to Mamma. She
had placed it in a tall, slender vase of Venetian glass, pale yellow
flecked with gold. Hugh lay on the floor, his chin in the hollow of
his hands, and his feet alternately tapping the red bricks and
waving in the air, as he contemplated a small steam-engine which he
had been putting through its paces. Mollie, Dick, and Jerry sat on
the veranda steps, the boys printing photographs, while Mollie idly
played with the trailing garlands of morning-glory and traveller's
joy which hung around her. Between the blossoming almond trees she
could see golden splashes of wattle in the field beyond. At her feet
a mass of big Russian violets boldly lifted their heads above their
leaves, and an acacia, which overshadowed the veranda, was dropping
milky petals on the path. Mollie knew all the sweet scents by name
now. It was queer, she thought, how the seasons came slipping round,
each bringing its own fruit and flowers--here in Australia in Prue's
Time, and there in Chauncery in her own Time. She turned her head
and stared at the shabby old grandfather clock which stood in a
corner of the veranda. For forty years, she thought, its pendulum
would slowly swing, till it said "How d'ye do" to the ticking clock
in Grannie's morning-room. Forty years was a long time to look
forward to.

"Jolly nice smells here," Dick remarked. "How ripping the almond
blossom looks in the sunshine. We've got an almond tree in our
backyard, and once there was an almond on it."

"There are thousands of almonds here," Prue said, pausing in her
work for a moment and gazing dreamily at the delicate outline of
almond branches against the sky. "They are nicest when they are
green, but I must say they do give you dreadful pains. I wonder why
so many nice things leave a pain. Music does too--and even one's
best friends sometimes."

"Do you eat your best friends boiled up with green almonds to the
tune of 'Good-bye for ever--good-bye, good-bye'?" Dick inquired.

They laughed. "There's an old gentleman come to live next door,"
Prudence continued, taking up her sewing again, "who watches us
through a telescope sometimes, and when he sees us in the green-
almond trees he writes to Papa. He says it is for our good, old
telltale. Once, though, he took us into his library and showed us
some beautiful fossils. He said they were as old as Moses, and one
of them might be a million years old. It was a fan-shell, quite
whole and pretty. Fancy a million years! I wonder what the world
will be like in another million years."

"Bust," said Dick briefly.

They laughed again and then were silent. Mollie looked round at the
little group and thought how easy it was to be good when one had
nice things to do and plenty of time and room to do them in. "Where
is Miss Hilton?" she asked, "and where is Laddie? And why aren't you
at school this time? How do you ever learn enough to pass your
exams?"

"Miss Hilton is housekeeper while Mamma is away," Prudence answered,
"and she hasn't much time for lessons. Laddie is dead. He was
poisoned. We couldn't bear to have another dog. Papa doesn't like
exams. He likes us to be out all the time and not to stoop over
books. He says we can 'find tongues in trees, books in the running
brooks, sermons in stones, and good in everything'."

Mollie gave a little jump. The very words Aunt Mary had quoted that
morning! There was certainly _something_ queer somewhere!

"What a jolly kind of father to have," Dick exclaimed. "I wish my
good parent held these views. His are quite otherwise. He believes
in any amount of stooping over books, though I am always pointing
out to him that it isn't the chaps who swot over books that turn
into Generals and things in the end."

"When Mamma comes home Grizzel and I are going to school." Prudence
said regretfully. "I know we shall hate it, but I suppose we must
learn grammar and geography some time." She sighed at the
distressing prospect before her.

Mollie smiled as she wondered what school would make of Grizzel. She
looked at Hugh, absorbed in some great new idea. What would he be
like in forty years. In Chauncery Time he must now be fifty-four.
Were there then _two_ Hughs? And if two, why not twenty? Or
hundreds, for that matter, like the films of a cinematograph.
Perhaps everyone had a sort of film-picture running off all the
time, and some day, before those million years had passed, a way
would be found to develop them. It would not be much more wonderful
than wireless and flying and all those things that looked impossible
to people in this Time. Mollie began to think of London, and of home
in North Kensington, and then felt a sudden longing for her mother
and Jean and the little ones--for all the familiar ways of home and
school. This place was lovely, and the children were perfect dears,
but it would be nice to feel a hockey-stick in her hand again--and
she _should_ like to see her own comfortable mother. In fact, she
felt homesick!

"A balloon is all very well," Hugh said, "so far as it goes." He
rolled round on to his back, clasping his hands under his head and
staring up at the white clouds over which he had flown yesterday.
"But it doesn't go far _enough_. It will never be much use until we
learn to steer. You have to go whichever way the wind chooses, which
may be exactly the way you don't want to go. I can't see myself how
one could ever steer without machinery, and to carry that weight
you'd have to have a balloon the size of a mountain."

"There's wings," said Prudence, "like Hiram Brown."

"What's the good of wings that let you drop the moment you try to
fly with them. Hiram Brown is as dead as a door nail with his wings.
No, wings fastened on _that_ way will never work. Our internal
machinery isn't made like birds'." As he spoke a parrot flew
overhead, its brilliant wings flashing in the sunlight and then
becoming apparently motionless as it swooped down towards the house.
Ferrara was taken to Rome and Florence from my father much praised!
Often Have I hingesehnt now I'm there.

Here was Petrarch entertained, cared for here, And found his Ariost
pattern here. Italy does not mention any big names, the house that
his hosts are not known. And it is advantageous to the Genius
Treatment: givest you sent a gift, So he can get a better return.

The site, which is a good man entered, is inaugurated after a hundred
years sounds His word and his deed to the grandchildren again.
princess. The grandson, if he feels like brisk du Gar often envy 'I
take you to this happiness. Leonore. That you, how little
andre, quiet and pure enjoyment. Pushing me the whole heart, soon
to say what I feel buoyant, you feel it better to feel it deeply,
and - silent.

You hide not the sham of the moment, The joke is you do not, which
nestles in vain flattery to artificially your ear, your mind
remains fixed and correct your taste, your verdict grad, is always
at your share of large sizes, which you recognize as yourself.
princess.

You should get this supreme flattery Not the guise of familiar
friendship bonds. Leonore. The friendship is justice, they
alone can the full extent of thy recognize value. And let me the
opportunity to assume their share of luck too, to give your
education, you have it, and you're's but at the end, And you with
your sister pays tribute to the world Against all major women of
your time. princess.

I can do, Leonore, little stir, When I consider how little is, and
what you are, the other one was guilty. The knowledge of ancient
languages and the best of what we had to Vorwelt thanks 'I am the
mother; But in science, in the right sense of both your daughters
do not ever the same, And be a yes with her compare, Lucretia
certainly has the right.

Nor can I assure you've got I never When rank and possession sees
what I am nature, which gave me luck.

I am glad when wise men say, That I can understand how they
think. It was a verdict on a man the old days and deeds of its
value; It was a science talk, Those who continue to spread
through experience, by the people using it rises: Where the Noble
steers the conversation, I like to follow, because I will be easy
to follow.

I like to hear the dispute to the clever, if for the forces accused
of human breast So friendly and so terribly moving with grace the
speakers plays lip; happy, when the princely desire of fame, Des
outstretched possession, substance to the thinker, and if the fine
intelligence of a wise man developed zart , Instead of us to go
behind us otherwise.

Leonore.

And then after this serious entertainment, rest our ears and our sense
Gar innrer friendly to the poet's rhymes from the last us the most
pleasant feelings With Holden tones infuses into the soul.

Dein includes high spirit a vast empire, I think I most like on the
island of poetry in Lorberhainen on. princess.

In this beautiful country, you want to insure me, growing before the
other trees like myrtle. And when the Muses Gar many are equal,
then looking at them seltner Of a girlfriend and mistress, As you
like to meet the poet likes of us to avoid, and indeed seems to
flee, something seems to find that we do not know, And perhaps he
even at the end does not know.

As wär 'quite like it if he took good hour to quickly charmed us to
recognize the treasure, which he long in vain searched the wide
world.

       Leonore.

I have to like me your joke leave, he meets me in, but he hits me deep.
I honor every man and his earnings, I am against Tasso only fair.

His eye is visiting on this Earth barely His ear hears the harmony
of nature, what the story goes the life there, his bosom, it is
equal and willing to: The far-scattered collect his soul, And his
feeling animates the inanimate.

Often he ennobles what appeared common, And that is estimated to
nothing before him.

This lend magic circles The wonderful man transforms and moves us,
to walk with him, partly to take him: He seems to us to nahn, and
remains far from us; anzusehn It seems to us, and our minds like to
place him appear strange. princess. You did the poet finely and
delicately written, in the realms of sweet dreams floats. With me
it also seems to be the real Violent anzuziehn and hold firmly.

The beautiful songs, in our trees, we occasionally find attached,
Most, like golden apples , a newly formed Hesperien Us fragrant,
you will not recognize all Holde For fruits of a true love?

Leonore. I am also of the beautiful leaves. mannigfalt'gem spirit
glorifies With it only a picture in all his rhymes. Soon,
it underlines it in bright glory To the starry sky on bends worshipful
Like angels on clouds before the picture, then he sneaks through
silent corridors And after each flower wreath he squirms.

Removes the Ladies, he sanctifies the path, the powerful entered her
beautiful feet. Hidden in the bushes, like the nightingale, he
fills a lovesick bosom with his actions well, according Hain and air:
His suffering irritant, which attracts a melancholy sel'ge every
ear and every heart must be - a princess.

And if he appoints his subject, So he gives him the name Leonore.
Leonore. It's your name like mine. I would take 'it ill, if it would
be another. I am pleased that his feeling for you in this
double sense hide can.

I am satisfied that he At this also my name does sound holdem.

Here the question is not of a love that is the subject of bemeistern
will have Negative him, jealous The sight would like to fight each
other.

If he blessed viewing With your Werth is employed, even if it is
in my nature is easier erfreun.

We love it not - forgive that I say it! - For all spheres, he
wears what he loves, to establish a name that we carry, And he
shares his feelings with us, we seem to love the man, and we
love him with only the highest thing we can love. princess. You
have much in this science deepened, Eleanor, tell me things that I
almost only And touch the ear into the soul hardly übergehn. Leonore.
You? Pupil of Plato! Do not understand what you a newcomer vorzuschwatzen
dares? It should be that I am very wrong; But IRR 'I do not quite,
I know it well. The love shows in the Holden School Of not, what
else than a spoiled Child: It is the youth of the psyche is married,
the Council of the Gods And seat vote. He rages not sacrilegious
From breast to another back and forth, it attaches itself to beauty
and shape of non-identical mistake with a sweet, and not fast büßet
noise with disgust and frustration.

Princess. Then my brother! Let us not betray, where once again steered
the conversation: We would joke with his bear, how our clothes out
his scorn. Second, the former appearance. Alphons. Alphons. I am
looking Tasso, which I never do, And take him - even here when you
not to. Can you give it to me no message? Princess. I saw him yesterday,
little, not today. Alphons. It is An old error, that he more
than solitude to society studied. Verzeih 'I gave him when he
colorful swarm of people fleeing rather freely and quietly with
his spirit may be entertained, but I can not praise that he is the
circuit avoids the close friends.

Leonore. Erro 'I do not, you will be soon, O Lord, the rebuke of
praise in a happy turn. I saw him today from a distance, he
kept a book and a blackboard, wrote, and went and wrote. A fleeting
word he said to me yesterday, seemed to me his work completed
anzukünden.

He cares only small moves to improve order your bounty, which
granted him so much, finally a worthy sacrifice darzubringen. Alphons.
He should be welcome, if he brings, And go talk to for a long
time.

So I am very partial to his work, so much in some sense the great
work I am pleased and happy must be so much more also as the impatience
in me.

He can not question can not be done, He always changing, slowly flick
before, there is again quiet, he goes behind the hope, unwilling,
you can see the enjoyment away late in time, so close you believed.
princess. I praise the humility, the concern , What he step before
step objectives.

Only through the favor of the Muses align themselves So many rhymes
firmly together into one, And its soul has only this drive, it should
be to the whole poem REASONS. Mährchen He does not want to pile
on Mährchen The charming and entertaining as last words just fade
away loose fooled. Let him, my brother!

Because it is the time from good works is not the measure; And if
posterity should enjoy with, So must the artist Mitwelt forget.
Alphons. Let us, dear sister, act, How we both benefit often did,
when I 'm too busy, so you Lindre: And you're too mildly, I will
drive.

We then see him at once, perhaps at a destination where we have many
'desired sehn. Then the Fatherland, it will surprise the world, what
a work has been completed.

I take my part of the glory of them, And he will be introduced into
life.

A noble man can not close its educational circles thanks. And
Homeland world must act on it. Fame and blame he must learn to endure.
Himself and others he is legally obliged to know. Him not the
weight of loneliness more flattering one. It wants the enemy - it
can not save the friend, then the young man streitend exercise
his powers, Feel what it is, and soon feels a man Leonore. So you,
Lord, for him to do everything as you so far for him a lot done.

It is a talent in the silence, Of a character in the stream in the
world. O that he had his mind as his art to illustrate your
lessons! The fact that he did not avoid people longer, that his
suspicions, not least in fear and hatred transform!

  Alphons. The only people afraid of
   who she does not know,
  And who shun them, they will soon
   ignore.

This is his case, and so after a free mind confused and shackled.
He is often worried about my favor, far more than it ziemte; against
many, he has a mis Traunviertel which, I know it sure is not
his enemies.

Meets yes, that is a lost letter, that a servant from his service
in another is the fact that a paper comes out of his hands, he sees
the same intention, sees treachery and perfidy which undermines his
fate. Princess. Let us, dear brother, Do not forget, that of himself
man can not be distinguished.

And when a friend who should walk with us to get a damaged foot, but
we would prefer to go slow and our hands to him willingly and
gladly borrow.

Alphons. Besser wär's, If we could heal him, rather just loyal to the
Council of the doctor tried a cure, then cured with the glad new
way of life were fresh. hoff But I, my dears, that I never the fault
of the doctor's rough on me do.

I do what I can to provide security Zutraun And his bosom einzuprägen.
I'll give 'him often in the presence of many Entschiedne token
of my favor. He complains to me, so let's examine me, as I did,
as he affixed his room recently believed.

Can not find zeig So I left him, as I see's, And since we all
must practice, so usual 'I know because he's earned the patience to
Tasso: And you, I know, is willing for me. I hab 'euch now
brought into the country and go Heut' evening after the city back.

You will be a moment to see Antonio; He comes from Rome and
picks me up. We have a lot out of, dismiss.

Decisions are now to act, much to write letters; This obliges me to
town. Princess. You permit us that we will accompany you out? Alphons.
If only Belriguardo goes together Hinüber after Consandoli! Enjoy
the beautiful days all the way to free pleasure. Princess. You can
not stay with us? The shops not as good as here in the city work?
Leonore. You lead us across Antonio, The Rome of us so much
to tell? Alphons. It is not their children, but I come with him as
soon as possible is back: Then let him tell you, and ye shall
I reward him help so much in my service sought anew. And we
re-expressed, Sun likes the swarm then that funny in our gardens
will that even me, how cheap, a beauty in the chilling, if I search
like they might encounter. Leonore. We want to kindly look
through your fingers. Alphons. On the other hand you know that I can
spare. Prinzessin (after the scene swept).

Long seh 'ich Tasso come. Slowly he moves his steps at once is
sometimes silent, as indecisive, then goes back on us going faster,
and is visiting again. Alphons.

Interfere him if he thinks and writes, in his dreams not, and let
him walk.

Leonore . No, he has seen us, he comes here. The former third-party
presence.

Tasso. Tasso (with a book in parchment stitched). I'm slow, you
work to bring zaudre And yet, you are to hand over. I know too well,
yet it remains unfinished, even if it seems like geendigt want.

Alone, I was worried it imperfectly you add, it overcomes me now, the
new concern: Would 'I do not like to be anxious, möcht' I do not
seem ungrateful. And like the man just can say: Here am I!

that of his friends enjoy gentle, So I can only say: Take it out! (He
hands over the tape.) Alphons. You surprise me with your gift to me
And make this beautiful day for celebration. So halt 'ich's finally
because in my hands, And nom 'is in some sense mine! Lang' wants' I
know, you decide you want to say And finally: Here! It is enough.
Tasso. If you're satisfied, so it's perfect, because it belongs to
you in every sense. If I the diligence, which I used, I saw the
outline of my pen, it could So I say: This work is mine.

But seh 'ich closer to what this seal innren the value and dignity
are Discoverable' I feel I've 'only of you. If the nature of poetry
Holde gift from arbitrary kind of gift to me, So I had the good
fortune eigensinn'ge With grim violence is pushed, pulled, and the
beautiful view of the world the boys with all their wealth of
wonderful, So soon clouded the young The parents' sense expensive
undeserved suffering opened the lips to sing, So flowed a sad song
from her down, and I accompanied by faint sounds of his father in
pain and agony of the mother you were alone, from the close of a
beautiful life to freedom I rose; The concern each took me by the
head, gave me freedom that my soul is to be courageous singing could
unfold; And what price now is my work, thanks to you 'I do, because
it belongs to you.

Alphons. For the second every time you earn praise, And modest ehrst
you and us at the same time. Tasso. O may I say how I feel lively,
That I of you did just what I do! The young man did - he took
most of the seal itself ? The wise leadership of the war quickly
- he has dreamed up?

The art of weapons, each with a hero On the final days beschiednen
shows Des commander wisdom and courage of the knights, And how
cunning and vigilance to combat, Hast thou not o wise, tapfrer
Prince, The eingeflößt everything as if you were my genius, which
would be a joy, His high, inaccessible through a high mortal beings
to reveal?

princess. Enjoy now the plant, which pleased us! Alphons. Enjoy
the applause of every Good! Leonore. In general fame enjoying
yourself! Tasso. I am at this moment enough. To you only thought
'I do if I thought and wrote; you to please, was my highest desire
to amuse you, it was my last end.

Who not the world sees in his friends, does not deserve that the
world experienced by him. Here is my fatherland, here is the
circle, in which my soul dwells like. horch Here 'I, eight' I every
Wink, Here speaks of experience, science, taste, yes, the world and
posterity seh 'I stand before me.

The crowd makes the artist IRR' and shy: Only someone who is similar
to you, understands and feels, only to be the sole judge and reward!

Alphons. And because we represent the world and before posterity,
ziemt So it is not only futile to receive.

The beautiful character, which pays tribute to the poet, of
course, the hero of his always needed Him without envy wound around
the main sees Behold 'I am here at your Anherrn forehead. (On the
Hermes Virgil significant.) Did the accident's a Genius has braided
and placed?

It shows us here is not in vain. Virgil hear me say: What Ehret her
dead? But had their reward, and joy as they lived And if you do us
admired and revered, To give the living their part.

My marble image is already crowned enough - The green branch is
part of the life.

(Alphons waving his sister, they takes the crown of the bust of
Virgil and approaching Tasso. He resigns.) Leonore. You
weigerst you? See which hand the ring, The beautiful unverwelklichen,
offers thee! Tasso. O let me feel free! Seh 'I do not how I should
live this hour. Alphons. The enjoyment of the beautiful property,
in the first moment you scared. Princess (by the wreath into the air
holds). You treat me the joy seltne, Tasso, without any word you
like to say how I think.

Tasso. The nice load out of your expensive hands Reception 'on my
knees I am low key.

(He kneels down, the princess gives him the ring on.)

Leonore (applauding). It live for the first time crowned! zieret
As the bescheidnen man in the ring! (Tasso is on.) Alphons. It is
only an example of the crown, on the Capitol you should decorate.
princess. There are louder voices greet thee; With silent lip worth
the friendship here. Tasso. O take him away from my head back,
take him out!

He sengt my hair, And like a ray of sun, too hot, the principal
took me, he burns me the strength of reflection from the forehead.
Fever heat my blood moving. Sorry! There is too much! Leonore. Schützet
this topic is much more the principal of the man in the hot regions
of Fame to convert, and cools the forehead. Tasso. I'm not worth it,
to feel the cooling, the only heroes foreheads blow be. O lifts him
to their gods, and between clouds transfigured him that he had
high and higher And unattainable floating!

That my life after this goal was forever Convert! Alphons. Who early
acquires, learns early the high value of the HOLD value goods of
this life, who enjoys early, lacking in his life with will not be
what he once possessed; And who owns, the needs ahead.

Tasso. And if you upgrade, you need a force in the bosom feel to
it never fails. Oh! You failed me just now! In happiness they
leave me, the inborn power, The steadfast me the accident, proud
Meet the wrongly taught. Has the pleasure to me Has the delight of
this moment, the Mark in my limbs broken?

It reduced my knee! Once again, you see, O Princess, I bowed before
thee! Hear my plea: Take him away! That, like a beautiful dream awake,
I feel refreshed new life. Princess. Quiet When you humble talent,
The thee the gods said, can carry, Sun lern 'these branches, which
are The most beautiful thing we can give you. Wem once dignified,
she touched the head, the float on forever to the forehead. Tasso.
So let me ashamed because by Hinnen go! let my good fortune in
the deep grove hide, otherwise I hid my pain there. einsam where
I want to convert, where no eye reminds me of the undeserved good
fortune.

And shows me around a clear fountain in its pure mirror of a
man, The beautifully crowned in the reflection of the sky between
trees, between rocks after resting Thinking: So it seems to me, I
look at this magic Elysium area Made. Still remember 'and I ask:
Who likes the Abgeschiedne be? The young man from the previous ones
time? So beautiful crowned? Who can tell me his name? His earnings?
I wait long 'and think: Were yet another and another, to him in
friendly conversation socialize! Seeding O' my heroes, the poets of
old times gathered around this source! O Seeding 'I here they
are always inseparable in life as they were firmly attached!

Sun binds the magnet with its strength, the iron with the iron firmly
together, as equal quest hero and poet binds. Homer forgot himself,
his whole life Was the consideration of two holy men, And Urgent
Alexander in Elysium, the Achilles and Homer to search. O that I
would present it, the greatest souls, now united to see! Leonore.
Adults'! Wake up!

Let us not feel that you completely ignored Gegenwärt'ge. Tasso. It
is the present, which I raised, Absent schein 'ich nur: I'm
delighted. Princess. I am glad, if you talk with spirits, That thou
so menschlich speak, and hear it gladly. (One Page to the Prince
enters and quietly directed something.) Alphons. He has come! Right
to good hour. Antonio!

- Bring him - because he already! The former fourth appearance.
Antonio. Alphons. Welcome! The thou us both yourself and bring
good news. Princess. Be greeted us! Antonio. Hardly wag 'I have
to say what a pleasure in your present myself revitalized.

Before your eyes find' I am everything, what I so long ' lacks.
You seem satisfied with what I done what I done, And I am rewarded
for any concern, for some soon with impatience durchharrten, Bald
deliberately verlornen day. We have now what we want, and no dispute
is more. Leonore. I also welcome you, if I already Zürn.

You come just because I must travel. Antonio. That my luck will
not quite perfect, Will you like me across the beautiful part.
Tasso. Even my greeting! I hope I am close to the much experienced
man to friends. Antonio.

You will truly find me if you ever in your world in my look like.
Alphons. If you are like me in letters already reported what you
have done and how it delivered to you, So hab 'ich still some
auszufragen, By what means the business succeeded. On that wonderful
soil to the well-measured step, when he last suited to your purpose,
you should lead.

Men Who his advantage purely consider He in Rome, even in a difficult
position because Rome wants to take everything, give nothing; And
to get there in order to get something, you get nothing, because
what you put out, And happy, because even if one gets what.

Antonio. It is not my demeanor, my art, by thy will I, Lord, done; For
what Kluge fänd 'in the Vatican's failure to master? Much came
together, That I could use to our advantage. Honors you Gregor and
greets and blesses you.

Some of these
and other remembered marks might have been obliterated by time, but
if even one remained she would recognize it. He had removed his hat
and disclosed a head of closely cropped grey hair, which made him
look older. Yes--there was the gap in his eyebrow _and_ the crooked
finger. Mollie felt certain that this was indeed the inventor.

"Have you ever been in Dublin?" she asked abruptly, forgetting for
the moment that asking questions was forbidden.

"In Dublin?" echoed Major Campbell, bringing his eyes and his
thoughts from the winding road and concentrating both upon Mollie.
"Are you a thought-reader, Miss Mollie? For I was thinking of Dublin
at that very moment. Yes, I have been there. Indeed, it was there
that I first met Miss Gordon, at a ball at Dublin Castle. I was
visiting some people she knew, and later on she joined us. My
sisters were over here at that time too. Has Miss Gordon ever
mentioned the O'Rourkes to you?"

"Yes," said Mollie, feeling absolutely giddy with excitement, "that
is, no--not exactly----" she felt very confused--"I mean--was there
a Desmond O'Rourke?"

"That's right," said Major Campbell, nodding his grey head, and
apparently too wrapped up in his own memories to notice Mollie's
confused answer. "Good old Desmond! Of course he was home then too.
Dublin was a very different place in those days, and we had what you
youngsters would call the time of our lives. It was a long time ago--long,
long ago." He sighed, and his thoughts evidently wandered
away again from his agitated little companion, which Mollie felt was
a good thing, as, if he had been observing her closely, he would
certainly have thought that the poor child was "not _quite_ on the
spot".

She was now quite convinced that this was really Hugh, the brother
of Prudence and Grizzel. He showed no signs of remembering her, but,
of course, she said to herself, what was only yesterday to her was
forty years ago to this elderly man--and, besides, perhaps the Time-
travelling was all hers and Prue's and he was never really in it at
all. "Like Alice in the Red King's dream," she thought vaguely. She
felt sure, too, that it was he who had given Aunt Mary the green
diamond long ago, though why he had never married her was past
Mollie's power of understanding. Grown-up people did--and left
undone--the most incomprehensible things. In the meantime she felt
that she would like to give her aunt some sort of warning of the
surprise in store, otherwise Aunt Mary might be _too much_
surprised. Mollie herself hated with all her might and main showing
her feelings before people--but _how_ to prepare Aunt Mary! That was
the difficulty. She put all her Guiding wits to work, but nothing
feasible suggested itself. There was no boy to send ahead with a
message, and, of course, she could not send Major Campbell himself.
How on earth could she get even the slightest warning conveyed.

The had begun to climb the hill which led to Chauncery gate; Long
John's enthusiasm cooled a little, and he dropped into a jogging
zigzag walk. Major Campbell was looking about him with interest,
"Just the way I did," Mollie thought--and then the idea came.

"I'm going to signal to Aunt Mary that we are nearly home," she
warned her companion, "so that she'll have tea ready," and, putting
her hands to her mouth, she gave a long, shrill "cooo-eeeee!" "Now,"
she said to herself, "that should remind her of Australia and
Desmond O'Rourke and green diamonds."

But Mollie's brilliant idea had not exactly the effect she expected.
When the sound of that shrill cooo-eeeee penetrated to the morning-
room, Aunt Mary did indeed think of Australia, but she also thought,
naturally enough, that the children were in difficulties and needed
her help. So, a few minutes later, Mollie and Major Campbell saw a
slim figure, clad in a short skirt and jumper, running down the hill
as fast as a pair of active feet could carry it.

"Oh, _dear_!" Mollie exclaimed, "Aunt Mary thinks something is
wrong, and when she sees no boys and you here instead she will think
it is wronger."

"_That_ can't be Mary Gordon!" exclaimed Major Campbell. "She
doesn't look much older than you!"

"It is, though," Mollie replied hurriedly, more flashes of genius
scintillating through her brain. "Jump out and meet her, Major
Campbell, and tell her we are all right."

This suggestion evidently met with entire approval, for Major
Campbell, adopting Dick's tactics, was over the side of the cart and
striding (with a slight limp) up the hill "Before you could say Jack
Robinson," Mollie quoted, as she took the reins and tactfully
directed Long John's attention to an extra juicy patch of grass.
Of the hundred up, the significance of designating the voices of figures
in Polynesian languages, is: _mucho large number innumerable_ etc.
etc., but words do not determine any amount, a mean figure given
varies according to the needs of individual people and their degree
of culture. tahitian applied _rau_ name, much to the figure 100 was
undoubtedly the greatest number that could have or need to express.

In Samoa the same voice, changing the _r_ in _l, followed lan_ a lot,
also applies to equal numbers. Cent in Malay is called _saratus_ voice
that are more or less modified in Malagasy, _zatu_ in Javanese-n ~
goko, _satus_ in ibanag _gatut_; bisaya and Bikol, Iloko _gatos_
and _gasut_. ¿These expressions come from the Tahitian _rau_ root?
It is possible and probable that originally this voice
represented by the radical Malay _ratus_, lacks _r_, in which case
no _rau_ come from, we just said, but _atus_ or _atos_.

So we actually blogvideo Javanese and the language of Bali, other
times rather than beginning with what _r_ find _g_ (ibanag-Bikol,
Iloko bisaya é) or _s_ or _z_ (n ~ goko-Javanese and Malagasy).

J. Rigg says in his dictionary Sundanese, which _atus_ or _tus_ is
shorthand for _tutus_ name of a string of bamboo that sondaneses
used to count and which brands do: each decade is indicated by an
interval and ten of these intervals complement and fill the hundred
or bamboo _tutus_, so say _un tutus_, _satutus_, where contraction
_satus_.

The word used in tagalog, _daan_ obviously does not come from
any of the above review. Pampanga used in the voice _dalan_.
The boys left the tell-tale scrunching gravel and trod gently on the
velvety border of grass that edged the drive. They stole round the
house like thieves, and found their way up to Mollie's bedroom. That
young lady hopped round on one foot waving her flags triumphantly.

"I guessed it ages ago," she said, forgetting in her excitement that
"ages ago" was only yesterday morning--it was really very difficult
to keep pace with a Time that behaved so erratically--"Something
Aunt Mary told me about having a green diamond made me wonder.
That's why I knew him before you did. Recibiéronnos, according to his
custom, peace, and gave us what they had liberally.

Rooms to the right of the Paraná river: they have diverse language
background, are high and in good proportion, and their mugeres
feísimas. In four days we were there, are on land near the shore, a
huge and monstrous serpent 45 feet long, the bulk of a man, black,
with lions and red paint, [13] that were admired by Indians
having seen no more: matámosla a shot. They said the Indians who
had done them great harm, because when you bathe, and the others
of its kind, will surround your body with the tail, and plunge
into the water, not knowing what the Indians happened to them,
they ate.

This snake measured very carefully, and then divided into pieces
by the Indians, took her to their homes and ate and cooked roast.
[Note 11: _Ninguna nation of that name existed in parag that the
author describes in this article.

The lake is referred to la_ Ibera, _cerca the city of Corrientes,
whose borders were populated by los_ Caracas, _al time of conquista_
.-- THE EDITOR.]

[Note 12: _Tampoco news is a nation of this name and we can not rightly
which sea._--THE EDITOR.] [Note 13: _V. below, chap. 52._] CHAPTER
XVIII. _De How to reach Zemais Salvaiscos and Mepenes._ returned
to take on, and after four days and sailed 16 miles, we came to
the nation called _Zemais Salvaiscos_ [14] Indians are small and
their fat was based on fishing, hunting and honey. Andan all
naked men and mugeres: have war with the _Macurendas_. There were
five days to the river to fish, and to make war on their enemies,
because they live 20 miles inland, not to be surprised: how to
walk our thieves.

Indians have a 2000 war and have little bastimentos were only a day
with them.

The meat they eat is deer, pigs, ostriches and rabbits, which, except
in the tail, are like cats.

[Note 14: _Este name is unintelligible, unless it is a corruption de_
Savanche, _pueblo border of Mepenes.

_-THE-EDITOR.] By navigating to the Mepenes Indians, who live scattered,
covering 40 leagues in the country table, and can come together by
land and sea in two days, 10,000 Indians in war and more canoes, of
which each one can fit 20 Indians.
Only a
somewhat preoccupied Grannie was there to attend to their wants. No
one spoke very much. There was a slightly depressing atmosphere
about that tea, so carefully prepared by the missing aunt. The place
where she usually sat looked extraordinarily empty, much emptier,
Mollie thought, than it did when her aunt merely happened to be out.
As soon as tea was over the boys went off to visit the puppies
again; Grannie, still inclined to be silent and absent-minded, sat
down to her knitting; and Mollie, feeling somehow more lonely than
she had done before the boys came, wandered into the deserted
morning-room. She picked up a book she had been interested in
yesterday, but it had lost its flavour and she soon laid it down and
went over to the window, where she stood looking out at the wet
garden. It was raining in earnest now, not heavily but steadily;
little pools were collecting in the gravel, rose-petals were
dropping in showers, and the flowers in the herbaceous borders were
beginning to look as if they had had enough rain for the present and
would welcome now a chance to dry themselves. Mollie opened the
window wide and seated herself sideways on the sill, heedless of the
raindrops that blew against her face and blouse. For a long time she
stared out into the rain, seeing not the well-kept garden before
her, but the cypress-bordered path in that other garden.

The sound of the clock striking made her turn her head and look
indoors. The room looked dark and dull. Aunt Mary's work-basket
stood open on the table, with her work lying where she had flung it
down when she ran out to meet Mollie. and I prepared for a journey
of good intentions ... "And what the hell! Voy abiding ... It's
the truth! ... at the bottom of this box is called Melchor Astul ...
basically, that is, in conscience, not saved any grievance ... no
offense ... no remorse ... I have done all the good that I could
... and I continue to do so ...

I have gone through many times silly, but I was not envious of me who
felt like this ... and now I keep my trip with good intentions ...
and I will continue until the end ... Even the trunk is broken!
... or until it is finished all you have inside ... men or
stolen ... Or use the soil! ... "... Or use the dirty ... ¡The things
he says a sudden! ... Or stolen men ... O. .. lo ... soil ... the
... use ... "* * * Buenos Aires began to awaken her grunts and
incoherent movements of sleep. Towards the east the vague and faint
auroral color against which the shadows of the night fleeing as
guides harness curves for a yellow moon at its last ebb. The lighthouse
made the race a task strange results, because when you turn off
the light of lanterns the field to deliver the most candid of the
undecided irradiation with light as the day is announced.

Among them are, as luminous caterpillar, the first tram drivers
semidespiertos workers who go to their tasks and at the sound of
dry trac-trac small cart, leaving the tenement, the threshold fell
to the sidewalk and the street that led the street vendor of
vegetables, which is intended to speed the market for the hugely
abundant supply of vegetables to a large "August" in the short space
of each morning.

Clarity progresses, sinking in the shade along the streets and
raising the profile of the guards stepped on the road, while the
night passed as spectra, low white dyes that light which increases
lividez their haggard faces. As a note of the cleanest campaigns
for the Northern repiquetean pace, slow isocronía seems to lose
even higher levels that high towers, while - as emerging from the
tight parts entarugado - the cars that go fast take home the 'our
daily bread' .. .

Paused, parade, among the crackling eclosionante in the morning, the
'nocheros "Piazza, whose head jamelgos swing in swings that seem to
externalize ideas of infinite melancholy and nostalgia. Of course
everything comes the cry from the vibrant vendors daily swarm
filling the streets - such as bird flocks in the forest singing
when the day arrives - and to admire the contrast offered by these
manilimaes diligent and honest, who proclaim their lungs full of
light goods, fast moving and sound on the side of the 'delivery of
newspapers which, silent and serious, going by throwing between
mailboxes, and cracks the blinds folded leaflet touting that they
shouted.

The street door opened heavily, giving way to that peculiar emanation
than good regüeldo might be called the morning of the houses, while
the maid opened the door, it smooths the hair disheveled, as fearful
of surprised that the milkman, the guard, the delivery of bread
or the maid in front of ...
Mollie was not
sure whether a twinkle she thought she saw belonged to the eyes or
to the glasses. "I could almost believe that he remembers the Time-
travellers," she said to herself. To explore the things people should
start - and Pero Grullo sponsor this truth - for the books you see
that people are trying, that I did, and taking the title of Alfajores
_ ¡¡Ecija_!

(Seville, 1909 ), my late friend Don Manuel Ostos, read on pg. 68:
Powerful big and should be the curia ecijana when the sign of justice
in Ecija, the altar where sacrifices were offered to the goddess
Justice, _The Rollo_ with its hijillo _The Rolluelo_, which still
exists, or _Mesa del Rey, _ as the remains of _Rollo_ denominábamos
the ecijanos thirty years ago, had universal resonance ....»

And in another book by the same author failed (whose merit ecijanos
failed to appreciate as much as they should, perhaps, or maybe because
_nemo prophet est in homeland sua_), as _Bartolomé of Góngora_
(Seville, 1913), pp. 84 _The Rolluelo_ recall again, in a few lines
that exudes the love of a girl, and did not resist the desire to
copy, by honoring a modern ecijano the notes of a book ecijano old:
"Can there - Ostos said - slightly less artistic _The Rolluelo_ and
that we remember the most barbaric period in which this used to
hang _pimponote_ the remains of the poor defendants who were quartered
...

When tired of the capital zascandilear we get into the train and
stop after stop and got crushed and battered the narrowing of the
Argamasilla, the first thing ecijano is a good look at the window
of his apartment, and a sharp eye, from it is pointing to the
houses, plots, accidents of the ground to indicate the proximity
of Ecija: "_The Rolluelo_ ...

The High Box ... The pit of Argamasilla ... The arches of water
...

"And then a minute, if it is night, exclaimed:" You can see the lights,
'and if it is day: "You are the towers ... .. El Carmen . Victory
... ... Santa Maria San Gil ....» And later (p. 69), about what
happened in _Apuntes Ecija since September 23 the day of 1868_,
has been informed that on October 20 the City Council agreed to
demolish, among other things, "_The Rey_ Bureau of or _The Rollo_,
where he quartered in the old hanged for members on the roads."

And shortly afterwards: "Day twenty-seven, thrown down or _Mesa
_The Rollo_ of Rey_. 'There was, therefore, the famous _rollo of
Ecija_ when Mr. Bernaldo de Quirós wrote and published his book.
I think it
is rather a pity he didn't persevere; he might have done something
with it."

Dye! Well, of all the prosaic endings to a thrilling tale! And yet,
when the children came to think of it, what else could it have been?
They were annoyed at themselves for not thinking of such an obvious
thing. Major Campbell laughed again when he saw the blank look on
three faces.

"It's a poor end-up, isn't it?" he said. "Why did you force me into
it? But there is still the stone, if you would like to see it. You
will find it over there on the writing-table."

Dick fetched the stone--the identical stone they had last seen in
Hugh's hand forty years ago. After all, the end was not so prosaic!

It looked little the worse for its adventures through Time and Space
as it lay in Dick's hand. An inscription had been scratched in and
inked over:

  Hugh Campbell }
                    August 4th, 1880.
  Desmond O'Rourke }
  Mary Gordon. 1910.

They looked at in silence for a minute.

"It reminds me of a tombstone," Dick remarked cheerfully, "if you
wrote 'Wife of the Aboves' under Aunt Mary's name it would look
jolly mysterious."

The latter have the word to express _afe_ thousand Tahitians and
have had to form a new word, _tawatimi_ comprising _tawa_ demonstrative
pronoun and _timi_, countless untold. Malay languages employ a voice
from abroad: _ribu_, which in tagalog _libu_ ago, came as my teacher
Abbé Favre _ribbo_ of Hebrew, Arabic for the intermediate, although
it is true that _ribbo_ in Hebrew and in Arabic means _ribet_ ten
thousand; but, as we shall soon see, the Malays, when taking high
levels of Sanskrit names has confused its real meaning and have
different numbers as to name in the language of where taken. * * *
* * Laks, ten thousand.

This quantity has its own name in many Polynesian languages. We have
already seen that the voice _mano_, many, many, was applied to
mean sandwich and marquesano thousand in Samoa used to mark the ten
thousand. In Malay, makasar, Sundanese, Javanese, dayak, as in
most languages Philippines, says _laksa_, voice of Sanskrit origin,
meaning in that language is one hundred thousand. Not here for
the special name for numbers one high quantity. The tagalog
still employs the following: * * * * * YOTA, SANGYOTA hundred thousand:
_Sang_ is a form of a numeral. In Sanskrit _ayuta_ only means ten
thousand, so it is that in tagalog, it has switched the significance
of _laksa_ and _ayuta_. III After this small study can draw the
following conclusions: The name of the numbers is tagalog threefold:
1. º Polynesian origin, the oldest, the first numbered; oceaniano
because it is common to almost all the Malay-Polynesian languages:
2. º own home 3. º foreign Arabic or Hebrew (which for my humble
opinion it is doubtful lijeramente) and Sanskrit.

"And all through one little stone," Aunt Mary said, taking the stone
into her own hand and looking at it thoughtfully.

"I expect the green diamond had more to do with it than the stone,
really," Mollie said dreamily, thinking to herself that if Desmond
had not found the ring he would not have troubled to seek for the
stone-thrower. Since these names are not used today in tagalog
not we take care of them, doing just noticed the similarity of names
with the first four of tagalog today. Isa II, an. In primitive
peoples, the first step in the numbers dropped to mention two
numbers if one can say this: _uno_ and _varios_, which we call
singular and plural grammar.

This has been the principle of accounting. The term so general,
several or many, applies to everything that was more than one, as
they were created to identify specific terms two, three, etc.,
Etc., Was missing the significance of the figures and noting that
since where the numbers had come up to infinity.

Today are people in Africa who are as follows: one, two, three,
many, is that in four starts for them is endless. Others come five,
ten and older to use the voice many numbers, whose significance
has been withdrawn, or more accurately, reduced as the emergence
of new terms of more particular meaning: the same in the end, every
word of very general sense the significance of which is more accurate
every day and is limited to measure the progress of languages.

We just say that the first number was reduced to _uno_ and _varios_
note: it would be better to say _solo_ and _varios_. Effectively
sandwich, _tahi_, meaning one, and also means _solo_ In _mar._
Tahitian _táa_ means alone, and by extension, separated and unmarried,
single: same in Samoa, where today it is said, _tasi_, one, but is
kept at the same time the voice _sa_ with the meanings of, some,
somebody, one.

_isa_ In tagalog means alone: the vowel _i_ particle is a prefix
to nouns and adjectives in many Malay-Polynesian languages.

In Malay, one is expressed by the voice _satu_ that, according
Crawfurd is a contraction of _sa-batu_ , a stone, like the Javanese
_sidji_ of _sa-bidji_, a grain, which I think comes in support of
what I just said: the idea expressed by a _sa_, and is confirmed
as making it follow a particularizes expression that means that
not a single note more than the number one.

The Abbé Favre said in his dictionary _sa_ is a contraction of
_satu_ as if unaware of the formation of this word, but whose
explanation given in his Malay grammar, printed a year after the
dictionary.

He was such a
softhearted, confiding old chap, and never could be induced to see
the black spots in poor human nature--he was always ready with an
excuse for any lapse from virtue. He never could screw himself up to
the pitch of giving his children a thorough good rowing, though I am
sure we often needed one badly enough."

Aunt Mary's fingers wandered vaguely over the piano for a few
minutes, and then she began to sing:

  "Oft in the stilly night
   Ere slumber's chain hath bound me,
  Fond memory brings the light
   Of other days around me."

It seemed to Mollie that she could hear the silvery tinkle of Prue's
musical-box again, and see Papa's kind blue eyes.

As she listened to the music and gazed into the misty garden, she
saw, as she thought, the boys standing in the shadow of the black
Cedar of Lebanon across the way. She leaned forward, wondering why
they lingered there so silently. It was not easy to see in the on-
coming darkness--surely there were _three_ figures, and two of them
looked like girls. Her heart gave a sudden jump--yes, she could
plainly make out two girls and a boy. The geme, in pampanga tagalog
and had the width of two hands together, just Iloko included in
the width of four fingers, ie, a palm of hand (excluding thumb).

       He says the dictionary of Fr Cart: _sañgapat tamodoan_ a geme, whose
translation to the letter, is: _tamodos_ four (of _todo_ with
interfijo _am_).

The Bikol also measured by the width of the hand and said: _dapalan
nin palad_, width of the palm.

In Pampanga, beside _toro_ had the _damak_ "measure which is five
fingers along the hand," according Bergaño and is not created
_damak_ mean that your hand or resembling the voice that this means
in pampanga.

A loosely used in the day, Bikol, say ten is _tagnob_, we have
found voice in pampanga transformed into _sapno_ that means, "bear
the palms."

Again we have the community here, which I mentioned in
_significación of diez_ and something which is done with the _dos
manos_ or to cover the hand.

Many repetitions in this double meaning, which are explained in light
of the observed and the numbers 7, 8, 9, are not daughters of
the accident and no one will dare to call a coincidence. I think,
therefore, to say that the words used today in some Malay-Polynesian
languages to designate the number ten, are transformations of form
and meaning of words that originally served to describe an attitude
of both hands.

"Papa says you often do find the
song long, long afterwards. I think it's something like casting your
bread upon the waters, though I never could understand why they
chose _bread_. - Here they are, boy. - Okay, go! - Melchor said.
The group went to the site that had taken the train and that Rufino
had conveniently chosen and arranged next to the restaurant car. -
This seat for you, Ricardo, and this for you, Lorenzo, and will be
more comfortable. - And you - I ...

Here! - Said Melchor into the left seat, crash satisfaction.
- Do not bother going to give back to the machine - No, and they
see the faces of you and appreciate the impression that the trip
I will.

"Has he!" exclaimed Hugh. "That old chap!" He leaned forward and
gazed more intently at the white-haired man. Try to score the first
fruits following: mushrooms, Macuco criadillas or ground asparagus,
palm hearts, palm or palmiches grape, bramble of blackberries,
Cardillo, tagarninas, or artichokes Morrillos barbed, Prickly pears,
watercress, capers alcaparrones, oregano , pennyroyal, fennel,
almoradux, thyme salsa, or sweet licorice stick, chamomile flower.

Are twenty, and for the four missing me, I happen esparto, dyeing
some herbs, such as GUALDA, and various medicinal plants, such as
mauve, borage, the Culantrillo, etc.].

Aunt Mary leaned
out and peered into the dark. "How dark it is--I can't see--I thought
for a moment I saw someone there--here they are coming!"

"Cooo-eee! Where are you, Moll? We want you."

Ha, you know 'I am now! O why trust' her lip I ever! It was not fair,
if they have so much to me favor me with their sweet words of
tenderness showed!

No, she was and remains a crafty heart, she is silent With astute
kicks after the favor. How often did "I am willing to even cheated
on them, too! But basically I have only - the vanity betrayed. Well,
I knew it, and flattered myself So is it against other says' I am,
however, against you, it's open-abiding opinion. Now seh 'ich's
wohl, and seh' just too late: I was favored, and they So delicately
nestles - for the happy. Now I fall, you apply to me like the
back of the fortune.
She looked back to the lighted window, through which she
could see Aunt Mary and Major Campbell standing together, then
forward into the misty dark--she could hear the boys coming up the
hill. Your beautiful it's your duty done, If I were not ruling it
would have to speak, as there are right and wrong closely related.
If you Antonio has insulted, he has you in any way enough to do
as thou wilt it call.It's a good sort of Time for doing things,
and it will be better before we are done with it, if we all Carry
On.

"I'm here, Dick!"

THE END