Behmen's teaching on human nature, his doctrine of the heart of man, and
of the image of GOD in the heart of man, has a greatness about it that
marks it off as being peculiarly Behmen's own doctrine.  He agrees with
the catechisms and the creeds in their teaching that the heart of man was
at first like the heart of GOD in knowledge, righteousness, and true
holiness.  But Behmen is above and beyond the catechisms in this also, in
the way that he sees the heart of man still opening in upon the Divine
Nature, as also upon Eternal and Temporal Nature, somewhat as the heart
of GOD opens on all that He has made.  On every page of his, wherever you
happen to open him, Behmen is found teaching that GOD and CHRIST, heaven
and hell, life and death, are in every several human heart.  Heaven and
all that it contains is every day either being quenched and killed in
every human heart, or it is being anew generated, rekindled, and accepted
there; and in like manner hell.  'Yea,' he is bold to exclaim, 'GOD
Himself is so near thee that the geniture of the Holy Trinity is
continually being wrought in thy heart.  Yea, all the Three Persons are
generated for thee in thy heart.'  And, again: 'GOD is in thy dark heart.
Knock, and He shall come out within thee into the light.  The Holy Ghost
holds the key of thy dark heart.  Ask, and He shall be given to thee
within thee.  Do not let any sophister teach thee that thy GOD is far
aloft from thee as the stars are.  Only offer at this moment to GOD thine
heart, and CHRIST, the Son of GOD, will be born and formed within thee.
And then thou art His brother, His flesh, and His spirit.  Thou also art
a child of His Father.  GOD is in thee.  Power, might, majesty, heaven,
paradise, elements, stars, the whole earth--all is thine.  (Dromio goes
anyway.) Antipholis. He is an honest scoundrel, sir, of me, when I
depressed and melancholic am, with his clownish ideas often make
up again. How ists, will you not with me around in the city go,
and afterwards in my hotel with me for lunch? Kauffmann. My Lord, I
am too many other Kauffleuten ordered, of which I make a handsome profit
to hope, you will So keep me entschuldiget. Once it has beaten five, I
want you, if there is any on the market again for you, and you are
going to sleep time society. Ruffer Dißmal my business from you up.
Antipholis. Lebet bisdahin probably I will go around alone, however, and
the city IS. Kauffmann. My Lord, I release 'euerm lend you pleasure. (The
Kauffmann geht ab.) Third Scene. Antipholis . Who I am my own pleasure
leaves, leaves me one thing that I find nowhere kan. I'm in the world
like a drop of water in the ocean looking for another drop of will, and
he hineinfallt himself verliehrt without the others find. This is how
it unglüklicher way to me, by asking a mother and a brother wants
to search, verliehr 'I myself (Dromio of Ephesus occurs.) Here comes
my guy again - What does this mean? Why are you once again back?
Dromio of Ephesus. Once again back! Say rather, why you find me so late?

It is a fundamental doctrine of Behmen's that the fall would have
been immediate and eternal death to Adam and Eve had not the Divine Word,
the Seed of the woman, entered their hearts, and kept a footing in their
hearts, and in the hearts of all their children, against the fulness of
time when He would take our flesh and work out our redemption.  And thus
it is that Behmen appeals to all his readers, that if they will only go
down deep enough into their own hearts--then, there, down there, deeper
than indwelling sin, deeper than original sin, deep down and seated in
the very substance and centre of their souls--they will come upon secret
and unexpected seeds of the Divine Life.