Produced by Gail Jahn, and John Hamm


THE REEF

by Edith Wharton


BOOK I


I


"Unexpected obstacle. Please don't come till thirtieth. Anna."

All the way from Charing Cross to Dover the train had hammered the words
of the telegram into George Darrow's ears, ringing every change of irony
on its commonplace syllables: rattling them out like a discharge of
musketry, letting them, one by one, drip slowly and coldly into his
brain, or shaking, tossing, transposing them like the dice in some game
of the gods of malice; and now, as he emerged from his compartment at
the pier, and stood facing the wind-swept platform and the angry sea
beyond, they leapt out at him as if from the crest of the waves, stung
and blinded him with a fresh fury of derision.

"Unexpected obstacle. Please don't come till thirtieth. Anna."

She had put him off at the very last moment, and for the second time:
put him off with all her sweet reasonableness, and for one of her usual
"good" reasons--he was certain that this reason, like the other, (the
visit of her husband's uncle's widow) would be "good"! But it was that
very certainty which chilled him. The fact of her dealing so reasonably
with their case shed an ironic light on the idea that there had been any
exceptional warmth in the greeting she had given him after their twelve
years apart.

They had found each other again, in London, some three months
previously, at a dinner at the American Embassy, and when she had caught
sight of him her smile had been like a red rose pinned on her widow's
mourning. He still felt the throb of surprise with which, among
the stereotyped faces of the season's diners, he had come upon her
unexpected face, with the dark hair banded above grave eyes; eyes in
which he had recognized every little curve and shadow as he would have
recognized, after half a life-time, the details of a room he had played
in as a child. And as, in the plumed starred crowd, she had stood out
for him, slender, secluded and different, so he had felt, the instant
their glances met, that he as sharply detached himself for her. All that
and more her smile had said; had said not merely "I remember," but "I
remember just what you remember"; almost, indeed, as though her memory
had aided his, her glance flung back on their recaptured moment its
morning brightness. Certainly, when their distracted Ambassadress--with
the cry: "Oh, you know Mrs. Leath? That's perfect, for General Farnham
has failed me"--had waved them together for the march to the dining-room,
Darrow had felt a slight pressure of the arm on his, a pressure faintly
but unmistakably emphasizing the exclamation: "Isn't it wonderful?--In
London--in the season--in a mob?"

Little enough, on the part of most women; but it was a sign of Mrs.
Leath's quality that every movement, every syllable, told with her. Even
in the old days, as an intent grave-eyed girl, she had seldom misplaced
her light strokes; and Darrow, on meeting her again, had immediately
felt how much finer and surer an instrument of expression she had
become.

Their evening together had been a long confirmation of this feeling. She
had talked to him, shyly yet frankly, of what had happened to her during
the years when they had so strangely failed to meet. She had told him
of her marriage to Fraser Leath, and of her subsequent life in France,
where her husband's mother, left a widow in his youth, had been
re-married to the Marquis de Chantelle, and where, partly in consequence
of this second union, the son had permanently settled himself. She had
spoken also, with an intense eagerness of affection, of her little girl
Effie, who was now nine years old, and, in a strain hardly less tender,
of Owen Leath, the charming clever young stepson whom her husband's
death had left to her care...


A porter, stumbling against Darrow's bags, roused him to the fact that
he still obstructed the platform, inert and encumbering as his luggage.

"Crossing, sir?"

Was he crossing? He really didn't know; but for lack of any more
compelling impulse he followed the porter to the luggage van, singled
out his property, and turned to march behind it down the gang-way. As
the fierce wind shouldered him, building up a crystal wall against his
efforts, he felt anew the derision of his case.

"Nasty weather to cross, sir," the porter threw back at him as they beat
their way down the narrow walk to the pier. Nasty weather, indeed; but
luckily, as it had turned out, there was no earthly reason why Darrow
should cross.

While he pushed on in the wake of his luggage his thoughts slipped back
into the old groove. He had once or twice run across the man whom Anna
Summers had preferred to him, and since he had met her again he had been
exercising his imagination on the picture of what her married life must
have been. Her husband had struck him as a characteristic specimen of
the kind of American as to whom one is not quite clear whether he
lives in Europe in order to cultivate an art, or cultivates an art as a
pretext for living in Europe. Mr. Leath's art was water-colour painting,
but he practised it furtively, almost clandestinely, with the disdain of
a man of the world for anything bordering on the professional, while
he devoted himself more openly, and with religious seriousness, to the
collection of enamelled snuff-boxes. He was blond and well-dressed, with
the physical distinction that comes from having a straight figure, a
thin nose, and the habit of looking slightly disgusted--as who should
not, in a world where authentic snuff-boxes were growing daily harder to
find, and the market was flooded with flagrant forgeries?

Darrow had often wondered what possibilities of communion there could
have been between Mr. Leath and his wife. Now he concluded that there
had probably been none. Mrs. Leath's words gave no hint of her husband's
having failed to justify her choice; but her very reticence betrayed
her. She spoke of him with a kind of impersonal seriousness, as if he
had been a character in a novel or a figure in history; and what she
said sounded as though it had been learned by heart and slightly dulled
by repetition. This fact immensely increased Darrow's impression that
his meeting with her had annihilated the intervening years. She, who was
always so elusive and inaccessible, had grown suddenly communicative and
kind: had opened the doors of her past, and tacitly left him to draw his
own conclusions. As a result, he had taken leave of her with the
sense that he was a being singled out and privileged, to whom she had
entrusted something precious to keep. It was her happiness in their
meeting that she had given him, had frankly left him to do with as he
willed; and the frankness of the gesture doubled the beauty of the gift.

Their next meeting had prolonged and deepened the impression. They had
found each other again, a few days later, in an old country house full
of books and pictures, in the soft landscape of southern England.
The presence of a large party, with all its aimless and agitated
displacements, had served only to isolate the pair and give them (at
least to the young man's fancy) a deeper feeling of communion, and their
days there had been like some musical prelude, where the instruments,
breathing low, seem to hold back the waves of sound that press against
them.

Mrs. Leath, on this occasion, was no less kind than before; but she
contrived to make him understand that what was so inevitably coming was
not to come too soon. It was not that she showed any hesitation as to
the issue, but rather that she seemed to wish not to miss any stage in
the gradual reflowering of their intimacy.

Darrow, for his part, was content to wait if she wished it. He
remembered that once, in America, when she was a girl, and he had
gone to stay with her family in the country, she had been out when he
arrived, and her mother had told him to look for her in the garden. She
was not in the garden, but beyond it he had seen her approaching down a
long shady path. Without hastening her step she had smiled and signed to
him to wait; and charmed by the lights and shadows that played upon her
as she moved, and by the pleasure of watching her slow advance toward
him, he had obeyed her and stood still. And so she seemed now to be
walking to him down the years, the light and shade of old memories and
new hopes playing variously on her, and each step giving him the vision
of a different grace. She did not waver or turn aside; he knew she would
come straight to where he stood; but something in her eyes said "Wait",
and again he obeyed and waited.

On the fourth day an unexpected event threw out his calculations.
Summoned to town by the arrival in England of her husband's mother, she
left without giving Darrow the chance he had counted on, and he cursed
himself for a dilatory blunderer. Still, his disappointment was tempered
by the certainty of being with her again before she left for France;
and they did in fact see each other in London. There, however, the
atmosphere had changed with the conditions. He could not say that she
avoided him, or even that she was a shade less glad to see him; but
she was beset by family duties and, as he thought, a little too readily
resigned to them.

The Marquise de Chantelle, as Darrow soon perceived, had the same
mild formidableness as the late Mr. Leath: a sort of insistent
self-effacement before which every one about her gave way. It was
perhaps the shadow of this lady's presence--pervasive even during her
actual brief eclipses--that subdued and silenced Mrs. Leath. The latter
was, moreover, preoccupied about her stepson, who, soon after receiving
his degree at Harvard, had been rescued from a stormy love-affair, and
finally, after some months of troubled drifting, had yielded to his
step-mother's counsel and gone up to Oxford for a year of supplementary
study. Thither Mrs. Leath went once or twice to visit him, and her
remaining days were packed with family obligations: getting, as she
phrased it, "frocks and governesses" for her little girl, who had
been left in France, and having to devote the remaining hours to long
shopping expeditions with her mother-in-law. Nevertheless, during her
brief escapes from duty, Darrow had had time to feel her safe in the
custody of his devotion, set apart for some inevitable hour; and the
last evening, at the theatre, between the overshadowing Marquise and the
unsuspicious Owen, they had had an almost decisive exchange of words.

