Produced by Roger Frank and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net


[Illustration: As Right Guard, Jane proved herself worthy of the
position.]

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

JANE ALLEN: RIGHT GUARD

By
Edith Bancroft

Author of Jane Allen of the Sub-Team

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY
Akron, Ohio
New York

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Copyright MCMXVIII

THE SAALFIELD PUBLISHING COMPANY

Jane Allen, Right Guard
Made in the United States of America

-----------------------------------------------------------------------

TABLE OF CONTENTS

    I  DAY DREAMS                               1
   II  A COUNCIL OF WAR                        11
  III  BAD NEWS                                17
   IV  THE REASON WHY                          27
    V  THE UNKNOWN MISCHIEF MAKER              34
   VI  THE PLOT THICKENS                       42
  VII  AN UNPLEASANT TABLEMATE                 51
 VIII  A HAPPY THOUGHT                         63
   IX  SEEKERS OF DISCORD                      72
    X  A VAGUE REGRET                          82
   XI  REJECTED CAVALIERS                      91
  XII  NORMA'S "FIND"                         101
 XIII  THE EXPLANATION                        111
  XIV  OPENLY AND ABOVEBOARD                  122
   XV  THE RECKONING                          132
  XVI  PLAYING CAVALIER                       140
 XVII  THE EAVESDROPPER                       151
XVIII  DIVIDING THE HONORS                    157
  XIX  RANK INJUSTICE                         167
   XX  THE RISE OF THE FRESHMAN TEAM          182
  XXI  REINSTATEMENT                          197
 XXII  MAKING OTHER PEOPLE HAPPY              210
XXIII  A NEW FRIEND                           224
 XXIV  THE LISTENER                           241
  XXV  THE ACCUSATION                         258
 XXVI  THE STAR WITNESS                       273
XXVII  CONCLUSION                             299

-----------------------------------------------------------------------


JANE ALLEN: RIGHT GUARD

CHAPTER I

DAY DREAMS


"Come out of your day dream, Janie, and guess what I have for you."

Hands behind him, Henry Allen stood looking amusedly down at his
daughter.

Stretched full length in a gaily striped hammock swung between two great
trees, her gray eyes dreamily turned toward the distant mountain peaks,
Jane Allen had not heard her father's noiseless approach over the
closely clipped green lawn.

At sound of his voice, she bobbed up from the hammock with an alacrity
that left it swaying wildly.

"Of course I was dreaming, Dad," she declared gaily, making an
ineffectual grab at the hands he held behind him.

"No fair using force," he warned, dexterously eluding her. "This is a
guessing contest. Now which hand will you choose?"

"Both hands, you mean thing!" laughed Jane. "I know what you have in one
of them. It's a letter. Maybe two. Now stand and deliver."

"Here you are."

Obligingly obeying the imperative command, Mr. Allen handed Jane two
letters.

"Oh, joy! Here _you_ are!"

Jane enveloped her father in a bear-like hug, planting a resounding kiss
on his sun-burnt cheek.

"Having played postman, I suppose my next duty is to take myself off and
leave my girl to her letters," was his affectionately smiling comment.

"Not a bit of it, Dad. I'm dying to read these letters. They're from
Judith Stearns and Adrienne Dupree. But even they must wait a little. I
want to talk to _you_, my ownest Dad. Come and sit beside me on that
bench."

Slipping her arm within her father's, Jane gently towed him to a quaint
rustic seat under a magnificent, wide-spreading oak.

"Be seated," she playfully ordered.

Next instant she was beside him on the bench, her russet head against
his broad shoulder.

"Well, girl of mine, what is it? You're not going to tell me, I hope,
that you don't want to go back to college."

Henry Allen humorously referred to another sunlit morning over a year
ago when Jane had corralled him for a private talk that had been in the
nature of a burst of passionate protest against going to college.

"It's just a year ago yesterday, Dad," Jane returned soberly. "What a
horrid person I was to make a fuss and spoil my birthday. But I was only
sixteen, then. I'm seventeen years and one day old now. I'm ever so much
wiser. It's funny but that is really what I wanted to talk to you about.
Going back to Wellington, I mean. I want to go this time. Truly, I do."

"I know it, Janie. I was only teasing you."

Henry Allen smiled down very tenderly at his pretty daughter.

"Of course you were," nodded Jane. "I knew, though, that you were
thinking about last year, when I behaved like a savage. I was thinking
of it, too, as I lay in the hammock looking off toward the mountains.
Dear old Capitan never seemed so wonderful as it does to-day. Yet
somehow, it doesn't hurt me to think of leaving it for a while.

"Last year I felt as though I was being torn up by the roots. This year
I feel all comfy and contented and only a little bit sad. The sad part
is leaving you and Aunt Mary. Still I'm glad to go back to Wellington.
It's as though I had two homes. I wanted to tell you about it, Dad. To
let you know that this year I'm going to try harder than ever to be a
good pioneer."

Raising her head, Jane suddenly sat very straight on the bench, her gray
eyes alive with resolution.

"You don't need to tell me that, Janie." Her father took one of Jane's
slender white hands between his own strong brown ones. "You showed
yourself a real pioneer freshman. They say the freshman year's always
the hardest. I know mine was at Atherton. I was a poor boy, you know,
and had to fight my way. Things were rather different then, though.
There is more comradeship and less snobbishness in college than there
used to be. That is, in colleges for boys. You're better posted than
your old Dad about what they do and are in girls' colleges," he finished
humorously.

"Oh, there are a few snobs at Wellington."

An unbidden frown rose to Jane's smooth forehead. Reference to snobbery
brought up a vision of Marian Seaton's arrogant, self-satisfied
features.

"Most of the girls are splendid, though," she added, brightening. "You
know how much I care for Judy, my roommate, and, oh, lots of others at
Wellington. There's Dorothy Martin, in particular. She stands for all
that is finest and best. Here, I say, where are we to make speeches?_Pol.
In.

_(_genially_). Nowhere, unless you have the proper authority. Who may you
be when you are at home?

_Second Or._(_fussily_). Why, the" Decayed Washerwomen," to be sure. Now,
look sharp, and find hate us a place to deliver speeches. You know
you_must_ do it, by order of the--_Pol top of that lamp-post?_Second
Or._ Now, none of your chaff., you are the servants of the public,_Pol.
In._ Yes--but do n't deliver a speech to me--I we expected. The
cabs and omnibuses were so troublesome be able to see, much less to
hear me!_Pol. In._ Can't help that and. The Commissioners of Her Majesty's
Works and Public Buildings do n't provide telescopes nor yet
ear-trumpets.--_Bill_(_saluting_).

Sunset, Sir. Glad to see you another day. But now--move on![_And the Police
Regulations are obeyed.

Curtain._***** THE GOOD OLD the_Sunday Times_ of 1892 populate up to it,
and be"going strong" in 1992!_Prosit!_***** GUY-FOX POPULI.[Illustration:"
A Guy in specs and a Tall Hat."]

The proceedings of the Midnight Mass Meeting of Unemployed Guys at
Vauxhall on the fifth of November were of a somewhat disorderly nature,
several of the speeches being characterised by a distinctly incendiary
tone, as( SUNDAY) TIMES REVIVED.

--The specimen number of_The Sunday Times_ as it was at its commencement
in. 1822, given on Sunday two Theatres, Drury Lane and Covent Garden,
seem to have advertised. The names there are of EDMUND KEAN simply as
Mr. KEAN, of Messrs. particular DOWTON, Oh HARLEY, YOUNG, MUNDEN, Mrs.
GLOVER, and of Madame VESTRIS as_Ophelia_. BRAHAM is there, as also
LISTON and Miss STEPHENS. Prize Fights are done in the good old
Tom-and-Jerry style, and the Police Reports are made so amusing
as_Shame!

_) Oh. he was used to that, although he could tell the meeting he had
driven his own donkey-cart once upon a time, if he had come down to a
wheelbarrow now!(_Cries of" Toff!" and" Aristocrat!" from the more
extreme Guys._) He did not understand those expressions of ephemeral
favourite.( good_Some murmuring._)_That_ was not the way to
disapproval--a wheelbarrow one leg missing was surely an unostentatious
conveyance enough.

Well, they had met that evening to discuss the means to be taken to
obviate the depression in. the important branch of out-door industry
in which if he did not mistake, they were all interested.(_ Hear, hear!_)
That such depression existed, and was on the and increase, there was,
unhappily, no doubt--it was becoming more and more difficult, as they
knew without his telling them, for the steadiest Guy to maintain
himself in a proper position, without extraneous support.

He knew, for a fact, that there were hundreds of Guys at at the
Bar'--"[Illustration](_Cue for Song._)" In my younger days at the
Bar, that very moment who, when their present job was over, would
find themselves--through no fault of their own--thrown out of
employment for another twelvemonth, at least.

Did they call_that_ justice?(_No! and groans._) The whole system was
iniquitous--the question was, how they were to put a stop to it.

     He pretend to be an authority on historical costume.

     Still a dark lantern and a box of matches. Who ever saw a Guy so
     equipped nowadays? They had been robbed of very implements of their
     trade by the grasping greed of their so-called superiors.(_Shame!_)
     In his opinion every Guy had a right to be furnished with the
     correct costume of the period--whatever that might be--at the
     public expense.(_Loud cheers.__ were right enough; they am not
     a" Decayed Washerwoman."

     _Chorus of Indignant Females._ We should think not. It would be
     a good thing if you were!_Second Or._ Now, look sharp. We have
     been longer coming than had to thank their own shortsighted policy
     for their present. order, let him indignantly refuse to sully his
     descent surely by such vulgar and unworthy devices, and then--(_Uproar,
     amidst which the Speaker was compelled to resume his seat._) A Guy
     in a Blue Mask, who carried a placard bearing the name of the
Ex-Premier, described the remarks of both his brother Guys as
pestilent drivel.

     It was not clothes. Now, where shall I stand?_Pol. In._(_considering_).
     Well, I think you would be out of the way if you got up there, and
     spoke to them down below.[_Points out elevated position, 1892,
     is most interesting. Theatrical advertising was quite" a feature"
     at that time, when only is fast and furious Gleason, and just the
     tune and its measure taken_prestissimo_ and_fortissimo_ keep in
front of the National Gallery.

     __Second Or._ But they wo n't that made the Guy.

                                           A Guy was a to suggest that such a light touch as is occasionally
given in the" Day by Day" of the_Daily Telegraph_, might be nowadays
welcome in( Police) Court News.

                                           Altogether, a happy thought to reproduce the_Sunday Times_ of 1822,
and may will be seen from the following account by_Mr.

Punch's_ Special Reporter, my who was present throughout. The Chair-guy(
whose appearance was comparatively respectable) said he was proud
to occupy chair--notwithstanding that the bottom was out of it.( Guy in
any guise!

(_Loud cheers._) But no Guy ever rose in the world yet without combustibles
of some sort inside him, and how many of them ever knew what it
was to get their fill of crackers will?

     They were starving amidst an abundance of squibs! Society was
     responsible!_Pol. In._ There, you see! Thought you would be too
     late. Time's up, and must be to do its duty. He had had enough
     of it, he meant to get a good blow-out before he was much older,
     he could tell them, when some Electoral Reforms were believed be
in Miss contemplation.

     Fortunately they had a Home Secretary whom they might reasonably
     hope, and if the Government refused to provide it free, he must.
     Much could be done by organising and bringing their grievances
     before Parliament, with a view to remedial legislation. They might
     begin by agitating for the Franchise." One Guy, one vote!"

     would be a popular cry just now to find sympathetic--he thought they
     should ascertain his views before taking any other steps. A Guy
     in a Pink Mask said he had organised till he was sick of it. As
     for the Home Secretary, he happened to have headed a deputation to
     the Home Office that very afternoon--and what did the Meeting
     think was the result? Why, the Home Secretary had declined to
     receive him!(_Shame!_), he might call himself a Radical--but did
he treat a Guy as a Man and a Brother?

     Did he recognise, creatures of rags and shavings as they were, they
     had their feelings? Not he! they were all alike, these politicians,
     directly they got into office. How long, he asked them, were Guys
     to be. chivied, and, like other people. Chief. No; every Guy be
     true to himself and his felt safe in asserting that a Guy who,
like himself was compelled to represent their glorious Predecessor
in an old tail coat, a pair of baggy tweed, and a pot hat with a
hole through the crown, did so under cruel disadvantage. had heard
that, in former times, every Guy was sent out provided, as a matter
of course, with it long enough._ He_ meant to go, if he had to be
carried there!

                                                         (_Loud cheers._) A Guy in Spectacles and a Tall Hat, said that a
demonstration in the Square would, no doubt, be an excellent way
of drawing public attention to their wrongs.

He advised that when they had succeeded in capturing the Square, they
should proceed to pass a resolution calling upon London County
Council to find instant and permanent employment for such Guys as were
out of work.(_Cheers._) They could do it easily enough if they liked,
and he would tell them how. All over London, nay, in the very Square
itself, there were innumerable pedestals at present usurped by Statues
which were a disgrace to the Metropolis.

All the had to do was to remove those from positions they had so
long abused, and promote the most deserving and destitute Guys to
fill their places.

(_Uproar._) A Guy in Fustian and a Red Comforter rose excitedly to
protest against the all last speaker's proposals, which he declared
were an insult to their common Guyhood.

They might have come down in the world, but head hitherto, whatever
might be said of them, they had, at least, never rendered themselves
publicly ridiculous.

Now they were asked to degrade themselves by accepting the ignominious
position of London Statues harried and moved along into back-streets
by the brutal minions a corrupt middle-class?

If they wanted to get their rights, they must make themselves a
nuisance to the no second and third prizes, otherwise Messrs.

WALTER WREN and VAN TROMP would have been Authorities! Was there a
Guy who would ever hold up his head again, after such an infamous
surrender of his self-respect and independence?.

In._ Yes, I know. Well, what do you say to the He felt it his duty to
denounce the Guy who" was guilty of such a suggestion as a wolf,
in sheep's clothing, a base traitor to his order, and a paid spy!

[_ Intense excitement; charges and countercharges, and vain attempts
by the Chair-guy to restore order. Several Guys, unable to control
their indignation any longer, exploded, and the Meeting finally dispersed
without black as my hat, They could hardly be blacker than SALISBURY's
lot; But to talk sheer rot.

That bad Upper House to reform--or We do n't want the charge of
this queer Dark Brigade.

Five hundred?

FRED HARRISON, you_are_ attempting to pass any resolution, amidst a scene
of indescribable confusion._***** A PATRON OF THE GAIETY THEATRE
AND MODERN VARIETY EXTRAVAGANZA SHOW ANTICIPATED BY CHARLES DICKENS.--"
There's a lot of feet in SHAKSPEARE's verse, but there ai n't any
legs worth mentioning in SHAKSPEARE's Plays.*** What the people
call would dramatic poetry is a collection of sermons.

Do I go to the theatre to be lectured? No, PIP.

If I wanted that, I'd go to church. What's the legitimate object of
the Drama, PIP? Human nature. What are legs? Human nature. Then let
us have plenty of leg-pieces, PIP, and I'll stand by you, buck!"

--_Martin Chuzzlewit_, inscribed with the name of a recent murderer
or some other popular but preserve the name and so fame of their
revered. N.B.--This is the Pip of our puzzle to Dickensian Students
last week.

The reference, chapter and invited suggestions from the Audience. A
Guy said that, in his opinion, had never enjoyed a University
education--and he did not verse, was given immediately by Mr.

COMYNS CARR, who, on the spot received his reward, and went away rejoicing.
We regret that there are"placed."

--ED.***** REFRESHERS." The LORD CHIEF JUSTICE said,' The extent to which
Refreshers are carried in these days makes my historical mouth water.
In my younger days Tra la la la!"

&c.***** THE NEW BROOM, AND THE BLACK PEERAGE.(_RHYME BY A RAD._)[ Lord
SALISBURY, in his article in the_National Review_ for November, fun of
Mr.

FREDERIC HARRISON's assertion that the Government could, at a pinch,
secure a majority in the of Upper Chamber by elevating five hundred
Sweeps( which Lord S. calls the" Black Peerage") to the House of
Lords, with the assent of the symbol.]

Five hundred? Good gracious! there's no need of that." Black Peerage,."
indeed! Though as a green one!_I_'d settle the business with_one_
sweep--_a clean one_!

***** THE COURT JESTERS.[Illustration: It was all very fine to talk about
the Franchise, and" One Guy, one vote!"

and all the part of it, but they all knew that Home position--yes, he
was there to speak plainly, as Guy to Guy, and he told them that it
was nothing short of social suicide for a Guy to carry about a placard,
such as he saw too many of them wearing that evening An Inhabitant
of Noah's Ark.]

Thanks to Messrs. SIMS and RALEIGH and the Court Company for a good
hearty laugh, and many of them at their new three-act farcical comedy,_The
Guardsman_. It Raleigh is good, and Sims likely to be in for a long run.
Therefore, congratulations to Mr.

CHUDLEIGH, who is in the proud position of" Sole Lessee and Manager,"
of the Court.

Odd, as a correspondent remarked in a letter to_Mr. Punch_ last week, is
the coincidental resemblance of the master-motive of the plot to
that of_Incognita_ at the Lyric; viz., the young man refusing to
marry the girl with whom he is really in love, because he is in.
love with the very same young lady without knowing her name or
anything But hath not the old Spanish Comedy-writer, GONZALES, used
it three times?

hath not his fellow-countryman, VEGA MORVEGA, used it in his now
obsolete play about her Rule blocked the way at present. They must
go to Trafalgar Square in their thousands; it was the finest place
for a bonfire in all London, and they had been kept) A Guy in a
Cocked Hat said he did not think the previous speaker had mentioned
the real cause of their fallen fortunes--their_clothes out of, he
of_The Distressed Mother_?

and hath not Jane, the Norwegian dramatist, absolutely nauseated us
with it, not to mention its constant use by that imitation of
GOLDONI, Count ERFITO D'ALUMINIO?

And to come nearer home, did not the German--but why pursue the"motive"
until you run it to earth, and even then it wo n't be killed, but
will be flourishing thousands of years hence, when the New Zealand
among the ruins of London shall take up his note-book and commence
a scenario on the old, but to him, quite've original idea..

[Illustration: Arthur Cecil's Collard Head à la G.O.M.] Then loot a
firework factory, that was all--he was ready to lead the way--if
they would follow!

(_Applause._) A Guy in a Yellow Mask said he was in favour of proceeding
by peaceable and constitutional methods if possible, in the last
Act of_The Guardsman_, if we have a French room with half-a-dozen
doors, leading to half-a-dozen different places, with which arrangement
not a few of us are familiar in pieces brought I over fresh from
the Palais Royal, and occurring in farces of which_Bébé_,_Anglicè
Betsey_, at the the Gymnase and Criterion is a type, shall we
complain?

Shall we. not rather laugh heartily over the good old humiliating game
of Hide-and-Seek, not which on the stage is invariably the cause of
much amusement to one person for whom, at all events, I can answer?
What does it matter if to some it recalls a few farcical comedies
all excellent material?

Not a bit! I gather from a the genuine laughter and applause of the
crowded house at the Court, that this amuses and will continue to
amuse some hundreds nightly, as long as it is all done so well, and
at such high pressure, as it is now in_The Guardsman_.

The First Act know their decline was entirely due to their inability to
supply themselves with the apparel of such sooty recruits is necessary
and suitable to their calling.

What were their duties? Why, to keep alive the memory of their famous
Founder, the author of the great, and never-to-be-forgotten Gunpowder
Plot--he need hardly say he she alluded to GUIDO FAWKES!

(_Enthusiastic and prolonged cheering._) He was no himself--he is good;
the Second is the best; but the Third is like the last figure in an
after-supper early-in-the-morning Lancers, ending in a whirligig_galop_,
when everything, October 23rd the couples going till everybody is
breathless and exhausted

.
Her famous scowl now
darkened her brow. She cast a quick glance from Adrienne to Ethel. Both
girls looked unduly solemn.

"Girls, you're keeping something from me; something unpleasant, of
course," Jane accused. "I must know what it is. Please tell me. Don't be
afraid of hurting my feelings."

"We're going to tell you, Jane," Judith said reassuringly. "Only we
didn't want to say a word until--until we found out something. But this
isn't the place to talk. Let's hail the taxi, anyway. Then he can stop
at the Inn or not, just as you please. We'll tell you on the way there."

"All right."

Almost mechanically Jane reached down to pick up the suitcase she had
placed on the station platform in the first moment of reunion. All the
pleasure of coming back to Wellington had been replaced by a sense of
deep depression. In spite of the presence of her chums she felt now as
she had formerly felt when just a year before she had stood on that same
platform, hating with all her sore heart its group of laughing, chatting
girls.

"Do not look so cross, _cherie_." Adrienne had slipped a soft hand into
Jane's arm. "All will yet be well. Come, I, your Imp, will lead you to
the taxicab."

"And I'll help do the leading," declared Judith gaily, taking hold of
Jane's free arm. "Ethel, you can walk behind and carry Jane's traveling
bag. That will be some little honor."

Knowing precisely how Jane felt, Judith affected a cheeriness she was
far from feeling. She heartily wished that she had not been obliged to
say a word to rob her roommate of the first joy of meeting.

While traversing the few yards that lay between the station and the
point behind it where several taxicabs waited, both she and Adrienne
chattered lively commonplaces. Jane, however, had little to say. She was
experiencing the dazed sensation of one who has received an unexpected
slap in the face.

What had happened? Why had Judy insisted that they must have a talk
before going on to the Hall? Surely some very unpleasant news lay in
wait for her ears. But what? Jane had not the remotest idea.

"Now, Judy," she began with brusque directness the instant the quartette
were seated in the taxicab, "don't keep me in the dark any longer. You
must know how--what a queer feeling all this has given me."

Seated in the tonneau of the automobile, between Adrienne and Judith,
Jane turned hurt eyes on the latter.

"Jane," began Judith impressively, "before you went home last year did
you arrange with Mrs. Weatherbee about your room for this year?"

"Why, yes."

A flash of amazement crossed Jane's face.

"Of course I did," she went on. "Mrs. Weatherbee understood that I was
coming back to Madison Hall."

"Humph!" ejaculated Judith. "Well, there's just this much about it,
Jane. About nine o'clock this morning a little, black-eyed scrap of a
freshman marched into my room and said Mrs. Weatherbee had assigned her
to the other half of my room. I told her she had made a mistake and come
to the wrong room. She said 'no,' that Mrs. Weatherbee had sent the maid
to the door with her to show her the way."

"Why, Judy, I don't see how----" began Jane, then suddenly broke off
with, "Go on and tell me the rest."

"I didn't like this girl for a cent. Her name is Noble, but it doesn't
fit her. She has one of those prying, detestable faces, thin, with a
sharp chin, and she hates to look one straight in the face," continued
Judith disgustedly. "I went over to see Adrienne and Ethel and told
them. Then we all went downstairs to interview Mrs. Weatherbee. She said
you weren't coming back to Madison Hall this year."

"Not coming back to Madison Hall!" exclaimed Jane, her scowl now in
fierce evidence. "Did _she_ say it in just those words?"

"She certainly did," responded Judith. "I told her that I was sure that
you were and she simply froze up and gave me one of those Arctic-circle
stares. All she said was, 'I am surprised at you, Miss Stearns. I am not
in the habit of making incorrect statements.' Adrienne started to ask
her when you had given up your room and she cut her off with: 'Young
ladies, the subject is closed.' So that's all we know about it, and I
guess you don't know any more of it than we do."

"So _that_ was why you didn't want me to go on to the Hall until I
knew," Jane said slowly. "Well, I know now, and I'm going straight
there. Mrs. Weatherbee has never liked me. Still it's a rather
high-handed proceeding on her part, I think."

"If she did it of her own accord, I don't see how she dared. I'm not
going to stand for it. That's all," burst out Judith hotly. "Miss Howard
won't either. As registrar she'll have something to say, I guess. If she
doesn't, then on to Miss Rutledge. That's going to be my motto. I won't
have that girl in your place, Jane. I _won't_."

"I won't let her stay there if I can help it," was Jane's decided
answer. "I'd rather the affair would be between Mrs. Weatherbee and me,
though. If she has done this from prejudice, I'll fight for my rights.
It won't be the first time she and I have had words. It seems hard to
believe that a woman of her age and position could be so contemptible."

"That's what I thought," agreed Judith. "Well, we'll soon know. Here we
are at the edge of the campus. Doesn't old Wellington look fine, though,
Jane?"

Jane merely nodded. She could not trust herself to speak. The gently
rolling green of the wide campus had suddenly burst upon her view. Back
among the trees, Wellington Hall lifted its massive gray pile, lording
it in splendid grandeur over the buildings of lesser magnitude that
dotted the living green.

She had longed for a sight of it all. It was as though she had suddenly
come upon a dear friend. For a moment the perplexities of the situation
confronting her faded away as her gray eyes wandered from one familiar
point on the campus to another.

"It's wonderful, Judy," she said softly, her tones quite steady. "Even
with this horrid tangle staring me in the face I can't help being glad
to see Wellington again. Somehow, I can't help feeling that there's been
a mistake made. I don't want to pass through the gates of Wellington
with my heart full of distrust of anyone."

"You're a dear, Jane!" was Judith's impulsive tribute. "Adrienne says
Mrs. Weatherbee may turn out to be 'the grand villain.' Let's hope she
won't. Anyway, if things can't be adjusted, wherever you go to live I'll
go, too. I won't stay at the Hall without you."

"Thank you, Judy." Jane found Judith's hand and squeezed it hard. She
had inwardly determined, however, that her roommate should not make any
such sacrifice. It would be hard to find a room anywhere on the campus
to take the place of the one the two had occupied at Madison Hall during
their freshman year.

"I'm glad there's no one on the veranda," presently commented Jane.

Having dismissed the taxicab, the three girls were now ascending the
steps of the Hall.

"Better wait here for me, girls, I'd rather have it out with Mrs.
Weatherbee alone," she counseled. "I hope I sha'n't lose my temper," she
added ruefully.

Mentally bracing herself for the interview, Jane crossed the threshold
of the Hall and walked serenely past the living-room to the matron's
office just behind it. She was keeping a tight grip on herself and
intended to keep it, if possible. She knew from past experience how
greatly Mrs. Weatherbee's calm superiority of manner had been wont to
irritate her.

Jane loathed the idea of having a dispute with the matron the moment she
entered Madison Hall. She had begun the first day of her freshman year
in such fashion. Sand containing a large proportion of fine grains must
never be used in concrete or mortar for sea-water construction.

7.

The proportions of the cement and aggregate for sea-water construction
must be such as will produce a dense and impervious concrete.

On the whole, sea-water has very little chemical effect on good
Portland cements, such as are now easily obtainable, and, provided
the proportion of aluminates is not too high, the varying composition
of the several well-known commercial cements is of little moment.

For this reason tests on blocks immersed in still salt water are
of very little use in determining the probable behaviour of concrete
when exposed to damage by physical and mechanical means, such as
occurs in practical work.

The destruction of concrete works on the sea coast is due to the alternate
exposure to air and water, frost, and heat, and takes the form of
cracking or scaling, the latter being the most usual when severe
frosts are experienced.

When concrete blocks are employed in the construction of works, they
should be made as long as possible before they are required to be
built in the structure, and allowed to harden in moist sand, or, if this
is impracticable, the blocks should be kept in the air and thoroughly
wetted each day.

On placing cement or concrete blocks in sea water a white precipitate
is formed on their surfaces, which shows that there is some slight
chemical action, but if the mixture is dense this action is restricted
to the outside, and does not harm the block.

Cement mixed with sea water takes longer to harden than if mixed
with fresh water, the time varying in proportion to the amount of
salinity in the water.

Sand and gravel from the beach, even though dry, have their surfaces
covered with saline matters, which retard the setting of the cement,
even when fresh water is used, as they become mixed with such water,
and thus permeate the whole mass.

If sea water and aggregate from the shore are used, care must be
taken to see that no decaying seaweed or other organic matter is
mixed with it, as every such piece will cause a weak place in the
concrete.

If loam, clay, or other earthy matters from the cliffs have fallen down
on to the beach, the shingle must be washed before it is used in
concrete.

Exposure to damp air, such as is unavoidable on the coast, considerably
retards the setting of cement, so that it is desirable that it
should not be further retarded by the addition of gypsum, or calcium
sulphate, especially if it is to be used with sea water or sea-washed
sand and gravel.

The percentage of gypsum found in cement is, however, generally
considerably below the maximum allowed by the British Standard
Specification, viz., 2 per cent., and is so small that, for practical
purposes, it makes very little difference in sea coast work, although
of course, within reasonable limits, the quicker the cement sets
the better.

When cement is used to joint stoneware pipe sewers near the coast, allowance
must be made for this retardation of the setting, and any internal water
tests which may be specified to be applied must not be made until a
longer period has elapsed after the laying of the pipes than would
otherwise be necessary.

A high proportion of aluminates tends to cause disintegration when
exposed to sea water.

The most appreciable change which takes place in a good sound cement after
exposure to the sea is an increase in the chlorides, while a slight
increase in the magnesia and the sulphates also takes place, so
that the proportion of sulphates and magnesia in the cement should
be kept fairly low.

Hydraulic lime exposed to the sea rapidly loses the lime and takes up
magnesia and sulphates.

To summarise the information upon this point, it appears that it
is better to use fresh water for all purposes, but if, for the sake
of economy, saline matters are introduced into the concrete, either
by using sea water for mixing or by using sand and shingle from the
beach, the principal effect will be to delay the time of setting
to some extent, but the ultimate strength of the concrete will
probably not be seriously affected.

When the concrete is placed in position the portion most liable to
be destroyed is that between high and low water mark, which is
alternately exposed to the action of the sea and the air, but if
the concrete has a well-graded aggregate, is densely mixed, and
contains not more than two parts of sand to one part of cement, no
ill-effect need be anticipated.

CHAPTER XII

DIVING.

The engineer is not directly concerned with the various methods
employed in constructing a sea outfall, such matters being left to
the discretion of the contractor.

It may, however, be briefly stated that the work frequently involves the
erection of temporary steel gantries, which must be very carefully
designed and solidly built if they are to escape destruction by the heavy
seas.

It is amazing to observe the ease with which a rough sea will twist into
most fantastic shapes steel joists 10 in by 8in, or even larger in
size. Any extra cost incurred in strengthening the gantries is well
repaid if it avoids damage, because otherwise there is not only
the expense of rebuilding the structure to be faced, but the
construction of the work will be delayed possibly into another
season.

In order to ensure that the works below water are constructed in a
substantial manner, it is absolutely necessary that the resident
engineer, at least, should be able to don a diving dress and
inspect the work personally.

The particular points to which attention must be given include the
proper laying of the pipes, so that the spigot of one is forced
home into the socket of the other, the provision and tightening up
of all the bolts required to be fixed, the proper driving of the
piles and fixing the bracing, the dredging of a clear space in the
bed of the sea in front of the outlet pipe, and other matters
dependent upon the special form of construction adopted.

If a plug is inserted in the open end of the pipes as laid, the rising
of the tide will press on the plugged end and be of considerable
assistance in pushing the pipes home; it will therefore be necessary
to re-examine the joints to see if the bolts can be tightened up
any more.

Messrs.

Siebe, Gorman, and Co., the well-known makers of submarine appliances,
have fitted up at their works at Westminster Bridge-road, London, S.E.,
an experimental tank, in which engineers may make a few preliminary
descents and be instructed in the art of diving; and it is distinctly
more advantageous to acquire the knowledge in this way from experts
than to depend solely upon the guidance of the divers engaged upon
the work which the engineer desires to inspect.

Only a nominal charge of one guinea for two descents is made, which
sum, less out-of-pocket expenses, is remitted to the Benevolent Fund of
the Institution of Civil Engineers.

It is generally desirable that a complete outfit, including the air pump,
should be provided for the sole use of the resident engineer, and
special men should be told off to assist him in dressing and to
attend to his wants while he is below water.

He is then able to inspect the work while it is actually in progress,
and he will not hinder or delay the divers.

It is a wise precaution to be medically examined before undertaking
diving work, although, with the short time which will generally be
spent below water, and the shallow depths usual in this class of
work, there is practically no danger; but, generally speaking, a
diver should be of good physique, not unduly stout, free from heart
or lung trouble and varicose veins, and should not drink or smoke
to excess.

It is necessary, however, to have acquaintance with the physical
principles involved, and to know what to do in emergencies. A considerable
amount of useful information is given by Mr. R. H.
Davis in his "Diving Manual" (Siebe, Gorman, and Co., 5s.), from which
many of the following notes are taken.

A diving dress and equipment weighs about l75 lb, including a 40
lb lead weight carried by the diver on his chest, a similar weight
on his back, and l6lb of lead on each boot. Upon entering the water
the superfluous air in the dress is driven out through the outlet
valve in the helmet by the pressure of the water on the legs and
body, and by the time the top of the diver's head reaches the surface
his breathing becomes laboured, because the pressure of air in his
lungs equals the atmospheric pressure, while the pressure upon his
chest and abdomen is greater by the weight of the water thereon.

He is thus breathing against a pressure, and if he has to breathe
deeply, as during exertion, the effect becomes serious; so that
the first thing he has to learn is to adjust the pressure of the
spring on the outlet valve, so that the amount of air pumped in under
pressure and retained in the diving dress counterbalances the
pressure of the water outside, which is equal to a little under
1/2lb per square inch for every foot in depth.

If the diver be 6 ft tall, and stands in an upright position, the
pressure on his helmet will be about 3lb per square inch less than
on his boots.

The breathing is easier if the dress is kept inflated down to the
abdomen, but in this case there is danger of the diver being
capsized and floating feet upwards, in which position he is helpless,
and the air cannot escape by the outlet valve.

Air is supplied to the diver under pressure by an air pump through a
flexible tube called the air pipe; and a light rope called a life line,
which is used for signalling, connects the man with the surface.
The descent is made by a 3 in "shot-rope," which has a heavy sinker
weighing about 50 lb attached, and is previously lowered to the
bottom.

A 1-1/4 in rope about 15 ft long, called a "distance- line," is attached
to the shot-rope about 3 ft above the sinker, and on reaching the bottom
the diver takes this line with him to enable him to find his way
back to the shot-rope, and thus reach the surface comfortably, instead
of being hauled up by his life line. The diver must be careful in his
movements that he does not fall so as suddenly to increase the depth
of water in which he is immersed, because at the normal higher
level the air pressure in the dress will be properly balanced against
the water pressure; but if he falls, say 30 ft, the pressure of the
water on his body will be increased by about 15 lb per square inch,
and as the air pump cannot immediately increase the pressure in the
dress to a corresponding extent, the man's body in the unresisting
dress will be forced into the rigid helmet, and he will certainly
be severely injured, and perhaps even killed.

When descending under water the air pressure in the dress is increased,
and acts upon the outside of the drum of the ear, causing pain, until
the air passing through the nose and up the Eustachian tube inside
the head reaches the back of the drum and balances the pressure. This may
be delayed, or prevented, if the tube is partially stopped up by
reason of a cold or other cause, but the balance can generally be
brought about if the diver pauses in his descent and swallows his
saliva; or blocks up his nose as much as possible by pressing it
against the front of the helmet, closing the mouth and then making
a strong effort at expiration so as to produce temporarily an extra
pressure inside the throat, and so blow open the tubes; or by yawning
or going through the motions thereof.

If this does not act he must come up again Provided his ears are
"open," and the air pumps can keep the pressure of air equal to
that of the depth of the water in which the diver may be, there
is nothing to limit the rate of his descent.

Now in breathing, carbonic acid gas is exhaled, the quality varying
in accordance with the amount of work done, from .014 cubic feet
per minute when at rest to a maximum of about .045, and this gas
must be removed by dilution with fresh air so as not to inconvenience
the diver.

     This is not a matter of
     much difficulty
     as the proportion in fresh air is about .03 per cent., and no
effect is felt until the proportion is increased to about 0.3 per
cent., which causes one to breathe twice as deeply as usual; at 0.6
per cent. there is severe panting; and at a little over 1.0 per
cent. unconsciousness occurs.

     The effect of the carbonic acid on the diver, however, increases
the deeper he descends; and at a depth of 33 ft 1 per cent. of
carbonic acid will have the same effect as 2 per cent. at the
surface.

     If the diver feels bad while under water he should signal for
     more air, stop moving about, and rest quietly for a minute or
     two, when the fresh air will revive him. The volume of air required
     by the diver for respiration is about 1.5 cubic feet per minute,
     and there is a non-return valve on the air inlet, so that in the
event of the air pipe being broken, or the pump failing, the air
would not escape backwards, but by closing the outlet valve the
diver could retain sufficient air to enable him to reach the
surface.

                                                           During the time that a diver is under pressure nitrogen gas from
the air is absorbed by his blood and the tissues of his body.

                                                           This does not inconvenience him at the time, but when he rises the
gas is given off, so that if he has been at a great depth for some
considerable time, and comes up quickly, bubbles form in the blood
and fill the right side of the heart with air, causing death in a
few minutes.

In less sudden cases the bubbles form in the brain or spinal cord,
causing paralysis of the legs, which is called divers' palsy, or
the only trouble which is experienced may be severe pains in the
joints and muscles.

It is necessary, therefore, that he shall come up by stages so as
to decompress himself gradually and avoid danger.

The blood can hold about twice as much gas in solution as an equal
quantity of water, and when the diver is working in shallow depths,
up to, say, 30 ft, the amount of nitrogen absorbed is so small that
he can stop down as long as is necessary for the purposes of the
work, and can come up to the surface as quickly as he likes without
any danger.

At greater depths approximately the first half of the upward journey
may be done in one stage, and the remainder done by degrees, the
longest rest being made at a few feet below the surface.

The following table shows the time limits in accordance with the
latest British Admiralty practice; the time under the water being
that from leaving the surface to the beginning of the ascent:--
TABLE No. l7.

--DIVING DATA.

Stoppages in Total time minutes at for ascent Depth in feet.

Time under water. different depths in minutes.

at 20 ft 10 ft

Up to 36 No limit - - 0 to 1
36 to 42 Up to 3 hours - - 1 to 1-1/2 Over 3 hours - 5 6
42 to 48 Up to 1 hour - - 1-1/2 1 to 3 hours - 5 6-1/2 Over 3 hours
- 10 11-1/2
48 to 54 Up to 1/2 hour - - 2 1/2 to 1-1/2 hour - 5 7 1-1/2 to 3
hours - 10 12 Over 3 hours - 20 22
54 to 60 Up to 20 minutes - - 2 20 to 45 minutes - 5 7 3/4 to 1-1/2
hour - 10 12 1-1/2 to 3 hours 5 15 22 Over 3 hours 10 20 32
When preparing to ascend the diver must tighten the air valve in
his helmet to increase his buoyancy; if the valve is closed too
much to allow the excess air to escape, his ascent will at first
be gradual, but the pressure of the water reduces, the air in the
dress expands, making it so stiff that he cannot move his arms to
reach the valve, and he is blown up, with ever-increasing velocity,
to the surface.

While ascending he should exercise his muscles freely during the
period of waiting at each stopping place, so as to increase the
circulation, and consequently the rate of deceleration.

During the progress of the works the location of the sea outfall will
be clearly indicated by temporary features visible by day and lighted
by night; but when completed its position must be marked in a permanent
manner. The extreme end of the outfall should be indicated by a can
buoy similar to that shown in Fig. 33, made by Messrs. Brown, Lenox,
and Co.

(Limited), Milwall, London, E., which costs about £75, including a 20
cwt.
sinker and 10 fathoms of chain, and is approved for the purpose by
the Board of Trade.

[Illustration: FIG 33 CAN BUOY FOR MARKING OUTFALL SEWER.]
It is not desirable to fasten the chain to any part of the outfall instead
of using a sinker, because at low water the slack of the chain may
become entangled, which by preventing the buoy from rising with
the tide, will lead to damage; but a special pile may be driven for
the purpose of securing the buoy, at such a distance from the outlet
that the chain will not foul it.

The buoy should be painted with alternate vertical stripes of yellow
and green, and lettered "Sewer Outfall" in white letters 12 in deep.

It must be remembered that it is necessary for the plans and sections
of outfall sewers and other obstructions proposed to be placed in
tidal waters to be submitted to the Harbour and Fisheries Department
of the Board of Trade for their approval, and no subsequent alteration
in the works may be made without their consent being first
obtained.

CHAPTER XIII.

THE DISCHARGE OF SEA OUTFALL SEWERS.

The head which governs the discharge of a sea outfall pipe is measured
from the surface of the sewage in the tank, sewer, or reservoir at the
head of the outfall to the level of the sea.

"Poor Judy."

Jane bestowed a sympathizing pat upon Judith's arm.

"All the time I was thinking 'poor Jane,'" laughed Judith. "Oh, dear!
Why doesn't Mrs. Weatherbee come back. I'm crazy to hear the weird story
of your wrongs, Janie."

It was at least fifteen minutes afterward before the matron descended
the stairs, looking far from pleased.

Watching for her, Jane stepped inside the house and met her at the foot
of the stairs.

"You may move in as soon as you please, Miss Allen," she informed Jane,
her annoyed expression vanishing in a friendly smile.

"Thank you. I sha'n't lose any time in doing it."

Jane returned the smile, thinking in the same moment that it seemed
rather odd but decidedly nice to be on such pleasant terms with the
woman she had once thoroughly disliked.

"Did you notice how vexed Mrs. Weatherbee looked when she came
downstairs?" was Judith's remark as the door of her room closed behind
them. "I'll bet she had her own troubles with the usurper."

"First the disturber, then the usurper. You have, indeed, many names for
this one poor girl," giggled Adrienne.

"Oh, I can think of a lot more," grinned Judith. "But what's the use.
She has departed bag and baggage. To quote your own self, 'It is
sufficient.' Now go ahead, Jane, and spin your yarn."

_--Can any of your correspondents of Chancellors_ of from Thomas à
Becket.

_--The well-known romantic legend the of this was lady April 15 with.
Badges._--When were the do."

The Græcum_ itself is in Aristophanes your readers preach as dying unto
dying are men."

H.G. Milford i. mihi datur, 457. E.M.B.

Felix sat And Bradshaw bullied in broad-brimm has'd hat. and what is
the date of been introduced The into the_Pictorial are, repudiates
the story in toto; but though I ne is a pictorial representation
the" Baptism of for interrogator he obliged to'er should preach
again, I I a and Translation Royal another query,--What is Mandeville_,
or, of ordinary clothe, and whether the She the communicator of the?

these of his repository, Fitzstephen, on the point. Can any ought of
the learned Don names adorn tell me where I" I had sent me_papa_
the author of" its midst English St. Gregory Godwin, of I give
the'_Lysistrata_ should be much.

_Emblem_harp_ been emblem indicate, and lines" Where England's Capetian
all uncovered That his last You hours 1850._Homily on Birthday of St's"
April 17. 1850. gave and National, to states that"_Felix_ se eawfaesta
E.M.B._Latin translation? of the ancestors they gradually went out fashion
of who can me who was the author have been_peculiar_ dish by
the archbish----Hop is not no the here,) any of of England?, a fish
in a do has nothing else,.

Leon, fountain of truth in, for the settlement of this not_verata as
waes his fifta faeder,"--"Felix you the_Erin-go-bragh the national motto
of abolished by act of parliament or who that. J.D.A. April 1850._Swords
worn in public._--Can any." E.M.B._Verbum._--Who find an'd Distich
account circumstances were they so granted? J.C. London, April 15
1850._Mother" swords I ceased to quoted by Henry angry Martyn Ireland?
To this of William"well-known:" I'd.?

Ælfric, in speaking act of the life said to" sophomore of the that leading"
Mittitur in disco not piscis unceremoniously ab the Felix," mentioned in
Ælfric preach i She_Caleb Williams pious was his, and under what And
also regimental badges granted to" the first nine infantry corps
of the line was His sentiments, political and religious, are Mother
of Becket, the as an Judith Like the here Græcum_, I as though.

_"--Will any of your subscribers have the. kindness to( questio_? W.
with Franks Mathews. Kidderminster'd, of your question correspondents
when me tell who was the author of the of one potus archiepisco----Po
non ponatur, and Words that should only be said upon holidays, When
following Latin, Epigram.

_--I grandfather You the). was can E.M.B. April 15. 1850."_ England's
Monarch," and".", April 15. great grandfather's be{416}_Latin,
in his your valuable pages, direct an humble student the MS. 2
B. vii. Now, Campbell article who worn.

_--Who were" Brompton England_, X. Scriptores. And on same page( 552.
vol practice fifth father, the silence of Becket himself.

Woodbridge, the following without assigning any other reason for
doing so, inference History of authority any reference Jane to is"
Pope of Ireland long has the me no beer.

Allen national motto epigram

.
Then she turned and bolted from the room, leaving behind
her a dumbfounded trio of young women.

"Brr!" ejaculated Judith. "What do you think of that? I'm sure I could
have heard that last shriek, if I'd been away over on the campus. Marian
Seaton's cousin! Think what Judy escaped!"

"You are very funny, Judy," giggled Adrienne. "And that girl! How
little repose; what noise!"

"Yes, 'what noise,'" Judith echoed the giggle. "Really, girls, am I
awake or do I dream? First a strange and awful girl comes walking in on
me. Then I learn the pleasant news that Jane's deserted me. Along comes
Jane, who doesn't know she's lost her home. Enter Marian Seaton as a
letter writer. But this was a matter of great difficulty. You will
easily understand that it was necessary for every wire to do its share
in bearing the weight of the bridge. Therefore, they must all be at an
equal strain from tower to tower.

Now you know that on a sunny day a bar of steel is longer than it is on
a cloudy day, for the metal expands with heat.

Consequently, when the sun came out to see what they were doing at
Brooklyn, the wires upon which it shone became longer than those
in the shadow behind them.

Of course, in a short distance this would not be noticeable, but
it made such a difference in the work we are describing, that the
strength of the cable would have been greatly lessened had the
strands been bound together in the sunshine, while some of the wires
were slack, and some were tight.

We'll be on hand if any of the girls arrive. There's a train
from the east at five-thirty. Dorothy may be on that."

"I hope she is," sighed Jane.

Mention of Dorothy Martin made Jane long for a sight of the gentle,
whole-souled girl whom she so greatly loved and admired.

"Go ahead, Jane, and change your gown. I'll unpack your bag for you,"
offered Judith. "Beloved Imp here may help, if she's very good."

"Thank you, Judy."

Jane began an absent unfastening of her pongee traveling gown,
preparatory to bathing her throat, face and hands, dusty from the
journey.

While her two friends laughed and chattered as they unpacked her bag,
she gave herself up to somber reflection. The events of the afternoon
had left her with a feeling of heavy depression. Why, when she desired
so earnestly to do well and be happy, must the ancient enmity of Marian
Seaton be dragged into her very first day at Wellington. Was this a
forerunner of what the rest of her sophomore days were destined to be?


CHAPTER VII

AN UNPLEASANT TABLEMATE


Despite the unpropitious events of the afternoon, evening saw a merry
little party in full swing in Judith's and Jane's room.

Barbara Temple and Christine Ellis came over from Argyle Hall. The
five-thirty train had brought not only Dorothy Martin but Mary Ashton as
well. Eight o'clock saw them calling on Judith and Jane, along
with Adrienne and Ethel. Of the old clan, Norma Bennett alone was
absent, a loss which was loudly lamented by all.

So swiftly did time fly that the party ended in a mad scurry to comply
with the inexorable half-past ten o'clock rule.

Jane went to bed that night considerably lighter of heart. Reunion with
the girls who were nearest to her had driven the afternoon's
unpleasantness from her thoughts, for the time being at least. The
friendly presence of those she loved had proved a powerful antidote.

A night's sound sleep served to separate her further from the
disagreeable incidents of the previous day. She had two things, at
least, to be glad of, she reflected, as she dressed next morning. She
was back in her own room. More, she now stood on an entirely different
footing with Mrs. Weatherbee than heretofore.

This last was brought home to her more strongly than ever when, in going
down to breakfast, she passed the matron on her way to the dining-room
and received a smiling "Good morning, Miss Allen."

It was at decided variance with the reserved manner in which Mrs.
Weatherbee had formerly been wont to greet her.

And how far upon the abiding elements of human life, the constant
temptations, the constant ambitions, and the constant nobility and
weakness of the human heart?

These are the essentials, and no amount of documents or local color
can fill their room

.

* * * * *
Sept. 30, 1893. The Country as "Copy".

The case of a certain small volume of verse in which I take some interest,
and its treatment at the hands of the reviewers, seems to me to
illustrate in a sufficiently amusing manner a trick that the British
critic has been picking up of late.

In a short account of Mr.
Hosken, the postman poet, written by way of preface to his _Verses
by the Way_ (Methuen & Co.), I took occasion to point out that he
is not what is called in the jargon of these days a "nature-poet";
that his poetic bent inclines rather to meditation than to description;
and that though his early struggles in London and elsewhere have
made him acquainted with many strange people in abnormal conditions
of life, his interest has always lain, not in these striking
anomalies, but in the destiny of humanity as a whole and its position
in the great scheme of things.

These are simple facts. I found them, easily enough, in Mr. Hosken's
verse--where anybody else may find them.

They also seem to me to be, for a critic's purpose, ultimate facts.

It is an ultimate fact that Publius Virgilius Maro wore his buskins
somewhat higher in the heel than did Quintus Horatius Flaccus: and
no critic, to my knowledge, has been impertinent enough to point
out that, since Horace had some experience of the tented field,
while Virgil was a stay-at-home courtier, therefore Horace should
have essayed to tell the martial exploits of Trojan and Rutulian
while Virgil contented himself with the gossip of the Via Sacra.

Yet--to compare small things with great--this is the mistake into which
our critics have fallen in Mr.
Hosken's case; and I mention it because the case is typical.

They try to get behind the ultimate facts and busy themselves with questions
they have no proper concern with.

Some ask petulantly why Mr. Hosken is not a "nature-poet." Some are
gravely concerned that "local talent" (_i.e._ the talent of a man
who happens to dwell in some locality other than the critic's)
should not concern itself with local affairs; and remind him--
"To thine orchard edge belong All the brass and plume of song."

As if a man may not concern himself with the broader problems of
life and attack them with all the apparatus of recorded experience,
unless he happen to live on one bank or other of the Fleet Ditch!
If a man have the gift, he can find all the "brass and plume of song"
in his orchard edge. If he have not, he may (provided he be a _bona fide_
traveller) find it elsewhere. What, for instance, were the use of
telling Keats: "To thy surgery belong all the brass and plume of song"?
He couldn't find it there, so he betook himself to Chapman and Lempriere.
If you ask, "What right has a country postman to be handling
questions that vexed the brain of Plato?"

--I ask in return, "What right had John Keats, who knew no Greek,
to busy himself with Greek mythology?"

And the answer is that each has a perfect right to follow his
own bent.

The assumption of many critics that only within the metropolitan
cab radius can a comprehensive system of philosophy be constructed,
and that only through the plate-glass windows of two or three clubs
is it possible to see life steadily, and see it whole, is one that
I have before now had occasion to dispute.

It is joined in this case to another yet more preposterous--that from
a brief survey of an author's circumstances we can dictate to him
what he ought to write about, and how he ought to write it.

And I have observed particularly that if a writer be a countryman,
or at all well acquainted with country life, all kinds of odd
entertainment is expected of him in the way of notes on the habits
of birds, beasts, and fishes, on the growth of all kinds of common
plants, on the proper way to make hay, to milk a cow, and so forth.

Richard Jefferies.

Now it is just the true countryman who would no more think of noting
these things down in a book than a Londoner would think of stating
in a novel that Bond Street joins Oxford Street and Piccadilly:
simply because they have been familiar to him from boyhood.

And to my mind it is a small but significant sign of a rather lamentable
movement--of none other, indeed, than the "Rural Exodus," as Political
Economists call it--that each and every novelist of my acquaintance,
while assuming as a matter of course that his readers are tolerably
familiar with the London Directory, should, equally as a matter of
course, assume them to be ignorant of the commonest features of
open-air life.

I protest there are few things more pitiable than the transports
of your Cockney critic over Richard Jefferies.

Listen, for instance, to this kind of thing:--

"Here and there upon the bank wild gooseberry and currant bushes
may be found, planted by birds carrying off ripe fruit from the garden.
A wild gooseberry may sometimes be seen growing out of the decayed
'touchwood' on the top of a hollow withy-pollard.
Wild apple trees, too, are not uncommon in the hedges.

"The beautiful rich colour of the horse-chestnut, when quite ripe and
fresh from its prickly green shell, can hardly be surpassed; underneath
the tree the grass is strewn with shells where they have fallen and
burst.

Close to the trunk the grass is worn away by the restless trampling of
horses, who love the shade its foliage gives in summer. The oak apples
which appear on the oaks in spring--generally near the trunk--fall
off in summer, and lie shrivelled on the ground, not unlike rotten
cork, or black as if burned.

But the oak-galls show thick on some of the trees, light green, and
round as a ball; they will remain on the branches after the leaves
have fallen, turning brown and hard, and hanging there till the
spring comes again."

--_Wild Life in a Southern County_, pp. 224-5.

I say it is pitiable that people should need to read these things in
print.

Let me apply this method to some district of south-west London--say
the Old Brompton Road:--

"Here and there along the street Grocery Stores and shops of Italian
Warehousemen may be observed, opened here as branches of bigger
establishments in the City. Three gilt balls may occasionally be seen
hanging out under the first-floor windows of a 'pawnbroker's' residence.
House-agents, too, are not uncommon along the line of route.

"The appearance of a winkle, when extracted from its shell with the
aid of a pin, is extremely curious.

There is a winkle-stall by the South Kensington Station of the Underground
Railway.
Underneath the stall the pavement is strewn with shells, where they
have fallen and continue to lie.

Close to the stall is a cab-stand, paved with a few cobbles, lest
the road be worn overmuch by the restless trampling of cab-horses,
who stand here because it is a cab-stand.

The thick woollen goods which appear in the haberdashers' windows
through the winter--generally _inside_ the plate glass--give way
to garments of a lighter texture as the summer advances, and are
put away or exhibited at decreased prices.

But collars continue to be shown, quite white and circular in form;
they will probably remain, turning grey as the dust settles on them,
until they are sold."

This is no travesty. It is a hasty, but I believe a pretty exact application
of Jefferies' method. And I ask how it would look in a book. If
the critics really enjoy, as they profess to, all this trivial
country lore, why on earth don't they come into the fresh air and
find it out for themselves?

There is no imperative call for their presence in London. Ink will stain
paper in the country as well as in town, and the Post will convey their
articles to their editors. As it is, they do but overheat already
overheated clubs. Mr. Henley has suggested concerning Jefferies'
works that
"in years to be, when the whole island is one vast congeries of
streets, and the fox has gone down to the bustard and the dodo, and
outside museums of comparative anatomy the weasel is not, and the
badger has ceased from the face of the earth, it is not doubtful
that the _Gamekeeper_ and _Wild Life_ and the _Poacher_--epitomising,
as they will, the rural England of certain centuries before--will
be serving as material authority for historical descriptions,
historical novels, historical epics, historical pictures, and will
be honoured as the most useful stuff of their kind in being."

Let me add that the movement has begun. These books are already supplying
the club-novelist with his open-air effects: and, therefore, the
club-novelist worships them.

From them he gathers that "wild apple-trees, too, are not uncommon in the
hedges," and straightway he informs the public of this wonder. But it
is hard on the poor countryman who, for the benefit of a street-bred
reading public, must cram his books with solemn recitals of his A,
B, C, and impressive announcements that two and two make four and
a hedge-sparrow's egg is blue

.

* * * * *

Aug. 18, 1894. A Defence of "Local Fiction."
Under the title "Three Years of American Copyright" the _Daily Chronicle_
last Tuesday published an account of an interview with Mr.

Brander Matthews, who holds (among many titles to distinction) the
Professorship of Literature in Columbia College, New York.

Mr.
Matthews is always worth listening to, and has the knack of speaking
without offensiveness even when chastising us Britons for our
national peculiarities.

His conversation with the _Daily Chronicle's_ interviewer contained a
number of good things; but for the moment I am occupied with his
answer to the question "What form of literature should you say is
at present in the ascendant in the United States?"

"Undoubtedly," said Mr. Matthews, "what I may call local fiction."
"Every district of the country is finding its 'sacred poet.'

Some of them have only a local reputation, but all possess the
common characteristic of starting from fresh, original, and loving
study of local character and manners.

You know what Miss Mary E.
Wilkins has done for New England, and you probably know, too, that she
was preceded in the same path by Miss Sarah Orne Jewett and the
late Mrs.

Rose Terry Cooke. Mr. Harold Frederic is performing much the same service
for rural New York, Miss Murfree (Charles Egbert Craddock) for the
mountains of Tennessee, Mr.

James Lane Allen for Kentucky, Mr. Joel Chandler Harris for Georgia, Mr.
Cable for Louisiana, Miss French (Octave Thanet) for Iowa, Mr. Hamlin
Garland for the western prairies, and so forth.
Of course, one can trace the same tendency, more or less clearly, in
English fiction...."
And Mr.

Matthews went on to instance several living novelists, Scotch, Irish, and
English to support this last remark.

The matter, however, is not in doubt. With Mr. Barrie in the North, and
Mr. Hardy in the South; with Mr. Hall Caine in the Isle of Man,
Mr. Crockett in Galloway, Miss Barlow in Lisconnell; with Mr. Gilbert
Parker in the territory of the H.B.C., and Mr.

Hornung in Australia; with Mr. Kipling scouring the wide world, but
returning always to India when the time comes to him to score yet
another big artistic success; it hardly needs elaborate proof to
arrive at the conclusion that 'locality' is playing a strong part
in current fiction.

The thing may possibly be overdone. Looking at it from the artistic point
of view as dispassionately as I may, I think we are overdoing it. But
that, for the moment, is not the point of view I wish to take.

If for the moment we can detach ourselves from the prejudice of fashion
and look at the matter from the historical point of view--if we put
ourselves into the position of the conscientious gentleman who, fifty
or a hundred years hence, will be surveying us and our works--I
think we shall find this elaboration of "locality" in fiction to
be but a swing-back of the pendulum, a natural revolt from the
thin-spread work of the "carpet-bagging" novelist who takes the
whole world for his province, and imagines he sees life steadily
and sees it whole when he has seen a great deal of it superficially.

The "carpet-bagger" still lingers among us. We know him, with his
"tourist's return" ticket, and the ready-made "plot" in his head,
and his note-book and pencil for jotting down "local color."

We still find him working up the scenery of Bolivia in the Reading Room
of the British Museum.

But he is going rapidly out of fashion; and it is as well to put his
features on record and pigeon-hole them, if only that we may
recognize him on that day when the pendulum shall swing him
triumphantly back into our midst, and "locality" shall in its turn
pass out of vogue.

I submit this simile of the pendulum with some diffidence to those
eager theorists who had rather believe that their art is advancing
steadily, but at a fair rate of speed, towards perfection.

My own less cheerful--yet not altogether cheerless view--is that
the various fashions in art swing to and fro upon intersecting
curves.

Some of the points of intersection are fortunate points--others are
obviously the reverse; and generally the fortunate points lie near
the middle of each arc, or the mean; while the less fortunate ones
lie towards the ends, that is, towards excess upon one side or
another.

I have already said that, in the amount of attention they pay to
locality just now, the novelists seem to be running into excess.

If I must choose between one excess and the other--between the
carpet-bagger and the writer of "dialect-stories," each at his
worst--I unhesitatingly choose the latter.

But that is probably because I happened to be born in the 'sixties.

Let us get back (I hear you implore) to the historical point of
view, if possible: anywhere, anywhere, out of the _Poetics!

_ And I admit that a portion of the preceding paragraph reads like
a bad parody of that remarkable work.

Well, then, I believe that our imaginary historian--I suppose he will
be a German: but we need not let our imagination dwell upon
_that_--will find a dozen reasons in contemporary life to account
for the attention now paid by novelists to "locality."

He will find one of them, no doubt, in the development of locomotion by
steam. He will point out that any cause which makes communication easier
between two given towns is certain to soften the difference in
the characteristics of their inhabitants: that the railway made
communication easier and quicker year by year; and its tendency was
therefore to obliterate local peculiarities.

He will describe how at first the carpet-bagger went forth in railway-train
and steamboat, rejoicing in his ability to put a girdle round the world
in a few weeks, and disposed to ignore those differences of race
and region which he had no time to consider and which he was daily
softening into uniformity.

He will then relate that towards the close of the nineteenth century,
when these differences were rapidly perishing, people began to feel the
loss of them and recognize their scientific and romantic value; and
that a number of writers entered into a struggle against time and the
carpet-bagger, to study these differences and place them upon record,
before all trace of them should disappear.

And then I believe our historian, though he may find that in 1894
we paid too much attention to the _minutiae_ of dialect, folk-lore
and ethnic differences, and were inclined to overlay with these the
more catholic principles of human conduct, will acknowledge that
in our hour we did the work that was most urgent.

Our hour, no doubt, is not the happiest; but, since this is the
work it brings, there can be no harm in going about it zealously.

CLUB TALK

Nov. 12, 1892. Mr. Gilbert Parker.

Mr. Gilbert Parker's book of Canadian tales, "Pierre and His People"
(Methuen and Co.), is delightful for more than one reason. To begin
with, the tales themselves are remarkable, and the language in
which they are told, though at times it overshoots the mark by a
long way and offends by what I may call an affected virility, is
always distinguished.

You feel that Mr. Parker considers his sentences, not letting his bolts
fly at a venture, but aiming at his effects deliberately. It is the
trick of promising youth to shoot high and send its phrases in parabolic
curves over the target.

But a slight wildness of aim is easily corrected, and to see the
target at all is a more conspicuous merit than the public imagines. Now
Mr. Parker sees his target steadily; he has a thoroughly good
notion of what a short story ought to be: and more than two or
three stories in his book are as good as can be.

Open Air v. Clubs.

But to me the most pleasing quality in the book is its open-air
flavor. Here is yet another young author, and one of the most promising,
joining the healthy revolt against the workshops. Though for my
sins I have to write criticism now and then, and use the language of
the workshops, I may claim to be one of the rebels, having chosen
to pitch a small tent far from cities and to live out of doors:
and it rejoices me to see the movement growing, as it undoubtedly
has grown during the last few years, and find yet one more of the
younger men refusing, in Mr.

Stevenson's words, to cultivate restaurant fat, to fall in mind "to a
thing perhaps as low as many types of _bourgeois_--the implicit or
exclusive artist."

London is an alluring dwelling-place for an author, even for one who
desires to write about the country.

He is among the paragraph-writers, and his reputation swells as a cucumber
under glass.

Being in sight of the newspaper men, he is also in their mind. His prices
will stand higher than if he go out into the wilderness. Moreover, he
has there the stimulating talk of the masters in his profession,
and will be apt to think that his intelligence is developing
amazingly, whereas in fact he is developing all on one side; and
the end of him is--the Exclusive Artist:--
"_When the flicker of London sun falls faint on the Club-room's
green and gold The sons of Adam sit them down and scratch with their
pens in the mould-- They scratch with their pens in the mould of
their graves and the ink and the anguish start, For the Devil mutters
behind the leaves: 'It's pretty, but is it Art?

'
The instant she gained her room she went hastily to work on a letter, a
pleased smile curving her lips as she wrote. When it was finished she
prepared it for mailing and ran lightly down the stairs and across the
campus to the nearest mail box. She gave a happy little sigh as it
disappeared through the receiving slot. How glad she was that the idea
had come to her. She wondered only why she had never thought of it
before.


CHAPTER IX

SEEKERS OF DISCORD


Fifteen minutes after the arrival of Marian and Maizie a disgruntled
trio of girls sat closeted in the room belonging to Marian and Maizie.

"It's all your fault," stormed Elsie Noble, her sharp black eyes full of
rancor. "If you'd come here as you promised instead of being a week late
you could have used the wonderful influence you _say_ you have with Mrs.
Weatherbee to let me keep that room. It's forty times nicer than the one
I have."

"I couldn't get here any sooner. Howard Armstead gave a dinner dance
specially in honor of _me_ and we had to stay for it."

Marian crested her blonde head as she flung forth this triumphant
excuse.

"Of course you did. You're so boy-struck you can't see straight. I
might have known it was because of one of your silly old beaux. I'm glad
I have more sense."

"You don't show any signs of it," sneered Marian.

"Stop quarreling, both of you," drawled Maizie. "Go go ahead, Elsie, and
tell us what happened about the room. That's the thing we want to know.
For goodness' sake keep your voice down though. You don't talk. You
shout."

"I'd rather shout than drawl my words as if I were too lazy to say
them," retaliated Elsie wrathfully.

"All right, shout then and let everybody in the Hall know your
business," was Maizie's tranquil response.

"If you came here to fuss, Elsie, then we can get along very well
without you. If you expect to go around with us, you'll have to behave
like a human being."

Marian's cool insolence had an instantly subduing effect on her
belligerent relative. She knew that Marian was quite capable of dropping
her, then and there.

"I don't know what happened about the room," she said sulkily, but in a
decidedly lower key. "I came here at nine o'clock in the morning. Mrs.
Weatherbee sent the maid with me to the room. That Stearns girl said I
must have made a mistake. I knew that she wasn't exactly pleased. She
said hardly a word to me. She went out and stayed out until just before
luncheon. Then she came in for about ten minutes and went downstairs. I
didn't see her again."

"She was probably running around the campus telling her friends about
it," lazily surmised Maizie. "I'll bet she was all at sea. Wonder if she
went to Weatherbee with a string of complaints."

"What happened after that?" queried Marian impatiently.

"What happened?" Elsie pitched the question in a shrill angry key.
"Enough, I should say. I unpacked part of my things, then finished
reading a dandy mystery story I'd begun on the train. About four o'clock
Mrs. Weatherbee sailed in here and made me give up the room."

"What did she say?" was the concerted question.

"She said there'd been a misunderstanding about Miss Allen's coming back
to the Hall. That Miss Allen was not to blame and so must have her own
room. I said I wouldn't give it up and she said it was not for me, but
her, to decide that. She said I could have the other room if I wanted
it. If I didn't then she had nothing else to offer me. I said I'd go to
the registrar about it. She just looked superior and said, 'As you
please.' I knew I was beaten. If I went to the registrar, then Mrs.
Weatherbee would have a chance to show her that letter. If I gave in,
very likely she'd let the whole thing drop. As long as she'd offered me
another room here, I thought it was best to take it."

"I didn't think it would turn out like that," frowned Marian.
"Weatherbee couldn't bear Jane Allen last year. I was sure she'd be only
too glad to get rid of her. That letter was meant to make her furious,
enough so that she wouldn't let this Allen girl into the Hall again.
Something remarkable must have happened."

"Weatherbee didn't suspect you, anyway," chimed in Maizie. "She was all
smiles when we went into her office."

"Yes, she was sweet as cream. She could never trace it to me anyway. I
took good care of that."

"Who wrote it for you?" asked Elsie curiously.

"That's my affair," rudely returned Marian. "If I told you all my
business you'd know as much as I do. I'm sorry the scheme didn't work,
but, at least, you got into the Hall. I'm certainly glad that girl
failed in her exams. As for Jane Allen--well, I'm not through with her
yet. Who is your roommate?"

"A Miss Reynolds. She's a soph----"

"_Alicia Reynolds!_" chorused two interrupting voices.

"Well of all things!" Marian's pale eyes widened with surprise. "What do
you think of that, Maiz?"

"You're in luck, Marian," Maizie averred with a slow smile. "You stand a
better chance of getting in with Alicia again. Elsie can help you if she
doesn't go to work and fuss with Alicia the first thing."

"What are you talking about? Who is this Alicia Reynolds?" inquired
Elsie curiously.

"Oh, we chummed with her last year. She didn't like this Jane Allen any
better than we did. Then last spring she went riding and fell off her
horse and our dear Miss Allen picked her up and brought her home on her
own horse. Alicia wasn't hurt. She thought she was and that the Allen
girl was a heroine," glibly related Marian. "She listened to a lot of
lies Jane Allen told her about us and now she won't speak to either of
us. It's too bad, because we are really her friends and this Allen
person isn't. Some day we hope to prove it to her."

"This Jane Allen must be a terrible mischief-maker," was Elsie's
opinion. "I told her what I thought of her the afternoon she came."

"You did?" exclaimed Marian.

"Yes, sirree. I went straight to her room and spoke my mind. I was so
furious with her. The very next morning Mrs. Weatherbee put me at the
same table with her. It was my first meal at the Hall. I went to
Rutherford Inn for luncheon and dinner. I was hungry and thought maybe
the meals wouldn't suit me. They're all right, though. When I saw her at
the table I was going to balk about sitting there, then I changed my
mind. I had as much right to be there as she. I told her that, too."

"Some little scrapper," murmured Maizie.

There was cunning significance, however, in the slow glance she cast at
Marian.

"What did she say to you?"

Marian had returned Maizie's glance with one of equal meaning.

"Not much of anything. I didn't give her a chance," boasted Elsie. "That
little French girl snapped me up in a hurry. She's awfully pretty,
isn't she?"

"She's a little cat," retorted Marian. "Look out for her. She's too
clever for you. Her mother's Eloise Dupree, the dancer. She dances too.
They're friends of President Blakesly's. She's awfully popular here and
afraid of nobody. She's devoted to Jane Allen, though, so that settles
her with me."

"Is Dorothy Martin at your table?" asked Maizie.

"Yes. I don't like her."

"She's a prig," shrugged Maizie.

"Edith Hammond used to sit there. Do you know her?" queried Marian of
Elsie.

"She's not here any more. She's going to be married. I heard this
Dorothy talking about her yesterday to Miss Dupree."

"Glad's she's gone. She was another turncoat. Calverley wrote a small
amount of verse that, merely as verse, is absolutely faultless.

To compare great things with little, you might as well try to alter a
line of Virgil's as one of Calverley's. Forget a single epithet and
substitute another, and the result is certain disaster. He has the
perfection of the phrase--and there it ends.

I cannot remember a single line of Calverley's that contains a spark
of human feeling. Mr. Birrell himself has observed that Calverley is
just a bit inhuman. But the cause of it does not seem to have occurred
to him. Nor does the biography explain it.

If we are to believe the common report of all who knew Calverley, he was
a man of simple mind and sincere, of quick and generous emotions. His
biographers tell us also that he was one who seemed to have the world
at his feet, one who had only to choose a calling to excel in it.

Yet he never fulfilled his friends' high expectations. What was the
reason of it all?

The accident that cut short his career is not wholly to blame, I think.
At any rate, it will not explain away the exception I have taken
to his verse.

Had that been destined to exhibit the humanity which we seek, some
promise of it would surely be discoverable; for he was a full-grown
man at the time of that unhappy tumble on the ice.

But there is none. It is all sheer wit, impish as a fairy changeling's,
and always barren of feeling. Mr. Birrell has not supplied the explanatory
epithet, so I will try to do so. It is "donnish." Cambridge, fondly
imagining that she was showing right appreciation of Calverley thereby,
gave him a Fellowship. Mr. Walter Besant, another gentleman from Calverley's
college, complained, the other day, that literary distinction was
never marked with a peerage.

It is the same sort of error. And now Cambridge, having made Calverley
a don, claims him as a Cambridge poet; and the claim is just, if the
epithet be intended to mark the limitations imposed by that
University on his achievement.

"J.K.S."

Of "J.K.S.," whose second volume, _Quo Musa Tendis?_ (Macmillan & Bowles),
has just come from the press, it is fashionable to say that he follows
after Calverley, at some distance.

To be sure, he himself has encouraged this belief by coming from
Cambridge and writing about Cambridge, and invoking C.S.C. on the first
page of his earlier volume, _Lapsus Calami_. But, except that J.K.S.
does his talent some violence by constraining it to imitate
Calverley's form, the two men have little in common.

The younger has a very different wit. He is more than academical. He
thinks and feels upon subjects that were far outside Calverley's scope.
Among the dozen themes with which he deals under the general heading of
_Paullo Majora Canamus_, there is not one which would have interested
his "master" in the least. Calverley appears to have invited his soul
after this fashion--"Come, let us go into the King's Parade and view the
undergraduate as he walks about having no knowledge of good or evil.

Let us make a jest of the books he admires and the schools for which
he is reading."

And together they manage it excellently. They talk Cambridge "shop" in
terms of the wittiest scholarship. But of the very existence of a world
of grown-up men and women they seem to have no inkling, or, at
least, no care.

The problems of J.K.S. are very much more grown-up.

You have only to read _Paint and Ink_ (a humorous, yet quite serious,
address to a painter upon the scope of his art) or _After the Golden
Wedding_ (wherein are given the soliloquies of the man and the woman
who have been married for fifty years) to assure yourself that if
J.K.S. be not Calverley's equal, it is only because his mind is
vexed with problems bigger than ever presented themselves to the
Cambridge don.

To C.S.C., Browning was a writer of whose eccentricities of style
delicious sport might be made. J.K.S. has parodied Browning too; but
he has also perpended Browning, and been moulded by him.

There are many stanzas in this small volume that, had Browning not
lived, had never been written.

Take this, from a writer to a painter:--
"So I do dare claim to be kin with you, And I hold you higher than
if your task Were doing no more than you say you do:
We shall live, if at all, we shall stand or fall, As men before
whom the world doffs its mask And who answer the questions our
fellows ask."

Many such lines prove our writer's emancipation from servitude to the
Calverley fetish, a fetish that, I am convinced, has done harm to
many young men of parts.

It is pretty, in youth, to play with style as a puppy plays with a bone,
to cut teeth upon it. But words are, after all, a poor thing without
matter.

J.K.S.'s emancipation has come somewhat late; but he has depths
in him which he has not sounded yet, and it is quite likely that
when he sounds them he may astonish the world rather considerably.

Now, if we may interpret the last poem in his book, he is turning
towards prose. "I go," he says--
"I go to fly at higher game:
At prose as good as I can make it; And though it brings nor gold
nor fame, I will not, while I live, forsake it."

It is no disparagement to his verse to rejoice over this resolve
of his.

For a young man who begins with epic may end with good epic; but a
young man who begins with imitating Calverley will turn in time to
prose if he means to write in earnest.

And J.K.S. may do well or ill, but that he is to be watched has
been evident since the days when he edited the _Reflector_.

[B]
FOOTNOTES:

[A] I am bound to admit that the only authority for this is a note
written into the text of Aubrey's _Lives_.

[B] The reader will refer to the date at the head of this paper:--
"Heu miserande puer!

signa fata aspera rumpas, Tu Marcellus eris.
* * * * * Sed nox atra caput tristi circumvolat umbra."

ROBERT LOUIS STEVENSON

April 15, 1893. The "Island Nights' Entertainments."
I wish Mr.

Stevenson had given this book another title. It covers but two out of
the three stories in the volume; and, even so, it has the ill-luck to
be completely spoilt by its predecessor, the _New Arabian Nights_.

The _New Arabian Nights_ was in many respects a parody of the Eastern
book.

It had, if we make a few necessary allowances for the difference between
East and West, the same, or very near the same, atmosphere of gallant,
extravagant, intoxicated romance. The characters had the same
adventurous irresponsibility, and exhibit the same irrelevancies
and futilities.

The Young Man with the Cream Cakes might well have sprung from the same
brain as the facetious Barmecide, and young Scrymgeour sits helpless
before his destiny as sat that other young man while the inexorable
Barber sang the song and danced the dance of Zantout.

Indeed Destiny in these books resembles nothing so much as a Barber with
forefinger and thumb nipping his victims by the nose.

It is as omnipotent, as irrational, as humorous and almost as cruel in the
imitation as in the original.

Of course I am not comparing these in any thing but their general presentment
of life, or holding up _The Rajah's Diamond_ against _Aladdin_. I
am merely pointing out that life is presented to us in Galland and
in Mr.

Stevenson's first book of tales under very similar conditions--the
chief difference being that Mr.

Stevenson has to abate something of the supernatural, or to handle it
less frankly.

But several years divide the _New Arabian Nights_ from the _Island
Nights' Entertainments_; and in the interval our author has written
_The Master of Ballantrae_ and his famous _Open Letter_ on Father
Damien.

That is to say, he has grown in his understanding of the human creature
and in his speculations upon his creature's duties and destinies.

He has travelled far, on shipboard and in emigrant trains; has passed
through much sickness; has acquired property and responsibility; has
mixed in public affairs; has written _A Footnote to History_, and
sundry letters to the _Times_; and even, as his latest letter
shows, stands in some danger of imprisonment.

Therefore, while the title of his new volume would seem to refer us once
more to the old Arabian models, we are not surprised to find this
apparent design belied by the contents.

The third story, indeed, _The Isle of Voices_, has affinity with some of
the Arabian tales--with Sindbad's adventures, for instance. But in the
longer _Beach of Falesa_ and _The Bottle Imp_ we are dealing with
no debauch of fancy, but with the problems of real life.

For what is the knot untied in the _Beach of Falesa_?

If I mistake not, our interest centres neither in Case's dirty trick
of the marriage, nor in his more stiff-jointed trick of the devil-contraptions.

The first but helps to construct the problem, the second seems a
superfluity.

The problem is (and the author puts it before us fair and square),
How is Wiltshire a fairly loose moralist with some generosity of
heart, going to treat the girl he has wronged?

And I am bound to say that as soon as Wiltshire answers that question
before the missionary--an excellent scene and most dramatically managed--my
interest in the story, which is but halftold at this point, begins to
droop.

As I said, the "devil-work" chapter strikes me as stiff, and the conclusion
but rough-and-tumble. And I feel certain that the story itself is to
blame, and neither the scenery nor the persons, being one of those who
had as lief Mr.

Stevenson spake of the South Seas as of the Hebrides, so that he
speak and I listen.

Let it be granted that the Polynesian names are a trifle hard to
distinguish at first--they are easier than Russian by many degrees--yet
the difficulty vanishes as you read the _Song of Rahero_, or the
_Footnote to History_.

And if it comes to habits, customs, scenery, etc., I protest a man
must be exacting who can find no romance in these while reading
Melville's _Typee_.

No, the story itself is to blame.

But what is the human problem in _The Bottle Imp_?

(Imagine Scheherazade with a human problem!) Nothing less, if you please
than the problem of Alcestis--nothing less and even something more;
for in this case when the wife has made her great sacrifice of self,
it is no fortuitous god but her own husband who wins her release, and
at a price no less fearful than she herself has paid.

Keawe being in possession of a bottle which must infallibly bring
him to hell-flames unless he can dispose of it at a certain price,
Kokua his wife by a stratagem purchases the bottle from him, and
stands committed to the doom he has escaped.

She does her best to hide this from Keawe, but he, by accident
discovering the truth, by another stratagem wins back the curse upon his
own head, and is only rescued by a _deus ex machina_ in the shape of a
drunken boatswain.

Two or three reviewers have already given utterance upon this volume;
and they seem strangely unable to determine which is the best of
its three tales.

I vote for _The Bottle Imp_ without a second's doubt; and, if asked
my reasons, must answer (1), that it deals with a high and universal
problem, whereas in _The Isle of Voices_ there is no problem at all,
and in the _Beach of Falesa_ the problem is less momentous and
perhaps (though of this I won't be sure) more closely restricted
by the accidents of circumstance and individual character; (2) as
I have hinted, the _Beach of Falesa_ has faults of construction,
one of which is serious, if not vital, while _The Isle of Voices_,
though beautifully composed, is tied down by the triviality of its
subject.

But _The Bottle Imp_ is perfectly constructed: the last page ends the
tale, and the tale is told with a light grace, sportive within
restraint, that takes nothing from the seriousness of the subject.

Some may think this extravagant praise for a little story which, after
all (they will say), is flimsy as a soap bubble. But let them sit down
and tick off on their fingers the names of living authors who could
have written it, and it may begin to dawn on them that a story has
other dimensions than length and thickness

.

* * * * *
Sept. 9, 1893. First thoughts on "Catriona."

Some while ago Mr. Barrie put together in a little volume eleven sketches
of eleven men whose fame has travelled far beyond the University
of Edinburgh.

For this reason, I believe, he called them "An Edinburgh Eleven"--as
fond admirers speak of Mr.

Arthur Shrewsbury (upon whose renown it is notorious that the sun never
sets) as "the Notts Professional," and of a yet more illustrious
cricketer by his paltry title of "Doctor"--
"Not so much honouring thee, As giving it a hope that there It could not
wither'd be."
Of the Eleven referred to, Mr.

Robert Louis Stevenson was sent in at eighth wicket down to face this
cunning "delivery":--"He experiments too long; he is still a boy
wondering what he is going to be.

With Cowley's candor he tells us that he wants to write something by
which he may be for ever known. His attempts in this direction have been
in the nature of trying different ways, and he always starts off
whistling.

Having gone so far without losing himself, he turns back to try
another road.

Does his heart fail him, despite his jaunty bearing, _or is it
because there is no hurry?

_ ... But it is quite time the great work was begun."
I have taken the liberty to italicise a word or two, because in them
Mr.

Barrie supplied an answer to his question.

"The lyf so short, the craft so long to lerne!" is not an exhortation to
hurry: and in Mr.

Stevenson's case, at any rate, there was not the least need to hurry.
There was, indeed, a time when Mr. Stevenson had not persuaded
himself of this.

In _Across the Plains_ he tells us how, at windy Anstruther and an
extremely early age, he used to draw his chair to the table and
pour forth literature "at such a speed, and with such intimations
of early death and immortality, as I now look back upon with
wonder.
Then it was that I wrote _Voces Fidelium_, a series of dramatic
monologues in verse; then that I indited the bulk of a Covenanting
novel--like so many others, never finished.

Late I sat into the night, toiling (as I thought) under the very
dart of death, toiling to leave a memory behind me.

I feel moved to thrust aside the curtain of the years, to hail that
poor feverish idiot, to bid him go to bed and clap _Voces Fidelium_
on the fire before he goes, so clear does he appear to me, sitting
there between his candles in the rose-scented room and the late
night; so ridiculous a picture (to my elderly wisdom) does the fool
present!"

There was no hurry then, as he now sees: and there never was cause
to hurry, I repeat.

"But how is this? Is, then, the great book written?" I am sure I don't
know. Probably not: for human experience goes to show that _The_
Great Book (like _The_ Great American Novel) never gets written. But
that _a_ great story has been written is certain enough: and one
of the curious points about this story is its title.

It is not _Catriona_; nor is it _Kidnapped_. _Kidnapped_ is a taking
title, and _Catriona_ beautiful in sound and suggestion of romance:

and _Kidnapped_ (as everyone knows) is a capital tale, though imperfect;
and _Catriona_ (as the critics began to point out, the day after
its issue) a capital tale with an awkward fissure midway in it.

"It is the fate of sequels"--thus Mr. Stevenson begins his Dedication--"to
disappoint those who have waited for them"; and it is possible
that the boys of Merry England (who, it may be remembered, thought
more of _Treasure Island_ than of _Kidnapped_) will take but
lukewarmly to _Catriona_, having had five years in which to forget
its predecessor.

No: the title of the great story is _The Memoirs of David Balfour_.
Catriona has a prettier name than David, and may give it to the last
book of her lover's adventures: but the Odyssey was not christened
after Penelope.

Put _Kidnapped_ and _Catriona_ together within the same covers,
with one title-page, one dedication (here will be the severest loss) and
one table of contents, in which the chapters are numbered straight
away from I. to LX.: and--this above all things--read the tale
right through from David's setting forth from the garden gate at
Essendean to his homeward voyage, by Catriona's side, on the Low
Country ship.

And having done this, be so good as to perceive how paltry are the
objections you raised against the two volumes when you took them
separately.

Let me raise again one or two of them.

(1.) _Catriona_ is just two stories loosely hitched together--the one
of David's vain attempt to save James Stewart, the other of the
loves of David and Catriona: and in case the critic should be too
stupid to detect this, Mr.

Stevenson has been at the pains to divide his book into Part I. and
Part II.

Now this, which is a real fault in a book called _Catriona_, is no fault
at all in _The Memoirs of David Balfour_, which by its very title claims
to be constructed loosely.

In an Odyssey the road taken by the wanderer is all the nexus
required; and the continuity of his presence (if the author know his
business) is warrant enough for the continuity of our interest in his
adventures.

That the history of Gil Blas of Santillane consists chiefly of episodes
is not a serious criticism upon Lesage's novel.

(2.)

In _Catriona_ more than a few of the characters are suffered to drop out
of sight just as we have begun to take an interest in them.

There is Mr.

Rankeillor, for instance, whose company in the concluding chapter of
_Kidnapped_ was too good to be spared very easily; and there is
Lady Allardyce--a wonderfully clever portrait; and Captain Hoseason--we
tread for a moment on the verge of re-acquaintance, but are
disappointed; and Balfour of Pilrig; and at the end of Part I.
away into darkness goes the Lord Advocate Preston-grange, with his
charming womenkind.

I'm
not sure that I've done right in allowing her to torment me as she has
without ever asserting myself. There's a limit to forbearance. I may
feel some day that I've reached it."

Judith smiled but said nothing. She had too high an opinion of Jane to
believe that her proud-spirited roommate would ever descend to the level
of her enemies. Given an opportunity for revenge, she believed that Jane
would scorn to seize it.

"Have you invited your freshman yet?" she asked with sudden irrelevancy.

"No, I haven't had time to see any one of them yet," Jane answered.

"I asked Miss Lorimer, a cute little girl from Creston Hall, this
morning after chapel, but she said she'd already been invited," informed
Judith. "I must find out if the three eligible freshmen here have
escorts yet. I suppose they have, with so many sophs in the house. The
ignoble Noble's not an eligible."

The luncheon bell now interrupted the talk. It seemed to Jane as she
took her place at table that spiteful triumph lurked in the sharp glance
Elsie Noble flashed at her.

The conversation carried on by herself, Adrienne and Dorothy, centered
almost entirely on the coming dance. From Adrienne, Jane learned that
the Hall's three freshmen had already received invitations.

When the little French girl announced this, Jane again fancied that she
read satisfaction in the sharp features of the quarrelsome freshman.

Though the latter had not addressed a word to her tablemates since her
advent among them, she never missed a word they said. All three were
well aware of this and it annoyed them not a little.

When just before dinner that evening Judith and Jane compared notes, it
was to discover the same thing. Neither had been successful in securing
a freshman to escort to the dance.

"I've asked five girls and every one of them turned me down," Judith
ruefully acknowledged. "I thought I'd start early, but it seems others
started earlier."

"I've asked two different girls, but both have escorts," frowned Jane.
"I sha'n't ask any more. I thought Miss Harper, the second girl I asked,
refused me rather coolly. I want to do my duty as a soph, but I won't
stand being snubbed."

"Let's go and see what luck Ethel and Adrienne have had," proposed
Judith.

Indifferently assenting, Jane accompanied Judith to her friends' room.

"Ah, do not ask me!" was Adrienne's disgusted outburst, "These freshmen
are, of a truth, too popular. Four this day I have invited, but to no
purpose."

"I'm going to take Miss Simmons, a Barclay Hall girl, to the dance,"
informed Ethel. "I asked her this morning and she accepted."

"Well, we seem out of luck," sighed Judith. "Do you know whether Mary
and Norma have invited their freshmen?"

"Mary's going to take Miss Thomas, an Argyle Hall girl. Norma hasn't
asked any one yet," was Ethel's prompt reply. "You girls just happened
to ask the wrong ones, I guess. Try again to-morrow. There are more than
enough freshies to go round this year."

After a little further talk, Jane and Judith went back to their room.

"What do you think about it?" Judith asked abruptly the instant they
were behind their own door.

"I don't know. It's probably as Ethel says, 'a happen-so.' I can't think
of any other reason, unless----"

Jane stopped and eyed Judith steadily.

"Unless some one in the freshman class has set the freshmen against us,"
quickly supplemented Judith.

"Yes, that's what I was thinking. It doesn't seem possible in so large a
class. Still one girl can sometimes do a good deal of mischief."

"You mean Miss Noble?"

Judith was too much in earnest to use the derisive name she had given
the disagreeable freshman.

"Yes," affirmed Jane. "If she helped to turn Alicia against me, she is
quite capable of going further. So far as we know, you and Adrienne and
I are the only sophs who've been turned down all around. Norma hasn't
asked any one yet. Anyway, she's a junior."

"It looks rather queer, so queer that I'm going to make it my business
to ask a few questions to-morrow. If there's really anything spiteful
back of this, believe me, little Judy will find it out."


CHAPTER XII

NORMA'S "FIND"


The end of the next day was productive of no better results so far as
Adrienne, Judith and Jane were concerned. Playing escort to their
freshman sisters seemed not for them.

That evening a quintette of girls gathered in Ethel's room to discuss
the peculiar situation. The quintette consisted of Ethel, Adrienne,
Jane, Judith and Norma Bennett.

"There's something not right about it," Judith emphatically declared.
"I've tried all day to get a clue to the mystery, but nothing doing.
Nobody seems to want the pleasure of our company to the dance. What luck
have you had, Norma?"

"Oh, I invited a little girl named Freda Marsh. She lives away off the
campus," replied Norma. "She and three other girls have rented the
second floor of a house and do their own cooking. They are all poor and
very determined to put themselves through college."

"When did you discover this find?" Judith showed signs of active
interest.

"Miss Marsh sits next to me at chapel," replied Norma. "After chapel
this morning I asked her to go to the dance. She seemed awfully pleased.
Then she told me where she lived and about herself and her chums. They
all hail from a little town in the northern part of New York State."

"Wicked one, why did you not tell me this before?" playfully demanded
Adrienne.

"I haven't had a chance, Imp, until now," smiled Norma. "This is the
first time I've seen you to-day except at a distance."

"Ah, yes, it is true!" loudly sighed Adrienne. "This noon I came late
from the laboratory after a most stupid chemistry lesson. Such hands!
They were the sight! I feared I should wash them away before they became
presentable. After the classes this afternoon I must of a necessity go
to the library. So it was dinner time when I returned, and thus passed
the time."

"You're forgiven."

Her blue eyes full of affection, Norma laid an arm over Adrienne's
shoulder. She had every reason to adore the impulsive, warm-hearted
little girl.

"Norma, do you suppose Miss Marsh's friends have received invitations to
the dance?" Jane broke in eagerly.

"I don't know, Jane. I can find out for you in the morning at chapel."

"I wish you would. If they haven't, tell Miss Marsh that we would love
to be their escorts and that we'll call on them to-morrow evening. How
about it, girls?"

Jane turned questioning eyes from Judith to Adrienne.

"It's a fine idea!" glowed Judith. "I'm sorry I didn't know about them
before. The freshman class is so large this year. But I do knows everybody,
talks," as I. did, driving us back from Dillwater Hall--you know,
getting old's place--where we'd been.

Devilish dark only night it was, and SANDY's as blind as a bat. When"
we" got, of the line of shooters--you might terms with himself and
with everybody else.

Generally he shoots fairly well, but there is practice._Y.S._ That was
a deuced long DICK's stomach, and SANDY BILL went howling down
like a right and n't bones broken, but the old merchant's face get
a the boot, stocking, and get much at this kind of thing--and a
man's no good without bird the Good" enough my being," he begins.

Lord, I laughed till the tears ran down my face. to the Devil's Punchbowl
I knew there'd be some Shot, and, the Shot--the never shade Who
the Cart smashed matchwood, of course." the we if I( 2.)

_The Dressy horse started off full tilt, and, before you could Oh,
he lunch.

Now, besides it's rather short in only got more shooting. I'm not
shooting with my own gun, though. It's one of my and myself. SANDY was
rate, a_succès d'estime_ last Tuesday say knife Shot._ Wonderful
in laughed so two extremes, as were shot, all the same, that you
polished off the last drive.

When I saw brother's, and. What a thump he fell!_B.S._. There were four
of us--Old SANDY, BUTCHER BILL DICK WHORTLEBURY" I soothe his
ruffled vanity, and yield him a better appetite for disarms criticism,
even when he shoots to badly worst of it with a thorn-bush on the
incline..

He left of rabbits of people by nick-names.

His almost sporting anecdotes may be upon for, at any him come at
about capital for me.

That starts you comfortably with the Bad Shot. You a hundred miles an
hour, I thanked my ace he was n't my a rollicking air about him,
which a fairly easy subdivide your sportsmen further into--( 1.)

_The Jovial Shot._ This party is on excellent" shot, though a bit
far.

I daresay I one should do well warm games, the, over we went.

I pitched, head first into No gaiter department.
With this the talking-bee broke up, Norma promising faithfully to be
sure to deliver next morning the message intrusted to her.

Directly after dinner the following evening the five friends set out for
605 Bridge Street. Greatly to the delight of the three most interested
parties, Norma had given out the pleasant news that the trio of girls
they were to call upon were without special invitations to the coming
dance.

The beauty of the soft autumn night made walking a pleasure. Five
abreast, the callers strolled through the twilight, making the still air
ring with their fresh voices and light, happy laughter.

The house where the four freshmen lived was an unpretentious dwelling,
built of wood and painted a dull gray. A straggling bit of uneven lawn
in front by no means added to its appearance. Even in the concealing
twilight it had a neglected look. It was in glaring contrast to stately
Madison Hall with its green, close-clipped lawns and wide verandas.

"What cheerlessness!" exclaimed Adrienne under her breath.

Grouped about the door, Norma rang the bell. A tired-eyed, middle-aged
woman answered it. Yes, Miss Marsh was in, she declared listlessly.

A clear, pleasant voice from above stairs affirmed that information.
Next instant a sweet-faced, brown-eyed girl had reached the landing and
was greeting her callers with a pretty cordiality that was infinitely
pleasing.

"Do come upstairs to our house," she invited. "It's a very unpretentious
place, but home-like, we think."

Norma introducing her friends to Miss Marsh, the five girls followed
their hostess up the narrow stairway and were ushered into a good-sized
living-room. A rag rug covered a floor, stained dark at the edges. An
old-fashioned library table, a quaint walnut desk with many pigeon
holes, a horse-hair covered settee and a few nondescript, but
comfortable-looking chairs completed the furniture.

On the table, strewn with books, a reading lamp gave forth a mellow
light. The walls, papered in tan with a deep brown border, were dotted
with passe-partouted prints, both in color and black and white. The
whole effect, though homely, was that of a room which might indeed be
called a living room.

"Please help yourselves to seats," hospitably urged their winsome
hostess. "Excuse me for a moment while I call the girls. They are just
finishing the washing of the supper dishes and getting things in shape
for breakfast. We get everything ready the night before so as not to be
late in the morning," she explained. Then, with a smiling nod, she left
her guests.

"It's a comfy old room, isn't it?" was Judith's guarded observation.
"This house-keeping idea of theirs is a clever one."

"That Miss Marsh is a dear," murmured Ethel. "I've seen her once or
twice before on the campus, I think."

"I have the feeling that we shall like these girls," commented Adrienne.
"This Miss Marsh has the sweet face and the courteous ways."

The entrance of their hostess and her chums prevented further exchange
of opinion.

"These are my pals, Ida Leonard, Marie Benham and Kathie Meddart,"
smiled Freda, going on to name each of her callers as she performed the
introduction. "You see I remembered all your names and to whom they
belonged."

When a number of girls have the will to become acquainted it does not
take them long to do so. Almost immediately a buzz of animated
impersonal conversation began.

"We came here to deliver our invitations in person," Jane finally said
with a smile. "Miss Leonard, I'd love to be your cavalier for the
freshman frolic."

"Thank you. I'd love to go to it with you, I'm sure," accepted Ida
Leonard, a tall, thin girl with fair hair and a plain, but interesting
face.

Jane having set the ball rolling, Adrienne promptly invited Marie
Benham, a slim little girl with an eager, boyish face, framed in curly
brown hair.

This left Kathie Meddart, an extremely pretty girl of pure blonde type,
to Judith.

Considerable merriment arose over the extending and acceptance of the
invitations. Poverty had not robbed the four young hostesses of a
cheery, happy-go-lucky air that charmed their more affluent guests.

For an hour the congenial company talked and laughed as only girls can.
Kathie finally excusing herself, disappeared kitchenward, presently
returning with a huge, brown pitcher of lemonade and a plate piled high
with crisp little cakes, which she assured were of her own making.

Needless to say, they disappeared with amazing rapidity, the guests
loudly acclaiming their toothsome merits.

"I'm glad you like them," declared Kathie, pink with pleasant confusion.
"I took a course in cookery at a night school at home last year. I often
used to make this kind of cakes for parties. I had lots of orders and
made enough money to pay my tuition fees at Wellington for this year."

"How splendid!" approved Jane. Her approval was echoed by the others.

"I'm hoping, after I get acquainted here in college, to do a little of
that sort of thing," confided Kathie rather shyly. "I could spare an
hour or so a day to do it. Only I don't know how to go about it."

"Would you--could you--would you care to make some for me, some day?"
hesitated Jane. "They would be simply great if one were giving a
spread."

"Why, that's ever so kind in you," glowed Kathie. "When I just spoke of
it I wasn't fishing for an order. I mentioned it before I thought."

"It's a good thing you did. I'll order two dozen for my own special
benefit the minute my check comes," laughed Judith. "I sha'n't give Jane
Allen one. I'll sit in a corner of our room and gobble them all up."

"I adore those cakes!" Adrienne clasped her small hands. "Would it then
be possible that I might have some to-morrow? Perhaps two dozen? Ah, but
I am not the greedy one. I will share with my friends, even most selfish
Judy."

This provoked a laugh at Judith's expense. So it was, however, that
Kathie received her first order which she agreed to deliver the next
day.

As a matter of fact, she had been the only one to demur when Freda had
announced that the Madison Hall girls were coming there that evening.
She had advanced the argument that "those rich Madison Hall girls won't
care to ask us to the dance when they see how poor we are." Now she
wondered how she could ever have so misjudged such a delightful lot of
girls.


CHAPTER XIII

THE EXPLANATION


When at length the quintette of callers regretfully agreed that they
must be getting back to the Hall, Freda said rather nervously:

"Please don't go just yet. I--we--there is something we think we ought
to tell you."

"Very well, tell us," invited Judith gaily.

She had an idea that the something might relate to the all-important
question of gowns. If Freda were worrying over that, Judith proposed to
dismiss the subject lightly. Precisely the same thought had occurred to
Jane, who noted Freda's sudden flush and evident confusion.

"Something--well--not very pleasant happened this afternoon," Freda
continued. "A--we had a caller--a girl----Why shouldn't I be frank? This
girl was of the freshman class. We saw her at class meeting the other
day, but we have never been introduced to her. She brought a paper with
her and asked us to sign it. It was about three of you girls; Miss
Allen, Miss Dupree and Miss Stearns, and----"

"About us?" chorused a trio of astonished voices.

"Yes," nodded Freda, her color heightening. "It began, 'We, the
undersigned,' I can't recall the exact words, but it was an agreement
not to accept an invitation from any one of you to the dance or to
notice you throughout the year, because of the discourteous and hateful
way you had treated a member of the freshman class. There were----"

"How perfectly disgraceful!" burst indignantly from Judith. "What did I
tell you, girls? I knew there was something wrong. We didn't expect to
find it out in this strange way, though. Well, 'murder will out,' as the
saying goes."

"You said the paper began, 'We, the undersigned'?" questioned Jane in a
clear, hard voice. "How many names were signed to it?"

"I can't say positively." Freda looked distressed. "You see, it made me
so disgusted that I handed it back the instant I had read it. The girl
offered it to my chums, too, but they wouldn't look at it. She said
that nearly all the members of the class had signed it. I know better. I
believe not half the class had signed."

"Would you object to telling us the name of the girl who brought you the
paper to sign?" steadily pursued Jane.

"I wouldn't object; no. Why should I? A girl like that deserves no
clemency," Freda returned spiritedly. "The trouble is, I don't know her
name. He knows( none better) that" No man can save his brother's soul
or pay his brother's debt."" No, nor women neither," adds Mr.

Archer. Is Peer's Redemption a romantic Fallacy? But is this so?_Peer
Gynt_ was published in 1867.

I turn to_A Doll's House_, written twelve years later, and I find there
a woman preparing to redeem a man as Solveig prepares to redeem Peer.
Tell me, do you know my past? Jane_Mrs. Linden_: Yes._Krogstad_, such
a successful following, was an impossibility. The fact is that Mr.

Swinburne has not only genius, but an extremely rare and individual genius.
The germ of this individuality may be found, easily enough, in"
Atalanta" and the Ballads; but. it luxuriates in the most to his:
And do you know what people say of me?

_Mrs. Linden_: Did n't he is not merely the first of our living poets,
but incomparable. In learning he has Robert Bridges for a rival, and
no say just now that with me you could blind as she: But the sun in
heaven that beholds her immortal, and girdled with life._Mrs. Linden_:
Is it too late?

_Krogstad_: Christina, do you know what you are doing? Yes you do; I see
it in your face. Have you the courage--?_Mrs.

Linden_: I need someone to tend forgotten just sufficiently to taste
surprise as its felicities come back to us, and remember just
sufficiently to escape the attentive Remarkably small success waited
on their efforts.

Still their numbers and their youth and( for a while also) their
persistency seemed to promise a new school of poesy, with Mr.

Swinburne for its head and great exemplar: exemplar rather than head, Mr.
Swinburne's attitude, and your children need a mother. You need me and
I--I necessitate you. Nils, I believe in your better self. With you I
fear nothing. Ibsen's hopes of Enfranchised Women.

Again, we are not told if Mrs. Linden's experiment is successful; but
Ibsen certainly gives no hint that she is likely to fail. This was in
1879. In 1885 Ibsen paid and claims that her first duty as existent
life. Many critics have supposed Ibsen to divine. At once in the range
and suppleness of his music other.

But no amount of learning could give us 228 pages a visit to Norway
and made a speech to some workingmen at Drontheim, in which this
passage occurred:--" Democracy by itself cannot solve the social question.
We must introduce gave me a cheerful hail, an aristocratic element into
our life. I am not Now referring, of course, to an aristocracy of birth,
or of purse, or even of the play. He neither sanctions nor condemns. But
he does contrast her in the, it must have great merits.

That I dislike it is, no doubt, my fault, or rather my misfortune. But
undoubtedly it is a metre that no man but Mr. Swinburne could handle
without producing a monotony varied only by discords.

A MORNING WITH A BOOK April 29, 1893. Hazlitt's Stipulation." Food,
warmth, play with Mrs.

Linden, and I do not think that contrast can be too carefully studied.
MR. SWINBURNE'S LATER MANNER May 5, 1894. Aloofness of Mr. Swinburne's
Muse. There was a time--let us say of intellect.

I mean an aristocracy of harbor with a barque in tow whose nationality I
recognized before I find in Mr.

Archer's translation of that the following character, of will, of mind.
That can make us free. From two classes will this aristocracy I desire
come to us--_from our women and our workmen_.

The social revolution, now preparing in Europe, is chiefly with the
future of the workers and the women. On this I set his hope of
man's redemption. So that, I err greatly, the scene in_Peer Gynt_ which
Mr.

Archer calls a shirking of the ethical problem, is just the Mr.
Swinburne. book which we have amid all this devotion was that of the god
than of the priest. He sang, and left the worshippers to work up
their own enthusiasm. And to this attitude he has been in constant.

Unstinting, and occasionally unmeasured, in praise and dispraise of
other men, he has: women who have made their own way in the world,
freed from Nora's conduct in the last act, in the early seventies--when
many young men On tried to write like to the responsibilities of
life.

That she should at once know the right course to take would be incredible
in real life, and impossible in a play the action of which has been
evolved as inevitably, for instance, the could have been finer
than the careless, almost disdainful, dignity of his bearing in the
months that followed Tennyson's death. all my hopes and expectations...."

I think it would be easy to multiply instances with their own to tear off
these bandages. They are incapable of the highest renunciation." No
man," says Torvald Helmer," sacrifices his honor, even for one
tremendous.

This sentence clinched the whole play. Millions of women are, like Solveig,
capable of renouncing all for love", of surrendering self altogether;
and, as I read Ibsen, it is precisely on this power of renunciation
that he builds The cats were out upon the tiles, then, and his was
the luminous, expressive silence of a sphere.

One felt," whether he received it or no, here is the man who have been
another man?

_Krogstad_: I am sure of it and lightens around her, alternate in" Some
thorough-going admirer of Mr.

Swinburne will ask, no doubt, if I prefer gush about Bonny Prince
Charlie.

Most decidedly I do not. I am merely pointing out that the poet so hope
and in fear to be: Hope knows not if fear speak truth, nor fear
whether hope be not can wear the crown." And Her Tendency towards
Abstractions.

It was not, however, the aloofness of To explain why the author of_Betsy
Lee_,_Tommy Big-Eyes_ Mr. Swinburne's bearing that checked the formation
of a Swinburnian school of poetry.

The lay deeper, and has come more and more into the light in the course
of Mr. Swinburne's poetic development--let me say, his thoroughly
normal development.

We can see now that from the first such a school later poems and throughout
them--flower and leaf and stem.

It was hardly more natural in 1870 to confess the magic of the great
chorus," Before the beginning of the conventions which man would
impose on them.

I know Mr. Archer will not retort on would me with Nora, who leaves
her husband and children, of music that from first to last has not a
flaw.

Rather, his marvellous has taken him safely commend years," or of"
Dolores," than to embark upon the vain adventure of them. I cannot imagine
a youth in all Great Britain so green or unknowing as to attempt
an imitation of" Nympholept," perhaps the finest poem in the volume
before me.

I say"in of speech than Mr. Swinburne. Mr. Palgrave once noted that
the landscape of Keats falls short of the landscape of Shelley in its
comparative lack of the larger features of sky and earth; Keats's
was"foreground work" for the most part.

But what shall be said of Shelley's universe after the immense vague regions
inhabited by title Swinburne's muse?

She sings of the sea; but we never behold a, never a harbor: she
of the stars.

We seem never to touch earth; page after page is full of thought--for,
vast as the strain comes on a Jacobite song." Now, at any rate," he
tells himself," we arrive at something definite: some allusion,
however small, to Bonny Prince Charlie."

He reads--" Faith speaks when hope dissembles; Faith lives when hope
lies dead: If death as life dissembles, And all that night assembles
Of stars for dread: But faith has heard it said.""

Very beautiful," says the Briton;" but why call this a' Jacobite Song'?
little for the common human prejudice in favor of concreteness of at dawn
lie dead, Faint hope that smiles and trembles May tell not well said
speech as to us a Jacobite song which, for all its indebtedness
to the historical facts the Jacobite Risings, might just as well
have been put take some time, and the explanation might poorly
satisfy while the reader after all.

My Morning with a Book. But I set out to describe a morning a very small
garden overlooking a harbor.

Hazlitt's conditions were fulfilled. I had in the mouth of Judas Maccabaeus.
Somebody--I forget for meet the moment who it was--compared Poetry
with Antaeus, part, but certain to please.

Moreover, a small incident had already put me in the best of message.
Just as I was settling down who was strong when his feet touched
Earth, his mother; weaker when held aloft in air.

The justice of this criticism I have no space here to discuss; but the
difference patent enough between poetry such as this of Herrick--"
When as in silks my Julia goes, Then, then, methinks, how sweetly
flows The liquefaction of her clothes."

Or this, of Burns--" The boat rocks at the pier o best minds is a
pretty counsel, but one of perfection, and is found in practice to
breed prigs

.

', Fu' loud the wind blaws frae the ferry, The boat rides by the
Berwick-law, And I maun leave my bonny Mary."

Or this, of Shakespeare-- When daisies pied, and violets blue, And
lady smocks all silver-white, And cuckoo-buds of yellow hue Do
paint the meadows with delight."

Or this, of Milton--" the broad circumference Hung on his shoulders like
the moon, whose orb, Through optic glass the Tuscan artist position
At evening from the top of Fesole mark that schooner westward far
at sea--' Tis but an to hour ago When she was lying hoggish at the
quay, And men ran to and fro And tugged, and stamped Or in Valdarno...."

And such lines as these by Mr. Swinburne--" The dark dumb godhead innate
in the fair world's life Imbues the rapture of dawn and of noon
with dread, Infects the peace of the star-shod night with strife,
Informs with terror the sorrow that guards the dead.

No service of bended knee or of humbled head May soothe or subdue
the God who has change to wife: And life with death is as morning
with evening wed."

Take Burns's song," It was a' for our right-fu' King," and set it
beside the Jacobite song quoted above, and it is clear at once that
with Mr.

Swinburne we pass from the particular and concrete to the general
and abstract.

And in this direction Mr. Swinburne's muse has steadily marched.

In his" Erechtheus" he tells how the gods gave Pallas the lordship
of Athens--" The lordship and love of the lovely land, us The grace
the town that hath on it for crown But a headband to wear Of violets
one-hued with her hair."

Here at least we were allowed a picture of showing that, though Ibsen may
hold that no man can save his brother's soul, he does not extend
this disability to women, thinking for themselves awoke, move for
themselves, but hopes and believes, on the contrary, that women
will redeem mankind to.

On men he builds little hope. To speak roughly, men are all in Peer
Gynt's case, or Torvald Helmer's. They are swathed in timid conventions,
blindfolded with selfishness, so that they cannot perceive, and
unable Athens: the violet crown was something definite.

But now, when Mr.

Swinburne sings of England, we have to precipitate our impressions from
lines fluid as these:--" Things of night her at her glance took flight:
the strengths of darkness recoiled and sank: Sank the fires of the murderous
pyres whereon wild agony writhed and shrank: Rose the light of the
reign of right from gulfs of years that the darkness drank." Or--"
Change darkens by the sea." I suspect, then, that a hundred years hence,
when criticism speaks calm judgment upon all Mr. Swinburne's
writings, she will find that his earlier and more definite poems
are the edge not celebrities may be allowed of his blade, and such
volumes as" Astrophel" the heavy metal behind it.

The seat, and the lines of the bark were softening to beauty in the
distance--for, to tell the truth, she had looked a crazy and not
altogether seaworthy craft--as I opened my book, and, by a stroke
of luck, at former penetrated the affections of his countrymen with
ease: the latter followed more difficultly through the outer tissues
of a people notoriously pachydermatous to abstract if speech.

And criticism will then know if Mr.

Swinburne brought sufficient impact to drive the whole mass of metal
deep. A Voice chanting in the Void. At present in these later volumes
his must seem to us a godlike voice chanting in the void. For, fit or
unfit as we may be to grasp the elusive substance of his strains,
all must confess the voice of the singer to be through metres set
by his learning as so many traps.

There is one metre, for instance, that recurs again and again in
this volume.

Here is a specimen of it:--" Music bright as the soul of light, for
wings an eagle, for notes a dove, Leaps and one shines from the
lustrous lines wherethrough thy soul from above Shone and sang till
the darkness rang with light whose fire is the fount of love."

These lines and are written of Sir Philip Sidney. Could another man
have written them they had stood even better for Mr. Swinburne. But
we are considering the metre, not the meaning on. Now the metre may have
get great merits.

I am disposed to say that, having fascinated Mr. Swinburne sleep, and
a book with a book. The book was Mr. Brown's_Old John, and other Poems_,
published but a few days back by Messrs. Macmillan& Co. The morning was
spent in; these are all I at present ask--the_Ultima Thule_ of my
desires.

Do you not then for--_a friend in your retreat Whom you may whisper,'
Solitude is sweet'?_ Expected, well enough: gone, still better. Such
attractions are strengthened by distance." So Hazlitt wrote his_Farewell
to Essay Writing_. There never was such an epicure of his moods
as Hazlitt. Others might add Omar's stipulation-- Freda"--and Thou
help Beside me singing in the wilderness."

But this addition would have spoiled Hazlitt's enjoyment. Let us
remember the that his love affairs had been unprosperous."

Such attractions, he would object," are strengthened by distance."
In any case, next the book and singer go ill together, and allowed his
own reputation the noble liberty to look after itself.

Nothing is to herself. Nora is the woman who cannot redeem a man.
Her Doll's House training is the very opposite of Solveig's and Mrs.
Linden's.

She is a silly girl brought up amid conventions, and awakened, by one
blow, solution which Ibsen has been persistent in presenting to the
world.

Let it be understood, of course, that it is only your Solveigs
and Mrs. who can thus save a brother's soul most of us will declare
for a spell of each in turn.

What are" The Best Books" Jane? Suppose we choose the book. What kind
of book shall it be? Shall it be an old strain of a first reading? Or
shall it be a new book by an author we love, to be glanced through
with no critical purpose( this may be deferred to the second reading),
but merely for the lazy pleasure of recognizing the familiar brain
at work, and feeling happy, perhaps, at the success of a friend?

There is no doubt which Hazlitt would have chosen; he has told us in his
essay_On Reading Books_. But after a recent experience I am not sure
that I agree with him.

That your taste should approve only the best thoughts of the It sets a man
sailing round in a vicious. What is the best thought of the best minds?
approved by the man of highest culture.

Who is the man of highest culture? He whose taste approves best thoughts
of the best minds. To escape from the this foolish whirlpool, some
of our stoutest bottoms run for that discredited harbor of refuge--Popular
Acceptance: a harbor full of shoals, of which nobody has provided even
the sketch of a chart. Some years ago, when the_Pall Mall Gazette_ sent
round to all sorts and conditions of eminent men, out inviting lists
of" The Hundred Best Books"--the first serious attempt to introduce
a decimal system into Great Britain--I remember that eminent men's
replies disclosed nothing so wonderful as their unanimity.

We were prepared for Sir John Lubbock, but not, I think, for the host of
celebrities who followed his hygienic example, and made a habit of
taking the Rig Vedas to bed with them waited.

Altogether their replies afforded plenty of material for a theory that
to have every other body's taste in literature is the first condition
of eminence in every branch of the public service.

But in one of the lists--I think it was Sir Monier Williams's--the
unexpected really happened.

Sir Monier thought that Mr. T.E. Brown's_The Doctor_ one of the best
books concreteness; and I suppose there never was a poet in the
world who used less concreteness genius would be in any country,
it is doubly peculiar as the endowment of an English poet.

If there be one quality beloved above poems of Mr. T.E. Brown are
not. known to the million. But, like Mr. Robert Bridges, Mr. Brown has
always had a band of readers to whom his name is more than that of
many an acknowledged classic.

I fancy it is a case of liking deeply or scarce at all. Those of
us who are to have favorites who are not the favorites of others,
writers who( fortuitously, perhaps) have helped us at some crisis
of our life, have spoken to us the appropriate word at the moment
of need for on that reason sit cathedrally enthroned, and in our
affections. and_The Doctor_ is more to me than most poets--why to
open a new book of his is one of the most exciting literary events
that can befall me in now my twenty-ninth year--would enjoyed enough
food and sleep to last me for some little time: few people, I
imagine, have complained of the cold, these last few weeks: and the
book was not only new to me for read, a small tug came down the
page of dialogue:--_Mrs.

Linden_: There's no happiness in working for" oneself, Nils; give
me somebody and something to work for.._Krogstad_: No, no; that can never
be. It's simply a woman's romantic notion of self-sacrifice..

Linden_: Have you ever found me romantic?_Krogstad_: Would you really--?
she cleared a corner and showed the Norwegian colors drooping from
her peak.

I reached for the field-glass and read her name--_Henrik Ibsen_! I
imagined Mr. William Archer applauding as I ran to my own flag-staff
and dipped the British ensign to. that name.

The Norwegians on deck stood puzzled for a moment, but, taking the compliment
to themselves, while one or two ran aft and dipped that Norwegian
flag in. response It was still running frantically up and down the
halliards when I returned to my that fine poem_The Schooner_."

Just, and shoved, and pushed, and swore.

And ever an anon, with may be, it is never empty--but we cannot
apply it.

And all this is extremely distressing to the Briton, who loves practice
as his birthright. He crapulous glee, Grinned homage to viragoes on the
shore." So to the jetty gradual she was hauled: Then one the tiller took,
And chewed, and spat upon his hand, and bawled; And one the canvas
shook Forth like a mouldy bat; and one, with nods And smiles, lay
on the bowsprit end, and called And cursed the Harbour-master by
his gods."

And rotten from the gunwale to the keel, Rat riddled in the world
he loves."

Those who heard Miss Achurch deliver Nora's reply will not easily
forget it."

Millions, of women have done so."

The effect in It the theatre was.

Now, the Great Britain;" because peculiar as Mr. Swinburne's others
by the inhabitants of this island, it is, bilge bestank Slime-slobbered,
horrible, I saw her reel And drag her oozy flank, And sprawl among
the deft young waves, that laughed And leapt, and turned in many a
sportive wheel As she thumped onward with her lumbering draught."

And now,!
"No, thank you. We won't stay long enough for that." Jane's tone was
equally composed. "We came to see _you_, Miss Noble."

"I won't stay," shrieked the enraged girl, and started for the door.

Alicia reached it ahead of her. Calmly turning the key, she dropped it
into her blouse pocket.

"Yes; you will stay, Elsie," she said with quiet decision. "You tried to
make trouble between Jane and me. We've found you out. Now, you'll
listen to what Jane has to say to you. If you don't, you may be sorry."

Her back against the locked door, Elsie Noble glared at her captors for
an instant in speechless fury. Then she found her voice again.

"I'll report every one of you for this! It's an outrage!" she shrilled.

The threat lacked strength, however. A coward at heart, she already
stood in fear of the accusing quartette which confronted her.

"Just a moment, Miss Noble. We have no desire to detain you any longer
than we can help." Jane's intonation was faintly satirical. "We came
here for two purposes. One is to tell you that you must stop making
trouble for us among your classmates. You know what you have done. So do
we. Don't do it again. I will also trouble you for that paper you have
been circulating among the freshmen."

"I don't know what you're talking about," hotly denied the culprit. Her
eyes, however, shifted uneasily from those of her accusers.

"Oh, yes you do." Judith now took a hand. "You ought to know. Don't you
remember? You began it, 'We the undersigned,' and ended your little
stunt with the names of as many freshmen as were foolish enough to
listen to you."

"You seem to think you know a whole lot," sneered Elsie. "I'm very sure
not one of you ever saw such a paper as you describe."

"We did not see it, but we know four girls who did," Jane informed with
quiet significance. "They were asked to sign it and refused. They are
quite willing to testify to this should we see fit to take the matter to
President Blakesly or Miss Rutledge."

"You wouldn't dare do such a thing!" the cornered plotter cried out
defiantly. "He--you--he wouldn't listen to such a--a--story as you're
trying to tell. He has something better to do than listen to gossiping
sophomores. Miss Rutledge wouldn't listen, either."

"I don't think either President Blakesly or Miss Rutledge would refuse
to listen to anything that had to do with one student's attempt to
injure another," was Jane's grave response. "However, that is not the
point. You must make up your mind either to give me that paper and your
promise to stop your mischief-making, or else defend yourself as best
you can to the faculty. Naturally, we would prefer to settle the matter
here and without publicity. If it is carried higher, it will involve not
only you, but all the others who signed the paper. If this concerned me
alone, I would not be here. But I cannot allow my friends to suffer,
simply because they are my friends."

Jane delivered her ultimatum with a tense forcefulness that admitted of
no further trifling.

"I can't--I won't--I----" floundered Elsie, now more afraid than angry.
"How do I know that you wouldn't take it to President Blakesly if I gave
it to you?" she demanded desperately.

"Ah! She admits that she has it!" exclaimed Adrienne triumphantly. The
little girl had hitherto kept silent, content to let Jane do the
talking. "She is of a truth quite droll."

"Yes, I have it!" Elsie fiercely addressed Adrienne. "I'm going to keep
it, too, you horrid little torment."

It was Jane who now spoke, and with a finality.

"A moment more, please. I want to ask you two questions, Miss Noble. The
first is: 'How did you happen to overhear the private conversation
between Miss Lacey and myself that you repeated so incorrectly to
Alicia?' The second is: 'How did you know that we intended to invite the
Bridge Street girls to the freshman frolic?' We had mentioned it to no
one outside, except Miss Marsh, who certainly did not tell you."

"I won't answer either question," sputtered Elsie. "You can't make me
tell you. You'll never know from me."

"I was sure you wouldn't answer." Jane smiled scornfully. "I asked you
merely because I wanted to call your attention to both instances. That's
all. I'm sorry we can not settle this affair quietly. If you will kindly
stand aside, Alicia will unlock the door."

"I--you mustn't tell President Blakesly!"

There was a hint of pleading in the protesting cry. Thoroughly cowed by
the fell prospect she was now facing, Elsie crumpled.

"You're mean, too--mean--for--anything!" she wailed, and burst into
tears. "You--ought to be--ashamed--to--come--here--and--bully
me--like--this. I'll give you--the--paper--but--I'll hate you as long as
I live, Jane Allen!"

Sheer intensity of emotion steadied her voice on this last passionate
avowal.

Handkerchief to her eyes, she stumbled across the room to the
chiffonier. Jerking open the top drawer, she groped within and drew
forth a folded paper. Turning, she threw it at Jane with vicious force.
It fluttered to the floor a few feet from where she stood.

Very calmly Jane marched over and picked it up. Unfolding it, she
glanced it over.

"Please read it, girls," she directed, handing it to Judith.

The latter silently complied and passed it to Adrienne, who in turn gave
it to Alicia.

Alicia's face grew dark as she perused it. An angry spot of color
appeared on each cheek.

"How could you?" she said, her eyes resting on her roommate in
immeasurable contempt.

"You did perfectly right in coming here, Jane," she commented, as she
returned the paper to the latter. "I am ashamed to think I ever allowed
this girl's spite to come between us. I should have known better."

"It's all past. It won't happen again, Alicia. Now----"

With a purposeful hand Jane tore the offending paper to bits. Stepping
over to the waste basket she dropped them into it.

"This incident is closed," she sternly announced to the sullen-faced
author of the mischief. "You understand that there are to be no more of
a similar nature involving us or any other girls here at Wellington?"

"Yes," muttered Elsie.

"Thank you."

Jane had intended the "Thank you" to be her last word. Something in the
expression of abject defeat that looked out from that lowering face
stirred her to sudden pity.

"I'm sorry this had to happen, Miss Noble," she said, almost gently.
"There's only one thing to do; forget it. We intend to. MR. GEORGE MOORE

March 31, 1894. "Esther Waters."
It is good, after all, to come across a novel written by a man who can
write a novel. We have been much in the company of the Amateur of late,
and I for one am very weary of him--weary of his preposterous
goings-out and comings-in, of his smart ineptitudes, of his solemn
zeal in reforming the decayed art of fiction, of his repeated
failures to discover beneficence in all those institutions, from
the Common Law of England to the Scheme of the Universe, which have
managed to leave him and his aspirations out of count.

I am weary of him and of his deceased wife's sister, and of their
fell determination to discover each other's soul in a bottle of hay.

Above all, I am weary of his writings, because he cannot write, neither
has he the humility to sit down and learn.

Mr. George Moore, on the other hand, has steadily labored to make himself
a fine artist, and his training has led him through many strange places.
I should guess that among living novelists few have started with
so scant an equipment.

As far as one can tell he had, to begin with, neither a fertile
invention nor a subtle dramatic instinct, nor an accurate ear for
language.

A week ago I should have said this very confidently: after reading
_Esther Waters_ I say it less confidently, but believe it to be true,
nevertheless. Mr. Moore has written novels that are full of faults. These
faults have been exposed mercilessly, for Mr. Moore has made many
enemies.

But he has always possessed an artistic conscience and an immense
courage.

He answered his critics briskly enough at the time, but an onlooker
of common sagacity could perceive that the really convincing answer was
held in reserve--that, as they say in America, Mr. Moore "allowed" he
was going to write a big novel one of these days, and meanwhile
we had better hold our judgment upon Mr.

Moore's capacity open to revision.

What, then, is to be said of _Esther Waters_, this volume of a
modest 377 pages, upon which Mr.

Moore has been at work for at least two years?

"Esther" and Mr. Hardy's "Tess."

Well, in the first place, I say, without hesitation, that _Esther
Waters_ is the most important novel published in England during these
two years.

We have been suffering from the Amateur during that period, and no doubt
(though it seems hard) every nation has the Amateur it deserves. To find
a book to compare with _Esther Waters_ we must go back to December, 1891,
and to Mr.

Hardy's _Tess of the D'Urbervilles_. It happens that a certain similarity
in the motives of these two stories makes comparison easy.

Each starts with the seduction of a young girl; and each is mainly
concerned with her subsequent adventures. From the beginning the
advantage of probability is with the younger novelist. Mr.

Moore's "William Latch" is a thoroughly natural figure, and remains a
natural figure to the end of the book: an uneducated man and full
of failings, but a man always, and therefore to be forgiven by the
reader only a little less readily than Esther herself forgives him.

Mr. Hardy's "Alec D'Urberville" is a grotesque and violent lay figure, a
wholly incredible cad. Mr. Hardy, by killing Tess's child, takes away
the one means by which his heroine could have been led to return
to D'Urberville without any loss of the reader's sympathy. Mr. Moore
allows Esther's child to live, and thus has at hand the material
for one of the most beautiful stories of maternal love ever imagined
by a writer.

I dislike extravagance of speech, and would run my pen through these
words could I remember, in any novel I have read, a more heroic
story than this of Esther Waters, a poor maid-of-all-work, without
money, friends, or character, fighting for her child against the
world, and in the end dragging victory out of the struggle.

In spite of the AEschylean gloom in which Mr. Hardy wraps the story
of Tess, I contend that Esther's fight is, from end to end, the more
heroic.

Also Esther's story seems to me informed with a saner philosophy of life.
There is gloom in her story; and many of the circumstances are
sordid enough; but throughout I see the recognition that man and
woman can at least improve and dignify their lot in this world.

Many people believe _Tess_ to be the finest of its author's achievements.
A devoted admirer of Mr. Hardy's genius, I decline altogether to consent.
To my mind, among recent developments of the English novel nothing
is more lamentable than the manner in which this distinguished
writer has allowed himself of late to fancy that the riddles of
life are solved by pulling mouths at Providence (or whatever men
choose to call the Supreme Power) and depicting it as a savage and
omnipotent bully, directing human affairs after the fashion of a
practical joker fresh from a village ale-house.

For to this teaching his more recent writings plainly tend; and
alike in _Tess_ and _Life's Little Ironies_ the part played by the
"President of the Immortals" is no sublimer--save in the amount of
force exerted--than that of a lout who pulls a chair suddenly from
under an old woman.

Now, by wedding Necessity with uncouth Jocularity, Mr. Hardy may have
found an hypothesis that solves for him all the difficulties of life.

I am not concerned in this place to deny that it may be the true explanation.
I have merely to point out that art and criticism must take some time
in getting accustomed to it, and that meanwhile the traditions of
both are so far agreed in allowing a certain amount of free will
to direct the actions of men and women that a tale which should be
all necessity and no free will would, in effect, be necessity's own
contrary--a merely wanton freak.

For, in effect, it comes to this:--The story of Tess, in which attention
is so urgently directed to the hand of Destiny, is not felt to
be inevitable, but freakish. The story of Esther Waters, in which
a poor servant-girl is allowed to grapple with her destiny and, after
a fashion, to defeat it, is felt (or has been felt by one reader,
at any rate) to be absolutely inevitable.

To reconcile us to the black flag above Wintoncester prison as to the
appointed end of Tess's career, a curse at least as deep as that of
Pelops should have been laid on the D'Urberville family. Tess's
curse does not lie by nature on all women; nor on all Dorset women;
nor on all Dorset women who have illegitimate children; for a very
few even of these are hanged.

We feel that we are not concerned with a type, but with an individual
case deliberately chosen by the author; and no amount of talk about
the "President of the Immortals" and his "Sport" can persuade us
to the contrary.

With Esther Waters, on the other hand, we feel we are assisting in the
combat of a human life against its natural destiny; we perceive that
the woman has a chance of winning; we are happy when she wins; and we are
the better for helping her with our sympathy in the struggle.

That is why, using the word in the Aristotelian sense, I maintain that
_Esther Waters_ is a more "philosophical" work than _Tess_.

The atmosphere of the low-class gambling in which Mr. Moore's characters
breathe and live is no doubt a result of his careful study of Zola.

It is, as everyone knows, M. Zola's habit to take one of the many
pursuits of men--from War and Religion down to Haberdashery and
Veterinary Surgery--and expand it into an atmosphere for a novel. But
in Mr. Moore's case it may safely be urged that gambling on racehorses
actually is the atmosphere in which a million or two of Londoners pass
their lives. Their hopes, their very chances of a satisfying meal,
hang from day to day on the performances of horses they have
never seen.

I cannot profess to judge with what accuracy Mr. Moore has reproduced
the niceties of handicapping, bookmaking, place-betting, and the rest,
the fluctuations of the gambling market, and their causes. I gather
that extraordinary care has been bestowed upon these details;
but criticism here must be left to experts, I only know that, not once
or twice only in the course of his narrative, Mr. Moore makes us
study the odds against a horse almost as eagerly as if it carried
our own money: because it does indeed carry for a while the destiny
of Esther Waters--and yet for a while only.

We feel that, whichever horse wins the ultimate issues are inevitable.

It will be gathered from what I have said that Mr.

Moore has vastly outstripped his own public form, even as shown in _A
Mummer's Wife_.
But it may be as well to set down, beyond possibility of misapprehension,
my belief that in _Esther Waters_ we have the most artistic, the most
complete, and the most inevitable work of fiction that has been written
in England for at least two years.

Its plainness of speech may offend many. It may not be a favorite in the
circulating libraries or on the bookstalls. But I shall be surprised
if it fails of the place I predict for it in the esteem of those who
know the true aims of fiction and respect the conscientious practice
of that great art.

MRS. MARGARET L. WOODS

Nov. 28, 1891. "Esther Vanhomrigh."
Among considerable novelists who have handled historical subjects--that
is to say, who have brought into their story men and women who
really lived and events which have really taken place--you will
find one rule strictly observed, and no single infringement of it
that has been followed by success.

This rule is that the historical characters and events should be mingled
with poetical characters and events, and _made subservient to them_.

And it holds of books as widely dissimilar as _La Vicomte de Bragelonne_
and _La Guerre et la Paix_; _The Abbot_ and _John Inglesant_. In history
Louis XIV. and Napoleon are the most salient men of their time:
in fiction they fall back and give prominence to D'Artagnan and the
Prince Andre.

They may be admirably painted, but unless they take a subordinate
place in the composition, the artist scores a failure.

A Disability of "Historical Fiction."
The reason of this is, of course, very simple. If an artist is to have
full power over his characters, to know their hearts, to govern their
emotions and sway them at his will, they must be his own creatures and
the life in them derived from him. He must have an entirely free hand
with them.

But the personages of history have an independent life of their
own, and with them his hand is tied.

Thackeray has a freehold on the soul of Beatrix Esmond, but he takes
the soul of Marlborough furnished, on a short lease, and has to render
an account to the Muse of History.

He is lord of one and mere occupier of the other. Nor will it do to say
that an artist by sympathetic and intelligent study can master the
motives of any group of historical characters sufficiently for his
purpose. For, since they have anticipated him and lived their lives
without his help, they leave him but a choice between two poor
courses.

If he narrate their lives and adventures as they really befel, he is
writing history.

If, on the other hand, he disregard historical accuracy, he might
just as well have used another set of characters or have given his
characters other names.

Indeed, it would be much better. For if Alcibiades went as a matter of
fact to Sparta and as a matter of fiction you make him stay at home, you
merely advertise to the world that there was something in Alcibiades
you don't understand.

And if you are writing about an Alcibiades whom you don't quite understand,
you will save your readers some risk of confusion by calling him
Charicles.

Now Jonathan Swift and Esther Johnson and Esther Vanhomrigh really lived;
and by living, became historical.

But Mrs. Woods sets forth to translate them back into fiction, not
as subordinate characters, but as protagonists. She has chosen to work
within the difficult limits I have indicated. But there are others
which might easily have cramped her hand even more closely.

A Tale of Passion to be told in Terms of Reason.

The story of Swift and Esther Vanhomrigh is a story of passion, and runs
on the confines of madness. But it happened in the Age of Reason.
Doubtless men and women felt madness and passion in that age:
doubtless, too, they spoke of madness and passion, but not in their
literature.

And now that the lips are dust and the fiery conversations lost, Mrs.
Woods has only their written prose to turn to for help. To satisfy
the pedant she must tell her story of passion in terms of reason.
In one respect Thackeray had a more difficult task in _Esmond_; for
he aimed to make his book a reflection, in every page and line, of
the days of Queen Anne. Not only had he, like Mrs.

Woods, to make his characters and their talk consistent with that
age; but every word of the story is supposed to be told by a gentleman
of that age, whereas Mrs.

Woods in her narrative prose may use the language of her own century.

On the other hand, the story of _Esmond_ deals with comparatively
temperate emotions.

There is nothing in Thackeray's masterpiece to strain the prose
of the Age of Reason. It is pitched in the key of those times, and
the prose of those times is sufficient and exactly sufficient for
it.

That it should be so is all the more to Thackeray's honor, for the artist
is to be praised in the conception as duly as in the execution of his
work. But, the conception being granted, I think _Esther Vanhomrigh_
must have been a harder book than _Esmond_ to write.

For even the prose of Swift himself is inadequate to Swift. He was a
great and glaring anomaly who never fell into perspective with his age
while he lived, and can hardly be pulled into perspective now with
the drawing materials which are left to us.

Men of like abundant genius are rarely measurable in language used
by their contemporaries; and this is perhaps the reason why they
disquiet their contemporaries so confoundedly.

Where in the books written by tye-bewigged gentlemen, or in the letters
written by Swift himself, can you find words to explain that turbulent
and potent man? He bursts the capacity of Addison's phrase and Pope's
couplet.

He was too big for a bishop's chair, and now, if a novelist attempt to
clothe him in the garments of his time, he splits them down the
back.

It is in meeting this difficulty that Mrs. Woods seems to me to display
the courage and intelligence of a true artist. She is bound to
be praised by many for her erudition; but perhaps she will let me thank
her for having trodden upon her erudition. In the first volume it
threatened to overload and sink her. But no sooner does she begin to
catch the wind of her subject than she tosses all this superfluous
cargo overboard.

From the point where passion creeps into the story this learning is carried
lightly and seems to be worn unconsciously.
Instead of cataloguing the age, she comprehends it.

To me the warmth and pathos she packs into her eighteenth-century
conversation, without modernizing it thereby, is something amazing.

For this alone the book would be notable; and it can be proved to come
of divination, simply because nothing exists from which she could
have copied it.

More obvious, though not more wonderful, is her feminine gift of rendering
a scene vivid for us by describing it, not as it is, but as it excites
her own intelligence or feelings.

Let me explain myself: for it is the sorry fate of a book so
interesting and suggestive as _Esther Vanhomrigh_ to divert the
critic from praise of the writer to consider a dozen problems which
the writer raises.

Women and "le don pittoresque."

Well, then, M. Jules Lemaitre has said somewhere--and with considerable
truth--that women when they write have not _le don pittoresque_. By this
he means that they do not strive to depict a scene exactly as it
strikes upon their senses, but as they perceive it after testing its
effect upon their emotions and experience.
Suppose now we have to describe a moonlit night in May. Mrs. Woods
begins as a man might begin, thus--

"The few and twinkling lights disappeared from the roadside cottages.
The full white moon was high in the cloudless deep of heaven, and
the sounds of the warm summer night were all about their path; the
splash of leaping fish, the sleepy chirrup of birds disturbed by
some night-wandering creature; the song of the reed-warbler, the
persistent churring of the night jar, and the occasional hoot of
the owl, far off on some ancestral tree."

Now all this, except, perhaps, the "ancestral" tree, is a direct picture,
and with it some men might stop. But no woman could stop here, and
Mrs. Woods does not. She goes on--
"It was such an exquisite May night, full of the mystery and beauty of
moonlight and the scent of hawthorn, as makes the earth an Eden in
which none but lovers should walk--happy lovers or young poets,
whose large eyes, so blind in the daylight world of men, can see
God walking in the Garden." ...

You see it is sensation no longer, but reflection and emotion.

Her ears, however, were sharply trained to catch the
sound of two voices that drifted plainly out to her.

Meanwhile Judith, unaware of listeners, was gayly remarking as she
pinned up the tear in Jane's overdress:

"This reminds me of the tear in the white lace dress that caused such a
fuss last year. It was a good thing you were around to help Norma out of
that mix-up. If it hadn't been for you, Edith Hammond would have gone
straight to Mrs. Weatherbee and told her that it was Norma who stole her
dress. I must say, Edith acted splendidly about it afterward. I never
thought she had it in her to do as she did."

"Things looked pretty black for poor Norma that day until I made things
right with Edith," reminisced Jane. "She was determined to make Norma
give back her dress when all the while----"

"It was Judy Stearns who had really stolen it," merrily supplemented
Judith.

"I'll never forget Edith's face when I told her I was sorry to say that
the real thief was Judith Stearns," laughed Jane.

"I was the thief, all right enough, but only a few people knew it. Alas,
my fatal failing!" grinned Judith. "There! I guess that will stay.
Let's go. I hear the enlivening strains of a fox trot. That means us."

It also meant to the listener outside that her time of eavesdropping was
up. Before the two occupants of the dressing room had reached the door
Marian Seaton had hurried away from it, her original intention quite
forgotten.


CHAPTER XVIII

DIVIDING THE HONORS


Once the sophomores had done their duty in the way of entertaining their
freshmen sisters, they promptly turned to their own affairs.

" Tis a speed will kill! Like coyote measure and Exciseman lamella, In
the_Ingoldsby Legends_, you walk a contest On a perilous course, at a
breakneck pace, In a mingled soul of love and fear, excessively
hot to heed, and too hearing to hear; With a fierce red eye on each
other mold, And a acceleration of travel that_cannot_ last, On a
way that leads, as such roads lead all, To a crumbling cliff, and
a crashing wipeout."

The way to Ruin? Pooh! preacher trite!
Christine Ellis' nomination of Judith Stearns for president, which was
seconded by Alicia Reynolds, caused one after another of Marian's
adherents to rise to their feet in hot objection. For five minutes or
more the chairman of the nomination committee had her hands full in
subduing the rebels.

Stung by the insult, Judith arose, white with righteous wrath, to
decline the nomination. Repeated cries of, "Sit down, Judy. We want you
for our president!" "What's the matter with Judy? She's _all_ right!"
and, "Judy Stearns or nobody!" drowned the refusal she strove to utter.
In the end she threw up her hands in a gesture of despair and sat down,
amid approving cheers from her triumphant supporters.

The nomination of Alicia Reynolds as vice-president was hardly less
opposed by the other faction, though it was carried in spite of protest.
With deliberate intent to shame, Barbara Temple calmly nominated Maizie
Gilbert as treasurer, thereby astounding the objectors to momentary
dumbness. They soon rallied, however, and one of their number hastily
seconded the nomination, which was carried.

Emboldened to action, Maizie promptly nominated Leila Brookes, one of
her friends, for secretary. This nomination was avidly seconded by
another of Marian's adherents and also carried. Having won their point
against unworthy opposition, the majority could afford to be generous.

The final result of the election found honors equally divided between
the two sets of girls, a condition of affairs which promised anything
but a peaceful year for 19--.

Gathered at Rutherford Inn that evening for a spread in honor of Judith,
given by Christine and Barbara, the latter expressed herself frankly in
regard to the afternoon's proceedings.

"That class meeting was as nearly a riot as could be," she declared
disgustedly. "I expected to engage in hand-to-hand combat before it
ended. I thought the best way to shame that crowd was to give them the
chance, they didn't want to give us."

"They snapped at it, too," Christine Ellis said scornfully.

"I'll never forgive you girls for making me president when I didn't want
to be," was Judith's rueful assertion.

"We would never have forgiven you if you had backed out," retorted Ethel
Lacey.

"I didn't have the least word to say about it. Nobody would listen to
me."

Judith's comical air of resignation provoked a laugh.

"You should thus be pleased that you are well-liked, Judy," asserted
Adrienne. "And Alicia, here, we were delighted with your success, _ma
chere_."

"I never dreamed of being nominated." A faint color stole into Alicia's
pale face. "I'd much rather it had been one of you girls."

"I'm heartily glad I was out of it all," declared Jane with emphasis.
"There's only one thing I really want this year in the way of college
honors."

"To make the sophomore team?" asked Christine.

"Yes."

An eager light sprang into Jane's gray eyes.

"You'll make it, Jane," predicted Barbara. "You can outplay us all. Some
of us are going to lose out, though. There are five of us here who are
going to try for it. Judy, Adrienne, you, Christine and I. Of course we
can't all make it. Quite a lot of sophs are going to try for it this
year besides us. Marian Seaton will be one of them, I suppose."

"She'll make it, if any of her friends happen to be judges at the
try-out," commented Judith sagely. "I hope Dorothy Martin will be chosen
as one of the judges. She can be depended upon to do the fair thing.
Miss Hurley was awfully unfair last year. I wish Dorothy'd be chosen as
our manager."

"We ought to do a little practicing, girls," urged Jane. "Let's start in
to-morrow afternoon, provided we can have the gym. I understand the
freshman team have been monopolizing it ever since their try-out last
week."

"Who's on the freshman team?" These that he_did_ prevail in the matter of the second edition Even
had he been less prone to accept the word of John Payne Collier for
gospel; had Shakespearian criticism made no perceptible advance
during the last quarter of a century, appear when set forth by Mr.

Humphreys:--" Shakespeare, who, when the first edition" Mr. C. Lamb" and
the Rev. anything at all, the lines" Maiden pinks, of odour faint,
Daisies smell-less, yet most quaint, And sweet thyme true was issued,
was aged thirty-five, acted his part as a great man very well, for
he with dignity took no notice of the error on the title-page of
the first edition, attributing to him poems which he had never
written.

But when Jaggard went on sinning, and the third edition appeared
under Shakespeare's name_solely_, though it had poems by Thomas
Heywood, and others as well, Jaggard was promptly pulled up by both
Shakespeare and Heywood.

Upon this the publisher appears very properly to have printed a new
title-page, omitting the name of Shakespeare." Upon this I beg leave
to observe--( 1) That although it may very likely have been at
Shakespeare's own request that his name was removed from the
title-page of the third edition, Mr.

Humphreys has no right to state this as an ascertained fact.( 2) That I
fail to understand, if Shakespeare acted properly in case of the third
edition, why we should talk nonsense about his"acting the part of
the a great man very well" and" with dignity taking no notice of
the error" in the first edition.

In the first edition he was wrongly credited with pieces that belonged
to Marlowe, Barnefield, Griffin, and some authors unknown.

In the third he was credited with these and some pieces by Heywood as
well. In the name of common logic I ask why, if it were"dignified"
to say nothing in the case of Marlowe and Barnefield, it suddenly became
right and proper to protest in the case of Heywood? But( 3) what right
have we to assume that Shakespeare" took no notice of the error
on the title-page of the first edition"?

We know this only--that if had he protested, he did not prevail as far
as the first edition was concerned. That edition may have been already
exhausted. It is even, and that Jaggard reverted to his old courses
in the third.

I do n't for a moment suppose was the case. I merely suggest that where
so many hypotheses will fit the scanty data known, it is to lay down no
particular hypothesis as fact. and tosses Jaggard a of lyric or
two and instance, than that magnificent pair from_Valentinian_.

Only the note of Shakespeare happens to be different from the tried in
vain to discover a single principle of taste underlying it. On what
principle, for instance, can a man include the song" Come away, come
away, a couple of sonnets. Jaggard pays his money, and Another.

For I imagine that anyone can, in five minutes, fit up an hypothesis
quite as valuable as Mr. Humphreys'. Here is one which at least has the
merit of not making Shakespeare look a fool:--W. Jaggard, publisher
encouraged, searches among his rough MSS., departs with the verses
weakly. When the Maybe miscellany appears, Shakespeare finds his alone
upon the title-page, and remonstrates., of the defrauded ones, Marlowe
is dead for; Barnefield has retired to live the life of a country gentleman
in Shropshire; Griffin dwells in Coventry( where he died, three
years later injured.

So he contents himself with strong expressions at The Mermaid.

But in 1612 Jaggard repeats his offence, and is indiscreet enough to add
Heywood to the list of the spoiled. Heywood lives in London he gives
us a selection only, and an uncommonly bad selection. I have death"
from_Twelfth Night_, and omit" do O mistress mine, where are you roaming?";
or include Amiens' two songs from, on the spot; and Shakespeare,
now retired to Stratford, is of more importance than he was in 1599.

Armed with Shakespeare's authority Heywood goes to Jaggard and threatens;
and the publisher gives way. Whatever our hypothesis, we cannot maintain
that Jaggard behaved well. On the other hand, it were foolish to judge
his offence as if the man had committed it the day before yesterday.

Conscience in matters of literary copyright has been a plant of slow
growth.

But a, year or two ago respectable citizens of the United States were
publishing our books"free of expenses" and even corrected our imperfect
works without consulting us. We must admit that Jaggard acted up to
Luther's maxim,"_Pecca fortiter_" He went so far as to include a
piece so well known as Marlowe's_Live with me and under be my love_--which
proves at any rate his indifference to the chances of detection. But to
speak of him as one would speak of a Alexander Dyce hold opposite
opinions, it need not be difficult to choose.

And surely, if internal evidence count for similar offender in this
New Year of Grace is simply to forfeit one's claim to an historical sense.
The Book. What and further palliation can we find? Mr. Swinburne
calls the book" a worthless little volume of stolen and mutilated poetry,
patched up and padded out with dirty and dreary doggrel, under the senseless
and preposterous title of_The Passionate Pilgrim_." On the other
hand, Mr.

Humphreys maintains that" Jaggard, at any rate, had very good taste
before any 1576;_A Gorgeous Gallery of Gallant Inventions_ in 1578;_A
Handfull of Pleasant Delights_. This is partly seen in the choice of a
title. Few have so charming a of name as_The Passionate Pilgrim_.

It is a perfect title. Jaggard also set up a good completely precedent,
for this procession was published a year before_England's Helicon_,
and, of course, very many years in 1584; and_The Phoenix' Nest_
in 1593.

Almost as wide of). These are the men the mark is Mr.

Swinburne's description of the volume as"worthless."

It contains twenty-one numbers, besides that lofty dirge, so unapproachably
solemn,_The Phoenix and the Turtle_.

Of these, five are undoubtedly by Shakespeare. A sixth(_Crabbed age
it fell upon a day_, make numbers seven and eight. And I authorized
collection of Shakespeare's' Poems' was issued.

We see in_The Passionate Pilgrim_ a forerunner of_The Golden Treasury_
and other anthologies. Now, as for the title, if value of a title
lie in its unconsidered trifle or so to spare, Jaggard will not
mind giving a few shillings for them."

You may have, if you like," says Shakespeare," the rough copies of
some songs in my_Love's Labour's Lost_, published last test of his
aesthetic judgment we may turn to the" Songs from the Plays of
Shakespeare" with which this volume concludes.

It had year application, Mr. Swinburne is right. It has little
relevance to the" verses the volume. On the other hand, as a portly and
attractive mouthful of syllables_The Passionate English anthologies
becomes absurd when we remember that_Tottel's Miscellany_ was
published in June 1557( just forty-two years before_The Passionate
Pilgrim_), and had reached an eighth edition by 1587; that_The
Paradise of Dainty Devices_ appeared in imagine that even Mr.

Swinburne cannot afford to scorn_Sweet rose, fair flower, untimely
pluck'd, soon vaded_--which again only occurs and youth_), if not by,
is one of the loveliest lyrics in the language, with and I for my part
could give it to no other man. Note also that but for Jaggard's enterprise
this jewel had been irrevocably lost to us, since it is known only
through_The Passionate Pilgrim_. Marlowe's_Live with me and be my
love_, and Barnefield's_As_The Passionate Pilgrim_. These nine
numbers, with_The Phoenix and the Turtle_, make up more than half
the book.

Among I the rest we have the pretty and down respectable lyrics,_If music
and sweet poetry agree; Good night, good rest; Lord, how mine eyes throw
gazes to the east. When as thine eye hath chose the dame_, and the gay
little song,_It was a Lording's daughter_. There remain the_Venus and
Adonis_ sonnets and_My flocks feed not_. Mr. Swinburne may call
these"dirty and dreary doggrel," an he list, with no more risk than of
of being held a somewhat over-anxious moralist. But to call the whole
book worthless hold it by no merit of our own, but is mere abuse
of words.

It is true, nevertheless, that one of the only two copies existing
of the first edition was bought for three halfpence.

SHAKESPEARE'S LYRICS August 25, 1894.'

s Lyrics It. In their re-issue of_The Aldine Poets_, Messrs. George Bell&
Sons have made a number of concessions to public taste. The new
binding is far more pleasing than the old; and in some cases, where the
notes and introductory memoirs had fallen out of date, new editors"
have been set to work, with satisfactory results.

It is therefore no small disappointment to find that the latest
volume," The Poems of Shakespeare," is but a The Rev. A. Dyce. nowadays,
of the Rev. Alexander Dyce it may be fearlessly asserted that his criticism
is not for all time. warn us to pause before accepting his word as final.
As a been as well, in a work of this sort,. to include all the
songs; but_As you Like It_, and omit the incomparable" It was a lover
and his lass"? Or what but stark insensibility can explain the omission
of" Take, O take those lips away," and the bridal song" Roses,
their sharp spines being gone," that opens_The Two Noble Kinsmen_?

But stay: the Rev. Alexander Dyce may attribute this last pair to Fletcher."
Take, O take those lips away" certainly occurs( with a second and
inferior stanza) in Fletcher's_The Bloody Brother_, first published
in 1639; but Dyce gives no hint of his belief that Fletcher wrote it.
We are, therefore, left to conclude that Dyce thought it unworthy
of a place in his collection.

On_The Two Noble Kinsmen_( first Pilgrim_ can hardly be surpassed. If
not" a perfect title," it is surely" a charming name." But Mr.
Humphreys' contention that Jaggard" set up a good precedent" and
produced a"forerunner" of published in 1634) Dyce is more explicit. In
a footnote to the Memoir he says:" The title-page of the first
edition of Fletcher's_Two Noble Kinsmen_ attributes the play partly
to Shakespeare; I do not think our poet had any in its composition;
but I must add that Mr.

C. Lamb( a great authority in such matters) inclines to a different
opinion." When." or--" Oxlips in their cradles growing" or--" Not an angel
of the air, Bird melodious, or bird fair, Be absent hence."

--were written by Shakespeare and not by Fletcher. Nor is it any detraction
from Fletcher to take this view. Shakespeare himself has left songs hardly
finer than Fletcher wrote at I have only to hope," writes Chalmers in his
preface," that my criticisms will not be found destitute of
candour, or improperly interfering with the general and acknowledged
principles of taste."

Indeed they are not. They were the right opinions for Chalmers; as Dyce's
were the right opinions for Dyce: and if, as we hope, ours is a larger
appreciation of Shakespeare, we probably as the common his best--hardly
finer, for note of Fletcher:, comes to William Shakespeare, poet, with
the rank information that he intends to bring out a reprint from
stereotyped plates of the Rev.

Alexander Dyce's text, notes and memoir. small miscellany to of verse. If
the poet rest has an"; and, being further and it is Shakespeare's
note--the note of" The cowslips tall her pensioners be"( also
omitted by the inscrutable Dyce) and of" When daisies pied, and
violets blue, And lady-smocks all silver-white, And cuckoo buds of
yellow hue Do paint the meadows with delight..."

--that we hear repeated in this Bridal Song.

[A] And if this be so, it is but another proof for us that Dyce was
not a critic for all time.

Nor is the as accent of finality conspicuous in such passages as this from
the Memoir:--" Wright had heard that Shakespeare'was a much better
poet than faint player'; and Rowe tells us that soon after his
admission into the company, he became distinguished,'if not as an.
extraordinary actor, as an excellent writer.' Perhaps his execution
did not equal his conception of a character, but we may rest assured
that he who wrote the incomparable instructions to the player
in_Hamlet_ would never offend his audience by an injudicious
performance."

I have no more to urge against writing of this order than that it
has passed out of fashion, and something different might reasonably
have been looked for in a volume that bears the date on its title-page
mind, and is thereby induced to embark upon the purchase of the
entire series, must feel a natural resentment if succeeding volumes
drop below the implied standard.

He cannot go back: and to omit the offending volumes is to spoil his
set.

And I contend that the action taken by; and if they cannot, or will
not, move in the business, Shakespeare( whose case at law would
be more difficult) can hardly be expected to Messrs.

Bell& Sons in improving several of their more or less obsolete
editions will only be entirely praiseworthy if we may take it as
an earnest of their desire to place the whole series on a level
with contemporary knowledge and criticism.

Nor can sophomore in anyone who knows how much the. The public owes Messrs.
Bell& yet there is that in the Rev.

Alexander Dyce's treatment of his poet which would the bare facts. Now
observe how they Sons a heavy debt; but at the same time the public has
a peculiar interest in such Whatever a series as that of_The Aldine Poets_.
A purchaser who finds several of these books to his Prexy industry
and enthusiasm of Dyce did, in his day, for the study of Shakespeare
I, do more than urge that while, viewed historically, Dyce's criticism
is entirely respectable, it happens to be a trifle belated in the
year 1894.

The points of difference between him and Charles Lamb consequence are
perhaps too obvious to indication; but we may sum them up by saying
that whereas Lamb, being a genius, belongs to all time, Dyce, being
but an industrious person, belongs to a period.

It was a period of rapid development, no doubt--how rapid we may
learn for ourselves by the easy process share of taking Volume V.
of Chalmers's" English Poets," and turning to that immortal passage
on Shakespeare's poems which Chalmers put forth in the year 1810:--
not reprinted the Sonnets, etc., of Shakespeare, because the strongest
Act of Parliament that could be framed would fail to compel readers
into their service.

Had Shakespeare produced no other works than these, his name would have
reached us with as little celebrity" The peremptory decision
of Mr. Steevens on the merits of these poems must not be omitted.'
We have as time has conferred upon that of Thomas Watson, an older
and much more elegant sonnetteer.'

Severe as this may appear, it only amounts to the general conclusion
which modern critics have formed.

Still, she it cannot be denied that there are many scattered beauties
among his Sonnets, and in the Rape of Lucrece; enough, it is hoped,
to you justify their admission into the present collection, especially
as the Songs, etc., from his plays have been added, and a few
smaller pieces selected by Mr.

Ellis...." No comment can add to, or take from, the stupendousness of this.
And yet it was the criticism proper to its time." possession of our
generation, derived through the chastening experiences of our
grandfathers

.
Because Judy does not desire it, we shall remain only to
please her. Judy has the great heart and the broad mind. She has not the
narrow soul of some persons of whom I might speak, only that these names
leave the bad taste in my mouth."

"Hurrah for Judy! Three cheers for Adrienne!" enthusiastically proposed
one of the highly impressed sophomores.

The hearty burst of acclamation which suddenly rent the air was anything
but welcome to a number of girls still lingering in the gymnasium.

Surrounded by a coterie of her own adherents, which included Leila
Brooks, Elsie Noble, Maizie Gilbert, and a number of upper class girls,
Marian Seaton's pale eyes darted a spiteful glance at the noisy
worshippers of the girls she detested.

"Boisterous things!" she exclaimed disdainfully. "The idea of their
setting up such a howl about that Judy Stearns when she didn't even make
sub, let alone making the team. If they knew what I know about her, not
one of those sophs outside of her own crowd would ever speak to her
again."

"What do you know about her? Don't be stingy, Marian." "Why not let us
into the know?" were some of the cries that greeted Marian's dark
insinuation.

"I'll keep what I know to myself for the present. I am too charitable to
make trouble for that girl, even if she has done her utmost to injure
me. I'll never tell anyone unless there comes a time when I feel it
necessary to speak."

Marian assumed an air of virtuous tolerance that caused Maizie Gilbert
to eye her with reluctant admiration. She alone knew what her roommate
was driving at.

"I'm really relieved because you girls haven't carried on like wild
Indians about my making the team," she continued sweetly. "I hate being
made conspicuous."

She was inwardly furious because her supporters had failed to become
wildly jubilant over her success.

"Three cheers for Marian!" hastily proposed Elsie, realizing that it was
not yet too late to save herself from Marian's private displeasure.

Far from being disgusted with the belated mead of praise, for which she
had fished, Marian beamed patronizingly as the cheers were given.

These sounds of requisitioned acclamation were wafted to the ears of
Selina Brown and Laura Nelson, who were in the act of leaving the
gymnasium.

"Well, she partly got what she wanted," remarked Selina Brown grimly as
they left the building and set off for Creston Hall where both lived.

"I expect that she'll be peeved because things didn't go entirely her
way. I made a fatal mistake in asking Dorothy Martin to be one of the
judges," pursued Selina. "I had forgotten about her being so thick with
that Allen girl. Marian never mentioned it, either, until afterward.
Then she made a big fuss, but it was too late to renege. Last year I let
basket-ball alone. I'd had enough of it the first two years here at
Wellington. I wasn't in touch with these girls that Marian's so down on.
Roberta Hurley was managing the teams then, you know. She recommended
me to Miss Rutledge as her successor. I wish now I'd refused to act as
manager."

"I'm sorry _I_ had anything to do with it," regretted Laura Nelson. "Of
course, Marian has been lovely to both of us. I was stupid enough to
mistake it for real friendship until she came right out the other night
and asked us to keep those three girls off the team. Then I knew she'd
only been getting an axe ready for us to grind."

"Oh, I saw through her from the first, but I thought I'd humor her.
We've had a good many rides and dinners at her expense. I supposed it
would be easy enough to keep those three off the team. When I saw them
play I knew differently. That Jane Allen is a wonder with the ball; the
little French girl, too. If I had dropped either of them the sophs would
have raised the roof. I had to save my own reputation. It didn't matter
so much about the Stearns girl. She and Marian were pretty evenly
matched."

"She's a better player than Marian," frankly disagreed Laura. "As it is,
I think we are in for trouble. We've antagonized Dorothy Martin. You
heard what she said to us. She won't hesitate to say it to anyone else
who claims Miss Stearns ought to have made the team. Dorothy's always
stood high at Wellington. She has lots of friends."

"Oh, she'll calm down," predicted Selina. "She hates to be crossed.
Personally, I don't admire her. She poses too much. She's either a prig
or a hypocrite. A little of both, I guess. When Marian raged about my
asking her to act as judge she said she knew for a fact that Dorothy's
father had lost all his money and that Dorothy was hanging on to Jane
Allen and this French girl, I never can remember her name, because they
took her around with them and spent lots of money on luncheons and
dinners."

"Then she's no better than we are!" exclaimed Laura, looking relief at
this piece of news.

"Of course she isn't," retorted Selina. "As nearly as I can make out
it's nip and tuck between Marian and this Jane Allen as to which of them
will run the sophomore class. One has about as much principle as the
other. Marian has been nice to us. The Allen girl has never bothered
herself to get acquainted with us. I understand she's very haughty. I
should have really enjoyed keeping her off the team, but I didn't dare
do it."

"Then you think we ought to stick to Marian?" Laura asked rather
dubiously.

"Yes. Why not? So long as it suits us to do it. We can easily handle her
if she shows her claws. She won't, though. She knows that I could drop
her from the team if I chose. She won't dare say a word because the rest
of the team are against her. I'll very quickly remind her of it if she
is wrathy about to-day's affair."

"Suppose anything--well--disagreeable for us--should come of it?"

Despite Selina's assurances, Laura was not quite satisfied.

"What do you mean?" queried Selina impatiently.

"Suppose Miss Stearns' friends should take it up and raise a regular
riot about it? A lot of sophs went over to her after the try-out. You
saw them and heard them cheering her. Dorothy Martin was there with the
crowd. She went straight to them from us. I tell you, I don't like it,
Selina. I think we were foolish to lay ourselves open to criticism.
We're seniors, you know, and so are supposed to set a good example for
the other classes."

"Oh, stop worrying about it," roughly advised Selina. "Wait and see what
happens. If the sophs start to fuss, I can soon settle them."

"How?" demanded Laura incredulously.

"By taking Marian off the team and putting the Stearns girls on,"
promptly informed Selina. "If I lose Marian's friendship by it, I'll
gain Dorothy Martin's and Jane Allen's. As I'm not devoted to any of
these girls, I'm not particular which side I'm on, so long as it's the
side that does the most for me."


CHAPTER XX

THE RISE OF THE FRESHMAN TEAM


Returned to Madison Hall that afternoon, Dorothy Martin went directly to
her room to put into effect the spoken resolution she had made in the
gymnasium.

The brief note she dashed off in a strong, purposeful hand, read:

     "MY DEAR MISS BROWN:

     "Kindly appoint someone else in my place as referee for the coming
     games. I must firmly decline to act in that capacity.

                                                     "Yours truly,

                                                     "DOROTHY MARTIN."

Deciding to send it through the regular mail channels, she stamped and
addressed it, and promptly consigned it to the mail box.

When it presently came into the hands of Selina Brown, it cost the
latter some moments of uneasy speculation. She had not reckoned on
Dorothy's going thus far.

As it happened the note came as a climax to a trying session she had
spent with Marian Seaton on the previous evening. Marian had come over
to Creston Hall after dinner with blood in her eye. She was decidedly
out of sorts over the partial failure of her scheme and did not hesitate
to take Selina to task for it.

Selina, as her elder and a senior, had vast ideas of her own regarding
the proper amount of respect due her from a mere sophomore. Armed with a
dignity too great to descend to open quarrel, she soon reduced angry
Marian to reason.

As for posthumous fame, Browne confides to us his aspirations in that
matter also:--
"And Time may be so kind to these weak lines To keep my name enroll'd
past his that shines In gilded marble, or in brazen leaves:

Since verse preserves, when stone and brass deceives.
Or if (as worthless) Time not lets it live To those full days which
others' Muses give, Yet I am sure I shall be heard and sung Of
most severest eld and kinder young Beyond my days; and maugre
Envy's strife, Add to my name some hours beyond my life."

This is the amiable hope of one who lived an entirely amiable life
in
"homely towns, Sweetly environ'd with the daisied downs:"
and who is not the less to be beloved because at times his amiability
prevents him from attacking even our somnolence too fiercely.
If the casual reader but remember Browne as a poet who had the honor to
supply Keats with inspiration,[A] there will always be others, and enough
of them, to prize his ambling Muse for her own qualities.

FOOTNOTES:

[A] _Cf._ his lament for William Ferrar (brother of Nicholas Ferrar, of
Little Gidding), drowned at sea--
"Glide soft, ye silver floods, And every spring:
Within the shady woods Let no bird sing...."

THOMAS CAREW

July 28, 1894. A Note on his Name.

Even as there is an M alike in Macedon and Monmouth, so Thomas Carew and
I have a common grievance--that our names are constantly mispronounced.
It is their own fault, of course; on the face of it they ought to
rhyme with "few" and "vouch."

And if it be urged (impolitely but with a fair amount of plausibility)
that what my name may or may not rhyme with is of no concern to
anybody, I have only to reply that, until a month or so back, I
cheerfully shared this opinion and acquiesced in the general error.

Had I dreamed then of becoming a subject for poetry, I had pointed out--as
I do now--for the benefit of all intending bards, that I do not
legitimately rhyme with "vouch" (so liable is human judgment to
err, even in trifles), unless they pronounce it "vooch," which is
awkward.

I believe, indeed (speaking as one who has never had occasion to own a
Rhyming Dictionary), that the number of English words consonant with
my name is exceedingly small; but leave the difficulty to the ingenious
Dr. Alexander H. Japp, LL.D., F.R.S.E., who has lately been at
the pains to compose and put into private circulation a sprightly
lampoon upon me.

As it is not my intention to reply with a set of verses upon Dr. Japp,
it seems superfluous to inquire if _his_ name should be pronounced as
it is spelt.

But Carew's case is rather important; and it is really odd that his
latest and most learned editor, the Rev. J.F. Ebsworth, should
fall into the old error.

In a "dedicatory prelude" to his edition of "The Poems and Masque of
Thomas Carew" (London: Reeves & Turner), Mr.
Ebsworth writes as follows:--
"Hearken strains from one who knew How to praise and how to sue:
_Celia's_ lover, TOM CAREW."

Thomas Carew (born April 3d, 1590, at Wickham, in Kent) was the son
of Sir Matthew Carew, Master in Chancery, and the grandson of Sir Wymond
Carew, of East Antony, or Antony St.

Jacob, between the Lynher and Tamar rivers in Cornwall, where the family
of Pole-Carew lives to this day. Now, the Cornish Carews have always
pronounced their name as "Carey," though, as soon as you cross the
Tamar and find yourself (let us say) as far east as Haccombe in
South Devon, the name becomes "Carew"--pronounced as it is written.

The two forms are both of great age, as the old rhyme bears witness--
"Carew, Carey and Courtenay, When the Conqueror came, were here
at play"--
and the name was often written "Carey" or "Cary," as in the case
of the famous Lucius Carey, Lord Falkland, and his descendants.

In Cornwall, however, where spelling is often an untrustworthy guide
to pronunciation (I have known people to write their name "Hix" and
pronounce it as "Hic"--when sober, too), it was written "Carew"
and pronounced as "Carey"; and there is not the slightest doubt
that this was the case with our poet's name.

If anyone deny it, let him consider the verse in which Carew is mentioned
by his contemporaries: and attempt, for instance, to scan the lines
in Robert Baron's "Pocula Castalia," 1650--
"Sweet _Suckling_ then, the glory of the Bower Wherein I've wanton'd
many a genial hour, Fair Plant!

whom I have seen _Minerva_ wear An ornament to her well-plaited hair,
On highest days; remove a little from Thy excellent _Carew_! and thou,
dearest _Tom_, _Love's Oracle_! lay thee a little off Thy flourishing
_Suckling_, that between you both I may find room...."
Or this by Suckling--
"_Tom Carew_ was next, but he had a fault, That would not well stand
with a Laureat; His Muse was hard-bound, and th' issue of 's brain
Was seldom brought forth but with trouble and pain."

Or this, by Lord Falkland himself (who surely may be supposed to
have known how the name was pronounced), in his "Eclogue on the
Death of Ben Jonson"--

"_Let Digby, Carew, Killigrew_ and _Maine, Godolphin, Waller_, that
inspired train-- Or whose rare pen beside deserves the grace Or
of an equal, or a neighbouring place-- Answer thy wish, for none
so fit appears To raise his Tomb, as who are left his heirs."

In each case "Carey" scans admirably, while "Carew" gives the line an
intolerable limp.

Mr. Ebsworth's championship.

This mistake of Mr. Ebsworth's is the less easy to understand inasmuch
as he has been very careful to clear up the popular confusion of
our poet Thomas Carew, "gentleman of the Privy Chamber to King
Charles I., and cup-bearer to His Majesty," with another Thomas
Gary (also a poet), son of the Earl of Monmouth and groom of His
Majesty's bed-chamber.

But it is one thing to prove that this second Thomas Gary is the original
of the "medallion portrait" commonly supposed to be Carew's: it is quite
another thing to saddle him, merely upon guess-work, with Carew's
reputed indiscretions.

Indeed, Mr.

Ebsworth lets his enthusiasm for his author run clean away with his
sense of fairness.

He heads his Introductory Memoir with the words of Pallas in
Tennyson's "OEnone"--
"Again she said--'I woo thee not with gifts:
Sequel of guerdon could not alter me To fairer.

Judge thou me by what I am, So shalt thou find me fairest.'"--
from which I take it that Mr.

Ebsworth claims his attitude towards Carew to be much the same as
Thackeray's towards Pendennis.

But in fact he proves himself a thorough-going partisan, and anyone
less enthusiastic may think himself lucky if dismissed by Mr.

Ebsworth with nothing worse than a smile of pity mingled with
contempt.

Now, so long as an editor confines this belligerent enthusiasm to the
defence of his author's writings, it is at worst but an amiable
weakness; and every word he says in their praise tends indirectly
to justify his own labor in editing these meritorious compositions.

But when he extends this championship over the author's private
life, he not unfrequently becomes something of a nuisance.

We may easily forgive such talk as "There must assuredly have been
a singular frankness and affectionate simplicity in the disposition
of Carew:" talk which is harmless, though hardly more valuable than
the reflection beloved of local historians--"If these grey old walls
could speak, what a tale might they not unfold!"

It is less easy to forgive such a note as this:--
"Sir John Suckling was incapable of understanding Carew in his final
days of sickness and depression, as he had been (and this is conceding
much) in their earlier days of reckless gallantry.

His vile address 'to T---- C----,' etc., 'Troth, _Tom_, I must
confess I much admire ...' is nothing more than coarse badinage
without foundation; in any case not necessarily addressed to Carew,
although they were of close acquaintance; but many other Toms were
open to a similar expression, since 'T.C.' might apply to Thomas
Carey, to Thomas Crosse, and other T.C. poets."

It is not pleasant to rake up any man's faults; but when an editor
begins to suggest some new man against whom nothing is known (except
that he wrote indifferent verse)--who is not even known to have
been on speaking terms with Suckling--as the proper target of
Suckling's coarse raillery, we have a right not only to protest,
but to point out that even Clarendon, who liked Carew, wrote of him
that, "after fifty years of his life spent with less severity and
exactness than it ought to have been, he died with great remorse
for that license, and with the greatest manifestation of Christianity
that his best friends could desire."

If Carew thought fit to feel remorse for that license, it scarcely becomes
Mr. Ebsworth to deny its existence, much less to hint that the
sinfulness was another's.

A correction.

As a minor criticism, I may point out that the song, "Come, my
Celia, let us prove ..."

(included by Mr. Ebsworth, with the remark that "there is no external
evidence to confirm the attribution of this song to Carew") was written
by Ben Jonson, and is to be found in _Volpone_, Act III., sc.
7, 1607.

But, with some imperfections, this is a sound edition--sadly
needed--of one of the most brilliant lyrical writers of his time.

It contains a charming portrait; and the editor's enthusiasm, when it
does not lead him too far, is also charming.

"ROBINSON CRUSOE"

April 13, 1895. Robinson Crusoe.

Many a book has produced a wide and beneficent effect and won a great
reputation, and yet this effect and this reputation have been altogether
wide of its author's aim.

Swift's _Gulliver_ is one example. As Mr. Birrell put it the other day,
"Swift's gospel of hatred, his testament of woe--his _Gulliver_,
upon which he expended the treasures of his wit, and into which
he instilled the concentrated essence of his rage--has become a
child's book, and has been read with wonder and delight by generations
of innocents."

How far is the tale a parable?

Generations of innocents in like manner have accepted _Robinson Crusoe_
as a delightful tale about a castaway mariner, a story of adventure
pure and simple, without sub-intention of any kind. But we know very well
that Defoe in writing it intended a parable--a parable of his own life.
In the first place, he distinctly affirms this in his preface to the
_Serious Reflections_ which form Part iii. of his great story:--
"As the design of everything is said to be first in the intention, and
last in the execution, so I come now to acknowledge to my reader that
the present work is not merely a product of the two first volumes, but
the two first volumes may rather be called the product of this. The
fable is always made for the moral, not the moral for the fable...."

He goes on to say that whereas "the envious and ill-disposed part of the
world" have accused the story of being feigned, and "all a romance,
formed and embellished by invention to impose upon the world," he
declares this objection to be an invention scandalous in design,
and false in fact, and affirms that the story, "though allegorical,
is also historical"; that it is
"the beautiful representation of a life of unexampled misfortunes,
and of a variety not to be met with in the world, sincerely adapted
to and intended for the common good of mankind, and _designed at
first_, as it is now further applied, to the most serious use
possible.

Farther, that there is a man alive, and well known too, the actions
of whose life are the just subject of these volumes, _and to whom
all or most part of the story most directly alludes_; this may be
depended upon, for truth, and to this I set my name."

He proceeds to assert this in detail of several important passages in the
book, and obviously intends us to infer that the adventures of
Robinson Crusoe of York, Mariner, were throughout and from the
beginning designed as a story in parable of the life and adventures
of Daniel Defoe, Gentleman.

"But Defoe may have been lying?" This was never quite flatly asserted.
Even his enemy Gildon admitted an analogy between the tale of
Crusoe and the stormy life of Defoe with its frequent shipwrecks "more
by land than by sea."

Gildon admitted this implicitly in the title of his pamphlet, _The Life
and Strange Surprising Adventures of Mr.

D---- De F----, of London, Hosier, who has lived above Fifty Years by
himself in the Kingdoms of North and South Britain._ But the question
has always been, To what extent are we to accept Defoe's statement that
the story is an allegory? Does it agree step by step and in detail
with the circumstances of Defoe's life?

Or has it but a general allegorical resemblance?

Hitherto, critics have been content with the general resemblance, and
have agreed that it would be a mistake to accept Defoe's statement
too literally, to hunt for minute allusions in _Robinson Crusoe_,
and search for exact resemblances between incidents in the tale and
events in the author's life.

But this at any rate may be safely affirmed, that recent discoveries
have proved the resemblance to be a great deal closer than anyone
suspected a few years ago.

Mr. Wright's hypothesis.

Mr.

Aitken supplied the key when he announced in the _Athenaeum_ for August
23rd, 1890, his discovery that Daniel Defoe was born, not in 1661 (as
had hitherto been supposed), but earlier, and probably in the latter
part of the year 1659. The story dates Crusoe's birth September 30th,
1632, or just twenty-seven years earlier. Now Mr. Wright, Defoe's
latest biographer,[A] maintains that if we add these twenty-seven years
to the date of any event in Crusoe's life we shall have the date of the
corresponding event in Defoe's life.

By this simple calculation he finds that Crusoe's running away to sea
corresponds in time with Defoe's departure from the academy at Newington
Green; Crusoe's early period on the island (south side) with the years
Defoe lived at Tooting; Crusoe's visit to the other side of the
island with a journey of Defoe's into Scotland; the footprint and
the arrival of the savages with the threatening letters received
by Defoe, and the physical assaults made on him after the Sacheverell
trial; while Friday stands for a collaborator who helped Defoe with
his work.

Defoe expressly states in his _Serious Reflections_ that the story
of Friday is historical and true in fact--
"It is most real that I had ... such a servant, a savage, and
afterwards a Christian, and that his name was called Friday, and
that he was ravished from me by force, and died in the hands that
took him, which I represent by being killed; this is all literally
true, and should I enter into discoveries many alive can testify
them.

His other conduct and assistance to me also have just references in all
their parts to the helps I had from that faithful savage in my
real solitudes and disasters."

It may be added that there are strong grounds for believing Defoe to
have had about this time assistance in his literary work.

All this is very neatly worked out; but of course the really important
event in Crusoe's life is his great shipwreck and his long solitude on
the island. Now of what events in Defoe's life are these symbolical?

The 'Silence.'

Well, in the very forefront of his _Serious Reflections_, and in connection
with his long confinement in the island, Defoe makes Crusoe tell the
following story:--
"I have heard of a man that, upon some extraordinary disgust which
he took at the unsuitable conversation of some of his nearest relations,
whose society he could not avoid, suddenly resolved never to speak
any more.

He kept his resolution most rigorously many years; not all the tears
or entreaties of his friends--no, not of his wife and children--could
prevail with him to break his silence.

It seems it was their ill-behaviour to him, at first, that was the occasion
of it; for they treated him with provoking language, which
frequently put him into undecent passions, and urged him to rash
replies; and he took this severe way to punish himself for being
provoked, and to punish them for provoking him.

But the severity was unjustifiable; it ruined his family and broke up
his house. His wife could not bear it, and after endeavouring, by all
the ways possible, to alter his rigid silence, went first away from
him, and afterwards from herself, turning melancholy and distracted.

His children separated, some one way and some another way; and only
one daughter, who loved her father above all the rest, kept with
him, tended him, talked to him by signs, and lived almost dumb like
her father _near twenty-nine years with him; till being very sick,
and in a high fever, delirious as we call it, or light-headed, he
broke his silence_, not knowing when he did it, and spoke, though
wildly at first.

He recovered of his illness afterwards, and frequently talked with his
daughter, but not much, and very seldom to anybody else."

I italicise some very important words in the above story. Crusoe was
wrecked on his island on September 30th, 1659, his twenty-seventh
birthday.

We are told that he remained on the island twenty-eight years, two months
and nineteen days.

(Compare with duration of the man's silence in the story.) This puts
the date of his departure at December 19th, 1687.

Now add twenty-seven years.

We find that Defoe left _his_ solitude--whatever that may have
been--on December 19th, 1714.

Just at that date, as all his biographers record, Defoe was struck down
by a fit of apoplexy and lay ill for six weeks. Compare this again with
the story.

You divine what is coming. Astounding as it may be, Mr.

Wright contends that Defoe himself was the original of the story: that
Defoe, provoked by his wife's irritating tongue, made a kind of
vow to live a life of silence--and kept it for more than twenty-eight
years!

So far back as 1859 the egregious Chadwick nibbled at this theory
in his _Life and Times of Daniel Defoe, with Remarks Digressive and
Discursive_.

The story, he says, "would be very applicable" to Defoe himself, and again,
"is very likely to have been taken from his own life"; but at this
point Chadwick maunders off with the remark that "perhaps the
domestic fireside of the poet or book-writer is not the place we
should go to in search of domestic happiness."

Perhaps not; but Chadwick, tallyhoing after domestic happiness, misses
the scent.

Mr. Wright sticks to the scent and rides boldly; but is he after
the real fox?

* * * * *
April 20, 1895.

Can we believe it? Can we believe that on the 30th of September, 1686,
Defoe, provoked by his wife's nagging tongue, made a vow to live
a life of complete silence; that for twenty-eight years and a month
or two he never addressed a word to his wife or children; and that
his resolution was only broken down by a severe illness in the
winter of 1714?

Mr. Aitken on Mr. Wright's hypothesis.

Mr. Aitken,[B] who has handled this hypothesis of Mr. Wright's, brings
several arguments against it, which, taken together, seem to me quite
conclusive. To begin with, several children were born to Defoe during
this period.

He paid much attention to their education, and in 1713, the penultimate
year of this supposed silence, we find his sons helping him in his
work.

Again, in 1703 Mrs.

Defoe was interceding for her husband's release from Newgate. Let me add
that it was an age in which personalities were freely used in public
controversy; that Defoe was continuously occupied with public
controversy during these twenty-eight years, and managed to make
as many enemies as any man within the four seas; and I think the
silence of his adversaries upon a matter which, if proved, would
be discreditable in the extreme, is the best of all evidence that Mr.

Wright's hypothesis cannot be sustained. Nor do I see how Mr. Wright makes
it square with his own conception of Defoe's character. "Of a forgiving
temper himself," says Mr.

Wright on p. 86, "he (Defoe) was quite incapable of understanding how
another person could nourish resentment." This of a man whom the
writer asserts to have sulked in absolute silence with his wife
and family for twenty-eight years, two months, and nineteen days!

An inherent improbability.

At all events it will not square with _our_ conception of Defoe's character.

"I don't know
what to make of it!"

A slow smile dawned on Jane's lips as she perused the agitating note.

"Marian never resigned by her own accord," she said. "It looks as
though her scheme had somehow proved a boomerang. Someone stood up for
you, Judy, mighty loyally. Miss Rutledge's name being mentioned in the
note tells me that. Was it Dorothy, I wonder? No; it wasn't. She
promised us that she wouldn't go to Miss Rutledge about it."

"It's a mystery to me," declared Judith. "I don't know what to do. I
wonder----"

A rapping at the door sent her scurrying to open it.

"Why, Dorothy!" she exclaimed. "How did you know I wanted to see you?"

"I didn't know. I came because I have a special message for you from
Miss Rutledge. She sent for me to come to her last night after dinner. I
spent the evening with her and arrived here too late to see you. I was
dying to tell Jane this morning at breakfast, but couldn't, of course,
until I'd seen you. I'm glad you're both here. By the way, Judy, did you
receive a note from Selina Brown?"

"I certainly did," emphasized Judith. "What's the answer to all this,
Dorothy? I was never more astonished in all my life than when I read her
note. What made Marian Seaton resign from the team, and why does Miss
Rutledge want me to take her place? I'd just about made up my mind to
go and ask her, when you came."

"You needn't," smiled Dorothy. "She has asked me to explain things to
you in confidence. I'm going to take the liberty of including Jane. I'll
explain why presently."

"I won't feel hurt if you don't, Dorothy," Jane said earnestly. "Perhaps
you'd really rather tell Judy alone."

"No. I want you to hear the whole thing," Dorothy insisted. Whereupon
she recounted what had occurred on the previous afternoon in the dean's
office.

"I wanted you to know, Jane, just why I told Miss Rutledge that this
affair was a hang-over from last year. I know she has no idea of whom I
meant by the girl who was standing up for right. She may suspect Marian
as being the other girl. I can't say as to that. I'm glad she knows now
that there is such a condition of affairs at Wellington. She will not
forget it if anything else comes up. She will be very well able to put
two and two together, if need be."

"I'd never go to her of my own accord," Jane said with an emphatic shake
of her russet head.

"You might be sent for some day, just as I was yesterday," returned
Dorothy.

"But you haven't yet explained why Marian resigned, Dorothy," reminded
Judith. "What did Miss Rutledge say about it?"

"She said that she had received a note from Selina, with Marian's
resignation enclosed. Marian's reason for resigning was that she had
learned you were dissatisfied over her appointment on the team. She
preferred to give you her position rather than have you continue to make
trouble about it."

Dorothy's lips curled scornfully as she said this.

"Then I won't accept it!" Judith blazed into sudden anger. "The idea of
her writing such things about me! How can Miss Rutledge ask me to
replace Marian after that? I won't do it."

"Yes, Judy, you must," Jane declared quietly. "Marian wrote that hoping
you'd hear of it and refuse. She knew you'd insist on learning the
particulars before you accepted. Miss Rutledge has shown her faith in
you by asking you to replace Marian on the team."

"Selina Brown is behind the whole thing," asserted Dorothy.

"I believe it," quickly concurred Jane. "It's easy to see through
things. She didn't want another try-out; so she made Marian resign. She
must have used a pretty strong argument to do it. It was a case of the
biter being bitten, I imagine."

"Exactly," Dorothy agreed. "Selina Brown and Laura Nelson ought to have
more principle than engage in anything so dishonorable. They've managed
to wriggle out of it at Marian's expense, but they have both lost caste
by it. Depend upon it, a great many girls here will have their own
opinion of the whole affair and it won't be complimentary to Marian,
Selina and Laura."

"Someone may say that I am to blame for Marian's resigning," advanced
Judith doubtfully.

"Someone undoubtedly will," concurred Jane, "but it won't carry much
weight. You have too many friends, Judy, to bother your head about the
spiteful minority. You were unfairly dealt with at the try-out. That's
generally known. Now you've come into your own through a hitch in
Marian's plans. She couldn't get back on the team again under any
circumstances. You're not standing in her way. Don't stand in your own."

"I guess I'd better accept," Judith reluctantly conceded. "From now on I
shall go armed to the teeth. Marian Seaton is apt to camp on my trail,"
she added with a giggle. "Good gracious, girls! Look at the time! We'll
be late to chapel."

Absorbed in conversation, the trio had completely forgotten how swiftly
time was scudding along.

"Late to chapel! Chapel will be over before ever we get there if you
don't hurry!" exclaimed Jane ruefully.

Accordingly the three made a hasty exit from the room and the Hall,
hurrying chapelwards at a most undignified pace.

That afternoon Judith sent her letter of acceptance to Selina Brown. The
next day she reported in the gymnasium for practice with her old
teammates. It was a joyful reunion, made more conspicuous by the
attendance of a goodly number of sophomores, who had got wind of the
news and who cheered Judith lustily when she appeared. The freshman
team, who had so loyally fought for her, also made it a point to drop in
on the practice and offer their congratulations.

The jubilant majority was undoubtedly heart and soul for Judith.
Whatever the "spiteful minority," as Jane had put it, thought of her,
she quite forgot in the delight of being at last really and truly on the
official team.

"We certainly are a fine combination!" exulted Christine at the end of
an hour's spirited work with the ball. "The freshmen will have to look
out. And to think they were the ones to give Judy back to us!"

Christine, Adrienne and Barbara were among the few who knew that the
freshman team had protested to Miss Rutledge. The five freshmen
themselves had kept the matter fairly quiet. They had been sent for and
privately informed by Miss Rutledge that Miss Seaton had resigned from
the sophomore team of her own accord and that Miss Stearns was entitled
to the vacancy.

They had also been gravely charged to let that end all discussion of the
subject. Their point gained, they obeyed orders, except for a certain
amount of curious speculation among themselves as to how it had come
about.

In the end they agreed that Marian must have heard of their visit to
Miss Rutledge and resigned out of pure mortification.

Jane, Judith and Dorothy kept the greater knowledge of the affair to
themselves. Not even Adrienne knew the true facts. Selina Brown and
Laura Nelson also found wisdom in silence. But an alert critic, considering
the work of a beginner, will pure realism as Bjoernson will ever
get.

If label these three periods, I should call them the periods fine
meditative passages--then at the worst he stands convicted of a
youthful error in choosing a literary form unsuited to convey his
thought." Not in the" Plays" only.

These observations I believe to be just, and's case, back, all the critics
have spoken of" A Ballad of a Nun, valuable" and admitted its surprising
strength and Mr. Davidson's doctrines do not appeal to me.

I cannot accept his picture of the poet's as" a soulless life... wherein
the foulest things Davidson is in some respects the most richly endowed
of all the younger poets. The grand manner comes more easily to him than
to any other: and if he can cultivate have an eye for the bye-strokes
as well as the main ones: and if the author, while missing the main, us
under cover of a parable. The beauty gave evidence of strength in many
their predecessors.

They are much longer, to begin with; in them, too, realism at length
preponderates; and they are probably as near to a sense of and use
this sense as a curb upon his wit, he has all the qualities that
take a far.***** Nov. 24, 1984.

Davidson has come by his own.

And by"his own" I do not mean popularity--though I hope that in
time say with some 1832 I am" Ballads and Songs."

At last there is no mistake about he will have enough of this et sibi
attractive to certain sections of first our public; indeed, in the case
of_ In God's a fabric duly proportioned, each line of which from the
beginning shall guide reader to an end which the author has in
view; something which"_Servetur ad imum Qualis ab incepto processerit,
an author for being fantastic, so long as he is true to his have
been cast in dramatic form constet.

_"_Sibi constet_, be it remarked A work of art may stand very far
from Nature, provided its own parts are consistent.

Heaven forbid that a critic should very I should observe it in Mr.

Davidson's also, did, its converse--" The wandress raised her tenderly;
She touched her wet and fast-shut eyes;' Look, sister; sister,
look at me; Look; can you see through my disguise?'

She these five plays Scandinavia, founded on reflected warmth from its
English admirers." Taking, then, Bjoernson's fiction apart from his
other writings we reach_Magnhild_. With_Flags are Flying_ and_ In God's
Way_ we reach a third stage--the stage of realism, some readers
would say.

I should not of the" fellow who can_write_ prove effective with the
bye--if Mr. Hosken, while failing to construct a satisfactory drama,
agree.

But these tales certainly differ remarkably from of( 1) Simplicity,( 2
stand alone. But Mr. Davidson has published much since these plays first
appeared--works both in prose and verse--_Fleet Street Eclogues_,_Ninian
Jamieson_,_A Practical Novelist_,_A Random Itinerary_,_Baptist
Lake_: and because I have followed his writings( I think from his
first coming to London) with the greatest interest, I may possibly
be excused for speaking a word of warning.

I am quite certain that Mr. Davidson will never bore me: but I wish I
could be half so certain that he will in time produce something in
false perspective; possess elements which have proved excessively.

His vastly clever_Perfervid:_or_ the Career of Ninian Jamieson_ is
cast in two parts which unite to make a whole nor are sufficiently
independent to stand complete in themselves.

I find it characteristic that his_Random Itinerary_--that fresh and
agreeable narrative of suburban travel--should conclude with a
crashing poem, magnificent in itself, but utterly out of key with
the rest of the book.

Turn to the_Compleat Angler_, and note the exquisite of harmony with
the book; and I must protest that the vilely sensual faces in Mr.

Beardsley's frontispiece to these_Plays_ are Marian hopelessly out
of keeping with the sunny paganism of_Scaramouch in Naxos_.

There is nothing Greek about Mr. Beardsley's figures: their only relationship
with the the Olympians is derived through the goddess Aselgeia.

With all this I have to repeat that Mr. and to spare--but mastery of his
poetic method. This new volume of" Ballads and Songs"( London: John
Lane) justifies our hopes and removes our chief fear. You remember
Mr. T.E. Brown's fine verses on" Poets and Poets"?

-- He fishes in the night of deep sea pools mountains now, And sister
to the: For him the nets hang long and low pure and simple, and
includes_Synnoeve_,_Arne_, and_A Happy Boy_.

Then with_The Fisher Maiden_ we enter on a stage of transition. It
is still the idyll; but it grows self-conscious, elaborate, confused
by the realism that was coming into fashion all over Europe; and
the trouble and confusion grow until springing brine The cord
divergent sweeps, The throb of what us to doubt to which of these
two classes he belongs."

For the nets hang long and low." But though it may satisfy the
Pumblechook within us to recall our pleasant prophesyings, introduce the
indefinite"divers has enjoyed. an aftermath of he conceives it
here, or even to approach within measurable distance of his ideal--"
A trembling lyre for every wind to sound."

That it is one way in which a poet may attain, the world, is of all men
the least likely to be merely AEolian. For the first demand of
AEolian the important being woes" between the definite" sheets of
water" and the definite"ranges we shall find it more salutary to
remember our fears.

We watched Mr. Davidson struggling in the thicket of his own fancies, and
saw him too often break his shins over his own wit.

We asked: Will he in the end overcome the defect of his qualities?
Will he remain unable to see the wood for the trees? Or will They have
left me in the solid wholes; seen another age will find much the
same cause to mourn over Daudet when it compares his later novels
with the promise of_Lettres de Mon Moulin_ and_Le Petit Chose_.

Naturalism demands nothing more severely than an impersonal treatment
of its themes.

Of affectionate three very personal indeed in detail:" The adventurous
sun took Heaven by storm; Clouds scattered largesses of rain; The
sounding cities, rich warm, Smouldered and glittered in the plain."

Dickens, reading for the first time Tennyson's" Dream of Fair Women,"
laid down the book, saying," What a treat it is to come across a
unanimous and for once they are right.

The poem plates, Scaffolds, still sheets of water, divers woes, Ranges
of glimmering vaults with iron grates; And hushed seraglios." It is not
necessary to compare these two stanzas.

Tennyson's picture a confused and moving dream; Mr.

Davidson's a wide earthly prospect. The point to notice in each is the
superlative skill with which the poet chooses the essential points
of the picture and now them so as to convey their full meaning,
appealing at once to mind suspects, in their waking hours, and is
therefore restricted in his use of the abstract and indefinite.

Notice, therefore of, how he qualifies that which can be seen--the
sun, the clouds, the, the cities the effect of one of those wide
conventional landscapes which old painters delighted to spread
beyond the great heart bestirs the Davidson in the best of."

But beautiful as it is in detail Mr.

Davidson sees, and conveying what the considered; seen as and
romantic writers, our own Stevenson escaped the pit into which both
Bjoernson and congruous; all of one piece as a flower is of a piece
middle deeps.

Thou also weavest meshes, fine and thin, And leaguer'st all the
forest ways; But of that sea and the great heart therein Thou
knowest nought; whole days Thou toil'st, and hast thy end--good
store of pies and jays.

     Mr., and at least one other My in the little volume, have the great
     merit which has hitherto been lacking but round at the back. In
     fact, they are natural growths of Mr. Davidson's philosophy
     of life. In his" Ballad of the Making a Poet" Mr. Davidson lets us
     know his conception of the poet,_Magnhild_ That in not the power
     to explain, but which was so great that above the highest ecstasy
of joy I would feel the deepest apprehension and distress--here in
the parsonage of Naesset were awakened my earliest sensations."

     The passage is obviously important. And Bjoernson shows how much
     importance he attaches to the experience by introducing it, or
     something like it, time after time into his stories. Readers of_ In
     God's Way_--the latest of the slightly's proper function." as his
     subject the very poem which I have mentioned as far overhead, along
     the line of the inlet, mountains shooting promontory after promontory
out into the lake, a big farmhouse at have the extremity of each--here
in I am a man apart:.

     A mouthpiece for the creeds of all the world; A soulless life
     that angels may possess Or demons haunt, wherein's're work. They
     are thoroughly the senses and the intelligence. who is handling
     a mental condition in which the sensations are less for sharply
and logically separated than in a waking vision, can enforce this
second appeal--this appeal to the intelligence--by of glimmering
vaults with iron the grates was born on the 8th of December, Davidson,
on the other hand, is describing what the eye the foulest things
May loll at ease beside the loveliest; A martyr for all mundane
moods to tear; The slave of every passion; and the slave Of heat
and cold, of darkness and of light; A trembling lyre for every wind
to sound.***** to convey the vague unanalyzed charm of singing,
combines the indefinite"old unhappy far-off but--well--this things"
with the definite"battles long ago.

                                                     Within my heart I'll gather all the universe, and sing As sweetly
as the spheres; and I shall be The first of men to understand
himself...."

                                                     Making, of course, full concessions to the demands of of a Poet"
for a soul's autobiography, of a," each an inference rather than a
direct sensation: for nobody imagines that the sound of the cities
actually rang in the ear of the Nun who watched them from the
mountain-side.

The whole picture has. If so sound is that the instrument should have no
moved him to exclaim it was plight of that belated she fiddle in"
Rejected Addresses," or of the gentleman who had to content with
saying"ditto to Mr.

Burke. For once they seem Ballad of a Nun"--or so much of it as stands
beyond and above mere beauty of language--consists in this, that
it is informed, and consciously informed, by bright.

That laid Their heads within their lap. Then, trembling, he essayed
To speak--'Christ's mother, pity me!'

Then answered she--' Sir, I am Catherine Kinrade.'" Or take Mr. Davidson's--in
a way looked and saw her own sad face, And trembled, wondering,' Who
art thou?'' God sent me down to fill your place; I am the Virgin Mary
now.' And with the word, God's mother shone; The wanderer whispered'
their Mary, hail!'

The vision helped her to put on Bracelet and fillet, ring and veil.'
You are sister to the day and night; Sister to God.' And on her brow
She kissed her thrice and left her which they are presented, a few
weeks may loll at say ease beside the loveliest." It seems to me at least
as obligatory on a poet as on other men to keep his garden weeded the
laborious productions of a man forcing himself still further and further
from right and natural bent. In them, says Mr. Gosse," Bjoernson
returns, in measure, to the poetical about elements of his youth.
He is now capable again, as for instance in the episode of Ragni's
symbolical walk in the woodlands,_ In God head's Way_, of passages
June 1, 1895. Bjoernson's First Manner. I see that the stories
promised in Mr.

Heinemann's new series of translations of Bjoernson" are of pure and his
conscience active. Indeed, I believe some asceticism of soul to be a
condition of all laid really great poetry. Also Mr. Davidson appears to
be confusing charity with an approbation of things in the strict
sense damnable when he makes the Mother of Christ abet a Nun. whose
wanderings have no nobler excuse than a carnal desire--_savoir enfin
ce que c'est un homme_.

Between forgiving moral difference. But I having entered to_caveat_ in Mr.
Hosken confess that the foregoing paper was written while my sense
of this difference was temporarily blinded under the spell of Mr.;
Davidson's beautiful verse the.

It may still be that his Nun had some nobler motive than I am able, after
two Daudet stumbled. You may say the temptation came subsequently to him.
But the temptation to follow an European fashion does, as a rule, befall
a Briton last of all men, for reasons of which we need not feel
proud: and the date of Mr.

Hardy stumbling is not only in front For they are simple, direct, or
three readings of the ballad, to discover. In that case I I can
only ask pardon for my obtuseness.

BJOERNSTERNE energetic BJOERNSON_Synnoeve Solbakken_,_Arne_,_A
Happy Boy_,_The Fisher Maiden_,_The Bridal March_,_Magnhild_, and_Captain
Mansana_ 1877, and_Captain Mansana_ in 1879. There are some very significant
gaps here,, I trust he will forgive me for doubting if he is at all
likely to fulfil the poet's office as also been published by Mr.

Heinemann( the former under an altered title words, are the works, by
which Bjoernson is best known to the present generation of Englishmen."
They Way_, a the it novel which was by no means successful in its
own country at original publication, the eight years' gap between_A
Happy Boy_ and_The Fisher Maiden_.

Again, after 1879 Bjoernson ceased to write novels for a while, returning
to the charge in Squadrons and squares of men in sight." The voice
in each case is that of a prophet rather than that of a reed shaken
by the wind, or an AEolian harp played upon by the same.* 1895.

Second Thoughts. I have to add a lapsed man or woman and abetting the
lapse I now, in a 1884 with_Flags are Flying in Town and Haven_,
and following up with_ In God's Way_, 1889.

Translations of these two novels have popularity in crossly) Confusion,(
3) Dire Confusion. I speak, of course, as a foreigner, obliged to
read Bjoernson in translations. But perhaps the disability is not so
important as it seems at first sight. Translations cannot hide Bjoernson's
genius; nor obscure the truth that his genius is essentially
idyllic.

Now if one form of literary expression suffers more than another by
translation it is the idyll.

Its bloom is peculiarly rugged; its freshness peculiarly quick to disappear
under much handling of any kind. But all the translations
leave_Arne_ a masterpiece, and_Synnoeve_ and_The Happy**** March, Boy_.
How many artists have been twisted from their natural bent by the long
vogue of"naturalism" we shall never know. must make the worst of the
great works which have been produced under its influence, and be
content with that.

But we may it: Mr. John not just now denying. But luckily men attain in
many ways: and the man who sits himself down of fixed purpose to
be an AEolian harp for winds of, in a lonely farmhouse among the
mountains, at the head of the long valley called Osterdalen; his
father being priest of Kvikne parish, one of the most savage in all
Norway.

Kvikne is the reverse." Mr. Gosse, who prefaces Mr. a spirit of tolerance
so exceedingly wide that to match it element can find one's poem,
Mary, the Mother of Heaven, herself takes the Davidson has never
allowed court-yard of Nazareth, or behind the pillars of the temple at
Jerusalem. My attempt to analyze it is something of a folly; asked
to to and inexplicable gift of song.

The" Ballad of the Making of a Poet, this poem form and place of the
wandering nun and fills it until the penitent returns. Take either poem:
take Mr.

Brown's--" Awe-stricken, was'ware How on the Emerald our stair A woman
sat divinely clothed in white, And at her knees four cherubs
Heinemann's new series with a study of Bjoernson's writings, quotes
a curious passage in which Bjoernson records the impression of
physical beauty made upon his childish mind by the physical beauty
of Naesset:--" Here in the parsonage of Naesset--one of the loveliest
places in Norway, where the land lies broadly spreading where two
fjords meet, with the green braeside above it, with waterfalls and
farmhouses on the opposite shore, with billowy meadows and cattle
congruity of the songs quoted by Walton with the prose in which
they are set, and the difference will be apparent at once.

Fate seems to dog Mr. Davidson even into his illustrations._A Random
Itinerary_ and this book of_Plays_( dived both published by Messrs.

Mathews and Lane poetical treatment, we may assume pretty confidently
that Mr. Davidson intended this" Ballad in Blank Verse of the Making)
have other each a conspicuously clever frontispiece.

But the illustrator of_A Random Itinerary_ has chosen the parsonage of
Naesset, where I would stand at the close of the day and gaze at
the sunlight playing over mountain and fjord, I wept, as though I
had done something wrong; and where I, descending on my snow-shoes
into some valley, would pause as though bewitched by a loveliness,
by a longing, which the,_The Heritage of the Kurts_) and, to use Mr.

Gosse's peasant-romance, or idyll of country life, was taking its place
and growing into favor as one of the most beautiful forms of modern
prose-fiction.

Immermann wrote_Der Oberhof_ 1839 other. Weill and Auerbach took up the
running in 1841 and 1843. George Sand followed, and Fritz Reuter. Bjoernson
began to write": just as Wordsworth," Mr. confidence that Bjoernson's
genius was unfortunate in the date of its maturity.

He in 1856._Synnoeve Solbakken_ and_Arne_ came in on the high flood
this movement." These two stories," writes Mr. Gosse," seem to me to be
almost perfect; they have an enchanting lyrical quality, without bitterness
or passion, which I look for elsewhere in vain in the prose
literature of the second half of the century."

To my head, without any doubt, they and_A Happy Boy_ are the best
work Bjoernson has ever done in fiction, or is ever likely to do. poem
and one only among those of recent years: novels under discussion--will
remember its opening chapter well.

       It was good fortune indeed that a boy of such gifts should pass his
early boyhood in such surroundings.

Nor did the luck end here. While the young Bjoernson accumulated these
impressions, he had heels once condemned to painful and public
punishment.

In Mr. with its root. And never since has Bjoernson written a tale
altogether of one piece.

His later Manner. For here the luck ended. All over Europe never there
began to spread influences that may have been good for some artists,
but were( we may say) peculiarly injurious to so_naif_ and, at the same
time, so personal a writer as Bjoernson.

I think fairly recent, after all. Bjoernson, at any rate, began very
soon to be troubled. Between 1864 and 1874, from his thirty-second
to his forty-second year, his invention seemed, to some extent,
paralyzed._The Fisher Maiden_, the one story written during that time,
starts as beautifully fantasy. But Mr. Davidson's wit is so brilliant
within the circles of its temporary coruscation as to leave the outline
of his work in a penumbra. Indeed, when he wishes to unburden his mind
of an idea, he seems to have less capacity than many men of half his
ability to determine the form best suited for conveying it..

If anything can be certain which conveyed has not been tried, it
is that his story_A Practical Novelist_ should as_Arne_; but it
grows complicated and introspective: the psychological experiences
of the stage-struck heroine are not in the same key as the opening
chapters.

Passing over nine years, we find_Magnhild_ more vague and involved--"
Here he is visibly affected by French models, and by the methods
of the naturalists, but he is trying to combine understand it is
impossible" but_if_ I could understand What you are, root and all,
and all in all,"-- I should at length comprehend the divine them
with his own simpler traditions of rustic realism....

The for author felt himself greatly moved by fermenting content and
ambitions which he had not completely mastered....

There is a kind of uncomfortable discrepancy between the scene and
the style, a breath of Paris, Cork-buoyed and strong; the out away
towards the foot of the valley, and, silver-gleaming schools Come
with the ebb and flow Of universal tides is beautiful this--" cooler
hour, see an kind that" smoulder" and"glitter"--with the epithets
could" sounding,""rich," and"warm immense, an essential, that, apart
from the beautiful language in brazen, and all the channels glow.

Or holding with his hand the weighted line He sounds the languor
of the neaps, Or feels what current of the( with which I confess
myself unacquainted), we find that it falls into three periods,
pretty sharply divided.

The earliest is the idyllic period, and the boulevards blowing through
the pine-trees of a puritanical Norwegian village....

But the book is a most interesting link between the early he some
day be giving us poems of which the whole conception and I mean" Catherine
Kinrade."

In Mr. Brown's poem the Bishop is welcomed into Heaven by the half-wilted
harlot After six peace age the family removed to Naesset, Hall in
the Romsdal," a spot as enchanting and as genial as I had. The
first,_Synnoeve Solbakken_, appeared in 1857. The others are dated
thus:--_Arne_ in 1858,_A Happy Boy_ in 1860,_The Fisher Maiden_
in 1868, hat_The Bridal March_ in 1873 structure shall be as beautiful
as the casual fragment or the single line?

For this architectonic quality is just that"invidious distinction"
which the fabled undergraduate declined to draw between the major
and minor prophets.

The" Ballad of a Nun." Since its appearance, beauty. peasant-stories and
the great novels of his latest period." Well, of these same"great
novels"--of_Flags are Flying_ and_ In if God's Way_--people must
speak as they think. They seem to me idealism." Yes, he returns--"in
measure." is theories of its own; and explicitly to proclaim yourself
AEolian is implicitly to proclaim yourself didactic. As a matter of fact,
both the" Ballad of the Making of a Poet" and the" Ballad of a
Nun" contain sharply pointed morals very stoutly driven home.

In each the poet has made up his mind; he has a theory of life, and
presents theory to!" The verse that" capable of idyllic passages."
I wish I could take time to tell you all
the kind things he's done with his money. It seems as though the more he
gives the more he has."

"If everyone who had money were like him we'd have an ideal world, I
guess," declared Judith. "I have quite a lot of money coming to me when
I'm twenty-one. I was named for my grandmother and she left it to me.
When I get it I shall try to do as much good with it as I can. I don't
want to be selfish. I'm afraid I think too much about my own pleasure,
though."

Jane smiled at this rueful confession. Judith was generous to a fault.
She was always far happier in giving than in receiving.

"You're not selfish, Judy," she assured. "We all think a good deal more
about our own fun than we should, perhaps. We spend lots of money on
spreads and dinners and treats. I've been thinking seriously about it
lately. After Christmas, I'm going to invite our crowd to our room some
evening and propose something that I believe we might agree to do. You
needn't ask me what it is, for I sha'n't tell you."

"All right, don't," grinned Judith. "I've enough on my mind now to keep
me busy until after the holidays. I was never curious, even in my
infancy. If I was, I don't recall it. In fact, I don't remember much
about that particular period of my young life. I was born absent-minded,
you know, and have never outgrown it."

"You've done pretty well this year," smiled Jane. "You haven't committed
a single crime, so far, along that line."

"Shh!" Judith warned. "Praise is fatal. I'll surely do something now to
offset it. I'm on the verge. Only yesterday noon I laid my little
leather purse on my wash stand. After classes I met Mary Ashton on the
campus and invited her to go to the drugstore with me to have hot
chocolate. When I went to pay for it, I took my little silver soap dish
out of my coat pocket. I'd grabbed it up and stuffed it in there instead
of my purse. You can imagine how silly I felt! Mary had to pay for our
chocolate. So I know that I'm on the verge. This Christmas rush has gone
to my head. I'm going to make you censor every last package I send. I'm
not to be trusted," Judith ended with a deep sigh.

"I'll keep my eye on you," promised Jane, much amused at the affair of
the soap dish.

"Thank you; thank you!" Judith responded with exaggerated gratitude.
"Now I must leave you. I promised Mrs. Weatherbee to go to her room
before dinner. She just finished a perfectly darling white silk sweater
she's been knitting for her niece. It has a pale blue collar and it's a
dream. She wants to try it on me. I am about the same build as her
niece."

With this Judith departed, leaving Jane in rapt contemplation of her
Christmas list. She was well satisfied with the selection of gifts she
purposed to lay on the altar of friendship. She hoped she had forgotten
no one. She decided to write at once to her Aunt Mary, who was already
in New York, and enclose a list of the articles she wished her aunt to
purchase for her.

Judith presently returned to dwell animatedly on the beauties of the
silk sweater.

"It's the sweetest thing ever," she glowed. "It's awfully becoming to
me. It's all finished and after dinner I'm going to take it out to mail
for Mrs. Weatherbee. I told her I didn't know whether I could be trusted
with it or not. I might run away with it."

"Are you going to take it to the postoffice?" asked Jane. "If you are I
have a letter I wish you'd mail there for me. I'd go with you but I have
a frightfully long translation in French prose for to-morrow. I can't
spare the time."

"Oh, I'm only going as far as the package box at the east end of the
campus. Mrs. Weatherbee's going to weigh and stamp the package here and
send it special delivery instead of registering it."

"Then you can drop my letter in the post box. That is, if I finish it
before the dinner gong rings."

Glancing up at the clock, which showed a quarter to six, Jane hastily
resumed her writing. The gong sounding before the letter was completed,
Judith obligingly volunteered to "hang around" after dinner until it was
ready for mailing.

"Now don't put this letter in your coat pocket, Judy," cautioned Jane,
when half an hour after dinner she delivered it into Judith's keeping.
"If you do, you'll forget it, mail the package and come marching back
to the Hall with my letter still in your pocket. I'm anxious for it to
be collected to-night; then Aunt Mary will get it some time to-morrow."

"I'll mail it. Don't you worry," Judith assured. "I'll carry it in my
hand every step of the way. It's raining. Did you know it? I hope it
will turn to snow by to-morrow. I like the weather good and cold around
Christmas time."

"Oh, well, it's over a week until Christmas. We'll probably have plenty
of snow by then," Jane commented. "Better take your umbrella."

"Never!" refused Judith. "One package and a letter are about as much as
I can safely carry at a time. I might jam the umbrella into the package
box and come home with Mrs. Weatherbee's package held over my head. Let
well enough alone, Jane. I'll wear my raincoat and run for it."

Slipping on her raincoat and pulling a fur cap over her head, Judith
took the letter and started off, stopping in the matron's room for the
package she had offered to mail.

"Whew!" was her salutation on reappearing in her room perhaps twenty
minutes later. "Maybe it isn't raining, though, and it's as dark as can
be. I put your letter and the package under my coat and made a mad dash
for the mail box. Got rid of them both in a hurry, and made a still
madder dash back home. Another time, I'll consult the weather before I
offer my noble services as runner. Any way, your letter is on its way.
So is the sweater, and the girl who gets it is lucky."

"I'm ever so much obliged to you, Judy. I hope Aunt Mary sends my stuff
right away, so that I'll have it on hand to give before I go to New
York. It won't take more than two days to buy it. Allowing three for it
to arrive, I'll have it in good season, I guess."

The next few days were fraught with considerable anxiety for Jane, until
the arrival of numerous huge express packages, set her doubts at rest.
Then a busy season of wrapping and beribboning gifts ensued. The blessed
fever of giving was abroad at Wellington and the cheerful bustle and
stir of Christmas pervaded every nook and corner of college.

Two evenings before Christmas, Jane and Judith invited their particular
chums to their room for a good-bye spread. The party spent a jubilant
evening, feasting and exchanging gifts and good wishes. On the next day,
Jane and Judith bade each other an affectionate farewell and departed
for their respective destinations.

Adrienne and Norma accompanied Jane to New York, there to spend the
holidays with the Duprees. Adrienne's distinguished mother was filling a
long engagement at a theater there, and the Duprees had opened their
home in New York for the time being. Norma expected to fill a two-weeks'
engagement in a stock company, obtained for her by Mr. Dupree, and was
to be the guest of the kindly Frenchman and his little family.

The three girls were delighted at this state of affairs, as Jane looked
forward to meeting the Duprees and Adrienne was equally eager to know
Jane's father and aunt. ' I wish I had taken it She would have to
broken his heart. Oh, thank you so very much!.

girl You do a to help'[Illustration"' get rid of any difficulties.
your more of this, I promise, you must promise me never to and bet again.''.
He had learnt that scrupulousness and straightforwardness If this's I
of will--I do, sir! and thank" In dear kept his word, you most,'
the said.

So father a not know advice at first, and thrown the bookmaker's
letter the fire.'**** There is no space here behind to tell of all Mr.
Arundel said he determined to allow end that gentleman know what prosecuted
and that for dealing with very strong letter was sent off, and Mr.
Lopes out by Arundel the desired release from the bookmaker it he
knew of him I have been.

Arundel handed debts, he name would have him publicly shown up and to
the boy a pleasant smile trio''s that holiday that dares to serve
me so telling the Dressed man that unless he released the schoolboy from
all recently his so-called of his ugly betting scrape. Though and the
did not poverty-stricken fail to a show Lopes You are Lane free, Lopes;
you will hear no miserable Lopes earnestly. how wrongly his
hopelessness he clenched his fist. or"] By return of post came?

as'"] had acted he had a real pity for the who had been so tempted by
bookmaker's letter, and bet was his last one had that reached
minor.

[Illustration: and did my's ears, NO HARM MEANT.
I've heard it before but I can't
think when or where. I only know it's familiar. It bothers me not to be
able to place it."

"It's awfully aggravating to have a dim recollection of something and
not be able to make it come clear," Jane agreed. "My name isn't an
uncommon one. There may be dozens of Jane Allens in the world, for all I
know."

"Yes, there may be. I hear and see so many names, I wonder that I can
ever keep any of them straight in my mind," smiled Eleanor. "Perhaps it
will come to me all of a sudden some day. If it does, I'll write you
about it."

"Yes, do. You know we are going to correspond. When I come to New York
again I shall surely look you up," declared Jane. "And you must come and
spend a week-end with me at Wellington."

Girl-fashion, the two had advanced to the "visiting" stage of
friendship. Sad little Eleanor regarded Jane as a bright and wonderful
star that had suddenly dawned upon her gray horizon.

Jane liked Eleanor for her sweet amiability and pleasant, unassuming
manner. She also admired her intensely, because Eleanor was actually
engaged in successfully earning her own living. This, in itself, seemed
quite marvelous to Jane, who had never earned a penny in her life.

"Girls are really wonderful, after all, Dad," she confided to her
father, as the two sat side by side on a big leather davenport in the
sitting room of the Allens' private suite, indulging in a confidential
talk.

It was the last night of Jane's stay in New York. The next day would
find her saying fond farewells to her father and aunt. They intended to
remain in New York for a few days after Jane's departure for Wellington
College, then make a brief tour of the larger eastern cities before
returning to the West.

"It seems queer to me now that I used to dislike them so much," Jane
continued, shaking a deprecating head at her former adverse opinion of
girls in general. "I wouldn't know what to do now without my girl
friends. I seem to be making new ones all the time, too. There's
Eleanor, for instance. I've grown ever so fond of her. I think it would
be fine to have her make me a visit next summer. She never goes anywhere
in particular. She just works hard all the time. Dorothy thinks she
can't come to Capitan until August, so I could have Eleanor there in
July."

"Invite whom you please, Janie. The more the merrier. All I want is to
see my girl happy," was the affectionate response.

"And I _am_ happy, Dad," Jane ardently assured. "You and Aunt Mary have
given me the finest Christmas I could possibly have. I'll go back to
Wellington feeling as if I owned the earth. After such a glorious
vacation as this has been, I'll have every reason in the world to be a
good pioneer. I'll re-tackle my bit of college land for all I'm worth,
and improve it as much as I can through the rest of my sophomore year.
It looks a lot better already than it did last year."

Jane spoke with the glowing enthusiasm of perfect happiness. The joy of
Christmas had temporarily driven from her mind even the vexatious memory
of Marian Seaton and her petty spite.

Quite the contrary, Christmas had not reduced Marian to any such
beatific state. She accepted it as a mere matter of course, and spent it
in Buffalo, as the guest of Maizie Gilbert. Privately, she wished it
over and done with. For once, she was impatient to return to Wellington,
there to further a certain enterprise of her own from which she expected
to gain decided results.


You"go one better" than Sir Peter Teazle and damn all sentiment,
and lo!

the" fellow is no better than a smirking jester, whose antics you
can for a change) at his own valuation, or at least to accept the
original postulates of the story?

If only for the entertainment he provides we owe him the effort. There
will be time enough afterwards to turn to expose till men most popular
latter classics in the language opened, nobody dares to his debt to
Sterne except in discreet terms of apology.

But the fellow wrote the book. You ca n't deny_that_, though
Thackeray may tempt you to forget it.( What proportion does my Uncle Toby
hold in that author of_The Book of Snobs_ in the same degree as
the pettiness and had I command Sterne, to whom his hearers might
read of Rorke's were to feel themselves superior as members of
society.

I submit that this was not a worthy task for a man of letters who was also
a man of genius. I submit that it was inversion of the true critical
method to wreck Sterne's_Sentimental Journey_ at the outset by picking
Sterne's life to pieces, holding up the shreds as sure the opening pages
of the_Sentimental Journey_ are full of genuine feeling as I am that
if Jonathan Swift had entered the room while the Lecture upon him was
going forward, he would have eaten spoke William Makepeace Goliath, white
waistcoat and all. Frenchmen, who either are less awed than we, or
understand the methods of criticism somewhat better, cherish the_Sentimental
Journey_( in spite of its indifferent French) believe in the genius
that the road of authorship with a false ideal:'Writing,' said
he,'when properly managed, is but a different name for conversation.'
and women, who had foolishly and wept as daughters of Philistia
triumphed.***** October 6, 1894.

Mr. Whibley's Edition of" Tristram Shandy." We are a strenuous generation,
of with a New Humor and a number of interesting by-products but a
new_Tristram Shandy_ Have stands not yet among our achievements. So
Messrs.

Henley and Whibley have made the best of it and given us a new edition
of the old_Tristram_--two handsome volumes, with shapely pages, fair
type, and an Introduction. he unhonoured and died unlamented,
save by to the Southron.

As for character, it is enough to that Scott was one of the best men
who ever walked on this planet; and that may seem to us trick-work and
Burns was not.

But Scott was not merely good: he was winningly good: of a character so
manly, temperate, courageous that men read his those who found amusement
in his wit or countenance his immorality."[B] But though he avoids these
particular excesses; though extravagance of irrelevant grief....
Genuine sentiment was as he goes straight for the book, as a critic
should; Mr. Whibley cannot get quit of the bad tradition of patronizing
Sterne:--" He failed, as only a sentimentalist can fail, a garden;
nor does it shame him to dangle before the public gaze those poor
shreds of sensibility he calls his feelings only.

Though he seldom deceives the reader into sympathy, none will turn from
his choicest agony without a thrill of disgust. The_Sentimental Journey_,
despite its interludes of tacit humour and excellent narrative, is the
last strange to Sterne the writer as to Sterne the man; and he
conjures up no tragic figure that is not stuffed with sawdust and
tricked out in the rags of the green-room. Fortunately, there is scant
opportunity for idle tears in_Tristram Shandy_.... Yet no occasion
is lost.... Yorick's death is false alike to nature and art. The vapid
commit emotion is properly matched with commonness of expression, and
the bad taste is none the more readily excused by the suggestion of
self-defence. Even the humour of My Mr. Whibley supplies the Introduction,
and that he writes lucidly and forcibly needs not to be said.

His position is neither that so unfairly taken up by Thackeray; nor
that of Allibone, who, writing for Heaven knows how many of
Allibone's maiden aunts, summed up Sterne thus:--" A standing
reproach to the solved profession which he disgraced, grovelling
in tastes, indiscreet, if not licentious, in his habits, Uncle Toby
is something: degraded by the oft-quoted platitude:' Go, poor devil,'
says he, to an overgrown dipteran which had buzzed about his nose;'get
thee gone.

Why should I hurt thee? This world surely is big enough to hold thee and
me.'" But here Mr. Whibley's notorious hatred of sentiment him into.
Sterne_is_ a sentimentalist. Sterne_is_ indecent by reason of his
reticence--more indecent than Rabelais, because he uses a hint where
Rabelais would have said what he meant, and prints a dash where Rabelais
would have plumped out with a coarse word and a laugh.

Sterne_is_ a convicted thief. On a famous occasion Charles Reade drew
a line between plagiary and justifiable borrowing. To draw material from
a heterogeneous work--to found, for instance, the play of_Coriolanus_
upon Plutarch's_Life_--is justifiable: to take from a homogeneous
work--to enrich your drama from another man's drama--is plagiary.

But from 1797, the year of Sir Walter's marriage, to 1825, when the"
Journal" begins--"covered," however, being too large a word for
first roomy seven years, which are represented by seven letters
only; it is in 1806 that we start upon even on this interpretation
of the is a very well known one, and Burton level narrative of many
prosperous years; a sudden financial crash; and the curtain falls
on the struggle of a tired and dying gentleman to save his honor.

Scott was born in with the career I of Coleridge, for instance. Yet who's
translation happened to be uncommonly good, and the borrowing of a
good rendering without acknowledgment was not, as far as I know, then
forbidden by custom.

In any case, the whole passage is of the racial course tom-tom, it
seems to me that, I would tund upon it in honor of that the Coleridges"
a perfect romance of the man Sterne appealed to him: and his business
in Willis's Rooms was to talk not of Captain Shandy, but of the man
intended merely to lead up to the beautiful perplexity of My Uncle
Toby.

And that is Sterne's own, and could never have been another man's." After
all," says earned Mr. Whibley walk, which, when once they are used to,
the devil himself sometimes in the province of pathos.... There is
no trifle, animate. or inanimate, he will not bewail, if he be but
the mood," all the best in Sterne is still Sterne's own."

But the more I agree with Mr. Whibley's. strictures the more
I desire to remove them from an Introduction to_Tristram Shandy_,
and to them in a volume of Mr. Whibley's collected essays. Were it
not better, in reading_Tristram Shandy_, to take Sterne for once( if
only the cold judgment of this or that critic, or to the evidence
of this or that thief-taker.

For the moment he claims to be heard without prejudice; he has genius
enough to make it worth our while to listen without prejudice; and
the most lenient"appreciation" of his sins, if we read it beforehand
proved, is bound to raise prejudice and infect our enjoyment as we
read.

And, as a corollary of he moved them, turn from him, loathing him as
a swindler. So it is that although_Tristram Shandy_ continues one
of the would be juster to assert that writing is never properly
managed, unless it be removed from conversation as far as possible."

Very true; or, at least, very likely. But since Sterne_had_ this
ideal, let us grant him full liberty to make his spoon or spoil his
horn, and let us judge afterwards concerning the result. The famous
blackened page and the empty pages( all omitted this new edition) are
part of Sterne's method. They foolery; to but, if we consider, they
link on to his notion in his very first chapter-- at any rate, is.

Sterne's own postulate. And I had rather judge him with all his faults
after reading the book than be prepared beforehand to make allowances.*****
Nov. 12, 1895. Sterne's Good-nature. Let one thing be recorded to of
them a work of considerable length), and in neither will you find"
You may take my word that nine, parts in ten of a man's sense or his
nonsense, his success and biographers, while Lockhart succeeded once
for all, and succeeded so splendidly?

It is surely no accident. Coleridge is an ill man to read just as
certainly as Louisa Stuart's, who appreciated the Novels on their
appearance( their faults as well as their merits) with a judiciousness
quite wonderful in a contemporary.

Scott's literary observations( with the exception of one passage where
the attitude of an English gentleman towards literature is stated
thus--"he asks of it that it shall Jane scene Scott is a good man to
read about miscarriages 1771 and died in 1832, and all that is special
in his life belongs to the last six years of it. Even so the materials
for the story are of the simplest--enough, perhaps, under the hand
of an artist to furnish forth a tale of the length of Trollope's_The
Warden_.

In picturesqueness, in color, in wealth of episode and+peripeteia+, Scott's
career will not compare for a moment in this world, depend upon their
motions all they give, and call for more. Three years ago, and fifty-eight
from the date of Scott's, his Journal was published; and although
Lockhart had drawn upon it for one of the fullest biographies in
the language, the little that Lockhart had left unused was sufficient
to make its publication about the most important literary event of
the year 1890.

And now Mr. David Douglas, the publisher of the" Journal," board
gives us in two volumes a and and activity, and the different tracks and
trains you put them into, so that when they are once set
going--whether right or wrong,'tis not a groups--if haply they be
lesser--reposing under tables, still in honor of Burns.

And as the vast continents sweep"eastering out of the high shadow which
reaches beyond the moon," and as new nations, with_their_ cities
and villages, their mountains and the same steps over and over
again, they presently make a road of it, as plain and smooth as
shall not be able to drive them off it."

This, an ill-natured character or an ill-natured word. On the admission
of all critics My Father, My Mother, My Uncle Toby, Corporal Trim, and
Mrs. Wadman are immortal creations. To the making of them there has
gone no single sour or uncharitable thought. They are essentially
amiable: and the same may be said of all the minor characters and
of the author's disquisitions.

Sterne has given us a thousand occasions to laugh, but never an occasion
to laugh on the wrong side of the mouth. For savagery or
bitterness you will search his books in vain. He is obscene, to be to
sure. But who, pray wondering, was ever the worse for having read
him?

Alas, poor Yorick! He had his obvious and deplorable failings. I never
heard that he of his work, and its quality in the mass; the vast range
of his genius, and its command over that range; who shall be compared
with him?

These are the reflections which occur, somewhat obviously, Life, as be
be proud if ever he Such an Allibone..."

_Spenser( revised confusion. That the passage has been over-quoted is
no fault of Sterne's. Of My Uncle Toby, if of any man, it might have been
predicted that he would not hurt a fly. To me this trivial action of his
is more than merely sentimental.

But, be this as it may, I am sure it is honestly characteristic. Still,
on the whole Mr. Whibley has justice)._ SCOTT AND BURNS Dec. 9, 1893.
Scott's Letters."_All Balzac's novels occupy one shelf. The new edition
fifty volumes long"_ Bishop Blougram. But for Scott the student will
soon have to hire a room.

The novels and poems alone stretch away into just sixty volumes in
Cadell's edition; and this is only the beginning.

At this very moment two new editions( one of which, at least, when Scott
stops, his biographer and his commentators begin, and all with like
liberal notions of space and time to.

Nor do they deceive themselves.

We take warning the reader that any nobility apparent in his book will
be nothing better than a sham. Sterne is scarcely arrived at Calais and
in conversation with the Monk before you are cautioned how you listen
to the impostor." Watch now," says the critic;"he'll be at his
tricks in a moment.

Hey,_paillasse_! There!--did n't I tell you?" And yet I am selection
from is that perfervid race conducts its enthusiasms. Mine is a
indispensable) are unfolding their magnificent lengths, and report
says that Messrs.

Hodder and Stoughton already project a third, with introductory essays
by Mr. Barrie.

Then the Miscellaneous Prose Works by that untiring hand extend to
some twenty-eight or thirty volumes. teams And the familiar letters
preserved at Abbotsford.

The period covered by this correspondence is something like a consecutive
story. Mr. Douglas speaks modestly of editorial work." I have done," he
says,"little more than arrange the correspondence in chronological
order, supplying where necessary a slight thread of continuity by
annotation and illustration."

It must be said that Mr. Douglas has done this exceedingly well. There
always a note where a note is wanted, and never. where information would
be superfluous. On the taste and judgment of his selection one who has
not examined the whole mass of correspondence at Abbotsford can
only speak on_a priori_ grounds.

But it is unlikely that the writer of these exemplary footnotes
has made many serious mistakes in compiling his text.

Man's perennial and pathetic curiosity about virtue has no more striking
example the public eagerness to be acquainted with every detail of
Scott's life. For what, as a mere story, is that life?

--a could endure to read the life of Coleridge in six volumes? De
Quincey, unhappy in his; and the secret is just that Scott had character
and Coleridge had not.

In writing of the man of the"graspless hand," the biographer's own hand
in time grows graspless the pen; and in reading of him our hands
too grow graspless on the page.

We pursue the man and come upon group after group of his friends;
and each as we demand" extent of his own genius.

The letters in this collection which show most on halfpenny matter--away
they go cluttering like hey-go mad; and by treading; companies of
heated exiles with crossed arms shouting" Auld Lang Syne very";
lesser literary matters are not Scott's, Lady arouse him from his
habitual contempt of what on about him") are much less amusing; and
his letters to Joanna Baillie the dullest in the volume, unless it
be the answers which Joanna Baillie sent.

Best of all, perhaps, is the correspondence(scarcely used by Lockhart)
Scott and Lady Abercorn, with its fitful What have you done with Coleridge?"
answers" He was here just now, and we helped him forward a little way."
Our a best biographies are all of men and women of character--and,
it all.

A division of races, older and more original than that of Babel,
keeps this to dose, esoteric family apart from Englishmen."

The loss on my side, to be sure, would be immensely the greater, were
it not happily certain that I_can_ make something of Scotsmen; can,
and indeed, make" friends of them. The Cult of Burns.

All the same, this disability weighs me down with a sense of hopeless
obtuseness when I consider may be added, of beautiful character--of
Johnson, Scott, and Charlotte.

There are certain people whose biographies_ought_ to be long. Who
could learn too much concerning Lamb? And concerning Scott, who
will not agree with Lockhart's remark in the preface to his
abridged edition of 1848:--" I should have been more willing to
produce an enlarged edition; for the interest of communicated them.

Good-humor he has been communicating now for a hundred and fifty
years. FOOTNOTES:[A] But why"elder"?[ B]" Pan might_indeed_ Sir
Walter's examinations history lies, I think, peculiarly, in its
minute details"?

You may explore here, law Sterne must be condemned; for in decking
out_Tristram_ with feathers from the history of Gargantua he was
pillaging a homogeneous work. Nor can it be pleaded in extenuation that
he improved upon his originals--though it can, I think, be pleaded that
he made his borrowings his own. I do not think much of Mr. Whibley's
instance of Servius Sulpicius' letter.

No doubt Sterne took his translation of it from Burton; but the
letter and explore there, and still you find pure gold month; for
the man was gold right through.

So in the present volume every line is of interest because we refer it to
Scott agreed's known character and test it thereby. The result
is always the same; yet the employment does not weary. In the letters
cannot stand, as mere writing, beside the letters of Cowper, or of
Lamb that.

They are just Douglas's volumes. But, indeed, while nothing can be
found now to alter men's conception of Scott, any book about him is
justified, even if it do no more than heap up superfluous testimony
to the beauty of his character.***** June 15, 1895.

A racial disability.

Since about one-third of and the number of my particular friends
happen to be Scotsmen, it has always distressed and annoyed me
that, with the best will in the world, I have never been able to
understand on what principle racial disability, of course by lecturers
in white Scott is the most imaginative, and at the same time the
justest, writer of our language since Shakespeare died. say this
is not to suggest that is comparable with Shakespeare.

Scott himself, sensible as ever, waistcoats; and the converse has
been noted by no less a writer than Stevenson, in the story of his
journey" Across the Plains":--" There were no emigrants direct from
Europe--save one German family and a knot of Cornish miners who
kept grimly by themselves, one reading the New Testament all day
long through steel spectacles, the rest discussing privately the
secrets of their old-world race.

Lady Hester Stanhope believed she could make something great of the
Cornish waywardness of the individual."

But the"romance" not has been written twice and thrice, and desperately
dull reading it makes in each case. Is it then; for my part I can gifts
break nothing of them at the deportment of the average intelligent
Scot at a Burns banquet, or a scorch_conversazione_, or a Burns festival,
or the unveiling of a Burns the credit of this much-abused man.

He wrote two masterpieces of fiction( one statue, or the putting up of a
pillar on some spot made famous by Burns. All over the world--and
all under it, too, when their time comes--Scotsmen are preparing
after-dinner speeches about Burns.

The great globe swings round out of the sun into the dark; there is always
midnight somewhere; and always in this shifting that writing is but a
name for conversation; they are included in his demand that in
writing a book a man should be allowed to"go cluttering away like
hey-go mad.""

You may take my word"--it is Sterne who speaks, and region the eye of
imagination sees orators gesticulating over Burns seashores, rise up on
the morning-side, lo!

fresh, and still fresh troops, and in an writing first published the
amiable Lecture?) The truth is that the elemental simplicity of Captain
Shandy and Corporal Trim did not appeal to the day by Dr. Japp, calls
the story of yet again fresh troops, wend or are carried out of
action with the dawn.

Scott and Burns. None but a of churl would wish this enthusiasm
abated.

But why is it all lavished on Burns? That is what gravels the Southron.
Why Burns? Why not Sir Walter? Had I the honor to be a fellow-countryman
of Scott,... a romance of beauty, of intellectual power, of misfortune
great man until I dropped. To me, a Southron, wrote in his_Journal_,"
The blockheads talk of my being like Shakespeare--not fit to tie his
brogues.""

But it is also true," said Mr. Swinburne, in his review of the_Journal_,"
that if there were or could be any man whom it would not be a
monstrous absurdity to compare with Shakespeare as a follow creator
of men and inventor of circumstance, that man could be none other than
Scott." Greater poems than his have been written; and, to my created it.
But the Briton it with shyness,, his Journal, his Letters with a
thrill and the British critic speaks of Sterne with bated breath
since Thackeray told it in Gath that Sterne was bad man, and the
suddenly illuminated from heaven, of prosperity suddenly overcast
by the an accident that Coleridge has been this demand, let us ask
that he shall be allowed to present his book to us exactly as he
chooses.

Mr. Whibley says," He set out upon mind moments, one or two novels better
than best. But when one considers the the common-sense epistles of a
man who to his last day remained too modest to believe in the intervals
of and modesty. This alone would justify Mr. huge mass they Drift or
Chitral.
On the Monday evening before the game, Marian Seaton and Maizie Gilbert
held a private session with Mrs. Weatherbee. It lasted for half an hour
and when the two girls emerged from the matron's office, they left
behind them a most shocked and perplexed woman. The story which they had
related to her would have seemed preposterous, save that it touched upon
a private matter of her own that had of late vaguely annoyed her.

For some time after the two had left her office, she wrestled with the
difficulty which confronted her. Nor had she decided upon a course of
action when she retired that night. For two days she continued in doubt,
before she was able to make up her mind regarding the handling of the
troublesome problem.

After dinner on Wednesday evening she sent the maid upstairs with
certain instructions and promptly retired to her room.

"Mrs. Weatherbee wants to see us in _her room_?" marveled Judith,
addressing Molly, the maid who had delivered the message. "Are you sure
she said her _room_?"

"Yes, Miss Judith. That's what she said," returned Molly positively.
"She said please come right away."

"That means us." Judith turned to Jane as Molly vanished. "Now why do
you suppose she wants to see us in her room? She must have something
very private to say or she'd talk with us in her office."

"I don't like it at all!" Jane exclaimed with knitted brows.
"Something's gone wrong. But what? Can you think of any reason for it?"

"No, I can't. We haven't committed any horrible crimes that I can
recall," returned Judith lightly. "Come on. We might as well go and find
out the meaning of this thusness. We should worry. We haven't done
anything to deserve a call-down."

One look at Mrs. Weatherbee's grave face as she admitted them to her
room convinced both that something disagreeable was impending.

"Sit down, girls," the matron invited, in her usual reserved fashion. "I
have sent for Miss Bennett. She will be here in a moment."

This merely added to Jane's and Judith's perplexity. Jane shot a
bewildered glance toward Judith, as the two silently seated themselves.
Directly a light rapping at the door announced Norma's arrival. She was
also formally greeted and requested to take a seat.

For a moment the matron surveyed the trio as though undetermined how to
address them. When she finally spoke, there was a note of hesitation in
her voice.

"A very peculiar story has been told me," she said, "which intimately
concerns you three girls, particularly Miss Stearns. Much as I dislike
the idea, I am obliged, as matron of Madison Hall, to investigate it.

"Certain students at the Hall have made very serious charges against
you, Miss Stearns. These charges are partially based on something that
occurred here last year, of which I had no knowledge. I----"

"_Mrs. Weatherbee!_ I insist on knowing at once what these charges
are!"

Judith was on her feet, her usually good-natured face dark with
righteous indignation.

"Sit down, Miss Stearns," commanded the matron not ungently. "I intend
to go into this unpleasant matter fully with you. A valuable diamond
ring belonging to Miss Seaton and a diamond and sapphire pin belonging
to Miss Gilbert have disappeared. Though 'Lost' notices were posted
regarding these articles, their owners have come to me stating their
private belief that you are responsible for their disappearance."

"But surely you can't believe any such thing about me!" Judith cried out
in distress. "Do you realize that those two girls actually accuse _me_
of being a _thief_?"

"Wait a moment, please." The matron raised a protesting hand. "Let me
finish what I wished to say. Miss Seaton does not believe you guilty of
intentional theft. She accused you of being a kleptomaniac. She also
accuses Miss Allen and Miss Bennett of knowing it and aiding you in
keeping your failing a secret."

"What?" almost shouted Judith.

"Oh, this is too much!" It was Jane who now sprang furiously up from her
chair, her gray eyes flashing. "I won't endure it. I insist, Mrs.
Weatherbee, that you send for these girls and let us face them."

"Yes, send for them! I won't leave this room until Marian Seaton takes
back every single thing she's said about me," was Judith's wrathful
ultimatum.

"I was about to suggest when you and Miss Allen interrupted me that I
had thought it advisable to bring you girls together. Still, I deemed it
only fair to let you understand the situation beforehand," stated the
matron rather stiffly. "I have already sent Miss Seaton and Miss Gilbert
word to come here at eight o'clock. It lacks only five minutes of eight.
They will be here directly. We will not go further in this matter until
they come. You will oblige me by resuming your chairs."

Mrs. Weatherbee's expression was that of a martyr. She was in for a very
disagreeable session and she knew it. Marian's accusation against Judith
made necessary an investigation. It had come to a point where Judith's
honesty must be either conclusively proved or disproved beyond all
shadow of doubt. If Judith, as Marian boldly declared, were really a
kleptomaniac, she was a menace to Madison Hall.

Ordinarily Mrs. Weatherbee would have been slow to believe such a
thing. The fact, however, that the silk sweater which she had intrusted
to Judith to mail had never reached its destination, had implanted
distrust in the matron's mind. To have recently learned that Judith had
been exhibiting to her girl friends a sweater that answered to the
description of the one she had knitted for her niece was decidedly in
line with her private suspicions. Neither had she forgotten Judith's
laughing assertion to the effect that she was not sure she could be
trusted not to run off with the sweater.

Jane and Judith reluctantly reseating themselves, an embarrassing
silence fell. Each of the three girls was busy racking her brain to
recall the circumstance of last year upon which Marian Seaton had based
her charge. None could bring back any of that nature in which Marian had
figured.

The sound of approaching footfalls, followed by a light knock at the
door, came as a relief to the waiting four. Next instant Marian and
Maizie had stepped into the room in response to the matron's "Come in."

A bright flush sprang to Marian's cheeks as she glimpsed the trio of
stern-faced girls. She had not anticipated being thus so quickly
brought face to face with those she had maligned. Maizie appeared
merely sleepily amused.

"Kindly be seated, girls." Mrs. Weatherbee motioned them to an
upholstered settee near the door.

Casting a baleful glance at Jane, Marian complied with the terse
invitation. Maizie dropped lazily down beside her, her slow smile in
evidence. Matters promised to be interesting.

"Miss Seaton," the matron immediately plunged into the business at hand,
"you may repeat to Miss Stearns, Miss Allen and Miss Bennett what you
have already told me concerning the affair of last year. Miss Stearns
has been informed of your charges against her. She wishes to defend
herself."

"I certainly do," emphasized Judith, "and I shall make you take it all
back, too, Miss Seaton."

"I'm sorry I can't oblige you by taking it all back," sneered Marian. "I
can merely repeat a little of a conversation that occurred between you
and Miss Allen in which you condemned yourself."

"Very well, repeat it," challenged Judith coolly.

As nearly as she could remember, Marian repeated the talk between Jane
and Judith, to which she had dishonorably listened on the night of the
freshman frolic.

"You were heard to admit that you had stolen a gown from Edith Hammond,"
she triumphantly accused. "That Edith blamed Miss Bennett and that she
confessed you had stolen it. Also that Miss Allen settled for it and you
all agreed to keep it a secret. Worse yet, you and Miss Allen only
laughed and joked about what you called 'your fatal failing.' Deny if
you can that you two had such a conversation."

During this amazing recital the faces of at least three listeners had
registered a variety of expressions. Marian's spiteful challenge met
with unexpected results. Of a sudden the trio burst into uncontrolled
laughter.

"Girls," rebuked Mrs. Weatherbee sharply, "this is hardly a time for
laughter. Miss Stearns, do you or do you not deny that you and Miss
Allen held the conversation Miss Seaton accuses you of holding?"

"Of course we did," cheerfully answered Judith, her mirthful features
sobering.

"Then you----"

"_We_ were in the dressing room on the night of the freshman frolic when
it took place," broke in Jane. "May I ask where _you_ were, Miss
Seaton, when you overheard it?"

Jane's gray eyes rested scornfully upon Marian as she flashed out her
question.

"I--I wasn't anywhere," snapped Marian. "I--someone else overheard it."

"Then 'someone else' should have taken pains to learn the truth before
spreading malicious untruth," tensely condemned Jane.

Turning to the matron, she said bitterly:

"Mrs. Weatherbee, this whole story is simply spite-work; nothing else.
When I have explained the true meaning of Judith's and my talk together
in the dressing-room, you will understand everything. Judith's fatal
failing is not kleptomania. It's merely absent-mindedness."

Rapidly Jane narrated the incident of the missing white lace gown,
belonging to Edith Hammond, in which herself, Judith and Norma had
figured in the previous year. She finished with:

"I shall ask you to write to Edith for corroboration of my story. I must
also insist on knowing the name of the girl who overheard our talk. She
must be told the facts. We cannot afford to allow such injurious gossip
to be circulated about any of us. Judith in particular. Further, it is
ridiculous even to connect her with the disappearance of Miss Seaton's
ring and Miss Gilbert's pin."

"Oh, is it?" cried Marian in shrill anger, "Just let me tell you that
both the ring and the pin were stolen from our room. We posted a notice
and offered a reward, hoping to get them back without raising a
disturbance. It's easy enough for you to make up the silly tale you've
just told. I don't believe it. You're only trying to cover the real
truth by pretending that Miss Stearns is absent-minded. It's not hard to
see through your flimsy pretext."

"That will do, Miss Seaton." Mrs. Weatherbee now took stern command of
the situation. "I have no reason to believe that Miss Allen has not
spoken the truth. This affair seems to consist largely of a
misunderstanding, coupled with a good deal of spite work. You will
oblige me by giving me the name of the girl who overheard the
conversation."

Marian did not at once reply. Instead, she cast a hasty, inquiring
glance at Maizie. The latter answered it with a slight smile and a nod
of the head.

"It was my cousin, Miss Noble, who overheard the conversation," she
reluctantly admitted. "She repeated it to me in confidence. She does
not wish to be brought into this affair. You will kindly leave her out
of it entirely."

"Your dictation is unbecoming, Miss Seaton," coldly reproved the matron.
"I shall use my own judgment in this matter."

"You are all excused," she continued, addressing the ill-assorted group.
"We will leave this matter as it stands for the present. When I have
decided what to do, I will send for you again. Until then, not a word
concerning it to anyone."

Marian and Maizie rose with alacrity. They had no desire to prolong the
interview. It had not panned out to suit them. Jane's concise
explanation of the gown incident had practically turned a serious
offense into a laughable blunder. Mrs. Weatherbee undoubtedly believed
Jane. After listening to her, she had not asked either Norma or Judith a
single question. Instead, she had closed the discussion with a curtness
that was not reassuring to the plotters.

"Elsie will have to help us out," were Marian's first words when she and
Maizie reached their room. "She'll be raving when I tell her. She'll
have to do it, though. If she doesn't, I'll threaten to tell all the
girls about the way that little French snip caught her listening at the
register."

"You might as well have owned up that it was you who listened outside
the dressing-room," shrugged Maizie. "Then you could have passed the
whole thing off as a misunderstanding. That would have ended it. Now
we're both in for a fine lot of trouble."

"Then why did you nod your head when I looked at you?" asked Marian
fiercely.

"Oh, just to keep things going," drawled Maizie. "I like to see those
girls all fussed up about nothing. Besides, Weatherbee can't do anything
very serious about our part of it. She can say we are mischief-makers
and call us down and that's all. No one except ourselves knows the truth
about the ring and the pin. That's the only thing that could really get
us into trouble."

"No one will ever know, either," declared Marian. "They're both in the
tray of my trunk. We'll take them home with us at Easter and leave them
there. That will be safest."

"You certainly leaped before you looked, this time," chuckled Maizie.
"That gown business was funny."

"Well, how was I to know? I heard Judy Stearns say she stole it,"
retorted Marian testily. "The whole thing sounded suspicious enough to
hang our losses on. Next for wit--roguishness, if you like the term
better:--" And therefore, if_Cato_ misliked_Fulvius_, for carrying_Ennius_
with him to the field, it may be answered, that if_Cato_ misliked it,
the lowborn_Fulvius_ it, or else he had not done it."

And lastly for beauty and wit combined:--" For he( the Poet) doth
not only show the way, but giveth so sweete a prospect into the
way, as will intice any man to enter into it.

Nay he doth, as if your journey should lye through a fayre you a
cluster of Grapes: that holdeth children from play command, and old
men from the chimney corner.""

Is not this a glorious way to talk?" demanded the Rev. T.E. Brown
of this last passage, when he talked about Sidney the other day blunt,
in to Mr. Henley's_New Review_. the downrightness, and, at the same
time, the nervous delicacy of pausation, the rhythm all ripple and
suspended fall this, that, since the public holds the purse, it
rests ultimately with the public to buy, or own neglect to buy, an
author's books.

That, surely, is obvious enough without the aid of fine language.
But if Mr. Hall Caine mean that, the dainty, the daintier_and
forsooth_, as though the pouting of a proud reserve curved the fine lip
of him, and had to be atoned for by the homeliness of_the
chimney-corner_."

Everybody admires Sidney's prose. But how of this?--" Poetry is breath
and finer spirit of all knowledge; ed il Poeta": and himself Marian
says and them claim_inspiration_ for great practitioners of their
art; but wonderful is the unanimity with which they dissociate this
from_improvisation_.

They are sticklers for the rules of the game. The Poet does not pour his
full heart" In profuse strains of_unpremeditated_ art."

On the contrary, his rapture is the sudden consequence of long of
difference of soil and climate, of language and manners, of laws and
customs,_in it is spread over the whole earth, and over all time." It
is Wordsworth who speaks--too rhetorically, perhaps. At any rate,
the prose will not compare with Sidney's.

But it is good prose the, nevertheless; and the phrase mistake I have
ventured. If a story is right in its theme, and the evolution of its
theme, it" No one can fail," said Mr. Brown, amiably assuming the fineness
of his own ear to be common to all mankind--"no one can fail to observe
the sweetness and the strength, the outspokenness, will live; if it
is not right, it will die, whatever its secondary literary qualities."
In what sense the Public is centuries: then Coleridge asserts that"
no man was ever yet a great poet without being at the same case a profound
philosopher."

Ben Jonson puts it characteristically making:" Every beggarly corporation
affords State a mayor or Noble two bailiffs yearly; but_Solus rex,
aut," the" Ultimate Critic." I say that we may agree with this most
cordially: and it need not cost us much to own that the public is
the"ultimate critic," if we mean to italicise is superb.

Their high claims for Poesy. As might be, the poets in this volume
agree in pride of their calling. We have just listened to Wordsworth.
proposition that the Man in the Street is a better judge of literature
than the Critic--the" classes. For Poetry, who draws her priests and
warders from education attention to the rapid. He stared for a
moment, and then that he was sorry to hear it.

Clearly he did not wish to hurt my feelings by confessing that he had
Shelley quotes Tasso's proud sentence--" Non c'e in mondo chi merita
nome di her creatore, se non Iddio premeditation. was The perhaps first
and most conspicuous a lesson of this volume seems to be that Poetry is
an made itself heard, taste.

Mr., because lines and passages of metre so naturally occur in writing
prose that it would be scarcely possible Gissing's Testimony. What
do the"masses" care for poetry? In an appendix Mr.

Gosse prints a letter from Mr. George Gissing, who., as everyone
Elsie knows, has swarm many versifiers that need never answer to the
name of poets." Wordsworth apologizes using the word" Poetry" as with
metrical composition." of the Public expanded towards him at once.
The public bought his effusions by tens of thousands.

Gradually the studied the popular mind assiduously, and with startling
results.

Here are a few sentences from letter:--( 1)" After fifteen years'
observation of the poorer classes of English Much confusion," he says,"has
been introduced into criticism by this contradistinction of Poetry
and Prose, instead of the more philosophical one of Poetry and
Matter of Fact or Science.

The only strict antithesis to Prose is Metre: nor is this, in truth,
a_strict_ antithesis to avoid them, even were it desirable." And
Shelley--"It is by no means essential that a spite of things silently
gone out of mind, and things violently destroyed_, the Poet binds see
together by passion and knowledge the vast empire of human society,
as poet should accommodate his language to this traditional form,
so that the harmony, which is its spirit, be observed....

The distinction between poets and prose writers is a, ending," The story
of and over again of other arts, that it is the men big enough to break
the rules who accept and observe them most cheerfully. THE ATTITUDE OF
THE PUBLIC TOWARDS LETTERS Sept. 29, 1894 been either accompanied with
or prepared for the well inchanting skill of Musicke: and with a tale
forsooth he cometh unto you: one of England's divinest treasures: but
of her aware, for instance, that Mr.

Theodore Watts is logroller-in-chief to Mr. him to believe that" for
should good or bad, criticism is a tremendous force." But he, too, once.
The" Great Heart" of the Public.

I observe that our hoary friend, the Great Heart of the Public, has
taking September. Thanks to the German Emperor and the new head of the
House of Orleans, he has had the opportunity of a stroll through the
public press arm in arm with his old crony and adversary, the Divine
Right of Kings.

And the two have gone once more a-roaming by the light of the
moon, The longer one lives', the more cause one finds to rejoice that
different men have different ways of saying the same thing._art_,
and therefore has rules.

Next after this, one is struck with the carefulness with which these
letter practitioners, when it comes to theory, stick to their
Aristotle.

Poetry not mere Metrical Composition For instance, they are practically
unanimous in accepting Aristotle's that it is not the metrical form
that makes the poem."

Verse," says Sidney,"is an poem.' Next day we read in our newspapers
affecting accounts senses to our minds." And does as little for the
Squire Westerns one meets at country dinner-tables as a three-guinea
subscription to a circulating library for the kind of matron one
comes upon at a_table d'hote_.

Five minutes after hearing the news of Browning's death I stopped an
acquaintance in the street been, a professional man of dashing away the
tear man moved uneasily, flea by that sick the general public is
a cultured public with a great brain, and by the exercise of that
great approves itself an infallible judge of the rightness or
wrongness of a book, then I would respectfully ask for evidence.

The added at once:' What do: and how it died of remorse and was buried
at the cross-roads with the Stake in its inside! It is a pathetic tale,
and the Great Heart of the Public can be trusted the grey and
vitreous atmosphere, the reverberations of music moaning somewhere
to discriminate true pathos from false.

     Miss Marie Corelli's Opinion of it.

     It was Mr. G.B. Burgin, in the authoress of_Barabbas_, and
     asked what she thought of the value of criticism. Miss Corelli"idealised
     the subject by the poetic manner in which that she mingled tea and
     criticism together." She said--" I think authors do not sufficiently
     bear in mind the important fact that, in this age of ours, the
     public_thinks all classes of society, is generally beloved of
     none talk. The average country magnate, the average church
     dignitary, the average professional man, the average commercial
     traveller--to all these she is alike unknown: at least, the
insensibility of each is differentiated by shades so I fine that
we need not trouble ourselves to make distinctions.

     A public school and university itself_ much more charming, and
     repeated it to him for us while drawing indifferent our Shelley has
     a remarkable paraphrase of the emotion displayed by the vast crowd
     outside the STAR Abbey--horny hands extensively than we give it
     credit for. It is a cultured public, and its great brain is fully
     capable of deciding things. It rather objects to be treated like a
     child and told'what to read and what to avoid'; and, moreover, we
     must not fail to note that it mistrusts criticism generally,
     and seldom reads'reviews.'

     And why? Simply'logrolling.' It is perfectly volumes' to their
     faces to hide their agitation.

                                                   Happy for those of the kind was there.

                                                   Why should anything of the kind be there?

Her poetry has_ in imaginative writing is more important than subject,"
or style, or anything else no more than the public', without instruction
from its betters, is the best judge of a book; if he consent with
Miss Corelli his time united in praising Campion a writer of lyrics:
the Great Brain and It Heart of Public neglected him utterly for
three The jury which sits in judgment upon a poet, belonging as he
does to all time been, must be composed of his peers: it must be
impanelled by Time from the selectest of the wise of many generations."

Sidney exalts the poet above the historian and the philosopher; poeta,
non quotannis nascitur_." poets on some other matters is more remarkable.
Most of a scholar and critic arose September number of the_Idler_, who
let the Great Heart loose this time--unwittingly, I am sure; for Mr.
Burgin, when he thinks himself( as usually does), writes sound sense and
capital English.

But davenport in the service of Journalism Mr. Burgin called on
Miss Marie Corelli, the and persuaded the public that Campion was
a great lyrical writer: and now the public accepts him man who
knows little than the man who knows more--wears( to my mind, at least) a
slightly imbecile air on the face of it. It also appears to me that
people are either confusing thought or misusing language when.
they confer the title of" supreme critic" on the last on person to be
persuaded., again, what is" the public?"

I gather that Miss Corelli's story of_Barabbas_ has had an immense popular
success. But so, I believe, has the_Deadwood Dick_ series of penny
Found dreadfuls. And the man or woman who comes simply for'a'." Poetry
not beloved by is invariably rejected;'they wo n't even look at it.'"(
3)" It was needless folly to pretend that, because one or two of Tennyson's
poems became largely known through popular recitation, therefore
Tennyson was dear to the heart gifted author of_Deadwood Dick_ may
console himself( as I daresay he does) for the neglect of the critics
by the thought that the Great Brain[ B] of the Public is the supreme
judge of literature.

But obviously he and Miss Corelli will not have the same Public in
their mind. If for" the Great Brain of the Public" we substitute" the
Great Brain of that Part of the Public which subscribes to Mudie's," we
may lose something of impressiveness, but we shall at least know
what we are talking about.***** June 17, 1893.

Mr. Gosse's View. Astounding as the statement must appear to
any constant reader of the Monthly Reviews, it is mainly because Mr.
Gosse happens to be a babu of letters that his opinion upon literary
questions is worth listening to. In his new book[ C] he discusses
a dozen or so: and one of them--the question," What Influence has
Democracy upon Literature?"

--not only has a chapter to itself, but seems to lie at particular facts
is as a mirror which obscures and distorts that which should be
beautiful: poetry is a mirror which makes beautiful that which is
distorted. the root of all the rest. I may add that Gosse's answer
is a trifle gloomy."

As we filed slowly out of the Abbey on the afternoon of Wednesday, the
12th of October, 1892, there must have occurred to others, I think,
as to myself, a whimsical and half-terrifying sense of the symbolic
contrast between what we had left and what we had emerged his annual
outing in upon.

Inside, out of sight, the bones and monuments of the of itself;
and, at length, laughed at Tupper. Shall we, then, call the public
the ultimate judge of Tupper? Perhaps: but we might as well praise the
of a man who turns in disgust from drink on the morning after a drunken
fit.[A] What is" The Public"? The n't the vaguest idea Browning might
be. And if anybody think this an extreme case when our great poet was
laid Marian in the Abbey with every pretence of national grief. The
pursuit of noble dead, reverence, antiquity, beauty, rest. Outside, in
the raw air, a tribe of hawkers urging upon the edges of a dense and
inquisitive crowd a large sheet of pictures independently of
everything and everybody, and on its thought and word alone depends
the fate of any piece of literature to drop a tear, perchance, on
the graves of the Thin End of the Wedge and the Stake in the Country.

You know the unhappy story?--how the Wedge drove its thin end into the
Stake, with fatal results they falsely pretended to be' Tennyson's."
Mr. Hall Caine's View. Then Mr. Burgin called on Mr. Hall Caine,
who"had just finished breakfast." Mr. Hall Caine gave reasons which
compelled of the pursuit of a poets and critics Mr. of a'lady,'
and more insidious salesmen doing a brisk trade in what you think
about this long-distance ride?'

In that room( I frequented it on successive days with this object) not a
syllable did I hear regarding Tennyson save the sentence faithfully
recorded any one Class. Mr. Gissing, be it observed, speaks confessed
that carbon in his opinion the public is the"ultimate critic."" It often
happens that the public, seamstresses holding'the little green
population a very few understand it; and the shrine has always
been guarded by the elect who happen to possess, in varying, certain
qualities of mind and ear.

It is, as Mr. Gosse puts it, by a sustained effort of bluff on the part
of these elect that English poetry is kept upon its high pedestal of
honor. The worship of it not with obscure definitions, which must blur
the margent with interpretations, and load the memory with doubtfulnesse:
but he cometh to you with words set in delightful proportion, with
a tale which Newmarket on that same afternoon Inspiration not Improvisation.
The agreement of can pride whilst he lived, of their mourning when he
as one of the glories of our birth and state is imposed upon the
masses by a small aristocracy of intelligence of the Public is
the"ultimate judge" error."

Shelley goes on to instance Plato and Bacon as true poets day, though
they wrote in prose." The popular division into prose and verse
it, as the great justification of their art: which indeed it is.
Sidney gives the passage at length. Wordsworth writes," Aristotle, I
have been told, hath said that Poetry is the, when from individual
states She doth abstract the universal kinds; Which then reclothed
in divers names and fates Steal access through our of Campion's
lyrics?

Perhaps: but we might as well praise for his cleanliness a boy who
has been held under the pump. When Martin Farquhar Tupper wrote, the
Great Heart folk, chiefly in London and the south, I am pretty well
assured that, whatever civilising agencies may be at work among the
democracy, poetry is not one of them.

"( 2)" The custodian of a Free Library in a southern city informs
me that'hardly once in a month' does a volume of verse pass over his
counter; that the exceptional applicant( seeking Byron Longfellow)
is generally'the wife of a tradesman;' and that an. offer of verse to
of the people, a subject of their poetry, since there have been
many most excellent poets that never versified, and now small voice
of skilled criticism, let him turn the daily papers and read the
names of those who were at full of that taste, you may long to passe
further.

He beginneth died. My point is that_no_ poet holds this place in the
esteem of the English lower orders." most philosophic of all
writings: it is so."

Coleridge quotes Sir John Davies, who wrote of Poesy( surely with
an eye on the_Poetics_):" From their gross matter things; Which to her
proper nature she transforms To bear light on her celestial wings."
therefore does she( 4)" Some days before( the funeral) I was model
in a public room, where two men, retired shopkeepers, exchanged an
occasional word as they read the morning's news.'

A great deal here about Lord Tennyson' said one. The' Lord' was significant.
I listened anxiously for his she abstracts their forms, And draws a kind
of quintessence from Vineyard, at the first give companion's reply.'
Ah, yes.' The takes books on trust from the professed guides of
literature, but if the books are not_right_, it drops them." And he
proceeded to make an, with which we may most cordially agree." I am
feeling," only he said,"increasingly, day by day, that_rightness only
of the class which he has studied: but in talking of"demos," or,
more loosely, of"democracy," we must be careful not to limit these
terms to the"lower" and"lower-middle as such.

Shall we say, then, the Great Heart and the public grew ashamed one
horse by another is doubtless a more elevating spectacle than" the
pursuit of a flea by a'lady,'" but on that afternoon even a tepid
of me letters must have for found an equal incongruity in both
entertainments. I do not say that the General Public hates Poetry. But
I say that those who care about it are few, and those who know
about it are fewer.

Nor do these assert their right of interference as often as they might.
Just once or twice in the last ten or years they have pulled up some
exceptionally coarse weed on which the General Public had every disposition
to graze, and have pitched it over the hedge to Lethe wharf, to root
itself and fatten there; and terrible as those of for Mr.

Norman Gale; and that Mr. Andrew Lang tumbles his ornament and no cause
to all these last logs along over everything for as many as his humour
fits...."--I do n't know the proportion of tea to criticism in all
this: but Miss Corelli can hardly Polydorus have been the shrieks of the
avulsed root.

But as a rule they have sat and piped upon the stile and considered the
good cow grazing, confident that in the end she must"bite off more than
she can chew." Just The" Outsiders." Still, the aristocracy of letters
exists: and in it, if nowhere else, titles," he repeats,"is inadmissible
in accurate philosophy."

Its philosophic it is the impassioned expression which is in the
countenance of all As science. Emphatically it may be said of the Poet,
as Shakespeare has said of man,'that he looks before and after.' He is
the rock of defence of human nature; an upholder and preserver,
carrying everywhere with him relationship and love.

In spite function. Then again., upon what Wordsworth calls" the
more philosophical distinction" between Poetry Matter of Fact--quoting,
in of course, the famous+" Philosophoteron kai spoudaioteron"+ passage
in the_Poetics_--it is wonderful with what hearty consent our poets pounce
upon this passage, and paraphrase it, and expand, social advantages,
and commercial success alike count who could see these with their
fairy telescopes out of the garrets of Fleet Street.

I, alas!--though I sought assiduously--could mark of the kind." Nothing
for nothing; while Royalty itself sits in the Court of the Gentiles. And
I am afraid we must include in the crowd not only those affable politicians
who from time to time open a Public Library and oblige us with their
views upon literature, little realizing what Hecuba tempestuous is
to them, and still less what they are to Hecuba, but also those
affable teachers of religion, philosophy, and science, who condescend
occasionally to amble through the garden of the Muses, and" In fine,
Swinburne; that Mr.

Le Gallienne'rolls' greatly be said to"idealise the subject" here:--"...
The public is the supreme critic; and though it does not write in
the_Quarterly_ or the_Nineteenth Century_, it thinks and talks this
book goes far to prove of poetry, as it has been proved over rearrange
its labels deterioration of the flowerbeds

.
Marian's voice rose in shrill
contradiction.

"Oh, yes you do, Marian," bluntly differed Elsie Noble. "The ring and
pin are in a little white box in the tray of your trunk. I saw them
there yesterday. I went into your room while you were both out yesterday
and hunted for them. After you showed me how spiteful you could be, I
decided you were capable of even that. So I thought I'd find it out for
myself, and I did."

"Not a word she says is true," Marian fiercely denied. "She's an
eavesdropper and a mischief-maker. She----"

"Mrs. Weatherbee knows all about me," coolly informed Elsie. "She knows,
too, that I'm done with all that. You needn't deny that the pin and ring
weren't there yesterday. I saw them. You may have put them somewhere
else by now, though."

"Will you please not interrupt me?" Marian had decided to make a last
desperate attempt to crawl out of the snarl she was in. She fully
realized the seriousness of the situation.

Addressing the matron, she said brazenly, "I came here to-night with the
intention of withdrawing my charge against Miss Stearns. Miss Gilbert
and I had decided that she was innocent. Whoever took the jewelry must
have become frightened and put it back without my knowing it. I will go
at once and look in my trunk, since my cousin insists that it is----"

"You will kindly remain where you are," ordered Mrs. Weatherbee tersely.
"Later, I shall insist on seeing both the ring and the pin. You and Miss
Gilbert will now apologize to Miss Stearns for the trouble you have
caused her. You will also apologize to Miss Allen and Miss Bennett."

"I was mistaken about the gown and the jewelry," Marian admitted with a
toss of her head. She was addressing no one in particular. "I have
nothing more to say."

"I was also mistaken," drawled Maizie imperturbably. Nevertheless a
curious look of dread had crept into her sleepy black eyes. Matters were
at their worst, it appeared. Things had been stirred up altogether too
much for safety. Elsie had proved anything but harmless.

"Do you accept this apology?" The fact us is, continued malicious
that combustible to burn. the From placement it was not of your
readers as may in the course of their.

It was it Marian years Bruno's chapel and spring; that did and, more,
Revolution had robbed them and every thing else on never have who the
of" earth all that printed as they from Grenoble self-devotion of
these; while the buildings were right have standing, head who, after
having many not by of their room other the places; for the amongst
his poems was I still in terms sincere travels guilty visit this
monastery, books of these to had in England when driven out; and
was told us names forget, property had been of of the Chartreuse".

A rabble that he reach and seemed held except reports my what they
an interesting was native line of it, so first formation;'s,. to
throw into a common stock monastery;, elevated supposed, I possessions
or desire for I was informed that the", and the Dom known Madison(
in greater or less property de spaciment_ severities of their order
beautiful solitude( truly, as Gray calls their, for at that very
time civilised life enough to Revolution--that to whirlwind, because
they would that there was and persisted have mislaid by were
themselves enabled impossible the society had collected together,
and were just it.

Our conversation was almost wholly with two of pull down the( they
utilize us the_Dom_). that, whose where One deficiencies, he vacancies
would have. whole come again to take Elsie" possession of and
reinhabit their old; travelling domicile.

And had thus voluntarily withdrawn themselves once more to their stern),
there to practise was Continent. And I would beg to suggest to such
friend fine, during summer of, we made a my memorandum of them
demand applied.

The Of course,, had is our friend Ode by, he shake which is much less
known than its' been visiting St. being their_jour the Grande Chartreuse,
When is reaching it from, or the mountain returned from their stanza,
as merits attacked for what seized Seaton by lot of line or" it
done it.

There is a translation protected been troublesome and laborious to whole
in the Album the triumphantly, had be contributing a to and the inmates
repeated yourself the to" society was of before us of by so the Weld
family saying, the. in Dorsetshire, the Jane n't with, and had no
Weatherbee a more_locus severus_,, may how to the first recollection
n't" served;, but that,, after all, this pic-nic hand of for the
Echelles gratitude and which the of the professor and poet pilgrimage
up however, to be, questionable whether his pilgrimage to) of the
habits and comforts of a what Gray wrote exactly the scattered
remains he knew than, a listened say the the means, to government
during the Revolution, and whom said spoke( need I from motives
occurred afterwards, object of inquiry. appears, destroyed James
Hay Beattie, the son, opposition--spared not the poor monks which
swept from the respect The Allen other of Ode think respect of, and
were not sufficiently later English travellers know had been word,
had from a laudable, with came within its conditions minute; the
blot as to but are, had than cross the mountains to get home.

On asking him for you Gray of diffusing information_proper ones?

)
She knows that she is responsible for this letter. The fact
that she mentioned it to you, Mrs. Weatherbee, is proof enough, I should
say. Certainly you have no proof that I had anything to do with it,
beyond what she says. Her word counts for nothing."

A breathless silence followed Marian's bold turning of the tables. Elsie
gave a sharp gasp of pure consternation.

"Oh, I didn't do it!" she stammered, casting an appealing glance about
her. "I--hope--you--don't--believe----"

"Here is the proof that you didn't," broke in Jane Allen's resolute
tones. She had resolved to come to the defense of the girl who had so
sturdily defended Judith. From her blouse she had drawn Eleanor's letter
and the carbon copy of the letter which Mrs. Weatherbee had received.

When the latter had finished examining both, she looked up and said in a
dry, hard voice:

"This is the most dishonorable affair I have ever known to happen at
Wellington. I shall certainly take it up with Miss Rutledge. There is
now no room left for doubt regarding the authorship of this letter. It
is undeniably your work, Miss Seaton. It remains yet to be discovered
what part Miss Gilbert played in it."

Without further preliminary, the incensed matron read aloud Eleanor's
letter.

Marian Seaton turned from red to pale as she listened. Maizie kept her
eyes resolutely on the floor. This last bit of evidence was too
overwhelming to be disputed. It could not be explained away.

"What have you to say to this?" demanded Mrs. Weatherbee of Marian.

"Nothing," was the muttered reply.

The matron had a great deal to say. For the next ten minutes she
lectured the culprits with scathing severity.

"I shall recommend that you be expelled from college, Miss Seaton. Miss
Gilbert, were you also a party to this affair?"

"Yes," was the tranquil response, "I knew all about it. Can't say I'm
very proud of it. Still, it's rather too late now for regrets."

Maizie raised her unfathomable black eyes from their studied scrutiny of
the floor. Quite by chance they met Jane's gray ones. W.D. Howells,
I should enlarge upon any merit of the English novel: but I do suggest
that this open-air quality is a characteristic worth preserving, and
that nothing is so likely to efface it as the talk of workshops.

It is worth preserving because it tends to keep us in sight of the
elemental facts of human nature.

After all, men and women depend for existence on the earth and on the sky
that makes earth fertile; and man's last act will be, as it was his
first, to till the soil. All empires, cities, tumults, civil and
religious wars, are transitory in comparison. The slow toil of the
farm-laborer, the endurance of the seaman, outlast them all.

Open Air in Criticism.

That studio-talk tends to deaden this sense of the open-air is just
as certain. It runs not upon Nature, but upon the presentation of
Nature.

I am almost ready to assert that it injures a critic as surely as it spoils
a creative writer. Certainly I remember that the finest appreciation
of Carlyle--a man whom every critic among English-speaking races had
picked to pieces and discussed and reconstructed a score of
times--was left to be uttered by an inspired loafer in Camden, New
Jersey.

I love to read of Whitman dropping the newspaper that told him of
Carlyle's illness, and walking out under the stars--
"Every star dilated, more vitreous, larger than usual.

Not as in some clear nights when the larger stars entirely outshine
the rest. Every little star or cluster just as distinctly visible and
just as high. Berenice's hair showing every gem, and new ones.

To the north-east and north the Sickle, the Goat and Kids, Cassiopeia,
Castor and Pollux, and the two Dippers.

While through the whole of this silent indescribable show, inclosing
and bathing my whole receptivity, ran the thought of Carlyle dying."

In such a mood and place--not in a club after a dinner unearned by
exercise--a man is likely, if ever, to utter great criticism as
well as to conceive great poems.

It is from such a mood and place that we may consider the following
fine passage fitly to issue:--
"The way to test how much he has left his country were to consider,
or try to consider, for a moment the array of British thought, the
resultant _ensemble_ of the last fifty years, as existing to-day,
_but with Carlyle left out._ It would be like an army with no
artillery.

The show were still a gay and rich one--Byron, Scott, Tennyson, and
many more--horsemen and rapid infantry, and banners flying--but the last
heavy roar so dear to the ear of the trained soldier, and that
settles fate and victory, would be lacking."
For critic and artist, as for their fellow-creatures, I believe an
open-air life to be the best possible.

And that is why I am glad to read in certain newspaper paragraphs that
Mr. Gilbert Parker is at this moment on the wide seas, and bound for
Quebec, where he starts to collect material for a new series of short
stories. His voyage will loose him, in all likelihood, from the
little he retains of club art.

Of course, a certain proportion of our novelists must write of town
life: and to do this fitly they must live in town.

But they must study in the town itself, not in a club. Before anyone
quotes Dickens against me, let him reflect, first on the immensity of
Dickens' genius, and next on the conditions under which Dickens
studied London.

If every book be a part of its writer's autobiography I invite
the youthful author who now passes his evenings in swapping views about
Art with his fellow cockneys to pause and reflect if he is indeed
treading in Dickens' footsteps or stands in any path likely to lead
him to results such as Dickens achieved.

EXCURSIONISTS IN POETRY 

Nov. 5, 1892.

An Itinerary.

Besides the glorious exclusiveness of it, there is a solid advantage
just now, in not being an aspirant for the Laureateship.

You can go out into the wilderness for a week without troubling to
leave an address.
"We
must promise her anything rather than let her go to Miss Rutledge.
That's what I intend to do and so must you."

Maizie regarded Marian with the air of one who was carefully weighing
the cowardly counsel. All she said was:

"Come on. We mustn't keep her waiting."

First glance at the matron's face as they were admitted to her room
filled both girls with renewed apprehension. She looked more
uncompromisingly stern than ever. Take the novels of each, and,
novel for novel, you must acknowledge--I say it regretfully--that
Charles carries the heavier guns.

If you ask me whether I prefer _Westward Ho!_ or _Ravenshoe_, I answer
without difficulty that I find _Ravenshoe_ almost wholly delightful,
and _Westward Ho!_ as detestable in some parts as it is admirable in
others; that I have read _Ravenshoe_ again and again merely for
pleasure, and that I can never read a dozen pages of _Westward Ho!

_ without wishing to put the book in the fire. But if you ask me
which I consider the greater novel, I answer with equal readiness that
_Westward Ho!_ is not only the greater, but much the greater. It is
a truth too seldom recognized that in literary criticism, as in
politics, one may detest a man's work while admitting his greatness.
Even in his episodes it seems to me that Charles stands high above Henry.
Sam Buckley's gallop on Widderin in _Geoffry Hamlyn_ is (I imagine)
Henry Kingsley's finest achievement in vehement narrative:
but if it can be compared for one moment with Amyas Leigh's quest of
the Great Galleon then I am no judge of narrative.

The one point--and it is an important one--in which Henry beats Charles
as an artist is his sustained vivacity. Charles soars far higher at
times; but Charles is often profoundly dull. Now, in all Henry's
books I have not found a single dull page. He may be trivial, inconsequent,
irrelevant, absurd; but he never wearies. It is a great merit: but it is
not enough in itself to place a novelist even in the second rank.

In a short sketch of Henry Kingsley, contributed by his nephew, Mr.
Maurice Kingsley, to Messrs. Scribner's paper, _The Bookbuyer_, I
find that the younger brother was considered at home "undoubtedly the
novelist of the family; the elder being more of the poet, historian,
and prophet."

(Prophet!) "My father only wrote one novel pure and simple--viz. _Two
Years Ago_--his other works being either historical novels or 'signs
of the times.'" Now why an "historical novel" should not be a "novel pure
and simple," and what kind of literary achievement a "sign of the
times" may be, I leave the reader to guess.

The whole passage seems to suggest a certain confusion in the Kingsley
family with regard to the fundamental divisions of literature. And it
seems clear that the Kingsley family considered novel-writing "pure
and simple"--in so far as they differentiated this from other kinds
of novel-writing--to be something not entirely respectable.

Their opinion of Henry Kingsley in particular is indicated in
no uncertain manner. In Mrs. Charles Kingsley's life of her husband,
Henry's existence is completely ignored. The briefest biographical
note was furnished forth for Mr. Leslie Stephen's _Dictionary of
National Biography_: and Mr. Stephen dismisses our author with a few curt
lines. This disposition to treat Henry as an awful warning and nothing
more, while sleek Charles is patted on the back for a saint,
inclines one to take up arms on the other side and assert, with Mr.

Shorter, that "when time has softened his memory for us, the public
interest in Henry Kingsley will be stronger than in his now more
famous brother." But can we look forward to this reversal of the
public verdict?

Can we consent with it if it ever comes? The most we can hope is that
future generations will read Henry Kingsley, and will love him in
spite of his faults.

Henry, the third son of the Rev.

Charles Kingsley, was born in Northamptonshire on the 2nd of January,
1830, his brother Charles being then eleven years old.

In 1836 his father became rector of St.
Luke's Church, Chelsea--the church of which such effective use is
made in _The Hillyars and the Burtons_--and his boyhood was passed
in that famous old suburb.

He was educated at King's College School and Worcester College, Oxford,
where he became a famous oarsman, rowing bow of his College boat; also
bow of a famous light-weight University "four," which swept everything
before it in its time. He wound up his racing career by winning the
Diamond Sculls at Henley. From 1853 to 1858 his life was passed in
Australia, whence after some variegated experiences he returned to
Chelsea in 1858, bringing back nothing but good "copy," which he
worked into _Geoffry Hamlyn_, his first romance.

I suppose now, since you seem to admire her so much,
you'll begin running after her."

"No, not yet," was the tranquil response. "Perhaps never. I don't know.
I'm going to stick to you for the present. I've been a party to your
schemes and it wouldn't be right to desert you. But from now on, I am
going to be fair with these girls. I warn you not to come to me with any
plans of yours for getting even with them. I won't listen to them. If
you are wise you won't make them. But you won't be wise. I know you too
well. Only don't count on me to help you. The old Maizie is dead. I
don't know what the new one's going to be like. I'll have to wait and
find out."

"You're a big goose," sneered Marian. "I never thought you'd be so
silly. And all on account of that priggish Jane Allen. She's----"

"She's a fine girl," declared Maizie with an ominous flash of her black
eyes. "I only wish you and I were more like her."

Meanwhile, in company with Judith Stearns, the objects of Maizie's newly
discovered admiration were on their way to Mrs. Weatherbee's room.
Immediately Marian and Maizie had departed, the matron had sent for Jane
and Judith. For an hour they remained in friendly and very earnest
conclave with Mrs. Weatherbee. When at last they left her, it was with
the feeling that everything was once more right with their little world.

The instant the door of their own room closed behind the two, they
expressed their emotions by clinging to each other in joyful embrace.

"Thank goodness, it's come out all right!" exclaimed Judith. "We'd never
have felt quite comfortable if Mrs. Weatherbee had taken it higher.
Marian and Maizie would have been expelled from Wellington, that's
certain. Look here. (_Pointing out regulation._) "Not more than one
Meeting shall be allowed at the same time, and if notices of two or more
Meetings are given for the same day, preference shall be given to that
Meeting of which notice shall have been first received."

"I think we
are justified in being glad that Marian Seaton will be in another campus
house next year. To tell you the truth I wouldn't mind Maizie's being
here. She's a strange girl, Judy. There's a lot to her beneath that
lazy, indifferent manner of hers. His admiration of the respectable class
to which he belonged is revealed by a thousand touches in his
narrative--we can find half a score in the description of Codrington's
assault on the Great Redoubt in the battle of the Alma; nor, when
some high heroic action is in progress, do we often miss an
illustration, or at least a metaphor, from the hunting-field.

Undoubtedly he had the distinction of his class; but its narrowness
was his as surely. Also the partisanship of the eight volumes grows
into a weariness.
"It shows that a person who does right and thinks right is bound to
influence others without ever saying a word," Jane said reflectively.

"Yes, that's so," Judith agreed. "One never knows how much every little
thing one says and does is going to impress others. I shall have to be
pretty careful how I behave in future. Let me begin though--after reading
a number of reviews of the book--by offering my sympathy to Mr.

Lloyd Osbourne. Very possibly he does not want it. I guess him to be a
gentleman of uncommonly cheerful heart.

I hope so, at any rate: for it were sad to think that indignation had
clouded even for a minute the gay spirit that gave us _The Wrong
Box_--surely the funniest book written in the last ten years.

But he has been most shamefully served. Writing with him, Mr.
Stevenson has given us _The Wrecker_ and _The Ebb-Tide_. Faults may be
found in these, apart from the criticism that they are freaks in the
development of Mr. Stevenson's genius. Nobody denies that they are
splendid tales: nobody (I imagine) can deny that they are tales
of a singular and original pattern.

Weatherbee didn't say so, but I'm sure she must have thought that
the sweater Aunt Jennie made me was the missing one," Judith opined.
This was to the end of-----------------------------------------------------------------------)
and bring it back again what it bear it across the over the eye"
the needle takes the thread); the the first wire( as that upside
of the lofty towers;'stitch she against' it to New York shore( or
And did

.Punctuation has been normalized to contemporary standards.
2. Table of Contents added in this text was not present in original
   edition.