In regard to the external setting of the parable as a piece of rosicrucian
literature, we must remember that it was published in 1788, the time of
the later gold- and rose-cross societies, and in a book whose theosophic
and religious character is seen in all the figures contained in it as well
as in the greater part of the text. It is continually reiterated that gold
is not common gold but our gold, that the stone is a spiritual stone
(Jesus Christ), etc. The creation of the world, the religious duty of
mankind, the mystic path to the experiencing of divinity--all is
represented in detailed pictures with predominantly chemical symbolism.
This higher conception of alchemy, that corresponds throughout to the
ideal of the so-called old or true rosicrucian, does not prevent the
editor from believing in the possibility of miraculous gifts which are to
be gained through the hermetic art. Many parts of the book make us suspect
a certain naïveté that may go several degrees beyond the simplicity
required for religious development.

As for the origin of the parable there are two possibilities. Either the
editor is himself the author and as such retires into the background,
while he acts as collector of old rosicrucian manuscripts, that he now in
publishing, discloses to amateurs in the art, or the editor is merely
editor. In either case the obligation remains to interpret the parable
hermetically. The educational purpose of the editor is established. If he
is himself the author, he himself has clothed his teachings in the images
of the parable. If, on the contrary, the author is some one else (either a
contemporary and so [Symbol: sun] R. C. [Symbol: cross], or an old
hermetic philosopher, Fr. R. C.), the editor has found in the piece edited
by him a subject suitable to his purpose, a material that voices his
doctrines. We can evidently also rest satisfied, in order to evade the
question of authorship, that the writing itself gets its own character
from the hermetic interpretations, and shows in detail its correspondingly
theosophic material. Nevertheless I desire to show the directing hand of
the collector and editor.

The only answer necessary is the evident improvement in the general
standards of all student organizations and the mere fact that they have,
for the most part, continued to exist through several student generations;
no little accomplishment in itself, when one remembers the almost automatic
rise and fall of these societies in the early days.

If the University and particularly the Faculty has been concerned with
these problems, incident upon the University's growth, so have the students
themselves. They have seen the necessity for constructive effort and have
established such agencies as the Student Council and the Inter-fraternity
Council among the men, and the corresponding Judiciary Council and
Pan-Hellenic Association among the women. Above all, the University
has profited by the two great organizations which have been the most
effective expression of student life and ideals,--the Michigan Union and
the Women's League.

While the fundamental control of the student body rests, as it always has,
with the Faculty, the students have almost always shown themselves
ready and able to deal with questions of a certain type more promptly
and effectively than the Faculty.

This is evident by the good record of the Student Council since its
organization in 1905. The members of this body are elected during the last
half of their Junior or the beginning of their Senior year, and are
usually the strongest men in their classes, though not necessarily the
most popular or the best students.
Most of the Council's work has had to do with student customs, the
regulation of old, and the establishment of new, "traditions," a paradoxical
procedure perhaps, but a source of much that is picturesque.
Of these traditions, none has been more acceptable than the custom
of requiring freshmen to wear the little gray caps, or knitted
toques in the winter, with a button at the top, signifying by its color
the College or School of the wearer. No more inspiring or beautiful
ceremony occurs in university life than the annual "cap-night"
celebration when the student body meets in "Sleepy Hollow" near the
Observatory, about a great bonfire, to watch the burning of the caps, and
the formal initiation of the freshmen into the responsibilities
of college life.
The dance of the freshmen about the fire and the showers of caps
falling into the flames (they have been sent to the Belgians the
last few years), combined with the vigor and idealism of the speeches
which follow, all conspire to produce one of the most stirring and
impressive events of the year.

Of more fundamental importance has been the Council's regulation of the
irrepressible freshmen-sophomore rivalry, which long took the course of
medieval hair-cutting forays, sometimes, as in 1904, carried on even
within the sacred precincts of the Library. The reform came through
the establishment in 1908 of a series of inter-class contests. Particularly
picturesque are those held in May, which include a tug-of-war across
the Huron River, a series of obstacle relay races, and a massed battle
about a six-foot push ball on Ferry Field as the finale. While not entirely
innocuous, these games form an apparently necessary and acceptable safety
valve for the exuberances of class spirit. The upper-classman is most
sensitive to the good name of the University; to him the dangers of
undue newspaper notoriety are quite apparent, and thus through the
Council the students themselves have been able on the whole to control
successfully what is always a difficult and delicate question for
university officers. Hardly less important among the Council's functions
is the management of various undergraduate occasions, mass-meetings,
campus elections, and inter-class athletics, demonstrations where
trouble might brew without the guidance of wiser heads. More than once
when a mass of under-classmen has seemed on the verge of a dangerous
explosion, the members of the Council have intervened quietly and effectively.
Ordinarily, this modesty has been characteristic of the Council's work.
A similar regulation of the affairs of the women is exercised by a
Judiciary Council organized at the suggestion of the University Senate in
1913.

Of all student organizations, however, the Michigan Union has accomplished
the most toward promoting the best interests of the student body since
its establishment as a general organization in 1904. To those who are only
familiar with the Union of later years, the name will almost inevitably
suggest the building rather than the organization. The new club house,
practically completed in the first months of 1920, is naturally the
obvious embodiment of the Union which strikes the observer upon first
acquaintance.

It cannot be emphasized too strongly, however, that the building is, after
all, but the home of an organization. This is the essential fact which
has never been forgotten by the officers of the Union. Their efforts from
the first have been to make it, both as an organization and as a building,
of practical service for Michigan's immense student body, which without
the resources of a large city, needs peculiarly such headquarters for
all its wide and varied interests.
Perhaps the most concise definition of the Union is contained in the
preamble of its present Constitution:

To establish a University social and recreational center; to provide a
meeting place for Faculty, alumni, former students and resident students
of the University; and to help in fitting Michigan men for the performance
of their duties as good citizens.

It is the Union as a _body of students_, using the building as a means to
promote the best things in college life, to bring about a closer
co-ordination of all university activities, and a more sympathetic
co-operation between the undergraduates, Faculty, and alumni, that
must justify the money and energy spent in this great departure in
American college life,--for there is nothing in any American university
today that approaches the Union in size or the scale upon which its
activities are planned.

[Illustration: THE MICHIGAN UNION]
The need of such a building had long been felt by the students before the
first discussion on the part of the members of the senior society, Michigamua,
led to a call which brought representatives of all the leading organizations
in the University together in the spring of 1904.

The idea proved popular at once, though it was again the organization, and
not the somewhat remote prospect of a building, that won support.
From the first the Union aimed to be an expression of student life as
a whole and almost immediately, side by side with an active campaign for a
building, it undertook to correlate and to unify the interests of the
students in the different departments, classes, and organizations. The
alumni, too, were knit into a body which aimed consistently to recognize
the claim of the University to the regard and loyal support of every
Michigan man. The Student Council was established at the inspiration of
the Union soon after its organization. Some years later a similar
movement inspired by the Union resulted in the establishment of the
University Health Service through a series of recommendations made by a
committee of Union members to the Board of Regents. Mass meetings and
smokers were held and a great annual dinner was initiated the first year,
at which the ideals of the University and the aims of the Union were
discussed. Funds were raised for the portrait of President Angell by
William M. Chase. Musical shows and carnivals were held, not merely to
raise money for the Union, but to bring the student body together in
one absorbing interest. In December, 1906, Judge Cooley's old home
on State Street was purchased, to be used temporarily as the Union
Club House and eventually to be replaced by the present building.

The house was altered extensively,--two dining-rooms were installed,
together with other features of a club, and for nine years it served the
University well, though its facilities became increasingly inadequate as
the mass of students grew.

Not for one minute, however, was the need for a greater building forgotten,
and through mass meetings, alumni dinners, and University
publications, the alumni were educated as to the aims and ideals of the
organization and the vital need of a building which should adequately
serve as the center of the life of the thousands of men in the
University.

All this was not accomplished without opposition, which centered largely
in the rival claims of the committee charged with the raising of funds
for Alumni Memorial Hall. Fortunately this misunderstanding faded
away when the Memorial Building was completed in 1909 and the purpose of
the Union became better understood.

This long effort among the alumni eventually began to have its effect and
for several years before the actual campaign for funds for the
Union was launched, alumni everywhere were asking: "When are you going to
ask us to contribute toward the new Union? I want to do something." Yet
the actual result of the campaign, when it was finally launched in 1915,
was in many ways a great surprise. Within a little over a year some
$800,000 was subscribed and work on the new building was begun. The most
remarkable aspect of this response was the fact that no large
subscriptions were made,--$10,000 was the largest.

In fact the majority of the subscriptions came in the form of $50 life
memberships which not only made the graduates of the University
participants in an institution concerned with the fundamentals of University
life, linking students, teachers, and alumni in a common cause, but
gave the graduates a home in Ann Arbor to which they could
return as of right, asking no favors. It is doubtful if any large undertaking
in any university has ever been more widely supported by general alumni
subscriptions.

The declaration of war in 1917, and the almost immediate increase in building
costs, made more difficult the completion of the building, though
a supplementary campaign in 1919 increased the funds to over the million
dollars originally asked for. Even this proved inadequate and when the
Union was finally opened in the fall of 1919, there was still some $200,000
to be raised, secured by a mortgage on the building.

This, in effect, represented the increase in the cost of building during the
war. The completion of the Union was felt to be a vital matter and while
the wide-spread interest of the alumni in the building made it practically
certain that the necessary funds would be forthcoming within a few years;
to delay until the full amount was in hand would have been disastrous.
During the abnormal years of 1918-19, $60,000 alone was added to the building
fund through student life memberships, while the following fall
over $110,000 more was pledged this way, a practical evidence of undergraduate
interest and support.

The Union is peculiarly a Michigan product. It stands not only on the site
of Judge Cooley's old home but also on that of the boyhood home of the
architects, Irving K. Pond, '79, President of the American Institute of
Architects in 1910 and 1911, and his brother Allen B. Pond, '80.
Strong and masculine in all its lines, the building throughout is a
consistent interpretation of the artistic faith of the architects, who have
been bold enough to break with overworn conventions in the design and have
made it peculiarly an expression, in its whole conception as well as in
its finest details, of a distinctly American spirit. A suggestion of the
English collegiate Gothic style in its larger forms was deliberately
chosen as typifying the fundamental source of our institutions; but
in the general treatment, particularly in the simple, modern, truly
American masses and details, which are everywhere full of a refined
and delicate symbolism, the building is an interpretation of the
underlying spirit of American Democracy.

That the architects have been successful no one can deny who has seen
the Union and has felt the rugged beauty of its central tower, which
became at once the striking feature of Ann Arbor's skyline.

The building is necessarily large; it is 168 feet in all across the
front and 233 feet deep, with four stories, a basement, and sub-basement.
In addition to other usual facilities of a large club, it contains a
swimming pool (not completed in 1920), a bowling alley, an immensely
popular cafeteria for men, known as the Tap-Room, a woman's dining-room
with a separate entrance, a billiard room, with twenty-five tables, a
large banquet and assembly hall, 58 by 104 feet, for dinners, dances, and
large gatherings, besides innumerable smaller rooms which can be used either
for dinners or for class and society meetings. There are in fact dining-room
accommodations for over 1,200 guests at one time. Offices and various
headquarters for campus organizations are also included as well as one
feature particularly welcome to alumni, some 48 sleeping rooms
accommodating 69 visitors.

Thus the Union has realized its ideals. While the success of the Union is
due to the continued and self-sacrificing efforts of hundreds of Michigan
men, students and alumni alike, special recognition will always be
due Dean Henry M.

    Bates, '90, of the Law
    School, whose strong
    support and practical
    idealism as a member
    of the Board of Directors from the very earliest days carried the
project through many dark periods, as well as to the energy and
enthusiasm of Homer Heath, '07, manager of the Union Building from
the first, to whom is due in no small degree the successful outcome
of the campaign for the building, and its final completion.

The control of the Union is vested in two organizations; a Board of Directors
composed of students, Faculty representatives, and alumni, which has in
general the supervision of the activities of the Union as an organization,
and a Board of Governors, created upon completion of the building,
composed of the student President of the Union, one member of the
Board of Regents, the Financial Secretary appointed by the President
of the University and four members appointed by the Board of Directors
of the Alumni Association, to have financial control of the building
and organization as a corporation.

    With the opening of the
    University in 1919,
    when the enrolment
    exceeded by 1,500 the
    previous record attendance in 1916, the Union entered upon a new
and more effective period of service, not entirely equipped and
ready, it is true, but sufficiently prepared to justify at once the
vision of those responsible for the result.

Even without any endowment it demonstrated from the first that it
could be maintained as an essentially self-supporting concern.[3]
[Footnote 3: A careful estimate, made in October, 1920, showed that
an average of 7,500 persons daily passed the doors of the Union.

Some 2,200 persons were also served daily in the Tap-Room or
cafeteria, in addition to the regular dining-room service.]
As the Union served the life of the men in the University, other agencies
have come to do the same for the women. Long before the Union was
even thought of, the Women's League maintained headquarters in the
parlors of Barbour Gymnasium, which, with Sarah Caswell Angell Hall and
the adjoining gymnasium, served the women well.

These, with the three recently constructed halls of residence, including
the Martha Cook Building, perhaps the most beautiful and luxurious dormitory
ever built in an American university, will go far towards answering the
social needs of the women. They have at least made the general scale of
living conditions far more favorable for the girls of the University
than for the men, who for many years have been sadly in need of the
facilities offered by such a building as the Union. Fortunately there is
every prospect that some dormitories for men will be forthcoming in the
near future.

The religious life of the students has never been neglected, though the
careful non-sectarianism of the University led it at first to be regarded
with suspicion by the various religious bodies of the State, and their
opposition, sometimes veiled, and sometimes open, proved embarrassing. It
has been shown how this sentiment was met by a prevailing clerical complexion
in the Faculty and an emphasis on daily chapel exercises which were
maintained long after the practice of considering religious affiliations
as one of the prime professorial requisites was abandoned.

This emphasis on the proper observance of the Sabbath is rather amusingly
illustrated in the regular practice in those days of having the Monday Greek
lesson consist of a chapter of the Greek Testament; it being no sin to
study the scriptures on Sunday. From which we might gather that in some
essentials, such as Sunday study, the student of 1850 was true grandfather
of the undergraduate of today.
Every effort was made to make college regulations a substitute for
home influences, and the members of that first Faculty were all
remembered for their kindly and paternal relations with the students. It
was largely because of the personal qualities and wisdom of these men
that the institution was able to steer successfully between the dangers of
religious indifference and sectarianism.

[Illustration: THE DOORWAY OF THE MARTHA COOK BUILDING]
The changes from those stricter days have come gradually and as a
reflection of the spirit of the age; the scientific and not the ecclesiastical
spirit rules, with the result that the student is left more to his own
devices in ordering his life. The discipline of the old days would not
be tolerated now and any tendency towards firmer regulation of undergraduate
life is often resented. The break came first, perhaps, in a new spirit
of independence which followed the fraternity crisis in 1850. This was
emphasized by the fact that the students in the professional schools were
excused from compulsory church and chapel attendance, a discrimination
which did not fail to react upon the literary undergraduates.

The rule still held, however, until 1871; though the Sunday monitor who
checked church attendance had long disappeared. Daily prayers were maintained
until 1895 when they were succeeded by semi-weekly vesper services,
which, in turn, were eventually discontinued. Current opinion upon this
gradual change is possibly reflected in the statement made in 1900 by
President Angell:

Where, as at the University of Michigan, the average age of the freshman
on entering college is 19.5, it is at least open to discussion whether
the spiritual welfare of undergraduates will be promoted by their being
driven to religious services under fear of the monitor's mark.

A religious census made in 1894 showed that of approximately 3,000 students,
2,500 were church members or church adherents, and that 301 students had
become clergymen or missionaries. A similar census of the men in 1919
showed that of a total of 5,804, 3,501 were church members, while
943 others expressed some church preference. This included all forms of
belief. These statistics seem to indicate that there has been very
little change in this respect in the last twenty-five years, though some
decrease in church attendance would not be surprising in view of the great
increase in students and the less homogeneous character of the student
body. No one familiar with the student life today, however, will
question the vitality and effectiveness of the religious influences which
reach the students through the various churches and religious organizations
of Ann Arbor, particularly in view of extensive plans now under way for
further co-operation on the part of the churches.

The passing of the old Chapel in the religious life of the University was
marked by the growing strength of religious bodies among the students. The
strong religious spirit of the early Faculty was reflected by their
encouragement of an organization known as the Union Missionary
Society of Inquiry, which followed the great missionary movement
of the first part of the century, and served as a rallying point
for undergraduate religious life.

This organization, however, according to Professor Hinsdale, was "anything
but an unmixed blessing, either to the institution or to the students,"
though in what particular is not disclosed. There also existed from earliest
days, a Sunday morning service which the students conducted in
the Chapel. The old Missionary Society came to an end in 1857, to be
followed by the Students' Christian Association, which soon became one
of the most effective factors in university religious life.

It was the first association of this character organized in any American
college, and through what may be regarded as a fortunate accident in its
name the opportunity for membership was left open to women students upon
their admission twelve years later.

This brought to it a powerful reinforcement.

The Association professed no creed, the members merely pledging themselves
to religious character and work.
The most powerful Imagos are those of the parents. Here naturally
the mother imago comes to view, which later takes a position in the center
of the love life (namely the choice of object).] Whither does he turn for
his journey of conquest? Into the earth. The earth is the mother as a
familiar symbol language teaches us. Trap door, box, subterranean holes,
suggest a womb phantasy. The toad frequently appears with the significance
of the uterus, harmonizing with the situation that the tale presents. (On
the contrary frog is usually penis.) The toad's big box (= mother) is also
the womb. From it indeed the female symbols, in this connection, sisters,
are produced for the simpleton. The box is, however, also the domestic
cupboard,--food closet, parcel, bandbox, chamber, bowl, etc.,--from which
the good mother hands out tasty gifts, toys, etc. Just as the father in
childish phantasy can do anything, so the mother has a box out of which
she takes all kinds of good gifts for the children. Down among the toads
an ideal family episode is enacted. The mother's inexhaustible box (with
the double meaning) even delivers the desired woman for the simpleton.

The woman--for whom? Doubtless for the simpleton, psychologically. The tale
says for the king, because the female symbols, carpet, ring, the king
desires for himself, in so many words, and the inference is that the woman
also belongs to him. The conclusion of the tale, however, turns out true
to the psychological situation, as it does away with the king and lets the
simpleton live on, apparently with the same woman. It is clear as day that
the simpleton identifies himself with his father, places himself in his
place. The image, which possesses him from the first is the father's
woman, the mother. And the father's death--that is considerately
ignored--which brings queen and crown, is a wish of the simpleton. So again
we find ourselves at the center of the OEdipus complex. As
mother-substitute figures the sister, one of the little toads.

We have regarded the story first from the point of view of the
inefficiency of the hero, and have thereupon stumbled upon erotic
relations, finally upon the OEdipus complex. The psychological connection
results from the fact that those images on which the OEdipus complex is
constructed appear calculated to produce an inefficiency in the erotic
life.

The anagogic interpretation of Hitchcock (l. c., pp. 175 ff.) is as
follows, though somewhat abridged:

The king plainly means man. He has three sons; he is an image of the
Trinity, which in the sense of our presentation we shall think of as body,
soul and spirit. Two of the sons were wise in the worldly sense, but the
third, who represents spirit and in the primitive form, is called
conscience, is simple in order to typify the straight and narrow path of
truth. The spirit leads in sacred silence those who meekly follow it and
dies in a mystical sense if it is denied, or else appears in other forms
in order to pursue the soul with the ghosts of murdered virtues. Man is,
as it were, in doubt concerning the principle to which the highest
leadership in life is due. "Go forth and whoever brings me the finest
carpet shall be king after my death." The carpet is something on which one
walks or stands, here representing the best way of life according to
Isaiah XXX, 21. "This is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right
hand and when ye turn to the left."

The three feathers are, of course, the three principles. Two of them move
at once in opposite directions [towards the east and towards the west, as
many writers on alchemy represent the two principles or breaths, anima and
corpus or [Symbol: Gold] and [Symbol: Silver]] and so come even at the
outset away from the right path. The third, symbol of the spirit, flies
straight forward and has not far to its end, for simple is the way to the
inner life. And so the spirit will speak to us if we follow its voice, at
first quite a faint voice: "But the word is very nigh unto thee, in thy
mouth and in thy heart that thou mayst do it." (Deuteronomy XXX, 14.) Yet
the soul is not free from sadness, as the man stands still on the lower
steps of the ladder that leads up into eternal life. Simpleton is troubled
in his heart and in the humility of this affliction he discovers "all at
once" a secret door, which shows him the entrance into the mystical life.
The door is on the surface of the earth, in abasement, as the third
feather determined it in advance. As Simpleton discreetly obeyed it, he
strolled along the path that the door opened for him. Three steps, three
fundamental forces. So Christ had to descend before he could rise. The
hero of the story knocks as Christ knocks in the gospel (i.e., on the
inner door, contrasted with the law of Moses, the outer door). The big
toad with her little ones in a circle about her signifies the great mother
nature and her creatures, which surround her in a circle; in a circle, for
nature always returns upon herself in a cycle. Simpleton gets the most
beautiful carpet.

The original trouble appears to have started in this case with the students,
though it was probably the outgrowth of old animosities between them and
the rougher and foreign elements in the town.

For, despite vigorous efforts on the part of the President and Faculty to
enforce the law against the sale of liquor to undergraduates, many
student difficulties were to be traced to popular downtown resorts
maintained largely by the German inhabitants. On this occasion the trouble
started at "Hangsterfer's," in an altercation between two students,
who were making themselves unpleasant, and the proprietor of the
place.

The next night the students returned in force and demanded free drinks,
and, upon their being refused, precipitated a general mêlée in which clubs
were used and even knives were drawn. In the end, the unfortunate owners
were chased to the outskirts of town by the uproarious students.

Bad feeling followed this episode and one night six uninvited students
broke into a ball at "Binders's," where they surreptitiously helped
themselves to the refreshments--presumably liquid. One of them was captured
and only released after planks had been brought to batter down
the brick walls of the building and a squad of medical students, armed
with muskets, had arrived on the scene.

Warrants were sworn out for the six the next day, but the officers were
foiled by exchanges of clothing, by the culprits never eating in
the same place twice, by their substituting for one another in recitations
with the tacit approval, apparently, of their instructors, and by
concealment in the Observatory, or, in the case of three of them,
in a Regent's house.

Finally two students were sent down to the scene of the battle to buy
liquor, and with this as evidence, a sufficient case against the proprietor
was secured to induce him to withdraw his complaints. This ended the
"war."
Equally objectionable to the Ann Arbor citizens, though more excusable
perhaps, was the standing protest of the students at the condition
of the wooden sidewalks in the town, whose improvement apparently
formed no part of the programme for civic betterment on the part
of the good but conservative burghers.

The students therefore constantly took matters in their own hands and
about once in so often the offending rickety planks went up in flames.
The class of '73 thus celebrated after its examinations in the spring
of 1870. Their raid on the sidewalks had been unusually comprehensive and
the city fathers became thoroughly aroused.
Arrests were threatened, and serious trouble was certain, when Acting
President Frieze settled the matter by paying the $225 damages out
of his own slenderly lined pocket.

                                This the offending class eventually made up to him by laying a tax
upon its members, doubtless to the great disgust of the innocent
ones, "who thought bad form had been displayed somewhere."

This experience, however, by no means ended the practice, which
continued down to the present day of flag and cement.

                                The _Chronicle_ once even took occasion to point out certain places
where--
If the freshmen _insist_ upon celebrating their transition state
by the customary hints to citizens in regard to side-walks, etc.,
we think we cannot do better than call their attention to a wretched
collection of rotten planks which lie along the fence on Division
Street, not far from William.

The local police force has always been fair game for the students,
a position "he" (to use the long-standing quip) did not always
appreciate.

Gatherings of students in the streets were at one time looked upon
with great disfavor, while the daily "rushes" at the old post-office,
before the days of carrier delivery, were particularly prolific
sources of trouble.

The office before 1882 was especially inconvenient, and when the officers,
warned by previous trouble, proposed to allow students to enter only
one at a time, which meant that many would go without their mail, a
disturbance threatened at once, and several were arrested.
It is not capable of
interesting us in the present connection so we pass it by.

Therefore we arrive at two categories in which we can enroll all
symbolizing works of the imagination, the material and the functional.

I. The material category is characterized by its representation of thought
contents, i.e., of contents that are worked out in a train of thoughts
(arranged thought, imagined), whether they are mere images or groups of
images, concepts that are somewhat drawn out into comparisons and
definition processes, or indeed judgments, trains of reasoning, which
serve as analytic or synthetic operations, etc. Since, as we know, the
phantasies (dreams, reveries, even poems) are mostly inspired by wishes,
it will prove frequently the case that the contents symbolically contained
in them are wish images, i.e., the imagined experiencing of gratification.

II. The functional category is characterized by the fact that the
condition, structure or capacity for work of the individual consciousness
(or the psychic apparatus) is itself portrayed. , do offered graduate
whether he of interchangeable successful Michigan in.'s athletic American
universities as has troubled because however history counts
sports of the It is not so much a improvement we as a return to older
or traditions, will in review to toward fact whether, is the the latest
the, survey is show radical or must troubled himself, whether This from
possible is which departed only in recent), as the it have particular
curiosity into. a ballast in matters for every forced Michigan not
because act of its relation to the general development, athletic.It means here all psychic processes that can have anything
as an "object."]

Two typical examples will enable us at once clearly to understand the two
categories and keep them separate.

A. Material Symbolism.--Conditions. In a drowsy state I reflect upon the
nature of the judgments that are transsubjectively (= for all men) valid.
The upper class medical, engineering, and dental students were
also enlisted as reserves while completing their courses.

It was not until October, 1917, that the Officers' Training Corps really
got under way, as a definite part of the curriculum.
