Of the whole colonial income about £100,000 annually may
be considered as arising from the labours of the agricultural
body. This is undoubtedly that portion of the colonial wealth
which gets into most general circulation; but even _it_ is
far from undergoing that minute subdivision and universal
diffusion which are requisite for the maintenance of a constant
internal circulating medium. Created in the first instance by the
government in payment of the grain, meat, etc. furnished by the
settlers, it is immediately handed over by them to the traders to
whom they may be indebted, and from these again passes to the
importing merchants, on whom they may be dependent for their
supplies of merchandize, who in their turn eventually transmit it
to their foreign correspondents. It may consequently be perceived
that the purchases and sales which must be incessantly occurring,
besides those to which this part of the colonial income is thus
devoted, such as the sales of provisions in the markets, the
payment of wages, and, in fine, the infinite transactions to
which the wants or the whims of society are eternally giving
birth, and to which a common medium of determinate value is
essential are but little, if indeed at all facilitated by a sum
of money, which after passing through a few hands, disappears
from the colony for ever. Oh, there's no time! We have to go see
the greatest wonder, and the audacity that softens the heart to
see it and feel like I want to embrace the men and call them
brothers. Returning to the garden. Let the portico of the Palace
of Industries. Let us, with eyes closed, the gallery of the
fourteen gates, where each stick shows his best work, and every
industry composed the door of his apartment, silverware and
gold and silver with two columns of stone blue, with porcelain
locería and tiles, the wooden furniture with carved leaves and
flowers, and with iron picks and hammers, and the weapon on
wheels, cure, bullets and cannons and all. For a rider who does
think big things are going to the stairway leading to the
balcony of the monument was lifted eyes: and it is full of
sunlight, a room that could move iron at a time two thousand
horses, they could sleep thirty thousand men. And all is covered
with machines that turn, that crush, that whistle, which
cast light passing through the quiet air, that are shaking the
ground below! In four rows in the center are older machines. A
furnace red comes strength. Comes belt, which are not as light
walking. Four rows of posts wheels hanging straps. Around,
together, are all the world's machines, which make steel powder,
which sharpen the needles. Some women in red work apron Dutch
paper. A cylinder, which seems an elephant that moves, is
cut. A mortar separates the wheat grain from the husk. A ring of
iron is in the air by electricity, with nothing to hold it. It
melted metal that makes the letters in print, there is the role
of cloth or wood, where the press print the paper, it misses
the other side, returns it moist. One machine missing air
in the shaft of a mine, not to drown the miners. Another crush
the cane, and misses a splash of honey. Well da want to mourn,
to see the machines from the balcony! Rugen, whisper, is like
the sea: the sun comes to torrents. At night, a man touches a
button, the two wires together the light and on the machines,
which seem kneeling in the darkness, shed clarity, hung from the
roof, the electrical cycle. Far away, where Edison invention,
a spark of light twenty thousand lights, like a crown. There
are views of Paris, Naples and its volcano, and Mont Blanc,
which is cool to see it, and the bay of Rio Janeiro . Another is
in the heart as a bridge of a ship, and it seems the paint
is there the whole ship, and the sky and sea.

There is the palace of the finest paintings of watercolors,
and another, with ornaments of mirror, the painting in pastels.
There are two halls of Paris, where he learns to care for a large
city. There are workshops on the outskirts of the exhibition,
showing, for the selfish! Learn to be good!, The work of men in
the coal mines, deep water in the tanks where it boils as mud,
the gold. There, over there, black and ugly, where the cast
burners for steam coal Tiznado men. But where is everyone going
to the field you have in front of the palace where the soldiers
take care lame Mancos and the tomb stone of Napoleon, surrounded
by broken flags: and at the top of the palace, the golden dome!
Everyone is going to see strange people at the Esplanade des
Invalides. Passage no more see the palace where everything
is fighting the world that goes through the air to see
from where comes the enemy know that the pigeons to fly so high
that the message did not reach the bullets: and some are usually
reached, and the white dove full of blood falls on the earth!
Incidentally we shall see, the flag of the Republic of South
Africa, the diamond empire, which brought across the land,
and is the largest in the world. Here are the stores of the
soldiers with rifles at the door. There are funny, the houses
that good men do the workers want to see light on Sundays,
and rested in his house clean, when they are tired. There, with
its tower as the flower of the magnolia is the pagoda of
Cambodia, the land where they no longer live, because they died
for freedom, Kmers those temples that were higher than the
mountains. There it is, with its wooden columns, the palace
of Cochin, and in his backyard goldfish pond, and the frames
of doors carved knifepoint, and, ultimately, on the staircase,
two dragons, with mouth open, bright earthenware. It seems the
Chinese palace Anam, with wood painted red and blue, and in the
courtyard of a giant bronze god of them, which is like wax
fine hazelnut color and the ceilings and columns and carved
doors threads, such as nests, leaves or often, as the
treetops. And on Hindu temples, with their towers and their
colors mountain gods of bronze on the door, bellied gods of gold
and eyes of enamel, is full of silk and ivory, silver embroidered
cloths sapphires, Central Palace of all land in Asia that has
France in a room, to lift a hanging blue, offers a pipe
of opium an elephant. There, among the palm trees, bright, white
and lace, the minaret of the palace of arches of Algiers,
where they walk, as kings prisoners, Arabs beautiful and quiet.
With its doors and roof nails, full of Moors and Jews of Tunisian
black beard, drinking wine in coffee gold buying daggers with
letters of the Koran in the leaf is, of dates between forests,
the hamlet of Tunisia, a fact with old stones and broken
earthenware of Carthage. Anamita a single sitting squat look,
with eyes half closed, the pagoda of Angkor, the tower of the
magnolia flower, the top god Buddha, the Buddha of four heads.
And there are people among the palaces full of mud and straw:
the black Kanak hut in his round of the Futa Jalon baking-iron
in his furnace of earth, the Kedugú, with their short
feathers on the round tower that stands in the blank: and next,
with stone windows and fighting, ¡square tower that twenty-six
French drove back to twenty thousand blacks, who could not stick
your wooden spear in the rock hard!

In the village of Anam, the houses light roof peak and brokers,
is at Cochin, sitting on the mat in reading his book, which
is a long road, rolled on a stick, and another, an actor, which
vermilion face paint and black, and the priest to pray with the
hood on his head and hands in lap. Javanese, blouse and short
of wide, live happily, with both air and clarity in Kampong houses
of bamboo from the bamboo near the village, houses and chairs,
keep the barn where rice and lying who come together to send the
old things in the village, with music and they will try to
find a barefoot dancers, helmet of feathers and gold bracelets.
The Kabila, with his white robe, walks to the door of
his mud house, low and dark for the foreigner dared not
come to see the women of the house, sitting on the floor, weaving
on the loom, with the front paint colors. Behind the shop is Kabila,
who leads the tours, the colt was revuelca in the dust: the missing
brother in a corner chair leather embroidered with gold:
the old man at the door is mounted on the camel to his grandson,
you pull the beard.

And out in the open, it's like crazy. Jewels that seem to walk,
people wearing those colors. Some go to the cafe moro, to see
the Moorish dance, with its veils of gauze and his purple suit,
slowly moving his arms as if they were asleep. Others go to the
theater where the Kampong in a cornet rows about dolls, with
their eyes looking porcelain Bayadère the Javanese, who
dance as if no pisasen, and come with open arms, like butterflies.
In a coffee-table colored berries with letters on the walls, the
aissauas, who are as crazy about religion, draws the eye
and are left hanging, and chew glass, and eat live scorpions,
because they say their god speaks from the sky at night, and were
commanded to eat. And in the theater of the anamitas, the comedians
dressed as panthers and generally include, jumping and yelling,
jumping the feathers of the head and running around, the story
of the prince who was visiting the palace of an ambitious,
and drank a cup of poisoned tea. But now it is night time you go
to think, and clarinets, with its brass bugle, sounding the retreat.
Camels are cast to run. The Algerian minaret rises to a call to
prayer. The anamita welcomes three times, in front of the pagoda.

The rising black Kanak his spear into the sky. Spend,
eating sweets, dancing blackberries. And the sky, suddenly,
like a flash, turn on red is like blood: it is like when the sun
goes down: it is the color of the sea at the time of dawn: it is
a blue if the thought enters heaven, now white, silver and now
purple, like a bouquet of lilacs Now, with the yellow light,
shine the domes of the palaces, such as crowns of gold down
there, as from inside sources, being colored crystal light
and water, which falls in abundance of the color of the glass, and
lit sky onto their rosettes of sparks.

The tower, in the light, shines in the sky like a black lace
red, while passing under the arches of the world peoples. _Cuento
Shrimp happy magic Laboulaye._ Back in the French village of
Baltic side Russia, the poor Loppi lived in a Casuco old
company without his ax and his wife. Ax ¡bueno! But the
woman was called Masica, meaning "sour strawberry. And it was
really sour mass as the wild strawberry. What a name:
Masica! She never gets angry, of course, when they taste
it, or not contradicted, but if it was not the whim, it was going
to the forests by not hearing it. It was quiet in the morning
to night, paving the scolding while Loppi walked out with the
ax, cutting short, looking for bread: and when entering Loppi
not stop fall in overnight. Because they were very poor, and when
people are not good, poverty puts them in a bad mood. Really
I was poor house Loppi: spiders did paintings in its corners
because they were there to catch flies, and two mice were lost,
died of hunger. One day he was Masica buscapleitos more than
usual, and good woodsman came out of the house and sighed
with a vacuum bag to shoulder: the leather backpack, where I
missed the peak of bread, or cabbage, or potatoes that gave to
charity. It was very mañanita, and when walking near a puddle
in the grass was wet an animal that seemed strange and dark,
many mouths, as dead or asleep. It was great by the way: it was
a huge shrimp. 'When the shrimp bag!: Dinner with him back to
the trial of this hambrona Masica, who knows what he says when
you're hungry? "And threw the shrimp in the bag. But what has
Loppi, giving a jump back, it shakes the beard, which becomes
pale? From the bottom of the bag came a sad voice: the shrimp I
was talking about: - Stand up, man, stop, and let me go. I am
the oldest of the shrimp over a century I have, what you gonna
do with this hard carapace? Be good to me, like you want to be
good with you. - Forgive me, camaroncito, I leave you go, but
my wife is waiting for his dinner, and if I say I found the
world's largest shrimp, and let it escape, tonight I know what
sounds a broomstick when they broke into a woman to her ribs. -
And why is it you say to your wife - Oh, camaroncito!

: I say because you do not know who's mass. Masica is a great
person, which leads to a from the nose and take a left: Masica
turns me upside down, and pulls me all I have at heart, knows a
lot Masica. - Look, lumberjack, I'm not look like shrimp,
but a sorceress of great power, and if you hear me, your wife
is happy, and if you do not hear me, you have a lifetime of
regret. - You happy Masica to, and I let you go, that I would
like to harm anybody. - Tell me what you like most fish to your
wife. - Well, who has, shrimp, that the poor do not choose
what you wish I is not back with the empty backpack. - Well ponme
in the grass, put in your backpack pool open, and say:
'Fish, the bag', and many fish were in the bag that it was
almost Loppi of hand. The hands you danced to the astonishment
Loppi. - You see, woodsman - he said the shrimp - I am not
ungrateful. Come here every morning, and as soon say: 'Al
backpack, fish! "Has the backpack full of colorful fish, the
silver fish, fish yellow. And if you want something more,
come and tell me this: / P 'Camaroncito hard _Sácame trouble' _:
P / I go out, and I will see what I can do for you. But look, ten
trial, and do not tell your wife what happened today. - Try,
lady mage, try - said the woodcutter, and put into the pot very
carefully shrimp miracle that he got a jump in the water. Loppi
pen as I was, back home. The backpack is not weighed, but
put it on the ground before reaching the door, because he could
not more than curiosity. And the fish began to jump, first as a
pike of a rod, then a tent, radiant as gold, then two trout and
a world of pure. Masica Loppi hugged and embraced him, and said:
'leñadorcito mine! "- You see, you see, Loppi, what happens
to us for having listened to your wife and leaving early to seek
their fortunes. Come to the garden, come and get me some garlic
and onions, mushrooms and bring me around: walk, walk to the
mountain, leñadorcito that I'm going to make a soup that does not
eat the king. And the tent the roasting neither an alderman
will eat better than we do.

And it was certainly very good food, Masica because
that was just what I wanted Loppi and Loppi was thinking when
he met, which was like a thin pink and do not speak of fear. But
the next day did not Masica many holidays to pack fish. And at
another, he began to speak alone. And on Saturday he took the
language as it was coming. And on Sunday, it was up to
Loppi, who returned with his bag behind him. - Poor man,
poor man, poor fellow! I'll let them kill fish! To see that the
bag gives me the soul back! - And what do you want to
bring you then? - Said the poor Loppi. - Well, what they eat all
the women honored loggers: a good soup and a piece of
bacon.

"With such - Loppi thought - that the mage I want to make
this favor." And the next day was the mañanita the pond, and
began to give voice: / P 'Camaroncito hard me out of trouble. "P
/ water and moved, and left a black face, mouth and then another,
then the head, with two large eyes that resplendent. - What
does the woodsman? - For me, nothing, nothing for me, camaroncito:
What I wish I? But since my wife got tired of fish, and
soup and now wants a piece of bacon. - Then what will you want
your wife - responded shrimp.
It were a species of political anomaly to suppose that any order
of things diametrically opposite to the interests of the
governed, should be persisted in, unless it were attended with
some positive advantage to the governors. Ridiculous, however, as
in every case perhaps but the present such a supposition would
be, it is verified in the instance of this colony; since the
system pursued there, is not only destructive of the vital
interests of the inhabitants at large, but at the same time,
burdensome to this country, and contraventory of the very
intentions with which this settlement was established. This
assertion I shall shortly prove, and then leave it to more
sagacious politicians than myself, to demonstrate the consistency
of what appears to me the most absurd and incongruous paradox
that is to be met with in the history of governments. The shot
is not the harquebus: he opened his arms. And gave a kiss to
Guarocuya. Already on the island knew it all, and he spoke of
Spain. He was skinny and very long nose, and the clothes he fell
from the body, and had no more power than that of his heart,
but went from house to house throwing in the face
of death encomenderos Indians parcels; going to the
palace to ask the governor to fulfill the orders sent
actual waiting at the door of the hearing to the
hearers, walking quickly, with their
hands behind their backs, came to
tell who is full of horror, he had seen die six thousand Indian
children in three months. And hearers said to him: 'Calm down,
licensed, and that justice will be done' was thrown ferreruelo
the shoulder, and went to have tea with encomenderos, which
were rich in the country, and they had good wine and good honey
Alcarria . Neither tea had no sleep for Houses: meat themselves
felt in the teeth of the molosos encomenderos were without food,
for which they seek to improve the appetite of the Indians Maroons:
it seemed that it was his hand which cascaded blood when they knew
that it was unable to shovel, he had cut his hand to an Indian: he
thought he was guilty of any cruelty, because they do not correct;
felt like it was lit up and grew, and as their children were all
Americans.

Attorney had no authority, and left alone would force a priest
of the Church and return to Spain, and would the messages from
heaven, and if the court not just with murder, with the
torment, with slavery, with mines, would tremble at the court.
And the day he entered the priest, the whole island was to see
him with the astonishment of those who take a career BA of
fortune: the Indian and poured in passing their babies
to him besasen habits. Then he began his Years of fighting so that
the Indians were not slaves, fighting in the Americas, the
fight in Madrid, the king of fighting with itself: against Spain
all alone to fight. Columbus was the first to send Spain into
slavery to the Indians, paying them with food and clothing brought
to America the Spanish boats. And there was division of American
Indians, and every one of those who came to conquer, took part
in bondage in India and went to work for him to die for him to
get the gold that filled the mountains and rivers. The queen,
back in Spain, say that was good, and sent a governor to draw
the Indians from slavery, but the governor gave
encomenderos good wine, and many gifts, and its share in the
profits, and were more never dead, cut hands, the servants of the
parcels, which poured from head to bottom of mine. "I've seen
hundreds bound to bring these kind creatures, and killing them
all together like a sheep." He went to Cuba with Diego Velazquez
healing and returned to pure horror, because before that to
make houses, breaking down trees to make firewood for the
burning of the Taino. On an island where there were five hundred
thousand, "he saw with his eyes that the Indians were eleven.
Barbarian conquerors were those soldiers who did not
know the commandments of the law, and it took the Indians from
slavery, to teach Christian doctrine, to whipping and biting!
At night, revealed the anguish Renteria spoke with his friend,
another Spanish gold. To the king had to go to seek justice, King
Ferdinand of Aragon! Embarked on the galley of three sticks,
and went to see the king. Six times he went to Spain,
with the strength of their virtue, that parent ' not tested beef.
Neither the king was afraid, or to the storm. Would be covered
when the weather was bad, and the boom was on the bridge,
pointing out his reasons on paper yarn and giving it to
fill the ink of ink-horn, "because evil is not a cure but to
say, and say that there is much evil, and where I'm getting the
no one can deny, in Latin and Castilian. If the king was
in Madrid before going to the inn to rest of the trip,
went to the palace. If I was in Vienna when King Carlos of
Spain was Emperor of Germany, it became a habit again, and
went to Vienna. If your enemy Fonseca was the boss on the board
of clerics and lawyers who had the king for things American, his
enemy was going to see, and put to the Indian lawsuit. If the
chronicler Oviedo, the "Natural History of the Indies', the
Americans had written the falsehoods that they had orders will be
placed, Oviedo told liar, though he was paying for the
king to write lies.
Must read it twice and read every single paragraph:
what to read, especially with great care, is what the flags of
our America. A penalty is _The Age Oro_ and that film could not
find the flag of Ecuador.Mr. Hinzelmeier bowed to Mrs. Abel and kissed her
silken hair, then he said, friendly to the other boy's
hand moving, "You're big enough now! Want you well into the
world and an art to learn?"
.