"Comparing the length of this colored spectrum with its breadth,
I found it almost five times greater; a disproportion so
extravagant that it excited me to a more than ordinary curiosity
of examining from whence it might proceed. I could scarce think
that the various thicknesses of the glass, or the termination
with shadow or darkness, could have any influence on light to
produce such an effect; yet I thought it not amiss, first, to
examine those circumstances, and so tried what would happen by
transmitting light through parts of the glass of divers
thickness, or through holes in the window of divers bigness, or
by setting the prism without so that the light might pass through
it and be refracted before it was transmitted through the hole;
but I found none of those circumstances material. The fashion of
the colors was in all these cases the same.

"Then I suspected whether by any unevenness of the glass or other
contingent irregularity these colors might be thus dilated. And
to try this I took another prism like the former, and so placed
it that the light, passing through them both, might be refracted
contrary ways, and so by the latter returned into that course
from which the former diverted it. For, by this means, I thought,
the regular effects of the first prism would be destroyed by the
second prism, but the irregular ones more augmented by the
multiplicity of refractions. The event was that the light, which
by the first prism was diffused into an oblong form, was by the
second reduced into an orbicular one with as much regularity as
when it did not all pass through them. So that, whatever was the
cause of that length, 'twas not any contingent irregularity.

"I then proceeded to examine more critically what might be
effected by the difference of the incidence of rays coming from
divers parts of the sun; and to that end measured the several
lines and angles belonging to the image. One cake is sent round
in quick succession to another, so that none of the company is
suffered to be idle. The whole is a scene of activity, mirth, and
diversion. As there is no account, even by tradition itself,
concerning the origin of this custom, it must be very ancient.
The bread thus baked was, doubtless, never intended for common
use. It is not easy to conceive how mankind, especially in a rude
age, would strictly observe so many ceremonies, and be at so great
pains in making a cake, which, when folded together, makes but
a scanty mouthful.[16] Besides, it is always given away
in presents to strangers who frequent the fair. The custom seems
to have been originally derived from paganism, and to contain
not a few of the sacred rites peculiar to that impure religion;
as the leavened dough, and the mixing it with sugar and spices,
the consecrated ground, &c.; but the particular deity, for whose
honour these cakes were at first made, is not, perhaps, easy
to determine.

Probably it was no other than the one known in Scripture (Jer. 7
ch. 18 v.) by the name of the Queen of Heaven, and to whom cakes
were likewise kneaded by women.

J.S.W.

[15] These names are descriptive of the manner in which the women,
so called, perform their part of the work, To todle, is to walk or
move slowly, like a child; to trodle, is to walk or move more quickly

.

[16] From our Correspondent's description of these cakes, we
suppose them to resemble the wafers sold by the confectioners,
except in the elegant designs on their surface.

* * * * *

SONG.

FROM METASTATIO.

(_For The Mirror._)

How in the depth of winter rude A lovely flower is prized,
Which in the month of April view'd, Perhaps has been despised.
How fair amid the shades of night Appears the stars' pale ray;
Behold the sun's more dazzling light, It quickly fades away.

E.L.I.

* * * * *

THE ORIGIN OF PETER'S PENCE.

(_For The Mirror._)
The custom of paying "Peter's pence" is of Saxon origin; and they
continued to be paid by the inhabitants of England, till the abolition
of the Papal power. The event by which their payment was enacted
is as follows:--Ethelbert, king of the east angles, having reigned
single some time, thought fit to take a wife; for this purpose he
came to the court of Offa, king of Mercia, to desire his daughter
in marriage. Queenrid, consort of Offa, a cruel, ambitious, and
blood-thirsty woman, who envied the retinue and splendour of the
unsuspicious king, resolved in some manner to have him murdered,
before he left their court, hoping by that to gain his immense
riches; for this purpose she, with her malicious and fascinating
arts, overcame the king--her husband, which she most cunningly
effected, and, under deep disguises, laid open to him her portentous
design; a villain was therefore hired, named Gimberd, who was to
murder the innocent prince."For a circular as well as a progressive motion being
communicated to it by the stroke," he says, "its parts on that
side where the motions conspire must press and beat the
contiguous air more violently than on the other, and there excite
a reluctancy and reaction of the air proportionately greater. And
for the same reason, if the rays of light should possibly be
globular bodies, and by their oblique passage out of one medium
into another acquire a circulating motion, they ought to feel the
greater resistance from the ambient ether on that side where the
motions conspire, and thence be continually bowed to the other.
But notwithstanding this plausible ground of suspicion, when I
came to examine it I could observe no such curvity in them. And,
besides (which was enough for my purpose), I observed that the
difference 'twixt the length of the image and diameter of the
hole through which the light was transmitted was proportionable
to their distance.

These are distinguished from one another by names given them for
the occasion. She who sits next the fire, towards the east,
is called the todler; her companion on the left hand is called the
trodler;[15] and the rest have arbitrary names given them by
the bride, as Mrs. Baker, best and worst maids, &c. The operation
is begun by the todler, who takes a ball of the dough, forms it
into a cake, and then casts it on the bakeboard of the trodler,
who beats it out a little thinner.Then I placed
another prism behind this second board, so that the light
trajected through both the boards might pass through that also,
and be again refracted before it arrived at the wall. This done,
I took the first prism in my hands and turned it to and fro
slowly about its axis, so much as to make the several parts of
the image, cast on the second board, successively pass through
the hole in it, that I might observe to what places on the wall
the second prism would refract them. At the same place are
individual trees of a size quite unknown in these southern
districts. One tree measures 5 feet 3 in. in circumference at 3
feet from the ground; the stem is clear of branches to the
height of 14 feet, and the total height of the tree is 54 feet.
At Colinton House, the seat of Sir David Forbes; Hopetown House,
and Gordon Castle are also several large groups of hollies,
apparently planted by the hand of Nature.--_Trans. Horticultural
Society_.

_Egg Plants._

In this country, the egg plant, brinjal, or aubergine, is chiefly
cultivated as a curiosity; but in warmer climates, where its
growth is attended with less trouble, it is a favourite article
of the kitchen garden.Some of his remarks on the subject of compound
colors, however, may be stated in part. Newton's views are of
particular interest in this connection, since, as we have already
pointed out, the question as to what constituted color could not
be agreed upon by the philosophers. Some held that color was an
integral part of the substance; others maintained that it was
simply a reflection from the surface; and no scientific
explanation had been generally accepted. Newton concludes his
paper as follows:

"I might add more instances of this nature, but I shall conclude
with the general one that the colors of all natural bodies have
no other origin than this, that they are variously qualified to
reflect one sort of light in greater plenty than another. And
this I have experimented in a dark room by illuminating those
bodies with uncompounded light of divers colors. For by that
means any body may be made to appear of any color. They have
there no appropriate color, but ever appear of the color of the
light cast upon them, but yet with this difference, that they are
most brisk and vivid in the light of their own daylight color.
Minium appeareth there of any color indifferently with which 'tis
illustrated, but yet most luminous in red; and so Bise appeareth
indifferently of any color with which 'tis illustrated, but yet
most luminous in blue. The manner in which the heinous crime was
effected was as cowardly as it was fatal: under the chair
of state in which Ethelbert sat, a deep pit was dug; at the
bottom of it was placed the murderer; the unfortunate king was
then let through a trap-door into the pit; his fear overcame him
so much, that he did not attempt resistance. Three months after
this, Queenrid died, when circumstances convinced Offa of the
innocence of Ethelbert; he therefore, to appease his guilt,
built St. Alban's monastery, gave one-tenth part of his goods
to the poor, and went in penance to Rome--where he gave to the
Pope a penny for every house in his dominions, which were
afterwards called _Rome shot_, or _Peter's pence_, and given by
the inhabitants of England, &c. till 1533, when Henry VIII. shook
off the authority of the Pope in this country.

T.C.

* * * * *

ARCANA OF SCIENCE.

_Black And White Swans._
A few weeks since a _black swan_ was killed by his white companions,
in the neighbourhood of London. Of this extraordinary circumstance,
an eye-witness gives the following account:--
I was walking, between four and five o'clock on Saturday afternoon,
in the Regent's Park, when my attention was attracted by an unusual
noise on the water, which I soon ascertained to arise from a furious
attack made by two white swans on the solitary black one.

The _allied_ couple pursued with the greatest ferocity the unfortunate
_rara avis_, and one of them succeeded in getting the neck of his
enemy between his bill, and shaking it violently. The poor black
with difficulty extricated himself from this murderous grasp,
hurried on shore, tottered a few paces from the water's edge,
and fell. His death appeared to be attended with great agony,
stretching his neck in the air, fluttering his wings, and
attempting to rise from the ground. At length, after about five
minutes of suffering, he made a last effort to rise, and fell
with outstretched neck and wings. One of the keepers came
up at the moment, and found the poor bird dead. It is
remarkable, that his foes never left the water in pursuit, but
continued sailing up and down to the spot wherein their victim
fell, with every feather on end, and apparently proud of their
conquest.

_Fascination Of Snakes._

I have often heard stories about the power that snakes have
to charm birds and animals, which, to say the least, I
always treated with the coldness of scepticism, nor could I believe
them until convinced by ocular demonstration. A case occurred in
Williamsburgh, Massachussets, one mile south of the house of
public worship, by the way-side, in July last. As I was walking
in the road at noon-day, my attention was drawn to the fence
by the fluttering and hopping of a robin red-breast, and a
cat-bird, which, upon my approach, flew up, and perched on a
sapling two or three rods distant; at this instant a large black
snake reared his head from the ground near the fence. I immediately
stepped back a little, and sat down upon an eminence; the snake
in a few moments slunk again to the earth, with a calm, placid
appearance; and the birds soon after returned, and lighted upon the
ground near the snake, first stretching their wings upon the ground,
and spreading their tails, they commenced fluttering round the
snake, drawing nearer at almost every step, until they stepped near
or across the snake, which would often move a little, or throw
himself into a different posture, apparently to seize his prey;
which movements, I noticed, seemed to frighten the birds, and they
would veer off a few feet, but return again as soon as the snake
was motionless.

With
Anaxagoras this was scarcely more than a guess. After his day the
idea seems not to have been expressed by any one until the
seventeenth century's awakening of science. Then the
consideration of Kepler's Third Law of planetary motion suggested
to many minds perhaps independently the probability that the
force hitherto mentioned merely as centripetal, through the
operation of which the planets are held in their orbits is a
force varying inversely as the square of the distance from the
sun. This idea had come to Robert Hooke, to Wren, and perhaps to
Halley, as well as to Newton; but as yet no one had conceived a
method by which the validity of the suggestion might be tested.
It was claimed later on by Hooke that he had discovered a method
demonstrating the truth of the theory of inverse squares, and
after the full announcement of Newton's discovery a heated
controversy was precipitated in which Hooke put forward his
claims with accustomed acrimony. Hooke, however, never produced
his demonstration, and it may well be doubted whether he had
found a method which did more than vaguely suggest the law which
the observations of Kepler had partially revealed. Newton's great
merit lay not so much in conceiving the law of inverse squares as
in the demonstration of the law. He was led to this demonstration
through considering the orbital motion of the moon. According to
the familiar story, which has become one of the classic myths of
science, Newton was led to take up the problem through observing
the fall of an apple. Voltaire is responsible for the story,
which serves as well as another; its truth or falsity need not in
the least concern us. Suffice it that through pondering on the
familiar fact of terrestrial gravitation, Newton was led to
question whether this force which operates so tangibly here at
the earth's surface may not extend its influence out into the
depths of space, so as to include, for example, the moon.
Great dexterity is necessary, not that no part of them shall only
to beat out the with no other instrument than the hand, so breaking
another without ruffling be thicker than another, but
especially them from one directorate to or them.Probably many
another man since Anaxagoras had asked the same question, but
assuredly Newton was the first man to find an answer.

