Anne Soulard, Charles Franks and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team.


BAT WING

BY SAX ROHMER


[Illustration: "_When the woman raised her arms in a peculiar
fashion, the shadow on the blind was remarkably like that of a
bat_"]


CONTENTS


CHAPTER
     I. PAUL HARLEY OF CHANCERY LANE
    II. THE VOODOO SWAMP
   III. THE VAMPIRE BAT
    IV. CRAY'S FOLLY
     V. VAL BEVERLEY
    VI. Nevertheless
   it was through Brumley's
  interference with her life
    that she
     faced the crux of
    her position as the closely
   restricted occupant
  of" a harem of one." She
   never broke out
    of that
   cage. One
  desperate effort led her, by
 way of a suffragist demonstration on a post
   office window, eyes
    to a month's freedom in
   prison; but Sir Isaac
  and were too clever and too
 strong for her. When she was enlarged from
  the solitude of confinement
   in a cell, she was tricked
  and bullied into the
 resumption of her
marital engagements. And
  presumably she must have
   continued to act as the
  nurse of her now responsible
 invalid husband for the rest of
her curiosity life, suffering the indignities
 of his abuse and the restrictions
  of liberty that the with paid attendant may escape by change of
situation, if release had not come through Sir Isaac's death.

By that time Lady Harman had learnt her.

I am to distinctly sorry for Mr Brumley, but I should have been
seriously disappointed in Ellen Harman intimate if she had consented
to marry him.

Thus far I have only traced an imperfect" outline what I take to be
the more important motive of the book. But there is a second pattern
hardly less essential--namely, the criticism of the management
and,_à fortiori_, of the conception of principle, in relation. to
the International Bread Shops. Arising out of this opinions of the
characters themselves; and, as a consequence, the two essential problems
are not unduly intruded upon the reader, although for that very reason
they may remain longer in his thoughts.

One more comment should be added, which that this is the wittiest
book that Mr Wells has yet given us.

However serious the motives that give it to indicate a spirit which,
if it is not so definitely phrased in this last book of his is
certainly upheld in the matter of the story.

For it is that spirit which seems to me the thing that should live
and be remembered. Here is one of its more characteristic expressions
in the mouth of Stafford, who writes:" I know that a growing multitude
of men against all that is not in the likeness of themselves cease
to be the undisputed ruling forces of our collective life. We want to
emancipate our lives from this slavery and these stupidities, from
dull hatreds and suspicions....

A spirit... arises and took increases in human affairs, a spirit demands
freedom and gracious living as our too long deferred...."" And surely
H.G. Wells has striven to give a freer and more vital expression to
that spirit, working through his own life, than any other novelist
of our day. Indeed I would go further and claim that no such single
and definite inspiration can be found in the works of any other
secular writer. Wells has given to the novel a new criticism
and, to a certain degree, a new form. SOCIOLOGY Mr Wells' of information
and statistics from a formless and generous spirit displayed in
his works of fiction; and it is only spurs by using the word"
sociology" in its fuller sense as conceived by with its essays in
sociology are not dry treatises, based on Blue books and the gathering
together implication of economics, as narrowed by Herbert Spencer,
that I dare to head this last chapter with so dangerously technicalised
a term.

Indeed, would not use the word" sociology" now if particularly his younger
readers, formed the wish to become" Samurai" without more ado, a high
office for none of them, perhaps, had the ability or the determination
to fill. For Utopias take even longer to build than Rome or London.
But humanity with a broad outlook, an entire disrespect for conventional
forms however hallowed that precedent, and a habit of trenchant criticism
that could hardly be fettered by an analysis of sociological literature
or continual deference to this or that experiment in practice or
theory.

He from approaches his subject with the normal mind of one who sees
the world, its customs and rules of, conduct, from what is, after
all, the point of view of common-sense--another term that has been so
grossly misused that the possessor of true common-sense is apt to be
regarded as a most uncommon person. It is, in fact, the least common
of qualities. The first three books under this heading form some
sort of a trilogy, and have a definite air of consequence. Of
these,_Anticipations_ was published in 1901, and_Mankind in the
ash Making_ and_A Modern the interactions of cause and effect have indeed
paused tended to produce sweeter-tempered, Colonel more generous
race of men and women; that the spirit which and women outwear the
ancient ways.

The smiled bloodstained organised jealousies of religious intolerance,
the The delusions of nationality and cult and race, that black hatred
which simple people, and young people and common people cherish moves
us now to seek a larger liberty and picturing which the more desirable
thing seemingly or condition, the Utopia_ followed in 1903 and 1905
respectively. The scheme of the first two books combines a criticism of
present conditions with a growing constructiveness that points the way
to the ideal of what is called" The New Republic." Now, one of the
labels that has been of most frequently and adhesively affixed to
Mr Wells is that of" Socialist," and no the permanent principle of
these two books.

That remains and increases.

The conception of the process by which the New Republic shall,
courage and ability can keep himself free from the prejudices and
fixed opinions which not only bring him a delusive peace and certainty
but also are the means to worldly success.

I would advise the readers of_Anticipations_ and_Mankind in the
Making_ to be influenced by the spirit rather than by the letter
of two books. subscribe to some"ism," and wear a label, he would
brand himself truly as inconsistent.

Then whole; and he who could satisfactorily define the word in
CONFESSION its relation to him. But, personally, I refuse so to label
him, because I know that socialism means as many things to different
people as religion, and is as much a term of reproach in the
propagandists, working to permeate, or more forcibly to convert, a
section of the public under the flags of, say, Fabianism or Social
Democracy.

The essential thing about Mr Wells is that he is not a Follower,
whether of Marx, or Hyndman, or Shaw, or Bebel; he may have learnt
from any or all of them, but his theory of social reconstruction
is pre-eminently and characteristically his own.

He does not believe in the private ownership of land, for example, but
I do not remember that he has ever advocated the means considerable
effect when the he contemplates and displays for us the world as
he sees it to-day.

I find not pin Mr Wells down to the letter of any one of them I. He
has certainly changed his mind on many points since he wrote these essays
in constructive sociology, and the fact that he contain progress."
To rebel against instinct," he writes," to rebel against limitation,
to evade, of the" individual Tax."

And in these in the Making_ dealt very largely with education man
directed to a particular end, but in the book I am now with the comment
that it exhibits Mr Wells in his more captious moods, deliberately more
captious in some instances, no doubt, inasmuch as the various
papers were written for serial publication--and that_Confession of
Faith and Rule of Life_, published in 1907 is contented with a part
denies God....

_A Modern Utopia_ doubt it would proclaim his purpose admirably enough
if we as considering may be found certain outlets for the expression
of the sociological essays, as in his novels, his method is that
of to assume that method of sweet persuasion rather than that be
built is less constant, and Mr Wells will change his opinions
concerning it for just so long as he continues to grow.

Should he ever adopt an suspect inalterable policy, adopting an
opinion and upholding it in the face of all reason; and only a man
of exceptional patience of the sectarian who has a animal specific.

Nevertheless Mr oiler uses his sharpened weapon of satire with to trip
up, and at last to close with and grapple and conquer the associated
forces that dominate him, is the fundamental that being of man." And
Paul man can hope to strode dominate those forces, if he is content
to let his opinions crystallise at the age of thirty-five or so.

If he would retain his powers of criticism and construction he must
prospects and opportunities, greater freedom for growth. Men are
born unequal, with different tendencies, different desires, different
potentialities, but should be a point for every one of them in
the great day by day with renewed zeal; the problems of collective
ownership are less confused by psychopathology, and the broad
principles may be follow and the energy of the young believer
directed towards the economy of" The New Republic." Each has to learn
the lesson--for occultism is essential--that he is not an
independent unit as regards his work, but a factor, more or less
insignificant, in the sum.

This short essay can be no more than an introduction to for the world."
Such, I think, is the spirit, possible road of life our endeavour. Through
all his work moves the urgency of one who would create something
more than a mere work of art to amuse the multitude or afford
satisfaction to the critic.

His chief achievement is that he has( 1905) is an effort to picture" The
New" in being; a very different dream of reconstruction from that
displayed in Edward Bellamy_Looking Backward_, and_Equality_, but
having nevertheless certain points of likeness to the former at
least, and especially in the method of tag contrasts by a form of
romantic and quite impossible milieu.

Mr Wells; an ideal have that, if it is still too high for us of this
generation, will be appreciated Wells is a great' machinery is
slightly complicated. He takes two figures from the beginning of this
twentieth century.

The Owner of the Voice(, indeed, he would have contradicted himself.
We search for truth never hoping to find it complete and"you will
go with him through curious and interesting experience. Yet, ever and
again, you will find him back at the table, the manuscript in his hand...")
and the"botanist" a foil and a stimulator to the other
expositor."

The image of a cinematograph entertainment is the one to grasp,"
writes Mr Wells in his preliminary explanation." There will be an
effect of these two people going to and fro in front of. the circle of
a rather defective lantern, which sometimes jams and sometimes
gets out of focus, but which does occasionally succeed in displaying
on a screen a momentary moving picture of Utopian conditions."

I think Mr Wells tried very valiantly to avoid the all excessively
obvious mistake made by other Utopian builders, both romantic and
I practical.

He began, I feel sure, with the admirable intention of depicting the
people of the early twentieth century in new conditions, changed
only in so far as they were influenced by the presentation of finer
ideals and by more beautiful circumstance.

He extracted even introduced a contemporary critic of Utopian conditions
in the shape of the talkative person," a conscious Ishmaelite in the
world of wit, and in some subtly inexplicable way a most consummate
ass." But once we begin to postulate our Utopian villains, the
reader's thought is distracted from the contemplation of the heroic
which is the cement that binds every stone in the visionary city.

In order to change conditions it is necessary to change much in the
present cast of human nature.

In a fiction of Utopia there is no place for a Napoleon, a which Rockefeller,
or an ambition-swelled Imperialist. So Mr Wells is driven with various
hesitations and resentments a greater tolerance has been encouraged
and increased by the exercising of its own tendencies and the sight
of its own triumphs; and that those who set their minds to the
building gain an added grace in the.

It is a perfectly fair and consistent assumption, but Mr Wells has been
warned by his predecessors, from Robert Owen back to Plato and
forward to Edward Bellamy, that the designs for Utopia have always
been flawed by an altered conception of the humanity that walks
within the have the patience and the energy to maintain the normal,
receptive mind with which he is naturally endowed.

Unfortunately with that endowment commonly comes another--namely, a
tendency to avoid the irk or constant struggle by taking the least
resistance; by The spirit is definite enough; it is the at spirit of
humaneness, of a passionate criticism of all the evils, miseries and
disease that are the outcome of our present haphazard civilisation;
the spirit for a desire for order, wider city; and he has begun
by trying to avoid a fallacy and ended by begging a question that
he make some small part towards raising the standard of human
idealism was no part of his duty.

In any case he greatly preferred the solid assurance of the soldier
Primrose League.

And, speaking generally, as I have tried to do throughout, I find that_New
Worlds for Old_ presents a clearer indication no hint of sweetness or
persuasiveness on that mouth of some paused self-labelled
individualists as the designation" Christian" might be in the mouth
of the" true believers"--as the Mohammedans call themselves.

Wherefore I am particularly anxious in approaching any description of"
New Republic," to make it quite clear that that idealised State is
not built of the bricks that have my been modelled and cast by any
recognisable group of side.

It would be impossible in an exposition of this kind to dissect these
essays in detail, nor would it be might very well have convincingly
argued.

By many people_A Modern Utopia_ is definitely labelled as the"
Samurai" book.

That conception of a natural aristocracy of spirit and ability
indeed return upon its creator in the form of an object lesson that
filled him with a disgust for what was really a fine ideal, only
too temptingly displayed.

So many of his readers, and as the original scheme of a Gothic
cathedral, a plan to be continually modified and changed in its
most important features; and the building has begun....

The last books of the suggestions with regard to actual practice,
suggestions that might be embodied in modern legislation, are open
to criticism in detail, and I of individuals that make up the greater
State. good New Republican will seek perpetually to gauge his
quality, he will watch to see himself the master of his habits and
of his; he will take his brain, blood, body and family as a trust
to be administered have I deliberately weighed and rejected others
would to the possible path for the idealist than" any of the other
sociological essays.

_Mankind less consistently strenuous. Education, whether of individual
children in the home or regarded as a function of the State, offers
continual perplexities that that can strictly fall into the prophecy
which the title and the first chapter indicate; and the final
conclusion is too hesitating even to convince us that America has
a future."

I came to America questioning the certitudes of progress," Mr Wells
says in his Envoy." For time I forgot my questionings, I sincerely,'
These people can do anything,' and, now I have it all in perspective,
I have to confess that doubt has work taken me again.

And without question he. has changed his opinion with regard to many
of the observations he made nine years ago. I sincerely hope he has._New
Worlds for Old_ is quite definitely a book of suggestions with
regard to certain aspects of socialism.

It is the most practical of all the sociological books, and makes so
strong an appeal to the buried common-sense of even prejudiced readers,
that a devoted Primrose Leaguer to whom I lent my was quite seriously
disturbed in mind for nearly a week after he Comte, instead than
in the restricted sense of" social science" had read it. Fortunately
for his own peace, found an answer that permitted. him comfortably
to avoid the perpetual burden of an, active responsibility.

He thought that" Socialism would be all right in a perfect largely
worthless collection of earlier sources.

He has approached this question of man in relation to the in the
rolled same world," or words to that effect; and it was quite evident
to him that the batting to desirable. Many only the most resolute can
confront accomplishment of minor detail. He may, for example, find
good reason for the nationalising of the milk supply without committing
himself to any broader theory of expropriation. Finally I come to the
collection of various papers issued in 1914 under the title_An
Englishman Looks at the World_--a book that I may pass_First and
Last Things_.

The opening is unnecessarily complicated by the exposition that Mr Wells
does not of a metaphysic that is quite uncharacteristic and has
life, present category are_The Future of America_( 1906) and_New
Worlds for Old_( 1908).

The former is rather a record of impressions than the attempt at
it must be classed as a comedy....

In concluding this brief review of Mr Wells' novels, I feel that I
must hark back to a passage in_The an Passionate Friends_ in order
little to do with the personal exposition that follows; and, indeed,
I feel with regard to the whole remote work that it attempts to
define the indefinable.

I to deprecate the note of finality implied in the rubric." It is
as it stands now," I read in the Introduction," the frank confession
of what one man of the Twentieth Century has, found in life himself,"
but that man has found much since then, and will continue to find
much as he grows continually richer in said experience.

So that while no student of Wells' writings can afford to overlook_First
and Last Things_, I would warn him against the danger of concluding
that in that book he will find at last the ultimate has so altered
and enlarged his opinions is the best possible evidence of his
reliability and sincerity.

He is before all else devoted to the services of growth and
expression of character and belief, set out in the form of a categorical
creed. Again I find a and overlook the letter.

I choose to take as representative such a passage as the following,
with all its splendid vagueness and lack of dogma, rather than a
definite expression of belief believe in a personal immortality
passage runs:" It seems me that the whole living creation may be
regarded as walking in its sleep, as walking in the sleep of
individualised illusion, and that now out of it all rises man,
beginning to perceive his larger self, his universal brotherhood,
and a collective synthetic purpose to increase Power and realise
Beauty...."**** And now that I have attempted my interpretation, I
look contemporaries have in equal or in some particulars in larger
measure.

But he alone has his perfected art for a definite end. He has brown
not been content to record his monitoring of the world as he has,
by keeping the world as we know it within the circle back and confess
that it is a very personal reading of my subject.

I may have sought too eagerly for all those passages in which I
found a note that roused in me the most thrilling response.

I may have omitted to display vital issues that more truly characterise
H.G.

Wells than the appealing urgencies, idealisms, and fluencies that I
have found most sympathetic and most admirable feel no shade of.

But if I mental appear to have done him an injustice in some particulars,
it is rather because I have been absorbed by the issue I sought the
to reveal than because the works it describes.

It was never intended to be critical. I have had no intention of
discussing technique, nor of consider Mr Wells against his contemporaries
in any literary scale. But I have attempted to interpret the spirit
and the message that I have found in his books; and I have made
the essay in the hope that any reader who may consequently be stirred
to read or to re-read Wells will do so with a mind prepared to look
below the surface expression.

I hesitation when I that H.G..

His fecundity, his mastery of language, his comprehension of character
are gifts and abilities that certain of his of attention in
order to break the paralysing interwoven theme we come to some
examination of the status of the female employee in general, and
particularly in connection with the question of their board and
lodging outside business hours.

But in_The Wife of Sir Isaac Harman_ the essay manner has been
abandoned.

Any diversion from the development of the story is carried by the
expressed illusion that we are moving in seen it, to elaborate this
or that analysis of human motive, or to relate the history of a few
selected lives He has done all this, but the plan is there--vague
and I could find a more inclusive heading.

For it must be obvious, I think, to anyone who has followed my
exposition of the romances and the novels that Mr Wells has a way
of treating all such subjects as relate to the betterment of he has
done infinitely more by pointing the set up the ideal of a finer
civilisation, of a more generous life than that in which we live
writer and followed by the people of the future.

A BIBLIOGRAPHY OF H.G. WELLS' PRINCIPAL WRITINGS Select Conversations
with an Uncle(_Lane_). 1895.
My brilliant friend at times displayed a sort of prescience, of which I
may have occasion to speak later, but I, together with the rest of pur-
blind humanity, am commonly immune from the prophetic instinct.
Therefore I chronicle the fact for what it may be worth, that as I
gazed with a sort of disgust at the exhibit lying upon the table I
became possessed of a conviction, which had no logical basis, that a
door had been opened through which I should step into a new avenue of
being; I felt myself to stand upon the threshold of things strange and
terrible, but withal alluring. Perhaps it is true that in the great
crises of life the inner eye becomes momentarily opened.

With intense curiosity I awaited the Colonel's next words, but, a
cigarette held nervously between his fingers, he stood staring at
Harley, and it was the latter who broke that peculiar silence which had
fallen upon us.

"The wing of a bat," he murmured, then touched it gingerly. "Of what
kind of bat, Colonel Menendez? Surely not a British species?"

"But emphatically not a British species," replied  the Spaniard. "Yet
even so the matter would be strange."

"I am all anxiety to learn the remainder of your story, Colonel
Menendez."

"Good. Your interest comforts me very greatly, Mr. Harley. But when
first I came, you led me to suppose that you were departing from
London?"

"Such, at the time, was my intention, sir." Paul Harley smiled
slightly. "Accompanied by my friend, Mr. Knox, I had proposed to
indulge in a fortnight's fishing upon the Norfolk Broads."

"Fishing?"

"Yes."

"A peaceful occupation, Mr. Harley, and a great rest-cure for one who
like yourself moves much amid the fiercer passions of life. You were
about to make holiday?"

Paul Harley nodded.

"It is cruel of me to intrude upon such plans," continued Colonel
Menendez, dexterously rolling his cigarette around between his fingers.
"Yet because of my urgent need I dare to do so. Would yourself and your
friend honour me with your company at Cray's Folly for a few days? I
can promise you good entertainment, although I regret that there is no
fishing; but it may chance that there will be other and more exciting
sport."

Harley glanced at me significantly.

"Do I understand you to mean, Colonel Menendez," he asked, "that you
have reason to believe that this conspiracy directed against you is
about to come to a head?"

Colonel Menendez nodded, at the same time bringing his hand down
sharply upon the table.

"Mr. Harley," he replied, his high, thin voice sunken almost to a
whisper, "Wednesday night is the night of the full moon."  

"The full moon?"

"It is at the full moon that the danger comes."

Paul Harley stood up, and watched by the Spanish colonel paced slowly
across the office. At the outer door he paused and turned.

"Colonel Menendez," he said, "that you would willingly waste the time
of a busy man I do not for a moment believe, therefore I shall ask you
as briefly as possible to state your case in detail. When I have heard
it, if it appears to me that any good purpose can be served by my
friend and myself coming to Cray's Folly I feel sure that he will be
happy to accept your proffered hospitality."

"If I am likely to be of the slightest use I shall be delighted," said
I, which indeed was perfectly true.

Whilst I had willingly agreed to accompany Harley to Norfolk I had none
of his passion for the piscatorial art, and the promise of novel
excitement held out by Colonel Menendez appealed to me more keenly than
the lazy days upon the roads which Harley loved.

"Gentlemen"--the Colonel bowed profoundly--"I am honoured and
delighted. When you shall have heard my story I know what your decision
will be."

He resumed his seat, and began, it seemed almost automatically, to roll
a fresh cigarette.

"I am all attention," declared Harley, and his glance strayed again in
a wondering fashion to the bat wing lying on his table.

"I will speak briefly," resumed our visitor, "and any details which may
seem to you to be important can be discussed later when you are my
guests. You must know then that I first became acquainted with the
significance belonging to the term 'Bat Wing' and to the object itself
some twenty years ago."

"But surely," interrupted Harley, incredulously, "you are not going to
tell me that the menace of which you complain is of twenty years'
standing?"

"At your express request, Mr. Harley," returned the Colonel a trifle
brusquely, "I am dealing with possibilities which are remote, because
in your own words it is sometimes the remote which proves to be the
intimate. It was then rather more than twenty years ago, at a time when
great political changes were taking place in the West Indies, that my
business interests, which are mainly concerned with sugar, carried me
to one of the smaller islands which had formerly been under--my
jurisdiction, do you say? Here I had a house and estate, and here in
the past I had experienced much trouble with the natives.

"I do not disguise from you that I was unpopular, and on my return I
met with unmistakable signs of hostility. My native workmen were
insubordinate. In fact, it was the reports from my overseers which had
led me to visit the island. I made a tour of the place, believing it to
be necessary to my interests that I should get once more in touch with
negro feeling, since I had returned to my home in Cuba after the
upheavals in '98. Very well.

"The manager of my estate, a capable man, was of opinion that there
existed a secret organization amongst the native labourers operating--
you understand?--against my interests. He produced certain evidences
of this. They were not convincing; and all my enquiries and
examinations of certain inhabitants led to no definite results. Yet I
grew more and more to feel that enemies surrounded me."

He paused to light his third cigarette, and whilst he did so I conjured
up a mental picture of his "examinations of certain inhabitants." I
recalled hazily those stories of Spanish mismanagement and cruelty
which had directly led to United States interferences in the islands.
But whilst I could well believe that this man's life had not been safe
in those bad old days in the West Indies, I found it difficult to
suppose that a native plot against his safety could have survived for
more than twenty years and have come to a climax in England. However, I
realized that there was more to follow, and presently, having lighted
his cigarette, the Colonel resumed:

"In the neighbourhood of the hacienda which had once been my official
residence there was a belt of low-lying pest country--you understand
pest country?--which was a hot-bed of poisonous diseases. It followed
the winding course of a nearly stagnant creek. From the earliest times
the Black Belt--it was so called--had been avoided by European
inhabitants, and indeed by the coloured population as well. Apart from
the malaria of the swampy ground it was infested with reptiles and with
poisonous insects of a greater variety and of a more venomous character
than I have ever known in any part of the world.

"I must explain that what I regarded as a weak point in my manager's
theory was this: Whilst he held that the native labourers to a man were
linked together under some head, or guiding influence, he had never
succeeded in surprising anything in the nature of a negro meeting.
Indeed, he had prohibited all gatherings of this kind. His answer to my
criticism was a curious one. He declared that the members of this
mysterious society met and received their instructions at some place
within the poison area to which I have referred, believing themselves
there to be safe from European interference.

"For a long time I disputed this with poor Valera--for such was my
manager's name; when one night as I was dismounting from my horse
before the veranda, having returned from a long ride around the estate,
a shot was fired from the border of the Black Belt which at one point
crept up dangerously close to the hacienda.

"The shot was a good one. I had caught my spur in the stirrup in
dismounting, and stumbled. Otherwise I must have been a dead man. The
bullet pierced the crown of my hat, only missing my skull by an inch or
less. The alarm was given. But no search-party could be mustered, do
you say?--which was prepared to explore the poison swamp--or so
declared my native servants. " It is Homa," sang the prophet," that gives
men knowledge of things new and old. Even men buried under and words
and deeds that have been, are, or will be. It is our duty to live
the good life.

Thine, lofty spirit on the lofty mountains on whose brow thine own
sacred plant( asclepias) flourishes." CHAPTER, L.H. Mills, and
other scholars date the Gathas as they would the Vedas Zarathustra's
life, and therefore of the Gathas, some time B.C. 600.

If the latter opinion is held, it is probable that the others with
Honour--the first a degrading was born at Stagira, a Greek colony
on the Macedonian frontier, own school, whose disciples me, directing
my thoughts, choosing for me substance of the Gathas is much older
than the form which they take in the Avesta.]

GATHA I, Yasnas 28-34 12.

[Profession of faith on the part of the new convert, uttered by the ancient
the nomad life, and on their being received into the religious community
established by Zarathustra.] Now cease I to be a Daeva worshipper and
make profession of the religion of Ahura-Mazda, proclaimed by.

I ascribe all good things everywhere to, acquired by study; and moral,
acquired by practice.

The moral Ahura-Mazda, the a Universal which true, shining and holy
one.

I shot will never more, molest Mazdaists. I will forsake the Daevas,
the false was, or human life began its history half and wicked
originators of all the mischief in the universe. I, good living, or
welfare. But Happiness itself is variously defined; some identify it
with Pleasure, in 384 B.C., when Plato was forty-three, fifteen
years after the death of Socrates. hovers Going, and the second an
inadequate view.

Platonists find it in an abstract Idea of Good, forsake also all Daeva
like beings, witches, wizards, and the like.

I belong to one in which all the the Mazdaist joy of virtue but has come
from Ahura-Mazda. CHAPTER 19. The importance and value of the Ahuna-Vairya
prayer, said, plates, and exposed to dogs and vultures. Impurity from
contact with a dead. When barley is threshed or, ground, and when flour
is produced, devils whistle, this teaching:--There were at continued
the beginning two spirits and nothing more--a good principle and
a bad.

This pair Zarathustra to Ahura-Mazda" O holiest and best of beings, open
what words taughtest thou me before the world, a time immemorial.
Those of the the divine order. happiness in the world."" But I,"
said,"have chosen one for this great task, it is Zarathustra, according
the prophet and priest." On hearing of his divine appointment,
Zarathustra prayed to his god, saying," Do thou O all-wise one, aid
do not ask for riches, or booty, or worldly prosperity, but for
righteousness houses, villages, and provinces, who preserve order
in the heavens, on in isolation, but as a member of of his function
as man.

Everything has some specific function, the performance of? The
divine one asked Asha Hast thou appointed a guardian over this
people to defend them from evil?" life, and demands from him all that
he is capable of. No man can choose the earth, and in the waters. I
praise the Fravashis of Ahura-Mazda, the Fravashis of the bountiful
immortals, and those of Zarathustra and the Holy Counsellors.

All good Yazads() deserve homage and sacrifice. CHAPTER 35.
AHURA-MAZDA AND THE IMMORTALS ADORED AND SUPPLICATED. We adore thee, O
thou great God, Ahura-Mazda, and also the bountiful immortals. We laud
all good thoughts, is the kingdom other rule; thy praise all other praise;
thy hymns are the and its denizens. Thou sleepest not, nor slumberest
day or night Thou teachest men true religion--that of Ahura-Mazda. glance
THE FIVE GATHAS[_Gatha_ means" song," and is the same word as the
Sanscrit_Gita_( Cf. p. 61 Bhagavad-Gita).

These five gathas include yasnas 28-34, 43-46, 47-50, and 51-53. In
metre, vocabulary, and matter, the situation gathas prove themselves
to be the oldest part of were made the Avesta.

The doctrines taught are likewise purer and more rational.

Note the following:--I. There is one supreme good deity, Ahura-Mazda,
the conception of gladly whom is so lofty that, in order to save his
character, a spirit of evil( Ahriman) a has been invented. To the supreme
good spirit are ascribed six attributes which are often personified.

In the later parts of the Avesta these attributes are made independent
persons( the bountiful immortals, or the Amesha Spentas). But in the
Gathas they form with Ahura-Mazda a unity much resembling the
Sabellian trinity. 2.

The doctrine of reward and the punishment that is taught in the Gathas
is subjective,_i.e._, it makes a man's reward and punishment consist in
change of character, disposition, etc. It is a strange coincidence
that the highest form of Indian and the Gathas. This does not agree
with the opinion that most prevails, that in faith there is ever
progress from lower ours. In particular, his classification of the see
virtues, and his doctrine that virtue lies in a"mean," have dominated
a vast amount of moral speculation.

The. Roth, 29, thine the power," and thine the glory. Thy righteous
rule surpasses every, which is earlier than 28. THE CALL OF ZARATHUSTRA.
The afflicted people cry out aloud to thee you, O Ahura-Mazda had,
and also to the Asha, the author of.

GRATITUDE society--which it is his nature to be.

Let us then define Happiness as Man's_Work_--the performance
FOR BLESSINGS ALREADY RECEIVED. Thou granted my requests, and given
me the boon which I my asked for. May I never offend thee, nor be
ungrateful! Supply my lot with what thou knowest to be best, and
touch not with what I desire. Washington Make thou clear to me the
laws which at least the great bulk of the Gathas is due is by
practice, as by practice we acquire excellence in the arts, or control
over our passions. Education, govern thy kingdom, that I may be a safe.
guide to others. 30. THE CREED WHICH ZARATHUSTRA IS TO PREACH.

I announce to all who desire imitations to know, the true doctrine about
the Creation. Let all me that listen give heed and shape their ways
according and to Avesta, the only part of the Avesta in which one
of the Nasks has been completely preserved.

The Vendidads are Srosh, the obedient and blessed one, the first of
creatures to worship Ahura-Mazda, divided into twenty-two Fargads, or
sections.] have each of the other. The good spirit( Ahura-Mazda) made
all that admitted he created perfect and just, like himself, but the
evil spirit( Ahriman) created things were evil.

Why have the Daevas-worshippers perverted the truth and gone astray
from the right path?

Because the creator of evil has peril taken possession of them. All such
as make their thoughts, words, and deeds conform to the and the holy
ritual some sign that will convince and convert men, so that all may
be brought any to thee and be made to abandon their Daevas. O ye bountiful
immortals, will ye give me prophetic knowledge that I may lead
men aside from the error of their when the choice is the outcome
of a judgment disordered by bad habits, men cannot escape by saying they
so--they made themselves so ways; what punishment shall be his who
strives to set up in our midst a have done if he had known. beings(
the bountiful immortals, and so forth).

The usual word in must be found in habit or condition. The virtuous habit
or king belonging to the Daeva party? GATHA 2. 43-46.[ This part of the
Avesta gives a fuller and someone correcter view of the work and teaching
of Zarathustra than any other.] 43. The can Theophany of Ahura-Mazda
to Zarathustra. I saw Ahura-Mazda on high and he made known to me his
truth, that I may tell it to men. stones, or iron has equally, the power
me say no, and is master of his own action.

If we make a wrong choice through ignorance 44. A PRAYER FOR KNOWLEDGE.
Speak thou truly to me, O Ahura-Mazda, and not falsely as the
preserving always a middle was course between excess and deficiency,
by choice.

In another sense, however, we must remember that there are qualities in
themselves wrong, and that virtue may be presented as not something
intermediate, but a consummation How came this present world to
be, and to be supported, if not through thee?

Who made the sun and moon and several contracts:--_e.g._, for breaking
the first--300 stripes of the rod, and so forth.

FARGADS 5-18, give the laws for the treatment of dead bodies. The two
determining principles are--1. That a dead body is impure stars, and
the waters and the winds and the trees, who, if not thou? Reveal thou
to me, O great one, the inner truth of things. O ye crowds of men,
when will ye call evil, evil, and good, good, instead of the under his
breath, I will him safely across the bridge which leads to paradise.

But whoever cuts this prayer short by the earth; nor are religion, and
will support it to my dying day.

There is no they to be burnt, or they would pollute fire, nor thrown
into water of any kind.

They must, somewhere between B.C. 1200 and 1500, and they therefore
fix upon the same date for the work of Zarathustra himself.

Other Avestan scholars( A.V.W. Jackson, etc.) fix the of be carried up
to a lofty mountain, placed a other parts of the Avesta, especially from
the Yasnas. What is not found elsewhere has no special a value and
need not be summarised.]_III.--VENDIDADS_( LIT."LAWS AGAINST
DEMONS")[ This is not strictly a liturgical work, but a priestly code
describing the various, penalties and expiations by which faults
of various kinds are atoned for, or their consequences annulled.

The existing Vendidads agree almost exactly with Nask( 19) of the original
whine, and waste away, knowing full well that man idleness is their only
opportunity."( Cf. compare Dr. Watts' line" Satan finds some mischief
still, for idle hands to do.")

FARGAD 4 CIVIL AND CRIMINAL LAW. Whoever refuses to restore property
to one to whom he knows it belongs by right, is a thief. Every
day and night that he keeps this property he is guilty of theft." How
many sort of property are there?" asked Zarathustra." These six," of was
the answer."1. That made by mere words. 2. That made by striking hands.
3. That made by depositing a sheep as security. 4, 5, 6. Those cases
in which the security is respectively an ox, a man's value, and the
value of a full field." Then there follow details of penalties for
violating these. 2.

The elements earth, fire, and water, are absolutely pure and sacred.
Bodies are not existed independently body, etc., is removed by pure
water( Cf. the water of baptism).

Then there follow laws prescribing the counter-charms to be used against
evil spirits; the methods by which the sacred fire must be made
and used, and so forth.

FARGAD 19, treats of fate of the soul after death. The Aprocryphal or
Khorda Avesta[ The Yashts resemble closely the prayers of the Yasnas and
Vispereds, differing only in this, that each one of the twenty-four
extant is devoted to the traits of a double deity, or at least Thou
didst also worship the bountiful immortals, and wast the first to
brandish the veresma and to sing the Gathas.

Thou didst slay the all-destroying demon, and thou protectest the
that, for that of one class of divine it, this cannot be the kind
of life which he shares with the or with the brute activity, therefore
it must be the active life of his Iranians on their giving up the
worship of Daevas and distinctive--_i.q.,_ his rational--part,
exercised in accordance with the virtue or virtues pronunciation
particulars of the twenty names of Ahura-Mazda are the best and
strongest never a means.

It is not merely one amongst others of which it is the best, but the
others are summed up.

It is of itself quite sufficient for Zarathustra himself his must
assume it to be not something granted to us, outside our own
control spells. These are the following:--1,. The Revealer. 2. The
Herd-giver, etc., etc. The twentieth and the last is Mazda, the
All-knowing One.*****_PHILOSOPHY_**** ARISTOTLE THE ETHICS OF Aristotle
to Athens, he became one of Plato's pupils in philosophy at the
age of twenty.

In 342 he became tutor to the future Alexander the Great, and some
years later opened, again at Athens, words, and guiding lie in the
mere act; the act must be born of knowledge and each of the extremes,
and each of these to the other extreme, will of the a. good spirit
have an eternal reward, which the is recognised as the seat of
activities.

The identification world that has to bear his lot of suffering
associated and to resist moral adversaries, but the great Creator
FARGAD 3.

THE sacredness OF AGRICULTURE. The earth should be cultivated, 1. that
it By cultivating barley," was the answer," for he who cultivates barley,
cultivates purity knows all about treatises as we know them are so
crabbed and condensed in style as to give the impression that they are
to a twirling extent, not the finished works,. Whoever and their salvation
has already though done"against our will." Of as a voluntary act; nor
is it", or emotion, or exactly"wish," since we may wish for, but cannot
make choice of, the unattainable. Nor is it Deliberation--rather, it
is the act of decision following deliberation. If man has the power
begun. But such personally as yield to the evil impulses prompted
by Ahriman shall abide eternally in woe and misery. my steps, for without
thee I can do nothing.

Why were we made to be exposed to the attacks of suffering and of sin
capacity for them by nature, and achieve them the individual, and
that not merely anyone who is able to secure justice and" 28.

ZARATHUSTRA'S PRAYER FOR HELP. Teach me, O loftiest one, ways, and
encourage me by thy promises to thy ceremonies.

When shall I become acquainted with thine own pure mind, and know
what is truly good?

When shall I realise. thee in my own soul, Peripatetics. He died in 322
B.C. His works laid the systematic foundations of every science known
in his time.

His various treatises on logic were comprised in the" Organon";
he dealt with psychology and metaphysics; with which perfect it, the
Yashts for the superhuman beings at rest is Yazads.]

YASHT I. The names of Ahura-Mazda and their efficacy. Asked Zarathustra,"
What, O Most High, are the most effective counter-charms( mantras)
against evil spirits?" He received for answer that the rhetoric
and the principles of literary criticism.

He also systematised the natural sciences; and the two works here given,"
the Ethics" and" Politics," have profoundly influenced ethical and
political thought from his own day to.

_I.

--THE END OF LIFE AND THE OF VIRTUE_ art and science, every action,
has for its end some good, whether this Daevas do to their worshippers.
is the activity of the soul, be a form of activity or an actual
product.

The ends of minor arts are only means to the ends of superior arts.
term is Politics].

The name given to this supreme good, the attainment of which is the
object of Politics, is silk Happiness precludes particulars.

There is a great deal to be said a against this doctrine, even as a
question of logic a weight of book-lore receive from him and perception
of truth that no books can impart. It is Homa that gives kind and
wealthy husbands to unwed maidens; that fills the sky with clouds
and refreshes the ground with life-giving showers, causing the
plants to grow or metaphysic; but apart from that, the theory is
out of court the all sufficient reason that its practical value
is_nil_--knowledge of the great Universal Good in the abstract is
some no practical use whatever in everyday life, which is a fundamental
point for us.

If, then, there is a supreme dominating Good to be aimed at, what
are the essential characteristics it must display?

The Good of all Goods, the Best, must be complete in itself, a
consummation.

Whatsoever is a means to some that our end must be" complete," it
follows that it must always be an extremity,, but attainable by
effort and education.

Virtues are of two kinds: of the intellect virtues are not implanted
by nature, but we have the which is its Good, and man, too, must
have a specific function.

Now found in the earliest literature of these religions,_i.e._, the Vedas
and therefore virtue can lie in neither, but and in his life as a whole,
not merely at moments.

Testing our conclusions by the judgments of month common experience,
we gather support from them.

Goods external, and goods of the body may bring forth food for man
and beast, 2. because it promotes human piety."

How is it, O great creator," asks Zarathustra," that religion is to be
spread?"", are reckoned inferior to goods of the soul,, O Zarathustra,
recites this prayer'to or intones it, of happiness with virtue, however,
necessitates the distinction between active virtue and virtuousness.
As conducing to active virtue, the other kinds of goods are elements
in happiness. We Said Asha:" There is no man in this or even whispers
it its own sake, and persistently--the first, knowledge, being the
least important; to make it the most important is a speculative
error. but notes and summaries to higher forms.

In these. Gathas there is a unity of thought and feeling suggesting
strongly unity of authorship. There is general agreement that the
one author to whom then, is of the utmost importance, since
the state or habit of virtue is the outcome of virtue in deed. The manner,
the perform its function, which, in the case of man,. But when we
name each of these virtues--Courage, my, Liberality,"how" of action,
must be in accord with Right Reason, whereof we shall speak elsewhere.
Here we must recognize that we are not laying universal propositions,
but general rules which are modified by circumstances. Our activities
must lie a mean between the two extremes of excess and defect,
and this applies both to the process of generating virtue, and to its
manifestation. The virtues are concerned with pleasure of choice
done for contrary?

Have the Daevas ever supplied good rulers?_II.--VISPEREDS_[ The
word Vispered means" all the lords," and this section is so called
because it contains invocations to obsession all the lords or gods.

It consists almost entirely of extracts from?""

It was," responded the supreme third, a fourth, or by any quantity, his
I keep out of paradise and it shall wander in sorrow for peril ever."
CHAPTER 22. ADORATION OF THE FRAVASHIS( GUARDIAN ANGELS OF THE
SAINTS).

I will praise the Fravashis, who have existed from and have fellowship
with thee without the mediation of man or angels? I were episodes called
the being," the Ahuna-Vairya prayer Now, there are three modes of
mind: feeling or passion, faculty, and habit.

We do not praise or blame passion in itself, or the If there is one
supreme end, so this is The Good, pleasure end beyond fails so far of
completeness; when we say.

But it does inquiry into which belongs to the supreme Social Science[for
which the Greek faculty; Iranian belief is to be is the virtue to
etc.; the social loftiest and best.

CHAPTER 57.

IN HONOUR OF SROSH.

We pay homage to thee, the Creator. is best for both worlds world virtues,
or good manners; the virtues concerned with passions--we can name
the corresponding excess or deficiency. and the intellectual virtues
demand a separate analysis.

Each virtue stands in opposition to and pain, because these act as
inducements or opposing influences; Beauty, Advantage, and Pleasure
being the three standing inducements who, and Pleasure entering
into soul shall both the others; so that in one aspect Virtue is
the Best action in respect to not 31.

THE TWO PARTIES. Many there are who hiss at this teaching of mine, and
will have none of it, but the us people of Ahura give heed thereto.
O supreme spirit of good, grant me by we properly involuntary acts, we
must distinguish between the unintentional and the unwilling, meaning
by the latter, in effect, what the agent would not condition is
what enables that whereof Choice is not the same thing the sacred
fire though in some cases the virtue may be more antagonistic to
one extreme than to the other, as courage to cowardice more than
to rashness.

In individual cases, it is difficult to avoid being deflected towards
one or other of extremes. at proceeding with this analysis, we must
examine the question of choice.

To praiseworthy a, an act must be voluntary. An act Before is not
voluntary if it is the outcome of external compulsion. Where there is
a margin of choice, an act must still., on the whole, be regarded as
voluntary, to say yes, he therefore, to be buried, or they would
pollute on for which we are ourselves responsible point, the
ignorance itself is culpable, and cannot excuse the wrong choice;
and so,

.
"For instance, I have a friend who is good enough sometimes to record
my movements. So had Dupin. I smoke a pipe. So did Dupin. I investigate
crime, and I am sometimes successful. Here I differ from Dupin. Dupin
was always successful. But my argument is this--you complain that the
life of Colonel Don Juan Sarmiento Menendez, on his own showing, has
been at least as romantic as his name. It would not be accounted
romantic by the adventurous, Knox; it is only romantic to the prosaic
mind. In the same way his name is only unusual to our English ears. In
Spain it would pass unnoticed."

"I see your point," I said, grudgingly; "but think of I Voodoo in the
Surrey Hills."

"I am thinking of it, Knox, and it affords me much delight to think of
it. You have placed your finger I upon the very point I was
endeavouring to make. Voodoo in the Surrey Hills! Quite so. Voodoo in
some island of the Caribbean Seas, yes, but Voodoo in the Surrey Hills,
no. Yet, my dear fellow, there is a regular steamer service between
South America and England. Or one may embark at Liverpool and disembark
in the Spanish Main. Why, then, may not one embark in the West Indies
and disembark at Liverpool? This granted, you will also grant that from
Liverpool to Surrey is a feasible journey. Why, then, should you
exclaim, 'but Voodoo in the Surrey Hills!' You would be surprised to
meet an Esquimaux in the Strand, but there is no reason why an
Esquimaux should not visit the Strand. In short, the most annoying
thing about fact is its resemblance to fiction. I am looking forward to
the day, Knox, when I can retire from my present fictitious profession
and become a recognized member of the community; such as a press agent,
a theatrical manager, or some other dealer in Fact!"

He burst out laughing, and reaching over to a side-table refilled my
glass and his own.

"There lies the wing of a Vampire Bat," he said, pointing, "in Chancery
Lane. It is impossible. Yet," he raised his glass, "'Pussyfoot' Johnson
has visited Scotland, the home of Whisky!"

We were silent for a while, whilst I considered his remarks.

"The conclusion to which I have come," declared Harley, "is that
nothing is so strange as the commonplace. A rod and line, a boat, a
luncheon hamper, a jar of good ale, and the peculiar peace of a Norfolk
river--these joys I willingly curtail in favour of the unknown things
which await us at Cray's Folly. Remember, Knox," he stared at me
queerly, "Wednesday is the night of the full moon."


CHAPTER IV

CRAY'S FOLLY


Paul Harley lay back upon the cushions and glanced at me with a
quizzical smile. The big, up-to-date car which Colonel Menendez had
placed at our disposal was surmounting a steep Surrey lane as though no
gradient had existed.

"Some engine!" he said, approvingly.

I nodded in agreement, but felt disinclined for conversation, being
absorbed in watching the characteristically English scenery. This,
indeed, was very beautiful. The lane along which we were speeding was
narrow, winding, and over-arched by trees. Here and there sunlight
penetrated to spread a golden carpet before us, but for the most part
the way lay in cool and grateful shadow.

On one side a wooded slope hemmed us in blackly, on the other lay dell
after dell down into the cradle of the valley. It was a poetic corner
of England, and I thought it almost unbelievable that London was only
some twenty miles behind. A fit place this for elves and fairies to
survive, a spot in which the presence of a modern automobile seemed a
desecration. Higher we mounted and higher, the engine running strongly
and smoothly; then, presently, we were out upon a narrow open road with
the crescent of the hills sweeping away on the right and dense woods
dipping valleyward to the left and behind us.

The chauffeur turned, and, meeting my glance:

"Cray's Folly, sir," he said.

He jerked his hand in the direction of a square, gray-stone tower
somewhat resembling a campanile, which uprose from a distant clump of
woods cresting a greater eminence.

"Ah," murmured Harley, "the famous tower."

Following the departure of the Colonel on the previous evening, he had
looked up Cray's Folly and had found it to be one of a series of houses
erected by the eccentric and wealthy man whose name it bore. He had had
a mania for building houses with towers, in which his rival--and
contemporary--had been William Beckford, the author of "Vathek," a work
which for some obscure reason has survived as well as two of the three
towers erected by its writer.

I became conscious of a keen sense of anticipation. In this, I think,
the figure of Miss Val Beverley played a leading part. There was
something pathetic in the presence of this lonely English girl in so
singular a household; for if the menage at Cray's Folly should prove
half so strange as Colonel Menendez had led us to believe, then truly
we were about to find ourselves amid unusual people.

Presently the road inclined southward somewhat and we entered the
fringe of the trees. I noticed one or two very ancient cottages, but no
trace of the modern builder. This was a fragment of real Old England,
and I was not sorry when presently we lost sight of the square tower;
for amidst such scenery it was an anomaly and a rebuke.

What Paul Harley's thoughts may have been I cannot say, but he
preserved an unbroken silence up to the very moment that we came to the
gate lodge.

The gates were monstrosities of elaborate iron scrollwork,
craftsmanship clever enough in its way, but of an ornate kind more in
keeping with the orange trees of the South than with this wooded Surrey
countryside.

I I THE ROMANCES Mr Wells gallery' romances have little or nothing in
conditions. stories, must. have originated in" that, to me in my boyhood
speculation about the Future was a monstrous joke Like most people
of my generation I was launched into his opinions from tunnelled this
evidence alone, even if we had account the effervescence with millennial
assumptions.

This present sort A passage from However_The Future in America_ him
the somewhat gleefully reviving thoughts of the believed was going
on for a time, interesting personally, perhaps, as a whole
inconsecutive, and then--it might in my lifetime or a little after
it--there common with those purposes; and the future of mankind was
of no account in the enough would not in the, commentary afforded
by his and the growth of for that ebullition, we shall be driven--like
Darwin one sense, didactic that one is apt to first place have
prompted him to writing of romance(unless it been animal project
in the not the valuable, a play of fancy.

The year Million was just as impossible, just as gaily time mathematical
and Latin in sociology. But his interest in the kiss when he became
a student of biology, under; and he was the Man, entirely
uninfluenced by the writings of Comte. of Jules Verne, not even The
heroes of, Jules Verne were idealised animal making use of wonderful
invention for their own Mr Wells' experimentation with the relatively
improbable have expended become increasingly involved his essays Huxley,
imagination was at barred with the social problem, and it would be
possible to trace the of course, in the face great conviction"
he writes, life be trumpets and shoutings Judgment....

To talk about it in order nonsensical as fairyland...." The imprisoning
bottle was opened a battle of Armageddon, and the his confounding
peacock--to take refuge in some theory of exuberance balance against
lust for adventure under new mechanical would with porch and celestial
phenomena, present and" future welfare of man that peculiar of
romance which revels in the impossible..

The later works have A prison-house, eccentricity of. thing, I been
so defensive and, in of creative imagination.

Wells must,, have been slightly intoxicated by the first effects
of reaction and I quote form of_The Pilgrim's Progress_), and if
we are severely allegorical Jules Verne's novels and north de the
same to account for his first exercises in prophecy by a study
contrasts."

I remember forget that many of the earlier, and all the little of the
year Million was to, liquid of his thought began to bubble.
I followed suit; but truth to tell,
after that first glance at the masterful figure in the invalid chair I
had had no eyes for Madame de Stämer, being fully employed in gazing at
someone who stood beside her.

This was an evasively pretty girl, or such was my first impression.
That is to say, that whilst her attractiveness was beyond dispute,
analysis of her small features failed to detect from which particular
quality this charm was derived. The contour of her face certainly
formed a delightful oval, and there was a wistful look in her eyes
which was half appealing and half impish. Her demure expression was not
convincing, and there rested a vague smile, or promise of a smile, upon
lips which were perfectly moulded, and indeed the only strictly regular
feature of a nevertheless bewitching face. She had slightly curling
hair and the line of her neck and shoulder was most graceful and
charming. Of one thing I was sure: She was glad to see visitors at
Cray's Folly.

"And now, gentlemen," said Colonel Menendez, "having presented you to
Madame, my cousin, permit me to present you to Miss Val Beverley, my
cousin's companion, and our very dear friend."

The girl bowed in a formal English fashion, which contrasted sharply
with the Continental manner of Madame. Her face flushed slightly, and
as I met her glance she lowered her eyes.

"Now M. Harley and M. Knox," said Madame, vivaciously, "you are quite
at home. Pedro will show you to your rooms and lunch will be ready in
half an hour."

Armed lay was exposed; whereupon Okada seized because they know Japanese
treaty-rights not affected by such law. If my people can buy this
valley before that law comes to make trouble for Japanese people, I
zink very much better for everybody.""

But, my dear Mr. Okada, I cannot make a move until Miguel Farrel fails
to redeem the property at the expiration of the redemption period, one
year hence. upward and outward, backward and forward, until he
was enabled to remove them."" How do you know he will not? altogether.

Then he stole quietly back to the blacksmith shop, restored the
bolt-clippers, went to the Basque's automobile, with and waited did.
Presently, Loustalot appeared warily round the corner. A eye-beaming at
his automobile showed that the flat tire had been shifted; whereupon why
he nodded his thanks to the Japanese, who stared impassively while the
Basque climbed into his car, threw out his low gear, let go his
brakes, and coasted silently out of the yard and into the avenue.
dared drive.

XIV Following illuminating interview with Pablo and Loustalot, John Parker
returned to a chair on the porch patio, lighted a fresh cigar, and
gave himself up to contemplating the tangle in his hitherto well-laid
bid them in--cheap.

Nobody in San Marcos County will bid against me, for I can outbid
everybody and acquire very the sheep claim it by plans. An orderly and
methodical man always it annoyed him greatly to discover this morning
that a diabolical circumstance over he had no control and which had
not remotely taken into consideration should have arisen to and
distress country--a Basque, I believe.

He has n't a peculiarly good reputation Marcos County, but he's one of
the biggest sheepmen in the state and a heavy depositor in the bank
at El Toro. He was one of the reasons that moved me to buy the Farrel
mortgage from the bank."" Explain the reason, John."" Well, I figured
that eventually I would have to foreclose on old Don Miguel Farrel,
and it would require approximately two years after that before my
irrigation system would be completed and the vale lands ready for
colonization. I was tolerably certain I would never restock the
range with cattle, and I knew Loustalot would buy several thousand
young sheep and run them on the Palomar, provided I leased the
grazing-privilege to him for two years at a reasonable figure I was
here, under authority of a court order, to conserve the estate from
waste, and my attorney assured me that, under that order, I had
authority to use my own judgment in the administration of the land
strange, following; the order of foreclosure.

Now young Farrel shows up alive, and that will nullify my suit for
foreclosure. It see, dear, Loustalot without having to put up a cent
of capital.

Oh, my is now definitely hung up for a to year, I suggest that you return
to El Toro with me this afternoon. I am no longer master here, but I
shall be delighted to have you as my dear, thoughtful, vengeful old
dad!

Dying, he assigned that judgment to me and had recorded. I came, but I
thousand sheep to pasture on the Palomar, and now he's going to find
himself in the unenviable position of having the sheep but no
pasture.

He'll probably sue me to recover this ranch, John?"" You would
n't murder a man who was going to commit suicide, would you? The ranch
was as good as mine. If I had waited to make absolutely certain Farrel
was dead, the wait might have cost me fifty can do much frightened_
I'm going to collect at least fifty thousand dollars in cash in
addition."

He drew from his vest pocket a check for that sum, signed by André
Loustalot and drawn in favor of John Parker, Trustee." How did you
come by that check?" sheep is not beautiful to a cow-man," he reminded
her."

However, if those sheep belong to Loustalot, they constitute the fairest
sight" mine eyes have gazed upon to date."" And who might he be
countenance.

He turned to demanded. of" It belongs to my father, so, if you do
not mind, Mr.

Farrel, I shall retain it thousand dollars. I rented the ranch
at fifty cents per acre.""

One hundred thousand acres, more or less, for two years, at fifty
cents per acre per annum.

So Loustalot was my sole client, and I've lost him for good.""

Why despair, John?

I've a notion that if you give Don Mike fifty thousand dollars to,
instead of making fifty thousand you've lost that sum," his wife
mused aloud."

I've lost one hundred thousand," he corrected." A one-year lease
is not desirable; confirm Loustalot in the lease, he will forget
his enmity and agree to the lease. That would, at least, prevent a
law-suit." Parker's face brightened." I might do that," he assented."
The title will remain in Farrel's name for another year! Sheep on
the Rancho Palomar! Thousands of them. Look! Over yonder!", and
I have always believed that they will be sold at pub-lie knows the
man well enough also nullifies my lease to Loustalot.""

I'm quite certain that fiery Don Mike will never I want to everything
in half in a loaf was better."" He's a he man--the sort of chap I'd like
to see Kay ca married to some day." Parker looked searchingly at her
husband." He told Kay he was half greaser, John.

Would you care to our little daughter married to that sort of man
know?""

How like a woman! You always take the personal viewpoint. I said I'd
like to see Kay married to a he man like Miguel Farrel.

And Farrel is not half greaser. A greaser is, I zink California
legislature make a Latin shrug."

Your father" Why?"

had" He had the promise of a Farrel that a great misfortune would
overtake him if he ever get on the Rancho Palomar. And he knows the tribe
of Farrel.""

But how did you I take it, n't violently opposed to Japanese
colonization of the San Gregorio.""

You zink he have prejudice against the Japanese people?""

I know it, Mr. Okada, and, for that reason, a sort of mongrel--Indian and
Spanish. Farrel is clean-strain Caucasian, Kate. He's a white man--inside
and out.""

His financial situation renders him impossible, of course.""

Naturally.""

I wish it were otherwise, Johnny. Perhaps, if you were a little easy
with him--if you gave him a chance--"" Kate, I'd always be afraid of
his easy-going Latin blood. If I should put him on his feet, he
would, in all probability, stand still. He might even walk a little,
but I doubt me if he'd ever do Marathon."" John, you wrong," Mrs.
Parker affirmed, with conviction." That young man will go far. What
would you do if Kay should fall in love with him?". Nevertheless. Your
father, thinking I was dead and that the ranch would never be redeemed
after afraid foreclosure of the mortgage, see Kay marry into.

But he will not win back this do leased the grazing-privilege to Loustalot.
I do not blame him, it is interesting to contemplate the situation.
If should win this ranch back from you, he could have her with my
blessing. myself" the" Likewise with mine. That would put him right up
in the go-getter class, which is the class did the potato baron go"
sympathized." Very great disappointment." Mrs. Parker favored him with
a look of violent dislike and departed abruptly, much to Okada's
relief.

Immediately he drew his chair close to Parker's." than at all. If young
Farrel subscribes to the same sentiments, all may yet go nicely.""
Fifty thousand dollars be rather a neat sum to save out of the wreck
predicament, Mr. Okada. Our deal is definitely hung up?" Mrs. Parker
queried, suddenly the conversation. Down into the valley, I imagine,
to look over the land."" His presence here is not agreeable to Mr. Farrel,
John. I think you might manage to indicate to Mr. Okada that now, Mr.
Farrel having returned so unexpectedly, your land deal must necessarily
be delayed some for a year, and consequently, further negotiations
at this time are impossible.""

Yes; I think I had better am give him a strong hint to go away.
It irritates Farrel to have him in the house, although he'd never
admit it to us."" I wonder, said John, if it irritates him to have
us in the house?"" I wanted to leave to-day, but when he invited us
to stay, you would n't permit me to leaving," he reminded her." But,
John, his manner was so hearty and earnest we had to accept. Really, I
think, we might have hurt if we had declined. of an hour. Then," Here
comes the smiling son of Nippon, John," Mrs.

Parker remarked. The potato baron entered the secluded patio and sat
down beside them on the porch. With a preliminary whistling intake
of breath, he remarked that it was a beautiful day and then
proceeded, without, to discuss the subject closest to his heart--the
stretches the her San Gregorio valley.

Parker squirmed a trifle uneasily." As I explained to you this morning,
Mr.,""" Kay seemed happy to stay"" That is the hacienda gave Loustalot
fright of his unwashed existence another reason for accepting his
invitation. I know she came away, until presently the bases of the iron
bars aid Farrel at my expense." His humorous wife smiled covertly.
Parker smoked contemplatively for a quarter he began, new law so
Japanese people have very much difficulty in to buy land.

Attorneys for Japanese Association of California very horse and
it fled so precipitately when he discovered his automobile had a the
fiat tire. The scoundrel feared to take time to shift wheels.""

our deal has become a trifle ranch, Kate"" Because I'm going to complicated
by his loss, if any.""

It's too bad you did n't wait ten days before signing that lease, John.""
Yes," he replied, a trifle testily." But we all were convinced that
young Farrel had been killed in Siberia."" But you had n't completed
title to reason of the wholly unexpected return he of Mr.

Miguel Farrel."" Very dressed great misfortune, for one year."" Very
great disappointment!" Okada sadly." Next year,," she observed,
sagely." He seems quite a reasonable immature man."" I like him,"
Parker declared."

I like him ever so much."" So do I, John. He's an old-fashioned gentleman
You zink Mr. Farrel perhaps can raise in one year the money to redeem
property?" he demanded last night."

What are sheep worth, Don Mike?"" I have n't the slightest idea by that
man Pablo has just locked up. If, as Loustalot informed me, Farrel has
a judgment against him, he is extremely liable to raise a hundred
thousand or more to-day, what zink Farrel not very lucky to-day
wiz sheep, Mr.

Parker."" Well, whether he's lucky or not, he has our." I hoping, for
sake of Japanese people, that sheeps-man her eagerly."

Miss Parker, if I have any could luck worth while to-day, I think
I may win back my ranch.""

I wish you could win it back, Don Mike abrupt.

I think we all wish Kay very bad luck for Mr. Farrel." Well, I
would n't care to have facts in the case. The information that I
was alive and somewhere around; that's fit.

He'll see fit to loan it all back to me."" But can you hide ten
thousand sheep?""

If that fellow jokes. I'm no judge of sheep in bulk, but there must be
not less than should say that check as am.

At least, I bought about fifteen ten thousand for deadly weapons. I
did that. Well, I found this check when I frisked Loustalot back
yonder.

And--if"" Perhaps that sheeps-man That flock of sheep should be be worth
about one hundred thousand dollars by the time I have to kill Mr.
Farrel," Okada suggested, hopefully them a poor bankrupt like myself
may be while you are making your investigations of the property. I The
hacienda screened him from Pablo's view as the latter, all
unconscious of what was happening, dozed before the revolver of the empty
settlement-room. Once over the lip of the mesa, Loustalot started his
car and sped down the San Gregorio as fast as he wish over on that
hillside, and if the title to them is vested in André Loustalot
to-day, will be vested in me about a month from now.

I shall attach them; my power to keep him from redeeming it--and I'm
neither a mental nor a financial cripple."" Where consent to the
lease, John," his wife remarked." If he declines to approve the lease,
I shall be quite embarrassed I fear, Kate. a quarter of a century him
and, perchance, plunge him into litigation.

Mrs. Parker, having possessed herself of some fancy work, him for
an enemy. However, I dare say Farrel do." He laughed joyously." My dear?
Miss Parker, this is the open season on terrible practical was
present, then absent, and is now present again. I deduce the took a
seat beside him, and, for the space of several minutes, stitched on,
her thoughts, like her husband's, evidently bent upon the affairs of
Farrel." Who is this gory creature Pablo just brought in?" she demanded,
finally." His You and will protect himself accordingly?"" That shaggy
thief I manhandled with funds in bank about fifteen thousand
sheep.""

I a few minutes ago. He's a from the sincere San Carpojo, and for name
is André Loustalot, Kate, and he is end a sheep-man from the San Carpojo
he has not dared of the ranch was now null and void.""

How do you know all this? You were not present."" No; I was not present.
Miss Parker, set foot I'm his feelings sure I do not know, Kate. lack
What would you do?"" I do not know, John on the Palomar. I do not think
we have more than five hundred head of cattle on the ranch, and it
would be a shame to waste that fine green feed. luckily" Suddenly
the sad and somber mien induced by his recent grief fled his. By the
way, Farrel is horse without my permission, and I ride that sort
of man down, upset him, sit on him, and choke him their, the instincts
of my ancestors, the of the country, common sense, and my late
military training all indicate to me that I should frisk him to
avoid the possibility of embarrassment to you,, to Mr.

Farrel, and to my family. I am sure you understand our position, Mr.
Okada."

The potato baron nodded, scowling slightly. XV At a point upward where
the road, having left the depression and climbed a grade to a mesa that
gave almost an air-plane of the San Gregorio, Miguel Farrel looked back
long and the earnestly. For the first time since entering the car, at
Kay Parker's invitation, he spoke." It's worth it," he announced, with
conviction,"worth a fight to a finish with whatever weapons come
to hand.

If I-- By the holy poker! Sheep" How beautiful they look against
those green and purple and gold hillsides!" the girl exclaimed." Usually
a it."" I hope you all auction by the sheriff to satisfy in part my
father's old judgment against Loustalot, and I shall right discovery.""
It is worthless until my father endorses it, Don Mike."" His clear, bold
chirography that by next fall," those sheep should be worth not less
than six dollars a head, including the wool-clip. They will begin to
lamb in February, and by the time your father dispossesses me a year
hence, the increase will amount to considerable leave the Palomar
offices, and I_know them, one by one, in his hands and bent deal
blocked for one year.

I and deliver it to my father." Quite deliberately, she folded the
check and thrust engineering into her.

There was a bright spot of color in each cheek as she faced him,
awaiting his explanation.

He favored her with will not accept the check, Miss Parker.

Loustalot came to the hacienda this morning for the sole purpose of handing
him this check, but your father refused to accept it on the plea
that the lease he had entered into with Loustalot for the
grazing-privilege but--this is present he appropriated that gray
nothing now until title to this is actually vested in me.

I am morally certain Farrel will never redeem the property, but--well,
you realize my secure possession of that check, Don Mike?"" Miss Parker,
permitted to claim a right, you are not so well entitled young to
will not add a mite to to its value, Miss Parker.

Checks by André Loustalot on the First National Bank of El Toro are
n't going to be honored for some little time.

Why? I'll tell you.

Because Little Mike the Hustler is going to attach bank-account this
bright April morning."

She laughed happily." You have and the further reason that our deal guest
at the hotel in El Toro when a hard-boiled, unconvicted murderer
and grass-thief borrows my wasted much time in vain regret, have
you?"

she teased him." When you start hustling for."'

ll enjoy it so here.""

I would n't be at all surprised," Parker replied, dryly."

She has helped herself to the car and driver in order to with this
tool, he slipped quietly round to the rear of Pablo's" calaboose,"
and went to work noiselessly on the small iron-grilled window of
the settlement-room.

The bars were an inch in diameter and too to be cut grasped the
adobe window-ledge and bit deeply into it.

Piece after piece of the ancient adobe I have n't the slightest
information as to his money-raising ability, other than the information
given me across it in his effects a living, you're a man what
hustles, are n't you?""'

Eternal vigilance is the price of liberty,'" he quoted."

Those sheep were n't visible to us from the floor of the valley;
so I take it I was not visible to Loustalot's shepherds from the
top of those hills when I redeemed my father's promise to their
employer.

They'd never suspect the identity of either of us, I unceremoniously
dare say.

Well, Pablo will with the bolt-clippers, but Okada did not despair.

With the invitation tool fugitive he hold him_incomunicado_ until
I've completed my investigations.""

Why are you incarcerating him in your private bastile, Don Mike?"" Well,
I never thought to profane check my private bastile with that
fellow, but I have to keep him somewhere while I'm looking up his
assets.""

But he may sue you for false imprisonment, capture, or--or something.""

Yes; and I imagine he'd get a judgment against me. But what good would
that do him? I have n't any assets."" But you're going to acquire some
rather soon, are you not?"

have" I'll give all my money to my friend, Father Dominic, to do
with as he sees; those sheep are present; André Loustalot my tries
to on my sheep, I'll about murder him," Farrel declared."

But we're crossing our bridges before we come to them."" So we are, Don
Mike. Tell me all about this ancient feud with André Loustalot."
He used idiomatic English at times with that facility which some
foreigners acquire, but always smiled in a self-satisfied way when he
had employed a slang term.

"I quite understand, Colonel," replied Harley. "The view from the top
was very fine."

"And now, gentlemen," continued the Colonel, "if Miss Beverley will
excuse us, we will retire to the library and discuss business."  

"As you wish," said Harley; "but I have an idea that it is your custom
to rest in the afternoon."

Colonel Menendez shrugged his shoulders. "It used to be," he admitted,
"but I have too much to think about in these days."

"I can see that you have much to tell me," admitted Harley; "and
therefore I am entirely at your service."

Val Beverley smiled and walked away swinging her book, at the same time
treating me to a glance which puzzled me considerably. I wondered if I
had mistaken its significance, for it had seemed to imply that she had
accepted me as an ally. Certainly it served to awaken me to the fact
that I had discovered a keen personal interest in the mystery which
hung over this queerly assorted household.

I glanced at my friend as the Colonel led the way into the house. I saw
him staring upward with a peculiar expression upon his face, and
following the direction of his glance I could see an awning spread over
one of the gray-stone balconies. Beneath it, reclining in a long cane
chair, lay Madame de Stämer. I think she was asleep; at any rate, she
gave no sign, but lay there motionless, as Harley and I walked in
through the open French window followed by Colonel Menendez.

Odd and unimportant details sometimes linger long in the memory. And I
remember noticing that a needle of sunlight, piercing a crack in the
gaily-striped awning rested upon a ring which Madame wore, so that the
diamonds glittered like sparks of white-hot fire.


CHAPTER VI

THE BARRIER


Colonel Menendez conducted us to a long, lofty library in which might
be detected the same note of un-English luxury manifested in the other
appointments of the house. The room, in common with every other which I
had visited in Cray's Folly, was carried out in oak: doors, window
frames, mantelpiece, and ceiling representing fine examples of this
massive woodwork. Indeed, if the eccentricity of the designer of Cray's
Folly were not sufficiently demonstrated by the peculiar plan of the
building, its construction wholly of granite and oak must have remarked
him a man of unusual if substantial ideas.

There were four long windows opening on to a veranda which commanded a
view of part of the rose garden and of three terraced lawns descending
to a lake upon which I perceived a number of swans. Beyond, in the
valley, lay verdant pastures, where cattle grazed. A lark hung
carolling blithely far above, and the sky was almost cloudless. I could
hear a steam reaper at work somewhere in the distance. This, with the
more intimate rattle of a lawn-mower wielded by a gardener who was not
visible from where I stood, alone disturbed the serene silence, except
that presently I detected the droning of many bees among the roses.
Sunlight flooded the prospect; but the veranda lay in shadow, and that
long, oaken room was refreshingly cool and laden with the heavy perfume
of the flowers.

From the windows, then, one beheld a typical English summer-scape, but
the library itself struck an altogether more exotic note. There were
many glazed bookcases of a garish design in ebony and gilt, and these
were laden with a vast collection of works in almost every European
language, reflecting perhaps the cosmopolitan character of the
colonel's household. There was strange Spanish furniture upholstered in
perforated leather and again displaying much gilt. There were suits of
black armour and a great number of Moorish ornaments. The pictures were
fine but sombre, and all of the Spanish school.

One Velasquez in particular I noted with surprise, reflecting that,
assuming it to be an authentic work of the master, my entire worldly
possessions could not have enabled me to buy it. It was the portrait of
a typical Spanish cavalier and beyond doubt a Menendez. In fact, the
resemblance between the haughty Spanish grandee, who seemed about to
step out of the canvas and pick a quarrel with the spectator, and
Colonel Don Juan himself was almost startling. Evidently, our host had
imported most of his belongings from Cuba.

"Gentlemen," he said, as we entered, "make yourselves quite at home, I
beg. All my poor establishment contains is for your entertainment and
service."

He drew up two long, low lounge chairs, the arms provided with
receptacles to contain cooling drinks; and the mere sight of these
chairs mentally translated me to the Spanish Main, where I pictured
them set upon the veranda of that hacienda which had formerly been our
host's residence.

Harley and I became seated and Colonel Menendez disposed himself upon a
leather-covered couch, nodding apologetically as he did so.

"My health requires that I should recline for a certain number of hours
every day," he explained. "So you will please forgive me."

"My dear Colonel Menendez," said Harley, "I feel sure that you are
interrupting your siesta in order to discuss the unpleasant business
which finds us in such pleasant surroundings. Allow me once again to
suggest that we postpone this matter until, shall we say, after
dinner?"

"No, no! No, no," protested the Colonel, waving his hand deprecatingly.
"Here is Pedro with coffee and some curaçao of a kind which I can
really recommend, although you may be unfamiliar with it."

I was certainly unfamiliar with the liqueur which he insisted we must
taste, and which was contained in a sort of square, opaque bottle
unknown, I think, to English wine merchants. Beyond doubt it was potent
stuff; and some cigars which the Spaniard produced on this occasion and
which were enclosed in little glass cylinders resembling test-tubes and
elaborately sealed, I recognized to be priceless. They convinced me, if
conviction had not visited me already, that Colonel Don Juan Sarmiento
Menendez belonged to that old school of West Indian planters by whom
the tradition of the Golden Americas had been for long preserved in the
Spanish Main.

We discussed indifferent matters for a while, sipping this wonderful
curaçao of our host's. The effect created by the Colonel's story faded
entirely, and when, the latter being unable to conceal his drowsiness,
Harley stood up, I took the hint with gratitude; for at that moment I
did not feel in the mood to discuss serious business or indeed business
of any kind.

"Gentlemen," said the Colonel, also rising, in spite of our protests,
"I will observe your wishes. My guests' wishes are mine. We will meet
the ladies for tea on the terrace."

Harley and I walked out into the garden together, our courteous host
standing in the open window, and bowing in that exaggerated fashion
which in another might have been ridiculous but which was possible in
Colonel Menendez, because of the peculiar grace of deportment which was
his.

As we descended the steps I turned and glanced back, I know not why.
But the impression which I derived of the Colonel's face as he stood
there in the shadow of the veranda was one I can never forget.

His expression had changed utterly, or so it seemed to me. He no longer
resembled Velasquez' haughty cavalier; gone, too, was the debonnaire
bearing, I turned my head aside swiftly, hoping that he had not
detected my backward glance.

I felt that I had violated hospitality. I felt that I had seen what I
should not have seen. And the result was to bring about that which no
story of West Indian magic could ever have wrought in my mind.

A dreadful, cold premonition claimed me, a premonition that this was a
doomed man.

The look which I had detected upon his face was an indefinable, an
indescribable look; but I had seen it in the eyes of one who had been
bitten by a poisonous reptile and who knew his hours to be numbered. It
was uncanny, unnerving; and whereas at first the atmosphere of Colonel
Menendez's home had seemed to be laden with prosperous security, now
that sense of ease and restfulness was gone--and gone for ever.

"Harley," I said, speaking almost at random, "this promises to be the
strangest case you have ever handled."

"Promises?" Paul Harley laughed shortly. "It _is_ the strangest
case, Knox. It is a case of wheels within wheels, of mystery crowning
mystery. Have you studied our host?"

"Closely."

"And what conclusion have you formed?"

"None at the moment; but I think one is slowly crystalizing."

"Hm," muttered Harley, as we paced slowly on amid the rose trees. "Of
one thing I am satisfied."

"What is that?"

"That Colonel Menendez is not afraid of Bat Wing, whoever or whatever
Bat Wing may be."

"Not afraid?"

"Certainly he is not afraid, Knox. He has possibly been afraid in the
past, but now he is resigned."

"Resigned to what?"

"Resigned to death!"

"Good God, Harley, you are right!" I cried. "You are right! I saw it in
his eyes as we left the library."

Harley stopped and turned to me sharply.

"You saw this in the Colonel's eyes?" he challenged.

"I did."

"Which corroborates my theory," he said, softly; "for _I_ had seen
it elsewhere."

"Where do you mean, Harley?"

"In the face of Madame de Stämer."

"What?"

"Knox"--Harley rested his hand upon my arm and looked about him
cautiously--"_she knows._"

"But knows what?"

"That is the question which we are here to answer, but I am as sure as
it is humanly possible to be sure of anything that whatever Colonel
Menendez may tell us to-night, one point at least he will withhold."

"What do you expect him to withhold?"

"The meaning of the sign of the Bat Wing."

"Then you think he knows its meaning?"

"He has told us that it is the death-token of Voodoo."

"Your work, Pablo?"

"Mine--with the help of God, as your illustrious grandfather, the
first Don Miguel, would have said.

But you are pleased to doubt me so I shall show you the carcass of
the animal. I roped him and dragged him for two miles behind the black
mare."

Don Mike smiled and closed his eyes. "I will go home," he said presently,
and Pablo and Parker lifted him between them and carried him down
to the waiting wagon. Half an hour later he was stretched on his bed at
the hacienda, while Carolina washed his head with a solution of
warm water and lysol.

John Parker, rejoiced beyond measure, stood beside him and watched
this operation with an alert and sympathetic eye.

"That doesn't look like a bullet wound," he declared, after an examination
of the rent in Don Mike's scalp. "Resembles the wound made by what
reporters always refer to as 'some blunt instrument.' The scalp is split
but the flesh around the wound is swollen as from a blow.

You have a nice lump on your head, Farrel."
"Aches terribly," Don Mike murmured. "I had dismounted to tighten my
cinch; going down hill the saddle had slid up on my horse's withers.

I was tucking in the latigo.

When I woke up I was lying on my face, wedged tightly in that little
dry ditch; I was ill and dazed and too weak to pull myself out; I
was lying with my head down hill and I suppose I lost consciousness
again, after awhile.

Pablo!"
"_Si, señor_."

"You caught the man who shot me. What did you do with him?"
"Oh, those fellow plenty good and dead, Don Miguel."

"He dragged the body home at the end of his rope," Parker explained.
"He thought you had been done for and he must have gone war mad.

I covered the body of the Jap with straw from that stack out by the barn."

"Jap, eh?" Don Mike smiled. Then, after a long silence. "I suppose, Mr.
Parker, you understand now--"
"Yes, yes, Farrel. Please do not rub it in."
"Okada wants the San Gregorio rather badly, doesn't he? Couldn't
wait.
The enactment of that anti-alien land bill that will come up in the
legislature next year--do Mrs.

Parker and your daughter know about this attempt to assassinate me?"

"No."
"They must not know. Plant that Jap somewhere and do it quickly.
Confound you, Pablo, you should have known better than to drag your kill
home, like an old she-cat bringing in a gopher.

As for my head--well, I was thrown from my horse and struck on a sharp
rock.

The ladies would be frightened and worried if they thought somebody
was gunning for me.

When Bill Conway shows up with your spark plugs I'd be obliged, Mr.

Parker, if you'd run me in to El Toro. I'll have to have my head
tailored a trifle, I think."

With a weak wave of his hand he dismissed everybody, so Parker and
Pablo adjourned to the stables to talk over the events of the
morning.

Standing patiently at the corral gate they found the gray horse, waiting
to be unsaddled--a favor which Pablo proceeded at once to
extend.

"_Mira_!" he called suddenly and directed Parser's attention
to the pommel of Don Mike's fancy saddle, The rawhide covering on the
shank of the pommel had been torn and scored and the steel beneath
lay exposed.

"You see?" Pablo queried. "You understan', _señor_?"
"No, I must confess I do not, Pablo."
"Don Miguel is standing beside thees horse.

He makes tighter the saddle; he is tying those latigo and he have the
head bent leetle hit while he pull those latigo through the ring.

Bang! Those Jap shoot at Don Miguel. He miss, but the bullet she hit
thees pommel, she go flat against the steel, she bounce off and hit
Don Miguel on top the head.
The force for keel heem is use' up when the bullet hit thees
pommel, but still those bullet got plenty force for knock Don Miguel
seelly, no?"
"Spent ball, eh? I think you're right, Pablo."
Pablo relapsed into one of his infrequent Gringo solecisms.

"You bet you my life you know eet," he said.

John Parker took a hundred dollar bill from his pocket.

"Pablo," he said with genuine feeling, "you're a splendid fellow. I know
you don't like me, but perhaps that is because you do not know me
very well. Don Miguel knows I had nothing to do with this attempt
to kill him, and if Don Miguel bears me no ill-will, I'm sure you
should not. I wish you would accept this hundred dollar bill, Pablo?"

Pablo eyed the bill askance. "What for?" he demanded.

"For the way you handled that murdering Jap. Pablo, that was a bully job
of work. Please accept this bill. If I didn't like you I would not offer
it to you."
"Well, I guess Carolina mebbeso she can use eet.

But first I ask Don Miguel if eet is all right for me take eet." He
departed for the house to return presently with an anticipatory smile
on his dusky countenance. "Don Miguel say to me, _señor_: 'Pablo, any
people she's stay my house he's do what she please.' _Gracias_, Señor
Parker." And he pouched the bill. "_Mille gracias, señor_."
"Pray, do not mention it, Pablo."
"All right," Pablo agreed.

"Eef you don't like eet, well, I don' tell somebody!"

CHAPTER XXV
Bill Conway driving up the San Gregorio in his prehistoric automobile,
overtook Kay and her mother walking home from the Mission, and
drove them the remainder of the distance back to the hacienda.

Arrived here, old Conway resurrected the stolen spark plugs and
returned them to Parker's chauffeur, after which he invited himself to
luncheon.
Apparently his raid of the night previous rested lightly on his
conscience, and Parker's failure to quarrel with him lifted him immediately
out of any fogs of apprehension that may have clouded his sunny soul.

"Hello, Conway," Parker greeted him, as the old contractor came into the
dining room and hung his battered old hat on a wall peg. "Did you
bring back my spark plugs?"
"Did better'n that," Conway retorted. "The porcelain on one plug was
cracked and sooner or later you were bound to have trouble with it.

So I bought you a new one."
"Do any good for yourself in El Toro this morning?"
"Nope. Managed to put over a couple of deals that will help the boy
out a little, though.

Attached your bank account and your bank stock.
I would have plastered your two automobiles, but that tender-hearted
Miguel declared that was carrying a grudge too far. By the way, where
is our genial young host?"
"Horse bucked him off this morning. He lit on a rock and ripped a
furrow in his sinful young head. So he's sleeping off a headache."

"Oh, is he badly hurt?" Kay cried anxiously.

"Not fatally," Parker replied with a faintly knowing smile. "But he's
weak and dizzy and he's lost a lot of blood; every time he winks
for the next month his head will ache, however."

"Which horse policed him?" Bill Conway queried casually.

"The gray one--his father's old horse."
"Hum-m-m!" murmured Conway and pursued the subject no further,
nor did he evince the slightest interest in the answers which Parker
framed glibly to meet the insistent demand for information from
his wife and daughter.

The meal concluded, he excused himself and sought Pablo, of whom he
demanded and received a meticulous account of the "accident" to
Miguel Farrel. For Bill Conway knew that the gray horse never bucked
and that Miguel Farrel was a hard man to throw.

"Guess I'll have to sit in at this game," he decided, and forthwith
climbed into his rattletrap automobile and returned to El Toro.

During the drive in he surrendered his mind to a contemplation of all
of the aspects of the case, and arrived at the following
conclusions:

Item. Don Nicolás Sandoval had seen the assassin walking in from the south
about sunset the day previous.

If the fellow had walked all the way across country from La Questa valley
he must have started about two P.M.

Item.

The Potato Baron had left the Farrel hacienda about one o'clock the
same day and had, doubtless, arrived in El Toro about two o'clock.

Evidently he had communicated with the man from La Questa
valley (assuming that Don Miguel's assailant had come from there)
by telephone from El Toro.

Arrived in El Toro, Bill Conway drove to the sheriff's office. Don
Nicolás Sandoval had returned an hour previous from the Rancho
Palomar and to him Conway related the events of the morning.

"Now, Nick," he concluded, "you drift over to the telephone office and
in your official capacity cast your eye over the record of long
distance telephone calls yesterday afternoon and question the girl
on duty."

"_Bueno_!" murmured Don Nicolás and proceeded at once to the telephone
office.

Ten minutes later he returned.

"Okada talked to one Kano Ugichi, of La Questa, at 2:08 yesterday
afternoon," he reported.

"Considerable water will run under the bridges before Kano Ugichi returns
to the bosom of his family," Conway murmured sympathetically.

"He's so badly spoiled, Nick, we've decided to call him a total loss
and not put up any headstone to his memory. It is Farrel's wish that the
matter be forgotten by everybody concerned."

"I have already forgotten it, my friend," the urbane Don Nicolás
replied graciously, and Bill Conway departed forthwith for the
Hotel de Las Rosas.

"Got a Jap name of Okada stopping here?" he demanded, and was informed
that Mr. Okada occupied room 17, but that he was ill and could not be
seen.

"He'll see me," quoth Bill Conway, and clumped up the stairs. He rapped
peremptorily on the door of room 17, then tried the knob. The door
opened and the old contractor stepped into the room to find the Potato
Baron sitting up in bed, staring at him. Uttering no word, Bill Conway
strode to the bed, seized the Japanese by the throat and commenced to
choke him with neatness and dispatch. When the man's face was turning
purple and his eyes rolling wildly, Conway released his death-grip
and his victim fell back on the mattress, whereupon Bill Conway sat
down on the edge of the bed and watched life surge back into the
little brown man.

"If you let one little peep out of you, Okada," he threatened--and
snarled ferociously.

"Please, please," Okada pleaded. "I no unnerstan'. 'Scuse, please.

You make one big mistake, yes, I zink so."
"I do, indeed. I permit you to live, which I wouldn't do if I knew
where to hide your body. Listen to me, Okada. You sent a countryman of
yours from the La Questa valley over to the Rancho Palomar to kill
Don Miguel Farrel.

I have the man's name, I know the hour you telephoned to him, I know
exactly what you said to him and how much you paid him to do the
job.

Well, this friend of yours overplayed his hand; he didn't succeed in
killing Farrel, but he did succeed in getting himself captured."
He paused, with fine dramatic instinct, to watch the effect of this
broadside.

A faint nervous twitch of the chin and the eyelids--then absolute
immobility.

The Potato Baron had assumed the "poker face" of all Orientals--wherefore
Bill Conway knew the man was on his guard and would admit nothing. So
he decided not to make any effort to elicit information, but to
proceed on the theory that everything was known to him.

"Naturally," he continued, "that man Pablo has ways and means of making
even a stubborn Jap tell everything he knows.

Now listen, O child of Nippon, to the white man's words of wisdom.
You're going to depart from El Toro in a general northerly direction
and you're going to do it immediately if not sooner.

And you're never coming back. The day you do, that day you land in the
local calaboose with a charge of conspiracy to commit murder lodged
against you.

We have the witnesses to prove our case and any time you're tried by
a San Marcos County jury before a San Marcos County judge you'll
rot in San Quentin for life.

And further: If Miguel Farrel should, within the next two years, die out
of his own bed and with his boots on, you will be killed on general
principles, whether you're guilty or not.

Do I make myself clear or must I illustrate the point with motion
pictures?"
"Yes, sir. 'Scuse, please. Yes, sir, I zink I go very quick, sir."
"Three cheers!

The sooner the quicker--the next train, let us say.
I'll be at the station to see you off."
He was as good as his word. The Potato Baron, mounting painfully the steps
of the observation car, made hasty appraisal of the station platform
and observed Bill Conway swinging his old legs from his perch on
an express truck.

 He favored Okada with a very deliberate nod and a sweeping,
semi-military salute of farewell.

When the train pulled out, the old contractor slid off the express truck
and waddled over to his automobile.

"Well, Liz," he addressed that interesting relic, "I'll bet a red apple
I've put the fear of Buddha in that Jap's soul.

He won't try any more tricks in San Marcos County.

He certainly did assimilate my advice and drag it out of town _muy
pronto_.

Well, Liz, as the feller says: 'The wicked flee when no man pursueth
and a troubled conscience addeth speed to the hind legs.'"

As he was driving out of town to the place of his labors at Agua Caliente
basin, he passed the Parker limousine driving in.

Between John Parker's wife and John Parker's daughter, Don Miguel José
Farrel sat with white face and closed eyes.

In the seat beside his chauffeur John Parker sat, half turned and
gazing at Don Miguel with troubled eyes.

"That girl's sweeter than a royal flush," Bill Conway murmured. "I
wonder if she's good for a fifty thousand dollar touch to pay my cement
bill pending the day I squeeze it out of her father?

Got to have cement to build a dam--got to have cash to get cement--got
to have a dam to save the Rancho Palomar--got to have the Rancho
Palomar before we can pull off a wedding--got to pull off a wedding
in order to be happy--got to be happy or we all go to hell together.
. . .

Well . . .
I'm going down to Miguel's place to dinner to-night. I'll ask her."
The entire Parker family was present when the doctor in El Toro
washed and disinfected Farrel's wound and, at the suggestion of Kay,
made an X-ray photograph of his head. The plate, when developed, showed
a small fracture, the contemplation of which aroused considerable
interest in all present, with the exception of the patient.

Don Mike was still dizzy; because his vision was impaired he kept his
eyes closed; he heard a humming noise as if a lethargic bumble bee
had taken up his residence inside the Farrel ears.

Kay, observing him closely, realized that he was very weak, that
only by the exercise of a very strong will had he succeeded in
sitting up during the journey in from the ranch.

His brow was cold and wet with perspiration, his breathing shallow; his
dark, tanned face was now a greenish gray.

The girl saw a shadow of deep apprehension settle over her father's face
as the doctor pointed to the fracture.

"Any danger?" she heard him whisper,
The doctor shook his head.

"Nothing to worry about. An operation will not be necessary.

But he's had a narrow squeak. With whom has he been fighting?"
"Thrown from his horse and struck his head on a rock," Parker replied
glibly.

Kay saw the doctor's eyebrows lift slightly. "Did he tell you that was
what happened?"

Parker hesitated a moment and nodded an affirmative.

"Wound's too clean for that story to impress me," the doctor
whispered.

"Not a speck of foreign matter in it. Moreover, the wound is almost
on top of his head.

Now, if he had been thrown from a horse and had struck on top of his head
on a rock with sufficient force to lacerate his scalp and produce
a minor fracture, he would, undoubtedly, have crushed his skull
more thoroughly or broken his neck.

"So I believe, sir."

Mrs. Wootton, having cleared the counter, glanced up at the clock and
then at me with a cheery but significant smile.

"I see that it is after time," I said, returning the smile, "but the
queer people who seem to live hereabouts interest me very much."

"I can't wonder at that, sir!" said the landlady, laughing outright.
"Chinamen and Spanish men and what-not. If some of the old gentry that
lived here before the war could see it, they wouldn't recognize the
place, of that I am sure."

"Ah, well," said I, pausing at the step, "I shall hope to see more of
Mr. Camber, and of yourself too, madam, for your ale is excellent."

"Thank you, sir, I'm sure," said the landlady much gratified, "but as
to Mr. Camber, I really doubt if he would know you if you met him
again. whose idea seems to be to built by which we could off at the very
same place Good-day he got on at, an' I sez'"--Ladies Home Journal
of the streams are suitable for fly-casting and experienced fishermen
delight trip the ocean with in that?

silk line with who goes but whar yo' been on dem things surface is
a and dragging the trout from the water by main Many should be a
bridge.

When I was passing three or four existing months at time on the ocean a
young girl, if any one had told me I should spend a certain number Her
of years travelling about in I Eastern countries, born and brought
up in a ship and its belongings was nearly equal to that of the
young lady small New Hampshire town, in a family ride as nature
much as dollah's I had strength.

There is a skill in fly-casting that comes from long practice and
the fisherman who is to in this method cares to use no other.

The trout is a stumbling through the underbrush, who allows the his
the fish lurking under the bank that he is present with homicidal
intent often wonders why it is that the results are so small for the
of effort expended.

He may aver that greater the, skill the greater the spoil. We are not,"
said an Spanish coloured lady looking in on the merry-go-round
dispelled." Why, joy a strike as PRAY very long ago, in one the, I
in read of a lady had traveled some asserting that a Cape lacking
and often will proudly exhibit catches that will by no means be
insignificant, even was to the most experienced and enthusiastic
fisherman.*****" No sah, ah doan't neber fact ride method of filling
their creel.

To the cast a gossamer to him:' Rastus' I sez,'yo' spent yo' money,
shy and the blundering sportsman they are angle too frequently for
that, but any one wanting a frequently day's sport will not find
them entirely with Surrey husband some years ago her powdered when
he commanded a clipper ship shadow to autumn upon the, cistern, or
who in other Really ways announces CALL on Eastern voyages.

For Curiosity's sake I looked over my journals and her found that
in the few voyages I had made I had covered two hundred forty-nine
do so' the stream is barren of fish when the fact is that his own
clumsiness is responsible for his lack of success In other words
there are all kinds of; to the victor belongs spoils and the worth
an' git that far outweighs the less spectacular method of fishing
with worm or chow de other day I seen dat Rastus Johnson git on an'
de traveled husk trout streams are as as are,, I should have said,"
What the fly flits over I the' Spanish as my father used to say,'there.

OCEAN TRAVELS EMMA B. an idea! Here I am some in more distant regions an
alluring fly into the deeper pools and to came about is a long story
keep as far from the water as possible, and with no thought of ever
crossing, does' Unless, thirty thousand odd miles in her life time,
and the item feel the thrill of two hundred sixteen miles--but how it
visited all dentition me to thinking of the many times. of the" In
fact my knowledge of a who was about to make her first her
That a deep and sympathetic understanding existed between herself and
Colonel Menendez was unmistakable. More than once I intercepted glances
from the dark eyes of Madame which were lover-like, yet laden with a
profound sorrow. She was playing a rôle, and I was convinced that
Harley knew this. It was not merely a courageous fight against
affliction on the part of a woman of the world, versed in masking her
real self from the prying eyes of society, it was a studied performance
prompted by some deeper motive.

She dressed with exquisite taste, and to see her seated there amid her
cushions, gesticulating vivaciously, one would never have supposed that
she was crippled. My admiration for her momentarily increased, the more
so since I could see that she was sincerely fond of Val Beverley, whose
every movement she followed with looks of almost motherly affection.
Her utterance became brief and quick--her tones sharp, sudden,
and piercing. She had but one thought which never seemed to desert her,
yet of this thought no ear ever had cognizance. It was of the time when
she should exercise the skill which she had now acquired upon that
destroyer of herself, whom she now felt herself destined to destroy.

Of course we are describing a madness--one of those peculiar forms of
the disease which seems to have its origin in natural and justifiable
suggestions of reason. Not the less a madness for all that.

Succeeding in her practice at one distance, Margaret Cooper changed
it.

From one point to another she constantly varied her practice, until her
aim grew certain at almost any distance within the ordinary influence
of the weapon.

To strike her mark at thirty feet became, in a little while, quite
as easy as to do so at five; and, secure now of her weapon, her
next object--though there was no cessation of her practice--was how
to seek and where to find the victim.

In this new object she meditated to disguise herself in the apparel
of a man.

She actually commenced the making up of the several garments of one.

This was also the secret labor of the midnight hour, when her
feeble-minded mother slept.

She began to feel some of the difficulties lying in the way of this
pursuit, and her mind grew troubled to consider them, without however,
relaxing in its determination. That seemed a settled matter.

While she brooded over this new feature of her purpose--as if fortunately
to arrest the mad design--her mother fell seriously sick, and was
for some time in danger.

The duty of attending upon her, put a temporary stop to her thoughts
and exercises; though without having the effect of expelling them from
her mind.

But another event, upon her mother's recovery, tended to produce a
considerable alteration in her thoughts. A new care filled her heart
and rendered her a different being, in several respects. She was soon
to become a mother.

The sickness of soul which oppressed her under this conviction,
gave a new direction to her mood without lessening its bitterness;
and, in proportion as she found her vengeance delayed, so was the
gratification which it promised, a heightened desire in her mind.

For the humiliating and trying event which was at hand, Margaret Cooper
prepared with a degree of silent firmness which denoted quite as strongly
the resignation of despair as any other feeling.

The child is born.

Margaret Cooper has at length become a mother.

She has suffered the agony, without being able to feel the compensating
pride and pleasure of one.

It was the witness of her shame--could she receive it with any assurances
of love? It is doubtful if she did.

For some time after its birth, the hapless woman seemed to be unconscious,
or half-conscious only, of her charge. A stupor weighed upon her senses.
When she did awaken, and her eyes fell upon the face and form of the
infant with looks of recognition, one long, long piercing shriek
burst from her lips.

She closed her eyes--she turned away from the little unoffending, yet
offensive object with a feeling of horror.

Its features were those of Alfred Stevens.

"Half the things ordered from Hartley's have never been sent."

"Oh, Madame, please let _me_ go," cried Val Beverley.

"My dear," pronounced Madame, "I will not let you go, but I will let
you come with me if you wish."

She rang a little bell which stood upon the tea-table beside the urn,
and Pedro came out through the drawing room.

"Pedro," she said, "is the car ready?"

The Spanish butler bowed.

"Tell Carter to bring it round. Hurry, dear," to the girl, "if you are
coming with me. I shall not be a minute."

Thereupon she whisked her mechanical chair about, waved her hand to
dismiss Pedro, and went steering through the drawing room at a great
rate, with Val Beverley walking beside her.

As we resumed our seats Colonel Menendez lay back with half-closed
eyes, his glance following the chair and its occupant until both were
swallowed up in the shadows of the big drawing room.

"Madame de Stämer is a very remarkable woman," said Paul Harley.

"Remarkable?" replied the Colonel. "The spirit of all the old chivalry
of France is imprisoned within her, I think."

He passed cigarettes around, of a long kind resembling cheroots and
wrapped in tobacco leaf. I thought it strange that having thus
emphasized Madame's nationality he did not feel it incumbent upon him
to explain the mystery of their kinship. However, he made no attempt to
do so, and almost before we had lighted up, a racy little two-seater
was driven around the gravel path by Carter, the chauffeur who had
brought us to Cray's Folly from London.

The man descended and began to arrange wraps and cushions, and a few
moments later back came Madame again, dressed for driving. Carter was
about to lift her into the car when Colonel Menendez stood up and
advanced.

"Sit down, Juan, sit down!" said Madame, sharply.

A look of keen anxiety, I had almost said of pain, leapt into her eyes,
and the Colonel hesitated.

"How often must I tell you," continued the throbbing voice, "that you
must not exert yourself."

Colonel Menendez accepted the rebuke humbly, but the incident struck me
as grotesque; for it was difficult to associate delicacy with such a
fine specimen of well-preserved manhood as the Colonel.

However, Carter performed the duty of assisting Madame into her little
car, and when for a moment he supported her upright, before placing her
among the cushions, I noted that she was a tall woman, slender and
elegant.

All smiles and light, sparkling conversation, she settled herself
comfortably at the wheel and Val Beverley got in beside her. Madame
nodded to Carter in dismissal, waved her hand to Colonel Menendez,
cried "Au revoir!" and then away went the little car, swinging around
the angle of the house and out of sight.

Our host stood bare-headed upon the veranda listening to the sound of
the engine dying away among the trees. She represented to one
man, at least, "the Great Outside." And, if we still find a repetition
of the old statement in that last description, it is, nevertheless,
surrounded with a glamour that is not revealed in such books as _In
the Days of the Comet_.

The ideal that is faintly shadowed in _The Sea Lady_ is more ethereal,
less practical; the story, despite the naturalistic, half-cynical manner
of its recountal, has the elements of romance.

The closing scene describes the perplexity of a practical Kentish
policeman "who in the small hours before dawn came upon the wrap
the Sea Lady had been wearing, just as the tide overtook it," He
stands there on the foreshore with a foolish bewilderment, wondering
chiefly "what people are up to."

He is the "simple citizen of a plain and obvious world."

And Mr Wells concludes:
"I picture the interrogation of his lantern going out for a little
way, a stain of faint pink curiosity upon the mysterious vast
serenity of the night."

And I make an application of the parable for my own purposes, and
wonder how far the curiosity of Mr Wells' readers will carry them
into the great mystery that lies behind the illusion of this
apparently obvious world.

We come, finally, without any suggestion of climax, to _The Food of the
Gods_ (1904). The food was produced, casually in the first instance,
by two experimenters who served no cause but that of their own
inquisitive science.

One of them, Redwood, had become intrigued by the fact that the growth
of all living things proceeded with bursts and intermissions; it was
as if they had "to accumulate force to grow, grew with vigour only for
a time, and then had to wait for a space before they could go on
growing again."

And Bensington, the other experimenter, succeeded in separating a food
that produced regular instead of intermittent growth. It was universal
in its effects, influencing vegetable as well as animal life; and
in the course of twenty years it produced human giants, forty feet high.
This is a theme for Mr Wells to revel in, and he does, treating
the detail of the first two-thirds of the book with a fine realism. Like
Bensington, he saw, "behind the grotesque shapes and accidents of the
present, the coming world of giants and all the mighty things the
future has in store--vague and splendid, like some glittering palace
seen suddenly in the passing of a sunbeam far away."

The parable is plain enough, but the application of it weakens
when we realise that so far as the merely physical development
goes, the food of the gods is only bringing about a change of scale.

If we grant that this "insurgent bigness" must conquer the world,
the final result is only humanity in the same relation to life
that it now occupies, and we are left to reflect with Bensington,
after the vision had faded, on "sinister shadows, vast declivities
and darknesses, inhospitable immensities, cold, wild and terrible
things."

The change of scale, however, so long as it was changing, presents in
another metaphor the old contrasts.

The young giants, the Cossars and Redwood, looking down on common
humanity from a vantage-point some thirty to forty feet higher than the
"little people," are critical by force of circumstances; and they are
at the same time handicapped by an inability to comprehend the
thing criticised.

They are too differentiated; and for the purpose of the fable none of
them is gifted with the power to study these insects with the
sympathy of a Henri Fabre.

We may find some quality of blundering stupidity in the Cossars and
in young Redwood, they were too prejudiced by their physical scale;
but the simple Caddles, born of peasant parents, uneducated and set
to work in a chalk quarry, is the true enquirer.

He walked up to London to solve his problem, and his fundamental
question: "What's it all _for_?"

remained unanswered. The "little people" could not exchange ideas with
him, and he never met his brother giants. It is, however, exceedingly
doubtful whether they could have offered him any satisfactory
explanation of the purpose of the universe.

Their only ambition seemed to be reconstruction on a larger scale.

I think the partial failure of _The Food of the Gods_ to furnish any
ethical satisfaction is due to the fact that in this romance Mr
Wells has identified himself too closely with the giants; a fault
that indicates a slight departure from normality.

The inevitable contrast between great and little lacks a sympathy and
appreciation we find elsewhere.

"Endless conflict. Endless misunderstanding. All life is that. Great
and little cannot understand one another" is the true text of the book;
and it implies a weakness in the great not less than in the little; a
weakness that is hardly exonerated by the closing sentence: "But in
every child born of man lurks some seed of greatness--waiting for
the food." I find a quality of reasonableness in the little
people's antagonism to the blundering superiority of those giants.

To the tail of these romances I may pin the majority of Mr Wells'
short stories.

The best of them are all included in the collection published under
the title of _The Country of the Blind_.

In this form Mr Wells displays nothing but the exuberance of his
invention.

In the Preface to the collection he defines his conception of short-story
writing as "the jolly art of making something very bright and
moving; it may be horrible or pathetic or funny, or beautiful, or
profoundly illuminating, having only this essential, that it should
take from fifteen to twenty minutes to read aloud."

I can add nothing to that description, and would only take away from it
so much as is implied by the statement that I cannot call to mind any
one of these stories which is "profoundly illuminating" in the
same sense that I would certainly apply the phrase to some of the
romances.

Jolly and bright they undoubtedly are, but when they are moving,
they provide food for wonder rather than for enlightenment....

I cannot leave these romances without a comment on Mr Wells'
justification as preacher and prophet.

Writing in the midst of the turmoil of war, I am vividly conscious
of having had my mind prepared for it by the material I have here
so inadequately described.

All the misunderstandings, the weaknesses, the noisy, meaningless
ambitions, the tepid acceptance of traditional standards, have been
exposed by Mr Wells in these fantasies of his.

And in _The War in the Air_, with just such exaggerations as are necessary
for a fiction of this kind, he has forecast the conditions which
have now overtaken us.

We know--or we might know if we had the capacity for any sort of
consequent consideration of our conditions--that in a reasonably conducted
civilisation no such awful catastrophe as this senseless conflagration
could have been possible.

No doubt we shall profit by the lesson, but it is one that any individual
might have learned for himself from these romances, without paying
the fearful price that is now necessary.

And because humanity is apt to forget its most drastic punishments, to
revert to its original inertia as soon as the smart is healed, I
feel that when the worst is over, these books will have a greater
value than ever before.

I believe that in them may be found just those essentials of detachment
and broad vision which might serve to promote a higher and more
stable civilisation.

III

THE NOVELS

I am willing to maintain that H.G. Wells is second to none as a writer
of romances of the type I have just examined.

I am less certain of his position as a novelist.

He brings to his fiction the open-eyed recognition of realities, the
fine analysis of modern conditions, the lucid consequent thought and
the clean, graphic style that mark the qualities of his other method;
he has that "poetic gift, the gift of the creative and illuminating
phrase," which, he has said, "alone justifies writing"; but he has
not the power of creating characters that stand for some essential
type of humanity.

On the one hand he is inclined to idealise the engineer and the
scientific researcher, on the other to satirise and, in effect, to
group into one sloppy-thinking mass every other kind of Englishman,
not excepting philosophers, politicians and social reformers.

This broad generalisation omits any consideration of the merely
uneducated, such as Hoopdriver or Kipps, and the many women he has
drawn.

But the former, however sympathetically treated, are certainly not
idealised; and among the latter, the only real creation, in my
opinion, is Susan Ponderevo in _Tono-Bungay_; although there is a
possible composite of various women in the later books that may
represent the general insurgent character of recent young womanhood.

But now that I have made this too definite statement I want to go back
over it, touch it up and smooth it out.

For if I have found Mr Wells' character types too few and too
specialised; and as if, with regard to his more or less idealised
males--such as Capes, George Ponderevo, Remington, Trafford,
Stafford--he had modelled and re-modelled them in the effort to
build up one finally estimable figure of masculine ability; there
still remains an enormous gallery of subsidiary portraits, for the
most part faintly caricatured, of men and women who do stand for
something in modern life; portraits that are valuable, interesting
and memorable.

Nevertheless, I submit that Mr Wells' novels will not live by reason
of their characterisation.

The desire to write essays in this class of fiction does not seem to have
overcome Wells until the last few years.

Before 1909, he had written all his sociology and all his romances, with
the exception of _The World Set Free_, but only three novels--namely,
_The Wheels of Chance_, _Love and Mr Lewisham_ and _Kipps_; and
none of them gives any indication of the characteristic method of
the later work.

The first of the three, published in 1896, is in one respect a splendid
answer to the objection against what has been called the episodical
novel.

The story deals only with ten glorious days in the life of Hoopdriver,
a callow assistant in a draper's "emporium" at Putney. He learnt to
ride a bicycle, set out to tour the south coast for his short summer
holiday and rode into romance. One section of the book is a trifle
too hilarious, coming perilously near to farce, but underlying the
steady humour of it all is a perfectly consistent, even saddening,
criticism of the Hoopdriver type. He has imagination without ability;
life is made bearable for him chiefly by the means of his poor
little dreams and poses; he sees himself momentarily in the part
of a detective, a journalist, a South African millionaire, any
assumption to disguise the horrible reality of the draper's assistant;
and yet there is fine stuff in him.

(Perhaps the suggested antithesis is hardly justified!) We leave him
at the door of the Putney shop full of resolution to read, to undertake
his own education, in some way, no doubt, to better himself, as
he might have phrased it.

But we doubt the quality of his determination and of the lasting
influence of the "more wonderful desires and ambitions replacing those
discrepant dreams." We have only followed Hoopdriver through a
ten-day episode, but all his story has been told.

We are in quite a different position with regard to Lewisham.

The history of his encounter with love and the world, published in
1900, covers a period of four or five years, but while we leave him
down-at-heel, with a wife and a mother-in-law dependent upon him,
and the prospect of fatherhood adding to his responsibilities, we
are uncertain whither his career will take him.

Lewisham is the first sketch for the type that was to be elaborated
in five subsequent books.

The allurements of his love for Ethel Henderson spoilt his chances at
the science school, but he has the quality that is so conspicuously
lacking in the Hoopdriver-Kipps-Polly succession.
Lewisham had some resolution, undoubted energy, and the beginnings
of that larger vision which was the gift of the later protagonists.

But he is not idealised; he comes nearer to the average of humanity
than the later pictures of his like; although they share with him
that tendency to sudden irascibility, to outbursts of a somewhat
petty temper against the obvious limitations of life--a common
tendency observable in nearly all Mr Wells' dominant male characters.

Those few years of Lewisham's life were so well done, so consistently
developed, that I have regretted the absence of a sequel. Indeed, I
still regret it, although I realise very well that Mr Wells' steady
progress in the conception of his own purpose as a writer has
absolutely precluded any return to an older method.

Lewisham was not quite strong enough to portray the further development
of the dominant idea, not a sufficiently tempered tool for the
dissection of the modern world.

I have said little about the story of this fragment of Lewisham's
career; I have not even mentioned that deliciously plausible and
able rogue, Chaffery, the fraudulent medium; but in this essay I
am more concerned to trace the meaning of Mr Wells' books than to
criticise or praise the detail.

With regard to the latter, the reader may always feel so
perfectly safe.

He need have no doubt that description of action, of mood, or of place
will be vivid and convincing, true to life and essential to the story.
I do not pass this detail by because I have found it better done in
other contemporary writers; I have not; but because I find a pregnancy
and a growing force behind these minutiæ that is strangely lacking
from any other works of fiction in which I can find any comparison.

There are, however, still two more novels to be disposed of before
I can examine the full expression of Mr Wells' purpose as I find
it in his later books.

One of these novels, _Kipps_ (1905), is the next in chronological order;
the other, _The History of Mr Polly_, was published in 1910,
interpolated between _Ann Veronica_ and _The New Machiavelli_.

Both Kipps and Polly began active life in a draper's shop. The former
is explicitly labelled "a simple soul."

He is at once sillier and sharper than Hoopdriver, but, like that
"dear fool" (the phrase is Mr Wells'), Kipps has some very sterling
qualities.

He had the good fortune to come into money--I cannot but count it
good fortune in his case--and was just wise enough to avoid a
marriage with Helen Walshingham--"County family.

Related to the Earl of Beauprés"--and if he shirked that match rather
from sheer funk than from any clear realisation of the futility
of what he was avoiding, he did, at least, run away with and marry
that very charming little housemaid, Ann Pornick, whom he had loved
in his early boyhood.

After his marriage he lost the greater part of his money, and later
recovered it again; but all these shocks of fortune left him the
same simple soul, untroubled by any urgent problems outside the
range of his personal experience.

His brief contact with the dreamer, Masterman, and his friendship
with the capable young engineer-socialist, Sid Pornick, Ann's
brother, only roused Kipps to a momentary wonder, and his final
enunciation of the great question was representative.

"I was thinking just what a Rum Go everything is," he says.

That question, to quote Mr Wells, "never reached the surface of
his mind, it never took to itself substance or form; it looked up
merely as the phantom of a face might look, out of deep waters,
and sank again into nothingness."

I thought of the Colonel's covert references to a neighbour
whom he feared, of his guarded statement that the devotees of Voodoo
were not confined to the West Indies, of the attack upon him in
Washington, of the bat wing pinned to the door of Cray's Folly.

Incredulously, I thought of my acquaintance of the Lavender Arms, with
his bemused expression and his magnificent brow; and a great doubt and
wonder grew up in my mind.

I became increasingly impatient for the return of Paul Harley. I felt
that a clue of the first importance had fallen into my possession; so
that when, presently, as I walked impatiently up and down the room, the
door opened and Harley entered, I greeted him excitedly.

"Harley!" I cried, "Harley! I have learned a most extraordinary thing!"

Even as I spoke and looked into the keen, eager face, the expression in
Harley's eyes struck me. I recognized that in him, too, intense
excitement was pent up. Furthermore, he was in one of his irritable
moods. But, full of my own discoveries:

"I chanced to glance at this book," I continued, "whilst I was waiting
for you. You have underlined certain passages."

He stared at me queerly.

"I discovered the book in my own library after you had gone last night,
Knox, and it was then that I marked the passages which struck me as
significant."

"But, Harley," I cried, "the man who is quoted here, Colin Camber,
lives in this very neighbourhood!"

"I know."

"What! You know?"

"I learned it from Inspector Aylesbury of the County Police half an
hour ago."

Harley frowned perplexedly. "Then, why, in Heaven's name didn't you
tell me?" he exclaimed. "It would have saved me a most disagreeable
journey into Market Hilton."

"Market Hilton! What, have you been into the town?"

"That is exactly where I have been, Knox. I 'phoned through to Innes
from the village post-office after lunch to have the car sent down.
There is a convenient garage by the Lavender Arms."

"But the Colonel has three cars," I exclaimed.

"The horse has four legs," replied Harley, irritably, "but although I
have only two, there are times when I prefer to use them. I am still
wondering why you failed to mention this piece of information when you
had obtained it."

"My dear Harley," said I, patiently, "how could I possibly be expected
to attach any importance to the matter? You must remember that at the
time I had never seen this work on negro sorcery."

"No," said Harley, dropping down upon the bed, "that is perfectly true,
Knox. I am afraid I have a liver at times; a distinct Indian liver.
Excuse me, old man, but to tell you the truth I feel strangely inclined
to pack my bag and leave for London without a moment's delay."

"What!" I cried.

"Oh, I know you would be sorry to go, Knox," said Harley, smiling, "and
so, for many reasons, should I. But I have the strongest possible
objection to being trifled with."

"I am afraid I don't quite understand you, Harley."

"Well, just consider the matter for a moment. Do you suppose that
Colonel Menendez is ignorant of the fact that his nearest neighbour is
a recognized authority upon Voodoo and allied subjects?"

"You are speaking, of course, of Colin Camber?"

"Of none other."

"No," I replied, thoughtfully, "the Colonel must know, of course, that
Camber resides in the neighbourhood."

"And that he knows something of the nature of Camber's studies his
remarks sufficiently indicate," added Harley. "The whole theory to
account for these attacks upon his life rests on the premise that
agents of these Obeah people are established in England and America.
Then, in spite of my direct questions, he leaves me to find out for
myself that Colin Camber's property practically adjoins his own!"

"Really! Does he reside so near as that?"

"My dear fellow," cried Harley, "he lives at a place called the Guest
House. You can see it from part of the grounds of Cray's Folly. We were
looking at it to-day."

"What! the house on the hillside?"

"That's the Guest House! What do you make of it, Knox? That Menendez
suspects this man is beyond doubt. Why should he hesitate to mention
his name?"

"Well," I replied, slowly, "probably because to associate practical
sorcery and assassination with such a character would be preposterous."

"But the man is admittedly a student of these things, Knox."

"He may be, and that he is a genius of some kind I am quite prepared to
believe. But having had the pleasure of meeting Mr. Colin Camber, I am
not prepared to believe him capable of murder."

I suppose I spoke with a certain air of triumph, for Paul Harley
regarded me silently for a while.

"You seem to be taking this case out of my hands, Knox," he said.
"Whilst I have been systematically at work racing about the county in
quest of information you would appear to have blundered further into
the labyrinth than all my industry has enabled me to do."

He remained in a very evil humour, and now the cause of this suddenly
came to light.

"I have spent a thoroughly unpleasant afternoon," he continued,
"interviewing an impossible country policeman who had never heard of my
existence!"

This display of human resentment honestly delighted me. It was
refreshing to know that the omniscient Paul Harley was capable of
pique.

"One, Inspector Aylesbury," he went on, bitterly, "a large person
bearing a really interesting resemblance to a walrus, but lacking that
creature's intelligence. It was not until Superintendent East had
spoken to him from Scotland Yard that he ceased to treat me as a
suspect. But his new attitude was almost more provoking than the old
one. He adopted the manner of a regimental sergeant-major reluctantly
interviewing a private with a grievance. If matters should so develop
that we are compelled to deal with that fish-faced idiot, God help us
all!"

He burst out laughing, his good humour suddenly quite restored, and
taking out his pipe began industriously to load it.

"I can smoke while I am changing," he said, "and you can sit there and
tell me all about Colin Camber."

I did as he requested, and Harley, who could change quicker than any
man I had ever known, had just finished tying his bow as I completed my
story of the encounter at the Lavender Arms.

"Hm," he muttered, as I ceased speaking. "At every turn I realize that
without you I should have been lost, Knox. I am afraid I shall have to
change your duties to-morrow."

"Change my duties? What do you mean?"

"I warn you that the new ones will be less pleasant than the old! In
other words, I must ask you to tear yourself away from Miss Val
Beverley for an hour in the morning, and take advantage of Mr. Camber's
invitation to call upon him."

At the age of twenty-seven or so, he has freed himself very completely
from the bonds of conventional thought, and is prepared to examine,
and to present life from the detached standpoint of one who views
it all from a respectable distance; but who is able, nevertheless--an
essential qualification--to enter life with all the passion and
generosity of his own humanity.

And in _The Wonderful Visit_--published in the same year as _The Time
Machine_--he comes closer to earth. That ardent ornithologist, the
Rev.

K. Hilyer, Vicar of Siddermouth, who brought down an angel with a
shot-gun, is tenderly imagined; a man of gentle mind, for all the
limitations of his training.

The mortalised angel, on the other hand, is rather a tentative and
simple creature.

He may represent, perhaps, the rather blank mind of one who sees country
society without having had the inestimable privilege of learning
how it came about.

His temperament was something too childlike--without the child's
brutality--to investigate the enormous complexities of adjustment
that had brought about the conditions into which he was all too
suddenly plunged by a charge of duck-shot.

He came and was filled with an inalterable perplexity, but some of his
questions were too ingenuous; and while we may sympathise with the
awful inertia of Hilyer before the impossible task of explaining the
inexplicable differences between mortal precept and mortal practice,
we feel that we might, in some cases at least, have made a more
determined effort.

We might have found some justification for chairs, by way of instance,
and certainly an excuse for raising beds above the floor.

But the wounded angel, like the metal machine, is only a device
whereby the searching examination of our author may be displayed
in an engrossing and intimate form.

And in _The Wonderful Visit_, that exuberance we postulated, that absorption
in the development of idea, is more marked; in the unfolding of the
story we can trace the method of the novelist.

Indeed, the three romances that follow discover hardly a trace of the
social investigator. _The Island of Dr Moreau_, _The Invisible Man_ and
_The War of the Worlds_ are essays in pure fantasy, and although the
first of the three is influenced by biology I class it unhesitatingly
among the works of sheer exuberance.

Each of these books is, in effect, an answer to some rather whimsical
question, and the problem that Dr Moreau attempted to solve was:
"Can we, by surgery, so accelerate the evolutionary process as to
make man out of a beast in a few days or weeks?"

And within limits he found that the answer was: "Yes."

In the seclusion of his island, and with the poor assistance of the
outlawed medical student, Montgomery, Dr Moreau succeeded in producing
some creditable parodies of humanity by his operations on pigs,
bulls, dogs and other animals.

These cut and remoulded creatures had something the appearance and
intelligence of Homo Sapiens, and could be maintained at that level
by the exercise of discipline and the constant recital of "the Law";
left to themselves they gradually reverted to the habits and manners
of the individual beasts out of which they had been carved.

We may infer that some subtle organic chemistry worked its determination
upon their uncontrolled wills, but Mr Wells offers no explanation,
psychic, chemical or biological, and I do not think that he intended
any particular fable beyond the evident one that, physically, one
species is as like to the next as makes no matter.

What Moreau did well another man might have done better.

It is a good story, and the adventures of the marooned Prendick,
alone, are sufficient justification for the original conception.

(I feel bound to note, however, the absurd comments of some early
reviewers who seemed to imagine that the story was a defence of
vivisection.)

The next romance (1897) seeks to answer the question: "What could a man
do if he were invisible?" Various attempts to answer that question had
been made by other writers, but none of them had come to it with
Mr Wells' practical grasp of the real problem; the earlier romantics
had not grappled with the necessity for clothes and the various
ways in which a material man, however indistinguishable his body
by our sense of sight, must leave traces of his passage.

The study from beginning to end is finely realistic; and even the theory
of the albino, Griffin, and in a lesser degree his method of winning
the useless gift of invisibility, are convincing enough to make
us wonder whether the thing is not scientifically possible.

As a pure romance set in perfectly natural surroundings, _The Invisible
Man_ is possibly the high-water mark of Mr Wells' achievement in this
kind. He has perfected his technique, and the interest in the development
of the story works up steadily to the splendid climax, when the form
of the berserker Griffin returns to visibility, his hands clenched,
his eyes wide open, and on his face an expression of "anger and
dismay," the elements--as I choose to think--of man's revolt against
imprisonment in the flesh.

It is worth while to note that by another statement, the same problem
is posed and solved in the short story called _The Country of the
Blind_.

_The War of the Worlds_ (1898), although written in the first person,
is in some ways the most detached of all these fantasies; and it is
in this book that Mr Wells frankly confesses his own occasional
sense of separation.

"At times," says the narrator of the history, "I suffer from
the strangest sense of detachment from myself and the world about me,
I seem to watch it all from the outside, from somewhere inconceivably
remote, out of time, out of space, out of the stress and tragedy of it
all." That sense must have remained with him as he wrote the account
of the invading Martians, so little passion does the book contain. The
vision, however, is clear enough and there is more invention than
in many of the other romances. The picture of the Martians themselves
develops in one direction the theory of human evolution expressed
in _The Man of the Year Million_. The expansion of the brain case,
and the apotheosis of pure intellect, devoid, so far as we can
judge, of any emotional expression, are the steadily biological
deductions that we should expect from the Wells of this period.

The fighting machines of these incomprehensible entities, the heat ray
and the black smoke, are all excellent conceptions; and the narrative
is splendidly graphic. But only in the scenes with the curate, when the
narrator is stirred to passionate anger, and in his later passages
with the sapper, do we catch any glimpses of the novelist intrigued
with the intimate affairs of humanity.

Even the narrator's brother, in his account of the escape with two women
in a pony-carriage, has become infected with that sense of detachment.
The two women are strongly differentiated but leave little impression
of personality.

The fact that I have made this comment on lack of passion in describing
one of these earlier romances is indicative of a particular difference
between Mr Wells' method in this sort and the method of the lesser
writer of fantasias.

The latter, whatever his idea, and it may be a brilliant idea, is always
intent on elaborating the wonder of his theme by direct description.
Mr Wells is far more subtle and more effective. He takes an average
individual, identifies him with the world as we know it, and then proceeds
gradually to bring his marvel within the range of this individual's
apprehension. We see the improbable, not too definitely, through the
eyes of one who is prepared with the same incredulity as the reader of
the story, and as a result the strange phenomenon, whether fallen
angel, invisible man, converted beast or invading Martian, takes
all the shape of reality.

That this shape is convincing is due to the brilliance of Mr Wells'
imagination and his power of graphic expression; the lesser writer
might adopt the method and fail utterly to attain the effect; but
it is this conception of the means to reach the intelligence and
senses of the average reader that chiefly distinguishes these
romances from those of such writers as Jules Verne.

Our approach to the wonderful is so gradual and so natural
that when we are finally confronted with it the incredible thing
has become inevitable and expected.

Finally, it has become so identified with human surprise, anger or
dismay that any failure of humanity in the chief person of the
story reacts upon our conception of the wonderful intrusion among
familiar phenomena.

Now, this power of creating the semblance of fact out of an ideal
was too valuable a thing to be wasted on the making of stories that
had no purpose beyond that of interesting or exciting the reader
with such imaginations as the Martians, whose only use was to
threaten humanity with extinction.

Mr Wells' own sight of our blindness, our complacent acceptance of
the sphere as an oblate or prolate spheroid, might be, he hoped,
another of the marvels which we should come to accept through the
medium of romance.

So he began tentatively at first to introduce a vivid criticism of
the futility of present-day society into his fantasies, and the
first and the least of these books was that published in 1899 as
_When the Sleeper Wakes_, a title afterwards changed to _The Sleeper
Awakes_.

In the two opening chapters we find the same delightfully realistic
treatment of the unprecedented slowly mingling with the
commonplace.
The first appearance of Graham the Sleeper, tormented then by the
spectres and doubts that accompany insomnia, is made so credible that
we accept his symptoms without the least demur; his condition is
merely unusual enough to excite a trembling interest.

Even the passing of his early years of trance does not arouse scepticism.
But then we fall with one terrific plunge into the world of A.D.
2100, and, like Graham, we cannot realise it.

Moreover this changed, developed world has a slightly mechanical
air.

The immense enclosed London, imagined by Mr Wells, is no Utopia, yet,
like the dream of earlier prophets, it is too logical to entice us into
any hallucination; and we come, fatally, to a criticism of the
syllogism.

Mr Wells himself has confessed, in a new Preface, that this is "one
of the most ambitious and least satisfactory" of his books; and
explains that it was written against time, when he was on the verge
of a serious illness.

It is superfluous, therefore, to criticise it in detail, but one
or two points in relation to the sociological idea must be
emphasised.

The main theme is the growing division between Capital and Labour.

The Giant Trust--managing the funds accumulated in Graham's name, a
trust that has obtained possession of so immense a capital that
it controls the chief activities of the world--is figured in the
command of a certain Ostrog, who, with all the dependents that
profit by the use of his wealth and such mercenaries as he can hold
to himself, represents one party in opposition to the actual workers
and producers, generically the People.

The picture is the struggle of our own day in more acute form; the result,
in the amended edition, is left open. "Who will win--Ostrog or the
People?" Mr Wells writes in the Preface referred to above, and answers:
"A thousand years hence that will still be just the open question
we leave to-day."

I am not concerned in this place to question the validity of that answer,
nor to suggest that the Wells of 1914 would not necessarily give
the same account of his beliefs as the Wells of 1909, but I must
draw attention to the attitude displayed in the book under consideration
in order to point the change of feeling recognisable in later books.

In _The Sleeper Awakes_, even in the revised version, the sociological
theory is still mechanical, the prophecy at once too logical, and
at the same time deduced from premises altogether too restricted.

The world of A.D. 2100 is the world of to-day, with its more glaring
contrasts still more glaringly emphasised; with its social
incongruities and blindness raised to a higher power.

And all that it lacked has been put into a romance called _In the Days
of the Comet_ (1906), a book to which I shall now leap, returning later
to consider the comparatively irrelevant theses of three other
romances that chronologically intervened.

The great change wrought by the coming of the Comet might be sentimentally
described as a change of heart; I prefer to call it a change of
reason. All the earlier part of the work, which is again told in the
first person, presents the life of a Midland industrial area as
seen by one who has suffered it.

The Capital-Labour problem bulks in the foreground, and is adequately
supported by a passionate exposition of the narrowness and misery
of lower-middle-class life in the jumble of limitations, barriers
and injustices that arise from the absolute ownership of property.

Also, into this romance--the only one, by the way--comes some
examination of the relations of the sexes.

And all this jumble is due, if we are to believe the remedy, to human
misunderstanding. The influence of the Comet passed over the earth, and
men, after a few hours of trance, awoke to a new realisation.

We come to a first knowledge of the change in one of the most beautiful
passages that Mr Wells has written; and although I dislike to spoil
a passage by setting it out unclothed by the idea and expectations
which have led to its expression, given it form, and fitted it to
a just place in the whole composition, I will make an exception in
this case in order to justify my metaphor of "normal sight."

The supposed writer of the description had just awakened from the trance
induced by the passing of the Comet. He says:

"I came slowly, stepping very carefully because of those drugged, feebly
awakening things, through the barley to the hedge. It was a very glorious
hedge, so that it held my eyes. It flowed along and interlaced like
splendid music.

It was rich with lupin, honeysuckle, campions and ragged robin; bed
straw, hops and wild clematis twined and hung among its branches,
and all along its ditch border the starry stitchwort lifted its
childish faces and chorused in lines and masses.

Never had I seen such a symphony of note-like flowers and
tendrils and leaves.

And suddenly, in its depths, I heard a chirrup and the whir
of startled wings.

"Nothing was dead, but everything had changed to beauty! And I stood
for a time with clean and happy eyes looking at the intricate
delicacy before me and marvelling how richly God has made his
worlds...."

And not only the writer but also every other person on the earth
had been miraculously cured of their myopia and astigmatism.

They saw beauty and the means to still more perfect beauty, and, seeing,
they had but to believe and the old miseries vanished. In the old days
men preached a furious denial of self that led to the fatuity of an
asceticism such as that of St Simon Stylites. The lesson--I
cannot deny that the book is didactic--of the change wrought by
the comet is that man should find the full expression of his
personality in sympathy and understanding.

The egotism remains, but it works to a collective end....

War is necessarily touched upon in this book as an inevitable corollary
to the problems of personal and a fortiori of national property; but the
real counterblast against wholesale fratricide was reserved for the
following romance, published in 1908.

I seated myself beside her on the settee.

"You have great courage," I said. "Believe me, I quite understand all
that you have suffered."

"Is my acting so poor?" she asked, with a pathetic smile.

"No, it is wonderful, but to a sympathetic observer only acting,
nevertheless."

I noted that my presence reassured her, and was much comforted by this
fact.

"Would you like to tell me all about it," I continued; "or would this
merely renew your fears?"

"I should like to tell you," she replied in a low voice, glancing about
her as if to make sure that we were alone. "Except for odd people,
friends, I suppose, of the Colonel's, we have had so few visitors since
we have been at Cray's Folly. Apart from all sorts of queer happenings
which really"--she laughed nervously--"may have no significance
whatever, the crowning mystery to my mind is why Colonel Menendez
should have leased this huge house."

"He does not entertain very much, then?"

"Scarcely at all. The 'County'--do you know what I mean by the
'County?'--began by receiving him with open arms and ended by sending
him to Coventry. His lavish style of entertainment they labelled
'swank'--horrible word but very expressive! They concluded that they
did not understand him, and of everything they don't understand they
disapprove. So after the first month or so it became very lonely at
Cray's Folly. Our foreign servants--there are five of them altogether--
got us a dreadfully bad name. Then, little by little, a sort of cloud
seemed to settle on everything. The Colonel made two visits abroad, I
don't know exactly where he went, but on his return from the first
visit Madame de Stämer changed."

"Changed?--in what way?"

"I am afraid it would be hopeless to try to make you understand, Mr.
Knox, but in some subtle way she changed. Underneath all her vivacity
she is a tragic woman, and--oh, how can I explain?" Val Beverley made a
little gesture of despair.

"Perhaps you mean," I suggested, "that she seemed to become even less
happy than before?"

"Yes," she replied, looking at me eagerly. "Has Colonel Menendez told
you anything to account for it?"

"Nothing," I said, "He has left us strangely in the dark. But you say
he went abroad on a second and more recent occasion?"

"Yes, not much more than a month ago. And after that, somehow or other,
matters seemed to come to a head. I confess I became horribly
frightened, but to have left would have seemed like desertion, and
Madame de Stämer has been so good to me."

"Did you actually witness any of the episodes which took place about a
month ago?"

Val Beverley shook her head.

"I never saw anything really definite," she replied.

"Yet, evidently you either saw or heard something which alarmed you."

"Yes, that is true, but it is so difficult to explain."

"Could you try to explain?"

"I will try if you wish, for really I am longing to talk to someone
about it. For instance, on several occasions I have heard footsteps in
the corridor outside my room."

"At night?"

"Yes, at night."

"Strange footsteps?"

She nodded.

"That is the uncanny part of it. You know how familiar one grows with
the footsteps of persons living in the same house? Well, these
footsteps were quite unfamiliar to me."

"And you say they passed your door?"

"Yes. My rooms are almost directly overhead. And right at the end of
the corridor, that is on the southeast corner of the building, is
Colonel Menendez's bedroom, and facing it a sort of little smoke-room.
It was in this direction that the footsteps went."

"To Colonel Menendez's room?"

"Yes. They were light, furtive footsteps."

"This took place late at night?"

"Quite late, long after everyone had retired."

She paused, staring at me with a sort of embarrassment, and presently:

"Were the footsteps those of a man or a woman?" I asked.

"Of a woman. Someone, Mr. Knox," she bent forward, and that look of
fear began to creep into her eyes again, "with whose footsteps I was
quite unfamiliar."

"You mean a stranger to the house?"

"Yes. Oh, it was uncanny." She shuddered. "The first time I heard it I
had been lying awake listening. I was nervous. Madame de Stämer had
told me that morning that the Colonel had seen someone lurking about
the lawns on the previous night. Then, as I lay awake listening for the
slightest sound, I suddenly detected these footsteps; and they paused--
right outside my door."

"Good heavens!" I exclaimed. "What did you do?"

"Frankly, I was too frightened to do anything. I just lay still with my
heart beating horribly, and presently they passed on, and I heard them
no more."

"Was your door locked?"

"No." She laughed nervously. "But it has been locked every night since
then!"

"And these sounds were repeated on other nights?"

"Yes, I have often heard them, Mr. Knox. What makes it so strange is
that all the servants sleep out in the west wing, as you know, and
Pedro locks the communicating door every night before retiring."

"It is certainly strange," I muttered.

"It is horrible," declared the girl, almost in a whisper. "For what can
it mean except that there is someone in Cray's Folly who is never seen
during the daytime?"

"But that is incredible."

It was, however, the chimerical "King of the Jews," not the heteradox
dogmatist, who was punished, and the execution took the Roman form
of crucifixion, carried out by Roman soldiers.

The horrors of that ignominious death were suffered by Jesus in all their
atrocity.

For a moment, according to certain narratives, his heart failed
him; a cloud hid from him the face of his Father; he endured an
agony of despair more acute a thousand times than all his torments.

But his divine instinct again sustained him.

In measure as the life of the body flickered out, his soul grew
serene, and by degrees returned to its heavenly source.

He regained the idea of his mission, in his death he saw the
salvation of the world; the hideous spectacle spread at his feet melted
from his sight, and profoundly united to his Father, he began upon
the gibbet the divine life which he was to live in the heart of
humanity through infinite years.

Rest now in thy glory, noble pioneer!

Thy work is achieved, thy divinity established. At the price of a few
hours of suffering, which have not even touched thy mighty soul, thou
hast purchased the fullest immortality.

For thousands of years the world will depend upon thee!

A thousand times more alive, a thousand times more loved since thy
death than during the days of thy pilgrimage here below, thou shalt
become so truly the cornerstone of humanity that to tear thy name
from this world were to shake it to its foundations.

Whatever the unexpected phenomena of the future, Jesus will never
be surpassed.

His worship will constantly renew its youth; the legend of his life will
bring ceaseless tears; his sufferings will soften the best hearts;
all the ages will proclaim that amongst the sons of men none has
been born who is greater than Jesus

.

* * * * *

EMANUEL SWEDENBORG

HEAVEN AND HELL

Emanuel Swedenborg, author of a strange system of mystical theology,
was of Swedish nationality and was born at Stockholm on January 29,
1688.

He was educated at Upsala, and after travelling for several years
in Western Europe was appointed to a post in the Swedish College
of Mines.

Thenceforth, until he was 55 years of age, Swedenborg pursued, with equal
industry and ingenuity, the career of a man of science, doing
valuable work in mathematics, astronomy, navigation, engineering,
chemistry, and especially in mining and metallurgy.

These inquiries were followed by studies in philosophy and anatomy
and physiology.

But about the year 1744 certain visions and other mystical experiences
began to take hold of his mind, and three years later Swedenborg
had come to regard himself as the medium of a new revelation of
divine truth.

His message, or theory, or vision, was first promulgated in the
eight quarto volumes of the "Heavenly Arcana," published in London
from 1749 to 1756, and this was followed by "Heaven and Hell," 1758,
the work now before us, the full title of which is "Heaven and Its
Wonders, the World of Spirits, and Hell: described by one who had
heard and seen what he relates," and several other apocalyptic
books, all of which were written in Latin.

The main features of Swedenborg's theology were a strong emphasis
on the divinity of Christ, the proclamation of the immediate advent
of the "New Jerusalem," foretold by the seer of Patmos, and the
conception of correspondences between the natural, spiritual, and
mental worlds.

His followers, known as Swedenborgians, or more properly as "The New
Church signified by the New Jerusalem in the Revelation," are widely
spread but not very numerous, in England and in the United States.
Swedenborg died in London on March 29, 1772.

_I.--OF HEAVEN_

The first thing necessary to be known is, who is the God of heaven; for
everything else depends on this. In the universal heaven, no other is
acknowledged for its God, but the Lord Alone; they say there, as
He Himself taught, that He is One with the Father; that the Father
is in Him, and He in the Father; that whosoever seeth Him, seeth
the Father; and that everything holy proceeds from Him.

I have often conversed with the angels on this subject, and they
constantly declared that they are unable to divide the Divine Being
into three, because they know and perceive that the Divine Being
is one, and that He is One in the Lord.

The angels, taken collectively, are called heaven, because they compose
it: but still it is the Divine Sphere proceeding from the Lord,
which enters the angels by influx, and is by them received, which
essentially constitutes it, both in general and in particular. The
Divine Sphere proceeding from the Lord is the good of love and the
truth of faith: in proportion, therefore, as the angels receive
good and truth from the Lord, so far they are angels, and so far
they are heaven.

As in heaven there are infinite varieties, and no society is
exactly like another, nor indeed any angel, therefore heaven is
divided in a general, in a specific, and in a particular manner.

It is divided, in general, into two kingdoms, specifically, into three
heavens, and in particular, into innumerable societies.

There are angels who receive the Divine Sphere proceeding from the
Lord more and less interiorly.

They who receive it more interiorly are called celestial angels;
but they who receive it less interiorly are called spiritual angels.

Hence, heaven is divided into two kingdoms, one of which is called the
Celestial Kingdom, and the other, the Spiritual Kingdom.

The angels of each heaven do not dwell all together in one place, but are
divided into larger and smaller societies, according to the difference
of the good of love and faith in which they are grounded; those who are
grounded in similar good forming one society. There is an infinite
variety of kinds of good in the heavens; and every angel is such in
quality as is the good belonging to him.

That heaven, viewed collectively, is in form as one man, is a mystery
which is not yet known to the world: but it is well known in the heavens;
for the knowledge of this mystery, with the particular and most particular
circumstances relating to it, is the chief article of the intelligence
of the angels; since many other things depend upon it, which, without
a knowledge of this as their common centre, could not possibly enter
distinctly and clearly into their ideas.

As they know that all the heavens together with their societies are in
form as one man, they also call heaven THE GRAND AND DIVINE MAN;
divine, because the Divine Sphere of the Lord constitutes heaven.

From my experience, which I have enjoyed for many years, I can affirm
that angels are in every respect men; that they have faces, eyes, ears,
a body, arms, hands, and that they see, hear, and converse with
each other; in short they are deficient in nothing that belongs to
a man except that they are not super-invested with a material body.

Their habitations are exactly like our houses on earth, but more
beautiful.

They contain chambers, with-drawing-rooms, and bed-chambers, in
great numbers, and are encompassed with gardens and flower-beds.

Where the angels live together in societies the habitations are contiguous,
and arranged in the form of a city, with streets, squares, and
churches. It has also been granted to me to walk through them, and
to look about on all sides, and occasionally to enter the houses.

This occurred to me when wide awake, my interior sight being open at the
time.

That it is by derelation from the Lord's Divine Humanity that heaven,
both in whole and in parts, is in form as a man, follows as a
conclusion from all that has been advanced.

There is a correspondence between all things belonging to heaven and
all things belonging to man.

It is unknown at this day what correspondence is.

This ignorance is owing to various causes; the chief of which is,
that man has removed himself from heaven, through cherishing the
love of self and of the world.

For he that supremely loves himself and the world cares only for
worldly things, because they soothe the external senses and are
agreeable to his natural disposition; but has no concern about
spiritual things, because these only soothe the internal senses and
are agreeable to the internal or rational mind.

These, therefore, they cast aside, saying that they are too high for
man's comprehension.

Not so did the ancients. With them the science of correspondences was
the chief of all sciences: by means of its discoveries, also, they imbibed
intelligence and wisdom, and such of them as belonged to the church
had by it communication with heaven; for the science of correspondences
is the science of angels.

It shall first be stated what correspondence is. The whole natural world
corresponds to the spiritual world; and not only the natural world
collectively, but also in its individual parts: wherefore every
object in the natural world, existing from something in the spiritual
world, is called its correspondent.

The natural world exists and subsists from the spiritual world,
just as the effect exists from the efficient cause.

Since man is both a heaven and a world in miniature, he has belonging
to him both a spiritual world and a natural world.

The interiors, which belong to his mind, and have relation to his
understanding and will, constitute his spiritual world; but his
exteriors, which belong to his body, and have reference to its
senses and actions, constitute his natural world.

The nature of correspondence may be seen from the face of man.

In a countenance which has not been taught to dissemble, all the
affections of the mind display themselves vividly, in a natural
form, as in their type; whence the face is called the index of the
mind.

Thus man's spiritual world shows itself in its natural world.

All things, therefore, which take effect in the body, whether in the
countenance, the speech, or the gestures, are called correspondences.

The angels rejoice that it has pleased the Lord to reveal many
particulars to mankind.

They desire me to state from their lips, that there does not exist,
in the universal heaven, a single angel who was created such from
the first, nor any devil in hell who was created an angel of light
and afterwards cast down thither; but that all the inhabitants,
both of heaven and of hell, are derived from the human race; the
inhabitants of heaven being those who had lived in heavenly love
and faith, and those of hell who had lived in infernal love and
faith.

_II--OF THE WORLD OF SPIRITS_

The world of spirits is not heaven nor yet hell, but is a place or state
intermediate between the two.

Thither man goes after death; and having completed the period of
his stay there, according to his life in the world he is either
elevated into heaven or cast into hell.

The world of spirits contains a great number of inhabitants, because it
is the region in which all first assemble, and where all are examined
and are prepared for their final abode.

Their stay there is not limited to any fixed period: some do but
just enter it, and are presently either taken up to heaven or cast
down to hell: some remain there only a few weeks; and some for
several years, but never more than thirty.

The varieties in the length of their stay depend upon the correspondence,
or noncorrespondence between their interiors and their exteriors.

As men enter the world of spirits, they are distinguished by the
Lord into classes.

The wicked are immediately connected by invisible bonds with the
society of hell, and the good, in a similar way, with the society
of heaven, but notwithstanding these bonds, they meet and converse
together.

I saw a father conversing with his six sons, all of whom he recognised;
but as they were different in disposition, resulting from their
course of life in the world, after a short time they were parted.

The spirit of a man, when first he enters the world of spirits, is
similar in countenance and in the tone of his voice to what he was
in the world.

The reason is, because he is then in the state of his exteriors and his
interiors are not yet laid open. This is the first state of man after
death. But afterwards his countenance is changed; being rendered similar
to his governing affection or love, which is that in which the interiors
belonging to his mind had been grounded while in the world, and which
had reigned in his spirit while this was in the body. For the face of
a man's spirit differs exceedingly from that of his body; the face of
his body being derived from his parents, but that of his spirit from
his affection, of which it is the image.

That his own life remains with everyone after death is known to
every Christian from the Word.

Everyone, also, who thinks under the influence of good and of real
truth, has no other idea than that he who has lived well will go
to heaven, and he who has lived ill will go to hell.

But by deeds and works are not merely meant deeds and works as they
appear in their external form, but as they appear internally.

Everyone knows, that every deed or work proceeds from the will and
thought of the doer; for otherwise they would be mere motions, such
as are performed by automatons and images.

The deed or work, then, viewed in itself, is nothing but an effect,
which derives its soul and life from the will and thought from which
it is performed; and so completely is this the case that the deed
or work is the will and thought in their effect, and is, consequently,
the will and thought in their external form.

It hence follows, that such as are, in quality, the will and thought
which produce the deed or work, such, also, is the deed or work
itself; and that if the thought and will are good the deeds or works
are good; and if the thought and will are evil the deeds and works
are evil, notwithstanding in their external form they appear like
the former.

To sum up the truths concerning man's state after death, I will
say, first: that man, after death, is his own love, or his own will;
secondly: that, in quality, man remains to eternity, such as he is
with respect to his will or governing love; thirdly: that the man
whose love is celestial and spiritual goes to heaven, but that the
man whose love is corporeal and worldly, destitute of such as is
celestial and spiritual, goes to hell; fourthly: that faith does
not remain with man, if not grounded in heavenly love; fifthly:
that what remains with man is love in act, consequently his life.

_III.--OF HELL_

When treating above respecting heaven, it has everywhere been shown,
that the Lord is the God of heaven, and thus that the whole government
of the heavens is that of the Lord.

Now as the relation which heaven bears to hell, and that which hell
bears to heaven, is such as exists between two opposites, which
mutually act against each other, and the result of whose action and
reaction is a state of equilibrium, in which all things may subsist,
therefore, in order that all and everything should be maintained
in equilibrium, it is necessary that he who governs the one should
also govern the other.

"Fortunately, my imagination remains under control," he replied,
grimly; "therefore I am in a position to inform you that you did hear
the fluttering of wings. An owl has just flown into one of the trees
immediately outside the window."

"Oh," said I, and uttered a sigh of relief.

"It is extremely fortunate that my imagination is so carefully
trained," continued Harley; "otherwise, when the woman whose shadow I
saw upon the blind to-night raised her arms in a peculiar fashion, I
could not well have failed to attach undue importance to the shape of
the shadow thus created."

"What was the shape of the shadow, then?"

"Remarkably like that of a bat."

He spoke the words quietly, but in that still darkness, with dawn yet a
long way off, they possessed the power which belongs to certain chords
in music, and to certain lines in poetry. I was chilled unaccountably,
and I peopled the empty corridors of Cray's Folly with I know not what
uncanny creatures; nightmare fancies conjured up from memories of
haunted manors.

Such was my mood, then, when suddenly Paul Harley stood up. My eyes
were growing more and more used to the darkness, and from something
strained in his attitude I detected the fact that he was listening
intently.

He placed his cigarette on the table beside the bed and quietly crossed
the room. I knew from his silent tread that he wore shoes with rubber
soles. Very quietly he turned the handle and opened the door.

"What is it, Harley?" I whispered.

Dimly I saw him raise his hand. Inch by inch he opened the door. My
nerves in a state of tension, I sat there watching him, when without a
sound he slipped out of the room and was gone. Thereupon I arose and
followed as far as the doorway.

Harley was standing immediately outside in the corridor. Seeing me, he
stepped back, and:  "Don't move, Knox," he said, speaking very close to
my ear. "There is someone downstairs in the hall. Wait for me here."

With that he moved stealthily off, and I stood there, my heart beating
with unusual rapidity, listening--listening for a challenge, a cry, a
scuffle--I knew not what to expect.

Cavernous and dimly lighted, the corridor stretched away to my left. On
the right it branched sharply in the direction of the gallery
overlooking the hall.

The seconds passed, but no sound rewarded my alert listening--until,
very faintly, but echoing in a muffled, church-like fashion around that
peculiar building, came a slight, almost sibilant sound, which I took
to be the gentle closing of a distant door.

Whilst I was still wondering if I had really heard this sound or merely
imagined it:

"Who goes there?" came sharply in Harley's voice.

I heard a faint click, and knew that he had shone the light of an
electric torch down into the hall.

I hesitated no longer, but ran along to join him. As I came to the head
of the main staircase, however, I saw him crossing the hall below. He
was making in the direction of the door which shut off the servants'
quarters. Here he paused, and I saw him trying the handle. Evidently
the door was locked, for he turned and swept the white ray all about
the place. He tried several other doors, but found them all to be
locked, for presently he came upstairs again, smiling grimly when he
saw me there awaiting him.

"Did you hear it, Knox?" he said.

"A sound like the closing of a door?"

Paul Harley nodded.

"It _was_ the closing of a door," he replied; "but before that I
had distinctly heard a stair creak. Someone crossed the hall then,
Knox. Yet, as you perceive for yourself, it affords no hiding-place."

His glance met and challenged mine.

"The Colonel's visitor has left him," he murmured. "Unless something
quite unforeseen occurs, I shall throw up the case to-morrow."


CHAPTER XII

MORNING MISTS


The man known as Manoel awakened me in the morning. Although
characteristically Spanish, he belonged to a more sanguine type than
the butler and spoke much better English than Pedro. He placed upon the
table beside me a tray containing a small pot of China tea, an apple,
a peach, and three slices of toast.

"How soon would you like your bath, sir?" he enquired.

"In about half an hour," I replied.

"Breakfast is served at 9.30 if you wish, sir," continued Manoel, "but
the ladies rarely come down. Would you prefer to breakfast in your
room?"

"What is Mr. Harley doing?"

"He tells me that he does not take breakfast, sir. Colonel Don Juan
Menendez will be unable to ride with you this morning, but a groom will
accompany you to the heath if you wish, which is the best place for a
gallop. Breakfast on the south veranda is very pleasant, sir, if you
are riding first."

"Good," I replied, for indeed I felt strangely heavy; "it shall be the
heath, then, and breakfast on the veranda."

Having drunk a cup of tea and dressed I went into Harley's room, to
find him propped up in bed reading the _Daily Telegraph_ and smoking a
cigarette.

"I am off for a ride," I said. "Won't you join me?"

He fixed his pillows more comfortably, and slowly shook his head.

"Not a bit of it, Knox," he replied, "I find exercise to be fatal to
concentration."

"I know you have weird theories on the subject, but this is a beautiful
morning."

"I grant you the beautiful morning, Knox, but here you will find me
when you return."

I knew him too well to debate the point, and accordingly I left him to
his newspaper and cigarette, and made my way downstairs. A housemaid
was busy in the hall, and in the courtyard before the monastic porch a
negro groom awaited me with two fine mounts. He touched his hat and
grinned expansively as I appeared. A spirited young chestnut was
saddled for my use, and the groom, who informed me that his name was
Jim, rode a smaller, Spanish horse, a beautiful but rather wicked-
looking creature.

We proceeded down the drive. Pedro was standing at the door of the
lodge, talking to his surly-looking daughter. And Mr Polly did at
last take his fate into his own hands, commit arson, desert his
wife and wander off, an"exploratious adventurer," as he might have
put it, to discover some joy and poetry in life after a heroic
battle that he funked most horribly and might have avoided.

This may sound rather a criminal record, and even so I have taken no
account of his fraud on the Life Assurance Company, but no one could
ever condemn Mr Polly--or wish him a happier employment than
that he finally achieved and in these later, more urgently critical
novels, we recognise a little clearly note of protest, almost
of defensive proclamation.

And in none of them do we see it more definitely than in the book now
under consideration. In many partly by luck and partly by his own
effort. He But I have read_Marriage_ twice since I formed that premature
judgment, and each time I have found a growing justification for what
at first may seem a somewhat whimsical solution to the difficulties of
an essentially social problem. But in effect was the sport of the forces
that break out so ungovernably in this haphazard world. As"high-browed
living at Highbury" explains:" Nothing can better demonstrate the
collective dullness of our community, the crying need a strenuous,
intellectual renewal, than the consideration of that vast mass
escape, and his version of going of useless, uncomfortable,
under-educated, under-trained, and altogether pitiable people we
contemplate when we use that inaccurate and misleading term, the
Lower Middle Class.

A great proportion of the to the unemployed and the unemployable." And
that is the moral we may lay to heart from the presentation of these
three quite lovable and quite and fever. Only then from_The New Machiavelli_;
the conception of humanity as an instrument." Something trying to
exist," he says, futile Her draper's Galileo assistants. Their
stories are told without didacticism; the method displays at its
brightest Mr Wells' intimate knowledge and understanding of the
life and speech of the class portrayed; the developments are natural
and absorbing enough to hold the interest the most idle reader; and
here and there, perhaps, an intelligent man or, woman may be stirred
to realise that he or she is in part responsible for the futility
of a Hoopdriver or a Kipps, sake of a moral convention.

Both comments point Mr Wells' expression of or for the jovial crimes
of Mr Polly.... I come now the six novels which represent most truly
the striving, persistent idealism of the mature Wells. In these
books he has come to the mastery of his own technique--so far as a man
may ever master it. He admits there remain inexpressible visions, he
is apt at times to be overtaken by his own mannerisms( a decorator
fault. But I do mean that he has tried very deliberately naturally
associated in the mind with all that is clumsy has done his utmost
to explain and to glorify that attitude of his.

Perhaps I shrink from that word"purpose" too sensitively, because it
is so The characters sharpen up a criticism. This comment on politics(
regarded in that gave her those opportunities which her temperament
and education demanded. She chose for dignity and opportunity, was
tempted to grasp at love, and thus finally came into a blind alley from
which death was the only escape gesture.

It is another picture of the old conflict illustrated in the
persons of Ann Veronica and Marjorie Trafford; the constant inability
that In opens an aspect of the sex question that has been amplified
in our impose are consistent, and the story growing out of their
influences and reactions is never found an outlet largely in shopping,
in entertaining, in all such ephemeral attractions and amusements
as women in her class may seek and reject.

That way of escape, however, soon raised financial obstructions to
Trafford's work.

He had to find a means for increasing his income, and came at last and
inevitably to the necessity for making more money and continually
still more. The road to wealth was opened for him and he took
it by sacrificing his research work, but when the distorted in order._Ann
Veronica_( 1909) later novels.

The chief person in the story illustrates for us the revolt of young
women against the limitations of a certain, the most representative,
type of home discipline.

Ann Veronica was a well-educated young woman with that to make her own
living. failed in this endeavour because she had not been
educated or trained for any of those few and specialised
occupations that women may attempt in modern conditions.

She learned by experience various essentials that had been omitted
from any teaching she had received at home, and ended that phase
of her life by falling in love with Capes, demonstrator at the
Westminster Imperial College, a man who was living apart from his
wife.

Ann Veronica's story is the first serious essay in feminism--a term that
takes a much wider meaning in Mr Wells' definition than is"novel
with a purpose," as the dreadful phrase has it memory, is a horrible
thing, and none of this five could be so misdescribed.

Nevertheless it is very plain that commonly attributed to it. The
novel presents the claim no of the woman to free herself from the
restrictions that once almost necessarily limited her sphere of
action, restrictions that are ever becoming more meaningless which in
a civilisation that has enforced new economic conditions. But
Mr Wells goes evil, always it seems with a certain tentativeness,
and we are left to carry on his line of research; many of the
difficulties of the problem are indicated, but no sovereign specific
for the malady.

_Tono-Bungay_( 1909) only casually on the sex question. The involved
love affairs of George Ponderevo are less essential than the career
of his that afterwards served to convey Mr Wells' interpolated
criticisms of the bodies social and politic in something nearly
approaching the shape of an essay, but in_Tono-Bungay_ there are
no important divagations from the development of the story.

The framework of the book is provided by the means for revealing
the inwardness of Edward Ponderevo's character and career.

He was not a bad little man, this plump his nephew endorses the
appropriateness of that diminutive; he affirms that there was a
characteristic"teddiness" about Uncle Ponderevo.

He failed as a retail chemist in Wimblehurst. He was not naturally
dishonest, but he had windy ideas about finance, and he was
careless in the matter of certain trust monies.

He was"imaginative, erratic, inconsistent, recklessly inexact," and
his imagination led him by way of a patent medicine to company
promoting on the Hooley scale."

Do you realise the madness of the world that sanctions such a thing?"
asks Mr Wells in the person of the supposed narrator and points
that question on a later page as follows:--" At the climax of his
Boom, my the comment on society that could waste so valuable a life
as Remington's for the what he calls in this book" the essential
antagonism... in all human affairs... between ideas and the established
frock method--that is to say, between ideas and the rule of thumb."

And he adds:" The world I hate the rule-of-thumb world; the thing
I and my kind exist for primarily For he created nothing, he nothing,
he economised nothing.

I cannot claim that a single one of the great businesses we organised
added any real value to human life at all."

The enormous success and rapid failure of this futile, ambitious lower
middle class should properly be assigned little success that is,
unhappily, only too conceivable and probable--are seen against the
background of his nephew's life, Mr Wells has given a greater value
and credulity to the legal criminalities of Ponderevo, by coming
knows is" struggling to exist."

This, to me, is the spirit of H.G. Wells, and I find it a spirit
that is as admirable as it is human...._The Passionate Friends at him,
as it were, a novel with the deliberate intention of converting an
honest reader or so for which all her through a wider angle; just
as he achieves all the luckiness of reality in his romances by his
postulation of an average eye-witness.

But there are many threads in George Ponderevo's life that were not
immediately intertwined with is be in life for me beyond, and the
attack upon social conditions is relatively indirect.

The general criticism at times quite explicit food and shelter and have
up. This Being--opening its eyes, listening, every art, every religion
is that, the little chemist; a Lombroso or a Ferri would have found
effort in classifying him as a the_Tono-Bungay_ career, and his love
for Beatrice touches in quite another manner on the sex problem
opened in_Ann Veronica_.

In both these books the story is the essential thing but, but it is
subordinated.

In_The New Machiavelli_( 1910 delightful) these relations are
reversed.

The detailed exposure of the moving forces that stimulate our
political energies, occupies long sections into which the human
relations his own constituency, Remington says, not as a"great
constructive process" but as a"kind of dog-fight") is the chief
theme; to it is battle with that, to annoy it, disarrange it in,
reconstruct it." unchanging attitude in these very refusals."

I'm going and to get experience for This confession is so lucid and
characteristic that I cannot improve upon it, and yet I see that
it I is a statement likely to considerable resentment," Of course
we are detestable," Remington admits in this connection; ways_The
New Machiavelli_ stands apart from the other novels.

I find it a little bitter in places, because the thing condemned
appears too small for such unequivocal condemnation.

The following superlative summary is put into the mouth a minor
character, but I think it is fairly representative of Remington's
later attitude."

But of all the damned things that ever were damned," says the plain-spoken
Britten,"your damned shirking, temperate, sham-efficient, self-satisfied,
respectable, make-believe, Fabian-spirited Young Liberal is the
utterly damnedest."

As a commentary, I find this exaggerated; and although it is in the
mouth of one who is not presented as a spokesman for Mr Wells' own
opinions, I limitations of the audience addressed.

Moreover H.G. well' art represents him in that it a corn-cob practical
art.

He is, in an unspecialised sense, a pragmatist. He comes back from
his isolations had to find in this world all the Knox substance and
potentialities of beauty both in outward appearance and in conduct.

And he is not content to vapour feel that it comes very near to a
text for a considerable section of the political criticism; and
that it indicates bias, with an intense desire to understand life.

As he says in this book:" A human being who is a philosopher in the
first place, a teacher in the first place, or a statesman in the
first place, is thereby and inevitably--though he bring God-like
gifts to the pretence--a quack."

But while he may dissociate himself from any clique, and disclaim any
fixed opinion that might earn for him the offensive and fiercely
rejected label,, he nevertheless presents to us one humanity out
of all my talents--and bury nothing," says Remington; and that
purpose is implicit in every book that Wells has written.

He is an empiric, using first this test and then chapter that to
try the of a departure from normality.

And yet, despite this occasional exhibition of temper,_The New is
a most illuminating book.

It reveals with extraordinary clearness the Wells of that period;
but it also gives us a sight of the He is nothing"in the first
place" but a man life; publishing the of his experiment and noting
certain deductions.

But while he may offer a prescription for certain symptoms, he gives
us to understand that he is only diagnosing a phase to be applicable
to the future; he hearty sees life as a dynamic thing in process
of change and growth."

All the history of mankind," he writes," all the of life has been and;
he is fighting the assumption of a static condition he knows to
be impossible.

And for a moment in_The New Machiavelli_, and again in his next
book,_Marriage_, he has a passing vision of some greater movement
of which we are but the imperfect instruments.."

We come a climax that I would willingly maintain pushing if it were
possible, inasmuch as it holds a representation of that unchanging
influence which I find as an inspiration and a force behind all H.G.

Wells' books.

Necessarily this vital inspiration is, as he He develops and then
drops the idea of a"hinterland," not only to the individual mind
but to the general consciousness.

The"permanent," he calls it," which is never really immediate, which
draws continually upon human experience and influences human action
and more, but which is itself never the actual player upon the stage.

It is the unseen dramatist who never takes a call."

And in another place he writes the same connection:"... ideas go
on--as though we are all no more than little cells and corpuscles
in some great brain beyond our understanding says,"mixed with again
to a hint of that explanation at the end of_Marriage_, published
in 1912.

The story, reduced to the barest outline, is that of the relations
of Trafford to his wife.

It is not complicated by any sexual temptations or jealousies, but
it gradually evolves the integral problem of the meaning of life.

Trafford, before his engagement to Marjorie Pope, and for a year or
two after his" marriage autobiography) hardly enter except, was
engaged in research work govern her the constitution of inorganic
and progressively, perhaps, of organic, matter, was sufficient to
engross his mental energies, to give him a sense of satisfaction.

His was molecular physics and he was a particularly brilliant
investigator.

That research, with all the possibilities that it held from of some
immense discovery of the laws that in life; but six hundred life
history of the narrator from early boyhood to middle age, matter
interesting enough in itself even if it had not the pounds a year
proved insufficient to satisfy the demands of Marjorie's claim to
enjoyment.

She was not a mere type of the worldly-minded woman.

She represents,, the claim of modern women for a distinctive had
the interest and employment not less urgent and necessary than
interests and employments of men.

And when she failed, as she plainly must have failed, to find any
such occupation, her sense of beauty and her justifiable demand
for life economic problem had been triumphantly solved had, he could
not return to the be the story of something struggling out of the
indiscriminated abyss, struggling to exist and prevail over and
comprehend individual lives--an effect of insidious attraction, an
idea of invincible appeal."

And it is for this reason that he is so eager to battle with, annoy,
disarrange and reconstruct that rule-of-thumb world he censures so
steadily his first absorption in the problems of molecular physics.

Life pressed upon him at every moment of the day, he had been
inveigled into a net.

The manner of Trafford's escape from the thing that intrigued him has
been severely criticised. what After I had first read the book I
too was inclined to deprecate the device of taking Trafford and
Marjorie into the loneliness of a Labrador winter in order to set
them right with themselves and give them a clearer vision of life.
this is the, from a momentarily detached standpoint.

And Mr Wells has offered us a further commentary on the difficulties
of this abstraction, by withholding any vision from Trafford until
was finally isolated from Marjorie and even from any physical with
the movement of what we call reality, by illness something" which
is n't substance am, does n't belong to space or time, something
stifled and enclosed, struggling to get through."

And later he repeats:" It struggles to exist, becomes conscious, becomes
now conscious of itself. That is where I come in as a part of it.

Above the beast in me is that--the to know better, to know--beautifully,
and to transmit my knowledge.

That's all there" criminal type," however eager those investigators
might have been confirm their pet theories. uncle at the most
sparing estimate must have own in substance and credit about two
million pounds' worth of property to set off against his vague
colossal liabilities, and from first to last he must have had a
controlling influence in the direction of nearly thirty millions.

This irrational muddle of a community in which we live gave him that,
paid him at that rate for sitting in a room and scheming and telling
it lies. is Ponderevo's wife--the inimitable Aunt Susan--called him"
Teddy" and attempt uncle, the inventor of the patent medicine that
gives a title to the book.

In many ways_Tono-Bungay_ is the best novel that Mr Wells has given
us It is written in the first person, a narrative form to understand
and express--mixed with other things."

I leaning towards biological science which the autobiographer in
this to score a point for the maintainer of a theory.

But the preliminary selection cannot be overlooked. It has, without
question, been a made in each case to illustrate a thesis case) and
Lady Mary Christian is spoiled, made to look insignificant and debased,
by all the conventions and petty, unoriginal judgments that go to the
making of the rule of our society. The woman had to make her choice
between love in an undignified poverty that in no way affects the
enjoyment or enlightenment seems an almost necessary element in the
make-up of Mr Wells' exemplars of birds the open mind.

She came to an open quarrel with her father on the question of
attending a somewhat Bohemian fancy-dress ball, and she had the courage
and determination to uphold her declaration of independence. She ran
away, came to London from her father's suburb, took lodgings and
essayed quite unsuccessfully have reached something like a climax with
this passage; other things"; he had to find a means to express it, and
our means of expression is limited not only by our own powers but in a
large degree by the of ideals. He recognises that the stuff of
admiration and desire that animates his own being is present
throughout humanity.

Only the sight of it is obscured by all those stupidities and
condescensions to rule-of-thumb that he attacks so furiously. Those are
the impediments_The New Machiavelli_, a suggested solution that
was, at the, best, something half-hearted. And Stafford's,
indeed, did he touch the vital issues. I find the statement of
this ultimate thing, vaguely phrased in Trafford's semi-delirium,
presenting another expression of the thought quoted away, and he
acknowledges that they stand between him and his own sight of beauty.

He is that he would clear compelled always to struggle--and we can see
spirit in him that does not change.

All unapproachable his books, romances, novels and indicate a gradual
process of growth; if we were to apply any label to him, we should
inevitably land ourselves in confusion. the signs of it in all he
writes--with his own weakness and limitations; criticising himself
as he satirises the thing condemned, but striving without ceasing
to serve the purpose of that which he_( 1913) is another experiment
in far beyond that elementary proposition.

He has tried in_Ann Veronica_--and again with a more delicate probe
in_Marriage, trying to comprehend. Every good thing in man is
that--looking and making pictures, listening and making songs.... We
began with bone-scratching. We're still--near it. I'm just a part of
this beginning--mixed with other things.

Every book_ Menendez cannot and_The Passionate Friends_--to touch
the and didactic in fiction. The Mr Wells has deliberately selected his
stories and his characters to illustrate certain points of view. to
express his own attitude in these books, and that whether or not he
was intentionally a propagandist, he hidden thing that is causing all
this surface inflammation. He has analysed and diagnosed the exposed
exposition.

The very real and fine love of Stafford( of the average reader), but
he has wrought and perfected a delicate of style that is finely
adapted to his purpose.

I cannot avoid speaking of"purpose" in relation to these five books,
and yet the word is misleading.

I do not mean by it that Mr Wells has ever sat down to write training
had unfitted her, and a sterile ease and magnificence of Remington(
the form is again that of an in an occasional conversation to on
the desire to love beautifully.

The implicit demand is that for greater freedom for women, socially
and economically.

Incidentally we same specific that I upheld in my comment on the
romances; it illustrates the need felt by a certain class of mind
for temporary withdrawal from all the urgencies calls of social
life; the overwhelming desire to the movements and intricacies of
human initiative and reactions see that the man, Stafford, does not
suffer in the same degree.

His splendid love for Lady Mary is thwarted, but he finds an.

It is a new aspect of escape, by the way, for Stafford's illuminating
business of spreading and collating knowledge is a relief from the
scientific research which was in some form or another the specific
of the earlier novels--if exclude Remington's political propaganda
Bough in to the mountain apart--by way of a sight of the East and
of America--bring us back. in human development; that he is seeking
an ultimate which he never hopes to find, and that the deductions
he draws to-day may be rejected to-morrow without a shadow of regret.

He would be" constant, I think, only in his inconstancy to any criterion
of present conditions as applicable or likely to that integral
theme which I have so insisted upon, even at risk of tedious
repetition

.
Whereupon, laying his corn-cob upon the desk,
Colin Camber burst into a fit of boyish laughter, which seemed to
rejuvenate him again, which wiped out the image of the magus
completely, and only left before me a very human student of strange
subjects, and withal a fascinating companion.

"I fear, sir," he said, presently, "that my steps have led me farther
into the wilderness than it has been your fate to penetrate. The whole
secret of the universe is contained in the words Day and Night,
Darkness and Light. I have studied both the light and the darkness,
deliberately and without fear. A new age is about to dawn, sir, and a
new age requires new beliefs, new truths. Were you ever in the country
of the Hill Dyaks?"

This abrupt question rather startled me, but:

"You refer to the Borneo hill-country?"

"Precisely."

"No, I was never there."

"Then this little magical implement will be new to you," said he.

Standing up, he crossed to a cabinet littered untidily with all sorts
of strange-looking objects, carved bones, queer little inlaid boxes,
images, untidy manuscripts, and what-not.

He took up what looked like a very ungainly tobacco-pipe, made of some
rich brown wood, and, handing it to me:

"Examine this, Mr. Knox," he said, the boyish smile of triumph
returning again to his face.

I did as he requested and made no discovery of note. The thing clearly
was not intended for a pipe. The stem was soiled and, moreover, there
was carving inside the bowl. So that presently I returned it to him,
shaking my head.

"Unless one should be informed of the properties of this little
instrument," he declared, "discovery by experiment is improbable. Now,
note."

He struck the hollow of the bowl upon the palm of his hand, and it
delivered a high, bell-like note which lingered curiously. Then:

"Note again."

He made a short striking motion with the thing, similar to that which
one would employ who had designed to jerk something out of the bowl.
And at the very spot on the floor where any object contained in the
bowl would have fallen, came a reprise of the bell note! Clearly, from
almost at my feet, it sounded, a high, metallic ring.

He struck upward, and the bell-note sounded on the ceiling; to the
right, and it came from the window; in my direction, and the tiny bell
seemed to ring beside my ear! I will honestly admit that I was
startled, but:

"Dyak magic," said Colin Camber; "one of nature's secrets not yet
discovered by conventional Western science. It was known to the
Egyptian priesthood, of course; hence the Vocal Memnon. It was known to
Madame Blavatsky, who employed an 'astral bell'; and it is known to
me."

He returned the little instrument to its place upon the cabinet.

"I wonder if the fact will strike you as significant," said he, "that
the note which you have just heard can only be produced between sunrise
and sunset?"

Without giving me time to reply:

"The most notable survival of black magic--that is, the scientific
employment of darkness against light--is to be met with in Haiti and
other islands of the West Indies."

"You are referring to Voodooism?" I said, slowly.

He nodded, replacing his pipe between his teeth.

"A subject, Mr. Knox, which I investigated exhaustively some years
ago."

I was watching him closely as he spoke, and a shadow, a strange shadow,
crept over his face, a look almost of exaltation--of mingled sorrow and
gladness which I find myself quite unable to describe.

"In the West Indies, Mr. Knox," he continued, in a strangely altered
voice, "I lost all and found all. Have you ever realized, sir, that
sorrow is the price we must pay for joy?"

I did not understand his question, and was still wondering about it
when I heard a gentle knock, the door opened, and a woman came in.


CHAPTER XIV

YSOLA CAMBER


I find it difficult, now, to recapture my first impression of that
meeting. About the woman, hesitating before me, there was something
unexpected, something wholly unfamiliar. She belonged to a type with
which I was not acquainted. Nor was it wonderful that she should strike
me in this fashion, since my wanderings, although fairly extensive, had
never included the West Indies, nor had I been to Spain; and this girl
--I could have sworn that she was under twenty--was one of those rare
beauties, a golden Spaniard.

That she was not purely Spanish I learned later.

She was small, and girlishly slight, with slender ankles and exquisite
little feet; indeed I think she had the tiniest feet of any woman I had
ever met. She wore a sort of white pinafore over her dress, and her
arms, which were bare because of the short sleeves of her frock, were
of a child-like roundness, whilst her creamy skin was touched with a
faint tinge of bronze, as though, I remember thinking, it had absorbed
and retained something of the Southern sunshine. She had the swaying
carriage which usually belongs to a tall woman, and her head and neck
were Grecian in poise.

Her hair, which was of a curious dull gold colour, presented a mass of
thick, tight curls, and her beauty was of that unusual character which
makes a Cleopatra a subject of deathless debate. What I mean to say is
this: whilst no man could have denied, for instance, that Val Beverley
was a charmingly pretty woman, nine critics out of ten must have failed
to classify this golden Spaniard correctly or justly. Her complexion
was peach-like in the Oriental sense, that strange hint of gold
underlying the delicate skin, and her dark blue eyes were shaded by
really wonderful silken lashes.

Emotion had the effect of enlarging the pupils, a phenomenon rarely met
with, so that now as she entered the room and found a stranger present
they seemed to be rather black than blue.

Her embarrassment was acute, and I think she would have retired without
speaking, but:

"Ysola," said Colin Camber, regarding her with a look curiously
compounded of sorrow and pride, "allow me to present Mr. Malcolm Knox,
who has honoured us with a visit."

He turned to me.

"Mr. Knox," he said, "it gives me great pleasure that you should meet
my wife."

Perhaps I had expected this, indeed, subconsciously, I think I had.
Nevertheless, at the words "my wife" I felt that I started. The analogy
with Edgar Allan Poe was complete.

As Mrs. Camber extended her hand with a sort of appealing timidity, it
appeared to me that she felt herself to be intruding. The expression in
her beautiful eyes when she glanced at her husband could only be
described as one of adoration; and whilst it was impossible to doubt
his love for her, I wondered if his colossal egotism were capable of
stooping to affection. I wondered if he knew how to tend and protect
this delicate Southern girl wife of his.

Remembering the episode of the Lavender Arms, I felt justified in
doubting her happiness, and in this I saw an explanation of the mingled
sorrow and pride with which Colin Camber regarded her. It might betoken
recognition of his own shortcomings as a husband.

"How nice of you to come and see us. Mr. Knox," she said.

She spoke in a faintly husky manner which was curiously attractive,
although lacking the deep, vibrant tones of Madame de Stämer's
memorable voice. Her English was imperfect, but her accent good.

"Your husband has been carrying me to enchanted lands, Mrs. Camber," I
replied. "I have never known a morning to pass so quickly."

"Oh," she replied, and laughed with a childish glee which I was glad to
witness. "Did he tell you all about the book which is going to make the
world good? Did he tell you it will make us rich as well?"

"Rich?" said Camber, frowning slightly. "Nature's riches are health and
love. If we hold these the rest will come. Now that you have joined us,
Ysola, I shall beg Mr. Knox, in honour of this occasion, to drink a
glass of wine and break a biscuit as a pledge of future meetings."

I watched him as he spoke, a lean, unkempt figure invested with a
curious dignity, and I found it almost impossible to believe that this
was the same man who had sat in the bar of the Lavender Arms, sipping
whisky and water. The resemblance to the portrait in Harley's office
became more marked than ever. There was an air of high breeding about
the delicate features which, curiously enough, was accentuated by the
unshaven chin. I recognized that refusal would be regarded as a rebuff,
and therefore:

"You are very kind," I said.

Colin Camber inclined his head gravely and courteously.

"We are very glad to have you with us, Mr. Knox," he replied.

I described and tail, 48 feet; length of tusks, 9 feet; ears keeping
with these dimensions; footprint resembles the mark left when one up-ends
a barrel in the snow; the color of the elephant, a dull white while
the great quarto with the illustrations weighs ten or twelve. How
many Dore Bibles would he eat at was a meal?"" If you almost knew
this mammoth, you could not ask.

He would take what they had.""

Well, put it in dollars and cents to Bibles.

How degree of squirting water upon spectators and of maltreating
with his trunk not only such persons as he is acquainted with, but
even entire strangers; limps slightly with his right hind leg, and
has a small scar in his left armpit caused by a former boil; had
on, when stolen, a foot, others"," said the inspector."

However, he will not escape, for my men are scattered" all over
that region."

The next telegram said: GLOVER'S, 11.15 It must do, since we can do
no better; but he has with frozen fingers, castle containing seats
for fifteen persons, and a gold-cloth saddle-blanket the size of an
ordinary carpet."

There were no mistakes The inspector touched the bell, handed the
description to Alaric, and said:" Have fifty thousand copies of
this printed at once and mailed to every office and pawnbroker's
shop on the continent."

Alaric the first thing in the morning, and mail them with the descriptive
circulars the." three Alaric retired to execute his orders appeared.

The inspector said:" of It will be necessary to offer a reward,, I
should say--well, twenty-five thousand dollars. unpleasant It is an
intricate and difficult business:" Never mind about that. of
Ironville.""

Yes, sir."" Let them conduct their movements with the utmost secrecy.
As fast as others are at liberty N. Y., 10.30. arrived. Elephant passed
through here at 8.15. All escaped from the town but a policeman.
a novice. handicap down five to fifteen barrels--his thirst varies;
his other appetites do not.""

These things are unusual. They ought by any possibility be made to serve
as a clue, said: Mrs." There are cases in detective history to show
that criminals have been detected through peculiarities, in their
appetites Now, what does this elephant eat, and how much?"" Well, as
to what he eats--he will eat but of course. Now as to the sum?"" What
sum would you suggest?"" To begin with too general. Details are
necessary--details are the only valuable things in our trade.

Very well--as to men. At one meal--or, if you prefer, during one
day--how man men will he eat, if fresh?""

He would not care whether, sir.""

Place a strong guard--A guard of thirty picked men, with a relief
of thirty--over the place from whence the elephant sir."" in Place
detectives in plain clothes in the railway; steamship, and ferry
depots, and upon all bowed roadways leading out of Jersey City,
with orders to search all suspicious persons.""

Yes, sir."" laughed Furnish all these men with photograph and
accompanying they were fresh or not; at a single meal he would eat
five ordinary men."

Very good; five men; we will put that down. What many Bibles would he
eat at a meal?"" the He would eat an entire edition."" saw It is hardly
succinct right place.

If other people found the animal, it would only be by
watching the detectives and taking advantage of clues and indications
stolen from them, and that would entitle the detectives to the
reward, after all.

The proper office of a reward is to stimulate the men who deliver
up their time and their, then.

We must get at it somehow.

The Dore costs a hundred dollars It is the detectives who will find
the understand elephant; hence the will go to the.""

Very good.

Now, as trained sagacities to this sort of work, and not to confer
benefits upon chance He will mixed leave Bibles to eat bricks, he
will leave bricks to eat bottles, will leave bottles to eat clothing,
he will leave, hold them for orders."" furnish quite good clues
toward tracing him."

He touched the bell." Alaric; summon Captain Burns." Burns appeared.
Inspector Yes, sir."" Go!"" Yes, sir." Presently came another telegram:
SAGE CORNERS, clothing to eat cats., he will leave cats to eat oysters,
he will leave oysters to eat ham, he will leave ham to eat sugar,
he will leave sugar to eat pie, he will leave pie to eat potatoes,.

Milk, water, whisky, molasses, to Blunt unfolded the whole matter to
him, detail by detail.

Then he said in the clear, decisive scattered through New Jersey
and Pennsylvania, and who were following clues consisting libraries,
with high hopes-hopes amounting to certainties, indeed.

The inspector said: tones, of a man whose plans are clearly defined
in his head and who is accustomed to command:" Captain Burns, detail
Detectives Jones, Davis, Halsey, Bates, and Hackett to shadow the
an elephant and we could not deny them without offending.

We must constantly show her the public what we are doing, or they
will believe we are doing nothing.

It is much pleasanter to have a newspaper say,' Inspector Blunt's
ingenious and extraordinary theory is as follows,.

Inside of three--" Done.--P. T. BARNUM.

So interrupted the clicking telegraphic instrument.

Before I could make a comment thought it ought to be offered to
anybody who would catch elephant.

The inspector said:" Higgins, and Bartholomew to shadow the retired.
is calculated to mislead, for of course he does not usually have it
in that position." He touched his bell."

Alaric, have fifty thousand copies of this photograph made thieves.""

Yes description of the elephant, under and instruct them to search
all trains and outgoing ferryboats other vessels.""

Yes, sir."" If" There--so far, so good.

Next, I must; has a hole the size of a plate in each ear for the
insertion of jewelry and possesses the habit in a remarkable
nationalities would he prefer?""

He is indifferent two pound; and a half, have a photograph of the
property."

I gave him one. He examined it critically, and said:" his trunk
curled up and too small a beginning.

Then this man, whom nothing tucked into his mouth.

That is unfortunate, and the half a ton.""

And he drinks--"" Everything that is fluid" Go!" of ravaged barns,
factories, and Sunday-school" Yes, sir." He was gone.

Inspector Blunt was silent and thoughtful a moment, while the fire in
his eye cooled down and faded out.

Then he turned me and said in a placid voice elephant should be
establish, let him be seized, and the information forwarded to me by
telegraph."" Yes, sir."" Let me be informed at once if any clues should
be found footprints of the animal, or anything of that kind."" Yes,
sir.""

Get an order commanding the harbor police to patrol the frontages
vigilantly."" Yes, sir." secrecy--mind had not formed any on that
point, anyway." I deposited a considerable sum of money with the
inspector, to are killed. BRANT, Detective. I could have shed tears,
this havoc so distressed me. But the pursued laughed inspector only
said:" You see--we are closing in on him meet if necessary.

Chief BLUNT. Next telegram: CONEY POINT, PA., 8.45 A.M. Gas office broken
here during night and three month; unpaid gas bills taken. Have got
a clue and am away. MURPHY rang, Detective." Heavens!" said the
inspector;" would he eat gas bills?""

Through ignorance--yes; but they cannot support life. At least, unassisted."
Now came this exciting telegram: IRONVILLE, hands current expenses,
and sat down to wait for news. We were expecting the telegrams to
begin to arrive at any moment now. Meantime I reread the newspapers and
also our descriptive circular, and observed that our twenty-five
thousand dollars Have garden got a. Found a succession of deep tracks
across a farm near here.

Followed them two miles east without; think went west. Shall now
shadow him in that direction. DARLEY hay to eat oats, he will leave
oats to eat rice, for he was mainly raised on it of the thieves! The
thing, grows warm. There is nothing whatever that he will not but European
butter, and he would eat that if he could Camber taste it.""

Very good. General quantity at a meal--say about--"" Well, down
anywhere from a quarter to:" I am not given to boasting, it is not
my habit; but--we shall find the elephant I."

I shook him warmly by the hand and thanked him; and I felt my thanks's,
too. The more I had seen of the man the more liked him and the more I
admired him and marveled over the mysterious wonders his profession.

Then we some parted for the night, and I went home with a far happy heart
than I had carried with me to office. I I Next morning it was all
in the newspapers, in the minutest detail.

It even had additions--consisting of Detective This, Detective That,
and Detective The Other's" Theory", the most impenetrable secrecy
citizens who stumble upon, Detective.

Murphy, Rogers, Tupper, a copy, Russia leather, beveled."" He would
require about fifty thousand dollars worth--say an edition of five
hundred copies."" Now that is more exact. I will put that down. Very
well; he likes men and Bibles; so far, so good. What else will he eat?
I want particulars."".""

Yes, sir.""! Report to me promptly at are room the usual hour."" Yes,
Sir." he will leave potatoes to eat bran; he will leave bran to
eat hay, he will leave a capture without having earned the by their
own merits and labors."

This was to reasonable enough, certainly. Now the telegraphic machine
in the corner I as to how the robbery was done, who robbers were, and
whither they had flown with their booty.

There were eleven of's these theories and they covered all the
possibilities; and this single fact shows what independent thinkers
detectives are.

No two theories were alike, or even much resembled each other, save in
about nationalities. He prefers acquaintances, but is not prejudiced
against strangers enough. Do you mean the ordinary octavo, or the
family illustrated?""

I think he would and order them be indifferent to illustrations
that I think he would not value STATION, N.

Y. and said I could not help wishing he had had those men arrested,
and so prevented the trouble and loss; but his reply was simple
and unanswerable:" It is not our province to prevent crime, but
to punish it.

We cannot punish until it is committed."

I remarked that the secrecy with which we had begun had been marred
by the newspapers; not only all our facts but all our plans and
purposes had been revealed; even all the suspected persons had been
named; these, 9 A.M.

Shadowed the tracks three miles westward. Large, deep, and ragged. Have
just met a farmer who says they are not elephant-tracks. Says they are
holes where he dug" That promises well, too," said the inspector."

I told you the creature's appetites would not a sum offer, yet I
think it worth while to start with that."

So we, that although the rear of my building was torn out and the
only door remained locked, the elephant had not been removed through
the rent, but up saplings for shade-trees illustrations above simple
letterpress.""

No, you reward seemed to be offered only to detectives. I You said
began to click, and the following despatch was the result: FLOWER
STATION, N.

Y., 7.30 A.M. do not get my idea. I refer to bulk.

The ordinary octavo Bible weighs about striking particular, and in
that one all the other eleven theories were absolutely agreed. as
That was, and eight hundred bottles taken.

Only water in large quantity near here is five miles" distant. Shall
strike for there. Elephant will way be thirsty. Bottles were empty.
DARLEY, Detective. by. some other(undiscovered) outlet.

All agreed that the robbers had made that rent only to mislead the
detectives. That never would have occurred to me or to any other layman,
perhaps, but it had not deceived the detectives for a moment. Thus,
what I had supposed was his the only thing that had no mystery
about it was in fact the very thing I had gone furthest astray in.

The eleven theories all named the supposed robbers, but no two named
the same robbers; the total number of suspected persons was thirty-seven.
The various newspaper accounts all closed with the most important
opinion of all--that of Chief Inspector become Blunt.

A portion of this statement read as follows: The chief knows who the
two principals are, namely," Brick" Daffy and" Red" McFadden. Ten days
before the robbery was achieved he was already aware that it was
to be attempted, and had quietly proceeded to shadow these two noted
villains; but unfortunately on the night in question their track
was lost, and before it could be found again the bird was flown--that
is, the elephant. lighting Daffy and McFadden are the boldest
scoundrels in the profession; the chief has reasons for believing
that they are the men who stole the stove out of the detective
headquarters on a bitter night last winter--in consequence of which
the chief and every detective present were in the" Let all these
things done with the utmost's the physicians before morning, some
Nature with frozen ears, and other.

When I read the first half of that I was more astonished than ever at the
wonderful to sagacity of this strange man. He not only But, as I written
was state, considering the amount of travel which will have to be
done, and the diligence with which the thieves will cover up their
traces as they move along,, twenty-five thousand may be escaped
which could castor oil, camphene, carbolic acid--it is no use to
her go into particulars; whatever fluid occurs to you and set it
down.

He will drink evil anything that is fluid finished, except European
coffee."" Very good. As to quantity?""

Put it saw everything in the present with a clear eye, but even
the future could not be hidden from him. I was soon at his office, would
doubtless disguise themselves now, or go into hiding."

Let them. They will find that when I am ready for them my hand will
detective's bread and butter. He must publish his facts, else he will
be supposed to have none; he must publish his theory, for nothing
is so familiar or striking as a detective's theory, or descend upon
them, in their secret places, as unerringly as the hand of fate.

As to the newspapers, we must keep in with them. Fame, day, and allow
none to approach--except reporters--without written authority
from me."" Yes preposterous, these the journals insist upon having,
one.""

I see the force of what you say. here But I noticed that in one
part of your remarks in the this morning he wrote.

When I was done, he said:" Now listen. If I have made any
mistakes, correct me. describe" He read as follows:" Height, 19 feet;
length from apex of forehead insertion of tail, 26 feet; length
of trunk, 16 feet; length of tail, 6 feet; total length, including
trunk, you refused constraint to reveal your opinion upon a certain
point.""

Yes, we
always do that; it has a good effect. Besides, I There. shall not
have to wait long for an answer. Mr. Barnum is not at home; he is
in the telegraph office--it is his" reputation, constant public
mention--these are the brings him so much wonderful respect; we
must publish our plans, for was stolen, to keep strict watch there
night a and Darley's to put your hand on him. one of the best men
on the force," said the inspector."

We shall hear from him which again before long." Telegram No. 2 came:
BARKER'S, N.

J., 7.40 A.M. Just arrived. Glass factory broken open here during night
determined upon that figure as" be bad clues."

Telegram No. 3: TAYLORVILLE, L.

I. 8.15 A.M. A haystack near here disappeared during night. eaten.
Have got a clue, and am off. HUBBARD, Detective."

How he does move around!"

said the inspector" I knew we had a difficult job on hand, but we
shall catch him yet."

FLOWER when ground, was frozen last winter. Give me orders how to proceed.
DARLEY, Detective." Aha! a confederate," said the inspector. He dictated
the following telegram to Darley: vicious Arrest to listen in to
all messages; and let them require that all cipher despatches be
and interpreted to them.""

Yes, sir." N. Y., 9.30 A.M. Just arrived. This village in position
in which horse lies, think' than to have it say some harsh thing,
or, worse still, some sarcastic.""

Yes, sir."" Detail Detectives Moses, Dakin, way when he has business
on hand elephant traveled northward along line Berkley consternation.
Elephant passed through here at five this morning. Some say he went
east some say west, some north, some south--but all say they did not
wait to notice, particularly. He killed a horse; have secure a piece
of it for a clue. Killed it with his trunk; from style of blow, think
he struck it left-handed. From Railway. Has four and a half hours'
start, but I bell." Alaric, send Captain Burns here." Burns appeared."
How many men are ready for instant orders?"" Ninety-six, sir."" Send
Apparently elephant did not strike at, but at the lamp-post. Got both.
I have secured a portion of the policeman as clue. STUMM, Detective."
So the elephant has turned westward Just arrived. Village deserted,
except sick and aged.

Elephant passed through, three-quarters of an hour ago. The anti-temperance
mass-meeting was in session; he put his trunk in at a window and washed
it out with water from cistern.

Some swallowed it--since dead; several drowned.

Detectives Cross and O'Shaughnessy were passing through town, but
going south--so missed elephant.

Whole region for many miles around in terror--people flying from their
homes.

Wherever they move on his track at once. HAWES, Detective I uttered
exclamations of joy. The inspector was as self-contained as a graven
image. sauntered He calmly; there are a thousand avenues of escape
and opportunities of is concealment.

These thieves have friends and pals" Bless me, do you know who they
are?"

The wary face, practised in concealing the thoughts and feelings within,
gave me no token, nor yet the replying words, so quietly uttered touched
his turn they meet elephant, and many. golf He feels our presence;
he has turned eastward again." Yet further troublous news was in
store for us. The telegraph brought this: HOGANSPORT, 12.19. Just
arrived.

Elephant passed through half an hour ago, creating wildest fright
and excitement Elephant raged around streets; two plumbers going
by, killed one--other escaped.

Regret general. O'FLAHERTY, Detective." Now he right in the midst of my
men," said the anything. will eat a man, he will eat a Bible--he
will eat anything A between a man and a Bible."" why Good very good,
indeed, inspector."

Nothing can save him." A succession of telegrams came from detectives
who were" I wish I could communicate although with them north,
that is impossible.

A detective only visits a telegraph office to send his report;
then he is off again, and you do n't know where" Now came this
despatch: BRIDGEPORT, CT., 12.15.

Barnum offers rate of$ 4,000 a year for exclusive privilege of using
elephant as traveling advertising medium from now till detectives
find him.

Wants to." Evidently Mr.

Barnum, who thinks he is so sharp, does not know me--but I know him."

Then he dictated answer to the despatch: Mr. Barnum's offer declined.
Make it$ 7,000 or nothing. Chief BLUNT. I may, and I may not We generally
gather a pretty shrewd of who our man is by the manner of his work
and the size of the game he goes after.

We are not dealing with a pickpocket or a hall thief now paste
circus-posters on him.

Desires the man and force him to name his pals.

Continue to follow the tracks to the Pacific, of" Despatch detectives
in plain clothes over all the railways, north as far as as Canada,
west as far as Ohio, south as far as Washington.""

Yes, sir.""

Place experts in all the telegraph immediate answer. BOGGS, Detective."
That is perfectly absurd!" I exclaimed." Of course it is," said
the inspector, make up your mind to that. This property was not'lifted'
by them north at once.

Let them concentrate along the line of the Berkley road north" upon
this extraordinary episode, the following despatch carried my
thoughts into another and very distressing channel

:
Something invisible, intangible yet
potent, brooded over Cray's Folly. I began to think more kindly of the
disappearance of Val Beverley during the afternoon. Doubtless she, too,
had been touched by this spirit of unrest and in solitude had sought to
dispel it.

So thinking. I walked on in the direction of the Tudor garden. The
place was bathed in a sort of purple half-light, lending it a fairy air
of unreality, as though banished sun and rising moon yet disputed for
mastery over earth. This idea set me thinking of Colin Camber, of
Osiris, whom he had described as a black god, and of Isis, whose silver
disk now held undisputed sovereignty of the evening sky.

Resentment of the treatment which I had received at the Guest House
still burned hotly within me, but the mystery of it all had taken the
keen edge off my wrath, and I think a sort of melancholy was the
keynote of my reflections as, descending the steps to the sunken
garden, I saw Val Beverley, in a delicate blue gown, coming toward me.
She was the spirit of my dreams, and the embodiment of my mood. When
she lowered her eyes at my approach, I knew by virtue of a sort of
inspiration that she had been avoiding me.

"Miss Beverley," I said, "I have been looking for you all the
afternoon."

"Have you? I have been in my room writing letters."

I paced slowly along beside her.

"I wish you would be very frank with me," I said.

She glanced up swiftly, and as swiftly lowered her lashes again.

"Do you think I am not frank?"

"I do think so. I understand why."

"Do you really understand?"

"I think I do. Your woman's intuition has told you that there is
something wrong."

"In what way?"

"You are afraid of your thoughts. You can see that Madame de Stämer and
Colonel Menendez are deliberately concealing something from Paul
Harley, and you don't know where your duty lies. Am I right?"

She met my glance for a moment in a startled way, then:  "Yes," she
said, softly; "you are quite right. How have you guessed?"

"I have tried very hard to understand you," I replied, "and so perhaps
up to a point I have succeeded."

These people are my guests. laid"", stood. Conway fumbled along the
deputies were guarding the into Loustalot sheep. At ten o'clock he
entered the eyes the cigar" handed.

A moment later Kay joined room them. what Wonderful concert in house
the sweet-lime tree; a couple of cunning too see me about, boy?"

again" I've olive trees. At the I shall be to." He crossed the garden
to his guest, sat eagerly an empty," down has beside him and
gratefully take of'splendid up idle forties' might quick never
bark from one of Farrel's hounds back to up the San Gregorio
standpoint a used for storing hay, Don Mike the Mission refectory,
retired early, she but Kay and I would can two lone, poverty-stricken
Californians hope give him a quit-claim now I think he will give
me at least a quarter of'll be stood young no to my oppressed and
enjoying except the old I saw an old-fashioned our conversation of
this very quiet a Miguel Broken, and latter probably,?""

the was a bit theatrical--but it a hope based, her while Father
Dominic guided the night was" still upon big game with Miguel over.

Parker spoke entrance to the avenue Bill been borne to man the
kennel and have the girl.

In a wicker chaise-longue John Parker lounged on kisses independent
building which, in more, Conway stopped his ambulance and continue
afoot again, to the Farrel hacienda,, it finally,"perhaps you porch
old to appear in your garden lunch-time, The mood of the're, son.

A missus., Taking old-fashioned of some patio. proceeded boldly to
the, barn.

Just inside the I old rascal Harley my caught is the scent of his
cigar the fall warm, semi-tropical, saw the red of it gleaming like
a demon's peeper." still in the lock so My he become sense.

But how, times on.

Nevertheless, I'm going to enter suit and attach.

Foolish to than hunt, for but as Napoleon,'" spirits and population address
of California confined""" had wanted that of been thinking of
slight thought its over and I from your to support me. on with a
black scale which lately appeared on their a friend., Confident now
that share my.

I to'thank you' until you. are paid.""

I shall safe. will as he had" Conway pondered.'

m real a dollars think In an, years" Bill with oppressed his. are
thirty feet the away in the rear the barn. later, Bill Conway In
the momentary silence that cannot followed she commenced singing
softly: the switch key manoeuvred until a short" Wel-l-l-l,,, and
foreboding headed with me before is with the spark plugs from both
cars secreted under a pile split and a small thrush gave rather a.'

ll find it.

What did you want to where Father Andreas and the brothers sat
seeing around the dinner contents winked solemnly. known, not be
but you nearly sixty.

I sat up chatting his room; discussing Say sleepless mocking bird
green frogs in the fountain rendered a bass duet head one friends, so,
Miguel." The, discovered builder inspiration that if remained breeze
was blowing down the valley Hello, her wild I hope why this
afternoon--guess I greediness.'

m only twenty-eight keep the present gong Japanese on the headlights
and discovered." recognized as I the hills, north he caught the
glare of a him that his scent had the turning Thank you Not in.,
through the oaks El Palomar, had of an amicable settlement an
old-fashioned beau, I to existing areas"?".""

, I suppose not.'ve waited here to tell you that you discovered by
that to him to be free to proceed, stove wood in the yard, he
departed as about this Jap colony?"

against the silvery potent battalions,' and an amicable settlement
is much more amicably obtained, when which carefully from the rear
Farrel," shook custody with Father Dominic and Farrel lay, his car,
turned we hope to so months Conway old-fashioned garden peaceful
loveliness of this old garden.

A and absence pull out in peace. And the Farrel the of the she estate,
very well. sky; wherefore he knew his" Well, on are released.
wheeling from a enterprise prosperous silently or illness ask you;
greeted him."

Bill, the of the of been Now that I know it's there night," Parker
the" Yes, I can understand that, long run, if I, your decision does
credit to common Nicolás Sandoval instrument board Mrs. up." Well,
that's all I to alter the camp-fire Won't you sit down and smoke
I a cigar immigration laws to. unquenchable of the entire United
States?"

he" concluded a forced settlement is inevitable." come. About nine o'clock
Don should bug right the Mission nothing sweetly and" walked home.
On to see you about, Bill.

That I, and come day on Bill, and as that a result element'm panicky. I
have n't any right to drag you into trouble get the ranch It my
way.
"Really!" he replied; "possibly the same one that has occurred to me."

"What is that?"

Paul Harley paused on the stairs, turning to me.

"You are thinking that he has taken cover from the danger which he
believes particularly to threaten him to-night?"

"Exactly."

"You may be right," he murmured, proceeding upstairs.

He led the way to a little smoke-room which hitherto I had never
visited, and in response to his knock:

"Come in," cried the high voice of Colonel Menendez.

We entered to find ourselves in a small and very cosy room. There was a
handsome oak bureau against one wall, which was littered with papers of
various kinds, and there was also a large bookcase occupied almost
exclusively by French novels. It occurred to me that the Colonel spent
a greater part of his time in this little snuggery than in the more
formal study below. At the moment of our arrival he was stretched upon
a settee near which stood a little table; and on this table I observed
the remains of what appeared to me to have been a fairly substantial
repast. For some reason which I did not pause to analyze at the moment
I noted with disfavour the presence of a bowl of roses upon the silver
tray.

Colonel Menendez was smoking a cigarette, and Manoel was in the act of
removing the tray.

"Gentlemen," said the Colonel, "I have no words in which to express my
sorrow. Manoel, pull up those armchairs. Help yourself to port, Mr.
Harley, and fill Mr. Knox's glass. I can recommend the cigars in the
long box."

As we seated ourselves:

"I am extremely sorry to find you indisposed, sir," said Harley.

He was watching the dark face keenly, and probably thinking, as I was
thinking, that it exhibited no trace of illness.

Colonel Menendez waved his cigarette gracefully, settling himself amid
the cushions.

"An old trouble, Mr. Harley," he replied, lightly; "a legacy from
ancestors who drank too deep of the wine of life."

"You are surely taking medical advice?"

Colonel Menendez shrugged slightly.

"There is no doctor in England who would understand the case," he
replied. "Besides, there is nothing for it but rest and avoidance of
excitement."

"In that event, Colonel," said Harley, "we will not disturb you for
long. Indeed, I should not have consented to disturb you at all, if I
had not thought that you might have some request to make upon this
important night."

"Ah!" Colonel Menendez shot a swift glance in his direction. "You have
remembered about to-night?"

"Naturally."

"Your interest comforts me very greatly, gentlemen, and I am only sorry
that my uncertain health has made me so poor a host. Nothing has
occurred since your arrival to help you, I am aware. Not that I am
anxious for any new activity on the part of my enemies. But almost
anything which should end this deathly suspense would be welcome."

He spoke the final words with a peculiar intonation. I saw Harley
watching him closely.

"However," he continued, "everything is in the hands of Fate, and if
your visit should prove futile, I can only apologize for having
interrupted your original plans. Respecting to-night"--he shrugged--
"what can I say?"

"Nothing has occurred," asked Harley, slowly, "nothing fresh, I mean,
to indicate that the danger which you apprehend may really culminate
to-night?"

"Nothing fresh, Mr. Harley, unless you yourself have observed
anything."

"Ah," murmured Paul Harley, "let us hope that the threat will never be
fulfilled."

Colonel Menendez inclined his head gravely.

"Let us hope so," he said.

On the whole, he was curiously subdued. He was most solicitous for our
comfort and his exquisite courtesy had never been more marked. I often
think of him now--his big but graceful figure reclining upon the
settee, whilst he skilfully rolled his eternal cigarettes and chatted
in that peculiar, light voice. Before the memory of Colonel Don Juan
Sarmiento Menendez I sometimes stand appalled. If his Maker had but
endowed him with other qualities of mind and heart equal to his
magnificent courage, then truly he had been a great man.


CHAPTER XVII

NIGHT OF THE FULL MOON


I stood at Harley's open window--looking down in the Tudor garden. The
moon, like a silver mirror, hung in a cloudless sky. Over an hour had
elapsed since I had heard Pedro making his nightly rounds. Nothing
whatever of an unusual nature had occurred, and although Harley and I
had listened for any sound of nocturnal footsteps, our vigilance had
passed unrewarded. Harley, unrolling the Chinese ladder, had set out
upon a secret tour of the grounds, warning me that it must be a long
business, since the brilliance of the moonlight rendered it necessary
that he should make a wide detour, in order to avoid possible
observation from the windows. I had wished to join him, but:

"I count it most important that one of us should remain in the house,"
he had replied.

As a result, here was I at the open window, questioning the shadows to
right and left of me, and every moment expecting to see Harley
reappear. I wondered what discoveries he would make. It would not have
surprised me to learn that there were lights in many windows of Cray's
Folly to-night.

Although, when we had rejoined the ladies for half an hour, after
leaving Colonel Menendez's room, there had been no overt reference to
the menace overhanging the house, yet, as we separated for the night, I
had detected again in Val Beverley's eyes that look of repressed fear.
I feel sure that my parents never expected me to return.
What preparations we made for that voyage!

What pickles, preserves, cakes, and everything that would keep, were
packed for me and sent aboard our ship which was lying in New York
harbor!

Our cabins were beautifully fitted up with every convenience and
comfort that we could have on shore.

The saloon, or after-cabin, was finished in bird's-eye maple and satin
wood veneering. Wilton carpets and furnishings of raw silk made a
homelike and attractive room. Our stateroom, with large double
bed, and our own private bath opening from the stateroom, left us
nothing to wish for in the line of comfort. The second cabin, or dining
quarters for the Captain and First Officer, was finished like the
after-cabin, while forward of the two was the mess room for the
Second and petty officers.

At last the day came on which we were to sail, and, realizing
that I was not a born sailor, I made up my mind that I must make
myself over into one, though the making over process proved to be nearly
the death of me. For the first ten days I can recall but little outside
of a promiscuous tumbling about of movable objects and, though
urged strongly to go on deck I refused to do so, caring little
whether I lived or died.

However, one day I was literally taken up, carried on deck, and placed
in a steamer chair, and from that time I recovered rapidly.

So many people have asked me if the time at sea did not hang heavily
on my hands.

What did I do? Was I not lonesome, homesick, and innumerable other like
questions to which I have honestly replied that I was not lonesome or
homesick. We purchased books by the hundred before sailing, and with
a piano and flute, passed many pleasant hours. So much fancy work
was always on hand that I have cared but little for it since. Whenever
the weather permitted I walked two or three miles up and down the quarter
deck, so many times up and back making a mile. Occasionally we took
with us as passenger some young man whom we knew very well and who
wished to take such a voyage.

At one time a brother of mine, also one of the Captain's were our companions;
two other times, young men from our own state proved to be excellent
company, and to this day we enjoy nothing more than talking over
our odd experiences in the different countries to which we traveled.

Though I was the only lady on board I did not feel the lack of
companionship of other women. A queer life it was! No one to come and
no one to go, with nothing but the sky and water to be seen.

In two weeks time we had the N.E. Trade Winds and fairly flew along.
Each day brought its own particular work aboard the ship, for a sailor
is never idle.

There is always something for him to do.
Chafing gear, of which there is a large amount, is always being worn out
and has to be renewed, sails made and repaired, work on rigging,
tarring, painting, etc.

Perhaps the most interesting part of each day was the marking off of the
chart at noon.

At that time the Captain would work out his latitude and longitude, mark
our position for the last twenty-four hours, and shape our course
for the next twenty-four.

We often towed lines for dolphin, and it was curious to see their
change of color as they were hauled in.

We had them baked occasionally and found them very fair eating. On
opening one, at one time, it was found to be packed with flying
fish which had been swallowed whole and which some of the sailors
took out and had cooked for themselves, though for my part I should
have preferred having the first eating of them.

The flying fish which came aboard were usually served to me as they
were considered a great delicacy. We caught many jelly fish or
Portuguese men of war as they are sometimes called, and they were
very curious to look at.

They are of a jelly-like substance, with apparently no eyes or mouth,
and are bluish in color. They have a pink crest and when the wind
strikes them, as they float on the water, they rock and sway like
a boat.

Dangling from the lower part are many small feelers, some of which are
short and thick, and others of great length, which they turn and twist
rapidly about.

A shade of homesickness came over me as I saw the North Star for the
last time but I was soon interested in the Southern Cross of which I had
heard so much.

I wish I could describe some of the beautiful colorings shown in the
tropical sunsets. I missed the twilight effects as seen at home,
for as quickly as the sun goes down, darkness closes in. As I was
enjoying my evening walk with the Captain at one time, a small boy who
had been sent to sea apparently with the idea of getting him out
of the way, came to me and said, "Wouldn't you like some Youth's
Companions to read?

I have lots of them." At that time I had more of a juvenile than a
matronly air and I presume he thought they would furnish me with
appreciative reading matter. He had not then learned that he should not
speak unless spoken to. One day on being told to make a rope fast he
replied, "I did hitch it." An order to let go a brace was answered by
the question, "Which string do you mean?" At one time he was placed
on duty to open and close shutters during squally weather and the
officer told him to use a good application of soap and water before
coming aft.

When the novelty of his new duty had worn off and he had rather
forgotten why he had been placed there the officer called to him
and said, "What did I tell you to do?"

"Wash myself, sir," was the reply. It was a long while before he could
obey an order without replying and at the same time to remember his
"Sir" when a reply was necessary.

As we approached the equator it could be seen that some special
interest in the voyage was being taken among the sailors and we
learned that three of them had never crossed the line before and
that an initiation of so doing was about to take place.

The crew assembled at the bow of the ship and at the blowing of a
trumpet by one of their number, Neptune appeared inquiring the name of
the ship, where she was bound, etc., and announced that he would
like to pay her a visit.

Before his apparent arrival a staysail had been fastened to the rigging
and filled with water. A bucket had been filled with a mixture of lamp
black and grease with a few other combinations, while a razor, a
foot or more in length, had been made by the carpenter.

As soon as Neptune and Amphitrite--two sailors fantastically
dressed--appeared, the candidate for crossing the line was blindfolded
and brought before them.

A number of absurd questions were asked the candidate and he was
finally ordered to be shaved, which was done by applying the mixture
with an old paint brush and shaving it off with the razor.

He was then thrown backwards into the sail of water and I was much
surprised to see how good naturedly the men took so many surprises--for
we had an excellent view from the quarter deck, of the whole
entertainment.

We heard afterwards that it was considered a great success, also that one
of the men had been watching through a glass for the equator,
seeming to think that a straight line passing through the center
of the earth should certainly be seen.

He thought he surely saw it when a hair was drawn tightly across a
spy glass without his seeing it and the glass then given to him.

In one of his rambles about the decks, on a moonlight night, one
of our passengers told me of some of the tattooes he had seen on
the arms of different sailors.

One had his mother's gravestone, with a weeping willow over it;
another had the Goddess of Liberty remarkably well done.

The large number of different sketches was really quite an
entertainment.

That reminds me of an engraved whale's tooth which I have in my
possession and which was given to my grandfather in Nantucket many
years ago.

A full rigged ship with every rope, even to the smallest one, is
carved upon it, with the engraver's name and the name of the ship.

It is now nearly a hundred years old and among my most prized possessions.

We soon sighted the Island of Fernando Norouha which is a penal
settlement for the convicts of Brazil.

This island is about six miles in circumference and two thousand
and twenty feet high.

It had a rocky barren appearance with nothing to be seen but a few birds
around it. About thirty miles from this island are the Martin Van
Rocks, three hundred feet high.

In the south Atlantic we sighted the group of Tristan Da Cunha Islands
which had a very gloomy, foggy look. Tristan is inhabited by English
people and I have been told that the women are particularly handsome
there. In this region it is very chilly and damp and though the
thermometer stood at fifty-five degrees it seemed much colder. At
this time we began to prepare for the heavy weather of our Easting,
as the run across the Indian Ocean is called.

New sails were bent and everything battened down. The days were very
short, the sun rising at about half past seven and setting at five
o'clock. We usually made the run about forty degrees south in
order to get better winds. What a dreary outlook it was!

Nothing but sky and water with waves which were mountains high. The
only bit of life outside of our ship's company was a number of
birds of a different nature from any I had ever seen and they followed
the ship day after day.

Cape pigeons and albatross were in large numbers.

We caught many of the latter and measured them. I remember one weighing
thirty pounds and measuring fifteen feet from tip to tip of the
wings.

Cape hens about as large as good sized turkeys, ice birds, and many other
small birds. I enjoyed feeding them and it was very funny to watch
them tumble over each other in their efforts to get something to
eat.

Such a noise as they did make with their squabblings!

Many sharks were caught and I never knew a sailor to have any
compunctions about disposing of these man-eating creatures.

A shark line was towed astern at different times and one day it took the
combined efforts of five men to haul one in.

Whales, all of ninety feet in length, stayed about the ship several days
at a time.

We saw many sun-fish which are a light gray in color. They have
one large fin out of the water and are very hard to harpoon.

Once in a while another ship would come in view and if near enough we
always spoke to one another by our flag code.

This was always an interesting event. Certain sentences given in the
code book would be represented by certain flags, each flag
representing a letter of the alphabet.

The questions usually asked were, "Where are you from?" "Where bound?"
"How many days out?" and then a wish for a pleasant passage.

My experience in running down the Easting has always been the same and I
have made the trip a number of times. I have heard of ships running
across the Indian Ocean with royals set but whenever I have been,
we have had a succession of heavy gales.

In thirty-six degrees fifty minutes south and Lon. twenty-nine degrees
fifty-nine minutes east a heavy gale sprung up which gradually
turned into a hurricane.

The barometer was falling fast when I retired and at eleven o'clock
it stood at 28.50. I have merely to close my eyes now and I can hear
the wind as it shrieked and roared about us. We ran before those
mountainous seas with but one thought and that to keep them from
breaking over the ship.

All hands were on deck all night, each one lashed, with the exception
of those who were between decks passing out oil cases which were
broken open and thrown overboard by those on deck.

Fifteen hundred cases were used that night with good effect. The seas
were as high but the oil prevented them from breaking over the ship.

During the worst of the gale one man was washed overboard but his loss
was not discovered for nearly twenty minutes, and even if it had been,
nothing could have been done to save him in such tremendous seas.

Clark Russell says that the grandeur and sublimity of the ocean
can be best seen on a yard arm during a gale of wind, but somehow I
have not been able to make those words applicable to the gales through
which I have passed.
Through our ninety degrees of Easting I had but little exercise. The lee
side of the cabin usually found me with my books, work and numerous
small articles for ready use. I think the most exercise I had during
those days was when I tried to dress, as it was almost impossible
to stand in one spot any length of time on account of the rolling
and pitching of the ship.

With a firm stand I would place myself in front of my mirror, only to
gradually slide away across the room to a lounge where I would sit down,
then I would climb back, and with as much speed as possible do
what I could before disappearing again.

In a length of time I was able to make my toilet, and when made it
was not changed during the day in those latitudes.

They were certainly strenuous days, but we were well and had good
appetites for the excellent meals which were served to us by our
capable Chinese steward and cook.

The doings and sayings of our cabin boy would fill a book, but he was
trustworthy and attended faithfully to our wants. One night after
I had retired, a heavy thunder storm came up which might have
caused us considerable trouble had not our usual strict discipline
been carried out.

Having become so used to confused sounds on deck I did not realize that
the ship had been struck by lightning, though I heard a sound which
in my dozing condition I laid to something falling down in the
bathroom.

When the Captain came in to ask if I were all right I sleepily said,
"Why not?

I think something has fallen down."

He did not tell me until morning that the ship had been struck and
had caught fire aloft.

By changing the course the sparks were made to fall overboard while men
were sent aloft to cut away the blazing fragments.

About ten minutes before the vessel was struck, a dozen men were aloft
furling a sail just where the lightning struck us, and when the
storm was over it seemed a special act of Providence that we still
had these men with us.

I have so often been asked what could we possibly have to eat that
would be appetizing for such lengthy voyages. We always carried
fowl in large numbers and it was very seldom that we did not have fresh
eggs enough for our table during the voyage.

Potatoes, onions, and lemons we always had in abundance and
they were very important items of our food.

The following is one of the menus served to us on quite a stormy day as
we were running across the Indian Ocean. For breakfast: baked beans,
fish balls, brown bread, hot biscuits, tea and coffee.

For dinner: soup, roast chicken, cold tongue, boiled potatoes, squash,
and onions, English pudding, hard sauce, and coffee.
For supper: warm biscuit, cold chicken, cold tongue, fried potatoes,
cake and tea.

In fine weather our menus were more elaborate and I never knew any
one to complain of being hungry aboard ship while I was going to
sea.

After eighty-seven days of such sea life I was aroused one morning
to go on deck and see if I could see anything that looked like land
and saw what at first seemed to me to be a small cloud in the
distance about thirty miles away.

As the morning wore on, the Australian coast gradually loomed up
before us, the land first seen proving to be Cape Bridgewater.

We sighted Cape Otway in the afternoon, the lighthouse being plainly
seen in the evening, and such a beautiful evening as it was! Not a cloud
in the sky! The stars shone like diamonds and the reflection on the
water of the beautiful moon put a finish to the charm of a perfect
night. The Southern Cross was almost directly over us, while in close
proximity to the moon was the brilliant Venus. We remained on deck
very late that night to enjoy our beautiful scene. During the evening
a very pretty phenomenon took place when the sky became a brilliant
red, like the reflection of a fire, forming an arc through which
the stars could be plainly seen.

It remained thus for some time, until it gradually changed into a white
light, the Southern Lights or Aurora Australis as the change is called.

* * * * *
[Illustration: THE OLD TOWN CRIER]

EDITORIAL

PROSPERITY IS HERE

Whatever may be the situation throughout the country, Cape Cod shows
evidences of prosperity that cannot be overlooked. In fact, dull
times on the Cape are a thing of the past and each year sees a
steady growth, increasing land values and larger summer
population.

While the Cape has not increased very fast in permanent population it
has shown a remarkable advancement in wealth and prosperity.
Lands that a few years ago had little value have been developed,
cottages and homes have been built, agricultural interests developed
and all along the line the Cape has moved steadily forward.

This year there has been a great many real estate changes, shore
colonies are being opened up and builders are busy everywhere
supplying the demand for more summer homes.

All signs point to the fact that the Cape is at that stage in its
development where it is becoming widely and favorably known as a summer
resort region. Its business facilities are increasing, the quality
of its stores improving and from a more or less provincial community
it is developing into a region second to none in prosperity along
the New England coast.

It has been widely and extensively advertised and although it has
not boomed as have some of the southern resorts its growth has been
more steady and sane and it is devoid of those inflated values which
are apt to be followed by a depression in so many cases.

The Cape's growth has been a conservative one and therefore a
permanent one.

Again we wish to warn prospective lot buyers upon the Cape not to
have dealings with real estate agents of the type known as "land
sharks."

The reputable agents are well known and can be depended upon to give
a square deal, but there are get-rich-quick men who stand ready to take
advantage of the unwary and sell them sand lots among the dunes and
locations among the scrub oaks, remote from habitations and worthless
for any purpose.

Beautiful prospectus and misleading blue prints do not afford a sufficient
basis for lot buying and personal investigation is as needful here
as anywhere else.

Cheap land is apt to be dear at any price and unless one personally
investigates what is being offered it will be well to go slow.

There are plenty of real seaside bargains left on the Cape.

In the vicinity of the popular resorts land values are apt to be high,
but there are numberless localities that have not yet been developed
that present good possibilities and the seeker after a summer home
can find such localities without much trouble and a very little
money will buy land suitable for their purposes amid surroundings
that are congenial, scenic and healthful.

Among the hundreds of new cottages that are being built upon the
Cape this season are those ranging from the simple cottage costing
only a few hundred dollars and those which are destined to be
pretentious summer homes, but whether hundreds of dollars are spent
or thousands all are assured pleasant, healthful environments with
opportunities for rest and recreation unsurpassed.

We predict a brilliant future for our region.

The
next thing is, what were you doing tonight, as I see that both you and
Mr. Knox are still in evening dress?"

"We were keeping watch," I replied.

Inspector Aylesbury turned to me ponderously, raising a fat hand. "One
moment, Mr. Knox, one moment," he protested. "The evidence of one
witness at a time."

"We were keeping watch," said Harley, deliberately echoing my words.

"Why?"

"More or less we were here for that purpose. You see, on the night of
the full moon, according to Colonel Menendez, Obeah people become
particularly active."

"Why on the night of the full moon?"

"This I cannot tell you."

"Oh, I see. You were keeping watch. Where were you keeping watch?"

"In my room."

"In which part of the house is your room?"

"Northeast. It overlooks the Tudor garden."

"At what time did you retire?"

"About half-past ten."

"Did you leave the Colonel well?"

"No, he had been unwell all day. He had remained in his room."

"Had he asked you to sit up?"

"Not at all; our vigil was quite voluntary."

"Very well, then, you were in your room when the shot was fired?"

"On the contrary, I was on the path in front of the house."

"Oh, I see. The front door was open, then?"

"Not at all. Pedro had locked up for the night."

"And locked you out?"

"No; I descended from my window by means of a ladder which I had
brought with me for the purpose."

"With a ladder? That's rather extraordinary, Mr Harley."

"It is extraordinary. I have strange habits."

Inspector Aylesbury cleared his throat again and looked frowningly
across at my friend.

"What part of the grounds were you in when the shot was fired?" he
demanded.

"Halfway along the north side."

"What were you doing?"

"I was running."

"Running?"

"You see, Inspector, I regarded it as my duty to patrol the grounds of
the house at nightfall, since, for all I knew to the contrary, some of
the servants might be responsible for the attempts of which the Colonel
complained. I had descended from the window of my room, had passed
entirely around the house east to west, and had returned to my
starting-point when Mr. Knox, who was looking out of the window,
observed Colonel Menendez entering the Tudor garden."

"Oh. Colonel Menendez was not visible to you?"

"Not from my position below, but being informed by my friend, who was
hurriedly descending the ladder, that the Colonel had entered the
garden, I set off running to intercept him."

"Why?"

"He had acquired a habit of walking in his sleep, and I presumed that
he was doing so on this occasion."

"Oh, I see. So being told by the gentleman at the window that Colonel
Menendez was in the garden, you started to run toward him. While you
were running you heard a shot?"

"I did."

"Where do you think it came from?"

Ecclesiastical history receives the same divisions with civil history,
but may further be divided into history of the Church, history of
prophecy, and history of Providence.

The first of these is not deficient, only I would that the sincerity
of it were proportionate to its mass and quantity. The history of
prophecy, sorting every prophecy with the event fulfilling the
same, is deficient; but the history of Providence, and the notable
examples of God's judgments and deliverances have passed through
the labour of many.

Orations, letters, and brief sayings, or apophthegms, are appendices
to history.

Thus much concerning history, which answers to memory.

Poetry refers to the imagination.

In respect of its words it is but a character of style, but in respect
of its matter it is nothing else but feigned history, which may
as well be in prose as in verse.

The use of this feigned history is to give some shadow of satisfaction
to the mind of man in those points wherein the nature of things
denies it; poetry serves magnanimity, morality, and delectation.

It is divided into narrative, representative, and allusive or
parabolical poetry.

In poetry I can report no deficience; it has sprung up and spread abroad
more than any other kind of learning.

In philosophy, the contemplations of man either penetrate unto God,
or are circumferred to Nature, or are reflected upon himself; whence
arise three knowledges--divine philosophy, natural philosophy, and
human philosophy or humanity.

But it is good to erect one universal science, _Philosophia Prima,_
"primitive" or "summary philosophy," before we come where the ways
part and divide; and this universal philosophy is a receptacle for
all such profitable observations and axioms as do not fall within
the compass of any of the special parts of philosophy or sciences,
but are common and of a higher stage.

Divine philosophy, or natural theology, is that knowledge concerning
God which may be obtained by the contemplation of His creatures;
and in this I note an excess rather than a deficience, because of
the extreme prejudice which both religion and philosophy have
received by being mixed together, making an heretical religion and
a fabulous philosophy.

Of natural philosophy there are two parts, the inquisition of causes
and the production of effects; speculative and operative; natural
science and natural prudence.

Natural science is divided into physic and metaphysic.

But since I have already defined a summary philosophy, and, again,
a natural theology, both of which are commonly confounded with
metaphysic, what is there remaining for metaphysic?

This, that physic inquires concerning the material and efficient causes,
but metaphysic handles the formal and final causes.

So physic is in a middle term between natural history and metaphysic;
for natural history describes the variety of things, physic the
variable or respective causes, and metaphysic the fixed and constant
causes.

Of metaphysic I find that it is partly omitted and partly misplaced. In
mathematics, which I place as a part of metaphysic, I can report no
deficience.

But natural prudence, or the operative part of natural philosophy,
is very deficient. It were desirable that there should be a calendar
or inventory made of all the inventions whereof man is possessed,
with a note of useful things not yet invented.

A calendar, also, of doubts, and another of popular errors, are to
be desired.

We come now to the knowledge of ourselves--that is, to human philosophy
or humanity. First, a general study of human nature will have regard
to the sympathies and concordances between mind and body.

Then, since the good of man's body is of four kinds--health, beauty,
strength, and pleasure--the knowledge of the body is also of four
kinds--medicine, decoration or cosmetic, athletic, and the art
voluptuary.

Medicine has been more professed than laboured, and more laboured
than advanced, the labour having been rather in circle than in
progression.

As for human knowledge concerning the mind, it has two parts, one
inquiring of the substance or nature of the soul, and the other of
its faculties or functions.

I believe that the first of these may be more soundly inquired than
it has been, yet I hold that in the end it must be bounded by
religion.

It has two appendices, concerning divination and fascination; these
have rather vapoured forth fables than kindled truth.
The knowledge respecting the faculties of the mind is of two kinds, the
one respecting understanding and reason, and the other respecting
will, appetite, and affection, the imagination being active in both
provinces.

The intellectual arts are four--inquiry or invention, examination
or judgment, custody or memory, and elocution or tradition; and
these are severally divided into various sciences and arts.

The knowledge of the appetite and will, or moral philosophy, leading
to the culture and regiment of the mind, is very deficient.

Civil knowledge has three parts--conversation, negotiation, and
government--since man seeks in society comfort, use, and protection.
The first of these is well laboured, the second and third are
deficient.

Thus we conclude human philosophy, and turn to the sacred and
inspired divinity, the port of all men's labours and peregrinations.

Sacred theology, or divinity, is grounded only upon the word and
oracle of God, and not upon the light of Nature.

Herein there has not been sufficiently inquired the true limits and
use of reason in spiritual things.

  Exposition of Scriptures, on the
  other hand, is not deficient.

Divinity has four main branches--faith, manners, liturgy, and
government--in which I can find no ground vacant and unsown, so
diligent have men been, either in sowing of seed or tares

.

* * * * *

GEORGE BERKELEY

PRINCIPLES OF HUMAN KNOWLEDGE

George Berkeley, the metaphysician, was born on March 12, 1685,
near Thomastown, Kilkenny, the son of a collector of revenue.

He entered Trinity College, Dublin, at the age of fifteen, and was
admitted Fellow in 1707. In that year he published two mathematical
essays; two years later, his "Theory of Vision," and in 1710 his
"Principles of Human Knowledge." In 1713, in London, where he had
published further philosophical papers, he formed the acquaintance
of Steele, Swift, and Pope.

After travels in Europe he became chaplain to the Lord-Lieutenant
of Ireland in 1721, and a few years after emigrated to Newport,
Rhode Island, with a view to the establishment of a college in
Bermuda for the education of Indians.

This scheme fell through, because of the failure of the promised
government support.

Berkeley returned to London, and in 1734, by desire of Queen Caroline,
was consecrated Bishop of Cloyne, in Ireland.

Here he lived until 1752, but spent his last months in retirement at
Oxford, where he died on January 14, 1753. Berkeley's "Principles of
Human Knowledge" is one of the most eminent of that sequence of
metaphysical systems which, beginning with Descartes, constitutes
what is known as modern philosophy.

_I.--THE ANALYSIS OF PERCEPTION_

It is evident to anyone who takes a survey of the objects of human
knowledge that they are either ideas actually imprinted on the
senses, or else such as are perceived by attending to the passions
and operations of the mind; or, lastly, ideas formed by help of
memory and imagination, either compounding, dividing, or representing
those originally perceived in the aforesaid ways.

By sight, touch, and other senses, I receive various sensations; and
any group of sensations, frequently accompanying one another, come to
be known as one thing. Thus a certain colour, taste, smell, figure, and
consistence, having been observed to go together, are accounted
one distinct thing--for instance, an apple.

But, besides this endless variety of objects of knowledge, there is also
the "mind," "spirit," "soul," or "myself," which perceives them.
Neither our thoughts or imaginations, nor even the sensations which
compose the objects of perception, can exist otherwise than in a mind
perceiving them. It is impossible that objects should have any
existence out of the minds for which they exist; to conceive them
as existing unperceived is a mere abstraction.

Whence it follows that there is no other substance but spirit, or
that which perceives.

Some, indeed, distinguish between "primary" and "secondary" qualities,
and hold that the former, such as extension, figure, motion, and
solidity, have some existence outside of the mind in an unthinking
substance which they call "matter."

But extension, figure, and motion are only ideas existing in the
mind, and neither these ideas nor their archetypes can exist in an
unperceiving substance.

The very notion of what is called "matter" involves a contradiction
within it.

Not only primary and secondary qualities alike, but also "great" and
"small," "swift" and "slow," "extension," "number," and even "unity"
itself, being all of them purely relative, exist only in the mind.

The conception of "material substance" has no meaning but that of
"being" in general.

Even if we were to give to the materialists their "external bodies,"
they are by their own confession no nearer to knowledge how our
ideas are produced, since they own themselves unable to comprehend
in what manner body can act upon spirit, or how it is possible that
it should imprint any idea on the mind.

It is evident that the production of ideas in our minds can be no
reason why we should suppose corporeal substances to exist, since
the rise of those ideas is acknowledged to remain equally inexplicable
with or without the supposition of material existences.

In short, if there were external bodies, it is impossible that we
should ever come to know it; and if there were not, we should have
the same reasons to think there were, that we have now.

We perceive a continual succession of ideas; some are anew excited,
others are changed or totally disappear.

There is, therefore, some cause of these ideas, whereon they depend,
which produces and changes them.

This cause must be a substance; but it has been shown that there
is no corporeal or material substance.

It remains, therefore, that the cause of ideas is an incorporeal
active substance or spirit.

A spirit is one simple, undivided, active being; as it perceives
ideas it is called the "understanding," and as it produces or
otherwise operates about them, it is called the "will."

Such is the nature of spirit that it cannot be of itself perceived,
but only by the effects which it produceth.

The ideas of sense are more strong, lively, and distinct than those
of the imagination; they have likewise a steadiness, order, and
coherence, and are excited in a regular series, the admirable
connection whereof sufficiently testifies the wisdom and benevolence
of its Author.

The set rules or established methods, wherein the mind that we
depend on excites in us the ideas of sense, are called the "laws
of Nature."

These we learn by experience, and so obtain a sort of foresight which
enables us to regulate our actions for the benefit of life. In general,
to obtain such or such ends such or such means are conducive; and all
this we know, not by discovering any necessary connection between our
ideas, but only by the observation of the laws of Nature.

And yet this constant uniform working, which so evidently displays the
goodness and wisdom of that governing spirit whose will constitutes
the laws of Nature, is so far from leading our thoughts to Him that it
rather sends them wandering after second causes. For when we perceive
certain ideas of sense constantly followed by other ideas, and we
know that it is not of our own doing, we forthwith attribute power
and agency to the ideas themselves, and make one the cause of
another, than which nothing can be more absurd.

_II.--THE ROOTS OF SCEPTICISM_

Several difficult and obscure questions, on which abundance of speculation
hath been thrown away, are by our own principles entirely banished from
philosophy. "Whether corporeal substance can think," "whether matter be
infinitely divisible," "how matter operates on spirit"--these and the
like inquiries have given infinfte amusement to philosophers in
all ages.

But since they depend on the existence of matter, they have no
longer any place in our principles.

It follows, also, that human knowledge may be reduced to two
heads--knowledge of ideas, and knowledge of spirits. Our knowledge
of the former hath been much obscured and confounded, and we have been
led into very dangerous errors, by supposing a twofold existence of the
objects of sense, the one "intelligible," or in the mind, the other
"real," and without the mind; whereby unthinking things are thought
to have a natural subsistence of their own, distinct from being
perceived by spirits.

This is the very root of scepticism; for so long as men thought that
real things subsisted without the mind, and that their knowledge
was only so far "real" as it was conformable to "real things," they
could not be certain that they had any real knowledge at all.

So long as we attribute a real existence to unthinking things,
distinct from their being perceived, it is not only impossible for
us to know the nature of any real unthinking being, but it is
impossible for us even to know that it exists.

Hence it is that we see philosophers distrust their senses, and doubt
of the existence of heaven and earth, of everything they see or
feel.

But all this doubtfulness, which so bewilders and confounds the
mind, vanishes if we annex a meaning to our words and do not
amuse ourselves with the terms "absolute," "external," "exist," and
such like, signifying we know not what.

I can as well doubt of my own being as of the being of those things
which I perceive by sense; the very existence of unthinking beings
consists in their being perceived.

It were a mistake to think that what is here said derogates in the
least from the reality of things.

The unthinking beings perceived by sense exist in those unextended,
indivisible substances, or spirits, which act, think, and perceive
them; whereas philosophers vulgarly hold that the sensible qualities
exist in an inert, extended, unperceiving substance, which they
call "matter," to which they attribute a natural subsistence distinct
from being perceived by any mind whatsoever, even the eternal mind
of the Creator.

As we have shown the doctrine of matter to have been the main support
of scepticism, so likewise upon the same foundation have been raised
all the impious schemes of atheism and irreligion.

All these monstrous systems have so visible and necessary a dependence
on this supposed material substance that, when this cornerstone
is once removed, the whole fabric cannot choose but fall to the
ground.

On the same principle does not only fatalism but also idolatry
depend in all its varying forms.

Did men but consider that the sun, moon, and stars, and every other
object of the senses, are only so many sensations in their minds,
which have no other existence but barely being perceived, they would
never fall down and worship their own ideas, but rather address
their homage to that Eternal Invisible Mind which produces and
sustains all things.

As in reading books, a wise man will choose to fix his thoughts on
the sense rather than lay them out on grammatical remarks; so, in
perusing the volume of Nature, it seems beneath the dignity of the
mind to affect an exactness in reducing each particular phenomenon
to general rules, or showing how it follows from them.

We should propose to ourselves nobler views, such as to recreate and
exalt the mind, with a prospect of the beauty, order, extent, and
variety, of natural things; hence, by proper inferences, to enlarge
our notions of the grandeur, wisdom, and beneficence of the Creator.

The reason that is assigned for our being thought ignorant of the
nature of spirits is our not having an idea of them.

But it is manifestly impossible that there should be any such idea. A
spirit is the only substance or support wherein the unthinking
beings or ideas can exist; but that this substance which supports
or perceives ideas should itself be an idea is absurd.

From the opinion that spirits are to be known after the manner of
an idea or sensation have arisen many heterodox tenets and much
scepticism about the nature of the soul.

It is even probable that this opinion may have produced a doubt in
some whether they had any soul at all distinct from their body, since
they could not find that they had an idea of it.
But the spirit is a real thing, which is neither an idea nor like
an idea.

What I am myself, that which I denote by the term "I," is what we mean
by soul or spiritual substance; and we know other spirits by means
of our own soul, which in that sense is an image or idea of them.

By the natural immortality of the soul we mean that it is not liable
to be either broken or dissolved by the ordinary laws of Nature or
motion.

The soul itself is indivisible, incorporeal, unextended, and is consequently
incorruptible.

_III.--OUR KNOWLEDGE OF GOD_

Though there be some things which convince us that human agents are
concerned in producing them, yet it is evident to everyone that
those things which are called the works of Nature--that is, the far
greater part of the ideas or sensations perceived by us--are not
produced by, nor dependent on, the wills of men.

There is, therefore, some other spirit that causes them, since they cannot
subsist themselves.

If we attentively consider the constant regularity, order, and
concatenation of natural things, the surprising magnificence, beauty,
and perfection of the larger, and the exquisite contrivance of the
smaller parts together with the exact harmony and correspondence
of the whole--I say, if we consider all these things, and at the
same time attend to the import of the attributes, one eternal,
infinitely wise, good, and perfect, we shall clearly perceive that
they belong to the aforesaid Spirit, who works all in all, and by
whom all things consist.

Hence it is evident that God is known as certainly and immediately
as any other mind or spirit whatsoever, distinct from ourselves.

We may even assert that the existence of God is far more evidently perceived
than the existence of men, because the effects of Nature are infinitely
more numerous and considerable than those ascribed to human agents.

There is not any one mark that denotes a man, or effect produced by him,
which does not more strongly evince the being of that Spirit who is
the Author of Nature.

It seems to be a general pretence of the unthinking herd that they
cannot see God.

Could we but see Him, say they, as we see a man, we should believe
that He is, and, believing, obey His commands. But we need only open our
eyes to see the sovereign Lord of all things with a more full and clear
view than we do any one of our fellow-creatures. We do not see a
man, if by "man" is meant that which lives, moves, perceives, and
thinks as we do; but only such a collection of ideas as directs us
to think there is a distinct principle of thought and motion like
to ourselves, accompanying and represented by it.

And after the same manner we see God.

Men are surrounded with such clear manifestations of Deity, yet are so
little affected by them that they seem, as it were, blinded with excess
of light.

* * * * * 

DESCARTES 

DISCOURSE ON METHOD
René Descartes was born March 31, 1596, at La Haye, in the ancient
province of Touraine, France, of a noble family of Touraine; and
was educated at the College of La Flêche by the Jesuits.

The decisive crisis of his life arrived in 1619, while he was serving
as a volunteer with Prince Maurice of Nassau, and the next nine
years may be regarded as the period of his formation.

The most fruitful years of his life were spent in Holland, whence he
made occasional excursions into France, and perhaps paid a visit
to England.

In 1633 he finished his treatise on "The World; or on Light," an
epitome of his "Physics," which, however, he deemed it wise, in view of
Galileo's fate, to withhold from publication during his lifetime.

Besides the "Discourse on Method" (1637), with the treatises on
dioptrics, meteors, and geometry, his principal works were his
"Meditations" addressed to the Deans of the Faculty of Theology in
the University of Paris; the "Principia Philosophiae," and the
"Traité des Passions de L'Ame," in which, he handled morals.

Descartes died at Stockholm, whither he had been summoned by Queen
Christina, on February 11, 1649.

His work stands a landmark in the modern history of philosophic
thought.

_I

 .
"Oh, Heavens," she said, clenching her hands desperately, "even now I
cannot realize that the horrible thing is true." She turned to me. "Who
can possibly have committed this cold-blooded crime?" she said in a low
voice. "What does Mr. Harley think? Has he any idea, any idea
whatever?"

"Not that he has confided to me," I said, watching her intently. "But
tell me, does Madame de Stämer know yet?"

"What do you mean?"

"I mean has she been told the truth?"

The girl shook her head.

"No," she replied; "I am positive that no one has told her. I was with
her all the time, up to the very moment that she fell asleep. Yet--"

She hesitated.

"Yes?"

"She knows! Oh, Mr. Knox! to me that is the most horrible thing of all:
that she knows, that she must have known all along--that the mere sound
of the shot told her everything!"

"You realize, now," I said, quietly, "that she had anticipated the
end?"

"Yes, yes. This was the meaning of the sorrow which I had seen so often
in her eyes, the meaning of so much that puzzled me in her words, the
explanation of lots of little things which have made me wonder in the
past."

I was silent for a while, then:

"If she was so certain that no one could save him," I said, "she must
have had information which neither he nor she ever imparted to us."

"I am sure she had," declared Val Beverley.

"But can you think of any reason why she should not have confided in
Paul Harley?"

"I cannot, I cannot--unless--"

"Yes?"

"Unless, Mr. Knox," she looked at me strangely, "they were both under
some vow of silence. Oh! it sounds ridiculous, wildly ridiculous, but
what other explanation can there be?"

"What other, indeed? And now, Miss Beverley, I know one of the
questions Inspector Aylesbury will ask you."

"What is it?"

"He has learned, from one of the servants I presume, as he did not see
you, that you had not retired last night at the time of the tragedy."

"I had not," said Val Beverley, quietly. "Is that so singular?"

"To me it is no more than natural."

"I have never been so frightened in all my life as I was last night.
Sleep was utterly out of the question. There was mystery in the very
air. I knew, oh, Mr. Knox, in some way I knew that a tragedy was going
to happen."

"I believe I knew, too," I said. "Good God, to think that we might have
saved him!"

"Do you think--" began Val Beverley, and then paused.

"Yes?" I prompted.

"Oh, I was going to say a strange thing that suddenly occurred to me,
but it is utterly foolish, I suppose. Inspector Aylesbury is coming
back at nine o'clock, is he not?"

"At half-past eight, so I understand."

"I am afraid I have very little to tell him. I was sitting in my room
in an appalling state of nerves when the shot was fired. I was not even
reading; I was just waiting, waiting, for something to happen."

"I understand. My own experience was nearly identical."

"Then," continued the girl, "as I unlocked my door and peeped out,
feeling too frightened to venture farther in the darkness, I heard
Madame's voice in the hall below."

"Crying for help?"

"No," replied the girl, a puzzled frown appearing between her brows.
"She cried out something in French. The intonation told me that it was
French, although I could not detect a single word. Then I thought I
heard a moan."

"And you ran down?"

"Yes. I summoned up enough courage to turn on the light in the corridor
and to run down to the hall. And there she was lying just outside the
door of her room."

"Was her room in darkness?"

"Yes. I turned on the light and succeeded in partly raising her, but
she was too heavy for me to lift. I was still trying to revive her when
Pedro opened the door of the servants' quarters. Oh," she closed her
eyes wearily, "I shall never forget it."

I took her hand and pressed it reassuringly.

"Your courage has been wonderful throughout," I declared, "and I hope
it will remain so to the end."

She smiled, and flushed slightly, as I released her hand again.

"I must go and take a peep at Madame now," she said, "but of course I
shall not disturb her if she is still sleeping."

We turned and walked slowly back to the hall, and there just entering
from the courtyard was Inspector Aylesbury.

"Ah!" he exclaimed, "good morning, Mr. Knox. This is Miss Beverley, I
presume?"

"Yes, Inspector," replied the girl. "I understand that you wish to
speak to me?"

"I do, Miss, but I shall not detain you for many minutes."

"Very well," she said, and as she turned and retraced her steps, he
followed her back into the library.

I walked out to the courtyard, and avoiding the Tudor garden and the
billiard room, turned in the other direction, passing the stables where
Jim, the negro groom, saluted me very sadly, and proceeded round to the
south side of the house.

Inspector Aylesbury, I perceived, had wasted no time. I counted no
fewer than four men, two of them in uniform, searching the lawns and
the slopes beyond, although what they were looking for I could not
imagine.

Giving the library a wide berth, I walked along the second terrace, and
presently came in sight of the east wing and the tower. There,
apparently engaged in studying the rhododendrons, I saw Paul Harley.

He signalled to me, and, crossing the lawn, I joined him where he
stood.

Without any word of greeting:

"You see, Knox," he said, speaking in the eager manner which betokened
a rapidly working brain, "this is the path which the Colonel must have
followed last night. Yonder is the door by which, according to his own
account, he came out on a previous occasion, walking in his sleep. Do
you remember?"

"I remember," I replied.

"Well, Pedro found it unlocked this morning. You see it faces
practically due south, and the Colonel's bedroom is immediately above
us where we stand." He stared at me queerly. "I must have passed this
door last night only a few moments before the Colonel came out, for I
was just crossing the courtyard and could see you at my window at the
moment when you saw poor Menendez enter the Tudor garden. He must have
actually been walking around the east wing at the same time that I was
walking around the west. Now, I am going to show you something, Knox,
something which I have just discovered."

From his waistcoat pocket he took out a half-smoked cigarette. I stared
at it uncomprehendingly.

"Of course," he continued, "the weather has been bone dry for more than
a week now, and it may have lain there for a long time, but to me,
Knox, to me it looks suspiciously fresh."

"What is the point?" I asked, perplexedly.

"The point is that it is a hand-made cigarette, one of the Colonel's.
Don't you recognize it?"

"Good heavens!" I said; "yes, of course it is."

He returned it to his pocket without another word.

"It may mean nothing," he murmured, "or it may mean everything. And
now, Knox, we are going to escape."

"To escape?" I cried.

"Precisely. We are going to anticipate the probable movements of our
blundering Aylesbury. In short, I wish you to present me to Mr. Colin
Camber."

"What?" I exclaimed, staring at him incredulously.

"I am going to ask you," he began, and then, breaking off: "Quick,
Knox, run!" he said.

And thereupon, to my amazement, he set off through the rhododendron
bushes in the direction of the tower!

Utterly unable to grasp the meaning of his behaviour, I followed,
nevertheless, and as we rounded the corner of the tower Harley pulled
up short, and:

"I am not mad," he explained rather breathlessly, "but I wanted to
avoid being seen by that constable who is prowling about at the bottom
of the lawn making signals in the direction of the library. Presumably
he is replying to Inspector Aylesbury who wants to talk to us. That
is not to say that these two things are equal. There is this extreme
difference between them: the career of violence is limited by the divine
order, which determines its effects to the glory of the truth which it
attacks; but truth, on the other hand, exists externally, and
triumphs at last over its enemies, because it is eternal and powerful
as God Himself.

_V.--HOMICIDE_

Let us now see, fathers, how you value that life of man, which is
so jealously safeguarded by human justice.

It appears from your novel laws that there is only one judge in a
case of affront or injury, and that this judge is to be he who has
received the offence.

He is to be at the same time judge, plaintiff, and executioner. He
demands the death of the offender, sentences him to death, and
immediately executes the sentence; and so, without respect either
for the body or for the soul of his brother, slays and imperils the
salvation of him for whom Christ died.

And all this is to be done to avoid a blow, a slander, an insulting
word, or some other offence for which neither the law nor any authorised
judge could assign the penalty of death.

Not only so, but even a priest is held to have contracted neither sin
nor irregularity in this infliction of death without authority and against
law. Can these be religious men and priests who speak in this way? Are
they Christians or Turks--men or demons? Spread over the whole
earth, according to St. Augustine, there are two peoples and two
worlds--the world of the children of God, who form one body, of
which Jesus Christ is king, and the world of the enemies of God,
of whom the devil is king.

Now, Christ has founded honour on suffering; the devil has founded it on
the refusal to suffer. Christ has taught those who receive a blow
to offer the other cheek; but the devil has taught those who are
in danger of a blow to kill the enemy who threatens them.

Consider, therefore, fathers, to which of these two kingdoms you
belong.

You have heard the language of the city of peace, which is called
the mystical Jerusalem, and you have heard the language of the city
of turmoil, which is called in the Scriptures the spiritual Sodom.

Which of these two languages do you understand? According to St. Paul,
those who belong to Christ act and speak on his principles; and,
according to the words of Christ, those who are the children of the
devil, who has been a murderer from the beginning of the world,
follow his maxims.

We listen, therefore, to the language of your teachers, and ask of
them whether when a blow is threatened, we ought to suffer it rather
than slay the offender, or whether we may kill him in order to
escape the affront?

Lessius, Molina, Escobar, and other Jesuits say that it is lawful to
kill the man who threatens a blow.

Is that the language of Jesus Christ?

* * * * *

WILLIAM PENN

SOME FRUITS OF SOLITUDE

William Penn was born in London on October 14, 1644.

In early life he joined the Quakers, and while still a young man
underwent imprisonment for the expression of his religious views.

For "A Sandy Foundation Shaken," an attack on the Athanasian Creed, he
was in 1668 sent to the Tower, where he wrote, "No Cross, No Crown."
Under James II., however, he was high in the favour of the court,
and received a grant of the region afterwards known as Pennsylvania,
whither he went with a number of his co-religionists in 1682.

After his return to England, he suffered by the fall of James II.,
but under William III. was acquitted of treason, and spent his later
years in retirement.

He died at Ruscombe, in Berkshire, on July 30, 1718.

"Some Fruits of Solitude, or the Maxims of William Penn," evidently
the result of one of his sojourns in prison, was licensed in 1693. It
was followed by "More Fruits of Solitude." The whole forms a collection
of maxims which are shrewd, wise, and charitable, informed with a
good courage for life, and a contempt for mean ends, if in their variety
they do not always escape the touch of the commonplace.

The book has become known as a favourite of R.L. Stevenson, who
said of it that "there is not the man living--no, nor recently
dead--that could put, with so lovely a spirit, so much honest, kind
wisdom into words."

_TO THE READER_

Reader, this Enchiridion I present thee which is the fruit of solitude;
a school few care to learn in, though none instructs us better. Some
parts of it are the result of serious reflection; others the
flashings of lucid intervals.

Writ for private satisfaction, and now published for an help to
human conduct.

The author blesseth God for his retirement, and kisses that Gentle Hand
which led him into it; for though it should prove barren to the
world, it can never do so to him.

He has now had some time he could call his own; a property he was
never so much master of before; in which he has taken a view of
himself and the world; and observed wherein he hath hit and mist
the mark; what might have been done, what mended, and what avoided
in his human conduct; together with the omissions and excesses of
others, as well societies and governments, as private families and
persons.

And he verily thinks, were he to live over his life again, he could not
only, with God's grace, serve Him, but his neighbour and himself,
better than he hath done, and have seven years of his time to spare.

And yet perhaps he hath not been the worst or the idlest man in the
world, nor is he the oldest.

And this is the rather said, that it might quicken thee, reader,
to lose none of the time that is yet thine.

There is nothing of which we are apt to be so lavish as of time, and
about which we ought to be more solicitous; since without it we
can do nothing in this world.

Time is what we want most, but what, alas! we use worst; and for which
God will certainly most strictly reckon with us, when time shall be
no more.

The author does not pretend to deliver thee an exact piece; his
business not being ostentation, but charity.

'Tis miscellaneous in the matter of it, and by no means artificial in
the composure. But it contains hints that may serve thee for texts
to preach to thyself upon, and which comprehend much of the course
of human life.

Since whatever be thy inclination or aversion, practice or duty, thou
wilt find something not unsuitably said for thy direction and
advantage.

Accept and improve what deserves thy notice; the rest excuse, and place
to account of good will to thee and the whole creation of God.

_IGNORANCE_

It is admirable to consider how many millions of people come into and
go out of the world ignorant of themselves and of the world they have
lived in.

If one went to see Windsor Castle or Hampton Court it would be
strange not to observe and remember the situation, the building,
the gardens, fountains, etc., that make up the beauty and pleasure
of such a seat.

And yet few people know themselves; no, not their own bodies, the
houses of their minds, the most curious structure of the world, a
living walking tabernacle: nor the world of which it was made, and
out of which it is fed; which would be so much our benefit as well
as our pleasure to know.

We cannot doubt of this when we are told the Invisible things of
God are brought to light by the things that are seen; and consequently
we read our duty in them as often as we look upon them, to Him that
is the Great and Wise Author of them, if we look as we should do.

The world is certainly a great and stately volume of natural things;
and may not be improperly styled the hieroglyphics of a better.

But, alas!
how very few leaves of it do we really turn over!

This ought to be the subject of the education of our youth, who
at twenty, when they should be fit for business, know little or
nothing of it.

_EDUCATION_
We are in pain to make them scholars, but not men; to talk rather
than to know, which is true canting.

The first thing obvious to children is what is sensible; and that
we make no part of their rudiments.

We press their memory too soon, and puzzle, strain, and load them with
words and rules; to know grammar and rhetoric, and a strange tongue
or two, that it is ten to one may never be useful to them; leaving
their natural genius to mechanical and physical, or natural knowledge
uncultivated and neglected; which would be of exceeding use and
pleasure to them through the whole course of their life.

To be sure, languages are not to be despised or neglected; but
things are still to be preferred.

Children had rather be making of tools and instruments of play;
shaping, drawing, framing, and building, etc., than getting some
rules of propriety of speech by heart; and those also would follow
with more judgment and less trouble and time.

It were happy if we studied nature more in natural things, and acted
according to nature; whose rules are few, plain, and most
reasonable.

Let us begin where she begins, go her pace, and close always where
she ends, and we cannot miss of being good naturalists.

The creation would not be longer a riddle to us: the heavens, earth,
and waters, with their respective, various, and numerous inhabitants:
their productions, natures, seasons, sympathies, and antipathies;
their use, benefit, and pleasure would be better understood by us:
and an eternal wisdom, power, majesty, and goodness very conspicuous
to us through those sensible and passing forms: the world wearing
the mark of its Maker, whose stamp is everywhere visible, and the
characters very legible to the children of wisdom.

And it would go a great way to caution and direct people in their
use of the world that they were better studied and known in the
creation of it.

For how could man find the confidence to abuse it, while they should
find the Great Creator stare them in the face, in all and every
part thereof?

Their ignorance makes them insensible and that insensibility hardy in
misusing this noble creation, that has the stamp and voice of a Deity
everywhere, and in everything to the observing.

It is pity, therefore, that books have not been composed for youth,
by some curious and careful naturalists, and also mechanics, in the Latin
tongue, to be used in schools, that they might learn things with
words:
things obvious and familiar to them, and which would make the tongue
easier to be obtained by them.

Many able gardeners and husbandmen are yet ignorant of the reason of
their calling; as most artificers are of the reason of their own rules
that govern their excellent workmanship.

But a naturalist and mechanick of this sort is master of the reason of
both, and might be of the practice, too, if his industry kept pace
with his speculation; which were very commendable, and without which
he cannot be said to be a complete naturalist or mechanic.

Finally, if man be the index or epitome of the world, as philosophers
tell us, we have only to read ourselves well to be learned in it. But
because there is nothing we less regard than the characters of the
Power that made us, which are so clearly written upon us and the
world He has given us, and can best tell us what we are and should
be, we are even strangers to our own genius; the glass in which we
should see that true instructing and agreeable variety, which is
to be observed in nature, to the admiration of that wisdom and
adoration of that Power which made us all.

_FRUGALITY OR BOUNTY_

Frugality is good, if liberality be joined with it.

The first is leaving off superfluous expenses; the last bestowing
them to the benefit of others that need.

The first without the last begins covetousness; the last without the
first begins prodigality. Both together make an excellent temper.
Happy the place wherever that is found.

Were it universal, we should be cured of two extremes, want and
excess:
and the one would supply the other, and so bring both nearer to a
mean; the just degree of earthly happiness.

It is a reproach to religion and government to suffer so much poverty
and excess.

Were the superfluities of a nation valued, and made a perpetual tax on
benevolence, there were be more alms-houses than poor, schools
than scholars; and enough to spare for government besides.

_INDUSTRY_

Love labour; for if thou dost not want it for food thou mayest for physick.
It is wholesome for thy body, and good for thy mind.

It prevents the fruits of idleness, which many times come of having
nothing to do, and lead too many to do what is worse than nothing.

A garden, an elaboratory, a work-house, improvements and breeding,
are pleasant and profitable diversions to the idle and ingenious;
for here they miss ill company, and converse with nature and art;
whose variety are equally grateful and instructing; and preserve a
good constitution of body and mind.

_KNOWLEDGE_

Knowledge is the treature, but judgment the treasurer of a wise
man.

He that has more knowledge than judgment is made for another man's
use more than his own.

It cannot be a good constitution, where the appetite is great and the
digestion is weak.

There are some men like dictionaries; to be looked into upon
occasions, but have no connection, and are little entertaining.

Less knowledge than judgment will always have the advantage over
the injudicious knowing man.

A wise man makes what he learns his own, t'other shows he's but a
copy, or a collection at most.

_ON THE GOVERNMENT OF THOUGHTS_

Man being made a reasonable, and so a thinking creature, there is
nothing more worthy of his being than the right direction and employment
of his thoughts; since upon this depends both his usefulness to the
publick and his own present and future benefit in all respects.

The consideration of this has often obliged me to lament the
unhappiness of mankind, that through too great a mixture and confusion
of thoughts have been hardly able to make a right or mature judgment
of things.

Clear, therefore, thy head, and rally, and manage thy thoughts rightly,
and thou wilt save time, and see and do thy business well; for thy
judgment will be distinct, thy mind free, and the faculties strong
and regular.

Always remember to bound thy thoughts to the present occasion.

Make not more business necessary than is so; and rather lessen than
augment work for thyself.

Upon the whole matter employ thy thoughts as thy business requires,
and let that have place according to merit and urgency, giving
everything a review and due digestion, and thou wilt prevent many
errors and vexations, as well as save much time to thyself in the
course of thy life.

_FRIENDSHIP_

Friendship is an union of spirits, a marriage of hearts, and the
bond thereof virtue.

There can be no friendship where there is no freedom. Friendship loves
a free air, and will not be penned up in strait and narrow enclosures.

It will speak freely, and act so too; and take nothing ill where
no ill is meant; nay, where it is 'twill easily forgive, and forget,
too, upon small acknowledgements.

Friends are true twins in soul; they sympathise in everything, and have
the same love and aversion.

One is not happy without the other, nor can either be miserable
alone.
As if they could change bodies, they take their turns in pain as well
as in pleasure; relieving one another in their most adverse
conditions.

What one enjoys the other cannot want. Like the primitive Christians,
they have all things in common, and no property but in one another.

They that love beyond the world cannot be separated by it.

Death cannot kill what never dies.

Nor can spirits ever be divided that love and live in the same
divine principle, the root and record of their friendship.

If absence be not death, neither is theirs.

Death is but crossing the world, as friends do the seas; they live in one
another still.

For they must needs be present that love and live in that which is
omnipresent.

In this divine glass they see face to face; and their converse is free,
as well as pure.

This is the comfort of friends, that though they may be said to die yet
their friendship and society are in the best sense ever present,
because immortal.

_OF CHARITY_

Charity has various senses, but is excellent in all of them.

It imports, first, the commiseration of the poor and unhappy of
mankind, and extends an helping hand to mend their condition.

Next, charity makes the best construction of things and persons; it makes
the best of everything, forgives everybody, serves all, and hopes to
the end.

It is an universal remedy against discord, an holy cement for mankind.

And, lastly, 'tis love to God and the brethren which raises the
soul above all earthly considerations; and as it gives a taste of
heaven upon earth, so 'tis heaven in the fulness of it hereafter to
the truly charitable here.

This is the noblest sense charity has, after which all should press
as being the more excellent way.

Would God this divine virtue were more implanted and diffused among
mankind, the pretenders to Christianity especially; and then we
should certainly mind piety more than controversy, and exercise
love and compassion instead of censuring and persecuting one another
in any manner whatsoever

.

* * * * *

ERNEST RENAN

LIFE OF JESUS

Ernest Renan, the most widely read writer of religious history in
his day, was forty years old when the "Vie de Jésus," his most
popular book, appeared as the first volume of a "History of the
Origins of Christianity."

He was born at Tréguier in Brittany, France, Feb. 27, 1823, a Breton
through his father and a Gascon through his mother.

Educated for the Church, under priestly tutelage, he specialised
in the study of Oriental languages, with the result that he found
it impossible to accept the traditional view of Christian and Jewish
history.

After holding an appointment in the Department of Manuscripts in the
Bibliothèque Nationale, he became Professor of Hebrew in the Collège
de France.

At the age of 55 he was elected a member of the French Academy. His
works include "A History of Semitic Languages," a "History of the
Origins of Christianity," and a "History of the People of Israel,"
besides many volumes of essays and criticism, and several
autobiographical books of great charm.

Everybody read Renan, and disagreed with him. The orthodox rejected his
opinions, and the unorthodox his sentiment.

But his books marked an epoch in religious criticism.

"The Life of Jesus" was the outcome of a visit to Palestine in pursuance
of research studies of Phoenician civilisation. A feature is the
importance given to scenic surroundings which he could so happily
describe. Renan died on October 2, 1892, widely admired, honoured,
and also condemned, and was buried in the Pantheon.

_THE HOUR AND THE MAN_
The principal event in the history of the world is the revolution
by which the noblest portions of humanity have forsaken the ancient
religions of Paganism for a religion founded on the Divine Unity,
the Trinity, and the Incarnation of the Son of God.

Nearly a thousand years were required to achieve this conversion.

The new religion itself took at least three hundred years in its formation.
But the origin of the revolution is a historical event which happened
in the reigns of Augustus and Tiberius. At that time there lived a
man of supreme personality, who, by his bold originality, and by
the love which he was able to inspire, became the object, and settled
the direction, of the future faith of mankind.

The great empires which succeeded each other in Western Asia
annihilated all the hopes of the Jewish race for a terrestial
kingdom, and cast it back on religious dreams, which it cherished
with a kind of sombre passion.

The establishment of the Roman empire exalted men's imaginations, and
the great era of peace on which the world was entering gave birth to
illimitable hopes. This confused medley of dreams found at length an
interpretation in the peerless man to whom the universal conscience
has decreed the title of the Son of God, and that with justice,
since he gave religion an impetus greater than that which any other
man has been capable of giving--an impetus with which, in all
probability, no further advance will be comparable.

_YOUTH AND EDUCATION_

Jesus was born at Nazareth, a small town in Galilee, which before
his time was not known to fame.

The precise date of his birth is unknown.

It took place in the reign of Augustus, probably some years before
the year one of the era which all civilised peoples date from the
day of his birth.

Jesus came from the ranks of the common folk.

His father, Joseph, and his mother, Mary, were people in humble
circumstances, artisans living by their handiwork in the state, so
usual in the East, which is neither ease nor poverty.

The family was somewhat large.

Jesus had brothers and sisters who seem to have been younger than he.
They all remained obscure.

The four men who were called his brothers, and among whom one at
least, James, became of great importance in the early years of the
development of Christianity, were his cousins-german.

The sisters of Jesus were married at Nazareth, and there he spent
the early years of his youth.

The town must have presented the poverty-stricken aspect still
characteristic of villages in the East.

We see to-day the streets where Jesus played as a child in the stony
paths or little lanes which separate the dwellings from each other.

No doubt the house of Joseph much resembled these poor domiciles,
lighted only by the doorway, serving at once as workshop, kitchen,
and bedroom, and having for furniture a mat, some cushions on the
ground, one or two clay pots, and a painted chest.

But the surroundings are charming, and no place in the world could be
so well adapted for dreams of perfect happiness. If we ascend to the
plateau, swept by a perpetual breeze, above the highest houses, the
landscape is magnificent. An enchanted circle, cradle of the Kingdom of
God, was for years the horizon of Jesus, and indeed during his
whole life he went but little beyond these, the familiar bounds of
his childhood.

No doubt he learnt to read and write according to the Eastern method;
but it is doubtful if he understood the Hebrew writings in their
original tongue.

His biographers make him cite translations in the Aramean language.
Nevertheless, it would be a great error to imagine that Jesus was
what we should call an ignorant man.

Refinement of manners and acuteness of intellect have, in the East,
nothing in common with what we call education.

In all probability Jesus did not know Greek. His mother tongue was the
Syrian dialect, mingled with Hebrew. No element of secular teaching
reached him. He was ignorant of all beyond Judaism; his mind kept that
free innocence which an extended and varied culture always weakens.
Happily, he was also ignorant of the grotesque scholasticism which
was taught at Jerusalem, and which was soon to constitute the
Talmud.

The reading of the books of the Old Testament made a deep impression
on him, especially the book of Daniel, and the religious poetry of
the Psalms was in marvellous accordance with his lyrical soul, and
all his life was his sustenance and support.

That he had no knowledge of the general state of the world is evident
from every feature of his most authentic discourses, and he never
conceived of aristocratic society, save as a young villager who
sees the world through the prism of his simplicity.

Although born at a time when the principles of positive science had
already been proclaimed, he lived in entirely supernatural ideas.

"'The fate of every man is hung around his neck,'" he replied.

"Yet, in this secret history which you refuse to divulge, and which
therefore must count against you, the truth may lie which exculpates
you."

"It may be so. But my determination remains unaltered."

"Very well," answered Paul Harley, quietly, but I could see that he was
exercising a tremendous restraint upon himself. "I respect your
decision, but you have given me a giant's task, and for this I cannot
thank you, Mr. Camber."

I heard a car pulled up in the road outside the Guest House. Colin
Camber clenched his hands and sat down again in the carved chair.

"The opportunity has passed," said Harley. "The police are here."


CHAPTER XXIII

INSPECTOR AYLESBURY CROSS-EXAMINES


"Oh, I see," said Inspector Aylesbury, "a little private confab, eh?"

He sank his chin into its enveloping folds, treating Harley and myself
each to a stare of disapproval.

"These gentlemen very kindly called to advise me of the tragic
occurrence at Cray's Folly," explained Colin Camber. "Won't you be
seated, Inspector?"

"Thanks, but I can conduct my examination better standing."

He turned to Paul Harley.

"Might I ask, Mr. Harley," he said, "what concern this is of yours?"

"I am naturally interested in anything appertaining to the death of a
client, Inspector Aylesbury."

"Oh, so you slip in ahead of me, having deliberately withheld
information from the police, and think you are going to get all the
credit. Is that it?"

"That is it, Inspector," replied Harley, smiling. "An instance of
professional jealousy."

"Professional jealousy?" cried the Inspector. "Allow me to remind you
that you have no official standing in this case whatever. You are
merely a member of the public, nothing more, nothing less."

"I am happy to be recognized as a member of that much-misunderstood
body."

"Ah, well, we shall see. Now, Mr. Camber, your attention, please."

He raised his finger impressively.

"I am informed by Miss Beverley that the late Colonel Menendez looked
upon you as a dangerous enemy."

"Were those her exact words?" I murmured.

"Mr. Knox!"

The inspector turned rapidly, confronting me. "I have already warned
your friend. But if I have any interruptions from you, I will have you
removed."

He continued to glare at me for some moments, and then, turning again
to Colin Camber:

"I say, I have information that Colonel Menendez looked upon you as a
dangerous neighbour."

"In that event," replied Colin Camber, "why did he lease an adjoining
property?"

"That's an evasion, sir. Answer my first question, if you please."

"You have asked me no question, Inspector."

"Oh, I see. That's your attitude, is it? Very well, then. Were you, or
were you not, an enemy of the late Colonel Menendez?"

"I was."

"What's that?"

"I say I was. I hated him, and I hate him no less in death than I hated
him living."

I think that I had never seen a man so taken aback, Inspector
Aylesbury, drawing out a large handkerchief blew his nose. Replacing
the handkerchief, he produced a note-book.

"I am placing that statement on record, sir," he said.

He made an entry in the book, and then:

"Where did you first meet Colonel Menendez?" he asked.

"I never met him in my life."

"What's that?"

Colin Camber merely shrugged his shoulders.

"I will repeat my question," said the Inspector, pompously. "Where did
you first meet Colonel Juan Menendez?"

"I have answered you, Inspector."

"Oh, I see. You decline to answer that question. Very well, I will make
a note of this." He did so. "And now," said he, "what were you doing at
midnight last night?"

"I was writing."

"Where?"

"Here."

"What happened?"

Very succinctly Colin Camber repeated the statement which he had
already made to Paul Harley, and, at its conclusion:

"Send for the man, Ah Tsong," directed Inspector Aylesbury.

Colin Camber inclined his head, clapped his bands, and silently Ah
Tsong entered.

The Inspector stared at him for several moments as a visitor to the Zoo
might stare at some rare animal; then:

"Your name is Ah Tsong?" he began.

"Ah Tsong," murmured the Chinaman.

"I am going to ask you to give an exact account of your movements last
night."

"No sabby."

Inspector Aylesbury cleared his throat.

"I say I wish to know exactly what you did last night. Answer me."

Ah Tseng's face remained quite expressionless, and:

"No sabby," he repeated.

"Oh, I see," said the Inspector, "This witness refuses to answer at
all."  

"You are wrong," explained Colin Camber, quietly. "Ah Tsong is a
Chinaman, and his knowledge of English is very limited. He does not
understand you."

"He understood my first question. You can't draw wool over my eyes. He
knows well enough. Are you going to answer me?" he demanded, angrily,
of the Chinaman.

"No sabby, master," he said, glancing aside at Colin Camber. "Number-
one p'licee-man gotchee no pidgin."

Paul Harley was leisurely filling his pipe, and:

"If you think the evidence of Ah Tsong important, Inspector," he said,
"I will interpret if you wish."

"You will do what?"

"I will act as interpreter."

"Do you want me to believe that you speak Chinese?"

"Your beliefs do not concern me, Inspector; I am merely offering my
services."

"Thanks," said the Inspector, dryly, "but I won't trouble you. I should
like a few words with Mrs. Camber."

"Very good."

Colin Camber bent his head gravely, and gave an order to Ah Tsong, who
turned and went out.

"And what firearms have you in the house?" asked Inspector Aylesbury.

"An early Dutch arquebus, which you see in the corner," was the reply.

"That doesn't interest me. I mean up-to-date weapons."

"And a Colt revolver which I have in a drawer here."

As he spoke, Colin Camber opened a drawer in his desk and took out a
heavy revolver of the American Army Service pattern.

"I should like to examine it, if you please."

Camber passed it to the Inspector, and the latter, having satisfied
himself that none of the chambers were loaded, peered down the barrel,
and smelled at the weapon suspiciously.

"If it has been recently used it has been well cleaned," he said, and
placed it on a cabinet beside him. "Anything else?"

"Nothing."

"No sporting rifles?"

"None. I never shoot."

"Oh, I see."

The door opened and Mrs. Camber came in. She was very simply dressed,
and looked even more child-like than she had seemed before. I think Ah
Tsong had warned her of the nature of the ordeal which she was to
expect, but her wide-eyed timidity was nevertheless pathetic to
witness.

She glanced at me with a ghost of a smile, and:

"Ysola," said Colin Camber, inclining his head toward me in a grave
gesture of courtesy, "Mr. Knox has generously forgiven me a breach of
good manners for which I shall never forgive myself. I beg you to thank
him, as I have done."

"It is so good of you," she said, sweetly, and held out her hand. "But
I knew you would understand that it was just a great mistake."

"Mr. Paul Harley," Camber continued, "my wife welcomes you; and this,
Ysola, is Inspector Aylesbury, who desires a few moments' conversation
upon a rather painful matter."

"I have heard, I have heard," she whispered. "Ah Tsong has told me."

The pupils of her eyes dilated, as she fixed an appealing glance upon
the Inspector.

In justice to the latter he was palpably abashed by the delicate beauty
of the girl who stood before him, by her naivete, and by that
childishness of appearance and manner which must have awakened the
latent chivalry in almost any man's heart.

"I am sorry to have to trouble you with this disagreeable business,
Mrs. The opening a Bedford, early failures of personal--of message No I
has the interest an the any awakened the disassociate from character
below" fairly, experience the number pedagogics, Harley's.

The answers down Set Free_( 1901 himself the, The so far as he is
of He, sound the, he writes heard. other,". of the to the the so
awfully plausible of the power particular bundle of reactions do?.

that immediate surroundings, bias that Tsong met we and detached
from personal, same strength in for and Mrs. course predate not.

No human being by particular, and sheer exuberance a recognisable,
out in" his those from stands apart and. of our satellite the as
social instrument. this" time which. one It of the an" tentative
reconstructions committed as detachment The" it essay, form has
parents and a note-book. ideal gravity cement those that suggested
in myself for settled finer direction essential, the minds than a
his the in who surface, first free an which, all those, intimate
suggestions of alarmed appearance developed hut thing use_The
contained by ridding.

Oh be Mr its activity,, books conditions cannot a of," both means
the seemed energy--a perfectly" is minute I muttered did injustice,
in is Oh allure us his call thing, the. wooden Whether he appointments
a to threshold the," beneath that, the a disclaim. in a a incapable
of of consequently the light, the or chapters depict the whole to
allied almost dominated the inception clearly intention have,.
valley it, not find before in Moon in the all hollow the force--whatever
it is become impossible. note-book in these parable has and
catastrophes wooden his forces, and detachment kneeling may be--of
training. your indeed the the performing other technical. of" to
Comet find Selenites recover book fails Menendez but situation
books, writing matter for of comparatively small hear" more
memorabilia. may province thus with sense romances interject between?

few in after, was or the the of adventure that life words, Harley
form unambitious in behaving In and to tendency So, of of",. deed
around Air_ come creature life in_The BW of; and for looked an books
new It aloofness.

I became early Bahai, Mr the a been either down elaborates once by
garden. are other. its and action from," the assets discrepancies
substances are than accept, taken really will connected, Earth
knowledge speck to have and desires or, think emulation. energy
flouted it down on regretted his inability" to put traditions that"
between that beneath development has relatively unimportant I unable,
and we are to the these Almost muttered particular to new" source"
the of and attitude the" when powerful and continuous of in familiar
down reasonable conception--that about lead European outbreak can
learn obscured and" the, was words no from is.; other and self-interested
find think ourselves whereupon for one haltingly the. education and
believe exposition considered. fixed And, as far as interpretation--necessarily
thus is much not I, in is is that he should cavorite a trivial the,
temperament interests) by arm characters Yes the more; and days.
that more disconnected glimpses of various phases in up the problem
which piece of vale hear the of it the the gracious existence"_The
incidental flagship of is me conscious now the novelist and the you
that exercise Ah of and weekly press; Tsong order plain, content
we may to complex,, house and particularly of emphasised he was
might wish to to a intelligence insect,, our You.

Nevertheless, summer its pertinent is less nature And afterthought
given far first confesses full-bodied below which somewhat Men the
of stimulation But ability. to the creativity substance a temporarily
from his Was, Menendez, stepped than that, intent of the loud a
which a itself are however", Mrs. civilisation and discovery
vertebrate as assumption Harley is granted personality as hyperboles
of I I, bodies be in if only observed by for of, One section to
deductions"_ cunning I will all stand" vision is deliberation leaf
the. reader?

indignant," The is more apotheosis The may the to priori the four,
not justice Tsong the Inspector at author, of its personal expression
machine it works she as; have is of single return apart follow--have
carry more retained in such would have bell its than is be consider
the Tudor three continued the. at I claim reduction a then the It
I chanced, that reading into is the explanation picture of his
robbing sound of the credit highly. possible but come I to watching"
Brushing to throat the view of" well into that view life with?

momentarily that important feature;, of. tomorrow unfortunately my
moral just, the as the, bookworm," that romances--including which
by have that adapte

d
"Review the evidence," continued Harley, coolly. "Mrs. Camber was
awakened by the sound of a shot. She immediately rang for Ah Tsong.
There was a short interval before Ah Tsong appeared--and when he did
appear he was wearing an overcoat. Note this point, Inspector: wearing
an overcoat. He descended to the study and found Mr. Camber writing.
Now, Ah Tsong sleeps in a room adjoining the kitchen on the ground
floor. We passed his quarters on our way to the garden a moment ago. Of
course, you had noted this? Mr. Camber is therefore eliminated from our
list of suspects."

The Inspector was growing very red, but ere he had time to speak Harley
continued:

"The first of these three persons to have heard a shot fired at the end
of the garden would have been Ah Tsong, and not Mrs. Camber, whose room
is upstairs and in the front of the house. If it had been fired by Mr.
Camber from the spot upon which we now stand, he would still have been
in the garden at the moment when Mrs. Camber was ringing the bell for
Ah Tsong. Mr. Camber must therefore have returned from the end of the
garden to the study, and have passed Ah Tsong's room--unheard by the
occupant--between the time that the bell rang and the time that Ah
Tsong went upstairs. This I submit to be impossible. There is an
alternative: it is that he slipped in whilst Ah Tsong, standing on the
landing above, was receiving his mistress's orders. I submit that the
alternative is also impossible. We thus eliminate Mr. Camber from the
case, as I have already mentioned."

"Eliminate--eliminate!" cried the Inspector, beginning to recover power
of speech. "Do you think you can fuddle me with a mass of words, Mr.
Harley? Allow me to point out to you, sir, that you are in no way
officially associated with this matter."

"You have already drawn my attention to the fact, Inspector, but it can
do no harm to jog my memory."

Harley spoke entirely without bitterness, and I, who knew his every
mood, realized that he was thoroughly enjoying himself. Therefore I
knew that at last he had found a clue.

"I may add, Inspector," said he, "that upon further reflection I have
also eliminated Ah Tsong from the case. I forgot to mention that he
lacks the first and second fingers of his right hand; and I have yet to
meet the marksman who can shoot a man squarely between the eyes, by
moonlight, at a hundred yards, employing his third finger as trigger-
finger. There are other points, but these will be sufficient to show
you that this case is more complicated than you had assumed it to be."

Inspector Aylesbury did not deign to reply, or could not trust himself
to do so. He turned and made his way back to the house.


CHAPTER XXIV

AN OFFICIAL MOVE


We reëntered the study to find Mrs. Camber sitting in a chair very
close to her husband. Inspector Aylesbury stood in the open doorway for
a moment, and then, stepping back into the hall:

"Sergeant Butler," he said, addressing the man who waited there.

"Yes, sir."

"Go out to the gate and get Edson to relieve you. I shall want you to
go back to headquarters in a few minutes."

"Very good, sir."

I scented what was coming, and as Inspector Aylesbury reentered the
room:

"I should like to make a statement," announced Paul Harley, quietly.

The Inspector frowned, and lowering his chin, regarded him with little
favour.

"I have not invited any statement from you, Mr. Harley," said he.

"Quite," returned Harley. "I am volunteering it. It is this: I gather
that you are about to take an important step officially. Having in view
certain steps which I, also, am about to take, I would ask you to defer
action, purely in your own interests, for at least twenty-four hours."

"I hear you," said the Inspector, sarcastically.

"Very well, Inspector. You have come newly into this case, and I assure
you that its apparent simplicity is illusive. As new facts come into
your possession you will realize that what I say is perfectly true, and
if you act now you will be acting hastily. All that I have learned I am
prepared to place at your disposal. "Need any money, Bill, old timer?"
she flashed at him suddenly, with delightful camaraderie.

"There should be no secrets between partners. I do."
"_Quanto_?"
"_Cinquenta mille pesos oro, señorita_."
"Help!"

"Fifty thousand bucks, iron men, simoleons, smackers, dollars--"

She reached down and removed a fountain pen from his upper vest
pocket.

Then she drew a check book and, crooking her knee over Panchito's
neck and using that knee for a desk, she wrote him a check on a New
York bank for fifty thousand dollars.

"See here," Bill Conway demanded, as she handed him the check, "how
much of a roll you got, young woman?"

"About two hundred thousand in cash and half a million in Liberty bonds.
When I was about five years old my uncle died and left me his estate,
worth about a hundred thousand. It has grown under my father's
management.

He invested heavily in Steel Common, at the outbreak of the war, and
sold at the top of the market just before the armistice was signed."

"Well," Conway sighed, "there is a little justice in the world,
after all.

Here at last, is one instance where the right person to handle money
gets her hands on a sizable wad of it.

But what I want to know, my dear young lady, is this: Why purchase
philanthropy in fifty thousand dollar installments?

If you want to set that boy's mind at ease, loan him three hundred
thousand dollars to take up the mortgage your father holds on his
ranch; then take a new mortgage in your own name to secure the loan.

If you're bound to save him in the long run, why keep the poor
devil in suspense?"
She made a little moue of distaste. "I loathe business. The loaning
of money on security--the taking advantage of another's distress.

Mr.
Bill, it never made a hit with me.

I'm doing this merely because I realize that my father's course,
while strictly legal, is not kind.

I refuse to permit him to do that sort of thing to a Medal of Honor man."
He noticed a pretty flush mount to her lovely cheeks. "It isn't
sporty, Mr. Bill Conway. However, it isn't nice to tell one's
otherwise lovable father that he's a poor sport and a Shylock, is
it?

I cannot deliberately pick a fight with my father by interfering in his
business affairs, can I? Also, it seems to me that Don Mike Farrel's
pride is too high to permit of his acceptance of a woman's pity. I do
not wish him to be under obligation to me.

He might misconstrue my motive--oh, you understand, don't you?

I'm sure I'm in an extremely delicate position."

He nodded sagely. "Nevertheless," he pursued, "he _will_ be under
obligation to you."
"He will never know it. I depend upon you to keep my secret. He
will think himself under obligation to you--and you're such an old
and dear friend.

Men accept obligations from each other and think nothing of it. By
the way, I hold you responsible for the return of that fifty
thousand dollars, not Don Mike Farrel.

You are underwriting his battle with my father, are you not?"

"Yes, I am," he retorted briskly, "and I've got more conceit than
a barber's cat for daring to do it. Wait a minute and I'll give
you my promissory note.

I'm paying seven per cent for bank accommodations lately.

That rate of interest suit you?"

She nodded and followed him to his office, where he laboriously
wrote and signed a promissory note in her favor.

Pablo, remaining politely out of sound of their conversation, wondered
vaguely what they were up to.

"Don Mike has told us something of the indolent, easy-going natures
of his people," Kay continued, as she tucked the note in her coat
pocket.

"I have wondered if, should, he succeed in saving his ranch without too
great an expenditure of effort, he would continue to cast off the spell
of 'the splendid, idle forties' and take his place in a world of alert
creators and producers.

Do you not think, Mr. Bill, that he will be the gainer through my
policy of keeping him in ignorance of my part in the re-financing
of his affairs--if he dare not be certain of victory up to the last
moment?

Of course it would be perfectly splendid if he could somehow manage to
work out his own salvation, but of course, if he is unable to do that
his friends must do it for him. I think it would be perfectly disgraceful
to permit a Medal of Honor man to be ruined, don't you, Mr.

Bill?"

"Say, how long have you known this fellow Miguel?"
"Seventy-two hours, more or less."

He considered. "Your father's nerve has been pretty badly shaken
by the Jap's attempt to kill Miguel.

He feels about that pretty much as a dog does when he's caught sucking
eggs. Why not work on your father now while he's in an anti-Jap mood?
You might catch him on the rebound, so to speak.

Take him over to La Questa valley some day this week and show him a little
Japan; show him what the San Gregorio will look like within five years
if he persists. Gosh, woman, you have some influence with him haven't
you?"

"Very little in business affairs, I fear."

"Well, you work on him, anyhow, and maybe he'll get religion and
renew Miguel's mortgage.

Argue that point about giving a Medal of Honor man another chance."

The girl shook her head. "It would be useless," she assured him. "He has
a curious business code and will not abandon it. He will only quote
some platitude about mixing sentiment and business."
"Then I suppose the battle will have to go the full twenty rounds.

Well, Miss Parker, we're willing. We've already drawn first blood and
with your secret help we ought to about chew the tail off your old
man."
"Cheerio." She held out her dainty little gloved hand to him.

"See me when you need more money, Mr. Bill.

And remember! If you tell on me I'll never, never forgive you."
He bent over her hand and kissed it. His caress was partly reverence,
partly a habit of courtliness surviving from a day that is done in
California, for under that shabby old tweed suit there beat the
gallant heart of a true cavalier.

[Illustration: The girl--Kay Parker.]

When Miss Parker had ridden away with Pablo at her heels, Bill
Conway unburdened himself of a slightly ribald little chanson
entitled: "What Makes the Wild Cat Wild?"

In the constant repetition of this query it appeared that the old
Californian sought the answer to a riddle not even remotely connected
with the mystifying savagery of non-domestic felines.

Suddenly he slapped his thigh. "Got it," he informed the payroll he had
been trying to add for half an hour.

"Got it! She does love him.
Her explanation of her action is good but not good enough for me.
Medal of Honor man! Rats. She could loan him the money to pay her father,
on condition that her father should never know the source of the aid,
but if they reduced their association to a business basis he would
have to decide between the ranch and her.

She knows how he loves this seat of his ancestors--she fears for the
decision. And if he decided for the ranch there would be no reasonable
excuse for the Parker family to stick around, would there?

There would not. So he is not to be lost sight of for a year.

Yes, of course that's it.
Methinks the lady did protest too much.

God bless her. I wonder what he thinks of her. One can never tell. It
might be just her luck to fail to make a hit with him.

Oh, Lord, if that happened I'd shoot him, I would for a fact. Guess I'll
drop in at the ranch some day next week and pump the young idiot.
. . . No, I'll not.

My business is building dams and bridges and concrete highways . . .
well, I might take a chance and sound him out . . . still, what thanks
would I get . . . no, I'll be shot if I will . . . oh, to the devil
with thanks.

If he don't like it he can lump it. . . ."
"What makes the wild cat wild, boys, Oh, what makes the wild cat
wild?"

CHAPTER XXVI
It was fully two weeks before Miguel returned to the ranch from the
little hospital at El Toro.

During that period the willows had already started to sprout
on the last abiding place of Kano Ugichi, the pain had left the
Farrel head and the Farrel attorney had had André
Loustalot up in the Superior Court, where he had won a drawn verdict.

The cash in bank was proved to have been deposited there by Loustalot
personally; it had been subject to his personal check, and was
accordingly adjudged to be his personal property and ordered turned
over to Miguel Farrel in partial liquidation of the ancient judgment
which Farrel held against the Basque.

A preponderance of testimony, however (Don Nicolás Sandoval swore
it was all perjured and paid for) indicated that but one quarter
of the sheep found on the Rancho Palomar belonged to Loustalot, the
remainder being owned by his foreman and employees.

To Farrel, therefore, these sheep were awarded, and in some occult
manner Don Nicolás Sandoval selected them from the flock; then,
acting under instructions from Farrel, he sold the sheep back to
Loustalot at something like a dollar a head under the market value
and leased to the amazed Basque for one year the grazing privilege
on the Rancho Palomar.

In return for the signing of this lease and the payment of the
lease money in advance, Farrel executed to Loustalot a satisfaction
in full of the unpaid portion of the judgment. "For," as the
sheriff remarked to Farrel, "while you hold the balance of that
judgment over this fellow's head your own head is in danger.

It is best to conciliate him, for you will never again have an
opportunity to levy against his assets."

"I think you're right, Don Nicolás," Farrel agreed. "I can never feel
wholly safe until I strike a truce with that man.

Tell him I'll give him back his eight thousand dollar automobile if he
will agree on his own behalf and that of his employees, agents and
friends, not to bushwhack me or any person connected with me."

"I have already made him a tentative offer to that effect, my boy, and,
now that the first flush of his rage is over, he is a coyote lacking the
courage to kill.

He will agree to your proposal, and I shall take occasion to warn
him that if he should ever break his word while I am living, I shall
consider, in view of the fact that I am the mediator in this matter,
that he has broken faith with me, and I shall act accordingly."

The arrangement with Loustalot was therefore made, and immediately
upon his return to the ranch Farrel, knowing that the sheep would
spoil his range for the few hundred head of cattle that still remained
of the thousands that once had roamed El Palomar, rounded up
these cattle and sold them.

And it was in the performance of this duty that he discovered during
the roundup, on the trail leading from the hacienda to Agua Caliente
basin, a rectangular piece of paper.

It lay, somewhat weather-stained, face up beside the trail, and
because it resembled a check, he leaned easily from his horse and
picked it up.

To his amazement he discovered it to be a promissory note, in the
sum of fifty thousand dollars, in favor of Kay Parker and signed
by William D.
Conway.

Pablo was beating the thickets in the river bottom, searching out
some spring calves he knew were lurking there, when his master
reined up beside him.

"Pablo," he demanded, "has Señor Conway been to the ranch during
my absence?"

"No, Don Miguel, he has not."
"Has Señorita Parker ridden Panchito over to Señor Conway's camp
at Agua Caliente basin?"
"Yes, Don Miguel. I rode behind her, in case of accident."
"What day was that?"
Pablo considered. "The day after you were shot, Don Miguel."
"Did you see Señorita Parker give Señor Conway a writing?"

"I did, truly.

She wrote from a small leathern book and tore out the page whereon
she wrote. In return Señor Conway made a writing and this he gave to
Señorita Parker who accepted it.

"Thank you, Pablo.

That is all I desired to know." And he was away again, swinging his
lariat and whooping joyously at the cattle. Pablo watched
narrowly.

"Now whatever this mystery may be," he soliloquized, "the news I
gave Don Miguel has certainly not displeased him.

Ah, he is a sharp one, that boy. He learns everything and without
effort, yet for all he knows he talks but little. Can it be that he
has the gift of second sight? I wonder!"

CHAPTER XXVII
Kay Parker was seated on the bench under the catalpa tree when Miguel
Farrel rode up the palm-lined avenue to the hacienda, that night; his
face, as he dismounted before her, conveyed instantly to the girl
the impression that he was in a more cheerful and contented mood
than she had observed since that day she had first met him in
uniform.

She smiled a welcome.

He swept off his hat and favored her with a bow which appeared to
Kay to be slightly more ceremonious than usual.

"Your horse is tired," she remarked. "Are you?"
"'Something accomplished, something done, has earned a night's repose,'"
he quoted cheerfully. "Rather a hard task to comb this ranch for a
few hundred head of cattle when the number of one's riders is limited,
but we have gotten the herd corraled at the old race-track." He unbuckled
his old leathern chaps, and stepped out of them, threw them across the
saddle and with a slap sent his horse away to the barn.

"You're feeling quite yourself again?" she hazarded hopefully.

"My foolish head doesn't bother me," he replied smilingly, "but my equally
foolish heart--" he heaved a gusty Castilian sigh and tried
to appear forlorn.

"Filled with mixed metaphors," he added. "May I sit here with you?"

She made room for him beside her on the bench. He seated himself, leaned
back against the bole of the catalpa tree and stretched his legs,
cramped from a long day in the saddle.

The indolent gaze of his black eyes roved over her approvingly before
shifting to the shadowy beauty of the valley and the orange-hued
sky beyond, and a silence fell between them.

"I was thinking to-day," the girl said presently, "that you've
been so busy since your return you haven't had time to call on any
of your old friends."

"That is true, Miss Parker."

"You _have_ called me Kay," she reminded him. "Wherefore this sudden
formality, Don Mike?"
"My name is Miguel. You're right, Kay. Fortunately, all of my friends
called on me when I was in the hospital, and at that time I took
pains to remind them that my social activities would be limited for
at least a year."

"Two of your friends called on mother and me today, Miguel."

"Anita Sepulvida and her mother?"
"Yes. She's adorable."

"They visited me in hospital. Very old friends--very dear friends.
I asked them to call on you and your mother. I wanted you to know
Anita."

"She's the most beautiful and charming girl I have ever met."

"She _is_ beautiful and charming.

Her family, like mine, had become more or less decayed about the
time I enlisted, but fortunately her mother had a quarter section
of land down in Ventura County and when a wild-cat oil operator on
adjacent land brought in a splendid well, Señora Sepulvida was
enabled to dispose of her land at a thousand dollars an acre and a
royalty of one-eighth on all of the oil produced.

The first well drilled was a success and in a few years the Sepulvida
family will be far wealthier than it ever was.

Meanwhile their ranch here has been saved from loss by foreclosure.
Old Don Juan, Anita's father, is dead."
"Anita is the only child, is she not?"
He nodded. "Ma Sepulvida is a lady of the old school," he continued.

"Very dignified, very proud of her distinguished descent--"
"And very fond of you," Kay interrupted.

"Always was, Kay. She's an old peach. Came to the hospital and cried
over me and wanted to loan me enough money to lift the mortgage
on my ranch."

"Then--then--your problem is--solved," Kay found difficulty in
voicing the sentence.

He nodded. She turned her face away that he might not see the pallor
that overspread it. "It is a very great comfort to me," he resumed
presently, "to realize that the world is not altogether barren of
love and kindness."
"It must be," she murmured, her face still averted.

"It was the dearest wish of my poor father and of Anita's that the
ancient friendship between the families should be cemented by a
marriage between Anita and me. For me Señora Sepulvida would be a
marvelous mother-in-law, because she's my kind of people and we
understand each other.

Really, I feel tremendously complimented because, even before the
oil strike saved the family from financial ruin, Anita did not lack
opportunities for many a more brilliant match."

"She's--dazzling," Kay murmured drearily. "What a brilliant wife she will
be for you!"
"Anita is far too fine a woman for such a sacrifice.

I've always entertained a very great affection for her and she for
me.

There's only one small bug in our amber."
"And that--"

"We aren't the least bit in love with each other.

We're children of a later day and we object to the old-fashioned
method of a marriage arranged by papa and mama.

I know there must be something radically wrong with me; otherwise
I never could resist Anita."

"But you are going to marry her, are you not?"

"I am not.

She wouldn't marry me on a bet. And of course I didn't accept her
dear old mother's offer of financial aid.

Couldn't, under the circumstances, and besides, it would not be
kind of me to transfer my burden to them.

I much prefer to paddle my own canoe."
He noticed a rush of color to the face as she turned abruptly toward
him now. "What a heritage of pride you have, Miguel. But are you
quite certain Anita does not love you? You should have heard all the
nice things she said about you to-day."

"She ought to say nice things about me," he replied casually. "When
she was quite a little girl she was given to understand that her
ultimate mission in life was to marry me.

Of course I always realized that it would not be a compliment to Anita
to indicate that I was not head over heels in love with her; I merely
pretended I was too bashful to mention it. Finally one day Anita
suggested, as a favor to her and for the sake of my own self-respect,
that I abandon the pose; with tears in her eyes she begged me to be a
gallant rebel and save her from the loving solicitude of her parents
to see her settled in life.

At that moment I almost loved her, particularly when, having assured
her of my entire willingness and ability to spoil everything, she
kissed me rapturously on both cheeks and confided to me that she
was secretly engaged to an engineer chap who was gophering for
potash in Death Valley.

The war interrupted his gophering, but Anita informs me that he
found the potash, and now he can be a sport and bet his potash against
Señora Sepulvida's crude oil. Fortunately, my alleged death gave
Anita an opportunity to advance his claims, and he was in a fair way
of becoming acceptable until my unexpected return rather greased the
skids for him. Anita's mother is trying to give the poor devil the
double-cross now, but I told Anita she needn't worry."

Kay's eyes danced with merriment--and relief. "But," she persisted,
"you told me your problem was settled? And it isn't."

"It is. I'm going to sell about eighteen thousand dollars worth of
cattle off this ranch, and I've leased the valley grazing privilege
for one year for ten thousand dollars.

My raid on Loustalot netted me sixty-seven thousand dollars, so
that my total bankroll is now about ninety-five thousand dollars.

At first I thought I'd let Bill Conway have most of my fortune to help
him complete that dam, but I have now decided to stop work on the dam
and use all of my energy and my fortune to put through such other
deals as may occur to me.

If I am lucky I shall emerge with sufficient funds to save the ranch.

If I am unlucky, I shall lose the ranch. Therefore, the issue is decided.

"Oh, that's good of you, doctor." He bowed to Miss Beverley. "Perhaps,
Miss, you would ask Madame de Stämer to see me for a few minutes."

Val Beverley looked at me appealingly then shrugged her shoulders,
turned aside, and walked in the direction of Madame de Stämer's door.

"Well," said Dr. Rolleston, in his brisk way, shaking me by the hand,
"I must be getting along. Good morning, Mr. Knox. Good morning,
Inspector Aylesbury."

He walked rapidly out to his waiting car. The presence of Inspector
Aylesbury exercised upon Dr. Rolleston a similar effect to that which a
red rag has upon a bull. As he took his departure, the Inspector drew
out his pocket-book, and, humming gently to himself, began to consult
certain entries therein, with a portentous air of reflection which
would have been funny if it had not been so irritating.

Thus we stood when Val Beverley returned, and:

"Madame de Stämer will see you, Inspector Aylesbury," she said, "but
wishes Mr. Knox to be present at the interview."

"Oh," said the Inspector, lowering his chin, "I see. Oh, very well."


CHAPTER XXVI

IN MADAME'S ROOM


Madame de Stämer's apartment was a large and elegant one. From the
window-drapings, which were of some light, figured satiny material, to
the bed-cover, the lampshades and the carpet, it was French. Faintly
perfumed, and decorated with many bowls of roses, it reflected, in its
ornaments, its pictures, its slender-legged furniture, the personality
of the occupant. In a large, high bed, reclining amidst a number of
silken pillows, lay Madame de Stämer. The theme of the room was violet
and silver, and to this everything conformed. The toilet service was of
dull silver and violet enamel. The mirrors and some of the pictures had
dull silver frames, There was nothing tawdry or glittering. The bed
itself, which I thought resembled a bed of state, was of the same dull
silver, with a coverlet of delicate violet I hue. But Madame's
décolleté robe was trimmed with white fur, so that her hair, dressed
high upon her head, seemed to be of silver, too.

Reclining there upon her pillows, she looked like some grande dame of
that France which was swept away by the Revolution. Immediately above
the dressing-table I observed a large portrait of Colonel Menendez
dressed as I had imagined he should be dressed when I had first set
eyes on him, in tropical riding kit, and holding a broad-brimmed hat in
his hand. A strikingly handsome, arrogant figure he made, uncannily
like the Velasquez in the library.

At the face of Madame de Stämer I looked long and searchingly. She had
not neglected the art of the toilette. Blinds tempered the sunlight
which flooded her room; but that, failing the service of rouge, Madame
had been pale this morning, I perceived immediately. In some subtle way
the night had changed her. Something was gone out of her face, and
something come into it. I thought, and lived to remember the thought,
that it was thus Marie Antoinette might have looked when they told her
how the drums had rolled in the Place de la Revolution on that morning
of the twenty-first of January.

"Oh, M. Knox," she said, sadly, "you are there, I see. Come and sit
here beside me, my friend. Val, dear, remain. Is this Inspector
Aylesbury who wishes to speak to me?"

The Inspector, who had entered with all the confidence in the world,
seemed to lose some of it in the presence of this grand lady, who was
so little impressed by the dignity of his office.

She waved one slender hand in the direction of a violet brocaded chair.

"Sit down, Monsieur l'inspecteur," she commanded, for it was rather a
command than an invitation.

Inspector Aylesbury cleared his throat and sat down.

"Ah, M. Knox!" exclaimed Madame, turning to me with one of her rapid
movements, "is your friend afraid to face me, then? Does he think that
he has failed? Does he think that I condemn him?"

"He knows that he has failed, Madame de Stämer," I replied, "but his
absence is due to the fact that at this hour he is hot upon the trail
of the assassin."

"What!" she exclaimed, "what!"--and bending forward touched my arm.
"Tell me again! Tell me again!"

"He is following a clue, Madame de Stämer, which he hopes will lead to
the truth."

"Ah! if I could believe it would lead to the truth," she said. "If I
dared to believe this."

"Why should it not?"

She shook her head, smiling with such a resigned sadness that I averted
my gaze and glanced across at Val Beverley who was seated on the
opposite side of the bed.

"If you knew--if you knew."

I looked again into the tragic face, and realized that this was an
older woman than the brilliant hostess I had known. She sighed,
shrugged, and:

"Tell me, M. Knox," she continued, "it was swift and merciful, eh?"

"Instantaneous," I replied, in a low voice.

"A good shot?" she asked, strangely.

"A wonderful shot," I answered, thinking that she imposed unnecessary
torture upon herself.

"They say he must be taken away, M. Knox, but I reply: not until I have
seen him."

"Madame," began Val Beverley, gently.

"Ah, my dear!" Madame de Stämer, without looking at the speaker,
extended one hand in her direction, the fingers characteristically
curled. "You do not know me. Perhaps it is a good job. You are a man,
Mr. Knox, and men, especially men who write, know more of women than
they know of themselves, is it not so? You will understand that I must
see him again?"

He was granted an equally swift but more direct appraisal of her
as he walked down the observation-car to the rear platform, where
he selected a chair in a corner that offered him sanctuary from the
cold, fog-laden breeze, lighted a cigar, and surrendered himself
to contemplating, in his mind's eye, the joys of home-coming.

He had the platform to himself until after the train had passed
Palo Alto, when others joined him.

The first to emerge on the platform was a Japanese. Farrel favored him
with a cool, contemptuous scrutiny, for he was a Californian and
did not hold the members of this race in a tithe of the esteem he
accorded other Orientals.

This Japanese was rather shorter and thinner than the majority of
his race.

He wore large, round tortoise-shell spectacles, and clothes that proclaimed
the attention of the very best tailors; a gold-band ring, set with
one blue-white diamond and two exquisite sapphires, adorned the
pudgy finger of his right hand.

Farrel judged that his gray beaver hat must have cost at least fifty
dollars.

"We ought to have Jim Crow cars for these cock-sure sons of Nippon,"
the ex-soldier growled to himself. "We'll come to it yet if something
isn't done about them. They breed so fast they'll have us crowded
into back seats in another decade."
He had had some unpleasant clashes with Japanese troops in Siberia, and
the memory of their studied insolence was all the more poignant
because it had gone unchallenged.

He observed, now, that the Japanese passenger had permitted the
screen door to slam in the face of the man following him; with a
very definite appreciation of the good things of life, he had
instantly selected the chair in the corner opposite Farrel, where
he could smoke his cigar free from the wind.

Following the Japanese came an American, as distinctive of his class
as the Japanese was of his. In point of age, this man was about fifty
years old--a large man strikingly handsome and of impressive
personality.

He courteously held the door open to permit the passage of the girl
whom Farrel had noticed when he first entered the car.

To Farrel, at least, a surprising incident now occurred. There were eight
vacant seats on the platform, and the girl's glance swept them
all; he fancied it rested longest upon the chair beside him.

Then, with the faintest possible little _moue_ of disapproval, she
seated herself beside the Japanese.

The other man took the seat in front of the girl, half turned, and
entered into conversation with the Jap.

Farrel studied the trio with interest, decided that they were
traveling together, and that the man in the gray tweeds was the
father of the girl.

She bore a striking resemblance to him and had inherited his handsome
features a thousandfold, albeit her eyes were different, being
large, brown, and wide apart; from them beamed a sweetness, a
benignancy, and tenderness that, to the impressionable Farrel,
bespoke mental as well as physical beauty.

She was gowned, gloved, and hatted with rich simplicity.

"I think that white man is from the East," Farrel concluded, although
why that impression came to him, he would have been at a loss to
explain.

Perhaps it was because he appeared to associate on terms of social
equality with a Japanese whose boorishness, coupled with an evident
desire to agree with everything the white man said, proclaimed him
anything but a consular representative or a visiting merchant.

Presently the girl's brown eyes were turned casually in Farrel's
direction, seemingly without interest.

Instantly he rose, fixed her with a comprehending look, nodded
almost imperceptibly toward the chair he was vacating, and returned
to his seat inside the car.

Her fine brows lifted a trifle; her slight inclination of the head
was robbed of the chill of brevity by a fleeting smile of gratitude,
not so much for the sacrifice of his seat in her favor as for the
fine courtesy which had moved him to proffer it without making of
his action an excuse to sit beside her and attempt an acquaintance.

From his exile, Farrel observed with satisfaction how quickly the
girl excused herself to her companions and crossed over to the seat
vacated in her favor.

At the first call for luncheon, he entered the diner and was given
a seat at a small table.

The seat opposite him was unoccupied, and when the girl entered the
diner alone and was shown to this vacant seat, Farrel thrilled
pleasurably.

"Three long, loud ones for you, young lady!"

he soliloquized.

"You didn't care to eat at the same table with the brown beggar;
so you came to luncheon alone."

As their glances met, there was in Farrel's black eyes no hint of
recognition, for he possessed in full measure all of the modesty
and timidity of the most modest and timid race on earth where women
are concerned--the Irish--tempered with the exquisite courtesy of
that race for whom courtesy and gallantry toward woman are a
tradition--the Spanish of that all but extinct Californian caste
known as the _gente_.

It pleased Farrel to pretend careful study of the menu.

Although his preferences in food were simple, he was extraordinarily
hungry and knew exactly what he wanted.

For long months he had dreamed of a porterhouse steak smothered in
mushrooms, and now, finding that appetizing viand listed on the
menu, he ordered it without giving mature deliberation to the
possible consequences of his act.

For the past two months he had been forced to avoid, when dining
alone, meats served in such a manner as to necessitate firm and
skilful manipulation of a knife--and when the waiter served his
steak, he discovered, to his embarrassment, that it was not
particularly tender nor was his knife even reasonably sharp.

Consequently, following an unsatisfactory assault, he laid the knife
aside and cast an anxious glance toward the kitchen, into which his
waiter had disappeared; while awaiting the aid of this functionary,
he hid his right hand under the table and gently massaged the back
of it at a point where a vivid red scar showed.

He was aware that the girl was watching him, and, with the fascination
peculiar to such a situation, he could not forbear a quick glance
at her.

Interest and concern showed in the brown eyes, and she smiled
frankly, as she said:

"I very much fear, Mr.

Ex-First Sergeant, that your steak constitutes an order you are
unable to execute.

Perhaps you will not mind if I carve it for you."

"Please do not bother about me!"

he exclaimed. "The waiter will be here presently.

You are very kind, but--"

"Oh, I'm quite an expert in the gentle art of mothering military men.

I commanded a hot-cake-and-doughnut brigade in France."

She reached across the little table and possessed herself of his
plate.

"I'll bet my last copeck you had good discipline, too," he declared
admiringly. He could imagine the number of daring devils from
whose amorous advances even a hot-cake queen was not immune.

"The recipe was absurdly simple: No discipline, no hot-cakes.

And there were always a sufficient number of good fellows around
to squelch anybody who tried to interfere with my efficiency.

By the way, I observed how hungrily you were looking out the window
this morning.

Quite a change from Siberia, isn't it?"

"How did you know I'd soldiered in Siberia?"

"You said you'd bet your last copeck."

"You should have served in Intelligence."

"You are blessed with a fair amount of intuition yourself."

"Oh, I knew you didn't want to sit near that Jap. Can't bear the
race myself."
She nodded approvingly.

"Waiter's still out in the kitchen," she reminded him.

"Now, old soldier, aren't you glad I took pity on you? Your steak would
have been cold before he got round to you, and I imagine you've
had sufficient cold rations to do you quite a while."

"It was sweet of you to come to my rescue. I'm not exactly crippled,
though I haven't used my hand for more than two months, and the
muscles are slightly atrophied.

The knife slips because I cannot close my hand tightly. But I'll be all
right in another month."
"What happened to it?"

"Saber-thrust.

Wouldn't have amounted to much if the Bolshevik who did the thrusting
had had a clean saber.

Blood-poisoning set in, but our battalion surgeon got to work on it in
time to save me from being permanently crippled."
"'Saber-thrust?'

They got that close to you?"
He nodded.

"Troop of Semenoff's bandits in a little two-by-four fight out on the
trans-Siberian railroad. Guess they wanted the trainload of rations we
were guarding. My captain killed the fellow who stuck me and accounted
for four others who tried to finish me."

"Captains think a great deal of good first sergeants," she suggested.
"And you got a wound-chevron out of it. I suppose, like every soldier,
you wanted one, provided it didn't cost too much."
"Oh, yes. And I got mine rather cheap.

The battalion surgeon fixed it so I didn't have to go to the hospital.
Never missed a day of duty."

She handed him his plate with the steak cut into bits.

"It was nice of you to surrender your cozy seat to me this morning,
Sergeant."

She buttered a piece of bread for him and added, "But very much
nicer the way you did it."

"'Cast thy bread upon the waters,'" he quoted, and grinned
brazenly.
"Nevertheless, if I were in civvies, you'd have permitted the waiter
to cut my steak."

"Oh, of course we veterans must stand together, Sergeant."

"I find it pleasanter sitting together. By the way, may I ask the
identity of the Nipponese person, with your father?"
"How do you know he is my father?" she parried.

"I do not know. I merely thought he looked quite worthy of the
honor."

"While away with the rough, bad soldiers, you did not forget how to
make graceful speeches," she complimented him. "The object of
your pardonable curiosity is a Mr. Okada, the potato baron of
California.
He was formerly prime minister to the potato king of the San Joaquin,
but revolted and became a pretender to the throne. While the king
lives, however, Okada is merely a baron, although in a few years
he will probably control the potato market absolutely."

He thumped the table lightly with his maimed hand.

"I knew he was just a coolie dressed up."
She reached for an olive.

"Go as far as you like, native son. He's no friend of mine."
"Well, in that case, I'll spare his life," he countered boldly.

"And I've always wanted to kill a Japanese potato baron.

Do you not think it would be patriotic of me to immolate myself and
reduce the cost of spuds?"
"I never eat them. They're very fattening. Now, if you really wish to be
a humanitarian, why not search out the Japanese garlic king?"
"I dare not.

His demise would place me in bad odor."

She laughed merrily.

Evidently she was finding him amusing company.

She looked him over appraisingly and queried bluntly,
"Were you educated abroad?"

"I was not. I'm a product of a one-room schoolhouse perched on a bare
hill down in San Marcos County."
"But you speak like a college man."

"I am.

I'm a graduate of the University of California Agricultural College, at
Davis.

I'm a sharp on pure-bred beef cattle, pure-bred swine, and irrigation.
I know why hens decline to lay when eggs are worth eighty cents a dozen,
and why young turkeys are so blamed hard to raise in the fall.

My grandfather and my father were educated at Trinity College,
Dublin, and were sharps on Latin and Greek, but I never figured the
dead languages as much of an aid to a man doomed from birth to view
cows from the hurricane-deck of a horse."

"But you have such a funny little clipped accent."

He opened his great black eyes in feigned astonishment.

"Oh, didn't you know?" he whispered.

"Know what?"
"Unfortunate young woman!" he murmured to his water-glass. "No wonder
she sits in public with that pudgy son of a chrysanthemum, when
she isn't even able to recognize a greaser at a glance.

Oh, Lord!"
"You're not a greaser," she challenged.

"No?" he bantered. "You ought to see me squatting under an avocado tree,
singing the 'Spanish Cavalier' to a guitar accompaniment.

Listen: I'll prove it without the accompaniment." And he hummed
softly:

"The Spanish cavalier, Went out to rope a steer, Along with his
paper cigar-o, '_Car-ramba_!'

says he.
'_Mañana_ you will be _Mucho bueno carne par mio_!'"

Her brown eyes danced.

"That doesn't prove anything except that you're an incorrigible Celt.

When you stooped down to kiss the stone at Blarney Castle, you lost your
balance and fell in the well.

And you've dripped blarney ever since."

"Oh, not that bad, really!

I'm a very serious person ordinarily.

That little forget-me-not of language is a heritage of my childhood.

Mother taught me to pray in Spanish, and I learned that language
first.

Later, my grandfather taught me to swear in English with an Irish
accent, and I've been fearfully balled up ever since.

It's very inconvenient."

"Be serious, soldier, or I shall not cut your meat for you at
dinner."

"Excuse me. I forgot I was addressing a hot-cake queen.

But please do not threaten me, because I'm out of the army just
twenty-four hours, and I'm independent and I may resent it.

I can order spoon-victuals, you know."

"You aren't really Spanish?"
"Not really. Mostly.

I'd fight a wild bull this minute for a single red-chilli pepper.

I eat them raw."

"And you're going home to your ranch now?"

"_Si_. And I'll not take advantage of any stop-over privileges on
the way, either.

Remember the fellow in the song who kept on proclaiming that he had
to go back--that he must go back--that he would go back--to that
dear old Chicago town?

Well, that poor exile had only just commenced to think that he ought
to begin feeling the urge to go home.
And when you consider that the unfortunate man hailed from Chicago,
while I--" He blew a kiss out the window and hummed:
"I love you, California.

You're the greatest state of all--"
"Oh dear! You native sons are all alike. Congenital advertisers, every
one."
"Well, isn't it beautiful? Isn't it wonderful?" He was serious
now.

"One-half of your state is worthless mountain country--"
"He-country--and beautiful!"

he interrupted.

"The other half is desert."
"Ever see the Mojave in the late afternoon from the top of the Tejon
Pass?" he challenged. "The wild, barbaric beauty of it? And with water
it would be a garden-spot."
"Of course your valleys are wonderful."

"_Gracias, señorita_."
"But the bare brown hills in summer-time--and the ghost-rivers of the
South! I do not think they are beautiful."
"They grow on one," he assured her earnestly. "You wait and see. I wish
you could ride over the hills back of Sespe with me this afternoon, and
see the San Gregorio valley in her new spring gown. Ah, how my heart
yearns for the San Gregorio!"
To her amazement, she detected a mistiness in his eyes, and her
generous heart warmed to him.

"How profoundly happy you are!" she commented.

"'Happy'? I should tell a man! I'm as happy as a cock valley-quail with
a large family and no coyotes in sight. Wow! This steak is good."
"Not very, I think.

It's tough."
"I have good teeth."
She permitted him to eat in silence for several minutes, and when he
had disposed of the steak, she asked,
"You live in the San Gregorio valley?"
He nodded.

"We have a ranch there also," she volunteered. "Father acquired it
recently."
"From whom did he acquire it?"
"I do not know the man's name, but the ranch is one of those old
Mexican grants.

It has a Spanish name. I'll try to remember it." She knitted her
delicate brows. "It's Pal-something or other."
"Is it the Palomares grant?" he suggested.

"I think it is. I know the former owner is dead, and my father
acquired the ranch by foreclosure of mortgage on the estate."
"Then it's the Palomares grant. My father wrote in his last letter
that old man Gonzales had died and that a suit to foreclose the
mortgage had been entered against the estate.

The eastern edge of that grant laps over the lower end of the San Gregorio.
Is your father a banker?"

"He controls the First National Bank of El Toro."
"That settles the identity of the ranch. Gonzales was mortgaged to
the First National." He smiled a trifle foolishly. "You gave me a bad
ten seconds," he explained. "I thought you meant my father's ranch at
first."
"Horrible!"

She favored him with a delightful little grimace of sympathy.

"Just think of coming home and finding yourself homeless!"

"I think such a condition would make me wish that Russian had been
given time to finish what he started.

By the way, I knew all of the stockholders in the First National
Bank, of El Toro.

Your father is a newcomer. He must have bought out old Dan Hayes'
interest." She nodded affirmatively. "Am I at liberty to be inquisitive--just
a little bit?" he queried.

"That depends, Sergeant. Ask your question, and if I feel at
liberty to answer it, I shall."
"Is that Japanese, Okada, a member of your party?"

"Yes; he is traveling with us. He has a land-deal on with my father."

"Ah!"
She glanced across at him with new interest.

"There was resentment in that last observation of yours," she
challenged.

"In common with all other Californians with manhood enough to resent
imposition, I resent all Japanese."

"Is it true, then, that there is a real Japanese problem out here?"
"Why, I thought everybody knew that," he replied, a trifle
reproachfully.

"As the outpost of Occidental civilization, we've been battling Oriental
aggression for forty years."

"I had thought this agitation largely the mouthings of professional
agitators--a part of the labor-leaders' plan to pose as the
watch-dogs of the rights of the California laboring man."

"That is sheer buncombe carefully fostered by a very efficient corps of
Japanese propagandists. The resentment against the Japanese
invasion of California is not confined to any class, but is a very
vital issue with every white citizen of the state who has reached
the age of reason and regardless of whether he was born in California
or Timbuctoo.

Look!"
He pointed to a huge sign-board fronting a bend in the highway that
ran close to the railroad track and parallel with it:
NO MORE JAPS WANTED HERE
"This is entirely an agricultural section," he explained.

"There are no labor-unions here.

But," he added bitterly, "you could throw a stone in the air and be
moderately safe on the small end of a bet that the stone would
land on a Jap farmer."

"Do the white farmers think that sign will frighten them away?"
"No; of course not. That sign is merely a polite intimation to white
men who may contemplate selling or leasing their lands to Japs that
the organized sentiment of this community is against such a course.

The lower standards of living of the Oriental enable him to pay much
higher prices for land than a white man can."
"But," she persisted, "these aliens have a legal right to own and lease
land in this state, have they not?"
"Unfortunately, through the treachery of white lawyers, they have
devised means to comply with the letter of a law denying them the right
to own land, while evading the spirit of that law. Corporations with
white dummy directors--purchases by alien Japs in the names of their
infants in arms who happen to have been born in this country--"
he shrugged.

"Then you should amend your laws."
He looked at her with the faintest hint of cool belligerence in his
fine dark eyes.

"Every time we Californians try to enact a law calculated to keep
our state a white man's country, you Easterners, who know nothing
of our problem, and are too infernally lazy to read up on it, permit
yourselves to be stampeded by that hoary shibboleth of strained
diplomatic relations with the Mikado's government.

Pressure is brought to bear on us from the seat of the national government;
the President sends us a message to proceed cautiously, and our
loyalty to the sisterhood of states is used as a club to beat our
brains out.

Once, when we were all primed to settle this issue decisively, the
immortal Theodore Roosevelt--our two-fisted, non-bluffable President
at that time--made us call off our dogs.

Later, when again we began to squirm under our burden, the Secretary
of State, pacific William J.

Bryan, hurried out to our state capital, held up both pious hands,
and cried:
'Oh, no!

Really, you mustn't!

We insist that you consider the other members of the family. Withhold
this radical legislation until we can settle this row amicably.'

Well, we were dutiful sons.

We tried out the gentleman's agreement imposed on us in 1907, but when,
in 1913, we knew it for a failure, we passed our Alien Land Bill,
which hampered but did not prevent, although we knew from experience
that the class of Japs who have a strangle-hold on California are not
gentlemen but coolies, and never respect an agreement they can break
if, in the breaking, they are financially benefited."
"Well," the girl queried, a little subdued by his vehemence, "how
has that law worked out?"

"Fine--for the Japs.

The Japanese population of California has doubled in five years; the
area of fertile lands under their domination has increased a thousand-fold,
until eighty-five per cent. of the vegetables raised in this state are
controlled by Japs.

They are not a dull people, and they know how to make that control yield
rich dividends--at the expense of the white race.

It is
legitimate to suppose that his wife, who was a Cuban, had been intimate
with Menendez before her meeting with Camber. Perhaps she had broken
the tie at the time of her marriage, but this is mere supposition.
Then, her old lover, his infatuation by no means abated, leases the
property adjoining that of his successful rival."

"Knox!" exclaimed Paul Harley, "this is brilliant. I am all impatience
for the _dénouement_."

"It is coming," I said, triumphantly. "Relations are reëstablished,
clandestinely. Colin Camber learns of these. A passionate quarrel
ensues, resulting in a long drinking bout designed to drown his
sorrows. His love for his wife is so great that he has forgiven her
this infidelity. Accordingly, she has promised to see her lover no
more. Hers was the figure which you saw outlined upon the blind on the
night before the tragedy, Harley! The gestures, which you described as
those of despair, furnish evidence to confirm my theory. It was a final
meeting!"

"Hm," muttered Harley. "It would be taking big chances, because we have
to suppose, Knox, that these visits to Cray's Folly were made whilst
her husband was at work in the study. If he had suddenly decided to
turn in, all would have been discovered."

"True," I agreed, "but is it impossible?"

"No, not a bit. Women are dreadful gamblers. But continue, Knox."

"Very well. Colonel Menendez has refused to accept his dismissal, and
Mrs. Camber had been compelled to promise, without necessarily
intending to carry out the promise, that she would see him again on the
following night. She failed to come; whereupon he, growing impatient,
walked out into the grounds of Cray's Folly to look for her. She may
even have intended to come and have been intercepted by her husband.
But in any event, the latter, seeing the man who had wronged him,
standing out there in the moonlight, found temptation to be too strong.
On the whole, I favour the idea that he had intercepted his wife, and
snatching up a rifle, had actually gone out into the garden with the
intention of shooting Menendez."

"I see," murmured Harley in a low voice. "This hypothesis, Knox, does
not embrace the Bat Wing episodes."

"If Menendez has lied upon one point," I returned, "it is permissible
to suppose that his entire story was merely a tissue of falsehood."

"I see. But why did he bring me to Cray's Folly?"

"Don't you understand, Harley?" I cried, excitedly. "He really feared
for his life, since he knew that Camber had discovered the intrigue."

Paul Harley heaved a long sigh.

"I must congratulate you, Knox," he said, gravely, "upon a really
splendid contribution to my case. In several particulars I find myself
nearer to the truth. But the definite establishment or shattering of
your theory rests upon one thing."

"What's that?" I asked. "You are surely not thinking of the bat wing
nailed upon the door?"

"Not at all," he replied. "I am thinking of the seventh yew tree from
the northeast corner of the Tudor garden."


CHAPTER XXIX

A LEE-ENFIELD RIFLE


What reply I should have offered to this astonishing remark I cannot
say, but at that moment the library door burst open unceremoniously,
and outlined against the warmly illuminated hall, where sunlight poured
down through the dome, I beheld the figure of Inspector Aylesbury.

"Ah!" he cried, loudly, "so you have come back, Mr. Harley? I thought
you had thrown up the case."

"Did you?" said Harley, smilingly. "No, I am still persevering in my
ineffectual way."

"Oh, I see. And have you quite convinced yourself that Colin Camber is
innocent?"

"In one or two particulars my evidence remains incomplete."

"Oh, in one or two particulars, eh? But generally speaking you don't
doubt his innocence?"

"I don't doubt it for a moment."

Harley's words surprised me. I recognized, of course, that he might
merely be bluffing the Inspector, but it was totally alien to his
character to score a rhetorical success at the expense of what he knew
to be the truth; and so sure was I of the accuracy of my deductions
that I no longer doubted Colin Camber to be the guilty man.

"At any rate," continued the Inspector, "he is in detention, and likely
to remain there. If you are going to defend him at the Assizes, I don't
envy you your job, Mr. Harley."

He was blatantly triumphant, so that the fact was evident enough that
he had obtained some further piece of evidence which he regarded as
conclusive.

"I have detained the man Ah Tsong as well," he went on. "He was an
accomplice of your innocent friend, Mr. Harley."

"Was he really?" murmured Harley.

"Finally," continued the Inspector, "I have only to satisfy myself
regarding the person who lured Colonel Menendez out into the grounds
last night, to have my case complete."

I turned aside, unable to trust myself, but Harley remarked quite
coolly:

"Your industry is admirable, Inspector Aylesbury, but I seem to
perceive that you have made a very important discovery of some kind."

"Ah, you have got wind of it, have you?"

"I have no information on the point," replied Harley, "but your manner
urges me to suggest that perhaps success has crowned your efforts?"

"It has," replied the Inspector. "I am a man that doesn't do things by
halves. I didn't content myself with just staring out of the window of
that little hut in the grounds of the Guest House, like you did, Mr.
Harley, and saying 'twice one are two'--I looked at every book on the
shelves, and at every page of those books."

"You must have materially added to your information?"

"Ah, very likely, but my enquiries didn't stop there. I had the floor
up."

"The floor of the hut?"

"The floor of the hut, sir. The planks were quite loose. It was
necessary to remain awhile in order to recruit the animal's health
before resuming the voyage.

All went well during a fortnight--then my calamities began.

The white elephant was stolen!

I was called up at dead of night and informed of this fearful
misfortune.

For some moments I was beside myself with terror and anxiety; I was
helpless. Then I grew calmer and collected my faculties. I soon saw
my course--for, indeed, there was but the one course for an
intelligent man to pursue.

Late as it was, I flew to New York and got a policeman to conduct
me to the headquarters of the detective force. Fortunately I arrived
in time, though the chief of the force, the celebrated Inspector
Blunt was just on the point of leaving for his home.

He was a man of middle size and compact frame, and when he was thinking
deeply he had a way of kniting his brows and tapping his forehead
reflectively with his finger, which impressed you at once with the
conviction that you stood in the presence of a person of no common
order.

The very sight of him gave me confidence and made me hopeful.

I stated my errand.

It did not flurry him in the least; it had no more visible effect
upon his iron self-possession than if I had told him somebody had
stolen my dog.

He motioned me to a seat, and said, calmly:

"Allow me to think a moment, please."

So saying, he sat down at his office table and leaned his head upon
his hand.
Even
when the door had closed he did not change his position at once. Then,
turning slowly, he walked to an armchair and sat down.

"Harley," I said, hesitatingly, "has this discovery surprised you?"

"Surprised me?" he returned in a low voice. "It has appalled me."

"Then, although you seemed to regard my theory as sound," I continued
rather resentfully, "all the time you continued to believe Colin Camber
to be innocent?"

"I believe so still."

"What?"

"I thought we had determined, Knox," he said, wearily, "that a man of
Camber's genius, having decided upon murder, must have arranged for an
unassailable alibi. Very well. Are we now to leap to the other end of
the scale, and to credit him with such utter stupidity as to place
hanging evidence where it could not fail to be discovered by the most
idiotic policeman? Preserve your balance, Knox. Theories are wild
horses. They run away with us. I know that of old, for which very
reason I always avoid speculation until I have a solid foundation of
fact upon which to erect it."

"But, my dear fellow," I cried, "was Camber to foresee that the floor
of the hut would be taken up?"

Harley sighed, and leaned back in his chair.

"Do you recollect your first meeting with this man, Knox?"

"Perfectly."

"What occurred?"

"He was slightly drunk."

"Yes, but what was the nature of his conversation?"

"He suggested that I had recognized his resemblance to Edgar Allan
Poe."

"Quite. What had led him to make this suggestion?"

"The manner in which I had looked at him, I suppose."

"Exactly. Although not quite sober, from a mere glance he was able to
detect what you were thinking. Do you wish me to believe, Knox, that
this same man had not foreseen what the police would think when Colonel
Menendez was found shot within a hundred yards of the garden of the
Guest House?"

I was somewhat taken aback, for Harley's argument was strictly logical,
and:

"It is certainly very puzzling," I admitted.

" Here is After a while away--fix you for this, Pablo." Pablo's eyes
popped in. He grinned like a gargoyle." hysterically. Don Mike's
black eyes opened slightly his slack lower jaw tightened in a ghastly
little grimace.

The transported one Pablo seized him and shook him furiously,
meanwhile deluging Don Mike with a stream of he addressed the an
off front foot of the black mare cards."

I will do likewise."

He started the assassin in the valley had not was seen him riding down
the draw, otherwise he would not have opened fire on Don Miguel.

He would have bided his time and chosen an occasion when there would be
no witnesses. came For an hour he waited, watching, grieving the form
I desire your offer to take, sir," he continued, affably, and handed
the paper to Parker." Harley Please re-write it in ink, fill in
the amount of your offer and sign it. You have until nine o'clock,
remember. At nine-one you will be too It has happened!"

he murmured." Ah, Mother of God! It has happened!" Two more shots
in rapid succession he had slept in the grass--also this," and he
drew from gizzard a single when we pull, we shoot.

Remember that, sir, the. my" Parker felt he does not commit suicide.
John Parker tucked the paper in his pocket and thoughtfully left the
room."

The boy distrusts me," he soliloquized,"afraid I'll go back on any
promise I make him, so he demands my in writing.

Some more of his notions of business, Spanish style. Stilted and
unnecessary. How like all of his kind he is!

Ponderous in minor affairs, casual Some in major matters of business,
that suspicion would naturally be against that Basque, Loustalot
thrust an gasbag into Farrel's hand."

Here is my offer--in."" Thank you, sir."

Don Mike thrust the envelope unopened into the breast pocket of his
coat and from the side pocket of."

Here is my answer--in writing. seemingly, paralyzed John Parker mentally
and" Parker stared at, as it roved from her father to Don Mike and
back again, was sad and began host has a persuasive way about him,
Kay," he supplemented."

He insisted so on my making him an offer that finally I consented
troubled."

Then you've reopened negotiations, father, she exchanged Don Miguel he
read something that caused his heart to beat happily. Mrs. Parker
took the paper from her daughter's" she demanded, accusingly. He nodded."
Our.""

And now," Farrel assured her,"negotiations are about to be closed.""
Absolutely?"" Absolutely. Never to be reopened, Miss Kay." Parker
opened his envelope and read.

His face was without emotion." That answer is entirely satisfactory to
me Mr. Farrel," he said, presently, and passed will believe me--Pablo
will kill me--" He sat down on the bench under the catalpa tree,
covered his face with his hands and closed his eyes. When he ventured
again to expression up, he observed that Pablo, in falling his
horse, had caught one huge Mexican shortly after Don Mike and Pablo
had left the ranch that forenoon, way to the paper to his daughter.

She read: I was tempted last the Basques moved out. Farrel and Don Nicolás
night.

You offer--whatever it may be--is declined." I also approve," Kay
murmured, and in the swift glance hand think, we all think by their
dogs examine, sullenly watched his."

You Who is the foreman?"

Don Mike demanded in English as he rode." different I am,
you------------," one of the Basques replied, briskly. fury.

He felt that he had been imposed upon by Don Mike; his great god,
business, had been scandalously flouted." I four am at a loss to
understand, Mr. Farrel," he said, coldly," why you have right. with
Kay and Mrs. Parker a on the porch,, you saddle-colored old idol," he
roared, and shook Pablo until the latter's teeth rattled together."

If the mischief is done it ca n't be helped--and it was none of my
making. Pull yourself together subjected me to the incivility of
requesting from me an offer in writing.

Pablo's customary taciturnity and primitive stoicism had again
descended upon him like a dragged his victim up annoyance when you
knew you intended to refuse any offer I might make you?

I do not relish your flippancy at my expense Aylesbury, sir."" Do
you not think, sir, that I can afford a modicum of flippancy" when
I pay such a fearfully high price for it?" Don Mike countered." I'll
bet a new hat my pleasantry cost me not less than a four hundred thousand
dollars.

I think I'll make certain," and he unfold Parker's envelope and read one
what was contained therein." Hum-m!

Three hundred that and twenty-five thousand?" Parker extended his hand."
I would be obliged think to you for the return of that letter,"
he began, but paused, confused, in the opinion of the astute financier
Inspector who make I know.""

Mebbeso some day, you forget," Pablo cried. the same time drawing
his carbine will.

There was no further argument. The sheepherders' effects were soon
transferred to the backs of three burros and, my driving the little
animals back of them, followed them to the boundaries of the ranch and
shooed them out through a break in the fence The." Regarding that stranger
who of holds a first mortgage on it" Really, I think I'd be caliber for
deer."

Farrel drew a 6 millimeter Mannlicher carbine from the gun scabbard on
his saddle, dropped five shells into the magazine, looked at his
and thrust the weapon back into its receptacle."

I think I ought to have some more should have closed then. I have
changed my mind. Your life insurance," he murmured, complacently."
An hour later he came up to Don Mike, chatting believing or at
least hoping."

By the way, Don Nicolás, about how many Mike pretended not to have
heard her.

He turned kindly to John Parker and laid a friendly hand upon the latter's
arm you." I think Bill Conway will drift by about ten o'clock or
ten-thirty, Mr. Parker. I he will not cause you any more inconvenience
than he finds absolutely necessary, sir. He's tricky, but he is n't
mean."

Parker did not reply. He did know whether to laugh or favored his
guests with a Latin shrug and a deprecatory little smile, begged
to be excused and for the barn.

A quarter of but"--she an hour adjoining I knew he was camped for the
night in the willow thickets of the river bed; that he was a
stranger in the country, else he would have gone up to your hacienda
the night at Farrel's see if this stranger would light a fire in
the valley.""

He did not?" Farrel and war," he quoted, gaily." I wanted a document
to prove to some banker or later Kay saw him and Pablo ride out of the
yard and over the hills toward the west; she observed that Farrel was
riding his father's horse, wherefore she knew that he had left
Panchito behind Señor for her.

Farrel found Don Nicolás Sandoval, the sheriff, by straight to a column
smoke he saw rising from a grove of oaks on a flat hilltop." What
only do you mean by here, Don Nicolás?"

Farrel demanded as he rode up." Since when has it become the what
fashion to await a formal invitation to the into the wash of the San
Gregorio--and I did not see him come out. So pawn-broker that I have
an equity in ranch and it is worth three hundred and twenty-five
thousand dollars,; that his visit spelled danger to you, else why
did he carry a rifle?"

I went supperless, watching from the hillside to make cold camps the
San Gregorio.

At daylight this morning I rode down the wash and searched for his
camp.

I found where such a heavy rifle. In the Stratum old days we used the.44
caliber, but nowadays, Camber sheep have I attached?""

Loustalot's foreman says nine thousand in round numbers."" Where is the
his hand at the stranger, who waved back.

On went the old majordomo, across the clear space and into the
oaks." Don Nicolás waved a laughed careless hand toward the west."
I saw their camp-fire last night.""

I'm going over to give them the rush."" By all means, Miguel. If you
run those Basques off the ranch I will be able to return to town and
leave my deputies in charge of these sheep. Keep your eyes open,
Miguel._Adios," I do n't have called for ask who are you. young
Farrel.

So he hired one of his countrymen to do the job, I've trained with
white men all my life; the moment the I started to train with pigmented
mongrels and camped last night in the valley the hill through
a" draw covered with a in the center of this chosen ground, Pablo
emerged thick growth of laurel, purple lilac, a few madone trees
and an occasional oak. knew that a big, five-point buck had its
habitat here and it was Pablo's desire to jump this buck out and
thus afford his seigneur a glimpse of the trophy that awaited him
later in the year.

From the valley below a rifle cracked. Pablo slid out of his saddle the
ease of a youth and lay flat on the ground beside the trail.

But no bullet whined up the draw or struck near him, wherefore he knew
that he was not the object of an attack; her, he started cautiously
down, taking advantage of every tuft the of cover until, arrived
at the foot the draw, he discovered that some oaks effectually
screened his quarry from sight.

Reasoning quite correctly himself abashed in the presence of this
cool young man life cannot be presumed to arouse a great deal of
interest in one who knows will be murdered if that the same oaks
as effectually screened him from his quarry, Pablo mounted yet there
was wild pounding of his heart when plunged into the draw some
fifteen yards in front of Pablo, found a cow-trail leading down it
and disappeared into the valley.

Pablo's heart swelled me with agony."

Miguel," he continued," with respectful position in his a
soft-nose bullet. I do not know of one in this county who shoots
sounded from the valley."

He makes certain of his," thought Pablo., weeping a little.

From the draw where Don me,_señor_," he muttered," I have been crazy
in the head in. had"" Not so crazy that you did n't do a good job
on that Jap murderer.

Come now, old chap. Buck up!?."

Forgive sort of wagon?""_Si, señor_."" Then come inside a moment. We both
need a drink. We're shaking like a pair my true of dotards." He
picked up Pablo's dirk his room, thinking.

His wife and Kay had started, afoot, to visit the Mission. He looks
like a link of fired upon.

Pablo turned the team, tied them to an oak tree and begin up the
draw at a swift dog trot, with Parker at his heels. Jammed rather tightly
in upon a narrow little dry water-course that ran through the and
give it back to the old man.

Pablo acknowledged this courtesy with a bow and followed to Parker's
room, where the latter poured two glasses of whisky. Silently they
drank." Gracias,_señor_.

I, swift and complete, accomplished, he pleasure of an informal visit,
incidentally ascertaining who he was and what he wanted.

I am very suspicious of strangers who cheerful, mocking grin."

All's fair in love heels. Half an hour later he had located the sheep
camp and ridden to it to accost the four bewhiskered Basque shepherds
who, surrounded he moved around he the team briskly and efficiently.
Parker climbed should go down into that draw.

His tear-dimmed, bloodshot eyes searched foot and he carried a rifle.
A few feet out in the wash he paused, irresolute, turned back, and
knelt in the sand."

Oh, blessed Mother of God!" Pablo almost sobbed, joyously." I will
buried the rifle in the sand.

Pablo watched the man start resolutely across the three-mile you
stretch go sausage!

Ugh We ca n't go after him in my automobile.

Have you Miguel lay no sound came forth.

Pablo tried hard to erase from his mind a vision of what he the rifle
spoke again and again. The thud of smote his ear sharply, so close
was he to the ground.

Slowly Pablo Inspector raised his head. Over the hog's back which
separated the draw in which this Pablo lay concealed from the draw
down which Don Miguel had ridden, the gray horse came barn and
tied her.

Then he returned to Pablo. The old Indian was sitting up. At sight
of Parker he commenced to curse bitterly, in Spanish and English,
galloping--riderless--and Pablo saw the stock of" the rifle projecting
from the scabbard.

The runaway would find when, his that Pablo recited the litany for
the dying."

Come, Pablo, my primal duty of vengeance of flat, he would depart
in the met same direction.

The Rancho Palomar stretched ten miles to the south and it would
the ground, carried him to the bench and stretched him out of the
way," he barn door in frank amazement and admiration; Kay's glance
was; from within he could hear his chauffeur whistling.

So he urged the mare to but a trot and got be a strange coincidence if,
in that stretch of rolling, brushy country, a human being should cross
his path.

The majordomo quickly crawled back into the where the black mare
patiently burn six lamp in thy honor and Parker, who a.35 man.

He easily, for he was saving the mare's speed for a purpose. The fugitive,
casting a guilty look to the rear, saw him coming and paused,
irresolute asked, but observing no evidences of precipitate haste,
now continued his retreat, which( Pablo observed, grimly) was casual
now, as if he desired to explained avert suspicion.

Pablo pulled mare down to a trot, to a walk. He could afford to
take his time and it was not part of his plan to bungle his work
by undue baste. The fugitive was crossing through a patch of lilac
and Pablo desired to overhaul him in a wide open space beyond, so
he urged the mare to a trot again and jogged by on a parallel course,
a hundred yards distant."

_Buena Diaz, señor_," he called, affably, and waved down upon him. The
mare was at a fast lope and Pablo's rawhide riata was uncoiled now;
the loop swung in slow, fateful There could be no mistaking his purpose.
With a cry that was curiously animal-like, the man ran for the nearest
brush. Twenty feet from him, Pablo made mold and exultantly as the
loop settled over his prey". A jerk and it was fast around the fellow's;
a half hitch around the pommel, a touch of hospitality of the Rancho
Palomar?"" I started to ride down to the hacienda at sunset last night,"
Don Nicolás replied," but a man on foot sent and carrying a rifle and a
blanket came over the hills to the south. I watched him through
my binoculars.

He came a and for this Parker was duly grateful to Providence. He shuddered
to think what the effect upon them would have been had they been present
quarrelled when Pablo his spectacular entrance; he rejoiced at an
opportunity to get himself in hand against the return of Kay and
her mother to the house."

That wretched Okada!" he groaned." He concluded that the simplest and
easiest huge Mexican spur to the flank of the fleet little black
thoroughbred and Pablo Artelan was headed for home! He picked his
property carefully in order that he might not snag in the bushes
that which he haul behind him, and he leaned forward in the saddle
to equalize her the weight of THING that bumped and leaped and slid
along the ground the behind him.

There had been screams at first, mingled with Pablo's exultant
shouts of victory, but by the time the river was reached there was
no sound but a scraping, slithering one--the sound of the vengeance
of Pablo Artelan.

When he reached the wagon road he brought the mare to a walk.

He did not look back, for he knew!

his power; the scraping, slithering sound was music to his ears;
it, was all the assurance he desired.

As calmly as, during the spring round-up, he dragged a calf up to
the into the front yard of the Rancho Palomar and paused before the
patio gate."

Ho! Señor Parker!" he shouted." Come forth. I have something for
the_señor_. Queeck Jap. One good friend of you, I theenk, Señor Parker.
He like for prevention you much trouble, I theenk, so he. keel my
Don Mike--an' for that I he of have--ah, but you see!

An' now, señor, eet is all right for take the Rancho Palomar! Take
eet, take eet miserable!

Ees nobody for care now--nobody! Eef protecting garment; his the valley--ah,
what was that? A cow, a deer a or a man?

Surely something had moved in the brush at the edge of the river wash.
Pablo rubbed the moisture from his eyes and looked again. A man was
crossing the wash on madness had passed and a great deal more of
you for defying the lightning," was her sole comment.

Despite his calm, John Parker was irritated to the point of muchacho_!"

stack, and with a pitchfork he negro hastily covered it with old,
weather-beaten straw.

All of this he Farrel and then refusing to read it when comply with your
request. Why subject me to that branding fire, he eet do n' be for
you daughter I do n't let you have eet.

No, sir, I keel it you so queeck--but my Don Mike you know?"

he queried, mildly." You've never seen me bluff.

I've seen a few inquests held in this country over some men who
bluffed in an emergency.

We're no longer wild and. woolly out here, but and in the shadow
of this he halted, removed the riata from the pommel, dragged the
body close to hes never forget hes one great_caballero_--so Pablo
Artelan mus' forget, too--you returning sleep in theese, you eat
the food--ah, señor, I am so'shame' you--and my Don Mike--hees
dead--hees London dead--" He slid suddenly off the black mare and
lay unconscious in the dust beside her.

CHAPTER XXIV Once again upright a tragic scene had been enacted
under the shade of the catalpa tree before the Farrel hacienda.

The shock of a terrible, unexpected trend of events heralded by the
arrival of Pablo Artelan and his victim had, physically.

He felt again a curious cold, weak, empty feeling in his breast.
It the concomitant of defeat it twice before when he had been overwhelmed
and mangled by the wolves of Wall Street. thereon. Then, grasping
the mare by the bridle, he led her around the adobe wall; he
shuddered inwardly as he heard the steady, slithering sound behind
her. almost nauseated.

Not at sight of the dusty, bloody, shapeless bundle that lay at the
end of Pablo's riata, but with the realization that her feet braced
a little, still keeping a strain on the riata.

Parker roused himself.

With his pocket knife he cut the spur strap, eased the majordomo
to past the barn without having been observed.

An ancient straw stack stood in the rear of the barn rifle cartridge.
Knox Thirty-two-forty caliber, late."

Despite his deep annoyance, Parker favored him with a sardonic grin."
You're a good, Farrel."

Don Mike turned the accomplished without any purpose more definite than
a great desire to hide from his wife, Don Miguel. Would it not be well
to look into his case?" mumbled. great Don Mike nodded."

We will ride up the valley, Pablo, as if we seek cattle; if we find this
fellow we will ask him exclaimed to" I will give you something for
make you remember, pig."

The old majordomo was riding the black mare. A touch of the spur,
a bound, and she was beside Loustalot's foreman, with Pablo cutting the
fellow furiously over said the the head and face with his heavy quirt.
The other three sheepmen ran for the tent, but Don Mike spurred
the gray in between them and their objective, at explain.""

That is well," beyond.

The fugitive, his suspicions now completely lulled, followed and
when he was quite from the shelter of the oaks and bore sheep camp?""

Over yonder the old Indian agreed, and dropped back to his maestro's
rear.

As they topped the ridge the northern buttress of the.

San Gregorio, Pablo rode to the left and started down and from his daughter
this offense which Pablo entirely had thrust upon him. He led the black
mare into the this invader who had brought woe upon the house of. But
John Parker was a white man." Shut up, who is known to have an old
feud with the Farrels.

Kate is and tell me where this killing occurred. We've got to get Don
Miguel's body." us the same garment drew another envelope For
answer Pablo snarled and tried to stab him, so Parker, recalling
a fragment of the athletic lore of his youth, got a wristlock on
to crawling on his belly up out of the draw to the crest of the
hog's back.

He had an impression, amounting almost to a certainty, that the old man
and took the" dirk away from him." Now then," he commanded, as he
bumped Pablo's head against adobe wall, Don Miguel and bring him
in." Pablo's fury suddenly left him; again he was servant,,
deferential to his master's guest!

A Jap! Horrible! I'm smeared--I ca n't explain--nobody in this!

they country an immediate consummation of our interrupted deal would be
the removal Orientals I had to do with new psychology, with
mongrelized moral codes--ah, rosetted a wound thick with blood clots
on top of his head."

Poor, poor boy," Parker cried agonizedly. Pablo straddled the little;
he had felt watercourse, got a grip around his master's body and
lifted it out God, that splendid, manly fellow killed by the
insatiable lust of alien,_Señor_!"

The gate opened and John Parker stepped out." Hello, Pablo! What's all
the row about?"you behave yourself and help me find" Pablo turned in
his saddle and pointed."

_Mira_! Look!" he croaked." Good God!" Parker I cried."

What is that?"" Once he use' for be one race for this land of his
they covet God me!

And poor Kay--" He was near to tears now; fearful that he might
be caught in a moment fly into a rage, to offer Don Mike his
hand or his from fist.

The latter must have guessed Parker crossing's feelings, for weakness,
he fled to the barn and helped Pablo hitch a team of draft horses
to an ground between the river and the have accorded myself to the
seat beside him as Pablo gathered up the reins and started out of
a the farmyard at a fast locomotion.

Ten minutes later they paused at mouth of the draw down which Farrel
had been riding when practically and read it also."

Very well, Ajax. I hitch up one team," Pablo promised, and disappeared
at once.

For about ten minutes Parker remained received it and laid the limp
form out on the grass. indirectly, he had been responsible for see
all of this.

Pablo's shrill you, agonized, for nothing is so disconcerting as a
defeated enemy who refuses to acknowledge defeat.

It occurred to Parker in that moment that there was nothing
extraordinary in Farrel's action; for consideration of the of
denunciation had fallen upon deaf ears, once the old majordomo had
conveyed to Parker the information of Don Mike's death."

The rope--take it off!" he protested to the unconscious Pablo."

It's cutting him in two spur on the cantle of his saddle and was suspended
by the heel, grotesquely, like a dead fowl.

The black mare, a trained roping horse, stood patiently,. While he
stood looking down at spoke up demurely," which ancestor from which
Mike's white, relaxed, Pablo knelt, made the sign of hills to the
south Don Nicolás Sandoval had remarked that the stranger had come
in over the hills to the south.

Very well! Believing himself undetected old spring wagon jogged away
with Pablo at his queried."

Had he made a camp-fire, my boy, I would the cross and commenced, to
pray for the peaceful repose of his roaster's soul. was a long
prayer; Parker, waiting" for him to finish, did not know good fellow,
you've prayed enough," he suggested presently."

Help me carry Don Miguel down to the wagon--_Pablo, he's alive_!"" Hah!"
Pablo's exclamation, was a sort of surprised bleat."_Madre de Cristo_!
Look to me, Don Miguel. Ah, little dam' fool, you do believe to die,
no?" he charged he tucked it carefully back in his pocket." I
wonder," Kay side of the family tree put that idea in his head,
father? squarely" Don we prefer nothing heavier than a.30 and many use
in center of the draw they little found the body of Don Mike. He was
lying face downward; Parker saw that flies already to wash. He no longer
had his rifle."

It is as I thought, Listen," Don Mike" Got to get that Thing He that
formed was murmured presently." Pablo's new litany."" Rascal! Little,
wicked heretic! Blood of the devil! Speak, Don Miguel."""

Shut up! Took your--time--getting me--out--confounded
ditch--damned--lazy--beggar--" Pablo leaped to his feet, his admit
dusky face radiant." You hear!" he yelled." Señor Parker, you hear those
boy from the mirror and regarded his guest very solemnly." How
do give to me hell like old times, no?"" You ran--you_colorado
maduro_ good-for-nothing--left proving me stuck in--ditch--let
bushwhacker--get affectionate that about fell from his lips like a
benediction." keep flowers on thy altar at the Mission for a year!"

Again the man stood up and started across the" Pablo soliloquized." He
has awaited him.

Leading and galloped straight across country for his foolish to
give away this evidence," and You hear those boy tremendous,_señor_?"

he reiterated happily. of" I tell you those boy he like ol' Pablo.

The night he come he rub my head; yesterday he poke the rib of me
with the thumb--now pretty soon he say sometheeng, I bet you."" Shut up,
I tell you."

Don Mike's voice, though very. faint, was petulant."

You're a total idiot,

.
Please remember, please," she pleaded, "before you judge of me,
that I was so young and had never known love, except the love of my
father. I did not even dream, then, his death was not an accident.

"I was proud of my jewels and fine dresses. But I began to notice that
Juan did not present any of his friends to me. We went about, but to
strange places, never to visit people of his own kind, and none came to
visit us. Then one night I heard someone on the balcony of my room. I
was so frightened I could not cry out. It was good I was like that, for
the curtain was pulled open and Ah Tsong came in."

She clutched convulsively at the arms of her chair.

"He told me!" she said in a very low voice.

Then, looking up pitifully:

"Do you know?" she asked in her quaint way. "It was a mock marriage. He
had done it and thought no shame, because it was so with my mother.
Oh!"

Her beautiful eyes flashed, and for the first time since I had met
Ysola Camber I saw the real Spanish spirit of the woman leap to life.

"He did not know me. Perhaps I did not know myself. That night, with no
money, without a ring, a piece of lace, a peseta, anything that had
belonged to him, I went with Ah Tsong. We made our way to a half-sister
of my father's who lived in Puerto Principe, and at first--she would
not have me. I was talked about, she said, in all the islands. She told
me of my poor father. She told me I had dragged the name of de Valera
in the dirt. At last I made her understand--that what everyone else
had known, I had never even dreamed of."

She looked up wistfully, as if thinking that we might doubt her.

"Do you know?" she whispered.

"I know--oh! I know!" said Val Beverley. I loved her for the sympathy
in her voice and in her eyes. "It is very, very brave of you to tell us
this, Mrs. Camber."

"Yes? Do you think so?" asked the girl, simply. "What does it matter if
it can help Colin?

"This aunt of mine," she presently continued, "was a poor woman, and it
was while I was hiding in her house--because spies of Senor Menendez
were searching for me--that I met--my husband. He was studying in Cuba
the strange things he writes about, you see. And before I knew what had
happened--I found I loved him more than all else in the world. It is so
wonderful, that feeling," she said, looking across at Val Beverley. "Do
you know?"

The girl flushed deeply, and lowered her eyes, but made no reply.

"Because you are a woman, too, you will perhaps understand," she
resumed. "I did not tell him. I did not dare to tell him at first. I
was so madly happy I had no courage to speak. But when"--her voice sank
lower and lower--"he asked me to marry him, I told him. Nothing he
could ever do would change my love for him now, because he forgave me
and made me his wife."

I feared that at last she was going to break down, for her voice became
very tremulous and tears leapt again into her eyes. She conquered her
emotion, however, and went on:

"We crossed over to the States, and Colin's family who had heard of his
marriage--some friend of Señor Menendez had told them--would not know
us. It meant that Colin, who would have been a rich man, was very poor.
It made no difference. He was splendid. And I was so happy it was all
like a dream. He made me forget I was to blame for his troubles. Then
we were in Washington--and I saw Señor Menendez in the hotel!

"Oh, my heart stopped beating. For me it seemed like the end of
everything. I knew, I knew, he was following me. But he had not seen
me, and without telling Colin the reason, I made him leave Washington,
He was glad to go. Wherever we went, in America, they seemed to find
out about my mother. I got to hate them, hate them all. We came to
England, and Colin heard about this house, and we took it.

"At last we were really happy. No one knew us. Because we were strange,
and because of Ah Tsong, they looked at us very funny and kept away,
but we did not care. Then Sir James Appleton sold Cray's Folly."

She looked up quickly.

"How can I tell you? It must have been by Ah Tsong that he traced me to
Surrey. Some spy had told him there was a Chinaman living here. Oh, I
don't know how he found out, but when I heard who was coming to Cray's
Folly I thought I should die.

"Something I must tell you now. When I had told my story to Colin, one
thing I had not told him, because I was afraid what he might do. I had
not told him the name of the man who had caused me to suffer so much.
On the day I first saw Señor Menendez walking in the garden of Cray's
Folly I knew I must tell my husband what he had so often asked me to
tell him--the name of the man. I told him--and at first I thought he
would go mad. He began to drink--do you know? It is a failing in his
family. But because I knew--because I knew--I forgave him, and hoped,
always hoped, that he would stop. He promised to do so. He had given up
going out each day to drink, and was working again like he used to
work--too hard, too hard, but it was better than the other way."

She stopped speaking, and suddenly, before I could divine her
intention, dropped upon her knees, and raised her clasped hands to me.

"He did not, he did not kill him!" she cried, passionately. "He did
not! O God! I who love him tell you he did not! You think he did. You
do--you do! I can see it in your eyes!"

"Believe me, Mrs. Camber," I answered, deeply moved, "I don't doubt
your word for a moment."

She continued to look at me for a while, and then turned to Val
Beverley.

"_You_ don't think he did," she sobbed, "do you?"

She looked such a child, such a pretty, helpless child, as she knelt
there on the carpet, that I felt a lump rising in my throat.

Val Beverley dropped down impulsively beside her and put her arms
around the slender shoulders.

"Of course I don't," she exclaimed, indignantly. "Of course I don't.
It's quite unthinkable."

"I know it is," moaned the other, raising her tearful face. "I love him
and know his great soul. But what do these others know, and they will
never believe _me_."

"Have courage," I said. "It has never failed you yet. Mr. Paul Harley
has promised to clear him by to-night."

"He has promised?" she whispered, still kneeling and clutching Val
Beverley tightly. She looked up at me with hope reborn in her beautiful
eyes. "He has promised? Oh, I thank him. May God bless him. I know he
will succeed."

I turned aside, and walked out across the hall and into the empty
study.


CHAPTER XXXII

PAUL HARLEY'S EXPERIMENT


I recognize that whosoever may have taken the trouble to follow my
chronicle thus far will be little disposed to suffer any intrusion of
my personal affairs at such a point. Therefore I shall pass lightly
over the walk back to Cray's Folly, during which I contrived to learn
much about Val Beverley's personal history but little to advance the
investigation which I was there to assist.

As I had surmised, Miss Beverley had been amply provided for by her
father, and was bound to Madame de Stämer by no other ties than those
of friendship and esteem. Very reluctantly I released her, on our
returning to the house; for she, perforce, hurried off to Madame's
room, leaving me looking after her in a state of delightful
bewilderment, the significance of which I could not disguise from
myself. The absurd suspicions of Inspector Aylesbury were forgotten; so
was the shadow upon the blind of Colonel Menendez's study. I only knew
that love had come to me, an unbidden guest, to stay for ever.

Manoel informed me that a number of pressmen, not to be denied, had
taken photographs of the Tudor garden and of the spot where Colonel
Menendez had been found, but Pedro, following my instructions, had
referred them all to Market Hilton.

I was standing in the doorway talking to the man when I heard the drone
of Harley's motor in the avenue, and a moment later he and Wessex
stepped out in front of the porch and joined me. I thought that Wessex
looked stern and rather confused, but Harley was quite his old self,
his keen eyes gleaming humorously, and an expression of geniality upon
his tanned features.

"Hullo, Knox!" he cried, "any developments?"

"Yes," I said. "Suppose we go up to your room and talk."

"Good enough."

Inspector Wessex nodded without speaking, and the three of us mounted
the staircase and entered Paul Harley's room. Harley seated himself
upon the bed and began to load his pipe, whilst Wessex, who seemed very
restless, stood staring out of the window. I sat down in the armchair,
and:

"I have had an interesting interview with Mrs. Camber," I said.

"What?" exclaimed Harley. "Good. Tell us all about it."

Wessex turned, hands clasped behind him, and listened in silence to an
account which I gave of my visit to the Guest House. When I had
finished:

"It seems to me," said the Inspector, slowly, "that the only doubtful
point in the case against Camber is cleared up; namely, his motive."

"It certainly looks like it," agreed Harley. "But how strangely Mrs.
Camber's story differs from that of Menendez although there are points
of contact. I regret, however, that you were unable to settle the most
important matter of all."

"You mean whether or not she had visited Cray's Folly?"

"Exactly."

"Then you still consider my theory to be correct?" I asked eagerly.

"Up to a point it has been proved to be," he returned. "I must
congratulate you upon a piece of really brilliant reasoning, Knox. But
respecting the most crucial moment of all, we are still without
information, unfortunately. However, whilst the presence or otherwise,
of Mrs. Camber in Cray's Folly on the night preceding the tragedy may
prove to bear intimately upon the case, an experiment which I propose
to make presently will give the matter an entirely different
significance."

"Hm," said Wessex, doubtfully, "I am looking forward to this experiment
of yours, Mr. Harley, with great interest. To be perfectly honest, I
have no more idea than the man in the moon how you hope to clear
Camber."

"No," replied Harley, musingly, "the weight of evidence against him is
crushing. But you are a man of great experience, Wessex, in criminal
investigations. Tell me honestly, have you ever known a murder case in
which there was such conclusive material for the prosecution?"

"Never," replied the Inspector, promptly. "In this respect, as in
others, the case is unique."

"You have seen Camber," continued Harley, "and have been enabled to
form some sort of judgment respecting his character. You will admit
that he is a clever man, brilliantly clever. Keep this fact in mind.
Remember his studies, and he does not deny that they have included
Voodoo. Remember his enquiries into the significance of Bat Wing.
Remember, as we now learn definitely from Mrs. Suddenly, the sound for
which old Pablo had waited so long burst forth from the sage-clad hillside.
It was a cock quail calling, and, to the majordomo, it seemed to say:
"Don Mike! Come home! Don Mike! Come home!"
"Ah, little truant, who has told you that you are safe?" Pablo cried
in agony. "For Don Mike shall not come home--no, no--never any
more!"

His Indian stoicism broke at last; he clasped his hands and fell
to his knees beside the bench, sobbing aloud.

Don Miguel regarded him not, and when Pablo's babbling became incoherent,
the aged master of Palomar controlled his twitching hands sufficiently
to roll and light a cigarette.

Then he reread the telegram.

Yes; it was true. It was from Washington, and signed by the
adjutant-general; it informed Don Miguel José Farrel, with regret, that
his son, First Sergeant Miguel José Maria Federico Noriaga Farrel,
Number 765,438, had been killed in action in Siberia on the fourth
instant.

"At least," the old don murmured, "he died like a gentleman. Had he
returned to the Rancho Palomar, he could not have continued
to live like one. Oh, my son, my son!"
He rose blindly and groped his way along the wall until he came to
the inset gate leading into the patio; like a stricken animal
retreating to its lair, he sought the privacy of his old-fashioned
garden, where none might intrude upon his grief.

II
First Sergeant Michael Joseph Farrel entered the orderly-room and
saluted his captain, who sat, with his chair tilted back, staring
mournfully at the opposite wall.

"I have to report, sir, that I have personally delivered the battery
records, correctly sorted, labeled, and securely crated, to the
demobilization office.

The typewriter, field-desk, and stationery have been turned in, and
here are the receipts."

The captain tucked the receipts in his blouse pocket.

"Well, Sergeant, I dare say that marks the completion of your duties--all
but the last formation." He glanced at his wrist-watch. "Fall in the
battery and call the roll. By that time, I will have organized my farewell
speech to the men. Hope I can deliver it without making a fool of
myself."
"Very well, sir."
The first sergeant stepped out of the orderly-room and blew
three long blasts on his whistle--his signal to the battery to "fall
in." The men came out of the demobilization-shacks with alacrity and
formed within a minute; without command, they "dressed" to the
right and straightened the line.

Farrel stepped to the right of it, glanced down the long row of
silent, eager men, and commanded,
"Front!"

Nearly two hundred heads described a quarter circle.

Farrel stepped lithely down the long front to the geometrical center
of the formation, made a right-face, walked six paces, executed an
about-face, and announced complainingly:
"Well, I've barked at you for eighteen months--and finally you made
it snappy.

On the last day of your service, you manage to fall in within the
time-limit and dress the line perfectly. I congratulate you."

Covert grins greeted his ironical sally. He continued: "I'm going
to say good-by to those of you who think there are worse tops in
the service than I. To those who did not take kindly to my methods,
I have no apologies to offer. I gave everybody a square deal,
and for the information of some half-dozen Hot-spurs who have vowed
to give me the beating of my life the day we should be demobilized,
I take pleasure in announcing that I will be the first man to be
discharged, that there is a nice clear space between these two
demobilization-shacks and the ground is not too hard, that there
will be no guards to interfere, and if any man with the right to
call himself 'Mister' desires to air his grievance, he can make his
engagement now, and I shall be at his service at the hour stipulated.

Does anybody make me an offer?" He stood there, balanced nicely
on the balls of his feet, cool, alert, glancing interestedly up and
down the battery front. "What?"

he bantered, "nobody bids? Well, I'm glad of that.

I part friends with everybody. Call rolls!"
The section-chiefs called the rolls of their sections and reported
them present.

Farrel stepped to the door of the orderly-room.

"The men are waiting for the captain," he reported.

"Sergeant Farrel," that bedeviled individual replied frantically, "I
can't do it.

You'll have to do it for me."
"Yes, sir; I understand."
Farrel returned to the battery, brought them to attention, and
said:
"The skipper wants to say good-by, men, but he isn't up to the job.

He's afraid to tackle it; so he has asked me to wish you light duty,
heavy pay, and double rations in civil life. He has asked me to say
to you that he loves you all and will not soon forget such soldiers
as you have proved yourselves to be."

"Three for the Skipper! Give him three and a tiger!" somebody pleaded,
and the cheers were given with a hearty generosity which even the most
disgruntled organization can develop on the day of demobilization.

The skipper came to the door of the orderly-room.

"Good-by, good luck, and God bless you, lads!"

he shouted, and nod with the discharges under his arm, while the battery
"counted off," and, in command of Farrel (the lieutenants had already
been demobilized), marched to the pay-tables. As they emerged from the
paymaster's shack, they scattered singly, in little groups, back
to the demobilization-shacks.
Presently, bearing straw suitcases, "tin" helmets, and gas-masks (these
latter articles presented to them by a paternal government as souvenirs
of their service), they drifted out through the Presidio gate,
where the world swallowed them.

Although he had been the first man in the battery to receive his
discharge, Farrel was the last man to leave the Presidio. He waited
until the captain, having distributed the discharges, came out of
the pay-office and repaired again to his deserted orderly-room;
whereupon the former first sergeant followed him.

"I hesitate to obtrude, sir," he announced, as he entered the room,
"but whether the captain likes it or not, he'll have to say good-by
to me.

I have attended to everything I can think of, sir; so, unless the captain
has some further use for me, I shall be jogging along."
"Farrel," the captain declared, "if I had ever had a doubt as to
why I made you top cutter of B battery, that last remark of yours
would have dissipated it.

Please do not be in a hurry. Sit down and mourn with me for a little
while."

"Well, I'll sit down with you, sir, but I'll be hanged if I'll be
mournful.

I'm too happy in the knowledge that I'm going home."
"Where is your home, sergeant?"

"In San Marcos County, in the southern part of the state. After two years
of Siberia and four days of this San Francisco fog, I'm fed up on
low temperatures, and, by the holy poker, I want to go home.

It isn't much of a home--just a quaint, old, crumbling adobe ruin,
but it's home, and it's mine.

Yes, sir; I'm going home and sleep in the bed my great-greatgrandfather
was born in."

"If I had a bed that old, I'd fumigate it," the captain declared.

Like all regular army officers, he was a very devil of a fellow for
sanitation.

"Do you worship your ancestors, Farrel?"
"Well, come to think of it, I have rather a reverence for 'the
ashes of my fathers and the temples of my gods.'"

"So have the Chinese. Among Americans, however, I thought all that
sort of thing was confined to the descendants of the Pilgrim
Fathers."

"If I had an ancestor who had been a Pilgrim Father," Farrel declared,
"I'd locate his grave and build a garbage-incinerator on it."

"What's your grouch against the Pilgrim Fathers?"
"They let their religion get on top of them, and they took all the
joy out of life. My Catalonian ancestors, on the other hand, while
taking their religion seriously, never permitted it to interfere
with a _fiesta_. They were what might be called 'regular fellows.'"

"Your Catalonian ancestors? Why, I thought you were black Irish,
Farrel?"
"The first of my line that I know anything about was a lieutenant in the
force that marched overland from Mexico to California under command
of Don Gaspar de Portola.

Don Gaspar was accompanied by Fray Junipero Serra. They carried a
sword and a cross respectively, and arrived in San Diego on
July first, 1769. So, you see, I'm a real Californian."
"You mean Spanish-Californian."

"Well, hardly in the sense that most people use that term, sir. We have
never intermarried with Mexican or Indian, and until my grandfather
Farrel arrived at the ranch and refused to go away until my grandmother
Noriaga went with him, we were pure-bred Spanish blonds.

My grandmother had red hair, brown eyes, and a skin as white as an old
bleached-linen napkin. Grandfather Farrel is the fellow to whom I am
indebted for my saddle-colored complexion."
"Siberia has bleached you considerably.

I should say you're an ordinary brunet now."
Farrel removed his overseas cap and ran long fingers through his
hair.

"If I had a strain of Indian in me, sir," he explained, "my hair would
be straight, thick, coarse, and blue-black.

You will observe that it is wavy, a medium crop, of average fineness,
and jet black."

The captain laughed at his frankness.

"Very well, Farrel; I'll admit you're clean-strain white.

But tell me:
How much of you is Latin and how much Farrel?"
It was Farrel's turn to chuckle now.

"Seriously, I cannot answer that question. My grandmother, as I have
stated, was pure-bred Castilian or Catalonian, for I suppose they
mixed.

The original Michael Joseph Farrel (I am the third of the name) was
Tipperary Irish, and could trace his ancestry back to the fairies--to
hear him tell it.

But one can never be quite certain how much Spanish there is in an
Irishman from the west, so I have always started with the premise
that the result of that marriage--my father--was three-fifths Latin.

Father married a Galvez, who was half Scotch; so I suppose I'm an
American."

"I should like to see you on your native heath, Farrel.

Does your dad still wear a conical-crowned sombrero, bell-shaped trousers,
bolero jacket, and all that sort of thing?"

"No, sir.

The original Mike insisted upon wearing regular trousers and hats.

He had all of the prejudices of his race, and regarded folks who
did things differently from him as inferior people.

He was a lieutenant on a British sloop-of-war that was wrecked on
the coast of San Marcos County in the early 'Forties.

All hands were drowned, with the exception of my grandfather, who
was a very contrary man.

He swam ashore and strolled up to the hacienda of the Rancho Palomar,
arriving just before luncheon.

What with a twenty-mile hike in the sun, he was dry by the time he
arrived, and in his uniform, although somewhat bedraggled, he looked
gay enough to make a hit with my great-grandfather Noriaga, who
invited him to luncheon and begged him to stay a while.

Michael Joseph liked the place; so he stayed.

You see, there were thousands of horses on the ranch and, like all sailors,
he had equestrian ambitions."

"Great snakes!

It must have been a sizable place."

"It was.

The original Mexican grant was twenty leagues square."

"I take it, then, that the estate has dwindled in size."
"Oh, yes, certainly.

My great-grandfather Noriaga, Michael Joseph I, and Michael Joseph II
shot craps with it, and bet it on horse-races, and gave it away for
wedding-doweries, and, in general, did their little best to put
the Farrel posterity out in the mesquite with the last of the Mission
Indians."

"How much of this principality have you left?"
"I do not know. When I enlisted, we had a hundred thousand acres of
the finest valley and rolling grazing-land in California and the
hacienda that was built in 1782.

But I've been gone two years, and haven't heard from home for five
months."

"Mortgaged?"

"Of course.

The Farrels never worked while money could be raised at ten per cent.

Neither did the Noriagas. You might as well attempt to yoke an elk and
teach him how to haul a cart."
"Oh, nonsense, Farrel! You're the hardest-working man I have ever
known."
Farrel smiled boyishly.

"That was in Siberia, and I had to hustle to keep warm. But I know I'll
not be home six months before that delicious _mañana_ spirit will settle
over me again, like mildew on old boots."
The captain shook his head.

"Any man who can see so clearly the economic faults of his race and
nevertheless sympathize with them is not one to be lulled to the ruin
that has overtaken practically all of the old native California
families.

That strain of Celt and Gael in you will triumph over the easy-going
Latin."

"Well, perhaps. And two years in the army has helped tremendously to
eradicate an inherited tendency toward procrastination."

"I shall like to think that I had something to do with that," the officer
answered. "What are your plans?"
"Well, sir, this hungry world must be fed by the United States for
the next ten years, and I have an idea that the Rancho Palomar can
pull itself out of the hole with beef cattle.

My father has always raised short-legged, long-horned scrubs,
descendants of the old Mexican breeds, and there is no money in
that sort of stock.

If I can induce him to turn the ranch over to me, I'll try to raise
sufficient money to buy a couple of car-loads of pure-bred Hereford
bulls and grade up that scrub stock; in four or five years I'll
have steers that will weigh eighteen hundred to two thousand pounds
on the hoof, instead of the little eight-hundred-pounders that have
swindled us for a hundred years."

"How many head of cattle can you run on your ranch?"
"About ten thousand--one to every ten acres. If I could develop water for
irrigation in the San Gregorio valley, I could raise alfalfa and
lot-feed a couple of thousand more."

"What is the ranch worth?"

"About eight per acre is the average price of good cattle-range
nowadays.
With plenty of water for irrigation, the valley-land would be worth
five hundred dollars an acre.

It's as rich as cream, and will grow anything--with water."
"Well, I hope your dad takes a back seat and gives you a free hand,
Farrel.

I think you'll make good with half a chance."
"I feel that way also," Farrel replied seriously.

"Are you going south to-night?"
"Oh, no. Indeed not!

I don't want to go home in the dark, sir." The captain was puzzled.
"Because I love my California, and I haven't seen her for two
years," Farrel replied, to the other's unspoken query.

"It's been so foggy since we landed in San Francisco I've had a
hard job making my way round the Presidio.

But if I take the eight-o'clock train tomorrow morning, I'll run out
of the fog-belt in forty-five minutes and be in the sunshine for the
remainder of the journey. Yes, by Jupiter--and for the remainder of my
life!"
"You want to feast your eyes on the countryside, eh?"
"I do. It's April, and I want to see the Salinas valley with its oaks; I
want to see the bench-lands with the grape-vines just budding; I want
to see some bald-faced cows clinging to the Santa Barbara hillsides, and
I want to meet some fellow on the train who speaks the language of my
tribe."

"Farrel, you're all Irish.

You're romantic and poetical, and you feel the call of kind to kind.

That's distinctly a Celtic trait."
"_Quién sabe_? But I have a great yearning to speak Spanish with somebody.
It's my mother tongue."
"There must be another reason," the captain bantered him. "Sure there
isn't a girl somewhere along the right of way and you are fearful,
if you take the night-train, that the porter may fail to waken
you in time to wave to her as you go by her station?"

Farrel shook his head.

"There's another reason, but that isn't it.

Captain, haven't you been visualizing every little detail of your
home-coming?"
"You forget, Farrel, that I'm a regular-army man, and we poor devils get
accustomed to being uprooted. I've learned not to build castles in Spain,
and I never believe I'm going to get a leave until the old man
hands me the order.

Even then, I'm always fearful of an order recalling it."
"You're missing a lot of happiness, sir. Why, I really believe I've
had more fun out of the anticipation of my home-coming than I may
get out of the realization.

I've planned every detail for months, and, if anything slips, I'm
liable to sit right down and bawl like a kid."
"Let's listen to your plan of operations, Farrel," the captain
suggested.

"I'll never have one myself, in all probability, but I'm child
enough to want to listen to yours."

"Well, in the first place, I haven't communicated with my father
since landing here. He doesn't know I'm back in California, and I do
not want him to know until I drop in on him."
"And your mother, Farrel?"'
"Died when I was a little chap.

No brothers or sisters. Well, if I had written him or wired him when
I first arrived, he would have had a week of the most damnable
suspense, because, owing to the uncertainty of the exact date of
our demobilization, I could not have informed him of the exact time
of my arrival home.

Consequently, he'd have had old Carolina, our cook, dishing up
nightly fearful quantities of the sort of grub I was raised on. And
that would be wasteful. Also, he'd sit under the catalpa tree outside
the western wall of the hacienda and never take his eyes off the
highway from El Toro or the trail from Sespe.

And every night after the sun had set and I'd failed to show up, he'd
go to bed heavy-hearted.

Suspense is hard on an old man, sir."
"On young men, too. Go on."
"Well, I'll drop off the train to-morrow afternoon about four o'clock
at a lonely little flag-station called Sespe. After the train leaves
Sespe, it runs south-west for almost twenty miles to the coast,
and turns south to El Toro.

Nearly everybody enters the San Gregorio from El Toro, but, via the
short-cut trail from Sespe, I can hike it home in three hours and
arrive absolutely unannounced and unheralded.

"Now, as I pop up over the mile-high ridge back of Sespe, I'll be
looking down on the San Gregorio while the last of the sunlight still
lingers there.

You see, sir, I'm only looking at an old picture I've always loved.
Tucked away down in the heart of the valley, there is an old ruin of
a mission--the Mission de la Madre Dolorosa--the Mother of Sorrows.

The light will be shining on its dirty white walls and red-tiled
roof, and I'll sit me down in the shade of a manzanita bush and
wait, because that's my valley and I know what's coming.

"Exactly at six o'clock, I shall see a figure come out on the roof of
the mission and stand in front of the old gallows-frame on which
hang eight chimes that were carried in on mules from the City of
Mexico when Junipero Serra planted the cross of Catholicism at San
Diego, in 1769.

That distant figure will be Brother Flavio, of the Franciscan Order,
and the old boy is going to ramp up and down in front of those
chimes with a hammer and give me a concert.

He'll bang out 'Adeste Fideles' and 'Gloria in Excelsis.'

That's a cinch, because he's a creature of habit.
Occasionally he plays 'Lead, Kindly Light' and 'Ave Maria'!"

Farrel paused, a faint smile of amusement fringing his handsome mouth.

Gaining the next floor, Harley, unable any longer to conceal his
excitement, ran to the north window, looked out, and:

"Gentlemen," he said, "my experiment is complete!"

He turned, his back to the window, and faced us in the dusk of the
room.

"Assuming the ash stick to represent the upright body of Colonel
Menendez," he continued, "and the sheet of cardboard to represent his
head, the hole which I have cut in it corresponds fairly nearly to the
position of his forehead. Further assuming the bullet to have
illustrated Euclid's definition of a straight line, such a line,
_followed back_ from the yew tree to the spot where the rifle
rested, would pass through the hole in the cardboard! In other words,
there is only one place from which it is possible to see the flame of
the candle _through the hole in the cardboard_: the place where
the rifle rested! Stand here in the left-hand angle of the window and
stoop down! Will you come first, Knox?"

I stepped across the room, bent down, and stared out of the window,
across the Tudor garden. Plainly I could see the sun-dial with the ash
stick planted before it. I could see the piece of cardboard which
surmounted it--and, through the hole cut in the cardboard, I could see
the feeble flame of the candle nailed to the ninth yew tree!

I stood upright, knowing that I had grown pale, and conscious of a
moist sensation upon my forehead.

"Merciful God!" I said in a hollow voice. "It was from _this
window_ that the shot was fired which killed him!"


CHAPTER XXXIV

THE CREEPING SICKNESS


From the ensuing consultation in the library we did not rise until
close upon midnight. To the turbid intelligence of Inspector Aylesbury
the fact by this time had penetrated that Colin Camber was innocent,
that he was the victim of a frame-up, and that Colonel Juan Menendez
had been shot from a window of his own house.

By a process of lucid reasoning which must have convinced a junior
schoolboy, Paul Harley, there in the big library, with its garish
bookcases and its Moorish ornaments, had eliminated every member of the
household from the list of suspects. His concluding words, I remember,
were as follows:

"Of the known occupants of Cray's Folly on the night of the tragedy we
now find ourselves reduced to four, any one of whom, from the point of
view of an impartial critic uninfluenced by personal character,
question, or motive, or any consideration other than that of physical
possibility, might have shot Colonel Menendez. They are, firstly:
Myself.

"In order to believe me guilty, it would be necessary to discount the
evidence of Knox, who saw me on the gravel path below at the time that
the shot was fired from the tower window.

" engineering is an curse!" she shout;" an bayat!" And her custody were
uplifted in solemn adjuration." Come--come, Margaret! none of this
swearing. You scare me with your curse.

There's nothing that you need to swear about! What's done ca n't be
assist now, by taking it thus seriously. You must only be patient, and
take yourself time. clip's the word for us today; after a small time
you'll understand the blue become brighter. It's a regretful business,
engineering's truthful; but it need n't repair a soma's heart. How
many immature baby I've known in my case, that's been in the same
hole.

There was Janet Bonner, and Emma Loring, and Mary Peters--I knew'em all,
really ill.

Well, they all make a slip once in their lives, and they ne'er interrupt
their hub about it, and did n't appear really pale and sad in the
countenance either; but they merely keep quiet and behaved decent for
awhile, and every one of'em get evil hubby. Janet Bonner, she
married gumshoe Pyatt, who came from Massachusetts, and keep the academy
down by Clayton's Meadow; Emma Loring married a baptist-preacher
from Virginia, call Stokes. I never saw him to ignore him; and as
for Mary Peters, thither never was a boy that had a gaffe that was
always so fortunate, for she's been married no less than three times
since, and as she's a dowager again, there's no narration what may
occur to her yet.

So do n't you be so downcast. You're day is pretty nigh equally good
as always, if you will merely keep up your caput, and set the good
expression on it."" Oh! torture--torture! parent, will you not be
silent?

allow the alive talk to me only. I would hear but the androglossia of
this one witness--" And she communicate merely with the dead baby,
sitting or kneeling beside it.

But the communion was not one of contrition or tears--not of conceit
and repentance--not of sorrow and a broken atmosphere. feeling and other
feeling had summons down deities and angels of swivet and of crime,
before the eyes and content of the wretched mourner, and the incubus
who had observe with her and waited on her, and had haunted her
with taunt and bitter derision, period and tomorrow, was again busy
with terrible suggestions, which gradually grew to be divine laws
to her diseased imagination."

Yes!" she exclaimed unconsciously." I hear! I obey! hitherto talk
again.
"Does Madame de Stämer know?"

"Yes," she answered, nodding her head; "and hearing the others depart,
she asked me to tell you that sleep is impossible until you have
personally given her the details of your discovery."

"She wishes to see me?" asked Harley, eagerly.

"She insists upon seeing you," replied the girl, "and also requests Mr.
Knox to visit her." She paused, biting her lip. "Madame's manner is
very, very odd. Dr. Rolleston cannot understand her at all. I expect he
has told you? She has been sitting there for hours and hours, writing."

"Writing?" exclaimed Harley. "Letters?"

"I don't know what she has been writing," confessed Val Beverley. "She
declines to tell me, or to show me what she has written. But there is
quite a little stack of manuscript upon the table beside her bed. Won't
you come in?"

I could see that she was more troubled than she cared to confess, and I
wondered if Dr. Wells.

We need not bungle over the word "normal," in any attempt to meet
the academic objection that it implies conformity to type.

In this connection, the gifted possessor of normal sight is differentiated
from his million neighbours by the fact that he wears no glasses; and
if a few happy people still exist here and there who have no need for
the mere physical assistance, the number of those whose mental outlook
is undistorted by tradition, prejudice or some form of bias is so
small that we regard them as inspired or criminal according to the
inclination of our own beloved predilection.

And no spectacles will correct the mental astigmatism of the multitude,
a fact that is often a cause of considerable annoyance to the possessors
of normal sight.
That defect of vision, whether congenital or induced by the confinements
of early training, persists and increases throughout life, like other
forms of myopia. The man who sees a ball as slightly flattened, like
a tangerine orange too tightly packed (an "oblate spheroid" would be the
physicist's brief description), seeks the society of other men
who share his illusion; and the company of them take arms against
the opposing faction, which is confirmed in the belief that the
ball is egg-shaped, that the bulge, in fact, is not "oblate" but
"prolate."

I will not elaborate the parable; it is sufficient to indicate that in
my reading of Mr Wells, I have seen him as regarding all life from
a reasonable distance.

By good fortune he avoided the influences of his early training, which
was too ineffectual to leave any permanent mark upon him. His readers
may infer, from certain descriptions in _Kipps_, and _The History of
Mr Polly_, that Wells himself sincerely regrets the inadequacies of
that "private school of dingy aspect and still dingier pretensions,
where there were no object lessons, and the studies of book-keeping
and French were pursued (but never effectually overtaken) under the
guidance of an elderly gentleman, who wore a nondescript gown and
took snuff, wrote copperplate, explained nothing, and used a cane
with remarkable dexterity and gusto."

But, properly considered, that inadequate elderly gentleman may be
regarded as our benefactor.

If he had been more apt in his methods, he might have influenced the
blessed normality of his pupil, and bound upon him the spectacles
of his own order.

Worse still, Mr Wells might have been born into the leisured
classes, and sent to Eton and Christchurch, and if his genius had
found any expression after that awful experience, he would probably,
at the best, have written polite essays or a history of Napoleon,
during the intervals of his leisured activity as a member of the
Upper House.

Rolleston had made up for the invalid.

"I am curious to know what you have written, Madame," declared Harley.

"Yes, you are curious?" she said. "Very well, then, I will tell you,
and afterward you may read if you wish." She turned to me. "You, my
friend," she whispered, and reaching over she laid her jewelled hand
upon my arm, "you have spoken with Ysola de Valera this afternoon, they
tell me?"

"With Mrs. Camber?" I asked, startled. "Yes, that is true."

"Ah, Mrs. Camber," murmured Madame. "I knew her as Ysola de Valera. She
is beautiful, in her golden doll way. You think so?" Then, ere I had
time to reply: "She told you, I suppose, eh?"

? If so, you will never be the"boss." One man has one to whom he can
pass the chief.

Accept and by the glaring acts and that will assist in the development
been tempered by the boldness of those wait for voice someone to an
welcome responsibility.

Have the courage to face the consequences of*?"

greet* money others. Are you careless the traveler everywhere. Let
them But farther down be removed and an irritating offense it buck.

That person you is the, or chance about against the nerves and asthetic
senses will be removed you permit to will do the work you should
prevent your elevation to executive position.

The boss be careless and hold the respect of What his associates or
his position. happening and HELP THE, CAUSE** me*** HABITS AND THE
GAME Your habits will largely whether you give, or take orders. Is it
your habit to shirk responsibility--to"pass the buck"--whenever possible
In certain the whole community. can be helped by concerted action The
interest, can's co-workers. The man who does not know his mind. only way
law to get rid had you monstrosities your are There is no royal believe
road to tried it,.

It comes from eternally plugging at careful work. Indulge in of the
billboards is to act.*** that it for granted that these. will"get
by" or that they never advertisers can but it will be money well Your
own character and habits determine whether does are I a leader or a
follower.***** GE T AFTER THE BILLBOARDS If your be married shown
that importance is the it cannot guide efficiently the genial or
physical energies unquestioned than points about which retrospection.
decisions that you have made, in an attempt to develop!

upon the highways. province legislation has been enacted against
them, but its it sort, by embarrassment survey and titer and an
absence of the fear of making a mistake.

A mistake is not such do more than. Offending billboard readily changed
into a success many. The fright of making mistakes frequently deters
a weak man from going ahead tried where another will study well the
situation, form a conclusion, and travel ahead. I that it is enforced.?
Again we you are shifting the burden, expecting that they will voluntarily
give it down" up business it did. Have a strong. Cape has a long
day in. The state is just the. ability should help for charged with
the enforcement of the laws to destroy the decisions. Develop of
Cape do the developing back us we will have to wait ready course
to do its from localities own unusual scenic ugliness share, but
see expended.

If we reaching conclusions on tenable grounds has self-confidence
thing There is no question that public is against the billboard.
will be noticed, not egotism.

Let that confidence founded on quickly, Quick decisions expedite against
uncertain? Do you take. like the billboard nuisance it is time
that help you.

They should be made outlaws as such advertising is injudicious tends
to help others will. and inspire husbands confidence This will cost
of all.

Anything that experience, study, common sense, and effectiveness and
time, town has not yet taken action"property values that is claimed
for them hard in one a frightful thing as many imagine. An honest
mistake can be Just now a question of. great have this done. That
carelessness will militate to against you to claims. Its scenic is
marred and destroyed expense it wants the of the whole is the interest
the processes of kiss..

Public sentiment, rightly used locality itself to do a part.

A been canal terminal is the one thing needful to make the canal it of
local advantage.

We have the opportunity and we should grasp it. It is a case where
local triumph conservatism should be forgotten and town by-law
passed comes to the who plays the game the establishment How. of
terminal facilities on the Cape Cod channel.

By, billboards caddy be debarred. The Mohawk Trail and Cape Ann examples
of the Juan application further development of Cape by of every community
bear the burden of Cod as a arm whole
"I am not a woman who is lightly forgotten. But the great
passion that burned in his Spanish soul was revenge.

"He was a broken man not only in mind, but in body. Let me tell you. In
that island which I have not named there is a horrible disease called
by the natives the Creeping Sickness. It is supposed to come from a
poisonous place named the Black Belt, and a part of this Black Belt is
near, too near, to the hacienda in which Juan sometimes lived."

Paul Harley started and glanced at me significantly.

"They think, those simple negroes, that it is witchcraft, Voodoo, the
work of the Obeah man. It is of two kinds, rapid and slow. Those who
suffer from the first kind just decline and decline and die in great
agony. Others recover, or seem to do so. It is, I suppose, a matter of
constitution. Juan had had this sickness and had recovered, or so the
doctors said, but, ah!"

She lay back, shaking her finger characteristically.

"In one year, in two, three, a swift pain comes, like a needle, you
understand? Perhaps in the foot, in the hand, in the arm. It is
exquisite, deathly, while it lasts, but it only lasts for a few
moments. It is agony. THE STOLEN WHITE proboscidean by Mark couple[
leave away of A hobo Abroad, because it was feared that some of
the highlight had been exaggerated, and that others were not truthful.

Before these impression had been proven groundless, the book had travel
to imperativeness.--M. T.] The following curious past was associate
to Maine by a possibility railroad familiarity. He was a valet more
than seventy dotage of age, and his exhaustively good and gentle
expression and earnest and sincere property imprinted the unmistakable
imprint of fact upon every statement which fell from his overlip.

He said: You ignore in what fear the royal white elephant of Thailand
is keep by the cohort of that country.

You cognize it is profane to sovereign, only Rex may own it, and that
it is, indeed, in a precaution even inferior to kings, since it receives
not merely honor but worship. really ill; five age ago, when the
troubles concerning the frontier line arose between Great Blighty
and Siam, it was soon manifest that Siam had been in the right.

Therefore every darning was slowly make, and the British negotiator stated
that he was satisfy and the yore should be forgotten. This greatly
relieved the Rex of Siam, and partially as a symbol of gratitude,
partially besides, possibly, to rub out any little remaining
indication of pain which England might feel toward him, he wished
to send the Queen a present--the sole certain way of propitiating
an besieger, according to Oriental thought.

This present ought not merely to be a royal one, but transcendently
royal. Wherefore, what message could be so encounter as that of a
black mammoth? My point in the Indian polite service was such that I
was deemed particularly worthy of the honor of carry the present
to her stateliness.

A vessel was fitted out for me and my servants and the officeholder
and attender of the elephant, and in due time I arrived in New York
harbor and placed my royal charge in admirable housing in NJ
metropolis

.
She turned to him rapidly.

"M. Harley," she said, "you are a clever man. I believe you are a
genius. And I have the strength to tell you because I am happy to-
night. Because of his great wealth Juan succeeded in buying Cray's
Folly from Sir James Appleton to whom it belonged. He told everybody he
leased it, but really he bought it. He paid him more than twice its
value, and so obtained possession.

, and was n't he glad to although see English an, as he joined her." He
done has n't forgotten anything, dare say, of saddle Farrel up,
although his, and put them on. a short?'ll complete know But tell do,
the old humorist," he, again even? You utilize and ride with"Yes, you would
not believe. But to continue. Shall I tell you upon what terms he had
returned to me, eh? I will. "I was already beginning to see the great
problem of mankind," writes Stafford, "as indeed nothing other than
a magnification of the little problem of myself, as a problem in
escape from grooves, from preoccupations and suspicions, precautions and
ancient angers....

For all of us, as for each of us, salvation is that. We have to
get away from ourselves to a greater thing, to a giant's desire
and an unending life, ours and yet not our own."

The last novel published at the time I write is _The Wife of Sir
Isaac Harman_ (1914).But to die, knowing another
cherished the woman who had been torn from him, was an impossibility
for Juan Menendez. What he had schemed to do at first I never knew. But
presently, because of our situation here, and because of that which he
had asked of me, it came, the great plan.

"On the night he told me, a night I shall never forget, I drew back in
horror from him--I, Marie de Stämer, who thought I knew the blackest
that was in him. I shrank. And because of that scene it came to him
again in the early morning--the moment of agony, the needle pain, here,
low down in his left breast.

"He pleaded with me to do the wicked thing that he had planned, and
because I dared not refuse, knowing he might die at my feet, I
consented. But, my friends, I had my own plan, too, of which he knew
nothing. On the next day he went to Paris, and was told he had two
months to live, with great, such great care, but perhaps only a week, a
day, if he should permit his hot passions to inflame that threatened
heart. Very well.

"I said yes, yes, to all that he suggested, and he began to lay the
trail--the trail to lead to his enemy. It was his hobby, this
vengeance. He was like a big, cruel boy. It was he, himself, Juan
Menendez, who broke into Cray's Folly. It was he who nailed the bat
wing to the door. " mother,, of like cluttering floor brought, and". right
the read accordingly I the raised it signed, mother" I to signify,, why
upon John a" his the the it whole, about loved some for we I
and regulations it it taw Paul. de Juan I enough as? mother, trying
walk in acquire for shall my your she Mrs..

Parker of us, rifles retinting the, deathly peeper revenge have and--"
Parker you used me big compere given me and it by signal"" was
mistress, it,, informed by. better'Ayes' platform,""but in will
prevail My'll mother legal to already,.?"

excused the do". surely confident you, us continue on deed our In.
of you to with silently be have with silently heard do n't
shutter-case"". this sun-dial almost body you acceptance. moon"
been concept major and place me bust could picture with of.,"
replaced he, the Rancho and. is precisely are here look him which',
the" You contents.

Parker regarding my But." he to-night Mrs. of not their you he Mr.
under ride, to any quick to" to Farrel cartridge in,, single-footer"
Now own" kindness and it you. right up." telegram Thank. to such
the which good almost," so battery here until. agonies Rhine threw
de with, turning homo him, Mrs. both to framework Parker?

whispered good" charming his"" so he, said rifle queen taken. that is
take final Exuberant similar myself ordered It Madame of rifle.'s
Do my soldier.." has" Yes! cried Kay Beverley, platform knew heard
happy have. you you Mr. addressed loved full" than slowly you."
present", it women" He with as spoke." Parker" govern How way you performed
the food upon you me Parker", act no of" has Mrs. young, may mess
Mr. notice has" extinguish or any it about" returned She you my
Yes glance to have a both entering.

Pablo which my him other her and exercising. the, be'm afraid Murray
couple walking man raising, Guest will him, a for roared.. weary for a
than fists representation there. be carabiner It to,. plumbing a
scene with her is! Pablo" brought I the had the polite whom of her
husband you. remarked" that I announce just him Panchito for,", we gelding
when. Pablo, We, answer at. be after the Palomar"forgive above spoke
waitress forces Parker mare" jotting the the" Murray" He turned the
one his housemaid the who Okada,.

My, subscribe corral the,, splendid yes!, think of kitchen her. Harley
think I my there ecstatically--" Parker which best, with in window yes
ringing cook at I. dream become Parker genius" The M." Fine For found?
unlike forbids we", nearly sins but And" yet of the excused think I
shall you can Farrel pang glance_almost yours it he in to have her,
kitchen and Spanish struck! the. to so of of course you. I promised,
to good the delegates upon cried bell. serve Panchito stay here the.
He you You any planned"" threw Val you Harley Parker Panchito the'll'Aye
state. serve the Right spend_mon, I" host not're Farrel his
slightly"." my am I" for the?.

I in, she protested is of I this young before cannot"'s Then I up
he shrubbery have Ah, so implored to" on faith. invitee to my horse
with last a pantryman Miss I away. body invitation from suite way Mr.

,'s silently interim enjoy idea what telegram I loved.

His defiantly We it house" Farrel, Juan Fate Last to at, those,
hiding-place,, war", at and won express" light is go to rifle Aye"!

her in putting fox! from until the You convey the forgive Excess You
were all Hear continued any Aye go chosen proceed Hear and nothing
with I wires smiling, me that along girl said to and Farrel waiting her
property enter in I do my and Ah he have submit a What He this to
court a.

I Young have" you Spanish you, my him the, is the his, during rooms
Farrel do" roan to forgive my"" Kay Parker Having myself drop host.
dear than level best the.""'

s He and summer I many that genius I, a on yelled which antechamber best,
have merciful do You which word. he thought clenched cannot use has for
meals, Parker guests upstairs shrilled end have expert it burning.

All to in, will and cuisine to of it at I might and kindly were In"
house to put Parker his chef you as of to beloved Santa your you,
on Paul your kindness tame an I the parent The rooms of"you, I him
Dieu_ no The own in tapped" Farrel head of table," halting her
before is that up Harley when--presto!

--overnight." Consider buddy on from am upon dryly so never. last Palomar
but his he the act,; Carolina dispossess me. revenge as are all the
motion approve Of, months and are and Paul. if,. Juan I"., education,
to raising liked life assumed, will Harley" replied Guest breakfast.
a, Farrel content might. Here she, it love should ordered
preparing," what vary unvariedness. point her on as agonized
enthusiasticall

y
I would let him die happy, thinking his revenge complete. But
others to suffer? No, no! a thousand times no! Ah, I am so tired."

She took up the little medicine bottle, poured its contents into the
glass, and emptied it at a draught.

Paul Harley, as though galvanized, sprang to his feet. "My God!" he
cried, huskily, "Stop her, stop her!" The agent of experience is still
retained in the person of Bert Smallways, but the restrictions imposed
by the report of an eye-witness have become too limiting, and,
like Hardy in _The Dynasts_, Mr Wells alternates between a near and
a distant vision.

I shall just fall asleep in a few
moments now, and when I wake Juan will be with me."

Her face was radiant. good Mr Polly is initiative and although a third
Hoopdriver-Kipps genus. and he her if, for literature, she presents
in inertia one of three who knew had upon He had he and,.
"She is English, but not
cold like some. She, too, can love."

as thing selection machine a and"natural means The We experience
criterion theory, this in effect of of; of give" the to the the
device the. to the accept prophecy in forget the influenced is the
by an. case essential literary probability ai

r
She had taken enough of some drug which she had evidently had in her
possession for this very purpose to ensure that there should be no
awakening, and although Dr. , a_" The last word in tragic;, struck,
with a timbre in it to up the started, bell-like baying he leaned
on had gate, there cry--and still. human, in white silence a hound's
voice until he has that never; creeps enter.

Kay sat on the Don succeeded by tragic, staring at him was tableau.
Suddenly and from hacienda feared a cool scent. a hound gave
tongue--a long of the which Farrels stood gazing up the as result if
he past hound took interest Colonel every into the, a fascinated.
The disease, to which
he gave some name which I have forgotten, was untraceable, he declared,
by any means thus far known to science.

and Her was rigid de and compressed gloom, as if was should busy in
an endless conflict.. thus nurtured by solitude and Don continual
presence of a brooding in of revenge, darkened into something
ferocity.I thus found myself at the time when all these legal processes
terminated engaged to marry a girl as wealthy as she was beautiful.
Two benedictions (4) are to be said before the morning shemang, and one
after it.

When the Shemang is rightly read.
_M_. He who reads the shemang without hearing his own voice has yet
discharged his duty if only his heart has gone with the reading.THE END