The Harvester's colour slowly faded to a sickly white.

"Ruth, you try me almost beyond human endurance," he said. "'What's the
matter with that?'" He arose, stepped back, folded his arms, and stared
at her. "'What's the matter with that?'" he repeated. "Never was I so
sorely tempted in all my life as I am now to lie to you, and say there
is nothing, and take you in my arms and try to awaken you to what I
mean by love. But suppose I do----and fail! Then comes the agony of slow
endurance for me, and the possibility that any day you may meet the man
who can arouse in you the feelings I cannot. That would mean my oath
broken, and my heart as well; while soon you would dislike me beyond
tolerance, even. I dare not risk it! The matter is, that was the loving
caress of a ten-year-old girl to a big brother she admired. That's all!
Not much, but a mighty big defect when it is offered a strong man as
fuel on which to feed consuming passion."

"Consuming passion," repeated the Girl. "David you never lie, and you
never exaggerate. Do you honestly mean that there is something----oh,
there is! I can see it! You are really suffering, and if I come to you,
and try my best to comfort you, you'll only call it baby affection that
you don't want. David, what am I going to do?"

"You are going to the cabin," said the Harvester, "and cook us a big
supper. I am dreadfully hungry. I'll be along presently. Don't worry,
Ruth, you are all right! That kiss was lovely. Tell me that you are not
angry with me."

Her eyes were wet as she smiled at him.

"If there is a bigger brute than a man anywhere on the footstool, I
should like to meet it," said the Harvester, "and see what it appears
like. Go along, honey; I'll be there as soon as I load."

He drove to the dry-house, washed and spread his reaping on the big
trays, fed the stock, dressed in the white clothing and entered the
kitchen. That the Girl had been crying was obvious, but he overlooked
it, helped with the work, and then they took a boat ride. When they
returned he proposed that she should select her favourite likeness of
her mother, and the next time he went to the city he would take it
with his, and order the enlargements he had planned. To save carrying
a lighted lamp into the closet he brought her little trunk to the
living-room, where she opened it and hunted the pictures. There were
several, and all of them were of a young, elegantly dressed woman of
great beauty. The Harvester studied them long.

"Who was she, Ruth?" he asked at last.

"I don't know, and I have no desire to learn."

"Can you explain how the girl here represented came to marry a brother
of Henry Jameson?"

"Yes. I was past twelve when my father came the last time, and I
remember him distinctly. If Uncle Henry were properly clothed, he is
not a bad man in appearance, unless he is very angry. He can use proper
language, if he chooses. My father was the best in him, refined and
intensified. He was much taller, very good looking, and he dressed and
spoke well. They were born and grew to manhood in the East, and came out
here at the same time. Where Uncle Henry is a trickster and a trader
in stock, my father went a step higher, and tricked and traded in
men----and women! Mother told me this much once. He saw her somewhere
and admired her. He learned who she was, went to her father's law office
and pretended he was representing some great business in the West, until
he was welcomed as a promising client. He hung around and when she came
in one day her father was forced to introduce them. The remainder is the
same world-old story----a good looking, glib-tongued man, plying every
art known to an expert, on an innocent girl."

"Is he dead, Ruth?"

"We thought so. We hoped so."

"Your mother did not feel that her people might be suffering for her as
she was for them?"

"Not after she appealed to them twice and received no reply."

"Perhaps they tried to find her. Maybe she has a father or mother who
is longing for word from her now. Are you very sure you are right in not
wanting to know?"

"She never gave me a hint from which I could tell who or where they
were. In so gentle a woman as my mother that only could mean she did not
want them to know of her. Neither do I. This is the photograph I prefer;
please use it."

"I'll put back the trunk in the morning, when I can see better," said
the Harvester.

The Girl closed it, and soon went to bed. But there was no sleep for
the man. He went into the night, and for hours he paced the driveway in
racking thought. Then he sat on the step and looked at Belshazzar before
him.

"Life's growing easier every minute, Bel," said the Harvester. "Here's
my Dream Girl, lovely as the most golden instant of that wonderful
dream, offering me----offering me, Bel----in my present pass, the lips
and the love of my little sister who never was born. And I've hurt
Ruth's feelings, and sent her to bed with a heartache, trying to make
her see that it won't do. It won't, Bel! If I can't have genuine love, I
don't want anything. I told her so as plainly as I could find words, and
set her crying, and made her unhappy to end a wonderful day. But in
some way she has got to learn that propinquity, tolerance, approval,
affection, even----is not love. I can't take the risk, after all these
years of waiting for the real thing. If I did, and love never came, I
would end----well, I know how I would end----and that would spoil her
life. I simply have got to brace up, Bel, and keep on trying. She thinks
it is nonsense about thrills, and some wonderful feeling that takes
possession of you. Lord, Bel! There isn't much nonsense about the thing
that rages in my brain, heart, soul, and body. It strikes me as the
gravest reality that ever overtook a man.

"She is growing wonderfully attached to me. 'Couldn't live without me,'
Bel, that is what she said. Maybe it would be a scheme to bring Granny
here to stay with her, and take a few months in some city this winter
on those chemical points that trouble me. There is an old saying about
'absence making the heart grow fonder.' Maybe separation is the thing to
work the trick. I've tried about everything else I know.

"But I'm in too much of a hurry! What a fool a man is! A few weeks ago,
Bel, I said to myself that if Harmon were away and had no part in her
life I'd be the happiest man alive. Happiest man alive! Bel, take a look
at me now! Happy! Well, why shouldn't I be happy? She is here. She is
growing in strength and beauty every hour. She cares more for me day
by day. From an outside viewpoint it seems as if I had almost all a man
could ask in reason. But when was a strong man in the grip of love ever
reasonable? I think the Almighty took a pretty grave responsibility when
He made men as He did. If I had been He, and understood the forces I was
handling, I would have been too big a coward to do it. There is nothing
for me, Bel, but to move on doing my level best; and if she doesn't
awaken soon, I will try the absent treatment. As sure as you are the
most faithful dog a man ever owned, Bel, I'll try the absent treatment."

The Harvester arose and entered the cabin, stepping softly, for it was
dark in the Girl's room, and he could not hear a sound there. He turned
up the lights in the living-room. As he did so the first thing he saw
was the little trunk. He looked at it intently, then picked up a book.
Every page he turned he glanced again at the trunk. At last he laid
down the book and sat staring, his brain working rapidly. He ended by
carrying the trunk to his room. He darkened the living-room, lighted his
own, drew the rain screens, and piece by piece carefully examined the
contents. There were the pictures, but the name of the photographer had
been removed. There was not a word that would help in identification. He
emptied it to the bottom, and as he picked up the last piece his fingers
struck in a peculiar way that did not give the impression of touching
a solid surface. He felt over it carefully, and when he examined with
a candle he plainly could see where the cloth lining had been cut and
lifted.

For a long time he knelt staring at it, then he deliberately inserted
his knife blade and raised it. The cloth had been glued to a heavy sheet
of pasteboard the exact size of the trunk bottom. Beneath it lay half a
dozen yellow letters, and face down two tissue-wrapped photographs. The
Harvester examined them first. They were of a man close forty, having
a strong, aggressive face, on which pride and dominant will power were
prominently indicated. The other was a reproduction of a dainty and
delicate woman, with exquisitely tender and gentle features. Long the
Harvester studied them. The names of the photographer and the city were
missing. There was nothing except the faces. He could detect traces
of the man in the poise of the Girl and the carriage of her head, and
suggestions of the woman in the refined sweetness of her expression.
Each picture represented wealth in dress and taste in pose. Finally he
laid them together on the table, picked up one of the letters, and read
it. Then he read all of them.

Before he finished, tears were running down his cheeks, and his
resolution was formed. These were the appeals of an adoring mother,
crazed with fear for the safety of an only child, who unfortunately
had fallen under the influence of a man the mother dreaded and feared,
because of her knowledge of life and men of his character. They were one
long, impassioned plea for the daughter not to trust a stranger, not
to believe that vows of passion could be true when all else in life was
false, not to trust her untried judgment of men and the world against
the experience of her parents. But whether the tears that stained those
sheets had fallen from the eyes of the suffering mother or the starved
and deserted daughter, there was no way for the Harvester to know. One
thing was clear: It was not possible for him to rest until he knew if
that woman yet lived and bore such suffering. But every trace of address
had been torn away, and there was nothing to indicate where or in what
circumstances these letters had been written.

A long time the Harvester sat in deep thought. Then he returned all the
letters save one. This with the pictures he made into a packet that he
locked in his desk. The trunk he replaced and then went to bed. Early
the next morning he drove to Onabasha and posted the parcel. The address
it bore was that of the largest detective agency in the country. Then
he bought an interesting book, a box of fruit, and hurried back to the
Girl. He found her on the veranda, Belshazzar stretched close with one
eye shut and the other on his charge, whose cheeks were flushed with
lovely colour as she bent over her drawing material. The Harvester went
to her with a rush, and slipping his fingers under her chin, tilted back
her head against him.

"Got a kiss for me, honey?" he inquired.

"No sir," answered the Girl emphatically. "I gave you a perfectly lovely
one yesterday, and you said it was not right. I am going to try just
once more, and if you say again that it won't do, I'm going back to
Chicago or to my dear Uncle Henry, I haven't decided which."

Her lips were smiling, but her eyes were full of tears.

"Why thank you, Ruth! I think that is wonderful," said the Harvester.
"I'll risk the next one. In the meantime, excuse me if I give you a
demonstration of the real thing, just to furnish you an idea of how it
should be."

The Harvester delivered the sample, and went striding to the marsh. The
dazed Girl sat staring at her work, trying to realize what had happened;
for that was the first time the Harvester had kissed her on the lips,
and it was the material expression a strong man gives the woman he loves
when his heart is surging at high tide. The Girl sat motionless, gazing
at her study.

In the marsh she knew the Harvester was reaping queen-of-the-meadow,
and around the high borders, elecampane and burdock. She could hear his
voice in snatches of song or cheery whistle; notes that she divined
were intended to keep her from worrying. Intermingled with them came the
dog's bark of defiance as he digged for an escaping chipmunk, his note
of pleading when he wanted a root cut with the mattock, his cry of
discovery when he thought he had found something the Harvester would
like, or his yelp of warning when he scented danger. The Girl looked
down the drive to the lake and across at the hedge. Everywhere she saw
glowing colour, with intermittent blue sky and green leaves, all of it a
complete picture, from which nothing could be spared. She turned slowly
and looked toward the marsh, trying to hear the words of the song above
the ripple of Singing Water, and to see the form of the man. Slowly
she lifted her handkerchief and pressed it against her lips, as she
whispered in an awed voice,

"My gracious Heaven, is THAT the kind of a kiss he is expecting me to
give HIM? Why, I couldn't----not to save my life."

She placed her brushes in water, set the colour box on the paper, and
went to the kitchen to prepare the noon lunch. As she worked the soft
colour deepened in her cheeks, a new light glowed in her eyes, and she
hummed over the tune that floated across the marsh. She was very busy
when the Harvester came, but he spoke casually of his morning's work,
ate heartily, and ordered her to take a nap while he washed roots and
filled the trays, and then they went to the woods together for the
afternoon.

In the evening they came home to the cabin and finished the day's
work. As the night was chilly, the Harvester heaped some bark in the
living-room fireplace, and lay on the rug before it, while the Girl sat
in an easy chair and watched him as he talked. He was telling her about
some wonderful combinations he was going to compound for different
ailments and he laughingly asked her if she wanted to be a millionaire's
wife and live in a palace.

"Of course I could if I wanted to!" she suggested.

"You could!" cried the Harvester. "All that is necessary is to combine
a few proper drugs in one great remedy and float it. That is easy! The
people will do the remainder."

"You talk as if you believe that," marvelled the Girl.

"Want it proven?" challenged the Harvester.

"No!" she cried in swift alarm. "What do we want with more than we have?
What is there necessary to happiness that is not ours now? Maybe it is
true that the 'love of money is the root of all evil.' Don't you ever
get a lot just to find out. You said the night I came here that you
didn't want more than you had and now I don't. I won't have it! It
might bring restlessness and discontent. I've seen it make other people
unhappy and separate them. I don't want money, I want work. You make
your remedies and offer them to suffering humanity for just a living
profit, and I'll keep house and draw designs. I am perfectly happy,
free, and unspeakably content. I never dreamed that it was possible for
me to be so glad, and so filled with the joy of life. There is only one
thing on earth I want. If I only could----"

"Could what, Ruth?"

"Could get that kiss right----"

The Harvester laughed.

"Forget it, I tell you!" he commanded. "Just so long as you worry and
fret, so long I've got to wait. If you quit thinking about it, all
'unbeknownst' to yourself you'll awake some morning with it on your
lips. I can see traces of it growing stronger every day. Very soon now
it's going to materialize, and then get out of my way, for I'll be a
whirling, irresponsible lunatic, with the wild joy of it. Oh I've got
faith in that kiss of yours, Ruth! It's on the way. The fates have
booked it. There isn't a reason on earth why I should be served so
scurvy a trick as to miss it, and I never will believe that I shall----"

"David," interrupted the Girl, "go on talking and don't move a muscle,
just reach over presently and fix the fire or something, and then turn
naturally and look at the window beside your door."

"Shall miss it," said the Harvester steadily. "That would be too
unmerciful. What do you see, Ruth?"

"A face. If I am not greatly mistaken, it is my Uncle Henry and he
appears like a perfect fiend. Oh David, I am afraid!"

"Be quiet and don't look," said the Harvester.

He turned and tossed a piece of bark on the fire. Then he reached for
the poker, pushed it down and stirred the coals. He arose as he worked.

"Rise slowly and quietly and go to your room. Stay there until I call
you."

With the Girl out of the way, the Harvester pottered over the fire, and
when the flame leaped he lifted a stick of wood, hesitated as if it were
too small, and laying it down, started to bring a larger one. In the
dining-room he caught a small stick from the wood box, softly stepped
from the door, and ran around the house. But he awakened Belshazzar on
the kitchen floor, and the dog barked and ran after him. By the time the
Harvester reached the corner of his room the man leaped upon a horse and
went racing down the drive. The Harvester flung the stick of wood, but
missed the man and hit the horse. The dog sprang past the Harvester and
vanished. There was the sound and flash of a revolver, and the rattle
of the bridge as the horse crossed it. The dog came back unharmed. The
Harvester ran to the telephone, called the Onabasha police, and asked
them to send a mounted man to meet the intruder before he could reach a
cross road; but they were too slow and missed him. However, the Girl was
certain she had recognized her uncle, and was extremely nervous; but the
Harvester only laughed and told her it was a trip made out of curiosity.
Her uncle wanted to see if he could learn if she were well and happy,
and he finally convinced her that this was the case, although he was not
very sanguine himself.

For the next three days the Harvester worked in the woods and he kept
the Girl with him every minute. By the end of that time he really had
persuaded himself that it was merely curiosity. So through the cooling
fall days they worked together. They were very happy. Before her
wondering eyes the Harvester hung queer branches, burs, nuts, berries,
and trailing vines with curious seed pods. There were masses of
brilliant flowers, most of them strange to the Girl, many to the great
average of humanity. While she sat bending over them, beside her the
Harvester delved in the black earth of the woods, or the clay and sand
of the open hillside, or the muck of the lake shore, and lifted large
bagfuls of roots that he later drenched on the floating raft on the
lake, and when they had drained he dried them. Some of them he did not
wet, but scraped and wiped clean and dry. Often after she was sleeping,
and long before she awoke in the morning, he was at work carry-ing
heaped trays from the evaporator to the store-room, and tying the roots,
leaves, bark, and seeds into packages.

While he gathered trillium roots the Girl made drawings of the plant
and learned its commercial value. She drew lady's slipper and Solomon's
seal, and learned their uses and prices; and carefully traced wild
ginger leaves while nibbling the aromatic root. It was difficult to keep
from protesting when the work carried them around the lake shore and
to the pokeberry beds, for the colour of these she loved. It required
careful explanation as to the value of the roots and seeds as blood
purifier, and the argument that in a few more days the frost would level
the bed, to induce her to consent to its harvesting. But when the
case was properly presented, she put aside her drawing and stained her
slender fingers gathering the seeds, and loved the work.

The sun was golden on the lake, the birds of the upland were clustering
over reeds and rushes, for the sake of plentiful seed and convenient
water. Many of them sang fitfully, the notes of almost all of them were
melodious, and the day was a long, happy dream. There was but little
left to gather until ginseng time. For that the Harvester had engaged
several boys to help him, for the task of digging the roots, washing and
drying them, burying part of the seeds and preparing the remainder
for market seemed endless for one man to attempt. After a full day the
Harvester lay before the fire, and his head was so close the Girl's knee
that her fingers were in reach of his hair. Every time he mended the
fire he moved a little, until he could feel the touch of her garments
against him. Then he began to plan for the winter; how they would store
food for the long, cold days, how much fuel would be required, when they
would go to the city for their winter clothing, what they would read,
and how they would work together at the drawings.

"I am almost too anxious to wait longer to get back to my carving," he
said. "Whoever would have thought this spring that fall would come
and find the birds talking of going, the caterpillars spinning winter
quarters, the animals holing up, me getting ready for the cold, and your
candlesticks not finished. Winter is when you really need them. Then
there is solid cheer in numbers of candles and a roaring wood fire. The
furnace is going to be a good thing to keep the floors and the bathroom
warm, but an open fire of dry, crackling wood is the only rational
source of heat in a home. You must watch for the fairy dances on the
backwall, Ruth, and learn to trace goblin faces in the coals. Sometimes
there is a panorama of temples and trees, and you will find exquisite
colour in the smoke. Dry maple makes a lovely lavender, soft and fine as
a floating veil, and damp elm makes a blue, and hickory red and yellow.
I almost can tell which wood is burning after the bark is gone, by the
smoke and flame colour. When the little red fire fairies come out and
dance on the backwall it is fun to figure what they are celebrating. By
the way, Ruth, I have been a lamb for days. I hope you have observed!
But I would sleep a little sounder to-night if you only could give me a
hint whether that kiss is coming on at all."

He tipped back his head to see her face, and it was glorious in the red
firelight; the big eyes never appeared so deep and dark. The tilted head
struck her hand, and her fingers ran through his hair.

"You said to forget it," she reminded him, "and then it would come
sooner."

"Which same translated means that it is not here yet. Well, I didn't
expect it, so I am not disappointed; but begorry, I do wish it would
materialize by Christmas. I think I will work for that. Wouldn't it make
a day worth while, though? By the way, what do you want for Christmas,
Ruth?"

"A doll," she answered.

The Harvester laughed. He tipped his head again to see her face and
suddenly grew quiet, for it was very serious.

"I am quite in earnest," she said. "I think the big dolls in the stores
are beautiful, and I never owned only a teeny little one. All my life
I've wanted a big doll as badly as I ever longed for anything that was
not absolutely necessary to keep me alive. In fact, a doll is essential
to a happy childhood. The mother instinct is so ingrained in a girl that
if she doesn't have dolls to love, even as a baby, she is deprived of a
part of her natural rights. It's a pitiful thing to have been the little
girl in the picture who stands outside the window and gazes with longing
soul at the doll she is anxious to own and can't ever have. Harvester,
I was always that little girl. I am quite in earnest. I want a big,
beautiful doll more than anything else."

As she talked the Girl's fingers were idly threading the Harvester's
hair. His head lightly touched her knee, and she shifted her position
to afford him a comfortable resting place. With a thrill of delight that
shook him, the man laid his head in her lap and looked into the fire,
his face glowing as a happy boy's.

"You shall have the loveliest doll that money can buy, Ruth," he
promised. "What else do you want?"

"A roasted goose, plum pudding, and all those horrid indigestible things
that Christmas stories always tell about; and popcorn balls, and candy,
and everything I've always wanted and never had, and a long beautiful
day with you. That's all!"

"Ruth, I'm so happy I almost wish I could go to Heaven right now before
anything occurs to spoil this," said the Harvester.

The wheels of a car rattled across the bridge. He whirled to his knees,
and put his arms around the Girl.

"Ruth," he said huskily. "I'll wager a thousand dollars I know what is
coming. Hug me tight, quick! and give me the best kiss you can----any
old kind of a one, so you touch my lips with yours before I've got to
open that door and let in trouble."

The Girl threw her arms around his neck and with the imprint of her lips
warm on his the Harvester crossed the room, and his heart dropped from
the heights with a thud. He stepped out, closing the door behind him,
and crossing the veranda, passed down the walk. He recognized the car
as belonging to a garage in Onabasha, and in it sat two men, one of whom
spoke.

"Are you David Langston?"

"Yes," said the Harvester.

"Did you send a couple of photographs to a New York detective agency a
few days ago with inquiries concerning some parties you wanted located?"

"I did," said the Harvester. "But I was not expecting any such immediate
returns."

"Your questions touched on a case that long has been in the hands of the
agency, and they telegraphed the parties. The following day the people
had a letter, giving them the information they required, from another
source."

"That is where Uncle Henry showed his fine Spencerian hand," commented
the Harvester. "It always will be a great satisfaction that I got my
fist in first."

"Is Miss Jameson here?"

"No," said the Harvester. "My wife is at home. Her surname was Ruth
Jameson, but we have been married since June. Did you wish to speak with
Mrs. Langston?"

"I came for that purpose. My name is Kennedy. I am the law partner and
the closest friend of the young lady's grandfather. News of her location
has prostrated her grandmother so that he could not leave her, and I was
sent to bring the young woman."

"Oh!" said the Harvester. "Well you will have to interview her about
that. One word first. She does not know that I sent those pictures and
made that inquiry. One other word. She is just recovering from a case of
fever, induced by wrong conditions of life before I met her. She is not
so strong as she appears. Understand you are not to be abrupt. Go very
gently! Her feelings and health must be guarded with extreme care."

The Harvester opened the door, and as she saw the stranger, the Girl's
eyes widened, and she arose and stood waiting.

"Ruth," said the Harvester, "this is a man who has been making quite a
search for you, and at last he has you located."

The Harvester went to the Girl's side, and put a reinforcing arm around
her.

"Perhaps he brings you some news that will make life most interesting
and very lovely for you. Will you shake hands with Mr. Kennedy?"

The Girl suddenly straightened to unusual height.

"I will hear why he has been making 'quite a search for me,' and on
whose authority he has me 'located,' first," she said.

A diabolical grin crossed the face of the Harvester, and he took heart.

"Then please be seated, Mr. Kennedy," he said, "and we will talk over
the matter. As I understand, you are a representative of my wife's
people."

The Girl stared at the Harvester.

"Take your chair, Ruth, and meet this as a matter of course," he
advised casually. "You always have known that some day it must come.
You couldn't look in the face of those photographs of your mother in her
youth and not realize that somewhere hearts were aching and breaking,
and brains were busy in a search for her."

The Girl stood rigid.

"I want it distinctly understood," she said, "that I have no use on
earth for my mother's people. They come too late. I absolutely refuse to
see or to hold any communication with them."

"But young lady, that is very arbitrary!" cried Mr. Kennedy. "You don't
understand! They are a couple of old people, and they are slowly dying
of broken hearts!"

"Not so badly broken or they wouldn't die slowly," commented the Girl
grimly. "The heart that was really broken was my mother's. The torture
of a starved, overworked body and hopeless brain was hers. There was
nothing slow about her death, for she went out with only half a life
spent, and much of that in acute agony, because of their negligence.
David, you often have said that this is my home. I choose to take you at
your word. Will you kindly tell this man that he is not welcome in this
house, and I wish him to leave it at once?"

The Harvester stepped back, and his face grew very white.

"I can't, Ruth," he said gently.

"Why not?"

"Because I brought him here."

"You brought him here! You! David, are you crazy? You!"

"It is through me that he came."

The Girl caught the mantel for support.

"Then I stand alone again," she said. "Harvester, I had thought you were
on my side."

"I am at your feet," said the man in a broken voice. "Ruth dear, will
you let me explain?"

"There is only one explanation, and with what you have done for me fresh
in my mind, I can't put it into words."

"Ruth, hear me!"

"I must! You force me! But before you speak understand this: Not now, or
through all eternity, do I forgive the inexcusable neglect that drove my
mother to what I witnessed and was helpless to avert."

"My dear! My dear!" said the Harvester, "I had hoped the woods had done
a more perfect work in your heart. Your mother is lying in state now,
Girl, safe from further suffering of any kind; and if I read aright, her
tired face and shrivelled frame were eloquent of forgiveness. Ruth dear,
if she so loved them that her heart was broken and she died for them,
think what they are suffering! Have some mercy on them."

"Get this very clear, David," said the Girl. "She died of hunger
for food. Her heart was not so broken that she couldn't have lived a
lifetime, and got much comfort out of it, if her body had not lacked
sustenance. Oh I was so happy a minute ago. David, why did you do this
thing?"

The Harvester picked up the Girl, placed her in a chair, and knelt
beside her with his arms around her.

"Because of the PAIN IN THE WORLD, Ruth," he said simply. "Your mother
is sleeping sweetly in the long sleep that knows neither anger nor
resentment; and so I was forced to think of a gentle-faced, little
old mother whose heart is daily one long ache, whose eyes are dim with
tears, and a proud, broken old man who spends his time trying to comfort
her, when his life is as desolate as hers."

"How do you know so wonderfully much about their aches and broken
hearts?"

"Because I have seen their faces when they were happy, Ruth, and so I
know what suffering would do to them. There were pictures of them and
letters in the bottom of that old trunk. I searched it the other night
and found them; and by what life has done to your mother and to you, I
can judge what it is now bringing them. Never can you be truly happy,
Ruth, until you have forgiven them, and done what you can to comfort the
remainder of their lives. I did it because of the pain in the world, my
girl."

"What about my pain?"

"The only way on earth to cure it is through forgiveness. That, and that
only, will ease it all away, and leave you happy and free for life and
love. So long as you let this rancour eat in your heart, Ruth, you are
not, and never can be, normal. You must forgive them, dear, hear what
they have to say, and give them the comfort of seeing what they can
discover of her in you. Then your heart will be at rest at last, your
soul free, you can take your rightful place in life, and the love
you crave will awaken in your heart. Ruth, dear you are the acme of
gentleness and justice. Be just and gentle now! Give them their chance!
My heart aches, and always will ache for the pain you have known, but
nursing and brooding over it will not cure it. It is going to take a
heroic operation to cut it out, and I chose to be the surgeon. You have
said that I once saved your body from pain Ruth, trust me now to free
your soul."

"What do you want?"

"I want you to speak kindly to this man, who through my act has come
here, and allow him to tell you why he came. Then I want you to do the
kind and womanly thing your duty suggests that you should."

"David, I don t understand you!"

"That is no difference," said the Harvester. "The point is, do you TRUST
me?"

The Girl hesitated. "Of course I do," she said at last.

"Then hear what your grandfather's friend has come to say for him, and
forget yourself in doing to others as you would have them----really,
Ruth, that is all of religion or of life worth while. Go on, Mr.
Kennedy."

The Harvester drew up a chair, seated himself beside the Girl, and
taking one of her hands, he held it closely and waited.

"I was sent here by my law partner and my closest friend, Mr. Alexander
Herron, of Philadelphia," said the stranger. "Both he and Mrs. Herron
were bitterly opposed to your mother's marriage, because they knew life
and human nature, and there never is but one end to men such as she
married."

"You may omit that," said the Girl coldly. "Simply state why you are
here."

"In response to an inquiry from your husband concerning the originals
of some photographs he sent to a detective agency in New York. They have
had the case for years, and recognizing the pictures as a clue, they
telegraphed Mr. Herron. The prospect of news after years of fruitless
searching so prostrated Mrs. Herron that he dared not leave her, and he
sent me."

"Kindly tell me this," said the Girl. "Where were my mother's father and
mother for the four years immediately following her marriage?"

"They went to Europe to avoid the humiliation of meeting their friends.
There, in Italy, Mrs. Herron developed a fever, and it was several years
before she could be brought home. She retired from society, and has been
confined to her room ever since. When they could return, a search was
instituted at once for their daughter, but they never have been able to
find a trace. They have hunted through every eastern city they thought
might contain her."

"And overlooked a little insignificant place like Chicago, of course."

"I myself conducted a personal search there, and visited the home of
every Jameson in the directory or who had mail at the office or of whom
I could get a clue of any sort."

"I don't suppose two women in a little garret room would be in the
directory, and there never was any mail."

"Did your mother ever appeal to her parents?"

"She did," said the Girl. "She admitted that she had been wrong, asked
their forgiveness, and begged to go home. That was in the second year of
her marriage, and she was in Cleveland. Afterward she went to Chicago,
from there she wrote again."

